
A/61/PV.5
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-first session 

5th plenary meeting 
Friday, 15 September 2006, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Ms. Al-Khalifa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Bahrain) 
  The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 
High-level Dialogue on International Migration 
and Development 

It  is  a  statement  of  fact  that  all  countries  — 
developing and developed alike — use legal migration 
as  a  way  to  fill  the  gaps  in  their  labour  markets. 
Implemented in the right way, the evidence is clear that 
the benefits from migration can and do lift people out 
of  poverty.  Migrant  men  and  women  bring  much-
needed  skills  and  labour  to  sending  and  receiving 
countries. Remittances can give  poor families a stable 
income,  and  the  migration  experience  can  change 
attitudes and empower people, particularly women. 
The United Kingdom is committed to supporting 

developing  countries’  efforts  to  help  poor  people 
benefit from migration. We are doing that in a number 
of  countries  already.  For  example,  we  work  with 
countries  to  make  remittances  cheaper  and  easier  to 
transfer, and we finance programmes that provide poor 
migrants in developing countries with services. We are 
ready to do more. 

We  believe  that  the  key  to  success  is  strong 
partnerships  in  development  and  in  migration.  The 
United  Kingdom  is  committed  to  the  country-led 
approach  to  development.  We  believe  that  developing 
countries should drive their own development. That is 
why  we  would  like  to  see  migration  policies  and 
actions  better 
into  national  poverty-
reduction  strategies.  The  African  Union  common 
position on migration  and development  urged member 
States  to  mainstream  migration  in  that  way.  We 
welcome and support that initiative because donors are 
more likely to get behind  countries’ efforts to manage 
migration effectively if it appears in national strategies. 
integrated 

















Agenda item 55 (continued)
Globalization and interdependence 
  (b)  International migration and development 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/60/871) 


I  give  the  floor  to  Her  Excellency  the  Baroness 
  Note by the President of the General Assembly 
(A/61/187) 

The  President: The  General Assembly,  pursuant 
to  resolution  60/227  of  23  December  2005,  will 
continue  the  High-level  Dialogue  on  International 
Migration and Development. 

Royall of the House of Lords of the United Kingdom. 
Baroness Royall  (United  Kingdom): The  United 

Kingdom  aligns  itself  with  the  European  Union’s 
statement. 

We  welcome  this  High-level  Dialogue  because 
we  believe  that  migration,  when  it  is  well  managed, 
can  be  a  positive  force  for  development  and  the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

06-52450 (E) 
*0652450* 
We 
take 
the 
to  cooperate 
A/61/PV.5 


But,  sadly,  the  migration  and  development  story 
is  not  always  a  positive  one.  Migrants  can  be  poorly 
treated. Developing countries lose skilled people, such 
as  doctors,  nurses  and  teachers,  and  that  puts  a  strain 
on  services.  People  are  also  trafficked  and  smuggled, 
which  puts  them  at  risk  of  exploitation  when  they 
arrive,  underlining  why  irregular  migration,  without 
the  prospect  of  a  legitimate  job  at  the  end  of  it,  does 
not help migrants or the countries they leave. 

risks  of  migration  seriously. 
International  cooperation  to  reduce  those  risks  is 
absolutely  vital.  It  requires  us 
to 
encourage the use of legal migration opportunities and 
to  prevent  and  deal  sensibly  with  irregular  and  illegal 
migration and the issue of returns. 

One of the most effective ways that we can help 
to  reduce  the  risks  of  migration  is  through  the  United 
Kingdom’s development programme. Being focused on 
poverty  reduction,  our  development  assistance  will  be 
helping  to  reduce  the  circumstances  that  make  people 
feel they have no alternative other than to migrate. But 
more  specifically,  we  are  helping  to  mitigate  the  risks 
in  a  number  of  ways,  including  through  programmes 
that  aim  to  counter  the  brain  drain  and  programmes 
that  improve  the  ability  of  women  migrants  to  access 
their  rights.  The  United  Kingdom  also  does  not 
actively  recruit  health  professionals  from  developing 
countries that do not want to lose their staff. 

this  Dialogue  as  an 
opportunity  to  come  together,  as  States  affected  in 
different  ways  by  international  migration,  to  increase 
our mutual understanding and analysis of the issues in 
a discussion that is both constructive and positive. We 
also  want  to  find  practical  ways  and  means  to 
implement what we have said and to learn from others’ 
experience. 

That  is  why  the  United  Kingdom  supports  the 
proposal that the Dialogue should continue beyond this 
meeting.  There  is,  in  our  view,  a  space  for  a  global 
forum or group that meets on a regular, voluntary, non-
binding and informal basis to build a consensus on the 
opportunities  and  challenges  that  migration  presents 
for development and to share best practice. 
to 
the 

His Excellency  Mr.  Paolo  Ferrero,  Minister  of  Social 
Solidarity of Italy. 
The  President: 
the  value  of 
I  now  give 
We  see 
floor 

Mr. Ferrero (Italy) (spoke in Italian; English text 

furnished  by  the  delegation):  I  wish  to  thank  the 
General  Assembly  for  having  organized  this  historic 
international meeting. I hope that it can be a tool for a 
better  understanding  of  the  migration  phenomenon, 
which is a great problem of our times, and for trying to 
improve coexistence among different cultures, which is 
a  promise  for  collective  security  and  the  safeguarding 
of peace. 

I  also  wish  to  confirm  that  Italy’s  views  are 
reflected in the concepts expressed earlier in this Hall 
by the European Union. 

Italy,  as  members  know,  was  for  many  years  a 
country  of  emigration.  Our  emigrants  experienced 
racism.  As  a  Government,  we  are  committed  to 
modifying our national legislation to place at its centre 
the rights of people and human and social rights, and in 
particular  to  end  the  drama  of  illegality  that  many 
immigrants in our country are experiencing today. 

We understand quite clearly that the phenomenon 
of  migration  is  rooted  in  the  social  and  economic 
imbalances  of  our  world,  between  wealthy  and  poor 
nations.  At  its  heart,  we  find  a  spark  of  hope  among 
those  who  leave  their  homes  to  build  themselves  a 
better  future.  In  that  framework,  we  wish  to  strive  to 
strengthen  development  cooperation  in  all  its  aspects 
by  reactivating  bilateral,  European  and  Mediterranean 
cooperation to address the issue.  

We are therefore developing training programmes 
in  the  countries  of  origin  to  confront  the  criminal 
organizations that engage in human trafficking. To that 
end, we are updating our migration legislation in order 
to  promote  legal  entry  into  our  country  and  thereby 
undermine illegal immigration. 

Women  and  children  are  often  the  main  victims 
of  trafficking  in  human  beings.  It  is  critical  to 
guarantee  minors  full  access 
the  rights  and 
protections  established  by  the  Convention  on  the 
Rights  of  the  Child.  We  wish  to  stress  that  point 
because  we  note  that  it  does  not  yet  enjoy  the  central 
place in our debate that it deserves.  

the 
Government  has  presented  two  bills  to  Parliament  to 
make  family  reunification  easier  and  to  reduce  to  five 
years  the  time  needed  for  an  immigrant  to  acquire 
Italian  citizenship.  The 
is 
fundamental. Another focus is social rights. In Italy all 
to  our  countries’  other  policies, 
to  citizenship 
right 
As 
to 
2 

06-52450 
the  various  cultural  and 


immigrants, legal and illegal alike, are guaranteed full 
access  to  national  health  care,  and  all  children  enjoy 
the  right  to  go  school,  thus  reducing  the  dropout  rate, 
one  of  the  most  negative  phenomena  we  are  currently 
experiencing.   Moreover,  we  are  drafting  legislation 
on  immigrants’  right  to  vote  in  local  elections  and 
safeguarding freedom of religion and creed in order to 
integrate  all 
religious 
experiences into the social fabric of our country.  

In  conclusion,  migrants  are  not  guests  on 
perpetual  probation,  but  rather  new  citizens,  able  to 
enrich our cultural heritage with elements of their own 
cultures. First and foremost, they are people seeking to 
build their own life project. We must therefore work to 
raise  migration  out  of  the  realm  of  illegality  and  to 
foster  the  integration  of  foreign  citizens  into  our 
communities. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her 

Excellency Ms. Mary Wallace, Minister of State at the 
Department of Agriculture of Ireland. 
Ms. Wallace (Ireland): I am pleased to represent 

Ireland 
today  at  a  United  Nations  forum  which 
specifically links international migration to the concept 
of  development.  I  can  say  from  Ireland’s  perspective 
that  our  preparation  for  this  Dialogue  has  developed 
and  improved  our  understanding  of  the  synergies 
between those two areas and provided the impetus for 
increased contacts and action. 
I want at the outset of my remarks to express my 

appreciation 
countryman,  Peter 
Sutherland,  for  the  work  undertaken  by  him  as  the 
Secretary-General’s  Special  Representative  for  this 
Dialogue. 

the 
statement  made  by  Ms.  Tarja  Filatov,  Minister  of 
Labour of Finland, on behalf of the European Union. 

For  Ireland,  this  theme  naturally  has  a  particular 
resonance.  It  is no exaggeration to say that migration, 
and  in  particular  emigration,  has  been  a  defining 
element of  Ireland’s history and experience in the last 
200  years.  Perhaps  the  greatest  achievement  of  our 
economic policies of recent years is that, for our young 
people, migration is now a matter of choice rather than 
the necessity that it once was. 

The  dramatic  growth  of  our  economy  in  the  last 
decade has resulted in Ireland’s experiencing the forces 
of migration in a completely new way. My country has 
to  associate  myself  with 
I  would 
to  my 
fellow 
like 
A/61/PV.5
that 
increase 
is  essential 
become  a  major  destination for  migrant  workers,  with 
an  estimated  9  per  cent  of  our  working  population 
being  non-Irish.  Recent  preliminary  2006  census 
results  indicated  that,  in  a  population  of  4.2  million, 
the number of non-Irish nationals in the State is likely 
to  be  roughly  400,000,  as  compared  to  222,000  in 
2002. 

We  greatly  value  their  contribution  to  Ireland’s 
social  and  economic  development,  as  well  as  to  our 
country’s  cultural  diversity.  We  believe 
this 
migration  has  benefited  migrants  themselves  and  their 
countries  of  origin.  The  substantial 
in 
migration  over  a  short  period  of  time  has  posed 
challenges to the State and necessitated putting in place 
structures, legislation and systems to manage it. 
A sound and transparent legislative framework to 

manage  migration  effectively 
in  any 
developed  economy.  Recently,  the  Government  of 
Ireland  announced  its  proposals  for  new  immigration, 
residence and protection legislation, which represents a 
radical  overhaul  of  our  immigration  laws  dating  back 
to  1935.  That  legislation  will  provide  the  framework 
for orderly and managed legal migration into the State. 
It  will  set  out,  in  a  single  code,  comprehensive 
statutory  procedures  for  the  application  of  stated 
policies  in  the  various  stages  of  the  immigration 
process.  We  are  also  developing  policies  aimed  at 
encouraging  people  with  special  qualifications,  skills 
and  entrepreneurial  abilities  to  consider  Ireland  as  a 
permanent destination.  

legal  migrants  are 
another  vital  element  in  the  whole  area  of  people 
movement.  Ireland  is  committed  to  enhancing  the 
framework  already  in  place  for  integration,  as  well  as 
to  ensuring  that  our  migrant  population  is  provided 
with full legal protection against exploitation, whether 
in the workplace or elsewhere in society. 

We are, however, coming to terms with the reality 
that Ireland is irrevocably a major multicultural society 
with  over  160  nationalities  living  and  working  in  the 
country.  The  integration  of  newcomers  into  that  new 
multicultural  society  is  one  of  the  most  important 
social issues we will face over the next few decades.  

A key challenge for this High-level Dialogue is to 
identify  appropriate  ways  and  means  to  maximize  the 
development benefits of international migration and to 
minimize  its  negative  impacts.  Ireland  recognizes  that 
each  country  is  primarily  responsible  for  its  own 
Integration  strategies  for 
06-52450 

3 

ignore 
from 
to  support 
A  priority  of 
the  aid  programme  of 
This  High-level  Dialogue  cannot 
A/61/PV.5 

development,  but  seeks 
its  partner 
Governments  in  the  developing  world  in  working  to 
reduce poverty and to enable their people to meet their 
basic  needs 
in  health,  education  and  sustainable 
livelihoods.  Ireland  is  committed  to  reaching  the 
United  Nations  official  development  assistance  target 
of 0.7 per cent of gross national income by 2012. This 
year,  our  aid  spending  is  at  its  highest  level  ever  not 
only in terms of volume but also as a percentage of our 
gross national product (GNP). 

the 
negative  impact  of  migration  on  development.  We 
recognize  the  problems  encountered  when  qualified 
professionals  migrate  to  better-paid  jobs  in  richer 
countries.  The  situation  has  become  critical  in  sub-
Saharan  Africa,  where 
the  health  workforce  has 
become  seriously  depleted.  There  is  clearly  a  need  to 
take  concerted  action  to  address  the  push-and-pull 
factors of health worker migration. 

the 
Government  of  Ireland  is  to  support  partner  countries 
to improve the management and working conditions for 
health workers in order to encourage them to continue 
working in their own countries. We also recognize the 
responsibility 
to  manage 
international recruitment so that skilled health workers 
are  not  encouraged 
severely 
understaffed  countries.  The  Government  of  Ireland  is 
committed  to  best  practices  in  recruitment,  and  we 
welcome  the  European  Union  initiative  to  develop  a 
code  of  conduct  for  ethical  recruitment  of  health 
workers. 
There is increasing recognition of the potential of 

migrants’ 
to  economic 
development  at  the  household,  local,  national  and 
regional levels. Ireland takes the view that work on the 
development  potential  of  remittances  must  take  place 
in  a  context  where 
those 
remittances  are  private  funds  and  are  not  a  substitute 
for  national  development  efforts,  comprehensive 
development strategies or official development aid. 

the 
report  suggests 
establishment of a consultative forum that would offer 
Governments  a  venue  for  discussing  issues  related  to 
international migration and development systematically 
and 
the 
establishment  of  such  a  forum,  which  would  be  non-
bureaucratic,  open  ended,  State  owned,  consultative 
The  Secretary-General’s 
comprehensively. 
is  recognized 
to  contribute 
to  migrate 
remittances 
of 
richer 
countries 
Ireland 
supports 
it 
that 
its 
Ms.  Rumí  (Spain)  (spoke 
immigration  and 
this 
and  non-decision-making  and  would  provide  a 
framework  for  continued  dialogue  on  challenges  that 
face  all  our  societies  in  the  areas  of  migration  and 
development. 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency 

Ms. Consuelo Rumí, Secretary of State for Immigration 
and Emigration of Spain. 
in  Spanish):  My 

delegation endorses Finland’s remarks on behalf of the 
European  Union  delivered  at  the  start  of  this  High-
level  Dialogue,  in  which  one  of  the  most  important 
phenomena  of  our  time  is  being  discussed.  The 
phenomenon  of 
link  with 
development 
interdependent  world  has  a 
in 
growing impact in the countries of origin and in those 
of  transit  and  destination.  For  that  reason,  the  United 
Nations, where we are all represented, is an especially 
appropriate and necessary framework for discussion of 
this matter. 

Spain does not forget that for centuries and until 
very recently it was a country of emigration and that in 
the  past  few  years  it  has  become  one  of  the  main 
immigrant-receiving  countries.  The  Government  of 
Spain  deals  with  the  issue  of  migration  from  an  open 
and integral perspective and promotes the planning and 
implementation  of  development  strategies  that  deal 
with  the  root  causes  of  migratory  flows  and  create 
opportunities and expectations of a dignified life in the 
countries  of  origin.  As  a  result,  we  consider  that 
migratory  policies  should  serve  to  maximize  the 
benefits of a legal and organized migration and reduce 
the  inevitable  negative  consequences  for  the  countries 
involved, as well as for the migrants and their families. 
However,  that  will  be  possible  only  through  dialogue 
and  cooperation  among  the  countries  involved.  It  will 
be 
in 
appropriate management of migration flows.  

On the other hand, the appropriate integration of 
immigrants  in  the  country  of  destination  will  increase 
immigrants’  capacity  to  contribute  to  the  development 
of their country of origin. It must be recalled that better 
integration  requires  a  clear  effort  by  the  countries  of 
destination.  They  have  the  responsibility  to  design 
programmes 
immigrants,  providing 
for 
employment  and 
the 
immigrants 
education  system  and  social  life  on  the  basis  of 
promoting equal treatment and non-discrimination. 
receiving 
integrating 
responsibility 
possibly 
through 
shared 
into 
4 

06-52450 
towards 
to  contribute 



We  must  also  take  into  account  the  benefits  of 
voluntary  return  programmes.  The  establishment  of 
mechanisms  that  make  available  information  about 
these  programmes  and  their  financing  could  be  an 
incentive  for  immigrants  to  return  to  their  country  of 
origin  and 
that  country’s 
development. 

The  Government  of  Spain  will  soon  approve  the 
first Strategic Plan for Citizenship and Integration, for 
2006-2009,  endowed  with  2  million  euros,  and  with 
numerous measures in favour of integration, structured 
around  12  areas  of  action:  welcoming,  education, 
employment,  housing,  social  services,  health,  equal 
treatment,  women,  youth,  participation,  public 
awareness and development. 

Spain  is  also  aware  that  the  deep  causes  of 
migration are linked to the lack of opportunities in the 
countries  of  origin.  That  is  the  source  of  our  current 
efforts in development cooperation, which we know all 
too well will bear fruit only in the medium term. That 
effort will enable us to reach the target of 0.5 per cent 
of our gross domestic product in 2008, thus doubling in 
four years the Spanish contribution in this field. 

The  Government  of  Spain  is  determined  to 
intensify  international  cooperation,  promoting  specific 
measures  for  action  within  the  European  Union.  It  is 
important that all countries involved, both countries of 
origin  and  countries  of  destination,  prepare,  on  the 
basis  of  the  principle  of  joint  responsibility  and 
management, appropriate measures and programmes of 
action.  This  is  the  path  that  was  undertaken  at  the 
Euro-African  Conference 
and 
Development  held  in  Rabat  in  July  and  that  we 
understand marks the path to follow in the future. The 
Ibero-American  Meeting 
and 
Development held in Madrid, also in July, had a similar 
outcome  and  highlighted  the  need  to  advance  towards 
an Ibero-American coordination mechanism within the 
framework of the Ibero-American Conference. 
We  are  convinced  that  international  migration 

cannot  be  handled  unilaterally.  The 
interests  of 
migrants  and  their  families,  and  their  security  and 
welfare,  are  at  stake.  Many  human  lives  are  lost 
tragically 
irregular  emigration 
processes, and many human beings suffer as a result of 
illegal  trafficking.  There  are  no  immigration  policies 
that can be credible without a major, decisive struggle 
against  clandestine  immigration,  which  is  a  blight  on 
on  Migration 
on  Migration 
the  course  of 
in 
A/61/PV.5
the  global 
our  time  and  whose  victims  are  the  immigrants 
themselves, as well as the society that receives them.  

The  position  of  the  Government  of  Spain  is 
absolutely firm. During the past few years, it has been 
reinforcing  control  measures  and  developing  an 
effective  strategy  against  clandestine 
trafficking, 
including  a  proposal 
to  provide  bilateral  and 
multilateral cooperation, which are truly indispensable 
in this area. International migration must be addressed 
in  an  orderly  manner  as  an  extraordinary  opportunity 
for all, with responsibilities that ought to be shared. 

To  that  end,  and  with  the  aim  of  promoting 
reflection  and  concerted  action  on  the  phenomenon  of 
migration  at 
level,  Spain  has  been 
supporting the dialogue leading to the establishment of 
the  global  forum  on  migration  and  development 
proposed  by  the  Secretary-General.  Here,  I  wish  to 
express my Government’s appreciation and support for 
the 
efforts  of  Mr.  Peter  Sutherland,  Special 
Representative of the Secretary-General. In the context 
of  the  global  forum,  a  follow-up  mechanism  could  be 
established  in  the  areas  charted  by  this  High-level 
Dialogue.  

Therefore,  we  hope  that  this  Dialogue  will  be 
fruitful  and  reach  significant  conclusions  that  will  be 
beneficial  for  the  international  community  regarding 
the  actions  to  be  taken  in  the  area  of  international 
migration and development. 

The  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Luis Paolo Barreto, Deputy Minister of 
Justice of Brazil. 
Mr. Barreto (Brazil) (spoke in Spanish): Around 

the  world, 
universal 
acknowledgement  of  the  importance  of  migration  and 
of  the  contributions  of  migrants  to  countries  of 
destination.  In  many  nations,  immigrants  have  been 
essential 
cultural 
development. What we now see is a pronounced lack of 
preparation on the part of Governments, the media and 
society  in  addressing  this  issue.  Laws,  policies  and 
control  strategies  are  adopted  one  after  another  in  an 
attempt  to  achieve  what  is  now  called  the  governance 
of migration. Restrictive migration laws have not been 
effective  in  containing  migratory  flows;  often  indeed 
they  serve  as  an  incentive  for  the  activities  of 
international  syndicates  specializing  in  the  smuggling 
of migrants and human trafficking.  
practically 
economic, 
social 
there 
is 
for 
and 
06-52450 

5 
cases 
rights 
human 
systems, 
immigrants’ 
A/61/PV.5 

The  issue  of  migration  governance  is  generally 

addressed  by  way  of  agreements 
to  fight  such 
syndicates  and  to  tighten  visa  restrictions,  passport 
controls  and  airport,  maritime  and  ground  security 
measures.  There  are  discussions  about  criminalizing 
immigration  and  about  electronic  and 
irregular 
biometric 
identification 
rigorous  visa 
procedures,  data  checks  and  shared  mechanisms  for 
rejecting immigrants. Several such measures have been 
debated  and  adopted 
in  many  countries,  with 
unsatisfactory  results.  While  the  number  of  violations 
of 
of 
discrimination, incarceration and punishment increases 
by  the  day,  the  pace  of  migration  continues  to 
accelerate.  
There  is  now  talk  of  strategies  to  invest  in 

countries  of  origin,  supposedly 
to  help  promote 
development,  but  actually  to  help  contain  migratory 
flows.  By  themselves,  such  strategies  will  not  be 
effective.  

We urge that the issue of migration be addressed 
in terms of human rights. Our objective is to guarantee 
for  migrants  the  full  exercise  of  their  civil  rights.  We 
support globalization and migration policies, dignified 
treatment of migrants and the fight against all forms of 
xenophobia. We favour broader international protection 
for refugees. We believe that the integration of human 
beings should be the main objective of foreign policies. 

Countries  have  the  sovereign  right  to  establish 
rules governing the entry, stay and exit of foreigners in 
and  from  their  territory.  However,  no  country  is 
unanswerable 
international  community  for 
violating  the  rights  of  immigrants.  The  transnational 
nature  of  human  rights  is  firmly  established.  The 
criminalization  of  migrants,  mass  deportations, 
discriminatory 
international 
protection  to  refugees  and  treating  migrants  as  if  they 
had  no  rights  cannot  be  accepted,  even  under  the 
pretext of national sovereignty. 

Brazil,  as  current  President  of  the  Common 
Market of the South, is making available to interested 
delegations  a  document  detailing 
the  significant 
progress made by our regional bloc in simplifying the 
movement  and 
regularization  of  persons  while 
promoting  joint  action  to  prevent  and  combat  the 
smuggling of migrants and human trafficking.  
the 

Secretary-General,  Kofi  Annan,  to  establish  a  global 
the  proposal  of 
fully  supports 
treatment, 
denying 
Brazil 
to 
the 
and 

the 
that 
forum on migration  and development. We believe that 
such a forum will be an important way — perhaps the 
only  way  —  to  address  the  issue  of  migration  in  a 
manner appropriate to today’s world.  

We also regard as constructive Peter Sutherland’s 
proposal of an informal and inclusive global forum that 
would  examine 
links  between  migration  and 
development  from  a  comprehensive  and  holistic 
perspective  with  a  major  focus  on  human  rights.  We 
believe 
the  Global  Migration  Group  should 
support  the  operations  of  such  a  forum.  I  also  believe 
that it is essential to strengthen the Office of the United 
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees so that it can 
tackle the grave problem of persecution in the world in 
relation  to  race,  nationality,  social  group,  political 
opinion, conflict and serious human rights violations.  

Calm discussion on this issue could open the door 
to joint, creative, human and just solutions with regard 
to the phenomenon of migration, which linked our own 
ancestors  together.  It  is  a  right  that  must  also  be 
ensured for our descendants.  

The  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Wieslaw Tarka, Deputy Minister of the 
Interior and Administration of Poland. 

Mr.  Tarka  (Poland):  Poland  fully  supports  the 
statement delivered by the representative of Finland on 
behalf of the European Union. I should like to make a 
few  additional  comments  on 
issues  under 
discussion as viewed from our perspective. 

The recognition of migration policy as a constant 
component 
and 
modernization  strategy  requires  that  it  be  based  on 
reliable  knowledge  of  the  nature  and  consequences  of 
migration-related  phenomena  at  both  the  national  and 
global  levels.  Therefore,  we  highly  appreciate  the 
initiative  of  organizing  the  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International  Migration  and  Development.  We  also 
agree that today’s debate should mark the beginning of 
an  international  sharing  of  experience  gained  in  this 
field.  We  expect  that  it  will  be  a  multithematic 
discussion on the complex issues involved. 

the 
Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, to his team and to the 
Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Peter 
Sutherland,  for  their  excellent  and  comprehensive 
preparation of this meeting. 
to  express  our  appreciation 
development 
country’s 
I  wish 
the 
of 
to 
a 
6 

06-52450 
into 
processes 
influencing 
Poland 
is  currently  formulating 



Although  the  international  aspects  of  migration-
related  cooperation  are  highly  significant,  its  regional 
dimension is of key importance. Therefore, we express 
our  support  for  an  increase  in  the  activities  and  the 
participation  of  all  the  regional  commissions  of  the 
United  Nations  system  with  regard  to  migration  and 
development issues. 

It  was  not  long  ago  that  we  met  at  the  Euro-
African Conference held in Rabat. Its outcome proved 
that  such  meetings  should  also  be  conducted  in  other 
regions,  including  Eastern  Europe,  where  migration-
related issues will, to an ever greater extent, influence 
the economic and social situation. 

the  specific 
components  of  its  migration  policy.  Historical  events 
clearly show that Poles have been active participants in 
the  migration  processes.  Our  accession 
the 
European Union integrated our country into the global, 
and  primarily  European,  migration  system  at  a  higher 
level.  Globalization 
the 
migration  phenomenon  will  also  have  an  impact  on 
migration in Poland. 
We are not only a country of emigration but have 

also become a country of immigration. During the last 
decade,  Poland  has  become  a  transit  and  destination 
country.  To  an  ever  greater  extent,  we  have  been 
experiencing the phenomenon of temporary migration. 
Therefore,  we  believe  that  special  attention  should  be 
given to this particular issue and its challenges. 

Owing  to  our  geographical  location,  Poland  is  a 
place  of  migration  mostly  for  the  people  from  the 
East — from neighbouring European countries as well 
as Asian States. 

As  a  result  of  political  changes  in  the  last  15 
years,  our  country  has  established  a 
legal  and 
institutional system for migration-related issues that is 
in compliance with European standards. This process is 
still  in  progress  pursuant  to  the  evolving  changes  in 
European Union migration and asylum policy. 
Poland  has  not  experienced  a  mass  population 

influx.  However, 
importance  of 
migration at the global level, we actively participate in 
the 
the  development 
benefits  resulting  from  the  phenomenon  for  receiving 
countries, countries of origin and migrants themselves. 

Both  our  experience  and  our  analysis  of  our 
European partners’ migration policies support our view 
international  discussion  on 
recognizing 
the 
A/61/PV.5
that  effective  migration  management  is  possible  and 
that  it  should  be  based  on  intensive  cooperation  and 
partnership  among  countries  of  origin,  transit  and 
destination.  Such  cooperation  should  be 
led  on 
bilateral,  regional,  multilateral  and  global  levels.  The 
constructive  role  of  non-governmental  organizations 
and local communities is also to be emphasized. 

We  are  convinced  that  the  most  efficient  use  of 
the organizational  and  financial potential of  countries, 
regions,  institutions  and  other  partners,  will  be  best 
achieved  by  ensuring  coherence  and  avoiding 
duplication. 

It is indispensable to maintain the mechanism of 
further  cooperation  among  States  in  the  area  of 
migration  within  the  United  Nations.  Therefore,  we 
appreciate  the  Secretary-General’s  initiative  aimed  at 
establishing  a  consultation  forum  for  United  Nations 
Member  States  which  will  provide  a  comprehensive 
approach to migration- and development-related issues. 
In  our  opinion,  such  a  forum  is  needed.  However,  it 
should be established within the framework of existing 
United  Nations  structures  and  in  cooperation  with  the 
International Organization for Migration (IOM). 

This High-level meeting is the first time that the 
issues of migration and development have been raised 
at such a high level. I am deeply convinced that we all 
perceive these questions to be of great importance and 
worthy  of  further  development,  with  a  view 
to 
improving  the  quality  of  the  global  debate  on  this 
topic.  We  are  all  aware  that  migration  is  an  always-
present phenomenon, and therefore our main task is to 
find  the  best  way  to  maximize  its  benefits  and 
efficiently  tackle  the  challenges  it  poses.  Poland  is 
ready  to  take  an  active  part  and  contribute  to  our 
common efforts in this domain. 
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 

Mr.  Alejandro  Borda,  Vice-Minister  of  Multilateral 
Political Affairs of Colombia. 
Mr.  Borda  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation  is  delighted  to  see  you,  Madam  President, 
presiding over our debates and is convinced that, under 
your  leadership,  we  shall  achieve  the  targets  that  we 
have proposed. 

Owing  to  its  complexity,  international  migration 
is  charged  by  tensions  between  globalization  and 
national sovereignty, between best practices and worst 
realities, between unilateral and multilateral positions. 
06-52450 

7 

A/61/PV.5 


Globalization  has  turned  migration  into  a  cross-
cutting matter which is closely related to development, 
human  rights,  the  struggle  against  poverty,  and  the 
quest  for  opportunities  in  an  inequitable  world,  which 
is  why  this  phenomenon  should  be  addressed  at  the 
global and intergovernmental levels. 

The  global  approach  fully  justifies  its  treatment 
in a context as inclusive as the United Nations, as the 
sole  intergovernmental  forum  of  a  global  nature. 
Therefore, the convening of this High-level Dialogue is 
welcome,  and  we  should  follow  it  up  with  all  due 
consideration. 

Colombia  considers  it  advisable  to  establish 
regular  and  ongoing  dialogue,  which  would  make  it 
possible  achieve  a  general  and  comprehensive 
migration policy, and should lead to specific mandates 
for the agencies concerned. 
There  are  other  intergovernmental  institutions 

is  not  universal,  and  which 
whose  composition 
approach the issue of migration from specific points of 
view.  But,  given  their  characteristics  and  limitations, 
these bodies do not approach the migration issue from 
a  comprehensive  perspective.  For  that  reason,  our 
dialogue should be broad and inclusive of all migration 
elements  and  should  at  all  costs  avoid  considering  a 
migrant  as  “unskilled  labour  on  the  move”,  that  is, 
merely  as  some  merchandise  required  to  develop  the 
economy. On the contrary, we should start by thinking 
about the human dimension of the migrant and respect 
for his or her fundamental rights. 
Regional dialogue on migration matters is useful. 

We  believe 
issues  could  be 
approached  in  greater  depth  in  the  framework  of 
regional  encounters,  in  order  to  seek  cooperation 
strategies.  Nonetheless,  migration  is  a  phenomenon 
that is not limited to regional dynamics. Therefore, we 
need to preserve the broad and inclusive framework of 
the United Nations to assure that its analysis will take 
account of all aspects of its complex reality as a global 
phenomenon linked to development. 
The High-level Dialogue should be a constructive 

forum,  with 
fostering 
understanding,  policy  agreement  and  cooperative 
solidarity,  and  which  encourage 
the 
domestic  and  global  levels  on  the  structural  causes  of 
migration and the possibilities of development. 
flexible  mechanisms 
that  many  specific 
thought  at 
for 
With 
the 
through 
results  of 

My  delegation  thanks  the  Secretary-General  for 
his  report  on  international  migration  and  development 
(A/60/871). In general terms, we share the approach of 
the  document,  which  has  visualized  migration  as  a 
multidimensional  phenomenon,  presenting  challenges 
and  opportunities 
for  countries  of  origin  and 
destination alike, by linking migration to development. 

When considering the agendas for migration and 
development together, we should take into account the 
prevailing  global  economic  model,  which  undermines 
local  forms  of  production  and  encourages  migrant 
flows to developed countries when the local population 
has  no  viable  possibility  of  overcoming  poverty  or 
generating wealth, investing or saving. 

the  economic  model 
implemented  in  Latin  America  to  improve  living 
standards,  proposals  have  been  made  based  on  a  new 
paradigm  of  sustained  development 
the 
productive  use  of  remittances.  It  should  be  noted  that 
remittances  are  private  resources,  and  therefore  they 
cannot be the subject of government intervention. Their 
use  is  determined  by  the  migrant  and  his  immediate 
family,  and  the  medium-  and  long-term  effects  of  this 
mechanism  have  not  been  sufficiently  evaluated  in 
macroeconomic terms. 

In  a  multilateral  context,  the  concept  of  “best 
practices” has been imposed as the model from which 
international  public  policy  has  been  slowly  built  up. 
Nonetheless,  in  the  field  of  migration,  this  model 
cannot  be  an  excuse  for  sidestepping  the  “worst 
realities”  to  which  migrants  are  exposed  in  societies 
that  exploit 
them: 
xenophobia,  discrimination,  racism,  and  the  dismissal 
of  the  economic  and  cultural  contributions  made  by 
migrants  to  their  communities  of  origin  and  their 
destination  societies.  We  should  look  at  the  everyday 
realities of migrants and their problems in order to start 
the  participatory  quest  for  solutions  and  innovative 
policies.  

A  clear  understanding  of  the  positive  aspects  of 
migration  —  tolerance,  acceptance  of  the  cultural 
diversity of  migrants  and  their harmonious integration 
into receiving societies — should form the basis of the 
first and most important of the so-called best practices. 

Finally,  my  delegation  would  like  to  share  some 
thoughts  on  the  phenomenon  of  migration  in  general 
that cause us some concern. I wish to refer here to the 
their  backs  on 
them  or 
turn 
8 

06-52450 
illicit  drugs  and 
The  principle  of  shared 


principle  of  shared  responsibility  with  respect  to 
migration in general. 

responsibility  was 
adopted  by  the  international  community  to  address  a 
criminal  phenomenon  — 
their 
trafficking,  as  well  as  related  crimes.  To  apply  that 
principle  to  migration  in  general  on  that  same  basis 
would  be  tantamount  to  equating  migrants  with  a 
consignment  of  illegal  drugs  such  as  cocaine.  That 
would contravene fundamental principles in that respect. 
Migration  per  se  is  not  a  criminal  phenomenon. 
Trafficking  in  individuals  or  in  drugs  is  criminal. 
Therefore  shared  responsibility  in  this  respect  must 
involve  international  solidarity  vis-à-vis  the  criminal 
phenomenon  of  the  illicit  trafficking  in  human  beings 
and related criminal activities. 

The  President: I  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Leonardo 
Franco,  Vice-Minister  for  Latin  American  Affairs  of 
Argentina. 
Mr.  Franco  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Madam  President,  let  me  begin  by  thanking  the 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan, 
for  having 
organized  this  High-level  Dialogue  on  International 
Migration and Development. 

Migrations  are  an  essential  part  of  Argentine 
history. In the past my country received great numbers 
of immigrants, mainly from Europe; in recent decades, 
they have been coming from brotherly South American 
countries. Argentines,  too,  have  had  to  leave,  as  they 
did for political reasons in the 1970s. We wish publicly 
to  thank  other  countries  for  having  welcomed  our 
refugees.  More 
reasons, 
Argentines have also sought better opportunities abroad. 

For all those reasons, my country is participating 
in  this  High-level  Dialogue  with  great  interest,  given 
the  very  high  priority  that  the  Argentine  Government 
attaches  to  the  subject  of  migration.  My  country’s 
participation  is  taking  place  in  a  context  of  regional 
integration  that  addresses  the  subject  of  migration 
multilaterally,  from  a  human  rights  perspective,  thus 
going beyond the traditional view of the issue, which is 
based  exclusively  on  the  interests  of  the  State  and  its 
sovereignty. 

We  have  as  evidence  of  this  the  significant 
advances  achieved  through  binding  agreements  within 
Mercosur  and  associated  countries,  which  make  this 
new vision a reality for migrants in our region. I should 
for  economic 
recently, 
A/61/PV.5
for 
cooperation 
in 
in 
this  new  spirit 
Argentina  enshrined 
establish  mechanisms 
like  in  particular  to  draw  attention  to  the  consensus 
agreements reached at the South American Conference 
on  Migration,  contained 
the  2006  Asunción 
Declaration. 

Argentina, in keeping with its historical tradition 
in  that  respect,  would  like  to  affirm  that  the  quest  for 
better 
living  conditions  elsewhere  should  not  be 
viewed  as  blameworthy,  much 
less  criminalized. 
Countries should therefore address the issue by seeking 
to 
and 
integration,  assuming  a  common  responsibility  in  this 
respect.  Such  undertakings  should  be  given  concrete 
expression, not just lip service. 

its 
migration  policy  through  the  2004  National  Law  on 
Migration.  That  new  law  reflects  the  commitment  of 
our country to guaranteeing full respect for the human 
rights of migrants and their families. It also establishes 
mechanisms  that  can  facilitate  the  regularization  of 
migration,  thus  contributing  to  the  elimination  of  all 
forms of discrimination, xenophobia or racism. 

In Argentina, under the new legislation, the right 
to  health  care,  social  assistance  and  education  at  all 
levels  is  guaranteed,  on  an  equal  footing,  to  all 
foreigners, whatever their migration status. 

As  a  consequence  of  the  establishment  of  the 
Mercosur and Associated States Residence Agreement, 
signed  in  San  Salvador  de  Bahía,  Brazil,  in  2002, 
Argentina implemented the National Programme on the 
Normalization  of  Migratory  Documents  —  known  as 
“Patria  Grande”  —  which  reflects  a  human  and  social 
perspective  on  the  subject,  benefiting  all  foreigners 
born in States members of that bloc. The only conditions 
for  migratory  regularization  relate  to  nationality  and 
one’s police record, which must be clean. 

That programme has made it possible, in the three 
months  of  its  existence,  to  regularize  more  than 
250,000 immigrants from South American countries. It 
is  important  to  note  that  this  programme  is  not  an 
amnesty programme but a State policy that will apply, 
from  now  on,  to  all  nationals  of  Mercosur  and 
associated States who are currently in Argentina or will 
arrive at a later date. 
The  Argentine  Government  is  aware  of  the 

relationship  between 
issue  of  migration  and 
international  security.  That  is  why  my  country  has 
stated in various forums that it is vital to address those 
the 
06-52450 

9 

Accordingly, 
Our  migratory  policy 
A/61/PV.5 

issues  from  a  rights-based  perspective,  to  ensure  that 
measures adopted to promote international security do 
not  negatively  affect  respect  for  fundamental  human 
rights. 

the  Argentine  Republic,  while 
recognizing  that  the  exercise  of  a  State’s  sovereignty 
includes control over its borders and the right to decide 
whom it will admit to its national territory, nonetheless 
believes that due process should apply in that regard. 

Likewise,  we  believe  that  internal  security  is 
better served by regularizing and providing documents 
to  immigrants  who  arrive  in  our  country  than  by 
marginalizing  them  or  relegating  them  to  anonymity, 
thereby rendering them defenceless against unscrupulous 
employers or traffickers and their despicable ways. 

incorporates  a  gender 
perspective aimed at ensuring that migrant women can 
fulfil their important role as agents of development and 
transmitters of values. 

The  trafficking  of  persons  is  one  of  the  most 
urgent  and  serious  problems  related  to  the  movement 
of  individuals.  Reports  indicate  that  the  geographical 
scope  of  the  problem  has  expanded  and  that  the 
majority  of  victims  are  women  and  children. 
International cooperation is indispensable in uncovering 
and  combating  the  complex  transnational  networks 
involved in the trafficking of human beings.  

Before concluding, I would like to draw attention 
to the fact that Argentina has circulated a paper entitled 
“A  paradigm  shift:  addressing  international  migration 
from a human rights perspective” (A/61/315, annex). 

In  conclusion,  we  believe  that,  if  they  are  to 
succeed, the actions of the international community in 
the  area  of  migration  must  me  addressed 
in  a 
comprehensive  manner  and  on  a  multilateral  basis. 
Argentina  reaffirms  its  determination  to  participate 
actively  in  forums  and  mechanisms  for  international 
cooperation,  with  a  view  to  promoting  new  principles 
for  migration  based  on  the  ethical  consideration  of 
respect for the human rights of migrants. Accordingly, 
I would like to welcome, on behalf of my country, the 
Government of Belgium’s offer to host the first session 
of the consultative forum on migration. 
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 

Mr. Joris Demmink, Secretary-General of the Ministry 
of Justice of the Netherlands. 
costs 
for 
achieve  mutually 
Mr. Demmink (Netherlands): First of all, let me 

stress  that  this  High-level  Dialogue  is  a  very  timely 
event. As  the  Secretary-General  states  in  paragraph  7 
of his report (A/60/871), “Each of us holds a piece of 
the migration puzzle, but none has the whole picture. It 
is time to start putting it together”. 

The Netherlands attaches great importance to this 
global  Dialogue  and  firmly  believes  that  it  should  be 
the  beginning,  not  the  end,  of  a  global  process  of 
discussion and cooperation. It is only through open and 
constructive  dialogue  about  the  positive  and  negative 
aspects of migration and respect for each other’s views 
that  States 
beneficial 
cooperation.  This  concerns  both  South-North  and 
South-South cooperation, since the problems linked to 
South-South migration are as important as those linked 
to  South-North  migration.  Migration  should  therefore 
be addressed as a global phenomenon. 

We  align  ourselves  with  the  statement  made  by 
the representative of Finland on behalf of the European 
Union  (EU),  especially  as  regards  the  relationship 
between  migration  and  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  the  brain  drain,  circular  migration,  reducing 
transfer 
and 
trafficking and the protection of refugees. 

There  is  a  clear  relationship  between  migration 
and  development.  Migration  has  both  positive  and 
negative  consequences  for  the  economic  and  social 
development of the country of origin, as well as of the 
country  of  destination.  Development  can  therefore 
influence 
to  migrate.  The  Netherlands 
annually  spends  0.8  per  cent  of  its  gross  domestic 
product  on  the  fight  against  poverty  in  the  world, 
thereby  contributing  to  the  removal  of  root  causes  of 
migration. 
for 

Development  Cooperation 
colleague 
responsible  for  immigration  and  integration  presented 
to  parliament  a 
joint  paper  on  migration  and 
development.  An  English  version  is  available  in  this 
Hall.  In  our  view,  it  is  a  good  example  of  policy 
coherence. Coherence has to start at home if it is to be 
effective internationally. 

The  Netherlands  is  also  a  strong  advocate  of 
coherence, cooperation and policy coordination among 
States 
international 
organizations — in our own region, among regions and 
globally.  At  the  same  time,  we  organize  regular 
the  Dutch  Minister 
Two  years  ago, 
remittances, 
smuggling 
the  need 
and 
between  States 
and 
can 
and 
her 
10 

06-52450 
representatives 
from  managing 
that 
temporary 
Countries  benefit 


meetings  with 
of  migrants’ 
organizations  to  enable  them  to  provide  input  for 
policy formulation. 

flows  of 
migrants. Creating migration management capacity can 
therefore  make  a  major  contribution.  The  Netherlands 
actively supports projects, especially in Africa, helping 
immigration  agencies  and  other  authorities  to  register 
and assist migrants and protect refugees. 

Temporary labour migration can have significant 
advantages for migrants themselves, as well as for their 
countries of origin and destination. The Netherlands is 
examining  how 
labour  migration  from 
developing countries can serve the interests not only of 
the  Netherlands  and  of  migrants,  but  of  countries  of 
origin as well.  

The  Netherlands  works  to  promote  “brain  gain” 
by encouraging migrants to temporarily return to their 
countries  of  origin  to  contribute  to  development. 
Migrants  can  act  as  a  bridge  between  countries  of 
origin  and  destination.  For  instance,  in  Ghana  we 
developed  a  project  for  the  temporary  return  of 
Ghanaian  doctors  who  qualified  in  the  Netherlands. 
Last April, we started a new project for the temporary 
return  of  qualified  migrants  to  Afghanistan,  Sierra 
Leone, the Sudan, Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and 
Herzegovina. 

the  rights  of 
migrants, particularly women and children, and combat 
xenophobia and racism. The Special Rapporteur on the 
Human  Rights  of  Migrants,  acting  under  the  mandate 
of  the  new  Human  Rights  Council,  has  a  vital  role 
here. 

For many women and their families, migration is 
the all-important step towards a better life — not only 
because  it  means  more  income,  but  because  of  the 
possibilities  of  empowerment 
it  offers.  But 
migration also poses risks for women. Migrant women 
often  do  work  that  is  dirty,  difficult,  demeaning  and 
dangerous. Trafficking in persons is the dark underside 
of globalization, and it must be exposed and rooted out. 

It is essential that this Dialogue continue. We call 
upon the General Assembly at this High-level Dialogue 
to  support  the  Secretary-General’s  proposal  for  a 
global,  informal  and  voluntary  forum  in  which  States 
can discuss common problems, exchange best practices 
and find common solutions; the establishment of such a 
Every  country  should  protect 
A/61/PV.5
to  discuss 
their  willingness 
forum is supported by the Global Migration Group and 
the  Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-General, 
Mr.  Peter  Sutherland.  We  warmly  welcome  Belgium’s 
offer  to  host  the  first  meeting  of  the  forum.  In  the 
meantime,  countries  will  have  to  continue  working 
together in every conceivable way. This week we have 
made a good start. 
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 

Mr.  Victor  Filistovich,  Vice-Minister  of  Interior  of 
Belarus. 
Mr. Filistovich (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): On 

behalf  of  the  delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Belarus,  I 
would  like  to  thank  the  Secretariat  for  its  excellent 
work in having organized  this High-level Dialogue on 
International Migration and Development. 

The  fact  that  Member  States  are  participating  at 
such  a  high  level  in  this  forum  clearly  shows  their 
readiness  to  cooperate  in  a  productive  manner  in 
regulating  migration  and  reducing  its  negative  social 
effects.  It  also  proves  their  commitment  to  protecting 
the  rights  and  freedoms  of  migrants  and  refugees,  as 
well  as 
the  major 
challenges  of  migration  and  the  impact  that  it  has  on 
development throughout the world. 

international 
dialogue  on  migration  and  the  need  for  effective 
measures  to  fight  trafficking  in  persons,  as  well  as  on 
other,  emerging,  challenges  that  pose  a  threat  to  our 
societies.  One  concrete  example  of  that  support  is  the 
initiative  of  Belarus  to  establish  a  global  partnership 
against  slavery  and  trafficking  in  persons  in  the 
twenty-first century.  

Belarus  believes  that  the  draft  resolution  it  has 
prepared  on  improving  coordination  of  efforts  against 
slavery  and  trafficking  in  persons  will  prove  to  be  an 
important step towards a global partnership framework. 
Support  for  that  initiative  would  represent  a  valuable 
contribution to fighting an almost forgotten evil that is 
now  posing  a  growing  threat  to  human  civilization. 
Support  for  the  initiative  would  also  mean  making  a 
solid  contribution  to  the  common  effort  of  building 
international peace and security. 

Human  trafficking  will  never  be  eradicated  as 
long  as  the  demand  for  it  continues  to  increase.  In  its 
endeavour to ensure a stronger legal framework to hold 
accountable  those  seeking  sexual  relations  with  the 
victims  of  trafficking,  Belarus  has  organized  a  high-
Belarus  supports  a  constructive 
06-52450 

11 

to 
improve 
In  early  1990s, 
trafficking:  ways 
A/61/PV.5 

level  international  conference  on  Fighting  the  demand 
for 
international 
cooperation among countries of origin and destination. 
Belarus will host that conference on 26 and 27 October. 

the  process  of  migration 
throughout  the  vast  area  of  the  former  Soviet  Union 
saw fundamental changes that led to enormous, out-of-
control migration flows. That process affected Belarus 
as  well.  The  timely  adoption  of  a  State  migration 
strategy,  along  with  effective  legal  measures  and  two 
State  programmes,  helped  to  bring  order  to  chaotic 
migration and to ensure stability within the country. 

Belarus  has  now  ensured  that  there  is  adequate 
migration  legislation  in  place  that  complies  with 
international  standards.  We  also  have  a  system  of 
efficient  legal  and  social  assistance  for  migrants. 
Belarus  has  also  established  an  effective  legal  regime 
for refugees and other aliens staying in the country and 
has  taken  practical  measures  to  fight  illegal  migration 
and human trafficking. There is also a regime in place 
to cover foreign residents.  
Belarus  is  currently  implementing  a  third  State 

to 
migration  programme  for  2006-2010.  It  aims 
strengthen  State  security,  promote  economic  growth 
and ensure that migrants fully enjoy their legal rights. 

The  Belarus  State  migration  policy  includes  the 
following priorities: utilizing the potential of migration 
social,  economic  and  demographic 
to  promote 
development;  promoting 
integration  of 
migrants;  attempting  to  stem  the  outward  flow  of 
academics;  ensuring  free  access  to  job  opportunities 
abroad; and promoting international cooperation in the 
field of migration. 

Given  the  negative  impact  of  emigration  by 
qualified  and  prospective  professionals  on 
the 
intellectual potential of the country, Belarus shares the 
view  of  the  Secretary-General  that  there  is  a  need  to 
retain qualified professionals in countries that invest in 
their education and training. 

It  is  undeniable  that  the  challenge  of  migration 
has a global  dimension today. Migration can therefore 
be  most  effectively  addressed  only  on  the  basis  of 
international  solidarity,  cooperation  and  coordinated 
efforts  by  all  interested  parties. At  the  same  time,  the 
immediate impact of migration and the need to tackle it 
often  weigh  most  heavily  upon  countries  that  on  their 
own  are  unable  to  implement  programmes  aimed  at 
the  social 
12 

regulating migration, creating national asylum systems 
and confronting illegal migration. Such countries need 
assistance from the international community to develop 
effective  migration  policies  and  establish  national 
controls  and  statistical  instruments  in  the  area  of 
migration.  Developing  countries,  countries  with 
economies  in  transition,  such  as  Belarus,  and  transit 
countries face similar problems. 

Belarus  is  actively  participating  in  a  number  of 
international  and  subregional  forums  on  migration 
issues. We are also cooperating closely in this area both 
with  other  States  and  with  international  organizations. 
Our  cooperation  with  neighbouring  countries 
is 
particularly dynamic and productive. 

The  Republic  of  Belarus  proposed,  and  is  now 
participating  in,  the  establishment  of  the  Euro-Asian 
Programme  on  Forced  Displacement  and  Migration. 
The  programme  provides  a  new  mechanism  for 
dialogue  and  interaction  on  the  basis  of  the  1996 
Geneva  Conference  on  the  problems  of  refugees  and 
displaced persons. 

Belarus  agrees  that  there  is  a  need  to  expand 
international  cooperation  and  dialogue  on  migration. 
We  are  still  considering  the  proposal  to  establish  a 
consultative forum on migration. At the same time, we 
believe that while considering that proposal we need to 
ensure  that  existing  mechanisms  for  cooperation  are 
fully utilized, especially the experience and facilities of 
the International Organization for Migration. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  the  hope 
that the High-level Dialogue will encourage us to take 
not  one  but  a  number  of  steps  towards  our  common 
objective of ensuring global peace and security. 
The  President:  Before  we  proceed,  I  would  like 

to  inform  members  that  this  afternoon,  before  we 
continue with our list of speakers, the Chairpersons of 
the  four  round  tables  will  present  summaries  of  the 
deliberations of their respective sessions.  

Lázaro,  Vice-Minister 
Abroad of Peru. 
Mr.  Lázaro  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  At  the 

outset,  I  would  like  first  to  say  that  Peru  associates 
itself  with  the  statements  delivered  yesterday  by  the 
representative  of  Guyana  on  behalf  of  the  Rio  Group 
and by the representative of South Africa on behalf of 
the Group of 77 and China. 
I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Jorge 
for  Peruvian  Communities 
06-52450 
importance 
to 



Peru  is  participating  in  this  Dialogue  with  great 
interest  and  expectations,  for  we  believe  that  the  call 
by  the  Secretary-General  is  in  line  with  the  major 
objectives  of  countries  like  Peru  that  have  a  high 
number of migrants abroad.  

For  six  years  now,  my  country  has  been 
systematically carrying out a policy to provide consular 
services  and  protection  on  the  basis  of  protecting  the 
interests  and  rights  of  Peruvians 
living  abroad. 
Although  there  has  been  significant  progress,  even 
more  challenges  remain.  The  current  Government 
therefore  attaches  particular 
the 
protection  of  Peruvians  abroad.  That  clearly  entails 
taking  steps  at  the  bilateral,  subregional,  regional, 
hemispheric and international levels. As an illustration 
of that tangible commitment, last May Peru hosted the 
International  Conference  of  Developing 
Special 
Countries  with  Substantial 
International  Migrant 
Flows.  The  Conference  adopted  the  Lima  Declaration 
(A/61/91,  annex),  a  document  that  I  am  certain  will 
enrich our debates. 
We therefore believe that the time is right for the 

international 
the 
contributions  of  migration  and  to  consider  a  renewed 
and  multidimensional  focus  when  putting  in  place 
policies  that  are  specific,  viable  and  sustainable.  That 
would  be  a  logical  step  to  take  on  the  path  we  have 
embarked  upon  to  jointly  address  the  problems  and 
positive elements of international migration.  

Progress  has  been  made  along  thematic  lines 
thanks to the dedicated work done as part of the Berne 
Initiative.  Progress  has  also  been  made  on 
the 
theoretical  and  practical  fronts  thanks  to  the  work  of 
for  Migration,  an 
the 
organization 
is  grateful 
its 
unwavering support for our undertakings in the area of 
migration. We also take note of the contribution made 
by 
the  Global  Commission  on 
International Migration.  

a  great 
responsibility.  This  Dialogue  aims  at  putting  in  place 
the  cornerstone  of  an  ambitious  agenda,  namely, 
undertaking  a  shared  commitment  to  enhance  the 
positive  impact  of  migration  for  countries  of  origin, 
transit  and  destination,  as  well  as  for  migrants 
themselves.  We  now  need  to  set  into  motion  the 
political  will  of  all  Member  States  in  order  to  reach 
agreement  on  priorities,  approaches  and  guidelines. 
International  Organization 
to  which  Peru 
acknowledge 
faced  with 
community 
the 
report  of 
for 
to 
That 
said,  we 
are 
A/61/PV.5
International  Convention  on 
Peru  is  therefore  amenable  to  the  proposal  of  the 
Secretary-General  regarding  the  establishment  of  a 
forum  on  international  migration  within  a  United 
Nations framework. In that regard, we wish to express 
our gratitude for the work of Mr. Peter Sutherland. 

Mr.  Goche  (Zimbabwe),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

In  that  undertaking  we  should  bear  in  mind  that 
some  of  the  most  up-to-date  and  advanced  know-how 
regarding migrant protection can be found in countries 
of  origin.  In  that  connection,  I  should  just  like  to 
mention two  efforts in which my  country has recently 
participated.  The  first  was  the  decision  soon  to  begin 
negotiations with Argentina to bilateralize the Common 
Market  of  the  South  Residency  Agreement.  That 
agreement  is  based  on  a  legal  principle  that  already 
represents  significant  progress,  namely,  that  residency 
is  based  on  proof  of  nationality,  and  not  on 
employment status. The second example has to do with 
our  recent  signing  with  Chile  of  a  memorandum  of 
understanding  on  employment,  which  is  based  on  the 
United  Nations 
the 
Protection  of  the  Rights  of  All  Migrant  Workers  and 
Members of Their Families.  

We have every intention of making this Dialogue 
a  success  in  addressing  international  migration  and 
development. We are convinced that, in expressing our 
views,  we  will  also  be  able  to  learn  from  the  lessons 
and  other  positive  experiences  shared  here  and  apply 
them in our country. 
The  Acting  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Emilio  Giménez  Franco,  Vice 
Minister  for  Economic  Affairs  and  Integration  of 
Paraguay. 
in 

Spanish):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
South American  Conference  on  Migration.  I  do  so  in 
my capacity as representative of the country serving as 
President Pro Tem and in discharge of the mandate of 
the Conference. 

The  Sixth  South  American  Conference  on 
Migration met in Paraguay on 4 and 5 May and issued 
the  Asunción  Declaration,  which  gives  clear  and 
balanced  expression 
the  continent’s  consensus 
position  on  migration  and  development,  viewing  them 
as  a  multidimensional  phenomenon  of  growing 
complexity. The Asunción  Declaration  emphasizes  the 
Mr  Giménez  Franco  (Paraguay)  (spoke 
to 
06-52450 

13 
urged 
the 
from 
the  acts  of 
The  Conference 
The  Asunción  Declaration  acknowledges 
A/61/PV.5 

progress  that  has  been  made  in  migration  in  the 
Common Market of the South, the Andean Community 
and  the  South  American  Community  of  Nations,  as 
well as the unilateral measures adopted by some States 
in  positive  response  to  the  necessities  of  international 
migration.  Such  measures  include  the  “Patria  Grande” 
plan to regularize migration, proposed by the Republic 
of Argentina. 

international 
community to work on migration policies based on the 
ethical dimension of respect for the rights of migrants. 
It proclaimed that migration should be seen as the right 
of  every  individual  and  that  the  human  rights  of 
migrants  deserve  wholehearted  respect,  regardless  of 
the migrants’ status. Migrant workers and their families 
should  be  protected 
racism, 
xenophobia  and  discrimination  that  are  ever  more 
frequently  seen  in  certain  societies.  We  in  South 
America  believe  that  promoting  social  inclusion  and 
tolerance  towards  migrants  and  their  families  can 
maximize the positive impact of migration.  

the 
recent  strong  feminization  of  migratory  movements. 
Almost half of current migrants are women, which has 
a  heavy  impact  on  families  and  the  social  groups 
remaining  in  the  countries  of  origin.  Since  women 
migrants  suffer 
two-fold  discrimination,  both  as 
women  and  as  migrant  labourers,  greater  efforts  must 
be  made  to  protect  them,  ensuring  in  particular  the 
rights  of  women 
and  unaccompanied  minors, 
regardless of their status in the receiving countries. 

We  firmly  assert  that  migrants  are  the  agents  of 
development. They should be guaranteed access to the 
labour  market,  and  the  receiving  countries  should 
acknowledge 
academic 
credentials.  That  would  help  to  identify  the  positive 
aspects of migration, both for the migrants themselves 
and for the sending and receiving countries.  

and 
development  explains the increase in migratory flows. 
Inequality,  social  exclusion,  lack  of  opportunity  and 
income  gaps  stimulate  global  human  mobility.  They 
also  have  an  impact  on  the  countries  of  origin,  which 
lose their most skilled human resources, whose training 
puts  enormous  economic 
strain  on  developing 
countries.  In  contrast,  the  receiving  countries  profit 
from  the  highly  skilled  human  resources  they  host, 
which  reflects  the  transfer  of  the  public  investment  in 
between  migration 
professional 
That 
connection 
their 
and 

Given 
its  multidimensional  complexity, 
education  made  by  the  developing  countries  to  the 
developed  ones.  Having  lost  their  best-trained  people, 
the  sending  countries  see  their  productivity  reduced, 
which  in  turn  has  a  negative  impact  on  their  own 
development.  

For  all  those  reasons,  we  must  deal  with  the 
unjustifiable contradiction that, while we promote and 
practice 
the  free  mobility  of  financial  resources 
through  globalization,  human  mobility  suffers  from 
counter-globalization.  
The remittances that emigrants send home to their 

families  are  private.  They  must  be  considered  as  a 
phenomenon  separate  and  distinct 
from  official 
development assistance. We must find the mechanisms 
to  direct  those  funds  towards  the  development  of  the 
societies  they  are  intended  for,  while  ensuring  the 
privacy, confidentiality and security of remittances, as 
well as the lowest possible cost for such transactions. 
the 

phenomenon of migration is not immune to the activities 
of  transnational  organized  crime  groups.  Migration 
frequently degenerates into violations of human rights. 
The dream of building a better future for migrants and 
their  families  frequently  leads  to  illegal  trafficking  in 
migrants, trade in persons and even organ trafficking. 

We  therefore  believe  that  mechanisms  to  halt 
irregular migration should not limit migrants’ access to 
international  protection.  Migrants  of  irregular  status, 
and  in  particular  those  who  have  fallen  prey  to 
trafficking,  should  enjoy  sufficient  guarantees  and 
options  from  the  sending,  transit  and  receiving  States 
in  order  to  be  able  to  regularize  their  situation, 
denounce  criminals,  and  have  unrestricted  access  to 
social services, even if they have migrated illegally. 

The United Nations must be more involved in the 
protection  and  defence  of  the  rights  of  migrants. 
Particular  consideration  should  be  given 
the 
situation  relating  to  the  International  Convention  on 
the  Protection  of  the  Rights  of  All  Migrant  Workers 
and Members of Their Families, adopted in December 
1990. While  that  instrument  came  into  effect  in  2003, 
only  34  of  the  192  countries  of  the  United  Nations 
have ratified it to date. Many countries of our continent 
are  not  among  the  ratifiers.  It  is  a  troubling  fact  that 
not one of the developed countries has ratified it. 

South America is a continent that has always been 
affected  by  migration,  either  as  a  destination  for  the 
to 
14 

06-52450 
in 
the 
the  context  of 
International  Organization 


past  five  centuries  or  as  a  place  of  origin  in  recent 
times.  The  South  American  Conference  on  Migration 
recognizes  certain  negative  effects  of  migrant  flows, 
but  many  of  those  could  be  mitigated  if  the  countries 
involved  were  to  promote  coordinated  and  consensual 
work 
the  principle  of  shared 
responsibility,  with  a  view  to  counteracting  illicit 
trafficking in migrants, the trade in persons, trafficking 
in minors and other related crimes, in accordance with 
current international law. 

Given  the  many  years  that  the  countries  of  our 
region  and  the  Ibero-American  community  have  been 
working  with 
for 
Migration,  the  commitment  of  that  organization  to 
working  in  full  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations 
and  its  States  Members  to  streamline  resources  and 
ensure  best  practices,  and  Secretary-General  Kofi 
Annan’s concern on this issue, the initiative to create a 
global 
forum  on  migration  should  provide  an 
opportunity  to  demonstrate  that  we  can  efficiently, 
effectively  and  transparently  address  the  challenge  of 
making global migration policies coherent.  

To  the  extent  that  public  policies  are  adopted  to 
promote  co-development  in  the  countries  of  origin, 
transit  and  destination, 
to 
stabilizing the populations in their respective societies; 
the  costs  and  benefits  of  migratory  flow  will  be 
assumed  symmetrically  by  the  countries  concerned; 
migration will be managed in a responsible, egalitarian, 
secure and respectful way; and social development will 
ensue  in  the  terms  stipulated  in  the  United  Nations 
Declaration  on  the  Right  to  Development  and  the 
loftiest principles of international humanitarian law. 
The  Acting  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  The  Honourable  Richard  Msowoya, 
Minister  of  State  in  the  Office  of  the  President 
Responsible  for  Poverty  and  Disaster  Management 
Affairs of Malawi. 
Mr.  Msowoya  (Malawi):  At  the  outset,  I  would 

like  to  associate  my  delegation  with  the  statement 
delivered  by  the  representative  of  South  Africa  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 
Let me also express the Government of Malawi’s 

appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for  preparing  a 
comprehensive  and  illuminating  report  that  highlights 
the  multidimensional  aspects  of  migration  and 
development.  The  report  clearly  brings  out  the  strong 
linkages  between  migration  and  development,  and  it 
they  will  contribute 
A/61/PV.5
to 
and 
cultures, 
economies 
therefore  welcome 
also  makes  some  recommendations  that  merit  the 
attention and critical consideration of the international 
community. 

Migration  generates  social,  cultural  and  political 
consequences  that  must  be  carefully  considered  in 
order  to  ensure  that  it  works  for  both  the  sending  and 
receiving  countries.  We 
this 
opportunity  to  share  knowledge  about  how  to  manage 
the movement of people. 

The  globalization  of  markets,  information  and 
technology,  as  well  as  the  liberalization  of  many  laws 
affecting 
individuals’  mobility,  have  enabled  vast 
movements of people on a scale never seen before. And 
just  as  they  have  with  globalization,  many  of  our 
countries  have  failed  to  take  full  advantage  of  the 
benefits of increased migration. 
Indeed, there are some indisputable advantages of 

international  migration 
the  development  of 
countries.  Those  include  the  dynamic  human  link 
between 
societies; 
remittances; 
skills  and  know-how  accumulation; 
transfer of technology and institutional knowledge; and 
inspiring  ways  of 
socially  and 
politically,  among  others.  However,  if  those  are  not 
properly  harnessed,  a  lot  of  us  stand  to  lose.  That  is 
why  we  would  like  to  underline  the  need  to  carefully 
design  policies  that  will  guarantee  that  international 
migration  becomes  beneficial  for  the  development  of 
the  countries  of  origin  and  the  receiving  countries 
alike. 
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  states  that 

nearly 200 million people live outside their country of 
birth, and in 2005 they contributed nearly $250 billion 
in  remittances  to  their  countries  of  origin.  It  is  now 
widely  acknowledged  that  remittances  are  one  of  the 
development  effects  of  migration,  particularly  at  the 
individual  or  household  level.  While  celebrating  the 
importance of remittances, we need to be reminded that 
countries of origin certainly lose human capital through 
the  emigration  of  skilled  professionals  and  unskilled 
labourers. 

In  the  case  of  Malawi,  for  every  three  doctors 
trained,  two  are  likely  to  migrate  in  search  of  better 
prospects.  The  statistics  are  worse  for  registered 
nurses.  For  the  past  five  years,  Malawi  has  witnessed 
the  mass  exodus  of  nurses  to  work  in  the  West.  That 
has seriously hampered the delivery of health services 
at home. 
thinking,  both 
06-52450 

15 

In 
like 
that 
to  advocate 
spoken  before 
respect,  we  would 
A/61/PV.5 


Brain  drain  is  a  serious  deterrent  to  sustainable 
development. Therefore, there is a serious need for us 
to work together to come up with strategies at all levels 
that  will  ensure  that  migration  benefits  all  concerned. 
We  call  for  intensified  international  cooperation  that 
can benefit the small national economies that are most 
vulnerable  to  brain  drain,  particularly  in  such  crucial 
sectors as health and education. 
Malawi  would  like  to  join  some  delegations  that 

have 
regular  and 
constructive  dialogue  between  countries  of  origin  and 
destination  in  order  to  strengthen  cooperation  and  to 
identify common solutions, including the allocation of 
development  aid  for  the  eradication  of  poverty  in 
countries of origin. 

The  need  to  explore  other  opportunities  for 
involving  the  diaspora  in  development  is  of  critical 
importance. 
to 
acknowledge the Migration for Development in Africa 
project,  spearheaded  by  the  International  Organization 
for  Migration  and  the Transfer  of  Knowledge  through 
Expatriate  Nationals  programmes,  which  have  in  a 
modest way brought out the potential of the diaspora in 
the  development  of 
their  countries.  Those  are 
programmes that must be supported and encouraged. 

Furthermore,  our  Governments  need  support  in 
their efforts to encourage national expatriates to return 
to 
through 
professional and financial incentives, and indirectly by 
creating  legal  and  institutional  frameworks  conducive 
to return. 

Malawi  is  supportive  of  the  Secretary-General’s 
proposal  to  have  a  consultative  forum  that  would 
provide  an  opportunity  to  discuss  issues  relating  to 
international  migration 
a 
systematic  and  comprehensive  way.  We  believe  that 
this  would  ensure  the  retention  of  migration  and 
development  high  on  the  development  agenda  of  the 
international community. 

Malawi has porous borders. As a transit  country, 
we  receive  a  lot  of  asylum  seekers  in  genuine  need. 
However,  transnational  criminal  elements  have  also 
taken  advantage  of  the  situation  to  launch  their 
criminal activities, including trafficking of women and 
children. Those are transnational problems that require 
transnational solutions. 
countries  of  origin  directly 
and  development 
their 
in 
the  mobility  of 
Globalization  promotes 

Let  me  conclude  by  emphasizing  the  need  to 
place  the  effective  protection  of  the  economic,  social 
and  cultural  rights  of  the  migrant  at  the  centre  of  all 
migration  management  systems.  It  is  my  delegation’s 
sincere  hope  that  this  dialogue  will  not  be  an  end  in 
itself. 
The  Acting  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His Excellency Mr. Albert Agossou, Minister Delegate 
to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Charge of African 
Integration and the Diaspora of Benin. 
Mr.  Agossou  (Benin)  (spoke  in  French):  Benin 

welcomes  the  positive  initiative  of  the  international 
community  to  organize  this  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International Migration and Development. 
the 

factors  of  production,  including  labour.  Like  other 
factors,  the  cross-border  mobility  of  labour  must  now 
respond, in the same way as any export commodity, to 
ever-more  stringent  standards.  That  is  the  lesson  that 
my  country,  the  Republic  of  Benin,  has  learned  in  its 
fight  against  unofficial  and  clandestine  migration.  In 
that  regard,  host  countries  and  countries  of  origin  are 
called  upon  to  act.  As  both  a  sending  and  receiving 
country, Benin has suffered the negative consequences 
of  migration,  but  also  benefits  from  some  of  its 
positive aspects.  
As  most  reports  note,  migration  is  expected  to 

increase, and there is no indication that it will decrease 
in the medium term. On the contrary, all factors lead us 
to believe that not even the newly adopted immigration 
policies  of  the  northern  countries  will  stem  the  brain 
drain.  

In addition to the traditional forms that we know 
and have studied, one type of migration is of particular 
concern  to  my  Government  —  that  of  vulnerable 
persons, such as women and children, who are subject 
to 
trade.  Trafficking, 
exploitation and trade in children are the results of the 
limitations and failures of the educational system. Such 
failures 
is  not 
universal; that people with higher education are finding 
it 
find  work,  which 
discourages  parents  from  sending  children  to  school; 
and 
insufficient  enforcement 
cannot halt the trafficking of children. 

As to Benin, an approximate assessment — which 
we  hope  to  develop  in  depth  —  indicates  that  its 
increasingly  difficult 
legislation  and 
that  schooling 
trafficking 
the  facts 
include 
human 
that 
and 
to 
16 

06-52450 
to 
recognizes 
The  Government  of  Benin 


population  living  and  working  outside  the  country 
stood  at  about  1  million  in  1983  and  had  risen  to 
almost 3 million by 2005. Of those 3 million, 1.02 per 
cent  chose  Europe  as  a  destination  and  0.27  per  cent 
chose  North America.  The  vast  majority  —  98.29  per 
cent — live in Africa. 

the 
importance of international migration and its impact on 
the  country’s  economy.  The  number  of  citizens 
concerned, the amount of remittances sent by migrants 
and the tragic experience of migrants who are forced to 
return attest to the acuteness of the problem for Benin 
and justify the efforts made to manage the diaspora at 
the institutional and political levels. 

I should now like to focus on the link between the 
prosperity  of  our  countries  —  countries  of  origin  — 
and  the  brain  drain.  It  is  acknowledged  that  skilled 
migrants  contribute 
the  economic  growth  of 
receiving  countries.  It  has  also  been  observed  that 
skilled  migrants  are  less  likely  than  those  with  fewer 
skills  to  send  remittances  to  their  country  of  origin, 
perhaps  because  of  the  opportunities  for  integration 
offered  by  the  receiving  country  and  the  stability  of 
employment  for  highly  skilled  labour.  Be  that  as  it 
may, the emigration of highly skilled labour represents 
a  direct 
the  development  of 
communities  and  countries  of  origin  —  a  loss  that, 
members  will  agree,  is  not  offset  by  the  remittances 
periodically sent back. But we must recognize that the 
weakness  of  the  productive  capacities  of  countries  of 
origin,  which  does  not  allow  them  to  hold  on  to  their 
skilled personnel trained at great expense, is one of the 
reasons for it.  
However, the sending of remittances establishes a 

direct 
link  between  migration  and  development. 
Therefore, above and beyond the issue of remittances, 
we  must  operationalize  existing  mechanisms  in  order 
to transfer the knowledge of the diaspora to the country 
of  origin. That  would  increase  the  contributions  made 
by emigrants to the development of our countries.  
With  regard  to  remittances,  between  1999  and 

2005  Beninese  citizens 
living  abroad  officially 
transferred  to  Benin  a  total  of  $698.4  million.  If  we 
look  at  the  purposes  to  which  those  resources  were 
assigned, we see that, in the absence of an appropriate 
source  of  guidance  and  advice,  remittances  are  used 
mostly to purchase household goods and property. That 
highlights  the  need  for  a  policy  to  assist  and  guide 
terms  of 
loss 
in 
A/61/PV.5
legislative 
the 
initiative 
the  many 
Notwithstanding 
migrants  so  that  they  will  want  to  invest  in  their 
country of origin.  

Mindful  of  the  importance  of  such  remittances, 
Benin calls on the international community to support 
the  Ministerial  Declaration  of 
the  Ministerial 
Conference  of  the  Least  Developed  Countries  on 
migrant  remittances,  particularly 
to 
establish  a  migrant  remittance  observatory  for  least 
developed  countries.  Here,  I  wish  to  reiterate  my 
country’s offer to the international community to serve 
as the headquarters for such an observatory.  

and 
regulatory  measures  already  adopted,  the  difficulties 
observed  in  the  management  of  migration  to  promote 
development  require  that  the  international  community 
take a number of actions that would be directly in line 
with the decisions of the Summit of Heads of State and 
Government  of  the  African  Union  held  in  Banjul  in 
July  2006.  It  should  offer  children  who  have  been 
excluded 
formal  education  system  an 
alternative  form  of  literacy  training  and  education  for 
better subsequent integration into the economic fabric; 
encourage  bilateral  agreements  between  countries  of 
emigration  and  immigration  to  protect  the  rights  of 
migrant  workers,  particularly  the  most  vulnerable 
among them; encourage all States to integrate into their 
development 
strategies 
coherent  migration  policies  that  ensure  respect  for  the 
internationally  recognized  rights  of  migrants;  provide 
technical  and 
to  countries  of 
emigration  so  that  they  raise  the  awareness  of  their 
populations  regarding  the  conditions  prevailing  in 
traditional 
improve 
knowledge  about  migrant  workers’  rights  in  countries 
of  immigration  with  a  view  to  facilitating  respect  for 
those  rights;  help  countries  to  know  more  about  their 
diasporas;  and  promote  and  strengthen  mechanisms  to 
facilitate use  of the expertise of diasporas to meet the 
needs of countries of origin. 
Benin is confident that these meetings will enable 

us  to  discuss  all  these  issues.  Following  up  on  them 
will  require  everyone’s  support  for  the  Secretary-
General’s  proposal  to  establish  a  consultative  global 
forum on migration and development issues. The forum 
will  be  a  special  framework  for  discussion  and 
consultation  on  the  challenges  and  issues  bound  up 
with international migration. 
financial  support 
and  poverty 
immigration; 
alleviation 
from 
the 
countries 
of 
06-52450 

17 
a 
especially 
los  Santos 
countries  — 
are  driven  by 
Mrs.  Graciano  de 
A/61/PV.5 


The  Acting  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to 
Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Rosario  Graciano  de  los  Santos, 
Vice-Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Dominican 
Republic. 

(Dominican 
Republic) (spoke in Spanish): It is important for me to 
participate  in  this  important  meeting.  International 
migration is one of the great global phenomena of our 
time.  In  today’s  world,  the  mobility  of  people  who 
cross international borders and move to other countries 
in  search  of  better  living  conditions  is  constantly 
increasing.  They 
lack  of 
development —  in  particular,  a  lack  of  jobs  and  an 
adequate  livelihood,  not  only  for  them,  but  also  for 
their families. 

As representatives of Governments, we must play 
a  significant  role  in  formulating  and  carrying  out 
public  policies  concerning  the  positive  impact  of 
migration. We must explain the link between migration 
and  development.  Understanding  and  identifying  the 
role  of 
countries  of 
immigration —  in  that  regard  is  the  main  challenge 
before us.  

The  Dominican  Republic,  as  a  country  that  both 
sends and receives migrants, has witnessed significant 
changes 
the  mid-1970s.  The 
increasing proportion of women migrants, the changing 
perception  of  Dominicans 
the 
process  of  social  change  in  the  diaspora  itself  — 
caused by the enhanced social standing of second- and 
third-generation  emigrants,  whose  social,  economic 
and  cultural  conditions  are  better  than  those  of  their 
forebears  —  offer  the  best  possible  framework  within 
which to implement policies that reflect those profound 
changes. 

international  migration  are  a 
sovereign  matter  for  States,  which  have  national 
standards 
formulation  and  execution. 
However, Governments in all regions of the world are 
aware  that  migration  must  be  planned  and  managed 
through international coordination and cooperation.  
Governments  are  accordingly  making  a  point  of 

in  non-binding  regional  consultative 
participating 
forums  bringing  together  representatives  of  States, 
non-governmental  organizations  and  business  people, 
among  other  actors, 
the  problem  of 
in  a  cooperative  manner,  promoting 
migration 
in  migration  since 
living  abroad  and 
Policies  on 
to  discuss 
for 
their 

in 
like 
joins 
three 
I  should 
to  highlight 
Our  country 
the  coordination  of  bilateral  and 
exchanges  and 
multilateral agreements on international migration. 

the 
the  efforts  of 
international  community  to  raise  awareness  about  the 
dimensions  of  the  phenomenon  of  migration  at  the 
global level. The High-level Dialogue on International 
Migration and Development is an appropriate forum in 
which  our  countries  can  discuss  new 
ideas  on 
migration  policies  aimed  at  promoting  development. 
Such policies should have both a national and a global 
focus to enhance regional consultations, which thus far 
have  had  very  fruitful  results  for  the  participating 
States. We hope that this important meeting will come 
up  with  proposals  and  recommendations  that  lead 
countries  to  improve  conditions  so  that  they  can  meet 
the  challenges  posed  by  migration  and  take  advantage 
of the opportunities it offers. 

important 
initiatives  taken  recently  by  the  Government  of  the 
Dominican  Republic 
in  cooperation  with  other 
countries of the region.  

First  is  the  International  Congress  on  Creating 
Synergies  between  Migration  and  Development,  held 
in collaboration with the International Organization for 
Migration (IOM).  
Another  is  the  private  sector  forum  to  explore 

remittances  and  development, 
linkages  between 
organized  with 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  (UNDP)  and  the  United  Nations  Fund  for 
International  Partnerships  (UNFIP),  which  brought 
together  participants  from  companies  dealing  with 
remittances,  microfinance 
and 
communications technology and regulators and parties 
offering support for projects. 

The  third  initiative  is  the  Regional  Consultation 
on  Migration,  Remittances  and  Development  in  Latin 
America and the Caribbean, organized with UNDP, the 
Special  Unit  for  South-South  Cooperation,  the  United 
Nations Public-Private Alliance for Rural Development, 
the United Nations International Research and Training 
Institute  for  the Advancement  of Women  (INSTRAW) 
and  others,  and  with  support  from  several  private-
sector  companies.  Government,  business  and  diaspora 
groups,  non-governmental  groups  and  international 
organizations 
representing  13  countries  attended, 
including  Brazil,  Bolivia,  Colombia,  the  Dominican 
Republic,  Ecuador,  El  Salvador,  Guatemala,  Haiti, 
Honduras,  Jamaica,  Mexico,  Nicaragua  and  Peru. 
information 
and 
18 

06-52450 


President  Leonel  Fernández  Reyna  of  the  Dominican 
Republic delivered an important statement on diaspora 
issues  and  remittances,  and  the  meeting  adopted  a 
declaration for consideration at this High-level Dialogue. 

I  am  very  pleased  to  make  the  declaration 
available  to  this  meeting.  We  wish  to  invite  those 
present  here  to  give  attention  to  the  proposals  in  the 
declaration,  and  we  urge 
that  Governments  and 
international  bodies,  especially  UNDP,  use  them  as  a 
basis  for  new  policies  and  actions  in  response  to  the 
needs and to the opportunities that we have identified. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency,  Mr.  Eissa  Maldoun,  Deputy  Minister  for 
Labour Affairs of the Syrian Arab Republic. 
Mr.  Maldoun  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  First  of  all,  we  would  like  to  congratulate 
Ms. Al-Khalifa  on  her  election  to  head  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-first  session. We  wish  her  every 
success  in  her  work  and  pledge  the  support  of  our 
delegation.  I  would  also  like  to  support  the  statement 
made  by  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  South 
Africa,  who  spoke  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China.  

Migration  is  a  human  phenomenon  and  has 
existed  since  time  immemorial.  Throughout  history  it 
has taken different forms, individually and collectively. 
At  the  same  time,  it  has  basically  been  a  quest  for 
better 
the 
economic  needs  of  migrants.  Migration  has  been  a 
melting  pot  of  civilizations  and  cultures  which  has 
often brought together civilizations, cultures and peoples.  

We  cannot  consider  migration  today  without 
taking  into  consideration  globalization,  which  has 
positive  and  negative  aspects.  Since  the  migrant’s 
interest  in  improving  his  or  her  living  conditions  is 
what  dominates,  globalization  reflects  with  great 
clarity  the  need  to  close  the  gaps  left  by  severe 
economic  inequalities  throughout  the  world.  We  need 
international action in order to deal with the core issues 
of  migration,  economic  development  and  the  fair 
distribution of wealth.  

from 
international  migration 
collective 
development,  it  is  necessary  to  develop  a  global 
economic methodology and an international policy that 
recognizes migration’s role in development. To achieve 
such  a  methodology,  it  would  be  wise  not  to  consider 
living  conditions,  undertaken 
to  draw  maximum  benefit 
In  order 
to  meet 
achieve 
and 
A/61/PV.5
It 
to 
lower 
is  also  necessary 
the  Governments  of 
impact.  In  paragraph  110, 
remittances  as  a  substitute  for  official  development 
assistance (ODA).  

the  costs  of 
transferring  funds  and  to  make  sure  that  remittances 
are made easily to countries of origin without any type 
of  discrimination  whatsoever.  Likewise,  migrants 
should  be  able  to  transfer  retirement  pensions  without 
any  obstacles  created  by  the  tax  system  of  the  host 
countries.  It  is  also  vital  to  provide  assistance  for 
remittances to developing countries. Counter-terrorism 
laws  should  not  be  an  impediment  for  transfers  of 
funds  that  are  necessary  for  development.  It  is  just  as 
necessary not to impose unilateral financial restrictions 
that  would  impede  such  transfers.  In  this  context,  the 
question  of  partnerships  between  associations  of 
migrants  abroad  and 
their 
countries of origin needs to be studied.  

Our  region  has  seen  an  artificial  form  of 
migration  that  was  not  dealt  with  in  the  Secretary-
General’s  report  (A/60/871),  albeit  that  it  has  a  very 
serious 
the  Secretary-
General talks about the relationship between migration 
and development, but does not take into account some 
important  elements, 
such  as  displacement.  For 
example, the report does not discuss forced migration, 
nor the question of the protection of refugees or those 
who seek asylum. 

Illegal migration, as we have seen in our region, 
particularly among Palestinians under Israeli occupation, 
has caused the displacement of hundreds of thousands 
of Palestinians, now numbering millions. Those people 
have been forcibly displaced internally, or externally to 
neighbouring countries.  

Syria  and  other  countries  in  the  region  have 
known  various  forms  of  migration  from  neighbouring 
countries  because  of  the  Israeli  occupation  and  the 
aggressive  actions  that  caused  the  forced  migration  of 
Palestinians.  In  addition,  Syria  has  welcomed  more 
than  400,000  displaced  Syrians  from  the  Israeli-
occupied  Golan,  more  than  half  a  million  Palestinian 
refugees and many more Iraqis.  

The  last  form  of  migration  is  the  temporary 
migration  of  more  than  200,000  Lebanese,  a  direct 
consequence  of  the  latest  Israeli  aggressions  against 
Lebanon. There is no need to explain to the Assembly 
the  magnitude  of  the  obstacles  that  such  migration 
creates for the economic and social development of our 
country and the entire region.  
06-52450 

19 

that 
the  International  Convention  on 
A/61/PV.5 


The  humanitarian  situation  that  migrants  face, 
considering  the  diverse  types  of  migration,  should  be 
of great interest to the international community, which 
has  adopted  a  number  of  international  instruments  to 
regulate  and  maintain  the  rights  of  migrants.  We 
believe 
the 
Protection  of  the  Rights  of  All  Migrant  Workers  and 
Members of Their Families is the most comprehensive. 
My  country,  Syria,  which  believes  that  it  is  necessary 
to preserve the rights of migrant labour, has become a 
party  to  that  Convention  and  to  other  human  rights 
conventions that regulate human rights for workers.  

We have also become a party to six international 
instruments  that  come  within  the  United  Nations 
system  of  human 
rights  conventions.  Moreover, 
combating  the  illicit  trade  in  persons  and  human 
smuggling  requires  an  intensification  of  efforts  on  the 
part  of  the  international  community.  We  believe  that 
the  best  way  to  coordinate  our  actions  in  this  area  is 
through the transfer of technology that  can be used to 
uncover such crimes. 

Damascus,  which  is  the  oldest  capital  in  the 
world,  has  experienced  throughout  its  history  33 
different  civilizations  that  have  become  one,  thus 
making  Syria  and  Syrian  society  a  unique  example  in 
history.  Syrian  society 
is  capable  of  accepting 
immigrants and integrating them, and of engaging in a 
cultural and civilizational dialogue.  

Over  the  past  few  centuries,  Syrian  emigrants 
have made tremendous contributions to the civilization, 
culture  and  economy  of  host  countries  throughout  the 
world.  Those  migrants  are  people  who  have  two 
countries  —  the  country  of  destination  and  the  Syrian 
Arab Republic itself. 
We definitely support the content of the report of 

the Secretary-General. We also believe that discussions 
on international migration policies should not be based 
on  an  economic  approach  alone.  Migration  also 
produces social, cultural and political effects that need 
to be addressed. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Asgar  Alakbarov,  Vice-Minister  for 
Internal Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan. 
Mr. Alakbarov  (Azerbaijan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

The  Government  of 
the  Republic  of  Azerbaijan 
welcomes  the  convening  of  this  High-level  Dialogue 
on Migration and Development, which will allow us to 
the 
of 
our 
the 
Since 
restoration 
laws  on  migration  and 
identify  prospects  for  future  international  cooperation 
on migration for years to come.  

In  Azerbaijan,  more  than  20  laws  and  by-laws 
have  been  enacted  to  regulate  the  migration  process, 
most  notably 
labour 
migration.  Azerbaijan  is  a  State  party  to  seven  basic 
United  Nations  legal  instruments  on  the  rights  of 
migrants,  including  the  United  Nations  Convention 
against  Transnational  Organized  Crime  and 
its 
complementary  Protocols  on  migrant  smuggling  and 
trafficking in persons. Those legal instruments laid the 
foundation  for  a  National  Action  Plan  to  Combat 
Human Trafficking and a law on combating trafficking 
in  human  beings,  which  were  adopted  in  2004  and 
2005,  respectively.  National  measures 
to  regulate 
migration are based on the State Concept of Migration 
Policy  adopted  in  2004  and  on  the  State  Migration 
Programme. One of the steps for the implementation of 
that Programme was the establishment of the Migration 
Service within the Ministry of Internal Affairs in 2005. 

national 
independence in 1991, Azerbaijan has seen substantial 
emigration, so that it may be described as essentially a 
country of origin for migrants. The reason for that lies 
in  the  hardships  ensured  in  the  transitional  period, 
further  aggravated  by  the  emergence  of  some  one 
million  refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons  as  a 
result  of  the  occupation  of  a  part  of  Azerbaijan's 
territory by Armenia. 

In  addition,  a  significant  number  of  our  fellow 
citizens  are  currently  residing  and  working  in  many 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States  countries.  The 
influence  of  migrants  on  the  social  and  economic  life 
of  the  country  is  undeniable. At  the  same  time,  there 
appears  to  be  a  need  to  develop  special  tools  to 
encourage the use of remittances for poverty reduction 
and  sustainable  development.  There  is  also  a  need  to 
simplify  procedures  for  transferring  funds.  Active 
interaction  with  financial  and  other  relevant  agencies 
in the countries of destination offers a means of solving 
this problem. 

Permit  me  to  touch  upon  another  urgent  issue, 
namely, protection of the rights of migrants. We cannot 
but  be  deeply  concerned  at  the  recent  increase  in  the 
number  of  manifestations  of  racism  and  xenophobia 
towards  migrants.  Existing  stereotypes  of  migrants 
create  obstacles  to  their  full  integration  into  society, 
making  for  serious  social  problems.  In  this  regard,  I 
20 

06-52450 
in  human  beings 
is 
Trafficking 


would  like  to  appeal  to  the  countries  of  destination  to 
undertake the necessary measures. 

the  most 
dangerous consequence of illegal migration; combating 
that  type  of  crime  should  therefore  be  a  priority.  A 
Department 
to  Combat  Human  Trafficking  has 
accordingly  been  established  within  the  Ministry  of 
Internal Affairs;  a  hotline  has  been  launched  with  the 
the  Organization  for  Security  and 
assistance  of 
Cooperation 
in  Europe 
non-governmental 
organizations;  and  a  shelter  for  victims  of  human 
trafficking is currently near completion. 

In  order  both  to  address  negative  aspects  of 
migratory  processes  and  to  benefit  from  their  positive 
potential, an active and efficient partnership is needed 
between  the  countries  of  origin  and  the  countries  of 
destination,  as  well  as  close  cooperation  between 
Government  agencies,  the  private  sector  and  civil 
society.  Cooperation  with 
international 
organizations is equally important. In this context, the 
work of the Global Migration Group is crucial. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  acknowledge  the 
efficient  and  consistent  activities  of  the  International 
Organization  for  Migration.  I  am  confident  that,  in 
close  collaboration  with  the  United  Nations,  the  IOM 
will  contribute  significantly  to  addressing  the  urgent 
issues under discussion during this Dialogue. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Her 

Excellency Mrs. Ana Eugenia Durán, Vice-Minister of 
Government and Policy of Costa Rica. 
Mrs.  Durán  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

would like to begin my statement by reiterating Costa 
Rica’s  full  support  for  what  has  been  said  by  the 
delegations  of  South Africa  and  Guyana  on  behalf  of 
the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  the  Rio  Group, 
respectively. 

In  those  group  statements,  the  global  nature  of 
migration was reiterated, as was the need to address the 
phenomenon  from  an  equally  global  perspective.  We 
emphasized 
the 
advantages that together we must turn to best account. 
The  link  between  migration  and  development,  the 
impact of globalization, the increasing feminization of 
migration and the need to address this complex topic in 
human 
terms,  as  well  as  from  a  human  rights 
perspective,  is  a  constant  that  must  be  emphasized  at 
every opportunity. 
the  challenges  before  us  and 
and 
relevant 

A/61/PV.5

My  delegation  understands  that  we  have  been 
invited  to  a  Dialogue  and,  accordingly,  we  hope  to 
benefit  not  only  from  the  experiences  and  aspirations 
we share with one another, but also, and in particular, 
from the concrete, positive results emanating from this 
interaction. 

I  should  like  to  share  some  data  regarding  the 
situation in my country. Before doing so, I avail myself 
of  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  our  brothers  from 
Guatemala,  El  Salvador,  Honduras  and  Nicaragua, 
who,  together  with  Costa  Rica,  today  are  celebrating 
our Day of Independence. 

Although  a  small  and  developing  country,  Costa 
Rica  is  ranked  by  the  United  Nations  Population 
Division  as  first  among  destination  countries  in  Latin 
America and ninth worldwide. Translated into figures, 
that means that, in February of this year, 10 per cent of 
our population were migrants, which explains why the 
topic is of particular importance to us. 

It  seems  clear  that  the  vast  majority  of  our 
countries are simultaneously countries of origin, transit 
and destination. However, there is still a preconceived 
idea  that  migration  in  our  time  is  a  North-South 
phenomenon. Statistics reveal how distant from reality 
that is. 

The  phenomenon  of  South-South  migration 
should  also  be  considered  in  all  of  its  facets  and 
implications.  Accordingly,  one  of 
the  greatest 
challenges  to  a  developing  country  that  is  mainly  a 
destination  country  is  to  take  duly  into  account  the 
increase  in  demand  for  basic  services  to  ensure  that 
there will be a life of dignity for the entire population, 
including  the  migrant  population.  That  is  the  greatest 
challenge facing the developing countries. 

As  a  country  committed  to  the  promotion  and 
defence of human rights, Costa Rica is convinced that 
any  migration  legislation  and  policy  should  protect 
against  all  forms  of  racism  and  discrimination, 
squarely  oppose  xenophobia  and  promote  positive 
maximization  of  the  benefits  of  contact  between 
immigrants and local inhabitants. 

At the same time, it is clear that the Government 
must  guarantee  the  security  and  well-being  of  its 
citizens, taking appropriate measures within the rule of 
law  to  prevent  the  entry  and  residence  of  foreigners 
whose  criminal  backgrounds  or 
illegal  behaviour 
suggest that they might jeopardize security. 
06-52450 

21 

the 
rights  of  all.  The 
repercussions  of  migration, 
A/61/PV.5 


This  is  a  difficult  balance  to  strike.  To  do  so, 
Costa  Rica  has  identified  the  following  three  basic 
aspects  among  others.  The  phenomenon  of  migration 
should  be  addressed  at  the  national  level  by  bringing 
together all the sectors  concerned, both positively and 
negatively,  avoiding 
temptation  of  short-term 
political  gains  and  giving  priority  to  an  approach  that 
provides  guarantees  and  has  a  human  face.  The 
international  community  must  take  joint  action  to 
ensure  that  migration  is  orderly  and  safe  and  that  it 
respects  human 
international 
community  must  provide  focal  points  for  cooperation 
and development, focusing on individuals and ensuring 
their  well-being.  Attainment  of 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals is important but insufficient. 
This  requires  a  high  degree  of  coordination  and 

cooperation  by  all  sectors  at 
the  national  and 
international  levels.  It  also  calls  for  deep  knowledge 
and  understanding  about  the  social,  economic  and 
institutional 
in  both 
countries  of  destination  and  countries  of  origin  and 
transit. 

Finally,  any  discussion  of  the  issue  of  migration 
as  well  as  its  causes  and  consequences  in  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean  should  take  into  account 
that approximately 90 per cent of the Latin Americans 
living  in  extreme  poverty  live  in  middle-income 
countries.  The  priorities  of  international  cooperation 
should take this reality into account. 

We look forward to the day when we can say that 
the citizens of all our countries are residing in the place 
of  their  free  choice  with  an  adequate  and  dignified 
standard of living. 

The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
Mr.  José  Mandra,  Vice-Minister  of  the  Interior  of 
Mozambique. 
in 

Portuguese;  English  text  provided  by  the  delegation): 
My  delegation  wishes  to  associate  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  Minister  of  Home  Affairs  of 
South Africa on behalf of the Group 77 and China. 

Migration has now reached unprecedentedly high 
levels owing to, among other factors, greater access to 
travel,  persistent  regional  and  subregional  economic 
disparities,  natural  disasters,  armed  conflicts,  political 
instability  and  the  vulnerability  of  national  borders. 
Migration  is  inevitable  and  unstoppable  as  long  as 
Mr.  Mandra 
(Mozambique) 
(spoke 
of 
host 
countries,  with 
there  is  a  deep  imbalance  of  development  among 
countries.  This  should  not  be  viewed  as  a  problem  or 
threat. If well coordinated between countries of origin 
and  destination,  it  can  produce  positive  effects  on  the 
economy  and  can  create  jobs  and  generate  profits.  In 
Africa,  and  in  particular  in  my  country,  Mozambique, 
as  far  as  labour  is  concerned,  migration  of  the  work 
force  is  a  current  and  historical  reality  with  a  direct 
impact on the economy and society. 

The  approach  to  the  problem  of  immigration 
should  bear  in  mind  respect  for  human  rights  and 
dignity, regional and international cooperation and the 
sharing  of  responsibilities  among  countries  of  origin, 
transit  and  destination.  The  relationship  between 
migration  and  development  cannot  be  separated.  On 
the  one  hand,  migration  enriches  the  culture  and 
society 
far-reaching 
implications for employment and economic growth. On 
the other hand, however, migration can lead to a brain 
drain  that  reduces  the  active  population  and  qualified 
work force in the countries of origin. 

In addressing the issue of international migration 
and development, we acknowledge the need to build a 
broad  political  consensus  concerning  the  challenges 
faced by the international community: challenges such 
as  security,  organized  crime,  pressure  on  resources, 
development  inequalities  and  imbalances,  xenophobia, 
unemployment and legal differences. 

the 
Southern  Africa  Development  Community  (SADC)  is 
concerned,  free  movement  of  persons  through  the 
territory of other countries can be an enabling factor in 
the  regional  integration  process.  Free  movement  of 
persons  is  the  most  visible  way  in  which  ordinary 
citizens  benefit  from  the  building  of  a  community  of 
States.  Accordingly,  we  argue 
for  adopting  an 
incremental approach to problems related to migration, 
through the adoption of policies within the framework 
regional 
of  community  organizations  aimed  at 
integration.  These  policies  would 
the 
management  and  monitoring  of  migration,  migratory 
labour, forced displacement, national and international 
security 
and 
management, conflict resolution, and international and 
regional cooperation. 

the  relationship  between  migration  and 
development,  Mozambique  subscribes  to  the  priorities 
established under the African Common Position aimed 
Notwithstanding  such 
issues,  as  far  as 
prevention 
stability, 
include 
crisis 
and 
On 
22 

06-52450 
of 
regional 
regional, 
interregional 


at  mitigating  poverty,  which  include  agriculture  and 
rural development, good governance, harmonization of 
economic  and  social  policies,  improved  protection  of 
women,  youth,  and  persons  with  disabilities,  the 
strengthening 
and 
international  cooperation  and  the  promotion  of  health 
sector policies. 

Recognizing  the  importance  of  migration  and  its 
consequences  for  the  economic,  political,  social  and 
cultural  life  of  our  continent,  Governments  took 
important  steps  to  define  a  strategic  framework  for  a 
joint African migration policy. The overall objective of 
that strategic framework is to encourage African States 
to  integrate  migration  issues  into  their  national  and 
regional  agendas  through  the  development  of  national 
migration  policies.  The  framework  is  intended  to 
address  a  number  of  challenges 
that  arise  from 
international  migration, including threats to peace and 
security, mechanisms for the protection of refugees and 
combating transnational organized crime, development 
of human resources to mitigate the effects of the brain 
drain,  promotion  of 
and 
integration,  promotion  of  economic  growth  and  trade 
through  the  development  of  infrastructure  and  the 
creation  of  an  environment  conducive 
the 
participation  of  migrants,  particularly  those  in  the 
diasporas,  in  the  development  of  their  countries  of 
origin  through  the  transfer  of  know-how,  savings  and 
remittances. 


this  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development 
will encourage the mainstreaming of migration into the 
development  strategies  of  our  countries,  regions  and 
continents,  through  the  promotion  of  coherent  and 
coordinated policies. 

The  President:  I  call  on  Mr.  Carlos  López, 
Under-Secretary  on  Migratory  Issues,  Ministry  for 
Foreign Affairs of Ecuador. 
in  Spanish): 

Ecuador  fully  endorses  the  statements  made  by  the 
representative of Jamaica on behalf of the Group of 77 
and  China  and  by  the  representative  of  Guyana  on 
behalf of the Rio Group. 

Ecuador  is  one  of  a  small  number  of  countries 
that  is  both  a  country  of  origin  and  a  country  of 
destination for migrants. In addition, Ecuador receives 
The President returned to the Chair. 
The 
Mr.  López
cooperation 
(Ecuador) 
resulting 
(spoke 
to 
inputs 
from 
A/61/PV.5
than 
resources  greater 
that  emanated  from 
displaced persons from other countries, a phenomenon 
that  differs  from  but  is  complementary  to  migration, 
making  it  the  country  with  the  largest  number  of 
refugees in Latin America. This has made it necessary 
to  formulate  new  political  policies  and  massive 
economic  efforts  that,  without  cooperation  from  the 
international  community  —  which 
is  still  not 
enough — cannot succeed.  

The  shared  responsibility  between  countries  of 
origin  and  countries  of  destination  in  the  search  for 
solutions  on  migratory  issues  must  not  disregard  the 
role  of  transit  countries.  This  will  also  enhance  the 
struggle  against  illegal  trafficking  in  humans,  which 
involves 
those  of  drug 
trafficking,  and  will  help  us  tackle  the  corruption  that 
promotes it and the evil effects of human smuggling.  

Ecuador, together with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, 
Colombia,  Chile,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Suriname,  Uruguay 
and  Venezuela  signed 
the  Asunción  Declaration 
(A/61/86,  annex) 
the  South 
American  Conference  on  Migration,  which  enshrined 
the principle of shared responsibility. 
Ecuador  has  undertaken  actions  in  cooperation 

with  friendly  countries,  international  organizations, 
civil  society  and  the  public  sector,  such  as  voluntary 
return  programmes  with 
the 
International Organization for Migration (IOM) and the 
signature  of  agreements,  such  as  the  one  signed  with 
Spain to regulate and manage migratory flows. This is 
a  bilateral  pilot  programme  that  guarantees  secure 
labour contracts under conditions that are equal for the 
citizens  of  both  signatories,  without  intervention  of 
third  parties  and  in  accordance  with  labour-employer 
norms. 
Domestically,  the  National  Plan  for  Ecuadorians 

Living  Abroad 
for 
comprehensively addressing migration issues, in a way 
that  ensures  that  the  State  will  guarantee  the  rights  of 
its  citizens  anywhere  in  the  world  and  promote  their 
dynamic 
into  national  development 
efforts. An  important  experience  is  the  creation  of  the 
Working  Group  on  Employment  Migration 
that 
contributes  to  the  establishment  of  public  policies  on 
migration  from  the  perspective  of  migrant  rights.  It 
includes the participation of civil society, international 
organizations  and  public  institutions.  Furthermore,  on 
30  August  2006,  the  President  approved  the  National 
Plan of Action against kidnapping, illegal trafficking in 
the  cooperation  of 
reintegration 
establishes 
basis 
the 
06-52450 

23 

those 
A/61/PV.5 

migrants,  sexual  and  labour  exploitation  and  other 
kinds  of  exploitation  and  prostitution  of  women, 
children and teenagers. 

The  most  vulnerable  population  —  women, 
children  and  seniors  —  faces  the  destruction  of  the 
family  environment,  suffers 
the  consequences  of 
displacement  and  the  loss  of  their  roots  and  is 
susceptible to sexual exploitation, school exclusion and 
work  discrimination.  Respect  for  human  rights  is  the 
path to the achievement of the Millennium Goals. 
One  key  effect  of  migration  for  the  Ecuadorian 

economy  is  remittances,  which  have  now  become  our 
second  largest  source  of  income.  In  that  connection, 
Ecuador has focused its action on reducing the cost of 
transfers,  through  agreements  signed  by  the  central 
bank  with  the  participation  of  a  large  number  of  non-
official  entities,  and  always  taking  into  account  the 
private  nature  of 
funds.  Simultaneously, 
campaigns  to  encourage  the  proper  use  of  remittances 
in productive projects have been initiated. Due to high 
migration among developing countries, the question of 
remittances  will  become  a  new  area  of  South-South 
cooperation. 

Migrant  associations  in  receiving  countries  are 
focal points to channel the ambitions of citizens living 
abroad  and  should  become  a  good  mechanism  for 
encouraging  intercultural  exchange,  for  adaptation  to 
the  environment  and  for  spreading  the  concept  of 
co-development.  That  concept  should  be  reflected, 
essentially, in the transfer of technology from receiving 
countries  to  countries  of  origin  and  in  transfer  of  the 
abilities  and  skills  of  migrant  human  resources.  Nor 
must  we  forget  projects  that  strengthen  migrants’  ties 
with  their  countries  of  origin  through  opportunities  to 
invest in their communities. 

The  principle  of  sovereignty  must  not  diminish 
the  rights  of  the  migrant,  irrespective  of  their  legal 
status.  It  should,  however,  guarantee  with  tolerance, 
the  peaceful  integration  of  individuals  into  receiving 
societies. Regularization of the status of migrants is an 
objective  that  benefits  both  origin  and  destination 
countries,  as  well  as  migrants  themselves,  without 
criminalizing them. 

Finally,  my  country  considers  that  integration 
programmes  should  facilitate  migration  and  broaden 
the concept of the free transit of persons, as well as of 
goods, services and capital. These are the challenges of 
this  Dialogue:  to  convert  migration  into  a  source  of 
celebrate 
Today,  15  September,  we 
wealth  and  development  and  to  ensure  that  migration 
becomes  voluntary,  and  never  forced.  In  that  way,  we 
will meet the expectations that have brought us to this 
Dialogue,  which  we  hope  will  continue  through  the 
global  forum.  Here,  we  thank  Belgium  for  offering  to 
host the forum’s first meeting. 
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 

The  Honourable  Germán  Espinal,  Director-General  of 
Migration of Honduras.   

Mr.  Espinal  (Honduras)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Honduras  welcomes  the  convening  of  this  High-level 
Dialogue.  Without  doubt,  it  provides  an  excellent 
opportunity  to  address  the  phenomenon  of  migration 
from  a  holistic  and  multifaceted  perspective,  by 
identifying and defining the elements of the migration 
agenda, as well as the necessary follow-up machinery. 
We  also  wish  to  say  how  pleased  we  are  to  see  you, 
Madam, elected as President of the General Assembly; 
we  are  confident  that  your  diplomatic  experience  will 
ensure the success of our proposed objectives.  

the 
independence  of  the  Central American  countries. That 
is a very fortunate coincidence. Historically, Honduras 
has been a country of origin for migrants, but it is also 
located  in  a  transit  region  and  has  been  a  country  of 
destination,  receiving  populations 
that  have  been 
displaced for labour reasons — displacement explained 
by  high  population  density  —  or  that  sought  refuge 
during the decade of military-political conflict. Despite 
our limitations, we Hondurans have been able to share 
solidarity, friendship and hospitality, often flying in the 
face of the political agenda of the day.  

Honduras  considers  that  an  effective  strategic 
migration agenda must include basic components such 
as:  respect  for 
that 
safeguard the dignity of migrants, particularly the most 
vulnerable  groups  —  women  and  children;  combating 
trafficking in humans and rehabilitating its victims; and 
ensuring  the  protection  of  migrants.  We  call  for  a 
holistic  vision;  that  requires  increased  international 
cooperation 
developing 
competitiveness and transforming the backwardness in 
standards of living. That will result in a better life for 
the entire population.  

the 
interconnection among labour markets, which involves 
the  sharing  of  experiences 
to  develop 
innovative  proposals  that  can  promote  the  mobility  of 
labour-related  human  rights 
in  order 
At 
the  same 
time,  we  must  recognize 
directed 
towards 
24 

06-52450 
that 
in  order 


individuals as part of a controlled, safe and transparent 
migration  which  uses  duration  of  residency  in  the 
destination  country  as  one  of 
its  basic  criteria. 
Honduras  also  would  like  to  reaffirm  the  need  to 
reform  the  programmes  of  international  agencies  that 
are directly or indirectly involved with migration. 

Without  downplaying  the  conceptual  aspects  of 
migration,  we  believe 
to  address 
deteriorating  social  conditions,  increased  poverty  and 
growing 
inequity,  Latin  American  societies  are 
considering  alternative  models  of  development.  Given 
growing  and  justified  protest  by  the  impoverished 
majority,  the  need  for  structural  reforms  to  achieve 
more  equitable  development  becomes  more  evident 
each day. Social marginalization, corruption and a lack 
of  jobs  and  opportunity  cause  a  large  part  of  the 
emigrant population to travel to developed countries. 

This  underscores  the  necessity  of  embracing  the 
principle  of  shared  responsibility,  and  of  continuously 
strengthening  international  cooperation  in  support  of 
emerging migratory processes that promote integration. 
We  draw  support  from  the  political  will  expressed  by 
our  heads  of  State  at  various  summits,  notably  at  the 
Panama  Summit  held  earlier  this  year,  and  we  stress 
the need for programmes promoting the free movement 
of persons, goods and services. 

The  outcomes  of  such  initiatives  were  first 
applied 
includes  Nicaragua, 
Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras. There, the basic 
elements  of  a  consensus-based  migration  policy  are 
being  adopted,  the  result  of  a  search  for  solutions 
involving  Government 
society 
participation  and  support  from 
international  and 
regional-integration organizations. 
The  Secretary-General  of  the  Central  American 

Integration  System  (SICA)  calls  for  and  supports  that 
coordination.  The  SICA  secretariat  offers  technical 
assistance 
technological  platform 
encompassing the migration agenda in the region I just 
mentioned, as well as other important actions. 

The  International  Organization  for  Migration 
(IOM) is contributing by providing technical assistance 
at all levels. Forums for dialogue and coordination are 
being  activated  within  the  context  of  the  Regional 
Conference  on  Migration  and  the  Central  American 
Commission for Migration. In that environment where 
initiatives are proposed and formulated, the region has 
the opportunity to promote and consolidate democracy 
to  develop  a 
efforts, 
region 
civil 
in 
the 
that 
A/61/PV.5
by  supporting  comprehensive  development  through 
reforms aimed at regional stability. Helping ease crises 
in  countries  of  origin  by  providing  assistance  and 
permitting  relief  in  the  form  of  migrants’  remittances 
leads to policies of solidarity and hence to an effective 
medium-term  solution  and  matching  commitments  by 
Latin American countries and developed countries. 

But  if  this  remittance  income  is  no  longer 
received  and  if  additional  migrants  are  barred  from 
entry,  the  result  would  be  to  exacerbate  not  only  the 
economic  crisis,  but  also  the  social  and  political 
problems  in  countries  of  origin,  thereby  straining  the 
already  deficient  capacity  of  our  countries  to  respond 
to overpopulation.  

We  believe  that  tightening  measures  to  curb  the 
flow of migrants would exacerbate the already critical 
situation in the region and would threaten the viability 
of  structural  reforms  that  can  ensure  stability.  The 
measures that have been implemented are signs — both 
concrete  and  symbolic  —  of  a  rejection  of  migrants, 
and, as a real threat to the safety and human rights of 
migrants, they fuel a broad rejection of such policies. 
Let  me  touch  on  the  process  of  deciding  on  and 

formulating  foreign  policy.  Those  aspects  ought  to  be 
taken into account, as the approach here will determine 
whether  Central  America  forms  strategic  alliances  to 
achieve  development  or 
conflicting 
approaches  involving  further  obstacles  and  hostility 
that  would  surely  worsen  the  crisis  that  characterizes 
international relations. 
Honduras enthusiastically welcomes the proposed 

establishment  of  a  global  forum  on  international 
migration,  involving  the  United  Nations.  This  would 
bring  together  actors  in  the  sphere  of  migration  and 
promote  the  sharing  of  experiences.  We  reaffirm  the 
need 
efforts  of 
international  cooperation  and 
to  enhance  mutual 
benefits. 
In conclusion, I recall again that Honduras stands 

ready  to  participate  in  and  support  activities  that  will 
contribute  to  building  the  institutional  and  conceptual 
framework  that  is  necessary  for  our  region,  for  the 
United Nations and for the international community in 
general, and that will lead to effective cooperation.   
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her 

Excellency  Ms.  Belela  Herrera,  Vice-Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Uruguay.  
complementary 
encounters 
strengthen 
to 
06-52450 

25 
is  a  priority.  It 
to  be  held 
for 
Uruguay  entirely  agrees  with 
A/61/PV.5 

Ms.  Herrera  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

would  like  to  thank  the  Secretariat  for  its  work  to 
promote  and  ensure  the  success  of  this  High-level 
Dialogue. Uruguay is firmly committed to its success. 
For  the  Iberian-American  countries,  the  issue  of 

international  migration 
is  being 
addressed  as a focal point  of the upcoming summit of 
Ibero-American  heads  of  State, 
in 
Montevideo  from  3  to  5  November  2006.  Uruguay 
would  like 
to  congratulate  the  Secretary-General, 
Mr. Kofi Annan, and the Special Representative of the 
Secretary-General  on 
international  migration,  and 
development,  Mr.  Peter  Sutherland, 
their 
contribution  to  ensuring  that  the  issue  of  migration  is 
included on the world social agenda. 
the  Secretary-

General 
this  matter  concerns  all  countries, 
irrespective  of  whether  they  are  countries  of  origin  or 
countries of  destination. Many countries are both, and 
migration  issues  should  thus  be  a  matter  for  close 
cooperation  between  countries  of  origin  and  of 
destination  to  address  migration  in  all  its  complexity. 
In  view  of  the  global  nature  of  the  issue,  it  must  be 
addressed  multilaterally.  Accordingly,  Uruguay 
supports  the  proposed  establishment  of  a  standing 
forum in the United Nations framework to address the 
complex issues of migration. 

We  reaffirm  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  and  believe  that  a  genuine  commitment  to 
them by Member States  would diminish the inequities 
and  eliminate  the  more  negative  aspects  of  migration. 
Through  co-development,  migration  should  no  longer 
be  a  flight  forward  imposed  by  poverty.  Our  country 
believes  that  full  recognition  of  the  individual  human 
and  social  rights  of  migrants  and  their  families  is 
fundamental,  and  emphasizes 
full 
for 
implementation  by  all  Member  States  of 
the 
International  Convention  on  the  Protection  of  the 
Rights  of All  Migrant Workers  and  Members  of Their 
Families. 

the  sixth  South  American 
Conference  on  Migration  unanimously  endorsed  the 
Declaration of Asuncion in March 2006. It emphasizes 
a  set  of  guiding  principles  that  are  essential  when 
considering  the  topic.  In  the  context  of  the  States 
members  of 
the  South 
(MERCOSUR),  heads  of  State  agreed  to  sign  the 
intra-MERCOSUR  treaty  on  free  residency,  which 
the  Common  Market  of 
In  our 
region, 
the  need 
that 

guarantees  the  rights  and  mobility  of  persons  from 
member States of that regional grouping. 

launched  a 
In  my  own  country,  we  have 
determined strategy to connect with the more than half 
million  Uruguayan  emigrants,  who  account  for  13  per 
cent of our population. In formulating that strategy, we 
took  into  account  the  valuable  contributions  made  by 
civil society organizations and academia. Civil society 
has  also  played  a  very  important  role  in  providing 
advice  to  develop  the  migration  law  that  will  be 
introduced in the Uruguayan parliament in the coming 
days.  

With  regard  to  nationality  and  citizenship,  we 
have  been  working  to  provide  proof  of  Uruguayan 
citizenship to nationals abroad in order to facilitate the 
full  regularization  of  their  status  in  their  countries  of 
destination.  We  are  also  pursuing  the  necessary  legal 
channels  to  enable  Uruguayans  to  vote  when  abroad, 
this being one of the core elements of linkage. 

On the economic and business front, progress has 
been  made  in  drawing  up  important  agreements  with 
financial institutions in order to make remittances part 
of the banking system, thereby reducing their cost. We 
have  also  established  links  with  Uruguayan  groups  in 
order  to  encourage  them  to  invest  their  savings  and 
capital  in  Uruguay,  as  well  as  to  promote  such  efforts 
more broadly in communities in receiving States.   

In  addressing  the  various  needs  and  requests  of 
Uruguayans  abroad,  we  are providing  access to health 
services,  housing  and  insurance,  all  closely  linked  to 
the remittance system that has been developed with our 
central bank at the centre. 

In the area of culture, we are developing a set of 
programmes  and  measures  aimed  at  strengthening  the 
cultural  identity  of  Uruguayans  abroad.  They  include 
distance 
the 
Spanish  language,  cultural  products,  exhibitions  of 
Uruguayan  art  and  artists  in  the  various  Uruguayan 
communities  abroad  and,  in  particular,  encouraging 
travel  by  highly  qualified  Uruguayans  in  academic, 
artistic  and  business  circles.  The  aim  is  to  give 
Uruguayans  abroad  access 
the  country’s  rich 
heritage without their having necessarily to return.  

Lastly, our system of linkages implies a new form 
of  citizen  participation  in  the  country  of  origin  while 
residing  elsewhere.  To  this  end,  we  have  sought  to 
organize  communities  abroad,  in  order  that  they  may 
learning,  support  and  promotion  of 
to 
26 

06-52450 
an 
enriching 
cross-cultural 
experience 
I  now  give 
the 
floor 
The  President: 


have  places  to  meet  for  discussions  and  suggestions 
with  regard  to  their  own  problems  or  those  of 
Uruguayan  society  at  large.  We  believe  that  this 
approach  could  be  a  good  way  to  manage  migration 
while  respecting  human  rights  and  fostering 
the 
participation of migrant groups.  

In conclusion, we would like to reaffirm that it is 
our joint responsibility to ensure that migration results 
in 
that 
ultimately brings about true progress for civilization. 
to 

His Excellency  Mr.  Zvonko  Zinrajh,  State  Secretary 
and Deputy Minister of Interior of Slovenia. 
Mr. Zinrajh (Slovenia): With almost 200 million 

international migrants in the world — and with trends 
that indicate that those numbers will grow even further 
in  the  future  and  become  more  widespread  than  they 
are at the moment — Slovenia believes it is necessary 
to  enhance  dialogue  and  cooperation  between 
Governments in order to act in a more coherent way.  

We  are  convinced  that  special  attention  must  be 
paid  to  protecting  human  rights  and  guaranteeing 
security.  Those  are  two  essential  elements  in  the  area 
of preventing illegal migratory flows, and in particular 
in  combating  trafficking  in  human  beings.  In  that 
regard,  greater  emphasis  should  be  placed  on  a  new 
concept  of  human  security  that  shifts  the  focus  from 
security policies mainly concerned with the protection 
those  focused  on  people, 
of  State 
to 
regardless  of  gender, 
race, 
ethnicity, 
citizenship or other distinguishing characteristics. 

When managed effectively, migration can have a 
substantially  positive  impact  on  both  the  country  of 
destination and the country of origin, as well as on the 
migrants  themselves.  We  therefore  underline  the  need 
for  a  balanced,  global,  coherent  and  comprehensive 
the  benefits  of  regular 
approach 
irregular 
migration,  develops  policies 
migration  and 
third 
countries. 

One  of  the  most  important  elements  of  holistic 
migration  policies  is  the  link  between  migration  and 
development. In that regard, more consideration should 
be  given  both 
issues  can  be 
integrated  into  poverty  reduction  strategies,  and  other 
national  development  strategies  of  partner  countries, 
and  to  how  donors  can  support  partners’  priorities  in 
includes  cooperation  with 
to  how  migration 
that  harnesses 
to  address 
territories 
religion, 
A/61/PV.5
that  context.  That  would  include  policy  responses  to 
brain  drain  and  an  answer  to  the  question  on  how  to 
maximize  the  impact  of  remittances,  which  remain 
private funds and should not be seen as a replacement 
for official development assistance. 

Slovenia  also  recognizes  the  need  for  concrete 
actions  in  order  to  deal  efficiently  with  trafficking  in 
human beings, the smuggling of immigrants and other 
acute  problems.  It  is  becoming  evident  that,  while 
illegal migratory flows and the accompanying criminal 
activity  can  be  limited  by  repressive  measures  and 
policing  operations,  they  cannot  be  entirely  curbed  or 
prevented in the long term. 

Unfortunately,  numerous  organized  criminal 
gangs  take  advantage  of  the  hardships  of  migrants, 
using  them  to  generate  profits,  subjecting  them  to  a 
relationship  of  slavery  and  forcing  them  into  criminal 
activity. People become victims of the greed of others 
and  are  often  entirely  unprotected,  in  particular  the 
most  vulnerable  groups,  such  as  women  and  children. 
The fight against human trafficking and the smuggling 
of  immigrants  is  central  to  eradicating  forced  and 
bonded labour, as well as organized crime. Owing to its 
specific nature and the conscious violation of the basic 
human  rights  of  the  victims,  trafficking  in  human 
beings  in  particular  is  becoming  one  of  the  most 
important challenges at the global level. 
Preventing  and  suppressing  human  trafficking 

calls  for  various  measures, 
including  prevention 
efforts, providing assistance and protection to victims, 
criminalizing 
trafficking  activities  and  organizing 
awareness-raising  programmes.  Last, 
and  most 
important, there is a need  to eliminate the root causes 
of trafficking — such as poverty, social alienation and 
exclusion,  discrimination  against  women  and  children 
and the lack of equal opportunities — and to reduce the 
high  demand  in  destination  countries.  Important  legal 
instruments  have  been  adopted  at  the  international 
level  intended  to  prevent  human  trafficking.  However 
they have not yet been fully implemented everywhere. 
We  call  on  Member  States  to  speed  up  the  process  of 
ratification  of  the  international  instruments  concerned 
in order for the necessary measures to be implemented 
in practice. 

Slovenia welcomes the purposes and goals of the 
High-level  Dialogue  in  the  search  for  sustainable 
solutions  to  real  problems,  with  the  aim  of  improving 
06-52450 

27 
A/61/PV.5 

the relationship between development benefits and the 
negative consequences of international migration.  

This  is  a  long  process,  which  requires  the 
consistent  implementation  of  measures  at  the  global 
level. We  believe  that  high-level  dialogue  can  make  a 
significant  contribution  to  enabling  the  participating 
countries  and  organizations  to  make  migration  work 
better  for  development,  promoting  cooperation  and 
fresh  approaches, 
the  overall 
discourse  on  international  migration,  improving  both 
bilateral and multilateral cooperation, especially within 
the  United  Nations,  and  developing  more  effective 
migration policies. 
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 

Mr.  Gagik  Yeganian,  Vice-Minister  for  Territorial 
Administration of Armenia. 
Mr. Yeganian (Armenia) (spoke in Russian): This 

High-level Dialogue is in itself proof that the problem 
of regulating migration processes has long transcended 
nations  and  States  and  even  bilateral  and  regional 
cooperation.  Today,  it  is  truly  a  global  problem.  For 
Armenia,  regulating  migration  is  an  issue  of  strategic 
importance, since, after independence, our country was 
forced  to  confront  —  among  other  problems  —  the 
challenge  of  an  unprecedented  number  of  displaced 
persons. Armenia experienced every form of migratory 
flow, including the consequences of the deportation of 
more 
to 
Armenia as a result of the conflict in Karabakh, and the 
immigration  of  about  1  million  people  —  about  one 
third of the population — from Armenia. 
Given the serious problems caused by such large-

scale  migratory 
the 
relationship  between  migration  and  development  as  it 
affects both host countries and countries of origin. This 
is  something  that  Armenia  has  done.  I  believe  that 
many representatives in this Hall are well aware of the 
contribution  that  the  more  than  1  million  people  who 
constitute the Armenian diaspora make to the countries 
where  they  live. According  to  studies  by  independent 
experts,  in  the  Russian  Federation  alone  —  which  in 
recent  years  has 
from 
Armenia — Armenian migrants have created more than 
1 million jobs.  

Furthermore,  remittances  from  migrant  workers 
and  Armenians  living  abroad  have  had  a  significant 
economic impact in terms of the ability of our country 
to  achieve  double-digit  economic  growth  for  the  past 
than  360,000  refugees  from  Azerbaijan 
flows,  we  must  examine 
received  many  people 
thereby  enriching 

linked 
inject  annually  about  $1  billion 
four  years.  For  Armenia,  the  effect  of  migration  on 
development  processes  can  be  directly 
to 
remittances as a source of investment in our economy. 
According  to  information  from  the  Central  Bank, 
individuals 
into 
Armenia’s economy. The majority — 76 per cent — of 
those  funds  are  spent  on  consumer  goods;  only  2  per 
cent  is  invested  in  economic  activities.  We  must, 
therefore,  as  a  matter  of  urgency,  use  such  funds  as  a 
source of investment in the economy. 

We are taking the very first steps in this area — 
the  issue  is  on  our  agenda  for  cooperation  with  the 
International  Fund  for  Agricultural  Development.  In 
this  regard,  we  are  very  interested  in  establishing 
dialogue  with  other  countries  and 
international 
organizations,  especially  since  a  number  of  European 
Union  countries  have  been  conducting 
similar 
programmes with success. 

Providing  assistance  to  migrant  workers  to  help 
them to find legal work is one of the objectives of our 
discussions at this meeting. Many developed countries 
are routinely meeting their demand for labour through 
recourse  to  migrants  from  developing  countries.  Such 
migrants take jobs which are traditionally considered to 
be  unattractive  by  the  local  population,  but  they  also 
work  in  other  areas,  including  medical  services  and 
information technology. 

However,  legislation  relating  to  migration  in 
developed  countries  sometimes  automatically  makes 
such people illegal immigrants. I believe that it is high 
time that we found a way to overcome this problem. I 
would  suggest  that,  as  a  first  step,  host  countries 
provide countries of origin with information regarding 
the demand  for work in their labour markets. Specific 
governmental  organizations  that  help  foreign  workers 
could advise on procedures in this area and on related 
issues.  I  am  deeply  convinced  that  such  cooperation 
could  be  an  effective  alternative  means  of  combating 
illegal migration. 

In the context of migration and development, we 
attach  importance  to  promoting  migrant  return.  We 
fully  agree  with  the  Secretary-General  that  the  major 
objective  of  any  migration  policy  must  be  to  provide 
all  those  who  want  to  live  and  work  in  their  home 
countries the opportunity to do so.  

I would like to inform the Assembly that, for the 
return  of  Armenian  citizen  migrants,  we  have 
concluded  agreements  with  three  European  countries, 
28 

06-52450 
it 
and 
and 
is  necessary 
of  Switzerland 
irregular  migrants, 


completed  negotiations  with  five  others  and  are 
continuing  negotiations  with  another 
five.  Our 
experience tells us that, in order to avoid the recycling 
of 
to  add 
reintegration  programmes  when  we  readmit.  We  are 
currently  conducting  such  programmes  with 
the 
Governments 
of  France. 
Furthermore,  we  are  planning  to  set  up  a  centre  that 
will not only give assistance to returning migrants but 
also  provide  them  with  an  opportunity,  before  they 
return,  to  go  online  directly  so  as  to  contact  the 
relevant  Government  organizations  in Armenia  and  to 
receive information that is of interest to them. 

In many countries throughout the world there is a 
saying  to  the  effect  that  a  good  beginning  is  half  the 
battle.  That  axiom  is  applicable  to  this  meeting,  too. 
We  see  this  as  the  beginning  of  a  long-term  path 
towards  dialogue  within 
the  United  Nations  on 
migration issues. At the same time, ultimate success in 
this  area  will,  to  a  large  extent,  depend  on  follow-up. 
The  implementation  of  any  recommendations  that 
come  out  of  these  meetings  will  require  institutional 
capacity, 
International 
Organization  for  Migration,  which  has  institutional 
networks throughout the world, could help to reinforce 
that mission. 
The President: I give the floor to Her Excellency 

Mrs.  Ndiyoi  Mutiti,  Chief  Immigration  Officer  of 
Zambia. 
Mrs.  Mutiti  (Zambia):  Let  me  join  previous 

speakers  in  congratulating  you,  Madam,  on  your 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-first session. 

My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered  by  the  representative  of  South  Africa  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

It  is  a  well-known  fact  that  no  country  in  the 
world  has  all  the  skilled  human  resources  needed  to 
turn the wheels of its economy in both the private and 
public sectors. This has resulted in the criss-crossing of 
individuals  from  one  country  to  another  in  search  of 
greener  pastures.  Other  movements  have  been  caused 
by political instability. 

In the case of Zambia, there are a lot of Zambians 
who  have  left  the  country  to  offer  their  services  in 
other  countries.  The  country  has  lost  doctors,  nurses, 
lecturers  and  teachers  to  other  countries.  That  has 
in  our  view 
the 
A/61/PV.5
resulted  in  disproportionate  teacher-pupil,  lecturer-
student,  doctor/nurse-patient  ratios,  thereby  producing 
a negative impact on a workforce stretched to its limits.  

On  the  other  hand,  Zambia  has  to  some  extent 
relied on skills from outside the country, particularly in 
fields  such  as  medicine,  engineering  and  accountancy, 
to  mention  just  a  few.  The  expatriates  in  Zambia  are 
made up of those seeking greener pastures or who are 
part  of  development  assistance.  It  has  been  noted  that 
the  challenges  related  to  migration  and  development 
need  to  be  further  assessed  and  addressed  in  their 
specific national context. 

Zambia  has  played  host  to  various  refugees 
fleeing  from  wars,  civil  strife  and  political  instability 
in  the  region.  The  Zambian  Government  has  allowed 
some of the refugees to work and, where possible, run 
businesses. Furthermore, the Zambian Government has 
entered  into  agreements  with  other  countries  and 
international  organizations,  such  as  the  International 
Organization  for  Migration  and  the  Office  of  the 
United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  to 
facilitate the  repatriation of some refugees once it has 
become  safe  for  them  to  return  to  their  countries  of 
origin.  

The  onus  is  on  Member  States  to  deal  with 
matters  of  migration  in  a  developmental  manner  that 
adds  value  to  economies  of  scale.  However,  the 
measures  that  should  be  put  in  place  have  to  ensure 
protection of human rights in accordance with adopted 
international  human 
for  both 
migrants  and  the  local  communities.  Migrants  are 
vulnerable  to  exploitative  processes  which  include 
forced 
and 
deplorable living conditions. It is important to enhance 
partnerships  with 
Labour 
Organization, through which basic minimum standards 
in  employment  and  labour  are  adopted  by  most 
Member States. 
As  we  live  in  a  global  economy,  we  must 

issues  of  migration  which  will 
prioritize 
the  development  of  our  national 
contribute 
economies 
integrated  processes. 
These  priorities  should  recognize  the  experiences  of 
vulnerable  groups  such  as  women,  youth  and  children 
who  are  easily  exposed  to  exploitative  and  abusive 
acts. 
In addition to the economic contribution made to 

development by migrant workers, there is the question 
those 
to 
through 
rights  conventions 
discrimination, 
International 
xenophobia 
regional 
labour, 
the 
06-52450 

29 

A/61/PV.5 

of  cultural  and 
linguistic  adaptation,  for  which 
instruments  need  to  be  developed,  thus  increasing  the 
social obligations of receiving countries. 

The  question  of  remittances  as  a  source  of 
economic development in sending  countries should be 
explored  within  the  framework  of  poverty  reduction 
policies  and  direct  foreign 
investment.  However, 
earners  should  not  themselves  be  pushed  in  that 
direction  as  it  is  probably  better  for  them  to  build  up 
their wealth in the host country. Currently, remittances 
transferred through informal operations or hand-carried 
are  not  necessarily  captured  by  reporting  systems. 
Therefore,  there  is  need  to  bridge  the  gap  between 
estimates  and  real  figures.  It  had  been  thought  that 
households  receiving  remittances  would  invest  them 
productively, thus creating new economic opportunities 
at  home.  However,  studies  show  that  they  are  being 
used for consumption. 
In  addition,  migrants  are  not 

isolated  from 
pandemics  such  as  natural  calamities  and  HIV/AIDS. 
National  efforts  to  contain  such  scourges  should  also 
address  the  plight  of  migrants,  particularly  those  in 
employment. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  endorse  what  other 
speakers have said about the need for a comprehensive 
and  balanced  approach  in  the  implementation  of 
migration policies and delivery of services. All nations 
must  realize  the  potential  of  migration  as  a  force  for 
development  and  ensure the protection  of rights of  all 
migrants.  It  is  our  hope  that  the  High-level  Dialogue 
will pave the way for further debate on this important 
issue  within  a  multilateral  context.  That  will  enable 
indeed  other 
Member  States,  civil  society  and 
stakeholders 
ideas  and 
strengthen  international  cooperation  on  all  aspects  of 
migration and development. 



to  deliberate,  exchange 
The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m. 
30 

06-52450 
