
A/61/PV.38
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-first session 

38th plenary meeting 
Friday, 20 October 2006, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Ms. Al-Khalifa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Bahrain) 
Atlantic slave trade” becomes item 155 on the agenda 
of the current session.  

In paragraph 2 (a) of the same report, the General 
Committee  recommends  to  the  General Assembly  that 
an additional item, entitled “Extension of the terms of 
the  ad  litem  judges  of  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for 
Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International 
Humanitarian  Law  Committed  in  the  Territory  of 
Rwanda  and  Rwandan  Citizens  Responsible 
for 
Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the 
Territory  of  Neighbouring  States  between  1  January 
and 31 December 1994”, be included in the agenda of 
the  current  session  under  heading  I,  “Organizational, 
administrative and other matters”. 

May  I  take  it  that  the  General Assembly  decides 
to include this item in the agenda of the current session 
under heading I? 


Committee  further  recommends 
that 
considered directly in plenary meeting.  

to consider the item directly in plenary meeting? 
It was so decided. 


The  President: I should like to inform  members 
that the item entitled “Extension of the terms of the ad 
litem judges of the International Criminal Tribunal for 
the  Prosecution  of  Persons  Responsible  for  Genocide 
It was so decided. 
The  President: In  paragraph  2  (b),  the  General 
item  be 
May  I  take  it  that  the  General Assembly  decides 
the 



The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 




to 
the 
General 
the  General  Assembly 
Agenda item 7 (continued) 
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items 

  Second report of the General Committee 
(A/61/250/Add.1) 
The  President:  In  paragraph  1  (a)  of  its  report 

Committee 
(A/61/250/Add.1), 
that  an 
recommends 
additional  item,  entitled  “Commemoration  of  the  two-
hundredth  anniversary  of  the  abolition  of  the  trans-
Atlantic slave trade”, be included in the agenda of the 
current  session  under  heading  I,  “Organizational, 
administrative and other matter”. 

May  I  take  it  that  the  General Assembly  decides 
to include this item in the agenda of the current session 
under heading I? 


that 
Committee  further  recommends 
considered directly in plenary meeting.  

to consider this item directly in plenary meeting? 
It was so decided. 


The  President: I should like to inform  members 
that  the  item  entitled  “Commemoration  of  the  two-
hundredth  anniversary  of  the  abolition  of  the  trans-

It was so decided.  
The  President: In  paragraph  1  (b),  the  General 
item  be 
May  I  take  it  that  the  General Assembly  decides 
the 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

06-58069 (E) 
*0658069* 

A/61/PV.38 

and  Other  Serious  Violations  of 
International 
Humanitarian  Law  Committed  in  the  Territory  of 
Rwanda  and  Rwandan  Citizens  Responsible 
for 
Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the 
Territory  of  Neighbouring  States  between  1  January 
and  31  December  1994”  becomes  item  156  on  the 
agenda of the current session.  

The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  the 
consideration  of  the  second  report  of  the  General 
Committee.  
Before  proceeding  further,  I  would  like  to  make 

an  announcement  concerning  agenda  item  105  (c)  on 
the  election  of  the  members  of  the  United  Nations 
International  Law  Commission,  which  has  been 
scheduled  to  take  place  on  Thursday  16  November 
2006.  In  order  to  facilitate  the  election,  and  in 
accordance  with  the  established  practice,  the  General 
Assembly will take an advance decision on the matter 
of requesting the Secretariat to issue a consolidated list 
of  candidates  reflecting  all  submissions  and  changes 
received  so  far.  It  is  my  intention  to  consult  the 
Assembly 
this  regard  on  Thursday  afternoon, 
22 October 2006.  
in 


Agenda item 108  
Cooperation between the United Nations and 
regional and other organizations  
  (a)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the African Union 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

  (b)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 


the Asian-African Legal Consultative 
Organization 
  Report of the Secretary-General 
(A/61/256/Add.1) 
  Draft resolution (A/61/L.5) 


  (c)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

  (d)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 


the Black Sea Economic Cooperation 
Organization 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 















  Draft resolution (A/61/L.4) 

  (e)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Caribbean Community 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

  (f)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Community of Portuguese-speaking 
Countries 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

  (g)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Council of Europe 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

  (h)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Economic Community of Central African 
States 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

  (i)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Economic Cooperation Organization 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

  (j)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the International Organization of la 
Francophonie 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 
  Draft resolution (A/61/L.7) 


  (k)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Inter-Parliamentary Union 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 
  Draft resolution (A/61/L.6) 


  (l)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 









the Latin American Economic System 
  Report of the Secretary-General 
(A/61/256/Add.1) 

 (m)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the League of Arab States 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

  (n)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 

the Organization for the Prohibition of 
Chemical Weapons 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 






2 

06-58069 




the Organization of American States 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

  (q)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization of the Islamic Conference 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

  (r)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Pacific Islands Forum 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

  (s)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Preparatory Commission for the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty 
Organization 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/61/184) 


  (t)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 








  (o)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/61/185) 


the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in Europe 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

  (p)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 



Mr.  Tóth
Comprehensive 
(Preparatory  Commission 
the Southern African Development Community 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

The President: I give the floor to the Executive-

Secretary  of  the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization, 
Mr. Tibor Tóth, to present the report of the Preparatory 
Commission.  

for  
the 
Treaty 
Organization):  I  am  pleased  to  report  on  the  activities 
of the Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization  (CTBTO).  The 
promise of this Treaty, as one of the cornerstones of the 
international 
disarmament 
regime, is the total ban of any nuclear explosion in any 
environment.  My  address  to  the  General  Assembly 
coincides, however, with a disquieting situation that is 
a 
the 
importance  of 
Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). 

The  announcement  by  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea that it had conducted a nuclear test 
Nuclear-Test-Ban 
non-proliferation 
reminder  of 
strong 
and 
the 
A/61/PV.38
regard 
the  commitment  of 
on  9  October  2006  resulted  in  global  expressions  of 
this 
concern  and  condemnation  with 
to 
irresponsible  act.  Such  a  strong  reaction  of 
the 
international community is important and encouraging. 
It demonstrates how much the international community 
cares about the nuclear test ban. 

On  the  occasion  of  a  special  session  of  the 
Preparatory  Commission  on  13  October  2006,  the 
States  signatories  to  the  CTBT  expressed  their  deep 
concern  and  regret  over  the  test.  I  share  those 
sentiments.  Such  an  action  goes  against  the  letter  and 
spirit  of  the  CTBT,  which  I  continue  to  hope  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  will  sign  and 
ratify.  The  support  demonstrated  for 
the  Treaty 
highlights 
international 
the 
community  to  establish  a  universal  and  verifiable 
comprehensive nuclear test ban. 

The announcement not only meant that the global 
moratorium on nuclear tests, which had been observed 
since  1998,  was  presumably  broken,  it  also  put  our 
organization in the very sharp focus of attention. It was 
a  test  for  our  organization,  our  technical  capabilities, 
our  own  procedures  and  the  potential  value  that  our 
global  verification  system  can  bring 
to  States 
signatories.  In  the  special  session,  States  signatories 
expressed  appreciation  for  the  speedy  provision  of 
reliable and valuable data by the CTBTO’s Provisional 
Technical Secretariat. As regrettable and disquieting as 
this new situation may appear, it is my hope that it will 
serve  to  refocus  the  attention  of  the  international 
community  on  the  relevance  of  the  CTBT  as  a  key 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation  instrument  and  to 
underscore  the  urgency  of  bringing  the  Treaty  into 
force  and  to  complete  work  on  the  CTBT  verification 
system. 

the  Preparatory 
Commission  and  its  Provisional  Technical  Secretariat 
over the past 10 years have been the promotion of the 
entry  into  force  and  establishment  of  the  verification 
regime  stipulated  by  the  CTBT.  There  is  significant 
progress to report concerning both. 

To date, the Treaty has been signed by 176 States, 
135  of  which  have  already  ratified  it.  The  ratifying 
States include 34 of the 44 States whose ratification is 
required  for  the  Treaty  to  enter  into  force.  Since  the 
CTBTO’s  last  report  to  the  General  Assembly,  two 
years ago, three States have signed and 16 States have 
ratified the Treaty. 
The  main 
activities 
of 
06-58069 

3 

A/61/PV.38 


In September 2005, 117 States participated in the 
Conference on Facilitating the Entry into Force of the 
CTBT,  with  40  States  being  represented  by  their 
ministers  or  deputy  ministers.  The  meeting  was 
successful  in  producing  a  robust  final  declaration  in 
which the ratifying States agreed that they would spare 
no  efforts  and  use  all  avenues  open  to  them  to 
encourage  further  signature  and  ratification  of  the 
Treaty. This was followed on 20 September 2006 by a 
ministerial  meeting  in  support  of  the  CTBT,  in  which 
representatives of 61 States, including 22 ministers and 
deputy  ministers,  participated.  The  joint  ministerial 
statement,  which  was  welcomed  by  the  Secretary-
General,  reaffirmed  full  support  for  the  objectives  of 
the  CTBT  and  the  work  of  the  Commission.  I  would 
like to express my thanks for these and the many other 
initiatives in support of the Treaty. 

The  Provisional  Technical  Secretariat  was 
mandated  to  establish  an  international  monitoring 
system consisting of 321 monitoring stations using four 
technologies.  Seismic,  infrasound  and  hydro-acoustic 
stations  are  registering  energy  propagated  through  the 
earth, through the atmosphere and through the oceans. 
Radionuclide 
the  analysis  of 
radioactive particles filtered from air samples. Half of 
the  radionuclide  monitoring  stations  will  also  register 
minute  quantities  of  noble  gases  present 
the 
atmosphere. 

The  geographical  distribution  of  the  stations 
allows for complete global coverage by the system and, 
if  I  may  add,  includes  some  rather  difficult  locations 
for building and operating these stations. 

It  is  the  combination  of  these  four  technologies 
that  should  ultimately  allow  member  States  of  the 
CTBT  to  make  an  informed  judgement  about  events 
registered  by  our  system. To  date,  nearly  190  stations 
are  already  providing  data 
the  Global 
Communication Infrastructure to the International Data 
Centre, distributing data products to 780 institutions in 
93 States signatories. 

The  CTBT  verification  technologies  have  the 
potential to offer important additional benefits derived 
from  data  from  our  monitoring  stations  and  the 
activities of the International Data Centre. Our data can 
be used in a  variety of  fields, including  studies of the 
earth’s structure as well as for research on earthquakes, 
volcanic  eruption  forecasting,  underwater  explosion 
location,  and  sea  temperature  and  climate  change 
technology  allows 
through 
in 
in 
that 
system 
stations, 
I  wish  now 
to  highlight 
the  context  of 
the  utmost  use  of 
in  particular 
I  am  confident 
monitoring.  During  the  past  year,  the  Preparatory 
Commission  has  continued  to  discuss  the  potential 
contribution of data from the International Monitoring 
System, 
tsunami 
warning. 
the  Preparatory 
Commission  will  soon  approve  a  mandate  to  provide 
tsunami-warning organizations with relevant data on a 
continuous  and  real  time  basis. While  we  are  mindful 
of  the  primary  purpose  of  our  verification  regime,  we 
hope  to  be  able  to  further  develop  these  important 
synergies  between  the  CTBTO’s  unique  capabilities 
and the scientific community for the benefit of all. 

the  participatory 
approach of our activities. Altogether, 90 countries are 
hosting  our  monitoring 
thus 
to  our  verification  capabilities.  The 
contributing 
benefits are shared by all, since data are made available 
to everyone in real time. The Preparatory Commission 
provides  hardware  and 
software,  coupled  with 
intensive  capacity-building  efforts,  with  the  aim  of 
further  enhancing  the  ability  of  States  signatories  to 
make 
this  unprecedented 
participatory data-sharing arrangement. 
to 

organize 
to 
support the enhancement of the national capabilities of 
States.  These  include  training  courses  for  station 
operators and managers and technical staff of National 
Data  Centres,  on  data 
and 
management, the global communications infrastructure 
and  technologies  for  use  in  on-site  inspections.  In  the 
field  of  international  cooperation,  the  Provisional 
Technical  Secretariat  continues 
role  as  an 
information  clearing  house  and  provides  support  for 
the  advancement  of  the  Commission’s  work.  These 
extensive  outreach  activities  increase  support  for  and 
participation in the work of the Commission, as well as 
serve to advance national implementation of the Treaty. 

Following  the  adoption  on  15  June  2000  by  the 
General  Assembly  of  the  Agreement  to  Regulate  the 
Relationship  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Preparatory  Commission 
the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization,  our  relations 
and  interactions  with  the  United  Nations  and  its 
programmes,  funds  and  specialized  agencies  have 
intensified.  Cooperation  with 
the  United  Nations 
Department  for  Disarmament  Affairs,  including  the 
three  Regional  Centres,  is  of  particular  importance  to 
The  Preparatory  Commission  continues 
training  programmes  and  workshops 
analysis, 
storage 
its 
for 
4 

06-58069 
the 


the  Commission.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to thank the Department for its dedicated work.  

The  service  agreement  that  the  Commission 
concluded  with 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  provides  us  with  operational  support.  The 
World  Meteorological  Organization  is  receiving  data 
from  the  monitoring  system  for  research  purposes. 
Potential fields of cooperation are being explored with 
other  organizations  of  the  United  Nations  system.  I 
would  also  like  to  highlight  the  growing  cooperation 
with UNESCO in relation  to our provision of data for 
tsunami warning purposes. 

In  order  to  contribute  fully  to  the  work  of  the 
United  Nations  family,  the  Preparatory  Commission 
has  requested  full  membership  in  the  United  Nations 
system’s Chief Executives Board. That would not only 
allow  for  strengthened  cooperation  and  synergies,  but 
would  also  provide  that  body  with  essential  expertise 
in 
field  of  nuclear  disarmament  and  non-
proliferation. 

I would like to close with a personal remark. The 
raison  d’être  of  the  CTBT  is  to  establish  a  legally 
binding  norm  against  nuclear  testing  and  to  set  up  a 
credible  system  to  verify  compliance  with  that  norm. 
Verification  of  international  disarmament  and  non-
proliferation  agreements  is  always  difficult,  slow  and 
costly.  But,  at  the  same  time,  it  is  an  important  and 
worthwhile enterprise.  I would like to thank all States 
that are supporting, in technical, financial and political 
terms, the development of our verification system. We 
will  continue  to  do  our  utmost  to  live  up  to  the  high 
expectations with regard to our monitoring capabilities.  

in 
particular, the sophisticated verification regime — will 
prove  its  worth  only  after  the  CTBT  has  entered  into 
force.  It  is  up  to  those  States  listed  in Annex  2  to  the 
CTBT  —  whose  ratification  is  necessary  for  its  entry 
into force — to consider the Treaty’s value in terms of 
both  their  national  security  and  international  security. 
The reliable performance of the verification regime and 
the  example  of  a  growing  number  of  ratifiers  will,  I 
hope, help them to reach a positive decision. 
The President: I now call on Mr. Rogelio Pfirter, 

Director-General  of 
the 
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, to present the report 
of the organization. 
Ultimately,  however,  all  our  work  — 
the  Organization 
for 
A/61/PV.38
like 
the  OPCW  and  underscored 
Mr.  Pfirter  (Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of 

Chemical Weapons): Please accept my congratulations 
and best wishes, Madam, on your election as President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first  session.  I 
should  also 
to  congratulate  His  Excellency 
Mr. Ban  Ki-moon  on  his  unanimous  election  as  the 
next Secretary-General of the United Nations. Mr. Ban 
has  demonstrated  a  strong  personal  commitment  to 
supporting  both  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention 
(CWC)  and  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of 
Chemical Weapons  (OPCW).  I  therefore  look  forward 
to future cooperation with him in promoting peace and 
security, which are goals shared by the United Nations 
and the OPCW. 

Just  a  little  more  than  a  week  ago  in  the  First 
Committee, I gave a detailed description of the present 
activities  of 
the 
importance of cooperation between the United Nations 
and my organization. Furthermore, as has been pointed 
out,  the  annual  report  of  the  OPCW’s  activities  and 
programmes  on  the  implementation  of  the  CWC  in 
2004  and  the  draft  report  for  2005  have  already  been 
circulated.  Today,  I  will  summarize  those  aspects  and 
explain  some  of  the  challenges  that  we  face  in 
implementing the Convention. 
Let  me  begin  by  presenting  an  overview  of  the 

current 
and 
non-proliferation regime established by the Convention 
continues to grow in strength. The OPCW now boasts a 
membership  of  180  countries  or  States  parties  to  the 
Convention,  which  is  equivalent  to  more  than  90  per 
cent  of  the  world’s  population.  More  than  2,600 
inspections have been carried out by OPCW inspection 
teams at more than 1,000 sites in 76 countries. Nearly 
85  per  cent  of  the  inspection  resources  are  used  to 
verify  the  destruction  of  chemical  weapons,  which  in 
many cases is carried out 24 hours a day, seven days a 
week.  

Today,  15,094  metric  tons  of  Category  1  and  2 
chemical weapons have been certified by the OPCW as 
destroyed. That  represents  21  per  cent  of  the  declared 
stockpiles  worldwide.  In  addition,  12  destruction 
facilities  are  operating  around  the  world,  10  of  them 
continuously.  More  facilities  will  begin  operations  in 
the next three years. 

Six  destruction  facilities  are  operating  in  the 
United States of America, and more than 37 per cent of 
its stockpile has already been destroyed.  
disarmament 
situation. 
The 
06-58069 

5 
that 
resolve 
and 
support 
encourage 
for 
financial 
A/61/PV.38 


The pace of chemical disarmament in the Russian 
Federation  —  which  initially  was  rather  slow  —  has 
now picked up significantly. The country has destroyed 
more than 6 per cent of its declared chemical stockpile. 
The  remaining  Russian  stockpile  of  just  over  39,000 
metric tons of chemical warfare agents is scheduled to 
be  destroyed  by  2012.  The  authorities  in  the  Russian 
Federation have been very clear in their pledge to fulfil 
their obligations under the Convention within the time 
frame  and  in  the  manner  mandated  by  the  CWC.  I 
welcome 
further 
the  Russian 
international 
destruction programme, whose completion will benefit 
not  just  the  Russian  Federation,  but  the  world  as  a 
whole. 
For  its  part,  India  has  eliminated  more  than 

67 per cent of its declared stockpile at a sustained pace. 
Another  State  party  has  irreversibly  disposed  of  more 
than 83 per cent of its chemical weapons. The Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya,  having  destroyed  its  entire  stockpile 
of  Category  3  chemical  weapons,  has 
started 
destroying  its  Category  2  chemical  weapons.  The 
elimination of its entire stockpile is set to be completed 
by 2010. Albania is due to start destroying its chemical 
weapons later this year and is expected to complete the 
destruction  of  its  entire  stockpile  by  the  end  of April 
2007. 
Given the large quantity of toxic agents, the high 

cost  and  the  human  and  environmental  considerations 
involved, 
the  destruction  of  chemical  weapons 
stockpiles  has,  in  certain  cases,  proved  to  be  very 
challenging.  As  a  result,  five  possessor  States  have 
requested  extensions  of  their  destruction  deadlines,  in 
some  cases,  until  the  final  deadline  of  29 April  2012. 
This  most  important  matter  will  be  considered  by  the 
Conference  of  the  States  Parties  to  the  Chemical 
Weapons  Convention  at 
in 
December of this year. 

Our  verification  efforts  related  to  the  prevention 
of  any  future  proliferation  of  chemical  weapons  are 
proceeding  equally  apace.  Here,  too,  the  inspection 
record  of  the  OPCW  speaks  for  itself.  We  have 
completed  more  than  1,200  industry  inspections  and 
aim at gradually increasing the quality and the quantity 
of our efforts in this area. I will say more on this point 
later. 

Over 98 per cent of the world’s chemical industry 
is  located  in  States  party  to  the  Convention,  and  I 
its  eleventh  session 

would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  recognize  and 
applaud  once  more  the  support  the  world’s  chemical 
industry  has  shown  for  the  object  and  purpose  of  the 
Convention. 

Significant progress continues to be registered in 
the key area of national implementation of the CWC by 
all States party to it. It is quite encouraging to note that 
by  now  the  vast  majority  of  States  parties  have  now 
established  a  National  Authority  as  required  under 
Article VII of the Convention. 
At  the  same  time,  a  considerable  number  of 

countries continues to lag behind in meeting all of their 
national 
implementation  obligations.  The  OPCW 
continues  to  play  its  expected  role  in  assisting  its 
member States in their national implementation efforts. 
In the last three years, more than 130 States parties to 
the Convention have received support in this field from 
the Technical Secretariat and from several other States 
parties. 

With  regard  to  international  cooperation  and 
assistance,  I  am  pleased  to  report  that,  since  1997, 
about 5,600 participants have benefited from more than 
500 activities in the area of international cooperation in 
the  peaceful  uses  of  chemistry.  Our  programmes  have 
been  made  possible,  in  part,  by  generous  voluntary 
contributions from a number of States parties and from 
the European Union. We are, of course, grateful for this 
support. 

Concerning  budgetary  matters,  I  am  pleased  to 
report  that  this  year  the  OPCW  is  operating  with  zero 
nominal budgetary growth, which implies a diminution 
in  the  assessed  contributions  of  member  States.  We 
hope  and  expect  that  we  can  achieve  such  diminution 
in the budget for 2007, which is still to be approved by 
member  States  and  which  contains  a  proposal  to  this 
end. 

This  budgetary  discipline  has  been  achieved 
without  any  detriment  to  full  programme  delivery.  In 
fact,  the  year  2006  saw  an  increase  in  the  level  of 
OPCW  activities  in  a  number  of  areas.  As  Director-
General, I will remain committed throughout the period 
of  my  mandate  to  fiscal  discipline  and  to  best 
managerial and administrative practices. 

The  overview  I  have  just  given  will,  I  hope, 
provide  a  good  sense  of  the  progress  in  implementing 
the  goals  of  the  CWC.  However,  much  remains  to  be 
accomplished,  and 
the  challenges  are  many.  For 
06-58069 
6 

in 


instance,  it  is  clear  that,  notwithstanding  this  progress 
and  the  unwavering  political  commitment  of  all  our 
State  parties,  in  the  coming  years  we  will  need  to 
overcome  significant  operational  hurdles 
the 
disarmament area. 

The  Convention,  which  entered  into  force  in 
1997, sets the ambitious target of eliminating a massive 
stockpile  of  chemical  weapons  within  ten  years,  with 
the  possibility  of  an  extension  for  an  additional  five 
years.  The  final  deadline,  therefore,  is  29 April  2012, 
date  by  which  each  and  every  chemical  weapon 
declared  by  States  party  to  the  Chemical  Weapons 
Convention  needs  to  be  destroyed.  Of  course,  we  are 
still  five-and-a-half  years  away  from  that  date. And  it 
would  therefore  be  ill-advised  and  premature  to  jump 
to  any  conclusions.  In  fact,  I  remain  absolutely 
convinced  of  the  strong  determination  of  possessor 
States to complete destruction by that date. 

At this stage, therefore, I would simply underline 
that  ensuring  the  attainment  of  this  singular  landmark 
is central to the success of the Convention, and is thus 
of the greatest interest to the whole of the international 
community. While requests for extensions of the April 
2007  destruction  deadline  are  fully  in  line  with  the 
CWC  and  deserve  every  sympathetic  consideration  by 
States  parties,  all  possessor  States  parties  must  plan 
their  final  destruction  activities  in  a  manner  that  fully 
respects requirements under the Convention. 

in 
particular, Article VII,  by  all  States  parties,  is  another 
important  challenge.  Without  exception,  all  of  our 
States parties are under an obligation to both adopt and 
enforce  the  legislative  and  administrative  measures 
required to detect, pursue, and prosecute any breach of 
the  Convention  in  any  area  under  their  jurisdiction  or 
control. 

these  obligations  are 
essentially  identical  to  those  stipulated  in  Security 
Council resolution 1540 (2004). 

A further challenge facing the OPCW is the need 
for  sustained  and  increased  efforts  in  some  categories 
of industry inspection. While we have been inspecting 
Schedule  1  and  Schedule  2  facilities  with  sufficient 
frequency,  I  do not believe that we have done  enough 
in relation to Schedule 3 plant sites and other chemical 
production 
the 
declarations  made  by  States  parties,  the  Technical 
To  a  great  degree, 
(OCPFs).  Based 
implementation  of 
the  CWC, 
The 
full 
facilities 
on 
06-58069 

A/61/PV.38
Secretariat  has  identified  approximately  5,000  such 
production facility sites of relevance to the CWC. 

It  is  true  that,  from  a  technical  standpoint,  these 
two categories of plant sites represent a less immediate 
problem  with  regard  to  the  potential  production  of 
deadly  chemicals.  By  the  same  token,  however,  some 
of  them  do  produce  or  consume  dual-use  agents. That 
is why, under the Convention, they are declarable and, 
possibly,  inspectable.  Furthermore,  the  Convention 
does not say that they should necessarily be inspected 
less frequently than other categories of plant sites. 

To date we have inspected only around eight per 
cent  of  all  relevant  facilities  of  that  category.  At  the 
present  rate,  it  will  take  us  decades  to  inspect  all  of 
them  at  least  once.  This  situation  needs  significant 
improvement. Furthermore, the need for action on such 
facilities is increased by the looming threat of chemical 
terrorism.  On  such  basis,  no  lessening  of  attention  in 
this  regard  could  be  expected  from  the  Technical 
Secretariat. It is up to member States to take a political 
decision, if they so wish, in this respect.  

Therefore,  since  becoming  Director-General  in 
2002, I have consistently proposed through the OPCW 
budget,  a  larger  number  of  OCPF  inspections,  and  if 
my  proposal  for  2007  is  approved,  by  the  end  of  that 
year, we will have inspected approximately 11 per cent 
of  all  such  production  facilities.  This  verification 
activity  will  be  done  without  any  detriment 
to 
inspections elsewhere.  

Universal adherence to the Convention is crucial 
to  its  success.  Its  object  and  purpose  can  be  realized 
only  if  all  States  join  in  and  fully  implement  its 
provisions.  Indeed,  even  after  completion  of 
the 
the  declared  stockpiles  by  all 
destruction  of  all 
the  object  and  purpose  of 
possessor  States, 
the 
Convention  could  be  frustrated,  if  only  a  single  State 
were to remain outside its jurisdiction. Technically, any 
such State could consider itself exempt from the ban on 
chemical  weapons,  hence  preserving  its  ability  to 
engage in forbidden chemical weapons programmes. 

Although  only  fifteen  Member  States  of  the 
United Nations have yet to join, and some of them are 
taking  steps  to  do  so,  there  remains  a  small  but 
significant  number  of  countries  whose  continued  non-
adherence  to  the  Convention  is  a  matter  of  justified 
concern. Their reticence is often explained away as an 
unavoidable  consequence  of  regional 
tensions  or 
conflicts. 
7 

in 
justification 
for  keeping 
the  Assembly  — 
A/61/PV.38 


I  do  not  agree  at  all  with  this  line  of  thought, 
which seeks to legitimize a seemingly indefinite delay 
in  joining  the  rest  of  humanity  in  banning  forever  an 
entire category of weapons of mass destruction. In fact, 
given  the  wide  recognition  of  the  CWC,  chemical 
weapons are not only unacceptable today, but they are 
unmistakably  illegal  under  international  law.  It  is 
dangerous  and  unfair  to  the  rest  of  the  international 
community that a few States should seem to be able to 
remain free from the obligation to be transparent in this 
very sensitive area. In the end, there is, and can be, no 
moral  or  strategic 
the 
chemical weapons option open. 

One worrying example of what appears to be firm 
reluctance to join the Chemical Weapons Convention is 
the case of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, 
which only a few days ago detonated a nuclear device, 
thereby  incurring  the  unanimous  condemnation  of  the 
Security  Council  as  set  out  in  its  resolution  1718 
(2006). 
I  regret  to  say  that  —  alone  among  all  other 

nations 
in 
Pyongyang  have  not  acknowledged  any  of  the  many 
approaches  we  have  made  to  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea to encourage its membership in the 
OPCW.  That  negative  fact  is  all  the  more  disturbing 
given the long-standing international concern about the 
possible  existence  of  chemical  weapons  in  that  State. 
In  fact,  in  paragraph  7  of  resolution  1718  (2006),  the 
Security Council decided that the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  “shall  abandon  all  other  existing 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  ballistic  missile 
programme[s] in a complete, verifiable and irreversible 
manner”. 

In  that  context,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  once 
more  that  the  OPCW  remains  available  and  ready  to 
assist  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to 
join the Convention. 

Additional  concerns  exist  about  the  persistent 
refusal  to  join  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention  by 
some  key  countries  in  the  Middle  East.  I  once  again 
appeal  to  those  countries  to  become  parties  to  the 
Convention  without any further delay. All avenues for 
dialogue  are  open.  One  such  opportunity  will  be 
available in Rome next week at an OPCW workshop on 
the universality of the Convention in the Mediterranean 
Basin.  There  we  will  engage  in  further  dialogue  with 
States in the Middle East not parties to the Convention. 
the  authorities 
in 
and 
to  my 
invitation 
economic 
to  participate 
the  negotiations  on 
that  we  will  be  able 
The  workshop  is  being  organized  with  the  support  of 
the  Italian  Government  and  the  European  Union.  We 
extend our sincere gratitude to both. In addition, I am 
grateful to the Foreign Ministers of Israel, Lebanon and 
the Syrian Arab Republic, each of whom has responded 
positively 
the 
workshop and will be sending an official delegation. I 
also  hope 
to  find  other 
opportunities  to  continue  our  dialogue  with  Egypt, 
which  did  so  much  to  bring  about  the  satisfactory 
conclusion  of 
the  Chemical 
Weapons Convention. 

The success of the Convention also depends upon 
a partnership among the groups of States that make up 
its  membership. Articles  X  and  XI  of  the  Convention, 
which  cover  international  cooperation  and  assistance 
and 
technological  development, 
represent areas of particular interest. The OPCW must 
continue  and,  if  anything,  increase  assistance  and 
support  to  States  parties  in  that  context.  Of  course,  I 
must  recall  that  the  interest  of  countries  in  that 
particular  aspect  of  the  Convention  stems  not  only 
from  our  commitment  to  promote  peaceful  uses  of 
chemistry but also from their own needs to address the 
increasing legitimate demands for capacity-building so 
that  they  can  respond  effectively  to  chemical  threats, 
including those posed by terrorists.  
The  OPCW  is  not  an  anti-terrorism  agency. 

However, it is clear that the full implementation of the 
Convention  can  contribute  to  the  struggle  against  the 
scourge,  as  can  be  seen  from  Security  Council 
resolution  1540  (2004)  and,  more  recently,  General 
Assembly resolution 60/288, which sets out the United 
Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy. 

One other matter that is crucial to the success of 
the  Convention  is  the  ongoing  strong  commitment  by 
all  States  parties  to  work  by  consensus.  It  is  very 
reassuring  to  note  that  that  practice  has  continued, 
thereby  strengthening  our  hope  that  the  challenge 
posed  by  our  Second  Review  Conference,  which  is  to 
be held in 2008, will, like the first review, be crowned 
by success. 

An  additional  challenge  is  the  political  and 
operational need to ensure that all the verification tools 
provided  for  in  the  CWC  work  as  they  should.  One 
such  tool  is  the  challenge  inspection,  which  is  crucial 
to  the  ability  of  the  OPCW  to  maintain  a  credible 
deterrent against an attack involving chemical weapons 
8 

06-58069 
issues  are 
the 
implemented  effectively.  We 


on  any  of  its  member  States.  The  secretariat  will 
therefore  continue  to  ensure  that  it  maintains  the 
technical and overall operational readiness to carry out 
a challenge inspection, should it be required to do so in 
accordance with the CWC. 

Additional  operational  challenges  lie  in  the  need 
to  ensure  that  inspection  procedures  are  efficient  and 
cost-effective.  Other 
result  of 
developments  in  science  and  technology.  Just  as 
important  are  the  emergence  of  new  chemicals,  the 
grey  area  between  chemistry  and  biology  and  the 
production  of  new  types  of  weapons.  All  those  are 
matters  that  could  have  a  concrete  impact  on  the 
operation of the Convention. 

Allow me to conclude by recalling that the tenth 
anniversary of the entry into force of the CWC and of 
the  establishment  of  the  OPCW  will  take  place  on  29 
April 2007. We trust that the Secretary-General will be 
able to join us on that occasion. Our States parties have 
every  reason  to  commemorate  with  some  satisfaction 
that important milestone in the history of disarmament. 
The CWC, and in particular its disarmament agenda, is 
being 
fully 
committed  to  the  tasks  entailed  in  achieving  a  world 
free  of  chemical  weapons  —  a  mandate  that  is 
promoted by the Charter of the United Nations and that 
serves the twin causes of peace and security.  

As  we  approach  our  tenth  anniversary,  I  would 
also  like  to  express  a  final  word  of  gratitude  to  all 
those  States  that  intend  to  mark  the  occasion  in  a 
special  way.  Particular  recognition  is  due  to  the 
Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, which 
is working in support of the CWC and the OPCW in an 
unparalleled  fashion,  and  which  is  playing  a  crucial 
role  in  our  commemoration  next  year.  That  is  but 
another  concrete  demonstration  of  the  Netherlands 
commitment  to  the  success  of  the  CWC  and  of  the 
OPCW. In the same spirit, I would also like to express 
my thanks to the municipality of the city of The Hague, 
which  is  also  supporting  our  commemoration  and 
which spares no effort to make our lives comfortable in 
our home town.  

Russian  Federation 
A/61/L.4. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  The 
collective 
approaches  necessary  for  the  effective  resolution  of 
The President: I call on the representative of the 
resolution 
establishment  of 
introduce  draft 
remain 
to 
the 
A/61/PV.38
the 
international 
community’s 
the  best  knowledge  of 
contemporary  threats  and  challenges  requires  a  steady 
increase  in  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and regional and subregional organizations based — as 
set out in the 2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 
60/1)  —  on  the  solid  foundation  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  in  particular  on  Chapter  VIII.  As 
Russia’s  Foreign  Minister,  Mr.  Sergey  Lavrov, 
emphasized when he addressed the Security Council on 
20 September (see S/PV.5529), the United Nations and 
regional organizations must harmoniously complement 
each  other  by  utilizing  their  relative  comparative 
advantages.  

With regard to the United Nations, that means the 
universality of the membership and its activities and its 
universally  recognized  legitimacy.  In  turn,  regional 
organizations  possess 
the 
situations  in  the  areas  in  which  they  operate.  They 
often also have more sophisticated equipment and their 
own sources of financing. A clear division of labour — 
while preserving the prerogatives of the United Nations 
and  the  Security  Council  —  will  make  it  possible  to 
increase 
crisis 
prevention  capability.  We  believe  that  the  regular 
meetings between the Secretary-General and leaders of 
regional organizations are extremely valuable.  

The  agenda  for  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and regional partners is becoming broader and 
more  multifaceted.  In  addition  to  peacekeeping  and 
peacebuilding,  there  is  also  a  need  to  combat  the 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  stem 
illegal  sources  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons, 
control  other  destabilizing  cross-border  programmes, 
fight drug trafficking and organized crime and help to 
resolve  multifaceted  socio-economic  problems  in  the 
world. 

We  must  strengthen  cooperation  between  the 
Organization  and  regional  and  subregional  groups. 
Cooperation  must  be  intensified  with  the  African 
Union,  the  Economic  Community  of  West  African 
States, the Southern African Development Community 
and  the  Intergovernmental Authority  on  Development, 
among  others. The  League  of Arab  States  also  has  an 
important  role  to  play  in  finding  peaceful  ways  to 
resolve many of the problems affecting the Middle East 
region.  Cooperation  should  also  be  strengthened  with 
the Gulf Cooperation Council, the Organization of the 
Islamic  Conference,  the  Organization  of  American 
States and other groupings in Latin America. We would 
also like to see further development of interaction with 
06-58069 

9 
A/61/PV.38 

the United Nations on the part of structures such as the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
(OSCE),  the  European  Union  (EU)  and  the  North 
Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO)  when  crisis 
response mechanisms are being set up.  

Here too, it is essential to have full respect for the 
Security  Council’s  primary  responsibility  for 
the 
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security, 
including  the  adoption  of  mandates  for  peacekeeping 
operations.  The  Russian  Federation  continues 
to 
promote  deepened  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the Commonwealth of Independent States 
(CIS), the Collective Security Treaty Organization and 
the  Euro-Asian  Economic  Community,  which  make 
significant  contributions  to  the  resolution  of  today’s 
problems  and  challenges  at  the  regional  and  global 
levels.  

We  welcome  the  already  solid  links  between 
those regional mechanisms and the United Nations, as 
well  as  the  joint  implementation  of  a  number  of 
projects and  programmes.  Integration processes in our 
region  are  maturing,  becoming  ever  more  active  and 
involving  States  from  neighbouring  subregions.  There 
has  been  a  dynamic  growth  in  the  legal,  institutional 
and financial basis of such cooperation.  
Within  the  CIS,  the  Collective  Security  Treaty 

Organization 
Economic 
Community, systematic and comprehensive interaction 
such  areas  as 
is 
trade, 
peacebuilding,  economic  development  and 
environmental  protection,  humanitarian 
response, 
controlling  migration  flows  and  combating  organized, 
cross-border  crime  and  similar  problems.  Particular 
attention  is  being  given  to  strengthening  the  potential 
of  member  countries,  especially  in  the  execution  of 
major  infrastructure  projects,  such  as  the  construction 
of  hydroelectric  plants  and 
the  expansion  and 
improvement of road and railway networks.  

We note in particular the cooperation between the 
United  Nations  and 
the  area  of 
peacekeeping.  The  Collective  Peacekeeping  Forces  of 
the CIS, in close contact with United Nations Observer 
Mission  in  Georgia  (UNMIG),  is  maintaining  security 
and  stability  in  the  Georgia-Abkhaz  conflict  area  in 
near crisis conditions.  

Significant  prospects  also  exist  for  the  evolving 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Collective  Security  Treaty  Organization  (CSTO).  In 
taking  place, 
Euro-Asian 
including 
and 
the  CIS 
in 
the 
in 

there 
the  CSTO  and 
the  establishment  of 
that framework, intensive work is under away to create 
including 
a  CSTO  peacekeeping  potential, 
for 
peacekeeping 
deployment 
in  United  Nations 
operations.  After 
relations 
between 
the  Counter-Terrorism 
Committee  Executive  Directorate  and  between  the 
CSTO  and  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and 
Crime, 
is  now  a  concrete  possibility  of 
cooperation in these areas.  

A growing role in providing stability and security 
in  the  Euro-Asian  region  is  played  by  the  Shanghai 
Cooperation  Organization,  whose  members  have  said 
that they are in favour of developing cooperation with 
the  United  Nations  in  a  number  of  crucial  areas, 
including  the  fight  against  international  terrorism,  the 
illegal spread of drugs and the post-conflict recovery of 
Afghanistan.  We  welcome  the  dynamic  process  of 
strengthening  cooperation  between  the  Euro-Asian 
Economic Community and the United Nations, and we 
intend to continue to promote this.

At the same time, we believe that the potential for 
mutually advantageous cooperation between the United 
Nations and the integration mechanisms in the CIS area 
is  far  from  being  exhausted.  In  that  context,  we  look 
forward to greater activity, more proactive approaches 
and increased openness to dialogue from the leadership 
of the United Nations agencies. Russia,  for its part, is 
prepared to promote the further strengthening of those 
aspects.  

A particular feature of my delegation’s statement 
on this agenda item today is that this year the Russian 
Federation  is  not  just  the  Chair  of  the  Group  of  Eight 
(G-8), one of the major forums for agreeing upon and 
adopting  collective  decisions  on  problems  of  world 
development,  but  also  Chair  of  the  Committee  of 
Ministers of the Council of Europe and the Black Sea 
Economic  Cooperation  Organization  (BSEC).  Those 
international  mechanisms  are  actively  participating  in 
building the new architecture of international relations. 
Although their areas of responsibility do not coincide, 
throughout  our  parallel  chairmanships  we  have  been 
conducting  a  kind  of  brainstorming  process.  We  are 
trying  to  build  a  common  understanding  that  narrow, 
bloc-based  approaches to resolving problems of world 
development  are  not  enough. 
they  are 
counterproductive and dangerous.  

It is precisely in that spirit that we welcome this 
opportunity to analyse the level of cooperation between 
Indeed, 
10 

06-58069 
from 
increased  contribution 


the  Council  of  Europe  and  the  United  Nations.  We 
welcome the  report prepared by the Secretary-General 
(A/61/256). We would also like to take this opportunity 
to  welcome  the  senior  officials  from  the  Council  of 
Europe  and  delegations 
its  Parliamentary 
Assembly who have made a special trip to New York to 
participate in the Assembly’s discussion of this agenda 
item.  

Cooperation  between the  United Nations and the 
Council  of  Europe  is  an  example  of  long-standing 
positive  relations  between  international  organizations. 
The  regular  high-level  meetings, 
the  Council  of 
Europe’s 
to  major  United 
Nations  events  and  the  unabated  intensity  of  the 
Parliamentary Assembly’s discussion of the question of 
cooperation  with 
the  United  Nations  are  recent 
developments  that  have  shown  the  great  desire  of  the 
two organizations to have closer cooperation.  

At  the  third  Summit  of  the  Council  of  Europe, 
which took place in Warsaw in 2005, member countries 
proclaimed  their  commitment  to  further  strengthen 
cooperation  between  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the 
United  Nations.  The  purposes  of  the  United  Nations 
with  respect  to  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security,  resolving 
international  economic,  social, 
cultural  and  humanitarian  problems  and  encouraging 
and  developing 
rights  and 
fundamental freedoms for all, are fully consonant with 
the purposes of the Council of Europe. At the regional 
level  they  are  being  achieved  through  efforts  to 
embody universal values shared by States members of 
the  Council  of  Europe,  such  as  building  a  Europe 
without  dividing  lines  on  the  basis  of  democracy, 
human  rights,  the  rule  of  law,  cultural  diversity  and 
social cohesion.  

It  is  precisely  in  that  spirit,  and  based  on  the 
provisions of the Action Plan of the Council of Europe, 
that 
the  priorities  were  established  for  Russia’s 
Chairmanship. Their practical implementation is being 
helped by the content of our programme, which we are 
trying to make as broad as possible, with as universally 
European a nature as possible.  

The  first  of  these  priorities  is  strengthening 
national  mechanisms  for  protecting  human  rights, 
developing  human  rights  education  and  protecting  the 
rights  of  national  minorities.  In  order  to  guarantee 
human  rights,  the  Council  of  Europe  has  long  been 
closely  cooperating  with  the  Office  of  the  United 
respect 
for  human 
06-58069 

A/61/PV.38
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  (UNHCR) 
on questions of asylum, refugees and stateless persons 
without  citizenship,  as  well  as  with  the  Office  of  the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. 
Cooperation  between  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the 
United Nations is developing in the area of preventing 
violence against women and protecting children.  

A  top  priority  for  the  Council  of  Europe  is  the 
establishment  of  a  common  European  legal  space  to 
protect  individuals  from  contemporary  challenges.  In 
this  context,  the  Council  of  Europe  has  made  a 
significant  contribution  to  global  counter-terrorism 
efforts  under  the  leadership  of  the  United  Nations. 
Conventions have been adopted on the suppression and 
prevention  of  terrorism  and  on  the  suppression  of  the 
financing  of  terrorism,  and  work  is  under  way  to 
protect the victims of terrorist acts and cyberterrorism. 
The  activities  of  the  Council  of  Europe  in  combating 
incitement to terrorism and the recruitment and training 
of terrorists are fully consonant with Security Council 
resolution  1624  (2005).  Close  contacts  have  been 
established with the Counter-Terrorism Committee and 
the legal services of the relevant organizations.  

The  Council  of  Europe  continues  to  work  to 
improve  democracy  and  civil  society  and  to  introduce 
effective  methods  of  governance;  a 
significant 
contribution  to  addressing  these  issues  has  been  made 
by  the  regular  high-level  tripartite  meetings  between 
the  United  Nations,  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the 
OSCE.  

Among the priorities for Russia’s chairmanship of 
the  Council  of  Europe  is  the  promotion  of  tolerance 
and mutual understanding  by developing dialogue  and 
cooperation in the areas of culture, education, science, 
youth  and  sport.  The  Council  of  Europe  is  actively 
interacting  with  UNESCO,  inter  alia  by  creating  an 
open  platform  for  inter-organizational  cooperation  in 
the interests of intercultural dialogue.  

During  Russia’s  chairmanship,  the  Committee  of 
Ministers of the Council of Europe decided to support 
the Alliance of Civilizations initiative.  

We  believe  that  the  development  of  cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Council of Europe 
will  help  to  achieve  peace  and  security  and  to  protect 
human  rights,  not  only  in  Europe  but  throughout  the 
world. The draft resolution on cooperation between the 
United  Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe,  which  we 
will shortly be submitting to the General Assembly for 
11 

fully  promotes 
A/61/PV.38 

consideration, 
those  goals.  That 
document  notes  the  contribution  made  by  the  Council 
of  Europe  in  areas  such  as  combating  terrorism  and 
crime  and  developing  democracy  and  effective 
governance. It encourages interaction between the two 
organizations  and  appeals  for  the  further  development 
of such interaction. The adoption of the draft resolution 
would help to bring the United Nations and the Council 
of  Europe  closer  and  promote  the  more  effective 
implementation of their goals. 

In conclusion, I would like to call upon all States 
members  of  the  Assembly  to  support  and  further 
strengthen cooperation between the two organizations. 

I would like now to focus on cooperation between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Black  Sea  Economic 
Cooperation  Organization  (BSEC),  of  which  Russia 
currently  holds  the  chairmanship.  During  the  15  years 
of its existence, the BSEC has had a significant degree 
of  success  in  attaining  its  basic  goal:  the  effective 
promotion  of  trade  and  economic  cooperation  in  the 
Black Sea area. The organization’s authority has grown 
significantly,  and  its  involvement  in  pan-European 
interaction is increasing. 

In  its  capacity  as  Chair  of  the  organization, 
Russia  is  seeking  to  do  everything  in  its  power  to 
enhance  its  effectiveness  and  the  practical  results  for 
member  States.  Our  efforts  are  aimed  at  carrying  out 
specific 
including 
tourism, 
transportation, 
environmental 
situations, 
counter-terrorism,  organized  crime  and  the  prevention 
of  outbreaks  of  dangerous 
infectious  diseases. 
Important  steps  are  also  being  taken  with  a  view  to 
actively  involving  regions  and  the  local  authorities  of 
member countries in the BSEC. We are trying to make 
the  organization  more  attractive 
for  community 
businesses. 

It  is  my  honour  to  introduce,  under  sub-item  (d) 
of agenda item 118, draft resolution A/61/L.4, entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation  Organization”, 
which all members of BSEC, as well as other interested 
States,  have  sponsored.  The  draft  resolution  seeks  to 
further  enhance 
the  effectiveness  of  cooperation 
between  the  organization  and  the  United  Nations,  as 
well  as  the  international  financial  institutions.  It 
reflects  the  significant  progress  made,  as  well  as  the 
momentum  achieved,  by  the  organization  since  the 
various 
communications, 
protection, 
areas, 
energy, 
emergency 
tasks 
in 
to 
that 
The 
participated 
constructively 
The  President: I  call  on  the  representative  of 
adoption  of  the  previous  resolution  on  the  issue. 
Particular stress in the draft is placed on the priorities 
of the organization’s work. The text will definitely give 
additional  impetus  to  the  development  of  cooperation 
between the two organizations, as well as revitalize the 
work  done  by  the  organization  to  further  adapt  it  to 
new socio-economic realities. 

I would like to sincerely thank all States members 
of  the  organization  for  the  spirit  of  cooperation  that 
they  demonstrated  in  the  context  of  the  events  held 
during  our  chairmanship,  as  well  as 
thank 
delegations 
in 
consultations  on  the  text.  We  hope  that  the  draft 
resolution will be adopted by consensus.  

India, who will introduce draft resolution A/61/L.5. 

Mr.  Anwar  (India):  India,  which  holds  the 
presidency  of  the  Asian-African  Legal  Consultative 
Organization  this  year,  is  happy  to  introduce  draft 
resolution A/61/L.5 on cooperation between the United 
Nations  and  the  Asian-African  Legal  Consultative 
Organization. 

Consultative 
Organization (AALCO) celebrated its golden jubilee in 
April this year at its headquarters in New Delhi. Over 
the past 50 years, it has acquired unique stature in the 
context  of  promoting  legal  cooperation  among  Asian 
and  African  States.  Its  annual  conferences  are  major 
events.  Its  New  Delhi  session  in  April  this  year  was 
well  attended.  The  exchange  of  views  that  took  place 
on  contemporary  issues  of  international  law  proved 
highly beneficial to participants. 

Reports  of AALCO and the declarations adopted 
at its annual sessions have become an important source 
for  the  development  of  international  law. AALCO  has 
been  identifying  the  common  interests  of  Africa  and 
Asia  with  regard  to  issues  under  consideration  in  the 
United Nations and other world bodies. 

We  would  like  to  encourage  AALCO  to  expand 
its  activities.  This  could  be  done  through  special 
training  programmes  for  promoting 
teaching  and 
expertise  in  legal  advising  in  the  area  of  international 
law;  establishing  Chairs  in  international  law  teaching 
in  universities;  offering  fellowships  to  Asian  and 
African students for higher studies in international law; 
and publishing books devoted to international law that 
are of interest to Asia and Africa. 
Asian-African 
Legal 
12 

06-58069 
The  President: I  call  on  the  representative  of 



Some  of  these  activities  can  be  carried  out, 
however,  only  if  more  funds  are  available.  The 
clearance of arrears in contributions and the raising of 
funds through voluntary contributions would help. The 
shifting of the offices of AALCO and the residence of 
the  organization’s  Secretary-General  to  their  own  new 
building would partially ease the financial situation. 

Despite  its  financial  limitations,  the  work  of 
AALCO  is  efficiently  organized  by  a  small  band  of 
experts  working  under  its  very  competent  Secretary-
General.  Its  excellent  library  and  facilities  deserve  to 
be  further  improved.  In  due  course,  AALCO  could 
operate  as  an  international  law  documentation  centre 
for the benefit of Asian and African States. 

We  are  optimistic  that  in  the  years  to  come 
AALCO will achieve greater success in promoting the 
common interests of Asian and African States. We have 
no doubt that the cooperation between AALCO and the 
United  Nations  will  continue  to  grow  stronger.  We 
wish AALCO every success in its future work. 

Italy, who will introduce draft resolution A/61/L.6. 

Mr.  Mantovani  (Italy):  I  will  focus  on  sub-
item (k) of  agenda item  108 on  “Cooperation between 
the United Nations and the Inter-Parliamentary Union”. 
As 
the  Assembly  knows,  a  draft  resolution  on 
cooperation between the United Nations and the Inter-
Parliamentary  Union  (IPU)  comes  up  every  two  years 
in  plenary  meeting.  As  members  will  recall,  the  last 
one was adopted in October 2004. The resolutions that 
are  adopted  for  each  organization  are,  in  general, 
consensus  resolutions.  This  has  always  been  the  case 
for  the  IPU,  and  we  firmly  believe  that  it  should 
continue to be so. 

In  its  capacity  as  the  current  holder  of  the  IPU 
presidency, Italy has taken the initiative of sponsoring 
this year’s draft resolution for the debate in the General 
Assembly.  We,  together  with  a  large  group  of  other 
member  States  —  whose  numbers  are  growing  by  the 
minute  —  submitted  draft  resolution  A/61/L.6.  I  am 
pleased  to  recall  that  the  list  of  sponsors  is  still  open 
for signature at the Secretariat desk in this Hall. 

Each new draft resolution seeks — and in this it 
usually  succeeds  —  to  carry  the  United  Nations-IPU 
partnership  forward,  as  is  proved  by  the  growing 
cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  over  the 
years.  This  year’s  draft  resolution  is  inspired  by  the 
A/61/PV.38
idea  of 
international  situation, 
the 
decisions  taken  at  the  Second  World  Conference  of 
Speakers  of  Parliaments,  the  2005  World  Summit 
Outcome,  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  and  the 
vision  of  the  IPU  President  on  building  a  strategic 
partnership between the United Nations and the IPU.  

The operative paragraphs are based largely on the 
language used in the report of the Secretary-General on 
cooperation between the United Nations and the Inter-
Parliamentary  Union  (IPU). They  are  also  inspired  by 
the 
further  enhancing,  within  existing 
resources, the parliamentary dimension of the work of 
the  United  Nations  as  an  important  complement  to  its 
undisputed  intergovernmental  nature.  The  importance 
of  enhancing  the  parliamentary  dimension  of  United 
Nations activity must also be seen in the context of the 
current 
role  national 
parliaments play in the decision-making process of our 
Governments  and  the  centrality  they  attribute  to  the 
role  of  the  multilateral  system  and,  within  that,  to  the 
United Nations. 

As an outcome of the consultations that we have 
recently  been  holding  with  a  number  of  interested 
Member States, with a view of taking into account any 
possible concern, I would like to propose only a minor 
amendment  to  the  seventh  preambular  paragraph  .  In 
particular,  since  the  results  of  the  wide  consultation 
process  undertaken  by 
the  IPU  among  national 
parliaments  were  not  shared  with  the  Member  States 
through  an  official  United  Nations  document,  we 
propose  to  delete  the  last  part,  so  that  the  paragraph 
ends  with  “the  work  of  the  United  Nations”.  The 
seventh preambular paragraph would therefore read: 


recommendations 
contained  in  the  report  of  the  Panel  of  Eminent 
Persons 
on  United  Nations-Civil  Society 
Relations  in  regard  to  engaging  parliamentarians 
more  systematically  in  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations.” 

With  this  only  minor  revision,  Italy  is  confident 
that this very important draft resolution can be adopted 
by consensus today. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 

representative  of  Romania,  who  will  introduce  draft 
resolution A/61/L.7. 
Mr.  Motoc  (Romania):  I  should  first  like  to 

congratulate 
having 
presented us, as usual, a through report on cooperation 
the  Secretary-General 
“Taking  note  of 
the 
for 
06-58069 

13 

A/61/PV.38 

between the United Nations and regional organizations, 
an  area  of  topical  interest  to  Romania.  I  shall  dwell  a 
bit  on  the  item  dealing  with  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and 
the  Black  Sea  Economic 
Cooperation  Organization  (BSEC).  In  that  regard, 
Romania  is  satisfied  with  the  draft  resolution  on 
cooperation  with  the  BSEC,  which  we  have  co-
sponsored. I wish at the same time to congratulate the 
Russian  Federation,  the  current  chair  of  BSEC,  for 
having successfully promoted the resolution. The Black 
Sea area is now a region with tremendous potential for 
multiple cooperation and economic development. That 
is why Romania believes it is only right and timely that 
the  United  Nations  focus  more  on  cooperation  in  the 
Black Sea Basin. The draft resolution we are preparing 
to  adopt  proceeds  from  such  an  expectation  and  is, 
therefore, highly welcome. 

Still,  we  have  to  acknowledge  that  the  full  take-
off of the Black Sea Region in political and economic 
terms  is  seriously  hampered  by  lingering  conflicts, 
which  are  slowly  but  steadily  getting  worse.  These 
prolonged  conflicts  affect  the  lives  and  aspirations  of 
millions  of  people,  including  those  in  the  separatist 
regions within this area. I do not intend to dwell more 
on  these  conflicts  and  the  multiple  challenges  they 
generate,  as  there  are  regional  organizations,  such  as 
the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe (OSCE), that give closer consideration to these 
issues,  and  they  will  be  taken  up  in  the  Assembly  at 
greater length later in the year, but I would like to point 
out  that  the  community  of  Black  Sea  States  can  do 
more to alleviate these problems. We have to get out of 
what now seems to be a vicious circle.  

Improving  economic  conditions  for  the  whole 
region  will  certainly  create  a  better  basis  for  dealing 
with  security  issues,  but  no  exemplary  economic 
cooperation can be sustained in the face of the pending 
political and security problems. We have to concentrate 
on what is really important for people around the Black 
Sea,  for  that  matter,  for  people  all  over  the  world. 
There is an enabling, safe, stable and prosperous future 
for  the  countries  in  the  region  and  their  citizens. 
Economic  opportunities  are  there,  and  they  are  huge, 
but if they are to be taken advantage of fully, it is high 
time to address more resolutely the security challenges 
in several areas of the Black Sea Basin. Human rights 
are  a  fundamental  prerequisite  and  must  be  given  full 
observance and respect in the process. 
(EU)  has 
acknowledged 
an 
to  contribute 
today  should  be  regarded 
Romania  considers  that  the  wider  Black  Sea 

Region 
in  a  broader 
perspective.  Opening  up  cooperation  in  the  Black  Sea 
Region  is  a  necessity.  Thanks  in  particular  to  the 
efforts  made  during  the  chairmanship  of  Greece,  the 
European  Union 
the 
importance  of  a  safe  and  stable  Black  Sea  region  for 
European security. 

I wish to welcome, in this respect, the platform of 
cooperation between BSEC and the European Union to 
be  submitted  to  the  European  Commission  to  get  the 
EU much more involved in the wider Black Sea region, 
and especially in projects of economic and democratic 
development. We need to raise the profile of our region 
on  the  United  Nations  agenda  and  other  international 
organizations,  which  have  the  capacity  and  will  to 
enhance  our  cooperation,  and 
to 
strengthening  the  future  of  the  BSEC.  They  are  all 
confident that the relations we are building within the 
region can become a success story. That depends on us, 
as  directly  interested  parties,  but  also  on  our  friends 
worldwide. 
(spoke in French) 

Now,  I  should  like  to  turn  to  the  task  of 
introducing  the  draft  resolution.  I  am  speaking  as  the 
representative of the host country of the last summit of 
heads of State and Government of la Francophonie. In 
that capacity, it is an honour for me to take the floor on 
behalf  of  the  sponsors  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/61/L.7,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and 
la 
Francophonie”.  My  task  has  every  chance  of  being 
successful  as it is being carried out under the General 
Assembly  presidency  of 
individual  whose 
connection  with  the  French-speaking  world  is  well 
known. 
I  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the 

report 
Secretary-General 
contained 
in  document  A/61/256,  prepared  under 
agenda  item  108,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  and  other  organizations”. 
Section  J  of  the  report,  relating  to  the  International 
Organization of la Francophonie (OIF), does justice to 
the  wealth  and  intensity  of  the  links  established 
through 
the 
organization of countries sharing the French language. 

I would also like to pay tribute on this occasion to 
the  Secretary-General  of  OIF,  President Abdou  Diouf, 
the  International  Organization  of 
time  between 
this  Organization  and 
for 
the  quality  of 
the 
14 

06-58069 
cultures 
for  cultural  and 


for  his  dedication  and  his  constant  efforts  to  promote 
both  the  role  of  OIF  and  the  development  of  its 
relations with the United Nations. 

Mr.  Majoor  (Netherlands),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair. 
The  draft 
and  dialogue  between 

resolution  has  10  preambular 
paragraphs,  and  18  operative  paragraphs.  The 
preambular  part  recalls 
the  principles  on  which 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
International Organization of la Francophonie (OIF) is 
based.  It  also  reflects  the  importance  of  regional 
cooperation in multilateral relations, the establishment 
and  strengthening  of  democracy  and  the  rule  of  law, 
access to new technology in the service of sustainable 
linguistic 
development, 
diversity 
and 
civilizations. 

The  operative  part  reflects  the  positive  and 
constructive participation of the OIF in the work of the 
United  Nations  and  cooperation  between  the  two 
organizations  in  the  area  of  conflict  prevention  and 
other  areas  of  mutual  interest,  as  well  as  the  role 
played  by  the  OIF  in  international  conferences  held 
the  United  Nations.  The 
under 
operative  part  also  welcomes 
the  work  done  at 
Bucharest  at  the  eleventh  Summit  of  la  Francophonie 
on a subject of great relevance and pressing interest — 
namely, new technology in the service of education. It 
also  refers  to  cooperation  between  the  OIF  and  the 
United  Nations,  and  between 
the 
specialized  agencies  of  the  United  Nations  system, 
with  a  view  to  achieving  development  and  poverty 
eradication. 

In conclusion, the International Organization of la 
Francophonie, to which as of last month no fewer than 
68  States  and  Governments  belong  as  members  or 
observers, plans to make a greater contribution, within 
its mandate, to the work of the United  Nations  and to 
the  lofty  objectives  of  promoting  peace,  democracy, 
full 
equitable 
development  for  all.  These  are  some  of  the  reasons 
why it is my pleasure to extend an invitation to United 
Nations  Member  States  of  the  General  Assembly,  on 
behalf of the sponsors, to give their full support to draft 
resolution A/61/L.7. 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 

representative of Ukraine, who will speak on behalf of 
Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine (GUAM). 
the  auspices  of 
the  OIF  and 
for  human 
respect 
respect 
rights 
and 
A/61/PV.38
complement 
the  United  Nations  and 
one 
should 
Mr.  Khandogiy  (Ukraine):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak  today  on  behalf  of  the  GUAM  countries: 
Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. 

Over  the  past  few  years,  cooperation  between 
regional  organizations  and  the  United  Nations  has 
considerably expanded, strengthened and developed in 
a most constructive  way. The GUAM  countries  firmly 
believe 
regional 
that 
organizations 
another 
harmoniously, using their comparative advantages. 
We  are  confident  that  the  activities  of  regional 

organizations can strengthen and reinforce a variety of 
critically  important  objectives  of  the  United  Nations, 
such  as  conflict  resolution  and  the  maintenance  of 
peace  and  security,  promoting  democracy  and  human 
rights,  countering  terrorism  and  transnational  crime 
and supporting economic development. 

Allow  me  to  touch  upon  issues  of  particular 
importance  to  the  GUAM  countries  —  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  for 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE),  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Black  Sea  Economic 
Cooperation  Organization 
(BSEC),  and  emerging 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  GUAM 
itself. 
The Kyiv Declaration on establishing the GUAM 

Economic 
Organization 
Development, signed in May 2006, marked a new level 
in  the  GUAM  integration  process.  By  signing  this 
Declaration, 
the  Presidents  of  Georgia,  Ukraine, 
Azerbaijan and Moldova confirmed the desire of these 
States to promote democracy, stability and security, the 
rule  of  law,  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms, 
combating 
aggressive 
separatism,  extremism  and  transnational  organized 
crime,  the  deepening  of  European  integration  and  the 
achievement of sustainable development and the well-
being  of  their  peoples,  as  well  as  resolving  protracted 
conflicts. 
The  GUAM  countries  are  of  the  view  that 

is  a  very 
the 
peacekeeping 
partnership  of 
the  United  Nations  with  regional 
organizations,  including  the  settlement  of  conflicts, 
post-conflict  activities  and  peacebuilding.  In 
this 
regard,  we  underline 
to  enhance  such 
cooperation  in  terms  of  finding  solutions  to  the 
protracted  conflicts  in  the  territories  of  Georgia,  the 
Republic  of  Moldova  and  Azerbaijan;  these  have 
important  part  of 
for  Democracy 
international 
terrorism, 
the  need 
and 
06-58069 

15 
the 
their 
implications 
the  GUAM  area  and 
the  most  serious  obstacles 
A/61/PV.38 

evolved over the past 15 years. It is critically important 
that  the  international  community,  in  particular  the 
United  Nations  and  the  OSCE,  continue  to  take 
practical  steps  to  settle  these  conflicts,  which  are 
among 
to  stability, 
democracy and economic prosperity in our region. 

In  this  regard,  the  GUAM  member  States  are 
grateful to those States that supported the inclusion in 
the  agenda  of  the  sixty-first  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  of  a  new  item  entitled  “Protracted  conflicts 
in 
for 
international peace, security and development”. It was 
an  important  step  that  will  help  us  to  focus  the 
attention  of  the  international  community  on  the  need 
for more effective steps in order to achieve progress in 
the  settlement  of  conflicts  on 
territories  of 
Azerbaijan, Georgia and Moldova. 

We  call  for  the  implementation  of  Security 
Council resolutions and decisions of the OSCE on the 
conflicts  in  Nagorno-Karabakh,  in  Azerbaijan  and 
Abkhazia, in Georgia, as well as the for realization by 
the  Parties  concerned  of  a  plan  for  a  peaceful 
settlement of the conflict in South Ossetia in Georgia, 
offered  by  the  President  of  Georgia,  and  the  initiative 
by  the  President  of  Ukraine  on  the  Transdnistrian 
conflict 
through 
democracy. 

The  GUAM  countries  attach  great  importance  to 
the  strengthening  of  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and 
for  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe.  With  its  vast  geographical 
coverage, 
security, 
including the political, military, human, economic and 
environmental  dimensions,  and  a  unique  toolbox  of 
institutions,  operations  and  mechanisms,  the  OSCE 
provides  added  value  to  the  achievement  of  the  goals 
of the United Nations. 

Over the years, the OSCE and the United Nations 
have  developed  political  and  operational  coherence  in 
response  to  emerging  threats  to  security  and  stability. 
The  OSCE 
the 
implementation  of  United  Nations  Security  Council 
resolutions  in  the  area  of  terrorism  and  weapons  of 
mass  destruction.  Cooperation  is  ongoing  in  the  fight 
against  organized  crime,  illicit  arms  trade  and  human 
trafficking; 
spheres  of 
democratization,  strengthening  the  rule  of  law  and 
respect  for  human  rights.  We  also  welcome  the 
in  Moldova  on  a 
the  Organization 
synergies  exist 
comprehensive 
is  committed 
to  assisting 
settlement 
in 
the 
approach 
to 
in 

for 
and 
banking 
Economic 
development, 
concrete practical outcome of cooperation between the 
United Nations Economic Commission for Europe and 
the  OSCE  Coordinator 
and 
Environmental Activities, which has taken the form of 
joint  projects.  We  support  further  development  of 
cooperation between the United Nations and the OSCE 
in  the  areas  of  conflict  prevention,  crisis  management 
and  post-conflict  rehabilitation,  where  the  OSCE  has 
accumulated  unique  experience  and  expertise  through 
its specialized institutions and field presence. 

Let  me  now  turn  to  the  subject  of  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  BSEC.  The  GUAM 
countries  welcome  growing  cooperation,  both 
in 
quantity  and  quality,  among  the  member  States  of 
BSEC. In recent years, we have witnessed an increase 
in  and  a  greater  positive  contribution  of  BSEC 
activities to the strengthening of the economy, security 
and  stability  in  the  region.  The  BSEC  continues  to 
extend its efforts to strengthen regional cooperation in 
various  fields,  including  energy,  transport,  trade  and 
economic 
finance, 
communications,  environmental  protection,  among 
many others. 

Since the issues of energy security are among the 
most  important  for  Europe  today,  the  Black  Sea-
Caspian  region  is  of  special  significance  for  security 
and for the stable transportation of energy resources to 
Europe. The GUAM States are ready to take an active 
part in promoting energy projects within the framework 
of  the  BSEC.  We  are  also  convinced  that  the  BSEC 
should  provide  effective  support  to  the  efforts  of  the 
world  community  aimed  at  combating 
terrorism, 
resolving  the  protracted  conflicts  in  the  region  and 
combating 
to 
coordinate  BSEC 
corresponding 
programmes  supported  by  the  United  Nations,  the 
OSCE, the European Union and NATO. 

Better  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  regional  organizations  is  a  work  in  progress. 
Today,  we  have  significant  practical  experience  to 
build  upon.  With 
the  overall  goal  of  enhancing 
international  peace  and  security  and  ensuring  real 
impact  on  the  ground,  GUAM  and  its  member  States 
remain  committed  to  further  improving  cooperation 
with  the  United  Nations  and  regional  organizations  in 
the future. 
transborder  crime.  It 
activities  with 
is  necessary 
16 

06-58069 
item.  Our 
this  agenda 


The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 

representative  of  Papua  New  Guinea,  who  will  speak 
on behalf of the Pacific Islands Forum. 
Mr.  Aisi  (Papua  New  Guinea):  I  present  this 

statement  on  behalf  of  the  members  of  the  Pacific 
Islands  Forum  group  based  in  New  York:  Australia, 
Federated  States  of  Micronesia,  Fiji,  Nauru,  New 
Zealand,  Palau,  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands, 
Samoa,  Solomon  Islands,  Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu  and 
my own country, Papua New Guinea.  
At  the  outset,  I  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 

his  report  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  regional  and  other  organizations  (A/61/256  and 
Add.1).  My  intervention  is  focused  on  sub-item  (r)  of 
agenda  item  108,  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the Pacific Islands Forum”.  
The  theme  that  the  President  of  the  General 

Assembly  has  chosen  for 
the  sixty-first  session, 
“Implementing  a  global  partnership  for  development”, 
is  a  very  appropriate  one  in  the  context  of  the 
deliberations  on 
limited 
economic resource base and our remote location across 
the  Pacific  Ocean,  coupled  with  a  lack  of  technical 
expertise,  of  institutional  and  administrative  capacity 
and  of  the  financial  resources  needed  to  address  the 
many  multifaceted  challenges  in  the  economic,  social, 
environmental  and  related  fields,  make  it  imperative 
that we collaborate with the United Nations system and 
other development partners. 

The cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  has  gained  momentum  in 
recent years. However, there is room to strengthen our 
relations and to build on the progress made so far. That 
is  demonstrated  by  the  increased  interaction  and 
collaboration  among  the  United  Nations  Secretariat, 
the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  secretariat  and  other 
agencies  of  the  Council  of  Regional  Organizations  in 
the  Pacific,  such  as 
the  South  Pacific  Regional 
Environmental  Programme,  the  South  Pacific Applied 
Geoscience Commission, the Secretariat of the Pacific 
Community and the Forum Fisheries Agency. The Paris 
Declaration 
the 
overarching umbrella for the United Nations strategy in 
the  Pacific.  We  welcome  the  forthcoming  United 
Nations  strategy  for  the  Pacific  region  and  the  United 
Nations development assistance framework. 
that  connection,  we  encourage  continued 

regular  consultations  between  our  Forum’s  secretariat 
on  Aid  Effectiveness 
forms 
In 
A/61/PV.38
including 
implementing 
including  by 
and  the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  United  Nations 
participation  in  meetings  of  Pacific  Islands  Forum 
leaders,  with  a  view  to  fostering  closer  partnerships 
through  knowledge-sharing  and  cooperation  on  key 
strategic  areas  such  as  terrorism,  international  peace 
and security and trade. 

It  is  our  collective  desire  to  strengthen  those 
relations  in  our  need  for  a  partnership  to  address  the 
ever-growing  challenges  before  us, 
the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  by  2015; 
to  carry  out  our  sustainable 
development  agenda,  including  the  full  and  effective 
implementation  of  the  Mauritius  Strategy  for  Further 
Implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action 
and  of  the  Johannesburg  Plan  of  Implementation;  and 
to  contribute  positively  to  international  peace  and 
security, 
the  Global 
Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  and  by  addressing  the 
challenges relating to small arms and light weapons. 

At  the  forefront  of  the  partnership  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  are  the 
Organization’s 14 development agencies, including the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme,  UNICEF, 
the  United  Nations  Population  Fund, 
the  United 
Nations  Development  Fund  for  Women,  the  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs 
and  the  United  Nations  Environment  Programme.  We 
are  indebted  to  those  agencies  for  their  commitment 
and  service 
to  our  development 
challenges on a daily basis. 

Further  examples  of  collaboration  between  the 
United  Nations  system  and  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum 
are  reflected  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report.  These 
include the successful mission in Bougainville, thanks 
to 
in 
Bougainville and the Department of Political Affairs of 
the  United  Nations  Secretariat;  the  development  of 
joint  proposals  to  complement  the  activities  of  the 
Government  of  the  Solomon  Islands  and  the  Regional 
Assistance  Mission  to  the  Solomon  Islands;  the  vital 
role  of  the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on 
HIV/AIDS 
the  HIV/AIDS 
pandemic;  and  the  efforts  of  other  United  Nations 
agencies  in  undertaking  important  programmes  and 
initiatives in our region. 

the  activities 
enshrined in our Pacific Plan, which is the overarching 
the  United  Nations  Observer  Mission 
Such  programmes  complement 
fight  against 
in 
responding 
in 
the 
06-58069 

17 

the 
in 
agreed 
towards 
commitments 
internationally 
A/61/PV.38 

framework  for  collaboration  and  cooperation  among 
the Pacific Islands Forum countries. The Pacific Plan is 
geared 
security,  good  governance, 
economic  growth  and  sustainable  development  of  our 
region. 

As  equal  members  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
Pacific Islands Forum countries deserve  a fair hearing 
from the United Nations system, which is reflected by 
an  in-country  United  Nations  presence  and  by  the 
provision  of  quality  support  for  our  development 
efforts.  Certain  Pacific  nations,  such  as  the  Federated 
States  of  Micronesia,  Kiribati,  the  Marshall  Islands, 
Nauru, Palau, Tonga, Tuvalu and Vanuatu, have a very 
minimal  United  Nations  presence  on  the  ground  or 
none  at  all. That  makes  it  difficult  for  those  countries 
to receive the support needed to make progress towards 
the  achievement  of  the  MDGs  and  the  fulfilment  of 
other 
and 
obligations. 

Nevertheless,  we  are  grateful  for  the  Secretary-
General’s  decision  to  establish  a  United  Nations 
presence 
the 
Organization’s in-country presence in Solomon Islands, 
through  proactive  engagement  with  UNDP  and  other 
agencies.  We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  that 
important 
the  necessary 
formalities will be completed as soon as possible. 

Our people must see activities on the ground that 
give  practical  effect  to  the  Pacific  leaders’  vision  of  a 
its 
region 
that 
governance, 
its 
resources and the full observance of democratic values, 
as well as for its defence of human rights. Our people 
must  participate  in  activities  and  projects  that  provide 
them  with  economic,  social  and  political  security.  To 
that  end, 
international 
community  urgently  address  our  communications  and 
energy challenges and provide for alternative economic 
opportunities 
the 
sustainable management of scarce resources. 

The  undertaking  of  concrete  projects  and 
programmes  that  address  those  concerns  and  improve 
the  livelihood  of  the  people  is  a  litmus  test  for  the 
validity  of  such  partnerships.  We  must  sustainably 
manage  our  resources,  improve  decision-making  to 
achieve  results  and  avoid  creating  unnecessarily 
cumbersome  bureaucracies  that  have  little  impact  in 
the  quality  of 
sustainable  management  of 
is  respected  for 
the 
that  will  support  and  enhance 
those  countries  and 
initiative  and 
to  expand 
important 
trust 
that 
that 
it 
is 
the 
With  a  view 
to  strengthening 
terms  of  delivering  concrete  projects  in  our  island 
communities. 

the  ongoing 
collaboration  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Pacific  Islands  Forum,  we  will  present  a  draft 
resolution  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum”.  We  would 
very  much  appreciate  the  unanimous  support  of  all 
delegations,  expressed  through  the  adoption  of  the 
draft resolution. 
Mrs. Ferrari (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines): 

It  is  an  honour  to  speak,  on  behalf  of  the  Caribbean 
Community  (CARICOM),  in  this  debate  on  sub-item 
(e),  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Caribbean Community”, of agenda item 108. 

First, I would like to reiterate the appreciation of 
the  Caribbean  Community  for  the  role  played  by  the 
United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti during a 
difficult time for that country. CARICOM reiterates its 
call  upon  the  United  Nations  and  the  international 
community  to  turn  their  attention  to  assisting  Haiti  in 
its development efforts. 
CARICOM  continues  to  utilize  a  variety  of 

approaches 
the 
specialized  agencies  and  institutions  of  the  United 
the  development  needs  of 
Nations 
CARICOM  member  States.  These 
institutional 
arrangements  are  characterized  by  considerable 
flexibility  designed  to  enable  the  region  to  benefit 
maximally  from 
the  competences,  capacities  and 
comparative advantages of the United Nations system. 

CARICOM  member  States  continue  to  have 
access  to  the  technical,  training,  advisory,  operational 
and  financial  resources  provided  by  various  United 
Nations 
and 
subregional  groupings,  as  well  as  the  CARICOM 
secretariat  and  other  CARICOM  institutions  with 
region-wide mandates and responsibilities. 

The thematic conferences convened by the United 
Nations  system,  including  special  sessions  of  the 
General Assembly — for example, the United Nations 
Millennium  Summit,  the  follow-up  conference  on 
financing  for  development  and  the  special  session  on 
HIV/AIDS  —  have  also  been  central  forums  for  the 
the 
discussion  of 
formulation  of  policy 
the 
resources.  Those  mechanisms 
mobilization 
issues, 
recommendations  and 
critical  development 
interaction  with 
for  meaningful 
to  address 
individual 
countries 
agencies 
of 
to 
18 

06-58069 
the 
identified  by 
The  second  priority  area  was 


exemplify the coordination of effort needed to facilitate 
the convergence between the objectives, priorities and 
capacities  of  the  international  community  and  the 
critical  development  priorities 
the 
Caribbean Community. 

In  keeping  with  the  agreement  reached  between 
the  representatives  of  CARICOM  and  the  United 
Nations  system  when  they  met  here  in  New  York  in 
April 2004, the region sought the support of the United 
Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies  in  a  number  of 
priority areas. The first was assistance to facilitate the 
implementation  of  the  Caribbean  Single  Market  and 
Economy, in particular in the areas of infrastructure for 
a common capital market, the financial services sector 
and tourism; to develop national integration and public 
education programmes; and to strengthen CARICOM’s 
legal systems and institutions.  

further 
implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action 
for  the  Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island 
Developing States, particularly in the context of the 10-
year  review  conducted  in  Mauritius  in  January  2005 
and  its  follow-up.  Efforts  to  implement  resolution 
54/224, 
integrated 
management  approach  to  the  Caribbean  Sea  in  the 
context  of  sustainable  development,  constituted  the 
third priority area.  

The  fourth  area  was  increased  cooperation  on 
disaster  reduction  and  management,  including  flood-
hazard  management, 
hazard 
mapping  and  vulnerability  assessments.  The  fifth  area 
was support for the implementation of the Action Plan 
of  CARICOM’s  Regional  Task  Force  on  Crime  and 
Security.  The  sixth  area  was  a  continued  focus  on 
HIV/AIDS,  access  to  care  and  treatment  and  an 
integrated  multisectoral  approach 
to  prevention; 
increased  control  of  chronic  non-communicable 
diseases;  and  the  impact  of  social  inequity  on  human 
and social development within and between countries. 

The  Community  is  pleased  with  the  response  by 
the  relevant  United  Nations  agencies  to  these  critical 
areas  in  the  region’s  development  and  counts  on  the 
continuing support of the United Nations. 

The  issue  of  crime  and  security  is  also  of  key 
importance  to  the  Caribbean  Community.  The  use  of 
small  arms  and  light  weapons  in  illegal  criminal 
activities  throughout  the  Caribbean  clearly  proves  the 
strategic 
need 
for  a  concerted  and 
capacity-building, 
to  promote  an 
in  particular 
sustained 
A/61/PV.38
indicated 
in 
the 
time 
report, 
to  address 
the  growing 
the  potential 
to  undermine 
programme  over 
availability of illegal firearms. 

In addition to this, the region has been plagued by 
the  increase  in  the  illegal  cultivation,  production, 
extraction,  manufacturing  and  processing,  as  well  as 
trade  in  and  transhipment,  of  narcotic  drugs.  This, 
coupled  with  activities  associated  with  money 
laundering,  has 
the 
economies  of  our  countries.  The  initiatives  of  the 
United  Nations  Regional  Centre 
for  Peace, 
Disarmament  and  Development  in  Latin America  and 
the Caribbean and the United Nations Office on Drugs 
and  Crime  (UNODC),  working  in  partnership  with 
other  regional  and  international  bodies,  have  been 
critical for the region. Given the role played in the past 
by  these  agencies,  the  region  believes  that  the  closure 
of UNODC by end of this year will be detrimental. Our 
ministers  have  pleaded  for  its  retention,  and  the 
CARICOM  region  hopes  that  those  pleas  will  not  fall 
on  deaf  ears  and  that  the  United  Nations  will  review 
that plan. 

the  Economic 
As 
Commission  for  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean 
(ECLAC) continues to provide technical support to the 
countries  of  the  Caribbean.  CARICOM  looks  forward 
to  the  intensification  of  the  work  by  ECLAC,  in 
collaboration  with  the  CARICOM  secretariat,  the 
Caribbean  Development  Bank  and  other  regional 
agencies 
relevance  and 
importance to the economic and social development of 
the region, in supporting the CARICOM Single Market 
and  Economy,  in  strengthening  the  region’s  statistical 
base,  economic  forecasting  and  modelling  capabilities 
and  in  analysing  macroeconomic,  trade  and  sectoral 
policies. 

The  region  intends  to  enhance  its  level  of 
collaboration  with  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Trade  and  Development  in  2007  and  2008.  The 
CARICOM  secretariat  has  approached  that  agency  for 
support  for  its  development  agenda  and  is  making  the 
case  for  special  and  differential  treatment  for  small 
economies  in  the  context  of  the  Doha  development 
trade negotiations at the World Trade Organization, as 
well  as  in  the  areas  of  services,  investment,  and 
agriculture and non-agricultural issues. 

to 
The  Caribbean  Community 
collaborate with UNESCO and UNICEF. In this regard, 
it  is  anticipated  that  those  agencies  will  continue  to 
in  analysing 
issues  of 
continues 
06-58069 

19 
goals 
and 
in 
looks 
forward 
to 
CARICOM 
to  facilitate 
development 
to  countries 
technical  assistance 
A/61/PV.38 

provide  valuable  support  to  the  region,  particularly 
through 
the 
development and implementation of policies, standards 
and regulations and in the adoption of guidelines for a 
comprehensive  policy,  minimum  standards  and  a 
regulatory framework for early childhood development 
services. 

continued 
collaboration  with  the  United  Nations  Environment 
Programme,  which  has  provided  extensive  support  to 
the Caribbean region in addressing its environment and 
sustainable 
the 
implementation  of  both  the  Barbados  Plan  of  Action 
and the Mauritius international Strategy. In this regard, 
we  wish  to  acknowledge  the  strengthening  of  the  unit 
dealing  with  small  island  developing  States  in  the 
Regional  Office  for  Latin America  and  the  Caribbean 
through the provision of additional technical resources 
to assist the region, the consolidation of the Caribbean 
small  island  developing  States  programme  and  the 
provision  of  dedicated  resources 
its 
implementation  in  the  region.  We  believe  that  that 
programme,  which  was 
endorsed  by 
CARICOM ministers for the environment, can provide 
a  framework  which  can  be  used  as  the  basis  for  the 
development  of  a  comprehensive  environmental  and 
sustainable  development  programme  for  Caribbean 
small  island  developing  States.  It  can  also  provide  a 
vehicle to begin to pool resources in a complementary 
and comprehensive manner. 

Collaboration  with  the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  (FAO)  in  the  area 
of  food  security 
the  Italian 
Government’s  contribution  to  the  FAO Trust  Fund  for 
Food  Security.  Through 
the 
Community  has  been  in  a  position  to  upgrade  its 
Regional  Food  Security  Programme,  and  to  focus  on 
the  implementation  of  the  Jagdeo  Initiative  with 
respect to the transformation of the region’s agriculture 
sector.  This  has  assisted  each  Member  State 
in 
developing  its  own  medium-term  agricultural  sector 
framework  and  in  identifying  bankable  investment 
projects. 
The FAO also spearheaded, in collaboration with 

the 
for  Cooperation  on 
Inter-American 
Agriculture,  the  development  of  preventive  measures 
against  the  avian  flu,  and  a  three-year  project  to  that 
end has been established. 
this  collaboration, 
is  ongoing 
Institute 
recently 
through 

in 
the 
looks 
forward 
strategic  partnerships  with 
The  CARICOM  secretariat  and 

The  Caribbean  Community  welcomes  the  close 
working relationship that has been established between 
the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS and 
the  CARICOM-Pan-Caribbean  Partnership  against 
HIV/AIDS  in  the  implementation  of  regional  projects 
financed  by  the  World  Bank.  It  is  expected  that  this 
collaboration  will  continue  in  other  areas  related  to 
health.  The  region  also  looks  forward  to  developing 
similar 
relevant 
agencies,  including  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  as  it  seeks  to  address  the  issues  of  non-
communicable  diseases  such  as  diabetes,  obesity  and 
hypertension,  areas  which  CARICOM  heads  of 
Government  have  agreed  should  be  addressed  as  a 
matter of urgency. 
In  conclusion,  the  Caribbean  Community  has 

benefited  immensely  over  the  years  from  meaningful 
cooperation  and  collaboration  with  United  Nations 
system  agencies.  CARICOM 
to 
continued  close  collaboration  with  the  United  Nations 
and  its  specialized  agencies  in  the  promotion  and 
implementation  of  the  development  efforts  of  our 
region. 

the  United 
Nations  Department  of  Political  Affairs  have  been  in 
consultations  on  arrangements  for  the  proposed  fourth 
general meeting between representatives of CARICOM 
and  its  associated  institutions  and  the  United  Nations 
and 
agencies.  The  CARICOM 
secretariat looks forward to hosting this meeting early 
in 2007. 

We  will  be  introducing  a  draft  resolution  in  the 
near  future  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the Caribbean Community”, and we would 
look  for  support  for  it  from  all  Member  States  of  the 
United Nations. 

The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Belgium, who will speak on behalf of 
the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe. 
Mr. Verbeke (Belgium): Belgium, in its capacity 

as Chairman-in-Office of the Organization for Security 
and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), highly values the 
cooperation between the United Nations and the OSCE. 

In  January  2006,  my  Minister,  Mr.  Karel  De 
Gucht, briefed the Security Council on the programme 
of  action  of  the  Belgian  chairmanship.  He  reiterated 
specialized 
its 
20 

06-58069 
and 
between 
cooperation 


our  commitment  to  close  cooperation  during  his 
participation  last  September  in  the  Security  Council 
the  United 
debate  entitled  “Cooperation  between 
Nations 
regional  organizations 
and  other 
intergovernmental  bodies  in  maintaining  international 
peace and security” (see S/PV.5529). 

The  secretariats  of  the  two  organizations  had 
fruitful staff level meetings in May of this year and the 
OSCE  participated  actively  in  the  seventh  high-level 
meeting  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  regional 
organizations. Several high-level representatives of the 
United  Nations  attended  meetings  and  seminars 
organized by the OSCE, thereby showing the depth of 
contacts 
and 
two 
organizations. 

On 16 March 2006, the Permanent Council of the 
OSCE  formally  adopted  a  declaration  on  cooperation 
with the United Nations. In this declaration, the OSCE 
affirmed its readiness to continue playing its role as a 
regional arrangement under Chapter VIII of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular,  in  the  context  of 
the  framework  for  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  regional  organizations  as  enhanced  under 
the Outcome Document of the 2005 World Summit and 
Security  Council  resolution  1631  (2005). The  Council 
further called on the Secretary-General, in consultation 
with 
the  Permanent 
Council,  as  appropriate,  to  take  steps  to  further 
strengthen cooperation in this regard. 

close 
cooperation,  a  General  Assembly  resolution  on  the 
relationship between the United Nations and the OSCE 
would  be  more  than  welcome.  It  was  not  possible, 
however,  for  the  General  Assembly  to  adopt  such  a 
resolution  at  its  fifty-ninth  session,  nor  at  its  sixtieth 
session. Belgium, as Chairman-in-Office, will continue 
to  work  towards  such  a  resolution  during  the  current 
session of the General Assembly. 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 

representative  of Azerbaijan,  who  will  be  speaking  on 
behalf  of  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference, 
as  well  as  on  behalf  of  the  Economic  Cooperation 
Organization. 
Mr. Mammadov (Azerbaijan): Today, I have the 

honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  two  organizations, 
namely,  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference 
(OIC)  and  the  Economic  Cooperation  Organization 
the  Chairman-in-Office  and 
further  underpin 
In  order 
to 
this 
the 
A/61/PV.38
leadership  role 
I  am  currently 
the  Chairman  of  both 
(ECO). 
organizations.  

In  my  capacity  as  the  current  Chairman  of  the 
OIC group at the United Nations, it is a great honour to 
address  the  General  Assembly  on  the  agenda  item 
entitled  “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference”.  I  would 
like to convey the greetings of the Secretary General of 
the OIC and to wish the Assembly every success in its 
work  at  the  sixty-first  session.  I  would  also  like  to 
extend my sincere gratitude to the President and to her 
colleagues  in  the  Bureau  for  steering  the  work  of  the 
Assembly  so  successfully.  We  are  confident  that  the 
session will be very ably directed under her leadership. 

We  have  read  with  interest  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  contained  in  document A/61/256.  It 
contains  informative  details  pertaining  to  the  ongoing 
cooperation  between  our  two  organizations  during  the 
period under review. I wish to take this opportunity to 
express  our  sincere  thanks  and  appreciation  to  the 
Secretary-General  for  this  important  and  valuable 
report  and  for  his 
in  enhancing 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
and  other  organizations  in  areas  of  common  concern. 
We would also like to commend the Secretariat for its 
part  in  the  preparation  of  the  report,  which  also 
includes contributions from other bodies of the United 
Nations system. 

As  in  previous  sessions,  the  Secretary-General’s 
report  is  devoted  to  the  status  of  implementation  of 
programmes  and  activities 
in  priority  areas  of 
cooperation jointly developed by our two organizations 
and  their  respective  agencies  and  bodies  during  the 
period under review. As the report reflects, the progress 
of  implementation  is  encouraging.  On  behalf  of  the 
general  secretariat  of  the  OIC  and  its  specialized 
institutions,  I  would  like  to  reassure  the  General 
Assembly  that  we  remain  dedicated  to  the  joint  tasks 
we are pursuing. 

In  my  capacity  as  the  current  Chairman  of  the 
OIC  Group  at  the  United  Nations,  I  would  like  to 
inform  members 
that  a  draft  resolution  entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference”  has  been 
distributed  among  the  United  Nations  Membership. 
Next week, we will hold informal consultations on the 
text.  Today,  I  would  like  to  draw  the  attention  of  the 
06-58069 

21 

In 
that 
close 
to  maintain 
A/61/PV.38 

Assembly  to  two  particularly  significant  operative 
paragraphs in the text. 

First, the draft resolution highlights the efforts of 
the OIC Secretary General in strengthening the role of 
the  organization  in  conflict  prevention,  confidence-
building,  peacekeeping,  conflict  resolution  and  post-
conflict  rehabilitation  in  member  States  as  well  as  in 
conflict  situations  involving  Muslim  communities.  In 
that regard, we would like to affirm that the Secretary 
General of the OIC will continue to play an active role 
in  these  areas  in  our  common  search  for  solutions  to 
these important global problems. 
Secondly, our two organizations are requested to 

continue 
and  multifaceted 
cooperation  in  conflict  prevention,  conflict  resolution 
and  post-conflict  peacebuilding. 
regard, 
operative  paragraph  2  of  the  OIC  draft  resolution 
encourages  the  United  Nations  system,  its  funds  and 
programmes,  and  the  specialized  agencies  to  continue 
to expand their cooperation with the subsidiary organs 
and  specialized  and  affiliated  institutions  of  the  OIC, 
particularly  in  the  implementation  of  its  10-year 
Programme of Action. 

the 
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  reviews  the 
most  prominent  challenges  facing  the  Muslim  world 
today,  such  as  combating  terrorism,  good  governance, 
human rights, poverty  alleviation in Africa  and higher 
education,  science  and  technology. The  Programme  of 
Action  also  includes  ways  and  means  of  addressing 
these  global  issues  objectively  and  realistically,  in 
order 
to  serve  as  a  practicable  and  workable 
programme for all OIC member States. 

In  this  regard,  with  the  development  of  the Ten-
Year  Programme  of  Action,  we  look  forward  in  the 
future  to  further  strengthened,  better  coordinated  and 
mutually  cooperative  interaction  with  the  specialized 
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations 
system in their respective areas of interest. 

I shall conclude my statement on the same note of 
hope and expectation, as I have done in past years, for 
future cooperation between our two organizations in all 
areas  of  common  concern  and  in  the  best  interests  of 
our  member  States. We  appreciate  the  fact  that,  in  his 
report, the Secretary-General highlighted these aspects 
of the ongoing cooperation between the United Nations 
and  the  OIC.  The  levels  of  cooperation  between  the 
two bodies are thus duly described. 
The  Ten-Year  Programme  of  Action  of 
As 
the 
the  United  Nations  and 
the  current  Chairman  of 

Islamic 
Conference  of  Foreign  Ministers,  Azerbaijan  stands 
ready  to  deepen  the  existing  levels  of  cooperation 
between the two organs on regional,  as  well as global 
matters of concern. We pledge to the General Assembly 
the  full  and  continuous  cooperation  and  support  of 
Azerbaijan and the OIC. 
Azerbaijan  attaches  great  value  to  cooperation 

between 
the  Economic 
Cooperation  Organization  (ECO).  Indeed,  the  ECO 
region has a vast potential and comparative advantages 
in  a  number  of  areas,  such  as  human  and  natural 
resources  and  in  scientific  and  industrial  capacity, 
among  others.  The  ECO  is  ready  to  engage  in 
constructive  dialogue  with  the  United  Nations  system 
and other relevant stakeholders on how to explore and 
utilize these resources. 

Blessed with these advantages, we are committed 
to  reinforcing  our  efforts  to  turn  the  ECO  into  a 
demand-driven  organization,  with  tangible  economic 
results that would benefit member States and the region 
as  a  whole.  In  our  view,  in  order  to  realize  untapped 
potential  and  achieve  tangible  results,  we  should 
pursue cooperation in such priority fields as transport, 
trade, energy, agriculture, tourism and information and 
communication technologies. I would like to call upon 
the  international  community  to  support  the  efforts  of 
the ECO in this regard. 

I  would  also  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  that 
Azerbaijan, in its capacity as Chairman of the ECO for 
the current year, is pleased to submit the agreed text of 
a  draft  resolution  (A/61/L.8)  on  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Economic  Cooperation 
Organization,  which  we  believe  will  be  adopted  by 
consensus. 

In  my  national  capacity,  I  would  like  to  say  that 
Azerbaijan attaches great importance to its cooperation 
with  a  number  of  regional  organizations  and  the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
(OSCE).  This  year,  close  cooperation  continued 
between the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime 
and  the  OSCE.  Joint  conferences,  seminars  and  other 
activities  were 
projects  were 
implemented.  It  is  important  that  such  measures  and 
projects  be  reflected  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General. 
This  year  the  preparation  for  an  environmental 

operation to be conducted in the fire-affected occupied 
organized 
and 
22 

06-58069 
the 
One 
issue  related 


territories  of Azerbaijan  can  be  pointed  out  as  one  of 
the important areas of cooperation between the United 
Nations  and  the  OSCE.  In  accordance  with  resolution 
60/285,  as  an  initial  stage  of  the  environmental 
operation,  an  assessment  mission  was  conducted  by  a 
group of international experts, led by the OSCE, in the 
fire-affected  territories  of Azerbaijan  in  early  October 
of this year. The objective of the mission was to assess 
the  short-  and  long-term  damage  inflicted  on  those 
territories by the fires and to prepare recommendations 
for the forthcoming environmental operation. The close 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  Environment 
Programme  and  the  Economic  and  Environmental 
Subcommittee  of  the  Permanent  Council  of  the  OSCE 
in the preparation of the assessment mission should be 
especially highlighted. 

to  cooperation 
important 
between the United Nations and the OSCE is the fight 
against religious intolerance and discrimination. This is 
particularly  critical 
light  of  anti-Islamic 
the 
in 
around 
manifestations 
the  world.  The  OSCE 
issue  of  combating  Islamophobia 
approaches 
through 
the  prism  of  negative  manifestations  of 
discrimination and intolerance against all religions. We 
believe  that  coordination and  cooperation  between  the 
relevant bodies of the United Nations and the OSCE in 
this area should be strengthened. 
The Council of Europe is another organization of 

which Azerbaijan is a member, and we also attach great 
importance  to  our  cooperation  with  this  organization. 
Considering  the  fact  that  conflict  resolution  is  not 
within 
the  Council  of  Europe, 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Council of Europe is limited to conflict prevention. In 
this  regard,  we  propose  that  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe  in  the  area 
of  conflict  resolution  be  maintained  in  fields  such  as 
the  protection  of  human 
rights,  humanitarian, 
environmental  and  social  issues,  as  well  as  early 
prevention 
negative 
consequences of conflicts. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  assure  the  Assembly  that 
Azerbaijan  will  do  its  best  to  enhance  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  relevant  regional 
organizations. 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 

representative  of  Guinea-Bissau,  who  will  speak  on 
the  mandate  of 
and 
elimination 
of 
the 
A/61/PV.38
behalf  of  the  Community  of  Portuguese-Speaking 
Countries. 
Mr.  Cabral  (Guinea-Bissau)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  United  Nations  Charter,  in  particular  its  Chapter 
VIII,  acknowledges  the  role  of  regional  organizations. 
This  role  has  grown  to  a  level  of  importance  never 
before  equalled  and  is  becoming  even  greater,  given 
the regional nature of most conflicts. This confers upon 
regional  organizations  a  responsibility  that  they  must 
fully assume. 
This  is  true,  for  example,  of  the  Economic 

Community  of  West  African  States  (ECOWAS).  The 
role  of  ECOWAS  has  frequently  been  commended  by 
the  international  community,  notably  by  the  Security 
Council. 

It  is  my  honour  today  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries (CPLP), 
over  which  my  country  has  presided  since  last  July. 
The  CPLP  is  very  pleased  about  the  relationship  that 
exists  between  the  United  Nations  Secretariat  and  our 
organization. This cooperation has grown to include an 
ever-larger number of activities. 

Since  the  CPLP  obtained  observer  status,  this 
cooperation  has  become  stronger  and  has  extended, 
inter alia, to the specialized agencies. In the context of 
ongoing  training,  for  example,  the  United  Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development has decided to 
hold  seminars  with  a  view  to  ensuring  that  young 
people, especially those coming from African countries 
such  as  ours,  are  familiarized  with  the  workings  of 
international 
interests  of  our 
respective  countries, 
follow  ongoing 
negotiations at the world level. 

But  that  cooperation  is  not  limited  to  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and  Development.  The 
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations (FAO) has also recently done similar things; in 
granting  assistance  mainly 
to  Portuguese-speaking 
African  countries,  the  FAO  has  decided  to  provide 
assistance so that we are in a better position and have 
better  tools  to  manage  the  soil  and  land,  for  example, 
and to adopt land-use regimes that are consistent with 
our country’s needs. 

In  addition,  we  recently had  an opportunity with 
UNESCO,  to  commemorate  Portuguese-language  Day 
in  the  context  of  the  struggle  we  are  carrying  out  to 
ensure  that  multilingualism  is  a  reality,  in  particular 
the 
to  better 
trade  and, 
in 
06-58069 

23 
to 
A/61/PV.38 

within  the  United  Nations  system.  The  International 
Labour  Organization  is  also  helping  us  to  combat  the 
exploitation of young people — in particular children. 
Here, speaking on behalf of the countries I represent in 
this forum, I must emphasize how happy I am about the 
exemplary nature of our cooperation.  

The role of regional organizations, as just noted, 
is  of  vital  importance,  bearing  in  mind  that  conflicts 
are most often of a regional nature. As far as those of 
us  within  the  CPLP  are  concerned,  we  also  hope  to 
make  our  contribution 
the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. 

In  short,  all  conflicts,  whether  localized  within 
our  countries  or  within  our  regions,  call  upon  our 
attention in many ways. We have decided, therefore, to 
ensure that our cooperation with the Secretariat, among 
others, develops further. In that context, the Executive 
Secretary  of  the  Community  of  Portuguese-Speaking 
Countries  has  consistently  sought  to  ensure  that  that 
cooperation is active and, if possible, exemplary. 
Again,  I  wish  to  welcome  the  report  of  the 

Secretary-General. 
the 
importance of cooperation between the United Nations 
Secretariat,  United  Nations  agencies  and  programmes 
and  regional  organizations  and  others.  The  statements 
we have heard this morning confirm our belief that it is 
necessary  to  see  such  cooperation  develop  further,  in 
order to better respond to the aspirations of the peoples 
we 
the 
enormous  set  of  tasks  that  is  the  responsibility  of  the 
United  Nations.  However,  we,  the  Member  States, 
represent the United Nations and we are, therefore, the 
United Nations and share that responsibility. I can say 
that  we  are  willing  to  share  that  responsibility  and  to 
assume it fully. 

the 
Community  of  Portuguese-Speaking  Countries,  I  must 
say  how  happy  I  am  that  our  cooperation  is  so 
exemplary,  and  I  wish  to  express  the  hope  that  our 
cooperation will grow ever stronger and extend to new 
areas  that  are  even  more  useful  to  our  respective 
countries. 
Mr.  Gross  (Switzerland):  Please  let  me  first 

express  my  gratitude 
the  Government  of 
Switzerland,  which  allowed  me  to  speak  in  its  place 
without having to speak in its name. I have the honour 
to address you as a Swiss member of parliament and a 
member  of  the  Swiss  delegation  in  the  Parliamentary 
speaking  on  behalf  of 
to  address  appropriately 
represent  and 
Once  again, 
emphasizes 
Its 
content 

the  second 
introductory  reference 
Assembly of the Council of Europe. I am proud to do 
this  for 
time  because,  after  quietly 
following  the  General  Assembly’s  deliberations  from 
the  sidelines  up  in  the  gallery  ten  years  ago,  I  then 
returned  home  to  launch  the  idea  of  a  citizens’ 
initiative  in  favour  of  Switzerland  joining  the  United 
Nations  and  thus  correcting  the  negative  vote  on  the 
matter  we  had  20  years  ago.  This  political  project,  as 
you know, turned out to be successful in 2002. 

As you know, the United Nations and the Council 
of  Europe  were  born  following  the  same  catastrophic 
experiences  and  tried  to  draw  the  same  lessons  from 
them. They each joined the national forces to establish 
intergovernmental  political  bodies  in  order  to  prevent 
similar disasters from happening again. The Council of 
Europe’s  ten  founding  States  —  Turkey  was  one  of 
them,  Switzerland  then  again  needed  a  little  bit  more 
time  —  followed  the  founders  of  the  United  Nations 
four  years  later.  But  they  took  from  the  beginning  the 
common 
to  our  respective 
founding  charters  more  seriously.  The  Council  of 
Europe  translated  the  reference  “We  the  Peoples”  not 
only 
into  a  governmental  body  composed  of 
ambassadors  representing  Governments  —  the  so-
called  Committee  of  Ministers  —  but  also  a 
Parliamentary  Assembly  of  members  of  the  national 
parliaments, 
elected 
representatives  of  the  peoples  in  the  supranational 
political endeavours. 

The political will of the pioneers of the European 
Integration process was at that time also strong enough 
to  create  the  European  Court  for  Human  Rights  in 
Strasbourg,  where,  since  1959,  every  citizen  of  a 
Council  of  Europe  member  State  —  today  nearly  800 
million  people  in  soon  to  be  47  States  —  can  submit 
complaints against the rulings of their highest national 
courts  for  violations  of  the  European  Convention  on 
Human Rights. 

The  decisions  of  the  Court  have  to  be  respected 
by the authorities of every State — the unique creation 
of a supranational authority accessible by hundreds of 
millions  of  people.  It  showed  how  courageous  the 
European pioneers were at that time, and how far they 
were  ready  to  go  in  order  to  overcome  the  atrocities 
committed by nation States not yet civilized by human 
rights and international law.  

In the context of the 2005 summit of the Council 
of  Europe,  one  of  the  foreign  ministers  described  the 
associating 
directly 
thus 
to 
24 

06-58069 


Parliamentary  Assembly  as  “the  true  engine  of  the 
Council  of  Europe”.  The  Prime  Minister  of 
Luxembourg  showed  in  his  report  this  spring  that  it 
was  the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the  Council  of 
Europe  that  was,  much  more  than  others  bodies,  the 
true  defender  of  the  basic  values,  as  well  as  more 
courageous  and  innovative  than  other  bodies  of  the 
institution. Speaking about a report on the institutional 
balance of the Council of Europe, which was discussed 
just two weeks ago in our week-long autumn session in 
Strasbourg,  our  Austrian  colleague,  Peter  Schieder, 
who is also present here today, noted that it is the first 
embodiment of the progress of the democratic spirit in 
international relations. 

I  would  like  to  underline  that  the  Parliamentary 
Assembly  of  the  Council  of  Europe  is  not  simply  an 
annex  to  a  primarily  governmental  organization  that 
meets only a few days in a year, listens to officials and 
decides on resolutions. The Parliamentary Assembly of 
the  Council  of  Europe  is  a  genuinely  transnational 
parliament  that  meets  four  times  a  year  for  a  whole 
week  and  works  between  sessions  in  ten  committees 
that  meet  about  six  times  in  addition  to  the  sessional 
and 
meetings 
and 
recommendations 
is 
obliged to defer and respond. This has created not only 
more than 200 conventions — a genuine pan-European 
space  with  a  common  understanding  of  human  rights, 
democracy and the rule of law — but also a genuinely 
transnational  parliamentary  discourse,  exchange  and 
learning  process 
to  bring 
legitimacy  to  transnational  law  and  policy-making  but 
also 
legislation  and 
governmental accountability. 

You are certainly aware why I tried to show you 
the usefulness and the great merits of the Parliamentary 
Assembly of the Council of Europe, the parliamentary 
assembly  of  an  international  organization  that  was 
created to represent the peoples. I would like to suggest 
further  consideration  of  lessons  we  could  learn  from 
this  successful  pan-European  experience,  so  as  to 
introduce  an  elaborated  and  robust  parliamentary 
dimension  to  the  United  Nations  —  a  parliamentary 
dimension  that  goes  beyond  the  respective  bodies  and 
other international organizations. 

It  would  also  be  worthwhile  to  elaborate  a 
parliamentary  dimension  that  is  integrated  into  the 
structures of the United Nations, interacts on the basis 
of  specially  designed  procedures  with  the  Secretary-
to  whose 
the  Committee  of  Ministers 
to  directly  shape  national 
is  able  not  only 
resolutions 
that 
A/61/PV.38
rather 
critical 
thinking 
frankness, 
the  Security  Council  and 
General, 
the  General 
Assembly, and which might provide a legitimacy only 
elected members of parliament may provide. 
A  parliamentary  dimension  that  allows  for  the 

openness, 
and 
straightforwardness  which  characterize  parliamentary 
debates  on  global  issues  and  concerns  would  be 
invaluable,  and  would  produce  greater  innovation  and 
creativity than other forms of debate. Such a dimension 
demonstrates  what  Pericles  recognized  2,500  years 
ago, namely, that a tough debate is the most important 
precondition for making a wise decision. 

Finally,  the  ideal  deliberative  body  would  also 
include  a  parliamentary  dimension  which  would 
provide  the  basis  for  successfully  countering  the 
criticism  that  Governments  and  administrations  prefer 
to  work  with  non-governmental  organizations  and 
corporations, 
than  democratically  elected 
representatives at home. 

There  are  many  different  ways  to  start  a  process 
to  implement  a  parliamentary  dimension  within  the 
United  Nations.  For  example,  on  the  basis  of  several 
meetings  and  existing  reports,  the  United  Nations 
could  annually  address  transnational  parliamentary 
bodies in various regions around the world, such as the 
Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the  Council  of  Europe. 
Doing  so  would  stimulate  the  creation  of  such  bodies 
as  we  know  already  exist  in  Latin America, Asia  and 
Africa.  Incidentally,  the  Organization  for  Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development  (OECD)  is  already 
taking such steps with the Parliamentary Assembly and 
with members of parliament from our observer States. 
Japan,  Mexico  and  Canada  are  participating  regularly 
in these parliamentary screening efforts by the OECD. 

The General Assembly could also agree to create 
a sister chamber composed of delegates — perhaps not 
directly  elected  among  parliamentarians  from  all 
Member  States  since  such  a  body  would  quickly 
become 
transnational 
parliamentary bodies of the major regions of the world, 
for  example,  the  parliamentary  assemblies  of  the 
Council  of  Europe,  Latin  America,  Africa  and  Asia. 
The United Nations would then undertake proceedings 
to  create  duties  and  obligations  for  all  its  bodies  to 
cooperate  with  a  new  United  Nations  parliamentary 
chamber. 
I  am  of  course  aware  that  such  changes  require 

great political will, including the will of Governments 
large  — 
too 
from 
the 
06-58069 

25 

in 
learning  only 
time-consuming, 
share  power  with  parliamentarians  on 
A/61/PV.38 

to 
the 
transnational  level.  If  this  will  does  not  exist,  the 
hegemony  of  Governments  on  the  transnational  level 
would  continue  to  undermine  the  power  of  national 
democracy  and  national  parliaments.  Historically,  this 
kind  of  will  arose  only  after  catastrophes  and  only  in 
order to prevent new ones from emerging.  
Today  we  cannot  grant  ourselves  the  dubious 

privilege  of 
the  context  of 
catastrophes. For this reason, I wish us all the strength 
to  learn  and  to  reform  power  structures  without  the 
need  to  be  pushed  to  do  so  by  a  new  global 
catastrophe.  While  such  an  approach  might  be  much 
more  challenging  and 
its  great 
advantage would be that nearly all of us would be able 
to  participate  actively  in  a  reform  that  is  so  much 
needed  for  the  sake  of  this  unique  world  and  of 
humanity. 
Mr.  Abdalhaleem  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 

would  like  to  welcome  and  thank  the  heads  of  the 
regional organizations who are in New York today.  

First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  refer  to  one  passage 
from Chapter VIII of the Charter which was adopted by 
the founding fathers of this Organization, as follows: 

“Nothing  in  the  present  Charter  precludes 

the  existence  of 
regional  arrangements  or 
agencies for dealing with such matters relating to 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and 
security  as  are  appropriate  for  regional  action, 
provided that such arrangements or agencies and 
their  activities  are  consistent  with  the  Purposes 
and Principles of the United Nations.” 

I  would  also  like  to  recall  the  World  Summit 
Outcome,  which  was  adopted  by  heads  of  State  or 
Government  at  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of  the 
General Assembly held in this Hall in September 2005. 
That  document 
importance  of 
multilateralism  in  confronting  the  challenges  of  our 
time.  It  also  noted  the  increasing  role  played  by 
regional  organizations  in  terms  of  international  peace 
and  security,  pursuant  to  Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter, 
which  requires  the  promotion  of  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and 
regional  organizations. 
Addressing  issues  of  peace  and  security  is  a  joint 
responsibility  of  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
organizations.  Because  of  their  direct  links  and  their 
geographical  proximity  and  cultural  and 
social 
characteristics  held  in  common  with  States  that  suffer 
reaffirmed 
the 
for 
the 
the 
institutions  and 
the  hierarchy  of 
regional  organizations 
importance  of  developing  or 
from  conflict,  regional  organizations  have  shown  that 
they can find common ground and political agreement 
through  dialogue.  I  would  recall,  for  example,  the 
experience  acquired  by  the  African  Union  and  the 
Economic  Community  of  West African  States.  Herein 
lies 
reviving 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
organizations  pursuant  to  agreements  that  take  into 
account 
the 
complementarity and coordination of roles.  

Among  the  most  positive  recent  practices  we 
have seen in the context of the reform process are the 
periodic  meetings  between  the  Secretary-General  and 
regional organizations, an annual event held in parallel 
Security  Council’s  meeting  with 
with 
representatives  of 
the 
purpose  of  studying  all  aspects  of  cooperation, 
including cooperation between the United Nations and 
regional organizations.  

Within  the  context  of  the  relationship  among 
these various mechanisms and coordinating structures, 
the  United  Nations  must  now  set  its  priorities,  first 
among  which  is  the  promotion  of  the  capacity  of 
regional  organizations  and,  particularly,  the  African 
organizations, in peacebuilding and peacekeeping.  

We  are  not  talking  about  regional  organizations 
that have significant resources and capabilities at their 
disposal, such as NATO, the Organization of American 
States  and  the  European  Union.  Rather,  the  African 
Union  possesses  young  institutions,  such  as  its  Peace 
and  Security  Council,  the  development  of  whose 
capacities  and  resources  should  be  a  priority.  Trust 
needs  to  be  built  among  these  various  institutions  so 
that they can play their proper regional role in building 
and keeping peace in Africa, a continent which suffers 
from many conflicts and civil wars. 

The second priority of the United Nations in this 
context  is  the  promotion  of  dialogue  and  coordination 
to avoid shortcomings, bridge gaps and address urgent 
matters.  That 
requires  urgent  action,  enormous 
resources, humanitarian intervention in some conflicts, 
and  financial,  technical  and  logistical  support.  The 
regional  role  should  be  complemented,  not  competed 
with.  We  support  all  of  these  practical  relationships 
and,  in  keeping  with  Chapter  VIII,  Article  52,  of  the 
Charter,  “The  Security  Council  shall  encourage  the 
development  of  pacific  settlement  of  local  disputes 
through such regional arrangements”. 
26 

06-58069 
for 
into 
of 
they 
account 
Thirdly, 
regional 
activities 
demobilization 
financial  support 
organizations  when 
disarmament, 
activities  which  need 



training  and 
exchange of expertise on the ground is very important; 
take 
such 
should 
the 
peacekeeping  experience 
the  United  Nations  has 
acquired.  That  support  should  build  capacity  in  the 
and 
areas 
reintegration, 
significant 
resources and capacity. 

Fourthly, it is crucial to have special support for 
proactive monitoring and early warning systems for the 
prevention  of  conflicts  or  anything  that  endangers 
international  peace and security within the specialized 
roles of regional organizations.  
These organizations have to play a greater role in 

enshrining 
these  principles  of  coexistence  and 
collective  security.  The  signing  on  9  January  2006  of 
the  Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement  between  the 
Sudan  and  the  Sudan  People’s  Liberation  Army  is 
proof  of  the  peacebuilding  capacity  and  effectiveness 
of 
receive 
international  support,  particularly  from  the  United 
Nations, donor nations and influential partners.  
The  signing  of  the  Darfur  Peace  Agreement  is 

further proof of the capacity of African States to build 
peace.  Clearly,  the  party  that  achieved  the  Peace 
Agreement — and that supported it when it was just a 
dream  — 
its 
implementation,  more  so  than  any  other  party  to  the 
Agreement,  particularly  if  it  receives  proper  support 
within the context of international cooperation. 
Mr.  Mansour  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  After 

sixty-one years of invaluable experience in the United 
Nations  system,  many  feel  that  regional  arrangements 
play  a  crucial  role  in  the  harmonization  of  nations 
around the globe and in giving shape to the provisions 
of the Charter of the United Nations and the decisions 
of  its  entities.  Therefore,  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  system  and  regional  organizations 
could  lead  to  greater  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of 
those  arrangements 
they 
envisaged. 

There is no doubt that any endeavour on the part 
of  the  United  Nations  to  identify  and  remove  barriers 
to  cooperation  will  contribute  to  ensuring  that  this 
body will meet the challenges it faces. In that context, I 
would 
to  make  several  points  concerning 
cooperation between the United Nations system and the 
the  best  position 
in  achieving 
the  goals 
to  ensure 
is 
in 
like 
A/61/PV.38
for 
held 
the  entry 
of  ECO, 
into  force  of 
the  ECO  Fund 
The  establishment  of 
Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO), which was 
granted observer status to the United Nations in 1993.  

The  Economic  Cooperation  Organization,  whose 
membership includes 10 countries in Central, Southern 
and Western Asia with a combined population of more 
than 400 million people, has indeed entered a new era 
and  is  flourishing,  as  it  develops  new  initiatives  and 
programmes in the economic, social and environmental 
fields. 
the  ECO  Trade  and 

the 
Development  Bank, 
Framework  Agreement  on  Transit  Transportation,  the 
operationalization  of 
the 
Reconstruction  of  Afghanistan  and  the  reform  in  the 
internal  structure  of  ECO  are  among 
the  most 
important and recent developments in the organization. 
The  signing  of  the  ECO  Trade  Agreement  by  the 
member  States  and  its  enforcement  hopefully  by  the 
end of December 2006 will, it is hoped, make the year 
2006 a turning point in the history of the organization. 
The  Ministerial  Meeting 
on 
26 September 2006 here in New York on the sidelines 
of  the  United  Nations  General  Assembly,  placed 
emphasis  on 
the  cooperation 
between ECO and the United Nations system. 
Fortunately,  ECO  member  States  have  prepared 

themselves  for  such  cooperation  by  making 
the 
decisions needed to strengthen relations between ECO 
and other regional and international organizations. 
Recently,  the  Council  of  Ministers  adopted  the 

the 
framework  of 
enhancement  of  ECO  external  relations.  In  addition, 
the  Department  of  Human  Resources  and  Sustainable 
Development  was  recently  established  in  the  ECO 
Secretariat. That  measure  is  another  step  to  follow  up 
on ECO-United Nations cooperation, particularly in the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs) in the region. 
Implementation  of  the  recommendations  of  the 

United  Nations  Secretary-General 
in 
document  A/61/256  is  crucial  for  the  achievement  of 
ECO  projects  and  programmes.  In  that  document,  the 
Secretary-General 
various 
specialized  agencies  and  other  organizations  and 
programmes of the United Nations system and relevant 
international  financial  institutions  consolidate  their 
efforts  and  extend  technical  and  financial  assistance 
the  ECO  Plan  of  Action  for 
the  significance  of 
recommended 
contained 
that 
06-58069 

27 

Mr.  Awad  (Egypt)  (spoke 
A/61/PV.38 

towards  the  implementation  of  ECO  programmes  and 
projects. 

We firmly believe that consideration and adoption 
of 
the  proposed  draft  resolution  on  cooperation 
between  the  Economic  Cooperation  Organization  and 
the United Nations, during the sixty-first session of the 
General  Assembly,  will  be  beneficial  to  the  work  of 
both organizations. 
in  Arabic):  The 

delegation of Egypt is honoured to introduce the draft 
resolution  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  League  of Arab  States”,  on  behalf  of 
the  following  countries:  Algeria,  Bahrain,  Comoros, 
Djibouti, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libyan 
Arab 
Jamahiriya,  Mauritania,  Morocco,  Oman, 
Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian 
Arab  Republic,  Tunisia,  United  Arab  Emirates  and 
Yemen. The draft resolution we have just submitted on 
behalf of those Arab countries concerning cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab 
States  recognizes  the  need  to  increase  and  strengthen 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
League  of Arab  States  and  its  specialized  agencies,  in 
order 
the  objectives  shared  by  both 
organizations.  We  commend  the  efforts  made  by  the 
League  of  Arab  States 
to  strengthen  multilateral 
cooperation  among  Arab  countries,  and  we  urge  the 
United Nations to continue supporting those efforts.  

The objective of the draft resolution, as requested 
by the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the 
Secretary  General  of  the  League  of Arab  States,  is  to 
continue to work to strengthen cooperation between the 
two  organizations  in  order  to  fulfil  the  purposes  and 
principles  stipulated  in  the  United  Nations  Charter,  as 
well  to  strengthen  international  peace  and  security, 
economic  and  social  development  and  disarmament, 
and  to  put  an  end  to  colonization  and  to  promote  the 
right  to  self-determination  and  the  elimination  of  all 
forms of racism and racial discrimination. 

We  would  urge  all  United  Nations  specialized 
agencies  and  funds  and  programmes  to  strengthen 
cooperation  and  dialogue  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Arab  League,  in  particular  in  the  priority 
sectors, namely; energy, rural development, combating 
desertification,  green  belts,  technical  and  professional 
training,  the  transfer  of  technology,  the  environment, 
the media, trade, finance, water resources, agricultural 
development,  the  advancement  of  women,  transport, 
to  obtain 
resolution 
calls 
for 
the 
between 
the  draft 
communications  and  information,  strengthening  the 
private sector and strengthening and building capacity. 
Lastly, 
regular 
consultation between representatives of the secretariats 
of  the  two  organizations  to  review  and  strengthen 
coordination  mechanisms 
two 
organizations. 

I  shall  now  discuss  Egypt’s  position  concerning 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
and  other  organizations.  Since  Egypt  is  an  African, 
Arab  and  Islamic  country,  a  founding  member  of  the 
African  Union,  the  League  of  Arab  States  and  the 
Organization of the Islamic Conference and a member 
of  the  International  Organization  of  la  Francophonie, 
we  are  convinced  of  the  importance  of  regional 
interagency  cooperation  as  the  basis  of  multilateral 
international  action.  We  therefore  wish  to  stress  the 
special importance of the Secretary-General’s report on 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
and  other  organizations  (A/1/256)  in  the  context  of 
rapid  international  developments.  Such  cooperation 
requires that  we strengthen the concept  of dialogue in 
order  to  prevent  confrontation  and  war  and  to  support 
peaceful  coexistence  at  the  political,  economic  and 
social levels. 

In that regard, I should like to focus on a number 
of areas of cooperation between the United Nations and 
these  organizations  and  groupings 
that  serve  as 
examples  to  guide  us  in  attaining  our  objectives  in 
various areas.  

With regard to the economic and social aspects of 
such  cooperation,  it  has  become  more  urgent  to 
strengthen  mechanisms  for  regional  and  subregional 
dialogue  and  cooperation 
the  great 
demographic  growth  that  is  now  imposing  a  heavy 
burden  on  natural  resources  and  their  sustainability, 
compared  with  what  the  world  was  like  at  the  time 
when  this  Organization  was  founded.  We  will  not  be 
able  to  achieve  security  or  stability  unless  there  is 
socio-economic development in Africa and on all other 
continents. 

We are following very closely the tireless efforts by 
United  Nations  programmes  and  funds  throughout  the 
world, particularly in Africa. However, we wish to recall 
that the African continent is the only region of the world 
that  will  not  be  able 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals on time. That is why we would like 
the  Secretary-General  to  submit  practical  proposals 
to  address 
to  achieve 
28 

06-58069 
In 
and 
addition, 
settlement. 


aimed at strengthening inter-agency cooperation between 
United Nations bodies and those of the New Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  during  the  present 
General Assembly session and next year’s. We expect the 
Assembly  to  honour  the  commitment  undertaken  at  the 
2005  World  Summit  to  support  NEPAD  and  not  hold 
back the financing of that task when the Organization’s 
programme  budget  is  adopted,  so  that  commitments 
undertaken in other forums can be implemented. 

At the political level, with regard to strengthening 
the  concept  of  collective  security  from  a  regional 
perspective,  the  African  continent  is  in  urgent  need  of 
capacity-building  in  the  area  of  peacekeeping. We  hope 
that  the  Secretary-General  will  submit  a  comprehensive 
study  on  the  10-year  programme  adopted  at  the  2005 
Summit to build Africa’s peacekeeping capacity. That is 
essential  not  only  to  restore  stability,  but  also  to 
strengthen African  ownership  of  the  process  of  conflict 
management 
the 
establishment  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  the 
Peacebuilding  Fund,  the  United  Nations  Democracy 
Fund  and  the  Central  Emergency  Response  Fund  will 
help  to  promote  democratic  change  and  economic  and 
social development in Africa. We therefore look forward 
to  cooperation  and  complementarity  between  all  those 
mechanisms  and 
institutions, 
including the African Union, NEPAD and the Economic 
Commission for Africa. 

Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
League  of  Arab  States  is  key  to  the  strengthening  of 
dialogue and cooperation in a vital area stretching from 
the  Arab  Gulf  to  the  Atlantic  Ocean,  through  22  Arab 
States.  Those  States  are  within  the  mandate  of  two 
regional  United  Nations  commissions  —  the  Economic 
and  Social  Commission  for  Western  Asia,  and  the 
Economic  Commission  for  Africa.  In  addition  to  the 
political  cooperation  between  those  two  bodies,  which 
dates  back  to  their  establishment,  those  efforts  include 
managing the conflicts in the Middle East, including the 
Arab-Israeli conflict, and addressing the situations in the 
Sudan,  Iraq  and  the  Horn  of  Africa.  Cooperation  also 
includes 
technology,  empowerment  of 
women, 
fight  against  HIV/AIDS,  and  other 
development areas referred to in the Secretary-General’s 
report. 

importance  of  cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Arab League with a 
view  to  strengthening  dialogue  and  contacts  in  various 
areas  of  common  interest,  particularly  Arab-African, 
information 
the 
relevant  African 
We  emphasize 
the 
the 
A/61/PV.38
cooperation 
frameworks 
transregional 
the  Organization  of 
the  dialogue  among  cultures  and  religions 
Arab-Latin American and Arab-Chinese cooperation and 
other 
that 
strengthen contacts among States, peoples and cultures. 

There  are  now  more  than  1.2  billion  Muslims 
throughout  the  world.  They  are  brought  together  under 
the  umbrella  of 
the  Islamic 
Conference (OIC), which has become a main framework 
for cooperation. Those relations are strengthened through 
the United Nations at a time when the tone of militancy 
in 
is 
intensifying. The OIC seeks to strengthen the settlement 
of  differences  and  explain  different  conceptions  and 
visions in order to bring people together in tolerance and 
peaceful coexistence. Joint efforts must be undertaken to 
address  the  great  apprehension  of  Muslims  in  the  East 
and the West with regard to religious discrimination. The 
OIC  is  playing  a  major  role  in  that  regard,  which, 
together with its role of promoting peace, will enable it 
to  serve  as  an  institutional  donor  to  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission. The OIC is also playing an important role 
in South-South cooperation within the United Nations. 

Among  the  member  States  of  the  International 
Organization  of  la  Francophonie,  Egypt  is  one  of  the 
largest 
to  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations.  We  would  like  to  see  greater 
cooperation 
to  conflict 
prevention  and  peaceful  dispute  settlement,  which  is  a 
common denominator of United Nations action.  

The delegation of Egypt was a sponsor of the draft 
resolution  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  (IPU)  (A/61/L.6), 
which  was 
the 
representative  of  Italy.  Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  IPU  has  become  a  tangible  element 
enshrined in General Assembly resolutions and in action 
carried out in accordance with a programme established 
at the level of the parliaments of member States to bring 
views 
clarify  different 
conceptions.  Hope  was  expressed  at  the  2005  World 
Summit  that  such  cooperation  could  be  strengthened. 
That hope was echoed recently in resolution 60/286, on 
revitalization of the General Assembly. 

Strengthening  the  dialogue  between  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  IPU  in  political  affairs  will  have  a 
positive impact with regard to the situation in the Middle 
East, Iraq, the Sudan and Afghanistan. It will support the 
Organization’s  efforts  to  reach  a  political  settlement  to 
those problems, which are destroying lives and property 
introduced  a  short  while  ago  by 
that  regard 
contributors 
in  relation 
closer 
troop 
in 
together 
and 
to 
06-58069 

29 

A/61/PV.38 

at  a  time  when  the  world’s  peoples  aspire  to  freedom, 
justice  and  development  in  accordance  with  their  own 
vision and their free will. 

We  also  welcome  dialogue  between  the  Inter-
Parliamentary Union and United Nations bodies such as 
the  Human  Rights  Council  and 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  and  other  international  forums,  including 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council. 

Lastly, we would like to express our hope that the 
forthcoming report of the Secretary-General will contain 
practical  and  enforceable  proposals  on  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  all  regional  and  other 
organizations and that the proposals in the report will not 
be  limited  to  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  only.  Such 
cooperation  should  be  strengthened  through  annual 
dialogue between the General Assembly and heads of the 
regional  organizations  and  their  secretariats.  This  will 
help to enrich cooperation in all its aspects. 
Mr. Liu Zhenmin (China) (spoke in Chinese): As 

globalization grows ever more deeply rooted, our world 
is  getting  smaller  and  smaller,  with  more  and  more 
problems that call for concerted action by all countries. 
As the most representative international organization, the 
United  Nations 
to 
strengthen  its  cooperation  with  regional  and  other 
international  organizations  to  promote  world  peace  and 
security  and  the  common  development  of  humankind. 
For  this  reason,  the  Chinese  delegation  welcomes  the 
General  Assembly’s  deliberations  on  this  important 
agenda  item,  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and regional and other organizations”. 

Allow  me  to  comment,  in  particular,  on  the 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the Asian-
African  Legal  Consultative  Organization  (AALCO). 
AALCO is the only intergovernmental legal consultative 
organization  in  the Asian  and African  region.  Here,  we 
cannot  fail  to  recall  the  famous  Bandung  Conference, 
held  some  50  years  ago: AALCO  represents  one  of  its 
most significant achievements. Over the years, the spirit 
of  unity,  friendship  and  cooperation  advocated  by  the 
Bandung Conference has been a source of inspiration for 
Asian and African countries. 

the  fiftieth  anniversary  of 
AALCO.  At  its  forty-fifth  annual  session  last  April, 
member  States  gathered 
the 

is  now  facing  a  greater  need 
This  year  marks 
to  celebrate 
together 
them 
and 
the  Sea, 
and 
codification 
instruments 
in 
international 
legal 
in 
international 
development 
in  engaging 
the  Law  of 
occasion.  Several  months  have  elapsed,  but  the  fond 
memory lingers. As a regional organization operating in 
the  legal  field,  AALCO  has  been  carrying  forward  the 
Bandung  spirit  over  the  past  50  years  in  providing  a 
forum  for  exchanges  and  cooperation  on  international 
legal  matters  among  Asian  and  African  countries  and 
assisting 
legal 
practices,  while  promoting,  through  its  activities,  the 
progressive 
of 
international law. 

Over  the  years,  AALCO  has  been  following  the 
work of the Sixth Committee and the International Law 
Commission.  Many  important  international  legal  issues 
have  been  the  subject  of  focused  discussions  in  the 
organization, including the work of the International Law 
Commission, 
international 
cooperation  in  combating  trafficking  in  women  and 
children, 
the 
anticorruption  field,  measures  to  eliminate  international 
terrorism, 
the  World  Trade  Organization’s 
framework  agreements  as  a  code  of  conduct  for  world 
trade. The  comments  or  proposals  by AALCO  on  these 
questions  have  served  as  an  important  reference  for 
Asian  and  African  countries  participating  in  related 
General Assembly  deliberations,  and  even  for  the  work 
of other legal organs of the United Nations. 

In today’s world, Asian and African countries have 
made  significant  progress  in  political,  economic  and 
social areas, concurrent with a marked elevation of their 
standing  and  role  in  international  affairs.  They  have 
become an important force for world peace and common 
development. Accordingly, Asian  and African  countries 
will  continuously  broaden 
in 
international legal affairs and take a more effective part 
in  the  process  of  democratization  and  rule  of  law 
governing international relations. As a legal consultative 
organization of Asian and African countries, AALCO is 
poised to play a more active role in this regard. 

As a member State of both the United Nations and 
AALCO, China attaches great importance to the AALCO 
and  is  most  supportive  of  its  work.  I  wish  hereby  to 
reaffirm  that  the  Chinese  Government  will,  as  always, 
continue  to  contribute  to  the  close  cooperation  between 
AALCO  and  the  United  Nations  and  other  related 
organizations. 

The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. 
their  participation 
30 

06-58069 
