
A/61/PV.6
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-first session 

6th plenary meeting 
Friday, 15 September 2006, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Ms. Al-Khalifa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .


(Bahrain) 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m. 
High-level Dialogue on International Migration 
and Development 
Agenda item 55 (continued) 
Globalization and interdependence 














  (b)  International migration and development  
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/60/871) 


  Note by the President of the General Assembly 
(A/61/187) 
The  President: The  General Assembly,  pursuant 

to  resolution  60/227  of  23  December  2005,  will 
continue  the  High-level  Dialogue  on  International 
Migration and Development. 

Before  we  continue  with  the  list  of  speakers,  I 
would  like  to  inform  members  that  we  will  first  hear 
the  summaries  of  the  deliberations  of  the  four  round-
table  sessions  by  the  Chairpersons  of  the  respective 
round tables. 

I give the floor to the Chairperson of round table 
1,  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Tarja  Filatov,  Minister  of 
Labour of Finland. 
Ms. Filatov (Finland), Chairperson of round table 

1:  I  am  summarizing  today  the  main  points  from  the 
debate  that  took  place  in  round  table  1,  dealing  with 

the effects of international migration on economic and 
social development. 

I  would  like  to  emphasize  the  excellent  and 
constructive  spirit  of  our  discussions. The  discussions 
in this round table centred on five key points. 

First, the round table underscored the substantial 
positive  impacts  of  international  migration  on  social 
and  economic  development,  while  noting  certain 
negative impacts as well. There was general agreement 
that  the  importance  of  international  migration  will 
increase  in  future  and  that  it  was  therefore  crucial  for 
the international community and for Member States to 
focus on maximizing its benefits while minimizing the 
risks  associated  with  it.  To  do  so,  coherent  policies 
were needed, both within and among countries. 

We noted that countries often play multiple roles, 
so  it  was  therefore  not  useful  to  distinguish  between 
countries  of  origin,  destination  or  transit.  We  noted 
also  that  migrants  themselves,  by  creating  social  ties 
and  transnational  networks,  were  a  key  part  of  the 
migration process and its impact on development. 

Secondly,  labour  migration  was  central  to  the 
discussion  of  migration  and  development  in  terms  of 
both  the  motivation  for  international  movements  and 
their  consequences  for  development.  The  discussion 
focused  in  particular  on  the  economic  benefits,  which 
would  increase  if  the  labour  market  functioned  more 
efficiently.  

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

06-52461 (E) 
*0652461* 

in 
the 
role 
Even 
its  positive 
development. 
that  context, 
capital,  with 
A/61/PV.6 

Issues  such  as  decent  work  and  migrants’  rights 

were  also  underlined 
this  context.  Certain 
detrimental  consequences  were  noted  as  well, 
particularly  those  due  to  the  loss  of  highly  skilled 
workers in many developing countries.  

These effects of the brain drain were most severe 
in  the  health  and  education  sectors,  leading  to  a 
decrease  in  the  quality  of  those  services.  In  some 
countries, the emigration of skilled personnel has been 
eroding  human 
potentially  dire 
consequences  for  the  long-term  sustainability  of  those 
countries’ 
though  many 
interventions concentrated on economic aspects, it was 
recalled  that  social  and  cultural  aspects  are  equally 
important.  

Thirdly,  we  discussed  various  approaches  for 
eliminating  some  of  the  negative  consequences  of 
migration  and  enhancing 
in 
development.  In 
importance  of 
recurrent and circular migration was underscored, since 
migrants  who  return  —  even  for  short  periods  —  are 
often agents for development. Highly skilled returning 
migrants  have  much  to  contribute  to  promote  the 
economic  dynamism  and  development  of  countries  of 
origin. 

Participants  considered  various  ways  in  which 
permanent or temporary return can be promoted. Thus, 
Governments  were  encouraged  to  cooperate  with  the 
private sector in establishing reintegration programmes 
and  promoting,  among  other 
increased 
employment and investment opportunities for returning 
migrants.  

It  was  acknowledged  that  transnational  diaspora 
communities  can  make  important  contributions  to  the 
development of countries of origin. We recognized the 
need  to  foster  contacts  between  countries  and  their 
citizens  abroad,  especially  with  those  who  are  highly 
skilled,  or  who  possess  skills  in  short  supply  in  their 
countries of origin, so as to facilitate the emergence of 
more active knowledge networking. The important role 
played  by  remittances  in  supporting  well-being  was 
also  cited  by  several  participants.  However,  it  was 
emphasized  that  not  only  economic  remittances,  but 
also the transfer of knowledge and innovation, can play 
a major role. 

Fourthly,  several  participants  commented  on  the 
need  for  greater  collaboration  between  countries  of 
origin  and  countries  of  destination  to  enhance  the 
things, 
stressed 
improvement  of 
labour  market  conditions 
portability  of  pension  benefits  and  to  ensure  that 
migrants  are  not  penalized  for  working  throughout 
their  productive  lives  in  more  than  one  country.  A 
related  point  was  the  desirability  of  single  taxation 
arrangements.  Many 
that 
participants 
remittances should not be taxed twice. 

Fifthly,  participants  emphasized  the  importance 
of  creating  desirable  living  and  working  conditions  in 
countries  of  origin  so  that  migration  is  truly  a  choice, 
not  a  necessity. The  importance  of  migration  policies, 
international  development  policies 
and  poverty 
reduction  strategies  was  mentioned  frequently.  Key 
factors in that regard include, inter alia, the promotion 
of good governance, the protection of human rights and 
the 
in 
societies  of  origin.  Greater  emphasis  on  capacity-
building is needed. 

intergovernmental 
cooperation, whether at the bilateral, regional or global 
level,  is  important  to  support  many  of  the  processes 
that  increase  the  economic  and  social  benefits  of 
international  migration.  Governments  were  urged  to 
find ways to enhance such cooperation. 
The  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her 

Excellency  Ms.  Margarita  Escóbar,  Vice-Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs  of  El  Salvador,  who  will  report  to  the 
Assembly on behalf of the Chairman of round table 2.  
Ms.  Escóbar  (El  Salvador):  I  shall  read  out  the 

following  summary  on  behalf  of  His  Excellency 
Mr. Francisco  Laínez,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
El Salvador.  

it  was  noted 
“I  have 
Lastly, 
that 
the  honour 
to  summarize 

the 
excellent debate that took place in round table 2, 
which focused on measures to ensure respect for 
and protection of the human rights of all migrants 
and  to  prevent  and  combat  the  smuggling  of 
migrants and the trafficking in persons. 

“The  discussion  in  our  round  table  was 
lively and enriching, enjoying broad participation 
by  Member  States,  United  Nations  entities  and 
representatives of civil society. We also benefited 
from the participation of the United Nations High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  Ms.  Louise 
Arbour.  It  is  thus  with  great  pleasure  that  I  will 
share with the Assembly some of the key insights 
that emerged from the discussions. 

2 

06-52461 







to 
linking 
“It  was  emphasized 
all,  human  beings 
countries  of  origin 
international  migration 
“There  was  agreement  that  migrants  were, 

above 
endowed  with 
fundamental and inalienable rights. Human rights 
should  be  considered  part  of 
the  necessary 
foundation 
to 
development,  since,  as  participants  stressed,  it 
was only when the human  rights of migrants  are 
recognized  and  safeguarded  that  the  positive 
contributions 
and 
destination could be fully realized. 

that  all  States  — 
whether  they  be  points  of  origin,  transit  or 
destination  for  migrants  —  had  the  obligation  to 
respect  the  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  of 
all  migrants,  irrespective  of  their  status.  Of 
particular  relevance  was  the  protection  of  the 
rights  and  freedoms  of  groups  that  are  more 
vulnerable  to  exploitation,  such  as  children, 
young  people,  women, 
indigenous  people, 
persons with disabilities and migrants in irregular 
situations.  

“The  importance  of  social,  economic  and 
cultural  rights  was  stressed,  especially  as  their 
observance 
successful 
integration  of  migrants  into  host  societies. There 
was agreement that it was paramount to eliminate 
all  forms  of  discrimination  and 
to  combat 
xenophobia  and  racism.  The  Governments  of 
receiving  countries  had  the  responsibility  to 
oppose  discriminatory, 
racist  or  xenophobic 
attitudes and to promote respect and tolerance.  
“Member States were urged to ratify all core 

human  rights 
the 
International Convention on the Protection of the 
Rights  of All  Migrant  Workers  and  Members  of 
Their Families. It was noted that that Convention 
reiterated many of the obligations to which States 
were already bound because they were parties to 
the other core human rights instruments. Member 
States  were  also  urged  to  become  parties  to  all 
relevant  International  Labour  Organization  and 
United  Nations  conventions  and  to  ensure  their 
full implementation.  
“It  was stressed that national legislation  on 

international 
reflect 
internationally  agreed  human  rights  standards. 
Trafficking  in  persons  and  the  smuggling  of 
migrants  were  recognized  as  major  challenges 
in  particular 
underpinned 
instruments, 
migration 
should 
the 





A/61/PV.6
the 
and 
judged 
“While 
to  stay 
trafficking 
in  persons 
to  be  essential 
international  community 
facing 
today. 
Intergovernmental  cooperation  and  coordination 
were 
in  effectively 
combating  those  crimes.  Member  States  were 
urged to cooperate more actively to prevent those 
crimes and to bring perpetrators to justice.  

“It  was  emphasized  that  trafficked  persons 
were  victims  and  that  they  were  entitled  to 
protection and assistance. Several Member States 
gave examples of good practices, including media 
campaigns  to  warn  potential  migrants  about  the 
dangers  involved  in  trying  to  cross  borders 
irregularly  or  about  the  ploys  traffickers  use  to 
ensnare  victims.  Another  good  practice  was 
granting  permission 
to  victims  of 
trafficking. 

“It was emphasized that the ratification and 
implementation  of  United  Nations  instruments 
regarding 
the 
smuggling  of  migrants  was  essential,  especially 
as  they  provided  a  framework  for  international 
cooperation in those matters.  
trafficking  and  smuggling  were 

crimes,  migration  was  not,  and  should  not  be 
criminalized.  Participants  urged  Governments  to 
protect  the  victims  of  trafficking  in  persons,  in 
particular  by  safeguarding  their  human  rights. 
Some 
restrictive 
migration  policies  were  at  the  root  of  increased 
irregular  migration  and  that  they  made  people 
more vulnerable to falling prey to traffickers.  

feminization  of 
migration, particularly labour migration, the need 
for  a  gender-sensitive  approach  in  formulating 
international migration policies was underscored. 
It  was  stressed  that,  in  many  circumstances, 
female  migrants,  particularly  those  working  in 
poorly 
regulated  sectors,  such  as  domestic 
service, were more vulnerable to exploitation and 
abuse than male migrants. It was therefore urgent 
to take effective measures to protect the rights of 
female  migrants,  irrespective  of  their  occupation 
or migration status. 

expressed 
satisfaction  with  the  opportunity  afforded  by  the 
High-level  Dialogue  to  discuss  the  issues  of 
international  migration,  development  and  human 
rights,  and  supported  the  Secretary-General’s 
several  delegations 
participants 
increased 
“Noting 
“Lastly, 
argued 
that 
the 
06-52461 

3 
A/61/PV.6 


on 
aspects 
the  multidimensional 
finding  ways  of  enhancing 
proposal to establish a forum to follow up on the 
discussions that had taken place at the High-level 
Dialogue.” 

The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
Chairman of round table 3, His Excellency Mr. Kastriot 
Sulka,  Deputy  Minister  of  the  Ministry  of  Labour, 
Welfare and Equal Opportunities of Albania. 

Mr. Sulka (Albania), Chairman of round table 3: 
I have the pleasure to present a summary of the fruitful 
debate  which  took  place  in  round  table  3,  which 
focused 
of 
international  migration  and  development,  including 
remittances. 

The round table, which benefited from the active 
participation  of  representatives  of  Member  States, 
United Nations entities and civil society, discussed the 
various  aspects  of  international  migration  with  a  view 
for 
to 
its  benefits 
development.  Appreciation  was  expressed  for 
the 
substantive support for the round table provided by the 
Under-Secretary-General  for  Economic  and  Social 
Affairs, Mr. José Antonio Ocampo. I will now highlight 
some of the main conclusions of the round table. 

It  was  recognized  that,  in  order  for  international 
migration to benefit development and contribute to the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, it 
was  necessary  to  capitalize  on  the  skills  acquired  by 
migrants while abroad. It was also necessary to reduce 
the  transfer  costs  of  remittances  and  to  strengthen  the 
benefits  brought  about  by  such  transfers  by,  among 
other  things,  increasing  the  capacity  for  productive 
investment  and  improving  access  to  financial  services 
in countries of origin, particularly in rural areas.  

The  potential  of  remittances  to  reduce  poverty 
was underscored, and participants focused on strategies 
to  maximize  their  development  potential.  However, 
some  of  them  warned  that  remittances  could  create 
dependency  among  recipients.  The 
importance  of 
finding  ways  to  reconcile  the  positive  effects  of 
remittances  on  poverty  reduction  with  their  possible 
negative  impact  was  underscored.  Participants  also 
stressed  that  remittances  were  private  funds  that 
primarily benefited the families that received them and 
should  not  be  viewed  as  a  substitute  for  official 
development assistance.  

There  was  consensus  on  the  need  to  reduce  the 
transaction  costs  of  remittances,  since  such  lower 
including 
them 
in 
that 
leveraging 
remittances 
the 
positive 
institutions, 
to  enhancing 
the  benefits  of 
significantly  contribute 
transfer  costs  could 
to 
increasing the funds that actually reach the families of 
migrants.  Participants  called  on  countries  of  origin  to 
take  a  pro-active  approach 
the 
development  impact  of  migrant  contributions  and 
savings,  particularly  by  collaborating  with  the  private 
sector to widen access by migrants and their families to 
financial 
micro-credit 
institutions. 

Civil  society  organizations,  including  migrant 
associations, could play an important role by providing 
financial  counselling 
to  migrant  families  and  by 
advising  and  supporting 
the  area  of 
entrepreneurship. Access to such support was a means 
of 
for 
development.  Coordinating  measures  to  support  or 
promote  entrepreneurship  in  countries  of  origin  were 
thought to be useful. 

The involvement of transnational communities in 
fostering  the  development  of  countries  of  origin  was 
thought  both  desirable  and  essential  to  maximize  the 
international  migration.  Participants 
benefits  of 
acknowledged 
of 
transnational  communities  and  networks 
the 
development  of  communities  of  both  destination  and 
origin.  It  was  recognized  that  the  establishment  of 
knowledge-sharing  networks  involving  members  of 
migrant communities could benefit countries of origin. 

A  number  of  participants  called  for  further 
initiatives  to  explore  policy  solutions  that  would 
facilitate  the  reintegration  of  migrants  upon  return  to 
their  countries  of  origin.  The  issue  of  ensuring  the 
portability  of  pensions  and  access  to  social  services 
was  also  raised.  Many  participants  felt 
the 
returning  migrant  could  be  an  agent  of  development, 
provided  that  policies  in  the  countries  of  origin 
facilitated the transfer of funds, access to loans and the 
setting up of small businesses. 

in round table 4 will be presented at a later stage.  

Before giving the floor to the first speaker in the 
debate  for  this  afternoon,  I  would  like  to  inform 
members  that  there  are  still  59  speakers  remaining  to 
be  heard.  As  I  mentioned  yesterday,  we  have  to 
conclude  the  High-level  Dialogue  at  the  end  of  this 
meeting. I therefore appeal again to members to make 
their statements as concise as possible by summarizing 
them and circulating the full text.  
The  President:  The  summary  of  the  discussions 
contribution 
to 
4 

06-52461 
the 
like 
floor 
report 
Mr.  Lawal
I  now  give 
(A/60/871)  prepared 
(Nigeria):  We  would 



to  His  Excellency, 
Mr. Hassan  Muhammad  Lawal,  Minister  for  Labour 
and Productivity of Nigeria. 

to 
congratulate  you,  Madam,  on  your  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first 
session and to assure you of our readiness to cooperate 
with you to make your tenure a success. We would also 
like to thank the Secretary-General and his staff for the 
elaborate 
for  our 
deliberations.  Nigeria  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
made by the representative of South Africa on behalf of 
the Group of 77 and China. 

International migration is an age-old phenomenon 
which, over the ages, has seen people of all colours and 
creeds  move  around  the  world  for  various  reasons. 
Without a doubt, migration has enormous benefits and 
can  be  a  potent  force  for  development.  But  its 
challenges  are  equally  enormous.  Against 
this 
background,  Nigeria  is  convinced  that  better-managed 
migration can bring win-win benefits to all countries. 
the  material  wealth  of 

in 
countries  and 
industrialized  countries,  coupled  with  unemployment 
and  poverty,  are  some  of  the  factors  that  propel 
international migration.  
While each country has the right to determine its 

migration  policies, 
the  exploitation,  maltreatment, 
forceful repatriation and other dehumanizing treatment 
of migrants who are asylum-seekers — including their 
placement in concentration-style camps — prevalent in 
some  countries  as  measures  to  manage  migration  are 
indefensible 
century.  The 
international  community  must  therefore  resist  the 
temptation to build thick walls of exclusion or resort to 
xenophobia or other forms of discrimination under the 
pretext of measures to ensure national security. 

Rather,  we  should  work  collectively  to  find 
practicable  and  dignifying  solutions  to  the  problems 
associated  with  migration.  Nigeria 
is  particularly 
concerned  about  the  degrading  treatment  of  migrants, 
in  particular  those  who  belong  to  vulnerable  groups, 
and  calls  on  States  to  fulfil  their  labour  and  human 
rights obligations to migrants, for that is the essence of 
development, as all people aspire to better standards of 
life in greater freedom. 
the  demand  for  cheap 
The  asymmetries 
twenty-first 
labour 
the 
in 
in 
A/61/PV.6
and 
into 
issues 
financial 
countries; 
especially 
in  African 
international 
of  migration 
resources,  global  cooperation 

In  Nigeria’s  view,  specific  policy  measures  to 
consider  in  this  Dialogue  should  include  capacity-
building, 
the 
mobilization  of  national  populations  in  the  diaspora; 
the cheaper, safer and faster transfer of remittances; the 
sharing  of  more  information  on  remittances;  and  the 
integration 
national 
development strategies. Other measures that need to be 
put  in  place  to  support  the  achievement  of  national 
development  strategies  include  the  speedy  conclusion 
of the Doha Development Agenda, the resolution of the 
external  debt  crisis, 
the  provision  of  new  and 
additional 
to  fight 
corruption  and  terrorism  and  a  greater  voice  and 
participation  for  developing  countries  in  decision-
making 
in 
trading 
institutions.  

In Nigeria, we have adopted a National Economic 
Empowerment  and  Development  Strategy  as  a 
framework 
to  eradicate  poverty,  promote  wealth 
creation  and  guarantee 
lasting  prosperity  for  all 
Nigerians. Furthermore, Nigeria is working vigorously 
to  achieve  the  goals  and  targets  set  out  in  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and 
the  New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development.  

Cognizant  of  the  importance  of  migration,  the 
Government  has  established  institutions  to  deal  with 
the  phenomenon,  while  three  Special  Assistants  have 
been  appointed  to  advise  the  President  on  diaspora 
matters, human trafficking and child labour, as well as 
on migration and humanitarian affairs. 
Nigeria  supports  the  proposal  of  the  Secretary- 

General 
to 
complement  coherent  and  well-coordinated  migration 
strategies at all levels. We believe that the forum would 
provide  a  venue 
relevant 
stakeholders  to  continue  the  dialogue  on  migration  in 
the  absence  of  institutional  arrangements  within  the 
United  Nations  system.  Nigeria  looks  forward  to  the 
first  meeting  of  the  forum.  Nigeria  appreciates  and 
commends 
the  International  Labour 
Organization in providing an international standard for 
the  protection  of  migrants.  We  also  commend  the 
International  Organization  for  Migration  for  having 
raised awareness of the positive role that international 
migration  and  migrants  can  play  in  the  economic, 
social and cultural development of countries.  
to  establish  a  consultative 
for  States  and  other 
the  role  of 
forum 
06-52461 

5 
call 
Mr.  Fust
international 
Finally,  we 
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 
the  Swiss 
A/61/PV.6 


for  more 
cooperation on migration management. 

Mr.  Walter  Fust,  Director-General  of 
Development Corporation of Switzerland. 
in  French): 
(Switzerland)  (spoke 

Migration is something that has always existed; it will 
continue  to  bring  States  together  as  we  endeavour  to 
manage it and to prevent illegal or undesirable forms of 
the phenomenon. We believe, therefore, that our efforts 
should  result  in  the  creation  of  a  true  partnership 
among  States,  international  organizations  and  civil 
society,  so  that  we  are  able  to  manage  migration  in  a 
manner that is equitable, fair and transparent, in a spirit 
of mutual responsibility. In that context, we must first 
and foremost analyse the true causes of migration, inter 
alia,  poverty,  lack  of  prospects  for  the  future,  poor 
governance,  insecurity,  the  violation  of  human  rights 
and armed conflict. 

We  urgently  need  to  develop  instruments  to 
enable us to maximize the positive effects of migration 
effects.  Such 
while  minimizing 
considerations 
to 
the 
Berne Initiative, a process aimed at the development of 
an international agenda for migration management. As 
a  process,  the  Berne  Initiative  enables  Governments 
from all regions to share their various policy priorities, 
as  well  as  to  set  out  their  long-term  interests  in  the 
domain  of  migration,  with  a  view  to  arriving  at  a 
common 
cooperation, 
comprehensiveness, balance and predictability. 

the  Global  Commission  on 
International  Migration,  published  in  October  2005, 
clearly set out the ideal situation: migration should be a 
matter of choice, not of necessity. Indeed, there are far 
too many men and women who leave their homes and 
families  as  a  result  of  circumstances  that  they  cannot 
control.  
We  have  a  duty  to  pay  more  attention  to  the 

causes  of  migration  and  to  prevention.  In  order  to  do 
so,  we  must  together  focus  on  instruments  geared 
towards  improving  living  conditions  in  countries  of 
origin.  Switzerland  is  committed  to  that  goal  and 
intends,  at 
its 
commitment  to  fostering  human  security,  promoting 
peace  and  enhancing  respect  for  international  law  and 
human rights. 
the  negative 
inspired  Switzerland 
international 
to  pursue 
report  of 
approach 
launch 
level, 
based 
on 
The 

in 
the 
financial 
Similarly, 
developing 
cooperation 
Switzerland’s 

is 
strategically  oriented  towards  obtaining  results  that 
contribute  to  the  stabilization  of  political,  economic 
and social situations in countries of origin. 

Development  cooperation  projects  must  do  more 
to  create  a  sufficient  number  of  stable  employment 
opportunities 
countries,  while 
emphasizing the great importance of savings and credit 
schemes. In addition, experience has taught us that the 
entrepreneurial  capacity  of  women  has  been  vastly 
underestimated.  It  is  evident  that  we  are  dealing  here 
with  something 
that  has  enormous  potential  for 
promoting local economies in a sustainable manner. 

Another  approach  to  be  further  explored  is  the 
possibility  of  exploiting 
synergies  between 
migration  and  development.  The  remittances 
that 
migrants send back to their countries of origin amount 
to  close  to  $200  billion  per  year,  including  transfers 
between  industrialized  countries.  Notwithstanding  the 
fact  that  these  are,  indeed,  private  funds,  we  can  and 
should  seek  out  the  potential  synergies  between  these 
major 
flows  and  official  development 
cooperation.  These  remittances,  however,  are  no 
substitute for official development assistance.  

Our  task  is  to  improve  the  effectiveness  of  such 
transfers  by  lowering  their  cost  and  by  ensuring  that 
transfer  procedures  are  secure,  legal  and  exempt  from 
additional  taxes,  while  endeavouring  to  enhance  these 
funds’ 
regard, 
Switzerland  applauds  the  efforts  made  by  multilateral 
banks,  bilateral  agencies  and  other  organizations 
operating  in  this  area  and  encourages  all  partners  to 
share 
their  experiences.  We  encourage  States, 
international  organizations  and  international  financial 
institutions to integrate the issue of migration into their 
national poverty-reduction strategies and their regional 
policies.  

We  believe  also  that  macroeconomic  policies, 
when  established,  should  facilitate  international  and 
national investment, including by diasporas, so that our 
actions unfold in a spirit of genuine partnership. 

Switzerland believes that the social integration of 
migrants takes place primarily by way of participation 
in  the  labour  market  and  through  education.  For  that 
reason,  Switzerland  advocates  policies  aimed  at 
improving  the  status  of  migrant  workers,  their  active 
integration  into  the  workforce,  vocational  training  for 
young  people,  a  reduction  in  unemployment  and  the 
impact  on  development. 
this 
In 
the 
6 

06-52461 
illegal  or 


taking  of  effective  measures  against 
clandestine employment. 

We should spare no effort in combating the most 
inhuman  form  of  forced  migration,  namely  trafficking 
in  human  beings.  It  is  our  duty,  therefore,  to  provide 
the  victims  —  children,  women  and  men  —  with 
enhanced support in terms of protection and assistance. 
Neither  should  it  be  forgotten  that  the  insecurity  and 
lack of protection to which migrants are exposed tends 
to  put  in  danger  particularly  the  elderly,  the  sick  and 
the  handicapped.  Women  and  children,  too,  are  also 
among  the  most  vulnerable.  Sadly,  however,  all  this 
represents only the tip of the iceberg. 
The President (spoke in French): I give the floor 

to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Richard  Fadden,  Deputy 
Minister, Citizenship and Immigration of Canada. 

Mr.  Fadden  (Canada):  The  decision  to  hold  the 
High-level  Dialogue  is  a  reflection  of  the  broader 
perspective  that  States  and  experts  are  increasingly 
adopting  in  their  consideration  of  issues  related  to 
immigration. 

It  has  been  12  years  since  the  International 
Conference  on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD). 
Canada  continues  to  believe  that  chapter  10  of  the 
ICPD  Programme  of  Action  provides  an  important 
guide  for  global  cooperation  on  issues  related  to 
migration. Over the past few years, we have witnessed 
a  growing  sophistication  in  the  way  migration  is 
treated. Linkages between migration and other areas of 
public  policy  are  being  explored  in  greater  depth,  an 
approach that Canada finds valuable.  

While it has become commonplace to talk of the 
impact  that  globalization  is  having  on  all  parts  of  the 
world, 
that 
globalization affects all parts of the world in the same 
way,  or  that  each  country’s  response  to  globalization 
needs  to  be  —  or  even  can  be  —  the  same. Although 
there  is  much  to  be  learned  from  sharing  approaches 
and  experiences  concerning  migration,  solutions  need 
to be tailored to local conditions to be effective. In that 
regard,  the  notion  of  sharing  “best  practices”  requires 
refinement. Not everything can be systematized into a 
global approach. 

The  High-level  Dialogue  brings  together  many 
voices from the worlds of migration and development: 
policymakers 
developing 
countries;  international  organizations;  civil  society; 
it  would  be  a  mistake 
to  suggest 
developed 
from 
and 
A/61/PV.6
As 
the 
in 
order 
to 
this 
own 
issue, 
perspectives 
others.  Canada 
to  be  made  on 
Secretary-General’s 
and  the  United  Nations  system.  Each  has  something 
valuable  to  add  to  the  discussion,  and,  as  we  move 
forward, we need to ensure that each of these voices is 
given the opportunity to develop and to contribute. 

To  anchor  the  discussion  within  the  realities  of 
policymaking,  however,  Canada  believes  that  this 
process should begin as a dialogue between States. As 
it  evolves,  the  dialogue  —  while  remaining  under  the 
leadership  of  States  —  should  facilitate  links  with 
interested stakeholders. 
Special 

Representative has said on a number of occasions, for 
progress 
the  various 
stakeholders  need  to  approach  these  discussions  in  a 
constructive and open way. 

Governments  cannot  and  should  not  work  in 
isolation.  Yet  at  the  same  time,  it  is  important  that 
States  take  the  opportunity  to  reflect  upon  and  refine 
their 
engage 
constructively  with 
supports 
consideration  of  appropriate  mechanisms  for  civil 
society and the newly created Global Migration Group 
to  provide  input  into  any  ongoing  discussions  that 
States may decide to undertake. 

In  considering  any  ongoing  process  that  might 
emerge  from  the  High-level  Dialogue,  Canada  would 
encourage States to take the following into account. 

to 
An  ongoing  process  should  add  value 
international  discussions  rather  than  duplicate  what  is 
already  taking  place  or  what  could  occur  within 
existing  mechanisms.  This  new  dialogue  should  take 
place  as  a  standalone  forum  and  not  as  part  of  the 
United  Nations  system  and  its  related  institutions. 
Clearly  defined  links  to  the  United  Nations,  possibly 
through the Office of the Special Representative of the 
Secretary-General,  should  be  developed.  The  process 
should  focus  on  developing  an  understanding  of 
substantive  issues  rather  than  on  negotiating  texts  for 
resolutions  or  declarations.  Finally,  States  should  take 
the leadership role, as they are responsible for turning 
ideas into concrete policy. 

The President: I give the floor to Her Excellency 
Ms.  Ellen  Sauerbrey,  Assistant  Secretary 
for 
Population,  Refugee  and  Migration  Affairs  of  the 
United States. 
Ms.  Sauerbrey  (United  States  of America):  The 

United  States  is  pleased  to  participate  in  this  event, 
06-52461 

7 
The 
issue  of 
immigration 
is  very  close 
A/61/PV.6 

which provides the opportunity for States Members of 
the  United  Nations 
to  discuss  our  collective 
experiences on migration and development. 

to 
America’s heart. It goes to the very core of who we are 
as a people and what we believe in as a country: hard 
work, opportunity, rule of law, freedom, tolerance and 
liberty.  Let  there  be  no  confusion:  the  United  States’ 
commitment  to  promoting  orderly  migration  as  a 
positive  development  for  all  nations  is  firm  and 
undiminished by the challenges of the post-9/11 world. 

Last  year  alone,  over  1  million  foreign  nationals 
received  permanent  legal  residence  in  the  United 
States. America hosts approximately 20 per cent of the 
world’s  migrants,  coming  to  us  from  every  corner  of 
the  globe.  Last  year  we  resettled  over  half  of  the 
world’s  refugees  —  perhaps  the  most  vulnerable 
migrants.  
All  countries  of  the  United  Nations  family  have 

shared  with  us  their  people,  their  culture  and  their 
faiths,  representing  the  magnificent  glory  and  range 
and reach of God’s human creation. So when America 
looks in the mirror, it is them that we see. 

The  United  States  takes  the  issue  of  migration 
very seriously. We are deeply and sincerely committed 
to  promoting  legal,  orderly  and  humane  migration  as 
an  engine  for  economic  growth  and  prosperity  for  all 
countries.  We  are  also,  without  hesitation,  fully 
committed to respect for the human dignity and human 
rights of migrants. On these points, there should be no 
doubt. 

My  country  approaches  the  subject  of  migration 
with  humility.  Through  more  than  200  years  of 
experience,  we  have 
the  political, 
economic and human complexities of this phenomenon 
defy easy answers. Even in the eighteenth century, our 
founding  fathers  debated  the  appropriate  scope  of 
immigration  to  the  United  States.  They  mistakenly 
influences  would 
feared 
somehow 
undermine America’s democratic principles. 

The  United  States  recognizes  that  there  are 
negative  aspects  of  migration,  such  as  human 
trafficking  and  smuggling,  and  we  are  committed  to 
confronting 
national 
conversation  on  migration  continues  today. Americans 
understand the need to work through these hard issues 
as  a  nation.  We  offer  ourselves  as  an  example,  and 
challenges.  Our 
learned 
foreign 
that 
those 

in 
this 
realm. 
the  United  Nations  system  and 
immigration.  This  national  preference  for 
perhaps  a  reassurance,  to  others  who  are  struggling 
with immigration as a relatively new topic. 
Americans  are  a  practical  people  when  it  comes 

the 
to 
pragmatic  and 
the  concrete,  coupled  with  an 
unwavering  commitment  to  migration  as  a  positive 
phenomenon,  shapes  how  the  United  States  fosters 
international  cooperation 
In  our 
experience, migration relationships work best between 
neighbours  and  neighbourhoods,  near  and  far,  where 
there  are  common  interests  and  concerns  that  lead  to 
tangible  outcomes. We are not interested in grand and 
ponderous  global  dialogues  simply  because  we  have 
seen the inherent weakness that results from their size 
and  scope.  They  lumber  under  the  great  weight  of 
rounds  and  rounds  of  conversation,  far  removed  from 
immediate problems and realistic solutions. 

The  United  States  welcomes  the  work  of  the 
Global  Migration  Group,  which  will  enhance  the 
ability  of 
the 
International Organization for Migration to address the 
nexus  between  migration  and  development.  We 
believe,  however,  that  the  international  community, 
including  the  United  Nations  system,  already  has 
adequate capacity to address migration issues and that 
the  creation  of  additional  structures  could  hinder,  not 
help,  international  goodwill  and  cooperation  on  these 
issues. Any  consideration  of  United  Nations-affiliated 
discussions must be fully vetted by the Member States 
in  a  transparent  and  open  manner  in  keeping  with  the 
United  Nations  rules  of  procedure  and  out  of  respect 
for the traditions of this institution. 

We  continue  to  believe,  as  did  our  forefathers, 
that what binds Americans together is a shared belief in 
principles  guaranteed  under  our  Constitution.  The 
United  States  expects 
the 
fundamental rights and responsibilities that accompany 
residence  and  citizenship.  We  work  as  a  society  to 
build 
immigrants’  appreciation  for  United  States 
institutions,  recognizing  their  personal  connection  to 
our shared American history as an immigrant nation. 

Americans support the principle that immigrants, 
while fully integrating into their new communities, can 
also  remain  connected  to  their  country  of  origin.  One 
of  the  strongest  links  is  remittances.  These  financial 
flows  are  a  manifestation  of  migration’s  pains  as  well 
as its benefits. They represent enormous toil, sacrifice 
and 
the  sorrow  of  separation  from  family  and 
immigrants 
to  respect 
that 
8 

06-52461 
to 
of 
Immigrants  come 
remittances.  Remittances 


community. Yet they also symbolize the profound love 
of those people and places left behind and the courage 
to follow one’s dreams. 

Both  migrant  sending  and  receiving  countries 
have  responsibility  to  maximize  migration’s  benefits, 
including 
are  private 
transfers  of  funds,  which  will  have  a  greater  overall 
impact  on  development  in  countries  of  origin  when 
those countries undertake economic and social reforms 
that create an environment conducive to asset building, 
entrepreneurship and investment. 

the  United  States,  as 
President Bush has said, not only to take, but to give. 
They come for a chance to work hard, to support their 
families and to rise in the world. While migration can 
be beneficial to sending and receiving countries as well 
as  to  migrants  themselves,  it  is  important  to  note  that 
the decision to migrate should be made  out of choice, 
not necessity. Countries of origin and destination must 
work together to make this a reality. 

The  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Kastriot 
Sulka,  Deputy  Minister  of  the  Ministry  of  Labour, 
Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of the Republic 
of Albania. 
Mr.  Sulka  (Albania):  Albania  welcomes  the 

organization 
on 
International Migration and Development and believes 
that  it  will  have  a  strong  impact  on  future  efforts  and 
policies 
of  migration 
internationally.  According  to  the  Secretary-General’s 
report  (A/60/871),  more  than  191  million  persons  are 
international  migrants  —  a  fact  that  shows  the  huge 
dimensions  of  the  phenomenon  and  its  influence  on 
international balances. As such, it cannot be considered 
to  be  a  phenomenon  of  developed  or  developing 
countries alone. 

The  global  policy  on  migration  management  for 
the  benefit  of  both  States  and  individuals  is  largely 
reflected 
in  Albania.  Since  1991,  Albania  has 
experienced significant flows of migration at a rate of 
up  to  20  per  cent  of  the  total  population.  Albanian 
migrants  are  found  mostly  in  the  European  Union, 
especially  in  the  two  neighbouring  countries,  Greece 
and  Italy,  but  also  in  Germany,  the  United  States  of 
America,  Canada  and  Australia.  Until  2004,  Albania 
was  one  of  the  main  transit  routes  in  South-East 
Europe  towards  the  European  Union.  As  a  result, 
migration was a major concern not only for the country 
the  High-level  Dialogue 
the  management 
for 
A/61/PV.6
them 
that  enable 
itself but also for its relations with the European Union 
and in particular with its neighbours. 

I  would  like  to  share  with  you  a  new  approach 
that 
the  Government  of  Albania  has  proclaimed 
recently:  “Albania:  1  Euro”,  aimed  at  attracting 
investors in poor areas with high unemployment rates. 
The initiative is addressed in particular at the diaspora 
and  emigrants,  as  the  need  for  their  contribution  is 
high, taking in consideration that they bring with them 
not  only  financial  capital  but  also  human  capital.  In 
this  way,  they  share  with  the  community  a  new 
mentality,  culture  and technological  advancements. As 
noted  in  paragraph  16  of  the  Secretary-General’s 
report,  

“After working in Greece, Albanians bring home 
new  agricultural  skills 
to 
increase  production.  By  promoting  the  exchange 
of experience and helping build partnerships, the 
international community can do much to increase 
and  to  spread  these  positive  effects  of  migration 
on development.” 

While migration creates possibilities for migrants 
to have a better life and contributes to the countries of 
both origin and destination, it has a negative impact as 
a result of the emigration of highly skilled workers and 
the phenomenon of brain drain. 
Albania is trying to reverse the trend: from brain 

drain  to  brain  gain,  by  introducing  strategies  for 
attracting highly skilled workers and excellent students 
who  have  studied  abroad  to  contribute  effectively  to 
Albania.  The  Albanian  Government  supports  and 
welcomes  cooperation  with  civil  society  and  student 
organizations  that  provide  financial  incentives  for  the 
highly skilled and students to return. 

The  United  Nations  Development  Programme  is 
supporting  an  initiative  of  the  Albanian  Government 
through  the  Brain  Gain  programme,  which  seeks  to 
maximize  the  role  of  migrants  and  the  diaspora  in 
academia,  public  administration  and  business.  This 
programme  supports 
the  Albanian  Government’s 
efforts  to  create  the  conditions  and  incentive  structure 
required  for 
in 
Albania’s development. 

Albania  has  seen  that  without  the  support  and 
expertise  of  specialized  international  agencies  in  the 
field,  in  particular  the  International  Organization  for 
Migration, 
the  World  Bank, 
the  United  Nations, 
the  engagement  of 
the  diaspora 
06-52461 

9 
the 
floor 
I  now  give 
The  President: 
A/61/PV.6 

UNICEF,  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  and  the  European  Union, 
and without cooperation among countries, it is difficult 
to deal coherently with migration. Experience shows us 
that  without  close  cooperation  between  countries  of 
destination and those of origin it is impossible to fight 
illegal migration and manage migration for the benefit 
of  all.  Albania  agrees  that  in  framing  policies  or 
establishing  structures,  the  perspective  of  emigrants 
and  civil  society  should  be  taken  into  consideration, 
and  not  only  that  of  the  countries  of  origin  and 
destination.  We  believe  that  the  results  of  this  debate 
will be followed by concrete actions, resulting in better 
management of migration internationally. 

to 
His Excellency  Mr.  Hassan  Ibrahim  Al-Muhannadi, 
Director  for  Social  Planning  Management  of  the 
Planning Council of Qatar. 

Mr. Al-Muhannadi (Qatar) (spoke in Arabic): It 
gives me great pleasure on behalf of the State of Qatar 
to congratulate you, Madam President, on your election 
as  President  of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-first 
session.  I  am  confident 
that  your  wisdom  and 
experience  will  guide  the  work  of  the  Assembly 
towards  success.  I  would  like  also  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  tireless  efforts  to  shed  light 
on  the  question  of  global  migration  and  development, 
and for his exhaustive report (A/60/871). 

The  phenomenon  of  migration  goes  far  back  in 
time.  Its  pace  has,  however,  increased  in  our  era 
because  of  globalization  and 
its  socio-economic 
impacts and the significant progress in communications 
and  transportation.  The  current  status  of  migration 
requires  serious  attention  if  we  are  to  harness  it  to 
further 
individuals  and  nations. 
Organizing  this  global  Dialogue  is  merely  a  step 
towards 
the 
protection of migrants, as well as of countries of origin 
and  destination.  The  State  of  Qatar  welcomes  the 
Secretary-General’s  proposal  to  establish  a  global 
consultative  forum  on  migration,  and  we  appreciate 
Belgium’s offer to host its first meeting.  

The  State  of  Qatar  hosts  many  migrant  workers 
from  many  nations.  They  work  side  by  side  with 
citizens  of  Qatar,  promoting  the  development  of  our 
nation’s  economy,  which  is  now  one  of  the  world’s 
fastest  growing.  The  State  of  Qatar  has  always  been 
proud  of  the  contributions  made  by  migrant  labour  to 
finding  effective  means 
interests  of 
to  ensure 
the 

require 
its  robust  economic  growth  and  its  tireless  efforts  to 
achieve sustainable development. 

Moreover, the State of Qatar is engaging in close 
and  continuous  cooperation  with  countries  of  origin. 
For  example,  it  has  concluded  bilateral  agreements 
regulating the employment of migrants and identifying 
the role of public authorities in countries of origin and 
destination.  These  agreements 
that  such 
workers  be  employed  under  labour  contracts  that 
clearly  spell  out  the  rights  and  obligations  of  both 
employees  and  employers.  The  contracts  are  certified 
by  officials  of  both  countries  to  prevent  any  abuse  of 
migrant  workers;  they  also  define  procedures  for 
settling  disputes  between  employees  and  employers, 
enable  migrant  workers  to  fully  exercise  their  right  to 
send remittances to their countries of origin and set out 
rules for paid vacations and other leave. 

Our  Government  has  created  a  tolerant  social 
environment  that  enables  migrant  workers  to  freely 
practice  their  religion  and  maintain  their  own  culture. 
The State of Qatar also provides migrant workers with 
basic  rights  and  benefits,  including  education,  health 
care and social protection. 

Another example of Qatar’s interest in its migrant 
workers  is  its  invitation  to  all  members  of  the  Arab 
Gulf  Cooperation  Council  to  participate  in  the  forum 
on migrant workers to be  held in Doha in April 2007. 
The  State  of  Qatar  pays  particular  attention 
to 
protecting the rights of migrant workers in accordance 
with its laws and the contracts that are concluded with 
them  and  certified  by  the  countries  of  origin.  In  that 
regard,  I  wish  to  reiterate  that  the  State  of  Qatar 
honours 
contracts 
concluded  with  it  and  strictly  abides  by  the  relevant 
international agreements and treaties.  

In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  express  the  hope 
that this Dialogue will be fully successful in promoting 
progress and well-being in our nations. 
to 
I  now  give 

His Excellency Mr. Yannis Valinakis, Vice-Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Greece. 
Mr. Valinakis  (Greece):  On  behalf  of  the  Greek 

Government,  I  would  like  to  stress  the  importance  of 
the  organization  by  the  United  Nations  of  the  High-
level  Dialogue  on 
International  Migration  and 
Development.  
commitments  under 
The  President:
floor 
the 
the 
its 
10 

06-52461 
to 
the 
related 



It was in May 2003, during the Greek presidency 
of  the  European  Union  (EU),  that  the  European 
Council  adopted,  for  the  first  time,  Conclusions  on 
migration  and  development,  containing  a  series  of 
concrete measures and items for further elaboration by 
community  organizations  and  member  States.  Since 
then,  much  has  been  done  in  the  framework  of  EU 
action 
interrelationship  between 
migration  and  development,  and  migration  has  rightly 
been placed on our development agenda. 

The links between migration and development are 
complex  and  need  further  study.  It  appears  that 
migration,  when  managed  effectively,  can  have  a 
substantial  positive 
impact  for  both  countries  of 
destination and countries of origin.  

The  European  Council,  in  its  Conclusions  of 
15-16  December  2005,  underlined  the  need  for  a 
balanced, global and coherent approach to cooperation 
with  third  countries,  utilizing  the  benefits  of  legal 
migration  and  covering  policies  to  combat  illegal 
immigration.  It  recalled  that  migration  issues  are  a 
central  element  in  the  relations  of  the  Union  and  its 
member States with third countries.  

The EU commitment to support the development 
efforts of countries of origin and transit is also part of a 
long-term  process  aimed  at 
the 
opportunities  and  challenges  of  migration.  In  that 
recognized 
regard, 
the 
importance  of  addressing 
root  causes  of 
migration —  for  example,  through  the  eradication  of 
poverty  in  countries  and  regions  of  origin,  good 
governance  and  the  protection  of  human  rights.  We 
fully subscribe to those basic policy principles. 

In  the  same  vein,  we  consider  the  Rabat  EU-
Africa Ministerial Conference, held in July 2006, to be 
a fine paradigm for our relations with a basic group of 
countries  of  origin  and  transit. We  believe  that  it  will 
assist significantly in improving ways to communicate 
and cooperate with African partners. 
Nevertheless,  there  is  an  urgent  need  to  address 

the  phenomenon  of 
jointly, 
appropriately  and  effectively. The  fight  against  illegal 
migration  is  an  incessant  struggle  that  is  taking  place 
from  West  Africa  and  the  Canary  Islands,  across  the 
Mediterranean to the Aegean Sea and the Middle East. 
Illegal  migration  has  recently  taken  on  huge  and 
uncontrollable  proportions.  Given 
that 
than  16,000 
extends  more 
Greece’s 
the  European  Council 
the 
illegal  migration 
responding 
coastline 
fact 
the 
to 
A/61/PV.6
the 
floor 
I  now  give 
The  President:
kilometres, combating all forms of illegal migration is 
a declared high priority of the Greek Government. 

In conclusion, I should like to reiterate our view 
that  the  High-level  Dialogue  should  be  the  beginning 
of  a  new  global  approach  to  migration  in  its  various 
forms.  It  should  thus  focus  on  initiating  broad  and 
thorough  discussion  on  the  relevant  issues  and  on 
lessons  learned  about  the  multidimensional  aspects  of 
international  migration  and  development  in  order  to 
identify  appropriate  ways  and  means  to  maximize  the 
development benefits of migration and to minimize its 
negative impacts.  

to 
Her Excellency  Mrs.  Mari  Pedak,  Director-General  of 
the Citizenship and Migration Board of Estonia.  

Mrs.  Pedak  (Estonia):  The  general  position  of 
the European Union (EU) was outlined in the statement 
of its presidency. Therefore,  as the representative of  a 
member  of  the  EU,  I  will  not  repeat  what  has  already 
been said, but rather focus on a number of main aspects 
that are of great importance to Estonia. 

Nobel  Prize  winner  Amartya  Sen  defined 
development  as  the  process  of  expanding  the  real 
freedoms  that  people  enjoy.  That  includes  both  social 
and  economic  arrangements  and  political  and  civil 
rights. Although  migration  is  an  increasingly  complex 
phenomenon  in  our  globalizing  world,  its  primary 
cause  remains  the  disparities  that  exist  with  regard  to 
the  freedoms  enjoyed  by  individuals.  Therefore,  I 
would like to stress the need to address the root causes 
of  migration.  They  encompass  conflict,  poverty, 
famine,  disease,  lack  of  employment  opportunities, 
trade barriers, lack of rule of law and poor governance. 
Most of those causes are primarily of man-made origin. 

These  are  significant  barriers  to  freedom  that 
need  to  be  abolished  in  order  to  eliminate  conditions 
that  compel  people  to  leave  their  country.  It  goes 
without  saying,  that  we,  as  States,  are  primarily 
responsible  for  creating  an  environment  conducive  to 
development.  Naturally, 
that 
environment  would  be  the  efficient  and  purposeful 
utilization  of  the  remittances  of  migrants  for  further 
development,  such  as  for  education,  investment  and 
microcredit.  That  would  benefit  both  sending  and 
receiving societies. Those are some of the reasons that 
issues  related  to  international  migration  must  become 
an  integral  part  of  the  development  agenda.  Likewise, 
element 
one 
of 
06-52461 

11 

role 
The 
has 
stressed 
Secretary-General 
A/61/PV.6 

development issues should be recognized as important 
elements of migration policy. 

the 
importance of respecting the rights of migrants in order 
to realize  fully the benefits of international migration. 
He also has stressed the obligation to observe the laws 
and regulations of the host State. It is almost a truism 
that  education  plays  a  key 
in  personal 
development  and  significantly  expands  individuals’ 
opportunities and their capacity to live a happy life.  
Former Estonian President Lennart Meri has said 

that a lack of language skills creates lawlessness. Only 
by  understanding  the  language  will  we  understand  the 
laws  and  thus,  effectively,  our  rights  and  obligations. 
Learning  the  local  language  and  respecting  the  local 
culture opens a window of opportunity to an immigrant 
to  effectively  operate  in  the  host  society  as  a  subject 
and  not  as  an  object.  It  also  allows  him  or  her  to 
increase  his  or  her  competitiveness  in  the  labour 
market, as well as to obtain new skills and other assets 
for  development.  To  effectively  support  this  process, 
we need to continue local introductory and integration 
programmes, also bearing in mind that integration is a 
two-way  street  and  that  citizens  of  receiving  nations 
must also be educated. 

Last  but  not  least,  for  successful  integration  we 
all — both sending and receiving States — must avoid 
using  migrants  for  domestic  ideological  purposes.  We 
must  not  make 
instruments  of  our 
domestic policy. 
We truly hope that this Dialogue on International 

Migration  and  Development  will  continue  to  play  a 
significant global role in this respect. 

The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Carlos  Zamora  Rodríguez,  Director  of  Consular 
Affairs and Cubans Living Abroad of Cuba. 

in 
(Cuba) 
Spanish):  Allow  me,  Madam,  to  congratulate  you  on 
your election as President of the General Assembly and 
to  express  my  delegation’s  will  and  commitment  to 
continue  working  constructively  with  you.  My 
delegation wishes to associate itself with the statement 
made by the representative of South Africa on behalf of 
the Group of 77 and China. At the same time we would 
like to express some thoughts on this topic.  
international 

migration is  a consequence of the present world order 
Mr.  Zamora  Rodríguez
current  phenomenon  of 
these  people 
(spoke 
imposed  by  the  developed  world.  The  increasing 
differences  between  the  rich  countries  and  the  huge 
underdeveloped  and  poor  areas  of  the  planet  are  a 
consequence  of  neo-liberal  globalization.  Millions  of 
human  beings  see  no  alternative  for  their  future  other 
than  to  migrate  towards  the  developed  economies  of 
the first world. Changing this landscape is a challenge 
that  we  all  must  address,  for  its  consequences  affect 
both rich and poor countries. It is a matter of urgency 
to address the current phenomenon of migration, and it 
is  appropriate  to  include  the  issue  in  development 
policies. 

Maintaining  the  status  quo  will  only  serve  to 
increase  the  pressure  of  masses  of  migrants  coming 
from  impoverished  areas  of  the  planet  besieging  the 
borders  of  the  developed  world.  This  flood  cannot  be 
stopped  by  criminalizing  migration,  erecting  massive 
walls at the borders or creating administrative or even 
military barriers. 

We cannot accept approaches aimed at managing 
and administering migration flows to meet the needs of 
the  developed  world.  It  is  essential  to  change  the 
current situation of underdevelopment and poverty in a 
large part of the planet so that migration meets the true 
needs and aspirations of individuals who wish to settle 
in  another  country.  Development  is  the  only  way  to 
balance migration flows in the world of the future. 

The planet’s natural resources are being exploited 
for  the  benefit  of  the  developed  countries.  In  today’s 
globalized  economy, 
the  exploitation  of  human 
resources  is  ever  increasing.  An  unjust  international 
migration  order  has  been  created  to  serve  the  richest 
and  most  powerful  countries,  which  receive  skilled 
labour,  steal  the  best  brains  and  talent,  and  in  return 
want  our  countries  to  become  their  border  guards,  to 
stop irregular migration. 

For  example,  in  Latin  America  every  year  we 
train  1.2  million  university  graduates,  at  a  cost  of  at 
least $20,000 each. Of these, 240,000 — that is, 20 per 
cent — are stolen away to work and do research in the 
rich  nations,  which  offer  them  conditions  that  our 
impoverished  nations,  cannot  guarantee  them,  and  we 
receive  no  compensation  whatsoever.  They  sell  us 
remittances  as  a  panacea 
for  development  —
the  migrants’ 
remittances 
that  are 
sacrifices —  while 
their 
commitments and their official development assistance. 
the 
constantly 
reducing 
fruit  of 
The 
12 

06-52461 



It  is  time  to  rectify  this.  Sincere  cooperation  is 
required  to  contribute  to  the  development  of  the  vast 
poor  areas  of  the  planet.  Without  steadfast  political 
will,  it  will  not  be  possible  to  solve  the  problem. 
However, today’s facts call into question the existence 
of  that  political  will  on  the  part  of  the  industrialized 
world. 

The  policy  of  blockade  and  aggression  against 
my  country  is  one  example  of  the  aforementioned 
problem.  The  so-called  Cuban Adjustment Act  allows 
any  Cuban  who  arrives  on  United  States  territory  to 
take up residence, no matter the means and procedures 
used.  This  act  has  encouraged  illegal  migration  and 
alien  smuggling.  It  contradicts  the  bilateral  migration 
agreement,  which  establishes  the  obligation  to  ensure 
legal, safe and orderly migration. Moreover, the United 
States  authorities  show  no  inclination  to  investigate 
and  punish  organized  crime  that  benefits  from  alien 
smuggling. 

Moreover,  Cubans  resident  in  the  United  States 
are  the  only  group  of  migrants  that  is  restricted  in 
terms  of  visiting  and  helping  their  relatives  in  their 
country  of  origin,  as  a  result  of  the  regulations  issued 
by the host country. This situation has become crueller 
since  the  United  States  Government’s  May  2004 
adoption  of  measures  further  restricting  travel  and 
remittances  on  the  basis  of  an  absurd  and  offensive 
limitation  of  the  concept  of  family.  Today,  a  son  can 
visit  his  mother  only  once  every  three  years,  even  if 
she is dying. 

military 
expenditures constitute another example of the lack of 
will  regarding  development  cooperation.  What  can 
justify  the  vast  and  growing  amounts  spent  on  the 
development  of  increasingly  deadly  and  sophisticated 
weapons,  which  are  shown  by  the  current  wars  to  be 
aimed  precisely  at  the  poor  countries  and  to  cause 
significant  displacements  of  people?  The  reduction  of 
military  spending  and  its  investment  in  development 
would  be  a  demonstration  of  the  genuine  will  to 
address  the  issue  of  development,  and  to  help  change 
the current situation. 

The  developed  world  has  received  a  substantial 
contribution  from  migrants  to  its  current  standard  of 
living,  while  migrants  are  the  victims  of  economic, 
cultural  and  social  discrimination.  The  developed 
world  can  be  said  to  have  contracted  a  debt  with  the 
migrants for those contributions. A way to pay it back 
unsustainable 
Increasing 
and 
A/61/PV.6
the 
floor 
I  now  give 
The  President: 
would  be  to  cancel  the  external  debt  of  the  source 
countries. 

The walls and barriers being built today can hold 
back migration, but they do not solve the causes of the 
present and continuing forced migration of millions of 
human  beings.  If  this  High-level  Dialogue  raises 
greater  awareness  of  the  need  to  seek  solutions  that 
will  address  the  structural  causes  of  international 
migration,  then  it  will  have  been  worthwhile  for  the 
Secretary-General  to  have  convened  it;  but  if  we 
confine  ourselves 
to  migratory  flow  management 
formulas, we shall at best be postponing the impending 
crisis to which the phenomenon is leading.  

The  beneficiaries  of  the  current  world  order 
should reflect on this issue — if not with generosity, at 
least  with  intelligence  and  common  sense.  Solutions 
are  urgently  needed.  It  is  better  to  arrive  at  them 
between us all through cooperation. 
to 

His Excellency  Mr.  Christian Wenaweser,  chairman  of 
the delegation of Liechtenstein. 
Mr.  Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  International 

migrants  numbering  191  million  constitute  an 
important factor in the global economy. Their decision 
to  migrate  has,  however,  first  and  foremost  an  impact 
on local communities, in countries of origin as well as 
in countries of destination. And the impact is not only 
an  economic  one. The  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
(A/60/871) illustrates that migration also generates far-
reaching social, cultural and political consequences.  

international 
migration are radically different from those involved in 
managing the movements of inanimate objects such as 
goods, capital or information. Co-development through 
international migration should therefore be understood 
and  discussed  as  a  people-centred  process  of  which 
many  aspects  cannot  be  measured  in  purely  economic 
terms.  Promotion  of  a  people-centred  process  would 
help  in  responding  to  the  many  differences  in  global 
migration  patterns  and  to  local  conditions  of  sending 
and  receiving  societies.  It  would  also  ensure  a  human 
rights  approach  in  our  policymaking  at  the  local, 
national and international levels. 

Lack of the rule of law and low levels of human 
security,  together  with  underdevelopment,  are  often  at 
the  origin  of  the  desire  to  search  for  a  better  future 
abroad.  Coupled  with  misinformation  on 
the 
challenges  of  governing 
The 
06-52461 

13 

limitations  of  migration, 
A/61/PV.6 

possibilities  and 
such 
situations may lead to the exploitation of migrants and 
to violations of their human rights.  

States  have  a  responsibility  to  properly  inform 
people about the conditions of regular migration. They 
also  have  the  obligation  to  raise  awareness  of  the 
positive  contributions  of  migrants  to  society,  in  order 
to counter racism, xenophobia and discrimination, and 
they  have  to  take  firm  action  against  any  elements  in 
society  that  seek  to  abuse,  intimidate  or  exploit 
migrants.  

Mr.  Awaluddin  (Indonesia),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair. 

Migrants  who  deliberately  challenge  the  rule  of 
law or the human rights of others must, for their part, 
expect States  to take measures against them. Ensuring 
the  rule  of  law  with  full  respect  for  human  rights  in 
countries of origin and destination must be an essential 
element  of  any  international  and  national  migration 
policy. Rule of law and human rights are the basis for 
good  governance  of  international  migration,  which  is 
beneficial  for  the  sustainable  co-development  of  all 
countries and for the migrants themselves. 

While  migration  is  a  global  phenomenon,  its 
forms  and  manifestations  vary  from  region  to  region, 
as  does 
individual  countries.  The 
experience of small countries shows that their ability to 
cope with the challenges of migration is more likely to 
be  stretched.  Emigration  of  highly  educated  persons 
tends  to  affect  small  countries  earlier  because  their 
pool  of  human  resources  is  limited.  Similarly,  the 
economies of many small developing States depend to 
a high degree on remittances. On the receiving side, it 
is  often  the  small  countries  which  account  for  the 
highest  percentage  of  migrants  living  or  working  in 
their  jurisdiction.  The  impact  of  large  cross-border 
movements of persons tends to be more directly felt in 
small communities.  
As a small State, Liechtenstein has been seeking 

to  balance  economic  necessities  with 
the  social 
challenges  of  migration. With  a  population  of  roughly 
35,000  persons  and  34  per  cent  non-Liechtenstein 
nationals residing in the country, Liechtenstein is home 
to people from about 90 different countries. One of the 
priorities  of  Government  policy  lies  in  the  promotion 
of 
targeted 
services  for  migrants,  to  learn  the  national  language. 
Those  services  have  proven  especially  helpful  for  the 
its 
impact  on 
integration 
through 
the  provision  of 
14 

integration  of  women  migrants  and 
their  young 
children.  Many  other  measures  are  currently  under 
discussion  to  further  promote  integration,  which  is 
based on the cooperation of both sides — the receiving 
and the migrant communities.  

In its development cooperation, Liechtenstein has 
been  placing  special  emphasis  on  the  development  of 
rural areas in small developing countries. The projects 
it has been financing seek to improve the livelihoods of 
people  outside  their  countries.  Political  and  financial 
investments in integration measures, based on the rule 
of  law  and  respect  for  human  rights,  as  well  as 
development  cooperation with small countries,  are the 
two  pillars  of  sound  migration  policy.  Liechtenstein 
will accordingly continue to contribute to international 
efforts to realize the full potential of migration, for the 
co-development of countries and migrants alike. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Luis  Alberto  Sepúlveda,  Director 
of Consular and Migration Affairs of Chile. 
Mr.  Sepúlveda  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation  welcomes  the  decision  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  hold  this  High-level  Dialogue  on  the 
highly  important  topic  of  international  migration  and 
development. We  are  confident  that  this  initiative  will 
place that social and economic phenomenon, involving 
almost 200 million people in the world, at the centre of 
the United Nations agenda. 

Allow me to point out that the President of Chile, 
Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet,  also  underwent  the  difficult 
experience of being a migrant, when in the mid-1970s, 
owing  to  political  reasons,  she  had  to  leave  her 
country.  Consequently,  she  is  closely  acquainted  with 
the  adversities  and  insecurities  that  come  of  leaving 
behind homeland and loved ones. 

The  position  of  Chile  on  the  key  subject  of 
migration  is  basically  reflected  in  the  Declaration  of 
Asunción,  adopted  at 
the  VIth  South  American 
Conference on Migration, held in May 2006, and in the 
Declaration  of  Santiago  on  Migration  Principles, 
agreed upon at the Meeting of Ministers of the Interior 
of  the  Common  Market  of  the  South  and  Associate 
States, held in May 2004. 

One of the central themes of this debate should be 
the  developmental  dimension  of  migration,  and 
particularly  its  contribution  to  poverty  reduction.  The 
main  challenge  facing  us  is  the  process  of  making 
06-52461 
force 
for 
investments 
facilitated  and 
flows  should  be 


international  migration  a  positive 
the 
comprehensive  and  harmonious  development  of  our 
peoples. 

To  that  end,  we  must  see  how  the  sizeable 
resources  created  by  remittances  can  be  channelled 
towards  development  objectives  that  benefit  migrants 
and their families. Chile accordingly considers that the 
cost  of  remittance  transfers  should  be  reduced,  that 
that 
remittance 
development-oriented 
recipient 
countries  should  be  encouraged,  supplementing  and 
complementing official development assistance. 

In  addition,  we  share,  along  with  other  Latin 
American and Caribbean States, the concern about the 
rights  of  migrants  and  their  families.  In  that  spirit, 
Chile last year ratified the International Convention on 
the Protection of the Rights of all Migrant Workers and 
Members  of  Their  Families.  We  reaffirm  our  total 
commitment  to  the  promotion  and  protection  of  the 
human rights and fundamental freedoms of all migrant 
men,  women  and  children,  regardless  of  their  legal 
status, beliefs, religion or ethnicity, in accordance with 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 

We  believe  that  this  High-level  Dialogue  should 
mark the beginning in the Organization of a process of 
reflection  and  ongoing  consultation  on  international 
migration.  Nevertheless,  we  believe  that  this  exercise 
should  not  lead  to  the  establishment  of  a  new  body 
within  the  United  Nations,  nor  should  it  duplicate  the 
functions of existing bodies and mechanisms. 
Our country is the product of the integration and 

mixture of indigenous populations with  various waves 
of  European  and  Arab  migrants.  As  a  result  of 
economic  developments  in  recent  decades  in  our 
country,  Chile  has  now  become  a  country  of 
destination  for  migrants.  As  a  host  country,  we  have 
endeavoured at this time to formulate and implement a 
the  management  of 
policy  seeking 
migration,  principally  by 
living 
conditions of foreigners, so that their establishment and 
integration in the country can benefit all concerned. 
The  migration  policy  of  Chile  is  based  on  the 

the  right  of 
following  principles:  guarantees  of 
residence  and  freedom  of  movement,  guarantees  of 
freedom of thought and conscience, access to residence 
on a basis of equality, access to justice as a right of all 
immigrants, 
immigrants, 
to  modernize 
improving 
protection 
social 
in 
the 
of 
A/61/PV.6
that 
there 
two  days, 
towards  meeting 
guarantees  of  the  labour  rights  of  foreign  workers  in 
Chile, non-discrimination and family reunification. 

At the same time, as a country of origin, we have 
a  responsibility  towards  Chilean  migrants  residing 
abroad.  As  a  crucial  step 
that 
responsibility,  in  2003  and  2004  our  country  carried 
out  its  first  voluntary  census  of  Chileans  residing 
abroad. That entailed arduous but valuable work on the 
five  continents  and  in  some  100  countries. That  effort 
helped to strengthen links between Chilean society and 
the community of Chileans abroad. 
We  have  been  able  to  confirm,  in  the  course  of 

these 
is  a  significant  and 
expanding  awareness  in  the  international  community 
regarding  the  realities  of  migration,  including  migrant 
rights  and  the  benefits  they  bring  to  development  and 
to poverty relief in the world.  

We  hope  that  this  meeting  will  constitute  a  real 
and  decisive  milestone  on  the  road  to  progress  in 
dealing with this important social phenomenon specific 
to our age, which we must decisively address. 

The  Acting  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Ewald  Limon,  Chairman  of  the 
delegation of Suriname.  
Mr.  Limon  (Suriname):  Globalization,  advances 

in 
transportation, 
underdevelopment,  lack  of  opportunity  and  poverty, 
have  all  contributed  to  the  increase  in  the  flow  of 
migrants.  We  share  the  view  that  there  is  a  need  for 
effective  management  of  international  migration.  For 
such management to be achieved, all stakeholders must 
be involved and all root causes must be examined. My 
delegation  therefore  welcomes  the  convening  of  this 
High-level  Dialogue  and  considers  it  an  excellent 
opportunity to exchange views at the global level. 

We  align  ourselves  with  the  statement  delivered 
by  the  representative  of  South Africa  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of 77 and China. The Government of Suriname 
agrees that international migration should be managed 
in a manner that contributes to the development efforts 
of States. A process of consultation and an exchange of 
views,  including  best  practices  on  the  various  aspects 
of  international  migration,  are  therefore  needed.  The 
consultations on co-development and the maximization 
of  the  impact  of  remittances  on  the  development 
process are of special interest to my delegation. 
communications 
and 
06-52461 

15 

A/61/PV.6 


Suriname believes that there is need for a steady 
flow  of  skilled  human  resources  to  meet  the  nation’s 
development  objectives.  Therefore, 
the  Dialogue 
should  discuss  and  explore  possible  arrangements  to 
compensate  for  the  loss  of  skilled  personnel  between 
the receiving States and States of origin, given the high 
cost  of  training  human  resources.  In  addition,  the 
advantages  of  the  brain  gain  and  brain  circulation 
arrangements  could  be  examined. The  Dialogue  could 
also  examine  the  use  of  remittances  for  economic 
investment  and  social  advancement,  for  education  and 
health  services  and  for  housing  purposes,  as  well  as 
assisting  in  analysing  financial  services,  attracting 
savings for, and investment in, those areas. 

With regard to international migration, Suriname 
is  engaged  in  a  process  of  evaluation  at  the  national 
level,  and  consultation  and  exchange  of  views  at  the 
regional  level,  in  order  to  strengthen  our  migration 
policy. We are convinced  of the need for international 
migration to evolve within a framework that guarantees 
full respect for human rights. 

Among our commitments at the national level are 
actions  to  ensure  that  migration  takes  place  within  a 
legal framework and that trafficking in persons is more 
effectively countered. At the core of these actions is the 
establishment  of  a  special  police  unit  responsible  for 
the combating of human trafficking and related crimes. 
In  addition,  an 
information  campaign  concerning 
trafficking in persons and related crimes was launched, 
and  policy  decisions  have  been 
that  will 
guarantee  the  safe  return  of  victims  of  trafficking  to 
their countries of origin. 

Suriname  values  the  contribution  and  initiatives 
of  the  various  regional  organizations  and  institutions 
with  regard  to  the  manifold  aspects  of  international 
migration.  We  are  therefore  actively  participating  in 
that process. 

At  the  regional  level,  consultations  are  ongoing 
within  the  framework  of  the  African,  Caribbean  and 
Pacific  groups  of  States; 
the  South  American 
consultation  mechanism; 
the  Caribbean 
and 
Community. This dialogue can significantly contribute 
to  discussions  on  improving  coherence  on  migration 
policy,  foster  dialogue  between  sending  and  receiving 
States,  support  regional  consultative  processes  and 
strengthen coherence and coordination among agencies 
at all levels. 
taken 
to 
to 
ensure 
the  global 
level 
Mr.  Sevilla  Somoza  (Nicaragua)  (spoke 
Hence we consider this meeting to be the start of 

a  process  at 
that  complements 
consultations  and  actions  at  the  regional  and  bilateral 
level  with  regard 
international  migration.  We 
therefore  support  the  Secretary-General’s  proposal  for 
the establishment of a consultative forum on migration 
and development issues. 

The  Acting  President: I  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Eduardo  Sevilla  Somoza,  chairman  of 
the delegation of Nicaragua. 
in 

Spanish):  We  wish  to  associate  ourselves  with  the 
statement made by the delegation of Guyana on behalf 
of  the  Rio  Group  and  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative  of  South Africa  on  behalf  of  the  Group 
of 77. 

Nicaragua welcomes this High-level Dialogue on 
Migration  and  Development  and  deems  it  particularly 
timely and relevant, as these two issues should be dealt 
with  in  a  comprehensive  and  integrated  manner.  We 
recognize  that  the  issue  of  migration  involves  all 
sectors  of  Government,  and  we  believe  also  that 
account  should  be  taken  of  the  experiences  and  views 
of  the  relevant  non-governmental  sectors,  including 
diaspora  associations,  civil  society  and  the  private 
sector. 
is 

multidimensional and is launching a quest for the best 
way 
to 
development.  Indeed,  the  United  Nations  is  the  forum 
best  suited  to  this  exchange  of  ideas  and  experiences. 
Since migration is a global phenomenon that occurs not 
only  between  pairs  of  countries  or  within  one  single 
region, but from and to all parts of the world, we must 
consider it collectively. 

We  very  much  welcome,  as  a  follow-up  to  this 
High-level  Dialogue  and  in  order  to  deal  in  greater 
depth  with 
the  broad  subject  of  migration  and 
development,  the  recommendation  of  the  Secretary-
General to establish a consultative forum led by States 
and  open  to  the  192  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations.  Such  a  forum  would  offer  Governments  a 
venue 
international 
migration  and  development 
in  a  systematic  and 
comprehensive way. 

The  Government  of  Nicaragua  attaches  high 
priority  to  the  combat  against  trafficking  in  human 
that  migration 
this  dialogue 
to  discuss 
We  welcome 
the  fact 
that 
contributes 
issues 
related 
to 
16 

06-52461 


beings.  To  that  end,  in  February  2004  we  formed  a 
National Coalition against Trafficking in Persons, with 
the  participation  of  several  related  institutions.  They 
are making significant progress in fighting this scourge 
at  the  national  and  regional  levels,  with  a  firm 
commitment to protecting human rights. 

The  programme  to  fight  trafficking  in  persons 
launched  by  the  Government  of  Nicaragua  together 
with  the  International  Orgaqnization  for  Migration 
(IOM)  and  members  of  the  national  coalition  against 
trafficking  in  persons  is  holding  regular  working 
sessions with a view to drafting a repatriation protocol 
that sets out administrative and legal guidelines in that 
respect that are based on daily experience. It also aims 
to  take,  along  with  the  participants,  concrete  actions 
and  steps  in  the  context  of  the  various  components  of 
the  process:  research,  repatriation,  assistance,  and 
legalization  of  the  system.  The  result  will  be  the 
drafting  at  the  national  level  of  the  protocol  for  the 
return of boys, girls and adolescents victims of human 
trafficking, which is in the final stages of ratification.  

Our Government also participated in the technical 
meeting  held  in  Guatemala  on  9  and  10  March  to 
consider  the  possibility  of  elaborating  a  regional 
protocol 
the 
repatriation  of  victims  of  trafficking  and  vulnerable 
populations.  The  outcome  of  that  meeting  yielded  a 
draft  setting  out  regional  guidelines  for  providing 
special  protection  to  boys,  girls  and  adolescents  who 
are victims of trafficking. 

We  are  aware  of  the  technical  limitations  to  our 
work,  but  experience  has  shown  that  the  political  and 
personal  will  of  all 
is 
fundamental  to  the  eradication  of  this  social  scourge. 
That is why we have been developing a new culture of 
citizenship,  thereby  contributing  to  the  fulfilment  of 
the principle of shared responsibility between the State, 
the family and society in guaranteeing human rights, in 
particular those of children and of adolescents. 

The  efforts  that  have  been  undertaken  by  the 
various  departments  of  the  Ministry  of  the  Interior 
responsible 
the  national  police,  migration, 
immigration,  coexistence  and  citizens’  security  are 
showing positive results among the general population 
as well as the student population in terms of prevention 
and detection. However, since the crime of trafficking 
is  very  complex  and  has  various  manifestations,  it 
would  be  better  addressed  if  certain  State  institutions 
include  guidelines 
involved  with 
that  would 
issue 
for 
for 
the 
A/61/PV.6
and  national  and 
international  non-governmental 
organizations  with  experience  in  this  area  were  able 
better  to  coordinate  their  work  within  the  National 
Coalition  against  Trafficking  in  Persons,  so  that  we 
could  more  effectively  optimize  and  distribute  the 
resources available. 
The  Acting  President: I  give  the  floor  to 

His Excellency  Mr.  Ali  Hachani,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of Tunisia. 
Mr.  Hachani  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

should  like  to  endorse  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative  of  South Africa  on  behalf  of  the  Group 
of 77 and China. 

This important debate is the first high-level event 
of the United Nations entirely devoted to migration and 
development.  It  is  the  outcome  of  a  long  process  of 
coordination  and  reflection  undertaken  at  both  the 
international and regional levels. 

In  that  framework,  I  should  like  in  particular  to 
mention the Euro-African conference on Migration and 
Development,  held  at  Rabat  on  10  and  11  July  2006, 
whose conclusions, namely the Declaration and Action 
Plan, encompass a broad range of measures relating to 
migration 
the 
establishment  of  financial  mechanisms  to  promote  co-
development,  as  well  as  issues  relating  to  legal 
migration,  and  judicial  and  police  cooperation  in  the 
fight against illegal immigration. 

Increased  international  interest  in  questions  of 
migration,  of  which  this  High-level  Dialogue  is  a 
consequence, shows that now more than ever migration 
is a cross-cutting issue in all societies, with economic, 
political  and  cultural  aspects  closely 
to 
development. Globalization especially has brought this 
to  the  foreground.  Migration  can  no  longer  be  dealt 
with on a short-term basis or unilaterally, but as part of 
a  cooperative  plan,  for  the  process  of  migration 
requires coordinated, multidimensional responses. 

Because  of  increased  disparities  in  development, 
unbalanced  changes  in  population  growth  and  the 
multiplication  of  conflicts,  there  is  a  clear  trend  of 
increased  migratory  flows,  which  must  be  taken  into 
account  in  the  formulation  and  implementation  of 
migration  policies.  Thus  migration,  which  is  much 
more  a  necessity  than  a  choice,  should  be  dealt  with 
comprehensively and incorporated into programmes for 
economic  development  and  cooperation  among  States. 
development, 
including 
linked 
and 
06-52461 

17 
in 
in 
like 
stress 
I  would 
terms  of  culture.  It 
A/61/PV.6 

It  is  inconceivable  that  at  a  time  when  borders  are 
opening to the flow of trade, services and capital, they 
are  increasingly  closed  to  the  flow  of  persons.  This 
inevitably  leads  to  clandestine  migration  and  all  that 
that  implies  in  terms  of  risks  to  individuals  and  to 
society in general. 

Migration ought not to be a threat, we believe; it 
should  be  a  factor  for  mutual  enrichment,  both  socio-
economically  and 
is  an 
appropriate  alternative  response  to  the  needs  of  the 
labour  market 
industrialized  countries  and  an 
essential, complementary and rewarding component in 
various  areas  of  bilateral,  regional  and  multilateral 
cooperation.  International  events  over  the  past  few 
years  give  the  issue  of  migration  political,  economic, 
social  and  cultural  importance  and  confirm  the  close 
interdependence  between  changes  in  both  countries  of 
origin  and  countries  of  destination,  involving  the 
responsibilities of all parties. 

that  collaborative 
management  of  migration,  based  on  a  comprehensive 
approach  that  conforms  with  and  respects  the  interest 
of the different countries, has become one of the major 
challenges  that  the  international  community  must  take 
up  at  the  beginning  of  this  millennium  in  order  to 
establish  a  balance  between 
imperatives  of 
development and the constraints of globalization. 
It  is  also  of  paramount  importance  that  we 

highlight 
transfer  of  new 
technologies  and  the  exchange  of  skills  in  order  to 
strengthen the economies of the countries of origin and 
of destination through increased international, bilateral 
and  triangular  development  cooperation  as  well  as 
decentralized  cooperation  between  local  institutions 
and development agencies. 

My delegation endorses the finding that financial 
flows from immigrants are poorly or little used, owing 
to  high  transfer  costs.  It  is  necessary  to  discuss 
measures  to  decrease  transfer  costs  and  thus  provide 
additional 
financing  development. 
However,  remittances  sent  by  migrant  workers  cannot 
be  considered  as  and  made  part  of  international 
financing  for  development,  not  can  they  substitute  for 
it.  Remittances  are  fluctuating  private  resources,  of  a 
complementary nature. 

the 
My  delegation 
Millennium  Development  Goals  process  must  discuss 
migration and development. 
the  promotion  of 
resources 
shares 
idea 
that 
the 
for 
the 
to 
the 

for 
step 
to  mention 
I  would  also 
fundamental  new 
Given  the  increased  interdependence  of  the  two 

shores  of 
the  Mediterranean  —  a  political  and 
geographical  area  of  which Tunisia  is  part  —  and  the 
complexity  of  migratory  movements,  Tunisia  has 
repeatedly  appealed 
the  establishment  of  a 
constructive dialogue to promote the development of a 
sustainable and dynamic process that makes emigration 
one  of  the  elements  of  economic  cooperation,  of 
equitable  development  and  of  cultural  exchanges 
between  the  North  and  South  of  the  Mediterranean, 
especially in the western region. 
In  that  spirit,  Tunisia  is  pleased  that  the  first 

Ministerial  Conference  of 
the  5+5  Dialogue  on 
Migration  in  the  Western  Mediterranean  was  held  in 
Tunis  on  16  and  17  October  2002.  That  conference 
unanimously  adopted  the  Tunis  Declaration,  which 
represents  a 
in  Euro-
Mediterranean cooperation. 

the  positive 
like 
evolution  of  the  5+5  Dialogue  through  the  holding  of 
annual  ministerial  meetings,  which  shows  that  the 
countries  involved  recognize  the  need  to  continue  the 
dialogue,  consultation  and  coordination  in  the  area  of 
migration. The Fifth Ministerial Conference, to be held 
in Madrid in November 2006, will be a new milestone 
in the Euro-Mediterranean partnership. 

to  attach  appropriate 
importance  to  the  questions  of  migration  and  to 
maintain  to  its  partners  that  unilateral  solutions  and 
security  measures  do  not 
administrative 
necessarily 
the  effective  and  sustainable 
handling of the migration issue. 

Ali has stated, 

“Migration  today  is  not  the  simple  search  for 
employment and a source of income. It is also an 
essential aspect of the creation of wealth, a basis 
of  stability  and  united  co-development,  and  a 
decisive  factor  in  enriching  areas  of  mutual 
knowledge and rapprochement among nations.” 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Guy  Serieys,  Chairman  of  the 
Delegation of France. 

Mr.  Serieys  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  The 
global  phenomenon  of  migration  is  in  large  part  the 
result  of  inequalities  in  development  between  various 
regions  of  our  planet.  How  can  we  forget  that  today 
As His Excellency President Zine El Abidine Ben 
Tunisia  will  continue 
and 
to 
lead 
18 

06-52461 
for 
First,  we  want 
to 
facilitate  — 
together.  In 
insecurity  motivate 
combating  poverty 


one fifth of the world’s population enjoys four fifths of 
the world’s wealth? 

Dramatic and daily events that illustrate the vital 
need for mobility make us aware that the phenomena of 
migration  cannot  be  dealt  with  without  taking  into 
consideration  the  development  of  the  countries  of  the 
South.  We  must  each,  at  our  own 
level  of 
responsibility,  mobilize  to  re-examine  our  activities 
and efforts from that angle. The goals of development 
must  remain  the  pillar  of  international  cooperation. 
And  for  that,  we  must  reinforce  the  instruments  and 
means 
and  promoting 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
that  we  defined 
that  sense,  human 
development, health and  education, but also economic 
development,  remain  our  priorities.  If  immigrants  opt 
for  exile,  it  is  because  the  means  for  attaining  those 
Goals are not being effectively implemented. Much too 
frequently,  conflicts  and 
this 
choice. 

If  we  meet  here  today  —  countries  of  origin, 
countries of transit and countries of destination — it is 
because  we  have  become  aware  of  the  role  that 
migrants play in the development of their countries of 
origin. 

In  order  to  make  the  most  of  that  link,  the 
Government  of  France  recently  adopted  an  inter-
ministerial  strategy  on  migration  and  development 
based  on  three  aspects  and  which  fully  takes  into 
account European initiatives on this issue. 
through 

co-development  projects 
that  France  has  been 
implementing  for  several  years  —  individual  and 
collective  initiatives  by  migrants  in  favour  of  their 
regions  of  origin  through  financing  microprojects  that 
promote  local  development  and  employment.  These 
initiatives require a strong partnership with immigrant 
associations  and  with 
the  authorities  of  partner 
countries. In this regard we include Morocco, Mali and 
Senegal in the first rank today. 

The  second  aspect  of  our  strategy  concerns 
remittances  by  immigrants  to  their  regions  of  origin. 
The transfer of savings is the most eloquent expression 
of  the  socio-economic  tie  between  diasporas  and  their 
regions of origin. In order to promote the investment of 
savings  in  development,  we  back  both  a  reduction  in 
transfer  costs  by  encouraging  competition  between 
banking institutions and support for immigrants in their 
A/61/PV.6
projects.  The  creation  of  a  development  savings 
account should make it possible to exempt from taxes 
savings that are used in the productive sector. 

Finally, we should act against the brain drain and 
loss  of  human  resources,  fostering  North-South  and 
South-South  mobility.  We  want  to  associate  the  elites 
established  in  France  with  the  development  of  their 
continent,  notably  at  the  level  of  training  and  skills 
transfer.  We  also  want  to  take  steps  to  facilitate  the 
mobility  of  qualified  people  in  the  diaspora,  namely, 
doctors,  engineers,  university  staff  and  high-level 
personnel  who  reside  in  France  and  who  could,  with 
our  help,  participate  in  our  cooperation  programmes 
and thereby transmit their knowledge and skills to the 
countries of the South. 

Our  approach  to  the  challenges  of  international 
migration  and  development  can  be  neither  exclusively 
bilateral  nor  exclusively  regional.  Migration  routes 
change  as  globalization  develops,  and  we  must, 
therefore,  facilitate  the  emergence  of  a  multilateral 
approach  that  tends  itself  to  the  identification  of 
practical  means  of  intervention. The  proper  forum  for 
pursuing  this  line  of  thinking  is  of  course  the  United 
Nations, but care should be taken not to exclude those 
who  are  mainly  concerned,  namely,  the  migrants 
themselves. 

We  should  pool  our  experiences.  In  that  regard, 
the  most  recent  Euro-African  Ministerial  Conference 
on Migration and Development was, in our opinion, an 
essential  stage  in  the  definition  of  a  North-South 
partnership  aimed  at  providing  a  global  and  balanced 
approach 
issues.  We  should  also 
encourage  the  emergence  of  a  system  of  effective 
exchange  among  Governments  and 
international 
organizations working in these areas, be it at the level 
of  objective  analysis  of  the  issues  or  at  the  level  of 
programmes to be launched to meet the challenges that 
we face. 

I  have  no  doubt  that  our  contributions  to  this 
High-level Dialogue will manage to shed light on these 
various questions, taking account of the variety of the 
situations and people concerned. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His Excellency Mr. Julian Vila-Coma, chairman of the 
delegation of Andorra. 

Mr.  Vila-Coma  (Andorra)  (spoke  in  French): 
First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  Ms.  Rashed 
to  migration 
06-52461 

19 

for  his 
excellent 
A/61/PV.6 

Al-Khalifa  on  her  appointment  as  President  of  the 
General Assembly  and,  at  the  same  time,  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General 
report  on 
international  migration  and  development  (A/60/871) 
and his recommendation to set up a global consultative 
forum on this issue. We firmly believe such a forum to 
be  a  fundamental  tool  for  working  constructively  on 
this phenomenon, one of the most sensitive in today’s 
world, taking into account the links that exist between 
international migration and development. 

In  that  regard, Andorra  also  wishes  to  commend 
the initiative of the Government of Belgium, which has 
offered to host the first forum meeting on this topic in 
2007. 

Andorra, which has long been a country of origin 
for  migrants,  can  testify  to  the  changes  that  this 
phenomenon  makes  to  all  the  different  aspects  of  the 
life  of  a  small  country.  Andorra,  with  an  economy 
based  essentially  on  tourism,  trade  and  services,  has 
not been untouched by this phenomenon. It underwent 
an  important  change  at  the  end  of  the  first  half  of  the 
twentieth century when it went from being a country of 
origin to a country of destination. 

The  history  of Andorra  then  became  inseparable 
from the phenomenon of immigration, which triggered 
a process of development unprecedented in its history. 
Immigration  took  place  within  a  legal  framework  that 
made 
the  various  demographic, 
economic,  political  and  social  factors  involved  in  that 
transformation to be carefully tied in with our everyday 
life  in  order  to  create  a  sense  of  belonging  to  our 
community. 
the  adoption  of  our  new 

Moreover,  upon 
Constitution,  political 
relations  were 
facilitated 
between  Andorra  as  a  country  of  destination  and  the 
countries  of  origin  within  a  legal  framework  that  is 
more  favourable  to  the  integration  of  migrants,  while 
allowing them to maintain links with their countries of 
origin. 

Allow me to stress my country’s interest in all the 
issues  with  which  we  are  concerned  here.  Andorra 
selected the subject as the main topic for discussion at 
our twenty-third summer congress this year, in order to 
analyse  the  related  challenges  and  opportunities  in 
historical,  political,  legal,  sociological  and  cultural 
terms. 
it  possible 
for 
to 
echoes  many  of 
raise  awareness  of 
Mr.  Choi  Young-jin 

Andorra supports all strategies based on the study 
of  the  phenomenon  of  migration  in  the  context  of 
bilateral  and  multilateral  cooperation,  because  we  are 
convinced  that  only  such  an  approach  will  yield 
positive results in that regard. 

The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Choi  Young-jin,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of the Republic of Korea. 

(Republic  of  Korea): 
Immigration 
aspects  of 
globalization.  It  is  indeed,  a  multidimensional  and 
global  phenomenon.  With 
almost  200  million 
international emigrants in the world, it has the potential 
to  reshape  the  basic  structure  of  our  societies  and  to 
inject the countries of origin and destination with new 
ideas, 
input,  and  energy.  A  by-product  of  our 
interdependence,  migration  is  a  testament  to  our 
diversity. 
As is noted in the report of the Secretary-General 

(A/60/871),  the  goals  of  the  High-level  Dialogue  are 
clear: 
the  development 
dimensions  of  migration,  to  examine  the  migration-
development  nexus  and  to  identify  examples  of  best 
practices. 

The  Republic  of  Korea  has  been  mentioned  as  a 
noteworthy case with regard to migration policies. We 
have  the  dual  status  of  a  country  of  origin  and 
destination; we attract home our expatriate researchers 
through various policy incentives; and we successfully 
integrate  a  large  number  of  foreign  immigrants  into 
Korean society. 

In order to maximize the benefits and contain any 
collateral  damage  of  migration,  policies  tailored  to 
those  particularities  of  the  country  are  indispensable. 
Without  them,  migration  could  lead  to  an  uneven 
distribution of benefits among societies. 

Our  first  task  in  addressing  this  issue,  then, 
should  be  to  devise  comprehensive  and  coherent 
migration  policies  in  all  concerned  countries.  Poorly 
integrated  immigrants  are  a  source  of  segregation, 
social 
security-related 
challenges.  Countries  of  destination  should  focus  on 
formulating  migration  policies  that  take  into  account 
the long-term objective of social integration. 

Another  focus  of  a  win-win  migration  policy 
involves  the  introduction  of  a  domestic  system  to 
absorb  the  migration  benefits  by  the  countries  of 
problems, 
tensions 
the 
and 
20 

06-52461 
I  believe 
transaction 
that  we  cannot  maximize 


origin.  Remittances  —  at  least  $167  billion  in  2005 
alone  —  seem  to  be  one  of  the  most  immediate  and 
tangible  benefits  of  migration.  Without  a  solid  social 
system,  however,  the  development  potential  of  those 
huge resources cannot be realized. 

In  order  for  remittances  to  actually  benefit  the 
local  economy,  we  first  need  to  seek  ways  to  reduce 
transnational 
fees.  Secondly,  migrant 
families  should  be  provided  with  technical  assistance 
to  utilize  remittances  in  order  to  enhance  productivity 
and  thus  increase  their  income.  Microfinances  would 
be the most useful system for the families of migrants. 
Countries of origin must also put mechanisms in place 
to  mobilize  the  developmental  potential  of  skilled 
migrants who return home. 

the 
contributions of migrants to societies without enlisting 
the  help  of  the  business  community.  The  business 
community  must  recognize  the  economic  potential  of 
migrants, not only in terms of their labour, but also as 
contributors to the expansion of trade and tourism. The 
business  community  should  thus  be  actively  involved 
in  discussions  on 
the  development  potential  of 
immigration.  Furthermore,  various  methods 
to 
facilitate  real  partnerships  between  Governments, 
international  organizations and the private sector need 
to  be  considered.  In  this  regard,  the  Global  Compact 
provides  a  worthy  model  of  a  successful  international 
business partnership. 

International  cooperation  on  issues  relating  to 
migration  is  also  crucial.  The  recently  established 
Global  Migration  Group  should  serve  to  enhance 
coordination,  cooperation  and  coherence  between 
international  organizations  working  in  the  field  of 
migration and development. At the same time, we must 
also embrace regional efforts such as the Bali Process, 
among others. 

The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to 
Her Excellency  Ms.  Caroline  Ziade,  chair  of  the 
delegation of Lebanon. 

Ms.  Ziade  (Lebanon):  We  welcome  the  holding 
of this High-level Dialogue on International Migration 
and  Development.  We  believe  that  this  Dialogue  will 
provide  an  excellent  opportunity  for  an  exchange  of 
ideas  and  views  on  migration.  Furthermore,  it  will 
allow  for  the  exploration  of  new  horizons  in  terms  of 
increasing the mutual benefits derived from migration. 
We also appreciate the efforts of the Secretary-General 
A/61/PV.6
preparing 
his 
report 
(A/60/871) 
the  great  contribution 
in 
entitled 
“International  migration  and  development”,  and  we 
consider it to be a good step forward. 

Lebanon  has  4  million  people  inside  the  country 
and 12 million people abroad, whose number includes 
3 per cent of the population of Australia. Gibran Khalil 
Gibran, Carlos Ghosn, Elias Khoury, George Dabaghi, 
Nicolas  Hayek,  Amin  Maalouf:  they  are  but  a  small 
example  of 
that  Lebanese 
expatriates have bestowed  upon their host nations  and 
the world. 

Migration is a phenomenon that has paralleled the 
modern history of human beings. It was the prospect of 
overcoming  adversity  and  improving  their  standard  of 
living that pushed many men and women to leave their 
homelands  and  migrate 
to  wealthier  and  more 
developed  countries.  It  is  quite  obvious  that  the  main 
reasons  for  migration  are  poverty,  underdevelopment, 
social exclusion and foreign occupation, together with 
the  absence  of  peace,  security  and  stability,  the  large 
income  differential  between  high-  and  low-income 
countries and economic crises. 
In  2005,  the  estimated  number  of  international 

migrants  reached  191  million,  of  whom  115  million 
lived 
in 
developing countries. This means that the magnitude of 
South-to-South  migration  is  comparable  to  that  of 
South-to-North migration. 

The  positive  economic  and  social  impact  of 
migration  on  the  receiving  and  sending  countries  is 
certainly  beyond  doubt.  According  to  World  Bank 
estimates,  migrants’  remittances  at  the  world  level 
amounted  to  an  estimated  $232  billion  in  2005.  The 
share  of  global  remittances  going 
to  developing 
countries  is  equal  to  $167  billion.  Those  remittances 
increase  families’  incomes  in  countries  of  origin  and 
help  them  secure  access  to  services  such  as  education 
and  health.  They  also  improve  the  entrepreneurship 
atmosphere  and  increase  the  ability  of  households  to 
make productive investments. In Lebanon, for instance, 
the remittances of Lebanese emigrants are estimated to 
be equal to 12 per cent of gross domestic product. 
In certain cases, the contribution of remittances to 

the overall  economies of  countries  of origin is greater 
than  official  development  assistance.  There  is  a  need, 
therefore,  for  more  action  to  reduce  the  transfer  fees 
tied  to  migrant  remittances  with  a  view  to  increasing 
important 
the  benefits  derived 
in  developed  countries  and  75  million 
them.  The 
from 
06-52461 

21 

in 
they  acquired 
A/61/PV.6 

contribution  of  remittances  to  the  economies  of  the 
sending  countries  should  not  be  used  as  a  pretext  to 
reduce  official  development  assistance  to  developing 
countries. 

It  is  well  known  that  migrants  who  return  home 
bring  with  them  expertise  and  savings. They  use  their 
expertise  to  transfer  to  their  countries  of  origin  the 
know-how 
the  countries  of 
destination.  Moreover,  they  use  their  savings  to  start 
businesses  that  contribute  to  job  creation  in  the 
countries  of  origin,  thereby  reducing  unemployment 
rates. 

In countries of destination, migrants supplement, 
rather  than  substitute,  the  greater  majority  of  workers 
in  the  receiving  countries.  Inflows  of  low-skilled 
migrants help to fill jobs that are no longer attractive to 
the  local  population.  Migrant  workers  also  help  to 
maintain services that would otherwise disappear. 
The  receiving  States  should  respect  the  human 

rights of migrants. The  receiving States, together with 
the  countries  of  origin,  should  combat  the  traffic  in 
persons  and  the  smuggling  of  migrants  and  punish 
those  offences.  Also,  receiving  States  should  accord 
migrants equal treatment and should prohibit all forms 
of  discrimination.  The  successful 
integration  of 
migrants  depends  upon  their  protection  from  racism, 
xenophobia and ethnocentrism. 
In conclusion, it is important to mention the fact 

that  migrants  contribute  greatly 
the  dialogue 
between culture and civilizations. They largely account 
for 
first  encounters  between  different 
civilizations and cultures. The success of that dialogue 
hinges upon the acceptance of their differences by the 
hosting  societies  and  upon  the  recognition  of  such 
differences  as  a  source  of  enrichment  rather  than 
discord. 

the 
announcement made earlier, I now give the floor to the 
Chairman  of  round  table  4,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jean-
François Ndongou, Deputy Minister to the Minister of 
State,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  Cooperation, 
Francophonie and Social Integration of Gabon. 

Mr. Ndongou (Gabon), Chairman of round table 
4  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  my  task  to  summarize  the 
discussions  that  took  place  in  round  table  4,  which 
focused  on  the  issue  of  promoting  the  building  of 
partnerships  and  capacity-building  and  the  sharing  of 
The  Acting  President: 
line  with 
the  very 
In 
to 
range 
from 
that  contribute 
Our  discussion,  which  was 
best  practices  at  all  levels,  including  the  bilateral  and 
regional  levels,  for  the  benefit  of  countries  and 
migrants alike.  

thorough  and 
thoughtful,  arrived  at  a  number  of  conclusions.  There 
was a general consensus that international cooperation 
is  essential  to  promote  the  benefits  of  international 
immigration  and  to  address  its  problematic  aspects. 
International  cooperation  could  occur  at  different 
levels.  Bilateral  negotiations  and  formal  agreements 
are  necessary 
to  achieve  concrete  outcomes  and 
enhance  collaboration  on  individual  matters,  but  since 
migration  involves  groups  of  countries,  multilateral 
cooperation is also called for. 

Most  participants  gave  examples  of  successful 
multilateral  processes  at  the  subregional  and  regional 
levels.  Those  processes 
informal 
consultative  meetings 
to  building 
understanding  between  various  parties  and  helping  to 
establish  common  ground  among  the  participating 
countries, to the setting up of formal institutions aimed 
at  achieving  regional  integration  and  facilitating  the 
movement of people. 

The  parties  agreed  that  such  processes  —  which 
are  at  different  stages  of  development  —  are  helpful 
and should be sustained; they should also no doubt be 
reinforced  by  dialogue  at  a  higher 
level.  Some 
participants 
the 
continuation  of  dialogue  at  a  global  level.  Several 
speakers  welcomed  the  proposal  of  the  Secretary-
General  to  set  up  a  global  consultative  forum  that 
would  allow  informal  consultations,  so  as  to  find 
common  ground  on 
to 
international  migration  and  development.  The  forum 
would  provide  a  means  to  exchange  experience  and 
best  practices  so 
the  challenges  posed  by 
international migration could be addressed in concrete 
and effective ways. 

importance  of  building  partnership  and 
strengthening capacity to face the challenges posed by 
of 
international  migration, 
development,  was  underscored.  The 
that 
international  organizations  could  play  in  that  regard 
was  welcomed.  Several  types  of  partnership  were 
considered.  Participants  noted 
that  partnerships 
between  Governments  and  the  private  sector  could  be 
instrumental  in  promoting  beneficial  outcomes  from 
migration. Associations of employers and trade unions, 
component 
role 
expressed 
specific 
support 
related 
issues 
their 
that 
for 
The 
as 
a 
22 

06-52461 
raised.  The  participants  called 


in particular, could help develop migration policies and 
support their implementation. 

We  agreed  on  the  importance  of  social  dialogue 
to ensure the support of citizens for equitable migration 
policies,  and  a  better  reflection  of  the  views  of  all 
stakeholders  on  policy  development.  Governments 
were  encouraged  to  cooperate  with  the  private  sector 
and  civil  society,  to  improve  the  situation  of  migrant 
workers  and  their  families  and  also  to  foster  a  more 
positive  perception  of  the  contributions  that  migrants 
make to their host countries. 

the  private  sector  and 
Cooperation  between 
government  authorities  could  facilitate  the  transfer  of 
remittances to countries of origin, reduce transfer costs 
and,  even  more  importantly,  foster  the  productive  use 
of  migrant’s  savings.  International  cooperation  and 
partnership  were  also  considered  essential  to  combat 
irregular  migration  and  find  solutions  to  the  problems 
thus 
for  greater 
cooperation  between  Governments  and  stakeholders, 
including  migrants’  associations  and  youth.  Civil 
society  in  general  has  a  major  role  to  play  in 
cooperating  with government authorities to implement 
policy  and  to  assist  migrants  in  adapting  to  the  host 
society. 

role  of  partnerships  between  different 
stakeholders would be to provide training for migrants 
and to facilitate their adaptation to the host country and 
their  reintegration  upon  return;  the  promotion  of 
healthcare  for  migrants  was  also  highlighted.  The 
importance  of  building  partnerships  and  garnering 
international  cooperation 
in  support  of  capacity-
building  was  underscored.  Capacity-building  was 
deemed  necessary  by  both  countries  of  origin  and 
countries  of  destination.  Capacity  must  be  built  in  all 
branches  of  government  dealing  with  migrants, 
including,  inter  alia,  justice,  home  affairs,  migration 
services,  foreign  affairs,  social  services  and  border 
control. 

Civil society and the private sector could engage 
in  partnerships  for  the  purpose  of  capacity-building. 
Intergovernmental  cooperation  is  also  important,  in 
particular  to  share  experiences  and  responsibility  for 
border  control,  and 
the  protection  of 
migrants,  especially 
international 
protection  such  as  asylum-seekers,  refugees  and 
women and children. 
to  ensure 
those  needing 
The 
A/61/PV.6
as  well 
as 
and 
for  a 
representatives 
Such  were  the  results  of  the  discussion  in  round 

table 4, which I call upon you to ratify. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His Excellency Mr. Nguyen Tat Thanh, chairman of the 
delegation of Viet Nam. 
Mr.  Nguyen  Tat  Thanh  (Viet  Nam):  Let  me  at 

the outset thank the President of the General Assembly 
and  the  Secretary-General  for  their  initiative  and 
endeavours in bringing together delegates from around 
the  world, 
of 
non-governmental 
intergovernmental 
organizations,  to  discuss  international  migration,  a 
burning issue of our time. 
I  am  convinced  that  the  High-level  Dialogue 

far-reaching 
offers  a  historic  opportunity 
discussion  on,  and  an  advanced  understanding  of, 
multidimensional  aspects  of  international  migration 
and  development.  Viet  Nam,  which  has  about 
2.5 million migrants and migrant workers in more than 
80 countries and territories, will do whatever it can to 
contribute to the success of the new process. 

Viet  Nam  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
made  earlier  by  the  representative  of  South Africa  on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China.  My  delegation 
also  shares  most  of  the  views  expressed  by  the 
Secretary-General  in  his  report  entitled,  “International 
migration and development” (A/60/871), as well as his 
statement at the opening of the Dialogue. 

is  widely 
international  migration 
envisioned  in  the  context  of  globalization  and  the 
growing  wealth  disparities 
it  engenders  between 
different countries and regions. In our view, people are 
drawn to migrate mainly because of the “pull” factors, 
which are encouraged by the demand for more flexible 
labour  in  countries  of  destination.  That  is  a  natural 
phenomenon  and  part  of  the  “unfinished  business  of 
globalization”.  There  is  no  doubt  that,  apart  from 
making  contributions 
the  prosperity  of 
destination  countries,  migrants  play  an  increasingly 
important  role  in  promoting  development  and  poverty 
reduction in countries of origin. 

that 
international migration flows have increased over time, 
the  dynamics  and  policy 
that 
phenomenon  have  not  been  given  adequate  attention. 
The  protection  of  the  human  rights  of  migrants  and 
migrant  workers,  including  the  rights  to  education, 
is  a  growing  recognition 
implications  of 
While 
there 
towards 
Today, 
06-52461 

23 

A/61/PV.6 

food  and  adequate  housing,  have  in  many  cases  been 
ignored.  The  exploitation  of  migrants,  especially 
women  and  children, 
through  human  smuggling, 
trafficking  in  persons  and  related  transnational  crime, 
still happens. 

Today,  women  constitute  half  of  the  global 
migrant  population  and  they  are  among  the  world’s 
most  vulnerable  workers.  Their  working  conditions 
vary  enormously.  Some  are  treated  as  members  of  the 
employer’s  family,  while  others  are  exploited  and 
subjected  to  conditions  which,  in  some  cases,  amount 
to  virtual  slavery,  forced  labour,  servitude  or  sexual 
exploitation. 

Over  the  past  few  decades,  migration  has  grown 
in volume and migration trends have become ever more 
complex.  However,  policy  on  migration  issues  is  no 
longer  discussed  in  purely  regional  terms,  while  a 
global  mechanism  capable  of  coping  with 
the 
complexities  and  challenges  of  growing  migration  has 
not  been  put  in  place,  even  under  the  auspices  of  the 
United  Nations.  For  many  years  now,  only 
the 
International Organization for Migration and a number 
of  regional  structures,  in  collaboration  with  related 
United  Nations  agencies,  have  been  actively  involved 
in cooperation on migration.  
The President returned to the Chair.

Viet  Nam  is  of  the  view  that,  if  this  “unfinished 

business of globalization” is to be effectively taken in 
hand,  we  must,  in  addition  to  enhancing  bilateral  and 
regional  cooperation  on  migration,  establish  more 
institutional  mechanisms  that  can  serve  as  forums  in 
which all States, as well as international organizations 
and agencies, can exchange views and experiences and 
promote  cooperation  and  the  coordination  of  efforts 
with a view to better addressing migration issues at the 
global level.  

We  also  hope  that  the  High-level  Dialogue  can 
focus  on  considering  ways  and  means  to  further 
integrate the IOM into the United Nations inter-agency 
system.  In  addition,  the  High-level  Dialogue  and  its 
follow-up meetings should discuss steps and measures 
to  further 
into  national  and 
international  development  strategies  and  to  promote 
partnerships, capacity-building and the sharing of best 
practices  at  all  levels  —  including  the  bilateral  and 
regional levels — for the benefit of countries of origin 
and countries of destination alike, as well as migrants, 
integrate  migration 
The  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
the 
in  order  to  fill  a  perceived  gap  in  the  United  Nations 
system in respect of the issue of migration. 

Excellency  Mr.  Daniele  Bodini,  chairman  of 
delegation of San Marino. 

Mr. Bodini (San Marino): Permit me at the outset 
to  congratulate  you,  Madam  President,  on  your 
appointment and to wish you every success. 

Our country, San Marino, today enjoys economic 
prosperity and an enviable standard of living, but only 
60  years  ago  it  was  extremely  poor  and  had  scant 
economic  prospects. As  a  matter  of  fact,  most  of  our 
people  migrated  to  countries  where  they  thought  they 
could  find  job  opportunities  and  thus  a  better  life.  In 
Europe,  they  emigrated  mostly  to  Italy  and  France, 
while 
the  preferred  overseas  destinations  were 
Argentina  and  the  United  States  of  America.  Migrant 
remittances and the return of our emigrants back home 
were  essential  in  boosting  our  country’s  economic 
development and improving its living conditions. As a 
nation, we understand very well the anguish created by 
migration  and  are  very  sympathetic  towards  people  in 
need  who  seek  a  better  life  away  from  their  native 
countries,  sometimes  risking  their  own  lives  and  the 
lives of family members in desperate journeys. 

the  responsibility  of 
developed  countries  to  help  such  people  so  that  their 
hopes  can  be  fulfilled.  Happiness  is  the  fulfilment  of 
hope.  However,  the  acceptance  of  migrants  in  an 
environment  that  is  not  ready  to  provide  adequate 
education, health care, jobs and, most important, social 
integration  can  lead  to  the  creation  of  unwanted  and 
desolate ghettos and give rise to cultural and religious 
clashes,  misunderstanding,  intolerance  and  racism. 
Such conditions can create, on the one hand, breeding 
grounds  for  vocal  dissent  and  violent  protest  and,  on 
the  other,  selfishness  and  prejudice.  It  is  our  duty  as 
members  of  the  United  Nations  family  not  only  to 
respond to crises, but also — and more importantly — 
to make every effort to prevent them. 

In a world of unrelenting globalization, migration 
is  no  longer  only  a  bilateral  affair;  it  is  a  multilateral 
mega-issue.  Countries  of  destination  should  deal  with 
migration in a humane manner, taking into account the 
needs  of  their  own  people  and  of  their  social  and 
economic  fabrics.  Countries  of  origin,  with 
the 
assistance  of  the  international  community,  should 
ensure that their migrants  do not fall victim to human 
We  believe 
is 
that 
it 
24 

06-52461 
journeys 
their  native 
lands.  Transparent 
this  High-level  Dialogue 


trafficking  and  abuse.  Their 
to  foreign 
countries  should  lead  not  only  to  economic  rewards, 
but  also  to  their  personal  fulfilment  as  human  beings, 
which  will  eventually  enable  them  to  transfer  their 
know-how and their social and institutional knowledge 
to 
international 
migration  rules  and  laws  should  be  in  place  and  in 
force to prevent human rights abuses. 

San  Marino  wishes  to  congratulate  the  General 
Assembly  on  the  success  of  this  high-level  meeting. 
We  strongly  believe  that  the  United  Nations,  with  the 
cooperation  of  all  its  Members,  is  the  best  instrument 
for  facing the challenge  of migration today and  in the 
years to come. 

The  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Amir  Muharemi,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of Croatia. 
Mr.  Muharemi  (Croatia):  Allow  me  to  join 

in  expressing  satisfaction  at 
preceding  speakers 
participating 
on 
International  Migration  and  Development.  It  gives  us 
an  excellent  opportunity  for  an  exchange  of  views  on 
this  complex  issue,  providing  new  insights  into  the 
global phenomenon of migration. 

As  Croatia  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made 
on  behalf  of  the  European  Union,  I  will  limit  my 
statement  to  a  discussion  of  my  country’s  national 
policies.  

First  of  all,  let  me  reiterate  one  of  the  messages 
contained  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on 
international  migration  and  development  (A/60/871), 
namely, that each of us holds a piece of the migration 
puzzle, but none of us has the whole picture. It is time 
to  start  putting  the  pieces  together.  International 
migration 
unilaterally. 
Consequently, 
bilateral 
agreements and regional arrangements on migration are 
multiplying. But the complexity of migration is global; 
it is a fundamental feature of today’s world system and 
demands attention at the global level. 

The  Republic  of  Croatia  is  at  the  crossroads  of 
migration  flows  between  the  East  and  the  West.  As 
Croatia is a candidate for membership in the European 
Union  (EU),  a  consistent  migration  policy  will  surely 
have  new  dimensions  and  new  meaning  for  us. 
Although our national legislation in this area is a work 
in progress, Croatia has already achieved a significant 
be  managed 
partnerships, 
in 
cannot 
country 
A/61/PV.6
improvement  in  the  regulation  of  migration,  asylum 
and  related  matters  in  the  context  of  harmonizing  its 
domestic  laws  with  EU  legislation. We  are  also  in  the 
process  of  adopting  a  document  aimed  at  regulating 
national  migration  strategy  that  envisages  steps  for 
institutional  capacity-building  to  effectively  manage 
migration.  

Croatia  manages  migration  in  accordance  with 
the principles of freedom of movement, solidarity and 
humanity,  ensuring  respect  for  the  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  of  migrants.  Legal  foreign 
immigrants  are permitted to stay in our  country either 
temporarily  or  permanently,  and  their  social  inclusion 
is one of our top priorities. 

Croatia  continues  to  play  a  prominent  role  in 
regional cooperation. In collaboration with the mission 
of  the  International  Organization  for  Migration  in 
Croatia,  a  regional  workshop  on  labour  migration  for 
integration and development in South-East Europe was 
held this year in Zagreb. Its aim was to find a platform 
for  discussing  the  further  development  of  our  policies 
and  programmes  on  migration  within  and  between 
countries  in  South-East  Europe,  pointing  out  their 
positive 
terms  of  economics  and 
employment  and  the  fact  that  they  help  prevent 
irregular migration. 

In addition, like many other countries, Croatia is 
only  beginning  to  learn  how  to  maximize  the  benefits 
of  migration  while  minimizing  its  negative  effects  in 
terms of development. Historically, Croatia has been a 
country  of  emigration,  but  over  the  past  decade  we 
have  encountered  a  new  challenge,  noting  the  steady 
growth  of  a  positive  migratory  balance.  Some 
industries, confronted with a shortage of highly skilled 
workers, employ foreigners. That suggests that Croatia 
may  face  a  growing  demand  for  skilled  and  highly 
skilled  workers  in  the  near  future.  In  addition,  if 
negative 
the 
development  of  a  forward-looking  policy  may  soon 
become a matter of necessity. 

Recognizing  the  important  role  of  scientists  in 
development, the Croatian Government and a group of 
prominent  scientists  have  launched  a  return  migration 
programme  which  has  encouraged  Croatian  scientists 
abroad  to  foster  linkages  with  Croatia  through  joint 
international  projects,  training  or  specialization  of 
skilled personnel.  
demographic 
implications 
continue, 
trends 
in 
06-52461 

25 

in 
of 
and 
and 
regional 
A/61/PV.6 

The  active  involvement  of  national  and  local 

authorities 
international 
institutions, as well as of the private sector, is required 
if  multidimensional  aspects  of  migration  issues  are  to 
be  addressed  and  managed 
in  a  coherent  and 
coordinated  way.  We  strongly  believe  that  migration 
issues need to be addressed holistically at all levels — 
national, regional and global. 

We support the idea that migration issues should 
continue to be observed and debated in a voluntary and 
consultative  permanent  forum,  and  initially  within  the 
most valuable setting for the exchange of ideas and the 
sharing  of  experiences  —  the  United  Nations  —  in 
order  for  international  migration  to  be  accepted  as  a 
normal  and  crucial  element 
the  development 
process. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Yusupha  Kah,  Permanent  Secretary, 
Department of State for the Interior of the Gambia. 
Mr.  Kah  (Gambia):  My  delegation  wishes  to 

congratulate  the  Secretary-General  for  convening  this 
important  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International 
Migration and Development and to associate itself with 
the  statement  made  by  the  delegation  of  South Africa 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.  

This meeting  is long overdue and sorely needed. 
Globalization has reached a point that now demands a 
serious response by the international community to the 
myriad  problems  surrounding  the  free  movement  of 
people  across  international  borders.  The  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  (A/60/871)  demonstrates  that  along 
with the problems there are also countless benefits that 
international  migration  brings  to  both  sending  and 
receiving countries. Transit countries also benefit from 
the spillovers. It is clear that international migration is 
here to stay.  No one  can legislate against it or  wish it 
away.  

It  behoves  us  all,  therefore,  to  initiate  and 
maintain  a  permanent  dialogue  on  the  phenomenon, 
with a view to maximizing its benefits and minimizing 
its  costs.  Countries  of  the  North  will  have  to  contend 
with  the  fact  that  with  their  current  demographic 
trends,  it  is  only  through  international  migration  that 
they  will  be  able  to  keep  their  economies  and  social 
systems  on  an  even  keel.  Developing  countries  must 
also live with the fact that until the standard of living 
of  their  people  improves,  more  and  more  of  their 
nationals  will  head  towards  greener  pastures  in  the 
in 
through 
assistance. 
It  also  amounts 
receiving  countries 
international  migration 
industrialized  world.  Short  of  imposing  repressive 
measures  that  violate  human  rights,  there  will  be  no 
way of halting the wave. 

As  an African  country,  the  Gambia  is  concerned 
about  the  growing  preference  for  selective  migration 
being  displayed  by 
the 
developed  world,  because  it  causes  a  depletion  of  the 
skilled  manpower  base  needed  for  our  social  and 
economic  development. 
to  us 
subsidizing the developed countries through the cost of 
education  and  training,  which  we  incur  in  producing 
professional and skilled workers who are then siphoned 
away  from  us  into  the  developed  economies  of  the 
North.  We  must  urgently  address 
that  growing 
phenomenon  which  is  emerging  as  a  major  constraint 
on our development. 
While  we  do  admit  that  many  of  our  countries 

benefit  from 
the 
remittances that migrants transmit into our economies, 
we cannot accept that it should be an alternative to the 
creation  of 
internal  mechanisms  for  growth  and 
development;  nor  should  it  be  a  substitute  for  official 
development 
remittances 
emanating  from  international  migration  contribute  to 
the  reduction  of  poverty  for  many  households  in  the 
sending  countries,  ways  must  be  found  to  mainstream 
the  development 
international  migration  within 
process,  and 
the 
attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). 

We  strongly  support  the  view  that  we  should 
begin  considering  ways  of  reducing  the  transaction 
costs  of  remittances  and  ensuring  that  the  monies 
remitted  are  channelled  more  formally  through  our 
financial systems. 

The Gambia does not encourage illegal migration 
and  has  taken  measures  to  minimize  it,  including: 
strengthening  border  and  sea  controls;  enhancing 
cooperation  between  law  enforcement  and  security 
agencies;  improving  information  gathering  from  the 
public,  particularly  those  at  the  border  and  on  our 
beach  side;  promulgating 
the 
smuggling and trafficking in persons; and entering into 
bilateral  and  multilateral  cooperation  arrangements 
with other countries. 

We  strongly  condemn  any  violations  of  the 
human rights of migrants, whatever their status, and we 
join  the  African  Union  in  unreservedly  condemning 
it  more  explicitly 
legislation  against 
Because 
to  relate 
to 
26 

06-52461 
racism,  xenophobia  and  discrimination 


acts  of 
perpetrated against migrants. 

As  both  a  sending  and  a  receiving  country,  the 
Gambia  has  mixed  experiences.  It  is  true  that  as  a 
developing  country  we  are  as  vulnerable  as  any  other 
to having our brightest and best lured away to greener 
pastures.  We  have  lost  quite  a  number  of  people  over 
the years to Europe and North America. 

At  the  same  time,  we  are  a  destination  for 
hundreds of thousands of migrants, especially from the 
subregion.  They  contribute  significantly 
to  our 
economy  in  critical  areas  such  as  manufacturing, 
health,  construction  and  fishing. A  large  proportion  of 
teachers  in  our  school  system,  and  professors  in  our 
university, are migrants, contributing immensely to our 
efforts to meet our skilled manpower needs. 

As  a  matter  of  policy,  the  Gambia  will  continue 
to seek ways of optimizing the benefits of international 
migration  and  mitigating  its  negative  effects.  We 
believe  that  international  migration  is  a  complex 
phenomenon  that  requires  a  multifaceted  approach,  as 
well  as  strong  political  will  and  commitment  on  the 
part  of  sending  and  receiving  countries  and  the 
international  community  at  large.  It  is  our  hope  that 
this Dialogue will mark the beginning of a formal and, 
if possible, permanent process that keeps the important 
subject  of  international  migration  and  development 
under  discussion  within  the  international  community 
and leads to the adoption of measures to ensure that it 
serves all of mankind, wherever they may be. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Wang  Guangya,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of China. 

Mr. Wang Guangya (China) (spoke in Chinese): 
The  Chinese  delegation  supports  the  statement  by  the 
representative  of  South Africa  on  behalf  of  the  Group 
of 77 and China.  

The emergence of migration and the development 
of  human  society  are  closely  linked.  Currently,  the 
number and scale of international migration, as well as 
the  range  of  countries  affected  and  the  impact  it 
produces  on  the  economy  of  those  countries,  have 
reached  an  unprecedented  level.  On  the  one  hand,  the 
normal  flow  of  migration  can  help  people  to  broaden 
their  horizons;  promote 
social 
development  and  cultural  exchanges  among  countries; 
optimize 
technical  and 
the  allocation  of  human, 
economic 
and 
A/61/PV.6
this 
laws  and 
to  address 
issue  and  promote 
financial  resources;  and  enhance  cooperation  among 
States  and  joint  development.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
surge  in  migration  has  also  led  to  the  increasingly 
serious  problems  of 
illegal  migration,  human 
trafficking  and  other  transnational  crimes,  which  pose 
serious  challenges  to  social  security  and  stability. 
Migration  and  development  have  thereby  become 
important  issues  that  must  be  faced  squarely  by  the 
international community. 

The  Chinese  delegation  wishes  to  share  with  the 
Assembly the following views and proposals on how to 
properly  handle 
joint 
development. 
To  solve  the  problems  caused  by  migration,  it  is 

essential 
its  root  causes.  Ultimately, 
migration is caused by unbalanced economic and social 
development  among  different  countries.  In  order  to 
find  a  lasting  solution,  it  is  therefore  necessary  to 
gradually  narrow  the  gap  between  rich  and  poor 
countries and bring about joint economic development 
and overall social justice.  
Secondly,  it  is  important  to  improve  domestic 

regulations.  Countries  should 
policies, 
continuously  improve  their  migration  policies,  laws 
and  regulations,  protect  the  legitimate  rights  and 
interests  of  migrants,  oppose  discriminatory  policies 
and  adhere  to  the  principle  of  opening  up  legal 
channels  and  blocking  illegal  ones,  so  as  to  enhance 
the legal and orderly flow of migration and curb illegal 
migration activities to the greatest possible extent. 
be 

international  migration  must 
addressed  within  the  context  of  development  and  in  a 
comprehensive  and  coordinated  manner.  National 
Governments should give comprehensive consideration 
to  political,  economic,  social  and  cultural  factors, 
strengthen  coordination  among  different  departments, 
facilitate the flow of migration in an orderly and legal 
manner and enable migrants to be truly integrated into 
local societies. 

We should also act in the fundamental interests of 
migrants, take into account their special characteristics, 
effectively  safeguard  their  political,  economic  and 
social  rights  and  interests,  and  fully  respect  their 
religious  beliefs  and  cultural  traditions.  It  is  also 
necessary 
transaction  costs  of 
remittances, enhance the effectiveness of how they are 
used  and  encourage  migrants 
in 
investment  and  trade  and  to  return  to  their  own 
to  participate 
Thirdly, 
to 
reduce 
the 
06-52461 

27 
in  order 
to  play  a  role 
in  promoting 

attaches 
The  Chinese  Government 
A/61/PV.6 

countries 
development. 

Fourthly,  sincere  efforts  should  be  made  to 
achieve  international  cooperation.  The  international 
community  —  especially  countries  of  origin,  transit 
and  destination  —  should  strengthen  dialogue  and 
cooperation  on  the  basis  of  mutual  respect,  equality 
and  mutual  benefit  to  effectively  manage  the  flow  of 
migration. 

great 
importance to the issue of migration and to the related 
opportunities  and  challenges.  In  the  light  of  the  latest 
developments, in recent years the Chinese Government 
has  adjusted 
its  border  management  policy  and 
improved  the  efficiency  of  arrangements  for  entering 
and exiting the country, in order to facilitate a regular 
population  flow.  At  the  same  time,  we  have  acted 
resolutely  and  forcefully  against  illegal  migration. We 
have  formulated  and  improved  relevant  laws  and 
regulations, intensified law enforcement and reinforced 
public  education.  We  have  also  incorporated  into  our 
national  development  plan  such  elements  as  financial 
incentives and tax reductions and exemptions. We have 
also simplified entry and exit procedures to encourage 
Chinese students abroad to come back to work in China 
and reduce the brain drain.  

in 
international  and 
regional  migration  cooperation, 
exchanged  experiences  and  cooperated  with  relevant 
countries  and  international  organizations  on  the  basis 
of mutual respect and consultations.  

the 
discussion of migration and development at the United 
Nations. We hope that the international community will 
seize  this  opportunity  to  further  strengthen  dialogue 
and contribute to joint development in the world. 

Excellency  Mr.  Alexei  Tulbure,  chairman  of 
delegation of the Republic of Moldova. 
(Republic  of  Moldova):  For 

Moldova,  migration  is  indeed  an  important  source  of 
development. We have come here to confirm the clear 
connection 
and 
development. That is in fact the theme of our Dialogue 
and  one  of  the  main  conclusions  of  the  Secretary–
General’s  report  (A/60/871).  We  fully  share 
the 
conclusions  of  that  report  and  believe  that  the  idea  to 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
the 
China  has  also  assumed  an  active  role 
exists  between  migration 
This  Dialogue  marks 
the  beginning  of 
Mr.  Tulbure
that 
speaking 
about  discrimination, 
the  High-level  Dialogue  on 
hold 
International 
Migration  and  Development  is  an  extremely  timely 
one. 

In order to have an idea of how strongly Moldova 
is affected by the process of migration, it is enough to 
know that Moldova’s dependence on remittances is the 
second  highest  in  the  world  and  that  remittances 
account for 27 per cent of our gross domestic product. 
Over  80  per  cent  of  Moldova’s  migrants  remit  funds 
and  for  more  than  70  per  cent  of  senders,  those 
remittances constitute half of their earnings. According 
to  our  official  statistics,  in  2005  almost  400,000 
Moldovans  went  to  work  abroad  or  to  seek  jobs. That 
constitutes  over  25  per  cent  of  our  total  active 
population. 

However,  migration  is  also  a  source  of  many 
distressing problems. Today I would like to concentrate 
on the negative aspects of international migration. 
The  very  moment  we  speak  about  migration  we 

start 
exclusion, 
criminality,  illegal  trafficking,  smuggling  and  similar 
subjects.  The  reason  for  that  is  obvious:  all  the 
phenomena  I  referred  to  are  today  connected  to 
international  migration.  Migration  is  perceived  by 
many  as  something  unlawful,  bad  and  troublesome. 
There are clear signs today that we are not coping with 
the  situation  or  with  the  new  trends  in  contemporary 
migration 
than 
Governments  often  control 
the  main  migratory 
movements. The  less  we  are  able  to  develop  adequate 
polices, frameworks and new institutions to effectively 
address international migration, the more opportunities 
we offer to criminals, who become rich at the expense 
of migrants. 
What do we need today? In my opinion, we need 

a  sort  of  rehabilitation  of  international  migration  that 
should lead to the development and implementation of 
relevant  policies  at  the  local,  national,  regional  and 
global  levels.  We  need  to  decriminalize  migration 
while at the same time contributing to the reduction of 
poverty  and  to  improving  general  living  conditions  in 
the  countries  of  origin.  I  believe  that,  while  we  fight 
against  criminals,  the  best  thing  to  do  would  be  to 
expand the channels for regular and legal migration — 
or,  to  put  it  in  a  more  politically  correct  way, 
documented migration. That would more closely match 
reality. 
processes. 
Criminals 
rather 
28 

06-52461 
and 
to 
integrate 
In 
into 
those  of 



The  reality  is  that  millions  of  people  today  have 
no  choice  but  to  migrate  —  in  search  of  food,  water, 
work,  human  dignity  and  hope. And  nobody  can  stop 
them. There is no need to do so. What we have to do is 
to take those people out of the hands of criminals and 
help them — if it is really impossible to have a decent 
life in their countries of origin — to arrive at their new 
destinations 
their  new 
environments. That  would  benefit  everyone,  migrants, 
countries of origin and countries of destination. Those 
new  mechanisms  and  policies  could  be  developed  in 
bilateral and multilateral frameworks. 
In conclusion, I would like to emphasize that the 

rights  of  migrants  and 
the  victims  of 
trafficking in human beings are of vital importance. We 
already  have  some  good  news  in  that  respect.  For 
example, the Council of Europe recently developed and 
opened for signature and ratification the Convention on 
Action  against  Trafficking  in  Human  Beings.  The 
protection  of  the  rights  of  victims  is  at  the  centre  of 
that  Convention. We  believe  that  to  be  an  example  of 
good  international  cooperation  and  joint  endeavour 
regarding  certain  aspects  of 
the  phenomenon  of 
migration  that  we  should  commend  and  build  on.  I 
hope  that  our  High-level  Dialogue  will  be  a  new  and 
powerful  start  in  the  difficult  search  for  adequate 
responses  to  the  political,  economic  and  cultural 
challenges  arising  from  international  migration  at  the 
global level. 

Excellency  Mr.  Irakli  Alasania,  chairman  of 
delegation of Georgia. 
Mr. Alasania (Georgia): The Georgian delegation 

wishes 
the  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International  Migration  and  Development  as  a  much- 
needed  step  towards  placing  migration  issues  on  the 
international agenda. 

and 
interdependency, every country is affected to a certain 
extent  by  the  various  issues  related  to  international 
mobility.  Efficiently  managed  migration  can  be 
beneficial  to  all  —  countries  of  origin,  transit  and 
destination.  But  there  are  many  challenges  and  a 
number of issues that have to be addressed urgently to 
avoid  illegal  migration,  trafficking,  organized  crime 
and terrorism. 
International  migration  has  significantly  affected 

Georgia since our independence. Experts estimate that 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
the 
today’s  world 
globalization 
to  welcome 
of 
A/61/PV.6
to 
since 
than  20  per  cent  of 
independence.  According 
more 
the  country’s  1989 
population —  over  1  million  people  —  have  left 
Georgia 
the 
Secretariat’s  Population  Division,  Georgia  was  among 
the  top  20  countries  worldwide  in  net  emigration 
between 1995 and 2000. 

In  the  1990s,  socio-economic  realities  in  the 
country were the leading motivation forcing thousands 
to  travel  abroad  for  work  and  education.  Our  citizens 
have ventured to Russia, Europe, the United States and 
Canada for skilled and unskilled job opportunities that 
offer higher incomes to better support their families at 
home. Conflicts in two separatist regions — Abkhazia 
and  Tskhinvali  —  were  other  causes  of  migration. 
Ethnic  cleansing  and  mass  expulsions  forced  tens  of 
thousands of our citizens to flee abroad. 

In  2003,  the  Rose  Revolution  sparked  renewed 
hope  and  serious  interest  among  all  Georgians  living 
abroad  in  our  country’s  renewed  prospects  for  the 
future.  That  provided  a  window  of  opportunity  to 
engage our diverse and far-flung population as partners 
in Georgia’s development. We have already taken steps 
to begin that process by making it possible to hold dual 
citizenship, which was granted to almost 1,400 persons 
in  2005.  We  are  also  increasing  the  outreach  of  the 
President and top Government officials. 

to  pursue  a  more  comprehensive 
strategy, focusing on four main areas: engaging highly 
skilled  migrants,  maximizing  remittances,  leveraging 
and  protecting  economic  migrants  and  relations  with 
the diaspora. Experts estimate that 40 to 55 per cent of 
those  leaving  Georgia  are  highly  educated.  They  also 
believe  that  movement  has  resulted  in  a  significant 
brain  drain.  However,  as  a  result  of  rapid  economic 
reforms, Georgia has become a more attractive place to 
invest  and  work,  and  is  ripe  for  reaching  out  to  our 
highly  skilled  diaspora.  While  we  continue 
to 
encourage return, we are also looking to explore ways 
to  engage  the  highly  skilled  members  of  our  diaspora 
where they are living by creating knowledge networks, 
engaging them in joint projects with host countries and 
recruiting them to help promote investment in Georgia. 

Remittances  are  an  important  source  of  revenue 
for  many  Georgian  households,  and  continue  to  grow 
as a percentage of our gross domestic product. Official 
estimates  show  growth  rates  of  4.8  per  cent  in  2003 
and  6.3  per  cent  in  2005.  Most  experts  believe  the 
growth of remittances to be two to three times greater. 
We  hope 
06-52461 

29 

for 
and 
sustainable 
agreements 
A/61/PV.6 

We  would  also  like  to  help  our  citizens  to  maximize 
their  private  funds  by  improving  the  banking  system. 
We  can  also  provide  new  and  innovative  remittance-
sending tools and products to our migrants by learning 
from the successes experienced by Latin American and 
Asian  countries. We  want  to  work  with  host  countries 
to empower our citizens to use the banking systems in 
those countries. 

Georgia’s working age population has shrunk due 
to  labour  migration,  compounded  by  our  slightly 
negative  natural  population  growth  rate.  We  need  to 
offer  our  citizens  more  legal  opportunities  to  work 
abroad,  protect  their  rights  against  discrimination, 
promote stronger entrepreneurial linkages and improve 
return  by  developing 
prospects 
readmission 
targeting  business 
development resources to returnees. 
In addition to those who left recently, we believe 

there  are 
roughly  8  million  non-citizen  ethnic 
Georgians  throughout  the  world.  They  are  primarily 
concentrated in Turkey, Iran, Russia and Israel, as well 
as in other countries of the former Soviet Union. Since 
2004 we have made great efforts to strengthen cultural 
ties with our diaspora around the world. 

legal 
opportunities  to  work  abroad  is  extremely  important 
for  Georgia.  We  are  also  focusing  our  national  and 
international  efforts  on  the  fight  against  trafficking  in 
human beings. For its part, the Georgian Government, 
with  the  support  of  international  organizations,  has 
launched 
against 
trafficking. To that end, a national action plan has been 
adopted,  in  accordance  with  which  a  coordination 
centre was established. 
We  are  all  very  well  aware  of  the  fact  that 

national  efforts  alone  are  not  enough.  Support  and 
cooperation  with  partners  is  essential.  Investment  and 
assistance  will  foster  sustainable  development,  boost 
economies and protect human rights. We hope that our 
joint  efforts,  along  with  strong  action  by 
the 
international community, the United Nations and other 
international  organizations,  will  help  to  address  these 
problems.  We  believe  that  our  forum  will  be  able  to 
come up with effective responses to those challenges. 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency 

Mrs.  Fekitamoeloa  ‘Utoikamanu,  Chairperson  of  the 
delegation of Tonga. 
As  I  mentioned  earlier, 
intensive  programme 
issue  of 
a  very 
the 
aspects 
to  express  our  appreciation  for 
Mrs.  ‘Utoikamanu  (Tonga):  May  I  take  this 

opportunity 
the 
convening  of  this  historic  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International Migration and Development. I would also 
like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report 
(A/60/871), which provides a comprehensive review of 
the  multidimensional 
international 
migration,  as  well  as  initial  thoughts  on  how  to 
improve the governance of migration. 
At  the  outset,  Tonga  also  wishes  to  align  itself 

with 
the 
statement  made  by  Her  Excellency 
Ms. Nosiviwe  Mapisa-Nqakula,  Minister  of  Home 
Affairs  of  South Africa  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77 
and China. 

Pacific  island  countries,  and  my  country  in 
particular, can date their foreign adventures as far back 
as  the  fourteenth  century,  before  the  term  “irregular 
migration”  was  introduced  into  our  vocabulary.  We 
have  all  come  a  long  way.  Fast-forwarding  to  2006,  a 
number of Tongans equal to more than 100 per cent of 
our  national  population  reside 
three  countries 
abroad.  Tonga  is  categorized  as  a  mature  migration 
remittance  economy  and,  as  of  2005,  ranks  as  the 
second  country  most  dependent  on  remittances  as  a 
percentage  of  gross  domestic  product  (GDP)  —
currently 29 per cent. 

In  a  small  way,  our  country’s  experience  has 
demonstrated 
between 
international  migration  and  development.  A  recent 
World  Bank  study  that  included  the  results  of  an 
empirical  analysis  of  remittances  to  Tonga  concluded 
that recipient household migration and remittances had 
a  positive 
impact  on  migrant-sending  countries, 
improved income distribution, had a positive impact on 
poverty  alleviation,  brought  about  higher  rates  of 
savings,  stimulated  business  activities  and  resulted  in 
larger investments in education. 

The  established  relationship  between  migration 
and 
to  poverty  alleviation  and 
its  contribution 
economic 
significant 
contribution  of  remittances  to  development,  are  clear. 
However,  the  attention  accorded  to  labour  emigration 
and its positive impact on the development of sending 
countries 
limited.  Overseas 
development  assistance  alone  cannot  address 
the 
problems  associated  with  small  island  States.  As  the 
World  Bank 
and 
labour  mobility  can 
unrestricted  but  organized 
study  highlighted, 
development, 
important 
improved 
perhaps 
nexus 
quite 
and 
the 
is 
of 
in 
the 
30 

06-52461 
to 
achieve 
national 


significantly  contribute  to  a  country’s  GDP  and  to 
overall global income. 

Labour mobility is a potential vehicle to achieve 
our  commitments  to  pro-poor  strategies  such  as  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  other  global 
commitments 
sustainable 
development  strategies.  At  the  same  time,  Tonga’s 
demographic  profile,  particularly 
its  population 
growth,  has  been  stabilized  by  emigration.  But  the 
migration  phenomenon  has  not  been  without  costs, 
including social costs and human capital costs in terms 
of the brain drain. 

While stressing the importance of remittances  as 
an  important  source  of  development  financing,  we 
view  remittances  as  complementary  and  not  as  a 
substitute for overseas development assistance. On the 
pressing  issue  of  the  transaction  costs  of  remittances, 
Tonga  also  welcomes  support  for  addressing  this  and 
for  promoting  conditions  for  cheaper,  faster  and  safer 
transfer of remittances. 

Tonga, like many other Pacific island countries, is 
not  only  a  sending  State;  it  is  also  a  transit  and  a 
receiving State. The challenge for all of us is therefore 
to design a migration policy that is closest to what the 
Secretary-General  described  in  his  report  as  the  best-
case  scenario,  where  migration  benefits  the  receiving 
country, the country of origin and migrants themselves. 
That  will  require  commitment  and  political  will,  as 
well  as  the  continuation  and,  where  absent,  the 
enhancement  of  dialogue,  to  be  followed  by  specific 
action not only at the bilateral but also at the regional 
and international levels. Such forums can also address 
other  important  issues,  such  as  irregular  migration, 
social  integration  and  access  to  services,  as  well  as 
develop  schemes  for  the  temporary  movement  of 
persons that cover both skilled and unskilled workers. 

Tonga  shares  the  concern  for  the  exploitation  of 
migrants  through  mechanisms  such  as  trafficking  and 
migrant smuggling. In 2005 we passed  a transnational 
crimes  bill,  which  criminalizes  under  domestic  law 
trafficking  in  persons,  trafficking  in  children  and 
people-smuggling. 
the  support 

provided  through  its  bilateral  contacts,  as  well  as  by 
regional  organizations  such  as  the  Bali  Process  on 
People Smuggling, Trafficking in Persons and Related 
Transnational  Crime  and 
the  Pacific  Immigration 
Directors’  Conference.  There  is  potential  for  the 
Tonga  has  also  benefited  from 
A/61/PV.6
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
the 
expansion  of  the  roles  of  those  existing  regional 
processes to deal with any new issues that may develop 
as  a  member  State  attempts  to  deal  with  the  real  and 
complex issues of migration and development. 

In  conclusion,  the  High-level  Dialogue  is  an 
important  and  vital  step  in  raising  awareness  of  the 
development dimension of international migration. We 
must  maintain  momentum  and  agree  on  the  formation 
of  an  appropriate  consultative  forum,  as  proposed  by 
the  Secretary-General  in  his  report,  to  maintain  our 
focus on international migration issues while signalling 
that  international  migration  is  a  normal  but  crucial 
element in the development process. 

Excellency  Mr.  Collin  Beck,  chairman  of 
delegation of Solomon Islands. 

Mr.  Beck  (Solomon  Islands):  My  delegation 
would  like  to  join  others  in  congratulating  you, 
Madam, on your election to preside over this important 
gathering.  

International  migration  gives  a  human  face  to 
globalization.  It  defines  and  represents  the  global 
structure 
the 
industrialized  North  and  the  developing  South.  It  is 
important  to  note  that  the  flow  of  migrants  from  the 
southern  hemisphere  to  the  North  is  due  to  the 
demographic  and  social  structure  of  the  industrialized 
world and the need for workers. 

it 
Solomon  Islands  values 
provides  an  opportunity  to  ensure  that  there  is  a 
mechanism  in  place  to  measure  and  match  the  supply 
and demand of the global labour market, as argued by 
the International Organization for Migration and by the 
Group  of  77.  Solomon 
Islands  attaches  great 
importance 
to  a 
development opportunity that, if not well managed, can 
become  a  security  concern,  both  for  receiving  and 
sending  States.  Migration  is  also  an  integral  part  of 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

At the national level, Solomon Islands is made up 
of  half  a  million  people,  who  speak  80  different 
languages.  It  embraces  a  rich  cultural  diversity.  Inter-
island  migration  is  therefore  an  economic  issue.  The 
pull  factor  in  all  migration  routes,  be  they  internal  or 
external,  is  related  to  economic  gain.  Population 
movement  tends  to  occur  in  the  direction  of  where 
there is economic activity. The challenge is to balance 
the  world  between 
this  meeting,  as 
this  subject,  as 
that  divides 
to 
it  pertains 
06-52461 

31 

a 
spectator 
leave 
anyone 
A/61/PV.6 

the  participation  of  migrant  workers  and  indigenous 
populations.  To 
to 
development  could  lead  to  instability  setting  in,  as 
recently  experienced  by  Solomon  Islands  in  its  ethnic 
conflict.  In  that  connection,  the  High-level  Dialogue 
must  take  time  to  look  at  the  domestic  movement  of 
labour as well. 

Having  said  that,  both  internal  and  international 
migration contribute to a country’s foreign income, not 
only  through  remittances  but  also,  most  important, 
through  the  transfer  of  knowledge,  capacity  and  good 
practices.  In  other  words,  it is  a  win-win  situation  for 
both migrants and receiving countries. 

Within the Pacific region there are varying levels 
of  international  migrant  workers.  There  are  countries 
within  the  region  that  provide  labour  to  developed 
economies,  while  there  are  also  developing  countries 
that  acquire  labour  from  within  the  subregion.  Also 
within  the  Pacific  subregion,  work  has  already  begun 
to  explore  short-term  labour  migration  with  some  of 
our developed neighbours. While nothing concrete has 
yet  emerged  from  those  discussions,  my  delegation  is 
pleased  to  note  that  a  dialogue  on  shared  migration 
opportunities  seeking  regional  concerted  action  has 
been  put  on  the  table.  The  regional  discussion  has 
allowed  us 
the  position  of 
receiving  States,  and  we  hope  that  it  will  allow  us  to 
work towards striking a balance. 

For  many  of  the  least  development  countries, 
development has not kept pace with the growth of their 
populations. Limited opportunities have been the push 
factor  leading  local  populations  to  migrate  and  seek 
employment  internationally.  Solomon  Islands,  on  the 
other  hand,  does  not  have  a  large  migrant  population. 
But it does have an abundant supply of labour relative 
to the local employment market. A good number of our 
workers are located and employed in rural areas. Urban 
drift  has  put  pressure  on  agriculture-based  economies, 
but 
the 
Government  remains  the  largest  employer  in  the 
country,  rather  than  the  private  sector. The  challenges 
are  due  to  the  high  costs  of  communication  and 
transportation, the smallness of the market and lack of 
foreign-direct  investors  to  provide  the  engine  for 
growth needed to see the economy take off. 

In  that  respect,  the  Government  is  examining  all 
economic  opportunities  to  guarantee  our  population  a 
secure  future.  Solomon  Islands  could  not  agree  more 
it  has  not  provided 
to  better  understand 
jobs.  Therefore, 
that  there  is  a  need  to  establish  an  adequate  and 
transparent  mechanism,  especially  as  regards  short-
term  contracts,  that  will  ensure  that  workers  are 
documented  and  legally  processed,  so  as  to  avoid 
having  workers  working  outside  the  system,  which 
places them in a more vulnerable position. 

My  delegation  would  also  like  to  see  more 
coordination  between  all  international  organizations 
and  United  Nations  agencies  in  combating  human 
trafficking,  including  the  development  of  a  common 
mechanism to address that. 

I would like to conclude by assuring you, Madam 
President,  of  my  delegation’s  ongoing  support  and 
cooperation  as  we  seek  an  international  solution  to 
migration that will ensure that all countries can benefit. 

The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Andreas Mavroyiannis, chairman of the 
delegation of Cyprus. 
Mr.  Mavroyiannis  (Cyprus):  Let  me  begin  by 

congratulating  you,  Madam  President,  on  having 
convened this High-level Dialogue. The time could not 
be  more  appropriate  for  the  start  of  a  frank  and  open 
exchange  of  views  and 
important 
international issue that affects the lives and welfare of 
us all, as individuals and as States. I would also like to 
extend  our  gratitude  to  Secretary-General  Kofi Annan 
for focusing high-level political attention on the many 
linkages between development and migration.  

Cyprus  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made  by 
the representative of Finland on behalf of the European 
Union.  I  would,  however,  like  to  make  the  following 
additional comments. 

Mr.  Majoor  (Netherlands),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair. 

Migration is a global phenomenon as old as man 
itself. In the quest to find better lives and improve their 
standards of living, people move across borders. 

As  we  now  live  in  an  era  of  increased  human 
mobility due to technological advances, an era marked 
by  diversity  and  multiculturalism,  any  prevailing 
negative perceptions of the past must not be inhibiting 
factors  in  dealing  with  this  normal  fact  of  human 
civilization. In principle, migration should not be seen 
as  a  threat  to  or  as  a  destabilizing  factor  for  the 
economies  of  recipient  countries.  Of  course,  it  is  a 
phenomenon  that  needs  to  be  regulated.  But,  if 
ideas  on 
this 
32 

06-52461 
in  recipient  countries  and 


supported by the right policies, it can be a blessing for 
development  both 
in 
countries of origin.  

Cyprus  has  historically  been  a  country  of 
emigration,  exporting  migrants  to  richer  countries.  In 
fact,  it  is  estimated  that  as  many  Cypriots  live  abroad 
as  on  the  island  itself.  The  invasion  of  1974  and  the 
displacement of one third of our population resulted in 
new waves of emigration. Many Cypriot refugees who 
had  lost  their  livelihoods  sought  employment  abroad. 
Since  then,  Cyprus  has  seen  extensive  economic 
development  and  has  become  a  host  to  migrants,  who 
contribute  positively  to  the  economy  and  its  high 
growth  rates.  The  contribution  of  Cypriots  of  the 
diaspora was also crucial for the economic miracle that 
Cyprus experienced in the 1980s.  

Cyprus  is  firmly  committed  to  the  protection  of 
human rights of all migrants and has ratified all major 
human rights instruments, including the United Nations 
Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and 
its  two  Protocols,  and  the  United  Nations  Convention 
relating to the Status of Refugees. Cyprus is also in the 
process of ratifying the United Nations Convention on 
the  Reduction  of  Statelessness.  Our  immigration  and 
refugee  laws  have  been  harmonized  with  the  relevant 
European  laws  and  are  implemented  according  to 
European Union policies and practices in this field.  

The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/60/871) 
provides an in-depth study of the issue of international 
migration  and  development  and  contains  a  plethora  of 
suggestions and ideas that merit further discussion and 
elaboration.  Notable 
also 
contained  in  the  report  of  the  Global  Commission  on 
International 
the 
recommendation of the Secretary-General that a global 
forum  be  established,  the  position  of  the  European 
Union  has  been  presented  by  the  Finnish  presidency; 
Cyprus  welcomes  Belgium’s  offer  to  host  the  forum’s 
first meeting. 
Cyprus  is  fully  committed  to  cooperate  with  all 

relevant  actors 
and 
international level and through the common policies of 
the European Union for the enhancement of the benefit 
of migration to development, and to fully play its part 
in the process that is now being initiated.  
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Dusan  Bella,  Chairman  of  the 
delegation of Slovakia.  
recommendations 
the  national, 
Concerning 
Migration. 
regional 
are 
at 
A/61/PV.6
is 
involved 
(EU)  country, 
Mr. Bella (Slovakia): Especially at the beginning 

of  twentieth  century,  my  small  country  produced 
thousands  upon 
thousands  of  migrants  bound 
particularly  for  the  United  States  of  America,  and  I 
have  to  say  that  this  still  affects  my  country’s  social 
consciousness. 

Slovakia welcomes the organization of this High-
level  Dialogue,  as  migration  is  increasingly  becoming 
an  integral  part  of  global  processes,  bringing  both 
concerns  and  challenges  —  not  only  to  migrants,  but 
also to countries of origin, transit and destination. This 
fact  is  supported  by  the  latest  Transatlantic  Trends 
survey  of  United  States  and  European  public  opinion. 
According to those findings, 79 per cent of Americans 
and 76 per cent of Europeans agree that large numbers 
of  immigrants  coming  into  their  respective  countries 
constitute an important threat. 

Slovakia,  lying  on  the  east-west  migratory  route 
in Europe, has not had to deal with an excessive influx 
of migrants so far. Nonetheless, Slovakia, as a smaller 
European  Union 
in 
formulating  EU  migration  policies  and  therefore  fully 
supports  the  joint  EU  position  presented  at  this  High-
level  Dialogue,  the  European  Union  Global Approach 
to  Migration  adopted 
in  December  2005,  and 
instruments and policy guidelines contained in the so-
called  Hague  programme.  That  programme  sets  forth, 
inter  alia,  the  European  Union  objective  of  creating  a 
common  European  asylum  system.  From  our  own 
experience,  we  can  provide  evidence  that  misuse  of 
asylum  procedures  is  still  a  frequent  and  widespread 
phenomenon.  To  facilitate  the  integration  of  migrants 
in Slovakia, we are working on a set of guidelines for 
an integration policy for migrants, which will cover all 
migrant groups and all aspects of their work and life in 
our country. 

readmission 
agreements  at  the  European  Union  level  to  be  a  big 
step forward in the management of migration flows and 
in the effort to eliminate illegal migration. 
Last  year,  the  Slovak  Government  adopted  a  set 

created 
of  migration  policy  guidelines  which 
preconditions  for 
implementation  of  effective 
policies  and  measures  in  the  areas  that  are  being 
discussed at this forum. Those policy guidelines aim to 
Slovak 
improve 
institutions 
the 
migration  process.  One  of  the  goals  set  out  in  the 
among 
the  management  of 
consider  negotiations  on 
coordination 
involved 
various 
We 
the 
in 
06-52461 

33 
human 
that 
respect 
supports 
Slovakia 
strengthening 
rights,  mutual 
We  are  convinced 
to  work  already  done 
A/61/PV.6 

guidelines  is  the  establishment  of  an  immigration  and 
naturalization office before 2010. 

of 
the 
international  dialogue  and  cooperation  on  migration 
issues, but at the same time we  share the opinion that 
there is still room for better use of existing institutions 
and activities. Of course, any new initiative is welcome 
as  long  as  it  has  potential  for  success  and  brings  new 
added  value 
in  various 
international forums. 
Slovakia  reaffirms  the  need  to  fully  implement 

the United Nations conventions that fight all sources of 
intolerance,  encourage  cultural  variety  and  focus  on 
fostering 
and 
understanding  among  civilizations.  In  this  context,  I 
am  pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  the  Slovak 
Government has approved an action plan on preventing 
all  forms  of  discrimination,  racism,  xenophobia,  anti-
Semitism and other signs of intolerance. 

the  management  of 
migration is the common responsibility of all countries 
involved.  Therefore,  we  engage 
in  dialogue  on 
migration  with  various  countries  and  regions  in  the 
world.  But  at  the  same  time,  our  cooperation  is 
predominantly  with  our  neighbours  with  the  aim  of 
creating  conditions  for  the  better  management  of 
migration  flows  and  the  smooth  extension  of  the 
Schengen area by the end of next year. 
that 

The  Slovak  Republic  shares 
migration  and  development  are 
inseparable 
agendas.  The  activities  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
European  Union  and  other  organizations  should  be 
carried out along coordinated lines in order to achieve 
the best possible results.  

The  misuse  of  asylum  systems  has  been  a  major 
source  of  illegal  migration;  this  phenomenon  deserves 
international 
of 
migration  processes  would  bring  about  a  decrease  in 
unfounded asylum claims, and genuine refugees would 
then  enjoy  better  protection  and  accelerated  asylum 
procedures.  In  addition,  we  think  that  more  attention 
needs  to  be  drawn  to  the  possibility  that  suspects 
involved  in  terrorist  activities  could  misuse  asylum 
procedures.  

Slovakia  believes  that  this  Dialogue  can  be 
instrumental  in  identifying  inconsistencies  in  existing 
migration and development policies while contributing 
attention.  Better  management 
the  view 
two 

an 
has 
created 
Globalization 
significantly  to  the  building  of  partnerships  among 
countries of origin, transit and destination. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

Mr.  Ismael  Abraão  Gaspar  Martins,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of Angola. 
Mr. Gaspar Martins (Angola): First of all, allow 

me  to  join  others  in  extending  to  Ms.  Al-Khalifa  my 
delegation’s  congratulations  on  her  election  as 
President  of  the  sixty-first  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  We  associate  ourselves  with  the  statement 
delivered  by  the  Minister  of  Home  Affairs  of  South 
Africa on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

Responding  to  the  President’s  appeal,  I  shall 
deliver  a  summary  version  of  my  statement  and  shall 
circulate copies of the full text. 

important 
partnership among the countries of the world, but it has 
also  widened  the  gap  between  rich  and  poor,  not  to 
mention  the  economic  disparities  between  countries 
and  whole  regions. That  situation,  together  with  other 
difficulties,  such  as  wars,  the  deterioration  of  the 
environment  and  geopolitical  transformations,  forces 
an  increasing  number  of  people  to  leave  their  homes. 
That  reality  requires  a  comprehensive  approach  that 
takes into account not only the causes of, but also the 
complex relationship between migration and economic 
development. 

importance  of 
Angola 
international  migration  to  the  development  agenda  of 
the  United  Nations.  Thus,  we  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  comprehensive  report  on  international 
migration,  contained  in  document  A/60/871,  which 
recent 
provides  us  with  useful 
developments 
in 
particular very revealing statistics on the growing role 
of migration as a contribution to economic growth and 
development. 

Given  the  recommendations  of  the  international 
community, my country is concerned about the related 
criminality  that  afflicts  many  States.  The  Republic  of 
Angola is fully immersed in the process of adhering to 
the  United  Nations  Convention  against  Transnational 
Organized  Crime,  particularly  in  relation  to  the  illicit 
traffic  of  migrants  by  land,  sea  and  air  and  to  the 
prevention  and  punishment  of  human 
trafficking, 
especially of women and children, and we are therefore 
engaged in the fight against targeted crimes. 
international  migration,  and 
information  on 
recognizes 
the  high 
in 
34 

06-52461 
aspects 
like  first 
to 
of  migration 
thank  and  congratulate 
to  development.  Let  us  seize 



In  conclusion,  we  agree  with  the  Secretary-
General  that  this  High-level  Dialogue  should  be  seen 
not only as an end in itself, but also as part of a process 
that  will  continue  to  be  carefully  analyzed  in  all  the 
multidimensional 
and 
development.  We  in Angola  have  the  political  will  to 
play our part towards making the recommendations and 
conclusions  of  this  High-level  Dialogue  an  important 
contribution 
this 
opportunity  to  strengthen  the  Dialogue,  thus  making 
migration a positive force in common development and 
the fight against poverty. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Johan  Verbeke,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of Belgium. 
Mr.  Verbeke  (Belgium)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

would 
the 
Secretary-General  for  having  taken  the  initiative  to 
organize  this  Dialogue  and  his  Special  Representative 
for having prepared it so well. 

This  initiative  testifies  to  vision  and  courage. 
Indeed, nobody could have foreseen in 2003, when the 
decision to convene this Dialogue was taken, that only 
three years later migration would be at the heart of the 
policy concerns of all the members of the international 
community, migratory flows having grown not only in 
the North-South direction, but also in the South-South 
direction.  
The debates organized by the Global Commission 

on 
International  Migration 
regional 
consultations  that  took  place  from  2003  to  2005  were 
an  important  catalyst  for  carrying  the  debate  to  a 
political 
in 
identifying  a  global  and  balanced  approach  by  taking 
the multiple dimensions of migration into account.  

We  need  to  install  a  coherent  set  of  short-, 
middle- and long-term actions and policies. In the short 
term,  we  need  to  make  greater  efforts  to  discourage 
illegal  migration 
objective 
information on and increased awareness of the risks of 
human 
irregular 
migration. That dissuasion also needs to take place by 
means  of  increased  border  control,  the  negotiation  of 
readmission  agreements,  and  above  all  by  the  fight 
against human trafficking networks. 

incorporate 
term,  we  need 
the  migration  dimension 
level.  We  have  a  common 
to  better 
into  our 
disseminating 
the  medium 
trafficking 
that  are 
inherent 
to 
and 
the 
interest 
by 
In 
A/61/PV.6
to 
that 
role 
the  valuable 
the  realization  of 
cooperation  policies.  That  means  we  must  further 
promote  an  environment  conducive  to  development  in 
the countries of origin and consider how migration can 
contribute 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  how  it  can  be  included  in 
poverty reduction programmes. 

In  the  long  term,  we  must  make  international 
migration, trade and agriculture policies more coherent 
with our development goals. 

The conference that Belgium organized in March 
in  Brussels,  in  collaboration  with  the  International 
Organization  for  Migration,  the  World  Bank  and  the 
European  Commission,  and  which  was  attended  by 
many present here today, shed light on those questions 
and  has  helped  us  to  outline  some  responses.  It 
highlighted 
the  diaspora 
communities  can  play  in  favour  of  their  country  of 
origin. 
Another truism that was reiterated in Brussels — 

many truisms need to be hammered home — is that we 
will  achieve  nothing  if  we  do  not  treat  migratory 
phenomena  in  a  spirit  of  partnership  among  all  the 
countries involved. 

Once  this  High-level  Dialogue  is  over,  there  are 
some priorities on which we should continue to work. 
The  first  priority  field  is  data  collection.  We  cannot 
develop credible policies without more reliable data on 
migratory flows.  

Secondly,  we  should  examine  the  consequences 
of globalization on the job market  and  ensure a better 
balance between supply and demand.  

Thirdly,  the  contribution  of  migration  to  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  and  especially  the 
role of migrant communities that generate transfers not 
only  by  means  of  social  contributions,  but  also  in  the 
cultural, financial and economic fields, should also be 
studied.  
Fourthly, over and above transfers is the question 

of  the  voluntary  return  of  persons.  The  investigations 
of  the  Organisation  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development have shown that, to date, some of our co-
development  policies,  while  objectively  praiseworthy, 
have not really succeeded in turning those returns into 
development  opportunities.  Together,  we  need 
to 
redefine  co-development  as  a  genuine  approach  to 
development. Belgium also proposes in that respect the 
06-52461 

35 

in 
Ms.  Banks
the  opportunity 
A/61/PV.6 

creation  of  a  co-development  fund  at  the  European 
level. 

Fifthly and lastly, the contribution of migrants in 
their countries of destination should also be optimized. 
That raises the question of the integration and rights of 
migrants. We are all aware of the fact that this is a vast 
programme  which  will  not  be  achieved  unless  the 
international  community  and  all  its  participants  take 
action.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  fact  that  the 
Secretary-General and his Special Representative have 
proposed  the  establishment  of  a  permanent  process  of 
dialogue and cooperation in the form of a global forum 
for migration and development. 

Belgium is ready to host the first such forum next 
year  in  Brussels  and  we  thank  those  delegations  that 
have shown their confidence in Belgium. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

Her  Excellency  Ms.  Rosemary  Banks,  chairperson  of 
the delegation of New Zealand. 
(New  Zealand):  New  Zealand 

welcomes 
this 
exchange on international migration and development. 
We recognize that immigration issues and their impact 
require a long-term strategic dialogue.  

short-term  migration  of  workers  has 
significant development potential and can benefit both 
origin and destination countries by helping meet labour 
market demand and providing remittance flows and the 
potential for skill development and knowledge transfer, 
while enabling migrants to return home.  

Although  there  are  benefits  from  labour  flows, 
there are also a number of economic and social risks to 
the  sending  country,  which  have  already  been  well 
described by other speakers. 

At  this  late  hour,  I  would  like  to  touch  very 
briefly  on  New  Zealand’s  immigration  programme, 
labour  mobility  in  the  South  Pacific  region,  and  the 
way we see the future of this Dialogue. 

New  Zealand  is  in  the  midst  of  the  biggest 
overhaul  of  immigration  legislation  in  20  years.  We 
have  recently  undertaken  a  wide  consultative  process 
on  these  changes.  We  currently  face  critical  skill 
shortages  in  key  areas  of  industry.  Immigration  for  us 
is vital. 
Positive  settlement  outcomes  for  new  migrants, 

along with robust border security, are priorities within 
to  participate 
The 
our  immigration  change  programme.  This  programme 
already 
includes  a  highly  successful  settlement 
strategy, which acknowledges that migration is an end-
to-end  process  and 
that  productivity  comes  best 
through successful settlement for migrants. 

While New Zealand’s main focus is on attracting 
skilled  labour,  we  are,  at  the  same  time,  a  developed 
country  located  in  the  South  Pacific.  As  part  of  our 
Pacific region, New Zealand recognizes that there must 
be  opportunities  for  Pacific  Islanders,  skilled  and 
unskilled,  to  access  permanent  employment  in  New 
Zealand.  In  addition  to  the  mainstream  immigration 
policy  options,  we  have  two  dedicated  permanent 
immigration  schemes:  the  Samoan  Quota  (for  Samoan 
nationals)  and 
the  Pacific  Access  Category  (for 
nationals of Tonga, Fiji, Tuvalu and Kiribati). 

New  Zealand believes that open dialogue among 
countries  is  an  effective  way  of  addressing  global 
migration  issues.  That  has  been  demonstrated  in 
regional  processes  like  the  Bali  Process  on  People 
Smuggling,  Trafficking 
in  Persons  and  Related 
Transnational Crime. 
Looking  to  the  future  and  to  the  way  this  High-

level  Dialogue  is  taken  forward,  New  Zealand  would 
be  cautious  about  establishing  a  new  global  forum  on 
migration.  We 
to  address 
migration  issues  already  exists  in  various  structures. 
Any  new  forum  that  may  be  agreed  should  not 
duplicate existing forums and should have the potential 
to  add  value  to  the  existing  debates.  New  Zealand 
believes  that  if  there  is  a  consensus  to  establish  an 
informal  forum  it  should  be  voluntary  and  driven  by 
States. It should build on the work of regional forums 
and  allow  for  consultation  and  the  exchange  of  good 
practices. It should not lead to negotiated outcomes. 

In closing, we would like to thank the Secretary-
General  for  his  thought-provoking  report  (A/60/871), 
and  all  the  delegations  who  have  contributed  to  this 
Dialogue. 

The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His Excellency Ms. Sohail Hernández, chairman of the 
delegation of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. 

of 
(Bolivarian  Republic 
in  Spanish):  The  Bolivarian 
Venezuela) 
Republic  of  Venezuela  welcomes  the  opportunity  of 
this  High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration 
and  Development  as  a  favourable  opportunity  to 
Ms.  Hernández
the  avenue 
(spoke 
think 
that 
36 

06-52461 
between 
and 
society 
developing 
is  multi-ethnic 
towards  priority 


discuss,  on  a  broad  basis, 
the  multidimensional 
elements  of  international  migration,  including  the 
gender  perspective,  cultural  diversity  and  full  respect 
for human rights. 

The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  has 
insisted in various forums that migration is a topic that 
should  be  tackled  from  a  comprehensive  perspective 
that  focuses  on  the  social  content  of  the  topic  itself 
because,  above  all,  we  believe  that  the  origin  of  the 
problems  involved  is  to  be  found  in  the  growing 
imbalance 
developed 
countries,  given  the  prevailing  economic  system. That 
is why we believe that, at the national level, we have to 
emphasize  the  following  elements  —  rejection  of 
discrimination  on  grounds  of 
race,  sex,  creed, 
nationality  or  legal  status;  respect  for  diversity,  since 
and  pluricultural; 
our 
orientation 
areas  of  national 
development;  full  respect  for  the  human  rights  of  the 
migrant worker and his or her family, including labour 
rights,  the  right  to  social  security  and  education,  inter 
alia;  a  migrant  policy  based  on  the  principles  of 
tolerance, solidarity, gender equality, justice and social 
equity; and respect for signed and ratified treaties and 
international conventions.  

Similarly,  the  Constitution  of  the  Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela, in its Title III on duties, human 
rights  and  guarantees,  provides  for  coverage  of  the 
social  needs  of  all  persons,  whether  nationals  or 
foreigners,  as  reflected  in  the  recent  enactment  of  a 
series of legal instruments. Among those instruments, I 
would mention in particular, the Aliens  and Migration 
Act, adopted in May 2004, the regulations to regularize 
and  naturalize  foreigners  of  February  2004,  and  the 
Organic  Law  on 
the  Social  Security  system  of 
December 2002.  

In  addition,  the  Ministry  of  Labour  and  Social 
Security  of  Venezuela  has  developed  a  series  of 
administrative mechanisms that we would like to bring 
to  the  attention  of  the  Assembly,  including:  the 
implementation  of  an  automated  system  to  issue  work 
permits  for  foreign  workers;  the  implementation  of  a 
system  linked  to  the  computer  systems  of  a  national 
network  of  employment  agencies;  the  creation  of  an 
automated mainframe database; the decentralization of 
the 
the 
employment  agency  network;  and  the  updating  and 
simplification  of  mechanisms  and  procedures  for 
controlling migrant flows. 
labour  and  migration  services 
towards 
A/61/PV.6

As  regards  protecting  and  defending  the  human 
rights of migrants, the national Government has taken a 
number of measures to promote human rights. Among 
them,  I  would  highlight  the  national  campaign  on  the 
rights and duties of migrant workers and their families 
in  Venezuela,  undertaken  by  the  Ministry  of  Labour 
and  Social  Security,  and  the  national  campaign  to 
prevent  trafficking  in  human  beings  promoted  by  the 
Ministry  of  the  Interior  and  Justice.  In  addition,  in 
August  2006,  we  drew  up  a  national  plan  of  action  to 
prevent,  suppress  and  punish  trafficking  in  human 
beings  in  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela.  To 
demonstrate the national Government’s commitment to 
combating  trafficking  in  humans,  we  organized  a 
meeting  of  national  authorities  dealing  with  human 
trafficking  under  the  auspices  of  the  Organization  of 
American States (OAS). That meeting  was the first  of 
its  type  held  in  the American  hemisphere.  It  provided 
an  opportunity  for  exchange  of 
information  and 
experience,  political  dialogue  and  cooperation  among 
origin, transit and recipient countries on the subject of 
human  trafficking,  having  due  regard  to  the  principle 
of  co-responsibility  among  countries  of  origin,  transit 
and  destination,  and  with  human  rights  as  the  central 
focus. 

With  respect  to  remittances,  Venezuela  believes 
that policies must be crafted and coordinated to reduce 
the  difficulties  involved  in  transferring  remittances.  It 
is also important to study the possibility of facilitating 
the  creation  of  family  microenterprises  to  help  the 
families of migrant workers. However, we believe that 
remittances cannot and should not become the basis for 
development  policies.  We 
that 
remittances are private transfers and that they cannot at 
any point be considered to be or substitute for Official 
Development Assistance. 

Another  problem  that  countries  of  origin  should 
tackle is the problem of qualified and highly qualified 
migration.  In 
the 
possibility  of  implementing  policies  and  mechanisms 
that stimulate the return of migrants and enable them to 
reintegrate  more  easily  into  their  country  of  origin, 
thereby avoiding brain drain.  
The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  considers 

that  cooperation  among  Member  States,  whether 
bilateral, regional or multilateral, is crucial if we are to 
improve  our  management  of  the  phenomenon  of 
international migration.  
that  regard,  we  should  study 
cannot 
forget 
06-52461 

37 

intergovernmental  consultative 
A/61/PV.6 

As  regards  the  Secretary-General’s  proposal  to 

set  up  an 
forum, 
Venezuela  considers  that  that  suggestion  would  mean 
creating  a  mechanism  for  far-reaching  reflection  on 
migration issues, but without binding decisions, which 
would enable our countries to engage in a dynamic and 
fruitful exchange of experience.  

At  the  same  time,  we  have  to  join  forces  to 
enhance  the  work  that  several  bodies  dealing  with  the 
subject  of  migration  have  been  carrying  out  in  recent 
years, and thus arrive at a more coherent approach. 

Finally,  we  would  like  the  conclusions  of  the 
High-level Dialogue to take into consideration progress 
achieved  in  migration  issues  in  the  South  American 
area.  We  hope  that  the  outcome  of  this  Dialogue  will 
truly be implemented to benefit migrants themselves. 

The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Madhu  Raman Acharya,  chairman 
of the delegation of Nepal. 

Mr.  Acharya  (Nepal):  Migration  is  one  of  the 
less  understood  and  little  discussed  matters  among 
issues  associated  with  globalization.  Its  potential 
benefits,  including  its  contribution  to  development, 
have yet to be fully understood. 

Nepal’s national experience also suggests that the 
impact  of  migration  on  development  is  not  yet  clear, 
though  there  is  some  positive  correlation  between  the 
two.  For 
the 
Nepalese workers abroad now account for 11.7 per cent 
of  gross  domestic  product,  and  have  thus  been  among 
the  factors  that  have  contributed  to  the  reduction  of 
extreme poverty and unemployment. 

International  migration  occurs  because  of  push 
factors,  such  as  poverty,  and  pull  factors,  such  as  the 
attraction  to  a  better  and  productive  life  abroad.  In 
other  words,  underdevelopment  produces  conditions 
for migration. 

Mr. Tidjani (Cameroon), Vice-President, took the 
Chair. 

If  properly  managed,  migration  can  become  a 
positive force in the world economy. If no active policy 
choices  are  made,  it  can  lead  to  chaos,  confusion  and 
conflicts. Therefore, we must start a dialogue to allow 
freer  access  of  migrant  workers  to  the  economies  of 
developed  countries.  After  all,  human  labour  is  just 
another factor of production and should be allowed to 
instance,  remittances  generated  by 
are 
the 
Lately, 
Many  migrant  workers 
move  freely  just  as  capital,  goods  and  services  are 
allowed  to  do  in  the  context  of  liberal  trade  and  open 
economic policies. 

Despite the positive contribution migrant workers 
make  in  the  economies  of  countries  of  origin  and 
receiving  countries,  they  are  mostly  discounted  as  a 
burden to the economic and social system of receiving 
countries and a drain on the talent of sending countries. 

exploited  by 
unscrupulous  intermediaries  or  employers.  They  are 
sometimes  subject  to  discrimination  in  host  societies, 
and in some  cases, they are denied the  rights they are 
entitled to under international conventions. Thus, there 
is a need to strengthen the regime for protection of the 
rights of migrants in all situations. 
Many  developed  labour  markets  seek  skilled 

migrant  workers.  When 
few  skilled  people 
available  in  poorer  countries  leave  for  jobs  overseas, 
development  falls  behind,  thus  creating  conditions  for 
more emigration. 

remittance  has  emerged  as  an 
the 
innovative source of private household financing, but it 
can in no way be a substitute for official development 
assistance  or  for  debt  relief.  The  vulnerability  of  the 
migrant  sector  does  not  allow  countries  to  become 
dependent on it as a source of revenue. 

International  policies  and  trade  regimes,  anti-
human  trafficking  laws,  immigration  practices  and 
provisions 
have 
overshadowed  the  potential  benefits  of  migration.  We 
can  achieve  many  of  the  objectives  of  these  policies 
through  better  management  of  migration  without 
creating hurdles to genuine migrant workers. We need 
to engage all relevant stakeholders, including migrants 
themselves, 
framework  of 
cooperation 
full  potential  of 
migration as a driving force for development. 

Sadly, this global dialogue on migration has been 
too little too late. It is marred with conflicting interests 
and interpretations. We need to come up with win-win 
solutions  for  both  countries  of  origin  and  host 
countries, as well as for migrants themselves. 

Like  most  other  global  issues,  utilization  of 
migration for its potential contribution to development 
requires a shared global responsibility, which has been 
one  of  the  cardinal  principles  of  cooperation  in  our 
times.  We  should  endeavour  to  develop  a  global 
in 
for  achieving 
international 
security 
on 
and 
terrorism 
an 
the 
38 

06-52461 
floor 
should 
for  his 
(Iceland):  We 
Mr.  Hannesson
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
the 
to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hjálmar 


compact  for  migration  and  development  with  shared 
commitments,  specifically  for  opening  up 
labour 
markets  and  adopting  target  migrant  worker  quotas, 
and shared responsibilities between migrants’ countries 
of  origin  and  countries  of  destination.  Most 
importantly,  we 
institute  a  multilateral 
mechanism  for  dialogue  to  facilitate  the  better  use  of 
migration as a tool for development.  

give 
Hannesson, chairman of the delegation of Iceland. 

the 
thank 
Secretary  General 
and 
comprehensive 
enlightening report and the emphasis he has placed on 
this important and highly relevant matter for the United 
Nations.  We  also  welcome  the  organization  of  this 
High-level  Dialogue  and  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-
General  to  put  the  issue  of  migration  on  the  global 
agenda. 
The  report  highlights  the  fact  that  a  new  era  of 

mass 
international  migration  has  recently  begun. 
Iceland  is  acutely  aware  of  this.  Only  10  years  ago, 
Iceland was one of the most homogeneous societies in 
the  world.  Today,  the  portion  of  our  labour  market 
occupied by immigrants is higher than that of most of 
our neighbours. 
in  a 

positive manner to development and economic growth, 
if appropriately regulated and controlled. But if we are 
to  reduce 
the  migrants 
themselves,  we  must  recognize  the  need  to  promote 
and protect their human rights. 

Gender equality perspectives are highly important 
in migration, because gender inequality can be both the 
cause  and  the  consequence  of  international  migration. 
Promotion  of  gender  equality  will,  therefore,  help  to 
reduce migration’s negative impact. 

I would like to highlight the fact mentioned in the 
report  that  cross-border  movements  of  persons  have 
become  the  main  vehicle  for  greater  participation  by 
in  developing 
women 
countries,  which 
increased 
international  trade  in  services.  The  downside  of  it, 
however,  is  that  the  flexibility  of  labour  can  lead  to 
loss  of  formal  contracts,  social  security  and  other 
social benefits. 
International  migration  can  contribute 
the  negative  effects  on 
the  export  of  services 
is  a  positive  side  of 
in 
A/61/PV.6
the 
that 
steps 
taken 
linked 
regional 
role  of 
is  closely 
institutions 
authorities  have 
Another  challenge 

It  is  worrying  that  current  trends  in  women’s 
employment  are  headed  in  the  wrong  direction,  with 
lower  wages  and  deterioration  in  the  terms  and 
conditions  of  employment.  One  of  the  reasons  is  that 
women  are  more  likely  to  find  employment  in  the 
informal economy than are men. 

to 
migration is the rapid growth of human trafficking and 
smuggling. Attempts have been made to use Iceland as 
a country of transit on the route over the Atlantic, and 
my 
accordingly. 
Trafficking  in  human  beings  is  a  global  problem,  and 
as  such  needs  to  be  dealt  with  by  the  international 
community as well as at the national level. Iceland has 
signed 
the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Transnational  Organized  Crime  and  the  Protocol  to 
Prevent,  Suppress  and  Punish  Trafficking  in  Persons, 
Especially  Women  and  Children,  and  we  have 
emphasized 
in 
combating  trafficking  in  human  beings.  We  have  also 
contributed actively to the anti-trafficking work of the 
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. 

The  fight  against  trafficking  in  human  beings 
should be a priority for all, as most States are affected, 
either  as  countries  of  origin,  countries  of  transit  or 
countries  of  destination.  It  remains  one  of  Iceland’s 
priorities,  and  we  have  put  considerable  effort  into 
raising  public  awareness  on  what  such  trafficking 
involves. 

To  conclude,  I  would  like  to  state  that  I  am 
certain  that  this  High-level  Dialogue  will  provide  us 
with a better understanding of all aspects of migration 
and development. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Javad  Amin  Mansour, 
chairman  of  the  delegation  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran. 
Mr.  Mansour  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran): At  the 

to  congratulate  Ms.  Rashed 
outset,  allow  me 
Al-Khalifa  on  her  election  as  President  of  the  United 
Nations  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first  session, 
including  the  High-level  Dialogue  on  International 
Migration and Development. I am confident that, under 
her  leadership,  this  gathering  will  be  successful  in  its 
deliberations. 

Before  making  my  remarks,  upon  instruction 
from  the  capital,  I  have  to  express  my  Government’s 
06-52461 

39 
in 
that 
saying 
It  goes  without 
international  migration 
themselves.  In  addressing 
Now I will make my statement. 
Although 
A/61/PV.6 

regrets  that  the  Iranian  Minister  of  the  Interior  was 
unable to participate in this High-level Dialogue owing 
to the failure of the host country to issue an entry visa. 


occurs 
essentially as a result of decisions taken by individuals 
and families, it affects the relationship with the States 
concerned.  International  migration,  due  to  its  ever-
increasing  growth 
terms  of  scale,  scope  and 
complexity,  has  become  a  phenomenon  with  global 
aspects.  It  poses  new  challenges  that  should  be 
addressed  appropriately  and  holistically.  In  addition, 
the  undeniable  inter-linkage  between  migration  and 
development  highlights  the  need  to  address  the  issue, 
bearing in mind its undeniable impact on the process of 
development  of  all  countries  of  origin,  transit  and 
destination. 

the  ongoing 
negotiations  on  migration  should  be  aimed  at 
minimizing its negative consequences and maximizing 
its benefits for all countries involved, as well as for the 
migrants 
issue,  a 
realistic  and  global  vision  is  needed.  One  cannot  and 
should  not  fail 
the  root  causes  of 
international migration. 

Globalization,  and  its  consequent  strengthening 
of  communication  and  increase  in  public  awareness, 
have 
to  expectations  and 
movements of people around the globe. Poverty, social 
adequate 
exclusion, 
investments, 
in 
the 
international  trading  system,  uncontrolled  population 
growth,  violence,  discrimination  and  a  wide  gap  in 
terms  of  well-being  and  development  between 
developed and developing countries are among some of 
the other factors that affect migration. 

An  increasing  number  of  female  migrants  and 
other vulnerable social groups, as well as the high risk 
inherent  in  the  movement  of  such  groups,  add  to  the 
already  complex  aspects  and  deserve  the  international 
community’s further attention. 

It  should  be  taken  into  account  that  almost  all 
countries  in  the  world  face  migration  phenomena  and 
fall  in  the  categories  of  origin,  destination  and/or 
transit.  Besides,  migration  is  not  just  a  South-South 
issue; it also occurs in the countries of the South. It is 
obvious  that  individual  countries  without  bilateral, 
unemployment, 
imbalances  and 
lack 
inequalities 
inevitably  given 
to  consider 
this 
of 
rise 

the 
the 
also  be 
to  address 
seen  within 
to  achieving 
While  struggling 
regional or international cooperation will not be able to 
manage this phenomenon appropriately or move in the 
right direction. 

issue  of 
international  migration,  in  order  to  minimize  the 
negative consequences and maximize benefits for all, it 
should 
context  of 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  In  other 
words, we need to address migration and development 
with  a  view 
the  MDGs.  The  full 
participation  and  engagement  of  all  countries 
in 
negotiations, in a transparent and constructive manner, 
will contribute to the achievement of fruitful results. 

Another  requirement  that  should  be  taken  into 
account  during  the  negotiations  is  the  appropriate 
management of migration at the national, regional and 
international 
levels.  Building  national  capacities, 
particularly  in  developing  countries,  by  establishing 
the  necessary  infrastructures;  creating  or  modifying 
relevant  legal  regimes  in  a  coordinated  and  coherent 
manner;  formulating  national  strategies  on  migration; 
exchanging information, experience and best practices; 
and  allocating  adequate  resources  to  such  measures 
will  help  the  international  community  meet  the  new 
challenges posed by migration. 

Undoubtedly,  migrants  play  an  important  role  in 
the  process  of  development  in  all  countries.  Migrants 
in general, and skilled and highly educated migrants in 
particular,  contribute  effectively  to  the  process  of 
development  in  destination  countries.  Likewise,  the 
transfer  of  technical  knowledge  and  capital  to  the 
countries  of  origin  by  migrants  is  effective  in  the 
development of those countries. Therefore, the removal 
of  obstacles  that  migrants  face  in  the  transfer  of 
knowledge  and  expertise  in  destination  countries, 
facilitating  and 
the  cost  of  remittance 
transfers, and enhancing their safety are determinant in 
the process of development. 

transit  and 
destination,  and  while  suffering  greatly  from  the 
negative  consequences  of  migration,  my  Government 
attaches  great  importance  to  the  ongoing  negotiations 
and cooperation at all levels. Iran, which is located in a 
strategic  area  linking  the  Persian  Gulf  to  Central Asia 
and  South  Asia  to  Mediterranean  countries,  can 
play  a  key  in  regional  cooperation  on  migration.  I 
should  like  to  highlight  here  some  measures  that  my 
Being  of  a  country  of  origin, 
lowering 
40 

06-52461 
With 
the 
launching 
the 
composed 
In  conclusion, 
Interior  Ministry, 
the  cooperation  of 


country has resorted to in order to address the question 
of migration. 

International 
Organization  for  Migration,  Iran  has  embarked  on 
enhancing national capacity in dealing with migration. 
A  new  law,  entitled  “Combating  human  trafficking”, 
was adopted by the Iranian Parliament in July 2004. A 
national cooperation mechanism has been set up in the 
the 
Iranian 
of 
representatives  of  all  relevant  ministries.  At 
the 
regional  level,  Iran  participated  in  the  quadripartite 
ministerial  meeting  on  fighting  illegal  migration  and 
trafficking  in  persons,  held  between  Greece,  Iran, 
Pakistan and Turkey in Athens in December 2005.  

initiative  of  a 
trilateral  dialogue  on  migration  management  among 
Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan is another step we have 
taken  in  the  region  for  further  cooperation  among  the 
countries involved. With the implementation of further 
projects  in  the  region  aimed  at  sharing  expertise  and 
know-how  and  enhancing  capacity  on  migration, 
countries  will  be  able  to  improve  their  understanding 
of  migration  and  migration  management.  I  reiterate 
that  strengthening  regional  cooperation  is  a  key  to 
success for international efforts and cooperation. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Aboubacar Diallo, 
chairman of the delegation of Guinea. 
Mr.  Diallo  (Guinea)  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  a 

great  pleasure  and  privilege  for  the  delegation  that  I 
have  the  honour  to  lead  to  take  the  floor  at  the  High-
level  Dialogue  that  brings  us  together  here  and  the 
importance of which is clear to us all. 

I  should  like  in  particular  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
Secretary-General,  whose  daily,  persistent  efforts  help 
us  to  achieve  our  common  vision  of  the  world.  The 
initiative to organize this meeting and the report which 
he  has  submitted  demonstrate  the  far-sightedness  and 
lucidity  with  which  he  approaches  this  critical  issue. 
My  delegation  fully  approves  the  report’s  diagnoses 
and the proposed measures it contains. 

My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
made by the representative of South Africa on behalf of 
the Group of 77 and China. 

In  adopting  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
the  United  Nations  set  itself  the  difficult  task  of 
meeting  many  challenges,  the  nature  and  purpose  of 
A/61/PV.6
those  challenges, 
which  require  determined  efforts  on  our  part  to  do 
more to establish the basis for a genuine development 
cooperation  policy.  Among 
the 
problem of international migration and development is 
undoubtedly a priority. 

Today  more  than  ever  before,  the  immense 
opportunities  opened  by  globalization,  migration  and 
the  growth  of 
information  and  communication 
technologies  unite  hundreds  of  millions  of  people 
throughout the global village in a common fate. Those 
far-reaching global changes require us to seek together 
adequate responses to the many challenges we face. We 
must also bear in mind the no less complex underlying 
challenges. 

In  that  context,  it  is  clear  that  only  active, 
realistic  and  pragmatic  solidarity  that  integrates  the 
needs  of  development,  security  and 
international 
cooperation  will  furnish  a  long-term  solution  to  the 
control  and  management  of  migratory  flows.  We  are 
convinced  that,  through  this  High-level  Dialogue,  we 
must  contribute  to  establishing,  progressively  and  in 
the common interests of the countries of origin, transit 
and destination, an innovative and effective partnership 
to  incorporate  the  following  elements  seamlessly  into 
development  policies  and  programmes:  enhanced 
national  capacity-building  and  migration  policies;  the 
international  standards  on 
essential  elements  for 
international  migration; 
and 
participation of international organizations, the private 
sector  and  civil  society  in  this  debate;  enhanced 
cooperation  and  coordination  of  efforts  between  the 
United  Nations,  the  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees 
and  the  International  Organization  for  Migration  in 
order to establish appropriate machinery to improve the 
coherence  and  interactivity  of  international  migration 
and  development;  and  exploring  and  enhancing  the 
potential for the development of diasporas. 

Member  States  must  ensure  in  particular  that 
migration  follows  a  legal  path.  They  must  protect  the 
rights  of  migrants  and  prevent  their  exploitation, 
particularly the vulnerable among them, and counteract 
crimes related to the illicit trafficking of migrants and 
the trade in persons.  

Governments  must  reassert  their  commitment  to 
meeting those objectives. In order to do so, they must 
establish  a  strategy  based  on  co-development.  In  that 
vein,  we  must  explore  and  develop  the  potential  of 
national  diasporas  as  engines  of  and  added  value  for 
involvement 
the 
06-52461 

41 
are 
them 
financing 
indispensable 
this  as  an  opportunity 
A/61/PV.6 

development  and  cooperation  efforts.  In  many  ways, 
my  delegation  sees 
for 
innovative thinking and a promising prospect that must 
be  taken  into  account  in  poverty  reduction  strategies 
and 
in  our  countries’  development  policies  and 
programmes. Despite the international commitments to 
increasing the level and quality of official development 
assistance, it is increasingly clear that it will never be 
sufficient  to  meet  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
by 2015, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa.  

Today, new mechanisms to mobilize resources for 
development 
to 
complement  official  development  assistance.  In  that 
respect,  it  is  clearer  than  ever  that  the  resources 
monopolized  by  co-development  and  decentralized 
cooperation  often 
exceed  official  development 
assistance. Given that fact, the Government of Guinea 
has  established 
innovative  financing  mechanisms, 
particularly  by  mobilizing  resources  monopolized  by 
co-development  and  decentralized  cooperation  and 
directing 
towards  finance  for  development. 
Clearly,  much  remains  to  be  done  to  ensure  the 
integration 
into 
co-development strategies. 

At  the  national  level,  initiatives  should  enjoy 
greater  coordination  and  better  cohesion  between 
migration  policies  and  development  policies.  At  the 
international  level,  a  framework  structured  around  co-
development  objectives  should  produce  innovative 
initiatives  aimed  at  promoting 
the  benefits  of 
international  migration,  including  through:  facilitating 
remittances, reducing their cost and ensuring that they 
promote development, and strengthening links between 
countries  of  origin  and  their  expatriates  in  terms  of 
business and investment knowledge.  
The President returned to the Chair. 


Here, my delegation wishes to recall the political 
purpose  of  this  debate:  to  strengthen  the  institutional 
framework and enhance the resources of a partnership 
that  we  would  like  to  be  universal,  integrating  all  the 
aspects  and  dimensions  of  international  migration. 
Moreover, given the temptation on the part of some to 
seek  security  through  isolationism  and  the  fierce 
determination  of  others  to  profit  from  the  advantages 
of  migration,  we  must  stress  that  today  there  is  no 
miracle  cure  for 
the  phenomenon  of  migration. 
However, there are realistic, pragmatic solutions aimed 
international  migration 
of 

following 
the  path  of 
at  making  migration  a  very  valuable  tool  to  promote 
cooperation in development. 

We  hope  that  the  international  community,  by 
resolutely 
appropriate, 
harmonious and mutually advantageous management of 
migration,  will  forcefully  reaffirm  its  will  to  take 
resolute  action  against  poverty,  persecution,  rejection 
and stigmatization and to promote political, operational 
and consensual dialogue on international migration.  

With  a  long  history  shaped  by  a  tradition  of 
tolerance,  the  Republic  of  Guinea  has  always  been  a 
country  of  destination,  transit  and  intermingling  of 
peoples, thanks to migration from many lands. That is 
why 
the  Guinean  Government  attaches  particular 
importance  to  the  close  links  between  migration  and 
development.  

In  that  context,  and  following  this  Dialogue,  we 
plan  to  hold  a  national  forum  on  co-development  and 
decentralized  cooperation  in  March  2007.  The  forum 
will  bring 
together  national  development  actors, 
technical  and  financial  partners  and  representatives  of 
the  Guinean  diaspora.  Its  objective  will  be  to  provide 
the  country  with  effective  policies,  strategies  and 
instruments 
the  additional  financing 
necessary  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals by 2015. The delegation of Guinea hopes to have 
the  support  of  the  international  community  to  ensure 
the success of this national initiative.  
Finally,  my  delegation  reaffirms  its  full  support 

and  full  cooperation  with  regard 
the  process 
underway.  We  are  convinced  that  the  scope  of  the 
challenges fully justifies such support, so that the issue 
of migration can be considered in the universal context 
that  it  deserves,  from  the  vast  perspective  afforded  to 
the international community. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic): I  now  call  on 

His Excellency Mr. Abdulla Al Araimi, chairman of the 
delegation of Oman. 
Mr. Al Araimi (Oman) (spoke in Arabic): Permit 

me at the outset, on behalf of the Sultanate of Oman, to 
thank the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, for his report 
on 
development 
(A/60/871),  which  serves  as  an  important  working 
paper  for  this  High-level  Dialogue.  It  raises  a  number 
of  issues  and  sets  out  guidelines  on  migration  and  its 
impact  on  social  and  economic  development 
in 
countries  of  origin  and  countries  of  destination.  The 
international  migration 
to  mobilize 
and 
to 
42 

06-52461 
regulating 
My  country  wishes  to  emphasize  the  following 


report  also  emphasizes  the  protection  of  the  rights  of 
migrants  and  the  importance  of  international  and 
regional  cooperation  aimed  at  ensuring  collective 
action  on  the  phenomenon  of  migration  so  as  to 
maximize its benefits and promote development at the 
national, regional and international levels. 

points.  

First,  every  State  has  the  sovereign  right  to 
regulate the entry and exit of workers from and into its 
territory, to determine who can enter the country and to 
devise  policies  and  mechanisms 
the 
residence of those workers in accordance with its own 
laws and regulations. 
Secondly, countries of origin must cooperate with 

countries of destination to facilitate legal migration and 
combat illegal migration.  

Thirdly,  a  country  of  destination  has  the  right  to 
control  its  labour  market  so  that  its  own  unemployed 
citizens  can  find  appropriate  employment  without 
competition  from  migrant  workers  who  have  entered 
the  country  illegally.  Likewise,  migration  should  not 
increase 
in  countries  of 
destination.  That  means,  of  course,  that  if  we  are  to 
benefit from migration, we must regulate it.  

Fourthly, migrant workers enjoy higher wages in 
countries  of  destination.  However,  such  countries  can 
also help to increase workers’ professional skills in the 
private  sector  through  training,  especially  for  those  of 
limited  skills. Thus,  they  can  improve  their  skills  and 
develop their own productive capacities.  

Fifthly, in the Sultanate of Oman there are many 
immigrants who have come to work but not to establish 
permanent  or  long-term  residency. That  contributes  to 
the  long-term  development  and  benefit  of  our  country 
and of the  countries  of origin, and to the workers and 
to their families as well.  
Finally,  the  Sultanate  of  Oman  believes  that 

countries of origin must increase the awareness of their 
emigrants so that they understand the laws and values 
of  the  country  of  destination.  Countries  of  destination 
must  also  respect  immigrants’  social  and  cultural 
diversity  and  combat  the  illicit  trading  in  humans. 
Furthermore,  countries  of  origin  and  countries  of 
destination  must  cooperate  to  control  migration,  since 
that is in the interests of both parties. 
the  unemployment  rate 
A/61/PV.6
from 

It  is  the  responsibility  of  the  United  Nations, 
international organizations and specialized agencies to 
coordinate 
the  positions  of  various  countries  on 
migration in order to make it an essential and positive 
factor  in  sustainable  development  at  the  international, 
regional and national levels. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now  call  on 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdalmahmood  Abdalhaleem 
Mohamad, chairman of the delegation of the Sudan. 

Mr. Mohamad (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): We are 
extremely pleased to see you, Madam, a distinguished 
diplomat 
the  sisterly  country  of  Bahrain, 
presiding over the General Assembly at this important 
session. Your election to that post is an honour for you 
and  your  country,  which  continues  to  be  a  pioneer  in 
the Arab Gulf, in the rest of the Arab world and in the 
international  arena.  Your  country  and  the  other  Arab 
Gulf States are safe havens for immigrants from many 
other  countries  —  including  my  own  —  and  have 
become a second home for them. 

I  should  like  to  thank  the  United  Nations,  in 
particular  the  Secretariat,  for  this  important  initiative 
on  international  immigration  and  development,  which 
has made that issue one of the concerns and focuses of 
the  international  community.  This  initiative  is  very 
important  because  it  deepens  global  understanding  of 
the  issues  related  to  migration,  which  is  one  of  the 
oldest  human  activities,  and  of  the  important  role 
played  by  many  human  migrations  in  shaping  history, 
economic life and the common human heritage. In this 
respect,  we  would  like  to  align  ourselves  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  Minister  of  Home  Affairs  of 
South Africa on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.  

Throughout  its  history,  our  country’s  particular 
geographical  position  has  given  rise  to  considerable 
migration,  and  the  Sudan  has  long  been  a  country  of 
origin,  destination  and  transit.  We  are  proud  of  the 
children  of  the  Sudan  who  have  contributed  to  the 
construction  and  development  of  many  brotherly  and 
friendly  countries. At  the  same  time,  we  are  proud  of 
those  who  have  come  to  our  country,  either  on  their 
way to the Holy Land or as residents who have become 
part of our social fabric. This has given our country its 
unity  in  diversity  and  the  values  of  tolerance  and 
peaceful coexistence. 

this  High-level  Dialogue  undertaken  on 
International Migration and Development, the issue of 
migration  goes  beyond  development.  Economic 
At 
06-52461 

43 
A/61/PV.6 

indicators  indeed  show  that  migration  is  linked  with 
development. But it is more: migration is an important 
and  versatile  tool  to  increase  interaction  between 
members of the international human community and to 
bring States, peoples and cultures together. 

Thus, our view of migration should not be limited 
to  development.  The  migrant  is  not  just  a  milch  cow 
sending remittances or an engine to drive the economy. 
Migrants  are  human  beings  whose  aspirations  and 
ambitions  weave  a  network  of  human  and  cultural 
interactions.  We  believe  that  development  should  be 
only  one  aspect  of  migration.  Our  consideration  of 
migration  should  also  address  the  individual’s  moral 
and  material  concerns. A  joint  effort  among  countries 
of  origin,  receiving  countries  and  the  international 
community  is  needed  for  successful  migration  that 
benefits everybody. Migrants have economic and social 
rights,  such  as  the  right  to  educate  their  children,  to 
maintain  links  with  their  homelands  and  to  carry  out 
unhindered  the  various  transactions  they  need  to 
undertake. In exchange, migrants are obliged to respect 
the rules and laws of the host country. 

Although  migration  is  a  personal  choice,  the 
international  community  must  nonetheless  address  its 
root causes. This puts the role of the United Nations at 
the forefront in tackling poverty, in providing resources 
the  problem  of 
for  development, 
indebtness, 
the 
management of disasters and crises and in engaging in 
rehabilitation  and  reconstruction 
in  countries  and 
societies  that  have  emerged  from  struggles,  conflicts 
and wars.  

In this context, we believe there is a potential for 
bilateral  cooperation  through  the  signing  of  protocols 
and  labour  agreements  to  deal  with  migration  issues. 
We  would  like  to  commend  regional  cooperation 
organizations for their cooperation on migration issues. 
The  African  Union  has  integrated  this  topic  into  its 
programmes to buttress the work of African economic 
economic 
bodies 
integration 
mechanisms.  The  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  also  reflects  an  interest  in  the 
African diaspora. 

that, 
alongside  the  international  focus  on  migration  issues, 
xenophobia  and  violence  against  foreigners  exist.  We 
also  see  a  lack  of  political  will  on  many  migratory 
issues,  as  well  as  the  application  of  double  standards. 
in  addressing 
promoting 
time,  we  are  concerned 
cooperation 
At 
the  same 
and 
continental 
in 
in 

To  conclude,  we  want 
At a time when international trade agreements call for 
freedom  of  movement  for  goods  and  persons,  some 
countries  are  becoming  more  restrictive,  especially 
towards those seeking asylum. 

We  believe  that  this  High-level  Dialogue  will 
strengthen  international  efforts  to  deal  with  complex 
issues  in  a  comprehensive  way  in  order  to  yield 
benefits for all and to serve everybody’s interests. My 
country,  with  its  vast  experience  of  migration  as  a 
country of origin, destination and transit, has addressed 
the  issue  through  carefully  considered  institutional 
measures.  Government  bodies  are  working  harder  to 
facilitate  employment  for  migrants,  and  we  have 
established  a  high-level  body  to  service  Sudanese  in 
the diaspora, help resolve the problems they encounter 
and  link  them  with  their  homeland.  An  international 
conference  was  held  in  Khartoum  last  month  for 
Sudanese  working  abroad  in  the  mass  media  and  as 
creative writers. 

to  emphasize  our 
appreciation for the holding of this important Dialogue, 
which  establishes  joint  responsibility  to  formulate 
solutions  that  will  promote  sustainable  development 
and facilitate the movement of persons, legal migration 
and  respect  for  the  rights  and  dignity  of  migrants. 
Beyond  efforts  to  emphasize  institutional  frameworks 
to address migration issues, we believe that the United 
Nations has the potential to work towards launching an 
international  decade  to  strengthen  cooperation  on 
migration  and  to  declare  an  international  day  of 
migrants in appreciation for the great national, regional 
and  international  efforts  that  have  been  made  on 
migration  issues.  We  hope  that  our  deliberations  here 
will have a successful outcome.  

The  President: I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Atoki  Ileka,  chairman  of  the  delegation  of  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo. 

Mr.  Ileka  (Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo) 
(spoke  in  French):  Madam  President,  the  head  of  the 
delegation  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
for the sixty-first session of the General Assembly will 
soon  have  the  opportunity  to  convey  to  you  our 
Republic’s  warm  congratulations  on  your  election  to 
the presidency of the Assembly. 
Speaking  in  the  context  of  the  2005  World 

Summit  and 
the  recent  Euro-African  Ministerial 
Conference  on  Migration  and  Development  held  in 
this  High-level  Dialogue  on 
mid-July 
in  Rabat, 
44 

06-52461 


International  Migration  and  Development  underlines 
once  again  how  helpless  nations  are  if  they  try  to  act 
alone and how important it is to seek solutions together 
to important problems with transnational implications. 

Today we must note that migration has become a 
global  problem.  We  therefore  need  a  global  approach 
that  integrates  the  security,  economic,  cultural  and 
financial  and  legislative  aspects,  because  migration 
spares  no  country.  My  country  can,  therefore,  only  be 
gratified to see the United Nations so clearly spell out 
the  relationship  between  international  migration  and 
development. 

Our  country,  long  a  country  of  immigration 
because  of  the  potential  of  its  land  and  what  lies 
beneath,  regularly  sees  its  mining  areas  invaded  by 
clandestine workers from all over. Conversely, it is not 
only  young  people  without  qualifications  who  are 
leaving  our  country  in  search  of  better  horizons;  we 
also  note  a  brain  drain.  Our  doctors,  engineers  and 
teachers go into voluntary exile to seek a life abroad. 

Given  that  situation,  we  can  see  how  complex 
migratory  flows  are.  But  certain  unchanging  lessons 
can be learned. First of all, we need to raise awareness 
and educate people to keep some potential migrants in 
their  own  lands,  because  the  disappointments  they 
encounter abroad are so great.  
Secondly, our struggle to stop migratory flows is 

doomed 
repair 
dysfunctional labour markets and create conditions for 
development  that  will  convince  people  —  young 
people in particular — to remain at home. 

Thirdly,  uncontrolled  migration  has  a  negative 
impact  on  countries  of  destination. An  illegal  migrant 
encountering  obstacles  to  social  integration  can  spiral 
into  criminality  and  delinquency  when  faced  with 
precarious conditions. 

Finally,  migration  is  a  factor  of  destabilization, 
not  only  for  the  transit  or  destination  countries,  but 
also for the countries of origin, in particular because of 
the  brain  drain  it  entails.  For  countries  like  the 
Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo,  precarious 
conditions,  poverty,  unemployment  among  young 
graduates,  underdevelopment  and  a  need  for  material 
success  all  constitute  the  fundamental  reasons  for 
migration.  
aspects  mentioned, 

migration  can  provide  added  value  that  we  would  be 
failure  without  measures 
negative 
Despite 
the 
to 
to 
A/61/PV.6
a 
lies 
in 
to 
effort 
achieve 
significant 
wrong  not  to  take  advantage  of.  For  example,  it  is 
evident  that  in  some  countries  of  destination,  the 
contribution  made  by  migrant  doctors,  engineers, 
professors  and  other  qualified  workers  makes 
it 
possible  to  solve  a  number  of  problems. At  the  same 
time,  the  remittances  sent  back  to  their  country  of 
origin  are  a  non-negligible  source  of 
financial 
assistance  to  those  countries.  One  could,  therefore, 
consider this economic fact to be a positive element of 
immigration and one that should be optimized.  

In  the  context  mainly  of  our  relations  with  the 
West,  the  equation  of  migration  and  development 
brings  out  the  need  for  consensual  and  collective 
management of immigration, in harmony with the need 
for 
economic 
development  in the  countries of origin, in cooperation 
with  the  countries  of  destination  and  transit  and  with 
all  due  regard  for  the  interests  of  all  concerned.  Over 
and above security concerns regarding the protection of 
the  borders  of  countries  of  destination,  the  remedy  to 
uncontrolled  migration 
the  promotion  of 
development within the countries of origin. We should 
invest  in  co-development  projects  and  support  for 
developmental  non-governmental  organizations  and 
small enterprises in order to stop immigration flows at 
the source.  

to 
participate in this High-level Dialogue in order to find 
realistic  and  lasting  solutions  to  the  major  problems 
caused  in  the  world  by  migratory  flows  and  in 
particular  by  illegal  immigration.  We  must  act  on  the 
causes  and  the  catalysts  of  migration.  The  limits  of 
arguments  based  on  a  desire  to  clamp  down  are 
becoming  increasingly  evident.  The  preference  of  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo accordingly goes to 
efforts  to  convince  potential  immigrants  to  stay  at 
home. We support the idea that economic and political 
stabilization  in  our  countries  constitute  a  structural 
response to the migration problems in Africa.  
It  is  indispensable  for  States  to  continue  to 

explore  ways  and  means  of  strengthening  the  link 
between  migration  and  development,  so  that  properly 
managed  migration  can  help  us  attain  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals, 
improving 
dialogue  between  the  Government,  the  migrants  and 
their families. In thanking the Secretary-General for his 
report  (A/60/871),  my  delegation  therefore  welcomes 
his  proposal  to  set  up  a  standing  forum  on  migration 
issues that could serve as a framework within which to 
The  Congolese  Government 
in  particular  by 
is  happy 
06-52461 

45 

the  Congo  fully  supports 
A/61/PV.6 

pursue the debate, exchange ideas and experiences and 
enable  Governments  to  study  relevant  policies  and 
their impact on development. The Democratic Republic 
of 
this  proposal  and 
welcomes the offer made by the Kingdom of Belgium 
to  host  the  first  meeting  of  the  forum  next  year  in 
Brussels.  
The President (spoke in French): I give the floor 

to His Excellency Mr. Ibrahim Sesay,  chairman of the 
delegation of Sierra Leone.  
Mr.  Sesay  (Sierra  Leone): The  delegation  of  the 

Republic  of  Sierra  Leone  wishes  to  commend  the 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/60/871),  which 
highlights 
the  complexity,  new  dimension  and 
paradigm  shift  on  migration  issues. We  want  to  thank 
the organizers of this conference, which we find to be 
very timely and extremely important. Please accept our 
gratitude,  Madam  President,  for  the  excellent  manner 
in which you are conducting the affairs of this session. 
My  delegation  fully  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
made by the Minister of South Africa on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China. 
age-old 

phenomenon. 
industrialization, 
modernization  and  demographic  transition  in  Europe. 
Today, it is a paradox that strict visa requirements and 
xenophobia  exist  in  many  countries,  when  former 
destination areas of the world are trying to industrialize 
and  modernize.  Yet,  it  is  in  those  same  nations  that 
most of the demographic growth dynamics shaping the 
world population are taking place.  

Forty  per  cent  of  the  population  of  Sierra  Leone 
is under 15 years of age. Unemployment is widespread, 
and  the  situation  may  be  worse  for  young  women. 
Their  contributions  are  not  sufficiently  remunerated 
even though they work for longer hours, taking care of 
the  home,  the  elderly  and  the  sick,  while  undertaking 
farm work.  
From  the  perspective  of  the  individual  young 

person and his family, immigration has been seen as an 
escape 
from  deprivation  and  poverty.  Migrant 
remittances have been used to pay bills for immediate 
household consumption needs and, in a few instances, 
investments  like  small  businesses  or  construction  of 
family  dwellings.  But  the  volume  of  remittances  from 
the  Sierra  Leonean  diaspora  is  certainly  far  below 
those reported in Asian countries or other parts of sub-
Saharan Africa. 
International  migration 
supported 
an 
It 
is 

Sierra  Leone  now  stands  at  the  crossroads  of  a 
major phase of reconstruction and development. As the 
country  implements  its  first-ever  Poverty  Reduction 
Strategy Paper, it does not have the number of doctors, 
nurses,  engineers,  scientists, 
lecturers  and  other 
professionals  and  skilled  personnel  required  in  the 
process.  The  limited  numbers  available  continue  to 
migrate to countries of the North in search of a better 
life. 

To ameliorate this situation, the Government has 
put  together  a  Senior  Executive  Service  scheme  that 
aims  to  attract  highly  qualified  manpower  to  all 
ministries, departments and agencies. In the interim, a 
stopgap transitional measure has been worked out with 
the  assistance  of  the  International  Organization  for 
Migration.  Nationals  from  Sierra  Leone  with  relevant 
expertise  in  the  Netherlands  and  the  United  Kingdom 
are being encouraged to return and render services for 
up to 30 months, without losing any status or benefits 
in their countries of residence. Other, similar initiatives 
are  being  developed,  and  we  call  on  the  countries  of 
the North especially to participate in them. It is hoped 
that  during  their  sojourn,  the  members  of  the  Sierra 
Leonean  diaspora  may  become  interested  in  returning 
and  further  contributing  to  the  ensuing  development 
work in the country. 
In closing, I would stress that this is the time for 

regional 
real  action. 
consultative  processes  between  sending  and  receiving 
countries  are  some  of  the  best  practices  that  an 
increasingly globalizing world should adopt — if only 
to  make  international  migration  a  win-win  game.  In 
addition, unless the poverty situations in our countries 
are solved and the gap between rich and poor countries 
minimized, it will be difficult to make any meaningful 
impression on the global South-North migration trend. 
Meeting  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  will  also 
be difficult in many of our countries, because even the 
requisite  human 
is  eroded  and 
development planning and the implementation of plans 
are a problem because of lack of capacity. 

The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 
Mr.  Pascal  Gayama,  chairman  of  the  delegation  of 
Congo.  
Mr. Gayama (Congo) (spoke in French): Madam 

President,  although  I  am  very  strongly  tempted  to 
congratulate  you,  I  will  leave  that  honour  to  my  head 
of  State  or  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  who  will  be 
resource  base 
these  and 
Initiatives 
like 
46 

06-52461 
to 
in 
like 
reaffirm 
Similarly,  we  would 


attending  this  meeting  of  the  General Assembly.  I  am 
sure that it will be done eloquently. 

Our debate concerns a burning issue whose tragic 
consequences  are  witnessed  daily 
the  media. 
However,  historians  will  confirm  that  migration  is  as 
old  as  the  world  itself  —  hence  the  role  and  status  of 
the  International  Organization  for  Migration. We  wish 
to commend it for the work it has done in preparation 
for today’s debate. 

the 
conclusions of the meetings held at Rabat and Algiers, 
particularly  the  Common  African  Position  emanating 
from the Banjul Summit of the African Union (AU) last 
July,  which  dealt  with  the  issue  in  all  its  aspects  and 
made  a  decisive  contribution  with  regard  to  the 
measures that need to be undertaken to face this major 
challenge to the international community. 

It  is  a  fact  that  no  one  can  stop  migration, 
particularly  through  current  palliative  measures.  Even 
within  each  of  our  States,  we  witness  the  unstoppable 
and unending movement of peoples seeking happiness. 
Rural  exodus  cannot  be  stopped  until  cities  lose  their 
attraction for village dwellers.  

It is the same at the international level, as shown 
clearly  by  the  example  of  the  American  continent, 
which  in  the  past  has  received  migrants  from  all 
continents.  Indeed,  the  case  of  America  is  a  positive 
example  —  that  of  a  strong  State  that  is  the  result  of 
immigration,  a  new  world  that  has  attracted  migrants 
seeking wealth and well-being. 

Today the problem of migration brings us back to 
the  same  concerns  which  underpinned  the  elaboration 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  including  the 
creation of a new world. Achieving those Goals is, we 
believe,  the  best  guarantee  for  putting  an  end  to  the 
tragic situation prevailing on the border between Africa 
and its neighbour, Europe, and between Latin America 
and  its  neighbour,  North  America,  with  continents 
pitted one against the other. This brings to mind the old 
saying,  “If  the  mountain  will  not  go  to  the  man,  then 
the man must go to the mountain”. 

The  conclusions  that  we  drew  last  year  with 
respect  to  the  review  of  the  implementation  of  the 
Millennium  Declaration  are,  we  believe,  still  very 
topical.  We  must  fully  understand  the  need  for  co-
development.  The  facts  on  the  ground  make  it  clear 
that, for those who would emigrate, it is a question of 
A/61/PV.6
through 
survival,  and  that  will  be  the  case  so  as  long  as 
inequalities  and  gaps  exist  between  rich  and  poor 
countries and between rich and poor individuals. 
The  consequences,  as  we  all  can  see,  is  a 

desperate  quest  for  real  or 
imagined  happiness, 
obtained through a potential visa or through an illegal 
network that benefits organized crime. 

The  world  needs  peace.  As  long  as  hotbeds  of 
tension  remain,  and  as  long  as  peace  is  threatened  in 
any country or region, there will continue to be strong 
pressure for migration. 

The  Common  African  Position  adopted  by  our 
Governments  in  the  light  of  this  High-level  Dialogue 
on  Migration  and  Development  reflects  the  concerns 
expressed  at  Banjul,  the  Gambia,  last  July,  by  the 
African Union Summit, on a problem that will continue 
to  grow  in  the  coming  years.  Indeed,  we  must  better 
address a phenomenon that is becoming  a new, global 
twenty-first-century version of the migrations that took 
place  from 
the  nineteenth 
the  sixteenth 
centuries, as was said earlier. 

Greater integration of migration into development 
policies  and  programmes  is  therefore  an  absolute 
necessity, so that African countries do not suffer from a 
brain drain or from a lack of expertise in domains that 
are essential to its development. 

the 
contributions  of  expatriates,  who  send  resources  that 
contribute  to  the  social  investments  that  need  to  be 
made for the benefit of its peoples. Thus the Secretary-
General rightly stressed in his report on the work of the 
Organization the fact that  

“remittances  from  Africans  working  abroad  had 
overtaken foreign direct investment in the period 
2000-2003.” (A/61/1, para. 49) 
For 

the  pan-African  movement,  which  has 
already made the African diaspora the “sixth region” of 
Africa,  it  is  an  issue  of  creating  a  dynamic  that 
includes States, the private sector and civil society that 
can promote the transfer of technology and know-how 
at the levels needed to ensure sustainable development. 

The Congolese delegation would like here to pay 
tribute  to  the  International  Organization  for  Migration 
(IOM) for the work it is doing to support Africa in the 
quest to more effectively and productively address the 
phenomenon  of  migration.  The  African  Union  should 
appreciate, 
however, 
Africa 
does 
06-52461 

47 

the  possibility  of  convening, 
A/61/PV.6 

step up its  cooperation  with that organization in order 
to  translate  into  reality  the  idea  of  an  international 
decade  for  migration  and  development,  an  idea  which 
has previously been referred to in a number of forums. 
In that respect, my country would like to discuss 

with 
the  IOM 
in 
Brazzaville,  Congo,  an  initial  series  of  international 
meetings  to  consider  what  such  a  decade  would 
involve. 

As  concerns  our  views  on  other  aspects  of  the 
issue, we associate ourselves with the statements made 
from  this  very  rostrum,  inter  alia  by  South  Africa’s 
Minister  of  the  Interior  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77, 
whose views we concur with as concerns migration and 
development. We also take note of the report provided 
us by the Secretary-General. 

The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 
Mr.  George  Olago  Owuor,  chairman  of  the  delegation 
of Kenya. 
Mr.  Olago  Owuor  (Kenya):  Madam  President, 

the  Kenyan  delegation  congratulates  you  on  your 
election and on your assumption of the responsibilities 
of  President  of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-first 
session.  

The Kenyan delegation wishes also to align itself 
with the statement delivered by South Africa on behalf 
of the Group of 77 and China. 

We thank the Secretary-General for his useful and 
enlightening report on this subject. Kenya underscores 
the  close  link  between  international  migration  and 
development.  International  migration 
is  not  new. 
However,  there  have  been  drastic  changes  in  the 
direction,  numbers  and  push-and-pull  factors  in  the 
countries of origin, transit and destination. These have 
been  caused  by  improvements  in  information  and 
communication  technologies  and  by  personal  desires 
for exposure and development. 
Equally important is the attention given and value 

attached  to  international  migration  by  individuals  and 
nation-States,  motivated  by  the  inherent  potential  and 
threats associated with international migration. It is our 
hope  that  the  interaction  in  this  High-level  Dialogue 
will  shed  some  light  on  these  issues  and  demystify 
some  of 
the  perceptions  and  misunderstandings 
associated with international migration. 
include 
other 
to 
the 
cultures 
exposure 

International  migration  has  more  closely  been 
associated  with  globalization  and  liberalization.  It  has 
been  observed  that  globalization  has  not  benefited  all 
countries  equally,  neither  has  international  migration. 
Hence, one crucial question we should ask ourselves is, 
“how can benefits of international migration be equally 
shared between the parties involved?” 

Quite  often  the  world  has  looked  at  the  benefits 
of  migration  purely  from  the  monetary  perspective. 
While remittances may constitute one of the important 
benefits, they may not give the full picture. The nature 
and  magnitude  of  remittances,  especially  those  going 
to  the  developing  countries,  are  not  known,  because 
many  countries  do  not  have  either  the  capacity  or 
mechanisms to capture the flow of remittances. 
Other  benefits  of  international  migration  to  the 

transfer  of 
countries  of  origin  may 
technology, 
and 
opportunities, and the acquisition of knowledge, talent 
and  skills,  among  other  things. The  benefit  ultimately 
depends on whether the immigrants maintain links with 
their  countries  of  origin  and  whether 
they  are 
facilitated  adequately  to  interact  and  remit  some  of 
their acquisitions. 

Immigrants  participate  in  the  development  of 
receiving  countries  in  various  ways.  They  provide  a 
labour  force,  a  demand  for  consumer  goods  and 
services and much more. 
However,  there  are  numerous  negative  aspects 

associated  with 
that  need 
attention.  In  some  cases,  international  migration  has 
been  associated  with  insecurity  and  many  forms  of 
illegal  activity.  Environmental  degradation  and  the 
strain  on  economic,  social  and  cultural  traits  and 
infrastructure  have  been  seen  as  some  of  the  negative 
aspects. 

We  are  encouraged  by  the  proposal  to  have  an 
international forum on this issue. The envisaged forum 
on  migration  must  be  institutionalized  within  the 
United  Nations  and  other  regional  and  international 
forums. The key issues that need detailed examination 
in  such  a  forum  include  human  rights,  gender  aspects 
of  international  migration,  security,  the  link  between 
refugees  and  migration,  sociocultural  aspects  of 
international  migration  and  regional  and  international 
aspects of international migration. 
international  migration 
48 

06-52461 
in 
This  meeting  should  enable  us 


The  Kenya  delegation  believes  that  this  High-

level  Dialogue  will  pave 
the  way  for  enhanced 
collaboration, cooperation and future interaction at the 
regional and international levels on this very important 
subject. We  remain  committed  and  ready  to  engage  in 
this  debate  for  the  benefit  of  all  peoples  and  nations 
concerned. 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Paul Badji, chairman of the delegation of Senegal. 
Mr.  Badji  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  Senegal 

welcomes  the  General  Assembly’s  clear  and  timely 
decision to place such a relevant issue as international 
migration and development on the agenda of the sixty-
first  session.  This  is  recognition  of  the  invaluable 
contribution  of  migrants  to  development  to  their 
societies,  both 
the  host  countries  and  origin 
countries,  even  if  it  turns  out  that  migration  is  also  a 
source of concern. 
to  set  out 

important  markers  for  more  concerted  and  more 
fruitful  international  cooperation  with  regard  to  the 
management  of  migration.  Here,  as  elsewhere, 
unilateralism can only bring tension. 

If  the  main  reason  that  leads  those  considering 
emigration is to seek better social well-being, it is also 
the case that the effects of globalization and economic 
liberalization have accentuated that fact and have led to 
unprecedented movements of populations. 

In  Senegal,  sectors  such  as  fisheries,  agriculture 
and 
provided 
food-processing 
employment 
the 
repercussions  of  that  liberalization  and  the  distortions 
of the global market. In consequence, those sectors are 
being  deserted,  which  means  growing  unemployment 
and declining productivity and income. In that context, 
any  efforts  to  stem  the  movement  of  populations  — 
particularly  of  young  graduates  and  workers,  whether 
they be skilled or unemployed — towards regions more 
favourable to their development could  be ineffective. 

The  financial  windfall  that  comes  from  the 
savings  that  migrants  inject  into  their  countries  of 
origin  is  not  a  panacea  for  development,  because  in 
most cases it does not lead to productive investment. It 
can  even  have  negative  effects  by  placing  countries 
in  a  situation  of 
that  enjoy 
these 
dependence.  The 
the 
remittances  on 
economic  progress  is  minimal  compared  with  the 
remittances 
impact  of 
the  past  are  now 
industries 
facing 
that 
in 
A/61/PV.6
in 
that 
is 
there 
the  heart  of 
the  brain  drain, 
labour.  It  also  means 
terms  of 
losses  caused  by 
intellectual  resources  and 
insufficient  human  and 
skilled 
less 
investment in developing such resources. To this must 
be  added  the  frustration  experienced  by  those  people 
who are deprived of their fundamental rights to health, 
education  and  development  by  health  and  school 
systems and an economy that cannot meet their needs. 

Thus  the  relationship  between  development  and 
the availability of human resources puts the brain drain 
at 
the  problem  of  migration  and 
development.  In  a  word,  it  is  the  very  concept  of 
sustainable  development  that  needs  to  be  re-examined 
through the prism of the movements of individuals in a 
globalized world, in the same way as the movements of 
goods, services and capital. 

In this process Senegal has set up a project called 
“Return  to  Agriculture  (REVA)”,  it  was  recently 
launched  by  President  Abdoulaye  Wade  to  encourage 
integrated development, particularly in those zones that 
are  sources  of  migration.  Other  initiatives  have  been 
taken,  such  as  promoting  access  to  microfinance,  the 
creation  of  a  fund  for  the  promotion  of  the  youth  and 
an agency for development of small and medium-sized 
enterprises.  Documentation  on  REVA  is  available  in 
this Hall. 

includes 
Project Tokten. This project has been defined with the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  to  involve 
skills  of  our  expatriates  in  the  national  development 
process. Also, in 2001, an action plan was adopted for 
the  return  of  emigrants  and  their  reinsertion  in  the 
economic life of the country. 

In  the  context  of  the  crucial  and  paramount  role 
of  national  efforts,  I  would  also  like  to  highlight  the 
importance  of  international  partnerships,  which  are 
becoming  all  the  more  essential  as  we  witness  the 
resurgence  of  illegal  migration,  an  increasingly  tragic 
human reality.  
Working  within  its  own  resource  constraints  to 

contain 
is  now  of 
unprecedented  proportions,  Senegal  has  launched  a 
joint  operation  with  the  countries  of  the  European 
Union  (EU),  in  the  context  of  the  EU  Agency  for 
border  cooperation,  known  as  Frontex. 
this 
connection,  in  August  an  agreement  was  signed  with 
Spain that provides for the surveillance of the coast by 
the  aforementioned  project 
this  phenomenon,  which 
Part  of 
In 
06-52461 

49 
is 
likely 
if 
to  succeed 
the  management  of 
We  must  acknowledge 
A/61/PV.6 

sea, air and land; these operations are beginning to bear 
fruit. 

Furthermore,  a  framework  convention  is  being 
negotiated  with  France  to  ensure  joint  management  of 
migratory  flows  between  our  two  countries.  However, 
we  stress 
international 
migration must not,  and  cannot, be limited to security 
measures.  We  cannot  hold  back  the  ocean  with  our 
arms. Thus  the  “Rabat  spirit”  was  born,  following  the 
Euro-African conference that took place in that city on 
10 and 11 July, at which a Declaration and Action Plan 
were  adopted  with  a  view  to  providing  African  and 
European countries with the means to better understand 
and control the phenomenon of migration.  

that  no  policy  of 
prevention 
the  necessary 
conditions  are  not  in  place  to  ensure  that  potential 
emigrants  stay  in  their  own  countries.  We  must 
synergize  our  efforts 
to  combat  poverty  and 
unemployment,  which  are  growing  exponentially  in 
many sectors. 

Senegal is convinced that any initiative aimed at 
ensuring  that  migration  serves  development  must  be 
based  on 
the  principles  of  shared  responsibility, 
common  interests  and  co-development.  It  must  also 
take  account  of  the  following  requirements.  First,  we 
must  combat  illegal  emigration,  because  it  leads  to 
trafficking  and  other  abuses  and  can  give  rise  to 
insecurity  and  tension.  We  must  enhance  operational 
and  logistical  cooperation  so  as  to  improve  border 
controls  and  reduce  the  massive  flows  of  irregular 
migrants,  which  have  recently  provoked  a  xenophobic 
reaction  in  host  countries.  For  its  part,  Senegal  has 
chosen  to  take  a  zero-tolerance  approach  to  illegal 
emigration.  
Secondly,  we  must  promote  legal  migration  and 

stabilize  migratory 
through 
concerted  information  and  communication  campaigns. 
This  is  the  best  way  to  eliminate  negative  effects.  It 
should be said that the systematic refusal to issue visas, 
which causes certain people to feel that there is no way 
for  them  to  visit  other  countries  to  undertake  normal 
professional activities or to learn about other cultures, 
can  prompt  some  of  them  to  view  themselves  as 
victims,  to  consider  desperate  measures  and  to  take 
regrettable  steps.  Mafia-like  gangs  operating  in  both 
countries of origin and countries of destination exploit 
those feelings, and they must be combated vigorously. 
particularly 
flows, 
that 

to 
fulfil 
an  opportunity 

Thirdly,  we  must  fully  accept  and  respect  the 
rights and dignity of migrants and their families so as 
to strengthen  and make credible the process of jointly 
managing  migration. The  idea  of  co-development  will 
be meaningless if migrants cannot enjoy their rights or 
do  not  have 
their 
responsibilities  through  the  effective  respect  by  all 
States  of  relevant  international  norms.  These  include 
the  right  to  health  and  education,  as  well  as  to 
protection  for  vulnerable  social  groups,  in  particular 
women and young people.  

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the 
Secretary-General’s  significant  proposals.  My  country 
fully  supports  them,  particularly  those  relating  to  the 
establishment  of  a  standing  global  consultative  forum 
to  follow  up  this  process.  If  that  recommendation  is 
implemented, the forum would be a useful complement 
to  the  exchange  and  cooperation  mechanisms  at  the 
bilateral and interregional levels that already exist. 
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 

Bishop  Nicholas  Di  Marzio,  chairman  of  the  observer 
delegation of the Observer State of the Holy See. 
Bishop  Di  Marzio  (Holy  See):  It  is  clear  from 

our discussions over the past two days that migration is 
an  essential  element  of  interdependence  and  exchange 
among  nations  and  forms  part  of  the  phenomenon  of 
globalization.  It  places  people  in  a  global  dimension 
and in new relationships of interdependence, while the 
growth of the global economy depends more and more 
on  international  migration.  But  migration  is  also  a 
great  source  of  human  concern,  since  it  involves  the 
lives  and the  dignity of so  many hundreds of millions 
of people. 

One  of  the  most  controversial  elements  of  this 
topic  is  irregular  migration.  The  Holy  See  recognizes 
the  sovereign  right  of  nations  to  determine  who  may 
enter  and  who  may  remain  in  a  given  State.  At  the 
same  time,  States  have  a  grave  duty  to  protect  the 
rights  of  all  persons,  be  they  regular  or  irregular 
migrants,  and  to  cooperate  in  readmitting  those  who 
are obliged to or wish to return — whether voluntarily 
or involuntarily — to their home countries. A migrant’s 
legal  status  is  quite  separate  from  his  or  her  human 
dignity, since all, without exception, are endowed with 
inalienable  rights,  which  can  be  neither  violated  nor 
ignored. 
Both  sending  and  receiving  States  have  a 

responsibility  to  respect  and  implement  commitments 
50 

06-52461 
law 
to  ensure 
to  maximize 
into,  as  well  as 
international  human  rights 


to 
the 
protection of all migrants. It falls to States to guarantee 
the rights of individuals; the issue, however, tends not 
to be a lack of law, but rather a lack of implementation. 

As  for  authorized  and  long-term  migrants,  their 
full  integration  is  required  in  order  to  enhance  social 
harmony  and  cohesion  and 
the 
contributions that migrants make to their new societies. 
Migrants  should  respect  the  cultural  and  religious 
identities of the host  nations and the  rights and duties 
conferred by citizenship. They should be encouraged to 
integrate  socially 
to  contribute 
economically  to,  the  receiving  countries.  The  public 
perception  of  migrants  also  needs  to  be  improved 
through courageous political leadership and much more 
informed and dispassionate media coverage. 

One  particular  concern  of  the  Holy  See  is  the 
situation of migrants who are forced to migrate against 
their will — not only refugees, but also those who are 
trafficked,  many  times  for  immoral  purposes  and 
human slavery. 

Of  all  the  issues  before  States  at  this  High-level 
Dialogue,  perhaps  the  most  difficult  is  that  of  the 
governance  of  migration.  Important  national,  regional 
and 
as 
development,  trade  and  labour  markets  are  rarely 
considered in terms of their impact on migration. More 
effective consultation between Governments and other 
stakeholders is required if coherent practices are to be 
developed. In this regard, it is our belief that, if States 
were to cooperate more broadly with one another, they 
would  be  exercising  rather  than  diminishing  their 
sovereignty. 

So  far,  progress  has  been  made  in  developing 
informal consultative processes among Governments at 
the regional level, but my delegation agrees with those 
who believe that the time is ripe to consider developing 
a  global  consultative  process 
that  would  allow 
Governments  that  wish  to  do  so  to  forge  constructive 
approaches  to  transform  the  positive  potential  of 
international  migration  for  development  into  a  reality. 
This global process would build on regional processes 
and  serve  as  the  link  between  Governments  and  the 
Global  Migration  Group,  in  order  to  ensure  that  the 
activities of the United Nations, together with those of 
the  International  Organization  for  Migration,  are 
mutually reinforcing and add up to a sum greater than 
all  of  their  parts.  It  would  be  a  standing  body, 
international  decisions 
areas 
such 
in 
A/61/PV.6
if 
In  order 
challenges. 
they  have  arrived 
involving  Governments  with  first-hand  experience  in 
addressing  migration 
to 
accommodate  concerns,  we  believe  that  such  a  forum 
should  be  States-driven,  voluntary  and  non-binding  in 
its consultations. In this context, we welcome the offer 
to  hold  a  meeting  next  year  in  Belgium  and  look 
forward to this initiative. 

To  sum  up,  root  causes  must  be  tackled  so  that 
people  are  not  obliged  to  leave  home  in  order  to  find 
decent work; migrant protection, especially of refugees 
and  those  who  are  trafficked  or  smuggled,  must  be 
better addressed; and regularization is needed for those 
who  deserve  it  or  who  give  their  contribution  to  the 
host  society,  even 
in  an 
undocumented  or  unauthorized  manner,  in  order  to 
foster  an  environment  capable  of  overcoming  the 
persistent  phenomena  of  discrimination,  violence, 
human trafficking and xenophobia. 

Only  through  international  collaboration  and  an 
honest assessment at home of the benefits of migration, 
will  this  phenomenon  be  addressed  in  a  way  that  is 
decent and humane. 
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 

Mr. Luca Dall’Oglio, chairman of the delegation of the 
International Organization for Migration.  
Mr.  Dall’Oglio  (International  Organization  for 

Migration):
International 
Organization  for  Migration  (IOM),  ensuring 
that 
migration is a positive force for development involves 
two 
important  elements:  First,  consultation  and 
dialogue on migration; and secondly, concrete, results-
oriented activities.  

Our  organization  firmly  believes  that  dialogue 
and  consultation  are  the  most  effective  means  to 
advance  understanding  and  international  cooperation 
on migration. At the bilateral level, the IOM facilitates 
and  supports  cooperation  agreements  in  areas  such  as 
labour  migration  and 
the 
regional  level,  IOM  actively  promotes,  supports  and 
participates in regional dialogue on migration, through 
the  regional  consultative  processes.  IOM  either  serves 
as  the  secretariat  for  or  provides  significant  technical 
and  policy  support 
to  such  processes  on  every 
continent. Based on our experience, we would strongly 
endorse proposals for greater cross-fertilization among 
regional  consultative  processes,  for  example  through 
periodic  meetings  of  process  heads.  We  would  be 
prepared to assist if requested.  
irregular  migration.  At 
the  view  of 
the 
In 
06-52461 

51 

A/61/PV.6 


At  the  global  level,  IOM  and  its  membership 
launched  the  International  Dialogue  on  Migration  in 
the  IOM  Council  in  2001,  in  fulfilment  of  IOM’s 
constitutional mandate to provide a forum to States as 
well  as  international  and  other  organizations  for  the 
exchange of views and experiences, and the promotion 
of  cooperation  and  coordination  of  efforts  on 
international migration issues. Should the global forum 
of  States  on  migration  and  development  proposed  by 
the  Secretary-General  be  established, 
the  Global 
Migration  Group  (GMG)  could  serve  as  the  forum’s 
secretariat. During its meeting earlier this month, GMG 
agencies  agreed  that  the  GMG  would  consider  any 
request for support which might come out of the High-
level Dialogue.  
The  second  important  element  in  realizing  the 

development  potential  of  migration  is  to  identify  and 
support  more  concrete  measures  to  make  migration 
work  for  development.  IOM  has  two  specific,  action-
oriented  proposals  that  we  hope  can  help  turn  the 
goodwill  of  this  High-level  Dialogue  into  practical 
outcomes.  

International  Migration  and 
The 
Development  Initiative,  would  facilitate  capacity-
building 
legal,  humane  and  orderly 
participation  in  the  global  labour  market.  A  better-
regulated  market  would 
strengthen 
migrants’ rights and dignity, and improve working and 
living conditions. The proposed initiative also includes 
concrete  measures 
in  human  resource 
development and to better prepare workers for overseas 
employment. 

The second proposal is to create a global research 
network  on  development  and  migration  policy.  This 
network  would  engage  existing  research  networks, 
Governments,  non-governmental  organizations  and 
international organizations. The network would have a 
capacity-building  element  to  enhance  the  competence 
of  national  researchers,  policy  makers  and  other 
Government officials in developing countries. Overall, 
this  proposal  seeks  to  assist  both  developing  and 
developed countries to produce migration research and 
evaluations  that  are  policy-relevant,  timely  and  aimed 
at improving development outcomes. 
In  the  lead-up  to  the  High-level  Dialogue,  IOM 

also 
identified  seven  key  messages,  which  were 
accompanied  by  suggestions  on  specific  ways  the 
High-level  Dialogue  could  contribute  to  moving  the 
substantially 
invest 
first, 
safe, 
the 
for 
to 
the 
floor 
I  now  give 
The  President:
improve  cooperation  between 
issues  forward.  Key  among  them  is  mainstreaming 
migration  into  development  planning  agendas  and 
capacity-building,  to  deal  more  effectively  with  a 
global  labour  market.  Copies  of  those  messages  are 
available  here  today,  and  we  were  pleased  to  see  that 
many  of  them  have  been  seriously  addressed  at  this 
gathering.  

Let  me  close  by  stating  that  the  High-level 
Dialogue  has  already  achieved  success  by  increasing 
international  focus  on  migration  and  development 
issues.  The  momentum  created  by  the  High-level 
Dialogue  should  not  be  lost.  IOM  looks  forward  to 
playing an active role in whatever High-level Dialogue 
follow-up  Member  States  decide  to  undertake.  In  this 
regard, IOM is already engaged with Secretary-General 
Annan in a constructive dialogue on ways and means to 
further 
the  United 
Nations and IOM under the guidance of our respective 
memberships. 

to 
Her Excellency  Mrs.  Florence  Mugasha,  Deputy 
Secretary-General of the Commonwealth Secretariat. 
Mrs. Mugasha (Commonwealth Secretariat): The 

Commonwealth  is  delighted  to  take  part  in  the  first-
ever  High-level  Dialogue 
and 
development.  We  are  53  countries  on  five  continents; 
we account for one third of the world’s population, one 
quarter of its countries and one fifth of its trade. We are 
rich  and  poor,  of  every  colour  and  creed.  Our 
Commonwealth  map  is  lined  with  the  movements  of 
people  who  left  their  homes  for  new  opportunities  in 
education  and  in  employment.  In  a  fast-globalizing 
world,  these  movements  have  continued  on  a  large 
scale.  
In the Commonwealth, we are fully cognizant of 

the  fact  that  on  one  hand,  migrants  are  agents  of 
devotement. They provide benefits to their countries of 
destination  and  their  countries  of  origin.  Yet,  on  the 
other  hand,  we  know  that  the  challenge  is  to  manage 
migration  and 
the 
international  labour  market  are  fully  met.  Managing 
migration means incorporating it into national poverty-
reduction  strategies  and  into  the  ways  in  which  we 
commit  ourselves  to  meeting  the  global  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  We  need  to  appreciate 
that  migration  and  education,  migration  and  human 
rights, migration and health and migration and business 
are all linked.  
on  migration 
the  needs  of 
to  ensure 
that 
52 

06-52461 
the  countries  which 
labour  and  management, 



It is hard to quantify some of the other benefits of 
international  migration, but they are by  no means less 
important.  These  include  the  growth  in  skills  through 
the  movement  of 
the 
promotion of political, economic and social values and 
increases  in  foreign  direct  investment.  For  every 
positive  statistic  about  migration,  there  is  also  a 
negative  side.  The  challenge,  therefore,  is  for  us  to 
establish  a  workable  equilibrium.  We  cannot  be 
complacent,  because 
lose 
professional  migrants  and  the  countries  which  receive 
them both have responsibilities.  

The  Commonwealth’s  unique  contribution  to  the 
migration debate has codified these responsibilities. In 
2003, we developed a Commonwealth Code of Practice 
for the International Recruitment of Health Workers for 
use  by  its  members. There  are  examples  of  developed 
and developing countries using it together, such as the 
United  Kingdom  and  South Africa,  and  of  developing 
countries  entering  into  agreements  together,  such  as 
Kenya  and  Namibia.  The  World  Health  Organization 
(WHO) is currently developing its own code, drawing a 
great  deal  of  inspiration  from  the  Commonwealth 
model. 

This was followed in 2004 by the Commonwealth 
Protocol for the Recruitment of Teachers, which sought 
to  balance 
to  migrate 
internationally against the need to protect the integrity 
of  national  education  systems  and  to  prevent  the 
exploitation  of  the  scarce  human  resources  of  poor 
countries. The Protocol is being discussed by regional 
organizations  such  as  the  Organization  of  American 
States,  and  it  has  also  been  recommended  by  the 
United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural 
Organization  (UNESCO)  and  the  International  Labour 
Organization.  Indeed,  the  Protocol  has  become  a 
reference 
the 
Commonwealth. We are proud of the fact that we have 
been  able  to  introduce  models  of  good  practice.  I 
would  encourage  all  participants  here  to  study  the 
Commonwealth  models  with  a  view  to  adapting  them 
to their needs. 

At  their  most  recent  meeting,  held  in  Valletta, 
Malta, in 2005, Commonwealth leaders urged countries 
to  participate  actively  in  this  High-level  Dialogue. 
They  reaffirmed  their  resolve  to  ensure  the  protection 
of  the  human  rights  of  migrants  and  of  their  families. 
They  addressed  the  worst  form  of  migration  — 
trafficking  in  human  beings,  especially  in  women  and 
for  countries  beyond 
framework 
the 
right  of 
teachers 
A/61/PV.6
of 
Forde,  Vice-President 
children,  and  called  for  strengthened  policy  responses 
in  view  of  their  own  Commonwealth  best  practices, 
published in 2003. 

One  thing  is  evident  in  the  document:  the 
affirmation of the leaders’ practical commitment to the 
establishment  of  a  true  culture  of  democracy  —  a 
culture  that  promotes  economic  development,  which 
best  guarantees  that  migrants  leave  countries  for  the 
right  reasons  and  that,  when  they  arrive  in  new 
countries, they reap benefits for themselves as well as 
for the places to which they move.  
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 

Mr.  Raymond 
the 
International  Federation  of  the  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Crescent Societies. 
Mr. Forde (International Federation of Red Cross 

and  Red  Crescent  Societies):  The 
International 
Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies 
(IFRC),  representing  the  richness  and  diversity  of  the 
world’s  communities  under  the  umbrella  of  one  set  of 
fundamental  principles,  recognizes  that  globalization 
makes  migration  an  inevitable  fact  of  life  for  all 
countries. 

Our  position  has  developed  from  our  grass-roots 
membership,  and  our  first  message  in  this  dialogue  is 
that more attention should be paid to the vulnerabilities 
and  needs  of  migrants,  regardless  of  their  status,  and 
that the dignity and rights of the migrants should be at 
the centre of States’ actions and policy reforms. 

It  is  important  for  States  to  acknowledge  that 
migrants,  whether  regular  or  irregular,  are  entitled  to 
their  universal  human  rights.  National  Red  Cross  and 
Red  Crescent  Societies  assist  migrants  in  a  multitude 
of ways based on their needs and vulnerabilities. 

Our  second  key  message  is  that  States  need  to 
rethink  migration  policies  and  regulations  controlling 
entry  and  exit  to  and  from  their  territories,  with  the 
recognition  that  the  labour  movement  is  part  of  a 
global economy. 

The  IFRC  argues  for  action  by  Governments  at 
the national level, but urges that such action be within 
agreed  international  standards.  An  important  tool  in 
this  respect  is  the  International  Convention  on  the 
Protection  of  the  Rights  of  All  Migrant  Workers  and 
Members of Their Families.  
06-52461 

53 

fighting  discrimination. 
A/61/PV.6 


Our third message is born out of this context. It is 
important that all States — especially in countries with 
a  major  influx  of  migrants  —  ratify  and  promote  the 
implementation of the Convention. 

Our experience in the IFRC leads us to conclude 
that  Governments  should  share  our  deep  concerns 
about  the  exclusion  and  stigmatization  many  migrants 
face  in  their  host  countries.  Therefore,  in  our  fourth 
message,  we  encourage  Governments  to  support  ways 
of 
Integration  and  non-
discrimination  are  factors  that  can  enable  migrant 
populations to maximize their contributions to the host 
country  and  reduce 
the  risk  of  disaffection  and 
turbulence. 
This highlights our last key message. 


Governments  must  form  alliances  with  civil 
society,  the  private  sector,  opinion  leaders  and  their 
respective  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies  to 
force  these  issues  to  the  top  of  their  national  agendas 
and to work hard for real results. 

Time  does  not  allow  an  exhaustive  examination 
of  what  the  international  community  and  the  United 
Nations  itself  could  usefully  do  to  support  these 
processes.  We  are  pleased  that  the  issue  of  migration 
has  been  accorded  such  importance  in  the  General 
Assembly, for it will assuredly be a major issue at the 
International  Conference  of  the  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Crescent,  which  all  Governments  and  National 
Societies are expected to attend in November 2007, in 
Geneva.  

We further recommend that the issue be taken up 
by  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  discussed  at 
the  regional  level,  led  by  the  regional  Economic  and 
Social Commissions. The aim should be to return to the 
General Assembly in two years with a programme that 
supports 
coherent  policy 
approaches to migration by all Governments.  

The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 
Mr. Robert Shafer, chairman of the observer delegation 
of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta. 
Mr. Shafer (Sovereign Military Order of Malta): 

Allow me, Madam President, to congratulate you 

on your recent election and to wish you every success 
in carrying out your responsibilities. 

The  Sovereign  Military  Order  of  Malta 
commends  the  work  of  the  High-level  Dialogue  on 
the  development  of 
International Migration and Development. As shown in 
the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  issued  last  May, 
there  are  now  almost  200  million  persons  who  have 
migrated from their home countries to other countries, 
most  seeking,  of  course,  a  better  life  for  themselves 
and for their families. 

As the Secretary-General also notes, however, the 
migration  of  such  vast  numbers  of  persons  also 
presents correspondingly large challenges in protecting 
the  human  rights  of  migrants. We  must  never  let  their 
staggeringly high number — 200 million — blind us to 
the  reality  that  each  of  those  millions  of  men,  women 
and children is an individual human being.  

These  are  issues  of  profound  historical  and 
continuing  concern  to  the  Order  of  Malta.  When  the 
Order  of  Malta  was  created  over  900  years  ago,  our 
mission  was  to  protect  and  care  for  persons  in  need, 
particularly  the  poor  and  those  travelling  far  from 
home. We follow this mission today.  

As  part  of  this  worldwide  programme  of  aiding 
the poor, we have found that migrants often are among 
the  most  vulnerable  and  the  most  defenceless.  Too 
often they are invisible, or worse. 

In  particular,  I  note  the  often  abusive  treatment 
that  migrants  receive  under  what  are  euphemistically 
called  “guest  worker”  programmes. These  persons  too 
often  receive  substandard  wages  —  wages 
that 
frequently are offset by the exorbitant charges they are 
forced to pay to their employers for food and lodging. 
Similarly,  the  so-called  “brokers”  who  recruit  these 
migrants  in  their  home  countries  and  ship  them  like 
chattel  to  other  countries  often  hold  them  bound  to 
such  inflated  fees  that  migrant  workers  may  remain 
perpetually 
their 
supposed debts or to provide the amount of earnings to 
their  families  that  originally  stoked  the  migratory 
dream in the first instance. Such schemes often involve 
the misuse of Government-issued travel documents. 
Abuses like these afflict millions of migrant men, 

women  and  children.  Governments  can  provide  real 
relief. There are some short-term economic advantages 
to  States  that  it  may  be  hard  for  Governments  to 
ignore. Some countries may be content to export their 
citizens so that they can generate remittances that may 
alleviate  local  poverty  or  fuel  local  investment.  Some 
receiving  countries,  developing  and  developed  alike, 
may  see  an  economic  benefit  to  using  low-cost 
in  bondage,  unable 
to  pay  off 
54 

06-52461 


suppliers of goods, ignoring the high price paid only by 
the labourer. 

That  is  why  it  is  absolutely  vital  that  the  High-
level  Dialogue  and  all  subsequent  discussions  of 
migration and development pay careful attention to the 
obligations  of  all  affected  States  to  protect  the  human 
rights  of  migrants.  The  Military  Order  of  Malta 
appreciates  the  opportunity  to  present  its  views  on 
these  important  issues  and  encourages  continuing 
discussion beyond the forum of this Dialogue. 
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 

Mr.  Luis  Da  Fonseca,  Executive  Secretary  of  the 
Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries. 
Mr.  Da  Fonseca  (Community  of  Portuguese-

Speaking  Countries):  Let  me  start  by  congratulating 
you,  Madam,  on  your  election  as  President  of  the 
General Assembly, as well as on the excellent manner 
in which you have been conducting the proceedings of 
this important and unprecedented High-level Dialogue. 
I  would  also  like  to  convey  our  appreciation  to  the 
Secretary-General  for  the  high  quality  of  his  report 
(A/60/871) 
international  migration,  which 
constitutes  a  very  valuable  contribution  on  how  to 
further 
of 
the 
international migration. 

Portuguese-Speaking 
The  Community 
Countries (CPLP) is an intergovernmental organization 
with  eight  economically  diverse  member  States 
spanning  four  continents.  Our  countries  share  a 
common language and a rich cultural heritage resulting 
from  long  periods  of  historical  contact,  generating 
cultural  connections  that  helped  to  build  bridges  and 
facilitated further contacts. Migration is a phenomenon 
that  concerns  all  members  of  the  Community  of 
Portuguese-Speaking  Countries  as  source,  transit  and 
destination  countries.  Portugal  —  a  former  source 
country  itself  —  is  now  the  preferred  destination  of  a 
considerable number of lusophone and other migrants. 
But  migration  flows  in  our  space  are  multidirectional: 
while most Portuguese-speaking migrants have chosen 
Portugal  as  their  destination,  Angola,  Brazil,  Cape 
Verde  and  Mozambique  have  also  become  destination 
and  transit  countries,  not  only  for  the  Community’s 
citizens but also for those from elsewhere. 
The  impact  of  migration  on  our  societies  is 

becoming 
its 
economic,  social,  cultural  and  political  aspects.  For 
this  reason,  we  welcome  this  comprehensive  debate. 
increasingly  apparent 
development 
in 
terms  of 
on 
enhance 
impact 
of 
A/61/PV.6
The  CPLP  joins  the  consensus  that  seems  to  be 
emerging  within  the  international  community  on  the 
positive contributions of migration to development and 
on  the  need  to  take  effective  measures  to  protect  the 
rights  of  migrants  and  combat  discrimination  against 
them,  as  well  as  to  combat  the  transnational  traffic  in 
people, which targets mainly women and children, and 
other human rights violations. 

In  fact,  the  CPLP  concurs  with  the  Secretary-
General  that  international  migration  is  intrinsically 
linked  to  the  development  of  both  receiving  and 
sending countries. Nevertheless, we believe that, if co-
development  is  to  work,  it  is  imperative  that  two 
conditions be met. International guidelines to improve 
the  governance  of  migration  need  to  be  established 
and,  at  the  national  level,  migration  policymaking 
needs  to  be  closely  coordinated  with  development 
policies. 

Those  were  some  of  the  outcomes  that  emerged 
from  a  seminar  on  migration  and  development  within 
the  CPLP  framework  held  in  Lisbon  in  June.  During 
the  seminar,  participants  agreed  that  if  appropriate 
policies  are  implemented,  migrants  will  be  able  to 
simultaneously  contribute  to  the  development  both  of 
their country of origin and of the receiving country. We 
view  this  as  one  of  the  most  promising  opportunities 
offered by twenty-first-century migration. 

The  fact  is  that  know-how  can  now  be  easily 
transferred,  making  it  possible  to  convert  brain  drain 
into brain gain. In this respect, however, it is important 
to,  among  other  measures,  promote  the  economic, 
social  and  political  integration  of  migrants  in  the  host 
country; ease the red tape involved at various levels in 
the 
and  public 
administration; reduce the cost of remittance transfers; 
and  raise  awareness  regarding  the  active  role  that 
migrants can play in development. 

Even  though  economic  migration  can  make  a 
positive contribution, we cannot ignore the fact that it 
is  generally  motivated  by  poverty  in  the  source 
countries.  Conditions  should  therefore  be  put  in  place 
to  improve  people’s  living  standards,  so  as  to  ensure 
that  migration,  if  undertaken,  is  not  a  result  of  the 
failure  of  the  development  process.  Governments,  the 
private sector and civil society should work together to 
create conditions that allow citizens’ needs to be met in 
their country of choice, including their birthplace. 
relationship  between  migrants 
06-52461 

55 

and 
for 
When 
regional 
it  comes 
migration, 
A/61/PV.6 

to  facilitating  development 

through 
other 
intergovernmental  organizations,  such  as  the  CPLP, 
should  participate  actively  at  the  regional  level,  by 
promoting  greater  coordination  among  States,  and,  at 
the  global  level,  by  fostering  cooperation  between 
international  organizations  and  by  sharing  positive 
experiences and best practices. 

It was with this in mind that the CPLP, at its most 
recent  summit  meeting,  held  in  July  2006  in  Guinea-
Bissau,  adopted  a  resolution  on  the  importance  of 
involving  the  diaspora  in  the  development  process.  In 
addition,  a  total  of  five  circulation  agreements  were 
adopted  in  2002,  aimed  essentially  at  facilitating  the 
circulation of CPLP citizens within the Community. An 
Observatory of Migration Flows has also been created 
to compile and share accurate and up-to-date statistical 
data  on  the  flow  of  migrants  within  the  CPLP.  These 
are measures that will hopefully bear fruit and promote 
the  full  integration  of  CPLP  migrants,  granting  them 
the necessary support to effectively act as development 
agents,  while  at  the  same  time  preventing  illegal 
migration. 

The  linkage  between  migration  and  development 
is  gradually  being  acknowledged  by  the  international 
community,  making 
international 
migration issues to be systematically incorporated into 
national, regional and global development strategies in 
both the developing and the developed world. 

the 
Secretary-General’s  proposal  on  the  setting  up  of  a 
global  forum  on  migration  and  development.  We 
believe that the holding of this High-level Dialogue is 
an important first step in that direction. 
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 

Mr.  Fernando  Valenzuela,  chairman  of  the  observer 
delegation of the European Community. 

Mr. Valenzuela (European Community) (spoke in 
Spanish): I welcome the organization of the High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development. 
The  debates  during  these  two  days  have  shown  that 
these issues are of great interest. The European Union 
is  particularly  interested  in  these  questions,  as  is 
reflected  in  the  statements  of  the  Finnish  presidency 
and other member States of the European Union. 

When  speaking  of  migration,  we  think  of  the 
South-North  movement  of  poor  people  from  poor 
this  context,  we 
it  possible 
strongly 
In 
support 
to 
that  point  of  view, 
the  European  Union 
countries  who  undertake  long  and  often  dangerous 
journeys to work in wealthier countries. The reality of 
our globalized world is, however, much more complex 
and changing. The political debate should turn around 
a broader concept than that of migration and look at the 
idea  of  mobility.  From 
the 
experience  of  the  European  Union  has  much  to  teach 
us;  the  free  circulation  of  persons  is  now  a  reality 
within the European Union. 

At  the  international  level,  the  free  circulation  of 
persons  is  an  unrealistic  prospect.  However,  it  is 
possible  and  desirable  to  facilitate  regular  movements 
of  persons.  In  addition,  the  European  Union  supports 
efforts towards regional integration, convinced  as it is 
that they can contribute to making the free circulation 
of persons a reality within the regions concerned. The 
progressive  implementation  of  a  European  migration 
and  asylum  policy  goes  hand  in  hand  with  notable 
efforts to ensure coherence between those policies and 
the  contribution  of 
the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
For  the  European  Commission,  the  main  issue  of  this 
Dialogue is the link between migratory phenomena and 
development in the countries of origin. 

Allow  me  to  give  some  examples  of  the  efforts 
being  made  by  the  European  Commission  along  those 
lines.  In  addition  to  the  very  substantial  development 
assistance  provided  by 
the 
Commission  is  considering  various  initiatives  to  help 
immigrants make a contribution to the development of 
their  countries  of  origin,  whether 
terms  of 
remittances  or  through  the  promotion  of  circular  and 
return migration. At the same time, the Commission is 
studying  with 
in  Africa, 
measures  to  attenuate  the  adverse  effects  of  the 
emigration of specialized workers, often referred to as 
brain  drain.  Likewise,  the  Commission  is  prepared  to 
work with its partners to develop their capacity to limit 
irregular,  clandestine  migration  and  promote  legal 
migration. The  European  Commission  is  also  ready  to 
help those countries interested in carrying out detailed 
studies  that  should  help  them  to  establish  coherent 
migration  policies  and  that  will  allow  donors  to 
determine  the  best  possible  use  of  their  assistance. 
Those  are  the  main  areas  of  cooperation  that  the 
European  Union  is  endeavouring  to  develop  with  the 
countries  of  origin  and  transit  in  a  spirit  of  shared 
responsibility  in  the  face  of  what  we  consider  to  be  a 
joint challenge. 
its  partners,  especially 
the  European  Union, 
in 
56 

06-52461 
the 
the 
and 
from 
floor 
Caribbean 
I  now  give 
in  particular 
The  President: 
level  concerning 



These  are  also  questions  that  in  our  opinion 
should be included in the exchange of experiences and 
good  practices  that  could  be  developed  within  the 
framework  of  the  international  consultative  forum 
mentioned  yesterday  by  the  Secretary-General.  The 
European Commission feels that the future work of the 
forum  and  the  efforts  of  Mr.  Peter  Southerland,  the 
extension  of  whose  term  of  office  we  welcome,  could 
contribute  usefully  to  furthering  the  debate  at  the 
international 
links  between 
migration  and  development,  especially  in  countries  of 
origin.  
to 

Ms. Halima  Kassim,  Deputy  Programme  Manager  for 
Gender  Affairs 
Community 
Development of the Caribbean Community. 

Ms.  Kassim  (Caribbean  Community):  I  bring 
greetings from the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) 
and 
the  Secretary-General, 
Mr. Edwin  Carrington,  who  regrettably  could  not  be 
here.  I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  you, 
Madam,  on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-first session. 

CARICOM is made up of 15 member States and 
five associate members, and we support the statements 
made  by  those  States.  Recognizing  the  impact  of 
migration  on  the  development  of  the  Community,  the 
matter  was  discussed  at  the  level  of  the  highest 
decision-making body of CARICOM, which welcomes 
this  High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration 
and Development and hopes that it will contribute to an 
exchange  of  best  practices  on  migration  and 
development  and  foster  cooperation  on  key  migration 
issues at the bilateral and multilateral levels. 
Migration is an expression of an individual’s will 

for  an  improvement  in  his  or  her  economic  situation 
and a better quality of life, but it also involves relations 
between sovereign States. In that regard, there is a need 
for  strengthening  the  governance  of  migration  at  the 
national, 
levels,  and 
regional  and 
Secretary-General’s 
CARICOM  welcomes 
suggestion 
forum  on 
international migration as a mechanism to forge greater 
cooperation and coherence on this issue. Migration is a 
complex multidimensional phenomenon, and its impact 
on  development  for  the  region  is  both  positive  and 
negative.  It  is  clear  that  the  pace  of  sustainable 
development  is  influenced  by  migration  flows  that 
for  a  global  consultative 
international 
the 
A/61/PV.6
to 
debt 
from 
that  within 
sustainability, 
forces  would 
the  foreseeable  future 
issues  of  market  access, 
further  compromise  the  attainment  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  Migration,  therefore,  cannot  be 
separated 
trade 
unemployment, 
imbalances, 
poverty and inequalities. 

Our region is impacted to varying degrees by the 
phenomenon  of  migration,  as  countries  of  origin  and 
destination,  through  the  loss  or  gain  of  skilled  labour, 
movement of temporary workers, flows of remittances, 
human  trafficking  and  returning  migrants,  whether 
voluntary or through the forced repatriation of migrants 
and  foreign-born  legal  residents  to  the  region.  It  is 
worth  noting  that  a  study  is  being  conducted  in 
Jamaica,  Guyana  and  Trinidad  and  Tobago  on  the 
social  implications  of  the  return  of  nationals  who 
migrated at a young age and return as adults. 

Demographic trends and economic developments 
determine  in-flows  and  out-flows  of  migrants  in  and 
outside the region. Within the region, the flows are also 
associated  with  various  economic  activities.  It  is 
the 
envisaged 
centrifugal 
favour 
intraregional  migration.  More  so  in  the  light  of  the 
CARICOM  Single  Market  and  Economy  (CSME),  as 
provided for under the Revised Treaty of Chaguaramas. 
Safeguarding  the  rights  of  migrants  and  their  families 
is 
this 
development, and the CARICOM Agreement on Social 
Security  must  be  considered  a  supportive  measure  for 
the free movement of skills. Additionally, the issue of 
contingent rights is under consideration. 

As  a  result  of  migration  from  the  region,  a 
Caribbean  diaspora  has  evolved,  primarily  in  North 
America  and  in  the  former  colonizers,  namely,  the 
United  Kingdom,  France  and  the  Netherlands.  The 
Caribbean  diaspora  plays  a  significant  role  in  the 
region.  CARICOM  recognizes  the  importance  of  its 
contribution  to  its  development  and  its  role  in  the 
strategic  positioning  of 
the 
implementation of the CSME to maximize the benefits 
that  that  could  bring  to  the  Caribbean  people.  In  that 
regard,  at 
the 
Conference  of  the  Heads  of  Government  held  in  July 
this year, the proposal was endorsed to convene in June 
2007 a conference on the Caribbean, which will seek to 
deepen  the  region’s  relations  with  the  Caribbean 
diaspora in the United States of America. 
twenty-seventh  meeting  of 
important  aspect  of 
recognized  as  an 
region  and 
continue 
the 
the 
in 
06-52461 

57 

for 
supported 
recommendation 
technical  working  group 
CARICOM  is  committed  to  working  towards 
A/61/PV.6 


CARICOM recognizes the effect of migration on 
development, as reflected in the attention given to the 
issue  by  the  heads  of  Government  at  the  twenty-
seventh  Conference.  The  Conference  agreed 
that 
special attention should be paid to establishing policies 
in specific areas such as strategies for the retention of 
skilled  labour,  establishment  of  a  reliable  information 
system  and  database  to  enhance  national  capacity,  the 
building  of  social  support  systems  to  respond  to  the 
requirements  of  voluntary  and  involuntary  return  of 
migrants  and  relations  with  the  diaspora.  They  also 
agreed on the need to adopt a multilateral approach to 
the  issue  of  human  trafficking  and  to  support  a 
multilateral  evaluation  mechanism 
to  create  an 
impartial and transparent mechanism for evaluating the 
progress of countries with respect to human trafficking. 
They 
the 
a 
establishment  of  a 
to 
undertake  a  policy  study  and  report  to  heads  of 
Government  through  the  relevant  Councils  within  one 
year.  

optimizing the benefits of migration to development. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency Sir John Rumet Kaputin, Secretary-General 
of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States. 
Sir  John  Rumet  Kaputin  (African,  Caribbean 

and  Pacific  Group  of  States):  It  is  a  great  honour  and 
privilege for the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) 
Group  of  States  to  take  the  floor  at  this  important 
High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration  and 
Development.  

The ACP Group of States is the largest organized 
entity  for  developing  countries,  with  a  membership  of 
79  covering  the  African  continent  and  the  Caribbean 
and  Pacific  regions,  and  with  an  estimated  population 
of over 700 million. It has as one of its core objectives 
the alleviation of poverty. That objective, coupled with 
the  promotion  of  sustainable  development,  is  also  at 
the  heart  of  our  Cotonou  Partnership Agreement  with 
the  European  Union,  which  interlocks  103  countries 
and  represents  the  most  advanced  and  innovative 
North-South 
formalized  development  cooperation 
arrangement. 

Today,  we  are  gathered  here  at  a  time  when  the 
global community faces numerous challenges, together 
with  the  related  effects  and  transformations  at  the 
continental,  regional  and  country  levels.  In  a  global 
in 
like 
to  ensure 
those  questions 
partnership  centred  on  human  dignity  and  mutual 
respect,  issues  of  asylum,  migration  and  mobility  are 
central  to  the  development  of  our  countries  and, 
indeed,  are  cross-cutting  issues  to  almost  all  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 
In  addressing  those  challenges,  the  ACP  Group 

would 
that  migration  positively 
influences  development.  The  ACP  Group  of  States  is 
considering  those  issues  in  a  coordinated  manner 
within  its  institutional  framework.  In  that  regard, 
actions  taken  and  future  initiatives  of  the ACP  Group 
are  captured 
the  ACP  position  document  on 
international  migration  and  development,  which  has 
been distributed. 

I would like to pose a few questions regarding the 
mobility of people. How many of us are living outside 
our countries of birth? How many of us are enticed or 
forced  to  migrate  and  eventually  find  means  of 
subsistence  outside  our  countries  of  birth?  How  many 
of us are willingly leaving our countries of birth to get 
a  better  chance  to  study,  work  and  settle  in  new 
environments? 
remain 

None  of 
unanswered and, to that end, the ACP Group is actively 
working at defining a common strategy that is people–
focused and based on the alleviation of poverty and the 
eventual promotion of sustainable development.  

I,  too,  am  a  migrant,  and  so  are  most  of  us. 
Therefore, we should all endeavour to develop policies 
and programmes that are focused on the well-being of 
our peoples. That is why the focus of the global debate 
on  migration  and  development  is  so  important  in 
looking  at  possible  solutions  in  a  new,  innovative  and 
overall positive way. 
The  ACP  Group  is  of  the  view  that  the  United 

Nations  High-level  Dialogue 
International 
Migration  and  Development  should  be  not  an  end  in 
itself, but rather an important juncture of a continuing 
process.  The  continuing  debate  on  migration  and 
development  should  focus  on  improved  integration  of 
migration issues into development policy and planning; 
capacity-building  to  develop  and  manage  migration 
policies;  ensuring  an  inclusive  approach  to  migration, 
including the involvement of non-State actors, such as 
non-governmental organizations, business, trade unions 
and civil society; greater utilization of the development 
potential  of  diasporas; 
the  promotion  of  global 
including  regional 
issues, 
dialogue  on  migration 
should 
on 
58 

06-52461 
that 
to 
result 
important  process 
global 
to  migration 
development.  A 
approach 


consultations  and  North-South  exchanges;  and  greater 
commitment  to  protecting  the  basic  human  rights  of 
migrants, refugees and displaced persons. 

The  ACP  Group  believes  that  the  High-Level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development 
has  steered  an 
involves 
Governments,  institutions,  United  Nations  agencies, 
and international, regional and local non-governmental 
organizations,  and  attracts  international  attention  to 
and 
migration 
and 
multidisciplinary 
and 
development  issues  is  the  only  way  forward  to  ensure 
that  the  positive  and  development  elements  stemming 
from  migration  can  be  further  enhanced.  Successful 
participation in the global migration forum requires an 
ongoing  exchange  of  information  and  best  practices 
among  countries  of  origin,  transit  and  destination, 
taking into account the ever-changing nature of human 
migration. 

In conclusion, the African, Caribbean and Pacific 
Group of States is committed to addressing the critical 
sustainable 
issues  of  migration 
development  and,  by 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  All  endeavours  to 
develop migration policies and programmes should be 
focused  on  the  well-being  of  our  peoples.  Let  us  join 
hands  and  together  formulate  concrete  policies  and 
programmes on migration and mobility that are people-
focused  and, 
to 
effectively  address  poverty  and  the  challenges  of 
sustainable development. 

The  ACP  Group  is  convinced  that  its  close 
collaboration with other actors and participation in this 
important  Dialogue  will 
in  policies  and 
programmes  that  are  in  the  interest  of  all  parties 
involved  and,  most  importantly,  the  peoples  of  ACP 
States. 
to 

Mr. Enrique  Iglesias,  Secretary-General  of  the  Ibero-
American Conference. 
Mr. Iglesias (Ibero-American Conference) (spoke 

in  Spanish):  Allow  me  first,  on  behalf  of  the  Ibero-
American  secretariat,  to  express  our  thanks  for  the 
Secretary-General’s  invitation  to  participate  in  this 
event.  The  countries  of  our  community  have  been 
stating their points of view in this important discussion 
and having been giving their support to the initiative of 
the Secretary-General. In November, the heads of State 
in 
implication,  addressing 
indeed,  will  complement  efforts 
The  President: 
relation 
I  now  give 
the 
floor 
A/61/PV.6
integrated  approach 
or  Government  of  Ibero-America  will  be  meeting  in 
Montevideo, Uruguay, and this subject will be a central 
topic of discussion.  

We in the secretariat supported the convening of a 
seminar  in  July  which  was  attended  by  many  people, 
technical and other specialists, and politicians, in order 
to  address  this  item  and  start  putting  together  the 
positions  for  Heads  of  State.  I  would  like  to  mention 
just five very brief points from that meeting that might 
interest participants here today.  
First, Ibero-America is convinced that migrations 

are  an  essential  and  specific  component  of  the  Ibero-
American space. They always have been so, over many 
centuries,  and  we  have  always  derived  benefit  from 
them. Today,  we are  now benefiting other parts of the 
world  with  those  persons  who  are  migrating  there. 
From  the  vast  experience  of  Ibero-America,  some 
important  pioneering 
lessons  can  be  drawn  — 
regarding  the  right  of  asylum,  for  instance  —  to  give 
an  idea  of  the  significant  progress  that  we  have  been 
able to achieve in many areas. 
Secondly, there is a consensus in the region that a 

the  migration 
global  and 
phenomenon 
indispensable,  as  well  as  an 
international shared agenda based on knowledge of the 
problems,  both  in  terms  of  countries  of  origin  and 
countries of  destination. Further, we  consider that  any 
domestic  migration  policy 
international 
agreement  on  the  subject,  but  both  should  place  the 
migrant  at  the  core  of  decision-making,  taking  into 
consideration  the  problems  for  all  the  States,  whether 
of  origin  or  destination.  As  we  have  heard  here,  a 
migrant  is  neither  merchandise  nor  a  delinquent. 
Migrants  are  men,  women  and  children,  looking  for 
better living conditions, looking to offer their work and 
contribute 
the  host  society.  They  accordingly 
deserve  to  be  respected  in  terms  of  human  and  labour 
rights, access to dignified work, health, education, and 
security  on  equal  footing  with 
the  nationals  of 
receiving countries. 

That means tackling head-on two phenomena that 
constitute an attack on individual rights. I am referring 
to the fight against xenophobia or discrimination at the 
domestic level and the efforts to combat trafficking in 
human  beings  and  migrants  at  the  international  level. 
However  legitimate  the  security  measures  that  are 
taken,  they  should  never  infringe  on  the  inalienable 
human rights of migrants.  
requires 
to 
to 
is 
06-52461 

59 

contribute  greatly 
A/61/PV.6 


Fourthly,  a  special  priority  should  be  given  in 
migration  policies  to  indigenous  people  and  women, 
which we believe have important specific features that 
need to be promptly addressed. 

Finally,  through  suitable  policies,  we  should 
enhance the benefits of migration and reduce costs. We 
understand the short-term benefits of remittances while 
being aware that these cannot be a panacea in the long 
term.  In  any  case,  it  is  possible  to  do  things  which 
would help to prioritize and enhance their benefits. We 
are  also  concerned  about  brain  drain.  We  have  to  do 
everything  we  can  to  keep  people  at  home,  seek 
co-development  solutions  so  these  contacts  are  of 
benefit  to  those  who  would  otherwise  have  a  brain 
drain.  I  think  we  have  to  move  forward  on  global 
agreements and build on what has been achieved in the 
Ibero-American countries; it is not negligible. 

I  think  this  meeting  will  provide  important 
guidelines so that the United Nations can contribute to 
global solutions to this global problem. I am sure that 
Ibero-America  will 
this 
endeavour. 

floor 
His Excellency  Mr.  Gottfried  Zürcher,  Director-
General  of  the  International  Centre  for  Migration 
Policy Development. 
Mr.  Zürcher (International Centre for  Migration 

Policy  Development):  Madam  President,  I  want  to 
thank you for organizing this event, which reflects the 
growing  importance  of  international  migration  for 
States around the world.  

As  so  many  issues  surrounding  international 
migration  have  been  taken  up  in  this  forum  already,  I 
will  limit  my  remarks  to  three  points.  First,  our 
experiences have shown that the value of an informal, 
flexible  dialogue  on 
lies 
primarily  in  the  promotion  of  a  mutual  understanding 
of  issues  of  common  concern.  Such  issues  arise 
predominantly  in  a  regional  context  where  regional 
consultative  processes  can  serve  to  identify  concrete 
problems  and  common  interests,  and  can  help  in 
arriving at coordinated policy responses.  

To  give  you  a  concrete  example  of  a  well-
functioning  regional  dialogue  on  migration,  I  would 
like  to  mention  the  Budapest  Process,  which  is  a 
consultative forum of more than 50 participating States 
and 
That 
international  migration 
The  President: 
I  now  give 
organizations. 
international 
the 
10 
to 
to 
in 
for 
for 
the 
and 
Efficient 
the  Process 
the  recent  extension  of 
intergovernmental process was started 15 years ago, in 
1991,  which  makes  it  one  of  the  oldest  regional 
consultative  processes 
the  world.  My  own 
organization,  the  International  Centre  for  Migration 
Policy  Development  (ICMPD),  based  in  Vienna,  has 
functioned  as  the  Secretariat  of  the  Budapest  Process 
since 1994. The Budapest Process provides a forum for 
exchange  of  experience  and 
information  among 
interested  States 
the  purpose  of  promoting 
comprehensive  systems  for  orderly  migration  in  the 
wider European region. Its longstanding record, as well 
as 
the 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States  (CIS)  countries 
and the south-east Mediterranean region, testifies to the 
continuing  value  of  that  forum  to  the  participating 
States.  
Secondly, let me say a word on the importance of 

capacity-building. 
accountable 
institutions for the management of migrations are vital 
not  only 
implementation  of  sustainable 
migration policies  as such, but also  for  the holding  of 
any  meaningful  and  mutually  beneficial  migration 
dialogue.  Thus,  the  promotion  of  good  governance, 
capacity-building  and  training,  is  often  a  precondition 
for a structured migration dialogue, and should have a 
high priority on the development agenda.  

Thirdly,  based  on  this  experience,  we  conclude 
that  the  optimal  level  of  migration  dialogue  should 
correspond  to  the  principle  of  subsidiarity,  or  in  other 
words  that  policy  coordination  should  be  made  at  the 
lowest level possible and at the highest level necessary. 
That means that an inter-State dialogue on international 
migration  can  and  should  take  place,  at  the  bilateral, 
regional  or  global  level,  according  to  the  issues  and 
interests  involved.  In  that  way,  even  a  meaningful 
dialogue on migration may not prevent new crises from 
arising, but it can certainly help to manage such crises 
more  efficiently  and  in  a  more  targeted  manner  when 
they arise.  
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor to His Excellency Mr. Ridha Bouabid, Counsellor 
of  the  Delegation  for  Peace,  Democracy  and  Human 
Rights  of 
la 
Francophonie. 

Mr.  Bouabid  (International  Organization  of  la 
Francophonie)  (spoke  in  French):  The  theme  that 
brings  us  together  today  is  of  special  concern  to  the 
International  Organization of la Francophonie in more 
International  Organization  of 
the 
60 

06-52461 
to 
themselves, 
The  problems  of 
to  benefit  migrants 


ways than one, and first, because the French-speaking 
area is in itself a large area of migration. It is made up 
of 53 States and Governments spread around the entire 
globe.  The  French-speaking  world 
includes  both 
developed  and  developing  countries,  countries  with  a 
strongly  entrenched  tradition  of  migration  and  host 
countries  —  countries  with  a  common  language. 
Moreover,  we  are  aware  of  the  important  role  of 
language  in  determining  migration  routes,  since,  in 
many cases, migrants choose countries whose language 
they can speak.  

international  migration  — 
particularly  in  the  current  context  of  globalization  — 
and  its  undeniable  effects  on  development  represent  a 
major  challenge  for  our  community  as  well  as  the 
international community. It is a challenge that requires 
exchanges of ideas and concerted action, which are the 
only  ways 
limit  —  albeit  only  slightly  — 
migration’s  negative  effects  and  to  maximize  its 
advantages 
their 
countries of origin and the countries of destination.  

That  is  the  context  of  the  discussions  that  we 
began  in  la  Francophonie  several  years  ago,  including 
at  the  international  meeting  held  in  Paris  in  2001,  on 
the 
the 
initiative  of  the  High  Council  of  la  Francophonie  and 
the Government of Canada in Quebec,  with the active 
participation  of  the  International  Organization  for 
Migration.  Here,  I  wish  to  commend  them  for  their 
commitment and leadership in placing migration issues 
at the top of the global agenda and at the centre of the 
international community’s concerns.   Our  discussions 
are  based  on  the  values  dear  to  la  Francophonie: 
solidarity,  democracy,  human  rights,  cultural  diversity 
and dialogue among civilizations.  
Aware that migratory movements can be a major 

asset  for  development,  our  community  seeks 
in 
particular  to  enhance  exchanges  and  dialogue  on  how 
to  better  highlight  cultural  diversity  in  integration 
policies  and  to  implement  genuine  co-development 
initiatives  between  countries  of  the  North  and  the 
South,  between  countries  of  origin  and  countries  of 
destination,  with  the  active  participation  of  migrants 
themselves.  

First, we have been considering ways to organize 
the  mobilization  of  skills  in  the  context  of  a  North-
South partnership, enabling the South to benefit from a 
return  on  its  investment  in  the  qualifications  of  its 
theme  “Francophonie  and  migration”,  at 
A/61/PV.6
in 
diaspora.  We  have  also  been  assessing  the  impact  of 
some  experiments  with  decentralized  cooperation 
involving  migrants,  identifying  a  number  of  good 
practices 
that  area.  Finally,  we  have  been 
considering  in  greater  depth  how  to  reconcile  our 
aspirations to francophone solidarity with the demands 
of  States  in  terms  of  their  needs,  their  interests  and 
even their security.  
As  recently  reaffirmed  by  the  ministers  for 

foreign  affairs  of  our  member  countries  at 
the 
conference  on  conflict  prevention  and  human  security 
held  in  May  2006  at  Saint  Boniface,  Canada,  our 
discussions  on  the  important  issue  of  migration  will 
continue  at  the  regional  and  international  levels, 
contributing to the ongoing debates being held on these 
issues by the international community as a whole.  

That  is  why  our  organization  has  an  interest  in 
this  High-level  Dialogue.  We  are  fully  prepared  to 
share  our  experiences  and  build  on  our  discussions 
with  all  concerned  international  organizations  and 
partners.  The  global 
forum  on  migration  and 
development  that  the  Secretary-General  proposes  to 
establish  in  the  near  future  would  be  a  special  forum 
for such discussions and consultations on these crucial 
issues.  In  that  regard,  we  are  pleased  that  the  first 
meeting of the forum is scheduled to be held next year 
in Belgium, a country member of la Francophonie. We 
welcome the opportunity to make our own contribution 
as appropriate.  

those 
representatives  who  wish  to  speak  in  exercise  of  the 
right of reply. 
May  I  remind  members  that,  in  accordance  with 

General  Assembly  decision  34/401,  statements 
in 
exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes 
for  the  first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes  for  the 
second, and should be made by delegations from their 
seats. 
Ms.  Kennelly  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United States deeply regrets the comments made earlier 
today  by 
the  delegation  of  Cuba,  which  were 
inaccurate, inappropriate and disrespectful to the spirit 
of constructive dialogue that we have had over the past 
two  days.  Those  comments  serve  to  reinforce  my 
country’s  concerns  about  the  difficulties  of  advancing 
productive  dialogue  on  migration  at  the  global  level. 
Political polemics do nothing to advance the migration 
and development agenda. 
The  President: I  shall  now  call  on 
06-52461 

61 
to  ensure 
representative  of 
A/61/PV.6 


In  response  to  Cuba’s  statement,  my  delegation 
would  note  that  the  Cuban  Government’s  refusal  to 
permit  the  return  of  its  own  citizens  from  foreign 
countries, as well as its atrocious human rights record, 
have caused more than 1 million Cubans to leave their 
country  for  save  haven  in  other  lands  and  has  led  the 
United States to take measures to regularize the status 
of eligible Cuban migrants who reach the shores of the 
United States. 

I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  the  United  States 
is  committed  at  all  times  to  safe,  legal  and  orderly 
migration. 

Mr.  González  Pérez  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
My delegation rejects, one by one, every word said by 
the 
the  United  States.  The 
Government of the United States, which today accuses 
us  and  claims  to  act  as  the  world’s  great  refuge  and 
defender  of  human  rights,  is  the  same  country  that 
encourages  illegal  migration  from  my  country  and 
human trafficking. It even refuses to cooperate with my 
Government 
legal,  safe  and  orderly 
migration.  
The  world  knows  that  my  country  is  being 

subjected  to  a  brutal  and  criminal  blockade  by  the 
Government of the United States, which has caused all 
our people grave and countless suffering. Through that 
genocidal  economic  assault,  the  United  States  is 
seeking  to  overthrow  our  revolution,  seeking  to  cause 
pain, hunger and despair among our people.  

Part of that terrible blockade and of the political 
manipulation  of  the  migration  issue  by  the  United 
States  is  the  Cuban Adjustment Act  —  the  murderous 
law, as we call it in Cuba — because of the number of 
lives 
it  has  cost  our  country.  The  Cuban 
Adjustment  Act  serves  as  a  true  spur  to  illegal 
migration and human trafficking, which contradicts the 
official statement made here in this Hall by the United 
States delegation. Through that migration policy based 
on  double  standards,  the  United  States  has  sheltered 
within its territory kidnappers and traffickers who have 
profited  from  the  smuggling  of  Cubans  from  Cuba  to 
the  United  States.  It  has  also  protected  notorious 
terrorists  who  have  committed  brutal  acts  against 
Cuba. 

The United States says that Cuba seeks to blame 
it  and  to  distract  attention  from  the  human  rights 
situation  in  Cuba.  By  making  that  statement,  the 
United States is telling a double lie. Cuba does not seek 

to blame the United States. Actually, the United States 
blames  itself;  it  does  not  need  our  help.  Its  acts 
demonstrate  that.  The  blockade  persists  and  becomes 
more  intense  every  year,  despite  nearly  universal 
condemnation by the international community.  

To  attempt  to  justify  the  blockade  as  a  way  to 
improve human rights in Cuba is silly, incongruous and 
foolish,  because  the  United  States  is  the  country  with 
the  least  moral  authority  and  credibility  to  talk  about 
human  rights.  After  its  unilateral  wars  —  through 
which  it  violates  international  law  and  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  —  the  torture  committed  at  the 
Guantánamo naval base and at Abu Ghraib prison and 
the  massive  bombardment  of  civilian  populations,  the 
United States should be silent on the subject of human 
rights. 

The primary violator of human rights now points 
its  fingers  at  us,  claiming  us  to  be  the  worst.  The 
Government that is accusing Cuba continues to protect 
the  main  perpetrator  of  the  horrendous  crime  of 
downing a Cubana Airlines aircraft, in which 73 people 
lost their lives. That Government, through its migration 
laws,  is  keeping  Cuban  families  apart  and  preventing 
their 
reunification.  That  very  same  Government 
imposes democracy at the point of a gun. 

Any Government that commits such atrocities, as 
does that of the United States, truly has no grounds for 
criticizing Cuba. Many years ago, we in Cuba learned 
to live at a level of dignity and resolve that can never 
be overturned.  
In conclusion, I should like to quote a paragraph 

from  a  document,  dated  6  April  1960,  which  was 
recently  declassified  by 
the  North  American 
authorities.  The  document  was  drafted  by  Lester  D. 
Mallory, then United States Deputy Under-secretary of 
State  for  Inter-American  Affairs.  This  statement  truly 
backs  up  everything  we  have  said.  He  wrote  that  the 
majority of Cubans support Castro and that “there is no 
effective  political  opposition”.  He  added,  cynically, 
that  

“The  only 
foreseeable  means  of  alienating 
internal support is through disenchantment based 
on  economic  dissatisfaction  and  hardship  …  to 
deny  Cuba  money  and  supplies,  to  diminish 
[personal] 
to  cause  hunger, 
desperation and the collapse of the government.” 
income  so  as 
that 
62 

06-52461 
I believe that this statement is sufficient to clarify 



everything we have said. 
Ms.  Kennelly  (United  States  of  America):  The 

ridiculous  distortions  of  the  Cuban  delegation  compel 
me to respond, but I will be brief. 

Let  us  be  clear:  the  migration  situation  has  been 
created  by  the  Castro  regime.  Its  lack  of  respect  for 
human  rights,  its  oppressive  crackdown  on  political 
opposition  and  dissident  activity, 
its  complete 
intolerance of free expression and its requirement that 
Cuban  citizens  obtain  exit  permits  before  they  can 
emigrate cause its citizens to take their lives into their 
own hands and flee the country by raft. 

Since  the  United  States  and  Cuba  agreed  on  the 
migration  accords  in  1994,  the  United  States  has 
fulfilled  its  commitment  to  providing  safe,  legal  and 
orderly means of immigration from Cuba. Specifically, 
the United States has approved at least 20,000 migrants 
for travel to our country each year since the accord has 
been in place. 
Mr. González Pérez (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): I 

take the floor again to put the lie to the statement made 
by the representative of the United States to justify the 
allegation that the United States is the real cause of the 
migratory  situation  between  the  United  States  and 
Cuba.  

It is no secret to anyone that 24-hour-a-day radio 
broadcasts  financed  by  the  United  States  seek  to 
destabilize  our 
illegal 
immigration.  The  representative  of  the  United  States 
used the word “dissident”. I should like to refresh her 
memory  and  ask  whether  the  word  “dissident”  means, 
to  her,  a  person  who  is  working  for,  receiving  direct 
orders  from  and  paid  by  a  foreign  Power? That  is  the 
case  of  the  so-called  dissidents  whom  she  claims  to 
exist  in  Cuba.  Those  people  are  paid  a  salary  by  the 
United  States  and  are  told  what  to  do.  My  country 
therefore has a legitimate right to defend itself against 
any agent of a foreign Government working against our 
national interests. 

In her statement, the representative of the United 
States also referred to a lack of human rights in Cuba. I 
do not wish to repeat myself, nor is this the appropriate 
time to do so, but if we wish to discuss a lack of rights 
and  true  dictatorship,  my  delegation  and  much  of  the 
world knows that the only dictatorship is that which the 
United  States  is  seeking  to  impose  at  the  global  level 
encourage 
country 
and 
A/61/PV.6
the 
and 
challenges 
role  of 
international 
cooperation 
opportunities 
This  High-level  Dialogue  has  been 
by  force  and  in  disregard  for  the  most  fundamental 
human rights. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): We have come 

to  the  end  of  two  long  but  stimulating  days,  during 
which  we  have  discussed,  for  the  first  time  at  this 
High-level  Dialogue,  the  multidimensional  aspects  of 
international migration and development. 
We  have  heard  from  over  140  representatives 

about 
that 
international  migration  poses  for  development  in  each 
of  their  countries. We  have  had  four  round  tables  that 
have  focused  on  the  impact  of  international  migration 
on economic and social development, the centrality of 
human  rights  to  ensuring  the  development  benefits  of 
migration,  the  importance  of  remittances,  and  the 
crucial 
and 
partnerships  in  addressing  the  challenges  posed  by 
international migration. 
Above  all,  these  two  days  have  proven  that 

international  migration  and  development  can  be 
debated constructively in the United Nations. 

the 
culmination  of  years  of  preparation.  I  want  first  and 
foremost  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  support  in  preparing  and  organizing 
this Dialogue. I also want to thank Member States, the 
various  United  Nations  agencies,  other  international 
organizations,  non-governmental  organizations,  civil 
society and the private sector for their contributions to 
making this dialogue a success. 

On this occasion, I would also like to extend my 
sincerest  appreciation  to  Mr.  Peter  Sutherland,  the 
Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  on 
Migration,  for  his  tireless  efforts  in  promoting  the 
messages and recommendations set out in the report of 
the  Secretary-General.  We  look  forward  to  continued 
collaboration as our efforts evolve. 

Lastly, I want to acknowledge the key role of my 
predecessor,  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson,  Foreign  Minister  of 
Sweden,  in  organizing  the  two  panel  discussions  in 
New  York  and  Geneva,  as  well  as  the  interactive 
hearings  with  non-governmental  organizations,  civil 
society and the private sector. 

The  High-level  Dialogue  has  affirmed  a  number 
of key messages in the report of the Secretary-General: 
first, 
is  a  growing 
phenomenon  and  a  key  component  of  development  in 
international  migration 
that 
06-52461 

63 

A/61/PV.6 

developing  and  developed  countries  alike;  secondly, 
that international migration can be a positive force for 
development  in  countries  of  origin  and  countries  of 
destination,  provided  that  it  is  supported  by  the  right 
set  of  policies;  and  thirdly,  that  it  is  important  to 
strengthen  international  cooperation  on  international 
migration bilaterally, regionally and globally. 

The  Dialogue  has  emphasized  that  respect  for 
human rights is a necessary foundation for migration to 
benefit  development.  Many  of  the  participants  have 
noted  that  some  vulnerable  groups,  such  as  migrant 
women  and  children,  need  special  protection.  It  was 
also  highlighted  that  migration  is  no  substitute  for 
development.  Too  often,  migrants  are  forced  to  seek 
employment abroad owing to poverty, conflict and lack 
of respect for human rights. There has been widespread 
support  for  incorporating  international  migration  into 
the  development  agenda  and  for  integrating  migration 
issues  into  national  development  strategies,  including, 
possibly, poverty reduction strategies.  
You  have  all  underscored  the  need  to  provide 

decent  work  and  decent  working  conditions 
in 
countries  of  origin  and  countries  of  destination,  alike. 
That would alleviate the negative aspects of migration, 
including brain drain.  

that 
remittances  are  among  the  most  tangible  benefits  of 
international  migration 
for  development.  These 
remittances  improve  the  lives  of  millions  of  migrant 
families  and  have  a  positive  effect  on  the  economy  at 
large. Many participants have called for a reduction in 
Furthermore,  participants  have  noted 
remittances  and 
transfers  and 
for 
the  cost  of 
maximizing their development potential.  

We have now completed the High-level Dialogue. 
But where do we go from here? During these two days, 
in plenary statements and remarks at the round tables, 
nearly  all  participants  have  expressed  the  wish  to 
continue  an  international  dialogue  in  some  form  or 
another.  Many  participants  have  embraced 
the 
Secretary-General’s  proposal  for  establishing  a  Global 
Forum  on  Migration  and  Development  and  the  offer 
made  by  the  Government  of  Belgium  to  host  the  first 
meeting  of  the  Forum  next  year.  I  commend  the 
Assembly’s commitment to advancing this constructive 
dialogue on this important issue.  

In  closing,  let  me  once  more  thank  all  the 
participants  for  their  active  participation  in  this  High-
level  Dialogue  and  wish  them  all  the  best  in  their 
future  deliberations  on  international  migration  and 
development. In the coming days, I will make available 
a President’s Summary and summaries by Chairpersons 
of the round tables, which will be widely distributed to 
all Member States, Observers, United Nations agencies 
and other appropriate organizations.  
(spoke in English) 

The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  the 
High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration  and 
Development and this stage of its consideration of sub-
item (b) of agenda item 55.   

  The meeting rose at 9.55 p.m.  
64 

06-52461 
