
A/61/PV.57
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-first session 

57th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 22 November 2006, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Ms. Al-Khalifa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Bahrain) 
the  rights  of  persons  with 
draft  convention  on 
disabilities? 
It was so decided.

The  President:  The  Chairman  of  the  Third 

Committee will be informed of the decision just taken.  

In paragraph 2 of the same document, the General 
Committee  recommends  to  the  General Assembly  that 
an  additional  item  entitled  “Support  by  the  United 
Nations  system  of  the  efforts  of  Governments  to 
promote and consolidate new or restored democracies” 
be included in the agenda of the current session under 
heading  B,  “Promotion  of  sustained  economic  growth 
and  sustainable  development  in  accordance  with  the 
relevant  resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
recent United Nations conferences”. 

May  I  take  it  that  the  General Assembly  decides 
to include that item in the agenda of the current session 
under heading B? 
It was so decided. 

The  President: The  General  Committee  further 

recommends  that  the  item  be  considered  directly  in 
plenary  meeting.  May  I  take  it  that  the  General 
Assembly  decides  to  consider  this  item  directly  in 
plenary meeting? 
It was so decided. 

The President: I should like to inform  members 

that  the  item  entitled  “Support  by  the  United  Nations 
system  of  the  efforts  of  Governments  to  promote  and 





  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 



Agenda item 7 (continued) 
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items 

  Fourth report of the General Committee 
(A/61/250/Add.3) 
The  President:  In  paragraph  1  of  its  report,  the 

General Committee recommends to the General Assembly 
that  sub-item  (b)  of  agenda  item  67,  “Human  rights 
questions, including alternative approaches for improving 
the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental 
freedoms”,  which  has  been  allocated  to  the  Third 
Committee,  be  also  considered  directly  in  plenary 
meeting for the sole purpose of taking action during the 
main part of the sixty-first session on the draft convention 
on  the  rights  of  persons  with  disabilities,  which  is 
expected to be completed in early December by the Ad 
Hoc  Committee  on  a  Comprehensive  and  Integral 
International  Convention  on 
the  Protection  and 
Promotion  of  the  Rights  and  Dignity  of  Persons  with 
Disabilities and to be recommended for adoption in its 
report.  

May  I  take  it  that  the  General Assembly  decides 
to  also  consider  sub-item  (b)  of  agenda  item  67, 
“Human 
alternative 
approaches  for  improving  the  effective  enjoyment  of 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms”,  directly  in 
plenary  meeting  for  the  sole  purpose  of  taking  action 
during  the  main  part  of  the  sixty-first  session  on  the 
rights  questions, 
including 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

06-62681 (E) 
*0662681* 
A/61/PV.57 

consolidate  new  or  restored  democracies”  becomes 
item 157 on the agenda of the current session. 

The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  its 
consideration  of  the  fourth  report  of  the  General 
Committee. 



Programme of work 
The President: I should like to inform  members 

that  document A/INF/61/4/Rev.2,  containing  a  revised 
programme of work and schedule of plenary meetings 
for  the  remainder  of  the  main  part  of  the  sixty-first 

 session,  was  issued  this  morning  and  has  been 
distributed  in  the  Conference  Room.  I  should  like  to 
remind  members  that  the  lists  of  speakers  for  items 
listed in document A/INF/61/4/Rev.2 are open. 

I  should  also  like  to  inform  members  that  the 
General Assembly, on Tuesday, 28 November 2006, as 
the  fourth  item,  will  take  up  agenda  item  117, 
“Programme  budget  for  the  biennium  2006-2007”,  to 
consider a report of the Fifth Committee, to be issued 
as document A/61/592. 


  The meeting rose at 3.20 p.m. 
2 

06-62681 
