
A/61/PV.13
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-first session 

13th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 20 September 2006, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Ms. Al-Khalifa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Bahrain) 
I  will  move  on 
to  address  some  of 
appreciation  of  Mr. 
bloody internal conflict lasting over  four decades. For 
our Secretary-General, it marks the end of his 10-year 
term,  which  has  had  a  highly  positive  result:  a  result 
that I want to acknowledge and for which I would like 
to thank him. 

these 
substantial issues. But before doing so, I would like to 
state  our 
Jan  Eliasson’s 
stewardship and exceptional leadership of the previous 
session  of  this  Assembly.  At  the  same  time,  we 
welcome your election, Madam President, and have no 
doubt that you will bring us to a safe port. 
I  should  like  to  allude  very  briefly  to  four 

matters:  compliance  with 
the  Guatemalan  Peace 
Accords,  a  process  in  which  the  United  Nations 
participated very closely; follow-up of the 2005 World 
Summit,  especially  Millennium  Goal  8,  namely,  to 
foster a global partnership for development; our views 
on  certain  aspects  of  United  Nations  reform;  and  our 
views  on  certain  positive  developments  that  affect 
international relations. 

The  brief  time  allotted  to  me  does  not  allow  me 
to  go  into  detail,  but  it  is  undeniable  that  we  have 
advanced  substantially  in  the  direction  of  giving 
concrete  expression  to  the  vision  contained  in  the 
Peace  Accords.  More  to  the  point,  if  we  contrast 
today’s  Guatemala  to  that  of  1996,  we  now  have  a 
society  that  is  more  plural,  tolerant,  deliberative  and 
participative  than  in  the  past.  Our  representative 
democracy 
three  free  and 
transparent elections. The army is truly subordinated to 
taking  root,  after 
is 





  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 

Address by Mr. Oscar Berger Perdomo, President of 
the Republic of Guatemala 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address by the President of the Republic of Guatemala. 
Mr.  Oscar  Berger  Perdomo,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Guatemala,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Oscar  Berger  Perdomo, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Guatemala,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
President  Berger  Perdomo  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

In  2006,  several  important  anniversaries  coincide  and 
provide  a  background  for  our  debate.  For  the  United 
Nations,  2006  represents  a  new  opportunity  to  assess 
progress  since  the  adoption  six  years  ago  of  the 
package  of  commitments  generally  known  as  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  which 
received 
renewed  impetus  during  the  2005 World  Summit. The 
outcome of that summit provides the main theme of our 
debate during this Assembly, as well as the guidelines 
for the reform of our Organization. For this great city, 
the site of the Headquarters of our Organization, 2006 
marks  the  fifth  anniversary  of  the  tragic  events  of 
11 September  2001,  which  altered  history  forever.  For 
Guatemala,  2006  marks  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
signing  of  the  Peace  Accords  that  put  an  end  to  a 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

06-52885 (E) 
*0652885* 

in 
strengthening 
is  committed 
linked 
to  an 
increase 
in  crime, 
a  multi-ethnic 
A/61/PV.13 

the  civil  Government.  Important  progress  has  been 
and 
achieved 
multilingual  society.  The  State 
to 
respecting  of  civil,  political  and  human  rights  and  to 
promoting  greater  participation  of  women  in  our 
society.  Significant  efforts  have  been  in  strengthening 
the administration of justice and consolidating the rule 
of  law. The  proportion  of  public  expenditure  assigned 
to  the  provision  of  social  services  has  increased 
significantly in the past few years. We have assisted the 
victims  of  the  conflict  through  a  programme  of 
reparation  payments.  We  promote  the  National  Front 
against  Hunger  as  a  priority  of  my  Government. 
Likewise,  we  recently  adopted  a  policy  on  rural 
development,  which  was  prepared  and  will  be 
implemented  with  the  participation  of  entrepreneurs, 
peasants and trade unions. 

At  the  same  time,  we  recognize  that  much 
remains  to  be  done.  Human  rights  violations  persist, 
often 
including 
organized crime. It is for this reason that we invited the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 
to  open  an  office  in  Guatemala  and  to  join  us  in 
strengthening  our  own  capacity  to  defend  and  protect 
vulnerable  groups.  We  have  also  invited  the  United 
Nations 
to  establish  a 
commission 
illicit  and  clandestine 
groups.  Furthermore,  we  have  promoted  domestic 
legislation  to  combat  the  scourge  of  crime,  including 
the recently promulgated law against organized crime. 

The commitments contained in the Peace Accords 
entail serious budgetary implications. To address them, 
we recently sent to Congress, and Congress approved, 
an  act  to  combat  tax  evasion.  At  the  same  time,  we 
have  forged  a  broad  consensus  on  an  agreed  tax 
package 
future 
development  through  improvements  in  the  allocation 
and  administration  of  public  expenditures  and  the 
collection of taxes. 
the 

recognition  of  the  identity  and  rights  of  indigenous 
peoples.  In  this  regard,  we  trust  that  the  General 
Assembly will soon adopt the Draft Declaration on the 
Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples,  which  saw  light  in  the 
Human  Rights  Council  and  which  will  contribute  to 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals. 

In summary, our Government Plan has embraced 
the  Peace  Accords  and  is  committed  nationally  to 
My  Government 
assigns  priority 
to  support  an 
to 
investigate 
that  ensures 
the 
financing  of 
initiative 
the 
complying with them. In 2005, a Framework Act on the 
Peace  Accords  was  passed  in  order  to  strengthen  the 
institutional  aspects  of  the  peace  process.  One  of  our 
goals is to achieve socio-economic development that is 
participatory  and  responds  to  the  needs  of  the  entire 
population. 

This  leads  me  to  the  second  item,  namely,  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  Indeed,  a 
major  part  of  our  Government  programme  is  entirely 
consistent  with  those  goals,  especially  with  regard  to 
combating poverty and hunger and achieving universal 
primary education. Our policies, which emphasize rural 
development, take an approach that favours the poorest 
strata of our society. The efforts undertaken have been 
based  mostly  on  domestic  resources  —  Government 
and civil society — but we have also received support 
from  the  international  community  in  the  context  of  a 
genuine partnership. 

The  international  community’s  respect  for  our 
priorities has grown, and it has increasingly adapted its 
methods 
to  our  budgetary  procedures.  From  our 
country’s  point  of  view,  significant  progress  has  been 
achieved  since 
International  Conference  on 
Financing for Development was held in 2002. We have 
also  noted  a  reversal,  over  the  past  four  years,  in  the 
earlier  trend  towards  declining  official  development 
assistance  (ODA).  It  is  hoped  that  the  new  trend  of 
increasing  ODA  will  persist  and  accelerate,  especially 
in favour of the least developed countries. 

In  contrast  to  the  relatively  encouraging  picture 
in the area of financing for development, it is a source 
of  great  concern  that  the  negotiations  of  the  Doha 
Development  Round  have  been  suspended.  That  is  a 
serious  setback for the global economy  and especially 
for  the  chances  of  developing  countries  to  improve 
their participation in international trade. 

If the potential of the Development Round is not 
salvaged,  which  must  include  the  dismantling  of 
agricultural  subsidies  as  well  as  other  restrictive 
practices  of  trade  in  agricultural  products  that  persist 
among  the  main  developed  economies,  it  will  be 
difficult  to  continue  referring  to  a  global  partnership 
for  development  as  posited  by 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  In  that  regard,  it  is  urgently 
necessary to renew the negotiations of the Doha Round 
under  the  aegis  of  the  World  Trade  Organization.  On 
that  subject,  we  also  support  the  strengthening  of 
South-South cooperation in all areas. 
06-52885 
to 
2 




Moving on now to the third part of my  remarks, 
we  believe  that  the  reforms  undertaken  at  the  United 
Nations  since  2000,  and  in  particular  since  the  2005 
Summit, have been significant and headed in the right 
direction.  We  identify  with  the  new  Human  Rights 
Council,  of  which  we  are  a  member,  and  support  the 
fulfilment  of  its  role  in  promoting  and  protecting 
human rights at the global level. 

We  also  understand  the  considerable  potential  of 
the new Peacebuilding Commission to contribute to the 
joint  work  of  the  Security  Council  and  the  Economic 
and Social Council for the benefit of countries now in 
post-conflict  situations.  We  promote  the  revitalization 
and strengthening of the General Assembly as the only 
universal  body  with  enough  legitimacy  to  debate  and 
adopt  policies,  as  prescribed  by  the  Charter  and  as 
agreed  in  the  Millennium  Declaration  and  at  the  2005 
Summit. 

We reiterate our strong support for the Economic 
and  Social  Council  as  a  meeting  place  to  foster 
sustainable  development.  We  especially  applaud  the 
decision 
to  convene  a  high-level  meeting  on 
development cooperation every two years. We add our 
voices to all the others urging an end to the stalemate 
in  the  discussions  on  Security  Council  reform.  The 
parameters of that debate are well known. For our part, 
we have historically favoured a moderate expansion in 
the  number  of  non-permanent  members,  but  more 
recently,  we  have  signalled  that  we  could  support  any 
formula  that  would  be  capable  of  bringing  about  a 
consensus, including the expansion of members in both 
categories.  We  also  support  a  more  representative, 
transparent and effective Council. 

We  are  candidates  for  a  non-permanent  seat  on 
the  Council  for  the  biennium  2007-2008,  because  we 
believe that our experience as a country that made the 
transition  from  conflict 
to  peace  and  democracy 
provides  us  with  insights  that  would  contribute  to  the 
work of the Council. In addition, we are one of the few 
original signatories of the Charter that have not yet had 
the  opportunity  to  serve  in  the  work  of  that  body.  If 
elected  to  the  Security  Council,  we  commit  ourselves 
to  carrying  out  our  responsibilities  in  a  professional, 
responsible 
the 
representation  of  our  region  —  and  also  to  promote 
from  within  the  reform  of  that  crucial  forum  for 
assuring peace and stability in the world. 
and  dignified  manner  — 
in 
A/61/PV.13
and 
of  multilateralism 

My country’s foreign policy is in accordance with 
our  national  interests  based  on  improved  participation 
by  Guatemala  in  the  globalized  world,  as  well  as  the 
strengthening 
regional 
integration.  We  have  promoted  a  deeper  integration 
with  our  immediate  neighbours  in  Central  America, 
and  important  progress  in  the  establishment  of  a 
customs union has been achieved. We, the five Central 
American  countries,  have  also  agreed  on  a  free  trade 
agreement  with  the  United  States  of  America,  and  in 
2007,  will  begin  negotiations  on  an  association 
agreement with the European Union. 

Moreover,  my  Government  has  endeavoured  to 
deepen  its  bilateral  relations  with  Belize,  while  at  the 
same  time  seeking  to  find  a  definitive,  just,  equitable 
and  honourable  solution  to  the  territorial  dispute 
between our countries. Thus, on 7 September 2005, we 
signed,  under  the  auspices  of  the  Organization  of 
American  States,  an  Agreement  on  a  Framework  for 
Negotiations 
and  Confidence-Building  Measures, 
which covers a wide range of subjects and will bring us 
closer.  One  of  the  tangible  results  of  that  effort  has 
been  a  free  trade  agreement  signed  just  a  few  months 
ago. 

Guatemala participated actively in the High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development 
held  in  this  same  Hall  less  than  a  week  ago.  In  that 
context, we emphasize that attention to the situation of 
Guatemalan  migrants 
is  another  priority  of  my 
Government. An essential element of the public policy 
on that subject is full respect for the human rights of all 
migrants, an element which will only be fulfilled when 
all  States  become  parties 
International 
Convention  on  the  Protection  of  the  Rights  of  All 
Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families. 

My  Government  is  working  with  the  recipient 
countries,  in  particular  with  the  United  States  of 
America,  to  promote  comprehensive  migration  reform 
that  would  include  mechanisms  to  manage  the  supply 
of  workers  in  the  countries  of  origin  and  the  demand 
for workers in the recipient countries. That would help 
regularize 
emigrants,  whose 
contribution  to  the  well-being  of  their  communities  is 
substantial,  and  would  make  it  possible  to  overcome 
the great vulnerability of our population. 

We  feel  solidarity  with  other  countries  that  have 
endured under conflict situations. This is why we have 
taken  part  in  an  increasing  number  of  United  Nations 
situation 
to 
the 
the 
of 
06-52885 

3 

in 
troops 
A/61/PV.13 

peacekeeping  operations.  We  are  proud  of  our 
presence,  along  with  many  other  Latin  American 
countries, in our neighbour Haiti, and we celebrate the 
democratically  elected  Government  of  President  René 
Préval.  We  also  have 
the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  military  observers  in  six 
other countries in the African continent. 

We deplore the violence that has affected several 
countries in the Middle East, in particular Lebanon. We 
call for a solution that will allow Israel and a sovereign 
Palestinian State to live in peace within safe borders in 
the wider context of a region that finds its own destiny 
in harmony and progress. 

Given  the  importance  of  coordination  among 
States  of  the  region,  Guatemala  organized,  from  11  to 
13 September 2006, the first regional security meeting 
of Central America and the Dominican Republic, with 
the goal of achieving a consensus among the countries 
of  the  Central  American  group,  as  well  as  Mexico, 
Colombia,  Belize  and  the  Dominican  Republic,  to 
develop a comprehensive strategy and to counteract the 
main  threats  to  the  area,  a  consensus  to  unify  the 
security  policies  and  procedures  already  agreed  and 
contained  in  multilateral  regional  and  international 
agreements,  treaties  and  conventions,  as  well  as  those 
adopted at summit meetings. We hope we can continue 
to count on the support of the international community 
and  of  the  United  Nations  to  organize  three  more 
meetings to complete the development of that strategy. 

It  is  important  to  emphasize  that  Guatemala  is 
organizing, jointly with Transparency International, the 
12th  International  Anti-Corruption  Conference,  from 
15  to  18  November  this  year.  The  theme  for  the 
conference  will  be  “Towards  a  fairer  world:  Why  is 
corruption still blocking the way?” This effort reflects 
my  Government’s  firm  commitment 
the 
scourge of corruption that has corroded our institutions 
for  many  years  and  has  prevented  our  citizens  from 
making  the  transition  to  a  more  just  country.  On  that 
note,  you  are  all  welcome,  and  we  are  eager  to  share 
our  challenges,  progress  and  difficulties 
this 
common struggle. 

Under  your  leadership,  Madam  President,  at  this 
session  the  General  Assembly  will  have  to  address 
issues  of  great  importance  for  humanity  and  for  our 
Organization. Guatemala pledges to participate actively 
in the debates planned for this year. From this moment 
to  fight 
in 
on, we offer you our full cooperation for the success of 
your presidency. 
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Guatemala for the statement he has just made. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
Mr.  Oscar  Berger  Perdomo,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Guatemala,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 

Address by Mr. Néstor Carlos Kirchner, President of 
the Argentine Republic 

address by the President of the Argentine Republic. 
The  President: The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

into 
Mr.  Néstor  Carlos  Kirchner,  President  of  the 
Argentine  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Néstor  Carlos  Kirchner, 
President of the Argentine Republic, and to invite him 
to address the General Assembly. 
President Kirchner  (spoke in Spanish):  I  would 

like  to  congratulate  you,  Ms.  Al-Khalifa,  on  your 
election  as  President  of  the  General Assembly  at  this 
session,  since  I  believe  it  is  very  significant  that  a 
woman  has  assumed  that  role,  to  promote  gender 
equality,  which  is  a  goal  both  of  my  Government  and 
of the United Nations. 

On  behalf  of  the  Argentine  Republic,  we  would 
also  like  to  congratulate  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixtieth  session,  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson,  for 
the  work  he  carried  out,  and  to  renew  our  recognition 
of Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his role in action 
promoting  peace,  multilateralism  and  the  fight  against 
poverty. 

We  have  come  to  the  General  Assembly  in  the 
firm  belief  that  the  revitalization  of  this  forum  of 
global 
that 
international  law  can  be  the  instrument  of  rationality 
that  will  enable  us  to  settle  conflicts  and  combat  the 
threats to peace. 

the  Argentine 
Republic  is  inspired  by  the  values  of  representative 
democracy,  respect  for  fundamental  human  rights  and 
active  defence  of  international  peace  and  security. 
Those  principles,  shared  by  the  vast  majority  of  the 
international  conduct  of 
representation 
fundamental 
The 
is 
so 
4 

06-52885 
the  courts 
the  State  adopted,  within 


Argentine people, guide our administration and are the 
basis of our foreign policy decisions. 

In the field of human rights, in 2003, after more 
than  two  decades  of  sustained  democratic  rule  in 
Argentina,  we  experienced  a  true  paradigm  shift.  In 
response  to  the  mandates  of  the  whole  of  society,  the 
three  powers  of 
their 
respective  purviews,  concurrent  decisions  against 
impunity,  preserving  memory,  truth  and  justice  and 
securing reparations. 
The  annulment  by  Congress  of  the  laws  that 

accorded 
impunity  for  State-sponsored  crimes  of 
terrorism,  the  ruling  that  those  laws  and  pardons 
granted  by 
in  our  country  were 
unconstitutional, and the reopening of over a thousand 
court proceedings for crimes against humanity — some 
of  which  have  resulted  in  the  conviction  of  those 
responsible  —  constitute  landmarks  of  that  shift.  It  is 
our conviction that democracy is strengthened with the 
simultaneous  fight  against  impunity  and  promotion  of 
full  respect  for  the  rule  of  law,  without  calling  for 
revenge. 
the 

beginning of the reform of the United Nations system, 
strongly supported incorporating human rights into the 
hierarchy  so  as  to  raise  the  institutional  level  of  their 
treatment  to  that  already  given  to  development  and  to 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
That  determination  led  us  to  establish  the  Human 
Rights  Council, 
creation  Argentina 
participated actively. 
The  first  steps  of  that  body  have  been  positive, 

having  approved 
International 
Convention  for  the  Protection  of  All  Persons  from 
Enforced Disappearance. That is an instrument of great 
significance  for  our  country,  as  it  defines  a  crime 
against  humanity  from  which  Argentina  suffered 
massively in the past, at a high cost to our society. We 
have  among  us  here  today  a  representative  of  an 
organization  that  was  extremely  involved  with  that 
issue  —  one  of  the  Mothers  of  the  Plaza  de  Mayo, 
Mrs. Marta  Vázquez,  who 
is  accompanying  our 
delegation. We  hope  the  General Assembly  will  adopt 
that  very  important  instrument  quickly,  during  this 
session. 

Five years after the attacks that shocked this city 
and  the  world,  we  would  like  to  firmly  condemn  the 
serious  threat  of  global  terrorism. Argentina  considers 
that  experience,  we  have,  since 
in  whose 
text  of 
With 
the 
the 
A/61/PV.13
law 
is  essential,  as  are 
all  acts  of  terrorism  against  innocent  civilians  to  be 
criminal and unjustifiable, and accepts no argument to 
justify such methods. 

The  Argentine  people  suffered  two  atrocious 
attacks in the 1990s against the Embassy of Israel and 
the  headquarters  of  the  Asociación  Mutual  Israelita 
Argentina. We are still struggling, in spite of the time 
that  has  elapsed,  to  fully  clarify  the  facts  and  punish 
the  culprits.  We  believe  that,  in  order  to  face  this 
criminal  threat  successfully,  we  must  carry  out  a 
sustained multilateral and legitimate response. Respect 
for  human  rights,  international  humanitarian  law  and 
refugee 
international 
cooperation and legal assistance to  effectively  enforce 
the norms against terrorism. 

If, in facing down global terrorism, we resort to a 
global  violation  of  human  rights,  the  only  winner  in 
this fight shall be terrorism. We will advance firmly in 
the  fight  against  terrorism  only  if  we  frame  it  within 
respect  for  local  laws  and  international  norms  and 
conventions. No complication can be an excuse for not 
combating terrorism within the law. 
Peace  is  built  and  maintained  by  understanding 

the  true  concept  of  solidarity  among  nations  from  a 
wider  perspective  than  the  purely  military  or  the 
predominantly  unilateral.  Nations  big  and  small,  rich 
and  poor,  will  be  markedly  vulnerable  if  we  fail  to 
grasp 
terrorism  demands 
sustained multilateral, intelligent action firmly based in 
legitimacy, 
rights, 
proportionality  of 
the  support  of 
international public opinion. 

We  would  like  to  express  our  concern  regarding 
the  hostilities  on  the  border  between  Israel  and 
Lebanon,  resulting  in  hundreds  of  casualties,  severe 
damage  to  the  civilian  infrastructure  and  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  displaced  persons.  The  violence  must 
stop. We need to address the causes at the heart of the 
crisis,  avoid  the  disproportionate  use  of  force,  and 
understand  that  only  negotiated  political  solutions  can 
hold  in  the  long  term.  Argentina  will  continue  to 
support  a  fair  solution  to  the  Middle  East  problems 
within the framework of resolution 1701 (2006). 

We  must  understand  that  the  world  will  move 
closer to peace only insofar as it promotes equality and 
struggles  to  eradicate  poverty  and  exclusion.  That  is 
true  both  for  the  global  system  and  for  each  country 
nationally. 
response  and 
fight  against 
fundamental 
respect 
that 
the 
for 
06-52885 

5 

interests  and 
A/61/PV.13 


Argentina  supports  the  building  of  societies  that 
are fairer, more equitable and with a better distribution 
of  the  benefits  of  economic  growth.  We  also  believe 
that  each  country  has  the  right  to  search  for  its  own 
development  model  with  no  external  conditionalities. 
We not only aspire to generate sustainable growth; we 
also  want  it  to  reach  everyone.  There  must  be 
harmonized  growth  that  translates  into  a  balanced 
income  distribution,  because  we  know  that  what  is 
needed  is  not  development  for  a  mere  few,  but  the 
development of the whole country. 

In  the  region  and  in  the  Common  Market  of  the 
South,  we  want  an  efficient  instrument  to  address 
poverty  and  exclusion;  we  want  the  common  good  to 
prevail  over  sectarian 
to  overcome 
stagnation  and  the  technology  gap;  and  we  want  to 
define a sustainable and productive development model 
that  valorizes  our  competitive  advantages  and  fosters 
our vast wealth in human and material resources. 

The  economic  situation  of  the  Republic  is  very 
different  from  what  it  was  when  our  Administration 
began.  We  are  achieving  true  structural  change.  That 
includes  uninterrupted  growth  at  rates  of  between  8 
and 9 per cent; the growing participation of investment 
in  the  gross  domestic  product;  record  local  savings 
rates; the resurrection of local industry; a fiscal surplus 
at  historic  levels;  a  clear  expansion  of  our  industrial 
sales to the world; the systematic decrease of local and 
external  public  debt;  the  preventive  accumulation  of 
reserves;  lesser  external  exposure;  a  marked  drop  in 
unemployment; a strengthening of the income of wage 
earners  and  retirees;  and  a  significant  fall  of  poverty 
and destitution levels. 

With a prudent monetary policy, an orderly fiscal 
policy,  a  fiscal  and  commercial  surplus,  and  a 
responsible  management  of 
indebtedness,  we  are 
increasingly reducing the vulnerability and uncertainty 
that  characterized  the Argentine  economy  in  the  past. 
Decent  work,  social  inclusion,  national  production, 
internal  consumption  and  sustained  growth  have 
allowed  us  to  fulfil  the  goals  of  the  Millennium 
Declaration, although there is still a long way to go to 
recover from the hell into which we had fallen. 

that 
process,  not  only  in  its  macroeconomic  aspects,  but 
also guaranteeing social equity and a fairer distribution 
of  income  through  the  reduction  of  poverty  and 
unemployment. 
integral  sustainability  of 
We  seek 
the 
the 
opposite 
effect, 
the  quality  of  education,  ensures 

In implementing a national education plan with a 
strong federal emphasis that highlights the challenge of 
improving 
the 
growing funding of the public sector, and interacts with 
the private sector, we seek also to achieve its strategic 
sustainability. 

We  cannot  but  point  out  that  these  achievements 
have not been supported by the International Monetary 
Fund, which has denied us any kind of aid, and, it must 
be  said,  that  they  are  in  many  cases  the  result  of 
ignoring  or  even  contradicting  its  recommendations 
and conditionalities. We have sufficient empirical proof 
of the failure of international financial organizations in 
the  promotion  of  development  in  less  developed 
countries.  In  many  cases,  their  conditionalities  have 
had 
actually 
hindering 
development. 

The  world  has  changed  and  those  organizations 
have not. They still insist on jeopardizing advancement 
with  their  misguided  interference.  That  is  why  we 
support, together with most countries, the reform of the 
international  financial  architecture  to  make  it  more 
effectual in assisting the progress of nations with fewer 
resources.  In  noting  the  reluctance  of  international 
financial  organizations  to  effect  any  real  change  in 
their  policies,  we  feel  it  necessary  to  endorse  such 
change  and 
the  creation  of  new 
international financial instruments that would allow us 
to  fund  development  projects  to  fight  poverty  and 
hunger  in  the  world  and  generate  true  options  for 
progress. 
Argentina  is  distressed  to  note  the  stagnation  in 

the  negotiations  of 
the 
development of the World Trade Organization (WTO). 
It 
the  current  globalization 
process  —  from  which  developing  countries  must 
profit — to reach a successful and balanced result fully 
consistent  with  the  mandate  of  the  Doha  Declaration. 
Thus,  we  reaffirm  the  need  to  reach  a  satisfactory 
result  in  agriculture  in  this  WTO  round,  including  a 
substantial 
the 
elimination of export subsidies and ample access to the 
markets of developed countries. 

the 
deterioration of the global environment. We affirm that 
there  can  be  no  double  standards.  The  environment 
must  be  protected  in  developed  and  in  developing 
countries, in rich countries and in poor, in the countries 
in  domestic  subsidies, 
increasingly  concerned 
the  Doha  Round 
imperative,  within 
to  consider 
reduction 
We  are 
to  see 
is 
for 
6 

06-52885 
their 
today 
in 
their 
in 
industries, 
compromise, 


of the North and of the South, in the central and in the 
peripheral countries. 

the  more 
In  developing 
industrialized  countries  have  profited  from  a  true 
environmental  subsidy  from  the  rest  of  the  countries 
which 
relative 
backwardness,  a  true  world  environmental  reserve. 
That is why we cannot accept that those countries that 
have  achieved  greater  development  —  often  at  the 
expense of the degradation of the environment and by 
producing  a  severe  global  effect  evident  in  climate 
change  —  should  seek  to  transfer  to  us  the  more 
contaminating part of their industrial processes. 

There  can  be  no  reliable  solutions  without  the 
concerted  action  of  all  countries  of  the  world,  insofar 
as  the  nature  of  the  problem  is  of  a  global  scale.  It  is 
unacceptable for the claims of the developing States to 
go  unnoticed.  It  is  imperative  to  take  the  path  of 
solutions. 
Our  countries  wish  to  receive  investments  and 

present  profitable  opportunities 
the  energy, 
transportation  and  infrastructure  fields,  and  even  in 
sensitive  sectors.  Therein  lies  a  strong  foundation  for 
international  collaboration,  but  we  do  not  want 
investors  to  undertake  activities  in  our  countries  that 
are  prohibited  in  the  industrialized  countries  just  so 
that  they  can  improve  the  profits  of  shareholders  by 
creating  the  illusion  of  an  allegedly  less  expensive 
product by raising the costs of environmental pollution, 
deteriorating  health  conditions  and 
life 
expectancy. 

On a different subject, we attach high importance 
to  our  participation,  together  with  other  countries  of 
the region, in the United Nations Stabilization Mission 
in Haiti. In our view, beyond the progress achieved in 
the 
the  steady  support  and  economic 
assistance of the international community will continue 
to be critical in the areas of security, the strengthening 
of  institutions,  the  fostering  of  political  dialogue,  the 
protection  of  human  rights,  social 
the 
promotion  of 
the  creation  of 
administrative  capacity  and,  above  all,  the  promotion 
of  economic  and  social  development  through  concrete 
contributions. 
We  reiterate  here  our  will  to  achieve  peaceful 

nuclear  development  under 
the  verification  of 
international organizations. Argentina’s commitment to 
the  non-proliferation  of  nuclear 
disarmament  and 
the  rule  of 
transition, 
inclusion, 
lowered 
law, 
A/61/PV.13
weapons,  our  adherence  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-
Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  our 
long-
standing practice in the field are known to all. 

In conclusion, I wish to recall that the question of 
the  Malvinas  Islands  —  which  includes  the  Malvinas, 
the  South  Georgias,  the  South  Sandwich  Islands  and 
the  surrounding  maritime  area  —  has  been  under 
consideration  by  the  United  Nations  since  1965.  The 
General Assembly and its Special Committee of 24 on 
Decolonization have defined this as a special case that 
differs  from  traditional  colonial  situations  in  that  it 
involves  a  sovereignty  dispute  that  must  be  resolved 
through bilateral negotiations between my country and 
the United Kingdom, in accordance with the provisions 
of resolution 2065 (XX) and other relevant resolutions. 

We must stress that the Government of the United 
Kingdom  persists  in  ignoring  those  General Assembly 
resolutions. Nonetheless, I would like to reaffirm once 
again my country’s readiness to engage in constructive 
dialogue  with  the  United  Kingdom.  We  call  upon  the 
United  Kingdom  to  promptly  heed  the  request  of  the 
international community to resume negotiations. 
In  conclusion,  we  are  firmly  convinced  that  the 

basis exists for international cooperation that can help 
the  world  move  towards  peace.  The  tensions  and 
difficulties  besetting  humanity  must  not  prevent  us 
from  understanding 
the 
authoritarian  notion  that  military  might  can  provide 
unilateral solutions to conflicts and threats is starting to 
recede. That mistaken belief has led only to failure and 
great suffering. 
Only  multilateral  solutions,  reached  through  the 

arduous  process  of  negotiation,  despite 
their 
limitations,  can  move  us  forward.  In  this  context,  the 
United  Nations  has  a  fundamental  role  to  play  in 
ensuring  greater  understanding  among  nations  with  a 
view to creating a safe, peaceful and fairer world in the 
years to come. 

the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Argentine Republic for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Néstor  Carlos  Kirchner,  President  of  the 

Argentine  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
to  which 
extent 
from 
the 

06-52885 

7 


the  sentiments  of 
A/61/PV.13 

Address by Mr. Robert Gabriel Mugabe, President of 
the Republic of Zimbabwe 

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Zimbabwe. 
Mr.  Robert  Gabriel  Mugabe,  President  of  the 

Republic  of  Zimbabwe,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Robert  Gabriel  Mugabe, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Zimbabwe,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
President  Mugabe: Let  me  begin  my  statement 

by  echoing 
those  who  have 
congratulated  you,  Madam  on  your  assumption  of  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first 
session,  as  well  as  of  those  who  have  expressed  their 
appreciation for the manner in which your predecessor, 
Mr.  Jan  Eliasson,  successfully  conducted  the  business 
of the sixtieth session. In the same vein, I should also 
like to congratulate the Republic of Montenegro on its 
admission to the United Nations family. 

I also wish to pay special tribute to the Secretary-
General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his vision and exemplary 
leadership of the United Nations over the past 10 years. 
We  commend  him  for  his  tireless  efforts  to  assist 
Member States in transforming the United Nations into 
a  dynamic,  relevant  and  effective  instrument  for 
meeting challenges that confront us as we try to make 
the world a better place for everyone. 

the  Secretary-General, 
especially  in  the  area  of  the  promotion  of  peace  and 
development  —  notable  among  them  the  Millennium 
Summit  in  2000  and  the  review  Summit  held  last 
year — will always be remembered as historic because 
of  the  important  decisions  that  we  made  on  both 
occasions. As he nears the end of his tenure of his high 
Office,  we  wish him the best in his  future endeavours 
and  hope  that  he  will  be  available  to  serve  the 
international community wherever he may be needed. 
this  year  — 

for 
implementation  of 
development  as  a  follow-up 
the  2005  World 
Summit —  is  very  appropriate. We  acknowledged  last 
year that fighting poverty was a collective undertaking. 
Together,  we  recognized  that  mobilizing  financial 
resources  for  development  is  central  to  a  global 
the  global  partnership 
The  achievements  of 
for  our  debate 
theme 
The 
to 
explanation 
in  support  of 
for  development 
the 
partnership 
implementation  of 
internationally  agreed  goals, 
including the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

For many years now, the international community 
has  acknowledged  the  need  for  accelerated  economic 
development 
in  Africa.  There  have  been  many 
initiatives  and  programmes  of  action  aimed  at 
achieving  that  objective.  Indeed,  the  history  of  the 
United Nations in the past three decades is littered with 
well-meaning initiatives, many of which unfortunately 
never  made  the  transition  from  theory  to  practical 
implementation. 

We  have  agreed  on  goals  and  set  targets  for 
ourselves in our quest to meet our economic and social 
development challenges. Given this impressive array of 
initiatives,  it  is  curious  and  ironic  that  the  aggregate 
economic performance of our countries has not made a 
difference in the lives of the majority of our people. 

Mr.  Belinga-Eboutou  (Cameroon),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair. 
One 

development 
predicament and the many failed initiatives is the wide 
gap  between  rhetoric  and  concrete  action  on  the 
ground. We have on many occasions agreed on making 
available the means of implementing agreed goals. We 
have  set  targets  for  making  those  resources  available. 
Yet,  at  the  same  time,  we  have  witnessed  some 
countries  and  groups  taking  concerted  action,  such  as 
illegal 
economic 
our 
development efforts. 

In  the  case  of  Zimbabwe,  those  countries  have 
blocked  balance  of  payments  support  and  other  types 
of 
financial 
institutions that they control. Following the heroic and 
successful  efforts  of  the  people  of  Zimbabwe  to  clear 
requisite  arrears  to  the  International  Monetary  Fund, 
those  negative  forces  have  manipulated  decision-
making  at  that  institution  so  as  to  deny  us  any  new 
support.  They  have  even  tried  to  restrict  investment 
inflows, all on account of political differences between 
them and us.  

Is  it  not  a  paradox  that,  while  we  are  denied 
resources  for  development,  funding  is  readily  made 
available  to  support  elements  bent  on  subverting  the 
democratically  expressed  will  of  the  majority  of  our 
citizens  and 
regime 
change? We condemn such interference in our domestic 
to  unconstitutionally  effect 
international 
assistance 
sanctions, 
frustrate 
from 
the 
for 
our 
to 
8 

06-52885 
independence,  which 
the  flag  of 
the  full  sovereignty  of 


affairs. Let me repeat what I have said before: regime 
change  in  Zimbabwe  —  as,  indeed,  in  any  other 
country  —  is  a  right  of  the  people  of  that  country;  it 
can  never  be  a  right  of  people  of  other countries. The 
golden  key  to  regime  change  is  in  the  hands  of  the 
people of Zimbabwe and is very well guarded. No one 
from Washington or London has the right to that key; it 
is our key and ours alone. 

Let  it  also  not  be  forgotten  that  those  who  want 
regime  change  are  the  very  same  people  whom  we 
fought  yesterday.  They  represent  British  colonialism 
and  imperialism. We  spent  many  years  in  jail;  I  spent 
11  years  in  jail.  Then  we  went  into  exile  in  order  to 
muster  the  military  strength  needed  to  overthrow 
colonialism.  Many  of  our  people  died  in  the  process. 
Many were killed by the British regime headed by Ian 
Smith. Finally, our people were victorious. On 18 April 
1980,  a  representative  of  the  royal  family,  Prince 
Charles, was sent to lower the British flag. I was there 
to  hoist 
today 
represents 
the  people  of 
Zimbabwe,  never  again  to  be  lost.  Never  again  shall 
Zimbabwe become a colony. 

And  so,  these  manoeuvres  and  manipulations 
continue,  and  my  Government  is  well  aware  of  them 
and  is  well  guarded.  At  every  turn,  we  will  take  the 
steps  necessary  to  protect  our  sovereignty,  defend  our 
people and defend our right to continue to ensure that 
that  sovereignty 
the 
Zimbabwean people. From this rostrum, I want to warn 
that  any  attempt  to  change  that  mandate  through 
unconstitutional  means,  by  agents  sent  to  undertake  a 
process that we regard as illegal, will meet with the full 
wrath of the law.  

It is for that reason that we welcome this debate, 
which  seeks  to  address  the  yawning  gap  between 
agreed  action  plans  and  implementation,  and  between 
rhetoric and what actually happens on the ground. We 
fully acknowledge that national Governments shoulder 
the  primary  responsibility  for 
their 
development  plans,  including  achieving  the  MDGs. 
However,  it  is  absolutely  necessary  that  our  efforts  at 
the  national 
including  adopting  and 
implementing  correct  and  relevant  programmes  —  be 
supported,  not  hampered  by  a  lack  of  international 
cooperation. This session, therefore, would be of great 
value if agreement were to be reached on financing for 
development, 
of 
mechanisms to measure aid flows. Such financing, if it 
the  hands  of 
implementing 
establishment 
level  — 
including 
reposes 
the 
in 
A/61/PV.13
in 
donor 
community, 
is  to  have  a  meaningful  impact,  should  be  adequate, 
predictable and consistent. 

The  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  continues  to  cause 
untold  havoc 
in  Africa  —  particularly  Southern 
Africa — owing to high levels of poverty, which make 
it  difficult  for  the  affected  people  to  gain  access  to 
medication. Zimbabwe welcomes the continuing efforts 
by  the  international  community  of  nations  to  find 
lasting solutions to the scourge of HIV/AIDS. We urge 
the 
cooperation  with 
pharmaceutical  companies,  to  assist  in  scaling  up 
access  to  affordable  essential  drugs,  particularly  for 
developing countries. 

The tendency to use assistance in the fight against 
HIV/AIDS  as  a  reward  for  political  compliance  and 
malleability  is  one  that  the  United  Nations  should 
condemn.  Given  the  fact  that  the  pandemic  does  not 
respect borders, the denial of assistance to countries on 
political  grounds,  through  a  self-serving  and  selective 
approach, will do more harm and weaken international 
efforts  to  fight  the  pandemic.  For  example,  in  my 
country,  a  Zimbabwean  AIDS  patient  receives,  on 
average,  approximately  $4  per  year  in  international 
assistance, compared with an average of approximately 
$172  per  year  for  other  countries  in  the  region. 
However, 
background,  my 
Government  has  registered  some  modest  success  in 
reducing 
from 
approximately  29  per  cent  in  2000  to  18.1  percent  in 
2006,  on  the  strength  of  its  own  resources  and 
programmes. 

While  we  do  not  dispute  the  inevitability  of 
migration,  the  problem  of  the  brain  drain  is  of  great 
concern  to  my  Government  and,  indeed,  to  other 
developing countries. The brain drain has proved to be 
a  handicap  to  sustainable  development.  If  it  is  not 
addressed  now,  the  chances  that  developing  countries 
will  achieve  the  MDGs  by  2015  are  minimal.  While 
developing  countries  are  losing  skilled  manpower 
through migration, the benefits associated with migrant 
remittances  are  far  less  than  the  cost  of  developing 
human  resources  and  skills.  We  need  to  develop 
solutions  that  give  due  recognition  and  respect  to  the 
investments made by Governments in human resources 
and  in  developing  the  skills  of  citizens,  as  well  as  to 
the human rights of migrants. 

is 
desirable,  what  developing  countries  need  more  is  an 
the  HIV/AIDS  prevalence 
development 
assistance 
official 
against 
While 
even 
that 
rate 
06-52885 

9 
the  view 
that 
trade.  We  share 
A/61/PV.13 

open, 
rules-based,  predictable,  non-discriminatory 
trading  and  financial  system.  If  developing  countries 
are to realize the full potential of international trade to 
enhance economic growth, it is essential that the main 
barriers to their exports be removed. In that regard, we 
are  concerned  that  tariffs  have  remained  high  on 
goods — such as textiles and farm products — that are 
strategically important to developing economies. Much 
could be done with the right partnerships and with fair 
terms  of 
the 
implementation  of  the  development  aspects  of  the 
Doha  Work  Programme  will  go  a  long  way  towards 
assisting developing countries to compete in this global 
village. It is therefore disturbing that there has been no 
progress in breaking the deadlock on the Doha Round 
of  international  trade  negotiations.  The  failure  of 
multilateral  negotiations  will  give  rise  to  bilateral 
arrangements that are inimical to fair trade. We cannot 
help  but  suspect  that  the  breakdown  was  deliberately 
engineered  in  order  to  perpetuate  the  status  quo  that 
favours  one  group  of  countries  at  the  expense  of 
another. 

The United Nations is uniquely placed to provide 
the  framework  for  international  cooperation.  There  is 
consensus  that  the  United  Nations  should  play  a 
fundamental  and  central  role  in  the  promotion  of 
international  cooperation  for  development.  In  that 
regard, it is important that coherence and coordination 
be  enhanced,  as  agreed  in  the  2005  World  Summit 
Outcome.  At  the  country  level,  the  United  Nations 
system  should  be  effectively  coordinated  in  order  to 
support  national  efforts  in  poverty  reduction  and 
sustainable development. 

the  United 
Nations continuing efforts to elaborate a convention on 
terrorism,  we  urge  Member  States  to  guard  against  a 
situation in which established international conventions 
are  ignored  and  resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly 
and  other  United  Nations  bodies  on  that  issue  are 
disregarded. In our attempt to deal with the scourge of 
terrorism, it is also necessary to address the underlying 
causes  of 
its 
commitment  to  fighting  terrorism,  the  Parliament  of 
Zimbabwe  has  come  up  with  the  Suppression  of 
Foreign  and  International  Terrorism  Bill,  which  seeks 
to  fight  foreign  and  international  terrorism,  as  well  as 
mercenary activities. 

cause 
The recent developments in the Middle East are a 
the 
that  phenomenon.  To  demonstrate 
While  my  Government  applauds 
of 
great 
concern.  We 
condemn 

infrastructure 
the  democratization  of 
disproportionate  use  of  force  by  Israel  in  Gaza  and 
Lebanon  and  the  detention  of  elected  Palestinian 
members of Parliament and ministers. We firmly reject 
the  collective  punishment  of 
the  Palestinian  and 
Lebanese people and the intrusion into their territories 
in  violation  of  international  law.  We  call  upon  the 
international  community,  particularly 
the  Security 
Council and the Quartet, to make every effort to ensure 
that the brokered ceasefire continues to hold. 

It  is  sad  that  the  Security  Council  dithered  and 
failed  to  take  timely  action  to  stop  the  massacres  and 
wanton  destruction  of  civilian 
in 
Lebanon,  all  because  of 
the  misguided  national 
interests  of  one  super-Power.  The  status  quo  in  the 
Council,  where  a  few  powerful  countries  hold  the 
world  to  ransom,  is  no  longer  tenable.  There  is 
therefore  a  strong  case  here  for  addressing  the  core 
issue  of 
international 
governance.  Africa  remains  the  only  continent  that 
does not have a permanent seat with veto power in the 
Security  Council.  That  situation  is  unacceptable.  It 
needs to be corrected and corrected now. The position 
of the African Union on that issue is very clear. Africa 
demands  two  permanent  seats,  complete  with  veto 
power — if the veto power is to continue — plus two 
additional  non-permanent 
seats.  We  will  not 
compromise  on  this  matter  until  our  concerns  are 
adequately addressed.  

Those  who  take  objection  to  that  are  perhaps 
States  that  would  want  to  remain  in  the  position  in 
which  they  are  considered  to  be  superior  to  everyone 
else. There  cannot  be  superiority  under  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations,  which  recognizes  the  equality  of 
nations.  We  are  all  equal  under  that  Charter,  and  that 
principle has got to be recognized, but it would appear 
that  some  countries  that  have  amassed  military  power 
over time consider themselves to be superior to all the 
others because they have that muscle of power. But the 
muscle  of  power  is  not  the consideration  that  we  take 
into  account  in  judging  the  worth  of  nations.  The 
Charter of the United Nations has got to be taken into 
account, and who knows whether the Goliath of today 
may tomorrow not be the same. Anyway, every Goliath 
has his own David. 
the  dawn  of  an 

unprecedented  era  of  peace  and 
tranquillity  has 
allowed  us  to  refocus  our  attention  and  resources 
towards economic development. There can be no better 
time  than  now  for  the  international  community  to 
In  many  parts  of  Africa, 
10 

06-52885 


augment  our  own  efforts  to  bring  home  to  our  people 
the peace dividend we have so patiently waited for. We 
therefore call on the international community to renew 
its  solidarity  with  Africa  through  tangible  support  in 
the form of increased resources, decisive debt relief, as 
well  as  new  and  additional  financial  resources  for 
investment and growth. 

Let  me  conclude  by  reiterating  the  fact  that  the 
future of the international community is best served by 
an  international  order  that  is  based  on  strengthening 
multilateralism  and  thereby  destroying  the  present 
unipolar system. It is our conviction that only through 
a  multilateral  approach  can  we  achieve  peace  and 
development.  For  us 
the 
challenges that we face, there is a need  for more than 
just pious expressions of solidarity. Together as global 
partners 
in  development,  we  can  guarantee  a 
prosperous  future  for  generations  to  come.  Such  a 
partnership  should  be  based  on  the  principle  of  the 
sovereign  equality  of  nations  and  on  mutual  benefit. 
That is the path we should strive to follow. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of 
the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Robert  Gabriel  Mugabe,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Zimbabwe,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
the  Republic  of  Zimbabwe  for 
to  successfully 
tackle 


Address by Mr. Leonel Fernández Reyna, President 
of the Dominican Republic 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency 
Mr.  Leonel  Fernández  Reyna,  President  of 
the 
Dominican Republic. 

Mr.  Leonel  Fernández  Reyna,  President  of  the 
Dominican  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
welcome 
Mr. Leonel  Fernández  Reyna,  President  of 
the 
Dominican  Republic,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly. 
President Fernández Reyna (spoke in Spanish): 

I  am  greatly  honoured  to  congratulate  Her  Excellency 
Ms.  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa  of  Bahrain  upon  her 
into 
to 
A/61/PV.13
election,  the  first  woman  from  the  Middle  East,  to 
preside  over  the  work  of  the  sixty-first  session  of  the 
General Assembly.  She  has  the  great  responsibility  to 
promote  dialogue  and  harmony  in  the  midst  of  the 
spread  of  conflict  throughout  the  world.  Likewise,  we 
wish to pay tribute to the Secretary-General for his ten 
years  at  the  head  of  this  Organization  and  for  his 
immense efforts to promote peacekeeping, security and 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. 

In  the  interest  of  continuity  in  the  pursuit  of 
United  Nations  reform,  so  notably  promoted  by  the 
Secretary-General,  our  country  wishes  to  reiterate  its 
conviction  that  any  reform  must  provide  for  greater 
democratization.  We  recognize 
the  unquestionable 
accomplishments achieved during this process, such as 
the  creation  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission.  Notwithstanding,  reform 
will be incomplete if it does not include reform of the 
Security Council, the body specifically responsible for 
taking political decisions within this Organization. It is 
our  conviction  that  the  Security  Council  must  be 
expanded  to  make  it  more  diverse  and  participatory, 
with  the  aim  of  ensuring  more  equitable  regional 
representation and taking into account the regional and 
national interests that prevail in today’s world. There is 
also a need for closer cooperation between the Security 
Council  and  other  important  United  Nations  bodies, 
such  as  the  General Assembly  and  the  Economic  and 
Social Council. 

One  of  the  global  issues  of  great  concern  to  the 
Dominican  Republic  and  other  parts  of  the  world  is 
that  of  human  security.  We  have  observed  with  great 
consternation that there has recently been an erosion of 
domestic  security  in  countries,  leading  to  increased 
violence  and  criminality. That  situation  has,  without  a 
doubt, been fuelled by a combination of factors, among 
them  drug  trafficking,  the  illicit  traffic  of  arms,  the 
trafficking  of  persons  and  other  criminal  activities.  In 
addressing  this  dramatic  situation,  which  is  driving 
some  populations 
the  Dominican 
Republic  remains  vigilant  in  the  continuous  struggle 
and  urges  the  international  community  to  strengthen 
control  and  prevention  mechanisms  that  are  needed  to 
meet  these  modern  challenges  that  only  increase  fear 
and 
civilian 
populations. 

Another 
progress  and  well-being  of  our  countries 
relationship  between  migration 
the 
the 
sustainable 
importance  for 
is 
issue  of  great 
to  desperation, 
defenceless 
desperation 
among 
and 
06-52885 

11 

that 
A/61/PV.13 

development,  which  constitutes  the  main  item  on  the 
General  Assembly’s  agenda.  We  believe  that  the 
phenomenon  of  migration  is  positively  linked  to  the 
cause  of  development.  However,  there  is  an  inherent 
contradiction  in  this  modern,  globalized  world  in  that 
we  promote  the  free  flow  of  merchandise,  capital  and 
services,  while  we  restrict  the  free  flow  of  human 
labour. 

Although each State exercises its sovereign right 
in  implementing  its  migration  policies,  it  is  our 
conviction 
the  asymmetry  currently  existing 
between  the  free  flow  of  production  inputs  and  the 
restricted  flow  of  persons  will  have  to  cease  to  exist 
over time. According to the conservative voices in the 
developed  world,  migration  is  a  sort  of  invasion  from 
the  underdeveloped  countries  to  the  most  developed 
countries. It is also considered to be an act of revenge 
for  the  territorial  expropriation  that  took  place  in  the 
colonial era and is seen as a threat to their current way 
of life. 

This is a fallacy. Migration is not about the poor 
invading  the  developed  countries,  nor  is  it  a  threat  to 
their current way of life. Frankly speaking, migration is 
one of the historical means used by human beings and 
to which they continue to resort to in order to achieve 
greater  well-being,  liberty  and  justice.  As  it  will  be 
impossible  to  do  away  with  this  phenomenon,  we  can 
only seek to control it in a legal and organized fashion, 
in  a  framework  of  respect  for  the  human  rights  and 
dignity  of  all  persons.  In  the  meantime,  many  people 
could  benefit  from  this  situation,  through  remittances, 
the  creation  of  networks  of  contacts  and  cooperation, 
capacity-building 
technology 
transfer  and  diverse  forms  of  collaboration  and 
exchange. 

In another regard, the serious events that recently 
took place in the Middle East have filled us with alarm 
and  consternation.  They  are  a  dramatic  reminder  that 
tensions  affecting  the  peace  of  entire  regions  still 
persist.  As  with  other  conflicts,  the  dispute  between 
Israel and its neighbours can be resolved only through 
dialogue  and  the  good  offices  of  the  United  Nations, 
which  recently  achieved  the  cessation  of  hostilities 
between  the  two  disputing  parties.  We  are  confident 
that  a  definitive  peace  will  prevail  in  this  region  and 
allow 
levels  of 
understanding,  tolerance,  and  co-existence  among  its 
inhabitants. 
the  development  of  enhanced 
in  human  resources, 

The Dominican Republic maintains its interest in 
participating  in  the  promotion  of  peacebuilding  and 
conflict  resolution. We  reiterate  our  deep  commitment 
to  the  activities  and  objectives  of  the  United  Nations 
International  Research  and  Training  Institute  for  the 
Advancement  of  Women  (INSTRAW).  We  consider 
them  suitable  for  the  advancement  and  dignity  of  all 
the women of the world and, in particular, the women 
of  countries  such  as  the  Dominican  Republic.  As  the 
host  country,  we  warmly  appreciate  the  support  of 
Member States to INSTRAW. 

The Dominican Republic is deeply  committed to 
re-establishing  stability  in  Haiti,  and  we  applaud  the 
recent  decision  of  the  Security  Council  to  extend  the 
mandate of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in 
Haiti  (MINUSTAH)  for  six  months.  The  Dominican 
Republic  has  special  interest  that  there  be  an  increase 
of  international  cooperation  aimed  at  preserving  the 
pace of the reconstruction process of this sister nation. 
With  regard  to  our  two  countries,  our  warm  relations 
are also expressed through the Dominican-Haitian Joint 
Commission,  a  forum  which  our  Governments  are 
reviving  because  we 
the  most 
appropriate mechanism for discussion and for reaching 
agreements on many topics of shared concern.  

In conclusion, we wish to see the United Nations 
renew  and  strengthen  itself  with  a  view  to  playing  a 
more  active,  dynamic  and  effective  role  —  one  that 
would  guarantee  the  realization  of  the  values  and 
principles enshrined in the San Francisco Charter, so as 
to  ensure  that  peace  on  Earth  will  become  the  daily 
form of existence among human beings.  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Dominican Republic for the statement 
he has just made.  

Mr.  Leonel  Fernández  Reyna,  President  of  the 
Dominican  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
recognize 
it  as 
from 


Address by Mr. Boni Yayi, President of the Republic 
of Benin 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Benin.  

Mr. Boni Yayi, President of the Republic of Benin, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.  
12 

06-52885 
to 
towards 
the 
review  of 
comprehensive  global 


The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Boni Yayi, President of the Republic of Benin, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.  
President  Yayi  (spoke  in  French):  I  am  taking 

part personally in this session of the General Assembly 
in  order  to  reiterate  Benin’s  commitment  to  the  noble 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations,  and  to 
express  the  readiness  of  the  Beninese  delegation  to 
cooperate and contribute, as best it can, to the success 
of these deliberations.  

But  first,  allow  me,  to  once  again  warmly 
congratulate  Ms.  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa  on  her 
unanimous  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-first  session,  and  to  express  our 
appreciation  for  the  remarkable  way  in  which  she 
guided  the  work  of  the  High-level  Meeting  on  the 
midterm 
the 
implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  for  the 
Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-2010.  

I  also  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  the  remarkable 
efforts  of  her  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jan 
Eliasson, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom 
of  Sweden,  who  had  the  weighty  task  of  leading  the 
sixtieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  which  was 
focused,  essentially,  on  the  implementation  of  the 
major decisions taken at the 2005 World Summit.  

Allow  me  to  pay  a  resounding  tribute  to  my 
friend  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan,  who  over  the 
past  10  years  has  wisely  and  skilfully 
led  our 
Organization  at  a  time  of  new  challenges  and  threats 
created  by  changes  unprecedented  in  the  history  of 
humanity.  

My  country,  Benin,  believes  that  the  future 
Secretary-General  should  come  from  the  continent  of 
Asia. We hope that the new  Secretary-General will  be 
able  to  take  the  measures  necessary  to  lead  the 
Organization 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).  

I am pleased to note that the Assembly is already 
progressing in the preparation of this great endeavour: 
the promotion of  development is the key issue  for  the 
general  debate  at  the  sixty-first  session,  focusing  in 
accordance  with  Ms.  Al-Khalifa’s  proposal,  on  the 
establishment of a global partnership for development. 
My country, the Republic of Benin, joins in this debate 
achievement  of 
A/61/PV.13
with  the  conviction  that  we  will  make  significant 
progress  in  finding  pragmatic  ways  of  fulfilling  the 
commitments 
that  have  been  adopted  on  many 
occasions,  for  the  promotion  of  economic  and  social 
development throughout the world.  

The question of development is at the heart of the 
mission of the United Nations. In the Charter, Members 
proclaimed  their  belief  in  the  equal  rights  of  men  and 
women and of nations large and small. They made the 
commitment to use international institutions in order to 
encourage economic and social progress for all people.  

Hence, reform of the United Nations, if it is to be 
viable  and  effective,  must  also  help  ensure  that  our 
Organization  can  do  better  as  a  framework  and  an 
instrument  for  development  through  the  promotion  of 
the  well-being  of  the  poorest  of  our  planet,  ensuring 
the  economic  growth  of  the  most  vulnerable  members 
of  the  community  of  nations,  in  particular  the  least 
developed countries.  

Financing  for  development  is  a  factor  on  which 
genuine  partnership  needs  to  be  built  between  donor 
countries and developing countries. In this context, the 
Monterrey Consensus, as members know, continues to 
be  relevant.  It  is  good  to  note  that  some  donor 
countries  have  achieved  the  objective  of  allocating 
0.7 per  cent  of  their  gross  national  income  to  official 
development 
for  developing 
countries,  with  0.2  per  cent  earmarked  for  least 
developed  countries.  It  is  also  important  to  encourage 
those who have already established a specific timetable 
for  achieving  those  objectives.  Given  the  inadequacy 
of  official  development  assistance,  it  is  important  to 
examine  new  sources  of  financing  for  development 
activities, and some are already doing so. I would like 
to take this opportunity to welcome the proposals that 
have been made by some countries, such as the French 
Republic and President Jacques Chirac. 
thus 

financing 
deserves  special  attention.  We  are  pleased 
that 
mobilizing  the  remittances  of  migrant  workers  can  in 
some  respects  also  contribute  to  development  action. 
Nonetheless, it is important to facilitate those transfers 
so that they can effectively contribute to improving the 
living  conditions  of  the  beneficiary  populations  and 
their  impact  on  poverty  reduction  can  be  maximized. 
But  it  should  be  stressed  that  the  resources  that  come 
from  remittances  by  migrant  workers  cannot  be 
Identifying  new  sources  of 
assistance 
(ODA) 
06-52885 

13 
should 
the 
stifling 
resources 
contribute 
community 
the  producers 
least  advanced, 
We  must  also  mobilize 
A/61/PV.13 

considered part of ODA and should not be included in 
ODA calculations. 

through 
microcredits for the poorest sectors. The support of the 
international 
to 
strengthening  microcredit  systems,  which  could  be 
extremely useful in the context of efforts to counteract 
unemployment  among  young  people  and  to  promote 
the empowerment of women in order to improve their 
living conditions and enhance their contribution to the 
national income of the countries concerned. 
We  must  ensure  the  full  insertion  of  developing 

countries,  particularly 
into 
international  trade  so  that  they  can  be  sure  that, 
through  that  mechanism  appropriate  resources  for 
financing  their  development  are  mobilized.  Here  we 
express  our  disappointment  at  the  failure  of  the 
multilateral trade negotiations in the framework of the 
Doha  Round.  Among  other  reasons,  they  floundered 
because  of 
the  crucial  question  of  agricultural 
subsidies,  which  are 
in 
developing countries. My country, Benin, will continue 
to  work  with  other  affected  countries  to  ensure  the 
abolition  of 
to  get 
compensations equal to the harm we suffer. 
In  order  to  promote  development,  our  countries 

are 
seeking 
reforms. 
However,  as  I  said  at  the  opening  session  of  the 
meeting  of 
least  developed  countries,  any 
democracy  that  does  not  go  hand  in  hand  with 
development  is  doomed  to  fail.  Also,  our  efforts  to 
promote  development  will  not  bear  fruit  if  we  do  not 
succeed in maintaining peace in our own countries and 
throughout the world. 
That  is  why  in  2005  Benin,  while  it  was  on  the 

Security Council, sought to contribute to the efforts to 
enhance  the  effectiveness  of  that  body  in  preventing 
armed  conflicts.  We  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s 
prompt  action 
inspired  and  wise 
recommendations  he  recently  submitted  on  questions 
the  prevention  of  conflicts.  Resolving 
related 
various  conflicts  enables 
the  affected  developing 
countries to resolutely get themselves back on the track 
of reconstruction and national development. 

From this rostrum, my country pays tribute to the 
decisive  action  being  taken  by  the  United  Nations  in 
the  area  of  peacekeeping,  and  we  repeat  that  we  are 
willing to contribute actively to it. The Government of 
those  subsidies.  or  at 
implement  democratic 
through 
to 
the 
the 
to 

is 
to 
ready 
continue  participating 
Benin 
in 
peacekeeping  operations  in  order  to  allow  peoples 
affected  by  armed  conflicts  to  overcome  them  and  to 
create the conditions for stability that are necessary to 
ensure  the  reconstruction  of  their  countries  and  their 
economic and social development. 

For  us  in  Benin,  another  word  for  peace  is 
development.  This  is  the  message  that  I  wished  to 
bring, on behalf of the people of Benin and of the least 
developed countries, during this general debate. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Benin for the statement he 
has just made. 

Mr. Boni Yayi, President of the Republic of Benin, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 


to 
Address by Mr. Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, President of 
the United Republic of Tanzania 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the United Republic of Tanzania. 

Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of  the 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  was  escorted  into 
the General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of  the  United 
Republic of Tanzania, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly. 
President  Kikwete: Permit  me  to  begin  by 

congratulating  Her  Excellency  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed 
Al-Khalifa  on  her  well  deserved  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first 
session.  This  is  an  important  milestone  on  the  gender 
agenda of the United Nations. I wish her great success 
and  assure  her  of  Tanzania’s 
full  support  and 
cooperation as she discharges her duties.  

I  would  also  like  to  commend  her  predecessor, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson,  for  his  able 
stewardship  of  the Assembly’s  sixtieth  session.  Under 
his  leadership,  Tanzania  was  privileged  to  co-chair, 
with  Denmark,  negotiations 
the 
operationalization of the Peacebuilding Commission. 
that 
led 
to 
least 
14 

06-52885 
the 
success  of 



I  stand  before  this  Assembly  as  the  fourth 
President  of  my  country,  Tanzania,  following  another 
successful  democratic  election  last  year.  This  is  the 
third  smooth  transition  of  power  in  Tanzania.  I  took 
over  from  my  eminent  predecessor  in  office,  His 
Excellency  Benjamin  William  Mkapa,  who  has 
remained active both at home and abroad. He remains 
my  useful  and  wise  counsel,  as  does  his  predecessor 
His  Excellency Ali  Hassan  Mwinyi. Among  the  many 
functions  that  former  President  Mkapa  continues  to 
discharge  for  our  country  and  the  human  family  as  a 
whole  is  his  membership  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
High-level Panel on System-Wide Coherence, which is 
an important  task on our agenda  for the reform of the 
United Nations. 
the  previous 

Such  was 
administration  that  I  can  only  come  before  you  with 
one central message — a message of policy continuity, 
nationally, regionally and internationally. 

We  will  continue  the  efforts  of  the  previous 
administration to promote peace, stability and national 
unity.  In  addition,  we  shall  redouble  our  efforts  to 
uphold  and  strengthen  good  democratic  governance, 
respect  for  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law,  and 
intensify  the  fight  against  corruption.  We  feel  greatly 
honoured in this regard that the Global Organization of 
Parliamentarians  Against  Corruption  decided  to  hold 
its  second  global  conference  in  Arusha  in  two  days’ 
time, in recognition and support of our efforts. 

Tanzania also made impressive economic strides, 
making  it  one  of  the  fastest  growing  economies  in 
Africa. I intend to sustain and enhance that record with 
greater zeal, vigour and speed. 

Similarly,  Tanzania  has  emerged  as  one  of  the 
best-practice  cases  in  terms  of  ownership  of  the 
development  agenda  and 
the  harmonization  and 
coordination of development assistance. I will advance 
this  policy  and  practice  during  my  tenure  in  the  hope 
that it will contribute to the realization of the theme of 
this General Assembly: the implementation of a global 
partnership for development. 

In view of this record, and given our political and 
macro-economic stability and political will, Tanzania is 
now  well  poised  to  accelerate  the  pace  towards  the 
attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. For 
this to happen, however, we need international support 
to  upgrade  our  infrastructure  and  build  capacity  for 
resource 
value-addition 
processes 
and 
human 
A/61/PV.13
the 
development.  Fortunately,  the  framework  for  such 
international  support  already  exists,  for  example 
through  the  Monterrey  Consensus.  I  believe  Tanzania 
has  lived  up  to  its  commitment  under  the  Global 
Compact  for  development.  I  now  call  upon  our 
development partners to do likewise. 

Cognizant of the role of the private sector as the 
engine  of  growth  in  Tanzania,  we  have  implemented 
far-reaching  policies  and  institutional  reforms  geared 
to creating an environment conducive to the thriving of 
private business. 
The World Bank’s “Doing Business 2007” report 

recognizes  Tanzania  as  one  of 
top-ten  best 
reforming  countries  in  the  world.  That  means  that 
Tanzania has again fulfilled its commitments under the 
Global  Compact.  We 
therefore  call  upon  our 
development partners to buttress our efforts and  assist 
the private sector in responding positively. 
The  success  of  whatever  we  try  to  do  nationally 

depends  critically  on  a  peaceful  neighbourhood.  For 
too long, Tanzania has suffered from the consequences 
of  conflict  and  instability  in  the  Great  Lakes  region, 
including  hosting  hundreds  of  thousands  of  refugees 
and 
the 
environment,  and  in  terms  of  time  and  resources 
deployed  in  facilitating  conflict  resolution.  For  this 
reason,  Tanzania  will  continue  to  play  its  part  in  the 
quest  for  peace,  security,  stability  and  development  in 
the Great Lakes region. 

Significant  progress  has  been  achieved  in  the 
political  and  security  situation  in  the  Great  Lakes 
region.  We  appreciate  the  support  of  the  United 
Nations  and  other  partners  in  the  regional  peace 
processes.  Tanzania  welcomes  and  commends  the 
Government of Burundi and the Parti pour la libération 
du  peuple  hutu-Forces  nationales  de  libération  rebel 
group  for  finally  signing  the  ceasefire  agreement.  We 
are humbled that we could be given an opportunity to 
make  our  contribution.  We  promise  to  continue  to  be 
useful in whatever way may be required.  

Likewise, I commend the Government, the major 
political  actors  and  the  people  of  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  for  holding  the  long-awaited 
elections.  We  urge  that  the  forthcoming  second  round 
of  elections  be  conducted  in  a  free,  fair  and  peaceful 
manner.  Tanzania,  as  Chair  of  the  Southern  African 
Development  Community  Organ  on  Politics,  Defence 
and  Security,  will  play  its  role  in  support  of  this 
the  destruction  of 
infrastructure  and 
06-52885 

15 

A/61/PV.13 

process. As a friendly neighbour, we will endeavour to 
be as useful as is necessary.  

Moreover,  Tanzania,  as  current  chair  of  the 
Initiative  for  Peace  and  Security  in  the  Great  Lakes 
Region,  will  continue  to  work  closely  with  other 
members  to  ensure  a  successful  Second  International 
Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  Region  later  this  year 
in Nairobi. 

I  wish  to  put  on  record  our  sincere  gratitude  to 
the  Group  of  Friends  of  the  Great  Lakes  Region  for 
their  support.  I  appeal  to  them  and  the  international 
community to remain engaged with this process. 

Peace seems to have eluded the world. Reports of 
wars and violent conflicts are headline news in most of 
our  media.  Unfortunately  Africa,  the  poorest  of  the 
continents,  has  had  an  unfair  share  of  conflict.  Like 
other delegates, we express our concern for the security 
and  humanitarian  situation  in  Darfur,  and  call  for 
continued engagement at the regional level and by the 
international  community.  Likewise,  we  are  deeply 
concerned about the situation in Somalia, Côte d’Ivoire 
and elsewhere on the continent. 

The  continuing  impasse  on  the  issue  of  the 
Western Sahara is unfortunate. After 31 years, it is high 
time  that  the  United  Nations  redouble  its  efforts  to 
resolve  this  matter.  The  United  Nations  resolved  the 
question of East Timor, which has a lot of similarities 
to that of the Saharans. The people of Western Sahara 
deserve no less from their United Nations. I believe it 
could  be  done 
their  part 
appropriately. 
Turning to the situation in the Middle East, I am 

pleased 
the  ceasefire  between  Israel  and 
Lebanon  holding,  and  troop  contributing  countries 
responding positively in reinforcing the United Nations 
Interim Force in Lebanon. 

The  34-day  war  in  Lebanon  took  international 
attention  away  from  the  plight  of  the  Palestinian 
people. The lack of progress towards a negotiated two-
State  solution  and  the  decline  in  confidence  in  the 
peace  process  are  worrying  developments.  We  call 
upon  the  Quartet,  and  encourage  bilateral  and  other 
multilateral initiatives, to revive the peace process laid 
down  in  the  road  map.  A  just,  viable,  lasting  and 
comprehensive peace in the Middle East can come only 
through negotiations, and no other way. 
if  all  parties  played 
to  see 
for 

Tanzania welcomes and applauds the adoption by 
the  General  Assembly  of  a  comprehensive  Global 
Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  (resolution  60/288).  It  is 
our  expectation  that  the  differences  that  arose  during 
the  negotiations  will  not  stand  in  the  way  of  the 
Strategy’s  implementation. After  experiencing  a  major 
terrorist  attack  on  our  soil  in  1998,  Tanzania  has 
always repeated its resolve to cooperate with others to 
combat terrorism in all its manifestations. The threat of 
terrorism  is  global  and  complex;  it  demands  our 
collective efforts and an adaptive strategy to contain it. 
Thank  God  we  already  have  that  strategy  —  let  us 
implement it.  
Tanzania  has  always  stood  for  the  sovereign 

equality  of  nations  and 
the  primacy  of 
multilateralism in global governance and in addressing 
global issues. We have always cherished and stood for 
the central role of the United Nations in global affairs. 
We  promise  to  continue  to  be  faithful  and  responsible 
members of the United Nations. It is now our intention 
to  participate  more  actively 
in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping missions and operations. 

We have always believed that the United Nations 
of  today  has  to  reflect,  in  its  structure,  policies, 
programmes and activities, the realities of the world of 
today, not that of sixty years ago. The United Nations 
has to move with the changing times and aspirations of 
its  membership. 
reaffirm  Tanzania’s 
continued  commitment  to  these  urgent  and  legitimate 
demands.  We  are  very  much  committed  to  the  reform 
agenda of the United Nations, especially reform of the 
Security  Council  to  make  it  more  representative  and 
more responsive to changing realities. 

Tanzania’s  term  as  a  non-permanent  member  of 
the Security Council will end in three months. I would 
like  to  thank  all  members  for  having  accorded  my 
country  the  honour  of  serving  in  that  very  important 
United  Nations  organ.  We  thank  our  fellow  Council 
members  for  their  cooperation  and  support  during  our 
term of office. As we prepare to leave the Council, we 
are  gratified  that  we  were  able  to  organize  a  special 
Council  meeting  to  discuss  the  situation  in  the  Great 
Lakes region at which useful conclusions and decisions 
were made. 

As  we  prepare  to  leave  the  Council,  we  are  also 
gratified  that  we  have  taken  note  of  the  feeling  in  the 
Council  of  the  need  to  reform  that  body.  Let  us  pluck 
up courage and take the bull by the horns.  
I  want 
to 
16 

06-52885 
to 
to 
live  up 



Allow me to  pay special tribute to our  outgoing, 
illustrious  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan  —  a 
great 
internationalist  and  a  great  statesman.  We 
congratulate  him  for  a  job  well  done  and  for  his  able 
leadership during a particularly difficult period for the 
world, for the United Nations and for him, personally. 
He  will  be  remembered  as  one  who  challenged  the 
Organization 
true  promise  of 
multilateralism,  through  delivering  collective  security, 
pursuing fundamental human rights and the rule of law 
and promoting human development. We thank him and 
wish him the best of luck on his retirement. I hope that 
he will be given time to retire. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of  the 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  was  escorted  from 
the General Assembly Hall. 
the 


to 
Address by Mr. Hifikepunye Pohamba, President of 
the Republic of Namibia 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Namibia. 

the 
Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba,  President  of 
Republic  of  Namibia,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Hifikepunye  Pohamba,  President  of  the  Republic 
of Namibia, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Pohamba: I should like at the outset to 

congratulate  Ms.  Al-Khalifa  on  her  well-deserved 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its  sixty  first  session.  I  am  confident  that,  given  her 
wisdom and experience, she will steer the proceedings 
of  the  Assembly  successfully.  I  also  express  our 
profound  appreciation 
to  her  predecessor,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson  of  Sweden,  for  his 
excellent work during the sixtieth session. 

In  the  same  vein,  we  salute  the  Secretary-
General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  for  his 
dedication  and commitment to the work of the United 
Nations.  My  delegation  would  like  to  pay  him  special 
A/61/PV.13
to 
taking 
reforms 
to  make 
should  aim  at 
for  Member  States 
the  United  Nations, 
tribute for his distinguished leadership and remarkable 
contribution 
into 
consideration  his  imminent  departure  at  the  end  of  a 
long, dedicated and brilliant career in the service of our 
Organization. Under his leadership, the United Nations 
has recorded significant achievements. He ably laid the 
foundation 
further 
progress,  especially  with  regard  to  the  reform  of  the 
United  Nations.  We  will  carry  on  with  this  task, 
bearing 
in  mind  his  vision  of  sustained  global 
cooperation  among  States. Allow  me  to  wish  him  the 
very best in his future engagements. 

We are gathered here to reaffirm our faith in the 
United  Nations  and  to  recommit  ourselves  to  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter.  Today,  the 
world  needs  a  stronger  United  Nations  and  effective 
multilateralism that reflects current realities. Only thus 
will  humanity  be  able  to  respond  in  a  timely  manner 
and without hesitation to the global challenges that we 
face. 

We fully support the comprehensive reform of the 
United  Nations  as  proposed  by  the  Secretary-General. 
The 
the 
Organization  and  making  it  more  efficient,  effective 
and  responsive  to  the  needs  of  all  its  Members.  We 
further  attach  great  importance  to  strengthening  the 
role and authority of the General Assembly as the main 
deliberative 
body,  whose 
relationship  with  other  principal  organs  should  be 
placed  in  a  fitting  context  so  as  to  ensure  cooperation 
and  respect  for  their  roles  as  provided  for  in  the 
Charter. 

My  Government  believes  that  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council, including its expansion, is essential. 
The  African  continent  deserves  to  be  fairly  and 
equitably  represented  in  the  Council.  That  is  not  too 
much to ask. 

During the World Summit in September last year, 
we  reaffirmed  our  commitment  to  the  Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  adopted  more  than  six 
years  ago.  The  Summit  Outcome  (resolution  60/1) 
reiterated  our  commitments  to  the  implementation  of 
the  decisions  made  during  previous  conferences  and 
summits.  My  Government  appreciates  the  work  done 
under  the  guidance  and  able  leadership  of  former 
President  Eliasson  in  the  realization  of  the  Summit 
decisions. 
policy-making 
strengthening 
and 
06-52885 

17 
culminated 
in 
the 
importance 
to 
inauguration  of 
Namibia  attaches 
A/61/PV.13 

The fruits of those efforts are visible to us all, as 

they 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission, the creation of the Human 
Rights Council, the creation of the Central Emergency 
Response  Fund  and  the  establishment  of  the  Ethics 
Office.  We  also  welcome  the  accomplishments  in  the 
area  of  management  reform.  People  around  the  world 
have  high  hopes  that  these  newly  created  instruments 
will  achieve  the  specific  mandates  set  for  them.  We 
therefore  encourage  all  Member  States  to  continue,  in 
an open and transparent manner, to finalize the review 
of the process. 

the  global 
development agenda. Thus we are concerned about the 
slow  pace  at  which  this  essential  matter  is  being 
handled  and  about  the  lack  of  adherence  to  the 
commitments in line with the Millennium Declaration. 
In  this  regard,  I  urge  all  fellow  leaders  to  stand 
together in finding effective solutions to push back the 
ever-encroaching  frontiers  of  poverty,  hunger,  disease 
and ignorance. 

The  African  people  know  that  they  must  take  a 
lead  in  resolving  problems  and  challenges  on  the 
continent.  In  those  endeavours,  they  need  to  form 
effective 
international 
community.  I  therefore  welcome  the  commitments 
made  by  the  Group  and  Eight  last  year  in  Scotland  to 
consider  increasing  development  aid  to  Africa,  to 
cancel  the  debt  owed  by  the  poorest  countries  and  to 
promote  universal  access  to  antiretroviral  drugs  for 
HIV/AIDS by the year 2010. 
We  reiterate  our  call  for  cooperation  among  the 

the 
United  Nations, 
African  Union  and 
its  subregional  organizations 
dealing  with  economic  and  social  development  on  the 
continent. We continue to emphasize the importance of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  as  a  central 
intergovernmental  body 
for  promoting  a  more 
integrated approach to global peace and development. 

and 
parliamentary elections recently held in the Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  which,  most  international 
observers  agree,  were  conducted  in  a  peaceful  and 
transparent  atmosphere.  We  urge  the  United  Nations 
and the international community at large to continue to 
support  the  people  of  the  Democratic  Republic  during 
this crucial democratic transition. 
its  specialized  agencies  and 
Namibia  welcomes 
partnerships  with 
presidential 
the 
the 

to 
that 
to  bring  peace 

The situation in the Darfur region of the Sudan is 
cause for serious concern. The African Union, through 
the  African  Union  Mission  in  Sudan  and  with  the 
assistance  of  the  international  community,  has  made 
region  under 
efforts 
exceptionally  hard  conditions.  We  commend 
the 
African Union Special Envoy, Mr. Salim Ahmed Salim, 
for  his  tireless  efforts  in  bringing  the  parties  to  an 
agreement.  We  urge  all  the  parties  to  respect  their 
commitments.  

We welcome the visit to the Sudan by the United 
Nations Security Council team in June this year and the 
recommendations they made. Namibia looks forward to 
an  urgent  and  smooth  transition  from  the  African 
Union  Mission  to  a  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
mission in Darfur in accordance with Security Council 
resolution 1706 (2006). We urge the Government of the 
Sudan  and  other  parties  concerned  to  accept  this 
transition, which we believe will be in the best interest 
of the people of the Sudan in general and those of the 
Darfur region in particular. 

I  would  like  to  join  other  countries  around  the 
world in  expressing our concern about the illicit trade 
in  small  arms  and  light  weapons,  which  remains  a 
menace to humanity. The proliferation of such weapons 
compromises  peace  and  security.  They  also  pose 
serious challenges to law enforcement agencies around 
the world. 

We  are  concerned  that  the  question  of  Western 
Sahara  remains  unresolved.  The  inalienable  rights  of 
the people of Western Sahara to self-determination and 
independence  must  be  upheld  and  respected,  as 
stipulated  in  the  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions. 
We  therefore  call  for  the  urgent  implementation  of  all 
relevant  Security  Council  and  General  Assembly 
resolutions,  with  the  aim  of  holding  a  free  and  fair 
referendum in Western Sahara. 

Namibia  is  also  deeply  concerned  about  the 
ongoing suffering of the people of Palestine. We wish 
to  reaffirm  our  full  and  unequivocal  support  for  the 
inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  self-
determination  and  national 
this 
context, we appeal to the United Nations to assume its 
full  responsibility  by  implementing  all  its  resolutions 
and  decisions  on  Palestine,  with  immediate  effect  and 
without precondition. 
Sadly,  the  people  of  Lebanon  have  once  again 

been  subjected  to  war  and  indiscriminate  bombing, 
independence.  In 
18 

06-52885 
lifting  of 
an 
immediate 
for 
the  embargo  against 


which  have  caused  enormous  suffering  and  the  deaths 
of innocent people, including children and the elderly, 
as well as severe damage to and destruction of property 
and infrastructure. Against that background, we call for 
the  immediate  and  unconditional  implementation  of 
Security Council resolution 1701 (2006) and appeal to 
the  international  community  to  provide  humanitarian 
assistance to the people of Lebanon in dealing with the 
resulting humanitarian crisis. 

For  many  years  now,  the  majority  of  Member 
States  in  this  Assembly  have  expressed  concern  over 
the  continuous  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo against Cuba, which continues to cause severe 
hardships  for  the  Cuban  people.  The  Government  of 
the  Republic  of  Namibia  upholds  the  principles  of 
peaceful coexistence of nations and fair and open trade 
among nations. Thus, we call on all Member States, in 
conformity with their obligations under the Charter of 
and 
the  United  Nations, 
unconditional 
the 
Republic  of  Cuba,  as  called  for  in  General Assembly 
resolution 60/12 and many previous resolutions. 

In  June  2006,  the  General Assembly  convened  a 
High-level  Meeting  on  the  implementation  of  the 
Declaration  of  Commitment  on  HIV/AIDS.  That 
important  opportunity  for 
Meeting  served  as  an 
Member  States 
further 
strengthen  and  expand  responses  to  the  HIV/AIDS 
pandemic.  Before  the  High-level  Meeting,  the African 
Union  had  adopted  an African  Common  Position  at  a 
special session in Abuja in May 2006. Namibia is fully 
committed to the implementation of the Declaration of 
Commitment  on  HIV/AIDS.  We  are,  equally,  grateful 
for the support for the call to mobilize resources and to 
forge  a  stronger  partnership 
the 
pandemic.  We  stress  the  need  for  universal  and 
affordable  access  to  comprehensive  service  packages 
for all those infected. 

In  our  ongoing  efforts  to  reform  and  strengthen 
the  United  Nations,  making  it  more  effective  and 
responsive 
today’s  challenges  —  poverty  and 
hunger,  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic,  civil  wars  and  the 
war  on  terror  —  we  should  place  human  lives  and 
human  dignity  at  the  centre  of  all  our  efforts.  The 
reform  we  have  embarked  upon  should  be  seen  as  a 
process and should be undertaken in a spirit of mutual 
understanding  and  with  a 
sense  of  collective 
ownership.  Let  us  strive  to  re-energize  the  United 
Nations and make it an Organization that we can all be 
to  assess  progress  and 
in  confronting 
to 
A/61/PV.13
proud of, so that we can make planet Earth a common 
home  for  all  humanity  to  live  in  peace,  stability  and 
prosperity. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Namibia for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Namibia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


to 
President  Palacio  (spoke 
Address by Mr. Alfredo Palacio, President of the 
Republic of Ecuador 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Ecuador. 

Mr. Alfredo Palacio, President of the Republic of 
Ecuador, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Alfredo  Palacio,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Ecuador, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 

in  Spanish):  The 
twenty-first century demands that the world develop a 
new  vision  of  the  concept  of  international  law  and  of 
relations  among  peoples  and  States.  A  year  ago, 
Ecuador raised the need to move towards a new world 
order  built  on  three  bases:  the  economy,  international 
law  and  biology.  This  need  has  become  urgent.  We 
summon  the  planet  to  establish  this  new  triad,  which 
must include biology. 

Never  before  has  there  been  so  much  wealth. 
Poverty,  however,  continues  to  grow,  and  hunger  and 
misery take their toll of human lives each day. Life on 
Earth  is  deteriorating.  The  harmonious  continuity  of 
humanity is threatened, and the world — including the 
developed  countries  —  has  not  been  able  to  find  an 
adequate  answer.  There  are  still  vast  areas  of 
sub-Saharan  Africa,  Latin  America  and  Asia  where 
millions  of  human  beings  are  on 
the  brink  of 
extinction. Vast areas continue to require international 
cooperation. While  in  Japan,  Hong  Kong  and  Iceland, 
life expectancy at birth exceeds 80 years, in Botswana 
and  Lesotho  it  barely  reaches  36  years.  While  in 
Sweden, Singapore, Denmark, Iceland and Norway, the 
06-52885 

19 
the  most  highly  developed  countries 
A/61/PV.13 

under-five  mortality  rate  is  below  4  per  1,000  live 
births,  in  Sierra  Leone,  Niger  and  Liberia  it  exceeds 
235  per  1,000  live  births.  We  must  guarantee  greater 
equity  in  health  expenditure  throughout  the  world  in 
order  to  overcome  the  huge  gap  between  the  few 
dollars  per  capita  invested  in  poor  countries  and  the 
thousands of dollars per capita that are invested in the 
developed world. 

Five  years  have  passed  since  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  were  proclaimed,  and  very  little 
has been done to achieve them. The limited compliance 
among 
to 
contribute  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  income  to 
progress in the poorest areas has had an adverse impact 
on this situation. 
Underdevelopment  is  a  global  problem;  just  like 

the  healthy  continuity  of  our  species,  which 
is 
threatened  by  economic,  political  and  military 
problems. The least developed countries lack resources 
to improve education and culture — a requirement for 
ensuring  collective  health.  The  growing  burden  of 
foreign debt prevents our people from investing in their 
development. Underdeveloped countries are still under 
the  yoke  of  external  debt  service,  which  continues  to 
absorb domestic savings and limits the possibilities for 
social and productive investment. 

Far  from  resolving  the  problem,  successive  debt 
refinancing creates further links that lengthen the chain 
shackling  development  and  economic  progress,  and  it 
undermines  the  ethical  foundation  and  the  destiny  of 
humankind. That is why Ecuador supports the initiative 
of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to create a group 
of highly indebted lower- and middle-income countries 
that  together  would  work  to  find  creative  and  long-
term solutions. 

investment 
discoveries. 
The  phenomenon  of  migration  has  taken  on 

unprecedented  dimensions.  More  than  200  million 
people  are  refugees,  living  outside  their  countries  of 
origin.  Migration  causes  families  to  break  down  and 
results 
the 
emergence  of  future  healthy  generations  and  adequate 
care of the elderly in conditions of dignity. 

Countries  must  assume  binding  commitments  on 
the  defence  of  the  human  rights  of  migrants.  To  that 
The  neediest  countries  are  marginalized  from 
and  medical 
in  cultural  deterioration,  hampering 
in 
scientific 
research 

that  reflects 
end,  we  welcome 
the  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International  Migration  and  Development  —  a 
multidimensional  event 
the  political 
resolve of sending and receiving countries. 

War  affects  the  entire  planet.  Mortality  rates 
increase not only because of its direct victims, but also 
because of the destruction of infrastructure. Ethnic and 
religious  problems,  or  economic  aspirations,  lead  to 
genocidal  practices.  World  peace,  respect  for  human 
rights and respect among States are the principles that 
led to the founding of the United Nations. 

Transfixed,  the  world  has  witnessed  bloodshed 
and  brutal  acts  of  violence  against  peoples  as  a 
consequence of the settlement of conflicts through the 
use  of  weapons,  and  of  the  limited  ability  of  the 
international  community  within  the  United  Nations  to 
find solutions within the framework of the law. 

We support the resolution adopted by the Security 
Council — and the efforts of the Secretary-General — 
to  ensure  a  commitment  by  all  parties  involved  to 
comply with the ceasefire and to withdraw their forces 
to the borders established before the last confrontation. 

The  international  community  and  the  highest 
multilateral bodies have been unable to find diplomatic 
means  of 
resolving  such  conflicts  swiftly  and 
effectively. Thus there needs to be  an improvement in 
the  structure  of  these  bodies,  including  the  United 
Nations system itself. 

The  Security  Council  is  no  longer  an  expression 
of a global balance. Today, it represents only itself. For 
that reason, it must be reformed and democratized. It is 
unacceptable that, at the dawn of the third millennium, 
the  lives  of  millions  of  human  beings  and  of  entire 
populations  hinge  on  the  veto  of  one  State  or  another 
and on a unilateral geopolitical vision. 

The concepts of war and peace are once again at 
the  heart  of  our  reflection  on  global  security  and 
survival.  The  security  of  the  planet,  of  peoples,  of 
States  and  of  nations  will  be  sustainable  only  if  it  is 
founded  on  health,  on  education,  on  development  and 
on peace. 
Laying  the  foundations  of  genuine  peace  is  the 

greatest  moral  obligation  of  all  of  humankind.  The 
alternative  is  growing  insecurity,  fuelled  by  poverty, 
illness, destitution and fear. 
20 

06-52885 
in 
in 
its 
launched 
leadership  and 
the  Secretariat  and 



The  creation  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
and  the  inception  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  of 
which  Ecuador  is  member,  and  the  reforms  that  are 
being 
the 
administrative  bodies  of  the  United  Nations  represent 
significant steps forward, but they still fall short. 

My country, Ecuador, believes that the reform of 
the  system  includes  strengthening  the  World  Health 
Organization, 
its  fight  against 
poverty  and  the  environmental  impact  of  poverty,  in 
the promotion of local, national and regional initiatives 
aimed  at  implementing  a  fully  decentralized  global 
health  system.  That  will  make  possible  enable  the 
development  of  health  systems  and  models  capable  of 
ensuring  tangible  benefits  for  all  inhabitants  of  the 
planet. 
Universal  health  insurance  is  a  valid  strategy  to 

guarantee  access 
to  a  comprehensive  health-care 
system among developing nations at the same level as 
in  developed  countries.  That  would  eliminate  the 
shameful asymmetry that is reflected in the unbalanced 
health statistics that differentiate the various segments 
of our populations. 

In  order  to  implement  these  and  other  important 
health  programmes,  considerable  financial  resources 
must be mobilized, which must flow from international 
cooperation,  but  also  from  developing  countries  and 
the so-called donor countries. 

In  this  century,  compliance  with  the  Millennium 
Goals  is  State  policy  for  the  Government  of  Ecuador. 
For  a  multinational,  pluricultural  and  multi-ethnic 
country  such  as  Ecuador,  ensuring  respect  for  human 
rights  means,  above  all,  respect  for  the  other;  respect 
for  the  development  of  indigenous  peoples,  with  full 
recognition  of  their  diversity  and  of  their  need  to  be 
integrated  into  the  process  of  modernization,  while 
preserving their identity. 

Ecuador  welcomes  the  recent  adoption  by  the 
Human Rights Council of the Declaration on the Rights 
of  Indigenous  Peoples  and  fully  supports  its  adoption 
by the Assembly. 

We  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  fight  crimes  of 
the utmost gravity, such as trafficking in human beings 
and the sexual exploitation of boys and girls. This year 
we  have  strengthened  our  domestic  legislation  to 
punish  such  crimes.  The  Government  of  Ecuador  has 
undertaken  economic  policy  measures 
to  recover 
A/61/PV.13
through 
improving 
that  respect 
in  particular 
income from petroleum operations. That will enable us 
in  sustainable  and  productive  social 
to  engage 
investment, 
thus 
living  conditions  for 
underprivileged  Ecuadorians.  As  a  result  of  those 
measures,  for  the  first  time  in  Ecuador,  funds  are 
available  for  scientific  and  technological  research  to 
promote  knowledge  so  that  we  can  be  masters  of  our 
own destiny.  

Ecuador  is  committed  to  strengthening  South-
South relations. We attach great importance to regional 
integration, 
the  Andean 
Community of Nations and the Common Market of the 
South,  which  are  key  actors  in  building  the  South 
American  Community  of  Nations  to  make  progress 
towards  Latin  American 
integration,  hemispheric 
integration  and,  ultimately,  a  globalization  that  has  a 
human face and is equitable for all.  

Ecuador promotes all the conditions necessary to 
reach  trade  agreements  with  all  countries  throughout 
the  world,  based  on  principles 
the 
preservation  of  sensitive  areas  of  national  production, 
ensure  food  security  and  protect  biological  diversity 
and genetic data — that is to say, life.  

Ecuador has consistently fought narco-trafficking 
and related crimes. That is why we believe that we are 
fully entitled to ask the United States Senate to renew 
the  Andean  Trade  Preference  Act  to  encourage  legal 
production and exports.  

Ecuador  endorses  the  principles  that  guided  the 
establishment of the World Trade Organization (WTO). 
We  hope  that  the  obstacles  faced  by  the  Doha  round 
will  be  successfully  overcome  to  ensure  its  full 
validity, particularly with respect to the elimination of 
export subsidies for agricultural products.  

Our  relations  with  Mexico,  Central America  and 
the  Caribbean  are  particularly  important. At  the  same 
time,  we  are  seeking  dynamic  relationships  with 
countries of the Pacific rim and throughout the world. 

Within  the  framework  of  the  South  American 
Community of Nations, we are beginning to engage in 
regional  meetings  with Arab  and African  countries  to 
strengthen  political  dialogue,  cooperation  and  mutual 
trade.  Ecuador  was  greatly  pleased 
to  welcome 
ministers  for  finance  and  related  areas  from Arab  and 
South American countries in order to jointly formulate 
a  strategy  for  strengthening  our  economic,  trade  and 
investment  relationships.  With  regard 
to  African 
06-52885 

21 

Ecuador  also  attaches  great 
A/61/PV.13 

nations, my country will participate at the highest level 
in the summit to be held in Nigeria this November.  

to 
importance 
political  coordination  mechanisms  such  as  the  Group 
of 77 and the Non-Aligned Movement,  whose summit 
was held recently.  
To conclude, I wish to express my sincere thanks 

to  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  for  his 
outstanding  work  at  the  head  of  the  Organization 
despite  the  enormous  difficulties  he  was  obliged  to 
face, including those of a financial nature. The world is 
confident  that  the  new  Secretary-General  will  be  able 
to  continue  that  work  and  to  implement  the  processes 
of United Nations reform, with the commitment of all 
its  Members,  particularly  the  most  highly  developed 
countries. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Ecuador for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr. Alfredo Palacio, President of the Republic of 
Ecuador,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.  
from 


Address by Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, 
President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Equatorial Guinea.  

Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President 
of 
the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea,  was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  
Mr.  Teodoro  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo,  President  of 
the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly. 

President  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  Equatorial  Guinea  is  participating  in  the 
debates  of  the  sixty-first  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  in  the  firm  conviction  that  this  world 
Organization remains the only forum with the authority 
necessary 
the 
international  community.  Attempting  to  usurp  that 
authority  is  irrational;  it  means  negating  the  universal 
resolve  any 
situation 
facing 
to 
to 
the 
freedom, 
right  of  peoples 
seriousness,  dedication  and  dynamism 
principles of international law, which govern our world 
with justice and equity.  

That  is  why,  before  addressing  any  of  the  issues 
on our agenda, I wish to pay a well-deserved tribute to 
His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General, 
and  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson,  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixtieth  session,  for  the 
arduous task that they accomplished in the face of the 
conflicts that have threatened the peace and stability of 
the planet during 2006. 
We  should  also  like  to  welcome  the  election  of 

Her  Excellency  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa, 
Legal Adviser to the Royal Court of Bahrain, who will 
preside over the General Assembly at this session. We 
believe  that  her  election  is  an  implicit  recognition  of 
the 
that 
characterize her country’s quest for global equilibrium 
and  its  respect  for  the  principles  of  international  law, 
human 
to  self-
determination,  national  independence  and  sovereignty, 
mutual  respect  among  nations,  and 
international 
cooperation  to  promote  development  and  respect  for 
human rights. 

This  session  opens  at  a  time  of  uncertainty  for 
humanity, due to the many conflicts and the increasing 
socio-political 
lives  of 
millions  of  people  throughout  the  world.  Humanity 
today  finds  itself  in  a  complex  situation  that  raises 
several questions. 

What  is  the  current  role  of  the  United  Nations, 
given  the  absence  of  priorities  in  its  decision-making 
process?  What  has  been  gained  since  the  end  of  the 
cold  war? What  kind  of  future  can  humanity  hope  for 
in  a  world  of  so-called  globalization,  governed  by  a 
political  and  economic  system  characterized  by 
inequality  and  a  lack  of  cooperation  in  eradicating 
poverty in the weakest nations? What kind of future is 
there for the developing countries when the gap in the 
acquisition of technology for development continues to 
grow,  or  when  sprawling  intelligence  services  are 
constantly  devising  plans  to  keep  the  world  under  the 
political  dominance  and  economic  influence  of  the 
most powerful nations? 

Those and similar questions must be the focus of 
attention of politicians and this world body if we are to 
straighten  this  crooked  path  in  international  relations. 
Presently, there is no judge capable of adjudicating any 
international  conflict  equitably  and  impartially.  From 
threatening 
imbalance 
the 
22 

06-52885 
We  must 
first 
democratize 
Many  conferences  held 


our  point  of  view,  the  authority  of  the  United  Nations 
has  been  taken  hostage  by  certain  interests  that  are 
monopolizing the world. Nevertheless, I am convinced 
that we still have time to rescue the situation if we do 
not wish to see the international community completely 
derailed,  because  the  results  obtained  to  date  are  not 
satisfactory. 

this  world 
Organization by reinstating its rightful authority on the 
international  scene.  We  must  also  set  an  objective 
value to the globalization of politics by adopting new, 
equitable  political  and  economic  strategies  to  protect 
the legitimate interests of the weakest States. If we do 
not, we must be prepared to endure a world crisis as a 
result  of  our  inability  to  sustain  the  current  pressures 
and jarring disparities among nations. 

in  various  political, 
economic  and  social  forums  have  identified  a  number 
of strategies to reduce the gap that separates us all, but 
such  strategies  have  always  been  met  with 
the 
complete  indifference  of  those  who  are  supposed  to 
execute them. 
the 

phenomenon  of  terrorism  that  threatens  the  world 
today,  because,  although  its  methods  and  destructive 
effects  on  humans  are  condemnable,  it  remains  the 
recourse of the oppressed and a reaction of those who 
oppose prevailing injustices that have been denounced 
throughout the last quarter of a century. 

The ongoing mass migration of peoples from the 
South to the North is another consequence of the huge 
imbalance  caused  by  the  present  unjust  international 
economic  system.  That  migration  will  never  cease  if 
the  North  does  not  help  the  South  to  develop  with 
programmes of support and solidarity. 

We  would  like  to  see  democracy,  equity  and 
solidarity in a more harmonious world become the rule 
that  would  enable  international  relations  to  function, 
especially  those  governed  by  the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions, 
the 
relationship  between  the  European  Union  and  the 
nations  of the African, Caribbean and the Pacific,  and 
all other economic relations between the North and the 
South. 

Moreover,  nature  has  endowed  the  world  with 
immense natural resources that are perfectly sufficient 
to allow all to live in dignity. We do not have to resort 
the  World  Trade  Organization, 
We  ought  not  be  surprised, 
then,  by 
A/61/PV.13
to  draconian  rules  of  exchange  that  favour  some  and 
discriminate  against  others.  Those  who  seek 
to 
monopolize resources that belong to humanity and who 
still believe in the larceny of the past, or rather in their 
own ability to perpetuate illegal exploitation by force, 
are  the  same  people  who  today  support  and  maintain 
vast mercenary organizations that fall upon the weaker 
nations in order to create internal political instabilities 
for their own selfish interests. 

Indeed,  my  country  has  been  a  victim  of  such 
plotting because we own crude oil, the product that is 
today  dividing  and  destroying  the  world.  My  country 
was  able  to  avert  a  mercenary  invasion  on  6  March, 
2004,  that  was  organized  by  powerful  countries  that 
continue  to  dispute  among  themselves  and  to  nurture 
ambitions to gain free control of the world’s petroleum. 
Fortunately,  our  security  services  were  alerted  in  time 
and  were  able  to  prevent  the  anticipated  genocide. 
Those  directly  responsible  for  the  attempted  coup  are 
serving  time  in  prison,  while  the  brains  behind  the 
whole  thing  are  still  at  large  and  thumb  their  noses  at 
justice. 

Nevertheless,  my  Government  does  not  believe 
that  this  natural  resource  belongs  to  us  alone.  My 
country  benefits  from  barely  30  per  cent  of  the 
proceeds  from  that  exploitation,  because,  as  we  have 
explained  time  and  again,  due  to  an  unjust  system  of 
exchange, the operating contracts give the lion’s share 
of those profits to our partners of the North. 

In  that  regard,  I  noted  at  the  sixtieth  session  of 
the  General  Assembly  that  if  the  responsibility  of 
transparency is to be borne equitably, there is a need to 
demand  the  same  from  the  operators  of  the  extracting 
industries  and  compliance  with  the  contracts  and 
regulations  that  guarantee  equal  benefits  between  the 
parties concerned. 

To conclude, the message from Equatorial Guinea 
is that we must respond as human beings, because we 
still have time to make this planet Earth a better place 
for  human  beings. Therefore,  let  us  turn  our  backs  on 
greed,  hegemonic  ambition  and  the  lack  of  sensitivity 
to the sight of such horror and misery that is rife in our 
world,  so  that  we  can  respond  to  this  system  of 
injustice and inequality, and so that, as human beings, 
we will be able to join hands and face, with solidarity, 
intelligence  and  wisdom, 
to  spare 
humanity  from  the  scourges  of  war,  poverty  and 
underdevelopment. 
the  challenge 
06-52885 

23 

A/61/PV.13 

The  Acting  President:  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea for the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President 
of 
the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea,  was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Alfred Moisiu, President of the 
Republic of Albania 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Albania. 

Mr.  Alfred  Moisiu,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr. 
Alfred  Moisiu,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Albania, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Moisiu  (spoke  in  Albanian;  English 

text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  would  like  first  of 
all  to  congratulate  President  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa 
on  her  election  to  her  high  post  and  to  assure  her  of 
Albania’s full support throughout her mandate. I would 
also  like  to  express  our  deep  appreciation  to  the 
Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his continuous 
vision,  leadership  and  efforts  to  revitalize  and  reform 
the United Nations. 

This year, based on the 2005 Summit Document, 
Albania has undertaken concrete actions to promote the 
three  main  pillars,  namely,  development,  security  and 
human  rights,  in  order  to  implement  the  ambitious 
United  Nations  agenda  of  reforms.  We  are  filled  with 
optimism  at  the  positive  results  achieved  by  the 
establishment  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  the 
Human  Rights  Council  and  the  Central  Emergency 
Response  Fund.  Reform  of 
the  Secretariat  and 
management  also  give  us  optimism  and  lead  us  to 
believe  that  the  United  Nations  must  continue  these 
reforms in order to respond in the best possible way to 
new realities and challenges. 

We  reiterate  our  willingness  and  intent  to  work 
closely  with  all  delegations  and  to  reach  as  much 
agreement  as  possible  by  consensus  in  all  significant 
aspects  of  the  reforms  and  we  believe  that  solid  and 
the  efforts 
to  reform 
thanks 
We  welcome 
is  needed  for 
inclusive  management  reform 
the 
strengthening  of  the  United  Nations  in  order  to 
increase transparency and responsibility and achieve a 
more  effective  and  efficient  administration  of 
resources.  We  support 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  while  we  also  believe 
that  reform  in  the  Security  Council  will  produce 
to 
progress  and  results, 
the  efforts  and 
commitment of all member countries. 

the  High-level  Meeting  on 
International  Migration  and  Development,  because  we 
believe that international migration that is supported by 
the  right  policies  can  bring  major  advantages  to  the 
development of the countries of origin and destination, 
in terms of respecting and guaranteeing the basic rights 
of migrants, while avoiding discrimination and double 
standards. 

The United Nations role also continues to remain 
very important in the war against terrorism, especially 
in securing an effective, global and intensive response 
to this threat. We praise the recent consensual adoption 
of the Global Strategy against Terrorism. We also feel 
that  the  adoption  of  a  comprehensive  convention  on 
international  terrorism  would  represent  a  precious 
achievement  furthering  United  Nations  efforts 
to 
combat terrorism. Albania is collaborating very closely 
with  all  the  United  Nations  bodies  in  the  war  against 
terrorism,  and  the  visits  of  the  Monitoring  Team, 
established  pursuant  to  Security  Council  resolution 
1267  (1999),  and  the  visit  of  the  Security  Council 
Counter-Terrorism  Committee,  established  pursuant  to 
Security  Council  resolution  1540  (2004),  demonstrate 
that Albania  is  fulfilling  its  obligations  to  prevent  the 
activity and financing of terrorist groups at the national 
level. 

We  have  supported  Security  Council  resolution 
1701  (2006)  on  the  Israeli-Lebanon  conflict,  which 
provides  for  a  peaceful  solution  of  the  issue  and  the 
sending  of  peacekeeping  forces  to  that  area.  Albania 
has joined other countries in giving financial support to 
rebuild Lebanon. 

The  main  orientation  of Albania’s  foreign  policy 
remains  European  and  Euro-Atlantic  integration,  and 
that is why the efforts of the Albanian State and society 
are  directed  towards  meeting  European  Union  and 
NATO  standards.  A  few  days  ago,  the  European 
Parliament  ratified  the  Stabilization  and  Association 
Agreement  between Albania  and  the  European  Union, 
24 

06-52885 


which  places  our  country  at  the  most  important  
stage — that of fulfilling the obligations that stem from 
the  Agreement,  and  all  Albanian  political  groups  and 
the entire society are conscious of this. We all believe 
that  actual  membership  in  the  European  Council  and 
the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe,  and  the  prospective  accession  to  the  EU  and 
the  natural  move 
NATO  are  part  of 
towards 
development, rather than an objective per se. 

We  have  established  relations  based  on  active 
cooperation and dialogue at the regional level with all 
the  countries  concerned  by  actively  working 
to 
strengthen  regional  security  and  stability.  Together 
with  the  countries  of  the  region,  we  have  created  an 
agenda  of  joint  action  against  terrorism,  organized 
crime, the circulation of arms and border management. 
In 
the  same  way,  we  have  undertaken  concrete 
initiatives  to  encourage  economic  development  in  the 
region. 

Albania  believes  that  the  main  issue  to  be 
resolved in our region continues to be that of Kosovo. 
Kosovo  has  made  great  progress  in  terms  of  internal 
stability;  advancing  the  fulfilment  of  the  required 
international 
inter-ethnic 
relations;  establishing  and  efficiently  running  central 
and 
its  serious  and 
professional commitment to the process of negotiations 
with Belgrade through the intermediary of the Special 
Envoy  of  the  Secretary-General,  President  Ahtisaari; 
and  in  its  gradual  integration  into  regional  activities, 
initiatives  and 
structures  as  part  of  Kosovo’s 
integrating process in the European Union and NATO. 

The  leadership  of  Kosovo,  the  representative 
Kosovar  institutions,  the  political  opposition,  civil 
society,  the  media  and  the  entire  civil  factor  are 
demonstrating  social  and  political  cohesion  and 
increasing unity and open and full cooperation with the 
international  factor  to  build  a  sovereign,  independent, 
democratic  and  multi-ethnic  State  integrated  into  the 
European  and  Euro-Atlantic  structures  and  at  peace 
with  its  neighbours.  The  United  Nations  Mission  and 
the  commitments  of  the  Secretary-General  have  also 
played a significant part in that success. 

The  progress  of  talks  between  Pristina  and 
Belgrade  in  Vienna  is  positive.  We  encourage  the 
continuation of constructive dialogue and hope that the 
Serbian  side  will  do  the  same  by  demonstrating 
realism,  solidarity  with  the  will  of  the  international 
local  Kosovar 
institutions; 
improving 
standards; 
A/61/PV.13
similar 
solutions 
the  minority 
communities.  A 
The  view  occasionally  expressed 
community,  and  respect  for  the  aspirations  of  the 
people  of  Kosovo.  Albania  opposes  any  possible 
scenario  for  the  partition  or  disintegration  of  Kosovo, 
which  past  experience  suggests  could  entail  conflict 
and instability in the future. 

We support a full and speedy solution to the issue 
of  the  status  of  Kosovo  that  takes  into  consideration 
the will of its inhabitants and guarantees functionality 
within the Kosovar State and society and the freedoms 
of 
sovereign, 
independent,  democratic  and  multi-ethnic  Kosovar 
State with a clear Euro-Atlantic perspective will serve 
the  interests  of  peace  and  stability  in  the  region  and 
beyond. 
the 

that 
the 
independence  of  Kosovo  would  encourage 
implementation  of 
to  current 
problems in other countries and regions does not seem 
accurate to us. The solution of any problem must take 
the  historical  and  geographical  context  into  account, 
along with other considerations that exclude the search 
for  and  mechanical  application  of 
inappropriate 
analogies.  Given  the  historical,  juridical  and  moral 
aspects of the issue of Kosovo, as well as the fact that 
it  evolved  through  the  convulsions  and  wars  that 
accompanied 
former 
Yugoslavia,  I  believe  that  its  solution  in  accordance 
with  the  will  of  the  citizens  of  Kosovo  themselves  is 
entirely  legitimate.  In  that  light,  the  solution  will  also 
mark  the  final  stage  of  that  disintegration  and  the 
turning  of  a  new  page  as  part  of  democratic 
developments in the Balkans over the past decade. 
Albania is at an important phase in the process of 

comprehensive 
legal  and  economic 
reform  with  a  view  to  adopting  European  models  and 
standards. We are committed to improving governance 
at  all  levels  to  ensure  that  it  adheres  as  closely  as 
possible to the interests of our citizens and the country. 
The  current  Government  has  undertaken  various 
economic 
liberalize  procedures  and 
enhance our capacity to attract foreign investment. We 
are  aware  that  this  objective  can  be  achieved  only 
through 
a 
competitive  and  open  market  for  unfettered  initiative 
that offers as many people as possible the opportunity 
to  conduct  business  or 
is 
coordinated with reforms in the priority public sectors. 
Such 
in 
infrastructure  and  the  energy,  education  and  health 
the  disintegration  of 
to  be  employed  and 
initiatives 
to 
reforms 
include 
increasing 
investment 
institutional, 
the 
reforms 
that 
realistically 
promote 
06-52885 

25 
strengthen 
to  decision-making,  and 
long-term  economic  growth 
A/61/PV.13 

sectors,  complemented  by  effective  social  policies  in 
favour  of  social  groups  and  individuals  in  need.  Our 
objective is for economic growth to contribute directly 
to  meeting  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by 
making  it  the  main  factor  in  the  reduction  of  poverty, 
reducing the unemployment rate to the average level of 
the developed European countries, and securing stable 
and 
that  enhances 
opportunity for future generations. 

A  comprehensive  campaign  against  corruption  is 
part  of  our  efforts  to  strengthen  the  rule  of  law  and 
develop the country. In that framework, concrete action 
is being taken to implement legislative and institutional 
reform  in  order  to  take  preventive  measures,  narrow 
opportunities  for  corruptive  abuses,  enhance  public 
transparency,  eliminate  conflicts  of  interest,  improve 
access 
the 
monitoring role of civil society, local communities and 
the media. 

We  have  also  paid  special  attention  to  the  fight 
against  organized  crime,  drug  and  human  trafficking, 
and  money-laundering.  Today  we  can  state  with  full 
conviction  that  those  phenomena  are  being  met  with 
the 
the  country’s 
consolidated  structures,  and  in  cooperation  with  the 
international factor. That is why our results have been 
significant. 

Albania supports and contributes to  a strong and 
effective  United  Nations  capable  of  meeting  new 
challenges, because we believe the Organization to be 
based  on  the  values  and  principles  of  multilateralism, 
global partnership for development, and joint action to 
strengthen  collective  peace  and  security  to  the  benefit 
of  human  rights,  the  rule  of  law  and  commitments 
against terrorism. 

In conclusion, allow me to affirm that my country 
will  be  active  in  fulfilling  the  commitments  and 
obligations  arising  from  its  responsibilities  within  the 
Organization and from those decisions that the General 
Assembly will adopt at its sixty-first session. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Albania for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Alfred  Moisiu,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
full  power  of 
the 
law  and 


to 
Address by Mr. Fradique Bandeira Melo de Menezes, 
President of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome 
and Principe 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency 
Mr. Fradique Bandeira Melo de Menezes, President of 
the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe. 

Mr.  Fradique  Bandeira  Melo  de  Menezes, 
President  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Sao 
Tome and Principe, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  
Mr. Fradique Bandeira Melo de Menezes, President of 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 

President  De  Menezes:  As  I  have  just  been  re-
elected,  this  is  my  first  opportunity  to  speak  to  this 
forum  at  the  beginning  of  my  second  term.  It  is 
therefore  with  great  pleasure  that  I  am  here  today  for 
this sixty-first session of the General Assembly. 

Please  allow  me  to  congratulate  Mrs.  Haya 
Rashed Al-Khalifa on her election as the new President 
of  the  General Assembly. We  are  fortunate  to  have  as 
our  President  a  diplomat  with  such  magnificent 
credentials.  In  addition,  this  is  a  milestone  for  the 
United Nations which makes us all proud. My country, 
Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  is  a  firm  believer  in  gender 
equality.  I  am  proud  to  say  that  we  have  a  very  high 
percentage  of  girls  in  our  schools. A  woman  has  held 
the  presidency  of  our  National  Assembly,  and  the 
current  head  of  our  Supreme  Court  is  a  woman.  We 
have  had  two  female  Prime  Ministers,  and  today 
women head half of our Government ministries. We are 
therefore delighted by her election and wish her every 
success. 

I  thank  also  the  outgoing  President,  Mr.  Jan 
Eliasson,  for  his  remarkable  work,  especially  in  the 
area of advancing reform of the United Nations. Words 
are  insufficient  to  pay  tribute  to  outgoing  Secretary-
General  Kofi Annan. A  very  special  son  of Africa,  he 
has  been  an  extraordinary  leader  of  our  Organization. 
He has worked unceasingly, showing  enormous vision 
and great courage. No challenge has been too large or 
too dangerous. My country and I owe a special debt of 
gratitude  to  the  Secretary-General,  whose  intervention 
26 

06-52885 


during a 2003 coup attempt helped preserve democracy 
in Sao Tome and Principe. My people and I thank him. 
We  can  only  hope  that  his  successor  will  prove  as 
praiseworthy as he. 

We  are  meeting  here  today  at  a  time  of  growing 
international  tension  and  of  increased  terrorist  attacks 
on  innocent  civilians  on  every  continent.  We  see 
unending  conflicts,  even  genocide.  Never  have  we 
needed the United Nations more than at this time, when 
life  as  we  know  it  on  our  planet  is  threatened  by 
climate change. It is tragic that in the face of all these 
challenges,  the  United  Nations  is  often  unable  to  act, 
because  internal  politics  and  a  lack  of  resources 
constantly hamper its ability to respond as needed. 

No country can live in a vacuum in today’s world. 
For better or for worse, we are together in deciding the 
fate of our planet. We can no longer be only citizens of 
our  town,  our  region  or  our  country.  We  also  cannot 
blindly  think  that  our  religion  is  the  only  religion, 
when God created so many, all believing in a Supreme 
Being  but  worshiping  in  different  fashions.  God  also 
painted  us  in  a  rainbow  of  colours  and  did  not  leave 
instructions  for  one  colour  to  be  in  charge  of  all  the 
others. Nor did He choose a special region or language 
to  rule  over  everyone  else.  We  must  pull  together  so 
that  no  one  is  left  behind.  There  is  enough  for 
everybody, if only we would share. We all could live in 
freedom and in peace, with work, health, education and 
dignity, if only we would work together. 

While we must work together for certain common 
goals,  we  must  also  respect  our  cultural  differences. 
One size does not fit all. The practice of democracy in 
Latin America  may  not  be  the  same  as  democracy  in 
Asia.  What  worked  to  create  economic  growth  in 
Europe  may  not  work  in  Africa.  Each  country,  each 
people, each region, each town must have the freedom 
to decide what is best for it, while also respecting the 
rights  of  all  and  everyone’s  responsibility  as  a  world 
citizen. 

The HIV/AIDS pandemic is still out of control. In 
my  own  tiny,  isolated  island  country,  we  were  long 
immune from it. Despite desperate efforts at education 
and prevention, our tiny population is being laid waste 
by  a  shocking  increase  in  the  number  of  HIV/AIDS 
cases.  We  have  only  one  hospital  and  a  handful  of 
doctors. We are helpless in the face of this crisis, as we 
cannot  afford  the  antiretrovirals  we  need  for  all  our 
sick  people,  nor  do  we  have  the  ability  to  police  our 
A/61/PV.13
citizen,  generous 
in  humanitarian 
that  most  of 
the  warming  observed 
maritime  borders  to  keep  out  the  main  source  of 
infection.  Our  women  and  children  are  among  the 
millions  of  other  faceless  victims  around  the  world, 
and, without help, we could one day face extinction. 

Climate change is already sabotaging many of the 
efforts being made to achieve sustainable development 
goals,  augmenting  poverty  in  developing  countries, 
especially  in  the  least  developed  countries  and  the 
small island developing States. There is new and strong 
evidence 
is 
attributable  to  human  activities. As  the  polar  ice  caps 
melt, my low-lying island country faces a second kind 
of extinction, that of disappearing beneath the waves of 
the ocean. 

I  cannot  continue  without  again  asking  the 
Assembly  why  a  country  of  23  million  people  is  not 
represented at the United Nations, where every country 
is supposed to have one vote. I refer here to Taiwan, an 
established  democracy  whose  people  live  in  freedom 
and  in  peace.  Their  dynamic  and  technologically 
advanced  economy  is  a  model  for  creating  wealth  in 
today’s  global  economy.  Taiwan  is  also  an  excellent 
world 
and 
development aid. 

For  centuries,  the  people  of  Sao  Tome  and 
Principe  were  debilitated  by  endemic  malaria,  and 
thousands  died.  Countless  attempts  to  control  the 
mosquitoes  carrying  that  disease  failed,  until  Taiwan 
brought the necessary know-how and resources to bear. 
Today  cases  of  malaria  have  been  reduced  by  60  per 
cent. Our doctors and nurses say that there have never 
been so few cases of malaria in living memory. Thanks 
to  Taiwan  and  also  to  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight 
HIV/AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  we  are  well  on 
our way to finally bringing this scourge under control. 

In addition to humanitarian and development aid, 
Taiwan also maintains productive commercial ties with 
many  United  Nations  Member  countries  and  is  a 
member  of  the  World  Trade  Organization,  the  Asian 
Development  Bank  and  the  Asia  Pacific  Economic 
Group.  The  principle  of  universality  is  consecrated  in 
the United Nations Charter. Permanent members of the 
Security Council should not continue to ignore the case 
of Taiwan. 

Another issue that continues to require the urgent 
attention of all of us is the embargo on Cuba. This is a 
relic of the cold war that should be lifted immediately. 
06-52885 

27 
structures 
institutional 
A/61/PV.13 


While  mentioning  the  Security  Council,  I  must 
say  that  my  country  supports  the  calls  that  have 
reverberated  through  these  halls  for  more  than  a 
decade.  We  must  reform  the  Security  Council.  Its 
membership 
reflect 
outdated  geopolitical  realities  and  political  thinking 
that was shaped by the world of 1945. Giving only five 
permanent  members 
the  veto  power  and  special 
privileges puts the Security Council  out  of touch with 
the world. Africa, for example, does not have a single 
permanent member. This is not acceptable. 

I  will  close  by  talking  about  poverty,  or  rather 
what  we  are  all  seeking,  which  is  the  end  of  poverty. 
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  are  a  noble 
project. Sao Tome and Principe is grateful to Secretary-
General  Kofi  Annan  and  the  Goals’  Director  Jeffrey 
Sachs for their tireless efforts to pull poor countries out 
of  what  Professor  Sachs  so  rightly  calls  the  poverty 
trap. 

But  how  did  so  many  countries  get  into  the 
poverty  trap?  We  are  unlikely  to  get  out,  or  stay  out, 
unless  we  know  how  we  got  there  in  the  first  place.  I 
think  it  is  time  we  all  faced  some  of  the  unspoken 
truths  about  poverty.  Why  are  we  poor?  Economists 
traditionally told us that economic wealth comes from 
a  combination  of  man-made  resources,  such  as  roads, 
factories,  machines, 
systems;  human 
resources, hard work and education; and technological 
resources, 
technological 
machinery.  But  if  this  were  true,  then  poor  countries 
could  simply  build  some  schools,  pave  roads  and  buy 
some computers, and we  would quickly catch up with 
rich countries. 

is  something  wrong  here.  While 
Taiwan, South Korea and China have all been doubling 
their  incomes  every  decade,  many  poor  countries 
making these changes are not growing faster than rich 
countries.  In  fact,  they  are  growing  more  slowly,  or 
even getting poorer. So there is a new theory that says 
the  more  you  have,  the  faster  you  grow.  This  could 
explain why rich countries stay rich, and poor countries 
fall  farther  behind  —  except  that  it  does  not  explain 
how  Chile,  India,  Singapore,  Mauritius  and  Botswana 
are catching up. These dynamic countries — not Japan, 
not  Switzerland,  not  the  United  States  —  are  the 
fastest-growing  economies  on  the  planet.  Fifty  years 
ago they were trapped in poverty. That is no longer the 
case. 
technical  know-how  and 
telephone 
there 
But 
and 

tend 

Why  have  so  many  other  countries  been  left 
behind? The  newest  theories  tell  us  that  the  answer  is 
simple.  With  or  without  natural  resources,  with  or 
without  human  resources,  with  or  without  technology, 
badly  governed  countries  are  poor  countries.  Bad 
government causes poverty. When States do not protect 
property  and  people;  when  national  revenues  benefit 
self-interested  political 
insiders  who  oppose  any 
actions  that  would  lead  to  more  equal  distribution  of 
income  and  resources;  when  Government  officials 
waste  funds;  when  people  are  hired  on  the  basis  of 
being  from  the  right  family  or  region  or  political 
grouping;  when  nobody  monitors  Government 
spending; when corruption is noted but never punished; 
and  when  illegal  activities  are  not  restrained  by  law, 
the  press  or  democratic  opposition,  then  miserable 
results follow. 

We have all heard of the “natural resource curse”, 
which shows that large amounts of oil or diamonds, for 
example, 
to  make  democracy  and  good 
government  less  likely.  But  recent  studies  have  also 
found  that  there  is  also  an  “aid  curse”.  Without 
meaning to do so, multilateral and bilateral donors can 
actually  make  Governments  worse. And  just  as  badly 
governed countries tend to be poor, so badly governed 
aid  projects,  without  transparency  or  accountability, 
also tend to fail. 
Humanitarian aid has proven far more successful 

than long-term development aid, because it is given in 
highly  targeted  bursts.  It  is  also  usually  given  as 
medicine, food, clothing or tents and  taken directly to 
the location of the tragedy, with doctors and nurses on 
the ground rather than consultants. 

there  have  been  some  beautiful 
successes  in  aid  programmes,  mostly  in  health  care, 
with 
drug-resistant 
tuberculosis  and  river  blindness.  Adult  literacy  has 
risen, as had life expectancy until the AIDS pandemic 
wiped out that improvement. 

Aid  gives  hope  to  millions  of  people  around  the 
world. We simply need to mend it, not end it. My own 
country  has  certainly  suffered  from  its  own  share  of 
bad  governance  —  for  the  most  part  unwittingly, 
because of our own inexperience. But we are learning 
quickly  in  our  short  history,  and  we  now  have  one  of 
the most stable and robust democracies in all of Africa. 

We have the prospect of oil in our waters and in 
waters  shared  with  our  neighbour,  Nigeria.  We  have 
Of  course, 
smallpox, 
victories 
over 
28 

06-52885 


already  taken  steps  to  ensure  that  any  potential 
petroleum  resources  are  not  wasted  but  are  protected 
for  the  benefit  of  all  our  citizens  with  an  oil  revenue 
management  law  that  was  passed  unanimously  in  our 
parliament in 2004. 

We cannot let the past bury the future. We can lift 
billions  out  of  poverty.  When  I  was  first  elected 
President of my country five years ago, I lit a candle of 
hope  for  the  long-suffering  people  of  Sao  Tome  and 
Principe. We  are  not  there  yet,  but  the  light  is  getting 
brighter. 
If  development  were  easy,  everyone  would 

already  be  developed!  We  cannot  sit 
in  supine 
indifference.  Let  us  renew  our  efforts  and  work 
together  with  respect,  dignity  and  dedication  for  the 
benefit of all the peoples of the world and for the fate 
of our beautiful planet. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and 
Principe for the statement he has just made.  

Mr.  Fradique  Bandeira  Melo  de  Menezes, 
President  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Sao 
Tome  and  Principe,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
from 


Address by Mr. Joseph Kabila Kabange, President of 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an add by the President of the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo. 

Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
welcome 
Mr. Joseph  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of 
the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  and  to  invite  him 
to address the General Assembly. 
President  Kabila  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 

outset,  Sir,  I  would  ask  you  to  kindly  convey  to 
Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa  my  warm  and 
heartfelt  congratulations  upon  her  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first 
session.  My  congratulations  go  also  to  all  the  other 
to 
A/61/PV.13
members of the Bureau who, I am certain, will help her 
to successfully accomplish her illustrious and sensitive 
delicate tasks as President. I also take the opportunity 
to pay due tribute to her predecessor, Mr. Jan Eliasson, 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixtieth 
session, for the high quality of his work during a term 
of  office  that  took  place  in  a  difficult  international 
environment. 

I  cannot  continue  without  expressing  my 
gratitude,  and  that  of  the  entire  Congolese  people,  to 
Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General, whose mandate 
will come to an end this year on a positive note for all. 
Thanks to the remarkable leadership of that worthy son 
of Africa, the States Members of our Organization have 
enjoyed  a  decade  of  intense  and  active  diplomacy 
which has made it possible to solve a large number of 
conflicts throughout the world. Here, I should mention 
especially  the  situation  of  the  countries  of  the  Great 
Lakes  region,  in  particular  that  of  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo.  

As the sixty-first session of the General Assembly 
is  taking  place,  my  country,  the  Democratic  Republic 
of the Congo, is passing through a special period of its 
political  history.  The  transition  period  that  began  in 
1990 will soon draw to a close, with the establishment 
of the country’s new institutions.  

On 30 July, we held countrywide, in a climate of 
peace  and  transparency,  the  first  truly  democratic 
pluralistic  elections  in  40  years.  The  success  of  that 
undertaking  constitutes  a  great  joint  effort  by  the 
Congolese people and by the bilateral and multilateral 
partners  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  I 
would like to take this opportunity to thank all of those 
partners. 
With regard to the unfortunate events in Kinshasa 

from  20 
the 
announcement  of  the  provisional  results  of  the  first 
round  of  the  presidential  elections  by  the  Independent 
Electoral  Commission,  all  necessary  steps  have  been 
taken 
incidents  from 
happening again. The electoral process will continue in 
a climate of national peace and harmony. 
The  progress  achieved  daily,  sometimes  at  the 

cost  of  much  sacrifice,  is  the  outcome  of  a  difficult 
political process that was launched, as members know, 
after  a  long  internal  and  external  armed  conflict.  The 
humanitarian  consequences  of  that  conflict  are  one  of 
the  worst  tragedies  ever  experienced  by  mankind. 
to  22  August  2006 
to  prevent  such 
following 
in  order 
06-52885 

29 
legal  and 
A/61/PV.13 

Problems  remain  in  many  sectors,  and  the  next 
Government will have to confront them, taking account 
of  the  urgent  and  legitimate  expectations  of  the 
Congolese people. 

The  new  Government  must  continue  integrating 
and  reforming  the  army,  in  order  to  guarantee  peace 
and  security  for  our  people.  It  must  work  to  improve 
the living conditions of the population. In other words, 
it must do its utmost to meet their fundamental needs, 
in particular health care, education, food security, basic 
infrastructures, electricity and drinking water for all — 
without forgetting, of course, the fight against malaria 
and HIV/AIDS and the fight against poverty.  

In  order  to  succeed,  the  new  Government  must, 
inter  alia,  strengthen  good  governance  by  fighting 
corruption  and  guaranteeing 
judiciary 
security in the framework of ongoing judicial reform. It 
will  be  possible  to  achieve  that  vision  only  by 
mobilizing  the  energy  of  our  entire  nation  through 
active and inclusive participation by all of the sons and 
daughters  of  our  country,  whatever  their  political, 
ideological or religious convictions may be. 
In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  configuration  of 

our future parliament, which already reflects the wealth 
and political diversity of our people, and which has an 
oversight  role 
the 
functioning of the State. For that reason, I reaffirm my 
faith  in  the  concept  of  peacebuilding  and  make  an 
urgent  appeal 
to 
continue its partnerships with the Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo  after  the  establishment  of  the  new 
institutions. 

As  we  observe  the  international  scene,  we  see 
recurring  scourges,  including  continuing  tensions  and 
armed  conflicts  in  several  regions  of  the  world,  the 
worsening 
in  developing 
countries,  especially  in Africa;  the  rise  in  clandestine 
immigration; 
the  destruction  caused  by  different 
pandemics; the increase in crime and acts of terrorism; 
and the harm to the conservation and protection of the 
environment. In view of these threats, the Assembly at 
its previous session had organized, as part of its work, 
the World  Summit  of  heads  of  State  and  Government, 
dedicated 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  other  commitments 
resulting from the major international conferences and 
meetings.  
that  will  be  fundamental 
international  community 
to  an  assessment  of 
the 
living  conditions 
to 
to 
the 

increase 

Following that assessment several decisions were 
taken,  including  the  creation  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  and  the  Human  Rights  Council  —  two 
basic  structures  whose  effective  establishment  we  can 
only welcome. Achieving the MDGs is a priority for a 
good  number  of  countries,  especially 
the  most 
disadvantaged.  That  is  why  the  momentum  in  the 
implementation of the relevant recommendations of the 
Millennium Summit should not weaken. We would like 
to see our discussions here include those issues.  

In  addition  to  the  above-mentioned  scourges, 
other  matters  are  a  source  of  concern  for  our  country, 
including  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  the 
the  debt  of  developing 
complete  cancellation  of 
countries,  an 
in  official  development 
assistance, the adoption of a comprehensive convention 
on  international  terrorism  and  the  global  strategy  to 
fight  that  phenomenon,  armed  conflicts,  collective 
security, and the adoption of an international treaty on 
forced  disappearances.  All  those  issues  challenge  the 
harmonious progress of the community of nations and 
the very future of coming generations.  

To meet those challenges effectively, all countries 
of the world must show solidarity with each other, in a 
spirit of sincere cooperation and humanist justice. With 
regard to crises in the world — in the Middle East, in 
Africa or elsewhere — the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo  recommends,  more  than  ever,  their  peaceful 
solution  under  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
the relevant resolutions of the Security Council.  

I  hope  this  Assembly  shares  my  belief  in  the 
rebirth of the Democratic  Republic of the Congo with 
the advent of new institutions seeking to usher in a new 
era of peace, stability and development, not only in my 
country, but also in Central Africa and the entire region 
of 
the  challenges  our 
Organization  faces  day  after  day,  it  is  on  a  note  of 
hope,  of  solidarity  among  nations  and  of  synergy  in 
their actions for a brighter future for present and future 
generations  that  I  conclude  my  statement.  I  hope  for 
much success in our work.  

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo for 
the statement he has just made.  

Mr.  Josef  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.  
the  Great  Lakes.  Despite 
30 

06-52885 


Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate 






I  wish 
Mr.  Badawi
  Address by The Honourable Dato’ Seri 
Abdullah Ahmad Badawi, Prime Minister 
of Malaysia 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of Malaysia. 

The  Honourable  Dato’  Seri  Abdullah  Ahmad 
Badawi,  Prime  Minister  of  Malaysia,  was 
escorted to the rostrum. 

The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Dato’ Seri 
Abdullah Ahmad Badawi, Prime Minister of Malaysia, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly. 
to 
(Malaysia):  First, 

congratulate  Ms.  Haya  Rasheed  Al-Khalifa  and  the 
State of Bahrain on her election as the President of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first  session.  As  an 
Asian,  a  Muslim  and  the  current  Chairman  of  the 
Summit Conference of the Organization of the Islamic 
Conference,  I  welcome  her  election  with  pride  and 
satisfaction.  I  am  confident  that  she  will  be  able  to 
steer 
the  Assembly  with 
consummate  skill  and  achieve  meaningful  results. 
Needless to say, Malaysia will support her in any way 
that we can. 

Allow me to also pay tribute to her distinguished 
predecessor, Mr. Jan Eliasson, the Foreign Minister of 
Sweden, for the exemplary way in which he guided the 
proceedings of the Assembly’s sixtieth session, during 
some of the most trying times for the United Nations. 

Speaking of trying times, I would also like to pay 
tribute  to  Mr.  Kofi  Annan  for  his  tireless  efforts  in 
serving  humanity,  not  only  during  his  tenure  as  the 
Secretary-General  but  throughout  an  entire  career 
dedicated to the ideals of our Organization. 

I must pay a special tribute to the members of the 
Secretariat and those serving under the United Nations 
banner, in particular those who have made the ultimate 
sacrifice  of  their  lives,  like  the  four  members  of  the 
United  Nations  Interim  Force  in  Lebanon  who  were 
killed last July during the height of the Israeli offensive 
against Lebanon. 
the  proceedings  of 
A/61/PV.13

Mr.  Mérorès  (Haiti),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

We  must  continually  remind  ourselves  that  the 
United  Nations  was  brought  into  being  to  serve  as  a 
forum, and, as in Tennyson’s words, to be a parliament 
of  man.  Six  decades  later,  we  have  yet  to  achieve  the 
intentions  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  Indeed,  the 
situation in some corners of the world is bleaker than it 
ever was before. Yet the human family is still unable to 
find solutions to its own problems. 
As  I  review  in  my  mind  the  events  of  the  past 

year, I personally feel most disturbed that many of the 
ills  in  the  affairs  of  our  world  were  the  result  of 
irrational  actions  caused  by  prejudice 
in  human 
attitudes.  Basically,  we  have  failed  to  engage  in 
dialogue, communicate and reach out to one another as 
fellow humans inhabiting the same planet. Indeed, the 
greatest discord today exists among the descendants of 
Abraham.  These  are  the  People  of  the  Book:  the 
followers  of  Judaism,  Christianity  and  Islam,  who  in 
fact share a common beginning, which was the religion 
of Abraham. 
Of  course,  dialogue  will  be  endless  if  it  is  not 

accompanied  by  action.  The  purpose  of  honest 
discussion and engagement is to enable us to formulate 
rational  and  effective  policies.  To  achieve  this,  I 
believe that all of us need to listen well and be sincere 
in our relations with one another. Much of the dialogue 
that takes place results in the parties talking at, instead 
of talking to, one another. Any dialogue will certainly 
fail  if  it  is  predetermined  that  certain  States  are 
“rogues”  or  that  certain  countries  are  necessarily 
“evil”.  Such  name-calling  provides  an  excuse  not  to 
listen,  let  alone  engage  in  serious  negotiations  to  find 
amicable solutions to serious problems. 

A  blatant  example  of  the  refusal  to  grant  even  a 
hearing  was  the  early  decision  by  many  important 
countries  not  to  recognize  or  do  business  with  Hamas 
after  that  group  was  elected  to  power  in  Palestine 
through  a  properly  conducted  democratic  election. 
External  assistance  was  stopped.  Funds  were  blocked. 
As  a  result,  millions  of  Palestinians  have  suffered  for 
months  without  pay  or  food.  I  hope  that  all  sanctions 
against  Palestine  will  soon  be  a  matter  of  the  past, 
when  President Abbas  succeeds  in  the  task  of  putting 
together  a  coalition  Government  embracing  all  parties 
in  Palestine.  Surely,  to  dictate  or  show  preferences  as 
06-52885 

31 

A/61/PV.13 

to who should be elected to power in other countries is 
irrational and a sign of double standards. 

The  oppression  of  Palestine,  which  is  being 
allowed  to  fester;  the  invasion  of  Afghanistan;  the 
conquest  of  Iraq;  and,  most  recently,  the  unrestrained 
destruction of Lebanon have all been carried out in the 
name of the war against terrorism. The actions of Israel 
in  the  Middle  East  are  being  supported,  either  openly 
or tacitly, supposedly in defence of the Judeo-Christian 
tradition  against  the  spread  of  radical  militant  Islam, 
thus  legitimizing  all  those  actions,  no  matter  how 
brutal. Even Western commentators have conceded that 
Israel’s latest assault against Lebanon has helped make 
what  may  once  have  been  extremist  opinions  part  of 
the  Muslim  mainstream.  The  Muslim  world  certainly 
this  as  complicity 
sees  all 
to  humiliate  Muslim 
countries and Muslim societies. 

I am afraid that the schism between the West and 
the  Muslim  world  will  grow  even  deeper  unless  the 
international  community  is  prepared  to  accept  certain 
facts  as  the  truth.  The  fact  is  that  the  sense  of 
humiliation being felt by the Muslim world is the root 
cause for the loss of trust and confidence between the 
Muslim  world,  on  the  one  side,  and  Judeo-Christian 
civilization,  on 
international 
community  refuses  or  fails  to  accept  this  fact,  then  I 
am afraid we are denying the truth. 

I  believe  that  much  of  the  prejudice  against 
Muslims stems from a lack of understanding of the true 
nature  of  Islam  and  what  it  stands  for.  For  instance, 
there is a lack of appreciation in the West of the role of 
religion  in  the  lives  of  Muslims.  Modern  Europe  has 
generally  embraced  secularism  and  has 
largely 
removed religion from the public domain, placing it in 
the confines of the home and family. For Muslims, the 
teachings  of  Islam  serve  as  their  guide  for  doing  all 
things,  whether  conducting  their  affairs  in  the  public 
domain  or  practicing  the  religion  in  their  private 
homes.  I  suggest  that  many  of  the  misunderstandings, 
especially  those  between  the  Christian  West  and  the 
Muslim  world,  arise  out  of 
fundamental 
misunderstanding  of  the  place  of  religion  in  the  daily 
lives of Muslims all over the world. When dealing with 
Muslims, one cannot separate them from their religion, 
because that is their way of life. 

My  country,  Malaysia,  is  a  multi-ethnic,  multi-
religious,  multicultural  country.  However,  Islam  is 
respected by all our people as the official religion. The 
the  other. 
this 
the 
If 
Government  which  I  now  lead  has  embarked  on  a 
programme  to  communicate  a  proper  appreciation  of 
Islam  as  a  force  for  good.  We  call  it  Islam  Hadhari, 
which  is  an  approach  for  achieving  a  progressive 
society  that  is  compatible  with  modernity  yet  firmly 
rooted  in  the  noble  values  and  injunctions  of  Islam. 
This  approach  has  been  accepted  by  everyone  in 
Malaysia  because  underlying  the  whole  message  of 
Islam  Hadhari  is  a  call  for  equitable  development  and 
progress.  It  is  a  call  for  moderation  and  tolerance  as 
well  as  the  assurance  of  justice  and  fairness  for  all, 
irrespective of their faith. 

The point  I am making is  that Islam the religion 
is  not  the  source  of  intolerance  between  people  of 
different  faiths.  In  fact,  one  of  the  fundamental 
teachings  of  Islam  is  the  requirement  to  respect  other 
religions. The Holy Koran contains that commandment 
by  God. We  must  not  confuse  the  perverse  words  and 
evil deeds of a small number of extremists who operate 
on  the  fringes  of  Muslim  societies  as  a  reflection  of 
Islamic  culture.  The  demonization  of  Islam  must  be 
stopped  and  Islamophobia  must  be  removed.  The 
politics  of  fear  must  cease  to  dictate  the  conduct  of 
relations between peoples and nations. If the politics of 
fear is not stopped, then prejudice and irrationality will 
continue  to  prevail  in  the  affairs  of  the  world,  and 
dialogue will continue to fail. 
to 

eliminate  political  and  religious  discord  among  men, 
but  also  to  eradicate  social  and  economic  injustices, 
particularly  poverty 
an 
international  responsibility,  not  only  in  the  name  of 
humanity, but also as a necessary aspect of maintaining 
international peace and stability. 

We must therefore do all we can to ensure that the 
impoverished and marginalized also enjoy the fruits of 
economic  growth,  globalization  and  free  trade.  It 
would  indeed  be  unfortunate  if  we  were  unable  to  do 
so,  because  the  world  has  become  more  wealthy  than 
ever  before.  We  should  learn  from  history  that  any 
economic  system  in  which  disparities  exist  cannot  be 
sustained in the long term. All too often, such societies 
come to a violent end. The civil wars and social unrest 
we witness today mark a phase that we must stop. 

to 
prosperity,  inclusion  and  equity  is  sustained  economic 
growth  based  on  the  building  of  national  capacities, 
particularly  human 
capital  development.  While 
However,  we  must  persevere,  not  only 
and  disease.  That 
firmly  believes 
Malaysia 
the  key 
is 
that 
32 

06-52885 
A/61/PV.13

The  Honourable  Dato’  Seri  Abdullah  Ahmad 
Badawi,  Prime  Minister  of  Malaysia,  was 
escorted from the rostrum. 



to 
trade 
trade 
talks.  Malaysia  will  continue 
of  multilateral 


education and skills by themselves are no guarantee of 
success,  they  are  indispensable  ingredients  for  the 
greater  productivity  of  individual  citizens,  which  in 
turn gives them hope for a better future. 

However,  efforts  at  the  national  level  alone  are 
not  sufficient.  Those  efforts  need  to  be  supplemented 
by  the  establishment  of  an  international  economic 
order  that  would  cover  areas  such  as  trade,  finance, 
debt,  official  development  assistance  (ODA)  and 
development,  and  that  would  enable  the  developing 
world  to  overcome  its  difficulties  and  contribute  to 
global  prosperity.  Some  progress  has  been  made,  but 
the overall results have been far from satisfactory. 

Given  the  economic  clout  that  the  developed 
countries  possess,  it  is  essential  that  they  demonstrate 
flexibility  and  goodwill  at  this  critical  juncture  in  the 
world 
to  be 
supportive 
negotiations. 
Malaysia’s approach will, however, never be premised 
simply  on  the  notion  of  progressive  liberalization. We 
will  continue 
take  a  pragmatic  approach  by 
combining  liberalization  with  regulation  in  a  policy 
mix consistent with the country’s economic conditions 
and development needs. 

It  is  all  too  clear  that  our  human  family  must 
come  together  and  that  its  members  must  talk  to  one 
another  if  we  are  to  overcome  the  problems  that 
threaten  to  engulf  us  all. To  talk,  however,  is  easy;  to 
engage  in  dialogue  and  to  communicate  is  more 
difficult.  Indeed,  this  may  be  the  most  difficult  of  all 
human endeavours, given the human temperament with 
all  its  passions  and  foibles.  It  will  require  courage, 
humility  and  an  appreciation  of  the  diversities  that 
make us human.  
We  must  not  be  patronizing  or  condescending  in 

our  relationships,  and  we  must  certainly  not  be 
threatening.  We  must  be  persuasive  and  patient  in 
dealing with complexities. The pursuit of peace, justice 
and fairness in relations among nations and peoples has 
never been easy. Let us take up this challenge, with all 
the  fortitude  that  it  requires,  and  together  put  into 
effect a better world. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French): On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  Malaysia  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made. 
like 
to 
thank 
First  of  all,  I  would 
  Address by Mr. Adnan Terzić, Chairman of the 
Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the Chairman of 
the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 

Mr.  Adnan  Terzić,  Chairman  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  was 
escorted to the rostrum. 

The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Adnan 
Terzić, Chairman of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly. 

Mr.  Terzić  (Bosnia  and  Herzegovina)  (spoke  in 
Bosnian; English text provided by the delegation): It is 
a  great  honour  and  a  pleasure  to  address  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-first session on behalf of Bosnia 
and Herzegovina. 

to  congratulate 
Ms. Al-Khalifa  on  her  election  to  her  important  post, 
and  also 
the  former  President  for  his 
contribution to the United Nations reform process. 

Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  the  European 
Union  (EU),  which  provides  a  framework  for  the 
discussion  of 
stability, 
development,  human  rights,  the  rule  of  law  and  the 
need  to  further  strengthen  and  reform  the  United 
Nations. 
We endorse the EU statement, but we would also 

the  Assembly  Bosnia  and 
to  share  with 
like 
Herzegovina’s  experience 
the 
implementation  of  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law 
and 
a  post-conflict 
environment.  We  believe  that  in  that  way  we  can 
contribute  to  the  future  success  of  the  international 
community elsewhere in the world. 

Bosnia and Herzegovina is, beyond any doubt, an 
example of successful intervention by the international 
community,  despite  a  few  negative  experiences.  I 
would  like  to  make  it  absolutely  clear  that  the  job  in 
Bosnia and Herzegovina is not yet done. There are still 
economic  development 
in  peacebuilding, 
such  as  peace, 
issues 
in 
06-52885 

33 

A/61/PV.13 

some bridges that we have to cross before we will have 
finished the 15-year-long marathon task of stopping the 
fighting, promoting reconciliation and building a stable 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  with  a  view  to  becoming  an 
EU member in the near future. 

Bosnia and Herzegovina belongs to Europe; it is 
part  of  the  European  continent.  Medical  students  — 
future  doctors  —  all  take  the  Hippocratic  oath.  They 
swear to apply the highest ethical norms. Law students 
get  their  basic  training  from  the  standards  of  Roman 
law. The European heritage and European practices are 
firmly  rooted  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina.  We  must 
now embrace all European Union standards and norms. 
We  do  not  feel  discouraged  when  we  hear  people  talk 
of  “enlargement  fatigue”.  Through  the  enlargement 
process, Europe is spreading democracy itself. It would 
be  completely  contrary  to  EU  and  United  Nations 
principles to grow tired of the spread of democracy. 

Recent events in the Middle East have shown us 
how important it is to achieve a just and lasting peace 
there. But just as we sympathize with people living in 
crisis areas today, so too those living in such areas can 
observe  the  process  of  peacebuilding  in  Bosnia.  One 
should pay attention not just to the stabilization of one 
State in the Balkans but also to the capacity that the EU 
and  the  rest  of  the  international  community  have  to 
initiate swift and efficient intervention. 
We in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been assisted 

by 
the 
the  United  Nations,  NATO, 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe, 
the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  and  the 
Council of Europe. We have also benefited from other, 
unique  assistance  mechanisms,  such  as  the  recently 
established  Office  of  the  High  Representative  and  the 
Peace 
include 
European  Union  members,  Japan,  Russia,  the  United 
States of America, Canada, Turkey and others.  

The  war  has  been  stopped,  the  refugees  have 
returned  and  today  we  are  negotiating  a  Stabilization 
and  Association  Agreement  with  the  EU.  However, 
none  of  us  should  allow  the  current  flaws  in  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina  to  develop  into  something  more 
serious, leading to instability. 

As magnificent as it was in terms of stopping the 
war, the Dayton Peace Agreement did not tackle some 
essential issues, such as providing for every citizen to 
enjoy  equal  rights  throughout  the  country,  or  for  the 
Implementation  Council,  which 
the  EU, 
to 
thereby  qualified 
State  to  be  able  to  exercise  its  powers  as  a  modern, 
multi-ethnic State. 

Many  visitors  to  my  country  are  especially 
impressed  by  the  number  of  churches,  mosques  and 
synagogues  that  there  are,  and  the  way  in  which  they 
coexist in close proximity to one another, serving their 
purpose  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina. That  is  the  spirit 
of Bosnia that we inherited from our ancestors, but the 
Dayton  Agreements  have  not  enabled  us  to  maintain 
that traditional aspect of the country. 
On  the  other  hand,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  has 

to  achieve  economic  and  political 
been  able 
its  prospects  for 
development,  which  strengthens 
joining  Euro-Atlantic 
integration  processes.  The 
number of foreign military troops on our soil has been 
reduced  tenfold  and  the  mandate  of  the  EU-led 
peacekeeping  force  has  shifted  from  stabilization  to 
integration.  We  have  established  a  single  economic 
space  and  a  single  judiciary  system,  and  the  various 
intelligence  services  are  now  united  and  are  for  the 
first  time  under  strict  and  democratic  parliamentary 
supervision.  We  have  formed  a  single  State-level 
for 
Ministry  of  Defence,  and 
accession 
for  Peace 
programme. 

Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  as  it  is  today,  was  not 
shaped  by  conventional  political  means.  Its  structure 
was defined by the Dayton Peace Agreement as a way 
to  prevent  war.  The  sustainability  of  the  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  of  Dayton  has  been  strengthened  by  the 
launching  of 
the  Stabilization  and  Association 
Agreement  negotiations  with  the  European  Union, 
which began on the tenth anniversary of the signing of 
the Dayton Agreement. 
is 

The  Office  of 
scheduled  to  be  abolished  in  the  middle  of  next  year. 
That  Office  will  be  transformed  into  the  Office  of  the 
Special  Representative  of  the  EU  for  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina.  That  should  be  linked  to  our  signing  of 
the SAA with the European Union. So far, negotiations 
have gone well, and Bosnia has demonstrated sufficient 
awareness  and technical  ability to  enable it to  embark 
on  the  Euro-integration  project.  We  are  preparing  for 
elections  in  October,  but,  unfortunately,  the  ongoing 
campaigns  have  delayed  our  efforts  to  fulfil  the  vital 
political criteria. 
Next week, by voting, the citizens of Bosnia and 

Herzegovina will have an opportunity to participate in 
the  High  Representative 
the  NATO  Partnership 
34 

06-52885 


the  shaping  of  their  future.  They  deserve  election 
campaigns  that  look  not  at  the  past,  but  towards  the 
future. They do not deserve campaigns such as the one 
that was characterized last week by the EU Council of 
Ministers  as  a  cause  for  concern  and  prompted  it  to 
stress  the  EU’s  commitment  to  the  territorial  integrity 
of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 

Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  participates  actively  in 
regional cooperation, and we participate in all regional 
initiatives,  including  the  Stability  Pact  for  South 
Eastern  Europe,  the  South-East  European  Cooperation 
Process,  the  Adriatic  and  Ionian  Initiative  and  many 
other  programmes  and  projects.  On  that  basis,  a  huge 
number  of  bilateral  and  multilateral  agreements  were 
signed,  creating  an  international  legal  framework  for 
cooperation  on  and  the  harmonization  of  a  number  of 
issues. 

That  is  especially  interesting  in  the  light  of  the 
Kosovo  issue.  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  keeps  a  close 
eye  on  the  negotiations.  We  believe  that  any  solution 
must  be  the  result  of  negotiations  if  both  sides  are  to 
accept  it.  Any  future  solution  should  accommodate  a 
common  future  within  the  Euro-Atlantic  environment. 
The  consequences  of  the  final  solution,  once  it  is 
found,  must  under  no  circumstances  jeopardize  the 
stability  of  the  region  or  that  of  the  neighbouring 
States. 

I  am  pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  the 
Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is on 
the  path  to  successfully  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development 
are 
complementary  with  the  criteria  for  European  Union 
membership.  In  cooperation  with  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  is 
developing capacities for the detection  and prevention 
of illegal trading in and the proliferation of radioactive 
materials throughout our territory. 

and 
Herzegovina  is  quite  active  in  the  implementation  of 
the  Ottawa  Convention  on  the  Prohibition  of  the  Use, 
Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel 
Mines and on Their Destruction. It is well known that 
there  is  still  a  significant  number  of  landmines  in  our 
country as a consequence of war. I should like to thank 
all the countries that have contributed to the demining 
process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 

Nations  programmes 
We  are  also  playing  an  active  role  in  United 
issue  of 
country,  Bosnia 
a  mine-affected 
that  address 
priorities 
Goals. 
Those 
As 
A/61/PV.13
the  High  Representative 
the  Human  Rights  Council  and 
HIV/AIDS.  We  have  established  a  State-level 
commission  to  fight AIDS.  Its  current  activities  focus 
on preventing the disease from spreading, establishing 
an  early  warning  system,  and  informing  the  public  of 
the dangers of the disease. 

As a young democracy and a country with special 
experience,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  supported  the 
forming  of 
the 
strengthening  of  the  role  of  the  Office  of  the  High 
Commissioner for Human Rights. We believe that their 
work  is  gaining  in  importance  every  day. We  strongly 
and  decisively  support  the  international  system  for 
universal human rights protection. 

In  my  country,  human  rights  have  been  violated 
not  only  by  war  and  crises,  but  also  by  certain 
decisions of the international community. One example 
is  the  problem  of  decertified  police  officers.  The 
decisions of the United Nations-led international police 
caused  them  to  lose  their  work  permits.  They  were 
offered  no  opportunity  to  file  complaints  or  take  their 
cases  to  any  type  of  court  review.  Our  Ministry  for 
Human Rights has prepared, in close cooperation with 
the  Office  of 
the 
Implementation of the Peace Agreement on Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, a possible model for a review process, to 
be led by the European Union Police Mission in Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  the  current  representative  of  the 
international police presence in the country. The absurd 
and  flagrant  violation  of  human  rights  committed  by 
the  United  Nations  itself  is  a  mistake  that  must  be 
acknowledged.  It  can  thereby  be  corrected  and  the 
credibility  of  the  United  Nations  as  an  institution 
preserved. 

international 
obligations  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  is  cooperation 
with  The  Hague  Tribunal  for  war  crimes.  That  is 
indeed  a  precondition  for  long-term  stability.  That  is 
why it was offered to the entire region as a condition of 
further  progress  in  Euro-Atlantic  terms.  According  to 
the  data  gathered  by  both  domestic  and  foreign 
intelligence, most wanted war criminals are not hiding 
on  the  territory  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina.  Our 
institutions  are  focused  on  cutting  off  the  financial 
support  networks.  It  is  a  sad  and  pitiful  fact  that 
Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic have not yet been 
arrested,  but 
is  even  worse  for  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina and its citizens to be punished because of 
the two of them. We are penalizing the victims instead 
of  punishing  the  criminals.  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina 
the  most 
important 
One  of 
for 
it 
the 
06-52885 

35 

the  State 
A/61/PV.13 

must  be  allowed  to  pursue  progress  on  its  road  to 
democratization  and  the  European  Union,  because 
improvement in that regard will create an even stronger 
mechanism  for  destroying  the  war  criminals’  support 
network. 

The  horrible  terrorist  attacks  on  New  York,  the 
anniversary of which we recently marked, changed the 
world’s entire security paradigm. The attacks made us 
think  in  ever  more  serious  terms.  Terrorism  is  one  of 
the greatest challenges faced by the modern world, and 
it  is  virtually  impossible  for  countries  to  respond  to 
such  a  challenge  individually.  Member  States  may 
individually  strengthen  their  capacities,  but  a  global 
and  complete  response  can  be  achieved  only  by  the 
United Nations. 
Having  established  the  Ministry  of  Security,  an 

investigations  and 
intelligence  agency  and  an 
protection  agency  at 
level,  and  by 
coordinating their work through the Counter-Terrorism 
Task  Force,  we  have  undertaken  a  series  of  very 
important  steps  not  just  in  terms  of  internal  reforms, 
but also in terms of our contribution to the global anti-
terrorist  campaign. We  have  adopted  an  anti-terrorism 
strategy  for  the  period  2006-2009  that  will  guide  us 
through  the  implementation  of  European  standards  in 
that field. We are in the final stages of adopting a new 
law on the fight against terrorism and financial support 
for terrorism. 
and  Herzegovina  wholeheartedly 

Bosnia 
supported 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  and  we  genuinely  hoped  to  contribute 
actively  to  its  work.  The  experience  of  peacebuilding 
in  Bosnia  is  vast  and  relevant,  and  we  are  eager  to 
share it with other Member States. 
Although our country was not elected, we wish to 

thank  all those who supported us through the process. 
At  the  very  least,  we  sent  yet  another  signal  to  the 
world  that  we  are  no  longer  simply  the  receivers  of 
international  aid.  The 
support  we  gained  has 
encouraged us to continue to insist on a more balanced 
and  more  proactive  participation  in  United  Nations 
projects worldwide. In that context, I stress Bosnia and 
Herzegovina’s  aspirations  as  a  candidate  for  non-
permanent membership of the Security Council for the 
term 2010-2011, and I would welcome the Assembly’s 
support in that regard. 
to 

participate in international peace efforts. We have sent 
limited  capacities,  we 
the  establishment  of 
Despite  our 
try 
to 
like 
I  would  also 
to  call  attention 
our military observers and police officers to the Congo, 
Ethiopia, Liberia, Haiti, the Sudan, Eritrea and Cyprus. 
As a sign of our support for the Iraqi people, we have 
deployed  a  demining  squadron  to  assist,  to  the  extent 
of  its  capacities,  in  building  a  sustainable  and  stable 
Iraq.  

The  escalation  of  conflict  in  the  Middle  East 
marked 
this  summer  and  claimed  many  victims, 
numerous  civilians  among  them.  We  support  Security 
Council  resolution  1701  (2006)  calling  for  a  full 
cessation  of  hostilities.  We  particularly  appreciate  the 
diplomatic  efforts  of  Security  Council  members, 
including the United States and France, that led to the 
final harmonization of the resolution. We hope that this 
positive breakthrough will constitute a sound basis for 
diplomatic  efforts  in  the  Middle  East  and  that  lasting 
peace will finally be achieved in that region. 

the 
humanitarian  issues  that  are  generally  discussed  at 
every  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  In  order  to 
contribute  to  the  work  of  the  humanitarian  agencies 
and  United  Nations  efforts  in  general  regarding  that 
very  important  field,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  has 
submitted 
the  membership  a  draft  declaration 
relating  to  basic  tenets  of  humanitarian  action  in 
emergency situations, contained in document A/60/627. 
The  Government  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  seeks  to 
contribute  to  progress  in  world  preparedness  for 
emergency  situations  on  the  basis  of  our  own  lessons 
learnt. I invite Member States to consider the adoption 
of the draft declaration and to continue to contribute to 
progress in such important activities globally. 

In  conclusion,  I  thank  all  members  for  the 
assistance  and  support  that  we  received  from  the 
international  community  in  years  gone  by  and  to 
express  my  hope  that  they  will  use  their  voices  to 
support  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  as  a  candidate  for 
non-permanent  Security  Council  membership.  In  so 
doing,  they  will  contribute  to  Bosnia’s  assumption  of 
its place in international relations. Furthermore, I wish 
to  thank  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  on  behalf  of  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina,  for  his  contribution  and  commitment  to 
stability  and  prosperity 
in  my  country.  He  has 
confirmed his commitment by visiting us twice. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Chairman  of  the  Council  of  Ministers  of  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina for the statement he has just made. 
to 
36 

06-52885 



Mr.  Adnan  Terzić,  Chairman  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  was 
escorted from the rostrum. 



  Address by Mr. Ivo Sanader, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Croatia 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Croatia. 

Mr.  Ivo  Sanader,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic 
of Croatia, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 

great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ivo 
Sanader,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Croatia, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly. 
Mr. Sanader (Croatia): At the outset, allow me to 

join  other  delegations  in  congratulating  the  President 
of the General Assembly on her election and to express 
my  deep  conviction  that,  under  her  skilful  leadership, 
this session will achieve remarkable results. 

Allow me also to extend my country’s sentiments 
of  deepest  appreciation  to  Secretary-General  Kofi 
Annan. His relentless work for a better world has been 
most  remarkable.  Leading  the  United  Nations  for  10 
times,  his  achievements, 
years 
in  very  sensitive 
humanism,  vision  and 
initiatives  have  crucially 
contributed 
the  Organization.  That  has  been 
recognized  worldwide.  I  wish  him  all  the  best  in  his 
future engagements and thank him. 
We  live  in  a  fragile  world  —  a  world  disturbed 

and  unsettled,  a  world  that  is  marked  by  conflicts, 
controversies  and  confrontations  of  an  entirely  new 
nature.  The  architecture  and  mindsets  of  yesterday’s 
world  are  giving  way  to  a  web  of  new  challenges. 
Yesterday,  it  was  all  about  blocs,  ideologies,  the  cold 
war  and  appeasement.  Today,  it  is  all  about  ethnicity, 
conflicts,  burning  regions,  colliding  religions,  mass 
destruction, terror and poverty. 

Today,  international  order  is  marked  by  three 
extremely  demanding  and  global  challenges:  global 
tensions,  global  imbalances  and  global  constraints.  In 
that  triangle,  we  need  to  strive  to  deliver  sustainable 
solutions.  Our  responsibility  is  enormous  —  indeed, 
even  as  we  seek  to  ensure  global  opportunities, 
freedom  and  shared  values,  this  new  world  in  the 
in  danger  of 
making 
into  mistrust, 
disagreements and divisions. 
lapsing 
to 
is 
A/61/PV.13
in 

We live in a world of extraordinary inequalities in 
opportunity,  but  our  world  is  also  a  global  and 
interdependent one, where a broad sharing of economic 
and  political  opportunities  could  serve  as  an  effective 
instrument  for  economic  growth  and  development.  In 
so  doing,  we  can  start  turning  the  internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  including  the  Millennium 
Development Goals, into action. 

My  country  is  aware  that  a  greater  mobilization 
of  domestic  resources  in  developing  countries  is  a 
necessity.  Croatia  has  made  significant  progress  in 
creating  an  enabling  environment  for  partnership  and 
innovation.  Tremendous  changes  have  taken  place  in 
the  development  of  a  market  economy,  changing 
ownership structures, creating a business environment, 
and reforms in the public and private sector. Above all, 
Croatia  has  progressed 
ensuring  domestic 
democratic  stability  and  a  prosperous  international 
position as a framework for long-term development. 

Croatia  supports  the  commitments  to  the  goals 
and  targets  deriving  from  the  United  Nations  summits 
in  Monterrey  and  Johannesburg,  and 
the  related 
processes, such as the Doha Development Agenda and 
the  Paris  Declaration  on  Aid  Effectiveness.  We  also 
support  the  emphasis  on  achieving  the  targets  in 
developed countries for official development assistance 
based  on  actual  needs  —  rising  from  today’s  0.33  per 
cent of gross national income to at least 0.51 per cent 
by  2010  and  0.7  per  cent  by  2015  —  to  meet  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  each  country’s 
absorption  capacity.  We  recognize  that  mobilizing 
financial  resources  for  development  and  the  effective 
use  of  those  resources  in  developing  countries  are 
central to a global partnership for development. 

level  of  official 
development  assistance  is  not  enough  to  enable  the 
international  community 
its  obligations 
towards  the  countries  in  need.  It  is  also  necessary  to 
contribute to  a more equitable distribution of  aid that, 
unfortunately,  quite  often  remains  outside  the  regular 
economic  and  financial  flows.  Croatia  also  welcomes 
initiatives to enhance the quality of aid and to increase 
its impact, bearing in mind the fact that progress both 
for  donors  and  for  partner  countries  can  be  facilitated 
by  the  harmonization  efforts  at  the  international  and 
regional  levels.  Therefore,  we  stress  the  need  for  an 
integrated approach among international institutions. 
Still,  simply 
raising 
fulfil 
the 
to 
06-52885 

37 

the 
A/61/PV.13 

Croatia recognizes the needs of Africa, especially 

sub-Saharan  Africa  and 
least  developed  and 
landlocked  developing  States,  as  well  as  the  special 
vulnerabilities  of  small  island  developing  States.  We 
are  therefore  pleased  that  those  groups  of  countries 
received  specific  reference  in  the  Outcome  Document 
of  2005,  thus  emphasizing  their  particular  needs  and 
circumstances.  The  less  fortunate  must  not  be  left 
behind.  Special  attention  should  be  given  to  countries 
emerging from wars and undergoing a costly, complex 
and  highly  demanding  post-conflict  management 
process. 

Croatia  strongly  supports  yesterday’s  official 
launching  of  the  International  Drug  Purchase  Facility 
initiative.  We  see  it  as  a  significant  step  forward  and 
express  our  hopes  that  all  countries  will  render  their 
contribution. 
As  a  contributor  to  various  United  Nations 

programmes  and  funds,  my  country  confirms 
its 
capacity to support the activities of the United Nations 
in numerous fields. We will increasingly continue to do 
so.  During  the  past  few  years,  Croatia  has  started  to 
contribute  voluntarily  to  a  number  of  United  Nations 
activities, programmes and bodies: the United Nations 
Children’s  Fund,  the  United  Nations  Trust  Fund  for 
African  Development  and  the  Office  of  the  High 
Commissioner for Human Rights, to mention but a few. 
Being  a  small  country,  Croatia  has  limited  financial 
and human resources, but that will not hinder us from 
sharing, helping and assisting. 

Global  economic  and  human  development  must 
remain in our focus, but as we meet today, the focus is 
very  much  on  global  tensions  and  instability.  Today, 
many  ongoing  regional  crises  continue  to  cause  great 
humanitarian  tragedies  around  the  world,  seriously 
destabilizing  regional  and  global  security.  Those  arcs 
of  instability  are  creating  a network  of  fear  and  anger 
across many parts of the world. Terrorism is taking on 
new  dimensions  and 
forms.  Weapons  of  mass 
destruction  are  yet  another  cause  of  grave  concern. 
Economic  imbalances  and  social  impediments  are 
becoming  new  sources  of  instability  across  the  world. 
Religious  divisions  and  misunderstandings  add  a  new 
and dangerous dimension to insecurity in the world. 

The  significant  growth  of  international  terrorism 
has  caused  an  unhealthy  atmosphere  of  mistrust, 
religious 
and  grave 
infringements  of  human  rights.  Those  consequences 
intolerance, 
cultural 
and 
in 
its 
all 
forms 
terrorism 
have  in  time  developed  into  their  own  separate  and 
extremely  dangerous  problems 
that  exponentially 
threaten already fragile international relations. 

The  Republic  of  Croatia,  as  a  member  of  the 
global  anti-terrorist  coalition,  strongly  condemns 
international 
and 
manifestations  and,  bearing  in  mind  the  ever-evolving 
threat  of  terrorism  —  especially  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  and  cyber-terrorism  —  calls  for  even 
stronger  global  cooperation  in  the  suppression  of  that 
modern-day scourge. 

We  must  prove  to  our  nations  that  we  will  stay 
firm and united against terrorism. In that light, a strong 
commitment  to  achieving  a  global  consensus  on  a 
definition  of  terrorism  and  a  final  adoption  of  the 
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism 
are  very  much  needed  and  would  reaffirm  the  central 
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  suppression  of 
terrorism.  It  that  respect,  we  welcome  the  United 
Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy,  launched 
yesterday,  and express our hope that all countries will 
implement it. 
The  Republic  of  Croatia  has  established  very 

good  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations,  especially 
the  Security  Council’s  Counter-Terrorism  Committee 
and  its  Executive  Directorate. Additionally,  on  15  and 
16 May, a Monitoring Team for the implementation of 
Security  Council 
(1999)  visited 
Croatia  and  met  with  representatives  of  all  relevant 
Government  bodies  involved  in  the  suppression  of 
terrorism. 

Year  by  year,  we  continue  our  great  cooperation 
with  the  Terrorism  Prevention  Branch  of  the  United 
Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  in  Vienna,  which 
has  resulted 
in  a  recently  held  national  expert 
workshop  on  international  cooperation  in  criminal 
matters  related  to  terrorism,  organized  through  our 
joint  cooperation  in  June  this  year  in  Valbandon, 
Croatia. 

Weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  a  common 
approach  to  non-proliferation  must  remain  our  focus. 
Responsibility  for  world  peace  and  security  must 
continue  to  be  the  key  guideline  in  dealing  with  that 
grave  challenge.  The  rules  and  standards  must  be 
globally  accepted  and  the  United  Nations  and  its 
specialized  institutions  and  agencies  must  continue  to 
play a pivotal role. 
resolution  1267 
38 

06-52885 
the 
stemming 
from 
in  South-East  Europe 
international  community  and 



My  country  won  its  liberty  only  a  decade  ago. 
Aggression and crises in our part of Europe presented 
the  entire 
international  community  with  a  new 
challenge  at  that  time.  Regional  conflicts  emerged  as 
the  new  and  disturbing  roots  of  new  dangers  to 
international  peace,  and  they  remain  a  challenge  in 
many  parts  of  the  world.  In  that  light,  stability  and 
peace 
and  post-conflict 
management  and  cooperation  must  be  viewed  as  a 
success  for 
the 
countries involved. 

My  country  played  and  continues  to  play  a 
prominent  and leading role in providing for long-term 
stability,  cooperation  and  democratic  development  for 
all  of  South-East  Europe,  based  on  the  commonly 
shared  vision  of  a  new,  united  and  secure  Europe. 
Already  negotiating  future  full  membership  in  the 
European Union, and based on the progress of reforms 
in  the  military  and  the  security  sector  —  as  well  as 
standing  at  the  threshold  of  NATO  membership  — 
Croatia  is  today  an  anchor  of  stability,  security  and 
cooperation.  Croatia  is  therefore  an  indispensable 
partner  in  the  historical  transformation  of  that  often-
troubled  and  critically  important  region  for  European 
and world peace, transforming it into a zone of modern 
society and democratic standards and values. 

Croatia’s specific position as a Central European, 
Danubian  and  Mediterranean  country  provides  added 
in  bilateral  and  multilateral  contacts  and 
value 
experience, 
in 
numerous global, European and regional organizations 
and  initiatives  in  the  fields  of  security,  democratic 
development  and  economic  cooperation, 
including 
Croatia’s  current  presidency  of 
the  South-East 
European Cooperation Process. 

democratic 
and 
cooperation,  as  well  as  the  resolution  of  remaining 
open issues and completing the security architecture of 
that part of Europe, will also have to be closely linked 
to the indispensability of the protection and promotion 
of  universal  values,  the  rule  of  law,  human  rights  and 
democracy,  as  well  as  their  interrelationship  with 
security and development. 

Croatia supports efforts to accelerate democracy’s 
movement around the world, particularly through such 
intergovernmental  organizations  as  the  Community  of 
Democracies.  Last  year,  as  a  signatory  of  the Warsaw 
Declaration  of  the  Community  of  Democracies,  the 
its  participation 
development 
Stability, 
A/61/PV.13
to  reaffirm 
Republic of Croatia contributed to the founding of the 
United  Nations  Democracy  Fund 
its 
commitment  to  encouraging  other  countries  on  their 
path to democratization. 

Croatia  welcomes  the  fact  that  the  International 
Criminal Court (ICC) has begun work on its first cases. 
We  attach  great  importance  to  the  continuation  of  the 
ICC’s successful work. Croatia also welcomes the fact 
that  the  number  of  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute 
has  reached  and  surpassed  100,  and  we  hope  that  the 
number  will  continue  to  rise. The  Republic  of  Croatia 
also  supports  the  work  of  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY) in pursuing 
its  completion  strategy.  Croatia  continues  to  fully 
cooperate  with 
the  ICTY  as  part  of  our  own 
advancement  towards  the  rule  of  law,  and  also  as  an 
indicator  and  impetus  for  the  region,  with  the  aim  of 
overcoming the legacy of the recent past in South-East 
Europe. 

The  Republic  of  Croatia  has  been  a  member  of 
numerous  United  Nations  bodies  and  very  active  in 
organizing  and  hosting  conferences  and  other 
multilateral activities. My country is now ready to take 
the  next  step  in  strengthening  our  responsibility  as  a 
Member  of  the  United  Nations.  For  that  reason,  the 
Republic of Croatia has presented its candidature for a 
non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council  for  the 
term 2008-2009 at the elections to be held in 2007. 

Croatia  recognizes  the  importance  of  global 
multilateralism, as well as the growing significance of 
regional  organizations  in  tackling  the  challenges  of 
today’s  world.  The  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  the 
promotion 
for 
development  and  the  achievement  of  the  development 
goals  agreed  by  the  international  community  must 
remain fundamental, pivotal and re-energized. We also 
welcome  the  strengthening  of  coordination  within  the 
United  Nations  system,  in  close  cooperation  with  all 
other  multilateral  financial,  trade  and  development 
institutions,  in  order  to  support  sustained  economic 
growth and sustainable development. 

Allow  me  to  refer  to  one  of  the  messages  of  the 
Outcome  Document  of  last  year’s  Summit  —  namely, 
the  notion  that  there  will  be  no  development  without 
security  and  no  security  without  development.  We 
acknowledge that peace and security, development and 
human  rights  are  the  pillars  of  the  United  Nations 
system  and  the  basis  of  our  collective  security  and 
international 
cooperation 
of 
06-52885 

39 
A/61/PV.13 

well-being.  We  recognize  that  development,  peace, 
security  and  human  rights  are  interdependent  and 
mutually  reinforcing.  In  facing  that  challenge,  the 
United Nations system is called on to play an enhanced 
development role. 

Croatia welcomes the inauguration of the Human 
Rights  Council  and  considers  it  to  be  a  milestone  for 
the global promotion of human rights. My country also 
the  Peacebuilding 
welcomes 
the  establishment  of 
Commission,  which  arose  from 
the  need  for  a 
coordinated  and  integrated  approach  to  post-conflict 
peacebuilding. 

My country is pleased to have been elected to the 
Peacebuilding Commission in May, and I would like to 
use  this  opportunity  to  thank  all  the  States  that  voted 
for us and placed their confidence in Croatia. Our wish 
is  to  contribute  actively  to  the  United  Nations  system 
of  collective  security  in  an  effective  and  transparent 
way,  as  embodied  in  the  Charter  and  aligned  with  the 
Millennium Declaration. 
Croatia  welcomes  another  visible  result  of  the 

efforts 
the 
establishment  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  as  the 
main  standing  body  of  the  United  Nations  on  human 
rights. 

the most important tasks we need to address. 

In this fragile world, the need for an efficient and 
democratic world body is ever increasing. The Summit 
of  heads  of  State  and  Government  held  in  2005 
provided  us  with  a  platform  for  further  action  toward 
the  reform  of  our  Organization. There  has  been  noted 
progress  on  several  important  reform  issues,  but  we 
cannot  be  satisfied  with  the  pace  of  the  process.  My 
country  believes  that  the  reform  of  the  Organization 
and of the Security Council must justly take account of 
the  interests  of  all.  Croatia  advocates  the  enlargement 
of the Security Council in both the permanent and non-
permanent  categories  of  membership,  based  on 
the 
appropriate 
Eastern  European  Group  would  have 
two  non-
permanent  seats.  It  is  of  the  utmost  importance  in  a 
new,  enlarged  Council  to  have  an  appropriate  number 
of  representatives  of  the  developing  countries  of  the 
South  and  better  representation  of  small  and  medium-
sized countries. 
Now, allow me to share some remarks on one of 
the  United  Nations  — 
regional  representation 
in  which 
to 
reform 

including  peace  and 

Additionally,  the  reform  of  the  Council  should 
extend to its working methods and its interaction with 
other  principal  bodies  of  the  Organization,  first  and 
most  importantly  the  Economic  and  Social  Council. 
That  would  strengthen  the  United  Nations  in  a  wide 
range  of  areas, 
security, 
development and human rights. There is also a need to 
improve  United  Nations  management  practices  and 
working methods to raise the whole system to a higher 
level of transparency and accountability.  

Mindful that peace and security are prerequisites 
for economic and social prosperity, Croatia would like 
to  remain  engaged  in  and  responsive  to  current 
concerns  on  reforming  the  United  Nations  system  in 
order  to  make  it  a  stronger  and  more  effective 
Organization  for  times  to  come.  That  is  our  common 
responsibility. We need to act today in order to prepare 
ourselves  in  a  timely  manner  for  the  challenges  of 
tomorrow. 

Although  one  third  of  the  entire  Millennium 
Development  Goals  period  is  already  behind  us,  the 
targets set are, regrettably, not being met at the desired 
pace. That must be changed as a matter of urgency, as 
it is undoubtedly an issue affecting the future security 
and  stability  of  the  world.  We  must  move  forward  in 
assisting  developing  countries  and  other  countries  in 
need to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. 

As  I  mentioned  at  the  outset  of  my  address, 
Croatia  has  presented  its  candidature  for  a  non-
permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council  for  the  term 
2008-2009,  the  elections  for  which  are  to  be  held  in 
2007. I feel the need to stress that Croatia’s candidacy 
is, above all, a measure of Croatia’s responsibility. 

I have mentioned the fragility of today’s world. I 
have  not  mentioned  the  fragility,  uncertainties  and 
challenges that Croatia experienced in the recent past. 
They are well known, but at the same time they are the 
source  of  our  understanding  of  and  responsiveness  to 
the  needs  of  a  fragile  world.  We  believe  that  we  can 
contribute  to  building  a  new  cooperative  world  in 
responding to our new challenges and to enhancing our 
Organization.  Croatian  membership  in  the  Security 
Council would also serve as a telling demonstration of 
the success of the peace process in South-East Europe. 

My  country  went  through  a  successful  transition 
from being a country receiving peacekeeping forces to 
one  that  is  now  a  contributor  to  11  of  the  18  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations  in  various  regions 
06-52885 
40 

in 
international  courses 


throughout  the  world.  Croatia  also  provides  training 
and  hosts 
the  field  of 
peacebuilding.  We  are  therefore  well  aware  of  the 
added  value  that  countries  that  have  rebuilt  their 
national  capacities  bring  to  the  credibility  of  such  an 
important  body  for  the  cause  of  international  peace, 
security and development. Croatia stands determined to 
continue  to  support  peace  efforts  and  a  strengthened 
United Nations role on a regional and global level. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Croatia  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Ivo  Sanader,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic 
of Croatia, was escorted from the rostrum. 

The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Sheikh  Mohammad 
Al-Sabah  Al-Salem  Al-Sabah,  Deputy  Prime  Minister 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Kuwait. 

Sheikh  Mohammad  Al-Sabah  Al-Salem  
Al-Sabah (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): I am pleased to 
convey to Sheikha Haya Rashed Al Khalifa, on behalf 
of the State of Kuwait, its Government and people, our 
most  sincere  congratulations  to  her  personally  and  to 
her brotherly country, the Kingdom of Bahrain, on her 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-first  session.  We  assure  her  of  our  readiness  to 
cooperate with her seriously and constructively as she 
assumes her heavy responsibilities. 

to  mention  here,  with  great 
appreciation and admiration, the prominent role of the 
Secretary-General in his ongoing efforts at the helm of 
this Organization to enhance and energize the work of 
its various bodies and to make them more democratic, 
transparent  and  capable  of  meeting  the  challenges  of 
this  century,  and  more  effective  in  carrying  out  the 
duties assigned to them in the fields of peace, security 
and development. 

Montenegro as a new Member of the United Nations. 

In  the  Outcome  Document  of  the  2005  World 
Summit,  our  leaders  expressed  their  firm  belief  and 
conviction in the important role of this Organization as 
an  umbrella  for  multilateral  work.  They  drew  a  road 
map for us to follow as we seek solutions to the major 
international 
threaten 
international peace and security, such as terrorism, the 
In that context, Kuwait welcomes the Republic of 
threats  and  challenges 
I  cannot  fail 
that 
06-52885 

41 
to 
A/61/PV.13
insults 
the 
A  year  after 
the  adoption  of 
implementation  of 
the  environment,  human 
incitement  of  hatred,  xenophobia, 
deterioration  of 
rights 
violations,  poverty,  hunger  and  the  spread  of  such 
dangerous  and 
infectious  diseases  as  AIDS  and 
malaria. 

Of  great  concern  is  the  emergence  of  new 
challenges  to  international  peace  and  security  that  are 
no  less  dangerous  than  those  aforementioned,  such  as 
the 
to 
religions,  including  Islamophobia,  together  with  all 
kinds of racial, ethnic and religious discrimination. 
the  Outcome 

Document,  and  despite  the  extensive  efforts  made  to 
follow-up 
the  Summit’s 
resolutions, there is still an urgent need to redouble the 
efforts  to  achieve  our  objectives  in  the  fields  of 
disarmament,  non-proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons, 
counter-terrorism, setting a balance between developed 
and  developing  countries  in  international  trade,  and 
reform of the Security Council to enhance its authority 
and  efficiency  and  give  greater  transparency  and 
fairness to its decisions by according due consideration 
to  the  representation  of  the  small  States  that  make  up 
more than half the membership of the United Nations. 
The  State  of  Kuwait  hopes  that  efforts  will  be 

enhanced 
advance 
international coordination and cooperation to overcome 
the  problems  that  impede  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  in  various  regions  of 
the world. Kuwait will maintain its course in adhering 
to 
the  provisions,  principles  and  purposes  of 
international agreements and conventions. 
While  we take pride in the social,  economic and 

political  development 
in 
Kuwait, as reflected in the annual international reports 
issued  by  the  specialized  agencies  of  the  United 
Nations,  we  will  not  be  distracted  from  pursuing  our 
efforts  to  further  improve  the  social  and  economic 
conditions that favour the Kuwaiti citizen’s standard of 
living  and  prosperity.  In  that  context,  Kuwait  will 
continue  to  support,  within  its  means,  the  efforts  of 
many 
their 
development  goals.  It  will  continue  to  do  so  through 
the  Kuwaiti  Fund  for  Economic  Development,  which 
finances  infrastructure  projects  by  granting  soft  loans, 
which to date amount to $12 billion and have benefited 
more than 100 countries around the world.  
the  funding  of 

development  projects  in  developing  countries  through 
Kuwait  also  contributes 
that  has  been  achieved 
dialogue 
promote 
developing 
countries 
to 
achieve 
to 
and 

international  efforts 
A/61/PV.13 

United  Nations  programmes  and  specialized  agencies, 
and regional organizations and associations. Within the 
framework  of  supporting 
to 
eradicate poverty, Kuwait announced last month that it 
will  provide  $300  million  to  the  Islamic  Development 
Bank to combat poverty in Africa. 

Kuwait  follows  with  grave  concern  the  difficult 
security  conditions  in  brotherly  Iraq  resulting  from 
ongoing terrorist acts that target the Iraqi people, State 
institutions and economic and social facilities. Despite 
progress  in  the  political  process  that  has  led  to  the 
formation of a constitutionally elected Government, the 
difficult security conditions impede similar progress in 
rebuilding  what  the  previous  regime  destroyed  as  a 
result of its hostile policies towards its own people and 
its neighbours. 

Kuwait  reiterates  its  commitment  to  all  relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions  and  vows  to  continue 
supporting  the  efforts  of  the  Iraqi  Government  to 
promote  democracy  and  respect  for  human  rights,  to 
rebuild,  confront  security  problems  and  achieve 
national harmony between the various segments of the 
Iraqi people. We hope that the international community 
will also redouble its efforts in support of the efforts of 
the Iraqi Government and the League of Arab States to 
achieve security and stability in Iraq, which in turn will 
contribute  to  consolidating  peace  and  security  in  the 
region.  There  is  no  doubt  that  a  democratic,  secure, 
stable  and  economically  prosperous  Iraq  that  respects 
human  rights,  is  a  master  over  its  own  decisions, 
without any interference in its internal affairs, and lives 
in  peace  with  its  neighbours  will  be  in  the  interest  of 
all  the  States  of  the  region  without  exception. That  is 
what Kuwait hopes for and seeks to achieve. 

At the regional level, with regard to the issue of 
the three disputed Emirati islands, Kuwait supports the 
position  of  the  Arab  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  and 
hopes that negotiations will resume and intensify at all 
levels between the brotherly United Arab Emirates and 
the friendly Islamic Republic of Iran to find a solution 
to  that  conflict  in  conformity  with  the  principles  and 
rules  of 
law  and  good-neighbourly 
relations,  which  would  enhance  the  security  and 
stability of the region. 

Concerning  the  Iranian  nuclear  issue,  Kuwait 
calls  on  all  the  concerned  parties  to  spare  the  region 
any  crisis  that  could  undermine  the  security  and 
stability  of  that  vital  region,  which  for  the  past  two 
international 
In  recent  weeks, 
those  shameful  and 
the  nature  and  aims  of 
decades has been the theatre of conflicts and wars that 
have  squandered  the  fortunes  and  resources  of  its 
countries and delayed their development. We therefore 
hope  that  action  will  be  taken  to  resolve  the  crisis  by 
diplomatic  means.  We  urge  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran  to  continue  its  cooperation  with  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and  the  international 
community  in  order  to  dispel  any  fears  or  doubts 
surrounding 
its  nuclear 
programme. 

In  that  context,  we  affirm  our  position  on  the 
need  to  make  the  Middle  East,  including  the  Gulf 
region,  an  area  free  from  all  weapons  of  mass 
destruction. That zone must include Israel, which must 
accede  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons and subject all its nuclear facilities to 
the safeguards regime of the IAEA. 

the  brotherly  Republic  of 
Lebanon  was  subject  to  a  vicious  Israeli  aggression 
that  killed  hundreds  of  innocent  civilians,  injured 
thousands  of  others,  and  made  more  than  1  million 
people refugees. Kuwait immediately and very strongly 
condemned 
inhumane  crimes 
against  the  brotherly  people  of  Lebanon.  Proceeding 
from its sense of duty and responsibility, and driven by 
close  brotherly  relations,  the  Government  and  people 
of  Kuwait  organized  emergency  relief  operations  to 
alleviate the  suffering of the Lebanese  people  through 
the  Kuwaiti  Red  Crescent  society,  other  associations 
and  the  private  sector.  Kuwait  also  announced  the 
donation  of  $324  million  to  the  efforts  to  rebuild 
Lebanon. 

While  Kuwait  welcomes  the  measures  taken  by 
the  international  community  to  implement  Security 
Council  resolution  1701  (2006),  it  calls  on  Israel  to 
cease  its  repeated  aggressions  against  Lebanon  and  to 
respect  its  sovereignty,  independence  and  territorial 
integrity.  Kuwait  also  calls  on 
international 
community  to  assist  the  Lebanese  Government  to 
extend  its  control  over  all  Lebanese  territory  and  to 
support  its  endeavours  to  recover  all  of  its  rights, 
including compensation for its losses as a result of the 
Israeli aggression. 

The  core  of  the  Middle  East  crisis  is  the 
Palestinian  question.  That  issue,  regrettably,  remains 
stalled. International endeavours and efforts to move it 
forward are met with Israel’s intransigence and refusal 
to  implement  international  resolutions,  as  well  as  its 
the 
42 

06-52885 
for 
The  continued 
the  occupied 
in 
against 
in 
implementation  of 
the  Palestinian  people, 
international  conventions  and 


disregard 
the 
agreements  it  has  signed  with  the  concerned  parties 
within the framework of the peace process. 

Israeli  occupation  of  Arab 
territories  will  always  be  a  source  of  tension  and 
instability in the Middle East. Israel’s repeated military 
incursions 
territories,  oppressive 
practices 
and 
undermining  of  the  Palestinian  Authority  will  not 
benefit  the  Israeli  Government,  nor  will  its  continued 
aggression  and  deliberate  destruction  of  Palestinian 
infrastructure  and  national  Palestinian 
institutions 
secure  its  so-called  security.  The  solution  lies  in 
resolving  the  root  causes  of  the  problem  and  by 
restoring  usurped  rights  so  that  all  the  peoples  of  the 
region can enjoy peace and stability. 

In that context, we renew our full support for the 
struggle of the Palestinian people to recover its lawful 
political rights and establish its own independent State 
over  its  own  land  with  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  We 
demand that the Israeli Government withdraw from all 
the Arab lands it occupies, including the Syrian Golan 
Heights, 
relevant  Security 
Council resolutions and the principle of land for peace. 
In that respect, we reiterate the importance of the Arab 
peace  initiative  adopted  in  Beirut  in  2002  as  the  only 
strategic  option  for  achieving  a  permanent,  just  and 
comprehensive peace in the region. 
the  United  Nations  has 

Since 
registered 
accomplishments 
and 
demonstrated  its  efficacy  in  establishing  peace  and 
security  in  various  parts  of  the  world.  It  has  helped 
prevent  many  problems  from  deteriorating  and  it  has 
thereby  become  an 
the 
international  community  in  confronting  global  issues 
and  challenges.  It  is  our  hope  that  the  United  Nations 
record  of  accomplishment  in  achieving  peace  and 
security  will  soon  include  Iraq,  the  Middle  East,  the 
Sudan,  Somalia,  Afghanistan  and  other  countries  that 
are  still  experiencing  conflicts  and  wars  that  have 
killed  countless  numbers  of  their  citizens,  depleted 
their  resources,  destroyed  their  capacities  and  delayed 
their march towards development and progress. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

call  on  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Tzipi  Livni,  Vice-Prime 
Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Israel. 
Ms.  Livni  (Israel):  These  days,  the  days  of  the 

general  debate  of  the  General Assembly,  fall  this  year 
indispensable 
tool  of 
its  founding, 
numerous 
A/61/PV.13
the  promise  of  coexistence  and 
at a time of unique significance for the Jewish people. 
They come on the eve of the Jewish New Year and the 
Day of Atonement and are known as the Days of Awe. 

In  Jewish  tradition,  these  are  days  of  soul-
searching  and  prayer,  of  judgement  and  of  renewal. 
That  concept  of  reflection  is  fitting  not  just  for  the 
faithful. It should be a time of reflection for nations as 
well.  Let  us  use  this  time  and  this  gathering  to  look 
deeply  and  honestly  at  the  world  in  which  we  live  — 
the  world  as  it  is  and  as  it  might  be.  The  United 
Nations emerged from the horrors of war and offered a 
vision  of  a  new  and  peaceful  world,  but  we  see  the 
suffering of the people of Darfur, we see bloodshed and 
violence across the globe, and we know that that is not 
yet the world in which we live. 

Our planet remains torn by conflict, At its heart, 
this is a conflict about values — a battle of ideas. It is a 
conflict  about  whether  to  respect  or  to  reject  the 
other —  a  conflict  between  tolerance  and  tyranny, 
between 
the 
hopelessness  of  hate.  We  see  it  played  out  in  internet 
chat rooms and in houses of prayer, in classrooms and 
newsrooms,  on  the  battlefield  and  in  the  corridors  of 
power. It is the challenge of our time. 

We,  the  people  of  Israel,  have  lived  for  many 
years on the frontlines of this conflict. Our nation has 
felt  its  fury;  our  soldiers  have  fought  and  died  in  its 
battles.  An  ancient  people  in  the  heart  of  the  Middle 
East  —  great  in  history  but  small  in  number  —  we 
have  been  a  constant  target  of  those  that  oppose  our 
very  existence.  We  face  this  conflict  on  different 
fronts —  as  Jews  against  the  dark  forces  of  anti-
Semitism,  as  Israelis  against  the  enemies  of  our 
statehood,  and  as  members  of  the  free  world  against 
the merchants of global terror. 
We have been guided in this conflict by two core 

values 
in  our  declaration  of 
independence and shape our national identity. The first 
is that Israel, with Jerusalem at its heart, is the national 
homeland  of  the  Jewish  people,  their  refuge  from 
persecution,  their  first  and  last  line  of  defence.  The 
second is that Israel is a democracy and that the values 
of justice, peace and humanity — first expressed by the 
prophets of Israel — are an integral part of our nation’s 
sense  of  mission.  We  share  the  same  values  as  the 
community  of  democratic  States.  We  are  ready  and 
proud to be judged by them. They are our own.  
that  are  embodied 
06-52885 

43 
for 
literature, 
spirit  of  enterprise,  or 
A/61/PV.13 


But  too  often  there  is  a  gap  between  perception 
and reality. Too often, Israel is not seen for its unique 
creativity  and 
its 
contribution — well beyond its size — to the sciences 
and 
to  human  development  and 
innovation.  In  many  parts  of  the  world,  we  are  seen 
mainly  through  the  lens  of  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict. 
And  too  often,  that  lens  is  distorted.  To  many,  this 
conflict  is  portrayed  as  a  clash  of  David  and  Goliath, 
with  Israel  perceived  unjustly  as  Goliath,  but  this 
simplistic  image  ignores  the  fact  that  Israel  remains  a 
threatened democracy in a hostile region. 

We  have,  of  necessity,  the  capacity  to  defend 
ourselves, but we will always be constrained in its use 
by  our  values. And  yet,  we  face  an  enemy  willing  to 
use all the means at its disposal to kill without restraint 
and without distinction. Every innocent casualty in this 
conflict is a tragedy. There is no difference between the 
tears  of  a  grieving  Israeli  mother  and  a  grieving 
Palestinian  mother,  but  there  is  a  critical  moral 
difference  between  the  terrorists  who  hunt  down 
civilians  and  the  soldiers  who  target  terrorists  while 
trying to avoid civilian casualties. 

integrity, 
international 
community  must  uphold  that  basic  moral  distinction. 
Terror  is  terror,  even  when  it  is  called  resistance.  It 
cannot  be  justified  and  it  cannot  be  equated  with  the 
actions  of  those  seeking  only  to  defend  themselves 
against it. 

If we want to protect our values, it is not enough 
to  believe  in  them  —  we  must  act  according  to  them. 
There  is  no  greater  challenge  to  our  values  than  that 
posed by the leaders of Iran. They deny and mock the 
Holocaust.  They  speak  proudly  and  openly  of  their 
desire  to  wipe  Israel  off  the  map.  And  now,  by  their 
actions,  they  pursue  the  weapons  to  achieve  that 
objective,  to  imperil  the  region  and  to  threaten  the 
world. The moment of truth is here. 

The  international  community  is  faced  with  no 
greater  responsibility  than  to  stand  against  that  dark 
and growing danger — not for Israel’s sake, but for its 
own;  for  the  sake  of  the  values  it  claims  to  embrace; 
for  the  sake  of  the  world  we  all  wish  our  children  to 
inherit.  What  more  needs  to  happen  for  the  world  to 
take  the  threat  seriously?  What  more  needs  to  happen 
to  end  the  hesitation  and  the  excuses?  We  know  the 
lessons  of  the  past.  We  know  the  consequences  of 
appeasement  and  indifference.  There  is  no  place  for 
To  protect 
its 
the 
to 

Last  year,  a  great  leader  of  Israel, Ariel  Sharon, 
such leaders in this forum. There is no place for such a 
regime in the family of nations. 

For  any  who  still  had  doubts,  the  Iranian  threat 
was  exposed  to  all  in  the  recent  conflict  in  Lebanon. 
Armed,  financed  and  directed  by  Iran,  Hizbullah 
kidnapped  Israeli  soldiers  and  targeted  Israeli  cities, 
but it was the hopes of an entire region that they sought 
to take hostage. Out of the conflict — and because of 
Israel’s response to it — opportunity has emerged, but 
much  is  needed  to  turn  opportunity  into  reality. 
Hizbullah  can  never  again  be  allowed  to  threaten  the 
future of the region. The world faces a critical test — 
to  ensure  the  full  implementation  of  resolution  1701 
(2006) and the immediate and safe release of the Israeli 
hostages. 

As  we  gather  here,  we  think  of  anxious  families 
that  ache  for  the  return  of  their  loved  ones  —  parents 
waiting for a son, a brother for a brother, a wife for a 
husband.  Israel  will  not  rest  until  all  the  Israeli 
hostages  are  returned  safely  to  the  arms  of  their 
devoted families and to the embrace of a loving nation. 
Let us all make them the same promise today. 

stood before this forum and said:  

“The Palestinians will always be our neighbours. 
We  respect  them  and  have  no  aspirations  to  rule 
over them. They are also entitled to freedom and 
to  a  national,  sovereign  existence  in  a  State  of 
their own.” (A/60/PV.5, p.46) 

That  was  not  only  the  voice  and  vision  of  one 
man. It is the voice and vision of a nation. We do not 
believe 
relations  are  of 
necessity a zero-sum game. Not every Israeli interest is 
at  odds  with  Palestinian  interests.  There  is,  in  fact,  a 
common  vision  that  binds  together  Israelis,  moderate 
Palestinians and the international community. It serves 
the goals of both peoples and represents the basis of a 
genuine and lasting peace. At its heart is the vision of 
two  States,  Israel  and  Palestine,  living  side  by  side  in 
peace  and  security.  Israel  believes  in  this  vision,  and 
from  this  vision  we  have  drawn  our  principles  for 
peace. 

The  first  is  inherent  in  the  very  idea  of  two 
States. For the Jewish people, Israel was established to 
be  our  national  homeland.  It  was  the  solution  for 
Jewish  refugees  and  the  realization  of  Jewish  rights. 
And  this  is  the  true  calling  of  the  future  State  of 
Israeli-Palestinian 
that 
44 

06-52885 
they  may  be. 
refugees,  wherever 


Palestine:  a  national  homeland  for  the  Palestinian 
people  —  the  solution  to  Palestinian  claims,  the 
the  answer  for 
fulfilment  of  Palestinian  dreams, 
Palestinian 
If 
Palestinian leaders are unwilling to say this, the world 
should say it for them. Instead of giving false hope, it 
is time to end the exploitation of the refugee issue and 
to begin to resolve it on the basis of the vision of two 
States, two homelands.  

That is the real and only meaning of the two-State 
vision.  It  requires  each  people  to  accept  that  their 
rights  are  realized  through  the  establishment  of  their 
own homeland, not in the homeland of others.  

The second principle for peace is drawn from the 
concept of living in peace and security. On the basis of 
this principle the international community has insisted 
that  the  State  of  Palestine  that  emerges  next  to  Israel 
cannot  be  a  terror  State.  A  terrorist  State  is  the  last 
thing  our  troubled  region  needs.  It  is  for  that  reason 
that the road map requires an end to terror. It is for that 
reason that the international community has demanded 
that  any  Palestinian  Government  fulfil  three  basic 
conditions: renounce terrorism, recognize Israel’s right 
to  exist  and  accept  existing 
Israeli-Palestinian 
agreements.  Those  conditions  are  not  an  obstacle  to 
peace  or 
the  establishment  of  a  responsible 
Palestinian  State;  they  are  a  crucial  ingredient  for  the 
realization of those goals.  

An end to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict will also 
require  agreement  on  a  common  boundary.  There  are 
those  who  believe  that  if  only  we  could  turn  back  the 
hands  of  time  to  1967  all  would  be  resolved.  But,  in 
1967 there was no Palestinian State; there was no link 
between  the  West  Bank  and  Gaza;  and  there  was  no 
commitment  to  lasting  peace.  A  two-State  solution 
requires  the  creation  of  a  new  reality  which  never 
existed  in  the  past.  For  it  to  succeed,  both  sides  will 
need  to  commit  themselves  to  compromise  and  to 
believe in coexistence. 

If  only  we  could  end  the  conflict  today.  But  we 
have  learned  from  bitter  experience  that  to  reach 
lasting  peace  it  is  not  enough  to  have  a  vision.  Peace 
must be built on the solid foundations of shared values, 
not  the  shifting  sands  of  false  promises. Without  this, 
the  political  horizon  will  always  be  out  of  reach.  We 
have  seen  negotiations  doomed  by  mistrust  and 
frustration.  We  have  seen  them  lay  the  ground  for 
to 
A/61/PV.13
Unfortunately, 
the  Palestinian  Authority 
greater violence, not greater understanding. We cannot 
afford to repeat that experience. 

is 
dominated today by a terrorist organization that teaches 
children  to  hate  and  seeks  to  transform  the  conflict 
from  a  resolvable  political  dispute  into  an  endless 
religious confrontation. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict 
is  the  consequence  and  not  the  cause  of  this  ideology 
of  intolerance  and  hatred.  We  cannot  reach  peace  by 
ignoring  these  realities.  We  cannot  find  the  solutions 
for  tomorrow  without  addressing  the  problems  of 
today. 

But we also cannot give up hope, and I refuse to 
do so. In a Middle East where being moderate is often 
the  same  as  being  weak,  our  challenge  is  to  empower 
the peacemakers and disempower their opponents. The 
road map phases and the three international conditions 
are  designed  precisely  for  that  purpose.  But  if  the 
world  hesitates  in  enforcing  these  standards,  the 
extremists  sense  opportunity. And  if  it  appeases,  they 
sense victory. This is the moment for determination not 
half-measures  and  vague  formulations.  It 
the 
moment  to  demand  that  those  Palestinian  leaders  that 
believe  in  peace  determine  the  future  on  these  terms, 
not on the terms of terrorists. 

Unfortunately, there are no shortcuts on the road 
to peace. But stagnation is not in our interest, and it is 
not our policy. 
It  is  in  this  spirit  that  Israel  embarked  on  the 

painful  process  of  disengagement, 
to  create  an 
opportunity for progress. But, sadly, we received terror 
in  return.  And  it  is  in  this  spirit  that  I  met  with 
Chairman  Abbas  two  days  ago,  and  we  agreed  to  re-
energize 
the  dialogue  between  us  and  create  a 
permanent channel to pursue ways to advance together. 
The parties do not need another forum to act out their 
differences, and the only forum that will resolve them 
is the bilateral negotiating table. We have no illusions 
about the difficulties before us. We must face them not 
ignore  them.  But  we  can  advance  along  the  road  to 
peace  if  we  have  the  strength  to  defend  its  principles 
and the courage to confront its enemies. 
In  these  days,  while  Jews  prepare  to  welcome  a 

new  year,  Muslims  around  the  world  prepare  for  the 
holy month of Ramadan. As two great faiths begin their 
annual  journey  of  reflection  and  decision,  let  the 
nations of the world begin it too. 
is 
06-52885 

45 
reaffirmed 
is  predetermined;  no  conflict 
A/61/PV.13 


The  Jewish  prayers  tell  us  that  this  is  a  time  of 
decision  not  just  for  individuals  but  also  for  States: 
“which  for  the  sword  and  which  for  peace,  which  for 
famine and which for plenty”. 

Those  are  sobering  words,  but  they  are  also 
empowering ones. The message of these special days is 
that  no  future 
is 
inevitable.  It  is  up  to  us  to  make  the  right  choices. 
History  will  judge  us  by  them.  In  the  words  of  the 
traditional  greeting:  may  the  curses  of  the  last  year 
end;  may  the  blessing  of  the  new  year  begin.  Shana 
tova: may it be a good year. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

to give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Karel de Gucht, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Belgium. 

Mr. De Gucht (Belgium) (spoke in French): Just 
one  year  ago,  our  heads  of  State  or  Government 
gathered  in  this  Assembly  and  reaffirmed  that  peace, 
security,  development  and  human  rights  are  closely 
interlinked.  They  also 
in 
multilateralism  and  an  international  order  based  upon 
the  rule  of  law.  The  mandate  they  entrusted  to  us  is 
being implemented progressively. We have established 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  Human  Rights 
Council  and  adopted  the  Global  Counter-Terrorism 
Strategy.  Our  expectations  are  high  and  we  hope  that 
the results will meet them. 

During the past year, we have witnessed a rebirth 
of  multilateralism,  and  I  am  happy  about  that.  What 
we,  the  Member  States  of  the  United  Nations,  do 
together in a  multilateral way will by definition enjoy 
greater  legitimacy.  I  have  in  mind  in  particular,  the 
recent  conflict  between  Israel  and  Lebanon,  a  conflict 
in  which  the  Security  Council  fully  assumed  its 
responsibilities — and of which the good offices of the 
Secretary-General  must  eventually  guarantee  a  lasting 
political settlement.  
Likewise,  it  is  worth  noting  that  international 

dialogue,  rather  than  the  use  of  force,  is  again  in  the 
foreground  of  multilateral  diplomacy.  Here  I  have  in 
mind  the  case  of  Iran:  we  must  make  every  effort  to 
resolve 
fully 
respecting the principles of the Charter and the Treaty 
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). 

That  being  said,  multilateralism,  as  I  see  it,  is 
neither  a  dogma  nor  a  simple  profession  of  faith. 
the  difficult  nuclear 
issue  while 
their 
faith 

Yesterday  morning 
Multilateralism is an instrument that should be judged 
by its impact on world issues. In order to be effective, 
it  must  deliver  results.  Only  action  can  legitimize  its 
raison d’être. 

the  President  of  Finland 
addressed  the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the 
European  Union  (see  A/61/PV.10).  I  entirely  endorse 
her  statement.  I  will  now  address  a  few  issues  which 
are of particular importance to Belgium. 

The Middle  East has just  experienced one of the 
worst  crises  in  recent  years.  A  military  approach  has 
led  to  unacceptable  sacrifices  by  civilians,  both  in 
Lebanon  and  in  Israel.  In  the  face  of  such  a  crisis, 
its  European  partners  have  clearly 
Belgium  and 
demonstrated 
their  willingness 
to  act  and  have 
answered  the  successive  appeals  of  the  Secretary-
General.  Belgium,  for  its  part,  has  contributed  to  the 
emergency fund to support the Lebanese Government’s 
reconstruction  projects.  But  above  all,  Belgium  has 
decided  to  participate  in  the  reinforcement  of  the 
United  Nations  Interim  Force  in  Lebanon  (UNIFIL), 
requested by Security Council resolution 1701 (2006). 
In  the  coming  weeks,  400  Belgian  Blue  Helmets  will 
be deployed in southern Lebanon.  

But  the  international  community’s  efforts  must 
not  stop  there.  All  elements  of  the  Security  Council 
resolution  must  be  urgently  implemented.  I  salute  the 
efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  and  of  the  States 
involved,  which  have  brought  an  end  to  the  blockade. 
The  two  kidnapped  Israeli  soldiers  must  also  be 
immediately released. Likewise, we have to work on a 
solution  for  the  release  of  the  Lebanese  prisoners  in 
Israel.  And  above  all, 
the  arms  embargo  must 
effectively  be  implemented.  Finally,  the  Lebanese 
Government must fully exercise its sovereignty and its 
control  throughout  its  territory.  It  has  our  full  support 
in that process. 

The  implementation  of  Council  resolution  1701 
(2006)  shows,  moreover,  that  the  European  Union  is 
becoming  more  involved  in  the  quest  for  a  lasting 
peace 
is  a  welcome 
development. 
We all agree that lasting peace is predicated on a 

settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Therefore 
we  must  work  on  all  measures  which  could  rapidly 
open a path towards the resumption of the dialogue, an 
end  to  the  hostilities,  security  guarantees  for  both 
parties,  the  liberation  of  the  abducted  Israeli  soldier, 
the  Middle  East.  That 
in 
46 

06-52885 


the  release  of  the  political  leaders  arrested  during  the 
crisis,  humanitarian  access,  the  re-establishment  of 
basic services, a start to reconstruction and the transfer 
of  the  tax  and  customs  income  due  to  the  Palestinian 
authorities. 

We  support  the  efforts  of  the  President  of  the 
Palestinian Authority to form a government of national 
unity. Nevertheless, we will be attentive to the content 
of  its  platform  and  to  its  response  to  the  three 
conditions set by the Quartet. 
I  share  the  assessment  of  the  Secretary-General: 

in  the  already  tense  environment  of  the  Middle  East, 
the region can absolutely not afford a new major crisis. 
Given  the  widespread  and  justified  suspicion  aroused 
by the Iranian nuclear programme, I appeal to the sense 
of  responsibility  of  the  Tehran  authorities  to  respond 
positively  to  the  offers  for  negotiation  made  to  them. 
Iran  is  a  great  country,  with  an  ancient  and  esteemed 
civilization.  That  heritage,  as  well  as  its  role  in  the 
region,  must  encourage  Iran  to  promote  peace  and 
security  and  to  rebuild  confidence  with  its  regional 
partners,  rather  than  isolating  itself  through  useless 
provocations.  Iran  must  again  take  its  place  in  the 
community of nations and follow the rules that govern 
international  relations.  Iran  must  comply  with  the 
provisions of Security Council resolution 1696 (2006). 

A  first  round  of  presidential  elections  and 
legislative  elections  were 
the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  thanks  to  the 
combined  efforts  of  the  Congolese  authorities,  civil 
society and the international community. It was quite a 
challenge.  The  Congolese  people  voted  in  an  orderly 
fashion 
thereby 
demonstrated  a  sense  of  public  responsibility  and  a 
desire to exercise their democratic rights.  

I  pay  tribute  to  the  United  Nations  Organization 
Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
(MONUC)  for  the  positive  role  it  played,  assisted  by 
the European Union-led peacekeeping force (EUFOR), 
in controlling the skirmishes that occurred at the end of 
the  first  round.  The  electoral  process  now  has  to  be 
completed; there is no other option. Calm must return, 
and the protagonists must commit themselves, in good 
faith, 
the  rules  of  democracy.  The 
international  community  must  continue  to  support  the 
process. 
However, the elections are but a first step. Next, 

the Democratic Republic of the Congo has to establish 
in  great  numbers, 
recently  held 
to  applying 
and 
and 
in 
A/61/PV.13
It 
the 
that 
that 
I  hope 
is  crucial 
institutions. 
solid and reliable institutions that are ready to shoulder 
their  responsibilities  to  the  benefit  of  the  people.  The 
potential resources of the Congo are enormous, and so 
are  the  challenges  ahead  in  the  reconstruction  of  the 
country. 
the  new  authorities 
unambiguously demonstrate, their commitment to good 
governance, both political and economic. 

The  international  community  has  been  a  loyal 
partner for the Congo during this transition. Its support 
and  collaboration,  particularly  through  MONUC,  will 
remain paramount throughout the establishment of the 
new 
international 
community  will  be  able  to  continue  a  constructive 
dialogue  with  the  new  Congolese  authorities  to  the 
benefit  of  peace,  stability  and  development  of  the 
Congo and of the region. 

Following the democratic elections that ended the 
transition  period  in  Burundi  took  place,  the  people  of 
Burundi  and  the  international  community  had  high 
hopes for the prospect of stability and development in 
that  country.  That  is  why  we  welcomed  the  recent 
ceasefire  reached  with 
the  Forces  Nationales  de 
Libération  (FNL)  movement.  I  fear,  however,  that 
those  hopes  might  be  dashed.  The  Government’s 
reactions towards the press and the opposition, as well 
as its management of public affairs, have cast a shadow 
over the evolution of the democratic process.  

The  Secretary-General  himself  expressed  his 
concerns  very  clearly  about  the  situation  in  Burundi. 
The  development  partners  and  the  regional  partners 
share those concerns. All possible means must be used 
to  consolidate  the  democratic  process  in  Burundi  as 
well as its development potential. Democracy must be 
fully  exercised,  and 
responsible  media,  and  a 
responsible  civil  society,  are  key  elements  in  that 
respect.  The  rule  of  law  must  be  strengthened,  in  the 
interest  and  with  the  participation  of  all.  From  that 
perspective, a dialogue with national political partners 
is indispensable. The new Government has a vital role 
in  this  respect.  The  new  Peacebuilding  Commission 
will provide  us with opportunities to hold a frank  and 
open dialogue on all these issues. 

As  all  are  aware,  these  days  our  Organization  is 
devoting  greater  attention  to  States  emerging  from 
conflict that are in a period of transition. The danger of 
new  tensions  in  such  still-fragile  States  is  very  real. 
Free  and  democratic  elections  are  important,  but  they 
are only one part of the process of rebuilding the rule 
06-52885 

47 
rights, 
protection 
civilizations, 
democratization, 
A/61/PV.13 

of law. We cannot lose sight of the way in which power 
is really exercised. We must rebuild States so that they 
are  able  to  assume  their  responsibilities  towards  their 
neighbours  and  their  own  peoples. They  must  be  able 
to  defend  their  sovereignty  and  their  borders  without 
threatening  the  stability  of  their  partners;  they  must 
have  professional  and  loyal  armies  at  their  disposal; 
and in such States, power must be exercised not to the 
benefit of the few but to respond to the aspirations of 
the people. Good governance should be at the centre of 
the process. 

Since the beginning of this year Belgium has held 
the  chairmanship  of  the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), a regional organization 
under  Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. Its principles and values are the same as those 
of  the  United  Nations.  Its  fields  of  action  are  very 
similar and complementary; they include promotion of 
human 
of 
minorities, conflict prevention, crisis management and 
protection of the environment, not to mention dialogue 
among 
the 
proliferation of small arms, and electoral monitoring. 

The  OSCE  played  a  key  role  in  maintaining  the 
relationship  between  the  two  parts  of  Europe  divided 
by  the  cold  war.  Since  that  time,  the  organization  has 
elaborated  a  number  of  norms,  principles  and 
commitments 
its  members,  which 
contributes to reinforcing their collective security.  

One of the objectives of our chairmanship was to 
strengthen the balance between the three dimensions of 
the  OSCE:  political  and  military,  economic,  and 
humanitarian.  We  have 
to 
establish  in  those  areas  synergies  with  the  United 
Nations, on issues such as the problems of landlocked 
countries,  combating  organized  crime  and  combating 
terrorism.  During 
its  chairmanship,  Belgium  has 
worked actively to contribute to a solution to so-called 
frozen  conflicts.  But  such  solutions  will  be  possible 
only  if  can  count  on  the  genuine  will  of  all  parties 
concerned to move forward. 

Some  of  the  criticisms  levelled  at  the  United 
Nations are justified, and we must therefore pursue the 
reform  process,  which  must  above  all  strengthen  the 
legitimacy,  effectiveness  and  credibility  of  the  United 
Nations.  Those  criticisms  should  not  minimize  the 
successes  the  United  Nations  has  to  its  credit.  Here  I 
tried,  where  possible, 
that  unite  all 
combat 
the 
against 

in 
On 
thanks 
the  2006 
report  on 
in  particular 
the  other  hand,  poverty 
to 
am referring to the dramatic increase in the number of 
peacekeeping operations.  

is  decreasing 
worldwide, 
the  dramatic 
progress  made  in  Asia.  While  the  trend  of  increasing 
poverty  has  not  yet  been  reversed  in  sub-Saharan 
Africa, 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  stresses 
that  many  African 
countries are now showing long-term growth potential 
that  could  improve  the  standard  of  living  of  their 
peoples. 

I should like to take this opportunity to pay a very 
sincere  tribute  to  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi 
Annan.  He  has  worked  tirelessly,  placing  his  political 
and  negotiating  skills 
the  service  of  peace, 
development  and  human  rights.  I  wish  to  express  my 
deep  gratitude  for  the  dedication  he  has  shown  at  the 
helm of our Organization. 
The  Acting  President: I  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Uganda. 
Mr.  Kutesa  (Uganda):  Let  me  first  of  all 

congratulate  Ms.  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa  on  her 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its  sixty-first  session.  I  am  confident  that,  with  her 
wealth  of  experience,  she  will  guide  our  deliberations 
effectively.  I  wish  also  to  thank  her  predecessor, 
Mr. Jan  Eliasson  of  Sweden,  for  the  manner  in  which 
he presided over the high-level segment of the General 
Assembly at its sixtieth session. 

Let me also pay tribute to Secretary-General Kofi 
Annan  for  his  leadership  of  our  Organization.  His  10-
year tenure has been marked by fundamental changes. 
The  United  Nations  has  witnessed  major  reforms 
geared  at  creating  a  more  efficient  and  effective 
institution. We are confident that he will leave behind a 
more  vibrant  Organization  capable  of  meeting  the 
challenges of our time. 

As  a  firm  supporter  of  multilateralism,  Uganda 
believes  that  the  Assembly  is  the  most  appropriate 
forum for addressing issues of global concern. A great 
number of important decisions have been taken by the 
Assembly.  Landmark  agreements  have  been  reached 
and important commitments undertaken by members of 
the Assembly. 
In spite of all these efforts, threats to global peace 

and  security  and  to  human  dignity  are  more  serious 
48 

06-52885 


than  ever  before. This  situation  obtains  today  because 
we have yet to start addressing the real root causes of 
the  problems  facing  us.  My  delegation  believes  that 
ensuring global peace will continue to be an uphill task 
for  us  as  long  as  the  majority  in  developing  countries 
and  elsewhere  in  the  world  continue  to  suffer  the 
indignity of poverty and deprivation while we continue 
to think that it is business as usual.  

We  must  ask  ourselves  why  a  large  number  of 
international  problems  that  are  high  on  the  agenda  of 
the United Nations are occurring in the developing part 
of the world. These are real issues that affect the daily 
lives  of  peoples,  and  they  require  urgent  solutions 
which have been to date been far too slow in coming. 

The onus is on the Assembly to ensure that what 
we agree upon or commit ourselves to doing is done in 
a  timely  manner. The  Millennium  Declaration  that  we 
adopted here 6 years  ago (resolution 55/2) remains an 
important  milestone  because  it  introduced  a  new 
paradigm  shift 
from  emphasis  on  statement  of 
commitments  to  action.  However,  there  have  been 
some obstacles to the achievement of the goals we set 
for ourselves.  

In  areas  where  progress  has  been  made,  due 
credit must be given. In that regard, Uganda welcomes 
the  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  to 
work alongside the Security Council and the Economic 
and Social Council. We are also pleased that action was 
the  Peacebuilding 
promptly 
to 
Commission  as  an 
intergovernmental 
mechanism to assist countries in transition from war to 
durable  peace.  We  welcome 
important 
contributions  to  the  reform  agenda  of  the  United 
Nations. 
While  commendable  progress  has  been  achieved 

in other areas of reform, great frustration remains over 
the  reform  and  expansion  of  the  Security  Council.  In 
my  delegation’s  view,  the  expansion  of  the  Security 
Council is the most important facet of  United Nations 
reform with regard to the maintenance of global peace 
and security. 

It is now a truism that the Security Council does 
not  reflect  today’s  geopolitical  realities,  but  only  the 
balance of power that prevailed in the 1940s. Africa is 
the  only  continent  with  no  permanent  member  on  the 
Security Council, despite its size and population. That 
is  why  Africa  is  demanding  at  least  two  permanent 
the 
seats  on 
the  Council.  We  acknowledge 
create 
important 
those  as 
taken 
that 
A/61/PV.13
to  move 
Lack  of  agreement  on  how 
existence of the veto is an anachronism, but as long as 
it exists we should demand it, because do not want to 
join as second-class members, with no veto. 

the 
development  agenda  forward  is  one  of  our  major 
concerns.  It  is  unacceptable  for  big  sections  of  the 
global  community  to  continue  living  on  less  than  one 
dollar  per  day  while  we  have  the  capacity  and  the 
means to pull them out of that abject poverty. We must 
address that problem as a matter of urgency. One way 
of  doing  so  is  to  live  by  our  own  commitments,  as 
reflected,  for  example,  in  the  Monterrey  Consensus, 
the  Johannesburg  Plan  of  Implementation  and  the 
Brussels  Plan  of Action,  et  cetera,  et  cetera.  We  must 
put  in  place  measurable  benchmarks  to  realize  those 
goals.  
It is disappointing to see that very little progress 

has  been  made 
to  date  on  official  development 
assistance,  on  foreign  direct  investments,  on  debts,  or 
even  on  market  access.  The  stalled  conclusion  of  the 
World  Trade  Organization  development  agenda  is  a 
case  in  point.  The  Doha  Development  Round  was 
launched  as  a  process  that  would  eventually  give 
developing  countries  a  fair  chance  to  compete  in  the 
world  marketplace.  It  was  expected  to  restore  the 
momentum  of  the  open  market  while  giving  genuine 
priority  to  the  concerns  and  interests  of  developing 
countries.  Five  years  down  the  road,  we  have  not 
agreed  on  opening  up  markets  or  eliminating 
discriminative subsidies. 

My  delegation  strongly  feels  that  part  of  that 
failure  is  attributable  to  the  multilateral  system’s  lack 
of good global governance, poor coordination and lack 
of  coherence.  As 
the  United  Nations  has  a 
responsibility  to  identify  the  causes  hindering  the 
achievement of the internationally agreed development 
goals,  including  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  the  Organization  is  the  right  body  to  track 
implementation  of 
commitments  undertaken  by 
development  partners. An  effective  mechanism  should 
be devised for doing that. 

Uganda calls on the international community, and 
the  United  Nations  in  particular,  to  explore  new  and 
more effective ways of promoting consensus on issues 
of  vital 
the  peace,  security  and 
prosperity of our global community. In that regard, we 
would  like  to  welcome  and  encourage  the  holding  of 
importance 
to 
06-52885 

49 

to 
and 
systems 
should 
effectively 
that  have  been  organized 
The  High-level  Dialogue  on 
A/61/PV.13 

the  high-level  events 
alongside this session.  

International 
Migration  and  Development  held 
last  week  has 
produced  important  outcomes  that  are  going  to  be 
valuable in the formulation of policies on international 
migration  and  development.  In  the  same  light,  the 
convening  of  the  High-level  Meeting  on  the  midterm 
comprehensive global review of the implementation of 
the  Programme  of  Action  for  the  Least  Developed 
Countries is a welcome decision as it will feed into the 
midterm review. 

With  regard  to  Africa’s  development,  the  New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development — NEPAD — is 
the  key  framework  for  action.  We  continue  to  urge 
development  partners  to  support  Africa’s  efforts  by 
contributing  positively 
the 
implementation  of  that  regional  development  strategy. 
Of the United Nations system in particular we request 
that  the  funding  that  comes  from  United  Nations 
development 
focus  on  Africa’s 
priorities  as  determined  by  the  partner  States,  while 
care should be taken to avoid diversion of development 
resources to other donor-driven activities. 

I  would  like  now  to  briefly  turn  my  attention  to 
the  situation  in  our  region.  Uganda’s  security  and 
development is directly interlinked with developments 
in  the  Great  Lakes  region.  We  are  therefore  fully 
committed to the realization of peace and security, and 
have  continued  to  play  a  key  role  in  the  search  for 
durable peace and security in our region.  
We  welcome  the  positive  developments  in  the 

southern  Sudan 
the 
Comprehensive Peace Agreement. We fully support the 
democratic  process  being  pursued  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo.  We  call  upon  all  parties 
involved to have full confidence in the process so that 
it  can  be  successfully  completed.  The 
regional 
initiative on Burundi under Uganda’s chairmanship has 
made  steady  progress,  and  we  have  full  confidence  in 
its success.  

Uganda also wishes to appeal to the international 
community,  especially  our  development  partners,  to 
region  by 
support 
contributing  generously 
the 
International  Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  Region, 
initiated  by  the  United  Nations  in  collaboration  with 
the African Union. 
the 
success  of 
signing  of 
the  peace 
following 
the 
initiatives 
in 
the 
to 
to 
support 
terror  on 
the  Security  Council 

With regard to Somalia, we call for international 
support  for  the  Transitional  Federal  Government.  We 
call  on 
the 
Intergovernmental Authority  on  Development  (IGAD) 
peace  process  and  the  partial  lifting  of  the  arms 
embargo  to  enable  deployment  of  the  IGAD  Peace 
Support  Mission  to  Somalia  and  the  African  Union 
forces. 

At  the  national  level,  in  Uganda  there  is  an 
organization called the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA), 
a  terrorist  group  with  no  political  agenda,  which  has 
for  a  number  of  years  unleashed 
the 
population  of  northern  Uganda,  killing  and  maiming 
people  and  abducting  children  for  training  as  killers 
and use as sex slaves. The LRA has now been defeated 
and  its  remnants  have  fled  to  Garamba  Park  in  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  The  Government 
of  Uganda  has  now  entered  into  peace  talks  with  the 
LRA  under  the  mediation  of  the  Government  of 
southern  Sudan  with  a  view  to  restoring  peace  and 
stability. 

After  a  careful  analysis  of  the  situation,  the 
Government  of  Uganda  decided  to  take  the  painful 
decision to offer amnesty to the LRA top leadership, in 
order  to  facilitate  the  peace  talks.  That  decision  was 
painful in the sense that we do not condone or tolerate 
impunity whatsoever. However, we  are  convinced that 
the alternative traditional justice system that we intend 
to apply is an equitable solution and should be given a 
chance.  We  call  on  the  international  community  to 
support the process that we have embarked on. We are 
determined to resolve the conflict peacefully. Peace is 
what  our  people  want,  and  it  is  peace  that  we  are 
determined to give them. 
The Acting President: (spoke in French): I now 

call on His Excellency Mr. Abubakr Al-Qirbi, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Yemen. 
Mr.  Al-Qirbi  (Yemen)(spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 

outset, I would like to congratulate the President of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first  session  on  her 
election.  It  is  a  source  of  pride  for  us  that  an  Arab 
woman  from  brotherly  Bahrain  is  presiding  over  the 
session.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson, 
President of the Assembly at its sixtieth session, for his 
valuable and tireless efforts in the conduct of our work 
and  for  the  positive  results  he  has  achieved  for  our 
Organization,  particularly  with 
to  United 
Nations  reform.  I  would  also  like  to  warmly  welcome 
regard 
50 

06-52885 
and 
power 
and 
popular 
threats 
participation 
reflects  our 
to  murder  or  assassinate 
recent  developments 
include 


the  Republic  of  Montenegro  as  the  192nd  Member  of 
our international family. 

I  am  pleased  that  this  meeting  coincides  with  a 
new  democratic  achievement  in  my  country,  Yemen. 
Today,  20  September,  the  second  direct  presidential 
election  and  elections  for  local  councils  have  taken 
place competitively in a free and fair atmosphere. This 
democratic  exercise  demonstrates  the  maturity  of  the 
people  of  Yemen 
country’s 
commitment  to  democracy  as  a  peaceful  means  of 
sharing 
in 
development and economic and social reform. 
in  Lebanon  and 

The 
Palestine 
the  destruction  of  Lebanon’s 
infrastructure  owing  to  aggression  by  the  Israeli  war 
machine  —  which  has  caused  the  deaths  of  countless 
innocent  civilians,  mainly  women,  children  and  the 
elderly  — 
the 
leadership of Lebanon and Palestine, extrajudicial and 
other  practices.  These  all  run  counter  to  the  United 
Nations  Charter,  the  rules  of  international  law  and 
international  agreements, 
the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention.  The  massacres  committed  by  the  Israeli 
war  machine  against  Lebanese  and  Palestinian  
civilians  —  particularly  the  Qana  II  massacre,  whose 
victims  were  mostly  children  under  the  age  of  12  and 
which  was  witnessed  by  the  entire  world  —  have 
evoked  feelings  of  denunciation  and  condemnation  by 
all people. This requires a firmer stance in the face of 
Israeli policies based on violence and State terrorism. 

It  is  even  more  regrettable  that  the  United 
Nations  stands  by  and  watches  helplessly  while  the 
Lebanese  people  are  subjected  to  devastation  and 
destruction  caused by Israeli aggression  over 34 days. 
We  would  like  to  reiterate  that  the  implementation  of 
Security  Council  1701  (2006)  should  not  undermine 
the territorial integrity of Lebanon and should not lead 
to sectarian divisions among the people of that country. 
It should also mandate that Israel compensate Lebanon 
for all the destruction. 

Israeli  practices,  such  as  assassinations  of 
Palestinian  individuals,  detention  of  the  President  of 
the  Palestinian  Parliament,  the  Deputy  Prime  Minister 
or  other  Ministers,  are  a  perfect  example  of  Israel’s 
total  disregard  for  international  law,  human  rights,  or 
agreements signed with the Palestinian Authority. This 
makes  it  incumbent  upon  the  Security  Council  to 
including 
A/61/PV.13
to 
the  elected 
stand  beside 
the  Arab-Israeli  conflict 
firmly deal with such Israeli aggression, to demand the 
release of all Palestinian leaders under detention and in 
Israeli  prisons,  and  to  deal  with  the  Arab-Israeli 
conflict  neutrally  and  responsibly.  It  is  only  thus  that 
the Middle East can enjoy stability and Israel can enjoy 
security. 

In  order  to  achieve  a  just  and  comprehensive 
peace, Arab countries have requested that the Security 
Council  consider 
file 
responsibly  and  fairly  in  order  to  put  an  end  to  the 
conflict  and  to  spare  the  region  further  wars  and 
conflicts. If the Security Council fails to do that, then it 
will  bear  the  responsibility  for  continuing  the  conflict 
in  the  region,  with  the  attendant  suffering  and  dire 
consequences for all parties concerned. 
From this rostrum, we call upon the international 

community 
Iraqi 
Government,  to  help  it  spread  its  authority  over  its 
territory, to put an end to violence and interference by 
external parties in the internal affairs of Iraq, to respect 
the territorial integrity of Iraq and to put an end to its 
occupation. 
With  regard  to  the  Sudan,  we  reiterate  our 

support for the efforts by the Sudanese Government to 
bring peace to Darfur, in accordance with the security 
plan presented to the Security Council. The decision to 
extend  the  mandate  of  the African  Union  forces  until 
the end of December of this year is welcome. Provision 
of  adequate  logistics  and  increasing  the  number  of 
these  peacekeeping  forces  will  enable  them  to  play 
their  role.  The  dispatch  of  any  international  forces 
without the agreement of the Government of the Sudan 
constitutes  a  violation  of  the  principles  of  the  United 
Nations Charter. 
With  regard  to  Somalia,  Yemen  would  like  to 

commend  the  Arab-African  efforts  for  conciliation 
between  the  Transitional  Somali  Government  and  the 
Union  of  Islamic  Shariah  Courts,  and  the  outcome  of 
the talks held at Khartoum under the sponsorship of the 
League of Arab States from 1 to 5 September. We call 
upon all international parties to provide support to the 
Somali Government so as to enable it to reconstruct the 
country  and  re-establish  State  institutions.  Yemen  has 
always  been  a  partner  in  the  conciliation  process  and 
supports  all  efforts  by  all  parties.  Yemen  emphasizes 
that any external interference in Somalia’s affairs could 
lead  to  violence  and  confrontation  in  the  Horn  of 
Africa. 
06-52885 

51 

to 
race  or 
justice, 
the 
reiterated 
Yemen  has 
A/61/PV.13 


Yemen  underlines  the  right  of  all  countries  to 
possess  nuclear  technology  for  peaceful  purposes.  We 
have  reiterated  our  commitment 
the  General 
Assembly declaration to make the Middle East a region 
free  of  all  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  including 
nuclear weapons, and to compel Israel to comply with 
the  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  in  order  to 
guarantee stability in the region and to avoid a nuclear 
race. 

Given  our  concern  for  the  promotion  of  trust 
among  all  countries  seeking  to  develop  their  nuclear 
energy  for  peaceful  purposes,  we  call  upon  all  to 
cooperate  in  the  creation  of  a  joint  entity  for  nuclear 
research for peaceful purposes, in cooperation with the 
International Atomic Energy Agency. 

its  condemnation  of 
terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations.  We 
believe  that  this  phenomenon,  which  is  alien  to  our 
societies and to the religion of Islam, can be attributed 
to  many  factors,  including  a  feeling  of  lack  of 
international 
spread  of  misleading 
judgements and decrees, and misconceptions of others 
based  on 
factors  have 
undermined  trust  among  people  and  have  led  to  the 
spread of extremism and terrorism.  

An  international  conference  should  be  convened 
to  reach  an  agreement  on  an  accurate  definition  of 
terrorism  and  to  deal  with  its  root  causes,  such  as 
poverty,  unemployment,  lack  of  education  and  the 
absence  of  international  justice.  A  distinction  should 
also be made between terror against innocent civilians 
and  the  legitimate  right  of  people  to  resist  foreign 
occupation. 

The Republic of Yemen would like to reiterate its 
commitment  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  adopted  in  2000  and  to  the  Monterrey 
Consensus. We  are  convinced  that  the  mobilization  of 
financial resources for development and their effective 
use  in  developing  countries  and  in  countries  with 
economies in transition are essential for the realization 
of a genuine global partnership for development. 
We  would  like  to  stress  here  the  need  to  grant 

the 
developing 
development  and  management  of  their  development 
programmes, 
their  national 
priorities  and  their  special  situations,  in  conformity 
with international strategies for development. 
in  accordance  with 
religion.  Such 
countries 
greater 
freedom 
in 

Based on our belief that the individual should be 
the focus of development and its ultimate objective, we 
have  given  utmost  priority  to  the  MDGs  and  have 
mainstreamed  them  in  our  policies  and  five-year 
development  plan,  2006-2010,  as  well  as  integrated 
them  into  the  economic,  environmental  and  social 
aspects of our plans. 

We  have  thus  adopted  a  series  of  measures  and 
actions  for  reform  in  the  financial,  administrative  and 
judicial  fields,  the  most  recent  of  which  is  the  total 
separation  of  the  judiciary  power  from  the  executive 
power  and  the  appointment  of  an  independent  chief 
judge of the country’s judicial authority. We have also 
involved  civil  society  organizations,  which  are  key 
partners  in  economic  and  political  development  and 
progress,  and  have  cooperated  with  donor  countries, 
specialized agencies and international organizations in 
the implementation of our second five-year plan for the 
alleviation  of  poverty.  That  plan  is  based  on  small 
projects  and  on  the  expansion  of  technical  education, 
the provision of basic services, the promotion of good 
governance  and  the  fight  against  corruption.  It  is  an 
ambitious  plan  that  we  believe  requires  international 
support in order to achieve its objective and result in a 
qualitative leap in human development in Yemen. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  twenty-first  century,  we 
must  review  the  system  of  international  relations  to 
base it more on trust, dialogue and cooperation. We all 
are in agreement that democracy and the enjoyment of 
freedoms are at the core of desired reform, and here I 
should like to stress that the reform of national and of 
international policies are two sides of the same coin. 

Democracy  in  international  relations  helps  to 
promote  democracy  in  national  policies  and  is  a 
genuine  motive  for  it.  That  requires  that  the  United 
Nations itself be an example to follow in terms of the 
exercise  of  democracy.  Thus  reform  and  restructuring 
of  the  United  Nations  is  required,  as  well  as  its 
revitalization  and  the  restoration  of  its  international 
standing and prestige, including through the expansion 
of  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  to  include 
representation by all continents. That should be done in 
an  equitable  manner  that  guarantees  representation  by 
all  cultures  and  civilizations  and  also  assigns  a  more 
prominent role to the Economic and Social Council in 
elaborating  international  policies  relating  to  economic 
and  social  issues  and  in  the  follow-up  of  their 
implementation.  It  should  be  done  also  in  a  manner 
to  move 
that 
international 
promotes 
efforts 
52 

06-52885 
I shall now call on those representatives wishing 


development  forward  and  assist  developing  countries 
to realize the MDGs. 

In  conclusion,  and  on  behalf  of  the  Government 
of the Republic of Yemen,  I should like to extend our 
thanks and deep appreciation to Secretary-General Kofi 
Annan  for  his  tireless  and  dedicated  efforts  in  the 
conduct  of  the  Organization  during  his  two  terms  of 
office, working, patiently and diligently, in the service 
of humanity. I would like to wish him every success in 
his future endeavours. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  We 

have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  general  debate  for 
this meeting. 

to speak in exercise of the right of reply.  

May  I  remind  members  that,  in  accordance  with 
General  Assembly  decision,  statements  in  exercise  of 
the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first 
intervention  and  to  five  minutes  for  the  second 
intervention  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats. 
Mr.  Dolatyar  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  The 

General Assembly today yet again has heard a number 
of  unsubstantiated  and  absurd  allegations  about  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  by  the  representative  of  the 
Israeli regime. 

Indeed,  it  has  become  a  tired  practice  by  the 
representatives  of  that  regime,  which  is  based  on 
violence, occupation, State terrorism and bloodshed, to 
misuse 
raise  unfounded 
allegations  against  others,  in  an  endeavour  to  distract 
the international community’s attention from its crimes 
and State terrorism in the Middle East. 

The  Israeli  regime,  ever  since  its  inception  and 
throughout  all  these  years  of  its  aggression,  State 
terrorism  and  bloodshed,  has  spared  no  effort  to 
misinform and mislead the international community by 
using different mischievous propaganda  methods.  It is 
not therefore surprising for the representative of such a 
regime,  ruled  constantly  by  culprits  of  various  crimes 
against  humanity  and  war  crimes,  to  present  such 
baseless and fabricated propaganda as a remedy for its 
illegitimacy and as a smokescreen for its war crimes. 
In  the  last  six  decades,  the  Israeli  regime  has 

continuously 
violated  many 
international  laws  and  norms,  as  well  as  dozens  of 
every  opportunity 
purposely 
and 
to 
A/61/PV.13
It 
is 
indisputable 
United  Nations  resolutions,  to  which  the  response  of 
this  illegitimate  and  irresponsible  regime  has  been 
nothing but complete defiance. 

In that  context, particular  reference  can be made 
to  the  mischievous  policy  of  the  Israeli  regime  on  the 
nuclear issue, which is a showcase for its concealment 
and unabated pursuance of a nuclear arsenal during the 
past  decades. 
that  such  an 
ill-intentioned  policy  has  been  threatening  the  peace 
and  security  of  the  volatile  Middle  East  region  for 
years. In fact, the Israeli nuclear danger and its missile 
capacity,  coupled  with  its  wicked  behaviour  and 
intentions,  presents  a  real  threat  not  only  to  regional 
peace  and  security  but  to  the  world  as  a  whole.  This 
threat,  therefore,  needs  to  be  urgently  and  decisively 
addressed by the international community. 

Indeed, that regime should face a united front and 
be  kept  under  continuous  pressure  to  relinquish  its 
nuclear programme and to place all its nuclear facilities 
under international monitoring. It is worth mentioning 
that the only existing obstacle to the establishment of a 
nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle  East  is  the 
non-adherence  of  that  regime  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and  its 
continued  clandestine  operation  of  unsafeguarded 
nuclear 
technological 
assistance from certain States. 

the 
continuing  international  calls  made  in  various  forums, 
particularly  at  the  2000  NPT  Review  Conference, 
which by name called on  that regime to accede to the 
NPT immediately and without any conditions. 

The  baseless  allegations  and  statements  made  in 
the  Assembly  tonight  by  the  representative  of  the 
Zionist  regime  demonstrate  clearly  that  those  who  are 
putting  my  country  under  growing,  unreasonable  and 
baseless pressure are in fact trying to serve the interests 
of  the  illegitimate  Israeli  regime.  We  believe  that  the 
international  community  and  world  public  opinion  are 
well aware of that ploy and therefore will not give in to 
pressure  aimed  at  protecting  the  illegal  policies  and 
practices  of  the  Zionist  regime  and  its  illegitimate 
interests. 

Regarding  the  recent  Israeli  aggression  against 
Lebanon,  the  representative  of  the  Zionist  regime 
lectured  us  in  this  Hall  that  democracy  is  good  and 
terrorism  is  bad,  but  she  forgot  about  occupation.  She 
is  called 
said,  “Terror 
That  regime  has  paid  no  attention 
facilities,  with  help  and 
terror,  even  when 
to 
is 
it 
06-52885 

53 

is 
resistance 
the  only  problem 
A/61/PV.13 

resistance”. It seems that for the Zionist, occupation is 
acceptable; 
to 
occupation. According to Zionist doctrine and practice, 
any  kind  of  resistance  to  occupation  is  bad  and 
forbidden. To Zionists, resistance means extremism; in 
their view, moderation means pacifism and acceptance 
of  subjugation.  I  must  remind  the  representative  and 
her  supporters  that  occupation  is  occupation,  war 
crimes are war crimes, and brutality and aggression are 
brutality  and  aggression,  regardless  of  what  one  calls 
them. 

I  also  wish  to  speak  in  right  of  reply  to  another 
comment.  This  morning,  the  Foreign  Minister  of  the 
United Arab Emirates made some unacceptable claims 
against the territorial integrity of my country. Because 
we  have  clearly  and  repeatedly  placed  on  record  our 
position  on  that  issue,  I  do  not  need  to  go  into  detail 
here. The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  is  fully  committed 
to its international obligations, especially those arising 
from  the  memorandum  of  understanding  of  1971.  We 
firmly  believe 
that  misunderstandings  or  other 
interpretations  or  applications  —  if  any  —  of  the 
memorandum  of  understanding  should  be  addressed 
with 
agreed 
mechanisms in order to find an acceptable solution. 

its  part,  my  Government  has  always 
welcomed interaction and exchanges of views between 
officials of Iran and the United Arab Emirates on issues 
through  mutually 
goodwill 
and 
For 
in 
an 
any 
role 
dispelling 
constitutes 
of  interest  and  concern  to  both  countries.  We  believe 
that dialogue between our two Governments can play a 
decisive 
existing 
misunderstanding. 
Mr.  Al-Hebsi  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  The  State  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  has 
always  been  careful  to  clearly  express  its  firm  and 
principled  national  position  on  the  three  islands  — 
Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Moussa — and to 
uphold the sovereignty of our country. The presence of 
Iran  on  those  islands  since  1971,  which  belong  to  the 
Emirates, 
illegitimate  military 
occupation that violates the letter and the spirit of the 
Charter of the United Nations, the rules of international 
relations  and  the  provisions  of  international  law.  This 
situation must be corrected. 
I reiterate what my country’s Minister for Foreign 

Affairs  said  earlier 
the 
Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to agree to 
refer  this  matter  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice. 
Once  again,  I  urge  Iran  to  make  a  serious  response  to 
the  peaceful  initiatives  of  the  Government  of  the 
United Arab Emirates so that this issue can be resolved 
in  a  peaceful  manner,  either  by  participating  in 
peaceful  bilateral  negotiations  or  by  agreeing  to  refer 
the  matter  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and 
accepting its legal decision. 

The meeting rose at 9.30 p.m.
today  when  he 
invited 
54 

06-52885 
