
A/61/PV.21
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-first session 

21st plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 26 September 2006, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President:  Ms. Al-Khalifa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Bahrain) 







  The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m. 
Agenda item 8 (continued) 

and 
famine.  Poverty 
General debate 
The President: I now call on His Excellency The 

Honourable  Sato  Kilman,  Deputy  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Vanuatu. 
Mr.  Kilman  (Vanuatu):  Today,  we  stand  on  the 

verge  of  global  uncertainty.  The 
international 
landscape  is  scarred  by  wars,  conflict,  civil  unrest, 
epidemics,  drought 
and 
malnutrition continue to ravage the lives of millions of 
the world’s inhabitants. 

The  very  values  and  fabric  on  which  the  United 
Nations was founded are being besieged by new ideas 
and  principles  that  are  undermining  the  authority  of 
this  body  to  maintain  global  peace  and  security.  The 
clash  of  ideologies  and  of  cultural  and  religious 
differences  continues  to  give  much  food  for  thought. 
The United Nations stands at a crossroads. While it has 
the  mandate  to  address  those  challenges,  it  remains 
paralysed as a result of actions taken by the hegemonic 
Powers  of  today.  That  is  the  dilemma  confronting  the 
Organization. 
The  value  of  the  human  person  and  his  or  her 

right to live in a world that is fair and just seems but a 
dream. Ensuring the dignity of one’s right to live with 
access to the most basic necessities in life remains our 
greatest challenge. We speak so ambitiously of creating 
a  world  that  is  equitable  and  just,  but  the  outcomes 
have been unimpressive. 

The  schism  between  the  minority  rich  and  the 
majority poor continues to grow. The multitudes of the 
disadvantaged are being further marginalized from the 
so-called  benefits  of  globalization.  Fear  has  struck 
many small countries of the developing world. It is not 
the fear that the developing world has no capabilities in 
contributing  to  peace  and  security,  but  the  fear  —  the 
greatest fear, in fact — that the undemocratic practices 
of  the  major  United  Nations  organs,  such  as  the 
Security  Council,  are  causing  tension  and  disarray  in 
the work of the United Nations. 

The  disparities  in  the  quality  of  life  between  the 
haves  and  the  have-nots  have  grown  to  be  fertile 
breeding grounds for new and hostile generations. And 
it is here that the phenomenon of terrorism continues to 
challenge the frontiers of our imagination. It is perhaps 
much  clearer  today  than  ever  before  that  there  are 
reasons for increased resentment in certain parts of the 
world. 

My Government condemns terrorism in whatever 
form or manifestation it assumes, and there is an urgent 
need for all the Members of the United Nations to work 
together  openly 
those  dangerous 
developments. The destruction of innocent lives should 
not be the means to meeting an end. That is inhumane. 
All  United  Nations  Member  countries  therefore  have 
the 
ethical 
responsibility — to eradicate that menace from the face 
of the Earth. 
responsibility  — 
in  combating 
a  moral 
and 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

06-53615 (E) 
*0653615* 
is 
the 
jeopardizing 
realization  of 
A/61/PV.21 


Peace  cannot  be  won  through  injustice,  the 
practice  of  double  standards,  aggression  or  war.  We 
cannot be victorious in the fight against terrorism if we 
fail  to  address  its  root  causes.  Conversely,  it  is 
incumbent  on  all  Member  States  to  act  responsibly  to 
ensure  the  implementation  of  all  United  Nations 
resolutions.  Moreover,  if  we  are  to  have  any  hope  of 
building  a  better  future,  then  peace  must  sometimes 
come at a price. 

We must begin to look deeply, honestly and with 
open  hearts  if  we  are  really  to  understand  the  world 
around us. If  there is a question of repressive policies 
that influence and dominate the international economic 
and  political  order,  then  those  concerned  must  take 
remedial action. The adoption of the resolution on the 
United  Nation’s  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  is 
therefore a positive step forward. 

The  central  focus  on  the  fight  against  terrorism 
has  taken  centre  stage  for  some,  and  the  diversion  of 
resources 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
official 
development  assistance  target  levels.  Accessibility  to 
the  markets  of  the  affluent  nations  has  also  restricted 
the  progress  of  development  in  many  countries  of  the 
developing  world.  Major  world  players  must  not  lose 
sight of those goals. 

Inter-State  relations,  mutual  understanding  and 
tolerance  begin  with  respect  for  the  individual.  The 
dignity  of  the  human  person  is  of  the  essence  in 
building  equality  between  all  persons.  That  is  one  of 
the  fundamental  principles  of  the  United  Nations.  As 
Members of the United Nations, we have all agreed to 
embrace those principles and we continue to believe in 
those  values.  Vanuatu  joined  the  United  Nations  in 
1981 because it believed in the Organization. Today, I 
stand before the Assembly to again reaffirm faith in the 
United  Nations,  but  I  agree  that  changes  must  take 
place  to  adapt  the  United  Nations  system  to  the 
evolution  of  the  international  and  geopolitical  and 
economic framework. 

Reforms of the various United Nations bodies are 
therefore absolutely essential. There must be reform of 
the Security Council to ensure that it is democratic and 
more representative of the United Nations membership. 
The  veto  power  in  the  Council  dilutes  all  the  good 
intentions  of  the  majority  of  the  United  Nations 
membership 
the 
today.  The  underlying 
challenges  confronting  us 
addressing  many  of 
towards 
and 

to 
reasonable 
question,  though,  is:  Has  the  disproportionate  use  of 
the  veto  power  sustained 
levels  of 
international peace and stability? 

Cultural and religious differences cannot be seen 
to  be  obstacles  in  that  regard.  The  United  Nations 
brought  civility  and  etiquette 
the  conduct  of 
relations  between  States,  and  central  to  that  are 
relations between individuals. The art of statesmanship 
has therefore become very critical at this time. Respect 
must therefore begin here at the United Nations. When 
one  world  Power  speaks  here,  this  Hall  is  jammed. 
Thereafter, the debate becomes routine. That is remiss 
of  many  of  us.  The  annual  general  debate  of  the 
General  Assembly  is  the  only  practical  occasion  at 
which  almost  all  leaders  are  together  in  one  place  to 
discuss and share views on the development challenges 
facing the globe. The United Nations is not about one 
or  several  nations;  it  is  about  this  family  of  nations 
with 
the  one  common  objective  of  maintaining 
international peace and security. 

Over the past few days, millions around the globe 
have monitored the unfolding debate in this noble Hall 
of 
the  General  Assembly.  A  war  of  words  has 
resounded from this rostrum, exposing an alarming rift 
in relations between some super-Powers and the voices 
of the developing world. The media have exploited the 
situation  to  scrutinize  those  events,  often  ending  up 
with gross assumptions and conclusions that have only 
instilled fear amongst the world’s innocent population. 
Now, is that the right message of hope we are giving to 
our  peoples,  who  have  faith  in  the  United  Nations?  Is 
the  United  Nations  not  the  beacon  of  hope  for  all 
humanity? 

Confrontation  must  be  resolved  through  tactful 
diplomacy and negotiation consistent with the purposes 
and  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and 
established  international  law.  In  that  spirit,  we  also 
appeal  to  those  concerned  to  exercise  great  restraint 
and  to  have  the  wisdom  and  responsibility  to  ensure 
above all that any action they take serves that purpose, 
which  must  be  in  the  interest  of  future  global  justice, 
peace  and  security.  Any  retreat  from  multilateralism 
will  result  only  in  increased  tension  and  aggression. 
Again,  mutual 
appropriate 
mechanisms  is  absolutely  critical  at  this  very  delicate 
time. 

On  the  question  of  the  Middle  East,  both  Israel 
and  Palestine  have  the  right  to  live  side  by  side  in 
dialogue 
through 
2 

06-53615 


peaceful  coexistence  as  independent  and  sovereign 
States.  The  international  community  must  be  realistic 
about  the  future.  Let  us  allow  justice,  security  and 
long-lasting peace to prevail for both the Israeli people 
and the Palestinians. 

Recently,  Vanuatu  was  recognized  by  the  Happy 
Planet  Index,  published  by  the  British-based  New 
Economics Foundation, as the happiest place on Earth. 
We are proud to have been placed so high amongst all 
countries of the world, but we have been careful not to 
be carried  away, and so often it is that island paradox 
that  conceals  the  diverse  development  challenges  that 
small island countries of the Pacific, such as Vanuatu, 
face in today’s world of globalization. 

Last week, during the High-Level Meeting on the 
Midterm  Comprehensive  Global  Review  of 
the 
Implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  for  the 
Least  Developed  Countries,  I  spoke  of  the  many 
challenges facing my country in the implementation of 
the  Brussels  Programme  of Action.  Vanuatu  has  been 
showing  positive  signs  of  gradual  economic  growth. 
However,  in  the  light  of  our  vulnerability  to  natural 
disasters,  exogenous  market  demand  and  supply  price 
fluctuations  and  their  adverse  impacts  on  the  three 
most  important  sectors  contributing  to  our  gross 
domestic  product,  we  consider  this  an  inappropriate 
time to include Vanuatu in the list of countries eligible 
for graduation. 

Furthermore,  while  the  current  methods  used  to 
measure  the  three  main  thresholds  for  graduation  are 
dependent  on  statistical  variables,  it  is  commonly 
understood  that  statistical  data  for  countries  in  the 
Pacific  — 
including  Vanuatu  —  contain  major 
discrepancies. Therefore, relying solely on such data to 
determine  Vanuatu’s  achievements  in  relation  to  the 
thresholds would yield inaccurate results. 

the  General  Assembly  will  be 
considering  countries  recommended  for  inclusion  in 
the  list  of  countries  eligible  for  graduation.  That  list 
includes  Vanuatu.  Our  arguments  for  exclusion  from 
the  list  are  well  founded  and  based  on  practical 
realities.  My  Government  considers  as  premature  the 
recommendation  by  the  Committee  for  Development 
Policy to include Vanuatu on the list. We therefore call 
upon Members of the United Nations to understand and 
support Vanuatu’s case. 
responsible  United  Nations  Member, 

Vanuatu  is  also  contributing  towards  international 
Very  soon, 
As  a 
A/61/PV.21
peace  and  security.  Vanuatu  peacekeepers  have 
participated  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions 
in  Bosnia  and  East  Timor,  and  we  currently  have 
peacekeepers  stationed  in  the  Congo,  Haiti,  Côte 
d’Ivoire  and  the  Sudan.  Vanuatu  has  also  participated 
in regional peacekeeping missions in Bougainville and 
Solomon  Islands.  Those  efforts  illustrate  Vanuatu’s 
resolve  to  engage  in  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding 
in both the regional and international contexts. 

With regard to the question of the environment — 
in particular global warming and climate change — my 
Government  strongly  aligns  itself  with  other  small 
island  States  in  urging  the  international  community  to 
reduce emissions. The failure of major emitters to sign 
the Kyoto Protocol is a major disappointment. 

The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  espouses  the 
principles  that  continue  to  guide  the  Organization’s 
efforts in the process of self-determination. It calls for 
recognition of and respect for the fundamental rights of 
peoples  and  territories  still  under  colonial  rule.  We 
must  not  lose  sight  of  that  goal.  The  United  Nations 
must make renewed efforts where it has failed to allow 
justice to prevail for those peoples who continue to be 
denied 
freedom  and 
democracy.  We  must  relegate  that  dark  legacy  to  the 
past.   

Determining how to bring more cohesiveness and 
unity  to  this  great  community  of  nations  has  now 
become  a  much  more  formidable  challenge.  I  affirm 
my support for the challenging exercise before us. Our 
Almighty  Creator  entrusted  us,  the  human  race,  with 
the  safeguarding  of  a  great  asset,  the  Earth.  It  is 
incumbent on us to make the most of that opportunity. 
The  world’s  destiny  is  in  our  hands.  In  that  spirit,  I 
extend  my  congratulations  to  Montenegro  on  its 
admission as the 192nd Member of the United Nations. 

Before  closing,  I  would  like  to  acknowledge  the 
support  of  our  development  partners  —  in  particular 
Australia,  New  Zealand,  France,  Japan,  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China,  the  United  States  of America  and 
the  European  Union  —  as  well  as  the  various  United 
Nations  bodies 
the 
development of Vanuatu. I also extend our appreciation 
to India, Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore  and  Indonesia 
for  their  continuous  support  within  the  framework  of 
South-South cooperation. In addition, my Government 
is encouraged by the initiative and the kind gesture of 
Venezuela  in  committing  $2  million  to  the  Pacific 
that  are  strongly  supporting 
inalienable 
their 
right 
to 
06-53615 

3 

that 
positive 
together 
developments 
A/61/PV.21 

islands  through  the  work  programme  of  the  United 
Nations  Convention  to  Combat  Desertification.  Those 
are 
are 
complementing the leadership role being played by my 
Government in its development path. 

In closing, I take this final opportunity to pay our 
respects to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for 
his outstanding stewardship of the United Nations. His 
wisdom has ensured that the United Nations will retain 
its  credibility  and  its  relevance.  During  periods  of 
turbulence  and  uncertainty,  he  has  been  relentless  in 
the pursuit of his belief in United Nations reform. My 
Government  salutes  him  for  his  distinguished  service 
to the United Nations. We wish him all the best in his 
future endeavours. 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Kaliopate  Tavola,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs, 
External Trade and Sugar of Fiji. 
Mr.  Tavola  (Fiji):  I  extend  to  you,  Madam,  the 

congratulations and best wishes of the Government and 
the people of the Fiji Islands. The General Assembly is 
to  be  commended  for  accepting  your  candidature  to 
become  the  third  woman  to  assume  the  post  of 
President of the Assembly. That recognizes the critical 
role that women play in the development of humanity 
in our global  village. We  assure you of  the support of 
my Government during your tenure.  

We also extend our gratitude to your predecessor, 
His Excellency Mr. Jan Eliasson, for his tireless efforts 
in the United Nations reform process, to which he has 
applied his personal skills and knowledge. While much 
is still to be resolved, his contributions thus far to the 
reform process have started the ball rolling. It is up to 
us to maintain the momentum. 

Fiji,  its  Government  and  its  people  wish  to 
honour  and  express  our  appreciation  to  the  outgoing 
Secretary-General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kofi  Annan. 
His tireless efforts to promote peace and reconciliation 
in  the  world  are  well  recognized.  Ghana  should  be 
justly  proud  of  its  son. As  a  nation  of  the  developing 
world,  we  are  just  as  proud  that  he  has  been  able  to 
project  our  hopes  —  most  prominently, 
the 
development  agenda  of  the  Organization.  We  respect 
his achievements in leading the United Nations during 
his tenure of office. His service to peoples around the 
world, and the patience, courage and determination that 
he has demonstrated daily in facing the world, despite 
thrown  his  way,  are 
the  barbs  and  criticisms 
in 
to 
On 
to  report 
the  Assembly 
commendable.  We  ask  him  to  accept  our  deepest 
gratitude and profound appreciation for all that he has 
done. We extend best wishes for the future to him and 
to his family. 

this  occasion,  following  our  successful 
general elections held in May of this year, I am pleased 
to  be  able 
that  all 
international observers who attended the holding of the 
general elections in Fiji have concluded that the result 
was democratic and a fair reflection of the popular will 
of the people.  

The rebuilding of our nation after the disaster that 
struck  us  in  2000  is  going  very  well  indeed.  It  was 
strengthened following the formation of the multiparty 
Government  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of 
our  Constitution.  We  now  have  a  Cabinet  comprising 
ministers  drawn  from  the  majority  Soqosoqo  Duavata 
ni Lewenivanua (SDL) Party and the Fiji Labour Party, 
as  the  party  that  qualified  to  be  invited  to  be 
represented  in  Cabinet. We  also  have  ministers  drawn 
from the independent members of our elected House of 
Representatives.  This  means  that,  for  the  first  time  in 
its history, Fiji has a cabinet that is truly representative 
of its multi-ethnic communities. 

Ministers from the two major races in the country 
and  those  from  the  minority  groups  are  working  well 
together  in  collaborative  and  consultative  decision-
making.  We  are  united  by  the  common  purpose  of 
taking  our  country  forward,  for  the  benefit  of  every 
citizen. 

took 
the 
Mr.  Muñoz  (Chile),  Vice-President, 
Chair. 
This  multi-ethnic 
arrangement 
for 

good 
governance  has  received  overwhelming  approval  and 
support  from  all  our  communities.  It  has  given  our 
country reasons to be optimistic. People from all races 
now feel more confident and secure about their future. 
We  believe  that  forming  a  multi-ethnic  Government 
that is representative of our different communities, and 
making it work, is the approach that has eluded us for a 
long  time,  but  one  which  will  ensure  long-term  peace 
and  stability  in  Fiji.  That  new  form  of  inclusive 
Government 
is  also  underpinning  our  drive  for 
continued 
economic 
improvements 
performance. 

The  plea  from  Fiji  is  for  the  United  Nations 
Member  countries  to  strengthen  their  joint  resolve  to 
Fiji’s 
in 
4 

06-53615 


oppose  terrorism  everywhere  in  the  world.  Fiji  is 
committed  to  a  world  in  which  peace  and  prosperity 
are  the  cornerstones  of  all  societies  and  communities. 
We  consider  it  an  honour  to  serve  the  cause  of  peace 
under  the  banners  of  the  United  Nations  and  other 
peacekeeping  arrangements,  including  that  under  the 
Pacific Islands Forum.  

Where  there  are  potential  internal  crises  and 
disorder, we support the Secretary-General’s concept of 
conflict  prevention.  However,  where 
the  United 
Nations mandates intervention for peace, we are ready 
to  contribute.  Peacekeeping  personnel  from  Fiji  are 
working  in  Iraq,  Kosovo,  Liberia,  the  Sinai,  the 
Solomon  Islands,  the  Sudan  and  Timor-Leste.  We 
would  like  to  thank  the  United  Nations  and  all  those 
countries  that  have  assisted  Fiji  in  honouring  its 
commitment  to  international  peace  and  security.  We 
welcome the intention of other countries to assist us in 
that matter. We do so with humility, knowing that there 
is more peace to keep and to build in the world today, 
and  that  we  have  acquired  competence  to  offer  to 
humanity. 

Peace  and  security  initiatives  have  undergone  a 
number  of  reviews  recently  to  benefit  peacekeeping 
operations.  Fiji  notes 
the  peace 
stabilization  force  in  Lebanon  and  the  consultative 
process  that  preceded  it  as  an  example  of  an  existing 
organization’s  being  tailored  to  suit  a  given  situation. 
We should not be afraid to make changes for the better. 
The  best  practices  derived  from  Bougainville  and  the 
Solomon  Islands  are  examples  that  can  be  utilized 
elsewhere. 

The  Peacebuilding  Commission  was  established 
primarily  to  ensure  that  countries  that  have  emerged 
from  conflict  do  not  regress  to  their  status  quo  ante. 
Fiji  commends 
for 
everyone’s support. I welcome the support given to Fiji 
as  an 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission. 

We  in  the  Pacific  remain  committed  to  ensuring 
that  our  region  remains  one  of  permanent  peace  and 
stability. Next month, Fiji will host the meeting of the 
leaders  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum.  The  finalization 
of  the  Pacific  Plan  will  be  the  main  focus  of  the 
meeting.  The  Plan  provides  a 
for 
cooperation  and  mutual  assistance  in  development, 
good governance and long-term peace and security. We 
commend those countries from outside our region that 
initiative  and  appeals 
inaugural  member  of 
the  creation  of 
framework 
that 
A/61/PV.21
in 
the 
that 
We  find 
them  for 
to  assist  us 
to  work  and 
the  multilateral 
have  pledged 
implementation of the Plan. 

The  Pacific  Islands  Forum  leaders  welcomed 
their  summit  meetings  earlier  this  year  with  China, 
Japan  and  France.  We  commend 
their 
development support and their leadership in promoting 
lasting  peace  in  the  region.  We  maintain  that  those 
initiatives ought to be sustained and can be ensured by 
engaging all parties in constructive dialogue. 

The  United  Nations  is  renowned  for  addressing 
and  finding  resolutions  for  the  problems  of  the  small 
and  marginalized.  Fiji  is  a  small  island  developing 
State with a highly vulnerable economy. Our economy 
is  open  and  is  over  70  per  cent  dependent  on  export 
trade to earn foreign exchange to meet its development 
needs. 

trading  rules 
emanating  from  the World Trade  Organization  (WTO) 
are not fair or equitable, given our development status, 
geography  and  size.  WTO  proposals  that  have  tended 
towards  a  one-size-fits-all  approach  have  not  fully 
benefited  from  an  honest  and  creative  application  of 
the  special  and  differential  treatment  clauses  of  the 
WTO.  They  have  not  effectively  addressed 
the 
multiplicity  of  problems  we  are  facing.  They  serve 
only  the  interests  of  countries  that  are  developed,  big 
and already established traders globally and, of course, 
are  already  well  off. The  fact  that  those  proposals  are 
formulated  with  little  regard  for  our  concerns  has 
manifested 
in  widening  disparity,  greater 
marginalization and worsening global poverty. 

However, we do not advocate the removal of the 
multilateral trading arrangement. We just need to make 
it better. The suspension of the WTO talks on the Doha 
Development  Agenda  has 
further  deepened  our 
concerns regarding the need for the multilateral trading 
rules to show some flexibility so that the development 
concerns of countries like Fiji can be addressed in the 
current 
the 
membership of the United Nations to work towards an 
early resumption of the suspended WTO talks. There is 
far  too  much  at  stake  for  all  of  us,  and  especially  for 
the small islands developing States like Fiji. 

We acknowledge the importance of the Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  other  international 
instruments in the promotion of human rights. We note 
that  they  are  concerned  primarily  with  protecting  the 
rights  of  individuals.  Fiji,  like  other  Pacific  Islands 
round  of  negotiations.  We  call  on 
itself 
06-53615 

5 

the  relevant 
A/61/PV.21 

indigenous  communities,  welcomes  the  decision  to 
bring  the  draft  declaration  on  the  rights  of  indigenous 
peoples  to  this Assembly  for  discussion  and  adoption. 
That instrument is vitally important to the  recognition 
and  acceptance  of  the  right  of  indigenous  peoples  to 
self-determination  and  of  their  right  to  survival  as 
ethnically and culturally distinct peoples. 

On the international convention on the protection 
and promotion of the rights and dignity of persons with 
disabilities, Fiji, like others, has recognized the special 
needs  of  persons  with  disabilities  and  has  already 
enacted 
legislation  and  subsequently 
established  the  Fiji  National  Council  of  Disabled 
Persons. A national policy on disability for 2006-2016, 
a  requirement  of  the  act,  is  currently  being  finalized. 
Fiji strongly supports the international convention and 
would be in favour of its adoption. 

Fiji  acknowledges  the  vital  role  women  play  in 
development.  To  ensure  women’s  active  participation 
in  all  facets  of  development,  the  monitoring  of  the 
rights  of  women  contained  in  the  Beijing  Platform  of 
Action has to be reinforced. One effective way to do so 
is to ensure that domestic policies and legislation are in 
place  to  drive  gender  mainstreaming.  That  must  be  a 
priority target for us all. 

Improving  world  security  must  be  accompanied 
by  appropriate  reforms  in  our  Organization. A  goal  of 
the current reform of the United Nations is the need to 
ensure that the voices of small and vulnerable countries 
like  Fiji  are  given  equal  treatment  in  the  membership 
of this global body. 

One of the goals of the United Nations reforms is 
to achieve democratization. Without that, it will remain 
an  Organization  driven  by  sectarian  interests,  where 
might is right and moral and ethical considerations fall 
by  the  wayside.  We  must  not  be  deterred  from  the 
momentous  task  we  have  set  for  ourselves.  The 
outcome  of  our  concerted  and  committed  effort  in 
those reforms will be a just and stronger Organization, 
better  prepared  to  address  the  world’s  multiplicity  of 
challenges. 

A  lot  has  been  achieved  since  we  last  met  in 
plenary. New challenges have emerged. However, there 
are  still  far  too  many  people  whose  needs  and  voices 
are  still  crying  out  to  be  heard.  The  United  Nations 
remains a beacon of hope for them. Those cries ought 
to  be  listened  to  and  people  empowered  so  that  they 
can  firmly  and  confidently  take  charge  of  their  own 
the  commitment  of 
destiny. We must all undertake to assist and participate 
in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations,  commensurate,  of 
course,  with  our 
respective  size  and  economic 
standing. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Eamon Courtenay, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Foreign  Trade  of 
Belize. 
Mr.  Courtenay  (Belize):  I  stand  before  the 

Assembly  and 
the 
Government  and  people  of  Belize  to  the  principles 
enshrined  in  the  United  Nations  Charter.  We  reaffirm 
the  pledge  made  by  the  father  of  the  Belizean  nation, 
the Right Honourable George Price, when he said from 
this rostrum:  


“Belize,  with  the  help  of  God  and  the 
support of its people, will stand upright and will 
do  its  duty  to  help  bring  peace,  stability  and 
prosperity  to  our  region  and  the  wider  circles  of 
our planet Earth.” (A/36/PV.13, para. 143) 

Through  you,  Sir,  we  would  like  to  congratulate 
the President on her election and pledge the support of 
my delegation for our important work at this session of 
the General Assembly. 

We  express  our  solidarity  with  our  Secretary-
General,  whose  imprint  on  this  institution  at  this 
critical time in international affairs will be appreciated 
and remembered through the ages. 

Belize became independent 25 years ago. It was a 
different  time  then,  in  1981.  The  cold  war  was  being 
waged.  There  was  a  clash  of  economic  philosophies, 
and countries were being forced to circle in one of two 
orbits. But many countries did not; we proclaimed our 
non-alignment  and  worked 
to  establish  a  new 
international  economic  order.  We  sought  to  create  a 
world  which  was  fairer  and  more  just  and  which  put 
people at its centre.  
that  dream  of  a  new 

international economic order. In fact, in 1989, the wall 
that divided not only a nation, but the entire social and 
economic  order  of  the  world,  came  tumbling  down. 
The  Berlin  Wall  was  torn  down  nearly  two  decades 
ago, but we have yet to tear down the most important 
wall of all — the one that separates us into rich States 
and  poor  States,  wealthy  and  poor,  developed  and 
developing. 
renew 
We  never  achieved 
6 

06-53615 



Almost 15 years ago, we were told that if we tore 
down  barriers  to  trade,  opened  up  our  markets  to 
foreign capital and imported goods, and privatized our 
State-owned enterprises, our economies would grow by 
leaps  and  bounds. We  were  also  told  that  our  partners 
in the developed world would afford us greater access 
to  their  markets,  that  our  commodities  would  receive 
fair  prices,  and  that  international  financiers  would 
make capital readily available for us to borrow. 

The  question  we  now  ask  is:  Are  we  better  off 
having  adhered  to  that  so-called  development  cocktail 
prescribed by the Washington Consensus? 

All  is  not  well.  In  the  Caribbean,  30  per  cent  of 
people  are  living  in  poverty.  In  Latin  America,  the 
figure is an obscene 40.6 per cent. Worse yet, 16.8 per 
cent  of  the  people  in  Latin  America  live  in  extreme 
poverty.  Fourteen  of  the  15  Caribbean  countries  are 
among  the  most  indebted  emerging  market  countries. 
In  fact,  seven  are  in  the  top  10,  all  with  debt-to-gross 
domestic product ratios of about 100 per cent. To quote 
from a recent World Bank report: 

“A closer inspection of the data leaves little room 
for  complacency  about 
the  world’s  progress 
against  poverty.  Indeed,  the  picture  that  emerges 
is  one  of  highly  uneven  progress,  with  serious 
setbacks  in  some  regions  and  time  periods. And 
we  find  that  more  people  living  near  $2  per  day 
became  worse  off  over  the  period  than  the 
number  who  gained.  Thus  the  number  living 
under $2 per day rose.” 

In  2001,  members  of 
In  2006,  now  more  than  ever  we  need  a  new 
international economic order. 

the  World  Trade 
Organization  (WTO)  adopted  the  Doha  Development 
Agenda.  The  ministerial 
proudly 
proclaimed:  

“The  majority  of  WTO  members  are  developing 
countries.  We  seek  to  place  their  needs  and 
interests  at  the  heart  of  the  Work  Programme 
adopted in this Declaration.”  
declaration 
The  WTO  sought  to  design  a  multilateral  trading 
system  that  was  to  “ensure  that  developing  countries 
secure  a  share  in  the  growth  of  world  trade  that  was 
commensurate  with 
their  economic 
development”.  But  let  me  tell  members  what  our 
reality,  the  Belizean  experience  with  the  WTO,  has 
been. 
the  needs  of 
A/61/PV.21
agenda 

Since Doha,  a panel set  up by the WTO decided 
that  the  European  Union  organization  of  its  sugar 
market  was  incompatible  with  WTO  rules.  To  solve 
that problem, Belizean sugar farmers now get paid less 
for the sugar exported to the European Union. Simply 
put,  the  WTO  has  made  them  worse  off.  Since  Doha, 
the  European  Union  has  liberalized  its  banana  import 
regime.  That  is  supposed  to  make  the  regime  WTO-
compatible. The statistics now show that imports from 
non-African,  Caribbean  and  Pacific  countries  into  the 
European  Union  have  outstripped  imports  from  the 
Caribbean, and prices paid for bananas have fallen. 
In the five years since Doha, our hopes have been 

dashed,  ambitions  smashed  and 
the  development 
dimension  once  again  ignored.  The  accord  reached  at 
Doha  has  been  systematically  dismantled  with  each 
subsequent  meeting,  from  Cancún  to  Hong  Kong  to 
Geneva. 

We  say  that  there  is  something  inherently  wrong 
with a system that promises development and delivers 
lower prices for exports. We say that there is something 
fundamentally  unfair  in  a  system  that  promises  a 
development 
suspended 
negotiations and less market access to small vulnerable 
economies. 

in  such  an  environment,  defined  by 
is 
multilateralism  and  the  primacy  of  the  markets  — 
liberalism  writ  large  —  that  small  States  in  the 
Caribbean  operate.  It  is  a  system  in  which  unknown 
people  sitting  in  unmarked  rooms  in  Brussels  and 
Geneva  make  decisions  that  determine  how  many 
boxes  of  bananas  the  Caribbean  can  export  to  Europe 
and what price we get paid for our sugar. 

At the end of the day, it is all about social justice 
and social equity. Is something wrong with a picture in 
which, of the 6 billion people on planet Earth, 1 billion 
have  more  than  80  per  cent  of  world  income  and 
5 billion  have  less  than  20  per  cent?  Something  is 
radically wrong with that picture. Our common charge 
is  to  right  that  imbalance.  The  fight  against  poverty 
cannot and will not be won with arms and instruments 
of war. We need a new international economic order in 
which the rights of people to jobs and fair wages and to 
fair prices for commodities take precedence over rules 
of trade that are inherently unfair and inequitable. And 
small vulnerable economies like ours in the Caribbean 
need  special  and  differential  treatment.  Unless  we 
wage the fight against poverty, there will be no peace. 
delivers 
and 
It 
06-53615 

7 

A/61/PV.21 

In the absence of peace, insecurity prevails. Insecurity 
encourages instability. 

It  is  no  wonder  that,  at  this  time,  we  find 
ourselves  in  retreat,  living  in  a  culture  of  fear  and 
divided by a so-called clash of civilizations. A general 
sense  of  lost  hope  is  pervasive  and  the  enthusiasm  of 
the new millennium squandered. 

Here  at  the  United  Nations,  our  own  concept  of 
dialogue  among  civilizations  seems  to  be  fast  fading. 
We must find a way to build a greater sense of security, 
renew our faith in each other and deconstruct the walls 
that divide. That can best be accomplished through our 
work  at  the  United  Nations,  and  my  delegation 
commends  our  efforts  in  endorsing  an  integrated 
approach  to  addressing  the  transition  from  conflict  to 
recovery  with  the  establishment  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission. Together with the General Assembly and 
the  Security  Council,  the  Commission  should,  in  the 
spirit  of  its  constitution,  help  to  answer  those  critical 
questions  related  to  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security and, above all, development. 

In  these  times,  when  the  rules  that  govern  our 
collective responsibility to international civility and the 
comity  of  nations  seem  to  be  eroding  along  with 
respect  for  international  law,  we  must  look  to  our 
institutions to restore our common values. 
We  are  reminded  that  the  primary  responsibility 

of 
the  maintenance  of 
the  Security  Council 
international peace and security. The Charter, in giving 
that  mandate,  specifies  that  the  conferral  of  that 
responsibility  is  to  ensure  prompt  and  effective  action 
when  required.  But  as  we  have  seen  with  the  delayed 
reaction  to  the  recent  events  in  Lebanon  and  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territories,  the  Council  failed  to 
discharge its mandate. The situation in the Middle East 
necessitates prompt and effective action. 

We  acknowledge  that  the  shortcomings  in  the 
Council’s exercise of its mandate may be attributed to 
its  structural  imbalances.  Those  imbalances  are  not 
insurmountable  and,  indeed,  call  for  reform.  The 
Council  must  reflect  the  current  geopolitical  realities. 
Belize  supports  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  including  the  expansion  of  membership  in 
both  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories,  and 
through  the  improvement  of  its  working  methods.  We 
detect  a  momentum  for  change  and  we  are  ready  to 
engage as equal partners to that end. 
is 
8 


We  now  have  a  Human  Rights  Council  that  we 
hope will be vigilant in its work to protect the rights of 
those  unable  to  protect  themselves.  We  will  be  truly 
civilized  only  when  we  stop  the  victimization  of  the 
weak at the expense of the ideology of the strongest. 

We  must  bring  to  an  end  the  violence  and  death 
of the innocent in Darfur. Our collective conscience is 
stained  by  the  genocide  in  Darfur.  For  every  innocent 
life  that  is  lost  to  conflict  and  the  denial  of  basic 
human rights, we carry the scars of their oppression. 
In  Belize,  we  have  started  a  dialogue  on  the 

relevance of small States and the role we must play in 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  I 
have  invoked  the  idea  that,  in  the  global  war  on 
terrorism, we in the Caribbean and Central America are 
less important because we operate in a culture of peace 
and  respect  for  life,  and  that  because  most  of  us  lack 
the armies to join coalitions, we are seen as unwilling 
or even irrelevant. 

Yet  our  people  feel  the  same  fear  as  those  in 
larger  countries;  we  suffer  the  economic  effects  that 
others  suffer  and,  dare  I  say,  more  so  because  of  our 
vulnerability  due  to  our  size.  As  people  at  risk,  we 
want to see the billions spent to make war used to bring 
prosperity  and  hope  to  those  who  live  in  such  despair 
that they can be enticed into the spreading of terror. We 
will not be dissuaded from our belief that violence and 
destruction  beget  war.  Only  hope  and  sustainable 
development can bear peace. 

Today, in our sister Caribbean nation of Haiti, we 
see the resilience of its people. In the turbulence of the 
past  few  years,  the  people  of  Haiti  have  refused  to 
despair.  Their  desire  to  live  in  a  democratic  society 
prevailed when they recently went to the polls to elect 
a  new  Government.  We  must  not  suffer  Haiti  to  slide 
into  irrelevance. We  all  owe  Haiti  our  commitment  to 
nurturing  its  growth  by  building  those  institutions 
necessary for a sustainable nation State. 
At a time when the world has so much wealth that 

$900 billion is being spent on military expenditure and 
$300  billion  on  agricultural  subsidies,  but  only  $60 
billion  on  development  assistance,  too  many  of  our 
people  remain  under  the  strangulation  of  poverty, 
relegated  to  the  dungeons  of  destitution  and  social 
inequality. Yet  we  come  to  these  occasions  and  speak 
of our strong commitment to preserving the dignity of 
all human beings. We speak of their rights and promise 
to continue to foster dialogue. And when it comes right 
06-53615 
to 
In 
that  has  gone 
to  promote  meaningful 


down to it, where the agreements count most the plight 
of  the  poor  is  sacrificed  to  the  bottom  line,  personal 
wealth and political survival. 

In  the  Caribbean,  we  cannot  accept  that  and, 
while  we  applaud  the  efforts  of  this  Organization  and 
the  work 
into  defining  agreed 
development  goals,  including  addressing  the  needs  of 
our  poorest  people,  the  protection  of  our  environment 
and  efforts 
sustainable 
development,  we  must  do  more.  Each  child  who  goes 
to  sleep  hungry  contributes  to  the  shame  we  must  all 
feel  in  failing  to  protect  his  or  her  basic  rights.  Each 
person  who  dies  of  HIV/AIDS  is  a  reflection  of  our 
lost value for life, and every time the poor die for want 
of food we have failed humanity. 

Twenty-five  years  ago,  as  a  newly  independent 
country, Belize was welcomed into the United Nations 
assured of its territorial integrity and its equal place in 
this  community  of  nations.  We  earned  our  rightful 
place  by  example  and  by  commitment 
this 
Organization’s  highest  principles. 
return,  we 
received the solidarity of all. 
Our political independence will remain imperfect 

until  we  find  a  peaceful  and  just  solution  to  the 
territorial claim of Guatemala to Belizean territory. We 
remain  committed  to  finding  a  solution  that  respects 
our territorial integrity and honours our sovereignty. 

is  an 
affirmation  of  the  will  of  sovereign  peoples.  The 
United  Nations  has  served  as  a  platform  for  the 
expression  of  that  will  for  many  of  the  nations 
represented  here  today.  Let  us  in  turn  ensure  that  the 
United  Nations  remains  a  beacon  of  hope  for  all 
peoples who continue the struggle, such as our brothers 
and  sisters  in  Palestine,  Western  Sahara,  Taiwan  and 
the non-self governing territories. 

nations. 

Our conversation began with my seeking answers 
to  the  question  of  the  relevance  of  Belize  and  other 
small  States  in  today’s  global  order.  I  find  comfort  in 
the  winds  of  change  occurring  in  our  Organization,  a 
change that  will bring to  this sixty-first session of the 
General  Assembly  a  new  Secretary-General,  and  that 
will  continue  the  process  of  reform  mandated  in  the 
World  Summit  Outcome.  We  must,  however,  make 
changes relevant to our time and true to our Charter. 
We warmly welcome Montenegro to the family of 
the  United  Nations 
Membership 
in 
A/61/PV.21
in 
and 
like 
tribute 
to  pay 
relations 
international 
Let  us  seize 
I  would  also 
this  opportunity  and  face 

the 
challenges boldly together. For us in Belize, our minds 
are  imbued  with  the  democratic  process,  our  hearts 
beat  with  social  justice  and  our  souls  cherish  the 
treasures of the spirit. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Nyan  Win,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Myanmar. 
Mr.  Win  (Myanmar):  First  of  all,  I  wish  to 

congratulate  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa  on  her 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-first  session.  We  are  convinced  that  her  vast 
experience 
able 
leadership  will  lead  this  session  to  a  successful 
conclusion.  

to  her 
predecessor, Mr. Jan Eliasson, who led the last session 
of the General Assembly most ably and successfully. 

I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
express  our  deep  appreciation  to  Secretary-General 
Kofi  Annan,  whose  stewardship  of  this  Organization 
over  the  past  10  years  has  brought  many  positive  and 
remarkable changes to the world body. His tireless and 
dedicated  service  to  the  international  community  will 
be indelibly etched in our collective memory. 

The reform of the United Nations to meet the new 
challenges  of  our  times  is  an  ongoing  process  that 
needs  to  be  assessed  continuously.  While  we  have 
achieved  tangible  progress  in  some  areas,  such  as  the 
establishment  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  progress  has  yet  to  be 
made  in  other  areas. The  success  of  the  reform  of  the 
United Nations must be judged in terms of its effective 
response to the contemporary needs of Member States, 
in  particular  those  of  the  developing  countries,  which 
form  the  majority  of  the  membership.  While  many 
States,  including  the  developing  countries,  struggle  to 
protect  and  advance  the  principles  and  practices  of 
multilateralism,  the  tendency  towards  unilateralism 
remains strong. That unhealthy tendency can in no way 
gain  ascendancy  if  the  United  Nations  is  to  remain 
viable. 

Attempts  by  some  strong  and  powerful  States  to 
impose their will on developing countries in pursuit of 
their political agenda create an environment of hostility 
in  the  international  community.  To  our  dismay  and 
frustration, there has been glaring abuse of the mandate 
06-53615 

9 

A/61/PV.21 

entrusted to the Security Council by Member States by 
unjustly  placing  the  situation  of  my  country  on  the 
agenda of the Security Council and by alleging that it 
poses  a  threat  to  regional  peace  and  security.  Nothing 
could  be  further  from  the  truth.  Myanmar  has  done 
nothing  that  can  undermine  the  peace  and  security  of 
any  country,  let  alone  regional  or  international  peace 
and  security.  Myanmar  has  close  and  cordial  relations 
with  all  its  five  neighbours  and  other  countries  in  the 
region. 

The founders of the United Nations did not intend 
the  world  body  to  become  a  forum  in  which  some 
Members with political and economic clout could gang 
up against a Member State and label it as what it is not. 
We therefore urge all Member States to resist attempts 
by  those  powerful  States  to  influence  the  Security 
Council  to  take  action  against  a  Member  State  that  in 
no  way  poses  any  threat  to  international  peace  and 
security. 

Regarding  Security  Council  reform,  Myanmar  is 
in  favour  of  the  expansion  of  the  Security  Council  in 
both the permanent and non-permanent categories. The 
expanded  Security  Council  must  also  reflect  today’s 
political and economic realities. However, the fact that 
we  have  not  made  substantial  progress  on 
the 
expansion  of  the  Council  demonstrates  the  sensitive 
and  complex  nature  of  the  issue.  It  is  extremely 
important  that  this  issue  not  become  divisive  among 
the  United  Nations  membership.  Dialogue  and 
to  seek  a  solution 
consultations  must  continue 
acceptable 
the 
membership. 
It  is  encouraging  that  the  first  session  of  the 

Human  Rights  Council  was  successfully  held 
in 
Geneva in June and that the Council is now working in 
full swing to quickly become an effectively functioning 
human  rights  body.  Myanmar’s  active  participation  at 
the  highest  level  in  that  session  is  a  reflection  of  our 
commitment 
the  United 
Nations human rights machinery.  
It  is,  however,  important  that  the  principle  of 

impartiality,  objectivity 
be 
scrupulously  observed  in  the  work  of  the  Council. 
Although we want the Council to become an effective 
tool in the strengthening of the United Nations human 
rights machinery, we are not giving it carte blanche. It 
is  through  the  observation  of  the  aforementioned 
principles  —  through  dialogue,  cooperation  and  non-
the  overwhelming  majority  of 
further  strengthening 
and  non-selectivity 
to 
to 
is 
the 
the  efforts  of 
to  grow,  with 
implications 
politicization  of  human  rights  issues  —  that  the 
Council is to function. It is incumbent not only on the 
members of the Council, but also on all of us, to ensure 
that the Council does not deviate from the direction in 
which we expect it to head. 

Terrorism  continues  to  defy  the  attempts  of  the 
international community to eliminate it, raising its ugly 
head again in Mumbai and elsewhere very recently. We 
are of the view that it is only through the involvement 
of  every  community  of  people 
that  we  can  be 
forewarned  in  time  of  the  impending  onslaught  of 
terrorist acts. Myanmar fully supports the international 
efforts to eliminate terrorism.  
A  daunting  challenge  facing  the  international 

community 
the  horrendous  crime  of  human 
trafficking, which the Secretary-General aptly refers to 
as  one  of  the  most  reprehensible  violations  of  human 
rights.  Despite 
international 
community to tackle that issue over the past decade, it 
continues 
serious  national  and 
international 
the  Governments 
for 
concerned. Human trafficking is a serious international 
issue and we believe that it requires a coordinated and 
cooperative 
international 
community to address the issue. 

Myanmar  is  a  State  party  to  the  United  Nations 
Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and 
its  supplementary  Protocols  to  Prevent,  Suppress  and 
Punish  Trafficking  in  Persons,  especially  Women  and 
Children  and  against  the  Smuggling  of  Migrants  by 
Land, Sea and Air. I would like to stress that Myanmar 
regards  combating  trafficking  in  persons  as  a  national 
task. We are making relentless efforts in that regard. 

Myanmar has designated HIV/AIDS, malaria and 
tuberculosis  as  diseases  of  national  concern.  In  1989, 
we  set  up  a  high-level  multisectoral  national  AIDS 
committee. We have been cooperating with the United 
Nations  and,  in  2001,  our  national  AIDS  programme 
and the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS 
(UNAIDS)  drew  up  a  joint  programme  of  action 
covering education, prevention, cure and rehabilitation 
to  effectively  address  the  challenge.  As  a  result,  we 
have  been  able  not  only  to  level  the  HIV/AIDS 
infection rate, but to reduce it. We are also serving on 
the UNAIDS Programme Coordinating Board, enabling 
us  to  address  the  issue  at  both  the  national  and 
international levels. 
response  by 
the  entire 
10 

06-53615 
has 
been 
implementing 
a 
its  cooperation 
to 
Cooperation  with 
that  Myanmar  has 
the  United  Nations 



Narcotic  drugs  continue  to  be  one  of  the  threats 
facing  us  today.  As  the  Government  of  Myanmar 
regards  the  eradication of  narcotic  drugs as  a national 
responsibility,  it  has  striven  relentlessly  to  eradicate 
such  drugs  by  2014.  Our  determined  efforts  on  all 
fronts have resulted in a substantial decrease in opium 
production. I would like to reiterate here that Myanmar 
will  step  up  its  efforts,  in  close  cooperation  with 
friendly countries and international organizations, until 
we achieve our goal. 

is  a 
cornerstone  of  Myanmar’s  foreign  policy.  Our  track 
record  has  proven 
invariably 
the  United  Nations. 
extended 
Myanmar 
national 
development plan with the aim of accelerating growth, 
achieving  equitable  and  balanced  development,  and 
reducing the socio-economic development gap between 
rural  and  urban  areas  of  the  country.  The  national 
development  plan  addresses  the  major  aspects  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  We  have 
made significant progress towards achieving the MDGs 
by 2015, particularly in such areas as health, education, 
sustainable access to safe drinking water, and access to 
improved  sanitation.  In  implementing  the  MDGs,  we 
are primarily relying on our national resources. In that 
regard,  we  are  also  receiving  valuable  assistance  and 
cooperation 
the  United  Nations  agencies 
concerned. 

Finally,  I  wish  to  apprise  the  Assembly  of  the 
political  developments  in  my  country.  We  have  been 
steadfastly  implementing  the  seven-step  road  map  for 
transition  to  democracy,  announced  in  August  2003. 
The  National  Convention,  which  was  adjourned  on 
31 January 2006, will resume its session on 10 October 
and  continue  to  discuss  the  basic  principles  for  the 
drafting  of  an  enduring  constitution.  I  wish  to  stress 
that  the  process  of  transforming  the  country  into  a 
democratic  State  will  move  ahead  systematically  in 
accordance with the road map. 

Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  our 
commitment  to  working  together  in  upholding  the 
principles  enunciated  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  in  strengthening  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations to respond to the challenges of the twenty-first 
century. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give the floor to His Excellency The Honourable Elvin 
from 
A/61/PV.21
to 
to  convey 
the  Secretary-General 
Nimrod,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  International 
Trade,  Legal Affairs,  Carriacou  and  Petite  Martinique 
Affairs of Grenada. 
Mr. Nimrod (Grenada): I am indeed honoured to 

join  previous  delegations  in  congratulating  Sheikha 
Haya Rashed Al-Khalifa on her election as President of 
the Assembly  at  this  sixty-first  session.  Let  me  assure 
her of Grenada’s support as she guides these important 
deliberations  towards  the  implementation  of  a  global 
partnership for development. 
My  delegation  would  also  like  to  pay  tribute  to 

Mr.  Jan  Eliasson,  Foreign  Minister  of  Sweden,  who 
laboured tirelessly during his presidency of the sixtieth 
session,  and  for  his  efforts  in  guiding  the  follow-up 
process to the Summit Outcome. 

My delegation welcomes the Secretary-General’s 
tenth  and  final  report,  which  gives  a  comprehensive 
review of the Organization’s achievements, challenges 
and  preparation  for  the  future.  It  is  fitting  at  this 
juncture 
the 
appreciation of the Government and people of Grenada 
for his sterling contribution to world peace and security 
during his tenure at the helm of this Organization. The 
road  was  not  always  smooth,  but  with  his  calm 
disposition,  unmistakable  eloquence  and  astute  and 
dedicated  leadership,  the  Organization  was  able  to 
overcome the rough patches. We heartily commend his 
efforts  to  strengthen  the  United  Nations  through  the 
reform  process,  and  wish  him  well  in  his  future 
endeavours. 
We  meet  in  very  difficult  times.  The  effects  of 

rapid  technological  changes,  new  geopolitical  and 
economic  alliances,  evolving  rules  in  international 
trade,  and  in  particular  security  concerns,  continue  to 
grip  ordinary  citizens  in  our  small  countries  and 
regions, worsening the notion of an uncertain future. 

My  delegation  believes  that  this  year’s  theme  of 
implementing  a  global  partnership  for  development  is 
timely  and  one  which,  if  we  work  together,  will 
enhance our economies in all of their aspects. 

It  is  for  that  reason  that,  within  our  region,  we 
have  taken  the  necessary  steps  in  response  to  the 
challenges  we  face  by  deepening  our  integration 
arrangements  with  the  creation  of  the  Caribbean 
Community Single Market and Economy. Recognizing 
the changing  trends  related to the movement of skills, 
Grenada  has  placed  great  emphasis  on  the  economic 
06-53615 

11 
in 

of 
the 
Since 
forced 
adoption 
A/61/PV.21 

empowerment  of  its  young  people,  as  well  as  on  the 
creation  of  a  more  diverse  and  non-traditional  job 
sector. Having lost much of our traditional agriculture 
through  natural  disasters  and  the  changing  global 
environment,  we  have  been 
to  create 
alternatives through global partnerships. 

the  Millennium 
Declaration, we have encountered untold challenges in 
attempting  to  achieve  the  prescribed  goals.  As  this 
body is well aware, Grenada, as one of the small States 
which  hold  membership  in  this  Organization,  has  on 
many  occasions  relied  not  only  on  our  immediate 
regional  partners,  but  also  on  the  wider  membership 
and  respective  United  Nations  agencies  during  some 
very difficult and trying times. Our most recent past is 
not  yet  overcome,  since  we  are  still  rebuilding  our 
shattered  economy  following  the  devastation  of  two 
hurricanes in 2004 and 2005.  

However,  despite  those  challenges,  we  pledge  to 
continue  to  work  towards  the  achievement  of  some  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  have  made 
significant strides in our efforts to contain the spread of 
HIV/AIDS  and  other  infectious  diseases.  along  with 
improvements  in  education,  poverty  eradication  and 
environmental sustainability. 

Grenada  has  over  the  years  worked  closely  and 
successfully  with  the  United  Nations  agencies  in  our 
region.  Therefore,  we  are  hopeful  that,  during  this 
session,  no  effort  will  be  spared 
the 
sustainability of those agencies. 
My  delegation  has  on  numerous  occasions  made 

reference  to  the  unfortunate  reality  that  special  and 
differential 
small  and  vulnerable 
economies  is  fast  becoming  a  thing  of  the  past.  We 
have seen decreases in financial and technical support 
from traditional partners, and a reduction in the market 
for trade in goods and services. 

In that vein, the suspension of the Doha Round of 
multilateral  trade  negotiations  in  July  2006  was  a 
major  setback  for  my  country.  International  trade  and 
reduction 
to 
development. Greater market access for products from 
developing countries can lead to economic growth and 
higher  standards  of  living.  Grenada  therefore  looks 
forward to the resumption of those negotiations. 

In  the  past  few  months,  the  United  Nations  has 
been  encumbered  with  the  task  of  maintaining  peace 
in  poverty  are 
inextricably 
to  ensure 
treatment 
linked 
for 
its 
that 
aware 
creation 
is  well 
financial  and 
in  combating 
My  delegation 
full  cooperation 
faced  with  serious 
the  efforts  made 
the 
of 
and security in many parts of the world. My delegation 
that  respect  and 
commends 
welcomes 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  which  will  assist  States  in  the  post-
conflict era. We extend condolences to the families of 
those brave men and women who lost their lives in the 
service  of  the  organization.  Grenada  is  proud  to  be  a 
police-contributing  country  with  the  United  Nations 
Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti  and  looks  forward  to 
continuing its involvement in that area. 

this 
Organization  will  have  to  increase  its  efforts  in 
combating terrorism, and welcomes the recently agreed 
Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy as a positive step in 
that regard. 

Grenada makes it clear that it uncompromisingly 
condemns  terrorism  and  all  acts  of  violence,  and 
pledges 
that 
phenomenon.  Though  my  delegation  is  supportive  of 
those measures, as a small island developing State we 
are 
technical 
constraints in maintaining continued peace and security 
within our region. The measures we have implemented 
in  that  respect  will  be  tested  as  we  host  the  2007 
Cricket World Cup in the Caribbean. 

My  delegation,  in  applauding  the  creation  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  is  hopeful  that  the  new  body 
will be able through its work to ensure that democracy 
and good governance are observed in all their aspects. 
We  fully  support  the  Secretary-  General’s  sentiments 
that  mainstreaming  all  human  rights,  including  the 
right  to  development,  is  necessary,  and  support  to 
Member  States  in  their  efforts  to  build  stronger 
national  systems  for  the  promotion  and  protection  of 
human rights is of extreme importance. 

Grenada  was  indeed  honoured  to  participate  at 
the  highest  level  in  the  launching  of  the  new  Central 
Emergency Response Fund earlier this year and to lend 
its support to the growth of the Fund. We commend the 
work  of  the  Organization  in  that  regard  and  are  well 
aware of the importance of maintaining and supporting 
the Fund, especially since, globally, there has been an 
increase  in  natural  and  humanitarian  disasters. We are 
pleased  with  the  decision  to  expand  the  relationship 
outside  of  the  membership  to  include  the  private, 
individual and non-governmental sectors. 

its 
We call on the international community to honour 
full 
responsibility  and  commitment 
the 
12 

06-53615 
to 


implementation  of  the  Mauritius  Strategy  and  to 
support  programmes  in  our  region  related  to  early 
warning  systems, 
the  Catastrophe  Risk  Insurance 
Facility, and vulnerability reduction, while at the same 
time building resilience. 

My delegation has taken note of the resolution on 
development.  However,  we  are  disappointed  that  this 
aspect of the Summit Outcome has not progressed with 
the kind of vigour we would have welcomed. That is of 
special  importance  to  countries  like  my  own,  since 
support for development objectives is paramount to our 
economic sustainability. We cannot fail to reiterate our 
vulnerability and call for swift action at this session in 
order to ensure the stability of our small societies. 

My  delegation  salutes  the  Secretary-General’s 
efforts  to  strengthen  the  Organization  through  its 
engagement  with  civil  society  and  other  non-State 
actors,  and  agrees  that  they  are  important  to  the 
legitimacy of democratic ideals.  Grenada 
has 
increased  its  efforts  to  strengthen  the  relationship 
between  Government  and  the  private  sector  through 
partnerships  in  trade,  education,  health,  tourism  and 
investment  activities,  and  has  already  seen  positive 
results from this type of engagement, especially in the 
aftermath of the recent hurricanes. 

2007 will mark the bicentenary of the passage of 
the  act  abolishing  the  trans-Atlantic  slave  trade  in  the 
British  empire,  and  it  is  anticipated  that  the  General 
Assembly  will  hold  a  commemorative  event  to  mark 
that  historic  occasion.  The  members  of  the  Caribbean 
Community  will  submit  a  draft  resolution  to  the 
General Assembly, and we expect the full support of all 
Member States in that regard. 

We,  along  with  other  members  of  the  Caribbean 
Community, feel compelled on a regular basis to make 
the  plea  for  special  attention  to  be  paid  to  the  threat 
facing the Caribbean Sea. Grenada therefore takes this 
opportunity 
the 
transshipment  of  nuclear  waste  and  other  hazardous 
material 
the 
Caribbean.  The  Caribbean  Sea  provides  for  us  a 
lifeline, the potential loss of which could be enormous 
to our people’s livelihood. As we are  well aware, loss 
of  economic  opportunities  brings  with  it  poverty  and 
social  unrest  and  ultimately  threatens  democracy  —  a 
solid  tradition  on  which  the  Caribbean  Community 
continues 
therefore  urge 
understanding and solidarity with our cause. 
the  marine  environment  of 
its  concerns  over 
itself.  We 
to  pride 
to 
reiterate 
through 
A/61/PV.21
in 
the 
journey 

My  delegation  applauds  the  Organization  for  its 
work  in  the  areas  of  reform  and  looks  forward  to  the 
continuation of that process, especially in the areas of 
development,  Economic  and  Social  Council  reform, 
Secretariat  and  management  reform,  Security  Council 
reform, system-wide coherence, disarmament and non-
proliferation,  and  other  areas  that  have  received  only 
partial attention. Let us pursue with vigour our work in 
ensuring that this body finds ways not only to sustain, 
but  to  continue  to  build  on  the  successes  of  its  past 
achievements. 

The many challenges that we all now face make it 
necessary  that  we  work  together  to  make  the  planet  a 
better  place  for  future  generations.  Let  us,  then, 
commit  ourselves  to  cooperating  with  and  supporting 
each  other 
towards  genuine 
development. 

Finally,  my  delegation,  having  listened  to  the 
debate  over  the  past  few  days,  is  heartened  by  the 
pledges of support and is convinced that, together, we 
can make it work to our collective benefit. Grenada is 
pleased  to  join  in  that  pledge  and  looks  forward  to 
working  with  the  Organization  and  its  partners  in 
attaining that goal. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call on His Excellency Mr. Raphael Tuju, MP, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Kenya. 
Mr.  Tuju  (Kenya):  Let  me  add  my  voice  of 

congratulations  to  President  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed 
Al-Khalifa  on  her  assumption  of  this  driving  seat, 
which has mainly been occupied by men in the history 
of the United Nations. Before this Assembly last week, 
we  welcomed  the  first  African  woman  to  become  a 
national President — Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf of Liberia. 
At last, the glass ceiling that has tended to frustrate the 
attempts  of  women  to  become  presidents  is  surely 
cracking in several places. We should celebrate that. 

Let  me  also  congratulate  Ambassador  Jan 
Eliasson of Sweden for a job well done as President of 
this Assembly. 

Kenya  is  a  United  Nations  country.  We  attach 
special  significance  to  our  being  hosts  of  the  biggest 
United  Nations  centre  outside  the  developed  world  — 
the United Nations Office at Nairobi, which also hosts 
the  United  Nations 
the  global  headquarters  of 
Environment  Programme  and 
the  United  Nations 
Human  Settlements  Programme.  We  are  a  major 
06-53615 

13 

A/61/PV.21 

contributor  to  United  Nations  peace  missions  around 
the world. We subscribe to the principles and ideals of 
this Organization and have always upheld its Charter. 

In  my  contribution  to  this  general  debate,  allow 
me to dwell on the crisis that is Somalia. I do not think 
that I need to remind the world that there is a crisis in 
Somalia,  but  I  believe  that  I  must  encourage  the 
community  of  nations  to  understand  that  the  problem 
of  Somalia  is  not  going  to  go  away  unless  we  take 
deliberate  steps  to  address  the  crisis. The  comfortable 
thing to do is to look at Somalia as being far away and 
hope that the problem will resolve itself somehow. 

This  afternoon,  I  bring  the  bad  news  that  the 
problem  of  Somalia  is  not  going  to  get  resolved 
somehow  by  itself.  All  of  us,  the  community  of 
nations, must chip in. If, for a moment, we dwell on the 
comforting  notion  that  Somali  does  not  concern  us, 
then it may be worth talking to my friends from South 
Korea or China, which are 8,000 to 10,000 kilometres 
away  from  Somalia.  A  few  months  ago,  pirates  from 
Somalia  hijacked  merchant  ships 
international 
waters  off  the  coast  of  Somalia.  It  was  only  after 
protracted  negotiations  that  included  use  of  Kenyan 
intelligence  that  the  merchant  seamen  from  South 
Korea and China were released safely to their families. 

I recount this story of merchant seamen so that all 
of us in the international community should appreciate 
that  the  Somali  phenomenon,  with  no  Government  in 
place,  is  a  danger  not  just  to  neighbouring  countries, 
but to the whole world. As criminal elements establish 
their  safe  enclaves  in  a  country  like  Somalia,  the 
neighbouring 
international 
community  are  soon 
intervene,  even 
militarily, to free hostages, to hunt terrorists or to flush 
out rebels. 

In  the  new  global  village,  we  are  all  neighbours 
of  Somalia.  As  a  front-line  State  to  that  country  in 
crisis,  we  have  participated  in  negotiations  to  free 
hostages.  We  have  cooperated  in  attempts  to  arrest 
criminal  elements.  We  continue  to  host  close  to  a 
million  refugees.  We  provide  life-saving  support  in 
terms of medical facilities and supplies. But above all, 
we  continue  to  work  on  efforts  to  create  peace  in 
Somalia.  The  Transitional  Federal  Government,  the 
Transitional  Charter  and 
the  Transitional  Federal 
Parliament were established all as a result of a process 
that took place in Nairobi when we hosted up to 2,000 
and 
forced 
countries 
in 
the 
to 
14 

representatives from a cross-section of Somalia over a 
period of two years. 

Today,  I  appeal  to  the  rest  of  the  world  to  take 
deliberate  steps  to  help  Somalia.  The  time  to  help  is 
now. Tomorrow may be too late. 

There  are  many  communities  around  the  world 
that  attach  great  importance  to  funerals.  In  those 
communities,  most  people  only  stand  by  and  watch 
when their kin have fallen ill. An occasional visit  and 
some token of support are what obtains. As soon as the 
patient  dies,  an  avalanche  of  support  flows  in.  The 
community  of  nations  must  not  take  that  cynical  or 
undertaker’s approach. We are already too late, and any 
intervention  we  implement  now  is  of  an  ambulance-
and-fire-brigade  variety,  at  best,  but  it  is  better  than 
simply standing by like spectators. 

Somalia is almost dying. We can see it. We have 
known  that  for  the  past  16  years.  This  is  the  time  to 
send in life-saving support. It is really a tribute to the 
resilience of the Somali people that there are still living 
human  beings  in  that  country.  One  day  or  one  month 
without  Government,  police,  hospitals  or  banks  in 
modern  society  is  unimaginable.  The  Somalis  have 
endured  for  16  years.  How  much  longer  are  they 
expected  to  endure?  Where  is  the  international  rescue 
plan with a billion dollars? Where is the Marshall Plan 
for Somalia? 

Even  a  much  better  but  devastated  Japan  and 
Germany  needed  a  Marshall  Plan  after  the  Second 
World War. We in our region are sure that humanitarian 
intervention  now  will  yield  better  and  faster  results 
than military intervention and at a much cheaper price 
than  sending  troops  to  pursue  criminal  elements  in  a 
failed  State.  That  is  not  rocket  science  or  complex 
economic theory. That is common sense. All we need is 
the will and the focus to apply ourselves collectively to 
the problem of Somalia. I appreciate how difficult it is 
to  be  focused,  given  the  several  competing  issues 
around the world, but focused we must be if we are to 
avoid  the  current  flip-flopping  from  one  crisis  to 
another like chickens with their heads cut off.  

I  hear  talk  today  about  religious  extremists  in 
Somalia. What did we expect? Our own seven-year-old 
children  become  extremists  in  our  households  if  they 
go  without  food  for  one  day.  Somali  children,  youth, 
women and men have been going hungry for 16 years 
and  living  under  very  difficult  circumstances.  To  be 
extremist  is  the  normal  human  reaction  in  such 
06-53615 
on 
the 
position 
of 
transitional 
federal 
institutions  as 


circumstances  and  one  does  not  have  to  have  studied 
psychiatry at the PhD level to recognize that. If similar 
circumstances in Somalia prevailed in other countries, 
we all know that moderation would be the exception. 
Yesterday,  I  had  the  opportunity  to  brief  the 

Security  Council 
the 
Intergovernmental Authority  on  Development  (IGAD) 
on  Somalia.  Our  IGAD  position  is  to  support  the 
Transitional  Federal  Government,  together  with  such 
legitimate 
the 
Parliament in Baidoa and the Transitional Charter that 
is the broadly negotiated road map for Somalia. 

As  IGAD,  we  have  also  opened  a  window  of 
dialogue  with  the  Islamic  Courts  Union  (ICU).  Some 
four  weeks  ago,  I  met  representatives  of  the  ICU  in 
Nairobi. We believe that, as in all situations of conflict, 
the  final  resolution  is  best  achieved  through  dialogue. 
That is why, in our communiqué issued in Nairobi, we 
welcomed the Khartoum talks that brought together the 
Transitional Federal Government and the ICU. But we 
are  also  concerned  that  communiqués  after  these 
dialogue conferences should be genuine. Soon after the 
Khartoum  meeting,  the  news  from  Somalia  has  not 
been  encouraging. There  was  an  assassination  attempt 
on  the  life  of  President  Yusuf.  One  more  city  was 
overtaken by the ICU, not to mention the cold-blooded 
murder  of  a  long-serving  humanitarian  worker,  a 
dedicated  Catholic  nun.  The  upbeat  communiqué 
released from Khartoum begins to look like a sandwich 
without  meat,  fed  to  a  world  that  is  starved  of  any 
encouraging news from Somalia. 

There is a critical path that was set up by IGAD 
with  the  help  of  the  international  community  and  that 
resulted  in  the  formation  of  the  Somali  Transitional 
Charter that is recognized by the African Union and the 
United  Nations.  We  are  encouraged  by  the  United 
Nations  positive  endorsement  of 
the  Transitional 
Charter,  which 
the  Transitional  Federal 
Government  and  the  Transitional  Federal  Parliament. 
Indeed,  the  Transitional  Federal  Government  is  fully 
accredited  to  the  United  Nations,  the  African  Union 
and IGAD, and the presidency of the Security Council 
has  articulated  that  recognition  through  its  various 
communications,  including  the  presidential  statement 
of 13 July.  

However,  there  is  a  major  obstacle  faced  by  the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  of  Somalia.  Without 
substantive 
the 
international 
includes 
support 
A/61/PV.21
for 
recognitions, accreditations, resolutions and statements 
I  have  alluded  to,  the  bottom  line  remains  that  the 
Transitional Federal Government is like people thrown 
into the deep end of turbulent waters and are expected 
to swim with their hands tied behind their backs while 
hungry  crocodiles  surround  them.  It  is  not  a  very 
encouraging scenario. That is why we appeal for more 
meaningful  support 
the  Transitional  Federal 
Government,  even  as  we  insist  that  it  continue  to 
dialogue with various groupings in Somalia. 

The  international  community  must  work  to  help 
Somalia  and  not  inadvertently  compound  the  problem 
in  that  country.  It  is  vital  that  the  international 
community  consolidate 
its  efforts  and  not  send 
discordant  messages  from  Stockholm,  New  York, 
Nairobi,  Khartoum,  Cairo,  Addis  Ababa  or  anywhere 
else. Whatever the motives behind the proliferation of 
initiatives  from  different  capitals,  we  must  recognize 
that  discordant  signals  act  only  to  give  incentive  to 
some of the actors on the ground to attempt to establish 
new  facts  on  the  ground  that  they  may  leverage  in 
future negotiations. 

I discussed that matter with the Secretary-General 
of the Arab League this morning and yesterday. Kenya 
has put forward the following proposal, which I would 
like  to  share  with  the  General Assembly.  We  propose 
that  an  international  joint  committee  on  Somalia  be 
constituted  with  the  following  membership:  IGAD, 
representing  the  front-line  States;  the  African  Union; 
the  Arab  League,  also  representing  the  front-line 
States;  the  European  Union;  and  the  United  Nations, 
with  at  least  one  or  two  permanent  members  of  the 
Security  Council  to  be  included.  It  is  our  submission 
that  the  international  joint  commission  will  help 
consolidate  our  efforts  and  bring  about  a  speedier 
resolution of the problem.  

It  is  worth  noting  that  the  initiative  that  resulted 
in  the  formation  of  the  current  Transitional  Federal 
Government  was  the  fourteenth  attempt  to  resolve  the 
Somali conflict after 14 years. Its collapse would bring 
us  back  to  square  one  in  terms  of  coming  up  with  an 
institutional framework that enjoys political legitimacy. 
The  Secretary-General  of 
the  Arab  League  has 
expressed his support for the Kenyan proposal and we 
hope  that  we  can  proceed  on  that  path  by  building  on 
the  foundations  already  established  by  IGAD,  rather 
than  allow  another  proliferation  of  vertical  initiatives. 
We appeal to other partners to embrace the proposal. 
beyond 
06-53615 

15 
A/61/PV.21 


On  a  more  hopeful  note,  let  me  register  our 
delight  at  the  progress  made  by  our  neighbours 
Tanzania,  Uganda  and  South  Africa  in  brokering  the 
Burundi  peace  agreement.  We  commend 
their 
collective  effort.  The  news  from  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo is also encouraging. 

As  Kenya  takes  over  the  chairmanship  of  the 
International  Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  Region, 
which  will  convene  in  December  this  year,  let  me 
assure  the  Assembly  that  we  will  do  our  best  to 
contribute  to  the  stabilization  of  our  region,  which  is 
really a very tough neighbourhood to live in. 

Finally,  let  me  congratulate  Secretary-General 
Kofi Annan on his exemplary stewardship of this world 
body. As  a  brother  from Africa,  I  can  confidently  say 
that he has done us proud. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Frederick  M. 
Mitchell,  MP,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  the 
Public Service of the Bahamas. 
Mr.  Mitchell  (Bahamas):  I  congratulate  Sheikha 

Haya Rashed Al-Khalifa on assuming the presidency of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first  session.  I  also 
commend her predecessor, Jan Eliasson of Sweden, for 
his  outstanding  performance  as  President  of 
the 
General Assembly at the preceding session. 

I  acknowledge  and  pay  tribute  to  Secretary-
General  Kofi Annan  for  his  many  years  of  dedication 
to the United Nations. The Government and people of 
the  Bahamas  are  profoundly  grateful  to  Secretary-
General Annan for  all that  he has done  for the United 
Nations, and I look forward to welcoming him one day 
to the Bahamas so that we might thank him personally. 

I  also  congratulate  and  welcome  Montenegro  as 
the  192nd  State  Member  of  the  United  Nations  and 
convey  the  best  wishes  of  the  Government  of  the 
Bahamas  for  the  prosperity  and  welfare  of  all  its 
people. 

The  Bahamas  stands  for  democracy,  the  rule  of 
law  and  the  right  to  self-determination.  In  this  very 
body,  before  the  Committee  of  24  on  decolonization, 
our  national 
the 
independence of our country. We were able to achieve 
that 
then  successive 
administrations  have  voiced  the  Bahamas’  support  of 
the same principles. I do so again today. In doing so, I 
remind  this  body  that  the  Bahamas  and  the  region  of 
in  1973,  and  ever  since 
leaders  made 
the  case 
for 

which it is a part are shining examples to all the world 
of  all  of  those  principles.  Within  the  next  year,  the 
Bahamian  people  will  again  have  the  opportunity  to 
choose their Government in a general election based on 
universal  adult  suffrage.  There  have  been,  within  the 
past year in our region, similar general elections in St. 
Vincent and the Grenadines and Guyana. The Bahamas 
does not support the use of the military in Government 
or  to  overthrow  legitimately  elected  Governments. 
Wherever  that  occurs,  it  must  be  deplored  and  there 
must  be  a  return  to  constitutional  democratic  rule 
within the shortest possible time. 

In  our  foreign  policy,  the  Bahamas  believes  in 
peace with all nations and we seek to avoid ideological 
battles. Ours is a policy that avoids extremism, while at 
the  same  time  letting  our  voice  be  heard  for  the 
dispossessed. We have the right to be here to speak for 
ourselves and to speak for those who cannot speak. Our 
people have fought for their voice to be heard and they 
will be heard. 

My  delegation  welcomes  the  attempt  by  the 
Security  Council  to  increase  the  transparency  of  the 
selection process in that body for the post of Secretary-
General  by  apprising  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly of its proposed actions on this matter and on 
the  results  of  the  straw  polls.  We  would  take  this 
opportunity to assure this body that whoever succeeds 
to the post will have our support and cooperation. 

It  was  just  over  a  year  ago  that  we  adopted  the 
2005  World  Summit  Outcome  Document  that  has 
served as the road map for reform efforts over the past 
12 months. The Bahamas, like other States Members of 
this Organization, is pleased that a number of reforms 
have  been  implemented.  In  that  regard,  we  note  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  Human  Rights 
Council. With regard to the Human Rights Council, we 
hope  that  it  will  evolve  as  an  entity  dedicated  to  a 
process  of  constructive  dialogue  and  cooperation  in 
which  all  countries  may  participate  on  an  equal 
footing. 

The  Bahamas  renews  its  commitment  to  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  and  in  particular  to 
universal  education,  fighting  HIV/AIDS,  equality  for 
women  and  cutting  poverty  in  half  by  2015.  The 
country’s international, award-winning Urban Renewal 
Initiative has begun to address in particular the issue of 
poverty  in  the  Bahamas.  The  further  reform  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  should  lead  to  its  being 
06-53615 
16 



empowered  to  implement  the  internationally  agreed 
development goals and commitments to the eradication 
of  poverty,  hunger  and  all  other  ills  that  continue  to 
plague humanity. 

I turn now to the United Nations Global Counter-
Terrorism  Strategy  and  the  issue  of  regional  global 
security.  We  renew  our  commitments  in  that  area. 
However, as we have done for the past four years, we 
want  to  take  the  opportunity  to  further  define  our 
security interests as not being limited to the strategies 
defined  by  a  narrow  view  of  counter-terrorism.  We 
believe  that  counter-terrorism  strategies  should  be 
informed  by  a  much  broader  definition,  namely,  as 
ensuring  the  stability  of  our  societies  as  we  fight  our 
traffickers,  natural  and 
vulnerabilities 
to  drug 
environmental  disasters 
and  poverty, 
and  our 
challenges  with  education  and  health  care. 
In 
particular,  we  call  upon  the  developed  economies  in 
our  region  and  further  afield  to  remember  their  moral 
and legal obligations to stop the assault of small arms 
on  our  societies,  to  cooperate  in  stopping  the  flow  of 
drugs through our region, and to work together with us 
in declaring the Caribbean Sea and its environs to be a 
nuclear-free  zone.  There  must  be  a  strategic  alliance 
between developed economies and those in our region 
to  ensure 
those  security  vulnerabilities  are 
minimized, if not eliminated. 
The Bahamas is greatly heartened by the fact that 

Member  States  have  agreed  on 
the 
convention  on  the  rights  of  persons  with  disabilities, 
which is to be adopted by the General Assembly in the 
months  ahead.  That  landmark  convention  recognizes 
the  importance  for  persons  with  disabilities  of  their 
individual  autonomy  and  independence,  including  the 
freedom 
it 
acknowledges  that  those  persons  should  have  the 
opportunity to be actively involved in decision-making 
processes  about  policies  and  programmes,  particularly 
those  of  direct  concern  to  them.  That  is  an  important 
step in empowering not only persons with disabilities, 
but  also  the  neighbourhoods,  communities,  societies 
and countries in which they live. For too long, persons 
with  disabilities  have  been  marginalized  in  many 
settings, depriving them of their  rights  as citizens  and 
depriving society of the many contributions they could 
make  in  the  exercise  of  their  full  and  unimpeded 
participation. The Bahamas plans legislation to further 
empower the disabled during the current session of our 
Parliament. 
their  own  choices,  and 
to  make 
text  of 
that 
the 
A/61/PV.21
trading, 
financial 
economic, 
that  contribute 
into  not  only  effective 

It has often been said that reform is a process and 
not  an  event.  We  continue  to  support  reform  of  the 
Security Council so that it may more accurately reflect 
the interests and balance of power in the realities of the 
twenty-first  century,  including  allowing  small  island 
developing States to play a greater role in its activities. 
It is our hope that, during this sixty-first session of the 
General  Assembly,  we  will  see  some  significant 
movement in the reform of the Security Council. 

Any reform would mean very little, however, if it 
did  not  ultimately  translate  into  the  well-being  of  the 
people of this planet. In that vein, the Bahamas will do 
its  part  towards  the  implementation  of  the  global 
partnership for development and the translation of that 
international, 
partnership 
multilateral 
and 
environmental  governance  systems  and  mechanisms, 
but  also  into  the  proliferation  of  healthy,  productive 
households  and  communities 
to 
increased global welfare and security.  

We  want  to  take  this  opportunity  to  recall  our 
concern  about  coercive  measures  by  developed  States 
that  adversely  affect  the  trade  in  services  in  the 
Bahamian  economy  and  in  our  region  generally.  We 
reiterate our call for levelling the playing field and for 
a  global  forum  to  address  how  the  issue  of  a  level 
playing field can be translated into international public 
policy. 

The  Bahamas  welcomed  and  participated  in  the 
recent  High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration 
and  Development. At  that  time,  the  Bahamas  outlined 
the many positive impacts  that international migration 
had  made  on  its  economy  and  cultural  development. 
However, the Bahamas also noted the many challenges 
the country had experienced over the previous 60 years 
in  managing  migration,  including  those  related  to  the 
prevention of irregular or unauthorized migration.  

irregular  or  unauthorized 
migration  has  given  rise  to  considerable  challenges  in 
the social and educational sectors, as well as to serious 
national  security  issues.  In  this  regard,  the  Bahamas 
has  pledged  to  work  with  our  partners  in  the  region 
towards the establishment of a better way to match the 
supply  with  the  demand  for  migration  in  safe,  legal, 
humane  and  orderly  ways,  in  order  to  maximize  the 
societal  and  human  development  potential  of  global 
labour mobility, with the involvement of private-sector 
and public-sector stakeholders. 
the  Bahamas, 
For 
06-53615 

17 

that  afflict 
is  committed 
The  Bahamas 
its  democratically  elected  Government.  It 
A/61/PV.21 


to  sustainable 
development. To a small-island developing State, there 
are  few  things  more  important  than  securing  the 
necessary assistance in order to build resilience against 
the  many  hazards 
the  country  on  a 
consistent basis, including violent storms or hurricanes, 
which pass through our region even more frequently as 
a result of global warming. In this connection, we look 
to  our  partners  in  the  region,  the  hemisphere  and 
around the world to reduce greenhouse  gases. We  call 
on those countries that have not yet done so to sign the 
Kyoto  Protocol.  It  is  also  imperative  that  we  all 
commit  ourselves  to  the  development  of  alternative 
sources  of  energy,  in  order  to  become  less  dependent 
on  the  current  polluting  technologies  that  supply  our 
energy needs but threaten our sustainability. 

The Bahamas would like to take this opportunity 
to  once  again  congratulate  the  people  of  one  of  our 
regional partners, Haiti, on the election and installation 
of 
is 
imperative  that  the  international  community  do  all  it 
possibly  can  to  help  Haiti  establish  stability  and 
security  and  promote  sustained  and  sustainable 
development within its national borders. 

As  I  have  stated  on  previous  occasions,  the 
Bahamas, which sits some 90 miles over the seas to the 
north of Haiti, has a special interest in its stability and 
prosperity.  Instability  in  Haiti  is  bound  to  cause 
instability in  the Bahamas. A significant proportion of 
the  population  in  the  Bahamas  is  either  Haitian  or  of 
Haitian  descent.  A  migration  crisis  resulting  from 
instability in Haiti will have an immediate effect on the 
Bahamas.  Such  a  crisis  would  be  difficult  for  our 
country  to  endure  and,  with  the  will  of  the  Haitian 
community  and  the  support  of  the  world  community, 
we believe that it can and should be avoided. 

The Bahamas has always made known its support 
for the people of Haiti and their aspirations for peace, 
security  and  development.  We  have  and  continue  to 
take  seriously  our  commitment  to  assist  the  people  of 
Haiti in taking charge of their destiny and placing their 
country  on  the  path  to  enduring  democracy  and 
development. The Bahamas believes that it is therefore 
imperative  that  the  promised  international  financial 
assistance to Haiti is delivered in a timely and efficient 
manner. 

I would also like to take this opportunity to signal 
my Government’s support for the upcoming Caribbean 
This  commemoration  will  present  an 
Community  (CARICOM)  and  Caribbean  Common 
Market  initiative  to  encourage  the  United  Nations  to 
mark  and  commemorate  the  200th  anniversary  of  the 
abolition  of  the  transatlantic  slave  trade  in  2007. 
Slavery and the concomitant slave trade together stand 
as one of the most vicious violations of human rights in 
recorded  history.  As  the  global  sentinel  for  human 
rights,  the  United  Nations  has  a  duty  to  highlight  the 
200th anniversary of the cessation of this crime against 
humanity  with  a  special  event  in  2007.  We  hope  that 
this  initiative  will  receive  the  wide  and  enthusiastic 
support  of  this  General  Assembly  and  indeed  of  the 
wider United Nations community. 

ideal 
opportunity to pay tribute to peoples of African descent 
across the entire spectrum of the diaspora who share a 
common  heritage  and,  having  survived  the  middle 
passage,  have  gone  on  to  form  the  bedrock  on  which 
the  prosperity  of  many  developed  countries  has  been 
built.  For  its  part,  the  Bahamas  plans  to  undertake  a 
number  of  commemorative  events  including  a  festival 
of  arts  which  will  run  from  March  2007  to  January 
2008. During the festival, a different country or region 
of Africa will be showcased each month as a means of 
exposing  Bahamians  to  the  rich  culture  of  Africa 
through theatre, art, music and dance. 

One  of  the  other  challenges  that  we  will  face 
during this session is  reaching agreement on the scale 
of  assessments  for  the  apportionment  of  expenses  of 
the  United  Nations  for  the  next  triennium.  We  look 
forward  to  engaging  with  other  Member  States  to 
achieve a scale of assessments that is broadly based on 
the  principle  of  the  capacity  to  pay,  and  that  it  is 
transparent, equitable and stable. 

the 
The  Bahamas  continues 
Charter of the United Nations constitutes a viable and 
firm foundation on which the Organization can balance 
and  achieve  its  objectives  to  maintain  international 
peace and security and to promote economic and social 
progress. I want to take this opportunity to reaffirm the 
commitment  of 
the  principles 
enshrined in that universal document, as well as to the 
ongoing  process  of  reform,  which  seeks  to  more 
effectively  translate  these  principles  into  real  peace, 
security  and  sustainable  development  for  all 
the 
world’s  inhabitants.  While  dramatic  progress  may 
sometimes evade us, we must not be swayed from our 
course,  and  we  must  remain  confident 
that  our 
the  Bahamas 
to  believe 
that 
to 
18 

06-53615 
to 
itself 


activities  and  efforts  will  benefit  future  generations. 
Now more than ever we need the United Nations. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call on His Excellency Mr. Rudolph Insanally, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Guyana and former President of 
the General Assembly. 
Mr. Insanally (Guyana): Just about a month ago, 

the people of Guyana went to the polls to vote for the 
Government  of 
their  choice.  Witnessed  by  an 
unprecedented number of observers drawn from several 
countries and international organizations, including the 
United  Nations,  the  elections  were  deemed  to  be  free, 
fair  and  transparent.  With  a  renewed  mandate,  the 
Government  led  by  President  Bharrat  Jagdeo,  has 
recommitted 
the  pursuit  of  democratic 
governance at home and to a progressive foreign policy 
abroad. 

I  am  pleased,  on  behalf  of  the  Government  and 
the people of Guyana to convey to the President of the 
Assembly our warmest congratulations on her election 
and to wish her much success during her term of office. 
To  her  predecessor,  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson  of  Sweden,  I 
would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  and  thanks  for 
directing the work of the Assembly this past year with 
considerable  expertise  and  aplomb.  And 
to  our 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  who  demits  his 
post later this year, I wish to offer our sincere gratitude 
for  his  impressive  leadership  of  the  United  Nations 
during an uncertain and challenging period. He leaves 
with  our  best  wishes  for  his  future  health  and 
happiness. 

As a fledgling democracy, Guyana is proud to be 
part of the family of free nations. We are dedicated to 
the  creation  of  a  society  based  on  equity  and  social 
justice 
their 
fundamental freedoms and rights. To this end, we have 
enshrined  in  our  Constitution  provisions  for  the  full 
enjoyment of these entitlements. In the same spirit, we 
have  acceded  to  the  many  international  treaties  and 
conventions  that  embody  agreements  on  the  rights  of 
peoples. Article  154 A  of  our  Constitution  guarantees 
that  “such  rights  embodied  in  these  international 
instruments  shall  be  respected  and  upheld  by  the 
executive,  legislature,  judiciary  and  all  organizations 
and  agencies  of  Government”.  We  are  thus  fully 
committed  to  international  cooperation  for  global 
peace and development. 
to  all  our  citizens 
that  guarantees 
A/61/PV.21
developing 
nations, 
eventually 
the 
the  Assembly 
is 
The  President  of 
topic  “Implementing 
for  development”.  Ever 

to  be 
commended  for  proposing  for  discussion  by  this 
the  global 
Assembly 
partnership 
since 
its 
establishment in 1945, the United Nations has laboured 
to  produce  an  effective  development  strategy.  Decade 
after  decade,  several  proposals  were 
laboriously 
drafted, only to be quickly relegated to the archives. It 
was not surprising, therefore, that countries, especially 
the 
became 
disillusioned owing to the little that was achieved. 
The  World  Hearings  on  Development  that  were 

held  during  Guyana’s  presidency  of 
the  General 
Assembly  at  its  forty-eighth  session  sought  a  new 
approach  to  the  issue  of  development  by  bringing 
together  all  the  relevant  actors  —  distinguished  world 
leaders,  member  Governments,  the  private  sector, 
non-governmental organizations and other elements of 
civil society — to analyse deficiencies in international 
cooperation. What was needed, it was said, was a new 
development architecture, not a tinkering with the old. 

Following  up  on  the  promise  of  these  hearings, 
the  General Assembly  proceeded  in  1997  to  elaborate 
an  agenda  for  development.  There  could  be  no  more 
comprehensive  and  compelling  document  than  that. 
Yet, it too was soon buried and forgotten. By the year 
2000,  the  international  community  had  decided  that 
enough  was  enough  and  that  instead  of  forging  yet 
another  declaration  it  would  set  for  itself  certain 
precise and time-bound goals.  

Our  pursuit  of  these  Millennium  Development 
Goals  thus  far  has  shown  that  while  our  efforts  may 
indeed  lift  some  countries  out  of  poverty,  significant 
and  sustainable  development  will  be  achieved  only 
through 
in 
Goal 8. It is worthy of note that, while  there are clear 
measurements of progress under Goals 1 to 7, no well-
defined  indicators  exist  for  Goal  8  —  the  global 
partnership  for  development  —  an  omission  that 
clearly  limits  the  effort  at  cooperation  and  creates  an 
imbalance in the partnership. 

the 
development  challenge,  it  is  not  to  dwell  on  the  past, 
but rather to  draw  from it  lessons that  may help us in 
the  future  to  translate  our  long-held  aspirations  into 
early  reality.  Allow  me,  therefore,  to  offer  some 
thoughts  on  how 
for 
development may be strengthened.  
international  cooperation  required 
the  global  partnership 
If  I  have  delved 
into 
the  history  of 
the 
06-53615 

19 

in 
involved 
A/61/PV.21 


As  was  determined  at  Monterrey,  partnership, 
coherence and accountability are vital to the fulfilment 
of  our  development  goals.  Without  close  and  genuine 
cooperation between donors and recipients, there is not 
likely  to  be  significant  progress. At  the  national  level 
countries  should  own  their  development  strategies, 
while at the international level there should be greater 
coordination  and  consistency  of  support  in  the  trade, 
monetary  and  financial  systems.  Much  too  often  it  is 
the  developing  countries  that  are  scrutinized  and 
scolded  for  their  shortcomings,  while  their  developed 
partners  are considered above blame. True partnership 
requires mutual accountability. Accordingly, we would 
propose that there should be some verification of donor 
pledges  and  periodic  reviews  of  performance  on  both 
sides. 

Implementation  of  the  global  partnership  would 
be  greatly  facilitated  if  the  task  were  to  be  seen  in 
terms  of  mutual  benefit  and  not  of  charity  or 
obligation.  Both  sides  must  be 
the 
decision-making process in all cooperation agreements. 
Such  participation  would  produce  a  greater  sense  of 
and, 
ownership 
consequently,  a  deeper  sense  of  commitment 
to 
execution. At the recent World Bank/IMF meeting held 
in  Singapore  and  chaired  by  the  President  of  Guyana, 
the  IMF  Managing  Director  is  reported  to  have 
proposed a rearrangement of quotas that would enable 
developing countries  to be more involved in decision-
making. Although  the  change  cannot  be  considered  as 
comprehensive  as  necessary,  it  is,  nonetheless,  a  first 
step 
the 
management of development.  

Furthermore,  given  the  inadequacy  of  resources 
that  have  been  available  thus  far  for  development,  we 
must  endeavour 
in 
Monterrey,  new  and  additional  sources  of  financing. 
The  Millennium  Challenge  Account 
the 
International  Finance  Facility  have  been  welcome 
attempts to provide fresh funding. More recently, at the 
initiative of France, Brazil and others a tax on air travel 
has  been  proposed  —  and  implemented  by  some 
countries  —  and  promises  to  provide  substantial 
revenues  to  support  development.  Similar  proposals, 
such  as  the  Tobin  tax,  a  tax  on  pollution  and  a 
low-elasticity commodities tax, are on the table. What 
is  needed  now  is  a  serious  evaluation  of  these 
suggestions 
for 
implementation by the international community. 
toward  more  democratic  governance 
identify,  as  we  pledged 
to  determine 
developing 
feasibility 
countries 
their 
and 
the 
by 
in 
to 
in 
of 
An 
the 
any 
prospect 
challenge 
evidenced 
formidable 
vulnerable, 
increasingly 
Implementation  of 

the  global  partnership 
undoubtedly  suffers  from  the  “beggar-thy-neighbour” 
attitude that exists in international economic and trade 
relations.  As 
recent  Doha 
Development  Round  negotiations,  the  predominant 
interests  of  the  developed  countries  in  such  areas  as 
agriculture,  subsidies  and  services  have  effectively 
denied developing nations, more particularly the small 
and 
significant 
participation in the global economy. Without expanded 
trade  opportunities,  investment  and  a  comprehensive 
framework of support, development for many countries 
will  continue  to  be  elusive.  We  need,  therefore,  to 
ensure  that  the  Doha  Development  Round  is  revived 
and  that  broad  assistance  is  provided  to  serve  the 
purposes of development. 

to 
implementing the development agenda is the spread of 
transboundary  crime, 
including  arms  and  drug 
trafficking, which has reached new and alarming levels 
that  cripple  economic  growth.  Governments  can  ill 
afford the resources needed to fight the drug lords, who 
are  themselves  endowed  with  considerable  assets  and 
artillery.  Unfortunately,  whatever 
is 
provided  by  donor  countries  and  relevant  agencies  is 
woefully  inadequate  to  deal  with  the  onslaught.  This 
growing  insurgency  can  be  counteracted  only  by 
greater determination on the part of the United Nations 
system  to  collaborate  fully  to  crush  transboundary 
crime.  Our  developed  partners  therefore  need  to  do 
more to assist in the fight against this scourge. 
A more serious inhibitor to economic growth and 

social  progress  is  the  current  unsettled  international 
political  climate,  in  which  recourse  to  conflict  is  seen 
as  a  ready  means  of  settling  international  issues.  The 
egregious  examples  of  Iraq  and  Lebanon,  where  force 
has been used to achieve political aims and objectives, 
have  clearly  shown  that  violence  solves  nothing. 
Indeed,  the  havoc  and  destruction  wrought  by  war 
seriously  diminish  the  prospects  for  development, 
whether  in  the  Middle  East  or  elsewhere.  The  agenda 
for peace cannot be implemented without due regard to 
the agenda for development. 
long  been 

persuaded  of  the  need  for  a  new  global  human 
economic and social order that is capable of delivering 
true  democracy  and  social  justice  to  all  peoples.  First 
posited  in  1994  at  the  World  Summit  on  Social 
Development  by  the  late  President  Jagan  of  Guyana, 
The  Government  of  Guyana  has 
assistance 
20 

06-53615 
to 
No 
less  formidable  and  challenging 


the  concept  is  premised  on  a  comprehensive  and 
holistic  approach  to  development  aimed  at  achieving 
more inclusive economic and social progress. The new 
global  human  order  initiative,  which  is  already  being 
considered  by 
this  Organization  and  has  been 
supported  by  many  Member  States,  seeks  to  create  a 
consensus on a new model of development that would 
be  based  on  genuine  partnership  among  States  and  a 
joint endeavour to secure peace and prosperity for all. 

the 
development agenda than the international political and 
economic  environment  is  the  fragile  ecosystem  in 
which  we  now  live.  We  have  all  witnessed  the 
increasing  number  of  earthquakes,  floods,  tropical 
storms  and  hurricanes,  which  cause  catastrophic 
damage wherever they occur. Less than two years ago, 
my  own  country  was  struck  by  a  flood,  resulting  in 
damage equivalent to 60 per cent of our gross domestic 
product. It would be foolish — perhaps fatal — if  we 
did  not  prepare  ourselves  to  anticipate  and  withstand 
such  disasters.  Early-warning  systems  should  be 
established  across  the  globe  and  financial  resources 
made available to the United Nations fund to facilitate 
early  responses  and  recovery.  In  short,  disaster 
mitigation  should  now  become  an  integral  part  of  the 
development agenda. 

Experience  has  taught  us  that  development  is  a 
complex  and  complicated  phenomenon,  and  that  the 
many challenges we now face are such that they cannot 
be overcome without full international cooperation. Yet 
our  responses  continue  to  be  ad  hoc  and  woefully 
inadequate to deal with the resolution of the problems 
that  we  are  confronting.  The  development  agenda  has 
now  become  more  extensive  and  is  very  urgent.  With 
courage and vision, we must renew our commitment to 
the  implementation  of  the  global  partnership  for 
development.  Our  common  humanity  and,  indeed,  a 
common  sense  of  decency  and  morality,  demand  no 
less. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I give 

the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Anthony  Hylton, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Foreign  Trade  of 
Jamaica. 
Mr.  Hylton  (Jamaica):  It  is  an  honour  for  me  to 

address  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-first  session 
on behalf of my country, Jamaica. 

Al-Khalifa  on  her  election  as  President  of 
I  would  like  to  congratulate  Ms.  Haya  Rashed 
the 
A/61/PV.21
and 
and 
social 
institutions 
Assembly.  It  is  a  particular  pleasure  for  me  today  to 
acknowledge  that  achievement,  as  she  is  one  of  only 
three women in the history of the General Assembly to 
have  occupied  that  post,  and  —  significantly  —  the 
first since 1969, nearly 40 years ago. 

I would also take this opportunity to express deep 
appreciation for the work carried out during the sixtieth 
session  of  the  Assembly  by  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson,  under 
whose  leadership  so  much  was  accomplished  in  an 
extraordinarily  challenging  year,  notably  the  adoption 
of the World Summit Outcome Document. 

As  we  begin  this  new  United  Nations  year,  we 
ask ourselves, “What is the state of our world?” We ask 
this particularly in the context of the determination and 
resolution  of  our  leaders  in  2005  to  urgently  address 
the  issue  of  the  storm  clouds  which  were  threatening 
the  vast  majority  of  humankind,  particularly  in  the 
developing world. We see a continued challenging time 
ahead  for  development,  for  peace  and  security,  for 
democracy 
for 
multilateralism.  We  see  an  environment  in  which  the 
credibility  of  the  international  system  to  deliver  fairly 
and equitably is being increasingly questioned. 

These  were  the  very  issues  and  circumstances 
which world leaders sought to address at the beginning 
of the sixtieth session in 2005. Their Summit Outcome 
Document contained a raft of resolutions, commitments 
and  recommendations  to  deal  with  fundamental  issues 
and  constraints,  and  was  intended  to  give  political 
the  commonly  agreed 
momentum 
development 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  The  leaders,  while  recognizing 
that development, peace and security and human rights 
are  interlinked  and  mutually  reinforcing,  reaffirmed 
that development is a central goal in and of itself. 
Jamaica  remains  deeply  committed  to  the  three 

pillars  of 
considers 
development  to  be  at  the  very  core.  For  this  reason, 
Jamaica  is  concerned  about  the  fact  that  we  have  not 
discerned  any  significant  focus  on  implementation  in 
the  area  of  development  over  the  past  year  —  a  year 
dedicated  to  implementation.  The  implementation  gap 
has been greater in this area than in either of the other 
two areas. 

Increased,  albeit  still  insufficient,  attention  is 
being accorded to those who live in extreme poverty — 
those  living  on  less  than  $1  per  day.  The  Secretary-
General  cited  some  startling  statistics  in  his  report  on 
the  United  Nations,  but 
to  achieving 
goals, 
including 
06-53615 

21 

other 
Jamaica 
developing 
to  address 
A/61/PV.21 

the  work  of  the  Organization.  I  would  like  to  refer  to 
two examples: 10 million children die before their fifth 
birthday,  and  women  in  developing  countries  are  45 
times more likely to die during pregnancy than women 
in  developed  countries.  That  is  irrefutable  evidence 
that the situation remains in absolute and comparative 
terms,  deeply  unsatisfactory  and  unsustainable  in  an 
interdependent world. 

countries 
and 
consistently argued in all the debates leading up to and 
during the 2005 Summit that, in addition to the poorest 
countries,  the  situation  of  vulnerable  middle-  and 
lower-  middle-income  countries,  especially  small 
island  and  highly  externally  dependent  economies, 
needed  to  be  addressed. A  number  of  potentially  very 
useful  provisions  were  incorporated  into  the  Summit 
Outcome  document 
their  particular 
circumstances.  But,  frankly,  Jamaica  has  seen  little 
resolve  on  the  part  of  the  international  community  to 
implement those commitments. We have seen no work, 
for example, to implement the commitment to support 
the  development  efforts  of  middle-income  developing 
countries to help them meet, among other things, their 
financial,  technical  and  technological  requirements. 
Nor  have  we  seen  any  effort  to  develop  a  framework 
for providing significant debt relief or restructuring for 
middle-income 
with 
unsustainable  debt  burdens  that  are  not  part  of  the 
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative, or to 
comprehensively  address  the  debt  problems  of  those 
countries.  Thirdly, 
to 
implement  the  development  dimension  of  the  Doha 
Work  Programme, 
the  World  Trade 
Organization’s Work Programme on Small Economies. 

We  recognize  that  there  was  a  welcome  increase 
in official development assistance from $69 million in 
2003  to  $106  million  in  2005.  Much  of  the  additional 
funding  was  targeted  to  a  small  number  of  admittedly 
very  deserving  countries  —  mainly  for  debt  relief  — 
and  to  peacekeeping.  There  was  little  new  money  for 
investment 
the 
poorest countries. 

It  has  always  been  recognized  that  many  of  the 
resources  for  financing  development  must  come  from 
trade.  That  was  clearly  stated 
the  Monterrey 
Consensus (A/CONF.198/11) and repeated in the 2005 
Summit  Outcome  Document  (resolution  60/1).  In  the 
Outcome  Document, 
leaders  of  developed  and 
developing countries committed to work expeditiously 
in  development  projects,  even 
there  has  been  no  effort 
in  particular 
developing 
countries 
in 
in 
Jamaica 
strongly 
supports 
the  view 
towards  implementing  the  development  dimensions  of 
the Doha Work Programme. They also emphasized the 
need  to  address  weak  and  volatile  commodity  prices 
and  to  support  the  efforts  of  commodity-dependent 
countries  to  restructure,  diversify  and  strengthen  the 
competitiveness of their commodity sectors. 

Instead  of  expedition  and  facilitation,  we  have 
seen  stalemate  and  breakdown  in  the  Doha  round  of 
negotiations. Perhaps even more significant is the fact 
that,  in  the  negotiations  that  did  take  place,  the 
development  dimension  —  especially  as  it  relates  to 
small  and  vulnerable  economies  such  as  that  of 
Jamaica — was conspicuously absent from the debate. 
These issues must be addressed in any effort to restart 
the negotiations. 

that 
fundamental  to  a  viable  and  equitable  trade  regime  is 
the  need  to  take  account  of  the  wide  disparity  in 
structural  characteristics  and  approaches  to  economic 
policy  among  the  many  members  of  the  World  Trade 
Organization,  and  the  consequent  need  for  flexibility. 
We  would  add,  for  clarity,  the  need  to  include  the 
differences in levels of development among economies 
and  the  asymmetries  existing  between  developed  and 
developing countries. 

As  a  small  country  with  a  debt  burden  of  more 
than  125  per  cent  of  its  gross  domestic  product;  a 
country  whose  exports  have  been  falling  in  value  and 
whose markets are threatened by the current uncritical 
approach  to  globalization  and  trade  liberalization;  a 
country  dependent  on  imported  petroleum  for  more 
than  90  per  cent  of  its  commercial  energy  and  whose 
energy bill was more than $1 billion in 2005; an island 
vulnerable  to  a  range  of  natural  hazards  and  still 
working to recover from major hurricanes and droughts 
in  2004  and  2005;  and  a  country  whose  skilled 
professionals — doctors, nurses, teachers and scientists 
in particular — are targeted by some major developed 
countries,  Jamaica  understands 
for  a 
collaborative and facilitative international environment 
and 
Successful 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
cannot be assured in the face of those challenges. 

Jamaica recognizes that there can be no sustained 
development,  no  poverty  eradication  and  no  lasting 
peace  without 
and 
empowerment  of  women.  Women’s  advancement  is  a 
advancement, 
the  need 
coherence 
policies. 
equality 
the 
for 
in 
22 

06-53615 
an 
emphasis  on 


priority  of  our  national  policy,  and  we  support  all 
international initiatives to that end. 

We  are  encouraged  by  action  aimed  at 
implementing some of the mandates agreed at the 2005 
Summit. In the area of international peace and security, 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  has  been  established, 
with 
addressing  post-conflict 
situations.  Jamaica  has  the  honour  to  be  a  founding 
member  of  that  body  and  will  be  actively  involved  in 
the  achievement  of  its  objectives.  With  regard  to 
human  rights,  the  Human  Rights  Council  has  been 
established.  In  the  field  of  humanitarian  affairs,  the 
Central  Emergency  Response  Fund  has  been 
established, and an agreement has been reached on the 
protection of humanitarian personnel. We welcome the 
finalization  of  the  draft  Comprehensive  and  Integral 
International  Convention on Protection  and Promotion 
of the Rights and  Dignity  of Persons  with Disabilities 
and look forward to its formal adoption later this year. 
We  welcome  also  the  2006  Political  Declaration  on 
HIV/AIDS  (resolution  60/262),  adopted  at  the  High-
level  Meeting  on  HIV/AIDS.  We  urge 
the  full 
implementation of those  decisions to  comprehensively 
tackle  this  scourge  in  the  most  seriously  affected 
countries  and  regions.  For  the  Caribbean  region, 
HIV/AIDS  is  a  major  human,  social  and  economic 
challenge. 
The  recent  High-level  Dialogue  on  International 

Migration and Development, convened in keeping with 
the  mandate  of  the  2005  World  Summit,  and  the 
publication  of  the  United  Nations  Population  Fund’s 
2006 State of World Population report have been very 
timely.  They  highlighted,  among  other  things,  the 
multidimensional  nature  of  international  migration,  its 
importance 
the 
potential  for  further  widening  of  the  development  gap 
between rich and poor countries. They raised a number 
of  critical  issues  for  the  attention  of  the  international 
community.  
the 

Jamaica 
selectivity in the policies of developed countries, their 
deliberate  targeting  of  critical  skilled  professionals  of 
developing countries, accompanied by the tightening of 
their  general  immigration  laws  against  the  unskilled 
and  the  young,  and  their  systematic  and  wholesale 
repatriation of those who run into difficulty with their 
laws — especially hardened criminals, many of whom 
have little or no connection, if they ever did, with the 
receiving  developing  country.  Those  policies  are 
is  particularly  concerned  about 
the  globalization  process  and 
in 
A/61/PV.21
in 
We  note 
that  reform  should  ensure 
the  continued  emphasis  on 
inconsistent,  counterproductive  and,  with  all  due 
respect,  frankly  wrong.  They  demand  the  urgent 
attention  of  the  international  community.  We  look 
forward  to  these  issues  being  studied  and  given  the 
required  attention  at  the  follow-up  meeting  to  be  held 
in Belgium in March 2007. 

the 
strengthening  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  adoption 
of reform measures aimed at improving accountability 
and  transparency  and  at  enhancing  the  effectiveness 
and  efficiency  of  the  work  of  the  Secretariat  in 
implementing  the  programmes  mandated  by  Member 
States.  We  stress 
the 
strengthening  of  the  United  Nations.  That  should  be 
our motivation. We should never allow reform to erode 
the  fundamental  institutional  framework  of  the  United 
Nations  or  the  right  of  each  Member  State  to  be  fully 
involved 
the  Organization’s  decision-making 
processes and to contribute to advancing its goals and 
ideals. That right has been the fundamental strength of 
the  United  Nations  and  what  sets  it  apart  from  many 
other  multilateral  institutions.  It  is  and  should  remain 
the standard. 

Geopolitical  realities  have  changed  significantly 
since  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is 
therefore  logical  that  the  Security  Council  should  be 
reflective of the contemporary international community 
as  a  whole,  on  the  basis  of  equitable  geographical 
representation and greater representation of developing 
countries. How can it be that less than 5 per cent of the 
membership  of  the  Organization  continues  to  wield 
inordinate  power  over 
is 
undemocratic  and,  ultimately,  unsustainable.  It  is  on 
that  basis  that  Jamaica  supports  expansion  in  both 
categories  of  Council  membership,  with  increased 
representation for all regional groups. 

Jamaica  underscores  the  vital  importance  of 
coherence  in  policy  action  and  advice  among  the 
United  Nations  and  other  international  institutions, 
including  the  international  financial  institutions,  as 
well as regional organizations, in the effort to facilitate 
and  encourage  development,  especially  that  of  the 
small,  vulnerable 
and  otherwise  disadvantaged 
countries. 

Over  the  years,  Jamaica  has  experienced  more 
than  its  fair  share  in  terms  of  the  adverse  impact  of 
incoherent  international  policies  and  advice.  I  will 
provide  just  three  examples.  First,  Jamaica  has  been 
the  rest  of  us?  That 
06-53615 

23 

stood 
to 
reserves 
international 
A/61/PV.21 

forced to hold a large fund of international reserves in 
developed  countries.  At  the  end  of  August  2006, 
Jamaica’s  net 
at 
approximately  $2.2  billion,  or  18  weeks  of  imported 
goods  and  services,  while  the  country  needs  foreign 
exchange to facilitate investment projects.  

Secondly,  Jamaica  has  entered  into  international 
commitments  under 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  inter  alia  to  expand  education  and  health  care, 
to  enhance  environmental  protection,  to  strengthen 
rural  development  and 
improve  housing  and 
sanitation. These are all labour-intensive activities. The 
International  Monetary  Fund,  without  providing  any 
analysis,  is  giving  advice  and  insisting  that  Jamaica 
reduce its public service drastically.  

Thirdly,  Jamaica  is  forced  to  compete  with  the 
salaries  being  offered  by  developed  countries  such  as 
Canada, the  United Kingdom and the United States to 
large  categories  of  employees,  including  teachers  and 
nurses, while seeking to reduce its fiscal deficit. This is 
one  of  the  major  difficulties  that  the  Government  is 
facing  in  its  current  wage  negotiations  with  the 
members  of  some  of  these  categories,  with  a  view  to 
completing  its  second  memorandum  of  understanding 
with public sector workers. 
The United Nations has a major responsibility to 

lead 
in 
international 
economic  programmes  and  policies.  Jamaica  believes 
that  a  fortified  United  Nations, 
in  particular  a 
strengthened  Economic  and  Social  Council,  is  vital  if 
that role is to be effective. 

We  continue  to  live  in  very  turbulent  times. 
Global  peace,  security  and  stability  continue  to  be 
elusive. All the multilateral gains that we have made in 
recent  years  will  come  to  little  if  existing  conflict 
situations  are  not  resolved  and 
if  new  military 
interventions,  acts  of  terrorism  and  other  debilitating 
threats to peace, security and development arise. 
We  must  continue  to  emphasize  the  critical 

importance of multilateral diplomacy, even-handedness 
and  maximum 
the 
mutually  beneficial  relationships  among  us  as  a 
community  of  nations.  We  must  equip  the  United 
Nations  to  act,  and  act  decisively,  when  necessary.  In 
that  regard,  we  welcome  Security  Council  resolution 
1701  (2006)  and  look  forward  to  every  effort  being 
made to build on this new platform to secure a lasting 
peace in the Middle East. 
the  quest  for  coherence 
restraint.  We  must 
reinforce 
in 

We  cannot  remain indifferent to the tragic plight 
of  the  people  of  Darfur,  the  Sudan.  History  has 
repeatedly  demonstrated  that  indifference  emboldens 
those who seek to act with impunity, resulting in even 
greater  atrocities  and  humanitarian  crises.  The 
international  community  must  act  urgently  to  promote 
human  security  and  to  protect  the  lives  of  innocent 
civilians. 

Disarmament  and  non-proliferation  go  hand  in 
hand. It is only through the total elimination of nuclear 
weapons  and  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction  that 
international  peace  and  security  can  be  assured. 
Jamaica is therefore disheartened that the international 
community  failed  to  seize  the  opportunities  provided 
by  the  2005  Review  Conference  of  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  by  the 
World  Summit  to  make  significant  progress  on  this 
issue. 

Jamaica  and  other  countries  in  the  Caribbean 
region  have  to  confront  major  security  concerns  as  a 
result  of  the  ease  of  access  to  illicit  small  arms  and 
ammunition and the linkages to transnational organized 
crime, including drug trafficking. Jamaica feels a deep 
sense  of  disappointment  that  the  2006  Conference  to 
Review  Progress  Made  in  the  Implementation  of  the 
Programme  of  Action 
to  Prevent,  Combat  and 
Eradicate  the  Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms  and  Light 
Weapons  in  All  Its  Aspects  failed  to  conclude  an 
outcome  document  which  would  have 
introduced 
improvements in the implementation of the Programme 
of  Action.  Jamaica  will  continue  to  advocate  for  the 
creation  of  a  legally  binding  instrument  which  more 
strictly controls the illegal trade in small arms and light 
weapons and ammunition. 

The recent adoption of the United Nations Global 
Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  (resolution  60/288)  is  a 
very  clear  demonstration 
international 
community can come together to confront major threats 
to civility, the rule of law  and international peace and 
security. This should be our modus operandi. 
We  have  been  particularly  encouraged  by 

developments 
the 
democratic  election  of  the  Government  of  President 
René  Préval.  In  July,  Haiti  was  able  to  again  take  its 
rightful place in CARICOM. Coupled with the renewal 
of  the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations  Stabilization 
Mission  in  Haiti  until  February  2007,  attention  can 
now  be  focused  on  institution-  and  capacity-building, 
in  Haiti,  which  have 
that 
the 
led 
to 
24 

06-53615 
that 
like 
to 
take 
the  expectation 
Before  closing,  I  would 


as  well  as  on  reconstruction  and  other  initiatives  for 
economic and social development in that country. 

The  bicentenary  of  the  abolition  of  the  trans-
Atlantic  slave  trade  in  the  British  Empire  will  be 
marked in 2007. For all CARICOM countries this is a 
special  anniversary  based  on  shared  history.  To 
symbolize  the  occasion,  CARICOM  members  will  be 
introducing  a  draft  resolution  at  this  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  with 
the 
Assembly  will  appropriately  recognize  the  event.  We 
look forward to the support of all delegations. 

Jamaica strongly reaffirms its commitment to the 
United  Nations  and  the  multilateral  process.  Our 
continued  commitment  at  all  levels,  including  our 
support  for  the  work  of  the  International  Seabed 
Authority, remains firm. 

this 
opportunity  to  pay  special  tribute  to  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  outstanding  leadership  in  guiding  the 
work  of  the  Organization  over  the  past  10  years.  He 
has  faced  the  challenges  of  our  times.  He  has  re-
to 
engineered 
become 
the 
international community. He has brought civil society, 
non-governmental  organizations  and the private sector 
into the United Nations. He has leveraged and brought 
into  international  service  high  achievers  in  a  range  of 
disciplines.  And  he  has  increased  opportunities  for 
consultation and dialogue. We wish him the very best. 

Jamaica  looks  forward  to  a  transparent  and 
inclusive  process  to  provide  our  Organization  with  a 
new  Secretary-General  who  enjoys  the  confidence  of 
the full membership. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  call 

on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Charles  Savarin,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs, Trade,  Labour  and  the  Public  Service 
of Dominica. 
Mr.  Savarin  (Dominica):  I  would  like  to  extend 

my  congratulations  to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Haya 
Rashed Al-Khalifa and to her country, Bahrain, on her 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-first  session.  I  am  confident  that  she  will  ably 
build  upon  the  legacy  left  by  her  predecessor,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson  of  Sweden.  Mr.  Eliasson 
deserves  special  recognition  for  the  competent  and 
dedicated  manner  in  which  he  presided  over  the 
sixtieth  session  and  facilitated  the  positive  outcomes 
the  position  of  Secretary-General 
the  face,  voice  and  conscience  of 
A/61/PV.21
that  we  have  witnessed  so  far  in  the  United  Nations 
reform agenda. 

Let  me  also  pay  tribute  to  His  Excellency 
Mr. Kofi  Annan  for  his  distinguished  career  as  an 
international civil servant, specifically his 10-year stint 
as Secretary-General. His wisdom and his unwavering 
commitment 
to  multilateralism  have  contributed 
immensely  to  a  revitalized  United  Nations.  He  will 
most  certainly  be  remembered  for  his  steadfast 
promotion  of  human  rights,  for  creating  space  at  the 
United Nations for  civil society  and the private sector 
and  for  his  visionary  outlook  for  the  future  of  the 
United  Nations  in  the  current  global  dispensation. We 
wish  to  thank  him  for  his  invaluable  service  to  this 
Organization and its Member States, and to extend our 
very best wishes to him in his future endeavours. 

The World Summit last year started us on the path 
of  re-engineering  the  United  Nations  to  make  it  more 
relevant  and  responsive  to  the  many  challenges  that 
threaten  peace  and  security  in  the  world  at  the 
beginning of this century. The Summit Outcome clearly 
reflected a historic compromise by Member States on a 
number of core principles and attendant actions to face 
squarely  the  myriad  problems  confronting  the  planet. 
Most  importantly,  we  reaffirmed  the  commitment  we 
made  at  the  beginning  of  the  millennium  to  confront 
the  scourge  of  poverty  and  to  improve  the  living 
conditions  of  millions  of  people  living  in  abject 
poverty.  Our  challenge  today  is  to  clarify  how  the 
international 
effectively 
contribute 
the  global  goals  of  poverty 
alleviation, peace and development for all humanity. 

The  dynamics  of  today’s  world,  conditioned  by 
immense forces of change, have forced us to accept the 
stark  reality  that  no  nation  can  prosper  alone  and  that 
the  problems  we  face  demand  global  consensus. 
Consequently,  all  of  us  must  emphatically  reaffirm 
central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  cooperative 
management of the world’s problems. Dominica firmly 
supports  a  rejuvenated  United  Nations  and  universal 
application  of  its  ideals,  in  particular  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security,  the  protection  of 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  and  the 
promotion  of  international  cooperation  in  solving 
economic, social, cultural and humanitarian problems. 

We  welcome  progress  towards  realizing  some  of 
the  commitments  made  by  world  leaders  last  year. 
Creation  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  now 
can  more 
community 
towards 
06-53615 

25 

in 
region, 
conflict 
between 
entangled 
resolution 
the  politicization 
particularly  welcomes 
A/61/PV.21 

presents  a  great  opportunity  for  ensuring  a  tangible 
connection 
and 
development. It is our hope that the new Human Rights 
Council  will  remain  focused  on  its  mission  and  avoid 
becoming 
that 
contributed  to  the  eventual  demise  of  its  predecessor. 
The  Human  Rights  Council  has  made  a  commendable 
start with the adoption of the Declaration on the Rights 
of  Indigenous  Peoples,  which  in  turn  gives  great 
impetus  to  the  aspirations  of  the  Second  United 
Nations  Decade  of  the  World’s  Indigenous  People, 
which the Commonwealth of Dominica has steadfastly 
supported, as one of the few Caribbean countries with 
a  thriving  indigenous  Carib  population. We,  therefore, 
call on the General Assembly to give full support to the 
adoption of this declaration by consensus. 

The  Commonwealth  of  Dominica,  located  as  we 
are in the hurricane belt, in an earthquake zone and in a 
volcanic 
the 
establishment  of  the  Central  Emergency  Response 
Fund, which we believe will significantly enhance the 
capacity  of  the  United  Nations  to  respond  more 
effectively  to  the  increasing  frequency  of  natural 
disasters  brought  about  by  climate  change  and  global 
warming.  We,  the  Member  States,  now  have  an 
obligation  to  contribute  to  the  building  of  the  Fund, 
while  at  the  same  time  taking  steps  to  put  in  place 
measures  to  combat  climate  change  and  reduce  our 
emission of greenhouse gases. Member States must be 
commended for the movement in a few important areas 
that will contribute to a revitalized United Nations. The 
first  relates  to  progress  in  the  area  of  Secretariat  and 
management reforms, which we hope will contribute to 
greater  transparency  and  accountability  in  United 
Nations  operations.  The  second  is  the  finalization  on 
26 August 2006 of the new treaty protecting the rights 
of  persons  with  disabilities,  and  I  am  pleased  to 
announce that my Government is committed to signing 
and 
that 
convention  provides  a  solid  basis  for  breaking  down 
the  discrimination  directed 
towards  people  with 
disabilities. 

The  next  area  is  the  adoption  by  the  General 
Assembly  on  8  September  2006  of  a  United  Nations 
Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy.  Through 
this 
action, we have in a small way honoured the numerous 
victims of international terrorism and demonstrated our 
resolve to combat the scourge of terrorism wherever it 
treaty.  We  believe 
ratifying 
that 
that 
stringent 
to  undergo 
exists.  We  must  continue  to  work  towards  a  counter-
terrorism convention. 

My  country  is  continuing  to  make  progress 
towards  realization  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  despite  the  many  challenges  with  which  it  is 
confronted. In the aftermath of the devastation wreaked 
upon  our  economy  by  the  rulings  of  the  World  Trade 
Organization  disputes  settlement  mechanism,  which 
resulted  in  the  virtual  dismantling  of  our  banana 
industry,  we  had 
fiscal 
adjustments to deal with unsustainable debt. The great 
sacrifices  of  the  Dominican  people  resulted  in  modest 
economic  growth  and  helped 
to  consolidate  our 
economic  recovery.  Spiralling  oil  prices,  however,  are 
seriously  threatening  the  modest  gains  we  have  made. 
National  effort  is,  therefore,  focused  on  developing 
alternative,  renewable  energy  sources,  such  as  hydro, 
wind and geothermal. 

Recent global events have not been encouraging. 
The  collapse  of  the  Doha  Development  Round  further 
threatens to marginalize small island developing States 
like  Dominica  in  the  global  trading  system.  Trade  is 
one central element in the international agenda that can 
foster  sustainable  economic  growth, 
reduce  our 
dependence  on  declining  aid  and  contribute 
to 
realization  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and 
the  development  aspirations  of  the  small  vulnerable 
economies. 

trading  system  must  recognize, 
however, that there is no such thing as a level playing 
field,  even  among  developing  countries,  as  there  are 
varying  levels  of  size,  vulnerability  and  development. 
There  are  large  developing  countries,  there  are  small 
developing  countries  and 
there  are  very  small 
developing  countries.  In  addition,  there  are  the  least 
developed  countries,  which  may  be  large  or  small. 
Where the very small developing countries are islands, 
their  vulnerability 
is  multiplied  several  fold.  In 
addition  to  market  access,  therefore,  small  island 
developing  States 
increased  development 
finance for trade and productive capacity enhancement 
combined  with  trade  rules  that  are  responsive  to  their 
development  aspirations. 
small 
vulnerable economies and the least developed countries 
urgently need a trading system that acknowledges their 
vulnerability and grants them the necessary special and 
differential treatment. This will ensure that they benefit 
from  their  participation  in  the  global  system  and  lead 
to greater equity and fairness in the process. 
The  global 
require 
regard, 
this 
In 
26 

06-53615 
the 
important 
understand 
(CARICOM) 
to  countries 
to  our  human 
cooperation 
like 
Increasingly,  South-South 


has 

become  vitally 
the 
Commonwealth of Dominica, as the developed nations 
retreat  from  fulfilling  their  commitment  to  contribute 
0.7  per  cent  of  their  GNI  for  development  assistance. 
South-South  cooperation  from  China,  Cuba,  Libya, 
is 
Nigeria,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  and  Venezuela 
contributing  positively 
resource 
development,  revitalization  of  our  infrastructure  and 
implementation  of  our  public  sector 
investment 
programme.  We  believe  that  the  developed  countries 
can  make  a  greater  effort  to  assist  us  in  realizing  the 
commitments made under the Barbados Programme of 
Action and the 2005 Mauritius Strategy for the Further 
Implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  for  the 
Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island  Developing 
States. We in the Caribbean Community and Common 
Market 
critical 
importance  of  deepening  regional  integration  and  that 
is  why  we  agreed  this  year  to  move  towards  the 
CARICOM  Single  Market  and  Economy.  That 
development,  we  believe,  is  an  important  pillar  in 
maximizing  regional  trade  and  development  and  in 
minimizing  the  negative  impact  that  is  likely  to  be 
inflicted upon us, as small vulnerable economies, from 
the  forces  of  globalization.  We  look  forward  to  the 
support  of  the  donor  community  in  this  important 
endeavour. 

Good  neighbourliness  is  an  important  plank  in 
our foreign policy, and through this approach we seek 
to continuously build and strengthen relations with all 
the countries of the greater Caribbean Basin, including 
Cuba, the United States of America and Venezuela. We 
believe  in  harmonious  and  friendly  relations  with  all 
our  neighbours.  We  should  not  be  expected  to  choose 
one over the other, but should be seen more as a bridge 
across  the  Caribbean  Basin.  Maritime  and  border 
disputes  within  our  region,  and  particularly  between 
CARICOM  Member  States  and  our  neighbours  in 
Central  and  South  America,  are  best  resolved  in  an 
atmosphere  of  friendship  and  cooperation,  using  the 
good offices of the United Nations, the Organization of 
American States and other forums that can bring about 
resolution to such disputes. 

The  year  2007  will  mark  the  bicentennial  of  the 
abolition  of  the  transatlantic  slave  trade  in  the  former 
British  Empire. We  anticipate  a  commemorative  event 
in the General Assembly to mark this historic occasion. 
The  Caribbean  Community  and  Common  Market 
A/61/PV.21
in 
the 
return 
assistance 
to  Haiti  by 
We  welcome 
and  his  Government 
(CARICOM)  Group  of  nations  will  table  a  resolution 
in  the  General  Assembly  to  mark  the  occasion  and 
expects the support of all Member States of the United 
Nations in this regard. 

to  constitutional 
government  in  Haiti,  the  first  country  to  declare  its 
independence 
from  colonialism  and  slavery.  We 
commit ourselves to work closely with President René 
Garcia  Préval 
their 
development  efforts.  We  also  welcome  the  recent 
announcement  of  commitments 
the 
Government of the United States of $492 million over 
three  years,  and  by  the  Government  of  Canada  in  the 
amount of $100 million annually. We appreciate greatly 
the  many  pledges  of 
for  Haiti’s 
reconstruction  from  various  bilateral  and  multilateral 
donors  and  wish  to  emphasize  the  necessity  for  these 
pledges to be disbursed on a timely basis to provide the 
Haitian  Government  with  the  capacity  to  bring  about 
improvements in the physical and social infrastructure 
of  the  country  and  the  quality  of  life  of  the  people  of 
this CARICOM member State. 

The  situation  in  Iraq,  Afghanistan,  Lebanon, 
Darfur,  and  the  Middle  East  continue  to  occupy  our 
attention.  Regarding 
the  unfortunate  devastation 
caused  by  the  war  between  Israel  and  Hizbollah,  we 
believe that Security Council resolution 1701 (2006) is 
a good basis for a future peaceful relationship between 
Israel and Lebanon, and we urge both countries and the 
neighbouring  States  to  abide  by  the  provisions  of  that 
resolution. The Commonwealth of Dominica has stated 
before  in  this  forum  that  the  only  solution  to  the 
Palestinian-Israeli  conflict  is  the  establishment  of  a 
sovereign  and  independent  Palestinian  State  alongside 
the  State  of  Israel,  both  with  secure  and  defensible 
borders recognized by the international community. 

The situation in Darfur is  very troubling and the 
international  community  must  take  action  now.  We 
commend the African Union for renewing the mandate 
of the African Union Peacekeeping Force, and urge the 
Sudanese  Government  to  reconsider  its  opposition  to 
the deployment of a United Nations peacekeeping force 
to  bolster  the  efforts  of  the African  Union  to  provide 
protection and security for the people of Darfur, which 
is a prerequisite for a lasting solution to the underlying 
problems giving rise to the state of conflict. 

wish 
In  conclusion,  let  me  express  my  delegation’s 
for  a  successful  sixty-first  session  under 
06-53615 

27 

A/61/PV.21 

Ms. Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa’s  leadership.  It  is  our 
hope  that  the  development  agenda  will  once  again 
assume  the  highest  priority  of  the  General  Assembly 
and  that  we  can  more  effectively  promote  peace  and 
security,  eradicate  terrorism,  and  above  all  promote 
poverty  alleviation.  We  must  also  focus  on  moving 
forward with the reform agenda of the United Nations 
system, including Security Council and Economic and 
Social  Council  reform.  We  can  prevail  if  we  act 
responsibly  and  together.  Support  for  multilateralism 
and  the  ideals  of  the  United  Nations  must  remain  our 
priority. 

The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 
give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Ismael Mohamoud 
Hurreh,  Minister  for  Foreign Affairs  and  International 
Cooperation of the Somali Republic. 

Mr. Hurreh (Somalia): It gives me great pleasure 
to know that a sister from fraternal Bahrain is presiding 
over  this  important  session  of  the  General  Assembly. 
Ms. Haya Rashed Al-Khalifa’s leadership will certainly 
contribute  to  promoting  dialogue  and  harmony  in  the 
midst of the spread of conflicts throughout the different 
corners  of  the  world.  We  are  confident  that  she  will 
successfully guide the deliberations of the Assembly. 

Let  me  also  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  special 
tribute  to  her  predecessor,  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson,  for  his 
commitment  and  diplomatic  skill,  which  enabled  him 
to  effectively  manage 
the 
Assembly.  We  likewise  wish  to  recognize  Secretary-
General  Kofi  Annan 
immense  efforts 
undertaken  and  the  commendable  services  rendered 
during  his  tenure  in  promoting  the  maintenance  of 
peace and security and international cooperation. 
I wish at the outset to brief this Assembly in some 

in  Somalia.  The 
detail  on 
establishment  of  the  Transitional  Federal  Government 
of  Somalia  was  the  result  of  the  successful  peace  and 
reconciliation process held in Nairobi, Kenya in 2004, 
and created a unique opportunity for ending the Somali 
political crisis. The Somali people were overjoyed that 
a  comprehensive  settlement  of  the  conflict  had  finally 
been reached. 
The advancement and consolidation of peace and 

stability  requires  the  unwavering  commitment  of  the 
international  community  to  reinforce  the  Transitional 
Federal  Government’s  national  efforts 
in  nation-
building. Regrettably, owing to circumstances not fully 
understood by us, the international community failed to 
the  current  situation 
the  deliberations  of 
the 
for 
in 
the 
portfolios 
their  personal 
act in a timely fashion to support the new Government 
in  facing  the  enormous  challenges  it  confronted. 
Consequently,  a  window  of  opportunity  has  been  lost, 
which has led to continued violence and conflict. 

Ironically,  the  international  community’s  failure 
to  act  also  paved  the  way  for  the  warlords  and  other 
armed groups to take advantage of a political vacuum, 
as they asserted and consolidated their power and clan-
based  authority  in  the  capital  city,  Mogadishu,  and  its 
environs. 
Although  they  had  the  privilege  of  holding 

important  ministerial 
new 
Government, the warlords pursued their hidden agenda 
to  promote 
interests  and  political 
ambitions  by  maintaining  the  chaotic  status  quo  in 
Somalia. 

It is noteworthy to bear in mind that the warlords 
and  the  Islamic  Courts  Union  (ICU)  had  initially 
combined  their  forces  and  political  rhetoric  as  an 
opposition  alliance  group  against  the  Transitional 
Federal Government. Both groups were encouraged by 
the reluctance of the international community to come 
quickly to the aid of the new Somali Government and 
by  the  continuation  of  the  United  Nations  arms 
embargo  against  Somalia.  However,  the  ICU  soon 
realized  that  the  warlords  were  losing  popularity 
among mainstream Somalis. 

the  Transitional  Federal 
Government, though sceptical, responded positively to 
the initiative undertaken by the League of Arab States 
to  convene  peace  talks  and  settle  the  differences 
between  the  parties.  The  first  and  second  rounds  of 
those  peace  talks  have  successfully  taken  place  in 
Khartoum,  and  both  sides  have  agreed  on  general 
principles  and  some  preliminary  issues  for  the  next 
round  of  talks  scheduled  to  be  held  in  Khartoum  in 
October 2006.  

However, as  the Islamic Courts Union continued 
to  rush  to  consolidate  their  grip,  their  concealed 
intentions  are  fast  becoming  evident  to  the  Somali 
people  and  to  the  international  community.  In  this 
connection,  it  will  be  recalled  that  the  ICU  continued 
with  impunity  to  expand  and  attack  other  districts 
outside Mogadishu including Jowhar, Balad, and other 
adjacent  areas.  The  latest  development  of  the  ICU’s 
territorial  expansion  was  the  ill-advised  armed  attack 
and seizure of the city of Kismayo, in flagrant violation 
of the Khartoum Peace Agreement. 
juncture, 
this 
At 
28 

06-53615 
a 
to 
to 
survived 
Despite  all 
these  violations  of 



It  should  also  be  noted  that  the  President  of  the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  of  Somalia,  Mr. 
Abdullahi  Yusuf  Ahmed, 
targeted 
assassination  attempt  on  18  September  2006.  My 
Government  firmly  believes  that  this  heinous  crime  is 
an  act  of 
terrorism  aimed  at  undermining  and 
sabotaging the peace process in Somalia and should be 
condemned in the strongest terms. This heinous attack 
resulted  in  the  death  of  several  people,  including  the 
brother  of  the  President.  We  wish  to  express  our 
appreciation to all those delegations and organizations 
that expressed their sympathy and condemned this act.  

These  developments  are  all  disquieting  and 
disturbing,  and  the  situation  is  deteriorating  to  an 
alarming  degree  and  at  a  rapid  pace.  It  continues  to 
pose  a  serious  threat  to  the  peace  that  has  been 
achieved,  which  has  serious  implications  for  the 
security and stability of the region.  
the  Peace 

the  Transitional  Federal  Government 
Agreement, 
remains  committed 
the  path  of  dialogue  and 
negotiation  with  the  ICU  and  relevant  civil  society 
organizations.  But 
this  positive  attitude  will  not 
continue if the ICU persists in its aggressive policies of 
attacks and territorial expansion. 

As I stated earlier, the absence of law and order, 
the  escalation  of  violence  and  the  ensuing  collapse  of 
central  authority  were  the  major  causes  for  the  chaos 
and  anarchy  in  Somalia.  The  main  goal  of  the 
Transitional Federal Government is therefore to engage 
in an effective, focused plan for the re-establishment of 
institutions for peace and good governance in order to 
restore  normalcy  and  stability  in  the  country.  We 
therefore 
international 
community  to  demonstrate  a  political  will  and  a 
commitment to redouble its efforts to provide political, 
financial  and  technical  support  to  the  Transitional 
Federal  Government 
challenging 
transitional period. 

It  goes  without  saying  that  the  absence  of 
effective,  functioning  government  institutions  capable 
of  enforcing  law  and  order  has  been  the  underlying 
cause  of  the  Somali  conflict  for  the  past  14  years. At 
this  crucial  juncture,  what  Somalia  urgently  needs  is 
immediate  and  substantial  support  for  the  creation  of 
an environment conducive to peace and security which 
in  essence  is  the  key  requirement  for  reconstruction 
and economic recovery. 
strongly 
appeal 
during 
this 
the 
A/61/PV.21
for 
and 
social 
sustained 
economic 

The  economic  challenges  facing  the  Transitional 
Federal  Government  of  Somalia  are  formidable.  The 
collapse  of  the  Somali  State  in  1991  resulted  in 
extensive  destruction  of  governing  and  management 
institutions which are now being re-established by the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  in  its  post-conflict 
reconstruction programmes. 

It  is  deeply  disturbing  to  note  that  over  half  a 
million  children  under  the  age  of  five  die  each  year 
from  preventable  diseases,  malaria  being  the  biggest 
killer.  Moreover,  over  100,000  women  die  each  year 
from  complications 
in  pregnancy  and  childbirth. 
Despite  all  these  hardships,  the  Transitional  Federal 
Government’s 
recovery 
programmes have received virtually no assistance from 
international  donors  and  certainly  none  commensurate 
with  the  massive  needs  of  the  Somali  people.  For  far 
too  long,  Somalia  was  allowed  to  struggle  alone  and 
the negative consequences have been monumental.  
Somalia  can  aspire  to  establish  the  sufficient 

conditions 
economic  growth  by 
leveraging  its  energetic  human  and  social  capital. 
However,  a  successful  and  sustainable  reconstruction 
and development programme requires the international 
the  Transitional  Federal 
community’s  support  of 
Government’s 
wield 
administrative authority and develop competence at the 
federal, regional and district levels. This situation calls 
for  a  broad-based  participatory  partnership  approach 
from  the  family  of  nations  and  for  the  provision  of 
technical  assistance 
the  building  of  efficient 
institutions that leverage the resiliency and potential of 
the Somali people. 

In  terms  of  required  relief  assistance,  it  is  to  be 
noted  that  approximately  1.8  million  Somalis  are  still 
in  need  of  urgent  humanitarian  assistance  and 
livelihood  support.  In  view  of  the  magnitude  of  this 
challenge,  my  delegation  appeals  to  the  world  body 
and 
to  respond  positively, 
generously and, above all, concertedly in order to meet 
Somalia’s  humanitarian  needs  and  avert  a  catastrophe 
of major proportions. 

In an effort to stabilize Somalia and overcome the 
sources of insecurity, the Government has put in place 
a  well-marshalled  National  Security  and  Stabilization 
Plan.  Both  in  concept  and  execution,  the  plan  takes  a 
holistic approach to the nature and scope of insecurity 
in  the  country.  For  its  implementation,  the  plan  takes 
the  donor  community 
determined 
efforts 
to 
in 
06-53615 

29 
in  addressing 
A/61/PV.21 

into  consideration  local,  regional  and  international 
dimensions.  Accordingly,  it  envisions  the  combined 
and  concerted  local,  regional  and  international  efforts 
in  its  execution.  However,  the  realization  of  this  plan 
remains  elusive  insofar  as  the  Government  is  fragile 
and incapable of enforcing the policies and laws of the 
land pursuant to the Transitional Federal Charter. 

The  Transitional  Federal  Government  welcomes 
all  efforts  now  being  undertaken  by  the  international 
community 
the  new  problems  and 
realities  of  Somalia.  It  is  important  to  note  that  the 
Intergovernmental Authority  on  Development  (IGAD) 
and  the African  Union  have  now  finalized  the  details 
and  salient  elements  of  the  IGAD  Peace  Support 
Mission in Somalia. At the international level, it is also 
gratifying  that  the  International  Contact  Group  on 
Somalia, which was recently established, convened its 
second meeting in Brussels to find ways and means to 
streamline  the  international  engagement  and  support 
for Somalia. Moreover, on its part, the United Nations 
Security  Council  is  in  the  process  of  considering 
Somalia’s security problems, in particular the lifting of 
the  United  Nations  arms  embargo  and  the  deployment 
of IGASOM to Somalia. 

All  these  combined  activities  at  the  regional  and 
international levels demonstrate the heightened interest 
and attention given to Somalia. However, it remains to 
be  seen  whether  all  these  initiatives  can  be  properly 
coordinated 
substantially 
assisting  the  Transitional  Federal  Government  in  its 
daunting 
the  country.  To  be 
meaningful  and  effective,  the  contributions  of  the 
international  community  must  focus,  as  a  matter  of 
priority, on the fundamental issue of capacity-building 
for  the  Transitional  Federal  Government  institutions, 
particularly in the security sector.  

measures be taken as a matter of urgency: 

First,  the  United  Nations  arms  embargo  must  be 
favourably  reviewed  and 
the  Security 
Council.  Secondly,  the  IGAD  Peace  Support  Mission 
should be deployed as mandated by the African Union 
and IGAD. Thirdly, the National Security Forces must 
be institutionalized, trained and equipped. Fourthly, the 
Demobilization,  Disarmament 
and  Reintegration 
Programme must be undertaken throughout Somalia. 

basis 
It  is  also  of  paramount  importance  that  a  solid 
the  Somali  public  administration  be 
the  following  specific 
task  of  stabilizing 
and  directed 
imperative 
lifted  by 
towards 
It 
is 
that 

We 
share 
the  completion  of 
fair  elections  after 
in  conformity  with 
established and that a modest and lean civil service be 
recruited  and  trained  for  the  various  public  sector 
organs of the State. Regional administrations should be 
put  in  place  and  federal  restructuring  drawn  and 
implemented 
the  Transitional 
Federal  Charter.  Finally,  immediate  efforts  should  be 
exerted  for  the  drafting  of  the  permanent  federal 
constitution of Somalia so as to pave the way for free 
and 
the 
transitional period. 

These proposals are aimed at restoring peace and 
stability  in  order  to  assist  the  Transitional  Federal 
Government  in  establishing  functioning  and  effective 
institutions  capable  of  providing  essential  basic 
services  to  the  people.  Failure  to  do  so  would  once 
again relegate Somalia to yet another cycle of violence 
and anarchy. 

the  desire  expressed  by  many 
delegations  in  this  forum  to  see  the  United  Nations 
reinvigorate its role and strengthen its capabilities with 
a view to becoming more active and effective. It could 
then  guarantee  the  fulfilment  of  the  objectives  and 
principles  that  are  enshrined  in  the  Charter,  so  as  to 
ensure 
international 
cooperation will continue to prevail for the welfare of 
mankind. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kenzo  Oshima, 
chairman of the delegation of Japan. 
Mr.  Oshima  (Japan):  I  wish  to  congratulate  Her 

Excellency  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa  on  her 
assumption  of  the  presidency  of  the  sixty-first  session 
of the General Assembly, and I wish her every success. 
I  would  also  like  to  pay  high  tribute  to  the  past 
President,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson,  for  his 
outstanding  leadership  during  the  last  session.  Japan’s 
sincere  thanks  also  go  to  Secretary-General  Kofi 
Annan  for  his  dedication  and  many  achievements  in 
leading  the  work  of  the  Organization  over  the  past 
decade. 

Japan  congratulates  the  Republic  of  Montenegro 
on  its  accession  to  the  United  Nations  as  its  192nd 
Member. 

Fifty years ago, in December 1956, from this very 
podium, the then Minister for Foreign Affairs of Japan, 
Mamoru  Shigemitsu,  expressed  the  nation’s  great 
honour  and  delight  at  becoming  the  eightieth  Member 
that  peace  on  earth  and 
for 
30 

06-53615 
in 
time  of 
the  world  such  as 
its  accession,  and,  building  on 


of  the  United  Nations  and  declared  Japan’s  firm 
determination  to  contribute  to  the  high  goals  of  this 
Organization. 

Since  then,  Japan,  as  a  nation  committed  to 
peace, has worked hard in promoting disarmament and 
the  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
supporting  the  undertakings  of  the  United  Nations  for 
peace  and  stability 
the 
peacekeeping  operations,  and  contributing  to  world 
development and prosperity. The Japanese people take 
pride  in  the  contributions  they  have  made  over  the 
years to the United Nations. 

The challenges we face today differ significantly 
from those of 50 years ago. Yet, the common goals of 
humanity  that  the  United  Nations  has  strived  for  — 
peace,  development  and  human  rights  —  remain 
unchanged. Japan reaffirms the commitment it made at 
the 
its 
experiences  since  then,  will  rededicate  its  efforts  to 
achieve those goals. 

As  Member  States,  we  are  responsible,  not  only 
for  the  actions  we  take,  but  also  for  our  inaction. 
Within  the  United  Nations,  it  is  the  Security  Council 
that  bears  the  responsibility  of  delivering  swift  and 
decisive action in the face of a crisis. This summer, the 
ability  of  the  international  community  to  mount  a 
collective  response  through  the  Security  Council  was 
tested  on  several  occasions.  Let  me  cite  three  major 
events on which the Council acted: the ballistic missile 
launches  by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea,  Iran’s  nuclear-related  problem  and  the  conflict 
in Lebanon. 

After  the  launch  of  ballistic  missiles  by  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea on 4 July, the 
Security Council, in a unanimous decision in resolution 
1695  (2006),  sent  a  firm  message,  on  behalf  of  the 
entire 
that 
reprehensible  act.  In  accordance  with  that  resolution, 
all  Member  States  are  now  required  to  take  concrete 
action  as  specified  therein,  and  call  strongly  on  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  implement 
the  resolution,  fully  and  without  delay.  In 
that 
connection, Japan introduced on 19 September a set of 
measures for the prevention of the transfer of financial 
resources  to  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea,  in  addition  to  the  long-standing  strict  export 
control measures. 
international  community,  condemning 
A/61/PV.21
issue 
all 
that 
issue  of 
suspending 
the  nuclear 
the  Council 
Furthermore,  Japan  will  continue  to  make  its 

utmost  efforts  so 
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  and  the 
abduction  issue  will  be  resolved  comprehensively  and 
in accordance with the Pyongyang Declaration of 2002. 

With regard to Iran’s nuclear issue, it is our belief 
that  the  adoption  of  resolution  1696  (2006)  will  serve 
as  an  important  step  towards  a  peaceful  settlement  of 
the 
through  diplomatic  negotiations.  Japan 
strongly urges Iran to comply fully with the resolution 
by  promptly 
enrichment-related 
activities, and to return to the negotiation process. 

Concerning  the  recent  crisis  in  Lebanon,  Japan 
welcomes  the  adoption  of  resolution  1701  (2006)  by 
the  Security  Council  and  supports  the  efforts  under 
way  for  its  implementation.  At  the  same  time,  the 
protracted  negotiating  process  for 
that  resolution 
reminded us once again of the importance of the ability 
of 
to  respond,  swiftly  as  well  as 
comprehensively,  in  such  a  crisis  situation.  That  is 
never  an  easy  task,  but  one  we  must  always  strive  to 
fulfil. 
In response to some of the recent events affecting 

international peace and security, the Council succeeded 
in arriving at concrete decisions for the Member States 
to act upon. Japan is pleased to have played a proactive 
role in that process as a member of the Council, and we 
intend  to  cooperate  closely  with  other  Member  States 
in following up on those resolutions. 

In  countries  and  regions  emerging  from  conflict, 
the  key  to  realizing  sustainable  peace  and  prosperity 
lies  in  the  consolidation  of  peace  and  laying  the 
foundations  for  nation-building.  It  is  encouraging  to 
see  the  ongoing,  concerted  efforts  of  the  international 
community  towards  peace  consolidation  and  nation-
building in a number of countries and regions. 

Iraq is one such country. Though currently still in 
the  grip  of  great  hardship,  we  have  every  confidence 
that Iraq will overcome the difficulties and develop as 
a  democratic  and  stable  State,  and  prosper  as  a 
responsible  member  of  the  international  community. 
The  International  Compact  for  Iraq,  which  aims  at 
forging  a  new  mode  of  partnership  between  Iraq  and 
the  international  community,  will  help  accelerate  the 
country’s  reconstruction.  Japan  intends  to  fully  take 
part in those international endeavours. 
06-53615 

31 

led 
A/61/PV.21 


In  Afghanistan,  Japan  has  also  been  an  active 
supporter and a leading donor for its reconstruction and 
development.  We  have 
the  disarmament, 
demobilization  and  reintegration  (DDR)  efforts  in 
collaboration  with  the  United  Nations,  and,  upon  the 
successful  completion  of  the  DDR  process,  are  now 
taking  the  lead  in  the  projects  for  the  disbanding  of 
illegal armed groups. 

With regard to Timor-Leste, Japan hopes that the 
newly  established  United  Nations  mission  will 
effectively  support 
the  country’s  nation-building 
efforts.  As  the  lead  country  on  Timor-Leste  in  the 
Security  Council,  Japan  will  continue  to  take  the 
initiative  to  promote  peace  and  stability  and  achieve 
the early restoration of law and order in that country. 

In  Africa,  as  a  whole,  we  begin  to  see  the 
situation on the continent moving towards less conflict 
and  greater  peace.  The  ministerial  conference  on  the 
consolidation  of  peace,  that  was  held  under  the 
framework  of  the  Tokyo  International  Conference  on 
African  Development  (TICAD)  in  February  this  year, 
not  only  made  an  intellectual  contribution  to  the 
understanding  of  peace  consolidation,  but  also 
strengthened  the  will  and  solidarity  of  the  African 
States  for  peacebuilding.  Japan,  for  its  part,  has  been 
expanding assistance for the consolidation of peace in 
Africa,  with  particular  focus  on  the  Sudan,  the  Great 
Lakes region and West Africa.  

Against such a backdrop, the establishment of the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  represents  a  significant 
milestone  in  the  history  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
must  ensure  that  the  Commission’s  work  is  translated 
into 
to 
peacebuilding  efforts  in  countries  recovering  from 
conflict and that it thus helps to make a difference on 
the  ground.  Burundi  and  Sierra  Leone,  the  first  two 
countries  on  the  agenda  of  the  Commission,  will 
provide test cases, in which we must not fail. Japan has 
contributed $20 million to the Peacebuilding Fund and 
intends  to  contribute  actively  to  the  work  of  the 
Commission. 

Post-conflict  peacebuilding  requires  knowledge 
and  expertise  in  a  wide  range  of  fields,  including 
ceasefire monitoring, refugee assistance, administrative 
and  judicial  institution-building,  and  reconstruction 
and  development.  Our  experts  have  been  working  in 
Asian  countries  to  assist  their  peacebuilding  efforts, 
such as the establishment of legal and judicial systems. 
tangible,  practical  value-added 
support 
scourge 
tackling 
these 
issues,  a  spirit  of 
in  many  developing 
Regional  conflicts  continue 
In order to strengthen our cooperation in this area even 
further,  we  are  now  considering  concrete  measures  to 
train civilians not only from Japan but also from other 
Asian  countries.  We  envisage  that,  one  day,  civilian 
practitioners who have been trained in my country will 
find  themselves  working  side  by  side  as  fellow Asian 
peacebuilders, including, for example, in Africa. 

to  pose  serious 
challenges.  In  addition,  the  Secretary-General,  as  he 
pointed  out  earlier  from  this  rostrum,  is  concerned 
about  “those  who  seem  eager  to  foment  a  new  war  of 
religion”  (A/61/PV.10).  While  poverty  remains  the 
main 
countries, 
globalization has also brought to the fore transnational 
infectious  diseases  and 
issues  such  as 
terrorism, 
environmental  degradation. 
It 
the 
international  community  still  has  a  long  way  to  go  to 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs). 
In 
tolerance, 
compassion  and  closer  international  cooperation  is 
indispensable, and a strengthened United Nations must 
be  at  the  centre  of  the  concerted  efforts  of  the 
international  community.  At 
time,  new 
concepts  should  also  propel  these  efforts.  Japan  has 
advocated  the  importance  of  human  security  as  a 
concept that stresses the protection of individuals from 
threats to their life and dignity, as well as the value of 
their  individual  empowerment.  Together  with  other 
interested  countries,  we  will  promote  human  security 
and  the  approach  based  on  it  during  this  General 
Assembly session. 
Along  with  human  security,  respect  for  the 

ownership  of  developing  countries,  based  on  good 
governance,  should  be  a  pillar  underpinning 
the 
strategy 
through  economic 
growth.  Given  these  principles,  Japan  intends  to 
enhance  its  development  assistance  to  achieve  the 
MDGs,  by  faithfully  implementing  the  commitments 
made  last  year  to  increase  the  volume  of  its  official 
development  assistance  (ODA)  by  $10  billion  over  a 
period  of  five  years  and  to  double  its  ODA  to Africa 
over a period of three years. On trade, Japan will do its 
utmost  to  bring  about  the  early  resumption  and 
successful conclusion of the WTO Doha Development 
Round negotiations. 

Close  international  cooperation  is  vital  in  our 
fight against terrorism. In this regard, Japan welcomes 
the  adoption  by  the  General  Assembly  of  the  United 
Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy (resolution 
reducing  poverty 
is  clear 
that 
the  same 
for 
32 

06-53615 
the 
further 
strengthen 
for 
and  will 


60/288)  and  calls 
the  early  conclusion  of 
negotiations  on  a  comprehensive  convention  on 
international terrorism.  
Health is another area in which Japan has worked 

in  cooperation  with 
international 
extensively 
community, 
including  efforts  against  avian  and 
pandemic  influenza  and  HIV/AIDS.  Japan  recognizes 
the  importance  of  the  activities  of  the  World  Health 
Organization 
its 
cooperation  with  that  organization,  particularly  in 
Africa. 

As  is  often  emphasized,  peace,  development  and 
human  rights  are  linked  and  complement  one  another. 
Japan’s  own  experience  in  the  60  years  since  the 
Second  World  War  is  eloquent  testimony  to  this  fact. 
We  have  high  expectations  for  the  newly  created 
Human  Rights  Council  and  look  to  it  to  open  a  new 
page in the promotion of respect for human rights. As a 
member,  Japan  will  play  a  constructive  role  in  the 
Council. Japan also supports the early adoption of the 
draft  conventions  on  enforced  disappearance  and  on 
the rights and dignity of persons with disabilities. 
The United Nations has heavy responsibilities, in 

today’s  and  tomorrow’s  world,  as  an  indispensable 
global  instrument  for  resolving  conflicts,  building 
peace,  addressing  emerging  global  threats  and  laying 
the foundation for prosperity. To fulfil such a mission, 
it  must  be  efficient  and  effective,  as  well  as 
accountable and broadly representative in its decisions 
and operations. Reform of the Organization’s structure 
and  the  manner  in  which  it  functions  is,  therefore, 
critically  important.  In  September  last  year,  leaders 
expressed  their  resolve  to  achieve  comprehensive 
reform  of  this  universal  body.  One  year  on,  some 
encouraging  progress  has  been  made,  including  the 
establishment  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
the  Human  Rights  Council.  However,  reform  of  the 
Security  Council 
the 
institutional reform agenda. 

Perhaps a limited few may find it in their interest 
to leave the Security Council configured in the way it 
was in 1945. It is clear, however, that no one stands to 
gain from the waning credibility that failure to reform 
could  entail.  The  call 
for  a  more  effective, 
representative  and  transparent  Council  that  can  meet 
the demands of the new century is not mere rhetoric; it 
is  real  and  urgent.  An  overwhelming  majority  of  the 
Member  States, 
the 
remains  outstanding  on 
including  Japan,  agree 
that 
06-53615 

A/61/PV.21
international community should approach and carry out 
reform  with  a  sense  of  urgency,  and  Japan 
is 
determined  to  continue  to  take  the  initiative  in  this 
critical endeavour. The Member States now need a new 
proposal  on  Security  Council  reform  —  one  that  is 
both  creative  and  persuasive  —  in  order  to  take  an 
early decision during the current session of the General 
Assembly. At the same time, other important areas for 
reform  must  also  be  addressed.  We  need  concrete 
results in management reform if we are to demonstrate 
that  the  United  Nations  is  capable  of  reforming  itself. 
It  is  also  our  hope  that  there  will  be  a  constructive 
dialogue  on  the  question  of  United  Nations  system-
wide  coherence, based on  the report of  the High-level 
Panel to be issued later this year. 
In  this  connection,  I  would  also  remind  the 

Member States that world leaders resolved last year to 
delete  the  long-obsolete  “enemy  State”  clauses  from 
the  United  Nations  Charter. This  is  another  indication 
that the United Nations is ready to step out of the past 
and into the new era. 

Having  made  a  significant  contribution  to  the 
activities  of  the  United  Nations  since  its  inception, 
Japan  has  an  exemplary  record  with  regard  to  the 
fulfilment  of  its  duties  as  a  Member  State,  including 
assessed  contributions.  Nevertheless,  we  strongly 
believe that the United Nations needs a reformed scale-
of-assessments structure — one that is  more equitable 
and  fair  and  duly  takes  into  account  the  status  and 
responsibilities of each Member State. Japan will work 
together with other Member States to formulate such a 
structure,  which  will  bring  financial  stability  to  this 
Organization. 

Our common task for the sixty-first session is to 
continue  our  work  and  translate  the  decisions  on 
reform  made  at  the World  Summit  into  reality.  Let  us 
join  forces  once  again  and  create  an  efficient  and 
effective  United  Nations,  so  that  Member  States  can 
better  respond  to  the  aspirations  and  expectations  of 
the international community for a better future. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give the floor to Her Excellency Mrs. Aksoltan Ataeva, 
chairperson of the delegation of Turkmenistan. 
Mrs. Ataeva  (Turkmenistan) (spoke in  Russian): 

Allow  me  to  express  my  sincere  gratitude  for  the 
honour  of  speaking  from  this  high  rostrum  and  to 
convey  on  behalf  of  Turkmenistan’s  President, 
Saparmurat  Niyazov,  the  best  wishes  for  peace,  well-
33 

international 
constructive 
A/61/PV.21 

being and prosperity to all the peoples of all countries. 
Permit  me  also  to  congratulate  Madam  Haya  Rashed 
Al-Khalifa on her election to the lofty and responsible 
post  of  President  and  wish  her  success  in  guiding  the 
fruitful  work  of  the  sixty-first  session  of  the  United 
Nations General Assembly. 

Neutral Turkmenistan,  which  marks  the  fifteenth 
anniversary  of  its  independence  this  year,  builds  its 
relations in the international arena upon the principles 
of  equal  rights  and  mutually  beneficial  cooperation 
with  all  States  and 
international  organizations. 
Cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  holds  a  special 
relations. 
place 
in  Turkmenistan’s 
Turkmenistan  welcomes 
interaction 
among  members  of  the  community  of  nations  in 
elaborating  new  and  effective  approaches  aimed  at 
preserving and maintaining security and stability in the 
world  and  at  achieving  the  objectives  of  sustainable 
development of countries and peoples. 

During  the  more  than  10  years  that  have  passed 
since  the  adoption  by  the  General  Assembly  of  the 
resolution on the permanent neutrality of Turkmenistan 
on  12  December  1995,  our  State  has  demonstrated  in 
practice  the  fundamental  nature  of  peace-loving  and 
humanist  principles  that  have  formed  the  basis  of 
Turkmenistan’s  policy  since  the  day  it  acquired  its 
independence. 

I would like to avail this  opportunity to  express, 
on behalf of Turkmenistan’s President, our appreciation 
to  United  Nations  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  for 
his  support  of  Turkmenistan’s  foreign  policy  and  for 
his tireless efforts for the welfare of the world. 
that 

Turkmenistan, 
a  neutral  State,  has  been 
unswervingly  fulfilling  its  international  obligations. 
Through  its  actions,  our  country  demonstrates  its 
adherence  to  peace,  cooperation,  non-accession  to 
alliances  and  military  blocs,  non-interference  in  the 
internal  affairs  of  other  States,  respect  for  their 
sovereignty  and  their  right  to  their  own  paths  of 
development. 

It is on the basis of peace, humanism and mutual 
respect  of  interests  that  Turkmenistan  approaches 
issues  of  international  cooperation,  giving  top  priority 
to interaction with the United Nations and its structures 
in  the  strategic  areas  of  partnership.  There  is  no 
disputing the fact that the United Nations has been and 
continues  to  be  the  largest  and  most  prestigious 
Today  we  quite 
rightly 
state 
can 
as 
stability, 
issues 
humanitarian 
the  General  Assembly  and 
international Organization that has been entrusted with 
the  coordinating  role  in  world  affairs  and  on  which 
humankind pins its hopes for peaceful development. 
Turkmenistan  welcomes  efforts  by  the  United 

Nations, 
the  Security 
Council  aimed  at  achieving  goals  of  sustainable 
development, as well as meeting the challenges set by 
the  2005  Summit,  which  determined  how  the  world 
community should address the most pressing problems 
affecting 
and 
strengthening  and  improving  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations. 

We  believe  that  the  tangible  results  of  the 
collective efforts aimed at finding the best ways for the 
United Nations to proceed include such practical steps 
as the establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission, 
creation  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  other 
constructive  steps.  Improvement  in  the  work  of  the 
Security  Council  is  clearly  one  of  the  most  important 
elements in completing the reform of the Organization. 
We  firmly  believe  that  it  is  essential  to  carry  out  this 
task;  it  is  made  necessary  because  of  the  objective 
processes  of  international  development,  increasing 
interaction  among  States  and 
increased  need  for 
combining regional and global problems. 

important 
international  structure,  where  comprehensive  account 
has to be taken of all factors underlying the processes 
in the world. Turkmenistan advocates strengthening the 
role of the United Nations and its major bodies, when 
decisions  concerning  the  most  pressing  problems  of 
today are taken. 

In this context, our country supports expansion of 
Security  Council  membership  on  the  basis  of  the 
greatest  possible  agreement  among  United  Nations 
initiating  more 
Member  States.  We  also  support 
effective  and  constructive  dialogue  between 
the 
Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly.  We 
believe  that  progress  will  continue  in  the  reforms 
started  at  the  United  Nations.  Turkmenistan  also 
the  number  of  States 
welcomes  expansion  of 
represented 
and 
institutions,  while  emphasizing  the  importance  of 
geographical distribution; this is in line with the basic 
values of our Organization. 
it 

the 
favours  strengthening 
international  arena  as  the  highest  international  forum 
is 
the  United  Nations 
Turkmenistan’s  steadfast  position 
The  United  Nations 
in  United  Nations 
the  most 
structures 
is 
that 
in 
34 

06-53615 
and 
its  own 
independent 
society.  Today, 
the  Organization, 
that  has  guaranteed 
is  confidently  advancing  along 


for  establishing  a  just  and  humane  world  order. 
Turkmenistan  fundamentally  advocates  increasing  the 
peacebuilding  potential  of 
in 
accordance  with  the  realities  of  global  development. 
Therefore,  our  country  devotes  great  attention  to 
maintaining most close contacts with offices of United 
Nations  specialized  agencies,  whose  importance  is 
continually growing today. 

One  of  Turkmenistan’s  main  achievements  since 
independence  has  been  the  primacy  of  the  principle 
whereby each nation has the right to chose its own path 
of  development  and  acceptable  form  of  State  system. 
This 
is  an  essential  condition  for  stability  and 
sustainable and progressive development in all spheres 
neutral 
of 
Turkmenistan 
its 
chosen path. Annually, our country’s economic growth 
surpasses  20  per  cent,  with  the  volume  of  production 
per capita exceeding $8,000. 
Turkmenistan  is  celebrating  its  15th  anniversary 

as  a  State 
food 
independence.  It  provides  its  people  with  free  natural 
gas,  electricity,  water,  salt  and  low,  in  fact,  symbolic 
prices for bread, utilities and public transport services, 
gasoline and so forth. All this is a tangible result of the 
long-term  programme  of  social  and  economic  reform 
carried  out  in  our  country  under  the  leadership  of  the 
Head of the nation. Under this programme, over 60 per 
cent of the State budget is allocated to social spending. 
As  a  democratic  State  based  on  the  rule  of  law, 

Turkmenistan 
the 
highest principles allowing people to express their will. 
In  this  regard,  the  Turkmen  people  possess  a  vast 
historical  experience  of  democratic  traditions,  which 
are  organically  and  progressively  finding  their  way 
today  into  the  social  and  political  life  of  the  country 
and are reflected in the continual enjoyment by citizens 
of  their  constitutional  rights  and  freedoms.  In  this 
respect, 2006 was a significant year for Turkmenistan. 
the  decision  of 
In  accordance  with 
the  highest 
representative  body  of  Government, 
the  People’s 
Council,  our  country  held  elections  to  local  self-
government  on  an  open,  democratic  and  competitive 
basis. As of now, this practice is being implemented at 
other  levels  of  Government.  In  this,  we  see  the  basis 
for 
of 
democratization,  with  the  ever-increasing  involvement 
of  citizens  and  public  organizations  in  managing  the 
country.  In Turkmenistan,  this process is advancing in 
is  unwaveringly 
implementing 
A/61/PV.21
a natural way, thereby instilling in the people the sense 
that  they  are  masters  of  their  land  and  that  they  are 
responsible  for  their  destiny  and  the  destiny  of  their 
country. 

terms  of  preserving  peace  and  security, 
In 
non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  is 
one  of  the  most  acute  problems  on  today’s  global 
agenda. Our country fully supports efforts by the world 
community  in  this  area  and  participates  in  their 
implementation,  both  at  the  national  and  international 
levels.  We  are  taking  concrete,  practical  steps  in  this 
direction. 
It  should  be  especially  emphasized  that,  at  the 

end  of  October  2005, 
the  People’s  Council  of 
Turkmenistan  adopted  a  Declaration  in  support  of  the 
initiatives  of  international  organizations  against  the 
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Also, on 
8 September, Turkmenistan, together with other States 
of  the  region,  signed  a  treaty  creating  a  Nuclear-
Weapon-Free Zone in Central Asia. 

By these actions, our country is demonstrating in 
practice  its  firm  commitment  to  the  processes  of 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  In  this  connection 
we pledge our readiness to implement the initiative of 
the President of Turkmenistan — which was supported 
to 
by 
establish  a  United  Nations 
for 
preventive  diplomacy 
the 
necessary conditions and appropriate infrastructure are 
already  available  in  the  capital  of  our  State  — 
Ashgabat. 


its  existing 
potential and capabilities through its active cooperation 
with 
in  organizing  major 
international 
to  discuss 
pressing problems involving global and regional issues. 

Through  practical  multilateral  dialogue  we  have 
become  convinced  that  the  prevention  of  potential 
conflicts requires early warning of emerging situations, 
a  broad-based  analysis  and  elaboration  of  preventive 
strategies.  Therefore,  Turkmenistan  will  continue  to 
make 
improving  multilateral 
cooperation  in  this  important  area  in  partnership  with 
the  United  Nations  and  its  organs,  while  recognizing 
the  great  importance  of  international  experience  in 
preventive diplomacy. 
the  United  Nations  Secretary-General  — 
regional  centre 
in  Central  Asia.  All 
The President returned to the Chair. 
Turkmenistan  has  demonstrated 
forums  and  conferences 
the  United  Nations 
its  contribution 
to 
consistent 
and 
irreversible 
processes 
06-53615 

35 

in 
the 
the  struggle  against 
that  must  be  placed  outside 
A/61/PV.21 

Turkmenistan  is  a  principled  and  determined 

participant 
threat  of 
terrorism.  We  regard  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  as  a 
phenomenon 
the 
framework  of  human  civilization.  We  are  convinced 
that  in  order  to  combat  terrorism  today  we  need  the 
cooperation of all States, including with regard to such 
important  issues  as  cooperation  in  the  search  for  and 
extradition  of 
the  organizers  and  participants  of 
terrorist acts, as well as their collaborators. 

Turkmenistan  fully  supports  the  efforts  of  the 
Secretary-General  in  elaborating  a  global  strategy  in 
the fight against terrorism and stands ready to provide 
practical  assistance  to  the  international  community  in 
its efforts in that direction. 

The  United  Nations  is  a  unique  reflection  of 
actual changes occurring in the world and it has clearly 
demonstrated 
the  will  and  desire  of  States  for 
cooperation within a stable environment. The strategic 
direction  of  reforms  and  the  chosen  path  towards 
qualitative improvement in the work of the community 
of  nations  has  become  the  defining  vector  of  those 
changes. 
Turkmenistan  views  the  reform  of  the  United 

Nations  as  a 
further 
strengthening and enhancement of its authority. We are 
convinced that the United Nations has always been and 
remains  the  most  universal  international  structure  and 
the  most 
important  guarantor  of  global  stability, 
security  and  development. Turkmenistan  will  continue 
to  cooperate  more  closely  with  the  United  Nations  in 
the future with a view to helping it to fully display its 
enormous potential. 
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 

this  meeting.  Several 
the  general  debate 
representatives have requested to exercise their right of 
reply.  May  I  remind  members  that  statements  in 
exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes 
for  the  first  intervention  and  to  5  minutes  for  the 
second  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from  their 
seats. 

I call on the representative of Bhutan. 
Mr. Penjo (Bhutan): My delegation would like to 

respond  to  the  statement  made  by  the  Deputy  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign Affairs of Nepal on 
25  September  2006,  on  the  issue  of  the  people  in  the 
refugee camps in Eastern Nepal. 
road  map 
towards 
the 
for 

The  statement  that  there  is  unwillingness  on  the 
part  of  Bhutan  to  resolve  the  problem  is  totally  false. 
The  Royal  Government  of  Bhutan  is  committed  to 
resolving the problem through a bilateral process with 
the  Government  of  Nepal,  and  our  actions  to  date 
clearly  demonstrate  that  commitment.  The  bilateral 
process was very close to a solution for the Kudanabari 
camp,  where  the  people  had  been  classified  into  four 
agreed  categories.  It  is  untenable  of  the  Nepalese 
Government  to  say  that  Bhutan  is  unwilling  to  find  a 
resolution.  

The international community is well aware of the 
difficult  political  situation  that  Nepal  has  been  in  for 
the last many years. The bilateral process has suffered 
delays and disruptions as the result of frequent changes 
of  Government  in  Nepal  and  resulting  changes  in  that 
Government’s  position.  During  recent  meetings,  the 
current  Government  in  Nepal  has  introduced  a  new 
element,  stating  that  the  problem  is  between  Bhutan 
and  the  camp  people,  and  not  between  Bhutan  and 
Nepal,  and  that  Bhutan  should  talk  directly  to  the 
people. The new Government of Nepal has even stated 
in  the  press  that  it  would  not  abide  by  the  past 
agreements reached between the two Governments.  

no 
circumstance, conduct a dialogue with the people in the 
camps,  as  their  leaders  have  committed  seditious  and 
criminal  offences. The  camps  have  been  infiltrated  by 
Maoist  elements  and  several  radical  parties  have  been 
formed, which have declared the objective of carrying 
out armed struggle to overthrow the Royal Government 
of Bhutan. Moreover, it was the Nepalese Government 
that  opened  the  camps  in  Nepal  and  sought  assistance 
from 
the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  (UNHCR)  in  1991,  when 
there  were  only  304  people  claiming  to  be  refugees 
from  Bhutan.  Until  mid-1993,  all  ethnic  Nepalese 
claiming  to  be  Bhutanese  refugees  were  admitted  into 
the  camps  without  proper  screening. Therefore,  Nepal 
has  both  a  moral  and  legal  responsibility  for  the 
problem. The bilateral process is threatened by Nepal’s 
current position, which would mean going back on all 
of 
two 
Governments and undoing all that has been achieved in 
the past 13 years. 

the 
Government  of  Nepal  in  New York,  on  20  September 
2006, 
the 
Nepalese  delegation  that  the  Royal  Government  of 
the  Bhutanese  delegation  conveyed 
The  Royal  Government  will, 
recent  meeting  with 
During  our  most 
reached  between 
the  Office  of 
agreements 
under 
the 
the 
to 
36 

06-53615 


Bhutan is firmly committed to the bilateral process and 
that  the  only  way  forward  is  to  implement  the 
agreements  that  have  been  reached  through  arduous 
negotiations  over  many  years.  My  delegation  would 
like  to  reiterate  that  commitment  and  urges  the 
Government of Nepal to do likewise. 

Mr.  Shinyo  (Japan):  Thank  you  for  allowing  us 
to exercise our right of reply. My comments are related 
to the statement of the representative of the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  this  morning.  First,  we 
firmly believe that the qualifications of a given country 
for  permanent  membership  in  the  Security  Council 
should  be  judged  based  on  that  country’s  contribution 
to  the  purpose  of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular,  to 
the maintenance of international peace and security. 

Secondly,  regarding  the  issues  of  the  past,  the 
position  of  the  Government  of  Japan  has  been  clearly 
expressed  on  a  number  of  occasions,  including  in  the 
Japan-Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea 
Pyongyang Declaration of 2002, in the statement of the 
former Prime Minister at the Asian-African Summit in 
Bandung,  Indonesia  in  2005  and  in  his  statement  on 
15 August 
sixtieth 
anniversary  of  the  end  of  the  second  World  War.  I 
refrain  from  repeating  those  statements,  but  the  fact 
remains that, as the Permanent Representative of Japan 
expressed in his statement in the general debate just 20 
minutes ago, Japan has been a peace-loving nation and 
has continuously contributed to the goals of the United 
Nations through a variety of means since it joined this 
organization fifty years ago. 
(Democratic  People’s 

Republic of Korea): In his statement, the representative 
of  Japan  proceeded  to  cover  up  Japan’s  ambition  to 
repeat  its  aggression  against  Korea  by  criticizing  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  Throughout 
the  statement,  my  delegation  felt  that  threats  in  the 
North-East  Asia  region  are  coming  from  Japan.  The 
threats from Japan are as follows. 

is  Japan’s  distortion  and 
embellishment  of  its  crime-ridden  history.  The  denial 
and  distortion  of  aggression  and  crimes  against 
humanity  committed  in  the  past  are  intended  as  a 
means to revive these evils again. Today, Japan’s ultra-
right-wing  conservative  authorities  are  attempting  to 
turn  Japan’s  entire  society  to  the  right,  to  speed  up 
militarization and to legitimize its overseas aggression 
by  amending  the  constitution.  Rampant  incitement  to 
Mr.  Sin  Song  Chol 
commemorating 
2002 
the 
The 
first 
threat 
A/61/PV.21
to  realize 
thereby  seeks 
hatred and antagonism against the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  as  well  as  terror  against  Korean 
residents  in  Japan  and  their  organization  —  which  is 
called  Chongryon  —  show  that  the  threat  of  mew 
aggression from Japan has now become a reality.  

Another threat posed by Japan is that, as a junior 
ally  and  servant  of  the  United  States,  Japan  is 
executing  the  United  States  policy  of  aggression 
against  Asia.  Japan 
its 
ambition  to  commit  aggression  against  Korea  by 
availing itself of the United States Asia strategy. All of 
Japan’s  manoeuvres  against  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  are  undertaken  on  the  instructions 
from the United States and stem from Japan’s deceitful 
and  cunning  intention  to  realize  its  purposes  with  the 
help of its master, namely, the United States. 

The  Korean  people  have  a  deep-seated  grudge 
against Japan that must be paid off with blood. During 
the  more  than  40  years  of  its  occupation  of  Korea, 
Japan  forcibly  drafted  and  abducted  8.4  million 
Koreans, and forced military sexual slavery on 200,000 
women  and  girls.  Even  today,  after  more  than  half  a 
century,  we  do  not  know  the  whereabouts  of  most  of 
those  victims.  Japanese  authorities  who  make  a  fuss 
about human rights and the rule of law are not giving a 
sincere  and  coherent  response  about  the  fate  of  those 
victims;  nor  are  they  apologizing  or  compensating 
honestly for their past crimes against humanity.  

The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  is 
highly  vigilant  as  to  the  threats  posed  by  Japan  in 
cooperation with the United States. Fully conscious of 
its responsibility to the history and destiny of its people 
and  its  responsibility  for  peace  and  security  on  the 
Korean  Peninsula,  as  well  as  in  Asia  and  the  Pacific 
region,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  is 
speeding up its full preparedness to resolutely counter 
any threats from Japan. 

I  would  like  to  conclude  my  intervention  by 
reiterating that Japan is dangerous because, while it is 
rich in wealth, it is very poor in terms of morality and 
ethics. 
Mr. Shinyo (Japan): My delegation would like to 

exercise its right of reply once again in response to the 
statement  just  made  by  the  representative  of  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  It  is  very 
unfortunate  that  the  representative  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  refers  to  the  issues  of  the 
past. Although it was not my intention to take the floor, 
06-53615 

37 
that 
in 

the  representative  of 
A/61/PV.21 

my  delegation  is  compelled  to  respond  briefly  to  the 
points 
the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea has raised. 

With  regard  to  the  problems  of  the  past,  I  stated 
in  my  previous  intervention  that  Japan  has  repeated 
many times — at the highest institutional and political 
levels — that this issue has been settled. We are of the 
view that that should be taken into consideration. 

My delegation would like to remind the Assembly 
that,  in  the  Joint  Statement  of  the  Six-Party  Talks, 
issued  on  19  September  2005  in  Beijing,  both  Japan 
and 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
committed  themselves  to  take  steps  to  normalize  their 
relations 
the  Pyongyang 
Declaration  and  on  the  basis  of  the  settlement  of 
unfortunate  past  and  outstanding  issues  of  concern. 
Based  on  that  commitment,  Japan  is  ready  to  discuss 
the settlement of the past, as well as other outstanding 
issues, 
the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. My delegation 
would  like  to  stress  the  importance  of  both  parties 
expressing  themselves  in  a  constructive  and  sincere 
manner in the bilateral talks, so as to improve relations. 

With  regard  to  the  point  that  has  been  raised 
pertaining to past humanitarian issues, the Government  

talks  between  Japan  and 
accordance  with 
in  bilateral 
of  Japan  is  sincerely  confronting  the  fact  that  many 
people  were  in  an  “unfortunate  situation”  in  the  past, 
and  has  expressed  its  deep  remorse  and  heartfelt 
apologies.  However,  the  numbers  that  have  been  put 
forth  by  the  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  are  greatly  exaggerated,  and  we 
cannot accept them. 

With  regard  to  problem  of  outstanding  issues 
between  Japan  and  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea, my delegation would once again like to point 
out  that  the  Pyongyang  Declaration  calls  for  those 
issues  to  be  settled  bilaterally.  That  also  should  of 
course be taken into consideration.  

My  delegation  would  also  like  to  point  out  that, 
as our Permanent Representative mentioned just 20 or 
30  minutes  ago,  in  the  more  than  50  years  of  its 
membership  of  the  United  Nations,  Japan  has  been  a 
peace-loving 
to 
international  peace  and  security.  Of  course,  Japan  has 
also  promoted  and  strengthened  regional  peace  and 
security  in  our  part  of  the  world. That  is  a  fact  about 
which  almost  every  country  Member  of  the  United 
Nations is aware. 





The meeting rose at 7 p.m. 
contributed 
that  has 
country 
38 

06-53615 
