
A/61/PV.7
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-first session 

7th plenary meeting 
Monday, 18 September 2006, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Ms. Al-Khalifa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .


(Bahrain) 
  The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m. 
High-level Meeting on the midterm comprehensive 
global review of the implementation of the 
Programme of Action for the Least Developed 
Countries for the Decade 2001-2010 
Agenda item 56 
Groups of countries in special situations 
  (a)  Third United Nations Conference on the 
Least Developed Countries 

















  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/173) 
  Report of the preparatory meeting of 
experts for the high-level meeting on the 
midterm comprehensive global review of 
the implementation of the Programme of 
Action for the Least Developed Countries 
for the Decade 2001-2010 (A/61/323) 

  Draft resolution (A/61/L.2) 


The  President: The  General Assembly,  pursuant 
to resolutions 59/244 of 22 December 2004 and 60/228 
of  23  December  2005  and  decision  60/556  of  16  May 
2006, will convene today and tomorrow the High-level 
Meeting  on  the  midterm  comprehensive  global  review 
of  the  Programme  of Action  for  the  Least  Developed 
Countries for the Decade 2001-2010. 
in 
to  reaffirm 
the  progress  made 

In  that  connection,  the Assembly  has  before  it  a 
draft resolution issued as document A/61/L.2. It is my 
understanding  that  draft  resolution A/61/L.1  has  been 
withdrawn. 
During  the  High-level  Meeting,  the  General 

Assembly  will  assess 
the 
implementation  of  commitments;  the  meeting  will 
provide  an  occasion 
the  goals  and 
objectives  agreed  upon  at  the  Third  United  Nations 
Conference on the Least Developed Countries, to share 
best  practices  and  lessons  learned,  and  to  identify 
obstacles  and  constraints  encountered,  actions  and 
initiatives  to  overcome  them  and  important  measures 
for  the  further  implementation  of  the  Programme  of 
Action, as well as new challenges and emerging issues. 
(spoke in Arabic) 

I  am  honoured  to  be  with  you  all  here  today  at 
this High-level Meeting on the midterm comprehensive 
global review of the implementation of the Programme 
of  Action  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries  for  the 
Decade 2001-2010. 

I  would  like  to  begin  by  extending  my  warmest 
thanks  to  all  Member  States  for  their  participation;  to 
the Secretary-General for leading the invaluable efforts 
of the United Nations in support of the least developed 
countries; 
to  Under-Secretary-General  Anwarul 
Chowdhury 
the 
for 
implementation of this Programme; to the experts who 
spent 
this  month 
preparing  for  this  High-level  Meeting;  and  to  the 
three  challenging  days  earlier 
substantive 
role 
his 
in 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

06-52559 (E) 
*0652559* 
in 
donor 
countries, 
civil 
society, 
The 
least 
translate 
developed 
this  background, 
this  collective  endeavour 
A/61/PV.7 

various  United  Nations 
funds,  programmes  and 
specialized agencies for their determination in helping 
to elevate the status of 600 million people living in the 
50 most vulnerable countries of the world. 

We are gathered here today to renew and reaffirm 
our  political  determination  to  meet  by  the  year  2010 
the  commitments  set  out 
the  2001  Brussels 
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action  at  the  national 
and  international  levels.  It  is  only  through  a  global 
partnership bringing together least developed countries 
(LDCs), 
non-
governmental organizations and the private sector that 
we  can 
into 
measurable  outcomes  and  can  face  the  challenges  of 
abject poverty. 

Against 
I  am  particularly 
encouraged  that  Member  States  have  welcomed  my 
proposal  to  discuss  the  implementation  of  global 
partnership  for  development  in  this  year’s  general 
debate. 

remain 
marginalized  in  the  world  economy  and  continue  to 
suffer  from  extreme  poverty,  child  mortality  and 
HIV/AIDS, often with insufficient domestic capacity to 
have  a  long-term  impact  on  those  issues.  In  many 
instances,  development  is  being  set  back  by  civil 
conflict and the cost required to rebuild everyday life. 
These  impediments  to  development  make  LDCs  even 
more  vulnerable  to  internal  and  external  shocks  and 
deprive  them  of  the  ability  to  take  advantage  of  the 
economic opportunities of globalization. 

Together,  the  2001  Brussels  Declaration  and 
Programme  of  Action  represent  a  comprehensive 
strategy  for  a  global  partnership  to  lift  millions  of 
people  out  of  extreme  poverty.  At  the  2005  Summit, 
world  leaders  reaffirmed  their  commitment  to  the 
eradication  of  global  poverty,  the  achievement  of 
sustainable  development  and  economic  prosperity  for 
all.  They  urged  all  parties 
to  continue  making 
concerted  efforts  and  to  adopt  speedy  measures  in 
order  to  meet  the  goals  and  targets  set  out  in  the 
Programme of Action. 
As we move forward and implement those noble 

goals,  we  must  always  remind  ourselves  that  poverty 
has  a  human  face.  It  is  the  face  of  children  who  go 
without  food;  of  young  women  who  sacrifice  the 
opportunity for education and empowerment in order to 
work  or  care  for  their  brothers  and  sisters;  and  of 
countries 

in 
the  highest 
elderly  persons  who  have  no  one  to  care  for  them  in 
their old age. 

Recently,  in  Benin,  LDC  ministers  re-committed 
themselves  to  the  improvement  of  their  people’s 
welfare  and  reaffirmed  their  unswerving  resolve  to 
implement  the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action.  As  a 
result  of  joint  efforts  made  at  the  national  and 
international  levels,  in  2004,  LDCs  were  able  to 
rate  of  six 
achieve  an  annual  average  growth 
per cent — 
four  decades.  That 
commendable achievement demonstrates how, together, 
we  can  overcome  the  obstacles  to  development  and 
achieve our common goals. 

However, overall progress remains mixed. Recent 
studies by United Nations agencies and the World Bank 
have  revealed  that  34  of  the  total  of  50  LDCs  are 
experiencing  an  increase  in  extreme  poverty.  In  sub-
Saharan  Africa,  the  situation  is  particularly  acute, 
where  by  current  trends  most  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  will  not  be  achieved  by  2015.  In 
fact,  over  the  next  decade,  extreme  poverty  could 
actually  increase.  An  additional  100  million  people 
could  join  the  370  million  people  already  living  in 
abject poverty. 

Although it is alarming, this situation should not 
discourage us from our common mission, the common 
thread that gives us unity of action to deal with world 
poverty  –namely, the Millennium Development Goals. 
Together,  we  have  an  urgent  moral  imperative  to 
eradicate abject poverty. We can find encouragement in 
the  fact  that,  in  contrast  with  previous  centuries,  we 
now  have  the  technical  know-how  and  resources  to 
make a real and long-lasting difference. We must spare 
no effort to bring about significant changes in the lives 
of  millions  of  women,  men  and  children  trapped  in 
extreme poverty. 

Professor Wangari Maathai of Kenya stated, 

“In the course of history, there comes a time 

when humanity is called to shift to a new level of 
consciousness, to reach a higher moral ground. A 
time  when  we  have  to  shed  our  fear  and  give 
hope to each other”. 

Let  us  ponder  the  wisdom  of  these  words  for  a 
moment  as  we  embark  upon  the  task  ahead  of  us.  I 
believe the time has come. The time is now. 
When  receiving  her  Nobel  Peace  Prize  in  2004, 
2 

06-52559 
On 
this  occasion, 
exports 
This  midterm  review  of 
I now give the floor to Mr. Mark Malloch Brown, 



let  us  demonstrate  our 
determination  to  eradicate  poverty  by  redoubling  our 
commitment  and  strengthening  our  efforts.  We  must 
reaffirm  our  solidarity  and  collective  resolve  to  reach 
out to every woman, man and child afflicted by hunger 
and disease. Together, let us give them a real chance to 
escape the dehumanizing misery of extreme poverty. 

Deputy Secretary-General. 

The  Deputy  Secretary-General: It  gives  me 
great pleasure to welcome, on behalf of the Secretary-
General,  delegates  as  the  General  Assembly  begins  a 
new session. 

the  2001  Brussels 
Programme  of  Action  is  an  occasion  for  stocktaking 
and  sombre  reflection.  Over  the  past  five  years,  least 
developed  countries  (LDCs)  have  experienced  higher 
economic  growth,  greater 
larger 
investment flows. They have also made some progress 
towards  several  human  development  goals,  including 
reducing  maternal  and  child  mortality  and  increasing 
universal primary enrolment. 

Yet,  despite  significant  progress  by  some  LDCs, 
their  gains  as  a  group  have  been  insufficient  to  meet 
the  goals  agreed  to  in  Brussels.  And  they  have  had 
minimum impact where it is most needed, as we have 
just  heard  from  the  President,  in  the  fight  against 
extreme poverty. 

The  limited  data  available  on  recent  poverty 
trends  is  not  encouraging.  It  suggests  a  negligible 
decline,  and  even  some  increases,  in  income  poverty. 
Indeed, right now LDCs are considered to be the least 
likely  group  of  countries  to  meet  all  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  including  the  goal  of  reducing 
poverty  by  half  by  2015.  And  in  an  unprecedented 
reversal  of  historical 
is 
declining  in  several  LDCs  that  are  most  affected  by 
HIV/AIDS and civil strife. 
This  is  hardly  news  to  all  of  you. After  all,  just 

this 
representatives 
summer 
acknowledged the weak implementation of the Brussels 
Programme  of  Action,  while  strongly  reaffirming  the 
need for its full implementation. 

To  that  end,  we  must  accelerate  and  expand  our 
efforts.  First,  we  must  further  secure  development  on 
the  stable  bedrock  of  democracy,  human  rights  and 
governance.  Secondly,  we  must  make 
good 
in  Cotonou,  your 
life  expectancy 
and 
trends, 
A/61/PV.7
globalization work at least as much for the poor as for 
the  rich.  To  prosper  in  today’s  competitive  economy, 
all  countries  need,  in  the  first  instance,  to  mobilize 
their  own  resources  and  attract 
investment  from 
abroad. Their  ability  to do that depends, in large part, 
on the quality of their governance. 

Least  developed  countries  must,  for  example, 
continue  to  improve  their  institutions  and  strengthen 
the  rule  of  law.  If  LDCs  are  to  eradicate  poverty  and 
promote human development, we need to do there what 
we do anywhere else –and that is to stress democratic 
governance as one of the main foundations of progress. 

Such  governance  means  ensuring  that  the  poor 
have  a  real  political  voice.  And  it  means  strong, 
transparent  institutions  that  are  capable  of  providing 
the  services  and  protections  people  need  most  —  not 
just  health  care  and  education,  but  also  personal 
security and access to justice. 
But  let  us  be  clear:  if  national  action  must  lead 

the way, international support must light the path. For 
if  globalization  is  to  have  meaning  for  the  citizens  of 
the  least  developed  nations,  then  LDCs  must  have 
secure,  predictable  market  access.  They  must  have 
further debt relief, and they must have more and better 
assistance. 

Development  progress  on  external  debt  relief 
needs to be sustained so that the debts of all LDCs are 
reduced 
their  being  an 
impediment  to  development.  At  the  same  time,  the 
rising  volume  of  development  assistance  must  rise 
further.  There  is  still  a  way  to  go  before  all  donor 
countries  attain  the  0.2  per  cent  of  the  gross  national 
income  target  established  by  the  Brussels  Programme 
of  Action.  Yet, 
increased  official  development 
assistance  (ODA)  remains  imperative  if  LDCs  are  to 
fight  poverty  and  build  the  social,  institutional  and 
other  tools  they  need  to  compete  in  the  global 
economy. Ultimately, it is from the global trading arena 
that many of the most durable gains will ebb or flow. 
As  it  stands  now,  the  global  economy  is  an 

uneven  playing 
field.  Subsidies  and  non-tariff 
measures  for  agriculture  in  developed  countries,  for 
example,  continue 
to 
agricultural production and exports in LDCs and work 
at  cross-purposes  with  ODA.  To  address 
this 
imbalance,  least  developed  countries  need  secure, 
predictable  access  to  markets.  They  need  duty-  and 
quota-free  access  to  all  developed  economies,  without 
to  act  as  a  disincentive 
that  prevent 
levels 
to 
06-52559 

3 

to 
them.  That 
to  contribute.  Working 
A/61/PV.7 

exception,  by  2008.  They  need  the  reduction  and 
elimination  of  all  non-tariff  barriers  to  their  exports. 
They  need  simplified  and  harmonized  rules  of  origin 
and trade procedures for their exports. And they need a 
greater voice in international financial institutions and 
multilateral standard-setting bodies. 

Until now, LDCs have benefited from the limited 
outcomes of the Doha Trade Agenda. Yet, further trade 
negotiations will likely erode the preferences currently 
available 
is  why,  as  new  export 
opportunities are opened up, many poor countries need 
external assistance to make use of them. 

As  that  happens,  the  United  Nations,  both  our 
High  Representative  Anwarul  Chowdhury  and  all 
Funds  and  Programmes  and  Departments  of 
the 
Secretariat, will continue to help LDCs take advantage 
of  more  open  markets  and  more  generally  build  the 
capacity for them to compete in the world economy. As 
allies  of  those  countries,  we  will  do  all  within  our 
capacity 
together  with 
developed economies and donor nations, I hope we can 
make up for lost ground and achieve the progress that 
Brussels envisioned. 
The  President:  I  would  now  like  to  draw 

attention  to  some  organizational  matters  pertaining  to 
the conduct of the meeting. 
In  order  to  accommodate  all  the  78  speakers 

inscribed  on  the  list,  I  urge  speakers  to  limit  their 
statements  to  no  more  than  five  minutes,  on  the 
understanding 
the 
distribution of more extensive texts. I further appeal to 
speakers  to  deliver  their  statements  at  a  normal  speed 
within  these  time  limits,  so  that  interpretation  may  be 
properly ensured. 

To assist speakers in managing their time, a light 
system  has  been  installed  at  the  speaker’s  rostrum 
which  operates  as  follows:  a  green  light  will  be 
activated  at  the  start  of  the  speaker’s  statement;  an 
orange  light  will  be  activated  30  seconds  before  the 
end  of  the  five  minutes;  and  a  red  light  will  be 
activated when the five-minute limit has been reached. 

Furthermore,  in order to avoid disruption for the 
speakers,  I  would  request  participants  to  remain  in 
their seats after a statement has been delivered. 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Boni Yayi, President of the Republic of 
this  does  not  preclude 
that 
peace, 
and 
security 
gives  me 
This  High-level  Meeting 
Benin  and  Chairman  of  the  group  of  Least  Developed 
Countries. 
President Yayi  (spoke  in  French): As  Chairman 

of 
the  Least  Developed  Countries  Coordination 
Bureau,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  you  warmly, 
Madam,  upon  your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  the  sixty-first  session.  I  am 
certain  that  under  your  leadership  the  work  of  the 
Assembly will be crowned with success. 

the 
opportunity, for the first time since becoming President 
of  the  Republic  of  Benin,  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.  I  would  like  to  pay  deserved  tribute  to  all 
the  eminent  individuals  who  have  contributed  to 
promoting 
harmonious 
development  in  the  world.  Benin  has  always  been 
committed  to  those  values  and  continues  more  than 
ever  to  be  one  of  the  most  ardent  and  devoted 
advocates of the United Nations. 

With  a  view  to  finding  a  solution  to  the  specific 
problems of the least developed countries (LDCs), the 
international  community  adopted  the  Programme  of 
Action  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries  for  the 
Decade  2001-2010  on  20  May  2001  at  Brussels,  in  a 
spirit  of  responsibility  and  solidarity.  The  Programme 
of Action  will  promote  development,  and,  if  correctly 
implemented, will enable those countries to lay a better 
foundation for their own development and to create and 
maintain propitious conditions for growth. 

At the time of the Programme’s adoption, it was 
decided  to  carry  out  a  midterm  comprehensive  global 
review of its implementation and identify any problems 
or difficulties encountered in order to find a better way 
to  achieving  the  agreed  goals.  Therefore,  and  in 
accordance with the relevant resolutions of the General 
Assembly, we are meeting here in New York to review 
with  courage  and  a  sense  of  responsibility 
the 
implementation  of  the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action 
adopted  five  years  ago  and  which  at  that  time  raised 
the hope of our peoples — the inhabitants of our cities 
and countrysides — that they would be able finally to 
break the vicious circle of poverty. 
Implementation  of  the  Brussels  Programme  of 

Action has made it possible for several LDCs to make 
progress  in  several  sectors.  I  am  pleased  that  some 
have  recorded  clear  progress  despite  an  extremely 
difficult 
as 
Mr. Malloch Brown has acknowledged. We are pleased 
international 
economic 
context, 
4 

06-52559 
in 
to  support  us 


by  the  progress,  specifically  in  the  fields  of  health, 
education and infrastructure creation. Social indicators 
such  as  gender  equality  have  improved,  even  though 
they remain among the lowest in the world. 

As  for  macroeconomic  results,  LDCs  have 
increased  their  average  annual  gross  domestic  product 
growth  rate  compared  to  the  past,  even  though  this  is 
far  below  the  overall  goal  of  7  per  cent  set  for  our 
countries  by 
the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action. 
Inflation was held in check in most cases, and the same 
was  true  for  public  deficits,  owing  to  appropriate 
financial  and  economic policies. Quantitative progress 
was  also  made  concerning  official  development 
assistance.  In  addition,  as  members  know,  there  have 
been  many  proposals  to  cancel  the  debt  of  certain 
LDCs,  including  steps  recently  taken  at  the  Group  of 
Eight summit held at Gleneagles, Scotland, in 2005. 
We welcome the fact that several of our partners 

are  making  great  efforts 
the 
implementation of the Brussels Action Programme. On 
behalf  of  the  group  of  Least  Developed  Countries,  I 
would like to express our sincere appreciation. 
It  is  clear  that  progress  has  been  made  here  and 

there, but overall implementation of the Programme of 
Action  has  not  produced  the  results  expected.  That 
state  of  affairs  gave  rise  to  the  comments  at  the  2006 
substantive  session  of 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council, where it was observed that the Programme of 
Action  had  shown  a  very  low  rate  of  implementation 
since  its  adoption.  Many  LDCs  continue  to  face  the 
same difficulties as those that existed at the time of the 
adoption of the Programme of Action in 2001. 

The  terms  of  trade  for  the  main  exports  of  the 
LDCs  continue  to  deteriorate.  In  certain  areas  where 
our  exports  are  already  in  jeopardy  because  of  the 
deterioration  of  the  terms  of  trade,  our  economies  are 
victims  of  asymmetries  in  the  multilateral  trading 
system,  owing 
to  practices  of  certain  developed 
countries  which  are  contrary  to  accepted  international 
trade practices. I am thinking in particular of cotton. As 
you know, some partner countries of the LDCs greatly 
subsidize  cotton  production  in  their  own  countries. 
Those  subsidies  have  dramatic  — 
I  emphasize 
dramatic — impacts in our countries and contribute to 
the worsening of poverty. 

International  trade  should  drive  development,  as 
Professor Stiglitz has stressed. Instead, it contributes to 
the weakening of LDC capacity to generate resources, 
A/61/PV.7
the  LDCs 
is 
The  deep  conviction  of 
resulting  in  the  non-sustainability  and  non-viability  of 
our  countries  debts.  Our  urgent  and  exceptional  needs 
for financing have thus increased and we can no longer 
meet  those  needs  by  relying  on  our  own  capacity  to 
mobilize  financing.  That  seriously  jeopardizes  the 
putting  in  place  of  basic  infrastructure,  while  in  so 
difficult  an  environment  good  governance  and  respect 
for  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  are  constantly  at 
risk. 

that 
democracy  has  no  future,  that  there  is  no  prospect  for 
democracy  in  our  countries  unless  it  is  concomitant 
with  sustained  economic  growth.  I  repeat  —  we  are 
deeply  convinced  that  there  is  no  prospect,  no  future 
for democracy in our countries if it does not go hand in 
hand with sustained economic development.  

This  meeting  must  enable  us  to  give  fresh 
momentum to the implementation of the Programme of 
Action,  by  identifying  action  that  would  enable  us  to 
bring about rapid and concrete results, in order to reach 
the  agreed  goals  within  the  prescribed  time  limits.  In 
that  connection,  the  LDCs  have  already  embarked  on 
their  own  on  the  task  of  identifying  the  difficulties 
linked  to  the  implementation  of  the  Programme  of 
Action. They have  reached conclusions  that they have 
examined together with their development partners,  in 
order to arrive at appropriate solutions. 

the  spirit  of  mutual 
consultation  and  indeed  collaboration  exists  in  the 
context  of  international  solidarity  and  cooperation.  I 
can  assure  you  that  the  LDCs  are  aware  that,  if  their 
action  is  to  be  effective  and  lasting,  they  must 
untiringly  continue  to  make  strides  in  the  areas  of 
democracy,  good  governance,  respect  for  the  rule  of 
law, the fight against corruption, the building of peace 
and domestic security and the reform and strengthening 
of their institutions.  

I would like to take this opportunity to remind the 
international community that the LDCs are resolved to 
play a leadership role on the basis of a shared vision to 
lead their countries towards the implementation of the 
Development  Goals  —  in  particular,  through  regional 
integration  strategies.  However,  those  efforts  require 
the  creation  of  an  environment  conducive  to  the 
strengthening of our production capacities in order for 
us  to  become  more  competitive,  and  to  stimulate  the 
sustained growth of our economies. 
We  are  gratified 
that 
06-52559 

5 

A/61/PV.7 


To that end, it is crucial for all of the actors in the 
international  community to join their efforts to reduce 
the  strong  dependence  of  the  LDC  economies  on  the 
cost  of  commodities  on  the  international  market.  We 
must  seek  to  diversify  their  export  products,  seek 
external  financing  and  mobilize  domestic  resources 
through savings and national investments. 

We  will  all  have  to  work  so  that  the  results  we 
obtain  have  a  direct  impact  on  the  eradication  of 
poverty — that stubborn, recurring reality that persists 
within the LDCs. 

Thought should accordingly be given, among our 
methods  of  action,  to  the  establishment  of  a  more 
appropriate  evaluation  mechanism  so  that  we  can 
quantify our efforts — the efforts of each and all of us, 
year after year.  
I have the pleasure to state that the goals set out 

in 
the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action  are 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  —  those  that  are 
specific to LDCs. For that reason I would like to invite 
our  development  partners  to  truly,  and  better  than  in 
the  past,  support  our  LDCs  in  achieving  those  goals. 
Therefore,  the  LDCs  invite  the  Secretary-General  — 
and  we  welcome  his  untiring  efforts  thus  far,  and 
would  like  his  Special  Representative  to  convey  our 
thanks  to  him  —  to  monitor,  on  the  ground,  the 
implementation  of  the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action 
so  that  we  can  attain  the  agreed  goals  within  the 
prescribed time frame. 

I cannot conclude my statement without urging us 
all to embark on concerted action, with all stakeholders 
involved, 
the  Brussels 
Programme  of  Action,  in  a  spirit  of  active  solidarity, 
keenly  aware  of  the  historic  and  human  responsibility 
that is ours at this crucial stage in the development of 
the least developed countries.  

Long  live  solidarity  among  the  least  developed 
countries.  Long  live  the  United  Nations.  Long  live 
international 
of 
development. 

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Maumoon  Abdul 
Gayoom, President of the Republic of Maldives. 

President Abdul Gayoom: First, I apologize for 
my  voice  this  morning,  which  is  not  pleasant.  Having 
just arrived in New York from the Caribbean, I am not 
implementation  of 
cooperation 
service 
the 
the 
in 
in 
sure whether I can truthfully say that what I have is a 
cold. Having said that, let me turn to the issue at hand. 
(spoke in Arabic)  

As this is the first time that I am addressing this 
Assembly,  let  me  congratulate  you,  Madam,  on  your 
election  to  preside  over  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-first  session.  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  your 
election  to  this  high-level  post  is  due  to  your  broad 
experience in international affairs. I can assure you that 
our delegation will work with you unstintingly so that 
you may carry our your important mission successfully. 
(spoke in English) 

The  goal  of  the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action, 
which  was  adopted  six  years  ago,  was  to  advance  the 
social  and  economic  development  of  the  poorest  and 
weakest segment of the international community. In the 
time  since,  the  progress  made  has  been  very  slow. 
Despite some achievements, much remains unfulfilled. 

I  would  like  to  note  the  tireless  efforts  of  His 
Excellency Mr. Boni Yayi, President of the Republic of 
Benin,  as  Chairman  of  the  group  of  Least  Developed 
Countries, and those of the High Representative for the 
Least  Developed  Countries,  Landlocked  Developing 
Island  Developing  States, 
Countries  and  Small 
Mr. Anwarul  K.  Chowdhury, 
the 
implementation of the Brussels Programme of Action. 

While the national actions of the least developed 
countries  (LDCs)  themselves  must  be  geared  towards 
achieving  the  goals  of  the  Programme  of Action,  they 
constitute only half of the story. The other half requires 
the  realization  of  the  support  pledged  by  the  donor 
community  to  ensure  continuous  development  of  the 
LDCs.  I  regret  to  say  that,  often,  certain  realities  are 
hidden  behind  a  veil  of  excuses  for  not  letting  such 
support  flow  in  the  direction  of  those  desperately  in 
need of it. That is to say, while the LDCs are striving to 
advance their development by exhausting the domestic 
resources that they mobilize, it is often charged by the 
donor community that adequate domestic effort has not 
been made. That is not always the case. 

Low  per  capita  income,  poor  public  finance 
infrastructure  and  the  absence  of  capital  accumulation 
all contribute to the domestic resource gap. Therefore, 
continued 
crucial 
the 
implementation of the Programme of Action. 
in  pursuing 
support 
donor 
for 
is 
6 

06-52559 
the 



In 2008, my country will embark upon its smooth 
transition  period.  In  2011,  we  will  graduate  from  the 
list of the least developed countries. Despite significant 
obstacles  to  development,  the  Maldives  has  been  able 
to achieve much by supplementing domestic effort with 
donor assistance. 

The  Maldives  has  already  attained  many  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Extreme  poverty  has 
been halved and universal primary education has been 
achieved.  As  for 
targets  on  reducing  child 
mortality,  attaining  greater  gender  equality  and 
improving maternal health, I am pleased to say that the 
Maldives is on target to achieving those goals as well. 

In that regard, the Maldives has come a long way 
towards  realizing  the  guiding  principle  that  only 
positive  concrete  processes  and  outcomes  can  sustain 
public  confidence  in  the  development  partnership 
between LDCs and their development partners. 
However,  we  are  still  a  small  and  vulnerable 

economy  with  a  fragile  environment.  Our  supply  side 
constraints  persist  due  to  limited  opportunities  to 
expand  our  domestic  markets. 
is 
necessary;  but  that  is  not  sufficient.  Rapid  growth  in 
trade  and  increased  market  access  are  crucial  for  our 
sustainable  economic  development. Any  failure  of  the 
current  round  of  trade  negotiations  would  inevitably 
undermine the backbone of the Brussels Programme of 
Action  by  crippling  the  possibilities  of  accelerated 
LDC  growth  in  terms  of  enhanced  world  trade  and 
global financial and investment flows.  
The  list  of  the  LDCs  keeps  growing.  With  the 

high speed of globalization, the gap between the North 
and the South is ever increasing. Can the rich afford to 
help  the  poor?  The  answer  is  incredibly  simple.  As 
Professor  Jeffrey  Sachs,  the  author  of  The  End  of 
Poverty puts it, the question is not whether the rich can 
afford to help the poor, but whether they can afford not 
to. 
I  firmly  believe  that  there  is  no  better  time  than 

now  to  redeem  the  commitments  laid  down  in  the 
Brussels Programme of Action. 

The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime 
Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister for 
Finance of the Independent State of Samoa. 

(Samoa):  Samoa  warmly 
congratulates  you,  Madam,  on  the  assumption  of  the 
Mr.  Malielegaoi
Increased  aid 
A/61/PV.7
to 
review 
the 
to  address 
the  plight  of 
this  High-level  Meeting 
presidency  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first  session, 
and  of 
the 
implementation  of  the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action 
for  the  least  developed  countries.  I  would  also  like  to 
pay  tribute  to  your  predecessor  as  President,  His 
Excellency Mr. Jan Eliasson, for his sterling leadership 
of the sixtieth session. 
Our gathering here today illustrates our collective 

commitment 
least 
developed countries (LDCs), to lift them out of poverty 
and  to  assist  in  their  sustainable  development  efforts. 
At  this  midterm  review,  it  is  a  time  for  all  of  us  to 
critically  reflect  on  how  we  have  progressed  in  our 
national,  regional  and  international  efforts  to  shift  our 
countries out of poverty and to be active players in this 
era  of  globalization.  It  is  also  incumbent  upon  us  to 
identify remaining challenges to the implementation of 
the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action  and  to  formulate 
appropriate recommendations to achieve the goals and 
objectives of the plan. 

Samoa has consistently been a part of this review 
process  since  2000,  through  the  submission  of  its 
annual  reports  and  participation  in  regional  reviews 
and  ministerial  high-level  consultations.  At 
this 
juncture,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Office  of  the  High 
Representative  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries, 
Landlocked  Developing  Countries  and  Small  Island 
Developing States for coordinating global overviews to 
track  progress  in  where  we  are  in  the  implementation 
of the plan. 

It  is  unfortunate  to  note  that  at  the  end  of  the 
review,  it  is  clear  that  while  much  progress  has  been 
achieved by many LDCs in various areas of the seven 
commitments  of  the  plan,  stagnation  is  still  evident 
among  most  of  the  LDCs.  Many  challenges  remain, 
some of them presenting formidable undertakings for a 
number of LDCs. 

We welcome in that regard the elaboration of the 
Cotonou Strategy for the Further Implementation of the 
Brussels  Programme  of  Action,  not  only  because  the 
Strategy provides an analytical snapshot of the current 
status  of  achievements  in  LDCs,  but,  most  important, 
because  it  identifies  the  remaining  challenges  and 
recommends  actions 
in 
collaboration with development partners.  

On  behalf  of  my  Government  and  the  people  of 
Samoa, I would like to acknowledge with appreciation 
traditional  development 
the  contributions  of  our 
taken  by  LDCs 
to  be 
06-52559 

7 
the 
in 
secure 
remaining  challenges, 
A/61/PV.7 

partners.  I  am  pleased  to  say  that  in  the  case  of  my 
country,  the  partnerships  are  genuine  and  needs-
focused, actively executed towards national ownership 
and  managed  well  and  in  a  timely  manner  in  order  to 
achieve  aid  effectiveness.  It  is  also  an  integrated 
participatory  process  that  harnesses  the  strengths  of 
non-governmental  organizations,  and  in  particular  the 
private  sector,  in  all  facets  of  development  planning. 
As  a  least  developed  country,  Samoa  is  determined  to 
meet 
the 
knowledge that our partners are with us all the way to 
provide support whenever needed.  

As  members  are  aware,  Samoa  has  been 
considered for graduation from the list of LDCs. While 
that may be a positive reflection of our  endeavours to 
improve the lives of our people, we are concerned that 
it  may  be  premature  and  would  undermine  our 
achievements  to  date.  The  data  before  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  indicate  that  my  country  has 
performed well in two of the LDC graduation criteria, 
namely  gross  national  income  and  the  human  assets 
index.  However,  the  data  also  show  that  Samoa’s 
performance  under  the  economic  vulnerability  index 
remains  poor  and 
the  most 
economically  vulnerable  countries  in  the  world.  The 
United  Nations  Development  Advisory  Team,  in  its 
vulnerability profile report on Samoa to the Committee 
for  Development  Policy  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  clearly  mentions  this,  and  the  Committee  for 
Development Policy itself  acknowledges it. Moreover, 
General  Assembly  resolution  59/209,  on  the  smooth 
transition strategy, states that graduating from the least 
developed countries should not result in a disruption of 
development plans, programmes and projects. 

It is therefore imperative, in our view, that careful 
consideration  be  given  to  the  areas  of  vulnerability  to 
ensure  that  the  sustainability  and  robustness  of  our 
modest  achievement,  consolidated  over  the  years,  are 
able  to  withstand  the  impacts  of  external  shocks.  I 
would  like  to  reiterate,  therefore,  our  request  for  the 
General  Assembly 
the 
deferment of Samoa’s graduation from the list of LDCs 
until Samoa’s vulnerability profile meets the threshold 
level of the economic vulnerability index. 

double 
disadvantage  of  being  a  least  developed  country  as  a 
well as a very small island developing State; the impact 
of  any  adverse  event  is  felt  throughout  the  country. 
Every  year,  we  endure  cyclones  or  floods.  Our 
overemphasize 
is  one  of 
favourably 
consider 
Samoa 
cannot 
the 
that 
it 

and 
food 
Those 
tourism, 
vulnerabilities 
security,  property 
dependence  on  imports,  our  single-product  export 
concentration  and  our  limited  industries  and  overseas 
markets  are  well  known.  Our  structural  vulnerability 
will  continuously  generate  challenges 
that  have 
systemic  effects  on  our  economy.  External  shocks, 
including the current oil price hike, resound throughout 
our  country  and  impact  investment  and  infrastructural 
development — indeed, the daily lives of our people. 

Samoa  is  dependent  on  a  few  sources  of  income 
such  as  remittances,  agriculture,  fisheries,  tourism, 
services  and  an  infinitesimal  manufacturing  sector. 
Samoa  is  extremely  vulnerable  to  climate  change. We 
have experienced 16 cyclones in the past 25 years. The 
resulting immediate effects include powerful economic 
and  social  shocks  on  the  agricultural  and  export 
sectors, 
and 
infrastructure that are still felt years after any cyclone. 

challenges 
notwithstanding,  our  modest  achievements  to  date  are 
primarily  a  result  of 
the  stringent  utilization  of 
assistance  that  comes  to  Samoa  by  virtue  of  its  LDC 
status and through prudent planning and people-centred 
financial  and  economic  policies.  Largely  through  our 
LDC  status,  Samoa  has  been  fortunate  enough  to 
participate 
international 
consultations  and  meetings.  Our  LDC  status  has  also 
afforded us many training programmes for building and 
strengthening  capacity.  Our  financial  contributions  to 
many international and regional organizations are also 
affordable to us only because of our LDC status. Loans 
at  concessionary  and  competitive  rates  are  granted  in 
recognition of that fact. 

Samoa’s  progress  and  relative  success  to  date 
belie  the  extent  of  our  country’s  true  vulnerability  to 
external factors beyond our control, due to dependence 
on tourism and remittances. The question of graduation 
clearly  underscores  the  island  paradox  that  we  now 
find ourselves in. 

I  would  like  to  assure  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  that  it  is  not  our  intention  to  challenge  the 
graduation  criteria.  Nor  do  we  challenge  the  proposal 
that my country graduate. Rather, I request the General 
Assembly  to  look  at  the  reality  of  a  least  developed 
country  and  a  very  small  island  developing  State,  and 
to  carefully  consider  the  areas  of  vulnerability  so  that 
our  modest  development  progress  thus  far  will  not  be 
reversed.  Indeed,  economic  catastrophes  following 
devastating  cyclones  and  man-made  disasters  beyond 
regional  and 
in  many 
to 
8 

06-52559 
Mr.  Ngedup


our control are realities of our times that hardly require 
further justification. 

I  appeal  to  Member  States’  sense  of  pragmatism 
and  logic  to  review  the  graduation  rule  to  make 
performance  on  the  economic  vulnerability  index  one 
of the key criteria to be met before graduation from the 
LDC.  Accordingly,  on  behalf  of  my  Government  and 
the  people  of  Samoa,  I  request  that  the  graduation  of 
Samoa from the list of LDCs be reconsidered until the 
issue  of  economic  vulnerability  is  included  as  one  of 
the key criteria to be met. 

The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Lyonpo  Sangay  Ngedup,  Prime 
Minister  and  Chairman  of  the  Council  of  Ministers  of 
the Kingdom of Bhutan. 

(Bhutan):  Please  accept  my 
delegation’s  warmest  felicitations,  Madam,  upon  your 
election to the high office of president of the sixty-first 
session of the General Assembly.  

My  delegation  welcomes  the  midterm  review  of 
the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action  for  the  Least 
Developed Countries (LDCs). There is no denying that 
progress  in  the  implementation  of  the  Programme  of 
Action  has  been  unsatisfactory  so  far;  unless  greater 
efforts  are  exerted,  the  prospect  of  realizing  its  goals 
and  objectives  by  the  target  year  of  2013  will  be 
beyond reach. It is, therefore, our sincere hope that the 
review  will  engender 
renewed  commitment  and 
decisive  action  by  all  stakeholders  for  the  remaining 
five years of the Programme period. 

My  delegation  welcomes  the  increase  in  official 
development assistance (ODA) over the past few years. 
However, significant portions of it are concentrated in 
a few countries, and in real terms, ODA has declined in 
almost half of the LDCs.  ODA is a lifeline for LDCs, 
and  for  countries  like  mine  constitutes  the  primary 
resource for development. We appeal to all countries to 
deliver  on  their  aid  commitment  of  0.7  per  cent  of 
gross national income and to allocate 0.15 to 0.20 per 
cent gross national income to the LDCs. This is a just 
appeal,  as  LDCs  make  up  more  than  one  third  of  the 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations.  We  commend 
countries  that  have  fulfilled  their  ODA  commitments 
under the Monterrey Consensus, which was reaffirmed 
at  the  2005  World  Summit,  and  we  urge  others  to  do 
so. 
A/61/PV.7
is 
imperative 
for 
represents  an  effort 
My  delegation  welcomes 
that 
and  ODA-untied 

the  2005  Paris 
Declaration  on  Aid  Effectiveness,  which  places 
the  centre  of  development 
recipient  countries  at 
assistance.  It 
interventions  be 
country-driven 
effective 
utilization.  

Similarly,  we  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s 
report  on  resource  mobilization  in  the  context  of  the 
Brussels  Programme  of  Action,  which  highlights  the 
need  to  strengthen  country  ownership  and  genuine 
partnership between donor and recipient countries. The 
Cotonou  Strategy 
towards 
ownership  and  partnership,  and  it  is  our  hope  that  the 
Strategy  will  be  fully  supported. Among  the  concerns 
highlighted  by  the  least  developed  countries  (LDCs) 
during  the  course  of  preparations  for  the  midterm 
review is the emphasis by development partners on the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs). The  MDGs, 
notwithstanding  their  importance,  have  overshadowed 
the commitments to the Brussels Programme of Action 
insofar  as  resource  commitments  at  the  programme 
level  are  concerned.  My  delegation  believes  that  the 
Programme  of  Action  and  the  MDGs  are  compatible 
and  complementary,  and 
it  requests  development 
partners  to  take  a  similar  view  and  accord  equal 
treatment.  

We  join  others  in  welcoming  the  agreement 
reached  at  the  Hong  Kong  World  Trade  Organization 
(WTO)  Ministerial  Meeting  on  duty-free  and  quota-
free  market  access  for  all  products  originating  from 
LDCs  by  2008.  That  is  a  significant  measure  that 
should have far-reaching benefits for LDCs. 

Bhutan  is  fully  committed  to  the  Programme  of 
Action  and  is  making  concerted  efforts  towards  its 
implementation. The Royal Government has integrated 
the  Programme’s  goals  and  objectives 
its 
development plans and long-term strategies. The seven 
broad  commitments  highlighted  in  the  Programme  are 
in  consonance  with  our  development  philosophy  of 
“gross  national  happiness”.  That  philosophy  places 
people  at  the  centre  of  development  and  strives  to 
promote  good  governance,  equitable  socio-economic 
growth,  environmental  conservation  and  spiritual  and 
cultural growth. 

Concrete  steps  have  been  taken  to  enhance  good 
governance  in  the  country.  Recently,  an  extensive 
review  entitled  “Good  governance  plus”  was  carried 
out,  resulting  in  over  200  recommendations  that  are 
into 
06-52559 

9 
that 
the  country  has 
A/61/PV.7 

currently  being  implemented. As  a  result,  future  five-
year  development  plans  will  see  significant  planning 
and  fiscal  management  reforms.  Our  plans  will  be 
MDG-based  and 
therefore  result-oriented.  It  was 
indeed  a  proud  moment  for  us  in  Bhutan  when  our 
efforts towards good governance were recognized with 
the  Asia-Pacific  best  country  practice 
in  aid 
management  award  during  a  recent  workshop  entitled 
“From  Paris  to  Practice”,  held  at  Bangkok.  More 
significantly,  Bhutan  is  poised  for  a  historic  political 
change in 2008, when parliamentary democracy will be 
introduced. 

Our  country’s  economy  continues  to  grow  at  an 
average  annual  rate  of  6  to  7  per  cent.  We  are 
the  one  renewable  energy 
judiciously  harnessing 
resource 
in  abundance: 
hydropower  is  today  our  main  source  of  revenue. The 
private  sector  in  the  country  is  being  vigorously 
promoted  as  the  engine  of  growth.  Many  enabling 
policy  instruments  have  been  adopted,  and  we  have 
made  significant  progress  in  our  negotiations  for 
accession to the WTO. 

We have ensured that our economic growth is not 
achieved  at  the  cost  of  the  natural  environment,  to 
whose  protection  we  accord  high  priority.  Our 
ecological footprint is small, and policies and laws are 
in place to ensure that it remains that way. At the same 
time, growth has not come at the expense of the social 
sector,  which  continues  to  receive  the  largest  share  of 
our  annual  budget.  Last  year,  our  achievement  in 
environmental  conservation  was  recognized  by  the 
United Nations Environment Programme Champions of 
the Earth Award for 2005, which was conferred on His 
Majesty  the  King  and  the  people  of  Bhutan.  Next 
month,  the  J.  Paul  Getty  Conservation  Leadership 
Award  is  also  being  awarded  to  His  Majesty  the  King 
the 
and 
international 
our 
conservation efforts. 
Our  efforts  are  persistently  challenged  by  the 

many constraints we face as an LDC. Lack of adequate 
and  predictable  funding  to  finance  progress  towards 
our  development  goals  is  the  most  serious  one.  We 
have  been  fortunate 
the  support  and 
assistance  of  many  bilateral  and  multilateral  partners, 
and it is our hope that that will continue and be further 
enhanced in the future. As I mentioned earlier, Bhutan 
is  in  a  critical  political  transition,  and  our  success  in 
that  process  will,  to  a  large  extent,  depend  on  our 
the  people  of  Bhutan.  We  appreciate 
of 
community’s 
recognition 
to  receive 

ability to maintain and enhance current levels of socio-
economic development. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  express  our  deep 
appreciation  to  all  our  development  partners,  both 
bilateral and multilateral, for the generous support they 
have provided to us. We take note of the valuable work 
that  the  Office  of  the  High  Representative  for  Least 
Developed  Countries, 
Landlocked  Developing 
Countries and Small Island Developing States is doing 
to support the efforts of those disadvantaged groups of 
countries.  We  hope  that  this  will  continue  through 
provision of increased resources to the Office. 

In conclusion, I wish to  emphasize that the need 
of the hour is not to search for new solutions. The need 
is  to  undertake  the  straight  forward  tasks  of  working 
together  to  fulfil  existing  commitments  and  of  taking 
action on the ground. Over the course of our meeting in 
this  affluent  setting,  we  must  not  lose  sight  of  the 
human tragedies unfolding every minute in the LDCs. 
Let  us  ensure  that  our  deliberations  today  have  a  real 
and  enduring  impact  on  precious  lives  besieged  by 
poverty and deprivation. 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address  by  His  Excellency  The  Right  Honourable 
Pakalitha  Bethuel  Mosisili,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom of Lesotho. 
Mr.  Mosisili  (Lesotho):  At  the  outset,  Madam, 

allow  me  to  join  previous  speakers  in  congratulating 
you on your election to the presidency of this session. 
In  the  same  breath,  I  wish  to  extend  our  compliments 
to  your  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson 
of  Sweden,  and  to  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi 
Annan, for a job well done. 

Thirty-five  years  ago,  when  the  group  of  least 
developed countries (LDCs) was first established, there 
were 24 countries classified as least developed. Today, 
the  number  has  increased  to  50.  Perhaps  this  sharp 
increase  indicates  the  failure  of  the  international 
community to take urgent and effective action to arrest 
and  reverse  the  deterioration  in  the  socio-economic 
situation  of  the  least  developed  countries  and  to 
revitalize their growth and development.  

For  their  part,  the  least  developed  countries 
undertook  to  deepen  the  process  of  economic  reform 
which  they  had  begun  about  two  decades  ago,  while 
their  development  partners  undertook 
to  make 
10 

06-52559 
in 
In 
for 
the 
line  with 
theme 
review  —  namely, 
for 


available  a  significant  and  substantial  aggregate 
increase in external support. 

This  High-level  Meeting  constitutes  a  unique 
opportunity  for  introspection,  following  commitments 
made  in  implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  major 
United  Nations  summits  and  conferences 
the 
economic, social and related fields, including the Third 
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Least  Developed 
Countries. It is a fitting opportunity to consolidate the 
gains  made  in  the  past  and  to  take  stock  of  this 
collective 
journey  by  sharing  our  concerns  and 
valuable insights. 
the  midterm 

the 
comprehensive  global 
Programme  of  Action 
the  Least  Developed 
Countries  for  the  Decade  2001-2010:  Redeeming  the 
commitments — we aim to contribute to the debate by 
sharing  with  members  the  issues  Lesotho  considers 
critical  to  the  current  international  effort  to  eradicate 
poverty. 

The  war  on  poverty  and  inequality  is  far  from 
being won. Many developing countries, particularly the 
least developed countries, continue to be marginalized. 
We  in  Africa  are  at  a  crossroads  and  continue  to 
register  the  highest  number  of  poor  people.  Sub-
Saharan Africa, home to 34 least developed countries, 
is  the  only  region  of  the  world  where  poverty  has,  in 
fact, deepened in recent years. Although 13 per cent of 
the  world’s  population  lives  in  Africa,  the  continent 
accounts for 28 per cent of world poverty. 
For us in Lesotho, the single greatest obstacle to 

the development of our nation, and indeed to reaching 
the  objectives  of  the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action 
and  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  is 
the scourge of HIV/AIDS. We are overwhelmed by the 
high  levels  of  morbidity  and  mortality,  especially 
among people of working age. HIV/AIDS has emerged 
as  a  major  threat  to  development,  reversing  all  the 
gains  that  have  been  made  and  ushering  in  the  new 
socio-economic  phenomenon  of  orphans  on  an 
unprecedented scale. 

Despite  the  foregoing,  we  wish  to  put  on  record 
that,  with  the  cooperation  that  the  Government  of 
Lesotho is enjoying from Basotho across the spectrum, 
as well as the support from our development partners, 
we are convinced that we will win the war against this 
pandemic. 
A/61/PV.7
to 
the  New  Partnership 
My  delegation  reiterates  the  call  for  increased 
for  Africa’s 

support 
Development (NEPAD).  

We  commend  the  efforts  of  the  donor  countries 
that  have  achieved  the  0.7  and  0.2  per  cent  target  of 
gross national income for least developed countries as 
official  development  assistance  (ODA).  We  commend 
also the initiatives taken by some of those countries to 
set  up  timetables  for  fulfilling  their  ODA  targets. 
However, we wish to once again reiterate our appeal to 
the developed countries to abide by their commitments 
to help developing countries in all relevant areas. 

In this context, special mention must be made of, 
and indeed, commendation given to, the United States 
Government’s  initiatives,  such  as  the  African  Growth 
and  Opportunities  Act  and  the  Millennium  Challenge 
Corporation.  Clearly,  without  new  inflows  of  external 
resources,  development  in  Africa  will  forever  remain 
stunted and stagnating.  

We also wish to express our sincere appreciation 
for all initiatives taken recently to address the needs of 
developing  countries,  especially  the  debt  cancellation 
extended by the Group of Eight to the highly indebted 
poor  countries.  However,  we  appeal 
for  debt 
cancellation  for  all  least  developed  countries  in  order 
to  enable  them  to  redirect  their  meagre  resources  into 
their  economies.  The  fact  that  countries  such  as 
Lesotho  have  been  able 
their  debts 
efficiently and therefore do not fall within the category 
of highly indebted poor countries cannot and must not 
be  used  to  their  disadvantage.  Real  economic  growth 
can  be  realized  only  if  we  all  benefit  from  debt 
cancellation. 
Both  the  MDGs  and  the  Brussels  Programme  of 

the  Least  Developed  Countries  are 
Action 
intertwined. Indeed, most of the MDG targets, such as 
improved  health  and  basic 
poverty  eradication, 
in 
education,  are  also  embedded 
the  Brussels 
Programme  of  Action.  We  are 
therefore  deeply 
concerned  that  the  2005  Millennium  Review  Summit 
Outcome Document did not focus on progress relating 
issues  of 
to 
development,  which, 
the  main 
concerns  for  Africa  and  for  the  least  developed 
countries in particular. 

In conclusion, it is our strong conviction that, for 
the  least  developed  countries  to  eradicate  poverty,  the 
international  community  must  give  the  development 
the  MDGs  or 
in  our  view,  are 
the  achievement  of 
to  service 
for 
06-52559 

11 
A/61/PV.7 

agenda  the  attention  it  deserves.  If  their  special  needs 
are not addressed by all concerned, the least developed 
countries  will  not  be  able  to  achieve  the  objectives  of 
the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action,  or  the  MDGs,  by 
2015. 

The  President: The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Didjob  Divungi  Di 
Ndingi, Vice-President of the Gabonese Republic. 
Mr.  Divungi  Di  Ndingi  (Gabon)  (spoke  in 

French):  It  is  a  tremendous  honour  and  a  genuine 
pleasure for me to address the Assembly at this High-
level Meeting on the midterm review of the Programme 
of  Action  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries  for  the 
Decade 2001-2010. 
However, Madam President, before I go on, allow 

me  once  again,  on  behalf  of  His  Excellency  El  Hadj 
Omar  Bongo  Ondimba,  President  of  the  Gabonese 
Republic,  to  commend  you  on  your  well-deserved 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its sixty-first session. 

I would like also to take this opportunity to pay a 
well-earned  tribute  to  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan 
and  to  convey  to  him  our  gratitude  for  his  resolute 
efforts. 

The  adoption  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  emanating  from  the  Millennium  Declaration, 
was a milestone in the history of our Organization. For 
the first time, we committed ourselves to addressing on 
all fronts the issues of peace, development and human 
rights.  Those  Goals  galvanized  like  never  before 
people  of  goodwill  concerned  with  meeting  the  needs 
of the world’s poorest men, women and children. 

fight  poverty 
worldwide,  as  well  as  the  possibilities  offered  by  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  have  become  a  real 
the 
rallying  point  for  a  global  partnership  and 
cornerstone  of  development 
at 
the 
international and regional levels. 

We all agreed on shared priorities with the aim of 
finding solutions to the many aspects of abject poverty, 
namely  hunger,  unemployment,  disease,  substandard 
housing,  gender 
environmental 
deterioration.  The  Governments  of  developed  and 
developing  countries  have  undertaken  to  provide  the 
necessary  resources  and  to  implement  appropriate 
policies  in  order  to  achieve  those  Goals.  MDG  8  on 
development  refers  to  the  least  developed  countries, 
the  urgent  need 
inequalities  and 
strategies 
Indeed, 
to 

which  led  to  the  Brussels  Declaration  and  Programme 
of Action  for  the  Decade  2001-2010,  which  addresses 
the  specific  needs  of  those  countries. The  Declaration 
sets  out  the  principles  for  integration  of  the  least 
developed  countries  into  the  global  economy  while 
defining an approach to problems related to sustainable 
development, respect for human rights, democracy, the 
rule  of 
law,  good  governance,  gender  equality, 
employment and capacity-building. 

Since  May  2001,  when  the  Brussels  Declaration 
was  elaborated,  progress  has  indeed  been  made  by  a 
number  of  countries  and  a  number  of  regions,  but,  in 
most  of  the  least  developed  countries,  millions  of 
people  are  sinking  into  poverty,  particularly  in  sub-
Saharan Africa. The vast majority of the population of 
the  developing  world  still 
lacks  basic  sanitary 
facilities.  Fewer  than  two  thirds  of  children  attend 
primary school. Women are far from achieving equality 
of  representation  at  the  highest  levels  of  Government. 
One  million  children  under  the  age  of  five  die  every 
year from diseases that could have been treated. Giving 
birth  is  still  very  dangerous  and  is  attended  by  a  high 
maternal mortality rate. The fight against such scourges 
as AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis is draining national 
economies. 

Sub-Saharan  Africa,  which  includes  the  largest 
number  of  least  developed  countries,  remains  the 
epicentre  of  that  grim  picture.  Overall,  we  see  a 
considerable lag there in the implementation of most of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Although  Asia 
appears  to  be  the  region  of  the  world  enjoying  the 
greatest  progress,  hundreds  of  millions  of  people 
continue to live in poverty there. In countries enjoying 
the most rapid growth, some non-monetary goals have 
not  yet  been  achieved.  Other  regions  of  the  world, 
particularly Latin America, the Middle East and North 
Africa,  have  had  mixed  performances.  Progress  has 
been  weak  or  non-existent  in  the  implementation  of 
certain goals, and deep-rooted inequalities persist.  
the  Millennium 

Development Goals has highlighted weaknesses, often 
within  our  own  countries,  that  hinder  implementation. 
To  be  sure,  the  average  6  per  cent  growth  in  the  least 
developed  countries  has  not  led  to  a  reduction  in 
poverty, which in many cases has even increased.  

No  single  explanation  applies  to  the  success  or 
failure  of  such  an  undertaking.  For  every  goal,  each 
region  and  country  requires  a  painstaking  analysis. At 
The  midterm 
review  of 
12 

06-52559 
investment 
the  Programme  of  Action  and 


the same time, four causes can generally be identified: 
bad  governance  marked  by  corruption  and  mediocre 
political  and  economic  choices;  a  lack  of  respect  for 
human  rights  in  certain  regions  around  the  world;  the 
trap  of  poverty,  in  which  the  economy  does  not  allow 
the  necessary  investment;  and  stubborn  pockets  of 
poverty in certain countries. 

The  least  developed  countries  are  determined  to 
take appropriate measures to follow up on the Brussels 
Programme  of Action.  The  creation  of  focal  points  to 
implement 
the 
establishment  by  the  Secretary-General  of  the  High 
Representative  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries, 
Landlocked  Developing  Countries  and  Small  Island 
Developing  States  will 
clearly  provide  better 
coordination  and  follow-up  to  the  Programme.  Those 
countries can achieve the goals set out in the Brussels 
Declaration  only  if  there  are  massive  increases  in 
public 
in  capacity-building,  mobilized 
national resources, and official development assistance. 
That  effort  will  need  to  be  maintained  at  the  global, 
national and local levels until 2010.  

international  community’s  commitment 
seems to be clear. Measures taken by the Group of 8 in 
Scotland with respect to debt cancellation for some of 
the  poorest  countries,  along  with  the  initiatives  of 
certain 
innovative 
development financing sources, lead us to believe that 
the  momentum  has  been  set  in  motion.  In  that  regard, 
there is a need for solidarity towards attaining just and 
sustainable  development.  We  need  in  particular  to 
avoid taking the easy way out by claiming that we can 
reduce  official  development  assistance  by  cancelling 
the debt. Instead, we need here to reaffirm strongly and 
clearly the principle of additionality. 

The  participation  here  of  Gabon,  which  is  not  a 
least  developed  country,  demonstrates  our  solidarity 
and proves that, in many ways, we experience the same 
realities and share the same concerns. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Thongloun  Sisoulith,  Deputy  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Lao 
People’s Democratic Republic. 
(Lao  People’s  Democratic 

Republic): Let me extend my warmest congratulations 
to  you,  Madam,  on  your  election  as  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  this  important  session.  We  trust 
countries  with 
Mr.  Sisoulith
respect 
The 
to 
A/61/PV.7
(LDCs).  The 
that your skills in multilateral diplomacy will lead this 
High-level Meeting to a successful conclusion.  

Our  delegation  thanks  the  Secretary-General  for 
his annual progress report on the implementation of the 
Brussels Programme of Action for the least developed 
countries 
report 
contains  useful 
conclusions and recommendations. 

We  support  the  statement  to  be  made  by  the 
representative of South Africa, Chairman of the Group 
of  77,  and  that  made  by  the  representative  of  Benin, 
Chairman  of  the  LDCs  Coordinating  Bureau,  which 
highlight major progress made and constraints faced by 
LDCs  in  the  implementation  of  the  Programme  of 
Action,  and  suggest  holistic  approaches  for  its  more 
effective follow-up.  

We  also  share  the  concern  of  the  developing 
countries  over  the  lack  of  progress  made  in  the 
implementation  of  the  seven  commitments  of  the 
Brussels  Programme  of  Action,  despite 
some 
accomplishments achieved by both the LDCs and their 
development  partners  in  implementing  the  actions 
assigned  to  them  in  the  Programme  Of  Action.  The 
report  indicates  that  the  improvement  in  economic 
growth  and  human  development  in  LDCs  has  been 
modest. The  LDCs  are  finding  it  very  difficult  to  live 
up  to  their  commitments.  In  order  to  reverse  those 
trends,  therefore,  the  international  community  must 
take the necessary steps to provide the LDCs with the 
overdue  pledged  resources  to  allow  them  to  fulfil  the 
commitments  set  out  in  the  Brussels  Programme  of 
Action and in the Millennium Development Goals.  
the  developed 

countries, 
the 
international  financial  and  trade  institutions  is  of 
critical  importance.  That  necessity  was  underlined  in 
the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome,  as  well  as  in  the 
General  Assembly  resolution  to  implement  it.  The 
declaration  we  are  going  to  endorse  at  the  end  of  this 
Meeting  also  reaffirms  the  validity  of  the  Brussels 
Programme  of  Action  commitments  and  calls  for 
greater  efforts  to  be  undertaken  by  all  stakeholders  to 
implement them in a full, timely and effective manner. 

The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  has 
spared  no  effort  to  translate  its  commitments  into 
action.  The  Brussels  Programme  of  Action  was 
integrated  into  the  10-Year  Socio-Economic  Strategy 
2001-2010,  with  emphasis  on  the  promotion  of  rapid 
and sustained economic growth, poverty reduction and 
the  United  Nations 
The  continuing 
system  and 
support  of 
06-52559 

13 

A/61/PV.7 

environmental protection. The fifth Five-Year National 
Socio-Economic  Development  Plan  2001-2005  and 
associated  annual  plans  were  all  considered  to  be  the 
primary tools for implementing the Strategy. 

Various  measures  have  been  taken  to  put  those 
plans into practice. As a result, gross domestic product 
(GDP) has attained a steady increase averaging 6.3 per 
cent  for  the  past  five  years.  Overall  investment  rose 
steadily from 19.7 per cent in 2000 to around 26.6 per 
cent in 2005. GDP per capita improved by almost $500 
for  the  same  period  and  poverty  decreased  to  32  per 
cent in 2005 from 39 per cent in 1997.  

To  further  its  efforts  to  fight  poverty  and  pursue 
sustainable  development,  the  Government  of  the  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic  launched  in  2003  the 
National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy as a 
localized  poverty 
reduction  strategy  paper.  The 
objective of the Strategy is to sustain economic growth 
and alleviate poverty. 

Furthermore,  the  recently  adopted  Sixth  Five-
Year  Socio-economic  Development  Plan  2006-2010 
constitutes  a  framework  aimed,  first  and  foremost,  at 
fully  and  effectively  implementing  all  the  goals  and 
targets of the National Growth and Poverty Eradication 
Strategy  in  pursuit  of  the  vision  of  the  country’s 
graduating from the LDCs by 2020. 
Despite the positive developments, there remains 

a lot more to be done by the Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic  towards  the  fulfilment  of  its  international 
commitments.  For  the  country  to  achieve  further 
progress 
the  foregoing 
strategies,  greater  coordinated  financial  and  technical 
support  is  needed  form  the  international  community. 
We  trust  that  those  felt  needs  of  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic  will  continue 
to  be  met 
generously  and  unconditionally 
form  of 
in 
unconditional official development assistance. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Sato  Kilman,  Deputy  Prime  Minister 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Vanuatu. 
(Vanuatu):  My  Government 

welcomes the midterm review of the implementation of 
the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action  for  the  Least 
Developed  Countries  (LDCs)  for  the  Decade  2001-
2010.  The  Programme  of  Action  provides  goals  and 
targets,  along  with  action-oriented  commitments  in 
seven  critical  areas,  following  a  commitment  from 
implementation  of 
Mr.  Kilman
in 
the 
the 
14 

world  leaders  to  promote  development  in  the  LDCs. 
Throughout this year, various preparatory meetings and 
consultations have been held, culminating in this High-
level Meeting today.  

At  the  halfway  mark,  implementation  of  the 
Brussels Programme of Action has been moderate. Our 
resolve  in  implementing  measures  needed  to  address 
the peculiar issues of LDCs, of which five are located 
in  the  Pacific  Ocean,  have  continued  to  be  hampered 
by several key challenges.  I refer here in particular to 
the case of Vanuatu. 

Vanuatu’s  performance  in  the  implementation  of 
the Brussels Programme of Action is a mixed one, with 
some progress in the implementation and achievement 
of agreed commitments and goals, while some are still 
yet  to  be  realized. Already,  it  is  obvious  that  some  of 
those  will  not  be  achieved  within  the  agreed  time 
frame.  Nevertheless,  Vanuatu  will  continue  to  pursue 
them over the medium to long terms. 

The Vanuatu economy is dualistic in nature, with 
a  rural  population  of  80  per  cent  engaged  in  the 
informal  subsistence  sector  and  the  remaining  20  per 
cent  in  the  formal  sector.  Vanuatu  has  an  economy 
which is small in terms of size, resources, market and 
national  output. That  smallness  implies  that  its  ability 
to  compete  internationally  in  the  goods  and  services 
markets  is  limited  and  that  the  prospect  of  achieving 
high  economic  growth  is  unforeseeable  in  the  near 
future. 

The major contributing sectors to gross domestic 
product  (GDP)  are  the  agriculture  sector  and  the 
services  sector,  with  the  services  sector  making  the 
largest  contribution  of  73  per  cent  of  total  GDP. 
Agriculture,  however,  continues  to  be  the  mainstay  of 
the economy, as the services sector relies, among other 
things, heavily on the agriculture sector and the simple 
fact  that  80  per  cent  of  the  population  survive  via 
engagement in that sector. 
The  role  of  official  development  assistance  and 

its  impacts  on  GDP  growth  in  Vanuatu  are  also 
fundamental  and  will  continue  to  remain  critical  in 
order  for  Vanuatu 
its 
development  priorities  and  to  advance  progress  in  the 
pursuit of the achievement of the Brussels Programme 
of  Action  initiatives.  In  that  regard,  my  Government 
therefore  wishes  to  raise  its  concern  in  relation  to  the 
Committee  for  Development  Policy’s  recommendation 
on  Vanuatu’s  LDC  graduation  eligibility  status.  The 
to  simultaneously  address 
06-52559 


recommendation  for  graduation  eligibility  is  one  we 
consider to be premature. 

Measuring  one’s  eligibility  status  based  on  the 
major  criteria  of  gross  national  income,  the  Human 
Assets Index and the economic vulnerability index, and 
making a recommendation based on the achievement of 
the  income  and  assets  indices,  despite  a  very  high 
economic  vulnerability,  especially  in  the  case  of 
Vanuatu,  is  highly  inappropriate,  as  the  gross  national 
income  factor  is  influenced  directly  by  the  economic 
vulnerability  index  and  hence  brings  into  question  the 
sustainability of the aforementioned income threshold. 
That  is  particularly  true  for  countries  like  Vanuatu, 
which,  simply  because  of  its  geographical  location  on 
the  Pacific  rim  of  fire,  remains  highly  vulnerable  to 
natural  disasters  such  as  earthquakes, 
tsunamis, 
landslides  and  hurricanes,  to  mention  but  a  few  that 
occur  on  a  regular  basis  in  my  country,  and  each  of 
which  could  destroy  the  nation’s  economic  mainstay 
and driver, the agriculture sector, in but a few hours or 
days. 

In-depth  analyses  of  the  last  eight  years  of 
economic  performance  shows  a  mere  0.69  per  cent 
average  real  growth  in  gross  domestic  product  —  an 
economic  growth  rate  far  below  the  7  per  cent  target 
stipulated 
the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action. 
Therefore, to recommend that Vanuatu be made eligible 
for graduation from LDC status does not hold, as even 
though it may allegedly satisfy the first two criteria, it 
does  not  satisfy 
the  vulnerability  criteria  simply 
because  those  vulnerabilities  are  “acts  of  god”  and 
cannot  be  controlled  or  predicted  with  any  degree  of 
reasonable certainty. 

Furthermore, the basis of the GDP per capita ratio 
supposedly measures the wealth of the nation, but that 
in itself is prone to errors. The inaccuracies that exist, 
first, in the data collection mechanisms, and hence the 
data  itself,  mean  that  this  measurement  cannot  be 
pronounced with any reasonable degree of certainty. In 
addition, the uses of bivariate statistics to derive an end 
result  do  not  give  an  entirely  accurate  picture,  given 
that  they  do  not  explore  in  detail  the  relationship 
between the cause and effect factors of each of the two 
variables. 

GDP  per  capita,  for  instance,  is  simply  GDP  by 
total  population  and  assumes  that  each  and  every 
member of the population derives the same benefits as 
all  the  rest. As  we  all  know,  that  is  not  true.  In  most 
in 
A/61/PV.7
countries  in  the  world,  including  developed  nations, 
approximately 20 per cent of the population contributes 
to paying 70 to 80 per cent of the taxes, and more often 
than not that same 20 per cent of the population derives 
80 per cent of all the benefits and incomes. This clearly 
indicates  that,  within  any  given  population,  there  are 
income disparities, and that means that to assume that 
GDP  per  capita  measures  the  wealth  of  the  nations  is 
not  a  fair  representation  of  the  actual  distribution  of 
wealth. To further base one’s recommendations on that 
one fact alone does not do justice to the nation that is 
requesting consideration of its views. 

In  the  Vanuatu  context,  the  agriculture  sector 
contribution  to  the  national  GDP  is  a  much  fairer 
representation  of  rural  incomes.  Hence,  dividing  total 
income earned from the agriculture sector by the rural 
population  gives  rural  income  per  capita,  in  2005,  at 
$263, which is very low as well as very volatile, due to 
the vulnerable profile of the country. 

The use of gross national income as a measure of 
a  nation’s  general  economic  welfare  fails  to  highlight 
the problem of the high income inequality that persists 
between  the  urban  and  rural  populations,  as  well  as 
between  highly  paid  expatriates  and  lowly  paid  ni-
Vanuatu  living  in  the  urban  areas.  Therefore,  my 
Government  strongly  believes  that  using  an  indicator 
such  as  the  gross  national  income  per  capita  conceals 
the  hardship  and  difficulties  that  prevail  in  the  rural 
communities and which one cannot see through reading 
numbers.  

The  impact  of  any  decision  on  Vanuatu’s  LDC 
status will surely be felt greatly by the majority of the 
population  whose  everyday  lives  are  dependent  on 
subsistence  agriculture.  Additionally, 
the 
services  sector  contributes  the  highest  to  the  GDP,  it 
experiences high leakages, as all service providers are 
foreign-owned,  which  results  in  the  high  profits  made 
being  repatriated  overseas,  with  little  investment  of 
retained earnings in the domestic economy. 

The  gross  national  income  factor  does  indicate 
the level of income available to the country. However, 
given  the  aforementioned  undeniable  facts,  it  is  clear 
that  there  are  income  distribution  problems  that  could 
either  be  structural  or  policy-based  inefficiencies; 
hence,  we  recommend  that,  even  if  the  country  does 
meet  the  preconditions  for  graduation,  it  would  be 
more  appropriate  to  also  analyse  the  distribution  of 
those  measures  of  status  and  to  identify  policy  or 
though 
06-52559 

15 

A/61/PV.7 

structural  inefficiencies  and  to  recommend  remedial 
courses  of  action  to  assist  the  country,  with  a  specific 
time frame for undertaking those reforms or adjustment 
programmes so that, when the country does graduate, it 
is  able  to  sustain  the  conditions  which  triggered  the 
changes in status.  

One  must  also  look  at  what  is  driving  and 
sustaining  the  GDP  growth  rates  and  is  thus  a  better 
reflection  of  the  sustainability  of  the  gross  national 
income. More specifically, whether or not the growth is 
driven  by  domestic  production,  consumption  and 
export  growth,  or  whether  the  growth  is  triggered  by 
such  external  factors  as  aid  and  foreign  direct 
investment,  they  leave  the  country  highly  open  to 
shocks caused by externalities. 

Vanuatu’s  comparative  advantage  in  terms  of 
trade hinges mainly on a few low-value primary sector 
commodities,  such  as  copra,  cocoa,  beef  and  kava, 
which  have  continued  to  show  a  progressive  decline. 
On the other hand, Vanuatu depends highly on higher-
value  imports,  most  of  which  are  manufactured  items, 
resulting  in  rising  trade  deficits  in  the  recent  years. 
Factors  that  have  contributed  to  that  decline  in  the 
terms  of  trade  include  the  effects  of  natural  disasters, 
mainly cyclones; volatility in world market prices, the 
uncertainty  of  which  in  commodity  prices  often  leads 
to  discouragement  and  low  productivity;  price-fixing 
by the Vanuatu Commodities Marketing Board, despite 
movements 
the 
European ban on kava. 

Overall,  Vanuatu’s  exports  have  been  very 
unstable  due  to  the  effects  of  natural  disasters  and 
external  economic  shocks.  The  smallness  of 
the 
economy  implies  that  there  is  a  limit  to  the  country’s 
ability to insulate itself from those economic shocks. 

The  Human  Asset  Index  also  looks  only  at  the 
statistics, but does not  actually look into issues of the 
quality  of 
the  education  being  provided.  Simply 
looking at the statistics of secondary school enrolment 
and  completion  rates  does  not  provide  a  real  measure 
of the asset element, as one needs to look at the quality 
of the asset more than at the actual quantity of the asset 
in  order  to  have  a  much  better  comprehension  of  the 
potential  productivity  of  that  particular  human  asset. 
Again, here the statistics are inaccurate, as the various 
reports 
international 
institutions — including this one — are inconsistent in 
their  statements  with  respect  to  the  level  of  literacy, 
in  world  commodity  prices;  and 
that  have  been 
issued  by 
the 
the  fact 
instability 
that  while 
raises  questions  and/or 
which they place between 33 per cent and 99 per cent. 
Once  again,  forming  conclusions  based  on  mere 
statistics may be at best informative, but certainly not 
conclusive. 

Issues  of  remoteness,  instability  in  agricultural 
production  capacities  due  to  natural  disasters  and 
international  price  fluctuations, 
in 
exports of goods and services, market access, statistical 
data inaccuracies and so forth are other areas on which 
I could expound further, but I believe that the message 
has  been  heard.  Given  the  aforementioned  issues,  the 
Government  of Vanuatu  strongly  feels  that Vanuatu  is 
not ready to graduate from its LDC status. Therefore, it 
is recommended that Vanuatu be immediately removed 
from the list of countries eligible for graduation. 
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  bring  to  the Assembly’s 

attention 
the  Committee  for 
Development  Policy  does  have  the  mandate  to  make 
those  recommendations,  as  the  change  in  one’s  status 
also 
issues  of  potential 
fundamental  changes  and  adjustments  that  may  be 
required to a nation’s policies, the allocation of a five-
minute  time  frame  within  which  to  plead  one’s  case 
before the plenary is wholly inappropriate. It is perhaps 
a matter that requires some consideration and attention, 
as  I  do  not  think  that  this  is  a  reflection  or  an 
implication  of  the  importance  that  this  institution 
places on the LDC issue. 

Finally, I would like to express my Government’s 
appreciation to Benin, as the Chairman of the group of 
least developed countries, and to the Office of the High 
Representative  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries, 
Landlocked  Developing  Countries  and  Small  Island 
Developing  States,  in  particular  Mr.  Chowdhury,  for 
their unwavering support for the LDCs. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ahmed  Aboul  Gheit, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Arab  Republic  of 
Egypt, who will speak on behalf of the African Group. 
Mr.  Aboul  Gheit  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It 

gives  me  pleasure  to  address  the  General  Assembly 
today not only on behalf of Egypt, but also on behalf of 
the African Group at the United Nations, which Egypt 
has  the  honour  to  preside  over  this  month.  Egypt  has 
always been fully cognizant of the deep ties that unite 
it with the African continent. 
16 

06-52559 
that 
to  capitalize  on 
implementation  of 
its  peoples.  Egypt  believes 



Today’s meeting, on the occasion of the midterm 
comprehensive review of the Programme of Action for 
the Least Developed Countries (LDCs) provides a good 
opportunity  to  highlight  the  progress  achieved  in 
implementing the decisions included in the Programme 
and  to  consider  the  genuine  issues  and  challenges 
facing 
those  decisions. 
Undoubtedly,  this  review  process  should  give  new 
impetus to the efficient and coherent international work 
aimed at assisting that group of countries in achieving 
sustainable  development  and  in  the  eradication  of 
poverty  for 
the 
international  community  should  render  all  possible 
assistance  to  those  countries  in  order  to  counter  their 
increased marginalization in the global economy and to 
help  them  benefit  from  contemporary  scientific  and 
economic  capabilities  and 
the 
development  opportunities  of  globalization,  while 
avoiding its negative repercussions on their economies. 

Eradicating  poverty  and  achieving  sustainable 
development  for  all  is  a  joint  responsibility  of  the 
countries  of  the  North  and  South  alike  on  an  equal 
the 
basis.  That  requires  us  all 
remaining 
effective 
implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  by  2010 
through  serious  work  and  a  genuine  partnership  to 
support  LDCs.  That  partnership  should  be  based  on 
international  solidarity  and  the  principles  enshrined  in 
the  United  Nations  Charter, 
the  Millennium 
Declaration, and the goals and commitments agreed at 
the  2005  World  Summit.  Prominent  among  those  are 
national  ownership  of  development  plans  and 
strategies, and the granting of assistance in support of 
the development priorities determined by each country 
in its quest to achieve sustainable development. 
The  reports  and  documents  issued  by  the  United 

Nations  and  the  Cotonou  Strategy  adopted  in  June 
confirm  the  tremendous  challenges  that  face  least 
developed countries. Those challenges lie in the lack of 
resources  to  finance  infrastructure  projects  and  the 
primary  service  sectors  of  education  and  health,  in 
addition 
environment-suitable 
technology  transfers,  while  ensuring  the  sustainability 
of  the  development  process  in  LDCs  by  swiftly 
integrating  them  into  the  international  economy  and 
terminating all tariff and non-tariff barriers that prevent 
the access of their exports to the markets of developed 
countries,  in  addition  to  assisting  LDCs  that  are  not 
to  strive  during 
the  need 
period 
to 
achieve 
the 
the 
to 
for 
A/61/PV.7
including 
the  South  and 
the  countries  of 
education,  health, 
members of the World Trade Organization to join it as 
soon as possible. 

Undoubtedly,  the  time  will  soon  come  when  the 
ongoing  non-implementation  of  United  Nations 
resolutions  on 
the  ground  will  be  obsolete  and 
unacceptable.  Those  resolutions  must  not  become  a 
mere moral obligation that may be either implemented 
or mostly ignored and bypassed.  

Egypt today renews its commitment to supporting 
the  least  developed  countries  in  accomplishing  their 
development goals. In recent years, Egypt has offered a 
wide  variety  of  technical  assistance  to  those  countries 
in  the  form  of  programmes  and  training  courses, 
bilaterally  or  through  trilateral  cooperation,  with  the 
aim of supporting capacity-building in LDCs in various 
fields, 
agriculture, 
information  and  communication 
technologies,  and 
other  fields,  consistent  with  the  outcome  of  the 
Millennium  Summit.  Egypt  will  remain  committed  to 
providing  all  it  can  to  our  brothers  in  those  countries 
out  of  our  solid  belief  in  the  principle  of  solidarity 
between 
the 
importance  of  international  cooperation  in  achieving 
development and attaining security and stability at the 
national,  regional  and  international  levels,  and  in 
particular  in  our African  continent,  which  is  home  to 
the largest number of least developed countries. 

Egypt is very eager to use its membership of the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  of  the  United  Nations  to 
ensure  that  the  Commission  focuses  special  attention 
on peace and security in the least developing countries 
and to assist those countries in creating an environment 
conducive to proceeding with the burdens of long-term 
peacebuilding  in  a  manner  that  avoids  the  repeated 
outbreak of armed conflict, while propelling the wheels 
of development onward in all fields. 

Egypt  has  also  used  its  membership  in  the 
subregional  arrangements  in  Africa,  in  particular  the 
Common  Market  for  Eastern  and  Southern  Africa 
(COMESA)  —  which  comprises  13  of  the  least 
developed  countries  —  to  enhance  the  volume  of 
commerce between COMESA members. The free-trade 
zone  between  COMESA  members  has  provided  an 
opportunity  for  the  exports  of  the  least  developed 
members of COMESA to gain access to the markets of 
developing countries in COMESA, including Egypt. It 
has  also  provided  job  opportunities  for  young  people 
and  promoted  the  success  of  numerous  small  and 
in 
06-52559 

17 

The  European  Union 
A/61/PV.7 

medium-sized enterprises, which has helped to improve 
the  economic  and  living  conditions  of  the  populations 
of the LDCs.  
It  is  our  hope  and  resolve  to  continue 
to  work  for  further  progress  and  the  improvement  of 
those living conditions. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her 

Excellency  Ms.  Tarja  Filatov,  Minister  of  Labour  of 
Finland,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union. 
Ms. Filatov (Finland): I am honoured to speak on 

behalf  of  the  European  Union  on  this  very  important 
issue.  The  acceding  countries  Bulgaria  and  Romania; 
the candidate countries Turkey, Croatia and the former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia;  the  countries  of  the 
Stabilisation  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates  Albania,  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina, 
Montenegro  and  Serbia;  and  the  European  Free Trade 
Association  country  Iceland,  member  of  the  European 
Economic  Area,  as  well  as  the  Republic  of  Moldova 
and Ukraine align themselves with this statement.  

the  Secretary-
General  for  his  report  on  the  implementation  of  the 
Brussels  Programme  of  Action  up  to  2006  and  other 
materials  produced  for  this  midterm  comprehensive 
global review. 

The  European  Union,  as  a  major  development 
partner of the least developed countries (LDCs), takes 
this opportunity to reaffirm its full commitment to the 
implementation  of  the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action 
as  a  part  of  its  wider  commitment  to  the  global 
development  agenda.  The  Brussels  Programme  of 
Action  is  a  crucial  element  in  the  global  strategy  to 
improve  the  situation  of  the  LDCs,  and  the  European 
Union’s  participation  in  this  High-level  Meeting  is  a 
reaffirmation of its strong partnership with the LDCs. 

Respect  for  human  rights,  including  economic, 
social  and  cultural  rights,  the  rule  of  law,  solid 
democratic  institutions  responsive  to  the  needs  of  the 
people, good governance, sound economic policies and 
improved  infrastructure  are  the  bases  for  sustainable 
economic growth, poverty eradication and employment 
creation.  As  recognized  in  the  final  Outcome  of  the 
2005 World  Summit,  development,  peace  and  security 
and  human 
interlinked  and  mutually 
reinforcing. 

We  welcome  the  fact  that,  beginning  in  2001, 
economic  growth  in  the  LDCs  as  a  group  has  almost 
rights  are 
thanks 
by 
such 
reforms 
and 
reduced 
external 
structural 
to  support 
reached the 7 per cent target. That has been a result of 
LDC  Governments’ 
courageous  macroeconomic 
reforms  and  consequent  reduced  fiscal  deficits,  lower 
inflation 
imbalances. 
Macroeconomic  stabilization  has  been  successfully 
accompanied 
as 
privatization,  the  easing  of  regulations  on  businesses, 
and trade liberalization. 

Trade  can  be  a  strong  catalyst  for  economic 
growth and poverty reduction in developing countries. 
It  should  be  integrated  into  the  national  development 
plans, such as poverty reduction strategy papers, of all 
LDCs.  Therefore,  trade  is  one  central  element  in  the 
international  agenda 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  the  World  Summit  Outcome  and 
the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action.  Market  access 
alone  is  not  enough  to  improve  the  poorest  countries’ 
successful  integration  into  world  trade.  That  will 
require  increased  development  financing  for  trade  and 
productive capacities, combined with domestic reforms 
and improved international trade rules. 

The  cost  of  a  definitive  breakdown  of  the  Doha 
Development Agenda negotiations would be extremely 
high,  especially  for 
the 
developing  countries.  What  we  now  risk  losing  is  far 
more  significant  than  just  the  issues  on  which  the 
negotiations  have  foundered.  Completing  the  Doha 
Development  Agenda  would  substantially  help  LDCs 
in  their  objective  to  integrate  better  into  the  world 
economy. The European Union, for its part, will do its 
utmost  to  secure  an  early  resumption  of  negotiations 
and calls on its trading partners, in particular the major 
players,  to  make  the  necessary  moves  to  enable 
negotiations to restart and reach a positive outcome.  

It  is  important  that  improved  market  access  for 
LDCs  be  supported  by  appropriate 
trade-related 
technical  assistance.  The  European  Union  strongly 
supports  such  initiatives  as  Aid  for  Trade.  In  that 
context, it underlines the importance of contributing to 
the  Enhanced  Integrated  Framework.  Such  initiatives 
should not lose their impetus with the current situation 
of the negotiations on the Doha Development Agenda, 
and  the  international  community  should  support  their 
rapid execution.  

In  December  2005,  the  European  Union  member 
States committed themselves, within the framework of 
their  future  development  assistance  commitments,  to 
strive  to  increase  their  spending  on  trade-related 
the  most  vulnerable  of 
18 

06-52559 
increased 
the  need 
to  support 
Strengthening  and  expanding 


assistance  to  €1  billion  per  year  by  2010. That  would 
bring  the  contribution  of  the  European  Union  as  a 
whole,  including  the  Community  contribution,  to  €2 
billion  per  year  by  2010.  The  economic  partnership 
agreements  under  negotiation  complement  our  trade-
related technical assistance.  

the  productive 
capacities  and  infrastructure  of  the  LDCs  is  necessary 
integration, 
for 
internal  and 
regional 
international 
trade,  and  economic  growth  and 
development.  To  meet  those  challenges,  the  European 
Union  has,  for  example,  adopted  the  Strategy  for 
Africa,  which  includes  an  initiative  on  a  European 
Union-Africa partnership for infrastructure.  

Despite  good  overall  economic  growth,  poverty 
and deprivation remain high in most of the LDCs. That 
underlines 
improved  overall 
governance,  the  fight  against  corruption,  the  rule  of 
law  and  more  equal  social  development  in  the  LDCs. 
Economic wealth and development should also benefit 
the  most  vulnerable  parts  of  the  population.  To  that 
end, education, health and gender-equality programmes 
are vital elements of our Programme of Action in order 
to  achieve  better 
functioning,  more  equal  and 
environmentally  more  sustainable  economies  in  the 
LDCs.  That  is  especially  important  in  those  countries 
where  all  of  society  is  jeopardized  by  such  threats  as 
HIV/AIDS.  

really 
encouraging,  although  improvements  in  the  quality  of 
education have not kept pace with increased enrolment. 
It is still alarming that, in 2004, almost 15 per cent of 
girls living in LDCs were not even enrolled in primary 
education.  That  is  why  the  European  Union  remains 
very  concerned  about  the  slow  progress  made  in 
promoting  gender  equality.  The  LDCs  should  fully 
mainstream gender into all of their development plans.  

the 
environment sustainably in the LDCs is at the heart of 
the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action,  as  well  as  of  the 
broader  development  agenda,  particularly 
in  our 
endeavour  to  fully  implement  the  commitments  of  the 
World Summit on Sustainable Development.  

We  note  with  satisfaction  the  increase  in  official 
development assistance (ODA) from donor countries to 
the  LDCs.  In  2001,  the  year  when  the  Brussels 
Programme of Action was adopted, the yearly ODA to 
LDCs  was  approximately  €10  billion.  By  2004,  that 
Reducing  vulnerabilities  and  managing 
education, 
some 
In 
figures 
are 
A/61/PV.7
amount  had  almost  doubled  to  €19  billion,  and  if  the 
trend  continues,  ODA  to  LDCs  will  double  again  to 
over €40 billion by the year 2010. The European Union 
has put itself in the forefront of that evolution through 
the  decisions  of  the  European  Councils  of  Barcelona 
and Brussels to considerably increase its ODA by 2010 
and beyond.  
The European Union is a supporter and financier 

of 
the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  (HIPC) 
Initiative  and  welcomes  and  supports  the  Multilateral 
Debt  Relief  Initiative  to  cancel  100  per  cent  of  the 
outstanding  debt  of  eligible  HIPC  countries.  The 
European  Union  also  underlines  the  importance  of 
smooth transition from the list of LDCs and is ready to 
help the countries which have graduated from the list.  

The  European  Union  is  very  attentive  to  the 
quality  of  aid.  Major  commitments 
to  a  more 
coordinated  and  complementary  development  policy 
were  made  by  the  larger  development  community  in 
the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, which was 
adopted  in  March  2005  and  to  which  we  are  fully 
committed. The European Consensus for Development 
sets  the  principles  for  increased  aid  effectiveness  and 
coherence.  
As  expressed  in  the  European  Consensus,  it  is 

necessary 
credible 
institutions not only at the central and regional levels, 
but also at the local level. In that context, the principle 
of  subsidiarity  has  to  be  mentioned,  together  with  the 
need  for  effective  policies  on  decentralization  and 
accountability, 
and 
empowerment  of  civil  society,  especially  at  the  grass-
roots  level.  Progress  in  all  those  aspects  will  result  in 
bringing about more equity and equality of opportunity.  

To conclude,  we can clearly state that poverty is 
not invincible. Relatively new positive trends, such as 
the  improvement  of  the  situation  in  many  LDCs  and 
the  graduation  of  Cape  Verde  and  the  Maldives  from 
the list of LDCs, must keep us from the temptation of 
resignation. Those trends reflect the first results of the 
Brussels Programme of Action. We should continue its 
firm 
implementation  until  2010.  The  goals  are 
demanding, but with growing resources and even more 
attention  from  every  partner,  we  should  be  able  to 
realize  challenges  during  the  remaining  five  years  of 
the Programme of Action. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency Mr. Jean Asselborn, Deputy Prime Minister 
development 
strengthen 
capacity 
support 
and 
to 
06-52559 

19 

the  statement  made  by 
A/61/PV.7 

and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Immigration  of 
Luxembourg. 
Mr. Asselborn (Luxembourg) (spoke in French): 

Allow me at the outset to congratulate you, Madam, on 
your election and to wish  you much luck and courage 
in the very important and interesting task before you. 
The  commitment  of  the  European  Union  and  its 

member  States  to  help  the  least  developed  countries 
(LDCs) has already been demonstrated. Indeed, it was 
under  European  Union  auspices  that  the  Third  United 
Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries 
was  held  in  Brussels  from  14  to  20  May  2001.  The 
eradication  of  poverty  and  sustainable  development 
were  identified  at  the  time  as  the  priorities  of  the 
Brussels  Programme  of Action,  the  implementation  of 
which  we  are  reviewing  today,  halfway  through  its 
period of implementation from 2001 to 2010. 

It  is  within  the  spirit  of  resolute  and  long-
standing European commitment that I should also like 
to  endorse 
the  Finnish 
representative on behalf of the European Union. 

Mr.  Butagira  (Uganda),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

It  is  even  more  pleasant  for  me  to  participate  in 
this  most  useful  and  necessary  midterm  review  given 
that  the  Government  of  Luxembourg  has  pursued  a 
proactive  and  consistent  development  cooperation 
policy. That policy, a cornerstone of our foreign policy, 
has two particular features — one qualitative, the other 
quantitative. Since 2000, Luxembourg has been among 
the  far  too  few  industrialized  to  abide  by  their 
international  commitment  to  devoting  at  least  0.7  per 
cent  of 
their  gross  national 
to  official 
development assistance (ODA). 

In fact, Luxembourg has done better. In terms of 
percentage  of  gross  national  income,  its  assistance  to 
developing countries stood at 0.82 per cent in 2005 and 
will continue to rise to 1 per cent in the years to come. 
In  2004,  49  per  cent  of  Luxembourg’s  assistance  to 
developing  countries  was  earmarked  for  LDCs,  and 
that,  too,  will  continue  to  increase  as  we  pursue  our 
policy of focusing on that category.  

In  addition  to  the  purely  quantitative  aspect, 
Luxembourg has held an ongoing dialogue with all its 
developing  partners, 
in  particular. 
Luxembourg’s  cooperation  identifies  its  interventions 
on the basis of that dialogue and in accordance with the 
the  LDCs 
income 
priorities  identified  by  the  partner  Governments  in 
their national development strategies.  

Partnership  is  not  an  empty  word  to  us.  We  are 
convinced  that  only  relations  on  an  equal  footing 
between  development  partners  can  possibly  create  the 
type of understanding and respect that is critical if we 
are  effectively  to  address  the  problems  of  the  poorest 
populations  together.  We  must  identify  projects  and 
programmes  with  a  strong  sense  of  ownership  by  the 
target  communities.  That  is  what  guarantees  truly 
sustainable development. 

Allow me also to thank the Secretary-General for 
the report he has prepared on the implementation of the 
May  2001  Brussels  Programme  of  Action.  While,  on 
the  one  hand,  it  should  come  as  no  surprise  that, 
halfway down the road, we have not yet attained all the 
objectives,  we  are,  on  the  other,  sobered  by  the 
warning  that  a  number  of  LDCs  are  not  on  target  for 
success  by  2010. Additional  efforts  by  the  LDCs  and 
the  international  community  alike  are  indispensable  if 
we  truly  wish  to  rise  to  the  commitments  that  we 
undertook in 2001. 
In  Brussels,  we  were  wise  enough  to  look  at  the 

issue  from  the  long-term  perspective  as  we  sought 
ambitious  progress  for  the  LDCs.  That  long-term 
perspective 
poorest 
populations,  given  that  lofty  ambitions  tend  to  fade 
with  time.  This  midterm  review  is  therefore  a  timely 
opportunity  to  restore  momentum.  The  progress  made 
over the past five years should encourage us. 
The  total  amounts  earmarked  for  ODA  reached 

unprecedented  levels  in  2005.  While  part  of  the 
increase was attributable to contributions to the victims 
of  the  Indian  Ocean  tsunami  and  the  alleviation  of 
Iraq’s debt, we must not forget that in May 2005, under 
the Luxembourg presidency and at the initiative of my 
colleague  the  Minister  for  Cooperation  —  acting 
in  charge  of 
consistently  with  his  predecessors 
Luxembourg’s  cooperation  policy  — 
the  States 
members  of  the  European  Union  decided  to  raise 
assistance  to  developing  countries  to  0.56  per  cent  of 
gross  national  income  in  2010  and  to  0.7  per  cent  in 
2015. That new quantitative political commitment was 
built  on  the  foundation  of  an  initiative  adopted  in 
March  2005,  when  the  industrialized  and  developing 
countries,  including  many  LDCs,  adopted  the  Paris 
Declaration on Aid Effectiveness. 
penalize 
should 
not 
the 
20 

06-52559 
10 
partner 
privileged 
In  view  of 



Respect for international commitments underpins 
relations  of  trust  within  a  well-defined  and  effective 
partnership  between  donor  and  developing  countries. 
In  that  respect,  I  have  the  pleasure  of  confirming  that 
Luxembourg  earmarked  more  than  0.3  per  cent  of  its 
gross  national  income  to  LDCs  in  2004. The  Brussels 
promise  to  reserve  between  0.15  per  cent  and  0.2  per 
cent has been more than met. We have implemented it 
in  the  context  of  indicative  cooperation  programmes 
with 
countries.  Those 
programmes  guarantee,  in  the  medium  term  and  in 
conformity with the national development programmes 
of  our  partners,  predictable  assistance  on  the  part  of 
Luxembourg. 

Such social sectors as education, health, access to 
water  and  local  development  are  priorities  of  our 
cooperation. 
the  Secretary-General’s 
recommendations,  we  are  confident  that  this  sectoral 
targeting  will  contribute  concretely 
to  achieving 
progress  in  the  areas  of  governance,  capacity-building 
and institution-building in LDCs, and above all gender 
parity and the fight against HIV/AIDS. 

In  conclusion,  I  reaffirm  the  continuing  support 
of the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg 
for the implementation of the Programme of Action for 
the  LDCs.  They  will  find  us  to  be  reliable  and 
trustworthy partners. 
The  Acting  President: I  give  the  floor  to  Her 

Excellency Ms. Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, Minister for 
Foreign  Affairs  of  South  Africa,  who  will  speak  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 
to 

congratulate  the  President  on  her  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first 
session. We are delighted to see her presiding over this 
Meeting. 

The Group of 77 and China welcomes the High-
level  Meeting  to  assess  the  progress  made  in  the  first 
five  years  of 
the  Brussels 
Programme  of  Action 
the  Least  Developed 
Countries for the Decade 2001-2010.  

The Group of 77 and China further welcomes the 
Cotonou Strategy, a comprehensive analytical midterm 
review  of  the  status  of  the  implementation  of  the 
Brussels  Programme  of Action  for  the  first  five  years 
which clearly and succinctly outlines the achievements 
made thus far, the challenges ahead and the actions to 
(South  Africa):  Allow  me 
implementation  of 
Ms.  Zuma
for 
A/61/PV.7
received 
themselves 
the  support 
implementation  of 
be taken together by the least developed countries and 
development partners. 

As a result of this midterm review, the Group of 
77  and  China  notes  with  concern  that  insufficient 
progress  has  been  achieved  in  the  implementation  of 
the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action  and 
that,  as 
indicated,  very  few  least  developed  countries  are 
expected to be able to meet the Brussels Programme of 
Action’s objectives, goals  and targets if current trends 
continue.  The  full 
the  seven 
commitments must be adhered to if the least developed 
countries  are  to  achieve  the  internationally  agreed 
goals, including the Millennium Development Goals. 

In  spite  of  the  appropriate  measures  taken  and 
tremendous  efforts  made  by 
least  developed 
countries 
to  build  enabling  national 
environments  for  the  implementation  of  the  Brussels 
Programme  of Action  in  their  efforts  to  pursue  much-
needed  development, 
from 
development partners is still insufficient or sometimes 
even  completely  lacking.  The  Group  of  77  and  China 
therefore calls on the development partners of the least 
developed  countries 
their 
commitments. 

The 2005 World Summit Outcome reaffirmed the 
commitments made to address the special needs of the 
least  developed  countries  and  urged  all  countries,  all 
relevant  organizations  of  the  United  Nations  system 
and 
organizations, 
including  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  to  make 
concerted  efforts  and  adopt  speedy  measures  for 
meeting in a timely manner the goals and targets of the 
Brussels Programme of Action. 

We  do  not,  however,  think  that  sufficient  work 
has  been  done  to  meet  those  commitments  that  were 
made  as  late  as  2005. Achieving  the  goals  and  targets 
contained  in  the  Programme  of  Action  calls  for 
continued  and  renewed  commitment  from  the  least 
developed  countries  and  the  development  partners 
alike.  It  is  vital  that  this  partnership  be  reinvigorated 
and  enhanced  by  promoting  mutual  and  shared 
responsibilities  between  the  least  developed  countries 
and  their  development  partners  in  the  interests  of 
promoting 
sustainable 
development  in  the  least  developed  countries,  thereby 
further  promoting  their  integration  into  the  world 
economy. 
to  expeditiously 
international 
economic 
growth 
other 
relevant 
the 
fulfil 
and 
06-52559 

21 
important 
that 
agriculture, 
A/61/PV.7 


I  would  also  like  to  reaffirm  and  agree  with  the 
midterm  review  that  special  attention  should  be  given 
to  gender  equality.  Gender  equality  is  important  not 
only in itself, but also in the achievement of the other 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  such  as  reducing 
infant  and  maternal  mortality,  because  without  gender 
equality  it  will  be  very  to  attain  those  two  goals.  It  is 
also 
infrastructure, 
HIV/AIDS,  tuberculosis,  malaria  and  the  obstacles  to 
the exports of the least developed countries be attended 
to. 

In  conclusion,  I  should  also  like  to  say  that 
coordinated  action  on  the  part  of  the  United  Nations 
and  its  agencies,  funds  and  programmes  should  be 
enhanced  to  support  least  developed  countries.  More 
importantly,  the  development  partners  must  fulfil  the 
commitments  they  made  at  all  the  major  United 
Nations summits over the past 10 years, especially the 
Monterey  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development  and  the  Johannesburg  World  Summit  on 
Sustainable  Development.  We  all  have  a  collective 
responsibility to assist and to show our solidarity with 
the least developed countries. 
The  Acting  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Rudolph  Insanally,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Guyana, who will speak on behalf of 
the Rio Group. 
important 

agenda  item,  I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of 
the countries of the Rio Group. 
At  this  review  of  the  Brussels  Programme  of 

Action,  we  must  assess  frankly  the  gains  that  have 
been made and seek to redeem the commitments of the 
Programme,  as  the  thematic  focus  for  this  High-level 
Meeting enjoins us to do. 

Important  developments,  including  the  doubling 
of  official  development  assistance  to  least  developed 
countries (LDCs) since 1999, the substantial reduction 
of the debt of the poorest countries, increased duty-free 
and  quota-free  market  access  for  most  LDC  products, 
more systematized flows of untied aid, and increases in 
private  capital  flows  provide  encouraging  signs  that 
affirm 
invaluable 
catalyst for the sustainable growth and development of 
the LDCs.  

At  the  recent  High-level  Dialogue  on  migration, 
much was made of the fact that LDCs now enjoy high 
the  Brussels  Programme  as  an 
Mr.  Insanally  (Guyana):  On 
this 

volumes of remittances. Indeed, that is the case, but as 
a recent study by the International Monetary Fund has 
shown,  those  gains  do  not  adequately  compensate  for 
the  losses  of  skills  and  other  resources  on  the  part  of 
the LDCs. All that glitters is not gold. 

In  the  interests  of  time,  I  shall  restrict  my 
statement  and  make  a  longer  version  available  to  the 
General Assembly, but I wish simply to make the point 
that the situation of the LDCs remains very precarious. 
A  comparison  of  available  selected  data  for  the  LDCs 
reveals  the  arduous  effort  required  to  honour  the 
commitments articulated in the Brussels Programme. 

More  worryingly,  at  present  rates,  even  the 
minimal  threshold  of  expected  achievement  cannot  be 
guaranteed. In light of other considerations, such as the 
negative  impact  of  the  high  incidence  of  HIV/AIDS 
and  other  infectious  diseases  and  the  need  for  quality 
economic growth, the reduction of inequalities and the 
preservation of the natural environment, a more sombre 
outlook for the LDCs is inevitable. 

At  this  midpoint  of  the  third  Programme  of 
Action,  it  is  imperative  that  we  make  the  changes 
necessary  to  ensure  that  our  course  is  firmly  charted 
towards achievement beyond the disappointing level of 
results of previous Programmes. 

The first five years have underscored the efficacy 
of  partnerships  in  achieving  the  objectives  of  the 
Programme.  More 
thus 
accelerate  progress  and  development  to  counter  the 
crippling  effects of the unequal global trade  rules that 
now  prevail.  LDCs  have  themselves  provided  the 
leadership  in  articulating  the  focus  and  commitment 
now necessary to guarantee the full implementation of 
the  Programme  of Action.  The  Rio  Group  would  call 
attention in that regard to the approach outlined in the 
Cotonou Strategy for the Further Implementation of the 
Programme of Action. 

Countries of our Group have advanced proposals 
at  the  global  level  that  take  account  of  the  kind  of 
thinking,  action  and  collaboration  necessary  if  further 
progress  is  to  be  achieved.  We  believe  that,  in 
advancing  the  agenda  of  the  LDCs,  as  well  as  other 
countries  and  regions  that  face  special  challenges,  we 
must  give  greater  consideration  to  ensuring  that  those 
proposals go beyond these limited objectives, including 
the call by my own country for the establishment of a 
new  global  human  economic  and  social  system,  the 
Action Against Hunger and Poverty initiative of Brazil, 
intensive  cooperation  can 
06-52559 
22 

to 
for 
The  standard  for 
the  progress  of  LDCs 


Chile  and  others,  and  the  international  humanitarian 
fund proposed by Venezuela. 

judgement  of  success 
the 
stipulated  by  the  Programme  of  Action  itself  is  its 
contribution 
towards 
achieving international development targets, as well as, 
if  necessary,  their  graduation  from  the  ranks  of  the 
LDCs.  The  report  card  at  this  stage  shows  that  much 
better can and should be done.  

The  Rio  Group  therefore  supports  the  strong 
renewal  of  the  political  commitment  to  LDCs  by  this 
High-level Meeting. We express our continued interest 
in  the  development  of  the  LDCs  and  encourage  all 
actors  —  the  LDCs  themselves,  the  partner  countries, 
the international community and the Secretariat which 
helps them — to redouble their efforts to assure greater 
success  and  the  full  achievement  of  the  objectives  of 
the Programme of Action. 
The  Acting  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Moctar  Ouane,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Mali. 
Mr.  Ouane  (Mali)  (spoke  in  French): Allow  me 

first  to  convey  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  the  warm  congratulations  of  the  delegation 
of Mali on her outstanding election to the presidency of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-first session. 

I  should  like  next  to  congratulate  and  thank 
Mr. Chowdhury, High Representative of the Secretary-
General 
the  Least  Developed  Countries, 
Landlocked  Developing  Countries  and  Small  Island 
Developing States, as well as all those who contributed 
to the excellent organization of this High-level Meeting 
on 
the 
Implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  for  the 
Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-2010. 
By  virtue  of  Mr.  Chowdhury’s  dynamic  and  effective 
leadership,  this  Meeting  is  most  timely,  and  the 
commitment shown by all has convinced us that it will 
produce  important  results  that  will  allow  us  to  pursue 
the 
seven  commitments 
contained in the Brussels Programme of Action. 

Where  do  we  find  ourselves  five  years  after  the 
adoption  of  the  Programme  of  Action?  Let  us  be 
frank — the results do not live up to expectations. As a 
result,  the  least  developed  countries  (LDCs)  and  their 
development partners need to devote additional efforts 
at  the  national,  bilateral,  subregional,  regional  and 
the  Midterm  Comprehensive  Review  of 
implementation  of 
the 
A/61/PV.7
for 
single 
reference 
framework 
global  levels  to  meeting  the  goals  of  the  Brussels 
Programme of Action. It is from that standpoint that I 
wish very briefly to share the experience of Mali in this 
area. 

Mali took active part in the Third United Nations 
Conference  on  the  Least  Developed  Countries,  which 
adopted  the  Brussels  Declaration  and  Programme  of 
Action. As  a  result,  in  2002  the  Government  of  Mali 
adopted  a 
its 
development strategies and policies, which we call our 
Strategic  Framework  to  Combat  Poverty  2002-2006. 
The  Framework  identified  three  pillars  covering  the 
seven  Brussels  Programme  of  Action  commitments: 
institutional  development  and  improving  governance 
and  participation;  developing  human  resources  and 
access  to  basic  social  services;  and  developing  basic 
infrastructure  and  productive  sectors.  In  that  regard, 
Mali’s  national  report  on  its  implementation  of  the 
Brussels Programme of Action allows us to come to the 
following conclusions.  

With regard to access to basic social services, the 
overall  education  rate  rose  by  9.6  per  cent,  from  64.4 
per cent in 2002 to 74 per cent in 2005. The proportion 
of  people  living  within  5  kilometres  of  a  health-care 
centre rose from 44 per cent in 2002 to 50 per cent in 
2005.  Vaccination  coverage  for  diphtheria,  tetanus, 
whooping cough and poliomyelitis 3 rose from 75 per 
cent in 2002 to 90 per cent in 2005. Access to drinking 
water rose from 57 per cent in 2002 to 66.1 per cent in 
2005. Although they fell, maternal and infant mortality 
rates continue to be of concern at 500 per 100,000 live 
births and 113 per 1,000 live births, respectively.  

As  to  basic  infrastructure,  telephone  coverage 
rose from one line per 100 inhabitants in 2002 to seven 
lines  per  100  in  2005.  The  overall  rate  for  access  to 
electricity  rose  from  12  per  cent  in  2002  to  15.03  per 
cent in 2005.  

With respect to good governance, major progress 
was  made  with  the  adoption  of  a  plan  to  modernize 
administration  and  to  institutionalize  the  office  of  the 
general auditor.  

However,  the  overall  poverty  rate  did  not  fall 
during  this  period,  despite  the  fact  that  the  Malian 
economy  enjoyed  a  real  growth  rate  of  approximately 
5.1  per  cent  of  gross  domestic  product,  which  falls 
short  of  the  goal  of  6.7  per  cent  identified  by  the 
Strategic Framework. 
06-52559 

23 
to 
There 
is  also  a  need 
for 
the 
increasing 
commitment 
A/61/PV.7 


Very  clearly,  such  conclusions  can  be  applied  to 
almost  every  least  developed  country.  What  is  to  be 
done? Let us first recall the truism that there can be no 
reduction  of  poverty  without  sustainable  economic 
growth  and  a  fair  redistribution  of  the  fruits  of  that 
growth.  That  is  why  Mali,  drawing  the  lessons  of  the 
implementation  of 
its  first  Strategic  Framework, 
drafted a second for the period 2007-2011 that focuses 
on  economic  growth,  in  particular  the  development  of 
productive  sectors,  the  pursuit  and  consolidation  of 
structural  reform,  and  enhanced  access  to  basic  social 
services. 

It is also clear that our objective to cut poverty in 
half by 2010 will require the international community’s 
resolute 
official 
development  assistance,  enhancing  its  effectiveness, 
and  promoting  the  establishment  of  an  international 
environment  to  facilitate  the  mainstreaming  of  the 
LDCs  into  the  global  economy.  It  will  also  require 
direct foreign investment and technology transfers. 

increased 
involvement  of  the  Office  of  the  High  Representative 
of  the  Secretary-General  for  the  Least  Developed 
Countries, Landlocked  Developing  Countries  and 
Small  Island  Developing  States  in  making  the  case  to 
donors  and  cooperation  agencies  and  in  capacity-
building for the LDCs, particularly in the area of trade.  

Let  me  end  as  I  started  by  stressing  that  Mali 
expects  the  declaration  that  will  be  adopted  as  the 
outcome 
be 
commensurate with the commitments that we all made 
in  2001,  for  how  can  we  reasonably  accept  that,  at  a 
time when the world is richer than ever, the number of 
inhabitants  of  LDCs  living  in  poverty  will  increase 
from 334 million in 2000 to 471 million in 2015? 
The  Acting  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  M.  Morshed  Khan,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Bangladesh. 

statement brief. 

This midterm review of the Programme of Action 
is  extremely  important  for  all  of  us,  especially  as  we 
take stock of why the least developed countries (LDCs) 
are yet to  achieve the target growth rate  of 7 per cent 
per  year  and  increase  the  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP)  investment  ratio  of  25  per  cent.  As  the 
Programme  of  Action  correctly 
the 
Mr.  Khan  (Bangladesh):  I  will  try  to  make  my 
this  High-level  Meeting 
of 
to 

increased  capital 
achievement  of  high  growth  rates  will  remain  elusive 
for  the  LDCs  unless  there  are  substantial  increases  in 
investments.  The  average  GDP  growth  rate  has  been 
less than 3 per cent since we adopted the Programme of 
Action  in  2001,  and  investments  have  also  remained 
very low. 

For the LDCs, therefore, the primary constraint is 
the lack of capital. There was an expectation that there 
would  be 
flow,  development 
assistance and foreign direct investment into the LDCs 
to  make  up  for  the  investment-savings  gap,  but  the 
reality  has  been  otherwise.  Some  relevant  figures  will 
prove  the  point.  Official  development  assistance  to 
LDCs  in  2004,  according  to  the  most  recent  data 
available,  amounted  to  $23.8  billion  or  $35.7  per 
person living in the LDCs. That is less than 10 cents a 
day,  which  certainly  is  not  sufficient  to  complement 
income or boost the savings rate. 

During the same year, the  LDCs returned almost 
$6  billion  in  servicing  their  debts. Another  $8  billion 
left  the  LDCs  in  terms  of  the  net  factor  income  of 
foreign companies and individuals operating in LDCs. 
The  last  source  of  outflow  is  perhaps  the  trickiest 
one — the LDC holdings of foreign exchange reserves. 
The LDCs collectively held over $28 billion in foreign 
reserves,  in  dollars  and  euros,  which  is  essentially  a 
very  low-interest  loan  from  the  poorest  countries  to 
their  rich  benefactors.  Between  2003  and  2004,  LDC 
foreign  exchange  reserves 
increased  nearly  $5.5 
billion: a net outflow. If we deduct these outflows from 
the official development aid (ODA) and foreign direct 
investment, net capital injection into LDCs is less than 
$5  billion  a  year,  or  only  two  cents  per  day  for  every 
LDC  citizen.  This  is  certainly  not  enough  to  make  a 
dent  in  the  perpetual  savings-investment  gap  in  the 
poorest countries of the world. 

Lack of capital is one side of the coin; the other is 
the  lack  of  market  access.  Following  the  adoption  of 
the Programme of Action, the Doha development round 
of  trade  negotiations  began  with  a  big  bang  but  soon 
hit  gridlock  without  any  consensus  on  special  and 
differential  market  access  for  the  LDCs.  Even  when 
tariff  barriers  are  low,  LDC  exports  face  substantial 
non-tariff  and  para-tariff  barriers,  which  essentially 
prevent any substantive growth in exports. In the WTO 
negotiations, there have also been attempts to pit LDCs 
against  each  other,  giving  selective  preferences  to 
selected  LDCs.  This  must  stop,  and  all  LDC  exports 
identified, 
24 

06-52559 
like 


must receive  the same treatment: duty-free  and quota-
free market access. 

The  third  problem  is  volatility  in  income.  In  a 
globalized  world,  an  economic  downturn 
in  one 
country  can  have  significant  adverse  effects  on  its 
trading  partners.  The  LDCs  unfortunately  have  no 
effective  insulation  against  these  so-called  contagion 
effects.  More  important,  the  magnitude  of  shocks  can 
be very different for rich and poor countries, as it can 
be  for  rich  and  poor  households. There  are  also  other 
external  shocks, 
the  oil  price  hike,  which 
disproportionately  affect  the  LDCs.  Then  there  are 
weather-related  income  shocks,  produced  by  floods, 
drought  and  tsunamis,  which  erode  domestic  savings 
and  impede  investment. We  need  to  take  into  account 
the asymmetric effects of various economic shocks on 
LDCs,  especially  against  the  backdrop  of  procyclical 
capital flows into the LDCs. 

How  do  we  tackle  these  challenges  and  put  the 
Programme  of Action  on  track  to  increase  investment 
and  growth?  Please  allow  me  to  share  some  of  my 
thoughts on these issues.  
First, we need an innovative solution to deal with 

the burden of foreign exchange reserves on LDCs. The 
$28 billion reserve that the LDCs are currently holding 
is,  in  fact,  an  unfair  tax  on  the  LDCs,  given  that  they 
cannot use it to finance their development efforts. One 
solution  could  be  to  allow  LDCs  to  borrow  against 
their  own  reserves  at  zero  interest  rate  differentials. 
Currently,  the  LDCs  are  charged  a  substantial  markup 
to borrow against their own foreign exchange reserves. 
The 
commit 
themselves to this arrangement. Otherwise, it remains a 
one-way  benefit  for  the  developed  countries,  rather 
than for the LDCs.  

Secondly,  we  need  to  ensure  that  capital  flow  to 
the LDCs is countercyclical. Lending and assistance to 
the  LDCs  must  increase  when  there  is  an  economic 
downturn. Countercyclical capital flows would smooth 
investment growth and make income less volatile in the 
LDC world.  

Thirdly,  we  must  devise  new  strategies  and 
mechanisms  to  strengthen  the  LDCs’  capacities  to 
manage  weather-related 
international 
community needs to address this in all earnestness and 
look 
introducing  weather 
insurance and weather derivatives in the LDCs.  
the  possibility  of 
risks.  The 
reserve-currency 
countries  must 
into 
A/61/PV.7
sectors 

Fourthly, we need to revisit the rules of the World 
Trade Organization (WTO), especially the principle of 
single undertaking, to grant expeditiously exports from 
the LDCs duty-free and quota free access to developed 
markets,  pending  agreements  on  agricultural  subsidies 
or on market access for non-agricultural goods. This is 
an  imperative  to  resuscitate  the  Doha  development 
round.  

Fifthly, we need to step up our efforts to identify 
and  eliminate  the  key  supply  side  constraints  that 
prevent  LDC  private 
from  becoming 
competitive  globally.  It  is  time  that  the  international 
community take concrete measures to activate fully the 
Aid  for  Trade  Initiative  and  an  enhanced  Integrated 
Framework,  not  only  to  remove  capacity  constraints 
but  also  to  identify  and  address  the  problems  of  non-
tariff and para-tariff barriers in the developed countries 
that  impede  LDC  exports.  Aid  for  Trade  and  an 
enhanced  Integrated  Framework  should  focus  on  the 
problems  in  both  the  developed  economies  and  the 
LDCs. 

Finally,  there  needs  to  be  some  monitoring  and 
evaluation mechanism under the auspices of the United 
Nations  to  ensure  implementation  of  the  Brussels 
Programme  of  Action  and  the  commitments  made  by 
the developed countries. We hope to see a better world 
tomorrow in line with this position. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Trade of the Republic of Korea. 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  (Republic  of  Korea):  Let  me 

begin  by  extending  my  heartfelt  congratulations  to 
Ms. Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa  as  she  assumes  her 
responsibilities as President of the General Assembly at 
its  sixty-first  session.  I  wish  her  every  success  in  this 
High-level  Meeting  on  the  least  developed  countries, 
and in all her noble work. 

This midterm review is a valuable opportunity to 
assess  our  achievements  in  implementing  the  Brussels 
Programme  of  Action,  to  recommit  ourselves  to  its 
goals, to exchange best practices and to seek effective 
ways to accomplish the work that lies ahead. 

In  my  view,  the  priorities  for  the  efforts  of  the 
LDCs and their development partners should converge 
along  the  following  priorities.  First,  greater  efforts 
need  to  be  made  to  adopt  and  implement  national 
development strategies. Many international agreements 
06-52559 

25 
for 
and 

to 
the 
should 
be 
energy, 
achieve 
is  vital 
including 
strategies 
reinforced  with 
the  recommendations  have  yet 
A/61/PV.7 

least  developed 
and  programmes  related 
countries, 
to 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  are  already  in  place, 
but 
to  be  fully 
incorporated  into  national  plans  and  policies.  The 
efforts  of  LDCs  to  adopt  and  implement  development 
strategies 
strong 
international support.  

Secondly, capacity-building should be the central 
focus  of  the  development  efforts  of  LDCs  and  their 
partners.  The  improvements  made  in  the  field  of 
education  and  health,  as  noted  in  the  Secretary-
General’s  report  (A/61/173),  must  lead  to  greater 
investment  in  this  area.  The  nurturing  of  human 
resources 
sustained  development. 
Furthermore,  the  economic  foundations  of  the  LDCs 
should be strengthened through increased investment in 
infrastructure, 
rural 
development. 

Thirdly, the role of women in development in the 
LDCs  should  be  fully  recognized.  The  empowerment 
of  women  and  mainstreaming  of  gender  perspectives 
into policymaking and policy implementation is central 
to  social  progress.  Women’s  equal  participation  and 
input promote development. The proof from the ground 
in  development  projects,  large  and  small,  is  clear: 
women  and  girls  can  be  the  most  effective  agents  for 
change  and  social  progress.  Specifically,  in  the  urgent 
tasks facing the LDCs, such as eliminating poverty and 
fighting  HIV/AIDS,  gender  mainstreaming  must  be 
made  a  central  pillar  of  policy  strategy.  Korea’s 
experience also shows that lasting social change cannot 
be realized until women are fully incorporated into the 
process. 

Fourthly,  the  least  developed  countries  should 
strive continuously to strengthen good governance. It is 
disheartening  to  see  many  least  developed  countries 
continue  to  struggle  in  the  face  of  conflict  and  civil 
unrest. It is nonetheless encouraging to see the strides 
being  made  in  many  others  towards  political  stability 
agriculture 
and  democratic  reform. While  it  is  true  that  no  single 
model  of  democratic  governance  exists,  governance 
can  be  improved  by  sharing  best  practices.  In  this 
regard,  South-South  cooperation  can  have  its  own 
benefits and advantages. 

Finally,  development  partners  must  deliver  on 
their  commitments,  especially  in  the  areas  of  official 
development assistance, debt relief, market access and 
technical assistance. Even though positive progress has 
been  made  in  these  areas,  more  support  is  called  for. 
My  Government  recognizes  its  responsibilities  in  this 
regard,  and  has  been  faithfully  honouring  its  pledges. 
As  announced  at  the World  Summit  last  year,  we  will 
double  our  official  development  assistance  (ODA)  by 
2009 and triple it, to about $3 billion, by 2015. We are 
now  taking  the  necessary  steps  to  introduce  an  air-
ticket  solidarity  levy,  which  should  strengthen  our 
ODA.  In  particular,  through  our  Initiative  for Africa’s 
Development, by 2008 we will triple our assistance to 
Africa, which is home to almost two thirds of the least 
developed countries. 

But  aid  alone  is  not  enough.  The  history  of 
development in many countries, including my own, has 
shown that promoting trade is the most effective means 
of  achieving  sustained  growth.  That  is  why  my 
Government  supports  the  Aid  for  Trade  Initiative, 
particularly for the least developed countries, and why 
we will also expand duty-free and quota-free access for 
goods from the least developed countries. 

This  midterm  review  is  an  opportunity  for  us  to 
strengthen  global  partnerships  for  the  development  of 
the 
least  developed  countries.  Let  us  rededicate 
ourselves 
least 
developed  countries 
they  can  become 
tomorrow’s  engines  for  freedom  and  prosperity.  The 
first  step,  of  course,  is  to  make  sure  that  we  use  the 
next  five  years  to  keep  the  promises  we  made  in 
Brussels. 

The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m. 
that  nurtures 
to  a  world 
today’s 
that 
so 
26 

06-52559 
