
A/61/PV.55
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-first session 

55th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 16 November 2006, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Ms. Al-Khalifa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Bahrain) 

For  the  single  seat  from  among  the  Group  of 
African  States,  there  are  three  candidates,  namely, 
Egypt, the Sudan and the United Republic of Tanzania. 

For  the  single  seat  from  among  the  Group  of 
Asian States, the Group has endorsed China. 
For  the  single  seat  from  among  the  Group  of 

Eastern  European  States,  the  group  has  endorsed  the 
Russian Federation. 

For  the  single  seat  from  among  the  Group  of 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States,  the  Group  has 
endorsed Cuba. 

For  the  single  seat  from  among  the  Group  of 
Western  European  and  other  States,  the  Group  has 
endorsed the United States of America. 

As the Groups of Asian States, Eastern European 
States,  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  and 
Western European and other States have each endorsed 
one  candidate  for  one  vacancy  —  namely,  China,  the 
Russian  Federation,  Cuba  and  the  United  States  of 
America,  respectively  —  those  four  countries  will  be 
requested to propose a candidate each for appointment 
to the Joint Inspection Unit. 

Since there are three candidacies from among the 
African  States  for  one  vacancy,  I  should  like,  in 
accordance with past practice, to consult with Member 
States  through  the  procedure  of  holding  an  advisory 
vote by secret ballot to select one country from among 
the  African  States  to  be  requested  to  propose  a 
candidate for appointment to the Joint Inspection Unit. 




The meeting was called to order at 3.20 p.m. 

Agenda item 106 (continued)
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments 
  (h)  Appointment of members of the Joint 



the 
indicated 
the  expiration  of 
Inspection Unit 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/61/109) 
The  President:  As 


in  document 
A/61/109, the General Assembly is required, during the 
sixty-first  session,  to  appoint  five  members  to  fill  the 
vacancies  in  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit  that  will  arise 
from 
term  of  office,  on 
31 December  2007,  of  Mr.  Even  Fontaine  Ortiz  of 
Cuba, Mr. Tang Guanging of China, Mr. Victor Vislykh 
of  the  Russian  Federation,  Ms.  Deborah Wynes  of  the 
United  States  of America  and  Mr.  Muhammad Yussuf 
of the United Republic of Tanzania. 

As  is  also  indicated  in  document  A/61/109,  in 
accordance with article 3, paragraph 1, of the Statute of 
the Joint Inspection Unit, the President of the General 
Assembly shall consult with Member States to draw up 
a list of countries — in this case, five countries — that 
would  be  requested 
to  propose  a  candidate  for 
appointment to the Joint Inspection Unit. 

After  holding  the  necessary  consultations  with 
the  regional  groups,  I  should  like  to  communicate  to 
the  Assembly  the  following  information  that  I  have 
received from the Chairmen of the regional groups. 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

06-61848 (E) 
*0661848* 

May  I  also  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly 
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  agrees  to  that 
A/61/PV.55 


Although  that  advisory  vote  would  not  be  an 
election, we would follow the rules of procedure of the 
Assembly governing elections. If there is no objection, 
may I take it that the General Assembly agrees to that 
procedure? 
It was so decided. 

The  President:  In  accordance  with  existing 

practice,  the  country  receiving  the  greatest  number  of 
votes, and not less than a majority of the votes of those 
present  and  voting,  shall  be  the  country  selected  to 
propose  a  candidate  for  appointment  to  the  Joint 
Inspection Unit. 

agrees to that procedure? 
It was so decided. 


The  President:  In  the  case  of  a  tie  vote,  there 
will  be  a  restricted  ballot,  limited  to  those  candidates 
that have obtained an equal number of votes. 

procedure? 
It was so decided. 

The  President:  May  I  remind  members  that  the 

Assembly  is  not  appointing  members  to  the  Joint 
Inspection  Unit  at  this  time.  It  is  only  selecting  one 
country,  which  will  be  requested 
to  propose  a 
candidate. Therefore,  only  the  name  of  a  country,  and 
not  the  name  of  an  individual,  should  appear  on  the 
ballot paper.  

I should now like to repeat the names of the three 
countries  from  among  the African  States  that  wish  to 
propose  a  candidate:  Egypt,  the  Sudan  and  the  United 
Republic of Tanzania. 

I  should  furthermore  like  to  point  out  that,  from 
among  the  African  States,  Senegal  already  has  a 
national serving on the Joint Inspection Unit. The name 
of  that  State  should  therefore  not  appear  on  ballot 
papers. 

The Assembly  will  now  proceed  to  the  selection 
of one country from among the African States that will 
be requested to propose a candidate to fill the vacancy 
in the Joint Inspection Unit. 

Before we begin the voting process, I should like 
to  remind  members  that,  pursuant  to  rule  88  of  the 
rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly,  no 
representative  shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a 
point of order on the actual conduct of the voting. 

We shall now begin the voting process. Members 
are  requested  to  remain  seated  until  all  ballots  have 
been collected.  

Ballot  papers  will  now  be  distributed.  May  I 
request representatives to write on the ballot papers the 
name  of  the  one  State  for  which  they  wish  to  vote. 
Ballot  papers  containing  more  than  one  name  will  be 
declared invalid. If a ballot paper contains the name of 
a Member State that does not belong to the region, that 
ballot  paper  will  be  declared  invalid.  Ballot  papers 
bearing the name of an individual will not be counted 
at all. 

At  the  invitation  of  the  President  Ms.  Wiesinger 
(Austria),  Ms.  Salayeva  (Azerbaijan),  Mr. Camara 
(Guinea),  Ms.  Romulus  (Haiti),  and  Mr.  Adiya 
(Mongolia) acted as tellers. 
A vote was taken by secret ballot. 
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  3.35  p.m.  and 
resumed at 4 p.m. 
The  President:  The  result  of  the  voting  is  as 






165 
 1 
164 
 0 
164 

follows: 
Group A – African States 

Number of ballot papers: 

Number of invalid ballots: 

Number of valid ballots: 

Abstentions: 


Number of members present and voting: 

Required simple majority of members present  

and voting: 

Number of votes obtained: 

85 


73 



6 


The  President:  Having  obtained  the  required 
majority  and  the  greatest  number  of  votes,  I  declare 
that  Egypt  will  be  the  country  selected  to  propose  a 
candidate for appointment to the Joint Inspection Unit. 

I  thank  members  for  their  advice,  and  the  tellers 
for their assistance. 

In  accordance  with  article  3,  paragraph  1,  of  the 
statute  of  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit,  China,  Cuba, 
Egypt, the Russian Federation and the United States of 
America  will  be  requested  to  submit  the  names  of 
Egypt 

United Republic of Tanzania 

Sudan 











 83 
2 

06-61848 
A/61/PV.55

like 
that, 
I  would 
to  remind  members 


candidates  and  the  curricula  vitae  highlighting  the 
candidates’ relevant qualifications for the tasks ahead. 

in 
accordance  with  resolution  59/267,  of  23  December 
2004, candidates should have experience in at least on 
of  the  following  fields:  oversight,  audit,  inspection, 
investigation,  evaluation,  finance,  project  evaluation, 
programme  evaluation,  human  resources  management, 
management,  public  administration, monitoring  and/or 
programme  performance,  as  well  as  knowledge  of  the 
United  Nations  system  and  its  role  in  international 
relations.  

the  appropriate  consultations 
described in article 3, paragraph 2, of the statute of the 
Joint Inspection Unit, including consultations with the 
President of the Economic and Social Council and the 
Secretary-General,  in  his  capacity  as  Chairman  of  the 
United  Nations  System  Chief  Executives  Board  for 
Coordination,  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
will  propose  the  names  of  the  candidates  to  the 
Assembly for appointment to the Joint Inspection Unit. 

this  stage  of  our 
consideration of sub-item (h) of agenda item 106. 
thus  concluded 
After  holding 
We  have 
  Programme of work 

The  President:  I  would  like  to  inform  members 

that,  as  its  first  item  on  Monday,  20  November  2006, 
the Assembly  will  resume  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 74, entitled “Report of the International Criminal 
Court”, to take action on draft resolution A/61/L.21. 

As  the  second  item,  the Assembly  will  consider, 
in  a  joint  debate,  agenda  item  47,  entitled  “Integrated 
and  coordinated  implementation  of  and  follow-up  to 
the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences 
and  summits  in  the  economic,  social  and  related 
fields”,  agenda  item  112,  entitled,  “Strengthening  of 
the United Nations system”, agenda item 113, entitled 
“Follow-up 
the  Millennium 
Summit”,  and  agenda  item  149,  entitled  “United 
Nations 
In 
the 
connection  with  agenda 
Assembly  will 
resolution 
A/61/L.24. 

agenda 
Reconciliation,  2009”,  and 
resolution A/61/L.22. 


As  the  third  item,  the  Assembly  will  consider 
item  150,  entitled  “International  Year  of 
take  action  on  draft 
and  proposals”. 
items  47  and  113, 
The meeting rose at 4.05 p.m.
reform:  measures 
the  outcome  of 
consider  draft 
also 
to 
06-61848 

3 
