
A/61/PV.24
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-first session 

24th plenary meeting 
Monday, 2 October 2006, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Ms. Al-Khalifa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Bahrain) 







  The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 
Agenda item 102 (continued) 

Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/61/1 and Corr.1) 
The  President:  Members  will  recall  that  the 

Secretary-General presented his tenth, and final, annual 
report  to  the  General  Assembly  at  the  10th  plenary 
meeting on 19 September 2006. The report presents the 
Organization’s activities over the past 12 months in the 
areas  of  development,  peace  and  security,  human 
rights,  the  rule  of  law,  humanitarian  affairs  and  the 
strengthening  of  the  United  Nations.  This  year,  the 
report also includes a section on global constituencies, 
including civil society and the business community, in 
order to cover an area that, according to the Secretary-
General, has not previously been classified as a central 
to the Organization’s work but has become increasingly 
important.  It  is,  therefore,  important  that  Member 
States also address that issue in their statements.  
Ms.  Lintonen  (Finland):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU).  The 
acceding  countries  of  Bulgaria  and  Romania,  the 
candidate  countries  of Turkey,  Croatia  and  the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  the  countries  of  the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates  Albania,  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina, 
Montenegro  and  Serbia,  the  European  Free  Trade 
Association  country  member  of 
the  European 
Economic Area  —  Norway  —  as  well as  Ukraine  and 
As 
report, 
in  his  excellent 
the  Republic  of  Moldova,  align  themselves  with  this 
statement. 

The  European  Union  would  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  report  (A/61/1)  on  the  work 
of the Organization. It is very fitting that, for the first 
time,  the  report  combines  the  progress  made  in 
implementing 
the  Millennium  Declaration  with  a 
review of the work of the Organization. My comments 
will  follow  the  outline  presented  by  the  Secretary-
General 
starting  with 
development. 

the  2005  World  Summit  emphasized, 
development must be based on global partnership. The 
EU  remains  firmly  committed  to  supporting  country-
led  sustainable  development  through  actions  on  aid 
volume,  aid  effectiveness,  debt  relief, 
innovative 
finance  mechanisms, 
international 
institutions.  The  Summit  reaffirmed  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  together  with  the  development 
goals  and  objectives  agreed  upon  at  major  United 
Nations  conferences  and  summits,  as  the  framework 
for development.  

The EU has set a timetable to reach new levels of 
official  development  assistance.  By  2010  that  will 
account  for  0.56  per  cent  of  the  EU’s  gross  national 
income — an additional €20 billion annually. By 2015, 
it will reach 0.7 per cent.  

In the global response to HIV/AIDS, the majority 
of  the  work  to  be  done  must  be  in  achieving  a 
substantial  scaling-up  of  preventive  action  and  in 
trade  and 
the 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

06-54618 (E) 
*0654618* 

to 
the 
on 
social 
change. 
Inclusive 
Population 
rights  of  persons  belonging 
The  EU  remains  firmly  committed 
A/61/PV.24 

achieving 
country-led 
strategies  are  a  key  element  in  that  regard.  We  must 
constantly  combat  stigmatization  and  discrimination. 
We  must  also  pay  special  attention  to  human  rights, 
particularly 
to 
vulnerable  groups,  to  sexual  and  reproductive  health 
rights and to the rights of women and young people, in 
accordance  with  the  Programme  of  Action  of  the 
International  Conference 
and 
Development. 

As the Secretary-General has emphasized, Africa 
is  in  need  of  urgent  and  concerted  action  in  all  areas. 
The  EU  will  continue  to  strengthen  its  relations  with 
Africa within the framework of the comprehensive EU 
Strategy  for  Africa,  which  was  approved  by  the 
European Council in 2005. In the course of next year, 
that  unilateral  agreement  will  be  transformed  into  a 
joint  African  strategy, 
in  close  cooperation  with 
African partners.  

joint 
international  efforts  to  protect  the  natural  resource 
base,  achieve  sustainable  patterns  of  consumption  and 
production,  and  safeguard  the  Earth’s  biodiversity.  To 
deal with environmental issues in an effective manner, 
more  coherence  is  urgently  needed  in  the  United 
Nations system. I therefore call for an early resumption 
of  the  discussions  on  environmental  governance,  in 
line with paragraph 169 of the World Summit Outcome 
document. 

The  EU  welcomes  the  results  of  the  Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change,  which  initiated  an 
important  dialogue  aimed  at  exchanging  experiences 
and  analyzing  strategic  approaches  for 
long-term 
cooperative  action  to  address  climate  change. The  EU 
is committed to participating actively in that dialogue. 

With  regard  to  peace  and  security,  the  EU  fully 
shares  the  view  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the 
importance  of  conflict  prevention  and  protecting 
people  from  violence.  While  the  development  agenda 
itself  is  powerful  in  addressing  the  root  causes  of 
conflicts,  the  United  Nations  must  have  additional 
tools for conflict prevention. Much has been done, but 
more steps are still needed to interconnect security and 
development, as well as with regard to the resolution of 
disputes by peaceful means. The EU also attaches great 
importance 
the 
responsibility to protect. 
the  concept  of 
to  promoting 
Commission, 
The  EU  views 
the  path  of  both 
the  establishment  of 
along  with 
the 

Peacebuilding 
the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office  and  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund,  as  a  key  achievement  of  the  United  Nations 
reform process launched by the World Summit. The EU 
has  for  many  years  provided  considerable  input  for 
peacebuilding activities all over the world and is ready 
to continue its commitments by actively supporting the 
work of the Peacebuilding Commission. 

The  continuing  terrorist  attacks  remind  us  that 
terrorism remains one of the most serious threats to all 
States  and  peoples.  The  EU  applauds  the  adoption  of 
the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy 
as  an  important  step  in  combating  terrorism.  The 
General Assembly  should  keep  up  the  momentum  and 
make  every  effort  to  reach  an  agreement  on  the 
comprehensive convention on international terrorism.  

This summer, the Conference to Review Progress 
Made  in  the  Implementation  of  the  Programme  of 
Action  to  Prevent,  Combat  and  Eradicate  the  Illicit 
Trade  in  Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons  in  All  Its 
Aspects  followed 
the  Review 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  the  World 
Summit, and did not yield any substantial results. It is 
high  time  that  we  tackle  the  deadlock  in  multilateral 
negotiations  in  this  important  field  of  the  work  of  the 
United  Nations  in  the  area  of  for  peace  and  security. 
We  believe  that  the  developments  in  revitalizing  the 
Conference  on  Disarmament  in  Geneva  represent  a 
positive example in that regard. 

We  welcome  the  inclusion  of  rule  of  law  at  the 
national  and  international  levels  in  the  agenda  of  the 
General  Assembly.  The  European  Union  also  looks 
forward  to  the  early  establishment  of  the  rule  of  law 
assistance unit, as anticipated by the Secretary-General 
and endorsed by world leaders at the 2005 Summit. 

The International Criminal Court is of the utmost 
importance  for  ending  impunity  and  establishing  the 
rule  of  law  in  post-conflict  situations.  Furthermore, 
bringing  to  justice  perpetrators  of  crimes  against 
humanity  and  war  crimes  contributes  significantly  to 
preventing the recurrence of those crimes, as well as to 
promoting  the  prevention  of  conflicts  at  their  early 
stages. 

The  European  Union  is  strongly  committed  to 
ensuring that the Human Rights Council will be able to 
meet  the  objectives  set  by  our  leaders  at  the  World 
2 

06-54618 


Summit  and  the  needs  and  expectations  of  rights 
holders,  namely,  the  people  of  the  world.  The  active 
participation  of  non-governmental  organizations  is  a 
central  element  of  the  work  of  the  human  rights 
machinery of the United Nations, and should be further 
strengthened  on  the  basis  of  the  practices  established 
under the Commission for Human Rights.  

Another  important  decision  taken  at  the  World 
Summit was the doubling of the resources of the Office 
of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. The EU 
is pleased to  note that the  plan of action presented by 
the  High  Commissioner 
in  May  2005  has  been 
complemented by the first biennial programme plan for 
the years 2008 and 2009.  

We welcome the recent improvements in the area 
of  humanitarian  action,  including  the  establishment  of 
the  Central  Emergency  Response  Fund.  The  current 
deteriorating humanitarian and security situation in the 
Sudan  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  is 
particularly alarming. Gender-based violence is a grave 
concern  that  deserves  urgent  attention.  The  provision 
of  protection  and  assistance  to  internally  displaced 
persons  needs  to  be  strengthened  further.  In  addition, 
the  predictability  of  humanitarian  funding  needs  to  be 
improved,  as  some  emergencies  remain  chronically 
under-funded or even neglected. 

In  accordance  with  the  overall  efforts  for  more 
efficiency  and  coherence, 
the 
creation  of  the  High-level  Panel  on  System-wide 
Coherence. It is vital that the Organization continue to 
move  towards  enhanced  efficiency  and  effectiveness, 
as agreed by our heads of State and Government at the 
World Summit.  

The European Union is committed to the work of 
the ad hoc informal working group on mandate review 
and 
the  process  of 
strengthening  and  renewing  the  Organization. We  also 
welcome  the  progress  already  made  in  the  area  of 
management reform, including the establishment of an 
ethics  office,  the  implementation  of  whistle-blower 
protection  and  the  agreement  to  reform  the  current 
unwieldy  information  and  communication  technology 
systems.  However,  much  remains  to  be  done.  Only 
through 
and  better 
management  will  the  United  Nations  become  stronger 
and  more  effective.  Strengthening  oversight  in  the 
United Nations is one of the EU’s priorities. 
the  EU  welcomes 
fully  dedicated 
accountability 
strengthened 
remains 
to 
A/61/PV.24
like 
thanking 
I  would 
The  protection  and  security  of  staff  in  the  field 

There  are  almost  90,000  personnel  serving  in  18 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations,  directly 
impacting the lives of hundreds of millions of people. 
We therefore recognize the need for a more integrated 
and  mobile  global  workforce,  and  we  look  forward  to 
discussing  that  and  other  proposals  in  the  context  of 
human resources management reform. 

and at Headquarters is of the utmost importance.  

Given the need for urgent renovations in order to 
make  the  United  Nations  Headquarters  in  New  York 
safe  and  more  functional,  we  need  an  agreement  on 
funding of the Capital Master Plan during this session. 

Before  I  conclude,  I  would  like  to  comment  on 
Chapter  VI  of  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General, 
which  deals  with  global  constituencies.  The  EU  fully 
shares  the  views  of  the  Secretary-General  on  these 
issues: security is not a matter for Governments alone, 
and development needs are human needs. 

the 
to  conclude  by 
Secretary-General  and  the  staff  of  the  United  Nations 
for  work  well  done,  both  at  Headquarters  and  in  the 
field.  The  European  Union  applauds  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  numerous  ideas  and  changes  made  in 
the past 10 years to bring the United Nations up to best 
international practices.  
Mr.  Gaisenak  (Belarus)  (spoke in Russian): The 

delegation  of  Belarus  has  studied  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
(A/61/1) with great attention. 

The  general  debate  at  the  current  session  has 
shown that the United Nations has not yet managed to 
realize  its  full  potential  in  the  areas  of  peacebuilding 
and having a constructive and organizing influence. At 
the  moment,  the  Organization  is  unable  to  have  a 
decisive  impact  on  building  an  atmosphere  of  trust 
between  States,  preventing  military  conflicts  and 
combating  terrorism  and  poverty.  The  root  causes  of 
the failures and missed opportunities should be sought 
in a complex international situation that is determined 
by  a  unipolar  world  order.  So  long  as  that  order 
persists —  in  which  the  way  to  solve  problems  is 
dictated  by  a  single  party  —  progress  will  be 
unattainable. 

Global  challenges  and  threats  can  be  overcome 
only  if  we  act  together,  pooling  all  our  strengths  and 
resources.  We  must  support  existing  focal  points  of 
06-54618 

3 
A/61/PV.24 

consolidation  and  development  and  encourage  the 
creation  of  new  ones  that  can  resist  external  pressure 
and become sources of regional and global stability. It 
is  important  that  we  adopt  new  approaches  to  the 
problems  related  to  security  and  development.  Such 
approaches  should  be  based  on  multipolarity  and  an 
acknowledgement of the diversity of ways in which the 
progressive  development  of  countries  and  peoples  can 
be achieved. 

We  have  noted  with  regret  and  sadness  that,  as 
many world leaders have stated, the global partnership 
for development has remained only a concept on paper. 
We  have  taken  that  to  heart,  because  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) affect the fate of billions 
of people: their lives, their health and their prosperity. 
Who other than the United Nations will care for them? 

Our support for the principles of true partnership 
inspired  Belarus  to  seek  to  become  a  member  of  the 
Economic and Social Council. We come to the Council 
with a clear intention to utilize the full potential of the 
United Nations and its social and economic institutions 
by  providing  practical  support  for  the  efforts  by  the 
Governments  of 
to 
implement  their  national  development  strategies.  The 
Economic  and  Social  Council  should  become  an 
international  forum  in  which  the  most  important 
international  decisions  on  development  assistance  are 
taken. That approach was reflected in our proposals for 
reform  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  which 
were 
for 
consideration in February. 

We  have  often  stressed  the  need  to  improve 
United  Nations  activities  in  the  area  of  human  rights. 
We oppose double standards and the use of the issue of 
human  rights  as  a  pretext  for  applying  political 
pressure  on  sovereign  States.  We  support  equitable 
dialogue aimed at truly protecting human rights. 

It  is  because  of  the  need  to  genuinely  promote 
human rights that Belarus has prepared and will submit 
to 
the  General  Assembly  a  draft  resolution  on 
improving 
against 
trafficking in persons. Today, a quarter of all victims of 
human  trafficking  come  from  the  regions  of  Central 
and  Eastern  Europe  and 
the  Commonwealth  of 
Independent  States  (CIS).  The  time  has  come  to  take 
robust and coordinated action to protect those who are 
weak and vulnerable, particularly women and children. 
It  is  also  high  time  to  speak  out  regarding  the 
the  General  Assembly 
least  developed 
coordination  of 
submitted 
countries 
efforts 
the 
to 

in 
and 
economic, 
that 
political 
responsibility  borne  by  those  who  exploit  the  victims 
of such trafficking. We believe that the elaboration of a 
viable  United  Nations  strategy  against  trafficking  in 
persons should be the ultimate objective of our efforts 
in this area. 

My country, the Republic of Belarus, is located in 
a  unique  geographic  region 
is  experiencing 
profound 
social 
transformations.  That  region,  Eastern  Europe,  has 
enjoyed  very  high  economic  growth  rates  for  several 
years.  Does  that  give  the  United  Nations  the  right  to 
exclude from its agenda the problems of countries with 
economies  in  transition?  The  answer  is  obvious  if  we 
address the differences in the levels of socio-economic 
development among the subregions of Eastern Europe. 
Members  should  judge  for  themselves:  there  are 
125 million people — including 25 million children — 
living  below  the  poverty  line.  In  many  small  and 
vulnerable countries with transitional economies, there 
has  been  both  progress  and  painful  movement 
backwards  in  terms  of  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  especially 
the  areas  of 
education and health care. Eastern Europe and the CIS 
countries are falling behind Latin America and Asia in 
achieving some of the MDGs. 

Therefore,  together  with  our  partners,  we  are 
preparing  and  will  submit  to  the  General Assembly  a 
draft  resolution  on 
integration  of  countries  with 
economies  in  transition  into  the  world  economy.  The 
draft  resolution’s  key  objective  is  to  ensure  the 
provision  of 
financial  and 
technical  assistance  to  the  countries  that  truly  need  it. 
We ask delegations to support the draft resolution. 
Belarus,  as  one  of  the  few  countries  that  have 

voluntarily 
the  possession  of  nuclear 
weapons,  is  deeply  concerned  about  the  lack  of 
progress  in  bringing  about  the  entry  into  force  of  the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. 

The  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  (NPT)  undoubtedly  remains  the  basis  of  the 
current international security system. We believe that it 
is essential to implement all three elements of the NPT: 
disarmament,  non-proliferation  and  the  right  to  use 
nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes.  We  emphasize 
that  placing  restrictions  on  the  inalienable  right  of  all 
non-nuclear-weapon  States  to  use  nuclear  energy  for 
peaceful purposes directly undermines the Treaty. 
international 
renounced 
targeted 
4 

06-54618 
international 



The  lack  of  results  in  disarmament  forums  in 
recent years is a direct consequence of the rising level 
of  confrontation  in  the  modern  world  and  of  the 
tendency to seek to solve problems from a position of 
strength.  Progress  on  disarmament  is  essential.  It  is 
important not only that we preserve the existing United 
Nations disarmament machinery, but also that we make 
it function properly. 

Here,  we  are  pleased  to  welcome  one  positive 
example:  the  establishment  of  a  new  nuclear-weapon-
free zone in Central Asia. Four Central Asian States are 
our  partners  in  a  regional  initiative,  the  Collective 
Security  Treaty  Organization  (CSTO).  Belarus,  in  its 
capacity  as  Chair  of  the  CSTO,  has  circulated  a 
statement of support for that initiative. 
Belarus attaches great importance not only to the 

implementation  of 
treaties  banning 
existing  types  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  or 
imposing  control  measures  on  them,  but  also  to  the 
adoption  of  measures  to  prevent  the  development  of 
new types of  such weapons. Belarus was a sponsor of 
the  relevant  draft  resolution.  The  fact  that  that  draft 
resolution  was  not  adopted  by  consensus  during  the 
sixtieth  session  of  the  General Assembly  is  alarming. 
Let me ask those who did not support the draft whether 
they  really  intend  to  create  new  types  of  weapons  of 
mass destruction. 

Certainly,  a  significant  event  was  the  consensus 
adoption  by  the  General  Assembly  of  the  United 
Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy and plan of 
action (resolution 60/288). We welcome that important 
event,  because,  for  the  first  time  in  United  Nations 
history,  all  192  Member  States  agreed  on  common 
principles  and  approaches  for  combating  terrorism  at 
the global level. 

It  is  understandable,  in  our  view,  when  the 
permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  have 
differing  opinions  on  ways  to  resolve  international 
crises.  More  often  than  not,  the  most  balanced  and 
wisest  decisions  are  taken  as  a  result.  However,  we 
should  like  to  note  that  more  coordinated  action  and 
swifter  decision-making  by  Council  members  could 
help  the  Council  to  respond  more  effectively  to 
present-day  threats  and  challenges  and  to  make  the 
lives of people in the world’s hot spots a little safer. 

reform. 
United Nations reform is not proceeding smoothly. On 
the one hand, important new bodies were established at 
subject  of 
I  now 
turn 
the 
to 
A/61/PV.24
On 
revitalization  of 
the  other  hand, 
the sixtieth session, although their effectiveness has yet 
to be assessed. 

the 
General Assembly  is  moving  slowly  and  does  not 
encompass  some  important  spheres.  Yet,  we  feel 
confident  that  a  step-by-step,  balanced  approach  that 
takes into account the interests of all Member States is 
much  better  and  more  viable  than  the  intention  to 
create a system of management that suits only a narrow 
circle of influential States. 
We should recall that the goal of reform is not the 

cost-cutting, or even the improvement, of management. 
Reform is being carried out in order that every human 
being on this planet might be aware of the concern felt 
by the international community and be able to believe 
in his or her own better future. 
Mr.  Akram  (Pakistan):  The  Pakistan  delegation 

expresses  its  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  on 
the presentation of his annual report on the work of the 
Organization.  We  note  the  changed  format  of  the 
report,  covering  the  four  main  areas  of  the  2005 
Summit  Declaration.  In  this  process,  however,  the 
in-depth  review  of  some  of  the  important  political 
issues with which the United Nations is involved, such 
as  the  Middle  East  conflict,  Palestine,  South  Asian 
relations  and  Kashmir,  have  not  been  adequately 
covered. In future, it would be advisable for the report 
to  be  assembled  into  the  12  thematic  clusters  of  the 
United Nations General Assembly’s agenda. 

indispensable 
instrument  for  the  promotion  of  humanity’s  shared 
goals.  The  present  and  emerging  challenges  of  the 
twenty-first  century  can  only  be  overcome  through 
multilateral cooperation. If the United Nations did not 
already exist, we would need to create it. 

It  has  been  aptly  and  repeatedly  stated  that  the 
United Nations must adapt and be equipped to address 
these  new  challenges  and  circumstances  of  our  times. 
The  reform  initiatives  of  the  Secretary-General,  the 
2005  Summit  decisions  and 
implementation 
process  pursued  this  year  were  all  guided  by  this 
preoccupation.  The  creation  of 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the 
Emergency  Response  Fund  are  all  cause  for  modest 
satisfaction.  Of  course,  there  are  several  issues  where 
implementation  of  the  Summit’s  decisions  remain 
including 
outstanding, 
the 
the 
the  Economic  and  Social 
General Assembly  and 
The  United  Nations 
revitalization  of 
the 
is 
an 
06-54618 

5 
in 
that  are  sought 
Our  deliberations 
A/61/PV.24 

Council and the comprehensive reform of the Security 
Council. 

The reform exercise has been plagued not only by 
the  multiple  objectives 
to  be 
simultaneously  promoted,  but  also  by  the  absence  of 
agreement on the strategic objectives of these reforms. 
During  its  60-year  history,  the  United  Nations  has 
passed  from  the  bipolar  structures  of  the  cold  war 
through a period of unipolarity. It is now at the prelude 
to  a  multipolar  world.  We  have  entered  an  era  of 
globalization  and  interdependence,  but  also  one  of 
huge  asymmetries  in  power,  wealth  and  knowledge. 
Despite the 2005 Summit, we, the United Nations, have 
yet  to  establish  a  new  paradigm  under  which  world 
affairs and global challenges will be managed. 

these  halls  confront 
conflicting pulls and pressures. They have been marked 
by  sharp  suspicions  between  the  North  and  the  South. 
Some  would  wish  our  Organization  to  mirror  the 
unequal  asymmetries  of  the  “real”  world.  Others,  the 
more  numerous  developing  countries,  wish  to  utilize 
the  United  Nations  as  the  principal  instrument  to 
change  and  democratize  the  unequal  realities  of  our 
globalized, yet divided, world. 
Some  wish  to  utilize  the  United  Nations  as  an 

instrument 
for  collective  enforcement  of  “good 
behaviour”;  others,  the  more  numerous,  wish  to  use  it 
to  promote  collective  and  cooperative  solutions  to 
political, 
environmental 
problems. In our view, the strategic objectives, political 
parameters and modus operandi of the United Nations 
must  be  consistent  with  the  principles  and  purposes 
enshrined  in  the  United  Nations  Charter  —  principles 
and purposes whose lofty vision is as relevant today as 
it was 60 years ago. 

tension 
between equity and the status quo is the breakdown of 
the 
and 
non-proliferation.  The  2005  Summit  was  unable  to 
agree  on  any  provisions  on  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation.  The  Conference  on  Disarmament 
remains paralyzed. Major Powers have resiled from the 
commitment  to  nuclear  disarmament.  An  arms  race 
may  be  soon  under  way  in  outer  space.  The  Nuclear 
Non-Proliferation  Treaty  (NPT)  regime  is  riven  by 
doubts  and  double  standards  regarding,  for  instance, 
rights,  obligations  and  scope  of  peaceful  nuclear 
cooperation.  A 
to  proliferation 
important  manifestation  of 
la  carte  solutions 
disarmament 
economic, 
consensus 
nuclear 
social 
and 
One 
this 
on 

problems  are  sought  to  be  prescribed  in  restrictive 
regimes  or  through  the  Security  Council.  The  three 
nuclear-weapon  States  not  in  the  NPT  remain  outside 
international non-proliferation arrangements. Instead of 
evolving  agreed  arrangements  to  integrate  them  as 
partners in the non-proliferation regime, discrimination 
is now being introduced among the three as well, with 
possibly  negative  effects  for  non-proliferation  and 
international security. 

Pakistan  believes  it  is  time  to  re-build  the 
international  consensus  on  both  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation  and 
to  agree  on  effective  and 
non-discriminatory  processes 
to  promote  both.  A 
special conference should be convened, under the aegis 
of the United Nations, to promote such an international 
consensus. 

A few weeks ago, the General Assembly adopted 
a  United  Nations  strategy  against  terrorism.  We  hope 
this  will  enhance  international  cooperation.  Yet,  the 
strategy  will  remain  incomplete  and,  finally,  fruitless, 
so  long  as  it  does  not  fully  and  frontally  address  the 
root causes of terrorism, State terrorism and the misuse 
of  terrorism  to  justify  foreign  occupation  and  the 
suppression  of 
self-
determination. In the process of its prescribed periodic 
review, the strategy should be revised to address these 
issues.  The  General  Assembly  should  create 
the 
intergovernmental  mechanism  it  requires  to  assume 
principal  responsibility  for  overseeing  the  United 
Nations activities relating to terrorism. 

Under  the  rubric  of  peace  and  security,  the 
Secretary-General’s  report  outlines  the  myriad  actions 
of  the  United  Nations  to  manage  conflicts  and  their 
consequences. These are the invaluable intercessions of 
this  Organization  in  the  service  of  peace.  Yet,  some 
observations are essential. 

the  Security 
Council,  is  preoccupied  today  with  intra-State  or 
internal  conflicts,  rather  than  with  the  existential 
threats posed by inter-State disputes. 

Conflicts  such  as  those  in  the  Middle  East,  in 
South Asia, on the Korean peninsula and elsewhere are 
being  managed  largely  in  other  formats  and  forums 
rather  than  the  United  Nations,  which  should  be 
actively 
to  promote  equitable 
solutions to such conflicts and disputes, in accordance 
with  the  resolutions  of  this  Organization.  It  possesses 
the  mechanisms  and  the  authority,  under  Chapters  VI 
The  United  Nations, 
right  of  peoples 
including 
in  order 
involved 
the 
to 
6 

06-54618 
the 
advisability 
about 
of 


and VII,  as  well  as  through  the  International  Court  of 
Justice, to promote that objective. 

Secondly,  even  in  the  case  of  internal  conflicts, 
the  attention  of  the  international  community  is  mostly 
aroused only  after the breakdown of  peace.  No doubt, 
the intercessions of the United Nations — especially in 
peacekeeping operations — have proved indispensable 
in  restoring  peace.  Pakistan  hosts  the  oldest  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  mission  —  the  United  Nations 
Military  Observer  Group  for  India  and  Pakistan  — 
which  is  deployed  on  the  Line  of  Control  in  disputed 
Jammu and Kashmir. We have also been, over the past 
three  years,  the  largest  troop  contributor  to  United 
Nations peacekeeping. Peacekeeping missions are now 
much  more  numerous,  more  complex  and  more 
dangerous.  But 
the  world  community’s  combined 
forces  are  now  perhaps  reaching  the  limits  of  their 
capacity  for  collective  intervention.  The  most  recent 
Mission, for Lebanon, is proving difficult to organize. 
Another  on  the  anvil,  for  Darfur,  raises  serious 
questions 
and  possible 
a  United  Nations-authorized 
consequences 
intervention  against 
the  wishes  of  a  country’s 
Government. 

The  fundamental  question,  however,  is:  Why  is 
the  United  Nations  not  more  actively  engaged  in  the 
prevention of such internal problems, before they turn 
into  full-fledged  civil  wars  requiring  expensive  and 
difficult  peacekeeping  operations?  Any  analysis  of 
these conflicts would reveal that, at their root, they are 
the result of what I call the “politics of scarcity”. The 
secret to their prevention is rapid economic and social 
development and, in Africa’s case at least, an end to the 
illegal  exploitation  of  the  vast  natural  resources  of 
these developing countries. 

the  Organization’s 
development  activities,  especially  the  follow-up  to 
2005  Summit,  reflects  a  fair  review  of  ongoing 
activities.  However,  the  report  fails  to  offer  a  full 
analysis  of  the  development  picture  and  the  enormous 
challenges  confronting 
the  developing  countries. 
Globalization has enabled several developing countries 
to  break  through  the  barrier  of  poverty,  mostly  as  a 
result  of  their  own  endeavours,  but  it  has  further 
marginalized 
and 
communities.  The  promises  of  higher  official 
development  assistance  and  debt  cancellation  made  at 
the  2005  Summit  have  not  yet  materialized.  The 
the  most  vulnerable  States 
review  of 
report’s 
The 
A/61/PV.24
higher 
relief, 
should 
through 
including 
indicators  developed 
that  so  request  should  be  assisted 
so-called Doha Development Agenda is on life support, 
if not already deceased. 

If  the  promise  of  a  North-South  partnership  for 
development  is  to  become  a  reality,  it  is  essential  to 
ensure  the  full  and  timely  implementation  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and 
the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals.  Developing 
countries 
in 
formulating 
their  national  development  strategies. 
Development  partners  —  the  industrialized  and  richer 
countries  and  international  institutions  —  must  fulfil 
their  commitments  to  support  the  success  of  these 
official 
strategies, 
development  assistance,  debt 
trade  and 
investment.  To  that  end,  a  politically  and  technically 
empowered  monitoring  mechanism 
be 
established,  under  the  Economic  and  Social  Council, 
and  specific 
to  enable  an 
objective  monitoring  of  the  implementation  of  the 
MDGs  and  the  internationally  agreed  development 
goals  by  all  concerned. The  resolution  adopted  on  the 
follow-up  to  the  development  provisions  of  the  2005 
Summit outlines the steps that should be taken for this 
purpose. 

While development was proclaimed to be the first 
priority of the 2005 Summit, it is telling and sad that, 
of  all  the  institutional  reform  decisions,  the  one 
relating  to  the  empowerment  and  revival  of  the 
Economic and Social Council is the one that could not 
be  adopted  prior  to  the  conclusion  of  the  sixtieth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  despite  the  broad 
agreement  on  this  issue  at  the  2005  Summit.  That 
resolution must be approved without further delay. 
It  is  also  evident  that  the  entire  United  Nations 

development 
to  be 
strengthened  and  streamlined,  at  both  the  country  and 
intergovernmental  levels  and  in  both  the  policy  and 
operational areas. In that context, the recommendations 
of  the  High-level  Panel  on  System-wide  Coherence 
will  require  close  and  urgent  attention  by  the  General 
Assembly. 

As  in  peacekeeping,  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations  in  coordinating  the  response  to  humanitarian 
emergencies  has  been  indispensable  and  outstanding. 
This was witnessed in the response to both the tsunami 
and  to  the  massive  earthquake  which  devastated  the 
northern regions of Pakistan and Jammu and Kashmir a 
year  ago.  We  welcome  the  establishment  of  the  $500 
system  needs 
cooperation 
06-54618 

7 
for  Human  Rights; 
A/61/PV.24 

million Central Emergency Response Fund. We believe 
that  United  Nations  humanitarian  activities  would 
benefit from closer intergovernmental engagement and 
oversight under the Economic and Social Council. 

The first meetings of the Human Rights Council, 
while  constructively  directed,  have  confirmed  the 
different  dispositions  of  various  countries  and  groups 
regarding  its  agenda,  structures  and  working  methods. 
In  our  view,  the  main  issues  are  the  promotion  of  a 
cooperative  rather  than  a  coercive  approach  to  human 
rights;  the  need  for  full  integration  of  the  right  to 
development  into  the  framework  of  the  human  rights 
matrix; the avoidance of double standards and political 
targeting  of  developing  and  especially  Muslim 
countries; the composition and role of the Office of the 
High  Commissioner 
the 
rationalization  of  special  mechanisms  and  procedures; 
and  the  streamlining  of  the  role  of  civil  —  and 
sometimes  uncivil  —  society  in  the  Human  Rights 
Council and related forums. 

Another important outstanding issue is the reform 
of  the  Security  Council.  This  is  of  vital  interest  to 
every  Member  State.  A  solution  to  Security  Council 
reform would need to accommodate the interests of all 
and  would  have  to  be  resolved  by  consensus  or  the 
widest  possible  agreement.  While  Security  Council 
reform  has  been  discussed  and  debated  for  a  decade, 
compromise 
through 
negotiations.  A  negotiating  process,  pursued  with 
political  flexibility  and  diplomatic  creativity,  could 
evolve  an  agreement  that  accommodates  the  interests 
of  all  Member  States  and  regions. This  general  desire 
for a negotiated and agreed solution was evident at the 
dinner  meeting  on  20  September  hosted  by 
the 
President  of  Pakistan  and  the  Prime  Minister  of  Italy. 
We  trust,  Madam  President,  that  you  will  lead  this 
effort to open negotiations with a view to evolving an 
agreed  solution  for  the  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
Security Council. 
The endeavour to introduce reforms in the United 

Nations management and Secretariat and to review old 
mandates  has  proved  to  be  extensive.  I  was  honoured 
to  co-chair  that  enterprise,  first  with  my  former 
Canadian  colleague  and  now  with Ambassador  David 
Cooney of Ireland. 

The  mandate  review  exercise  has  produced 
extensive  information  on  the  almost  10,000  five-year-
old mandates approved by the principal United Nations 
explored 
been 
has 
not 

Similarly, 
they  had  circulated  offered 
organs.  However,  we  have  not  been  able  in  the 
Assembly  to  proceed  beyond  the  consideration  of  400 
five-year-old  non-renewed  mandates.  The  co-Chairs 
had  conveyed  to  your  predecessor,  Madam,  that  the 
guidelines 
the  best 
possibility  of  continuing  this  exercise,  which  will  be 
laborious and time-consuming. We will need to decide 
by  year-end  whether  and  how  the  mandate  review 
should be conducted. 

the  Secretariat  and  management 
reforms  will  need  to  be  pursued  objectively  and 
carefully,  bearing  in  mind  the  interests  of  all  Member 
States.  Efficiency  and  effectiveness  are  desirable  and 
endorsed  by  all.  But  any  effort  to  further  erode  the 
financial  and  budgetary  authority  of  the  General 
Assembly  will  be  resisted  by  the  majority  of  Member 
States. 

The performance and effectiveness of the United 
Nations depends on the following crucial factors: first, 
the  quality  of  its  human  resources;  secondly,  the 
financial  resources  provided  to  support  its  activities; 
thirdly, the authority vested in the Organization by the 
Member  States;  and  fourthly,  the  political  will  to 
support the mandated programmes and activities of the 
Organization.  All  efforts  to  achieve  United  Nations 
reform  must  ensure 
these  prerequisites  are 
available  to  our  Organization  and  our  new  Secretary-
General. 

Those of us who have endeavoured to carve out a 
central  role  for  the  United  Nations  in  world  affairs 
have often been obliged to temper our idealism in the 
face of power realities. However, this should not shake 
our  belief 
that  sustainable  peace  and  universal 
prosperity can be secured once principles have primacy 
over  power.  The  world  needs  a  United  Nations  which 
does  not  always  mirror  the  harsh  and  unequal  power 
realities. The world needs a United Nations which acts 
with moral authority and credibility. The world needs a 
United  Nations  which  can  stand  up  for  the  weak  and 
the  powerless  and  which  is  a  force  for  objectivity, 
fairness,  equality  and  justice  in  the  management  of 
international relations. 
Mr.  Sen  (India):  We  congratulate  you  on  your 

election, Madam, and on the efficient manner in which 
you  have  been  conducting  the  work  of  the  sixty-first 
session. We assure you of our constructive cooperation. 
We thank the Secretary-General for the comprehensive 
that 
8 

06-54618 
to 
led 
the  adoption  of 


overview of the Organization’s main achievements and 
challenges during the past 12 months. 

As  the  report  highlights,  the  Secretary-General 
has  overseen  the  Organization’s  many  achievements 
during  the  past  10  years.  The  Millennium  Summit, 
which 
the  Millennium 
Declaration  and  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  was  followed  up  last  year  with  the  five-year 
review  and  the  adoption  of  the  2005  World  Summit 
Outcome Document. The MDGs embody a quantifiable 
vision of certain important economic and social rights 
and,  in  this  sense,  they  carry  forward  the  right  to 
development. The  global  partnership  for  development, 
as set out in the Millennium Declaration and reaffirmed 
by the 2005 World Summit, is primarily a commitment 
to make the right to development a reality for all, and 
we  should  reach  broad  agreement  in  fulfilling  the 
promise. 

The  report  reminds  us  of  the  imperative  of 
implementing  the  global  partnership  for  development; 
the need for enhanced focus on peacebuilding; and the 
necessity of increased attention to the special needs of 
Africa.  Here,  I  would  like  to  say  that,  until  there  is  a 
sharp decrease in vulnerability and a sharp increase in 
welfare  throughout  the  African  continent  and  in  the 
small  island  developing  States,  we  cannot  really  pride 
ourselves  on  any  significant  measure  of  success.  We 
also  need  to  focus  on  health  issues,  including  HIV/ 
AIDS,  malaria  and  tuberculosis,  and  on  the  need  to 
strengthen the United Nations and make it a robust and 
vibrant  Organization,  responsive  to  the  needs  of  the 
time  and,  by  implication,  to  the  needs  of  developing 
countries,  which  constitute  the  vast  majority  of  the 
Organization.  

It  is  worth  remembering  that  what  was  achieved 
at  the  2005  World  Summit  was  the  result  of  the 
solidarity  of  the  developing  countries.  This  remains 
important  in  the  implementation  of  the  commitments 
set  out  in  the  World  Summit  Outcome;  agreement 
reached  in  the  context  of  development  follow-up  is 
indicative. 

is 
development.  Poverty  and  conflicts  are  not  only  the 
legacy of the colonial past, but also the epiphenomena 
of  the  structural  policies  of  the  international  financial 
institutions.  The  present  international  system  takes 
from the poor: net transfers from developing countries 
have continued to rise for the twelfth consecutive year, 
For  developing  countries, 
the  centrepiece 
A/61/PV.24
the 
partnership 
cannot  be 
The  MDGs 
reaching  over  $450  billion.  Without  addressing  the 
development  problems  faced  by  the  vast  majority  of 
the  United  Nations  membership,  security  in  its  full 
sense cannot be achieved. The report of the Secretary-
General  notes  that,  since  the  Millennium  Summit  in 
2000,  the  progress  has  been  uneven  and  the  ongoing 
remain  staggering. 
levels  of  human  deprivation 
Implementing 
global 
for 
development — MDG 8 — is a categorical imperative. 

achieved  without 
implementing  the  0.7  per  cent  official  development 
assistance  (ODA)  target  in  a  time-bound  manner  or 
without 
innovative  financing,  deeper  debt  relief, 
enhanced market access and improved global economic 
governance.  Even  though  aggregate  ODA  reached  a 
record  high  of  $106  billion  in  2005,  only  a  small 
fraction  of  that  nominal  increase  actually  represented 
additional  finance  to  support  real  investments  in 
countries that need them most.  
We  welcome  the  agreement  reached  to  monitor 

the  fulfilment  of  commitments  made 
to  provide 
development  assistance.  India  is  supportive  of  all 
initiatives  in  support  of  the  low-income  countries, 
including  those  in Africa,  where  debt  burdens  impose 
serious constraints on the attainment of the MDGs. It is 
also 
is 
complemented by sharp increases in ODA. 

Addressing systemic issues is an urgent practical 
necessity. As reaffirmed at the 2005 World Summit and 
subsequently agreed in the context of the development 
follow-up this July, there is an overwhelming logic for 
the  United  Nations 
the 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  international  financial, 
monetary  and  trading  systems.  The  democratic  deficit 
in 
international  financial  architecture  can  be 
addressed  only  through  a  fundamental  reform  of  the 
quota  structure,  which  is  an  absolute  necessity  for  the 
credibility  and  legitimacy  of  international  financial 
institutions.  

The  United  Nations  should  encourage  further 
effective,  time-bound  steps  for  the  second  stage  of 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF)  quota  reform 
without delay, involving a basic revision of the formula 
and 
all 
underrepresented  countries,  as  well  as  the  revision  of 
the articles of the IMF. 
The  suspension  of  the  Doha  round  of  trade 

negotiations  is  a  cause  for  concern. The  realization  of 
to  give  direction 
stock  cancellation 
important 
that  debt 
subsequent 
quota 
increases 
for 
to 
the 
06-54618 

9 

A/61/PV.24 

the development imperatives of the Doha Development 
Agenda,  the  July  framework  and  the  Hong  Kong 
Ministerial  Declaration 
is  crucial  for  developing 
countries.  The  overarching  principle  of  special  and 
differential treatment remains a categorical imperative. 
A  demonstration  of  political  will  by  the  developed 
countries  will  be  required  if  negotiations  are  to  be 
saved. 

Giving  clear  political  direction  to  the  WTO, 
which was not possible in the 2005 World Summit, in 
spite  of  broad  political  support,  remains  necessary. 
Here  I  would  like  to  say  that  the  problems  of  the 
developing  countries,  which  are  sometimes  attributed 
to inadequate liberalization or corruption are, in fact, a 
result  of  the  fact  that  the  developed  countries  have 
gone back on the promises that they made. 

In  fact,  the  history  of  trade  negotiations  is  a 
history  of  broken  promises  and  silenced  consciences. 
In  the  Uruguay  round,  in  return  for  the  acceptance  by 
developing countries of lower tariffs and new regimes 
such  as  the  Agreement  on  Trade-Related  Aspects  of 
Intellectual  Property  Rights,  the  developed  countries 
undertook to phase out the textile quotas and to abolish 
agricultural  subsidies.  The  first  took  10  years;  the 
second — the removal of agricultural subsidies — has 
not  yet  happened.  That  really  amounts  to  burying  the 
Punta del Este Declaration. The Doha round, therefore, 
needs  some  kind  of  an  impetus  from  the  United 
Nations if the balance is to be redressed. It is here that 
the role of the United Nations in standing firm on the 
reform  and  strengthening  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  —  an  issue  to  which  I  shall  turn  soon  — 
becomes an extreme imperative. 

The  primacy  of  development  on  the  global 
agenda  can  be  achieved  only  if  the  United  Nations 
takes  a  lead  in  setting  the  international  economic 
agenda.  The  problem  is  the  reform  of  the  United 
Nations  system  —  the  reinstatement  of  the  United 
Nations-driven  and  development-oriented  approach. 
What  is  needed  is  United  Nations  oversight  of  the 
international  economic  agenda  and  promotion  of  the 
reform of international economic institutions through a 
revitalized  General  Assembly  and  a  strengthened 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  as  well  as  a 
comprehensively  reformed  Security  Council.  Only  if 
we  remain  actively  engaged  can  we  correct  the 
imbalance  and  ensure  that  no  country  is  too  weak  to 
influence the United Nations, that the economic agenda 
the  performance  of 
it 
to  play  a  critical  role 
is  truly  development-oriented  and  that  laws  are  made 
by the General Assembly. 

Here, I would like to say  that, in the case of the 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  the  recent  book  by 
Joseph  E.  Stieglitz,  on  making  globalization  work, 
recommends  specifically  that  the  United  Nations  — 
and  here  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  is  the 
appropriate body — should undertake a regular audit of 
international  economic  institutions,  carrying  out  a 
regular  assessment  of 
those 
institutions. In fact, he also says that the Economic and 
Social  Council  should  play  a  critical,  central  role,  in 
shaping  the  global  economic  agenda.  And  here,  the 
development  forums  that  have  been  set  up  under  the 
Economic and Social Council could, in our view, play 
an important role. 

The 2005 World Summit emphasized the need to 
strengthen the Economic and Social Council in order to 
enable 
in  promoting 
international  cooperation  for  development,  as  well  as 
in enhancing policy coherence and coordination among 
agencies. An early conclusion of  negotiations  on 
this 
issue is needed, as is a demonstration of political will 
to enable the Economic and Social Council to fulfil its 
mandate as envisaged in the Charter, and to contribute 
to  peacebuilding  and  peace  consolidation  efforts  in 
countries  emerging  from  conflict,  in  accordance  with 
the agreements reached at the time of the establishment 
of the Peacebuilding Commission. 
Similarly, in the context of strengthening the role 

and  authority  of 
the  General  Assembly,  early 
consultations  on  the  re-establishment  of  the  ad  hoc 
working  group  on  General  Assembly  revitalization  is 
called for. 
The  General  Assembly  is  best  placed  to  ensure 

that  the  candidate  proposed  for  the  post  of  Secretary-
General  is  sensitive  to  the  needs  of  the  developing 
countries. 
Here  I  may  mention  that,  like  the  Security 

Council,  the  international  economic  institutions  were 
set up in 1945 and bear the stigmata of 1945. They are 
really clubs for the rich and powerful, and they play by 
the rules of the old school tie. This is evident from the 
fact that the richest countries have — in fact, one rich 
country  effectively  has  —  a  veto  in  the  International 
Monetary  Fund  (IMF),  as  we  saw  recently  at  the 
Singapore  conference.  In  fact,  a  single  powerful 
country is able to appoint the head of the World Bank 
10 

06-54618 
itself, 
through 


and shares with Western Europe the top two IMF posts. 
Are  the  use  of  the  veto  and  the  appointments  in  the 
Security Council any different? 

In  the  Security  Council,  again,  we  find  exactly 
the same procedure at work, so this is not an accident 
or a coincidence, but part of an established pattern. The 
General  Assembly  was  not  able  to  revitalize  the 
General  Assembly 
this  year’s 
resolution 60/286,  which  in  fact  remains  as  much  a 
dead  letter  as  resolution  51/241  of  1997.  This  is  a 
matter  of  some  concern  to  the  developing  countries, 
which are the vast majority to which the Organization 
should  actually  be  responsive.  If 
the  developing 
countries  are  not  able  to  eschew  the  prospect  of 
immediate  gains,  which  are  by  their  very  nature 
evanescent, then this Organization is likely to pass out 
of  their  hands,  and  we  are  likely  to  be  reduced  to 
occupying the margins, or a limbo where the Assembly, 
through  continual  adaptation  to  continually  lowered 
expectations,  would  be  reduced  to  the  role  of  an 
irrelevant spectator. 

Hence  the  crucial  importance,  which  I  reiterate, 
of  revitalizing  the  General  Assembly,  of  setting  up 
once  again  the  working  group  on  the  revitalization  of 
the Assembly and of standing firm on the reform of the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  in  terms  of  its  linkage 
with  peacebuilding  in  conflict-prone  countries  and 
those emerging from conflict, as well as its central role 
in  the  reform  and  accountability  of  international 
economic, monetary and trading institutions. 
The recent tragic events in Lebanon and the stasis 

the  Middle  East  have 
in 
highlighted 
the 
Security Council, which is designated by the Charter as 
having  primary  responsibility  for  issues  relating  to 
peace  and  security.  The  main  problems  that  beset 
peacekeeping  are  not  a  lack  of  resources,  or  even 
personnel,  but  an  unrepresentative  Security  Council 
which lacks the political will to act and which, when it 
does,  does  so  in  a  manner  that  is  entirely  inadequate. 
The Council also needs to shore up its participation in 
peacekeeping  operations.  The  Secretary-General’s 
report states that an overwhelming number of troops in 
operations 
United  Nations 
are 
contributed  by  developing  countries.  This 
is  a 
the  Security  Council’s 
distressing 
willingness 
the  burden  of  maintaining 
international peace and security. 
reflection  on 
to  share 
the  peace  process 
peacekeeping 
growing 
failure 
the 
of 
in 
A/61/PV.24
in 
in 
The 
for 
reform 
today, 
indeed, 
remains 
to  face 
intact,  and 

It  is  no  accident  that  the  Secretary-General’s 
report refers to the enhancement of legitimacy and the 
urgent  need  for  reform  to  ensure  the  relevance  and 
credibility  of  the  Security  Council. We  agree  with  the 
Secretary-General  that  the  Council  should  be  more 
representative of today’s geopolitical realities and more 
efficient and transparent in its working methods. There 
is  widespread  acknowledgement  that  no  reform  of  the 
United Nations would be complete without the reform 
of the Security Council. The Security Council must not 
only be more representative but also more effective if it 
is to be able to satisfactorily perform the role mandated 
to it by the Charter. 

recent  General  Assembly  debate  on 
Security Council reform, held on 20 and 21 July 2006 
(see  A/60/PV.94-96),  gave  a  clear  signal  that  the 
momentum 
that 
maintaining the status quo is unacceptable. Developing 
countries  remain  grossly  underrepresented 
the 
Council,  even  though  most  decisions  taken  by  the 
Security Council directly affect them. Thus, developing 
countries  continue 
the  same  underlying 
systemic  challenges  that  brought  them  together  in  the 
1960s; 
the 
environment  is  harsher.  The  voice  of  developing 
countries  and 
the 
international  arena  is  vital  for  levelling  the  so-called 
playing field. 
It is, therefore, imperative that any expansion and 

restructuring  of 
include 
developing  countries  both  as  permanent  members  and 
in  the  non-permanent  category.  We  are  committed  to 
undertaking 
other 
developing  countries,  in  a  spirit  of  solidarity,  and  to 
embark  on  a  South  initiative  for  the  reform  of  the 
Organization  in  a  manner  that  is  reflective  of  the 
aspirations of the developing countries and that ensures 
that  the  reformed  structures  are  responsive  to  their 
needs in areas ranging from development to peace and 
security,  strengthening  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
comprehensive reform of the Security Council. 

I  must  say  that  in  the  case  of  Lebanon  and  the 
stasis  in  the  Middle  East  peace  process  we  saw  the 
ineffectiveness  of  the  Security  Council.  In  fact,  it 
reminded me of the ancient Roman emperor Nero, who 
fiddled  while  Rome  burned.  Incidentally,  this  is  not  a 
reference  to  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group.  This 
phenomenon is not accidental. It is simply inherent in 
their  further  empowerment 
the  Security  Council 
consultations  with 
in  many 
intensive 
respects, 
06-54618 

11 

A/61/PV.24 

the composition of the Security Council, because some 
of  the  permanent  five  suffer  from  the  same  thing,  a 
“virtue” that they share, in fact, with the Russian tsars, 
the  French  Bourbons  and  the  English  Stuarts:  they 
suffer  from  a  reification  of  the  present,  a  belief  that 
human  institutions  cannot  change.  And  unless  such 
fundamental  change  is  effected,  we  will  be  unable  to 
overcome  the  basic  problems  that  are  confronting  this 
Organization  in  field  after  field  —  including  in 
peacebuilding  and  even  in  the  setting  up  of  the 
Peacebuilding Commission, as we saw. 

Also,  some  have  recently  spoken  of  an  interim 
solution. Interim to what? Certainly not to a long-term 
solution.  It  seems  that  the  deliberate  intention  is  for 
such an interim solution to actually prevent a long-term 
solution,  to  prevent  the  introduction  of  balance,  to 
prevent  the  introduction  of  genuine,  comprehensive 
reform  in  the  Security  Council,  and  to  ensure  that  we 
go  on  as  we  are.  In  fact,  an  interim  solution  is  not 
really  required,  and  the  reason  is  simple:  because  we 
already  have  an  interim  solution. The  interim  solution 
is  very  clear.  Given  today’s  political  necessities  and 
under  the  efficient  provisions  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter,  we  are  empowered  to  elect  non-permanent 
members.  We  have  to  elect  non-permanent  members 
that will be responsive to the needs of the vast majority 
of the developing countries and responsive to the cry of 
the  vulnerable,  of  the  small,  of  the  developing  and  of 
the marginalized, and to the blood of the slain and the 
voices of the captive and the innumerable lost souls. It 
is only such members that would be able to introduce a 
certain measure of balance and open the charmed circle 
to a very minimal extent, but at least make a beginning, 
in 
such 
non-permanent  members  is  already,  in  fact,  what 
constitutes an interim solution.  

What  we  need  to  work  towards,  therefore  is,  in 
fact,  a long-term solution, a solution that would make 
this  Organization 
the  developing 
countries, which can be done only through an initiative 
of the South; we know, for instance, how the spending 
cap  was  imposed.  The  spending  cap  was  imposed  by 
consensus.  But  how  were 
the  deeply  damaging 
governance  and  flexibility  proposals  halted  in  May  in 
the first place? They were halted by the resolute action 
and  solidarity  of  the  developing  countries.  Therefore, 
the  lesson  is  very  clear:  it  is  only  through  an  organic 
initiative  from  below  —  a  Southern  initiative  —  that 
we will undertake real United Nations reform that is in 
the  Security  Council.  So, 
responsive 
electing 
to 
12 

06-54618 
the 
in 
in 
recourse 
to 
the  United  Nations 
the  cause  of  peacekeeping,  which 
the interests of the South: reform of the Economic and 
Social  Council  and 
the  General  Assembly  and 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  Only 
such  reform  has  any  real  possibility  of  changing  the 
Organization. 
The  Secretary-General’s  report  speaks  of  the 

increased 
for 
peacekeeping  and  the  prevention  of  armed  conflict. 
That  highlights  the  need  for  the  Organization  to 
develop capabilities in the sphere of peacebuilding, not 
merely 
is 
underlined  most  starkly 
the  vicious  circle  of 
violence  that  continues  to  plague  the  Middle  East.  It 
also highlights the fact that conflict resolution needs to 
go  well  beyond  its  current  limited  role  of  keeping 
belligerents apart. 

In that sense, the Peacebuilding Commission is a 
welcome effort. Our pledge of $2 million to that body 
reflects our perception that there is a grave need for a 
shift of focus from just peacekeeping to peacebuilding 
and  peace  consolidation.  The  Commission  must 
establish its credibility. As a member of the Organizing 
Committee,  we  are  committed  to  contribute  in  that 
direction. 

the 
Secretary-General  has  brought  new  challenges  and 
more  demands,  although  earlier  problems  persist.  The 
issues  of  effective  planning,  congruity  among 
mandates,  resources  allocated  and  objectives  to  be 
achieved,  and  the  safety  and  security  of  peacekeepers 
are  other  areas  of  particular  concern.  Those  questions 
should  be  the  subjects  of  constant  dialogue  and 
interaction among the troop-contributing countries, the 
Security Council and the Secretariat if peacekeeping is 
to be effective. 

India  remains  steadfast  in  its  commitment  to 
promoting  world  peace  and  security.  Our  contribution 
to United Nations peacekeeping is part of that broader 
commitment. We have been one of the most consistent 
contributors  of  troops  to  the  United  Nations  and  shall 
continue to uphold that tradition. We shall continue to 
work  with  the  Secretariat  and  other  Member  States  in 
order  to  make  peacekeeping  the  effective  instrument 
that we all wish it to be. 

Nothing can justify terrorism. The adoption of the 
United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy is a 
step  in  the  right  direction,  to  the  extent  that  the 
international 
Strategy 
in  peacekeeping  reported  by 
the  will  of 
The  surge 
signals 
law 
terrorism 


community  to  tolerate  no  longer  the  actions  of  the 
sponsors  of  terrorism  or  the  actions  of  those  who 
wilfully  fail  to  prevent  terrorists  from  utilizing  their 
territories  for  moral  or  material  shelter.  In  fact,  we 
understand  State 
to  mean  a  State’s 
patronizing  and  sponsoring  of  terrorists  to  disturb  the 
peace of other States. 

Notwithstanding the setback of failing to meet the 
timeline set at the 2005 World Summit for concluding a 
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism, 
we  believe  that  agreement  on  a  draft  convention  is 
attainable.  We  must  now  work  together  for  the  early 
finalization  and  adoption  of  such  a  convention.  We 
believe  that  a  formulation  that  would  not  affect  the 
legal  status  of  the  entities  involved  in  terms  of 
international  humanitarian 
is  one  possible 
approach 
through  which  an  agreement  could  be 
reached. Here, we are open to compromise. 

The  2005  World  Summit,  while  recognizing  that 
peace and security, development and human rights are 
interlinked  and  mutually  reinforcing,  underscored  the 
centrality  of  development.  The  seventh  session  of  the 
Working  Group  on  the  Right  to  Development,  which 
was held in  Geneva in January 2006, adopted a set  of 
criteria  for  evaluating  the  fulfilment  of  commitments 
aimed at a global partnership for development — MDG 
8 — from the perspective of the right to development. 
It  also  said  that  the  policies  of  the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions  have  to  be  corrected  in  terms  of  their 
deficiencies  from  the  perspective  of  the  right  to 
development. 

Thus, there is broad agreement that straddles the 
divisions;  there  is  no  fundamental  contradiction.  The 
efforts to mainstream all human rights — including the 
right  to  development  —  by  strengthening  linkages 
between  the  normative  and  operational  work  of  the 
United  Nations  system  need  to  proceed  in  a  measured 
manner,  taking  into  account  the  specific  needs  and 
requirements of the Member States concerned. 

We  welcome  the  establishment  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  whose  focus  should  be  the  promotion 
of  human  rights  through  international  cooperation  and 
genuine  dialogue  among  Member  States,  including 
capacity-building  and  mutual  assistance.  We  believe 
that 
the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights  should  extend 
technical  assistance  in  the  area  of  human  rights  to 
Member  States  and  enhance  their  capacity-building  in 
the  Office  of 
A/61/PV.24
(CERF). 
that regard at their request. It is in that spirit that India 
supported  the  strengthening  of  the  Office  of  the  High 
Commissioner,  including  an  increase  in  its  resources 
from the regular budget of the United Nations. 

We  agree  that  there  is  a  need  for  further  steps 
aimed  at  enhancing  the  speed  and  effectiveness  of 
United Nations responses to humanitarian emergencies. 
India  will  continue  to  play  a  constructive  role  in  that 
regard,  bearing  in  mind  the  lessons  learned  from 
experiences  in  the  field.  India  was  constructively 
engaged  in  the  setting  up  of  the  Central  Emergency 
Response  Fund 
India’s  contribution  of 
$2 million  to  CERF  at  its  launch  in  March  2006  is  a 
reflection  of  our  solidarity  with  other  developing 
countries in the aftermath of disasters. We will remain 
actively  engaged  in  the  process  of  improving  the 
functioning of the Fund. 

Our Organization needs to reform to keep up with 
today’s  complex  challenges.  We  welcome  the  reforms 
that  have  been  implemented  in  the  Secretariat  since 
1997  and  look  forward  to  constructive  discussions 
during  the  sixty-first  session  on  important  issues  such 
as  governance  and  oversight.  The  declared  objectives 
of 
those  reform  proposals  cannot  be  repudiated. 
Nevertheless,  the  process  often  becomes  as  important 
as  the  goal  itself.  We  would  therefore  stress  the 
importance  of  discussions  on  these  issues,  to  be 
undertaken  in  an  open,  inclusive  and  transparent 
manner. We are ready to engage on these issues with an 
open mind. 

On  the  issue  of  governance,  we  reiterate  the 
importance  of  the  existing  structure  of  administrative 
and budgetary decision-making in the  United  Nations, 
based on the primacy of the General Assembly and its 
Fifth  Committee.  Improvement  is  a  continual  process, 
and we could discuss ways to make administrative and 
budgetary  decision-making  in  the  Organization  more 
efficient  and  effective.  Altering 
the  unique,  all-
inclusive  character  of  the  Fifth  Committee,  which  is 
being proposed by some, has already been rejected by 
Member States and remains unacceptable. We strongly 
support  strengthening 
the 
General Assembly,  maintaining  the  intergovernmental 
nature  of  the  United  Nations  and  respecting  the 
sovereign equality of all Member States with regard to 
participation 
in  United  Nations  decision-making 
processes. 
the  oversight 
role  of 
06-54618 

13 

in 
to 
in 
the 
that 
regard 
reforms 
We  need 
procurement 
look  forward 
strengthen  oversight 
for  gender  balance.  We  call 
A/61/PV.24 


the 
United Nations system by making the oversight bodies 
independent.  We  seek  greater  accountability 
to 
Member  States  on  the  part  of  the  Secretariat.  We 
believe  that  the  United  Nations  should  have  a  fair, 
transparent  and  rules-based  selection  process  that  is 
based on equitable geographical representation and has 
due 
for 
administration  of  justice  in  the  United  Nations  based 
on  due  process  of  law  that  is  fair,  consistent,  non-
to 
discriminatory  and  speedy.  We 
comprehensive 
the 
Organization. 

There  is  a  broad  realization  of  the  need  to  work 
urgently towards a nuclear-weapon-free world. Yet the 
goal  of  nuclear  disarmament  remains  elusive.  We 
believe  that  the  best  non-proliferation  measure  is 
universal  disarmament  and 
international 
community needs to take immediate steps to eliminate 
the threat of use of nuclear weapons. At this session of 
the  General  Assembly,  India  will  be  presenting  a 
working paper on the issue of nuclear disarmament, on 
which we look forward to working with other Member 
States.  We  shall  provide  more  detailed  comments 
during  discussions  of  the  respective  agenda  items  in 
the General Assembly and in its main Committees. 
Mr.  Barriga  (Liechtenstein):  My  delegation 

would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
excellent  report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
(A/61/1  and  Corr.1).  That  document  is  more  than  just 
an  internal  assessment  of  the  management  of  an 
organization; indeed, it is a report that reflects the state 
of 
the 
Organization  and  Member  States  can  tackle  a  broad 
range of global challenges. The General Assembly has 
a central role to play in that regard. Therefore, I would 
like  to  outline  our  assessment  as  to  how  this  organ 
should,  over  the  next  few  months,  contribute  to  the 
success of the Organization. 
While the issue of development in all its aspects 

continues  to  figure  very  high  on  the  agenda  of  the 
General  Assembly,  there  is  only  so  much  that  the 
Assembly can add to its past work, including the 2005 
World  Summit  Outcome  (resolution  60/1).  We  agree 
with  the  Secretary-General’s  statement  that,  if  history 
judges  2005  in  terms  of  promises,  then  2006  must  be 
judged in terms of implementation. Rather than adding 
more  words  to  the  already  very  impressive  existing 
repertoire of commitments and declarations, the sixty-
the  world  and  outlines  ways 
in  which 
the 
in 
affairs 
fifty-seventh 
coherence 
humanitarian 
first  session  of  the  General  Assembly  should  set  the 
stage  for  implementation  and  its  evaluation.  That  is  a 
very difficult task, particularly in light of the fact that 
many  important  decisions  affecting  the  development 
agenda  are  being  taken  outside  the  framework  of  the 
Assembly.  In  this  respect,  we  note  with  particular 
concern  the  suspension  of  negotiations  of  the  Doha 
Development Round. 
Regarding  the  issue  of  environmental  protection 

areas  of 
system-wide 
and 
development, 
and 
the 
environment,  we  hope  that  this  session  will  bring 
steady  progress  and  thereby  contribute  to  structural 
changes  that  will  be  beneficial  in  the  long  term.  We 
must  find  ways  of  simplifying  and  streamlining  the 
existing  institutional  framework,  in  order  to  allow  for 
more effective use of resources, optimize synergies and 
make the system more transparent and more accessible. 
The  area  of  conflict  prevention  also  falls  into  the 
category  of  topics  where  we  have  seen  many  words, 
but are still awaiting real action. We recently received 
the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  this  matter  and 
adopted a landmark resolution on conflict prevention at 
the 
should, 
therefore,  focus  on  how 
tools 
available  to  the  United  Nations  in  the  area  of  conflict 
prevention.  We  congratulate 
the  Department  of 
Political Affairs  for  its  groundbreaking  work  aimed  at 
supporting mediation efforts more systematically. This 
is a core task of this Organization to which the General 
Assembly must devote more resources from its regular 
budget. 

Liechtenstein  welcomes  the  recent  adoption  of 
the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy. 
That  document  underlines  our  resolve  to  cooperate  in 
the  fight  against  terrorism,  and  it  represents  another 
example  of  real  General  Assembly  revitalization, 
which  would  evidence 
the  adoption  of 
important decisions. We hope that Member States will 
now  be  ready  to  take  the  next  step  on  this  matter  and 
overcome  the  remaining  disagreement  on  the  draft 
comprehensive  convention.  The  outstanding  issues 
have to do less with the words proposed and their legal 
effect  than  with  their  political  interpretation.  Only  a 
concerted  effort  at  the  highest  levels  will,  therefore, 
bring  us  closer 
issues  of 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation,  as  well  as  the 
problem  of  the  proliferation  of  small  arms  and  light 
weapons, it is time to pick up the pieces and start anew. 
to  success.  On 
session.  This 
to  strengthen 
session 
itself 
the 
the 
in 
14 

06-54618 
for 
the 
improved 
incorporation 


The  spirit  of  cooperation  that  has  prevailed  in  our 
efforts  aimed  at  preventing  terrorists  from  acquiring 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  should  also  inspire  the 
multilateral negotiations on disarmament. The previous 
session  brought  uneven  promises  in  these  areas,  let 
alone implementation. 

Liechtenstein is very pleased that the initiative to 
consider  the  agenda  item  on  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
international and national levels has been received very 
favourably  by  other  Member  States.  This  new  item 
closes a gap in the agenda of the Assembly, which was 
rather  surprising,  given  the  importance  that  Member 
States  and  the  Secretary-General  have  placed  on  this 
topic in the past. We expect that the Assembly’s debate 
of that item will in the long run lead to stronger United 
Nations  action  in  this  area,  in  particular  in  capacity-
building 
of 
international  law  into  domestic  law.  Furthermore,  we 
expect that this session will continue to strengthen the 
cooperative  relationship  between  the  United  Nations 
and the International Criminal Court. Much remains to 
be  done  to  improve  the  mutual  understanding  of  the 
respective roles of these two organizations, which can 
lead  to  great  synergy.  These  should  yield  concrete 
results  in  the  area  of  investigation  and  prosecution, 
including  on  the  matter  referred  to  the  Prosecutor  by 
the Security Council. 
Human rights have for long been declared to have 

entered the era of implementation, which remains true, 
but United Nations work in this area is also subject to 
intensive reform efforts. This session provides us with 
an opportunity to continue strengthening the Office of 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights  and  to  further  develop  our  thinking  about  the 
reform  of  the  human  rights  treaty  body  system.  The 
work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  needs  to  find  the 
correct relationship with the General Assembly, and we 
trust that this will reflect the great expectations that we 
all have placed on this new body. 
While  we  have  made  a  lot  of  progress  in  the 

humanitarian  area  in  2005,  in  particular  through  the 
establishment  of  the  Central  Emergency  Response 
Fund  (CERF),  great  challenges  remain.  This  session 
should devote strong efforts to furthering a more even-
handed  approach  in  the  delivery  of  humanitarian  aid 
and  the  protection  of  civilians.  Progress  in  this  area 
would  certainly  be  easier  to  achieve  if  the  Assembly 
could  streamline  the  consideration  of  agenda  items 
concerning humanitarian affairs. 
A/61/PV.24

On Security Council reform, we note that there is 
at least a minimal consensus: something must be done 
about  it.  While  we  are  satisfied  that  the  initiative  we 
have  undertaken  together  with  the  other  members  of 
the  group  of  five  small  countries  is  showing  some 
positive  effects,  we  believe  that  the Assembly  should 
also resume serious debate on the issue of enlargement. 
This  will  only  be  possible  if  some  of  the  entrenched 
positions from the past are abandoned in favour of new 
and  more  pragmatic  thinking.  Past  experience  has 
shown that this is an area that needs strong leadership, 
and  we  look  forward  to  working  with  you  on  this 
matter.  

Management  reform,  mandate  review  and  other 
administrative matters affecting the Secretariat must be 
tackled in a manner that avoids micromanagement and 
which  takes  into  account  that  this  Organization  is  no 
longer  just  a  conference-servicing  facility.  Progress  is 
also  needed  on  the  question  of  the  financing  of  the 
Capital Master Plan. 

General  Assembly  revitalization  is  more  than  a 
technical  matter;  it  is  a  matter  of  political  will. 
Nevertheless,  implementation  of  past  resolutions  on 
General  Assembly  revitalization  requires  institutional 
knowledge and should be coordinated by a focal point 
in the Office of the President of the General Assembly. 
As for the non-technical matters, it is up to the Member 
States  to  make  good  use  of  our  meeting  time  at  the 
sixty-first  session  in  order  to  come  up  with  decisions 
and  resolutions  of  real  relevance.  The  topics  just 
outlined provide us with more than enough material to 
do so. 
Ms. Blum (Colombia) (spoke in Spanish): Allow 

me, first of all, to congratulate you for the fine manner 
in which you are conducting this Assembly’s debates. I 
would  also  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
presenting his report on the work of the Organization. 

My  delegation  recognizes  that  progress  has  been 
made in achieving the Millennium Development Goals. 
The  annexes  to  the  Secretary-General’s  report  show 
that progress  has occurred  in all  regions of the world, 
even  if  it  has  been  at  different  speeds.  Nonetheless, 
there is still much to be done. Greater political will is 
needed 
to  action, 
particularly in the mobilization of official development 
assistance  and  in  the  liberalization  of  international 
markets  to  allow  broad  equitable  access  to  them.  In 
from  commitments 
to  move 
06-54618 

15 
require 
a 
favourable 
to  benefit 
families  will  be  able 
A/61/PV.24 

Colombia,  as  was  mentioned  recently  by  President 
Uribe in this forum, 

“Social  cohesion,  overcoming  poverty  and 
building  equity  are  essential  aspirations  of  our 
democracy.  In  2002,  poverty  reached  almost 
60 per  cent  of  the  population;  in  2005  it  was 
down  to  49  per  cent.  We  will  do  everything 
possible for it not to exceed 35 per cent by 2010 
and to reach the goal of 15 per cent by 2019 ...” 
(A/61/PV.14)  
Over  the  next  four  years,  we  are  determined  to 

reach full coverage in basic education and health care, 
as  well  as  making  progress  in  basic  sanitation  by 
massively  broadening  housing  programmes  for  low-
income  populations  in  rural  and  urban  areas.  Five 
million 
from 
microcredit programmes. 
Such  efforts  in  Colombia  and  other  developing 

international 
countries 
environment and technical and financial assistance in a 
number of priority areas. Therefore, it is essential that 
the 
tackle  Millennium 
Development  Goal  8  and  all  its  targets  with  greater 
decisiveness  and  commitment.  We 
the 
importance  of  creating  the  conditions  necessary  to 
relaunch and conclude the Doha round of negotiations. 

Peacebuilding 
Commission  represents  an  important  step  to  prevent 
countries  from  falling  back  into  conflict,  among  other 
objectives. We  hope  that  the  work  of  the  Commission 
will 
the  promise  of  more  effective  and 
trustworthy results in that area. 

Colombia acknowledges the progress made in the 
fight  against  terrorism  since  the  2005  World  Summit, 
when  terrorism  was  condemned  in  all  its  forms  and 
manifestations,  by  whomever,  wherever  and 
for 
whatever  purpose  committed.  Colombia  participated 
actively  in  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations 
Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy,  and  we  will 
continue 
and 
implementation. We  welcome  the  establishment  of  the 
Counter-Terrorism 
Force, 
referred  to  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General.  We 
also  support  the  initiative  to  establish  a  focal  point  in 
the Secretariat to coordinate a civil society campaign to 
fight terrorism. 
Implementation  Task 
establishment 
international 
community 
its 
follow-up 
to 
contribute 
to 
of 
the 
The 
fulfil 
reiterate 

in 
trade 
illicit 

Colombia  emphasizes  the  need  to  attack  the 
sources terrorism financing. Therefore, we are pleased 
that  the  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  calls  for  stepped 
up cooperation to deal with crimes that could be related 
to terrorism, such as the trafficking in illicit drugs and 
the 
small  arms,  among  other 
manifestations of transnational organized crime. 

As  indicated  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General,  the  proliferation  of  small  arms  remains  a 
threat in many regions of the world. Unfortunately, the 
results  of  the  recent  meeting  held  to  review  the 
implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  in  this 
area  were  discouraging.  Colombia  will  continue  to 
insist  on  such  implementation,  which  we  will  propose 
once  again  during  the  substantive  session  of  the  First 
Committee. 

Colombia values the role of the United Nations in 
the  area  of  humanitarian  assistance.  We  acknowledge 
the  results  achieved  in  recent  years  —  including  the 
establishment  of  the  Central  Emergency  Response 
Fund  (CERF)  as  a  contribution  to  timely  responses  to 
sudden  emergency 
situations.  The  new  cluster 
approach must be studied by Member States, which are 
awaiting  a  detailed  report  on  the  proposal  from  the 
Secretariat. In any case, the work of the Office for the 
Coordination  of  Humanitarian Affairs  must  be  guided 
by the needs of the States with which it is cooperating 
and must always have their consent. 

Humanitarian  assistance,  if  it  is  to  be  efficient 
and  effective,  must  be  governed  by  the  guiding 
principles  of  impartiality,  neutrality  and  humanity. 
There must be accountability to Member States through 
the  General Assembly.  In  this  area,  Colombia  accords 
special  recognition  to  the  work  of  the  International 
Committee  of  the  Red  Cross,  from  which  the  United 
Nations system can draw important lessons. 

that  connection,  Colombia  attaches  vital 
importance to timely consultation between the system’s 
agencies and the Governments of countries where they 
maintain  a  presence,  so  as  to  ensure  that  United 
Nations humanitarian programmes and activities are in 
keeping  with  national  plans  and  policies.  The  same 
criterion  must  be  applied 
to  conflict  prevention 
activities. Dialogue and close coordination with States 
ensure the sustainability of humanitarian assistance, to 
the benefit of affected populations. 
of  United  Nations 

intergovernmental mechanisms is an objective to which 
strengthening 
The 
In 
16 

06-54618 
and 
improve 
in  his 
system’s 
including 
assistance 
humanitarian 
fragmentation 
its  main  components: 
section 
the  Secretary-General  stresses 


Colombia is fully committed. My country will continue 
to  take  an  active  part  in  the  various  reform  processes 
and  will  strive  to  ensure  that  they  result  in  a  more 
transparent,  representative,  effective  and  efficient 
Organization. 

We await with interest the report on system-wide 
coherence.  We  trust  that  it  will  contain  specific 
recommendations  that  will  make  it  possible  to  correct 
the 
its 
functioning,  while  maintaining  the  autonomy  and 
integrity  of  each  of 
the 
environment, 
and 
development.  Particular  emphasis  should  be  given  to 
the Organization’s capacity to support the attainment of 
development  objectives, 
the  Millennium 
Goals. 
report  on  global 

the 
In 
constituencies, 
the 
importance  of  civil  society  in  the  international  arena. 
In  Colombia,  civil  society  participates  actively  in 
various  processes  and  debates,  and  all  points  of  view 
are  guaranteed  a  voice  within  a  framework  of  broad 
and  democratic  representation.  Therefore,  we  also 
support  the  participation  of  civil  society  in  its  role  of 
complementing 
supporting  United  Nations 
processes,  in  accordance  with  the  procedures  and 
requirements  established  by  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council. 

To conclude, I should like to express the gratitude 
of  the  Government  of  Colombia  for  the  efforts  of  the 
Secretary-General.  His  work  has  not  been  easy.  His 
accomplishments  have  been  many  during  his  tenure, 
which 
the  many 
challenges that we must still face. 
this 

plenary  meeting,  we  have  an  opportunity  to  examine 
the tenth annual report on the work of the Organization 
(A/61/1  and  Corr.1),  submitted  by  the  Secretary-
General, Mr. Kofi Annan. Let me join those who have 
paid tribute to Mr. Annan for his far-sighted vision, his 
courage,  his  strength  and  his 
to 
transform  the  United  Nations  for  the  twenty-first 
century.  Under  his  wise  leadership,  we  have  made 
much  progress 
the  Millennium 
Declaration and its road map, the 2005 World Summit 
Outcome (resolution 60/1). 
As  we  are  making  the  United  Nations  a  truly 

global  service  provider,  we  need  to  do  our  utmost  to 
(Mongolia):  Today,  at 
Mr.  Choisuren
tireless  efforts 
legacy,  given 
implementing 
important 
is  an 
and 
in 
A/61/PV.24
to 
to 
of 
implement 
comprehensive 
implementation 
in  our  endeavour 
Mongolia  attaches  great  significance 
meet 
the  challenges  of  a  changing  world.  My 
delegation thanks the Secretary-General for organizing 
his report around four core areas corresponding to the 
2005  World  Summit  Outcome,  in  addition  to  a  fifth, 
“global constituencies”. 

the 
development  pillar  of  the  United  Nations  system. 
During 
the  general  debate,  my  Prime  Minister 
discussed  our  national  efforts  and  measures  aimed  at 
more 
our 
commitments  under  the  Millennium  Declaration  and 
the 2005 World Summit Outcome.  

I  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
United  Nations  country  team  in  Mongolia  for  its 
partnership 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  Next  year, 
we  will  begin  to  implement  the  new  five-year  United 
Nations development assistance framework, which was 
prepared  through  a  very  close  consultative  process  on 
the  basis  of  the  Mongolian  Government’s  socio-
economic  action  plan,  with 
the  focused  aim  of 
achieving the MDGs. 
We support the proposal, made by the Secretary-

General  in  his  report,  to  introduce  new  targets  under 
full  and  productive 
Goals  1  and  5.  Ensuring 
employment  of 
is  one  of  my 
Government’s top priorities. 

The role of the United Nations in the maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security  has  expanded 
significantly  during 
in 
Lebanon, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s 
missile  test,  the  issue  of  Iran’s  nuclear  programme  — 
the  international  community  has  continued  to  rely  on 
the United Nations to resolve all these challenges. 

and 
peacebuilding  activities  of  the  United  Nations  have 
grown  to  represent  a  truly  global  service  in  the  past 
decade. It is also heartening to note that Blue Helmets 
from developing countries are shouldering most of the 
responsibilities  of  that  service  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping missions. 

Mongolia is  also  actively  participating  in United 
Nations peacekeeping operations. Earlier this year, 250 
Mongolian peacekeepers took part, for the first time, in 
a  United  Nations-mandated  peacekeeping  operation. 
Although  Mongolia  is  a  newcomer,  last  May  my 
the  past  year.  The  crisis 
the  population 
peacemaking, 
peacekeeping 
The 
06-54618 

17 
for 
achieving 
framework 
the  United  Nations  Democracy  Fund 
A/61/PV.24 

country’s peacekeeping contribution ranked it 39th out 
of 109 troop-contributing Member States. 

As  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations 
become  more  efficient,  effective  and  complex,  we  are 
doing  our  best  to  be  ready  to  provide  not  only  troops 
but  other  personnel  necessary  for  United  Nations 
peacekeeping operations. 

We  are  grateful  to  the  Secretary-General  and  the 
Advisory Board for having recently approved financing 
from 
for 
Mongolia’s  proposed  project.  The  project  will 
contribute  towards  the  achievement  at  the  national 
level of additional Millennium Development Goal 9 on 
strengthening  human  rights  and  fostering  democratic 
governance. Since democratic and sound governance is 
the  overarching 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  we  strongly 
believe that the incorporation of MDG 9 into the set of 
global  targets  would  be  very  practical.  Mongolia’s 
MDG 9 actions have  related goals, including ensuring 
respect  for  human  rights,  democratic  governance  and 
zero 
tolerance  for  corruption.  We  have  recently 
contributed  our  modest  share  to  the  United  Nations 
Democracy Fund. 

The Secretary-General’s observation in his report 
that  the  International  Conference  of  New  or  Restored 
Democracies  is  a  forum  for  supporting  democracy 
among 120 countries is a valid assessment of the work 
Mongolia  has  done  over  the  past  three  years  in  its 
capacity  as  chair  of  the  Fifth  Conference.  Mongolia 
will  continue  its  endeavours  to  promote  democratic 
values  at  the  international  level  through  its  active 
participation in the Community of Democracies and in 
other  forums.  My  country  will  report  on  its  activities 
and hand over the Conference’s chairmanship to Qatar, 
which will be hosting the Sixth Conference in less than 
one month’s time and will be chairing the movement. 

The sixtieth session of the General Assembly will 
be  regarded  as  a  memorable  one,  for  it  saw  the 
establishment  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  the 
Human  Rights  Council  and  the  Central  Emergency 
Response  Fund  and 
the  Global 
Counter-Terrorism Strategy. In that regard, I would like 
to pay tribute to Mr. Jan Eliasson, former President of 
the General Assembly, for his able leadership. 

Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan’s  reports  —  “A 
Programme  for  Reform”,  in  1997;  “Strengthening  the 
United  Nations:  An  Agenda  for  Further  Change”,  in 
the  adoption  of 

in 
initiatives 
that  strengthen 
the  process  of  strengthening 
2002; “In Larger Freedom”, in 2005; and “Investing in 
the  United  Nations”,  in  2006  —  were  crucial  reform 
documents 
the 
Organization. His sweeping reform package, contained 
in those reports, has helped the United Nations and its 
Secretariat to be prepared to meet the requirements of 
the twenty-first century and address new challenges. It 
is commendable that administrative and organizational 
reform  measures  falling  under  the  authority  of  the 
Secretary-General  have  been  largely  implemented  or 
set in motion. My delegation is confident that the next 
Secretary-General will bring the United Nations reform 
process to new levels. 

The  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  Document 
outlined  the  need  for  a  more  effective,  efficient, 
coherent,  coordinated  and  better-performing  United 
Nations  country  presence.  Mongolia  is  very  interested 
in 
the  United  Nations 
country presence through such innovative ideas as “one 
United Nations, one programme and one team.” In that 
regard,  we  look  forward  to  the  Secretary-General’s 
recommendations  on  system-wide  coherence  in  the 
areas of development, humanitarian assistance and the 
environment. 

In the context of the strengthening of the United 
Nations,  we  support  the  Secretary-General’s  call  for 
recognizing  the  voices  of  civil  society  and  the  private 
sector  as  responsible  global  constituencies.  If  their 
contribution  is  well  channelled,  they  can  constitute  a 
valuable asset in our work that can contribute towards 
bringing  about  a  more  secure,  prosperous  and  just 
world. 

Mongolia supports a stronger and more structured 
relationship  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
organizations.  Mongolia  is  endeavouring  to  play  a 
broader  and  more  active  role 
in  such  regional 
organizations  as  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations (ASEAN) Regional Forum, the Conference on 
Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia, 
the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization  and  the Asian 
Cooperation  Dialogue.  We  have  also  reached  out,  for 
the  first  time,  to  the  European  regional  structure,  and 
we  recently  became  the  fifth  Asian  partner  of  the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
(OSCE). 

Furthermore, let me extend our gratitude to those 
Member  States  that  have  supported  us  in  joining  the 
Asia-Europe Meeting this year. We hope that our long-
18 

06-54618 


time aspiration to become a member of the Asia-Pacific 
Economic Cooperation will be fulfilled next year, with 
the help of the countries of the region. 
Mongolia  cannot  but  worry  about  the  security 

uncertainties  prevailing 
in  North-East  Asia.  The 
subregion  lacks  a  mechanism  to  ensure  security  and 
stability  at  the  governmental  level.  It  may  be  time  to 
start  thinking  about  the  possibility  of  engaging  in  a 
dialogue  at  the  track  1  level,  starting  with  a  free 
exchange  of  views  within  the  framework  of  the 
General Assembly. 

In conclusion, let me note that the general debate 
held by our leaders has shown that a global partnership 
is needed more than ever today. A global partnership on 
development,  security  and  human  rights  is  the  only 
means of achieving the goals set out in the Millennium 
Declaration  and  of  implementing  the  2005  World 
Summit Outcome, as well as of making progress in the 
noble work of our Organization. 

Mongolia is doing its best to fulfil its duties and 
responsibilities  and  expects  the  global  partners  to  do 
the same. 
Mr.  Shinyo:  Madam  President,  I  wish  to  thank 

you  for  having  convened  this  meeting  to  discuss  the 
Secretary-General’s 
the 
Organization.  The  sixtieth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  was  the  first  year  of  the  implementation  of 
the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  Document.  We  saw 
some  progress,  with  the  establishment  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  and  the  Peacebuilding  Commission, 
and 
for  Secretariat  and 
management reform. 

The  one  item  on  our  agenda  that  stands  out  as 
unfinished  is  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  Madam 
President,  it  is  essential  that,  guided  by  your  able 
leadership,  we  move  forward  on  all  items  of  the 
agreement  reached  by  our  leaders  during  the  sixtieth 
session and elucidated in the Outcome Document. 

The Secretary-General has asserted on more than 
one occasion that no reform of the United Nations will 
be  complete  without  reform  of  the  Security  Council. 
Japan is determined to continue to take the initiative on 
this  issue  during  this  session.  What  Member  States 
need now is a new proposal — one that is both creative 
and persuasive — in order to reach an early decision on 
Council  reform  during  the  current  session  of  the 
General Assembly. 
the  continued  efforts 
the  work  of 
report  on 
A/61/PV.24

Since its accession to the United Nations 50 years 
ago, Japan has had an exemplary record with regard to 
the  fulfilment  of  its  duties  as  a  Member  State, 
including  assessed  contributions.  Nevertheless,  Japan 
strongly  believes  that  the  United  Nations  needs  a 
reformed  scale  of  assessments  structure,  one  that  is 
more equitable and fair and that duly takes into account 
the  status  and  responsibilities  of  each  Member  State. 
Japan will work together with other Member States to 
formulate  such  a  structure,  which  will  bring  financial 
stability to the Organization. 

Over  the  past  several  years,  Japan  has  been 
promoting  the  importance  of  human  security  as  a 
concept that stresses the protection of individuals from 
threats to their life and dignity, as well as the value of 
their  individual  empowerment.  In  partnership  with 
other interested countries, we will continue to promote 
human security and an approach based on it during this 
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  It  is  now  widely 
acknowledged  that  peace,  development  and  human 
rights  are  interlinked  and  serve  to  complement  one 
another.  We  hold  high  expectations  for  the  newly 
created  Human  Rights  Council  beginning  a  new  page 
in  the  promotion  of  respect  for  human  rights;  as  a 
Council member, Japan will play a constructive role in 
the Council’s activities to that end. 

Japan  is  also  committed  to  implementing  the 
arrangements  outlined  in  the  2005  World  Summit 
Outcome  (resolution  60/1)  and  continues  to  make 
efforts towards achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals.  In  this  connection,  we,  together  with  like-
minded countries, will propose a draft resolution on an 
international  year  of  sanitation  to  promote  progress  in 
the  area  of  water  and  sanitation.  We  also  have 
dedicated  ourselves  to  realizing  reforms  aimed  at 
enabling  the  United  Nations  development  system  to 
contribute  to  providing  more  effective  service  to  the 
people  and 
the  final 
beneficiaries  of  the  system.  We  believe  that  the 
proposals  by  the  High-level  Panel  on  United  Nations 
System-wide  Coherence  will  give  us 
important 
guidance in that regard. 

Our common task for the sixty-first session of the 
General Assembly is to continue our earnest efforts to 
translate  into  reality  the  decisions  on  reform  made  at 
the  2005  World  Summit.  You  have  our  assurance, 
Madam  President,  that  you  can  count  on  Japan’s 
proactive support on our continuing journey towards a 
more efficient and effective United Nations. 
the  communities 
that  are 
06-54618 

19 
A/61/PV.24 

Mr. Malmierca Díaz (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 

On behalf of the Cuban delegation, Madam President, I 
would  like  once  again  to  congratulate  you  upon  your 
election and to offer you our support. I would also like 
to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the  submission  of 
his annual report (A/61/1), the tenth and last one of his 
term of office. This document is a very useful guideline 
for  an  open  and  frank  exchange  on  the  current  work 
and the prospects of the United Nations. 

We  are  convinced  that  defending  the  United 
Nations is more critical than ever. We defend the need 
both  for  its  existence  and  for  in-depth  reform  and 
democratization. But we must do this  with respect for 
the  Charter,  not  by  rewriting  it  or  distorting  its 
purposes and principles. The challenge is to reform the 
United Nations so that it can serve equally the interests 
of  all  nations.  We  cannot  allow  the  reform  to  fail 
ignominiously  in  a  bureaucratic  process  of  adapting 
what remains of the United Nations to the interests and 
whims  of  a  few  rich  and  powerful  countries.  The 
primacy,  absolute  validity  and  inviolability  of  the 
Charter, which is not one among many sources of law 
but  the  cornerstone  of  this  Organization  and  of  the 
precarious  current 
international  order,  must  be 
re-established. 

The  current  unjust  and  tremendously  inequitable 
international  order  must  not  be  succeeded  by  a  more 
primitive order based on a unilateral reinterpretation of 
the  Charter  and  of  international  law.  We  completely 
agree with the Secretary-General about the importance 
of  strengthening  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  in 
conflict  prevention.  History  unequivocally  proves  that 
peace  cannot  be  imposed  by  force  or  by  war  and  that 
military  operations  do  not  yield  lasting  solutions. 
History  has  also  demonstrated  that  it  is  impossible  to 
establish  an  effective  conflict  prevention  strategy 
without 
poverty, 
underdevelopment and economic and social inequality. 
The  United  Nations  Millennium  Declaration 

(resolution  55/2)  committed  us 
towards 
modest —  and  insufficient  —  goals.  Nevertheless, 
more  than  five  years  after  their  adoption,  those  goals 
are far from being met. Reality cannot be concealed by 
arithmetical 
serious 
economic  and 
in 
developing countries, continue growing at an alarming 
rate. 
social  problems,  particularly 
juggling  acts.  The  world’s 
to  work 
taking 
fight 
steps 
to 


Every  year,  11  million  children  die  before  their 
first birthday and 19 million children under five years 
of  age  die  from  curable  diseases  and  malnutrition. 
Another  325  million  children  do  not  attend  school, 
while  more  than  $1  trillion  are  spent  every  year  on 
commercial publicity. The number of hungry people is 
already  852  million,  while  every  year  the  developed 
countries  spend  $17  billion  on  pet  food.  If  the 
underdevelopment  and  poverty  in  which  four  fifths  of 
humanity live are not rectified, if more than 1.1 billion 
people are not brought out of extreme poverty, if the 39 
million AIDS patients are not cured and if 900 million 
human  beings  are  not  taught  how  to  read  and  write, 
there will be no sustainable development and conflicts 
will continue. If the negative effects of the imposition 
of  a  neoliberal  model  on  a  globalized  world  are  not 
duly tackled and the gap between the rich and the poor 
continues  to  increase,  we  will  inevitably  witness 
increased crises and conflicts. 
Although  the  report  does  not  say  it,  the  truth  is 

that for every dollar of official development assistance, 
six  dollars  are  taken  from  our  countries  to  service  a 
debt  that  we  have  paid  many  times  over  but  which  is 
always multiplying. The external debt, which last year 
reached a record $2.8 trillion, must be eliminated. The 
promise  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  product  in 
official  development  assistance  must  be  kept.  The 
intellectual property monopoly on pharmaceuticals that 
are indispensable for life must end. Unfortunately, the 
industrialized  world  has  apparently  not  become  aware 
of all this, and the lack of political will continues. The 
failure of the Doha development round is a telling case 
in point. 

Let  us  hope  that  the  unjust,  unsustainable  and 
tyrannical  world  order  that  we,  the  countries  of  the 
South,  suffer  can  be  redesigned  by  negotiating  in  one 
of  this  building’s  conference  rooms.  But  let  us  not 
harbour  false  hopes.  In  fact,  we  have  had  many 
experiences  in  this  Hall  of  unfulfilled  agreements, 
empty  promises  and  broken  hopes.  The  current 
international 
only 
tremendously unjust but also absolutely unsustainable. 
An  economic  system  that  destroys  the  environment 
cannot  be  sustained.  The  Secretary-General’s  report 
provides  a  very  distressing  figure:  60  per  cent  of  the 
world’s ecosystems are degrading or are being used in 
an  unsustainable  manner.  The  availability  of  drinking 
water  is  currently  60  per  cent  of  what  it  was  in  1970, 
and  today  we  are  2.3  billion  human  beings  more  than 
economic 
system 
not 
is 
20 

06-54618 
to 
the 
same 
is  happening 


then.  The 
forests. 
Environmental  degradation  related  to  the  irrational 
consumption  by  the  industrialized  countries  has  a 
common fate in store for us, poor or rich. 

Despite  the  proclaimed  end  of  the  cold  war, 
military  expenditures  are  on  the  rise.  There  are  still 
about  33,000  nuclear  weapons  in  the  world,  over 
13,000 of which are ready to be used immediately with 
the power to destroy the planet several times over. 

With just 10 per cent of the more than $1 trillion 
allocated  to  military  expenditures,  the  Millennium 
Development Goals could be achieved. Cuba reiterates 
its  proposal  to  devote  at  least  half  of  current  military 
expenditures to meet the needs of economic and social 
development,  through  a  fund  managed  by  the  United 
Nations. 

As we see in the report of the Secretary-General, 
over  70  per  cent  of  the  United  Nations  annual  budget 
of  $10  billion  is  currently  devoted  to  peacekeeping 
operations.  Just  10  years  ago,  only  50  per  cent  of  a 
budget less than half of the current one was devoted to 
peacekeeping. 

The  establishment  of  peacekeeping  operations 
should  not  overlook  the  analysis  and  solution  of  the 
root causes of conflicts. Otherwise, we will not be able 
to  break  the  vicious  cycle  of  new  conflicts  and 
operations, with the high human and material costs that 
they incur. 

In the next few months we will analyze a new set 
of reform-related proposals presented by the Secretary-
General; Cuba will actively participate in this process. 
Be warned that we will not endorse proposals that run 
counter 
the  General 
Assembly and other organs. 

We  are  struck  that  the  annual  report  fails  to 
mention  the  difficulties  faced  by  the  Secretariat  in 
recent  years  owing 
to 
implement  its  mandates.  It  also  fails  to  mention  the 
negative  impact  of  the  establishment  of  a  cap  on 
expenditures. 

With  respect  to  the  mandate  review  process, 
Cuba’s position will follow the tenets agreed to in the 
Final  Document  of  the  Summit  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement,  which  was  held  with  great  success  last 
September in Havana. 
the  mandates  given  by 
lack  of  resources 
to 
to 
the 
A/61/PV.24

The  United  Nations  should  be  democratized 
urgently.  We  have  to  strengthen  the  governing  role  of 
the  General Assembly,  the  only  United  Nations  organ 
with  no  place  for  hegemonies,  where  we  all  have  a 
right to vote and where there is no obsolete and unjust 
right of veto. We cannot talk about a true reform when 
the Assembly does not fully exercise the powers vested 
in  it  by  the  Charter,  including  the  ones  related  to 
keeping international peace and security. 

The  Security  Council  must  be  rescued  from 
discredit and doubts that burden it today and with good 
reason. It must be transformed in a truly representative 
and  democratic  organ  — 
it  should  have  proper 
representation from the Third World and become truly 
democratic.  It  must  eliminate  the  veto  and  other  anti-
democratic  practices. 
It  should  also  become  a 
transparent  organ  by  putting  an  end  to  the  secret 
meetings  and  decisions  made  behind  the  scenes  by  a 
few  and  imposed  on  the  rest  of  us.  Unfortunately  we 
must be blunt — the Security Council reform seems as 
remote today as in the beginning. 

The  functions  and  prerogatives  that  the  Charter 
confers  respectively  to  the  General  Assembly,  the 
Security Council and the Economic and Social Council 
must be respected. We must put an end to the growing 
meddling of the Security Council in areas that are not 
part of its mandate. Regarding system-wide coherence, 
we  support  a  greater  coordination  and  coherence 
between  the  bodies  so  as  to  avoid  duplications  or 
unnecessary  overlapping, 
their 
efficiency,  without  this  necessarily  meaning  common 
frameworks  of  management  or  programming  at  the 
field level. 

We  do  not  agree  with  the  idea  of  the  possible 
merger  of  funds  and  programmes.  We  feel  that  it  is 
necessary  to  preserve  the  separation  of  the  two 
identities.  The  funds  and  programmes  should  answer, 
first  of  all,  to  the  national  development  priorities  and 
should  respect  the  mandates  given  to  them  by  the 
Member States.  

We  are  pleased  with  the  General  Assembly’s 
adoption  on  8  September  of  the  Global  Counter-
Terrorism  Strategy.  We  hope  that  from  now  on  this 
Strategy will be a guideline for our actions against this 
scourge in an atmosphere of cooperation.  

in 
acknowledging  how  instrumental  the  United  Nations 
can  be  in  supporting  the  efforts  of  all  countries  to 
the  Secretary-General 
thus  maximizing 
agree  with 
We 
06-54618 

21 

to 
and 
exclusive 
foster 
and  organizations 
A/61/PV.24 

strengthen  and  consolidate  democracy,  but  this  can  be 
done  only  on  the  basis  of  unqualified  respect  for  the 
principles and purposes of the Charter and international 
law. The existence of common elements in the diversity 
of forms of democracy does not justify the attempts by 
anti-democratic 
some 
to 
movements 
impose  new 
instruments of domination. 

The political manipulation of human rights — the 
selectivity,  partiality  and  double  standards  in  the 
imposition of sectarian models — must cease. We have 
a sacred duty to work to protect and promote all human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  for  all,  given  the 
attempts  of  some  to  mutilate,  rewrite  and  reinterpret 
those  rights  and  freedoms,  adapting  them  to  fit  the 
unipolar order and hegemonic interests of the few. 

Hence,  in  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  other 
intergovernmental forums, we will carefully review the 
different  proposals  on  the  reform  of  the  human  rights 
machinery,  including  the  plan  of  action  of  the  High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  and  the  Action  2 
Initiative  of  the  Secretary-General,  in  order  to  ensure 
their  ability  to  resist  political  manipulation  and  to 
maintain  objectivity,  impartiality,  non-selectivity  and 
the universality of human rights. 

I would like to conclude with a note of hope and 
optimism.  There  are  very  serious  challenges  ahead  of 
us,  but  in  working  together  our  chances  to  achieve 
progress are endless. The United Nations needs us and 
we need the United Nations. As the Secretary-General 
expressed in his report,  

“The  effort  to  make  the  United  Nations  a  more 
effective  instrument  of  its  members’  collective 
will  is  one  that  is  of  vital  importance  for  people 
around the world.” (A/61/1, para. 160) 
Mr.  Liu  Zhenmin  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

The  Chinese  delegation  wishes  wish  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Annan  for  his  report  on  the 
work  of  the  Organization.  The  report  provides  an 
overview of the work of the United Nations during the 
past  year  and  contains  an  array  of  views  and 
recommendations  on  ways  to  address  the  challenges 
facing  us  today. As  the  last  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization  before 
the  expiration  of  Secretary-
General  Annan’s  term  of  office,  it  also  evaluates  the 
major developments in the work of the United Nations 
over  the  past  ten  years.  Please  allow  me  to  take  this 
opportunity to express my appreciation and gratitude to 
judged  on 
the  establishment  of 
the  commitment  of  Member  States 
Secretary-General Annan  for  his  assiduous  efforts  and 
his outstanding actions.  

In  this  statement,  I  would  like  to  focus  on  three 
points  in  connection  with  the  recently  concluded 
general debate.  
First,  on  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations  and 

the  World  Summit  Outcome 
implementation  of 
Document,  the  United  Nations  underwent,  during  the 
past year, an important reform process. Efforts are now 
under  way  at  the  national  level  to  implement  the 
commitments made in the Summit Outcome Document. 
As is stated in the report of the Secretary-General, 

“If  history  judges  2005  for  its  promises,  then 
2006  must  be 
implementation.” 
(A/61/1, para. 27) 
Various  results  were  achieved  during  the  past 

year: 
the  Peace  Building 
Commission,  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the 
Central Emergency Response Fund; efforts to revitalize 
the General Assembly; and the adoption of a resolution 
on a global counter-terrorism strategy. These all testify 
to 
to  broad 
consensus  and  unity  in  the  reform  process  in  order  to 
meet the ever-increasing challenges. 
China  has  consistently  supported  necessary 

United  Nations  reforms  so  as 
the 
Organization’s role in the new era. The reform should 
be  conducive 
the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  and  to  promoting  unity  and 
cooperation  among  Member  States  and  the  overall 
interests  of  the  United  Nations  membership.  United 
Nations  reform  should  proceed  steadily  on  all  fronts 
and lead to results in all fields, especially in the area of 
development. 

It is clear that developing countries expect United 
Nations reforms to lead to greater achievements in the 
field of development. Reforms in that field will affect 
the  future  of  the  United  Nations.  China  believes  that 
the reform effort should next focus on development so 
as  to  fully  respond  to  developing  countries’  concerns 
and  promote  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). 
All  Member  States  must  strive  for  consensus  on 

through  consultations  and  a  democratic 
issues 
should  exercise  caution  when 
approach.  They 
issues  and  avoid 
addressing  controversial  major 
forceful actions which will lead only to greater division 
to  safeguarding 
to  strengthen 
22 

06-54618 


and  undermine  hard-won  reform  results.  Reform  is  a 
long-term  undertaking.  We  hope  that  all  sides  will 
fulfil the commitments set out in the Summit Outcome 
Document  and  push  the  reform  process  in  the  right 
direction. 

Secondly,  with  regard  to  peace  and  security, 
peace,  development  and  cooperation  have  become  the 
main  preoccupation  of  our  times.  However,  numerous 
recent  events  have  shown  that  the  world  is  far  from 
peaceful.  Regional  conflicts  occur  frequently  and 
problems  relating  to  certain  regional  hot  spots  are  on 
the  rise.  United  Nations  peace  efforts  have  achieved 
remarkable  success  in  Burundi  and  Sierra  Leone,  and 
peacekeeping operations in the Democratic Republic of 
the  Congo  and  in  Liberia  have  also  yielded  positive 
results.  Mediation  efforts  relating  to  the  questions  of 
Cyprus and Kosovo in Serbia, are under way. However, 
the  Iranian  nuclear  issue,  the  nuclear  issue  of  the 
Korean  peninsula,  and  the  Lebanese-Israeli  conflict  in 
the Middle East swiftly draw wide attention, testing the 
ability  and  the  unity  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
international  community.  China  believes,  as  always, 
that  it  is  necessary  to  resolve  these  disputes  by 
peaceful  means  through  negotiation,  consultation  and 
other  diplomatic  approaches,  in  accordance  with  the 
purposes and principles of the Charter. 

The  Middle  East  peace  process  is  at  an  impasse 
and  is  a  source  of  concern.  The  Palestinian-Israeli 
question,  the  Lebanese-Israeli  question,  the  Syrian-
Lebanese  question  and 
the  question  of  Iraq  are 
interwoven  and  threaten  world  peace  and  security  and 
the  role  and  authority  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
United Nations must act. As the Palestinian question is 
at  the  core  of  the  Middle  East  question,  the  peace 
process  must  be  relaunched,  on  the  basis  of  relevant 
United Nations resolutions and the principle of land for 
peace,  with  a  view  to  arriving  at  a  comprehensive 
solution  of  the  Middle  East  question,  including  the 
Palestinian-Israeli question, as soon as possible, and to 
enabling the parties involved to coexist in harmony and 
lasting peace in the region. 

The question of Darfur, the Sudan, involves many 
complex  factors.  The  international  community  must 
take  a 
responsible  attitude.  The  Darfur  Peace 
Agreement  provides  a  historic  opportunity; 
the 
international community should take advantage of that 
opportunity  to  promote  a  return  to  peace  and  stability 
in Darfur. It is imperative to urge the parties concerned 
to  promptly  ratify  and  fully  implement  the  Peace 
A/61/PV.24
The 
address  new 
security 
challenges 
fields  of 
and 
Agreement. China supports the handover to the United 
Nations of the African Union Mission in the Sudan in 
the Darfur region, but in order to ensure the success of 
the  peacekeeping  operation,  the  prior  consent  of  the 
Sudanese Government must be obtained. 
international  arms  control, 

disarmament 
non-proliferation 
present 
opportunities  as  well  as  challenges.  Under  the  new 
circumstances,  the  international  community  should 
adopt a new security concept, advocate multilateralism 
and 
through 
multilateral cooperation. China favours maintaining the 
international  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.  We 
oppose  the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons.  At  the 
same  time,  the  legitimate  rights  of  countries  in  the 
context of the peaceful use of nuclear energy should be 
fully  respected,  as  long  as  they  fulfil  their  relevant 
international obligations. 

The  General  Assembly  recently  launched  the 
United  Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy 
(resolution  60/288),  thereby  sending  an  important  and 
positive  political  signal  to  the  world  that  the  United 
Nations is united and active on the question of counter-
terrorism. However, rampant terrorist attacks remain a 
formidable  challenge  to  the  international  community. 
Combating  terrorism  remains  a  long,  uphill  journey. 
The  United  Nations  should  play  a  major  role  in  this 
field. The Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy should be 
a living strategy, to be further developed and refined as 
the situation evolves. 

Thirdly,  with  regard  to  development,  in  the 
Millennium  Declaration  of  2000,  world  leaders  set 
forth  a  bold  and  inclusive  new  vision  for  human 
development.  The  World  Summit  last  year  made 
important  commitments  in  the  context  of  a  global 
development  agenda  and  a  global  partnership  for 
development.  However,  progress 
terms  of 
implementation  is  falling  short  of  expectations,  and 
humankind is still plagued by problems such as abject 
poverty,  a  development  imbalance  between  the  North 
and 
the  spread  of  HIV/AIDS  and 
environmental degradation. 

the 
developed  countries,  should  increase  its  aid,  promote 
international 
and 
investment,  provide  more  debt  relief  and  greater 
assistance 
respect 
developing  countries’  ownership  with  regard  to  issues 
international  community,  especially 
to  developing  countries  and 
the  South, 
in 
The 
trade, 
technology 
transfers 
06-54618 

23 
international 
The  Doha  round  of  negotiations 
A/61/PV.24 

concerning their own development. The United Nations 
should play a fuller role in development and create an 
environment in which developing countries in general, 
as well as those with special needs, can benefit.  

is  at  an 
impasse — a situation that is highly detrimental to the 
steady  growth  of  the  world  economy  and  the  orderly 
development  of 
trade.  Negotiations 
should  resume  as  soon  as  possible.  The  major 
developed  countries  should  demonstrate  political  will 
and push for the early resumption of the talks in a more 
flexible spirit. The Doha round is a development round, 
and should therefore give full prominence to the theme 
of  development  and  ensure  special  and  differentiated 
treatment  for  developing  countries  so  that  they  can 
fully  benefit  from  the  multilateral  trading  system  and 
achieve their development goals.  

The  United  Nations  will  soon  elect  a  new  chief 
administrative  officer.  China  firmly  supports  the  idea 
that the next Secretary-General should come from Asia. 
We  are  confident  that  Asia  is  capable  of  producing  a 
competent  candidate  who  enjoys  high  standing  and  is 
acceptable to all. 

the 
forthcoming negotiations on the scale of assessments in 
a constructive spirit based on the principle of capacity 
to pay. We hope that a fair and reasonable formula will 
be arrived at through extensive consultations. 

Broad  consensus  has  already  been  achieved  on 
the need to strengthen multilateralism and enhance the 
role  of  the  United  Nations.  This  is  also  the  approach 
chosen  by  the  international  community  in  order  to 
effectively meet existing challenges. 

The  United  Nations  has  gone  through  more  than 
60 years of trials and tribulations; its important role in 
various  fields  is  all  too  obvious.  In  future,  it  will  be 
only through collective efforts to maintain multilateral 
machinery, with the United Nations at its core, that the 
leading role of the Organization in international affairs 
can  be  enhanced  and  that  its  ability  to  address  all 
manner of threats and challenges can be consolidated. 
Mr.  Hill  (Australia):  First,  I  want  to  thank  the 

Secretary-General,  not  only  for  his  report  but  also  for 
his  outstanding  contribution 
international 
community  over  the  last  10  years,  particularly  to  the 
weak  and  disadvantaged,  those  who  most  need  the 
support of this international body. 
to  participate 
stands 
China 
ready 
in 
to 
the 

that 
the  emphasis  has  moved,  and 

On development, the Millennium Declaration sets 
goals, and goals and reference points are important, but 
the  real  test  is  implementation  and  outcomes.  I  am 
pleased 
the 
United Nations,  as  a  truly  global  service  provider,  as 
described  by  the  Secretary-General,  is  an  important 
player. But progress in achieving our goals depends on 
the  commitment  of  States  and,  beyond  States,  civil 
society. 

The  Secretary-General  can  be  pleased  that  there 
is renewed determination to improve the lot of the poor 
and those who are suffering. He can also be pleased by 
the  partnerships  between  international  bodies,  States, 
business  and  the  community,  which  are  now  tackling 
these  issues.  He  should  also  be  pleased  at  the  new 
emphasis  on  longer-term,  sustainable  benefit.  New 
institutions,  such  as  the  Peacebuilding  Commission, 
also can contribute to meeting those goals. 

Peacemaking  and  peacekeeping  have  expanded 
rapidly  under  this  Secretary-General  —  and  that  is 
good — but, as we have learned, the benefits will soon 
be  lost  unless  they  are  entrenched  through  nation-
building,  economic  growth,  an  improved  standard  of 
living for the peoples affected and a respect for human 
rights. 

Globalization  might  be  the  phenomenon  of  our 
age,  and  it  has  particularly  marked  the  tenure  of  the 
Secretary-General.  The  Secretary-General  has  noted 
the irony. The United Nations was designed as a body 
to  assist  in  the  relationship  between  States.  But,  as 
States  have  been  joined  by  so  many  other  players  in 
international affairs, the role of the United Nations has 
become more, rather than less, important. 

In  this  complex  international  environment,  with 
all  its  threats  and  opportunities,  the  international 
community  has  looked  to  the  United  Nations  to  find 
the  answers.  The  development  of  the  principle  of 
“responsibility 
to  protect”,  which  crosses  State 
boundaries  in  circumstances  where  the  international 
community  demands  action, 
is  a  contemporary 
response 
The 
Secretary-General correctly reminds us that,  

“States, in short, are the servants and instruments 
of  human  beings,  and  not  the  other  way  round.” 
(A/61/1, para. 10) 
changing 
world. 
that 
to 
It  could  also  be  said  that  with  sovereignty  comes 
responsibility.  And,  as  the  Secretary-General  says, 
06-54618 
24 

and 
human 
rights 
security 
as 
ever. 
I  was  pleased 


development, 
are 
indissolubly interconnected, and it is the responsibility 
of the State to deliver on all three. The United Nations 
can  help  States  meet  their  responsibilities  to  their 
peoples. It can set standards, it can demand adherence 
and it can also provide practical support. 

The challenge to do so in this globalized world is 
as  great 
the 
Secretary-General  recognized  again  that  in  order  to 
maximize  its  contribution  to  these  goals  the  United 
Nations  must  be  updated,  renewed  and  reinvigorated. 
That  is  not  only  the  responsibility  of  the  staff  of  the 
United  Nations,  to  whom  the  Secretary-General  has 
paid  justifiable  credit,  but  also  of  us,  the  Member 
States.  Without  an  efficient  and  effective  United 
Nations  system,  including  a  sharpening  of  mandates 
and  coherent  structure,  the  United  Nations  will  fall 
short of what is achievable. 

I  wanted  to  conclude  with  mention  of  the  two 
great  contemporary  challenges,  namely,  countering 
terrorism  and  responding 
the  proliferation  of 
weapons and weapon systems. On terrorism, more can 
and  must  be  done,  as  the  Secretary-General’s  recent 
report,  “Uniting  against 
terrorism”,  makes  clear. 
Australia  supports  his  recommendations.  In  particular, 
every effort must be made to ensure that terrorists are 
not able to acquire weapons of mass destruction. 

On non-proliferation, we must also make greater 
efforts.  In  recent  times,  the  international  community 
has  seen  many  opportunities  to  make  our  world  more 
secure through multilateral action on non-proliferation 
and  disarmament.  But,  as  the  Secretary-General  has 
pointed  out,  we  have  all  but  squandered 
these 
opportunities.  We  failed  to  reach  an  outcome  at  the 
2005 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT). 
There  was  no  outcome  at  all  on  non-proliferation  and 
disarmament  at  the  World  Summit.  And  this  year’s 
Small Arms Review Conference could not agree on any 
follow-up process for the Programme of Action. 
support  multilateral 

approaches 
to  non-proliferation  and  disarmament, 
including  a  firmer  and  more  active  role  for  the 
Security Council 
in  respect  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  (WMD)  proliferation.  Treaties  such  as  the 
NPT and measures such as Security Council resolution 
1540  (2004)  are  fundamental  to  the  forms  of  WMD 
non-proliferation and disarmament. 
Australia  continues 
to 
to 
that 
A/61/PV.24

We must also focus again on the practical efforts 
we  can  make  to  strengthen  international  security. 
Australia  is  a  strong  supporter  of  the  Proliferation 
Security  Initiative  and  has  long  advocated  measures 
such as the Additional Protocol,  a fissile material  cut-
off treaty and the Hague Code of Conduct as practical 
steps  against  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  and  their  means  of  delivery.  We  also 
support proposals for a global arms trade treaty. 

In conclusion, the Secretary-General has ably led 
this  Organization  in  difficult  times.  We  must  now 
accept and meet the challenges he has set for us in this, 
his tenth and  last annual report. We thank him for the 
values  and  application  he  has  always  brought  to  his 
work. 
Mr.  Arias  Cárdenas  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Madam  President,  I 
would like to thank you for convening this meeting and 
for  your  excellent  stewardship  of  this  session  of 
General Assembly. 

The  delegation  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela  would  like  to  congratulate  the  United 
Nations  Secretary-General  for 
the  work  he  has 
achieved  since  1997  at  the  helm  of  our  Organization. 
The period that Secretary-General Kofi Annan opened 
at the end of the 1990s has been marked by social and 
economic changes and events that have highlighted the 
urgent  need  to  adapt  the  United  Nations  to  a  new 
global  reality.  The  Secretary-General  has  interpreted 
this  to  mean  that  we  must  have  a  United  Nations 
reform  that  would  identify  major  themes  and  paths  in 
order to meet this need. 

The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, like all the 
other  countries  of  this  Organization,  is  committed  to 
social  justice,  peace  and  security  and  to  the  overall 
process  of  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  We  must 
establish  priorities  for 
the 
Security Council,  which  should  take  place  without 
delay.  The  actions  of  that  body  in  recent  years  have 
made 
imperative,  as  on  repeated  occasions 
powerful  unilateralism  has  prevented  that  body  from 
acting in accordance with the functions granted to it by 
the  United  Nations  Charter.  The  Secretary-General 
himself  commented  on  the  delay  in  decision-making 
during the Middle East crisis, saying that credibility of 
the United Nations was at stake.  
This  unilateralism  in  Security  Council  decision-

making  makes  the  Organization  a  mere  spectator  of 
the  urgent  reform  of 
that 
06-54618 

25 
to 
strengthen 
to  maintain 
A/61/PV.24 

death  and  despair.  It  makes  all  of  us  accomplices  of 
terror. Both large and small countries took the decision 
of a single country. Of course, Security Council reform 
is required with a view to ensuring that this important 
body  becomes  more  effective,  more  legitimate,  more 
democratic,  achieving  equality  among  its  members. A 
more democratic and participatory Security Council is 
required  in  order  to  comply  in  a  more  effective  and 
timely  fashion  with  the  main  objective  given  to  it  by 
the  Charter: 
international  peace  and 
security in accordance with the purposes and principles 
of nations. 

The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  reiterates 
its  position  that  the  search  for  peaceful  solutions  to 
disputes affecting international peace and security must 
be  found  within  the  framework  of  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  namely 
non-intervention  in  the  internal  affairs  of  States,  the 
sovereign  equality  of  States,  refraining  from  using 
threats  or  force  against  the  territorial  integrity  or  the 
political  independence  of  any  State  and  respect  for 
sovereignty.  We  have  affirmed  and  emphasized  the 
of 
need 
the 
General Assembly,  given 
the  main 
deliberative  body 
that 
represents our Organization. This is  another necessary 
requirement stated in the Millennium Declaration. 
We  would  like  to  highlight  the  interest  with 

which 
this  Organization  has  been  working  on 
recognizing the special needs of Africa in establishing 
policies 
the 
environment.  This  will  undoubtedly  be  a  historic 
legacy  of  the  Secretary-General’s  stewardship.  These 
questions  were  tackled  with  interest  by  the  Member 
States, and that is proof that political differences can be 
overcome  when 
achieve 
improvement 
the  well-being  of  mankind.  The 
in 
twenty-first  century  requires  from  the  world  a  greater 
and  better  commitment  to  a  just  and  comprehensive 
development  of  all  the  peoples  of  the  South  with 
special attention given to those who face greater needs 
and  difficulties.  The  struggle  for  development  is  the 
true covenant of peace and its achievement is the death 
of war and terror. 

Terrorism is a challenge that requires joint action. 
Our delegation believes that the adoption of the United 
Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy 
is  an 
important  first  step  towards  bringing  together  in  the 
future  more  robust  and  coordinated  actions  to  tackle 
the 
powers 
its  status  as 
that  adopts  policies  and 
to  attack  HIV/AIDS  and 
the  objective 
to  protect 
is 
to 

compatibility  with 
this  phenomenon  at  the  global  level.  The  United 
Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  should  be 
the  start  of  a  much  broader  negotiation  to  make 
possible the achievement of a concept of terrorism with 
which all the Member States can fully identify, as well 
as  the  recognition  and  all-out  struggle  against  the 
social,  economic  and  political  causes 
that  foster 
terrorism and its development. 

Reform of the Economic and Social Council must 
be  based  on  the  right  to  development  as  that  would 
make  it  possible  to  establish  machinery  aimed  at 
guaranteeing 
the  Council’s 
programmes  and  activities  through  concrete  actions  to 
overcome  marginalization,  hunger  and  poverty  for 
millions of people. 

The  United  Nations  must  design  and  implement 
measures  that  would  oblige  the  main  economic  and 
financial  bodies  to  exert  greater  efforts  to  formulate 
better policies to help curb the broadening gap between 
developed and developing countries, as well as permit 
the establishment of effective machinery related to the 
debt  problem,  trade  preferences,  technical  cooperation 
and the promotion of national capacities. 

Concerning  the  Organization’s  budget,  higher-
income  countries  that  have  not  complied  with  their 
responsibilities to the Organization in this respect must 
assume  their  commitment  to  honour  their  debt,  thus 
making  it  possible  to  improve  the  operation  of  our 
Organization and promote the objectives of the Charter. 

I  am  pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of Venezuela  has  honoured  all  its 
commitments 
the 
Organization’s 
its  peacekeeping 
operations budget, the International Criminal Tribunals 
for  Rwanda 
the 
United Nations Capital Master Plan and United Nations 
funds and programmes. 

With  respect  to  the  mandate  review,  we  would 
like  to  reiterate  that  this  exercise  should  be  limited  to 
mandates  that  have  not  been  renewed  for  over  five 
years.  This  review  should  be  completed  this  year  as 
agreed. We should not allow the exercise to weaken our 
capacity,  taking  up  the  time  of  our  delegates,  while 
parallel  negotiations  are  being  carried  out  on  other 
matters that are of vital importance. 

It is crucial that we not weaken the ability of the 
General  Assembly  to  decide  on  administrative  and 
related 
regular  budget, 
former  Yugoslavia, 
contributions 
and 
the 
to 
to 
26 

06-54618 
it.  In 
shares 
the  right 
to  development.  This 
the  view  expressed  by 


budgetary  matters  of  the  Organization.  Likewise,  the 
Secretary-General’s  report  on  the  broad  review  of  the 
management  and  supervision  of  funds,  programmes 
and specialized agencies of the United Nations should 
be  submitted  to  the  Fifth  Committee,  following  the 
usual procedures. 

We  will  not  be  able  to  comply  with  the  Charter 
while  within  our  Organization  positions  still  persist 
that  deny 
is  an 
inalienable human right by which every human being is 
empowered to take part in political, cultural, social and 
economic  development  and  by  which  they  can  fully 
enjoy their fundamental freedoms and contribute to this 
this  context,  our 
development  and  enjoy 
delegation 
the 
Secretary-General  about  the  need  to  strengthen  the 
United  Nations,  which  is  not  simply  a  question  of 
accountability, but rather an imperative for all Member 
States, which should devote more urgent attention to it 
than they have so far.  

Lastly, the delegation of the Bolivarian Republic 
of Venezuela would like to reiterate its congratulations 
to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his stewardship of 
our Organization and the legacy that he has left it. 
Mr.  Hamidon  (Malaysia):  The  report  of  the 

Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
(A/61/1  and  Corr.1)  that  is  before  us  illustrates  the 
challenges and tasks facing this Organization. 

As  outlined  by  its  Charter,  the  main  purpose  of 
the  Organization  is  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security.  By  and  large,  this  has  been 
achieved. However, in the Middle East the problems, in 
particular the Palestinian question,  remain unresolved. 
The  devastation  wrought  on  Gaza,  Baghdad  and 
Lebanon  has  left  an  indelible  impression  on  Muslims 
worldwide  of  the  complicity  of  the  West  to  humiliate 
them.  This  fans  the  feelings  of  outrage  and  anger, 
which often erupt into violence. 
It  is  imperative  that  a  comprehensive  solution  to 

the  Middle  East  crisis  be  found.  No  one  party  or 
country  can  determine  how  the  Middle  East  is  to  be 
redrawn  and  reshaped.  The  views  of  all 
those 
concerned  have  to  be  addressed.  In  this  regard,  my 
delegation  feels  that  the  United  Nations  could  play  a 
more  pronounced  and  decisive  role,  as  envisioned  by 
its  Charter,  by  bringing  together  all  parties  concerned 
to the negotiating table. 
A/61/PV.24
the  sixtieth  session  of 

As  the  bastion  of  multilateralism,  the  United 
Nations has to rise to the challenge of safeguarding the 
interests of developing countries. Millions of the poor, 
the  hungry  and  the  destitute  in  the  South  expect  the 
United  Nations  to  play  its  role  in  galvanizing  support 
and  political  will  that  will  bring  the  benefits  of 
development and globalization to them. In this regard, 
Madam  President,  you  were  prescient  in  choosing  the 
theme for the Assembly to focus its general debate on 
last week, namely, “Implementing a global partnership 
for development”.  

the  General 
Assembly,  we  were  not  able  to  conclude  work  on 
strengthening  the  Economic  and  Social  Council.  This 
endeavour  should  now  be  our  priority,  and  an  early 
outcome  should  be  reached  at  the  current  session. We 
should  not  forget  that  at  the  2005  World  Summit  our 
leaders  had  reaffirmed  the  importance  of  an  effective 
Economic  and  Social  Council  as  a  principal  body  for 
coordination,  policy  review,  policy  dialogue  and 
recommendations  on  issues  of  economic  and  social 
development.  A  strengthened  Economic  and  Social 
Council  is  in  our  interest,  so  that  it  can  be  a  pillar  in 
the  United  Nations  system  for  maintaining  economic 
and  social  justice,  just  as  the  Security  Council  is 
responsible  for the maintenance of international peace 
and security. 
Another area in which work is still unfinished is 

reforming  the  Security  Council  to  make  it  more 
representative in terms of its composition and to make 
it better reflect the world we live in today. It is crucial 
that  we  attain  those  objectives  because  it  would  lend 
legitimacy to the Security Council and to the decisions 
it  takes,  which  affect  the  vast  majority  of  us  in  this 
Hall who are not represented in the Council. 
The  sixtieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly 

agreed  on  a 
resolution  on  General  Assembly 
revitalization (resolution 60/286). It is my delegation’s 
hope  that,  at  the  current  session,  an  ad  hoc  working 
group on General Assembly revitalization will meet as 
a follow-up to that resolution. The Assembly has been 
deliberating  on 
to  General 
Assembly revitalization for the past 15 years, and it is 
high  time  that  we  concretized,  through  the  ad  hoc 
working  group,  what  we  have  agreed  on,  namely,  to 
strengthen the central position of the General Assembly 
as 
and 
representative  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  and  to 
policymaking 
deliberative, 
resolutions 
relating 
During 
the 
chief 
06-54618 

27 

to  handle 
My  delegation  will  continue 
A/61/PV.24 

strengthen  its  role  in  the  process  of  standard-setting 
and the codification of international law. 

Our task in reforming the United Nations is not a 
one-off  process,  but  a  continuous  process.  To  reform 
the principal organs of the Organization and strengthen 
the  Organization’s  capacity 
the  many 
challenges  facing  it  in  such  fields  as  human  rights, 
peacekeeping,  conflict  resolution  and  humanitarian 
assistance,  it  is  essential  that  this  House  be  kept  in 
order. The United Nations must become more efficient 
and more effective. 

In  that  regard,  my  delegation  reiterates  that  it  is 
vital for the Organization to secure a healthy and stable 
financial position in order to ensure that all operations 
are carried out within the expected time frames and in 
an  efficient  manner.  We  hope  that  the  Member  States 
concerned will honour their assessed contributions and 
settle their arrears, without any conditions attached. 
to  work  and 

cooperate  with  other  delegations  on  management  and 
Secretariat 
reform.  This  process  should  be  all-
inclusive, involving all parties, who themselves should 
be actively engaged, should possess political will, and 
should  be  guided  by  the  General Assembly’s  rules  of 
procedure. 

My  delegation  also  acknowledges  civil  society’s 
positive contributions to the Organization, which have 
been  particularly  helpful  during  the  current  reform 
society’s  continued 
process.  We  welcome  civil 
participation 
the 
United Nations  is  an  intergovernmental  body,  and  the 
participation  of  civil  society  should  be  guided  by 
Economic and Social Council resolution 1996/31. 

One issue that we failed to agree upon at the 2005 
World  Summit  is  disarmament  and  non-proliferation. 
That  failure  is  very  disappointing  to  my  delegation 
since weapons of mass destruction present the greatest 
threat 
is  further 
the  2005  Review 
complicated  by 
Conference  Treaty  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  as  well  as  the 
inability  of  the  2006  United  Nations  Conference  to 
Review  Progress  Made  in  the  Implementation  of  the 
Programme  of  Action  on  Small  Arms  to  find  a 
consensus.  In  the  case  of  the  latter,  the  weapons 
involved may be small, but we are well aware of their 
devastating impact on societies. In this sense, they too 
could  be  regarded  as  de  facto  weapons  of  mass 
to  all  mankind.  The  situation 
forums.  However, 
the  failure  of 
in  various 
a 
of 
of 
the 
report 
review 
destruction.  We  can  ill  afford  another  failure  at  this 
session to act on these issues. 

In conclusion, Madam President, I wish you well 
as you lead us in our deliberations on the various issues 
facing the sixty-first session. 

Mr.  Jenie  (Indonesia):  Once  again  we  have 
assembled  here  to  review  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations  over  the  past  year  in  furtherance  of  the 
objectives  of  the  Charter  and  the  decisions  of  world 
leaders.  Before  I  continue,  I  want  to  express  the 
appreciation  of  my  delegation  to  Secretary-General 
Kofi  Annan,  not  only  for  providing  us  with  the 
in-depth  examination  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
before  us,  but  also  for  his  exemplary  service  to  the 
United  Nations  in  his  10  years  at  the  helm  of  the 
Secretariat. 
It  is  unrealistic,  indeed  almost  impossible,  to 

undertake 
the 
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization, 
contained  in  document A/61/1,  without  according  due 
attention to the strides made by the  United Nations in 
the  last  10  years.  This  is  because  the  history  of  the 
United  Nations  in  the  past  year  exists  only  within  the 
context of the past decade. 
the 

Organization  has  carried  out  some  of 
the  most 
fundamental  and  far-reaching  work  since  the  adoption 
of  the  Charter.  For  example,  we  began  a  most 
comprehensive  reform  process  that  was  designed  to 
ensure that the United Nations is able to respond to the 
challenges before it and to meet the expectation of the 
entire membership. 

It  will  be  recalled  that,  in  December  1998,  by 
resolution  53/202,  the  General  Assembly  designated 
the  fifty-fifth  session  as  the  Millennium Assembly  of 
the  United  Nations.  In  2000,  that  led  to  the  most 
important single gathering of Member States since the 
inception  of  the  United  Nations:  the  Millennium 
Assembly,  the  follow-up  of  which  was  held  here  just 
one year ago. 

In  the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2), 
189  heads  of  State  or  Government  made  the  historic 
commitment to free their fellow citizens from poverty 
by  2015,  nine  years  from  now.  Last  year’s  World 
Summit,  which  examined  the  progress  made  in  the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
that  period,  under  Mr.  Annan, 
During 
28 

06-54618 
in 
and 
the  uneven  progress 


(MDGs), as well as recent United Nations conferences, 
reiterated this commitment. 

In  view  of  the  increased  upheavals  in  global 
geopolitics, 
the 
international  economic  and  social  fields,  the  question 
of the effectiveness of the United Nations looms large. 
My  delegation  believes  that  it  is  within  this  context, 
and in the light of the efforts of Mr. Annan in the past 
year  and  throughout  his  years  in  office,  that  we  must 
look  at  the  United  Nations  and  the  future.  The  report 
before  us  is  a  further  reminder  of  what  the  important 
issues  are  and of  how  far  we have gone in addressing 
them. 

We  share  the  view  stated  by  the  Secretary-
General  in  this  report  that  the  one  issue  that  has 
dominated 
the  past  10  years  must  surely  be 
globalization.  Economically,  globalization 
is  an 
opportunity  that  promises  improved  living  conditions 
for people everywhere. Regrettably, it has yet to fulfil 
that  promise.  Indeed,  it  seems  to  have  continued  to 
favour  the  developed  economies  and  to  amplify  the 
disparity between the haves and the have-nots. 
Regrettably, the World Summit not only revealed 

stunning  differences 
the 
implementation  of  the  MDGs,  but  also  gave  sober 
indications  that  some  parts  of  the  world,  notably 
Africa, might not come close to full implementation by 
the  2015  target  date.  Indeed,  while  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  observes  some  positive  signs  in  the 
reduction of global poverty, it sums up the situation for 
the  majority  by  noting  that  the  ongoing  levels  of 
human deprivation remain staggering. 

the  Secretary-General’s 
proposal to introduce a new set of targets in the follow-
up  of  the  Millennium  Declaration  and  shares  his 
concerns in this regard. 

However,  we  are  of  the  view  that  having  more 
goals per se does not necessarily lead to development. 
The  key  is  that  agreed  commitments  and  actions  be 
honoured  by  all  relevant  entities.  We  agree  with  the 
Secretary-General  that  2006,  the  year  following  the 
World  Summit,  must  be  judged  on  its  ability  to 
implement the MDGs. 

We hope that resolution 60/265, on the follow-up 
to the development outcome of the World Summit and 
other internationally agreed development goals, will be 
acted  upon  without  delay,  particularly  in  our  common 
My  delegation  notes 
the  world  over 
in 
A/61/PV.24
the 
for  achieving 
endeavour  to  eradicate  poverty.  My  delegation  also 
looks forward to an action-oriented draft resolution on 
the  reform  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  that 
will  make  the  Council  robust  and  truly  central  in  its 
policy coordination and dialogue roles with all relevant 
international  actors,  particularly  the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions  and  the  World  Trade  Organization.  In  this 
connection,  Indonesia  supports  the  holding  of  the 
Development  Cooperation  Forum  and 
the  annual 
ministerial reviews. 

Ultimately,  the  commitment  to  development  can 
only  be  translated  into  action  if  developing  countries 
have  requisite  funds  and  possess  sufficient  capacities. 
Fundamentally,  international  financial  commitments 
remain  inadequate  in  terms  of  timing,  volume  and 
quality 
internationally  agreed 
development  goals,  including  the  MDGs.  Official 
development  assistance,  along  with  debt  relief,  are 
important.  However,  foreign  direct  investment  can 
greatly help to spur private sector formation. There is a 
need  for  higher  investment  flows  to  the  developing 
countries. Indonesia agrees with the report’s conclusion 
about  good  governance  and  accountability,  and  fully 
shares the view that they should be in evidence at both 
the national and international levels. 

the 
redefinition  of  our  political  and  economic  realities  in 
terms  of  the  critical  issues  of  security,  development 
and human rights, as well as the links between them. 

to 
Unfortunately,  various  conflicts  continue 
simmer  in  different  parts  of  the  globe,  hampering  the 
path  to  a  stable  and  prosperous  world.  It  is  a  travesty 
that,  on  the  one  hand,  we  face  a  paucity  in  financing 
for development, while on the other,  we deal with the 
reality 
total  budget  of  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  is  just  0.5  per  cent  of  international 
military  spending.  To  find  peaceful  ways  out  of 
conflict situations, the role of the United Nations needs 
to  be  strengthened,  and  its  mediation  capacities  made 
more effective. 

We  share  the  concern  of  the  Secretary-General 
over a series of setbacks in multilateral disarmament in 
recent  years.  The 
in  pursuing 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation  objectives  is  a 
cause  for  great  distress  to  all  those  who  aspire  to  a 
peaceful  and  stable  world.  We  believe  that  it  is  now 
high  time  for  renewed  efforts  to  break  the  impasse  in 
multilateral  negotiations  and  to  bring  disarmament 
Globalization  has  also  contributed 
lack  of  progress 
that 
the 
to 
06-54618 

29 
to 
fill 
a 

in 
the 
the 
lacunae 
A/61/PV.24 

issues  back  into  the  limelight  of  the  international 
agenda. 

Indonesia,  as  a  member  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  seeks  to  work  actively  with  others  in 
trying 
international 
peacebuilding  system.  We  need  to  undertake  cohesive 
and integrated peacebuilding strategies, with maximum 
local  ownership,  which  lead  to  the  resolution  of 
conflicts in their entirety. 

We  look  forward  to  the  full  functioning  of  the 
newly  established  Human  Rights  Council.  We  firmly 
believe  that  the  principles  agreed  upon  and  contained 
in  the  founding  resolution  (resolution  60/251)  should 
govern  every  aspect  of  the  Council’s  work. This  is  of 
the utmost importance if the Human Rights Council is 
to  be  an  effective  forum  for  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  human  rights  and  if  it  is  to  benefit  the 
entire membership of the United Nations. 
recent 

agreement  on  the  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy 
will  provide  an  effective  operational  framework  for 
international  cooperation  in  combating  terrorism.  We 
urge  Member  States  to  intensify  their  efforts  towards 
finalizing 
against 
international terrorism. Our efforts against the scourge 
of  international  terrorism  need  to  be  comprehensive, 
taking into account the need to address root causes, and 
in  full  compliance  with  international  laws  and  the 
principles of respect for human rights. 

We  also  attach  great  importance  to  the  role  of 
regional  organizations  in  their  contribution  to  many 

My  delegation 
comprehensive 
is  hopeful 
convention 
that  our 
remains 
the  need 
to  address 
the  Organization 
issues, 
including  development,  peacemaking  and 
peacekeeping.  We  hope  that  the  United  Nations  will 
make  greater  and  timely  utilization  of  these  valuable 
resources in its various programmes and strategies. 

Globalization  has  also  revealed  other  realities, 
including  the  emergence  and  the  growing  importance 
of  civil  society’s  role  in  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations.  While 
an 
intergovernmental  one  where  decisions  are  taken  by 
Member  States,  it  has  benefited  from  its  engagement 
with civil society, both in strengthening the institution 
and  enriching  the  intergovernmental  debate.  In  the 
report  prepared  by  the  Ambassador  of  Norway  and 
myself  as  co-advisers  to  the  President  of  sixtieth 
the  General  Assembly,  while  we 
session  of 
acknowledged 
the  existing 
“confidence  deficit”  among  Member  States  and  civil 
society, we stressed that there was sufficient ground to 
explore  better  interaction  between  the  two  groups  and 
as  well  as  a  more  meaningful  engagement  of  civil 
society in the work of the Organization in general and 
of the General Assembly in particular. 

In conclusion, Indonesia reiterates its full support 
and  commitment  to  all  those  who  endeavour  to  take 
concrete steps in promoting multilateralism in line with 
the  principles  and  objectives  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  and  international  law.  There  is  no 
greater  challenge 
to  bring  about  a 
democratic  and  strengthened  United  Nations  for  the 
benefit of all our peoples. 




The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. 
today 
than 
30 

06-54618 
