
A/61/PV.31
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-first session 

31st plenary meeting 
Friday, 13 October 2006, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President:  Ms. Al Khalifa 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Bahrain) 
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m. 
Agenda item 104 

of 
for 
the 
appointment 
the  appointment  of 
I  shall  now  read  out  the  text  of  the  resolution. 
acclamation  resolution  1715  (2006)  concerning  the 
recommendation 
the 
Secretary-General. 

Resolution 1715 (2006) reads as follows: 


“The Security Council, 
“Having  considered  the  question  of  the 
the 


recommendation  for 
Secretary-General of the United Nations, 

“Recommends to the General Assembly that 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon be appointed Secretary-General 
of  the  United  Nations  for  a  term  of  office  from 
1 January 2007 to 31 December 2011.” 

Since,  early  this  year,  the  Security  Council 
pledged to conclude its part in the selection process by 
October,  the  Council  is  pleased  that,  by  adopting  its 
recommendation for the appointment on 9 October, the 
Council  met  this  goal.  The  Security  Council  believes 
that early action upon the appointment by the General 
Assembly  would  ensure  ample  time  for  transition 
between the current and incoming Secretaries-General. 
On behalf of the Security Council, I would like to 

express  appreciation 
that 
presented candidates as part of the selection process. 

Finally,  I  would  like  to  thank  you,  Madam,  for 
having  convened  this  meeting  expeditiously  following 
the recommendation made to the General Assembly by 
the Security Council. 
to  all  Member  States 











Appointment of the Secretary-General of the 
United Nations 
  Letter from the President of the Security 
Council to the President of the General 
Assembly (A/61/501) 

that  on 
  Draft resolution (A/61/L.3) 


The  President: The  Assembly  has  before  it 
document A/61/501, containing a letter dated 9 October 
2006  from  the  President  of  the  Security  Council 
addressed  to  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly. 
Members  will  recall 
that  same  day,  I 
transmitted copies of that letter to all Member States. 

In this regard, I now call on the President of the 
Security  Council,  who  will  report  to  the Assembly  on 
the work undertaken by the Council on this matter. 
is  an  honour  and 

privilege  for  me,  in  my  capacity  as  President  of  the 
Security Council for the  month of October, to address 
the  General  Assembly  in  order  to  convey  to  it  the 
the 
recommendation  of 
appointment  of 
the 
United Nations. 

in  private  on 
9 October  2006,  the  Security  Council  adopted  by 
the  Security  Council  for 
the  Secretary-General  of 
its  5547th  meeting,  held 
Mr.  Oshima  (Japan):  It 
At 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

06-56975 (E) 
*0656975* 
In 
The  President:
connection  with 
A/61/PV.31 


the 
recommendation  of  the  Security  Council,  the  General 
Assembly  has  before  it  a  draft  resolution  issued  as 
document A/61/L.3,  which  was  made  available  on  the 
initiative of the Chairman of the Group of Asian States 
and which enjoys the support of the other four regional 
groups. 

The  General Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision 
on draft resolution A/61/L.3. May I take it that it is the 
wish of the General Assembly to adopt draft resolution 
A/61/L.3 by acclamation? 

The draft resolution was adopted by acclamation 
(resolution 61/3). 
The  President: I  now  request  the  Chief  of 

Protocol to escort His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon to 
the platform. 

The  Chief  of  Protocol  escorted  the  Secretary-
General-designate,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  to  the 
platform. 
The  President: I  have  the  honour  to  announce 

that  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  has  been 
appointed  by  acclamation  Secretary-General  of  the 
United  Nations  for  a  term  of  office  beginning  on 
1 January 2007 and ending on 31 December 2011.  

The  General  Assembly  has  just  adopted  the 
resolution  on  the  appointment  of  His  Excellency 
Mr. Ban  Ki-moon  as  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
Nations. This is a historic day for the Organization as it 
continues  to  evolve  and  live  up  to  the  values  and 
principles of the Charter. 

On  behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to 
extend  my  sincerest  congratulations  to  Minister  Ban 
Ki-moon  on  his  appointment  as  the  eighth  Secretary-
General  of  the  United  Nations.  I  am  deeply  honoured 
to welcome him to the United Nations, an Organization 
which  is  not  unfamiliar  to  him  and  to  which  he  has 
devoted  a  considerable  part  of  his  outstanding 
diplomatic career. 

He  is  one  of  the  most  prominent  figures  of  the 
Republic  of  Korea,  a  peaceful  nation  that  has  made  a 
remarkable 
stable 
democracy and a vibrant economy during the past three 
decades.  His  appointment  comes  at  a  time  when  the 
Organization  is  deeply  engaged  in  a  wide-ranging 
reform process, outlined by world leaders in September 
last year.  
transformation 
to  become  a 

and 
collective 
responsibility 

We are grateful to Secretary-General Kofi Annan, 
who  has  played  a  major  role  in  shaping  a  clear  and 
comprehensive  vision  to  address  the  many  global 
challenges  confronting  us.  I  am  confident  that  the 
Organization will build upon its past achievements and 
move  ahead  to  become  an  even  more  effective  body 
under  the  leadership  of  Secretary-General-designate 
Ban Ki-moon. 

We  have  still  before  us  many  challenges,  from 
extreme poverty and hunger to armed conflicts, disease 
and international terrorism; and we have yet to find the 
most appropriate ways to make globalization work for 
all.  

The credibility of this Organization will be tested 
by our ability to continue to work in unity and meet the 
expectations  of  the  millions  of  people  of  the  world. 
Today’s  decision  gives  us  hope  that  we  are  ready  to 
take 
act  with 
determination on matters of common concern. 

I  appeal  to  all  members  to  extend  to  Secretary-
General-designate  Ban  Ki-moon  your  utmost  support 
to ensure a smooth transition as he prepares to assume 
his  term  in  office.  He  can  be  assured  of  my  full 
cooperation  to  facilitate  his  work.  May  I  take  this 
opportunity  to  wish  him  all  success  in  his  upcoming 
endeavour. 

Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan.  
The  Secretary-General:  Let  me  extend  my 

warmest  congratulations  to  my  successor,  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon.  Let  me  also  congratulate  all  of  you,  the 
Member States, on this choice. 

I am delighted that Mr. Ban’s election turned out 
this  way  —  early  and  orderly.  Surely,  this  is  the  way 
we would wish all Secretaries-General to be elected. I 
would  also  say  that  the  process  worked  well  because 
Member  States  were  determined  to  achieve  an  early 
outcome  and  because  the  winning  candidate  had 
exceptional qualifications. 

I  think  everyone  here  recognizes  the  depth  of 
Mr. Ban’s  experience,  the  breadth  of  his  connections 
and  his  ability  to  cooperate  effectively  at  the  highest 
levels.  But,  as  someone  who  has  known  and  worked 
with him for several years, I think that others will soon 
discover something else — something more — if they 
do not see it already: a future Secretary-General who is 
exceptionally  attuned  to  the  sensitivities  of  countries 
I now give the floor to the Secretary-General, His 
2 

06-56975 


and  constituencies  in  every  continent;  a  man  with  a 
truly  global  mind  at  the  helm  of  the  world’s  only 
universal Organization. 

Mr. Ban’s early election will give us a head start 
in  ensuring  the  smoothest  possible  transition.  I  recall, 
at  the  beginning  of  the  process,  I  said  “I  wish  the 
General Assembly and the [Security] Council do not do 
to my successor what they did to me”. I was elected on 
Friday, 13 December. 

I  would  presume  to  give  him  only  one  piece  of 
advice for when he takes office next year: try to make 
full use of the unparalleled resource found in the staff 
of  the  Organization.  Their  commitment  to  the  United 
Nations is the greatest asset of the United Nations and 
has  been  the  surest  source  of  strength  for  me  in  my 
work as Secretary-General. 

More  than  50  years  ago,  the  first  Secretary-
General  of  the  United  Nations,  Trygve  Lie,  used  the 
following  words 
in  greeting  his  successor,  Dag 
Hammarskjöld:  “You  are  about  to  take  over  the  most 
impossible  job  on  Earth”.  While  that  may  be  true,  I 
would add that it is also the best possible job on Earth. 

There will be time to wish him well more fully as 
we  reach  the  moment  of  transfer  of  authority  towards 
the  end  of  the  year.  Until  then,  my  colleagues  and  I 
will do all we can to assist him as he prepares for the 
road ahead. 
As  he  readies  himself  to  take  over,  I  wish  him 

both  strength  and  courage.  He  will  need 
those 
attributes, but, equally, he will need a healthy sense of 
humour  —  which  I  know  he  possesses  in  abundance. 
So he must not forget to have fun along the way. I wish 
him the very best of luck. 
the 

representative of Gambia, who will speak on behalf of 
the African States. 
Mr.  Grey-Johnson  (Gambia):  The  Group  of 

African States heartily congratulates Mr. Ban Ki-moon, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Korea, 
on his election by acclamation as the eighth Secretary-
General  of  the  United  Nations,  replacing  Mr.  Kofi 
Annan,  who  will  be  retiring  from  the  Organization  at 
the end of December 2006. 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon brings to the position a wealth 

of 
experience 
diplomat, 
administrator  and  scholar.  In  fulfilling  those  roles  in 
The  President: 
accomplished 
I  give 
an 
as 
the 
floor 
to 
A/61/PV.31
his native land, he was exposed to a mix of experiences 
that  has  prepared  him  well  for  the  job  of  Secretary-
General  of  the  United  Nations.  In  less  than  40  years, 
the  Republic  of  Korea  rose  from  the  status  of  least 
developed country to become an industrialized, highly 
developed  nation.  Today,  it  is  the  eleventh  largest 
economy in the world. Mr. Ban Ki-moon lived through 
that period of transformation and in fact contributed to 
it  in  no  small  measure.  That  experience  will  surely 
come  in  handy  as  he  leads  us  forward  with  the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. 

Since the end of the Korean War, which Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon lived through, his country has been involved 
as  an  active  partner  in  peacebuilding  and  conflict 
prevention  and  resolution.  He  has  played  important 
roles in that process and I am sure will bring his hands-
on experiences to bear on the work of the Organization 
in  those  very  important  areas,  which  are  at  the  very 
heart of the mandate of the United Nations. His coming 
on  board  at  a  time  when  developments  in  his  own 
region  of  the  world  call  for  wisdom  and  cautious 
diplomacy  can  also  augur  well  for  our  efforts  to 
mediate the very complex security situation that is now 
unfolding  in  the  Korean  peninsula.  I  am  sure  he  will 
also  help  us  make  progress  more  generally  on  the 
disarmament  issues  and  move  us  forward  on  the 
denuclearization agenda. 
The  immediate  preoccupation  is  with  reform  of 

the  Organization. As  an  astute  administrator,  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon  comes  to  the  job  with  the  tools  that  should 
make 
to  achieve  faster  results, 
especially  with  management  reform,  but  also  with  the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council,  the  Economic  and 
Social Council and, indeed, the General Assembly. He 
knows  the  house  well,  having  served  in  his  country’s 
delegation  and  having  been  the  chief  adviser  and 
manager of the office of the presidency of the General 
Assembly at its fifty-sixth session. 

Africa looks forward to working with him on the 
many  issues  of  priority  and  concern  to  us,  from 
peacekeeping and peacebuilding to poverty and all the 
other areas identified under the special needs of Africa 
chapter of the Outcome Document that was adopted by 
the  Summit  of  heads  of  State  and  Government  last 
year. We will lend him all the support and cooperation 
he 
important 
responsibilities.  We  congratulate  him  once  more  and 
wish him the very best. 
it  easier  for  us 
takes  on  his 
requires 
as  he 
06-56975 

3 

to 
the 
floor 
I  give 
The  President: 
A/61/PV.31 


Let  me  seize  this  opportunity  to  commend  our 
outgoing  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  for  his 
tremendous  contributions  to  multilateralism  and  the 
principles and purposes of the United Nations. We are 
indeed  proud  and  very  grateful  that,  through  his 
exemplary  service  to  the  Organization  for  over  a 
decade,  Africa  was  able  to  play  a  lead  role  in  the 
maintenance  of  world  peace, 
the  promotion  of 
sustainable  human  development,  and  the  prevention 
and resolution of conflict. We thank him for his many 
years  of  invaluable  service  to  humanity  and  wish  him 
well in his future endeavours. 
the 

representative  of  Japan,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of 
the Asian States. 
Mr. Oshima (Japan): It is indeed a great honour 

for  me  today  to  address  this  body  for  a  second  time, 
only through  a coincidence. Nevertheless, it is a great 
joy  for  me  to  do  so  as  the  representative  of  a  country 
that is one of the immediate neighbours of the Republic 
of  Korea,  the  country  from  which  our  next  Secretary-
General hails. 
On  behalf  of  the  States  members  of  the  Asian 

Group,  it  is  my  great  pleasure  and  honour  to  most 
warmly welcome the appointment of Mr. Ban Ki-moon 
of the Republic of Korea as the next Secretary-General 
and 
to  extend  our  most  sincere  and  heartfelt 
congratulations to him on his appointment. 

The Asian  Member  States  aspired  from  early  on 
in the selection process that one of our sons, daughters, 
brothers or sisters from the region would be given the 
opportunity  to  serve  at  the  helm  of  our  Organization, 
35  years  after  the  third  Secretary-General,  U  Thant. 
That  aspiration  has  today  been  realized  through  a 
unanimous decision of the General Assembly following 
a  recommendation  unanimously  arrived  at  in  the 
Security  Council.  And  for  that,  the  Asian  Member 
States  wish  to  express  their  gratitude  to  the  States 
members  of  all  regional  groups  for  the  understanding 
and support they have shown for that aspiration and the 
candidature of Mr. Ban Ki-moon. 

In  that  connection,  the  States  members  of  the 
Asian  Group  wish  to  extend  special  thanks  to  the 
African  Group  and  the  Group  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean States for officially expressing, early in the 
process,  their  strong  and  unflagging  support  for  the 
election  of  an  Asian  candidate  as  the  next  Secretary-
General. Likewise, we are grateful to the Non-Aligned 
to 
skills 
and 
a 
and 
record 
proven 
economic 
promoting 
to  reforms  of 
Movement countries for their consolidated support for 
Asia’s position in that regard. 

The Asian countries are confident that Secretary-
General-designate  Ban  Ki-moon  will  contribute 
substantially to the further enhancement of the role and 
prestige  of  our  Organization, 
the 
Organization  and  the  strengthening  of  the  United 
Nations system, to maintaining international peace and 
security, 
social 
development  and  growth,  and 
to  protecting  and 
enhancing human rights. 

Mr.  Ban  is  a  seasoned  diplomat  with  long,  rich 
and  extensive  experience  in  the  public  service  of  his 
home  country,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  including  as 
Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade and at the United 
Nations.  His  personal  qualities,  combined  with  his 
diplomatic 
of 
accomplishment in management and administration — 
all of which he now brings to the service of the United 
Nations — show that all Member States will be in good 
hands  with  him  as  the  chief  administrator  of  our 
Organization  as  it  struggles  to  address  new  tasks  and 
challenges. 

The Asian region is proud of its many remarkable 
developments  and  achievements  in  reducing  poverty, 
attaining  economic  growth,  providing  more  education 
to  children,  promoting  democratic  values  and 
institutions, and so forth — although, admittedly, there 
are  still  many  challenges.  The  country  that  Mr.  Ban 
hails from is a remarkable example of the phenomenal 
growth  and  change  witnessed  in  Asia.  The  Asian 
Member  States  can  say  with  pride  that  it  is  most 
appropriate  that  such  a  country  is  sending  one  of  its 
most outstanding public servants to steer the course of 
the United Nations at the beginning of the twenty-first 
century. 

Looking  back  over  the  selection  process,  several 
talented,  able  and  distinguished  candidates  besides 
Mr. Ban  were  presented  from  the  Asian  region.  We 
should remember that the unanimous action to appoint 
Mr.  Ban,  both  in  the  Security  Council  and  in  the 
General Assembly, was in the end made possible by the 
considerate  cooperation  of  those  other  candidates.  I 
would like to take the opportunity to thank them all, as 
well  as  the  Member  States  which  presented  their 
candidatures, in that regard. 
again  most  warmly 

conclusion,  once 
welcoming  the  Secretary-General-designate,  Mr.  Ban, 
In 
4 

06-56975 
I  give 
the 
floor 
to 
Finally, 
juncture 
I  am  sure 
this  crucial 
The  President: 


and wishing  him every success in fulfilling his highly 
demanding  mission  at 
in 
international  relations  and  in  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations in particular, the States members of the Asian 
Group pledge their firm support to him in the discharge 
of  his  formidable  and  weighty  responsibilities  in  the 
months and years ahead. 

there  will  be  another 
opportunity  to  formally  express  our  deep  appreciation 
to Secretary-General Kofi Annan, but allow me on this 
occasion, on behalf of the Asian Group, to reaffirm our 
respect 
for  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  and 
reconfirm  our  commitment  to  continued  cooperation 
with him as he perseveres in tackling the mountain of 
issues that remain to be addressed until his final day in 
office. 
the 

representative  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  who  will 
speak on behalf of the Eastern European States. 
Mr.  Prica  (Bosnia  and  Herzegovina):  I  feel 

particularly  honoured  to  speak  today  on  behalf  of  the 
Group  of  Eastern  European  States  on  this  historic 
occasion. 
First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  extend  a  warm 

welcome  and  our  congratulations 
the  newly 
appointed  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations, 
Mr. Ban  Ki-moon,  on  his  appointment  to  the  most 
important post in today’s world. 

The  whole  world  looks  to  him  today  with 
renewed hope that the Organization will continue to be 
led 
its  credibility, 
independence and high efficiency, and to strive for the 
best  global  solutions  for  the  sake  of  the  further 
advancement  of  contemporary  world  society,  calling 
upon  his  well-known  extraordinary  qualities,  broad 
experience 
the 
unanimous support he enjoys among Member States. 

The  world  has  changed  dramatically  during  the 
past decade, and new challenges have appeared on the 
horizon.  The  activities  of  the  Secretary-General  will 
continue to be challenging, taking into account difficult 
unresolved  conflicts,  continuing  threats  to  peace  and 
stability  in  the  world,  and  the  obstacles  to  further 
reform  of  the  Organization  in  order  to  make  it  more 
efficient  and  capable  of  tackling  important  issues  and 
implementing 
right  and  broadly  acceptable 
decisions. 
that  will  maintain 
international 
in  a  way 
relations, 
to 
in 
and 
the 
A/61/PV.31
revitalizing 

Mr.  Ban  has  taken  upon  his  shoulders  the  very 
difficult,  but  at  the  same  time  very  noble  task  of 
leading  our  planet  towards  a  better  life  and  better 
opportunities  for  all  in  a  peaceful,  secure  and  healthy 
environment. We have no doubt that, under his prudent 
leadership  and  with  our  full  support,  which  he  can 
count  on,  we  shall  continue  the  process  of  renewing 
and 
the  Organization.  We  are  also 
convinced  that,  during  his  mandate,  the  Millennium 
Goals  will  reach  the  point  at  which  we  can  proudly 
announce  to  the  world  that  they  have  almost  been 
achieved. 

We  firmly  believe  that  his  mandate  will  be 
designed with many new innovative initiatives that will 
result in a stronger and better United Nations, based on 
tolerance, diversity and multilateralism, and acceptable 
to  the  entire  membership.  His  proven  commitment  to 
the  preservation  of  peace  and  security,  the  promotion 
of  sustainable  development,  the  protection  of  human 
rights,  a  healthy  environment  and  social 
justice, 
especially  in  the  fight  against  poverty,  is  the  best 
guarantee for success. 

Also,  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  on 
behalf  of  the  Eastern  European  Group  to  express  our 
deepest  appreciation  to  our  current  Secretary-General, 
Mr.  Kofi Annan,  for  his  tireless  efforts  and  enormous 
personal  contribution  to  the  success  of  the  United 
Nations  under  his  decade-long  leadership.  His  legacy 
will  no  doubt  continue  to  be  a  foundation  of  our 
Organization’s work for decades to come. 

Let  me  once  again,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
Eastern  European  States,  congratulate  Mr.  Ban  on  his 
election and wish him every success. We look forward 
to friendly dialogue and cooperation, and he can count 
on our full support. 
the 

representative of Ecuador, who will speak on behalf of 
the Latin American and Caribbean States. 
Mr. Cordovez (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): The 

Latin  American  and  Caribbean  countries  avail 
themselves  of 
this  solemn  opportunity,  of  such 
importance  to  the  Organization,  to  reaffirm  their  faith 
and  hope  in  the  United  Nations.  We  believe  that  the 
principles and purposes of the Charter are as valid and 
current today as they were upon their adoption 61 years 
ago  in  San  Francisco.  For  that  reason,  we  solemnly 
pledge  to  continue  to  support  the  United  Nations 
efforts,  to  adhere  to  its  objectives,  and  thereby  to 
The  President: 
I  give 
floor 
the 
to 
06-56975 

5 

A/61/PV.31 

broaden the possibilities of a better life for present and 
future generations. 

We  would  like  to  convey  our  sincerest  thanks  to 
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  for  his  10  years  of 
diligent  work  on  behalf  of  peace  and  development. 
With  admirable  tenacity,  the  Secretary-General  has 
been  able  to  transmit  to  the  peoples  of  the  world  a 
message of serenity in moments of anguish, of hope in 
moments  of  despair,  and  of  strength  in  moments  of 
turbulence  and  adversity.  His  efforts  in  favour  of 
collective  security  and  his  desire  to  eliminate  the 
tensions generated by threats to international peace and 
security cannot be denied. We would like to extend our 
appreciation  to  his  wife,  Nane,  for  whom  it  was  not 
easy to adjust to the rigours of her husband’s tasks, but 
who has stood by him in his service to the Organization 
with exceptional loyalty and spirit. 

We  would  like  to  hail  the  Secretary-General-
designate, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, and wish him the greatest 
success  in  the  fulfilment  of  his  duties. As  he  assumes 
his  high  position  with  the  support  and  the  confidence 
of the States Members of the Organization, his success 
will  be  ours.  His  diplomatic  talent  and  his  peaceable 
but  firm 
to  fully 
accomplish the tasks and duties entrusted to him upon 
his  designation.  He  can  always  rely  on  the  support  of 
the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  region,  which  has 
traditionally maintained with the United Nations since 
its  foundation  an  intense  working  relationship  with 
regard to the long list of matters whose outcomes have 
been of vital importance to our countries. 

This change in the leadership of our Organization 
is  taking  place  at  a  moment  of  uncertainty  and  even 
confusion about the role that the United Nations plays 
in today’s world. International public opinion demands 
that  the  Security  Council  and  other  bodies  of  the 
Organization do a much better job. We live at a time of 
almost infinite opportunities, as well as unprecedented 
risks.  The  United  Nations,  it  is  said,  should  be  the 
forum,  the  instrument  and  the  model  allowing  the 
international  community  to  take  advantage  of  those 
opportunities  and  to  foresee  and  neutralize  potential 
risks. For those reasons, it is important to insist on the 
need for in-depth reform of the Organization, and that 
will undoubtedly be the main task and responsibility of 
our new Secretary-General. 

must  be  ready  and  determined 
Nevertheless,  while  the  new  Secretary-General 
the 
temperament  will  enable  him 
introduce 
to 
necessary  changes,  the  Member  Governments  must 
also  demonstrate  the  political  will  to  approve  them.  It 
is inconceivable that, although we have been debating 
reform of the Security Council for decades — I recall 
that  we  began  discussing  that  issue  in  the  1970s  — 
proposing  untold  numbers  of  formulas  and  issuing 
report  after  report  on  the  item,  that  organ  remains 
immutable  and  impassive  to  its  critics  for  its  lack  of 
representativity and its diffident conduct in confronting 
the world’s crises, such as the most recent crisis in the 
Middle  East.  An  equal  affirmation  may  be  made 
regarding other aspects of the Organization’s work.  

Thus,  the  political  resolve  of  States  will  emerge 
only if all reform efforts are defined and implemented 
on  the  basis  of  consensus.  That  has  been  the  way  in 
which  the  Organization  has  traditionally  achieved  its 
great  successes  of  the  past,  which  have  enabled  it  to 
enjoy  its  current  prestige  and  reputation.  Let  us  all 
pledge to work to  achieve  consensus in  order to build 
the  bases  for  understanding  and  agreement  that  will 
enable  us  to  advance  down  the  road  to  reform.  Our 
Organization  will  thereby  become  the  more  effective 
mechanism  for  collective  security  and  international 
solidarity that all of us, from the powerful to the poor, 
so sorely need. 

We  reiterate  to  our  Secretary-General-designate, 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  our  most  sincere  congratulations 
and best wishes in the performance of the transcendent 
mission that we have entrusted to him. 
the 
the 

representative  of  Liechtenstein,  who  will  speak  on 
behalf of the Western European and other States. 
the 

honour and privilege today to address this Assembly on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  Western  European  and  Other 
States  on  the  occasion  of  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon  as 
the  United 
Nations, starting 1 January 2007.  
The Group of Western European and other States 

warmly congratulates Mr. Ban Ki-moon on his election 
and welcomes him at the head of the Organization. As 
the  chief  executive  of  this  Organization,  he  has  the 
twofold  task  of  working  with  Member  States  for  the 
realization  of  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations, as well as of efficiently 
managing  the  Secretariat.  That  is  a  complex  and 
daunting challenge which requires active support from 
record  and  past 
us, 
Mr.  Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  I  have 
the  Member  States.  The 
the  Secretary-General  of 
The  President: 
I  give 
floor 
to 
6 

06-56975 
We 
the 
and 
to 
the 
system.  We 
leadership  of 
therefore  owe 
Secretary-General-elect 


achievements  of  Mr.  Ban  give  us  confidence  that  he 
possesses  the  required  skills  to  carry  out  both  those 
functions  efficiently  and  to  steer  the  Organization 
through the tasks ahead. 

the 
look  forward 
Secretary-General-elect  at  a  time  when  the  challenges 
to  the  multilateral  system  are  manifold  and  complex 
and when the need for a strong United Nations is more 
urgent than ever. At the same time, we realize that it is 
we,  the  Member  States,  that  are  called  upon  to  make 
the  right  decisions  for  the  future  of  the  Organization 
and that close, constructive and productive cooperation 
between 
the 
membership  is  indispensable  in  order  to  maintain  and 
strengthen  the  place  of  the  United  Nations  in  the 
international 
such 
cooperation to the peoples that we represent and to the 
Organization. 

We welcome the fact that the appointment of the 
new  Secretary-General  is  taking  place  well  ahead  of 
the end of the tenure of Secretary-General Kofi Annan, 
and  trust  that  the  appointment  today  will  ensure  a 
smooth  transition  and  the  necessary  continuity  in  the 
work of the United Nations. We also wish to emphasize 
that  we  continue  to  count,  until  the  very  end  of  his 
term,  on  the  leadership  of  Secretary-General  Kofi 
Annan,  which  has  served  us  so  well  over  the  past  10 
years. We will all have a separate opportunity to extend 
our  deep  gratitude  for  his  long  years  of  excellent 
service to the United Nations and look forward to that 
occasion. 
the 

representative of the United States, who will speak on 
behalf of the host country. 
Mr.  Bolton  (United  States  of  America):  On 

behalf  of  the  United  States,  the  host  country  of  the 
United  Nations, 
the 
appointment  of  Foreign  Minister  Ban  Ki-moon  as  the 
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations.  The  United 
States  has  had  the  privilege  to  work  with  Foreign 
Minister  Ban  throughout  his  distinguished  career  in 
Seoul, in Washington, D.C., and here in New York.  
We believe that he is the right person to lead the 

United  Nations  at  this  decisive  moment  in  its  history, 
particularly as the United Nations struggles to fulfil the 
terms of the reform agenda that world leaders agreed to 
last fall. It will be up to Foreign Minister Ban to lead 
us as we build upon and complete the modest steps of 
The  President: 
I  would 
like 
to  welcome 
I  give 
the 
floor 
to 
A/61/PV.31
reform that we have achieved to date. It  will be up to 
all  Member  States  to  work  with  him  to  reform  the 
United Nations. 

We encourage all Member States to give Foreign 
Minister Ban the support he needs to act decisively to 
strengthen  the  United  Nations,  including  during  his 
first  months,  by  shaping  the  Secretariat  to  meet  the 
challenges ahead. 

We  are  confident  that  Foreign  Minister  Ban  will 
both  represent  and  instil  the  highest  standards  of 
integrity  within 
the  United  Nations  system.  We 
congratulate him on his appointment. 

On behalf of the United States, I would also like 
to  extend  our  appreciation  to  the  other  candidates  for 
this  position  —  President  Vike-Freiberga,  Deputy 
Prime  Minister  Surakiart,  Under-Secretary-General 
Tharoor,  Ambassador  Dhanapala,  Prince  Zeid  and 
Ambassador  Ghani  —  and  to  the  Member  States  that 
recommended them for consideration. We respect their 
deep  commitment  to  bettering  the  United  Nations  and 
their continued leadership on world issues. 

I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
express,  on  behalf  of  the  United  States,  our  deep 
appreciation 
for  his 
tireless efforts during his many years of service to the 
United  Nations,  especially  the  past  10  as  Secretary-
General.  I  would  also  like  to  express  our  appreciation 
for the work of his top team of advisers, who will also 
be moving on to new challenges. 
the 
I  give 

representative  of  South  Africa,  who  will  speak  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 
Mr.  Kumalo  (South  Africa):  On  behalf  of  the 

Group  of  77  and  China,  I  am  honoured  to  extend  our 
congratulations to Mr. Ban Ki-moon on his election as 
the  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations,  starting 
1 January 2007. The Group of 77 and China wishes to 
convey our assurance to him of our support throughout 
his term in office. 

The  United  Nations  has  weathered  many  storms 
over  the  past  decades.  The  Organization  has  survived 
because  of  the  stewardship  of  a  long  line  of  strong 
Secretaries-General  who  have  always  acted  in  the 
interests of the Organization and remained neutral and 
committed  to  the  ideals  set  out  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations. We  are  encouraged  by  the  assurances 
that  we  have  received  from  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  that  he 
to  Secretary-General  Annan 
The  President: 
floor 
the 
to 
06-56975 

7 
to  advancing 
A/61/PV.31 

intends  to  build  on  the  foundation  set  by  Secretary-
General Kofi Annan and his predecessors. 

In  2000,  the  heads  of  State  and  Government 
committed  themselves  in  the  Millennium  Declaration 
to making this Organization stronger so as to be able to 
respond  better  to  the  many  demands  that  we  continue 
to place on it. Since then, we have made considerable 
progress in meeting the ambitions of the people of the 
world,  especially  the  poor  and  the  marginalized. 
However, a great deal remains to be done. 
The challenge for the new Secretary-General will 

be to consolidate the progress made so far by ensuring 
that  the  Secretariat  implements  the  decisions  and 
mandates of the Organization, thereby maintaining the 
momentum  we  have  built  so  far,  and  well  into  the 
future. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  believes  that  the 
development  agenda  is  an  important  pillar  of  this 
Organization  and  one  on  which  considerable  effort  is 
still  needed.  It  was  therefore  encouraging  to  us  that 
Mr. Ban  Ki-moon,  prior  to  his  election,  committed 
internationally  agreed 
himself 
development 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  I  wish  to  assure  him  that  the 
Group  of  77  and  China  will  support  his  efforts  as 
Secretary-General 
global 
partnership on development. 

The  United  Nations  matters  to  us  because  it  is 
located  at  the  crossroads  of  the  needs  and  desires  of 
humanity.  Without  the  United  Nations,  many  people 
throughout  the  world  would  not  have  any  hope  for  a 
better life. It is therefore in our interest to ensure that 
the  Organization  be  effective,  well-managed  and 
accountable to Member States. 

is 
the 
Secretary-General-elect act in the interests of the entire 
membership and listen to the views of each and every 
Member  State.  It  is  also  imperative  that  Member 
States,  in  turn,  “respect  the  exclusively  international 
character  of  the  responsibilities  of  the  Secretary-
General and the staff and not … seek to influence them 
in the discharge of their duties”, as stated in Article l00 
of the Charter of the United Nations. 

the  General 
Assembly  has  elected  the  incoming  Secretary-General 
well  before  he 
assume  his 
responsibilities.  We  trust  that  the  election  of  the 
Unlike  at  previous  occasions, 
strengthening 
that  reason, 
imperative 
including 
expected 
goals, 
that 
For 
is 
to 
in 
the 
the 
it 

faith  with 
the  poor  and 
Secretary-General  in  advance  of  his  assuming  office 
will  allow  for  sufficient  consultations  with  Member 
States  and  staff  in  order  to  prepare  for  the  task  ahead 
and ensure a smooth transition. 

It  is  indeed  a  pleasant  irony  that  the  decision  of 
the General Assembly to elect early the President of the 
Assembly  and  other  office-bearers  was  one  of  the 
reforms  undertaken  at  the  time  the  Republic  of  Korea 
occupied  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly,  in 
which  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  served  as  Chef  de  Cabinet.  I 
make that note for myself in case I should grow more 
ambitious than I am now. 

In  conclusion,  allow  me  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  convey  our  warm  wishes  and  congratulations  to 
Secretary-General  Kofi Annan  for  his  sterling  service 
to  the  United  Nations.  The  Organization  and  its 
membership owe Kofi Annan a tremendous amount of 
gratitude  and  we  will  continue  to  support  his  efforts 
until  his  last  day  with  this  Organization.  At  the 
appropriate  time,  we  will  recall  the  contributions  of 
Mr. Annan  to  the  Organization  and  pay  tribute  to  him 
for  having  kept 
the 
marginalized  of  the  world  despite  all  the  pressures  he 
faced.  For  now,  we  wish  once  again  to  welcome 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon and wish him the best. 
the 

representative of Finland, who will speak on behalf of 
the European Union. 
the 

European  Union,  I  would  like  to  express  our  warmest 
congratulations 
to  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his 
appointment  as  the  next  Secretary-General  of  the 
United  Nations.  We  are  convinced  that  his  personal 
skills  and  vast  experience  will  enable  him 
to 
successfully lead the world Organization.  

The  European  Union  is  a  strong  supporter  of 
effective  multilateralism  and  the  United  Nations  at  its 
core.  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  can  rely  on  our  continued 
support  for  the  world  Organization  and  for  him 
personally  as 
I  am 
confident  that,  under  his  able  leadership,  the  Member 
States  can  work  successfully  together  in  promoting 
peace and security, development and human rights. He 
has  our  full  support 
the  ongoing 
comprehensive reform of the United Nations.  

On behalf of the European Union, I want to wish 
him  every  success  in  carrying  out  the  important 
Ms.  Lintonen  (Finland):  On  behalf  of 
the  new  Secretary-General. 
The  President: 
in  advancing 
I  give 
floor 
the 
to 
8 

06-56975 
of 
congratulation 
generous  words 
The  President:  I  now  invite  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon, 


responsibilities  of  his  future  tasks  as  the  Secretary-
General  of  the  United  Nations.  We  look  forward  to 
working  in  close  cooperation  with  him.  He  is  very 
welcome. 

Secretary-General-designate, to make a statement. 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon: I stand before the members of 

the General Assembly, deeply touched and inspired by 
and 
their 
encouragement.  With  boundless  gratitude  for 
the 
confidence  placed  in  me  by  the  Member  States,  and 
with  an  unswerving  resolve  to  honour  that  trust,  I 
humbly accept the appointment as the eighth Secretary-
General of this great Organization, our United Nations. 
I wish to extend my deepest respect and appreciation to 
all  the  leaders  and  peoples  of  the  Member  States  for 
their strong support. 

Thank you, Madam, for graciously preparing and 
guiding  the  meeting  today.  I  greatly  look  forward  to 
supporting  you  and  working  with  you  as  you  wisely 
steer the Assembly towards a very successful session. 

I  follow  in  a  line  of  remarkable  leaders.  They, 
too,  faced  this  moment,  each  at  a  critical  juncture  in 
the  Organization's  history.  Like  me  today,  they  must 
have pondered what the years ahead would hold at the 
helm of this dynamic institution. Each made important 
and  lasting  contributions  to  our  common  enterprise  in 
upholding  humanity's  deepest  values  and  highest 
aspirations. 

In  particular,  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  has 
astutely  guided  our  Organization  into  the  twenty-first 
century.  He  has  defined  an  ambitious  agenda  that  has 
made the United Nations truly indispensable to peace, 
prosperity  and  human  dignity  around  the  world.  Our 
debt  to  his  courage  and  vision  is  immeasurable.  I 
resolve to build upon his legacy. 

By  completing  the  appointment  of  the  next 
Secretary-General  with  such  alacrity,  the  Members 
have  opened  an  unprecedented  opportunity.  Never 
before  has  an  incoming  Secretary-General  been  given 
sufficient  time  to  prepare;  they  have  given  me  more 
than  two  months.  I  will  use  these  weeks  to  consult 
widely  on  how  best  to  proceed  with  our  common 
agenda  of  reform  and  revitalization.  I  will  listen 
attentively  to  Member’s  concerns,  expectations  and 
admonitions. 
A/61/PV.31
to 

I  am  deeply  honoured  to  become  the  second 
Asian to lead the Organization, following Mr. U Thant, 
who ably served the world four decades ago. It is quite 
fitting that Members have now turned to Asia again for 
the next Secretary-General to guide the United Nations 
system through its seventh decade. Asia is dynamic and 
diverse,  and  Asia  aspires 
take  on  greater 
responsibilities for the world. Having come so far and 
rising  still,  the  region  is  living  and  shaping  the  full 
range  of  achievements  and  challenges  of  our  current 
times. 

Asia  is  also  a  region  where  modesty  is  a  virtue, 
but  the  modesty  is  about  demeanour,  not  about  vision 
and  goals.  It  does  not  mean  a  lack  of  commitment  or 
leadership. Rather, it is a quiet determination in action 
to get things done without so much fanfare. That may 
be the key to Asia's success and to the United Nations 
future. Indeed, our Organization is modest in its means, 
but not in its values. We should be more modest in our 
words, but not in our performance. The true measure of 
success  for  the  United  Nations  is  not  how  much  we 
promise, but how much we deliver for those who need 
us  most.  Given  the  enduring  purposes  and  inspiring 
principles  of  our  Organization,  we  need  not  shout  its 
praises  or  preach  its  virtues.  We  simply  need  to  live 
them  every  day,  step  by  step,  programme  by 
programme, mandate by mandate. 
The  surge  in  demand  for  the  United  Nations 

services attests not only to the United Nations abiding 
relevance,  but  also  to  its  central  place  in  advancing 
human  dignity.  The  United  Nations  is  needed  now 
more  than  ever  before.  The  United  Nations  core 
mission  in  the  previous  century  was  to  keep  countries 
from  fighting  each  other.  In  the  new  century,  the 
defining mandate is to strengthen the inter-State system 
so  that  humanity  may  be  better  served  amidst  new 
challenges.  From  the  Balkans  to Africa,  from Asia  to 
the  Middle  East,  we  have  witnessed  the  weakening  or 
absence  of  effective  governance, 
the 
ravaging  of  human  rights  and  the  abandonment  of 
long-standing  humanitarian  principles.  We  need 
competent and responsible States to meet the needs of 
"we  the  peoples"  for  whom  the  United  Nations  was 
created;  and  the  world's  peoples  will  not  be  fully 
served unless peace, development and human rights — 
the three pillars of the United Nations — are advanced 
together with equal vigour. 
The  road  that  we  must  pave  towards  a  world  of 

peace, prosperity and dignity for all has many pitfalls. 
leading 
to 
06-56975 

9 

the 
terrorism, 
threats  posed  by 
A/61/PV.31 

As  Secretary-General,  I  will  make  the  most  of  the 
authority invested in my Office by the Charter and the 
mandate  the  Members  give  me.  I  will  work  diligently 
to  materialize  our  responsibility  to  protect  the  most 
vulnerable  members  of  humanity  and  for  the  peaceful 
resolution  of  threats  to  international  security  and 
regional stability. 

In  order  to  meet  those  growing  mandates  and 
expectations,  we  have  engaged  in  the  most  sweeping 
reform  in  the  history  of  the  Organization.  The  very 
scope  of  the  reform  has  taxed  the  attention  and 
energies of both the delegations and the Secretariat, but 
we must stay the course. We need to muster the human, 
institutional and intellectual resources, and to organize 
them  properly.  We  should  do  our  part  in  meeting  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  the  expanding  peace 
operations, 
the 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
HIV/AIDS  and  other  pandemics,  environmental 
degradation, and the imperatives of human rights. 

Let  us  remember  that  we  reform  not  to  please 
others,  but  because  we  value  what  this  Organization 
stands  for.  We  must  reform  because  we  believe  in  its 
future. To revitalize our common endeavour is to renew 
our  faith  not  only  in  the  United  Nations  programmes 
and  purposes,  but  also  in  each  other.  We  should 
demand  more  of  ourselves,  as  well  as  of  our 
Organization.  To  cut  through  the  fog  of  mistrust  is 
going  to  require  more  intensive  dialogue.  We  cannot 
change everything at once, but if we choose wisely and 
work  together  transparently,  flexibly  and  honestly, 
progress  in  a  few  areas  will  lead  to  progress  in  many 
more.  Only  the  Member  States  can  revitalize  this 
Organization,  but  I  will  always  be  there  to  assist  and 
facilitate as needed. 
(spoke in French) 

As  Secretary-General,  I  am  resolved  to  manage 
my Office openly and responsibly. I will seek to build 
consensus  through  a  free  exchange  of  ideas  and 
critiques.  Only  through  the  candid,  open  testing  of 
ideas  and  proposals  can  we  identify  better  means  of 
serving  the  peoples  of  the  world.  I  will  work  actively 
in  reaching  out  to  all  stakeholders.  In  particular,  in 
order to bring the United Nations closer to the people, I 
will widely engage civil society in dialogue. I will seek 
the  support  and 
input  of  humanitarian  advocacy 
groups, businesses and other constituents of the global 
citizenry  for  the  good  of  the  Organization.  My  tenure 
their 
proud 
Maintaining 
the  resources.  If 
will be marked by ceaseless efforts to build bridges and 
close divides. Leadership of harmony, not division, and 
by example, not instruction, has served me well so far. 
I intend to stay the course as Secretary-General. 

I will be fully accountable for the management of 
this  institution.  Member  States  set  the  mandates  and 
provide 
the  resources  are  not 
sufficient for the task at hand, I will not be shy about 
saying so, but once we in the Secretariat have taken on 
a  task,  we  must  accept  full  responsibility  for  its 
achievement. 
(spoke in English) 

I  am  eager  to  join  the  ranks  of  the  world’s 
premier Secretariat. I have deep respect and admiration 
for the able, dedicated and courageous men and women 
who serve this Organization day in and day out, often 
in the face of danger and personal sacrifice. To them, I 
pledge my utmost support, dedication and solidarity. 

heritage,  while 
vigorously  holding  them  to  the  highest  standards  of 
professionalism  and  integrity,  will  be  a  prime  goal  of 
my  tenure.  The  aim  of  Secretariat  reform  is  not  to 
penalize  but  to  reward,  so  that  their  talent  and  skill, 
experience and dedication may be fully mobilized and 
properly  utilized.  It  will  reward  hard  work  and 
excellence 
everyone 
accountable for his or her own action or inaction, and 
pushing  for  greater  gender  balance,  in  particular  at 
senior levels. 

That  will  be  my  guide  as  I  rally  the  Secretariat 
staff  for  our  very  best  performance  in  serving  the 
Organization.  As  Secretary-General,  I  am  far  from 
perfect,  and  I  will  need 
the  unsparing  support, 
cooperation  and  trust  of  all  represented  here,  but  I 
pledge to serve them well, with all of my heart and to 
the  best  of  my  abilities.  I  will  seek  excellence  with 
humility.  I  will  lead  by  example.  Promises  should  be 
made for the keeping. That has been my motto in life. I 
intend to stick to it as I work with all stakeholders for a 
United Nations that delivers on its promises. 

My  heart  is  overflowing  with  gratitude  towards 
my country and people who have sent me here to serve. 
It has been a  long journey  from my youth in war-torn 
and destitute Korea to this rostrum and these awesome 
responsibilities. I was able to make the journey because 
the United Nations was with my people in our darkest 
days.  It  gave  us  hope  and  sustenance,  security  and 
to  boost  morale,  making 
10 

06-56975 


dignity.  It  showed  us  a  better  way.  So  I  feel  at  home 
today, however many miles and years I have travelled. 

For  the  Korean  people,  the  United  Nations  flag 
was  and  remains  a  beacon  of  better  days  to  come. 
There are countless stories of that faith. One belongs to 
me. In 1956, when the cold war was raging around the 
world, as a young boy of just 12 I was chosen to read 
out  a  public  message  on  behalf  of  my  elementary 
school,  addressed  to  the  Secretary-General  of  the 
United Nations, Mr. Dag Hammarskjöld. We urged him 
to  help  the  people  of  a  certain  faraway  European 
country  in  their  fight  for  freedom  and  democracy.  I 
hardly understood the deeper meaning of the message, 
but I knew that the United Nations was there for help 
in times of need. 

Fifty  years  later,  the  world  is  a  much  more 
complex place, and there are many more actors to turn 
to.  During  these  years,  I  have  travelled  many  times  

A/61/PV.31
around the world. I have been  elated by the successes 
of  the  United  Nations  in  making  life  better  for 
countless people. I have also been pained by scenes of 
its failures. In too many places, I could feel the dismay 
over inaction of the United Nations or action that was 
too  little  or  came  too  late.  I  am  determined  to  dispel 
the disillusionment. 

I  earnestly  hope  that  young  boys  and  girls  of 
today will grow up knowing that the United Nations is 
working  hard  to  build  a  better  future  for  them.  As 
Secretary-General, I will embrace their hopes and hear 
their  appeals.  I  am  an  optimist,  and  I  am  full  of  hope 
about  the  future  of  our  global  Organization.  Let  us 
work  together  for  a  United  Nations  that  can  deliver 
more and better. 
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  has  thus 

concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 104. 



The meeting rose at 4.25 p.m.
06-56975 

11 
