
A/61/PV.39
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-first session 

39th plenary meeting 
Friday, 20 October 2006, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Ms. Al-Khalifa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Bahrain) 





(f)    Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Community of Portuguese-speaking 
Countries 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

(g)    Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Council of Europe  

  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256)  
(h)    Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Economic Community of Central African 
States 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256)  
  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Economic Cooperation Organization 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

(j)    Cooperation between the United Nations and 

(i) 
the International Organization of la 
Francophonie 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 
  Draft resolution (A/61/L.7) 


(k)    Cooperation between the United Nations and 






the Inter-Parliamentary Union 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 
  Draft resolution (A/61/L.6) 
















  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 


Agenda item 108 (continued) 
Cooperation between the United Nations and 
regional and other organizations 
(a)    Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the African Union 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

(b)    Cooperation between the United Nations and 


the Asian-African Legal Consultative 
Organization 
  Report of the Secretary-General 
(A/61/256/Add.1) 
  Draft resolution (A/61/L.5) 




(c)    Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations  
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

(d)    Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Black Sea Economic Cooperation 
Organization 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 
  Draft resolution (A/61/L.4) 


(e)    Cooperation between the United Nations and 



the Caribbean Community 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

06-58547 (E) 
*0658547* 
A/61/PV.39 

(l) 



  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Latin American Economic System 
  Report of the Secretary-General 
(A/61/256/Add.1) 



(m)   Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the League of Arab States 

  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256)  
(n)    Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization for the Prohibition of 
Chemical Weapons 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/61/185) 


(o)    Cooperation between the United Nations and 




the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in Europe 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

(p)    Cooperation between the United Nations and 






the Organization of American States 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

(q)    Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization of the Islamic Conference 

  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256)  
(r)    Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Pacific Islands Forum 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 

(s)    Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Preparatory Commission for the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty 
Organization 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/61/184) 


(t)    Cooperation between the United Nations and 








the Southern African Development Community  
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256) 
Mr. Uras (Turkey): Turkey strongly believes that 
the  strengthening  of  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations 
and  other  organizations 
contributes  to  the  promotion  of  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  United  Nations.  In  that  context,  we 
welcome the Secretary-General’s report (A/61/256 and 
regional 
and 
Sea 
The  Black 
its  existence, 
Add.1)  on  agenda  item  108,  entitled  “Cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  regional  and  other 
organizations”. 

Economic  Cooperation 
Organization  was  established  in  1992,  at  a  time  when 
the  world  in  general  and  Europe  in  particular  were 
being shaken by great political changes. It was founded 
as  a  unique  and  promising  model  of  a  multilateral 
economic  initiative  aimed  at  fostering  interaction  and 
harmony among member States, as well as at ensuring 
peace, stability and prosperity by encouraging friendly 
and  good-neighbourly  relations  in  the  Black  Sea 
region. Since then it has developed into a full-fledged 
international organization, with its charter entering into 
force  in  1999.  Turkey,  as  the  host  country  of  its 
headquarters,  is  pleased  to  note  that,  during  the  14 
years  of 
the  Black  Sea  Economic 
Cooperation  Organization  has,  in  its  own  way,  been 
instrumental  in  contributing  to  efforts  to  increase 
stability  in  the  region  through  expanded  economic 
cooperation. 

The  geographic  area  covered  by  the  Black  Sea 
Economic  Cooperation  Organization  encompasses  the 
territories of the Black Sea littoral States, the Balkans 
and  the  Caucasus,  comprising  an  area  of  nearly 
20 million  square  kilometres.  It  represents  a  region  of 
some 350 million people, with a foreign trade capacity 
of  over  $300  billion  annually.  After  the  Persian  Gulf 
region, it is the second-largest source of oil and natural 
gas, along with its rich proven reserves of minerals and 
metals. It is rapidly becoming Europe’s major transport 
and energy-transfer corridor. 

Even though it covers a complicated geographical 
and geostrategic area — with its well established legal, 
institutional  and  procedural  framework  —  the  Black 
Sea  Economic  Cooperation  organization  sets  the  pace 
for  cooperation  among  its  members.  Following  the 
mandate  given  to  the  organization  by  its  summit  in 
2002, 
the 
traditional  areas  of  regional  economic  cooperation. 
With its new mechanisms and instruments, such as the 
Black  Sea  Trade  and  Development  Bank  and  the 
Project  Development  Fund,  the  organization  has  been 
supporting  significant  progress 
in  such  areas  of 
cooperation  as  trade,  banking  and  finance,  transport, 
energy  and  electricity  networks,  science,  statistical 
data, combating organized  crime and simplification  of 
cross-border and customs procedures. 
its  activities  beyond 
it  has  expanded 
2 

06-58547 
We 
support 
the 
formulate  and 
implement 
should  continue 
international  and 
international  and 
international  financial 



Secretary-General’s 
recommendations  set  out  in  the  report  contained  in 
document A/61/256,  regarding  the  Black  Sea  Economic 
Cooperation  Organization.  We  share  the  view  that  the 
United  Nations,  the  specialized  agencies  and  other 
organizations  and  programmes  of  the  United  Nations 
system 
to  cooperate  and  hold 
consultations  with  the  Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation 
Organization  and 
joint 
programmes  pertaining  to  fields  of  common  interest, 
including the implementation of cooperative agreements. 

It  is  becoming  increasingly  apparent  that  the 
achievement of the internationally agreed development 
goals,  including  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
also requires enhanced cooperation and results-oriented 
collaboration  between 
regional 
organizations. With that understanding in mind, Turkey 
has  advocated  the  deepening  of  the  relations  between 
the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization and 
the  United  Nations  system,  as  well  as  with  other 
regional  organizations, 
relevant 
particularly 
institutions.  We 
firmly believe that further cooperation with the United 
Nations will undoubtedly help the Black Sea Economic 
Cooperation Organization to reach its goals. 
Mr.  Beck  (Solomon  Islands):  I  would  like  to 

begin  by  associating  Solomon  Islands  with 
the 
statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of  Papua 
New  Guinea  on  behalf  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum 
group of States. I would like to take this opportunity to 
make some general remarks in my national capacity in 
connection  with  sub-item  (r)  of  agenda  item  108, 
entitled  “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Pacific Islands Forum”. 

the  Secretary 
General’s 
the 
opportunities  and  challenges  of  cooperation  between 
the United Nations and regional and intergovernmental 
organizations. It gives us the opportunity to review and 
reflect on the health of cooperation between the United 
Nations  and  regional  organizations,  as  well  as  to 
consider  ways  and  means 
to  further  strengthen 
interaction between intergovernmental entities.  

Solomon  Islands  is  equally  pleased  to  note  that 
six  high-level  meetings  have  been  convened  since 
1994.  That  satisfies  Article  54  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  and  translates  into  action  the  1992 
(A/61/256  and  Add.1)  on 
Islands  welcomes 
Solomon 
report 
A/61/PV.39
and 
The 
regional 
Solomon  Islands 
Agenda  for  Peace,  which  supposedly  gave  birth  to 
regional and global partnership. 

is  a  country  made  up  of 
numerous  islands. As  a  small  island  developing  State, 
we have found strength through cooperation, both as a 
necessity and as a means of doing more for our people. 
We look to all forms of cooperation for solutions — at 
the  subregional,  regional  and  international  levels. 
Solomon  Islands  feels  that  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations 
intergovernmental 
organizations  has  made  great  strides  in  a  number  of 
areas.  

However,  more  needs  to  be  done.  I  say  that 
against  the  background  that  the  five  members  of  the 
Pacific Islands Forum are classified as least developed 
countries. My own country is emerging from a conflict 
situation which took place six years ago. The subregion 
has been identified by the United Nations as being off 
track in terms of meeting its Millennium Development 
Goals. Recently the Asian Development Bank made the 
same assessment. 

2005  Millennium  Summit  Outcome 
document  provides  an  excellent  basis  for  United 
Nations  and  regional  intergovernmental  organizations 
to  define  their  cooperation.  The  Summit  document 
emphasized  development  as  a  means  on  maintaining 
international and regional peace.  

In  examining  chapter  XII  of  the  Secretary-
General’s  report,  which  deals  with  United  Nations 
cooperation  with  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum,  Solomon 
Islands notes, and remains thankful for, the role of the 
United  Nations  Political  Office  in  Bougainville,  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  and  the 
Pacific  Islands  Forum  mission  to  observe  April’s 
elections  in  Solomon  Islands.  We  are  also  grateful  to 
the  United  Nations  Development  Fund  for  Women’s 
various  programmes,  as  well  as  for  the  UNESCO 
programme  in  our  country  regarding  the  development 
of media in conflict areas. 

that 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  our 
regional organization tend to be on the latter chapter of 
the  Summit  Outcome  document.  There  is  more  focus 
on governance and security issues, with almost nothing 
on  development.  Unfortunately,  this  trend,  if  not 
arrested,  will  bring  insecurity,  both  regionally  and 
globally,  since  we  all  operate  in  an  interdependent, 
international system. 
However,  my  delegation 
is  concerned 
06-58547 

3 

in 
Island 
Forum 
current 
attention 
counter-terrorism 
A/61/PV.39 


The  Pacific  Plan  referred  to  in  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  is  based  on  four  pillars,  namely, 
economic  growth,  sustainable  development,  good 
governance and security. The first two pillars have not 
received  due 
cooperative 
arrangements. I would like to name a few of the current 
cooperative  arrangements  mentioned  in  the  report. 
These  include  the  workshop  on  peacebuilding  and 
conflict prevention, the workshop on building capacity 
to  implement  Security  Council  resolutions  on  women, 
peace  and  security,  the  workshop  on  ethics  and 
accountability,  the  leadership  programme  with  the 
University  of  the  South  Pacific,  regional  training  for 
trainers  for  local  elected  leaders,  a  peer  review  of 
Pacific 
and 
transnational  organized  crime 
legislation,  among 
others. 

Solomon  Islands  appreciates  these  workshop  and 
training  opportunities,  but  we  must  move  forward  with 
the development challenges of our time. Solomon Islands 
has  placed  development  high  on  its  agenda  here  at  the 
United Nations; hence, we would like to see outcomes of 
the  United  Nations  high-level  meeting  and  Millennium 
Summit  processes  mirror  the  Organization’s  cooperative 
arrangements with regional organizations. In this regard, 
my delegation would like to see the Brussels Programme 
of  Action  given  the  same  level  of  attention  as  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 

At  the  regional  level,  renewable  energy  and 
telecommunications  are  some  of  the  sectors  where 
cooperation could be enhanced and explored. These are 
some  areas  where  we  have  regional  polices,  although 
we  do  not  have  the  resources  to  nationalize  and 
localize them. These are development challenges where 
South-South cooperation could be initiated with United 
Nations assistance. 

Trade is another area that needs support. Despite 
regional  trading  arrangements,  there  is  little  trade 
happening between the Pacific Islands countries, given 
the  fact  that  we  all  are  producing  similar  products. 
With  food  security  programmes  of  the  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations,  we 
could  reduce  food  imports  and  spend  more  on  our 
commitments to the MDGs. 

Cooperation  in  the  Pacific  region  is  of  great 
strength and breadth. As a recipient country of regional 
cooperation  arrangements,  through  the  Australian-led 
Regional  Assistance  Mission 
to  Solomon  Islands 
for 
4 

06-58547 
Islands 
to 
tool 
remains 
for  his 
committed 
international 
(RAMSI),  Solomon  Islands  has  seen  its  national 
challenges  addressed  regionally  over  the  past  three 
years.  The  RAMSI  arrangement  is  a  comprehensive 
package  that  has  various  elements  of  peacebuilding, 
peacekeeping  and  nation-building,  all  rolled  into  one. 
Solomon 
this 
arrangement  and  would  like  to  see  the  partnership 
reviewed  in  an  effort  to  have  it  more  development-
focused. My delegation takes this opportunity to thank 
Australia,  New  Zealand  and  all  of  our  Pacific 
neighbours for their support and contributions. 
Finally,  I  wish  to  assure  you,  Madam  President, 

to  making  our 
of  Solomon  Islands’  commitment 
Organization  an  effective 
for 
cooperation. We acknowledge that the upgrading of the 
United  Nations  presence  in  Solomon  Islands  through 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  will 
further  enhance  cooperation  between 
the  United 
Nations, Solomon Islands and the region as a whole. 

Mr.  Korga  (Togo)  (spoke  in  French):  I  would 
like,  once  again,  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the 
Secretary-General 
report  on  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  regional  and  other 
organizations  (A/61/256),  which,  inter  alia,  reports  on 
activities  conducted  by  the  United  Nations  in  its 
relations with the African Union (AU). 

Cooperation  between the  United Nations and the 
African  Union  goes  back  to  the  first  days  of  our 
independence.  Based  on 
the  Charter,  cooperation 
between two organizations, which are committed to the 
same  ideals  and  pursue  the  same  objectives,  has 
enabled  them  to  pool  their  efforts  in  order  to  work 
effectively  to  safeguard  and  consolidate  peace  and 
stability and to ensure economic and social progress on 
our continent. 

In  the  report  under  consideration,  the  Secretary-
General  emphasizes  the  importance  that  the  United 
Nations attaches to such cooperation, which has grown 
stronger over the years. The contribution of the United 
Nations  to  the  transformation  of  the  Organization  for 
African Unity (OAU) into the African Union and to the 
establishment  of  its  institutions,  the  creation  of  an 
Office  of 
the 
participation  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  formulation 
of  the  strategic  framework  for  the African  Union  and 
the  decisive  part  it  took  in  mobilizing  international 
efforts 
for  Africa’s 
the  New  Partnership 
the  Special  Adviser 
for  Africa, 
this 
time, 
institution 
in  Lomé,  acting 


Development (NEPAD) are all eloquent illustrations of 
this, and Togo can only welcome it. 

Cooperation  between the  United Nations and the 
African  Union  today  deals  with  a  broad  range  of 
issues —  peacekeeping  operations, 
strengthening 
African  capacity  in  this  area  and  close  cooperation  in 
the  sphere  of  disarmament  —  and  these  have  always 
been at the core of our relationship. 

With  regard  more  specifically  to  disarmament,  a 
special  concern  for  my  delegation,  I  would  like  to 
recall  that  in  resolution  40/151  G  of  16  December 
1985,  the  General  Assembly  decided,  within  the 
framework  of  the  Secretariat,  to  create  the  United 
Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in 
Africa on the basis of existing resources and voluntary 
contributions  that  Member  States  might  make  to  that 
end. The  establishment  of  the  Regional  Centre  was  in 
response to an urgent need to promote the objectives of 
peace,  disarmament  and  development  in Africa.  Since 
that 
in 
cooperation  with  States  and  regional  and  subregional 
organizations of the continent, has conducted activities 
that  have  made  a  great  contribution  to  the  quest  for 
solutions, to challenges facing our countries, especially 
in  the  area  of  combating  illicit  trafficking  and  the 
proliferation  and  circulation  of  small  arms  and  light 
weapons,  all  of  which  are  factors  that  destabilize  our 
States. 

We,  as  sons  of  our  continent,  realize  the  special 
importance for our countries in the Lomé Centre, since 
we  know  that  every  day  unprecedented  threats  to  the 
free world are becoming clearer. It is strange to say, but 
it  is  precisely  in  this  context  of  uncertainty  that  the 
Regional  Centre  seems  to  have  been  abandoned  to  its 
own  devices,  with  serious  and  recurrent  material  and 
financial problems, which are a real risk and hinder the 
accomplishment  of  its  mission  for  peace  and  stability 
in Africa. 

Referring  to  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
(A/61/137),  we  note  that  during  the  period  from  July 
2005 to July 2006, enormous uncertainty has continued 
to  threaten  the  functioning  of  the  Regional  Centre, 
because  of 
reduction 
in  voluntary 
contributions in support of its activities. 

My delegation would like to thank the Secretary-
General  for  establishing  a  consultative  mechanism  for 
the  re-organization  of  the  Lomé  Centre  in  order  to 
explore  ways  and  means  that  could  help  to  put  things 
the  constant 
A/61/PV.39
in  proper  perspective. We  look  forward  eagerly  to  the 
conclusions and recommendations of this group, which 
should, logically, provide guidance to the international 
community on the need to revitalize the functioning of 
the  Centre  by  allocating  sufficient  human,  financial 
and material resources to it. 

As  I  have  just  emphasized,  the  United  Nations 
Regional Centre for Peace  and Disarmament in Africa 
has  been  experiencing  material  difficulties, 
in 
particular  because  of  the  sharp  decline  in  voluntary 
contributions to its Trust Fund. In spite of the situation, 
this  institution  has  attempted,  as  best  it  could,  to 
implement  its  work  programmes  in  the  major  areas 
defined  in  its  mandate,  inter  alia,  peace  and  security, 
arms  control  and  disarmament  and  cooperation  with 
regional and subregional organizations, as well as civil 
society. 

Togo,  for  its  part,  and  pursuant  to  the  host 
country  agreement  signed  with  the  United  Nations, 
extends  and  will  continue  to  extend  its  full  support  to 
the  Lomé  Centre.  Thus,  in  addition  to  its  voluntary 
contribution,  Togo  grants  material  and 
logistical 
benefits  covering  the  rent  for  the  building  and  for  the 
residence of the Director, and for electricity, water and 
telephone  usage.  The  total  cost  of  those  allocations 
amounts to approximately $40,000 per year. 

The  United  Nations  Regional  Centre  for  Peace 
and  Disarmament  in  Africa  is  a  manifestation  of  the 
determination  of  the  international  community.  We 
cannot hide indefinitely behind resolution 40/151 G — 
which,  by 
to  different 
interpretations  — 
the  Centre  without 
resources. At  a  time  when  that  institution  is  preparing 
to  commemorate 
the 
international community should reaffirm the relevance 
of  its  mandate.  Member  States  should  give  serious 
thought 
the  possibility  of  a  United  Nations 
budgetary  contribution  to  its  functioning. That  is  why 
my  delegation  places  a  great  deal  of  hope  in  the 
consultative mechanism that the Secretary-General has 
recommended  for  renewal.  We  have  confidence  in  it, 
given  what  is  at  stake,  so  that  its  work  leads  —  as  I 
said  a  moment  ago  —  to  specific  recommendations 
likely  to  bring  about  a  definitive  solution  to  the 
Centre’s current situation and to enable it to carry out 
its mandate in the service of peace and disarmament in 
Africa. 
twentieth  anniversary, 
the  way,  gives 
leave 
rise 
its 
to 
to 
06-58547 

5 
and 
crimes 
against 
humanity, 
A/61/PV.39 

Mr. Butagira (Uganda): The African Union (AU) 

is  now  a  dynamic  organization,  spearheading  the 
development  of  Africa  under  well-defined  structures. 
Among  them  are  the  Peace  and  Security  Council  and 
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD).  Under  the  Peace  and  Security  Council, 
issues  of  peace  and  security  are  being 
tackled 
systematically.  Africa  has  realized  that  it  should  take 
ownership  of  security  issues.  It  pioneered  the  concept 
of  intervention  in  cases  of  genocide,  ethnic  cleansing 
and 
declared 
categorically  that  sovereignty  cannot  be  invoked  to 
protect  those  crimes.  World  leaders  gathered  in  New 
York in September 2005 echoed this, reflecting it in the 
2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1). 
In order to  fulfil its mandate in security matters, 

the  African  Union  needs  to  work  closely  with  the 
United  Nations.  The  two  organizations  should  play 
complementary roles. They need each other to promote 
international  peace  and  security  on 
the  African 
continent. Without abdicating its primary responsibility 
under  the  Charter  for  maintaining  peace  and  security, 
the United Nations, through the Security Council, can, 
acting  under  Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter,  delegate 
some  of  its  functions  to  the  African  Union  on  the 
principle  of  subsidiarity.  The  African  Union  is  better 
placed to handle some  of the conflicts,  using its well-
established structures and local knowledge.  

The Economic Community of West African States 
has been able to handle conflict situations in the west, 
and the Inter-Governmental Authority on Development 
(IGAD)  has  made  remarkable  achievements  when  a 
comprehensive  peace  agreement  was  signed  between 
the Government of the Sudan and the Southern Sudan 
People’s  Liberation  Army/Movement.  In  Burundi, 
under the regional initiative chaired by Uganda, peace 
has been achieved at last. The AU peace contingent in 
Darfur  is  courageously  trying  to  maintain  peace  and 
security  under  difficult  circumstances,  though  it  lacks 
financial resources to carry out its mandate. The United 
Nations, working with the African Union, can devise a 
proper  mechanism  to  achieve  peace  in  Darfur.  In  the 
case of Somalia, we call on the Security Council to lift 
the  arms  embargo  partially  to  enable  IGAD  to  deploy 
forces 
transitional 
Government. 

On the economic front, the African Union, under 
NEPAD,  is  tackling  the  issue  of  development.  The 
United  Nations,  through  the  Office  of  the  Special 
in  Somalia 
stabilize 
to 
the 

in 
to 
and 
In  order 
is  migration 
Adviser  on  Africa  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  should  continue  to  extend  a  hand  to  these 
efforts.  The  Peacebuilding  Commission  should  also 
work  closely  with  appropriate  AU  mechanisms  to 
address 
issues  of  post-conflict  development  and 
rehabilitation. 

Another  area  of  cooperation  between  the  two 
organizations 
development. 
Remittances  from  migrant  workers  are  becoming  an 
important source of financial resources for the African 
continent.  Uganda  hails  the  historic  recent  High-level 
Dialogue on International Migration and Development 
held  in  New  York  on  14  and  15  September  2006, 
pursuant  to  General  Assembly  resolution  60/227  of 
23 December  2005.  A  follow-up  dialogue  should  be 
held  in  the  near  future  with  the  AU  accorded  a 
prominent role in its organization and work, given the 
fact  that  historically,  from  the  days  of  infamous  slave 
trade  to  the  present  day,  immigrants  from  the African 
continent  have  played  a  significant  role 
the 
development  not  only  of  the  world  economy  but  also 
the economies of African countries. 

further  strengthen  cooperation 
between  African  Union  and  United  Nations,  there 
should  be  regular  informal  discussions  or  dialogue 
between  the  two  organizations.  For  instance,  the  AU 
Peace  and  Security  Council  could  hold  informal 
sessions  with  the  Security  Council  at  agreed-upon 
intervals. 
Mr.  Snoussi  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  My 

delegation  attaches  major  importance  to  our  debate 
today  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  regional  and  other  organizations.  I  should  like  to 
take this opportunity to thank the Secretary-General for 
the information he has provided on this subject. 
Regional cooperation, whose structure and scope 

has  become 
and 
integrated,  constitutes  more  than  ever  an  instrument 
that  complements  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations 
and the evolution of multilateralism. Developments on 
the international scene show well the links of synergy 
and  interaction  between  the  universality  of  the  United 
Nations and the regional dimension. That is where the 
goal  of  full  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and the regional organizations takes on  its importance 
and pertinence. 
It is known that the regional organizations play a 

central  role  in  world  governance  and  thus  should  be 
increasingly  multidimensional 
6 

06-58547 
the 
joint 
As  a  member  of  a  number  of 


integrated  as  full  partners  to  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations. The 2005 World Summit Outcome Document 
stressed  the  importance  of  measures  to  reinforce 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
organizations and recommended that such measures be 
identified and adopted. 

regional 
organizations,  Tunisia  believes  that  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General shows  a real will on  the part of  the 
United  Nations  to  strengthen,  in  various  fields,  its 
cooperation  with  these  regional  organizations.  We 
welcome  this  development.  It  is  an  effort  that  should 
be  recognized  as  this  effort  would  achieve  more 
success if further supported and better targeted. 

The cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  League  of Arab  States,  whose  vitality  and  solidity 
we acknowledge, covers a number of fields and levels, 
particularly  as  concerns  peace,  stability  and  security. 
The  2005  Cairo  meeting  on  financing  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  the  2006  Vienna 
general  meeting  on 
evaluation  of 
achievements  in  the  economic  and  social  fields  also 
shows  this  concern  with  strengthening  the  scope  and 
foundations of cooperation.  
In the economic and social sphere, my delegation 

welcomes 
for 
cooperation between the United Nations system and the 
League of Arab States. The League’s structures should 
be  better  coordinated  and  receive  greater  support, 
particularly  in  terms  of  financial  and  operational 
resources. We  also  recommend  the  establishment  on  a 
regular  and  predictable  basis  of  greater  coordination 
and evaluation.  

My  delegation  takes  this  opportunity  to  reiterate 
its appeal for better cooperation with the African Union 
and  its  institutions,  particularly  since  Africa  enjoys 
priority on the agenda of the United Nations and that of 
the international community, in the light of its special 
needs  and  challenges.  The  African  Union,  which  has 
proven  its  effectiveness  when  it  has  received  support, 
does  not  have  sufficient  resources  to  confront  all 
situations. Hence the needs for the United Nations and 
the  international  community  to  further  enhance  its 
support.  

I  would  like  to  stress  the  role  of  the  African 
Union,  notably  its  Peace  and  Security  Council,  a 
structure  that  should  be  strengthened  at  the  material, 
political,  judicial  and  institutional  levels.  In  this 
the  progress  achieved  and  hopes 
A/61/PV.39
is  a  comprehensive, 
the  New  Partnership 
context,  better-structured  cooperation  between 
the 
African  Union  and  the  United  Nations  is  required  in 
order to contribute to the establishment of an improved 
African  capacity  for  conflict  prevention  and 
the 
maintenance  and  consolidation  of  peace.  Without  a 
commitment from all partners of Africa and the African 
Union,  particularly  the  United  Nations,  the  ambitious 
objective  of  Horizon  2010  —  an  Africa  without 
conflict — will be a difficult achievement. 

Before  concluding  on  this  point,  I  would  like  to 
express  the  respect  and  admiration  of  the  Tunisian 
delegation for the efforts made by the Special Advisor 
of  the  Secretary-General  for  Africa,  whose  job,  inter 
alia, is to deal with the relationship between the United 
Nations  and 
for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  and  whose  office  deserves  to 
be  further  reinforced.  In  this  context,  the  United 
Nations  and  the  international  community  strengthen 
national  and  regional  capabilities  to  help  implement 
NEPAD,  which 
integrated 
programme  for  development  for Africa  and  a  base  of 
cooperation for its partners.  

My delegation takes note with satisfaction of the 
continuing  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC) 
on  many  important  economic,  political,  social  and 
humanitarian questions. As voice of the Muslim world, 
the OIC and its institutions are deployed in many fields 
and  with  many  partners  to  contribute  to  the  efforts  of 
the 
the  service  of 
development,  peace  and  security.  My  delegation 
believes  that,  bearing  in  mind  the  importance  of  the 
Muslim  world  on  the  international  scene  and  its 
the 
capabilities 
consolidation  of  cooperation  between 
the  United 
Nations  and  the  OIC  would  provide  greater  means  to 
achieve our common objectives.  

In  conclusion,  the  general  debate  of  this  session 
of  the  General  Assembly  is  taking  place  under  the 
theme  of  “Implementing  a  Global  Partnership  for 
Development.”  My  delegation  is  convinced  that  a 
strengthened  partnership  between  the  United  Nations 
and  regional  organizations  is one  of  the  pillars  of  this 
world partnership. 
Finally,  my  delegation  hopes  that  the  Secretary-

General, 
formulate 
recommendations  and  action  plans  and  not  confine 
to  serve  humanity’s  objectives, 
international  community 
in 
in  his  next 
report,  would 
06-58547 

7 

to  align 
itself  with 
A/61/PV.39 

himself  solely  to  a  description  of  the  activities  of 
cooperation that have already been achieved.  

Mr. Capelle (Marshall Islands): The Republic of 
Marshall  Islands  wishes 
the 
statement made by Papua New Guinea on behalf of the 
Pacific  Islands  Forum  group,  based  in  New  York, 
urging the General Assembly to continue to strengthen 
the  relationship  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Pacific Islands Forum (PIF). 

Member  States  of  the  Forum,  including  the 
Marshall Islands, are often challenged by their remote 
geographic  location,  small  size  or  exposure  to  natural 
hazards.  In  addition,  many  Forum  members,  such  as 
the  Marshall  Islands,  are  uniquely  vulnerable  to  the 
impacts  of  sea  level  rise  and  climate  change.  Citizens 
of  certain  PIF  member  States  risk  becoming  the 
world’s  first  environmental  refugees.  The  remote 
geography  of  many  PIF  nations  also  creates  hurdles 
which interfere with economic development, education 
and  poverty  reduction.  Certain  Forum  nations,  in 
particular  the  Marshall  Islands,  continue  to  struggle 
with  the  devastating  environmental,  social  and  public 
health  impacts  of  nuclear  weapons  testing.  Regional 
coordination is critical in meeting these challenges.  
a 

provides 
comprehensive  regional  strategy 
these 
pressing challenges by linking the regional framework 
of  regional  universities,  technical  organizations  and 
national  Governments  with 
and 
environmental  agencies.  Global  development  and 
security  goals  are  defined  within  the  unique  regional 
and cultural character of Forum member States. 

Member  States  of  the  Forum  are  also  a  truly 
global  asset.  Forum  States,  including  the  Marshall 
Islands, feature some of the world’s greatest biological 
and  cultural  diversity.  Nations  of  the  Forum  serve  as 
gatekeepers  and  stewards  for  much  of  the  world’s 
marine  biodiversity.  Their  citizens  speak  over  1,200 
languages  and  proudly  maintain  unique 
distinct 
cultural 
traditions 
island  geography  and 
environment.  Increasing  United  Nations  cooperation 
with  the  Forum  will  help  ensure  a  more  unified  and 
balanced approach within the region to enhance, rather 
than diminish, these invaluable resources. 

the 
development and implementation of the Pacific Plan, a 
far-reaching regional strategy that advances sustainable 
development, economic growth, sound governance and 
The  Forum  plays  an 
Islands  Forum 
The  Pacific 
development 
to  counter 
integral 
role 
tied 
to 
in 
of 
efforts 
results, 
to  define  solutions  within 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and 
security. Ongoing coordination with the United Nations 
has  already  yielded  positive 
including 
collaborative 
the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme  and  other  United  Nations 
agencies  with  the  Forum  to  ensure  close  coordination 
of 
the 
implementation  of 
the  Pacific  Plan.  In  addition, 
workshops,  policy  studies  and  demonstration  projects 
sponsored  by  the  United  Nations  have  enhanced 
regional  understanding  of  conflict  prevention,  ethical 
elections,  gender  issues,  communication  technology 
and poverty reduction. 

Noting  the  importance  of  the  United  Nations 
cooperative  relationship  with  the  Forum,  we  urge  the 
General  Assembly  to  continue  to  build  a  stronger 
alliance  with  our  group.  Within  the  immediate  future, 
Forum  members  will  wrestle  with 
increasingly 
complex  economic,  environmental  and  political 
questions.  

Too  often,  international  development  and  reform 
efforts  have  lacked  a  coherent  regional  focus  or  have 
failed 
the  context  of 
traditional  local  culture.  By  utilizing  the  regional 
expertise  of  the  Forum,  the  General  Assembly  will 
ensure  that  the  implementation  of  international  policy 
will become  a successful reality. The establishment of 
a  stronger  physical  United  Nations  presence  — 
including  programme  staff  or  development  offices  — 
within Forum nations that have expressed the need for 
such a presence would greatly advance the meaningful 
realization  of  the  partnership  between  the  United 
Nations and the Forum. 

The  United  Nations  has  before  it  a  valuable 
opportunity  to  place  key  global  issues  —  such  as 
climate  change,  sustainable  development,  poverty 
reduction, and ethical governance — within the context 
of  the  improved  regional  coordination  of  the  Pacific 
Island’s Forum. 
Mr.  Zewdie  (Ethiopia):  My  delegation  is  taking 

the  floor  to  express  its  views  on  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations 
and  other 
organizations.  In  that  regard,  I  intend  to  comment 
briefly  on  sub-item 
item  108, 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
African Union”, which is well addressed in the reports 
of 
in  documents 
A/61/256 and A/61/204. 
the  Secretary-General  contained 
(a)  of  agenda 
regional 
and 
8 

06-58547 
is  facing 
Notwithstanding 
immense  challenges,  which 



It  is  a  stated  objective  of  the  African  Union  to 
encourage  international  cooperation  in  light  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations with a view to promoting 
peace,  security  and  stability  on  the  continent.  The 
African Union is making great strides in attaining that 
stated  objective.  It  is  cooperating  with  the  United 
Nations  and  other  organizations  so  that  Africa  can 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs), 
the  programmes  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  can  be  implemented,  the  continent  can 
become free of conflicts and other desired goals can be 
achieved.  
those  positive  developments, 

Africa 
the 
continent  cannot  confront  alone.  In  that  regard,  it  is 
worth mentioning that half of the world’s conflicts and 
peacekeeping efforts are in Africa and that sub-Saharan 
Africa  remains  behind  other  regions  in  achieving  the 
MDGs.  Therefore,  it  has  become  extremely  important 
that the United Nations give priority to Africa. That is 
also  the  main  reason  why  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  African  Union  has  become 
more imperative today than ever before. 

There  are  instances  in  which  the  African  Union 
and  subregional  organizations  are  well  placed  to 
resolve conflicts. There are also situations in which the 
United Nations peacekeeping mechanism must become 
more  efficient.  However,  when  the  situation  demands 
it,  cooperation  between  the  Union  and  the  United 
Nations  produces  a  better  result  at  lower  cost,  and 
united action should come to the fore.  

the 
United  Nations  and  regional  organizations  has  been 
more  recognized  by 
international  community 
during the current decade than at any time before. As a 
result,  during  the  2005  World  Summit  our  heads  of 
State and Government called for a number of measures 
to  strengthen  such  cooperation.  In  particular,  the 
Summit  emphasized  cooperation  with  the  African 
Union and  forged  a 10-year capacity-building plan.  In 
that  regard,  my  delegation  encourages 
increased 
assistance 
the  area  of 
peacekeeping  operations  in  general  and  strengthening 
the African standby force in particular. 

My  delegation  noted  a  number  of  positive 
recommendations  cited  in  the  report,  aimed  at  further 
strengthening  the  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  regional  and  other  organizations  and 
importance  of  cooperation  between 
the  African  Union 
The 
the 
to 
in 
A/61/PV.39
they  affect  different  geographical  regions 
making  it  more  fruitful.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation 
especially  supports  the  recommendations  aimed  at 
strengthening  the  Union’s  capacities  in  the  areas  of 
conflict prevention and resolution and peacebuilding.  

Mr. Cho Hyun (Republic of Korea): I would like 
to  begin  by  thanking  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
comprehensive  report  (A/61/256  and  Add.1),  which 
informs  us  of  many  significant  developments  during 
the  past  two  years  in  the  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  and  other  organizations. 
That  is  an  issue  to  which  the  Republic  of  Korea 
attaches great importance. 

Global issues such as terrorism, the proliferation 
of weapons of mass destruction, development, climate 
change  and  environmental  degradation  are  universal, 
but 
in 
distinct  ways. Accordingly,  regional  organizations  are 
often well suited to offer region-specific remedies and 
approaches that can reinforce global efforts to address 
those issues. In that regard, the United Nations should 
continue  to  strengthen  its  cooperation  with  regional 
and  other  organizations.  A  holistic 
approach, 
encompassing both global and regional perspectives, is 
vital  if  we  are  to  fully  address  the  many  issues  of 
common concern. 
the  Assembly’s 

attention 
and 
arrangements in East Asia. As a full dialogue partner of 
the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) 
and  a  member  of  ASEAN+3  and  the  East  Asian 
Summit,  the  Republic  of  Korea  welcomes  increased 
interaction  between  the  United  Nations  and  ASEAN. 
The second ASEAN-United Nations summit, held here 
in  New  York  in  September  last  year,  was  a  good 
example  of  close  cooperation  between  those  two 
institutions. The Republic of Korea expects the summit 
to  develop  into  a  regular  channel  for  discussing  the 
common concerns of ASEAN and the United Nations.  

Moreover,  I  would  like  to  note  that  the  regional 
seminars  held  since  2001  —  including  the  fifth 
ASEAN-United  Nations  regional  seminar  on  conflict 
prevention, conflict resolution and peacebuilding, held 
in  South-East  Asia  in  May  this  year  —  have  been 
especially valuable in enhancing mutual understanding. 
Likewise,  we  warmly  welcome  ASEAN’s  decision  to 
request  observer  status  at  the  United  Nations  during 
this session of the General Assembly. 
I  would  now 
the 
like 
regional 
organizations 
to  draw 
to 
06-58547 

9 
to  narrow 
integrate  ASEAN  more  broadly 
The  Republic  of  Korea  also  stresses 
A/61/PV.39 


the 
importance of the partnership between ASEAN and the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP),  as 
mentioned 
the  Secretary-General’s  report.  The 
ASEAN-UNDP  partnership  aims 
the 
development  gap  within  ASEAN  countries  and 
between ASEAN’s region and other regions, as well as 
to 
into  other 
multilateral  organizations  such  as  the  World  Trade 
Organization. We support this valuable partnership and 
expect its continued development. 

A related ASEAN initiative that is worthy of note 
is the ASEAN Regional Forum, an important facilitator 
of political and security cooperation in the Asia-Pacific 
region.  We  see  great  potential  for  closer  cooperation 
between the Forum and United Nations, not least in the 
fields  of  preventive  diplomacy  and  peacebuilding. We 
hope to see the Forum working in partnership with the 
United  Nations  to  build  its  capacity  for  coordinating 
inter-Asian security matters. 

Yet  another  organization  of  importance  to  the 
Republic  of  Korea  is  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union 
(IPU). The IPU has been an essential link between the 
citizens  of 
their 
parliamentarians,  and  the  United  Nations.  Moreover, 
each  national  parliament  plays  a  vital  role  as  the 
primary 
for  adapting  and 
translating global norms and agreements into domestic 
laws.  In  this  regard,  my  delegation  strongly  supports 
increased cooperation between the IPU and the United 
Nations.  Likewise,  we  reaffirm  our  support  for  IPU 
efforts  to  provide  greater  parliamentary  contributions 
to the United Nations. 
the 

importance  of 
interaction  and  close  partnership 
between  the  United  Nations  and  regional  and  other 
international  organizations,  with  a  view  to  reinforcing 
each  other’s  capacities  and  achieving  synergistic 
outcomes. 
Mrs. Asif  (Pakistan):  The  Pakistan  delegation  is 

pleased  to  participate  in  the  discussion  on  this  very 
important agenda item. In today’s ever-changing world, 
this  agenda  item  has  taken  on  great  importance  and 
remains  the  focal  point  of  action  in  many  key  areas, 
including peacekeeping and peacebuilding. Indeed, one 
importance  of  cooperation 
cannot  overstate 
between 
regional  and 
the  United  Nations  and 
closing,  my  delegation 
represented  by 
the  world,  as 
responsible 
institution 
the 
In 
reiterates 
in 

in 
for 
the 
focused 
tackling 
increase 
roles.  As 
the  number  of 
in  strengthening  peace, 
subregional  organizations 
security and stability. 

Regional and other organizations play a key role 
in various parts of our world. Recent decades have seen 
a  marked 
regional 
organizations,  and  indeed  in  the  way  in  which  they 
have grown and transformed over time to take on more 
responsibilities  and  greater 
the  only 
organization  with  universal  membership,  substantial 
funding, significant capacity and expertise, the United 
Nations  has  what  is  termed  in  economics  a  natural 
monopoly over other organizations.  

However,  the  work  of  regional,  subregional  and 
other organizations cannot be relegated to a secondary 
or  a  subsidiary  status.  These  organizations  have  their 
own  strengths.  In  fact,  every  regional  and  other 
organization has evolved a niche of its own and offers 
valuable specialization in many key areas of concern to 
its  member  countries.  With  a 
regional 
approach,  they  are  likely  to  come  up  with  important 
and  innovative  ideas  to  find  the  most  appropriate 
framework 
issues.  Cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  regional  and  other 
organizations,  thus,  is  imperative.  This  cooperation 
should seek to capitalize on the specialization of each 
organization  and,  ideally,  should  be  complementary, 
not competitive. 

The  Pakistan  delegation  would  like  to  thank  and 
commend  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  on 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
and other organizations (A/61/256 and Add.1), and for 
his  initiative  in  promoting  such  cooperation  over  the 
years. 

Pakistan is pleased to note the progress achieved 
during the past year by the United Nations system and 
the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  (OIC)  in 
promoting their shared goals of international peace and 
security  and  development.  We  welcome  the  effective 
contacts  and  consultations  that  the  two  organizations 
have maintained over the past several years. 

The Organization of the Islamic Conference, one 
of  the  largest  intergovernmental  organizations,  is  the 
collective  voice  of  the  Muslim  world,  spread  across 
three  continents.  The  OIC  has  been  engaged  over  the 
years  in  a  constructive  and  cooperative  relationship 
with the United Nations, reinforcing common efforts in 
pursuit  of  peace,  development  and  security.  The  OIC 
has  endeavoured  to  promote  better  understanding  and 
10 

06-58547 


dialogue between and among different civilizations and 
cultures. It has taken significant measures in fostering 
peace, in promoting social and economic development, 
in combating ethnic or racial intolerance and in seeking 
an end to the causes of injustice and instability, which 
are a constant threat to world peace and security. 

We  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  recall 
the joint statement issued by the Secretaries-General of 
the  United  Nations,  the  OIC  and  the  League  of  Arab 
States, together with the representatives of Qatar, Spain 
and  Turkey,  which  appealed  for  calm  after 
the 
publication  of  caricatures  of  the  Prophet  Mohammed 
and which also contained a commitment to formulate a 
joint  strategy  and  agreed  measures  that  would  help 
overcome the crisis, prevent a recurrence and promote 
tolerance  and  mutual  respect  among  all  religions  and 
communities in Europe and elsewhere. Pakistan firmly 
believes that there is a lot of work still left to be done 
in  this  context  and  the  United  Nations  and  the  OIC 
need to continue to examine ways and means of further 
expanding  and  diversifying  their  cooperation  on  this 
issue. Concerted effort and outside-the-box thinking is 
required to identify new and innovative ways to tackle 
this issue, which has the potential to cause unnecessary 
ill will and misunderstanding. 
the  general  meeting  on 

cooperation  between 
the 
secretariats of the United Nations system and the OIC 
and its specialized institutions in July 2006. However, 
we  would  like  to  encourage  the  regularization  of  this 
trend,  with  at  least  one  annual  general  meeting.  Both 
organizations  will  be  able 
to  accrue  positive 
operational  benefits 
from  such  cooperation  and 
coordination. 

We  would  also  like  to  see  the  two  organizations 
work more closely in addressing and resolving some of 
the  conflicts  in  the  Muslim  world,  including  the 
conflicts  in  Palestine,  Iraq, Afghanistan  and  Kashmir. 
More  work  needs  to  be  done  by  all  concerned  to 
address  the  root  causes  of  these  conflicts  and  to 
promote justice and peace. 

The  Economic  Cooperation  Organization  (ECO) 
is  another  major  regional  cooperation  organization 
seeking to promote socio-economic development of its 
member  States  on  the  basis  of  their  common  needs. 
The ECO has played an important role in strengthening 
and  promoting  multidimensional  regional  economic 
cooperation  among 
its  member  countries.  It  has 
We  also  welcome 
representatives  of 
the 
A/61/PV.39
for 
to 
tap 
the  political  will 
identified  four  priority  areas  for  intense  regional 
cooperation,  namely  trade,  transport,  communications 
and energy. 

The  ECO  region  has  a  population  of  nearly 
350 million  people,  immense  natural  resources  and  a 
membership  with 
these 
resources for the mutual advantage of all. The ECO can 
serve  not  only  as  a  vehicle 
the  post-war 
reconstruction  of Afghanistan  but  also  for  developing 
and integrating the economies of the region which have 
borne the brunt of the conflict in Afghanistan. 
The  ECO  already  has  in  place  the  blueprints  for 

the 
region-wide  development  of 
transport  and 
communications  infrastructure,  facilities  for  trade  and 
investment,  banking  and 
insurance,  culture  and 
education, and effective use of the region’s vast energy 
resources.  We  expect  the  United  Nations  system  and 
the  international  community  to  support  the  efforts  of 
the ECO and its member States in order to realize these 
blueprints,  not  only  for  the  benefit  of  the  region,  but 
also for the greater global community. 

Another  dynamic  regional  organization  of  which 
Pakistan  is  a  member  is  the  South  Asian  Association 
for  Regional  Cooperation  (SAARC),  which  represents 
the  seven  countries  of  South  Asia  —  Bangladesh, 
Bhutan,  India,  the  Maldives,  Nepal,  Pakistan  and  Sri 
Lanka. The organization was launched at the first-ever 
summit  meeting  of  South  Asian  heads  of  State  or 
Government, held in Dhaka in December 1985. 

SAARC’s  objectives  are  to  promote  the  welfare 
of  the  peoples  of  South  Asia  and  to  improve  their 
quality of life by accelerating economic growth, social 
progress  and  cultural  development 
the  region 
through  mutual  cooperation.  SAARC  also  aims  at 
strengthening  cooperation  with  other  developing 
countries 
regional 
organizations  with  similar  aims  and  objectives.  As  is 
the  case  with 
Islamic 
Conference  (OIC)  and 
the  ECO,  United  Nations 
cooperation with SAARC could be mutually beneficial. 

To conclude, I would like to express our hope and 
confidence  that  the  cooperation  of  the  United  Nations 
with  both  the  OIC  and  the  ECO  will  continue  to 
flourish 
three 
organizations.  We  also  hope  that  a  new  chapter  will 
soon  begin  in  the  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  SAARC.  As  an  active  member  of  the 
United  Nations,  the  OIC,  the  ECO  and  SAARC, 
the  mutual  benefit  of 
the  Organization  of 
international 
and  with 
in 
and 
the 
to 
the 
06-58547 

11 
forty-fifth 
international 
A/61/PV.39 

Pakistan  will  remain  actively  involved  in  the  work  of 
all 
these  organizations  and  pursue  policies  and 
strategies  that  would  help  enhance  coordination  and 
cooperation and, ideally, at the same time, identify and 
eliminate areas of wasteful overlap. 
Mr.  Kodera  (Japan):  Allow  me  to  take  this 

opportunity  to  comment  on  the  state  of  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Asian-African 
Legal  Consultative  Organization 
(AALCO).  My 
delegation would like to commend the President of the 
organization’s 
session,  Ambassador 
Narinder  Singh,  and  the  Government  of  India  for 
successfully  hosting  the  very  fruitful  golden  jubilee 
session  in  New  Delhi  last April,  as  well  as  for  taking 
on the role of Chair of the session.  
AALCO  is  a  truly  unique  regional  organization, 

which  promotes 
legal  cooperation, 
develops  and  disseminates  expertise  in  international 
law  by  organizing  annual  meetings,  seminars  and 
workshops  in  international  law  under  consideration  in 
various forums of the United Nations and other bodies, 
and  contributes  to  the  process  of  codification  and 
development  of  international  law.  Japan  is  confident 
that  the  work  of  codification  in  particular  will  be 
greatly  advanced  by  strengthening  the  interaction 
between AALCO and the United Nations. 

I  would  like  now  to  briefly  touch  upon  the  state 
of  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  other 
organizations.  We  believe  that  in  addressing  regional 
issues, it is essential to ensure that the countries in the 
region and their regional organizations take ownership 
of the issues they face. We are happy to note that such 
ownership has been demonstrated, for example, by the 
African  Union 
subregional 
organizations  in  the  course  of  their  efforts  to  address 
regional conflicts in recent years.  

Japan attaches particularly high value to the role 
that the African Union has been playing in Darfur, the 
Sudan.  We  also  commend  the  efforts  made  by  sub-
regional  organizations 
the  Economic 
Community  of  Central  African  States  and 
the 
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States  in 
addressing  peacekeeping  issues.  We  believe  that  the 
assistance  of  the  international  community  and  the 
United Nations will be more effective if it is provided 
on  the  basis  of  ownership  by  the  region  and  if  it  is 
better  coordinated  with  the  organizations  from  the 
region concerned. 
the  African 
such 
and 
as 

through 
its  wide-ranging 

Japan, for its part, has provided various forms of 
assistance  to  promote  the  capacity-building  efforts  of 
the African Union and sub-regional organizations, and 
will continue to do so. We are convinced that capacity-
building  by  regional  organizations  will  enhance  the 
role  those  organizations  play  in  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security  both  in  general  and 
within all the regions of the world. 

Finally,  let  me  say  a  few  words  about  the  draft 
resolution  contained  in  document  A/61/L.6,  entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Inter-Parliamentary  Union”,  which  was  introduced  by 
the representative of Italy at this morning’s meeting.  

The  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  (IPU),  consisting 
of parliaments of the majority of Member States, is the 
focal point for worldwide parliamentary dialogue. The 
IPU, 
activities,  has 
contributed  significantly  to  promoting  democracy  and 
enhancing  awareness  in  the  general  public  of  the  role 
of  the  United  Nations.  As  a  sponsor  of  this  draft 
resolution,  Japan  hopes  that  the  IPU  will  continue  to 
play  the  important  and  unique  role  it  has  played  until 
now.  Since  relations  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  IPU  are  at  a  critical  juncture,  my  delegation  also 
believes  that,  as  called  for  in  the  Outcome  Document 
of  the  2005  World  Summit,  Member  States  should 
work for  

“strengthened  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and national and regional parliaments, in 
particular through the Inter-Parliamentary Union, 
with  a  view  to  furthering  all  aspects  of  the 
Millennium  Declaration  in  all  fields  of  the  work 
of  the  United  Nations  and  ensuring  the  effective 
implementation  of  United  Nations 
reform”. 
(resolution 60/1, para. 171). 
Mr. Kruljevic (Serbia): It is with pleasure that I 

take this opportunity to address two specific questions 
under 
the  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  for 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE)  and  the 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Council of Europe. 
The  issues  that  these  organizations  deal  with  are 

closely  connected.  They  include  the  promotion  of 
stability, the development of democracy and the rule of 
law, and the advancement and strengthening of human 
rights  and 
freedoms.  The  mutual 
cooperation  between  these  organizations,  as  well  as 
item,  namely, 
this  agenda 
fundamental 
12 

06-58547 
the  United  Nations  Office  of 


their  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations,  is  of  vital 
importance in facilitating the resolution of problems in 
certain  regions  and  in  some  European  States,  all  the 
more  so  since  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security requires a multidisciplinary approach and 
participation  and  the  active  contribution  of  many 
international institutions. 

As  a  Member  State  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
OSCE and the Council of  Europe, Serbia supports the 
cooperation among them. By their commitment to their 
goals  and  through  their  support  of  political,  legal  and 
institutional  reforms,  the  OSCE  and  the  Council  of 
Europe  make  major  contributions  to  the  development 
of democracy. That is why it is necessary to encourage 
additional cooperation between these organizations and 
the United Nations. 

The  Republic  of  Serbia,  as  well  as  the  Western 
Balkan region as a whole, is still burdened with a large 
number of refugees and internally displaced persons. In 
that  respect,  cooperation  between  the  OSCE  and  the 
Council  of  Europe  with  the  Office  of  the  United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  (UNHCR) 
and 
the  High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  is  of  particular 
importance.  In  Kosovo  and  Metohija,  in  particular, 
human rights and humanitarian issues require adequate 
cooperation among international organizations. 

The  activities  of  the  OSCE  mission  in  the 
Republic  of  Serbia  have  been  assessed  as  successful. 
The mission is a good example of a new model that no 
longer  has  the  character  of  a  post-conflict  or  fact-
finding 
to 
strengthening  reform  processes  and  democracy  in  the 
host  countries.  The  relationship  between  the  OSCE 
mission  in  Serbia  and  the  State  institutions  in  the 
country is based on dialogue and cooperation with full 
exchange of information. We consider that this method 
of  work  should  be  maintained  in  order  to  ensure  the 
success  of  activities  undertaken  and  the  fulfilment  of 
the mission’s mandate. 
Following the break-up of the former Yugoslavia, 

the  OSCE, 
international 
organizations,  played  an  important  role  in  the  process 
of  confidence-  and 
in 
democratization  by  actively  supporting  the  reform 
process initiated by the Governments of South-Eastern 
Europe.  In  addition,  the  OSCE  is  at  the  forefront  of 
regional  activities  in  border  management,  in  line  with 
institution-building  and 
together  with 
committed 
instead 
effort 
other 
and 
is 
A/61/PV.39
Within 
its  partnership  relationship  with 
the  Ohrid  Conference  on  Border  Security  and 
Management.  

We  are  of  the  view  that  the  work  of  OSCE 
missions  in  the  region  aimed  at  facilitating  the  return 
of refugees and expelled persons to Croatia and Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina  is  very  important.  We  believe  that 
further  expansion  of  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the OSCE and its offices in the field will 
contribute to better minority protection, faster return of 
refugees  and  displaced  persons  and  resolution  of  the 
issue of missing persons. 

the 
Republic of Serbia, the OSCE has been active in many 
processes  related  to  the  promotion  of  democracy,  rule 
of  law,  police  reform,  protection  of  human  rights  and 
rights  of  national  minorities.  The  Republic  of  Serbia 
has  all  along  emphasized  the  need  for  cooperation 
between  the  two  OSCE  missions  in  the  Republic  of 
Serbia, namely, the OSCE Mission in Belgrade and the 
OSCE  Mission  in  Kosovo  (OMIK)  in  Pristina.  The 
cooperation between these two missions was envisaged 
in  Security  Council  resolution  1244  (1999).  In  the 
field,  this  cooperation  is  particularly  important  to 
resolving  the  problem  of  internally  displaced  and 
missing persons, the prevention of organized crime, the 
trade  in  arms,  human  beings  and  narcotic  drugs,  and 
international terrorism. 

As  far  as  the  United  Nations  and  the  Council  of 
Europe  are  concerned,  we  are  convinced  that  further 
promotion  of  their  cooperation  in  its  various  forms, 
will  contribute,  among  other 
to  reducing 
duplication  of  activities  and  more  appropriate  use  of 
expert  resources.  Thus,  the  two  Organizations  will  be 
even better able to satisfy the needs of host countries. 
Joint  United  Nations  and  Council  of  Europe 

activities  in  the  field  of  restoring  and  protecting  the 
cultural  heritage  in  Kosovo  and  Metohija  are  also  of 
particular 
the 
establishment  of 
International 
Commission  for  Cultural  Heritage  in  Kosovo,  a  joint 
endeavour  of  the  Council  of  Europe,  the  European 
Commission 
the  United  Nations 
Interim 
Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK). 

The third Council of Europe summit in Warsaw in 
May  2005  emphasized  the  importance  of  the  United 
Nations  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs). 
These  goals  and  the  present-day  challenges  such  as 
terrorism and various forms of crime, point to the need 
importance,  especially 
in  view  of 
Independent 
things, 
and 
the 
06-58547 

13 
regional  and 
A/61/PV.39 

for  intensive  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Council  of  Europe,  as  well  as  with  other 
regional  organizations.  However,  it  is  necessary  to 
clearly  define  their  roles  and  use  each  to  its  best 
complementary advantage. 

The  Republic  of  Serbia  will  be  the  chair  of  the 
Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe from 
May  through  November  2007.  In  that  period,  the 
Republic  of  Serbia  will  seek  to  encourage  even  more 
cooperation  between  the  Council  of  Europe  and  other 
international organizations, and the United Nations, in 
particular. 

In November of this year, the Republic of Serbia 
will  also  assume  the  chairmanship  of  the  Black  Sea 
Economic  Cooperation  Organization  (BSEC).  One  of 
our priorities will be the strengthening of ties between 
the  BSEC  and  other 
international 
organizations  and 
the  United  Nations  specialized 
agencies.  Our  specific  areas  of  focus  will  include  the 
fight against crime, smuggling of human beings, drugs 
and  arms,  prevention  of  illegal  migration,  cooperation 
regarding  natural  and  other  disasters,  environmental 
protection,  education,  energy,  transport,  tourism,  the 
strengthening  of  cooperation  among  small-  and 
medium-size enterprises, among others. 

Since  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe, 
the  Council  of  Europe  and  the  Black  Sea  Economic 
Cooperation 
and 
complementary  issues,  we  are  convinced  that  by 
strengthening 
the 
organizations could provide additional assistance to my 
country and to countries of the region of South-Eastern 
Europe, particularly in the process of their accession to 
the Euro-Atlantic integration. 
Mr.  Cheok  (Singapore):  Since  the  establishment 

of 
the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN)  in  1967,  ASEAN  has  had  a  fruitful  and 
cooperative  relationship  with  the  United  Nations, 
particularly  through  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  (UNDP).  ASEAN  nations  have  worked 
individually  and 
with 
collectively,  on  many 
including  capacity-
building, health, disaster management, security and the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  look  forward  to 
deepening this cooperation. 
In  recent  years,  both  ASEAN  and  the  United 

Nations  have  become  more  aware  of  the  increasing 
the  United  Nations,  both 
cooperation 
converging 
existing 
issues, 
cover 
many 
the 

the 
this, 
threat  of 
level.  For 
At  present, 
Mr.  Butagira  (Uganda),  Vice-President,  took  the 
problem  of  transboundary  dangers.  These  dangers 
range  from 
terrorism  and  nuclear 
proliferation  to  large-scale  natural  disasters,  like  the 
26 December 2004 earthquake and tsunami, as well as 
possible pandemics such as avian flu. These are threats 
that individual countries and even regions cannot deal 
with  effectively  and  comprehensively,  and  such 
transboundary dangers require close cooperation at the 
international 
the  United  Nations 
remains the most effective partner. 

Chair.  

several  ASEAN  countries  are 
suffering  from  “the  haze”,  a  severe  form  of  air 
pollution  caused  by  the  illegal  clearing  of  forests  and 
vegetation  by  burning.  Satellite  pictures  show  that 
most  of  the  hot  spots  are  in  parts  of  Sumatra  and 
Kalimantan  in  Indonesia.  This  longstanding  problem 
has escalated in the past decade. It respects no borders 
and  affects  several  countries  in  South-East  Asia, 
including Singapore. It has resulted in health problems 
for  the  affected  populations,  as  well  as  adverse 
economic  and  social  consequences.  For  example,  10 
Indonesian airports have had to close recently because 
of  visibility  problems  from  the  haze.  Tourism  has 
suffered  in  the  region  and  day-to-day  life  for  many 
people has been disrupted. 

Over  the  last  10  years,  ASEAN  countries  have 
worked together to try to solve this daunting problem. 
For instance, an ASEAN Agreement on Transboundary 
Haze  Pollution  was  signed  in  2002,  and  almost  all 
ASEAN  States  have  ratified  it.  Recently,  President 
Susilo  Bambang  Yudhoyono  pledged  that  Indonesia 
would  do  so.  This  is  a  very  encouraging  move.  We 
applaud Indonesia’s commitment. 

Indonesia  has 
acknowledged  its  responsibility  and  taken  the  lead  to 
address  this  problem.  Last  week,  Indonesia  hosted  a 
Sub-Regional  Ministerial  Meeting  on  Transboundary 
Haze  Pollution  —  a  very  important  initiative  by 
President Yudhoyono. The  meeting  concluded  that  the 
haze problem has not been adequately addressed by the 
region  and  agreed  to  seek  international  expertise  to 
develop  a  comprehensive  plan  of  action  with  an 
effective monitoring and reporting mechanism. 

This  is  in  line  with  Singapore’s  view  that  it  is 
critical to take action to prevent future fires. To do this, 
we should make use of all available resources. ASEAN 
is  very  heartening 
that 
It 
14 

06-58547 
require 
assistance, 
international 


will 
including 
assistance from the United Nations. In this regard, we 
welcome  Indonesian  Environment  Minister  Rachmat 
Witoelar’s  statement  following  last  week’s  meeting, 
where he said, 

“We are open to suggestions that will increase our 
effectiveness  in  suppressing  current  and  future 
fires, and we welcome assistance from within and 
outside  the  region  to  overcome  this  dreadful 
problem which affects millions of lives”. 
trust 
create 
through 
regional 
organizations 
This is a clarion call to which we hope the international 
community  will  respond.  The  long-standing  channels 
of  ASEAN-United  Nations  cooperation  would  be  an 
effective and appropriate route to establish and channel 
assistance. Singapore will also do its part. 
Mr.  Martirosyan  (Armenia):  Cooperation  with 

regional organizations in developing and implementing 
various programmes and projects in almost all spheres 
of  our 
lives  —  political,  economic,  social  and 
cultural — has been a priority for Armenia. We believe 
that 
conducive 
frameworks  for  the  development  and  advancement  of 
relationships  among  its  members  and  help  to  build 
confidence  and 
their  cooperative 
mechanisms. 

In this respect, I would like to touch briefly upon 
two  of  the  organizations  under  discussion  today:  the 
Council  of  Europe  and  the  Organization  for  Security 
and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). 

Armenia  is  cooperating  with  the  Council  of 
Europe  in  political  and  legal  spheres.  The  year  2005 
was a milestone for the fulfilment of our commitments 
with regard to our membership in that organization. A 
constitutional  referendum  on  27  November  2005 
finalized the necessary changes in our constitution that 
would allow existing legislation to be brought into line 
with  our  Council  of  Europe  commitments.  At  the 
beginning  of  2006, 
the  Government  of  Armenia 
undertook  a  two-year  process  of  changing  67  laws, 
with the assistance of Council of Europe experts. Some 
of  the  laws  that  have  already  been  revised  include  a 
law  on  the  constitutional  court,  which  now  envisages 
the right of private citizens to file complaints with the 
Court,  a  law  on  police  service,  the  criminal  code  and 
an Ombudsman law. 

Council  of  Europe,  Armenia  went  beyond 
While  complying  with  the  requirements  of  the 
the 
A/61/PV.39
and 
of 
participated 
organizations, 
the  monitoring 
commitments  undertaken  with  respect  to  its  accession 
to Council of Europe Conventions and signed Protocol 
No. 13 to the Convention for the Protection of Human 
Rights  and  Fundamental  Freedoms,  which  deals  with 
the abolition of the death penalty in all circumstances. 

To  date,  Armenia  has  signed  and  verified  49 
Council  of  Europe  conventions;  another  11  are  in  the 
pipeline.  We  consider  the  improvement  of  Armenia’s 
legislative  framework  through  the  Council  of  Europe 
conventions 
their 
implementation to be an important area of cooperation 
with that organization, and we will strive to expand it. 

A  week  ago,  on  12  October, Armenia  hosted  the 
twenty-seventh  Conference  of  Council  of  Europe 
Ministers  of  Justice  on  the  role  and  rights  of  victims 
and  assistance  to  them.  Ministers  from  member  and 
representatives  of 
observer  States,  as  well  as 
international 
the 
Conference. 

In  March  2006,  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the 
Republic  of  Armenia  Programme  of  Action  was 
adopted  by  the  Council  of  Europe  Committee  of 
Ministers;  it  outlines  the  priorities  of  our  cooperation 
with that organization for 2006-2007. 
its 

European 
cooperation 
in  all 
its 
organization —  namely, 
dimensions, 
political, 
including 
environmental  and  economic  aspects  of  security  and 
stability. Currently, there are three large-scale projects 
under way, thanks to the assistance of the OSCE Office 
in Yerevan. 

In  May  2006,  the  cross-dimensional  Mélange 
rocket  fuel  disposal  project  was  launched  in Armenia. 
After the collapse of the Soviet Union, large stocks of 
Mélange  rocket  fuel  were  left  on  the  territory  of  the 
Republic.  These  stockpiles  posed  both  environmental 
and  security  dangers.  If  a  leak  were  to  occur,  these 
highly 
the 
environment for decades to come. At the request of the 
Government  of  Armenia,  the  OSCE  is  helping  to 
convert the rocket fuel into mineral-rich fertilizer, and 
we  are  thankful  to  the  Governments  of  the  United 
States,  Germany,  Finland  and  Canada 
their 
financial  and  expert  contributions  that  made  this 
project possible. 
another  major 
the  OSCE  — 
human, 
toxic  chemicals  could  contaminate 
Armenia  attaches  great 
importance 
with 
the 
in 
to 
for 
06-58547 

15 
of 
two 
The 
related 
to  human 
its  activities 
A/61/PV.39 


The  Police Assistance  Programme  is  part  of  our 
cooperation  with  the  OSCE  office  in  Yerevan.  It  is 
designed to build trust between the police  and society 
and to contribute to the development of a community-
oriented  policing  model. The  Programme  supports  the 
strengthening of a Police Training Centre for induction 
training and the implementation of a modern command 
and control system. 

an  OSCE  Programme 
opening 
Implementation Office in the southern part of Armenia 
is a significant achievement, as it will boost the efforts 
for  socio-economic  development  of  the  region.  The 
OSCE  Office  has  established 
local  public 
environmental  centres  there  as  well.  It  has  also 
expanded 
rights 
protection,  freedom  of  the  media,  labour  migration, 
trafficking  and  money-laundering  to  include  areas 
outside of the capital.  

During  recent  years,  both  the  Council  of  Europe 
and  the  OSCE  have  been  instrumental  in  establishing 
democracy and the rule of law in Armenia. However, it 
is  frustrating  that  the  same  organizations  that  are 
otherwise  adamant  with  regard  to  human  rights  issues 
and open election procedures are astonishingly tolerant 
when  it  comes  to  the  increased  warmongering  and 
militaristic  rhetoric  on  the  part  of  certain  high-level 
officials  in  the  region  and  the  escalation  of  an  arms 
race  now  under  way  in  the  conflict-torn  region  of  the 
South Caucasus.  

It  is  in  this  respect  that  Armenia  considers  the 
ongoing  negotiation  process  within  the  OSCE  Minsk 
Group  for  the  resolution  of  the  Nagorny  Karabakh 
conflict  to  be  a  vital  area  of  cooperation  with  the 
OSCE.  
involves  a  very  competent  group  of 

negotiators  who  are  extremely  knowledgeable  about 
the  nitty-gritty  of  the  conflict  and  the  situation  on  the 
ground.  The  Group  represents  countries  that  have 
political,  economic  and  geopolitical  stakes  in  the 
region and have a true interest in achieving peace and 
stability by finding a lasting settlement to the conflict. 
The  Group  has  contributed 
the 
virtually  uninterrupted  dialogue  between  the  parties 
and  to  the  preservation  of  relative  stability  in  the 
region  through  the  monitoring  of  the  ceasefire  regime 
that  has  effectively  been  in  place  for  over  12  years 
without  a  single  peacekeeper  on  the  ground.  We  are 
confident 
if  uninterrupted  and 
these  efforts, 
tremendously 
This 
that 

loopholes  at 
undiverted,  could  yield  a  positive  outcome  securing  a 
durable  and  long-lasting  solution  to  the  Nagorny 
Karabakh  conflict  and  bringing  peace  and  stability  to 
the region. 

It  is  in  the  spirit  of  cooperation  between  the 
United Nations and the OSCE that we  believe that, to 
make the process effective and efficient, any discussion 
in  the  United  Nations  on  the  Nagorny  Karabakh  issue 
should  be  based  on,  and  reflective  of,  the  processes 
going on within the Minsk Group. However, during the 
past  two  years,  under  various  pretexts,  attempts  have 
been  made  to  divert  the  process  of  negotiations  on 
Nagorny Karabakh by introducing agenda items, using 
procedural 
the  United  Nations  and 
exploiting certain sentiments of Member States. These 
efforts,  which  are  aimed  at  creating  a  seemingly 
favourable  milieu  for  predetermining  the  outcome  of 
negotiations, focusing only on one component from the 
whole  negotiation  package,  will  only  derail  the  peace 
process. Such a piecemeal approach to this conflict will 
at best postpone a final, lasting solution, but also may 
make  a  comprehensive  agreement  impossible  and 
endanger the fragile relative stability established in the 
area.  Moreover,  further  attempts  in  that  direction  will 
simply  make  it  imperative  to  revise  the  current 
composition of the parties involved. 

delegation  will  focus 
sub-item of this agenda item, sub-item 108 (k).  

Chile is of the view that cooperation between the 
United  Nations  system  and  the  Inter-Parliamentary 
Union is fundamental because it enables us to know the 
views and concerns of the legislative world with regard 
to  the  work  of  our  Organization.  This  is  particularly 
important  with 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security;  economic  and  social 
development;  the  promotion  and  defence  of  human 
humanitarian 
rights, 
assistance;  and 
to 
mention only the most relevant issues. Multilateralism 
has  a  law-making  dimension,  whose  realization  often 
involves  the  adoption  by  legislatures  of  treaties  and 
conventions  and  authorization  to  dispatch  troops  to 
peace  operations;  it  always  involves  the  budgetary 
authorization  of  the  contributions  that  every  State 
makes  to  the  United  Nations  and  other  international 
organizations.  
Mr.  Labbé  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 
its  statement  on  only  one 
the  promotion  of  democracy, 
including 
gender 
issues; 
regard 
to 
to 
16 

06-58547 
in 
the 
that 



We  want  parliaments  to  be  aware  not  only  of 
what  we  do  but  also  of  our  motivations  and  of  the 
sensitive variables that go into multilateral diplomacy. 
Ongoing  systemic  contact  with  parliaments  —  as 
represented by their own world organization, the Inter-
Parliamentary  Union  —  will  provide  us  with  a  two-
way  street  for  mutual  communication,  understanding 
and  support.  Furthermore,  Chile  believes  that  in  areas 
of  such  importance  as  the  promotion  of  democracy, 
human  rights,  human  security,  disarmament  and  the 
reform of the United Nations, we have to meet with our 
lawmakers and move ahead with them for the good of 
all. 

For  the  important  reasons  I  have  mentioned, 
Chile  congratulates  the  delegation  of  Italy  for  having 
submitted  draft  resolution  A/61/L.6  on  cooperation 
and 
between 
Inter-
the  United  Nations 
the  honour  of 
Parliamentary  Union.  We  have 
sponsoring 
text,  as  orally 
revised  by 
the 
representative of Italy. We are convinced that the draft 
resolution,  which  is  perfectly  in  line  with  what  is 
contained 
the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome 
Document  (resolution  60/1),  will  be  the  right  tool  to 
strengthen  the  links  and  cooperation  between  the 
United Nations and the Inter-Parliamentary Union. It is 
in  this  spirit  that  the  delegation  of  Chile  urges  the 
General Assembly  to  adopt  the  draft  resolution  before 
us by consensus. 

The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 
General Assembly resolution 35/2 of 13 October 1980, 
I now call on the observer for the Asian-African Legal 
Consultative Organization. 

Mr.  Kamil  (Asian-African  Legal  Consultative 
Organization): Allow  me  at  the  outset,  being  from  the 
Arab Republic of Egypt, to say a few words in Arabic 
in  honour  of  our  sister,  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-first  session.  Then,  I  shall 
proceed  in  English,  the  official  language  of  the 
organization  that  I  lead,  the  Asian-African  Legal 
Consultative Organization (AALCO). 
(spoke in Arabic) 

this  unique 
Assembly,  which  is  made  up  of  delegations  from  the 
four corners of the Earth, forming an elite of ministers, 
ambassadors, diplomats, statesmen and politicians who 
have  come  with  serious-mindedness  to  deal  with  the 
gamut of problems facing the international community 
and  who  spare  no  effort  to  find  solutions  to  those 
I  am  very  pleased 
to  address 
A/61/PV.39
problems.  We  take  great  pride  in  seeing  Ms.  Haya 
Rashed Al-Khalifa presiding over the sixty-first session 
of the  General Assembly as the first Arab woman  and 
the  third  woman  in  the  history  of  the  Organization  to 
have  been  elected  to  the  post  of  President. We  extend 
to her our sincere congratulations on having earned the 
full  confidence  and  trust  that  was  placed  in  you.  May 
her efforts be crowned with success, especially at this 
decisive,  dangerous  and  sensitive  turning  point  of 
history. 

There are many vital substantive issues, some of 
which pose a threat to us as individuals and groups and 
to international peace and security; some of these have 
a direct impact on innocent civilians in various regions 
of the  world. Those threats include terrorism in all its 
horrific  forms,  unprecedented  violations  of  human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms,  and  disregard  and 
lack  of  respect  for  international  law,  international 
instruments  and  international  humanitarian  law.  Nor 
must  we  ignore  the  perils  that  threaten  groups  and 
individuals  in  all  regions  because  of  the  disgraceful 
widening  gap  in  standards  of  social  justice  and 
between  abject  poverty  and  excessive  wealth.  Nor 
should  we  forget  environmental  disasters  and  their 
startling effects on the Earth’s climate and agriculture, 
fostering 
their 
implications  for  development,  the  rights  of  peoples  to 
control their own resources, the evil of corruption and 
other problems. 

those  problems,  Madam 
President,  we  are  certain  that  this  international  forum 
will,  under  your  guidance,  and 
to  your 
considerable  experience,  find  solutions  that  will  meet 
the  expectations  of  all  parties. We  express  once  again 
our hope for the success of our work.  

the official language of our organization. 
(spoke in English) 
The  item  on  cooperation  between  the  United 

Nations  and  the  Asian-African  Legal  Consultative 
Organization  is  included  in  the  General  Assembly’s 
agenda  on  a  biennial  basis,  and  although  we 
participated  as  an  observer  at  the  sixtieth  session,  we 
were not accorded the opportunity to take the floor. We 
would therefore like to take this opportunity to convey 
our  cordial  greetings 
in 
connection with its sixtieth anniversary.  
I will continue my statement in English, which is 
the  United  Nations 
In  spite  of  all  of 
desertification 
floods, 
thanks 
and 
or 
to 
06-58547 

17 

the 
establishment  of 
A/61/PV.39 


The wide-ranging reform measures set in motion 
by  global  political  leaders  at  the  2005  Summit  in  the 
areas  of  development,  peace,  collective  security, 
human rights, the rule of law and the strengthening of 
the  United  Nations  were  groundbreaking.  An  equally 
important  achievement  of  the  sixtieth  session,  which 
we  welcome,  was 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  Human  Rights 
Council. 

On behalf of AALCO and on my own account, I 
express appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan 
and  his  staff  for  their  continuous  hard  work  and 
commitment.  This  being  the  last  year  of  his  second 
term in office, I would like, on behalf of AALCO and 
on my own account, to express to Mr. Kofi Annan our 
best wishes for all his future endeavours. 

We  also  express  our  heartiest  congratulations  to 
the  Secretary-General-designate,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, Foreign Minister of the Republic of 
Korea.  We  assure  him  that  we  will  extend  our  full 
cooperation and support to him in the discharge of his 
mandate. 
As  I  said  at  the  beginning  of  my  statement,  the 

peoples  of 
increasingly 
confronted with challenges that threaten global security 
and require collective efforts if we are to confront and 
resolve  them.  Multilateralism  is  the  only  way  to 
effectively tackle such global challenges. I wish every 
success to the General Assembly at its current session 
significant 
as  we 
advancement  on 
to 
developing  countries,  such  as  the  follow-up  to  the 
internationally agreed Millennium Development Goals, 
the  prevention  of  armed  conflict,  agreement  on  an 
international 
the 
protection of the environment, the revitalization of the 
General  Assembly,  and  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council. We are confident that the present session will 
also  provide  an  opportunity  for  us  to  assess  the  real 
impact  made  by  the  newly  established  Peacebuilding 
Commission and Human Rights Council. We hope that 
the United Nations will continue to remain a beacon of 
hope,  peace  and  prosperity  for  the  peoples  of  the 
world. 

I draw the attention of the Assembly to the report 
of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  agenda  item  entitled 
“Cooperation between the United Nations and regional 
and  other  organizations”  (A/61/256  and  Add.1).  That 
issues  of  particular  concern 
the  United  Nations  are 
convention 
effectively 
terrorism, 
against 
attain 
seek 
to 
that 
report 
respect 
cooperative 
for  human 
relationships  with 
clearly  demonstrates 
excellent 
the 
partnership  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
organizations is of particular importance with a view to 
achieving 
the  common  goals  of  peace,  security, 
stability  and  development,  advancing  the  rule  of  law 
and  encouraging 
rights  and 
fundamental freedoms for all. 

The complexity of global problems has turned the 
United  Nations  into  a  special  setting  for  developing 
fruitful 
regional 
organizations.  The  United  Nations  is  benefiting,  and 
could  benefit  more,  from  the  experience  and  capacity 
of regional organizations on issues of common interest. 
Such  organizations  could  also  contribute  to  managing 
issues at the  regional and  national levels. Cooperation 
between the United Nations and regional organizations 
therefore  needs 
to  be  enhanced,  promoted  and 
supported by States. 

AALCO  is  a  common  platform  and  a  forum  for 
bringing  together  the Asian  and African  States  with  a 
view to strengthening their participation in the process 
of the development of international law and to enabling 
them  to  effectively  realize  their  goals  and  aspirations. 
With  a  sense  of  pride  and  deep  satisfaction,  I  am 
that  AALCO 
honoured 
is 
celebrating 
this  year.  The 
organization,  considered  to  be  a  tangible  outcome  of 
the  historic  1955  Bandung  Summit  of  Asian  and 
African  leaders,  has  promoted  Afro-Asian  solidarity, 
particularly on international law matters. 

AALCO  remains  a  unique  body  in  terms  of 
developing Asian-African perspectives on international 
law,  but  it  also  acts  as  a  bridge  between  the  world’s 
two  most  populous  continents.  Our  annual  sessions, 
which  are  recognized  and  respected  in  international 
law  circles,  play  an  important  role  in  facilitating  the 
interaction  of  people,  including  eminent  jurists,  from 
the two continents, who deliberate on important issues 
of  international  law  with  the  aim  of  reaching  a 
common position on all of them. 

The establishment of an equitable and just world 
order  that  serves  the  interests  of  the  peoples  of  the 
world without discrimination, on the basis of sovereign 
equality  among  all  States  and  respect  for 
their 
independence  and  territorial  integrity,  is  the  raison 
d’être of international law. Issues concerning peace and 
security, human rights, international humanitarian law, 
accountability  for  international  crimes,  environmental 
this  body 
jubilee 
its  golden 
inform 
to 
18 

06-58547 
and 
codification 
development 


issues,  equitable  trading  regimes,  among  others,  are 
addressed  by  the  international  community  through  the 
progressive 
of 
international law. 

In the 50 years of its existence, AALCO has taken 
part, directly or indirectly, in every major development 
in  the  field  of  international  law,  keeping  in  mind  the 
specific  interests  of  the  developing  countries;  the 
membership of AALCO is testimony to that.  

Our  modest  membership  of  seven  in  1956  has 
grown  in  strength  to  48  today,  and  we  represent  two 
thirds of the world’s population. We are confident that 
the  number  of  member  States  will  continue  to  grow. 
With  the  full  support  and  cooperation  of  its  member 
States,  the  organization  follows  a  dynamic  work 
programme that has always been kept in tune with the 
needs  of  the  time  and  is  suitably  oriented  to  meet  the 
challenges posed in contemporary international society 
in general and the needs of an expanding membership, 
encompassing the two continents of Asia and Africa. 

In  this,  the  organization’s  golden  jubilee  year,  a 
new era in its history has begun. The new building of 
the 
of  AALCO  was 
inaugurated, in conjunction with our forty-fifth golden 
jubilee session, in New Delhi on 6 April 2006. Because 
of  the  magnanimity  of  our  generous  host  —  the 
Government  of  India  —  AALCO  now,  in  its  fiftieth 
year,  has  a  permanent  abode.  The  organization  will 
very soon start functioning from its new premises, thus 
implementing  a  new  series  of  activities  with  much 
broader scope. 

AALCO’s two most recent annual sessions, held, 
respectively, in Nairobi in 2005 and at our headquarters 
in  New  Delhi  in  2006,  were  occasions  for  us  to 
consider  our  agenda  items  in  depth.  They  include  the 
work of the International Law Commission; the Law of 
the 
establishing 
cooperation against trafficking in women and children; 
the  International  Criminal  Court;  human  rights  in 
Islam; the deportation of Palestinians and other Israeli 
practices,  among  them  the  massive  immigration  and 
settlement  of  Jews  in  all  of the  occupied  territories  in 
violation  of  international  law,  particularly  the  Fourth 
Geneva  Convention  of  1949;  and,  finally,  expressions 
of folklore and its international protection. That listing 
is indicative of the wide range of topics in international 
law that AALCO considers, while preserving its ability 
headquarters 
international 
permanent 
terrorism; 
Sea; 
A/61/PV.39
in 
relevance 
international 
the  enforcement  of 
international  organizations  on 
in 
law,  organized 
to  reorient  its  agenda  to  accord  with  the  changing 
times. 

A  unique  feature  of  our  sessions  is  the  special 
meetings  organized  by  AALCO  in  collaboration  with 
topics  of 
friendly 
contemporary 
law.  At 
Nairobi,  the  Kenyan  Government,  the  United  Nations 
Environment  Programme  (UNEP)  and AALCO  joined 
hands  to  organize  a  special  meeting  on  environmental 
law  and  sustainable  development,  which  addressed 
issues  pertaining  to  the  Asian-African  perspective  on 
international  environmental  law,  compliance  with  and 
enforcement  of  environmental  law  and  problems  and 
prospects  related  to  the  entry  into  force  of  the  Kyoto 
Protocol. 

At  AALCO’s  Golden  Jubilee  meetings  in  New 
Delhi — a momentous occasion for our organization — 
we organized three such special meetings, one on legal 
identity  and  statelessness,  in  collaboration  with  the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Refugees (UNHCR); a second on universal jurisdiction 
international 
and 
its  role 
humanitarian 
the 
International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC); and 
a  third  on  international  migration  law,  in  association 
with  the  International  Organization  for  Migration 
(IOM).  Those  meetings  were  highly  successful  and 
featured  extensive  exchanges  of  ideas  between  the 
subject experts and delegates. I take this opportunity to 
thank  our  partners  in  those  endeavours  —  UNEP, 
UNHCR, ICRC and IOM — for their valuable help and 
cooperation in making the meetings a success. 

Intersessional activities also continue to represent 
an  important  part  of  the  AALCO  work  programme. 
One  such  event  was  the  May  2006  Kuala  Lumpur 
Meeting  of  International  Experts  on  Human  Rights  in 
Islam, organized by the Governments of Malaysia and 
the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  and 
the  AALCO 
secretariat.  The  main  theme  of  the  Meeting  was 
understanding human rights as enshrined in Islam. The 
Meeting  highlighted, 
the 
fundamental  principles  of  human  rights  as  set  out  in 
Islam  in  order  to  examine  how  the  concept  of  human 
rights  has  been  adopted  and  integrated  into  national 
laws  and  practices.  A  galaxy  of  experts  from  around 
the world attended and presented their views during the 
Conference. 
among  other 
jointly  with 
things, 
06-58547 

19 

It 
an 
important 
especially 
AALCO  makes 
contributed  during 
the  regular  activities  of 
A/61/PV.39 


AALCO  has  consistently  sought  to  develop  a 
synergy  with  the  United  Nations,  given  the  two 
organizations’  common  objectives,  complementary 
mandates  and  respective  comparative  advantages.  It 
has  been  supportive  of  the  United  Nations,  and  its 
work  has  been  aimed  at  rendering  assistance  to 
AALCO  member  Governments  in  their  consideration 
of the agenda items before the Sixth Committee of the 
General Assembly. The preparation of extensive studies 
to  assist  AALCO  member  Governments’  participation 
in  international  legal  conferences  convoked  under  the 
auspices  of  the  United  Nations,  and  on  selected  items 
on  the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly,  is  part  and 
parcel  of 
the  AALCO 
secretariat. 
contribution 

towards  bringing  together  the  countries  of  Asia  and 
Africa,  with  a  view  to  effectively  coordinating  the 
position  of  developing  countries 
in  codification 
conferences  held  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations. 
the 
negotiations  leading  to  the  Vienna  Convention  on  the 
Law of Treaties and the United Nations Convention on 
the  Law  of  the  Sea,  and  in  the  establishment  of  the 
International Criminal Court — all of which have been 
well recognized and appreciated. 

In  acknowledgement  of  its  role,  the  conferral  of 
permanent  observer  status  to  AALCO  by  the  United 
Nations  General Assembly  was  a  turning  point  in  the 
history  of  the  organization.  The  inclusion  of  certain 
items  and  topics  under  consideration  by  the  United 
Nations in the work programme of AALCO reflects its 
contribution  to  the  fulfilment  of  the  purposes  and  the 
principles of the United Nations. 

AALCO  and  the  International  Law  Commission 
(ILC)  share  a  mutually  supportive  relationship.  The 
follow-up  of  the  work  of  the  ILC  is  our  statutory 
obligation and hence is regularly supported by in-depth 
secretariat 
item.  Substantive 
deliberations on the topic also take place at our annual 
sessions.  The  ILC  Chairman  or  his  representative 
addresses our annual sessions and explains the progress 
of  work  achieved  in  the  Commission.  Subsequently,  I 
will  present  before  the  Commission  the  crux  of  the 
statements  made  by  AALCO  member  States  at  the 
AALCO annual session. 

The  relationship  between  our  two  organizations 
has been further strengthened by the convening of joint 
studies 
the 
on 
the 
to 
and 
IOM, 
fortify 
towards 
that  cooperation 
between  AALCO 
in  conjunction  with 
the  United  Nations 
We  value  our  relationship  with 
AALCO-ILC  meetings 
the 
meetings  of AALCO  legal  advisers,  which  take  place 
each  year  on  the  sidelines  of  the  annual  General 
Assembly sessions. 
It  has  been  my  constant  endeavour  to  strengthen 

the 
relationship 
other 
intergovernmental  organizations.  Our  organization  has 
concluded formal agreements with a number of United 
Nations bodies and specialized agencies, including the 
International Atomic  Energy Agency,  the  International 
Maritime  Organization, 
International 
Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  UNHCR,  UNEP,  the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Human  Rights, 
Industrial 
Development  Organization, 
the  United  Nations 
Institute  for  Training  and  Research  and  the  World 
Intellectual Property Organization. 

the  United 
Nations  family  of  organizations  and  shall  continue  to 
strive 
the 
strengthening  of  the  international  legal  order.  In  that 
context,  it  is  worth  mentioning  that  AALCO  has 
initiated  dialogue  with  several  specialized  agencies  to 
conduct training programmes and workshops in several 
areas of international law. Successful attainment of this 
objective  would  help  in  building  the  capacity  of 
international law, particularly with regard to Asian and 
African States. 

The  scourge  of  international  terrorism  continues 
to  plague  us.  It  is  a  stark  reality  of  our  times  that  no 
part  of  the  world  is  immune  from  the  horrendous  acts 
of terror perpetrated on innocent civilians by terrorists. 
That  horrible  crime  affects  the  world’s  peace  and 
prosperity  and  hampers  the  development  process. 
Addressing the phenomenon of terrorism is a complex 
and  challenging 
task.  Terrorist  activities  by  any 
individuals, groups, non-State entities or States must be 
checked  by  all  possible  means.  In  that  regard,  we 
welcome  the  recent  adoption  of  the  United  Nations 
Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy (resolution 60/288) 
by  the  General Assembly. Although  the  Strategy  is  an 
important  step  ahead,  we  look  forward  to  working 
to 
diligently  with  our  member  States 
encourage 
on 
draft 
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism 
that  is  being  discussed  by  United  Nations  Member 
States,  which,  when  adopted,  will  reflect  the  views  of 
the entire international community. 
further  momentum 
in  order 
the 
20 

06-58547 
Before  concluding,  allow  me 
international  community  within 



thank  all 
delegations  that  spoke  today  about  AALCO  and  its 
activities and in support of the cooperation between the 
United  Nations  and  AALCO.  I  would  mention  in 
particular  the  host  of  AALCO  —  the  Republic  of 
India — and China, Japan and Egypt.  

As  the  head  of  an  international  legal  body,  I 
would  like  to  conclude  by  stressing  in  particular  the 
importance of the full respect for and enhancement and 
implementation of the rule of law in all areas, in order 
to  keep  our 
the 
boundaries  of  a  civilized  world  where  only  justice, 
equality  and  one  standard  criterion  prevail.  Only  then 
can we expect a significant reduction in the many evils 
around us. 
The Acting  President:  Before  I  call  on  the  next 

speaker, I would plead with speakers to be economical 
with  time,  because  we  have  a  number  of  draft 
resolutions to go through this evening. 

In  accordance  with  General Assembly  resolution 
44/6  of  17  October  1989,  I  now  call  on  the  Secretary 
General of the Council of Europe. 
Mr.  Davis  (Council  of  Europe):  The  previous 

speaker,  on  behalf  of 
the  Asian-African  Legal 
Consultative Organization, told us that he was speaking 
for  48  Member  States.  As  Secretary  General  of  the 
Council  of  Europe,  I  can  only  speak  for  46  Member 
States,  but  they  do  represent  almost  the  whole  of 
Europe.  And  on 
their  behalf,  as  many  previous 
speakers have done, I want to begin by  paying tribute 
to  the  outgoing  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan, 
who,  for  the  past  10  years,  has  spared  no  effort  in 
grappling  with  the  most  intractable  problems  facing 
our planet.  

At  the  Council  of  Europe,  we  look  forward  to 
working with his successor, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, and the 
agenda of our future cooperation is to be spelled out in 
a  draft  resolution  to  be  submitted  to  this  General 
Assembly.  

to 
campaigning 
xenophobia 
belonging 
inhuman  and  degrading 
fighting 
The Council of Europe will continue to contribute 
in  protecting  human  rights; 
discrimination, 
intolerance;  protecting  persons 
torture  and 
treatment  or  punishment; 
in  human  beings; 
to  minorities;  preventing 
against 
trafficking 
the  global  effort 
against 
racism, 
and 
to 
A/61/PV.39
that 
terrorism.  In 
combating violence against women; and protecting the 
rights of the child.  

For  the  Council  of  Europe,  all  those  issues  are 
priorities,  but  the  challenge  which  tops  the  list  is  the 
fight  against 
that  area,  cooperation 
between the Council of Europe and the United Nations 
already  exists,  but  I  believe 
it  should  be 
reinforced.  

Let  us  be  clear.  At  the  Council  of  Europe,  we 
despise  terrorists  because  they  are  criminals  and 
because they try to destroy everything we stand for and 
everything  we  believe  in.  The  Council  of  Europe  is 
best  known  for  its  work  on  the  protection  of  human 
rights  —  and  with  reason.  Our  campaigns,  our 
standard-setting activities, our monitoring mechanisms 
based on independent expertise and peer pressure, and 
especially the European Convention on Human Rights, 
which  is  enforced  through  the  European  Court  of 
Human  Rights,  mean  that  our  organization  is  the 
reference  point  when  it  comes  to  the  protection  of 
human rights in Europe.  

But  the  Council  of  Europe  is  not  only  about 
human  rights.  When  it  comes  to  the  fight  against 
terrorism, 
the  Council  of  Europe  has  adopted 
conventions  allowing  our  member  States  to  improve 
their cooperation and diminish the capacity of terrorists 
to  enlist  new  recruits  and  to  strike  whenever  and 
wherever they choose.  

Those new treaties establish as criminal offences 
several acts which may lead to acts of terrorism, such 
as  incitement,  recruitment  and  training.  They  also 
reinforce cooperation in the prevention of terrorism by 
modifying  existing  arrangements  for  extradition  and 
mutual  assistance.  Our  activities 
strengthen 
cooperation in law enforcement and to help the victims 
of terrorism are not in contradiction with our insistence 
on respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms.  

In  Europe,  we  reject  the  false  choice  between 
freedom  and  security.  That  is  not  some  idealistic 
delusion, but the result of a long and tragic experience 
with terrorism on European soil. The so-called troubles 
in  Northern  Ireland  —  to  give  only  one  example  — 
lasted  for  a  quarter  of  a  century,  during  which  more 
than  3,500  people  were  killed.  Germany  had  Baader 
Meinhof,  Italy  had  the  Red  Brigades,  Spain  has  had 
Euskadi  Ta  Askatasuna,  and  both 
the  Russian 
Federation  and  Turkey  continue  to  be  targets  for 
terrorists.  
to 
06-58547 

21 

the 
justice 
ideological  conflict  of 
A/61/PV.39 


We have learned our lessons the hard way, and we 
use  that  experience  in  responding  to  the  threat  from  
Al-Qaida. Experience tells us that giving up on human 
rights  and 
is  not  only  wrong,  but  also 
dangerous.  

The  President  of  the  United  States  of  America 
recently  said  that  the  fight  against  terrorism  is  the 
defining 
twenty-first 
century.  But  an  ideological  conflict  cannot  be  won  by 
force  alone.  If  we  want  to  defeat  terrorists,  we  must 
remain faithful to our ideas and values. People around 
the  world  must  know  that  we  are  right  and  that 
terrorists  are  wrong  —  that  we  are  just  and  that  they 
are criminals.  

We cannot win an ideological conflict with secret 
prisons, or with people being kept in a legal limbo and 
deprived of safeguards which are the foundation of our 
systems  of  justice  and  of  our  democracies.  Those 
methods  are  not  only  morally  wrong; 
they  are 
dangerous  because  they  are  exactly  what  terrorists 
want. They  want  us  to  give  up  the  most  fundamental, 
defining  features  of  our  freedom.  They  want  to  level 
the  field  between  good  and  evil.  They  want  to  set  a 
wrong against a wrong.  

We  cannot  let  that  happen,  we  must  not  let  that 
happen and we will not let it happen. In Europe, we are 
not only resolved to fight terrorists; we are determined 
to defeat them. And have no doubt — we will. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General Assembly resolution 54/5 of 8 October 1999, I 
now  call  on  the  Secretary  General  of  the  Black  Sea 
Economic Cooperation Organization. 
Mr.  Chrysanthopoulos  (Black  Sea  Economic 

Cooperation  Organization):  Since  this  is  the  first  time 
that  I  have  taken  the  floor,  allow  me  at  the  outset  to 
congratulate Sheikha Haya Rashed Al Khalifa upon her 
election as the President of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-first session. 

The  foundations  of  the  Black  Sea  Economic 
Cooperation  Organization  (BSEC)  were  laid  down  in 
1992 as a political initiative for economic cooperation 
in  the  wake  of  tremendous  changes  that  had  taken 
place in the  world. Upon  the ratification of its charter 
on 1 May 1999, the Black Sea Economic Cooperation 
Organization  was  born  with  a  legal  identity  on  the 
international scene. 
is 
that 
actually 

It  was  a  period  following  the  collapse  of  the 
Soviet  Union,  and  the  founding  fathers  of  BSEC 
wanted  to  create  an  organization  that  could  promote 
peace  and  stability  in  the  Black  Sea  region  through 
prosperity.  And 
happened.  The 
organization was able to effectively promote peace and 
stability in the area through closer  cooperation among 
its  member  States.  In  the  margins  of  ministerial 
meetings,  ministers  of  countries  not  maintaining 
diplomatic relations among themselves could meet and 
discuss the bilateral problems that separated them. The 
essence 
that  peace  and  stability  have  been 
maintained  in  the  region  for  the  past  14  years  and 
BSEC has played an important role towards that end. 

In those 14 years, BSEC has become a forum for 
discussion  and  cooperation  in  areas  ranging  from 
energy  to  transport,  trade  and  economic  development, 
the  environment, 
tourism,  agriculture,  combating 
organized  crime,  terrorism,  small  and  medium-sized 
enterprises,  emergency  relief,  and  the  elimination  of 
the consequences of natural and human-made disasters. 
Recently we added culture as an additional area of our 
cooperation. Furthermore, BSEC has built a permanent 
and  extensive  institutional  framework  of  cooperation 
that  covers  all 
the 
intergovernmental  level,  the  Council  of  Ministers  for  
Foreign  Affairs  is  the  highest  decision-making  organ. 
At  the  parliamentary  level  is  the  BSEC  Parliamentary 
Assembly, or PABSEC. In the financial sector there is 
BSTDB, the trade and development bank of BSEC, and 
the  BSEC  Business  Council.  Finally,  we  have  the 
International  Centre  for  Black  Sea  Studies,  which  is 
BSEC’s think tank.  

BSEC  has  also  elaborated  binding  agreements 
and  common  action  plans  on  key  issues  of  regional 
cooperation.  Examples 
the  Agreement  on 
Combating Organized Crime and its protocols, and the 
Agreements  on  Cooperation  in  Emergency  Situations, 
both  signed  in  1998. The  establishment  of  the  Project 
Development  Fund  in  October  2002  was  another 
important  development.  Its  purpose  is  to  facilitate  the 
elaboration  and  promotion  of  projects  with  high 
regional  cooperation  and  development  impact  in  the 
BSEC  region  at  the  early  stages  of  their  conception. 
Contributions  from  outside  donors  are  welcome, 
provided  that  their  sources  are  transparent  and  the 
conditions  attached  to  them  are  consistent  with  the 
principles and objectives of the BSEC organization. 
levels  of  governance.  On 
include 
22 

06-58547 
to 
the 
region 
Another  area  of  our  attention  concerns 



BSEC has at last reached the point where it is in 
the  process  of  starting  the  implementation  of  regional 
projects of great importance for the Black Sea  region. 
The  Ministers  of  Transport  of  BSEC,  at  their  historic 
meeting  in  Sochi  last  month,  agreed  to  go  ahead  with 
the  construction  of  a  ring  highway  around  the  Black 
Sea.  It  is  a  major  7,000-kilometre  project  called  the 
Road  of  the Argonauts,  which  will  change  the  life  of 
the  people  of  the  BSEC  countries  by  bringing  further 
economic  development 
through 
facilitating  the  overland  transport  of  goods  within 
BSEC  and  from  Europe  to  Asia  and  vice  versa,  and 
tourism.  The  second  project  agreed  in  Sochi  was  the 
Motorways of the Sea of the BSEC region. It will make 
the  Black  Sea  smaller  by  creating  the  necessary 
infrastructure for better connecting the Black Sea ports 
and the Black Sea with the Mediterranean and Caspian 
Seas. 

the 
relations between BSEC and the European Union. With 
the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the European 
Union next year, the latter will have at last reached the 
Black  Sea.  Consequently,  there  is  a  need  to  enhance 
relations  between  BSEC  and  the  European  Union  and 
to develop an enhanced framework of cooperation with 
Brussels. The issue was discussed on 14 September at 
the  meeting  of  the  General  Affairs  and  External 
Relations  Council  of  the  European  Union,  and  we 
remain  confident  that  we  will  soon  have  concrete 
results. 

In  June  next  year,  BSEC  will  be  celebrating  its 
fifteenth  anniversary,  and  Turkey,  which  will  be 
chairing  the  organization  at  that  time,  will  host  a 
summit 
that  will  endorse  serious  and  significant 
documents concerning reform aspects of BSEC. We are 
confident  that  after  that  summit,  BSEC  will  emerge 
stronger, more efficient and project oriented. 

At its fifty-fourth session, the General Assembly, 
by  its  resolution  54/5  of  8  October  1999,  granted 
observer  status  to  the  Organization  of  the  Black  Sea 
Economic  Cooperation,  a  landmark  development  that 
enabled  BSEC  to  take  its  place  in  the  family  of 
international 
resolution 
55/211  of  20  December  2000  opened  up  new  avenues 
to  develop  cooperation  or  working 
for  BSEC 
relationships  with  other  organizations  within 
the 
United  Nations  system  and  beyond.  BSEC  has  signed 
cooperation  agreements  with 
the  United  Nations 
Economic  Commission  for  Europe  (ECE),  the  United 
organizations.  Assembly 
A/61/PV.39
Nations  Environment  Programme  and 
the  United 
Nations  Industrial  Development  Organization.  BSEC 
has  also  developed  cooperation  with  the  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
World  Trade  Organization  and  the  World  Bank.  We 
have  also  begun  to  cooperate  closely  with  the  United 
Nations  Development  Programme,  with  which  we  are 
working on a common project concerning cross-border 
cooperation within the Black Sea region. 

Allow  me  to  go  back  to  BSEC-ECE  cooperation 
and underline that cooperation in the transport field has 
increased  through  application  of  ECE  experience  in 
facilitating  international  transport  processes  to  the 
BSEC  region.  We  are  in  contact  with  the  ECE  to 
receive  its  expertise  on  the  construction  of  the  Black 
Sea ring highway decided at Sochi. 
At this point I would like to thank the Secretary-

General  for  his  factual  report  on 
the  status  of 
cooperative  relationship  between  BSEC  and  various 
United  Nations  organizations  during  the  2005-2006 
period.  We  appreciate  his  recommendation  that  the 
United  Nations,  the  specialized  agencies  and  other 
organizations  and  programmes  of  the  United  Nations 
system  should  continue  to  hold  consultations  with 
BSEC and formulate and implement joint programmes 
pertaining to fields of common interest. 

We  followed  with  great  interest  the  Security 
Council  debate  on  20  September  on  cooperation 
between the United Nations and regional organizations 
and  other  intergovernmental  bodies  in  maintaining 
peace and security (see S/PV.5529). We also read with 
great  interest  the  text  of  the  presidential  statement 
issued on this matter (S/PRST/2006/39). As a regional 
economic  organization,  BSEC  is  not  directly  involved 
in  peacekeeping  and  conflict  prevention.  However,  it 
renders  its  contribution  to  peace  and  security  through 
economic  cooperation  and  by  means  of  implementing 
the  so-called  soft  security  measures.  And  within  that 
framework,  we  are  willing  to  cooperate  closely  with 
the  United  Nations  Secretary-General  and  with  other 
competent United Nations bodies. 

Before  concluding,  I  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
Russian  Federation,  the  current  Chairman-in-Office  of 
BSEC, for introducing the draft resolution that is now 
before the General Assembly. I wish  also to thank the 
other  sponsors.  I  appeal  to  the  members  of  this 
Assembly  to  adopt  the  text  by  consensus.  The  draft 
resolution  will  give  a  new 
to  BSEC’s 
impetus 
06-58547 

23 

this  session  on 
A/61/PV.39 

cooperation with the United Nations and its specialized 
agencies in the pursuit of the objectives and principles 
enshrined  in  the  Charter,  as  well  as  those  of  the 
Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation. 
BSEC will continue to play its role with determination 
in efforts to strengthen multilateral cooperation to meet 
the global challenges of this millennium. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General Assembly  resolution  477  (V)  of  1  November 
1950, I now call on the observer for the League of Arab 
States. 
Mr. Mahmassani (League of Arab States) (spoke 

in  Arabic):  Let  me  begin  by  congratulating 
the 
President  of  the  Assembly  on  her  election  to  preside 
over the sixty-first session  of the General Assembly. I 
take this opportunity to express our congratulations to 
the  President  of  the  sixtieth  session  on  his  wise  and 
skilful  conduct  of  that  session.  We  would  also  like  to 
thank the Secretary-General for his report submitted to 
the  Assembly  at 
the  close  and 
multidisciplinary  cooperation  between 
the  United 
Nations  and  the  Arab  League  in  confronting  the 
challenges and dangers that bedevil international peace 
and security.  

The  League  of  Arab  States  and  its  specialized 
agencies  wish  to  continue  and  intensify  cooperation 
with the United Nations in all fields, as emphasized by 
the report of the Secretary-General (A/61/256). During 
the 2004-2006 period, cooperation between the League 
of  Arab  States  and  the  United  Nations  covered  all 
areas,  including  participation  in  the  sixth  high-level 
meeting  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional  and 
intergovernmental  organizations,  held  in  New York  in 
July 2005. A standing committee, based on a proposal 
by  the  Secretary-General  of  the  Arab  League,  was 
created.  In  addition,  the  United  Nations  and  the Arab 
League  co-chaired 
the 
implementation  and  financing  of 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals and sustainable development, held 
in Cairo in November 2005.  

The  Arab  League  and  the  United  Nations  also  
co-chaired  the  ninth  meeting  on  cooperation  between 
the secretariats of the two organizations, held in Vienna 
in April  2006,  at  which  time  the  participants  assessed 
the cooperative activities that had taken place since the 
eighth  meeting.  They  decided 
the 
organization  in  2007  of  several  training  sessions  in 
connection  with 
conflict 
the  sectoral  meeting  on 
election  monitoring, 
to  consider 
to 
and 
regard 
resolution, 
demobilization 
prevention 
and 
reintegration  programmes  for  former  combatants  and 
the  establishment  of  a  regional  database  in  the  Arab 
States on small arms and light weapons.  

Participants also considered the organization of a 
joint meeting of relevant United Nations agencies and 
bodies  to  help  the  League  of Arab  States  establish  an 
early-warning  system  in  the  context  of  the  Security 
Council  and  the  Arab  League’s  concept  of  peace,  so 
that they could benefit from United Nations experience 
in  preventive  diplomacy  and  conflict  resolution  and 
discuss  ways  and  means  to  allow  the  League  of Arab 
States to draw on the technical expertise of the United 
Nations in building an Arab peace infrastructure in the 
context of cooperation with the Security Council. 

The participants at the ninth meeting also stressed 
the  need  to  build  a  culture  of  dialogue  among 
civilizations  and  strengthen  relations  between  them  in 
order  to  bring  different  civilizations  together  and  to 
preserve  and  safeguard  the  values  of  human  dignity 
and  peaceful  coexistence.  With 
the 
importance of ensuring respect for religious belief and 
religious sites, the meeting paid special attention to the 
joint  communiqué  issued  in  Doha  by  the  Secretary-
General  of  the  United  Nations,  the  Secretary-General 
of  the  Arab  League,  the  Secretary-General  of  the 
Organization  of 
the 
Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Qatar and of Turkey.  

In  November  2005,  a  preparatory  meeting  took 
place  in  Cairo  with  the  participation  of  the  United 
Nations  and 
the  Arab  League  on  Iraqi  national 
reconciliation,  as  well  as  participation  in  supervising 
the  2006  presidential  elections  in  the  Comoros.  The 
Arab League and the United Nations also witnessed the 
signing  of  the  Darfur  Peace  Agreement  between  the 
Government  of  the  Sudan  and  the  Sudan  Liberation 
Movement.  The  League  and  the  United  Nations  are 
also  cooperating  in  helping  the  people  of  Somalia  to 
achieve comprehensive national reconciliation. We are 
cooperating  with  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  on  the  partnership  designed  to  develop 
animal resources in Somalia.  

The  World  Health  Organization  is  also  involved 
in Somalia in the area of health, and the Arab League 
has  been  cooperating  with  the  Office  of  the  United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  in 
formulating the Arab Charter on Human Rights. It has 
also set up workshops, in cooperation with the United 
the  Islamic  Conference  and 
24 

06-58547 


Nations  Development  Fund  for  Women,  the  United 
Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western 
Asia  (ESCWA)  and  the  United  Nations  Institute  for 
Training and Research, and has signed a memorandum 
of  understanding  with  other  organizations  for  an 
exchange  of  assistance  at  the  national  and  regional 
levels regarding the role and participation of women in 
development. The  League  of Arab  States  and  ESCWA 
will continue to follow up on the recommendations and 
initiatives  that  resulted  from  the  Arab  International 
Forum  on  Rehabilitation  and  Development  in  the 
Occupied  Palestinian  Territory  in  the  context  of  the 
establishment of an independent Palestinian State. 

The efforts made by the Arab League to enhance 
full cooperation with the United Nations in all spheres 
demonstrate  that  the  League  wants  to  work  together 
with  the  United  Nations  to  ensure  the  implementation 
of  all  the  resolutions  adopted  by  this  Organization, 
whether  they  relate  to  disarmament,  counter-terrorism 
or the peaceful settlement of disputes.  

One of the main priorities of the Arab League is 
the quest for a just and lasting resolution of the Arab-
Israeli  conflict  in  accordance  with  international  law, 
the  Madrid  terms  of  reference  and  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative,  as  well  as  the  enhancing  of  cooperation 
between  the  two  organizations,  which  can  help  us  to 
confront  international  threats  and  challenges  and  to 
establish  international  peace  and  security.  This  would 
include freeing the Middle East from nuclear weapons 
and  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction  in  accordance 
with international law. This desire for cooperation with 
the  United  Nations  is  rooted  in  the  Arab  character, 
which  believes  in  tolerance  and  peaceful  coexistence 
with others through a dialogue among civilizations. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

resolution  57/32  of  19  November  2002,  I  now  call  on 
the  Secretary-General  of 
Inter-Parliamentary 
Union, Mr. Anders Johnson. 

Mr.  Johnson  (Inter-Parliamentary  Union):  The 
Assembly  has  before  it  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  (IPU)  (A/61/256, 
part  three).  I  think  that  members  will  agree  that  the 
report attests to a dynamic and substantive partnership 
between  the  two  organizations.  These  developments 
would  not  have  been  possible  without  the  vision  of 
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan.  We  congratulate  him 
the 
A/61/PV.39
instruments, 
translating 
for  his  remarkable  achievements  here  at  the  United 
Nations. 

Last year, leaders of parliaments from all over the 
world  met  here  at  United  Nations  Headquarters  to 
declare their support for a strong and effective United 
Nations.  They  pledged  to  assist  in  implementing 
decisions  taken  at  the  United  Nations  by  ratifying 
international 
those 
commitments  into  national  legislation,  approving  the 
budgets  and  exercising  oversight  of  the  executive. 
They also stated their wish to make the United Nations 
accountable  to  the  people  it  serves  throughout  the 
world. 

The  terms  of  the  Declaration  of  the  World 
Conference  of  Speakers  of  Parliaments  are  echoed  in 
the  World  Summit  Outcome,  which  calls 
for 
strengthened  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  national  and  regional  parliaments,  in  particular 
through  the  IPU,  with  a  view  to  furthering  all  aspects 
of  the  Millennium  Declaration  and  promoting  United 
Nations  reform.  These  points  are  taken  up  in  the 
Secretary-General’s  report, and the draft resolution  on 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  IPU 
echoes  some  of  the  key  suggestions  made  in  that 
report. 

the  annual 
parliamentary  hearing  held  at  the  United  Nations  and 
other  specialized  parliamentary  meetings  at  major 
United  Nations  conferences,  and  calls  for  such  joint 
United Nations-IPU events to be developed further. In 
fact,  we  are  doing 
the  2006 
parliamentary hearing that we will be holding here in a 
few  weeks  time,  we  will  look  at  conflict  prevention 
and  peacebuilding,  and 
the  parliamentarians  will 
examine  the  Secretary-General’s  major  report  on  the 
subject. 
Over  the  past  year,  the  IPU  has  held  a  series  of 

specialized  parliamentary  meetings  at 
the  United 
Nations designed to raise awareness among lawmakers 
and  encourage  a  more  coherent  parliamentary 
contribution  to  some  major  global  problems.  The 
meetings  have 
forms  of 
financing  for  development,  women’s  participation  in 
politics,  national  strategies  to  combat  HIV/AIDS  and 
governance in the least developed countries. 

We  have  begun  consultations  with  the  Office  of 
the President of the General Assembly, various United 
Nations departments and representatives of the United 
The  Secretary-General  welcomes 
that  already.  At 
focused  on 
innovative 
06-58547 

25 
for 
to 
as 

consultation 
A/61/PV.39 

Nations  membership  in  order  to  pinpoint  areas  for 
future  parliamentary  action.  I  should  add  that  we 
believe  that  a  more  coherent  system  of  consultation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  IPU  needs  to  be 
developed. 

The Secretary-General concurs with that view. In 
his report, he invites the two organizations to consider 
a  permanent  mechanism 
and 
coordination. He goes on to suggest that ways could be 
explored  to  involve  the  IPU  more  systematically  in 
system-wide strategies for consideration by the United 
Nations system and the Chief Executives Board. 

The  IPU  is  anxious  to  give  practical  shape  to 
these  recommendations.  During  the  recent  discussion 
here on the revitalization of the General Assembly, the 
IPU  proposed  to  put  the  annual  parliamentary  hearing 
on  the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly  itself.  The 
hearing could thus serve as a political sounding board 
for the General Assembly on some of the larger issues 
on its own agenda. At the same time, it would expose 
members  of  parliament  to  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  enlist  their  support  in  implementing 
Assembly decisions.  

A  few  weeks  ago,  the  IPU  addressed  the  United 
Nations High-Level Committee on Programmes on the 
question  of  stronger  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  system  and  national  parliaments.  I  draw  the 
attention  of  members  to  the  concept  note  prepared  by 
the IPU for that meeting.  

to  ensure 
parliamentary  support  for  some  of  the  major  cross-
cutting 
employment, 
environmental  protection,  migration,  violence  against 
children,  the  rights  of  persons  with  disabilities  and 
gender mainstreaming. 

At the operational level, the IPU has scaled up its 
work  in  a  number  of  areas:  providing  specialized 
knowledge on parliaments and their mandate, structure 
and working methods; setting standards and developing 
best  practices  for  parliamentary  democracy  and  free 
and  fair  elections;  providing  technical  support  to 
parliaments,  including  through  a  global  centre  for 
information 
in 
parliament,  recently launched with the  United Nations 
Department 
for  Economic  and  Social  Affairs; 
promoting  dialogue  and  reconciliation  on  the  basis  of 
the  unique  track  record  of  the  IPU  in  facilitating 
through 
political  dialogue  between 
communication 
find  ways 
adversaries 
technology 
We  are 
health, 
issues, 
ready 
such 
and 
support 
offering 
in  Africa 
diplomacy; 
relationship  with 
parliamentary 
to 
parliaments in the areas of human rights and respect for 
international human rights instruments; and promoting 
gender  equality  and  partnership  between  men  and 
women in politics. 

As  the  IPU  develops  such  programmes  it  also 
seeks to strengthen its cooperation with the new United 
Nations  bodies.  The  IPU  has  developed  a  close 
working 
the  United  Nations 
Democracy  Fund  (UNDEF),  and  earlier  this  week  the 
two organizations signed a cooperation agreement. Two 
projects submitted by the IPU — one concerning work 
by  national  parliaments 
in  enforcing 
international  human  rights  conventions,  and  the  other 
in  support  of  women’s  political  participation 
in 
Burundi  —  have  been  approved  for  UNDEF  funding 
and  will  be  entering  the  implementation  phase  in  the 
coming weeks. 

The IPU is also working with the United Nations 
Peacebuilding Commission. Last week, we participated 
in  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  session  on  Burundi, 
in which the IPU put forward a series of proposals for 
action in the field of good governance. 

Last but not least, the  IPU is looking  forward to 
developing  a  close  working  relationship  with  the  new 
Human  Rights  Council.  This  will  build  on  our  past 
work  with  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for 
Human Rights, which has included the publication of a 
series  of  guides  for  parliamentarians  on  international 
human  rights  standards  and  the  convening  of  round 
tables and seminars for parliamentarians on prominent 
human rights issues. A handbook dedicated to the new 
Convention  on  the  Rights  of  Persons  with  Disabilities 
is currently in the making. 
We have before us a unique opportunity to forge a 

truly strategic partnership  between the  United Nations 
and  the  IPU  in  pursuit  of  world  peace,  security, 
development  and  democratic  progress.  The  IPU  is 
ready  to  take  on  this  challenge,  and  we  know  that  in 
order to succeed we will need the committed assistance 
of all members. 

this 
opportunity to thank the Permanent Mission of Italy for 
having 
resolution  A/61/L.6,  on 
cooperation between the United Nations and the Inter-
Parliamentary  Union,  as  well  as  the  many  countries 
that  are  sponsoring  the  draft  resolution.  On  behalf  of 
introduced  draft 
In  conclusion, 
I  would 
take 
like 
to 
26 

06-58547 
to 
As 
the 
the 
the 
Mr.  Wahab
second-largest 
the  United  Nations, 
the  Secretary-General  and 


the  IPU,  I  urge  all  members  to  adopt  the  draft 
resolution by consensus. 

The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 
resolution 3369 (XXX) of 10 October 1975, I now call 
on  the  observer  for  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic 
Conference. 

Islamic 
(Organization  of 
Conference):  The  Organization  of 
Islamic 
Conference  (OIC)  would  like  to  express  its  sincere 
appreciation 
the 
Secretariat  for  the  report  on  cooperation  between  the 
United Nations and regional and other organizations, as 
contained in document A/61/256 and Add.1. 
intergovernmental 

the  OIC 
organization,  after 
represents  57  member  States.  It  is  a  diverse  group  of 
nations in all respects — economically, politically and 
culturally.  The  significant  demographic  strength  and 
resource  potential  of  OIC  member  States  has  led  to  a 
pronounced new orientation at the OIC, as reflected in 
the  10-year  programme  of  action  adopted  at  the 
Makkah  Al-Mukarramah  Summit  in  December  last 
year.  The  10-year  programme  of  action  assesses  the 
most  prominent  challenges  facing  the  Muslim  world 
today and outlines pragmatic and objective strategies to 
address  them  effectively.  It  responds  to  the  need  to 
cooperate  decisively  and 
the  necessary 
initiatives  to  face  the  grave  political,  socio-economic, 
cultural and scientific challenges of the Muslim world 
and  to  effectively  deal  with  their  implications  for  its 
unity, peace, security and development. 
In that regard, the OIC is devising programmes to 

increase 
in  diverse  areas  such  as 
peacebuilding,  the  promotion  of  human  rights,  good 
governance,  accountability  and  transparency.  Poverty 
alleviation and the socio-economic development of the 
least developed countries, especially in Africa, as well 
as  the  education  and  scientific  and  technological 
development  of  the  member  States,  also  remain  high-
priority areas for the OIC.  

As  reflected  in  the  draft  resolution,  which  has 
been circulated to all Member States and to which the 
Chairman of  the OIC group referred this morning, the 
Secretary-General of the  OIC has taken a broader  and 
more  active  role 
in  conflict  prevention,  conflict 
resolution  and  post-conflict  peacebuilding,  and  has 
been  involved  in  peace  efforts  in  various  parts  of  the 
its  capacity 
take 
to 
A/61/PV.39
the  OIC  and 
On  behalf  of 
the  United  Nations  and 
world, particularly those involving the States members 
of the OIC.  
The OIC, however, is not trying to address all of 

it  has  willing  partners, 
these  challenges  alone; 
including 
its  specialized 
agencies, civil society and other regional organizations. 

We  are  happy  to  note  that  cooperation  between 
the  OIC  and  the  United  Nations  is  increasing,  while 
direct  contacts  occur  frequently  between  the  two 
secretaries-general  on  matters  of  mutual  interest.  The 
desire of both organizations is to continue to cooperate 
closely in the political, economic, social, humanitarian, 
cultural and scientific fields to find solutions to global 
problems.  
its  specialized 

institutions,  I  would  like  to  reassure  the  General 
Assembly  that  the  OIC  remains  dedicated  to  the  joint 
tasks that our two organizations are pursuing. 

One important area of collaboration between our 
two bodies is taking place in the area of humanitarian 
work.  Immediately  after  the  tsunami  disaster  and  the 
devastating  earthquakes  in  Asia,  the  OIC  contributed 
significantly to the work of relief efforts in the region. 
The  OIC 
other-
intergovernmental organizations to help to end  famine 
in Somalia and Niger. It collaborated with UNICEF to 
organize  the  first  ministerial-level  conference  on  the 
rights  of  the  child,  which  was  held  in  Morocco  in 
November 2005. Next month, the OIC is convening the 
first-ever  conference  on 
in 
development,  to  which  all  relevant  agencies  of  the 
United Nations system have been invited; we hope that 
they will be able to participate. 

In July this year, the OIC signed a memorandum 
of understanding with the Office of the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Human Rights that focuses on 
cooperation 
information-sharing; 
building  regional,  subregional  and  national  capacities 
for  the  adoption  of  policies  and  guidelines  on  human 
rights; and encouraging the ratification of human rights 
treaties. 

I  would  like  to  conclude  my  statement  by 
expressing  the  hope  and  expectation  that  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  OIC  will  be 
swiftly  enhanced  in  all  areas  of  common  concern, 
values  and  ideals. While  we  can  leave  it  to  history  to 
pronounce  its  judgement  on  the  outcome  of  our  joint 
the  role  of  women 
closely  with 
the  areas  of 
has  worked 
in 
06-58547 

27 

A/61/PV.39 

efforts, the challenges of our time place heavy burdens 
and  common  responsibilities  on  the  shoulders  of  both 
organizations.  In  assuming  those  responsibilities,  the 
OIC  looks  forward  to  closer  cooperation  and  further 
strengthened interaction with all agencies of the United 
Nations system. 
Mr. Onischenko (Ukraine): The delegation of the 

Ukraine would like to make a statement as the Chair of 
the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO).  
The  past  few  weeks  have  been  marked  by 

unprecedented  challenges  to  global  non-proliferation 
and  nuclear  disarmament  efforts,  as  well  as 
to 
international peace and security. The announcement by 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  of  a 
nuclear  test  conducted  on  9  October  drew  a  universal 
outcry  and  prompted  international  bodies  and  world 
leaders to express their strongest protest. 
The  unanimous  adoption  of  Security  Council 

resolution  1718  (2006)  sent  a  resolute  message  to  the 
Government  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  and  reconfirmed 
the 
international  community  to  halt  the  process  of  the 
increasing 
of  mass 
destruction. That development also represented a tough 
challenge  for  the  CTBTO  Preparatory  Commission  as 
an accredited international body in the field and for its 
monitoring  and  verification  machinery.  Ukraine  is 
proud  of  the  fact  that  the  Commission  and  the 
Provisional Technical Secretariat were the first among 
international  bodies  to  take  prompt  action  in  response 
to  the  announcement  by  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea. 

I  wish  to  recall  in  that  connection  that  on  6  and 
9 October  both  the  Chairperson  of  the  Preparatory 
issued 
Commission  and 
statements 
the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea concerning its 
actions.  Let  me  reiterate  the  calls  in  those  statements 
for  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  not  to 
engage  in  any  nuclear  testing  and  to  exercise  every 
restraint  in  the  future,  in  order  to  avoid  steps  that 
would  have  major  international  repercussions,  as  well 
as the call on all States for maximum restraint and for 
continuing  a  moratorium  on  nuclear  weapon  test 
explosions and other nuclear explosions. 
At  the  subsequent  open-ended  meeting  of  the 

Bureau  of  the  Preparatory  Commission,  which  was 
the  Executive  Secretary 
the  determination  of 
strong  messages 
of  weapons 
proliferation 
containing 
to 
to 
to 
expressed 
the  State 
delegations 
in  praising 
the  efforts  of 
signatories  and 
convened  on  9  October,  just  a  few  hours  after  the 
announcement, 
profound 
concern  with  regard  to  the  course  of  action  taken  by 
Pyongyang. 

Later, at a special meeting of the Commission on 
13 October, delegations expressed appreciation for the 
quality  of  the  information  issued  by  the  Provisional 
Technical  Secretariat  following  the  explosion,  as  well 
as  for  its  rapid  dissemination,  and  commended  it  for 
the  technical  organizational  success  that  enabled  it  to 
quickly  make  reliable  data  concerning 
the  event 
available 
the 
international  community.  We  also  wish  to  join  other 
States 
the  Provisional 
Technical  Secretariat  and  offer  our  full  appreciation 
and support to the Executive Secretary, Tibor Tóth, and 
welcome his report to the Assembly today. 

Recent  events  have  directed  the  renewed  and 
increased attention of the world community to the role 
of 
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty 
(CTBT) — a role that is difficult to overestimate with 
regard  to  the  issue  of  nuclear  disarmament  and  the 
prevention of nuclear weapons proliferation. This issue 
remains  one  of  the  most  important  challenges  facing 
humankind today. 

My country has also made  a crucial  contribution 
towards  achieving  the  goal  of  the  CTBT.  It  has  been 
more  than  a  decade  since  Ukraine  renounced  its 
nuclear  arsenal  —  the  third  largest  nuclear  arsenal  at 
the time. Also, we were among the very first nations to 
sign  and  ratify  the  CTBT  and  to  implement  fully  our 
obligations  and  commitments  under 
the  global  
non-proliferation regime. 

Ukraine also feels a special responsibility in that 
respect. In its capacity as the coordinator of the efforts 
of the Eastern European States to foster the ratification 
of the CTBT, my country has steadfastly supported the 
efforts by its partners and the Preparatory Commission 
for  the  CTBTO  to  promote  the  Treaty.  In  that  regard, 
we  welcome  the  recent  ratification  of  the  Treaty  by 
new States parties and call upon other States to follow 
suit. 
Ukraine also applauds the steps taken to establish 

new  nuclear-weapon-free  zones,  especially  the  recent 
progress  to  establish  such  a  zone  in  Central Asia.  We 
recognize the efforts to promote and create such a zone 
in  the  Middle  East  and  are  in  favour  of  achieving  a 
verifiable denuclearization of the Korean peninsula. 
28 

06-58547 
to 
from 
establish 
resulting 
the  Chair  of 



By  chairing  the  Preparatory  Commission  this 
year,  Ukraine  continues  to  work  on  an  enhanced 
verification  system,  which  remains  at  the  core  of  the 
CTBT.  Ukraine  is  encouraged  by  the  efforts  of  the 
CTBTO 
the  Treaty’s  verification 
machinery.  Substantial  progress  has  been  made  in 
building up the system during the past year. 

In  addition  to  its  primary  goals,  the  CTBT 
verification system can bring other civilian benefits, in 
particular  through  the  establishment  of  a  tsunami 
warning  system.  That  achievement,  along  with  the 
scientific  and  civilian  gains 
the 
operations of the CTBT, helps to convince those States 
that  continue  to  hesitate  to  join  the  Treaty.  In  that 
respect,  my  delegation  appreciates 
the  outreach 
activities  of  the  Executive  Secretary  and  encourages 
the  Provisional  Technical  Secretariat  to  continue  its 
relevant  efforts.  Ukraine,  as 
the 
Preparatory Commission, will shortly introduce a draft 
resolution on that agenda sub-item. 

My  delegation  is  confident  that  the  operational 
and  effective  monitoring  and  verification  system  will 
provide  a  credible  way  to  ensure  Treaty  compliance. 
We  are  committed  to  making  a  strong  contribution 
towards that objective, including through hosting of an 
international monitoring system station in Ukraine. 

the 
joined 
ministerial  statement  that  was  adopted  at  the  meeting 
held in New York on 20 September, on the occasion of 
the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  Treaty’s  opening  for 
signature.  We  wish  to  reaffirm  here  our  adherence  to 
the commitments contained in that document. 

My  country,  whose  role  in  nuclear  disarmament 
can serve as an example, remains among the strongest 
and  most  consistent  supporters  of 
the  standard 
international instrument in the field. Ukraine reaffirms 
its determination to further contribute to the efforts to 
achieve the goals stipulated by the Treaty. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  in  the  debate  on  this  item  for  this  meeting. 
Before we proceed further, I should like to consult the 
Assembly  with  a  view  to  proceeding  to  consider  draft 
resolutions  A/61/L.6,  as  orally  revised,  and  A/61/L.7, 
at the present meeting. 

In this connection, since the two draft resolutions 
were only circulated earlier today, it will be necessary 
to waive the relevant provisions of rule 78 of the rules 
Just  one  month  ago,  Ukraine 
A/61/PV.39
of procedure. The relevant provision of rule 78 reads as 
follows: 

“As a general rule, no proposal shall be discussed 
or  put  to  the  vote  at  any  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly unless copies of it have been circulated 
to all delegations not later than the day preceding 
the meeting”.  
the  United  Nations  and 
Unless  I  hear  any  objections,  I  shall  take  it  that  the 
Assembly  agrees  with  the  proposal  to  waive  that 
provision of rule 78 of the rules of procedure. 
It was so decided. 


The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolutions A/61/L.4, A/61/L.5, 
A/61/L.6, as orally revised, and A/61/L.7.  
Draft resolution A/61/L.4 is entitled “Cooperation 

between 
the  Black  Sea 
Economic Corporation Organizations”. I should like to 
announce  that,  since  the  introduction  of  the  draft 
resolution, 
the  following  countries  have  become 
sponsors of draft resolution A/61/L.4: Austria, Belarus 
and Kazakhstan. 

to adopt draft resolution A/61/L.4? 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
Draft  resolution  A/61/L.4  was  adopted  (resolution 
61/4). 
The Acting President: Draft resolution A/61/L.5 

is  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and 
Consultative 
Organization”. I should like to announce that, since the 
introduction  of  the  draft  resolution,  the  following 
countries  have  become  sponsors  of  draft  resolution 
A/61/L.5:  the  Central  African  Republic,  Madagascar, 
Mongolia, Sri Lanka and Thailand. 

draft resolution A/61/L.5? 

Draft resolution A/61/L.5 was adopted (resolution 
61/5). 
The Acting President: Draft resolution A/61/L.6, 

as orally revised, is entitled “Cooperation between the 
United  Nations  and  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union”.  I 
should like to announce that, since the introduction of 
the  draft  resolution,  the  following  countries  have 
become 
resolution  A/61/L.6: 
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Australia, 
the  Asian-African 
sponsors  of  draft 
Legal 
06-58547 

29 

A/61/PV.39 

Azerbaijan,  Bangladesh,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Botswana,  Brazil,  Bulgaria, 
Burundi,  Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Canada,  Cape  Verde, 
the  Central  African  Republic,  Congo,  Costa  Rica, 
Croatia,  the  Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Djibouti,  the 
Dominican  Republic,  Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Gabon, 
Georgia,  Greece,  Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea, 
Guinea-Bissau,  Haiti,  Honduras,  Hungary,  Iceland, 
Indonesia, Israel, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, 
Lebanon,  Liberia, 
the  Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya, 
Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Madagascar,  Malawi, 
Mexico, the Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova, 
Monaco,  Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Namibia,  Nauru,  the 
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nicaragua,  Nigeria, 
Norway, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Poland,  Portugal,  the  Republic  of 
Korea,  the  Russian  Federation,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis, 
Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  San 
Marino,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  Senegal,  Serbia, 
Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, the 
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, the Syrian Arab 
Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-Leste,  Togo,  Turkey, 
Uganda, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, Yemen and Zambia. 

draft resolution A/61/L.6, as orally revised? 

May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
Draft  resolution A/61/L.6,  as  orally  revised,  was 
adopted (resolution 61/6). 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
The Acting President: Draft resolution A/61/L.7 

is  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and the International Organization of la Francophonie”. 
I should like to announce that, since the introduction of 
the  draft  resolution,  the  following  countries  have 
become sponsors of draft resolution A/61/L.7: Austria, 
Burkina  Faso,  Chile,  Colombia, 
the  Dominican 
Republic,  Georgia,  Guinea-Bissau,  Honduras, 
Kazakhstan,  Latvia,  Mauritius,  Norway,  Portugal, 
Slovakia, Thailand, Togo and Ukraine. 

draft resolution A/61/L.7? 

Draft resolution A/61/L.7 was adopted (resolution 
61/7). 
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 

wish  of 
its 
consideration  of  sub-items  (b),  (d),  (j)  and  (k)  of 
agenda item 108? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 

has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
agenda item 108. 

Before  adjourning  the  meeting,  I  wish  to  inform 
members that draft resolutions under other sub-items of 
agenda item 108 will be submitted at a later date. 

The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m. 
the  General  Assembly 
to  conclude 
30 

06-58547 
