
A/61/PV.49
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-first session 

49th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 7 November 2006, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Ms. Al-Khalifa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Bahrain) 

For  this  forty-eighth  round  of  balloting,  may  I 
remind  the  Assembly  that  any  Member  State  from 
among  the  Latin American  and  Caribbean  States  may 
be  a  candidate  except  those  outgoing  members  and 
those already members of the Security Council, namely 
Argentina and Peru. 

Before we begin the voting process, I should like to 
remind members that pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of 
procedure  of  the  General Assembly,  no  representative 
shall interrupt the voting except on a point of order on 
the actual conduct of the voting. 

We shall now begin the voting process. Members 
are requested to remain seated until all the ballots have 
been collected. 

Ballot  papers marked  “B” will  now  be  distributed. 
May  I  ask  representatives  to  write  on  the  ballot  papers 
marked “B” for the Latin American and Caribbean States 
the name of the one State for which they wish to vote. 

Ballot papers marked “B” will be declared invalid 
if they contain the name of more than one State as well 
as  if  they  contain  the  name  of  a  Member  State  which 
does not belong to that region. 

At  the  invitation  of  the  President,  Mr.  Sepúlveda 
(Chile),  Ms.  Cerere 
(Kenya),  Mr.  Riedzal 
(Malaysia), Ms. Klausa (Poland) and Mr. Flueck 
(Switzerland) acted as tellers. 
A vote was taken by secret ballot. 
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  10.25  a.m.  and 
resumed at 10.40 a.m. 







  The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 



Agenda item 103 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs 
  (a)  Election of five non-permanent members of the 
Security Council 

The  President: The  General  Assembly  will 
resume its consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 
103 on the election of five non-permanent members of 
the  Security  Council  to  replace  those  members  whose 
term of office expires on 31 December 2006. 

As  members  will  recall,  when  the  44th  plenary 
meeting was adjourned on Tuesday morning, 31 October 
2006,  there  still  remained  one  seat  from  among  the 
Latin American and Caribbean States to be filled. 

Before proceeding further, I would like to inform 
members that I have received a letter dated 3 November 
2006 from the Chairman of the Group of Latin American 
and  Caribbean  States  informing  the  Assembly  that, 
after  the  withdrawal  of  Guatemala  and  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela  as  candidates  to  the  Security 
Council  for  the  period  2007-2008,  the  Group  has 
endorsed the candidature of Panama. 

In  accordance  with  rule  92  of  the  rules  of 
procedure,  we  shall  now  proceed  to  the  next  round  of 
balloting by secret ballot. 

This  forty-eighth  round  of  balloting,  will,  in 
accordance with rule 94 of the rules of procedure, also 
be the twenty-third unrestricted ballot. 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

06-60535 (E) 
*0660535* 
The  President:  The  result  of  the  voting  is  as 

A/61/PV.49 


follows: 
































Panama 

Venezuela  
Guatemala  
Barbados   
Group B — Latin American and Caribbean States 
Number of ballot papers: 
190 

1 
Number of invalid ballots:   
189 

Number of valid ballots: 
9 
Abstentions: 

Required two-thirds majority: 
120 
Number of votes obtained: 
164 

11 

4 


1 
Having obtained the required two-thirds majority 
and  the  largest  number  of  votes,  Panama  is 
elected  a  member  of  the  Security  Council  for  a 
two-year term beginning 1 January 2007. 
The  following  five  States  have  thus  been  elected 
members  of  the  Security  Council  for  a  two-year 
term  beginning  1  January  2007:  Belgium, 
Indonesia, Italy, Panama and South Africa. 

The President: I congratulate the States that have 
been  elected  members  of  the  Security  Council,  and  I 
thank the tellers for their assistance in this election. 

I am delighted that the General Assembly has just 
elected  Panama,  starting  from  1  January  2007,  as  the 
second non-permanent member of the Security Council 
from among the Latin American and Caribbean Group 
of States. 
On  this  occasion,  I  would  like  to  extend  my 

warmest congratulations to Panama on its election and 
wish it every success in the discharge of this important 
mandate. 

Allow me also to commend the Latin American and 
Caribbean  Group  of  States  for  the  spirit  of  compromise 
and solidarity they have shown throughout this process. 

In  this  context,  I  would  like  to  express  my 
sincerest  appreciation  to  both  Guatemala  and  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  for 
joint 
decision  to  work  closely  with  other  members  of  the 
Group  in  order  to  reach  consensus  on  a  compromise 
candidate. I also wish to thank both countries for their 
courteous  manner  and 
the  exemplary  cooperation 
extended to my office and to me personally. 

Guatemala. 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
their 
(spoke 
(Guatemala) 
Mr.  Skinner-Klee

in 
Spanish): Madam President, thank you for allowing me 
to take the floor on this occasion. 

My  delegation  wishes  to  use  this  opportunity  to 
reiterate its gratitude to your Government in particular 
and to each of the 116 countries that have supported us 
at this time in our aspiration to fill the non-permanent 
member vacancy traditionally filled by a member of the 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  Group  in  the  Security 
Council  during  the  2007-2008  biennium.  Our  special 
recognition  goes  to  our  Mesoamerican  partners,  the 
countries of Central America, Colombia and Mexico. 

We  also  wish  to  thank  all  the  members  of  the 
General Assembly for their patience, as well as for the 
respect  shown  through  this  electoral  process  that 
concludes today. 

To  the  Government  and  people  of  Panama,  we 
extend  our  heartfelt  congratulations  for  their  selection 
by  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  Group,  on  the 
initiative of Guatemala and Venezuela, to be proposed 
to the General Assembly as the consensus candidate to 
represent our region in the Security Council during the 
2007-2008  biennium.  We  feel  well-represented  by 
Panama, a brotherly country and member of the Central 
American Integration System. 

Although we regret the polarization of the campaign 
by reasons that had nothing to do with our own conduct, 
we are proud of the fact that Guatemala could carry out a 
systematic  and  professional  campaign,  well  planned, 
and,  above  all,  with  dignity,  respect  and  collegiality, 
that was worthy of the endorsement of as many as 116 
of the countries Members of this Organization. 
the 

principles  and  purposes  enshrined 
the  United 
Nations Charter, especially with regard to the friendly 
relations among States, equitable geographical rotation 
and participation of small States in the various United 
Nations bodies. 

Guatemala  has  waited  for  the  opportunity  to 
participate  in  the  Security  Council  for  more  than  60 
years. We  have  more  than  sufficient  merit  to  serve  on 
that  body,  and  this  is  why  my  Government  has  duly 
presented  to  our  regional  Group  its  candidacy  for  the 
vacancy that will come up for the 2012-2013 biennium. 
It is our hope that on that occasion the countries of the 
Group  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  will 
give us their support. 
times,  Guatemala  has  defended 
At  all 
in 
2 

06-60535 



Mr.  Arias  Cárdenas  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of  the 
President  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela, 
Hugo  Rafael  Chávez  Frías,  and  on  behalf  of  our 
people,  we  would  like  to  thank  all  United  Nations 
representatives.  We  would  like  to  thank  you,  Madam 
President,  and  the  General  Assembly  for  its  support 
and understanding. 

We made a proposal — a  very frank proposal of 
our  own  —  to  provide  the  Security  Council  with  a 
balanced  and  independent  voice.  The  election  was 
quite unique; it was more than a campaign between two 
brotherly countries within one region where there was 
no  consensus.  Various  statements  were  made  in  this 
very  Hall.  Afterwards,  the  Ambassador  of  the  United 
States  claimed  that  this  had  been  a  triumph  for  his 
country, for the United States, and that it had achieved 
its  objective,  namely  to  ensure  that  a  developing 
country  such  as  ours  did  not  achieve  a  seat  on  the 
Security Council. 

We  could  deny  this  or  draw  other  conclusions 
from this, but we would prefer not to do so. We would 
prefer to say that we would not like to speak of defeat 
or the defeated. But there must be lessons learned from 
these 46  rounds of balloting in the General Assembly. 
For  the  big  countries,  it  should  be  clear  that  they 
cannot impose their will and that the Assembly will not 
accept  imposition,  because  it  exercises  its  freedom  in 
democracy.  We  should  also  remember  that  some 
embraces  end  up  by  killing  you,  like  a  bear  hug;  and 
everyone  should  remember  the  strength  and  power  of 
the General Assembly. 

Finally, we must learn the strength of dialogue. In 
looking  at  the  proposal  that  the  Group  of  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States  (GRULAC)  has  put 
forward  to  the  General  Assembly  —  the  proposal  of 
Panama — which is a bridge between Central America 
and  South America  —  a  country  that  was  part  of  the 
great liberator Simon Bolívar’s big homeland, Greater 
Colombia, we hope that country will move forward, be 
independent, 
the 
Security Council. Of course, as a nation with a vision, 
we  will  be  prepared  to  support  them  in  every  way 
possible. 

of sub-item (a) of agenda item 103. 

The President: That concludes our consideration 
impartial  and  balanced  within 
A/61/PV.49

Agenda item 103 (continued) 
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs 
  (b)  Election of eighteen members of the Economic 


and Social Council 
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  will 

resume its consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 
103  on  the  election  of  18  members  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  to  replace  those  members  whose 
term of office expires on 31 December 2006. 
Before proceeding further, I would like to remind 

members  that,  as  was  announced  at  the  46th  plenary 
meeting, on Thursday, 2 November 2006, we shall first 
hold  elections  to  fill  the  one  remaining  seat  from 
among  the  Eastern  European  States.  Thereafter,  we 
shall proceed to a by-election to elect a member of the 
Council  from  among  the  Western  European  and  other 
States. 
The  General  Assembly  will  now  proceed  to  the 

elections to fill the one remaining seat from among the 
Eastern European States. In accordance with rule 92 of 
the  rules  of  procedure,  we  shall  proceed  now  to  the 
next  round  of  balloting  by  secret  ballot.  This  ninth 
round of balloting which, in accordance with rule 94 of 
the  rules  of  procedure,  will  also  be  the  fifth  restricted 
ballot. This ninth round of balloting shall be restricted 
to  the  two  States  from  among  the  Eastern  European 
States  that  were  not  elected  in  the  previous  ballot, 
namely  Belarus  and  Bulgaria.  This  is  in  accordance 
with rule 94 of the rules of procedure. 
Before we begin the voting process, I should like 

to remind members that pursuant to rule 88 of the rules 
of  procedure  of 
the  General  Assembly,  no 
representative  shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a 
point of order on the actual conduct of the voting. 

We shall now begin the voting process. Members 
are  requested  to  remain  seated  until  all  ballots  have 
been collected. 

Ballot  papers  marked  “C”  will  now  be 
distributed.  May  I  ask  representatives  to  write  on  the 
ballot papers the name of the State for which they wish 
to  vote.  Ballot  papers  marked  “C”  for  the  Eastern 
European States will be declared invalid if they contain 
the name of a State other than Belarus or Bulgaria, as 
well  as  if  they  contain  the  name  of  more  than  one 
State.  

06-60535 

3 

At  the  invitation  of  the  President,  Mr.  Lomba 
(Gabon),  Ms.  Farfán  (El  Salvador),  Mr.  Komar 
(Indonesia),  Ms.  Aperans  (Latvia)  and  Ms.  Bovi 
(San Marino) acted as tellers. 
A vote was taken by secret ballot. 
The meeting was suspended at 11 a.m. 
  Mr. Penjo (Bhutan), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting resumed at 11.20 a.m. 
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 
A/61/PV.49 








as follows: 

















Belarus  
Bulgaria 
192 
 1 
191 
 1 
127  
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  Bulgaria 
Group C — Eastern European States
Number of ballot papers:  

Number of invalid ballots:   
Number of valid ballots: 

Abstentions: 

Required two-thirds majority:  
Number of votes obtained: 
114 


 76  

Since  no  candidate  obtained  the  required  two-
thirds  majority  in  the  previous  ballot,  there  remains 
one seat to be filled from among the Eastern European 
States. We shall therefore proceed to the tenth round of 
balloting. 

on a point of order. 

my  Government,  I  wish 
statement. 

its 
candidature  for  membership  of  the  United  Nations 
Economic  and  Social  Council  guided  by  the  will  to 
contribute  in  good  faith  to  effective  partnership  and 
cooperation  among  United  Nations  Member  States  in 
the economic and social field. My country gave ample 
proof  of  its  commitment  to  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  during  its  several  previous  terms  on  the 
Council.  

At the time of the elections for new members of 
the Economic and Social Council held on 2 November 
2006,  there  were  clear  indications  of  wide  support 
among  Member  States  for  the  Bulgarian  candidature. 
However, although in the first round Bulgaria received 
123 votes — five votes short of the required two-thirds 
majority — we have taken note of the fact that our bid 
Mr. Piperkov (Bulgaria): Upon instructions from 
the  following 
The  Republic  of  Bulgaria 
submitted 
to  make 
to  serve  on  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  for  the 
period  2007-2009  did  not  receive  the  support  of  the 
required majority of Member States. Acting in a spirit 
of  goodwill  and  cooperation,  Bulgaria  has  therefore 
decided to withdraw its candidature and to postpone it 
to a later time.  

My country remains committed to the goals of the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and  stands  ready  to 
contribute  in  every  possible  way  to  streamlining  the 
work of that main United Nations body.  
I  would  like  to  express  our  deep  and  sincere 

gratitude  to  all  the  countries  that  have  given  us  their 
unwavering support throughout the election campaign.  
The Acting President: I thank the representative 

of Bulgaria for his cooperation.  

Taking  into  account  the  statement  just  made  by 
the  representative  of  Bulgaria,  we  will  proceed  to  the 
next restricted ballot, in accordance with rule 94 of the 
rules  of  procedure.  This  round  of  balloting  shall  be 
restricted  to  the  two  States  from  among  the  Eastern 
European  States  that  were  not  elected  in  the  previous 
ballot,  namely,  Belarus  and  Bulgaria.  This  is  in 
accordance with rule 94 of the rules of procedure. 

Before we begin the voting process, I should like 
to  remind  members  that,  pursuant  to  rule  88  of  the 
rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly,  no 
representative  shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a 
point of order on the actual conduct of the voting. 

We shall now begin the voting process. Members 
are  requested  to  remain  seated  until  all  ballots  have 
been counted. 

Ballot  papers marked  “C” will  now  be  distributed. 
May  I  ask  representatives  to  write  on  the  ballot  papers 
the  name  of  the  State  for  which  they  wish  to  vote. 
Ballot  papers  marked  “C”  for  the  Eastern  European 
States will be declared invalid if they contain the name 
of a State other than Belarus or Bulgaria, as well as if 
they contain the name of more than one State. 

At  the  invitation  of  the  President,  Mr.  Lomba 
(Gabon),  Ms.  Farfán  (El  Salvador),  Mr.  Komar 
(Indonesia),  Ms.  Aperans  (Latvia)  and  Ms.  Bovi 
(San Marino) acted as tellers. 
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  11.30  a.m.  and 
resumed at 11.45 a.m. 


4 

06-60535 



as follows: 
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 















for  a 
three-year 
Belarus  
Bulgaria 
191 
 1 
190 
 22 
112  
Group C — Eastern European States
Number of ballot papers:  

Number of invalid ballots:   

Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 

Required two-thirds majority:  
Number of votes obtained:   
156 


 12 


Having obtained the required two-thirds majority, 
Belarus  was  elected  a  member  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council 
term 
beginning 1 January 2007. 
The  Acting  President:  Having  obtained  the 

required  two-thirds  majority  of  members  present  and 
voting, the following 18 States have thus been elected 
members  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  for  a 
three-year term beginning on 1 January 2007: Algeria, 
Barbados,  Belarus,  Bolivia,  Canada,  Cape  Verde, 
El Salvador, Indonesia, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Luxembourg, 
Malawi,  the  Netherlands,  the  Philippines,  Romania, 
Somalia, the Sudan and the United States of America. 

I  congratulate  those  States  which  have  been 
elected members of the Economic and Social Council. 

As  was  announced  earlier  this  morning,  the 
Assembly will now proceed to a by-election to elect a 
member  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  in 
accordance with rule 140 of the rules of procedure. 
In  that  connection,  I  should  like  to  draw  the 

attention  of  members 
to  document  A/61/557, 
containing  a  letter  dated  2  November  2006  from  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Australia  to  the  United 
Nations. In his letter, the Permanent Representative of 
Australia  announces  that  Australia  would  like  to 
relinquish its seat on the Economic and Social Council 
for its remaining term in favour of New Zealand. 

As  a  result,  a  vacancy  will  occur  and  a  new 
member must therefore be elected to fill the unexpired 
term  of  office  of  Australia,  commencing  1  January 
2007 and expiring on 31 December 2007. 

In  accordance  with  paragraph  4  of  General 
Assembly  resolution  2847  (XXVI)  of  20  December 
1971,  and  taking  into  account  that  the  vacancy  will 
occur  from  among  the  Western  European  and  other 
06-60535 

A/61/PV.49
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
States,  the  new  member  should  therefore  be  elected 
from that region. 

I  should  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  the 
candidate  which  receives  a  two-thirds  majority  of 
members  present  and  voting  will  be  declared  elected. 
In  the  case  of  a  tie  vote,  there  will  be  a  special 
restricted  ballot  limited  to  those  candidates  that  have 
obtained an equal number of votes. 

that procedure? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with  rule 

92 of the rules of procedure, the election shall be held 
by secret ballot, there shall be no nominations, and we 
shall now proceed to the election by secret ballot. 

I  should  like  to  inform  members  that,  as  of 
1 January 2007, the following States from the Group of 
Western European and other States will be represented 
on the Economic and Social Council: Austria, Canada, 
Denmark, 
Iceland, 
Luxembourg,  the  Netherlands,  Portugal,  the  United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the 
United States of America. 

appear on the ballot. 

Before we begin the voting process, I should like 
to  remind  members  that,  pursuant  to  rule  88  of  the 
rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly,  no 
representative  shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a 
point of order on the actual conduct of the voting. 

We shall now begin the voting process. Members 
are requested to remain seated until all the ballots have 
been collected. 

Ballot  papers  will  now  be  distributed.  I  request 
representatives  to  use  only  those  ballot  papers  and  to 
write on them the name of the one State for which they 
wish  to  vote.  Ballot  papers  will  be  declared  invalid  if 
they contain the name of more than one State as well as 
if they contain the name of a Member State which does 
not belong to that region. 
The names of those 12 States should therefore not 
France,  Germany,  Greece, 
At the invitation of the President, Ms. Farfán (El 
Salvador),  Mr.  Lomba  (Gabon),  Mr.  Komar 
(Indonesia),  Ms.  Aperans  (Latvia)  and  Ms.  Bovi 
(San Marino) acted as tellers. 
A vote was taken by secret ballot. 

5 
A/61/PV.49 



as follows: 

The  meeting  was  suspended  at  12  noon  and 
resumed at 12.15 p.m. 
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 
Group E — Western European and other States
Number of ballot papers:  

Number of invalid ballots:   

Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 

Required two-thirds majority:  
Number of votes obtained:   




New Zealand  
San Marino 











186 
 1 
185 
 8 
118  
176 
 1 

Having obtained the required two-thirds majority, 
New  Zealand  was  elected  a  member  of  the 
Economic and Social Council for a term of office 
beginning  1  January  2007  and  ending  on 
31 December 2007. 
The  Acting  President: I  congratulate  New 

Zealand,  which  has  been  elected  a  member  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  and  I  thank  the  tellers 
for their assistance in this election. 

consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 103. 

The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  its 
The meeting rose at 12.20 p.m. 
6 

06-60535 
