United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

27th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 18 October 2007, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

A/62/PV.27
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) 
contact  with  him.  His  untimely  demise  has  deprived 
my country of a true son.  

Myanmar. 

The  President: I  thank  the  representative  of 

Agenda item 53 
Follow-up to and implementation of the outcome of 
the International Conference on Financing for 
Development 
(b)    High-level dialogue for the implementation of 



on 
draft 
decision  A/62/L.3, 
the outcome of the International Conference on 
Financing for Development 
  Draft decision (A/62/L.3)  

The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  take 

action 
entitled, 
“Accreditation  of  non-governmental  organizations  to 
the  High-Level  Dialogue 
for 
Development”. 

Assembly to adopt draft decision A/62/L.3? 
The draft decision was adopted. 


The  President: The  General  Assembly  has  thus 
concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  sub-item 
(b) of agenda item 53. 
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Financing 
on 

Agenda items 64 and 47 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress 
in implementation and international support 






The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 

Tribute to the memory of His Excellency Mr. Soe 
Win, Prime Minister of Myanmar 

The President: Before proceeding to the items on 
our  agenda,  it  is  my  sad  duty  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
memory  of  the  late  Prime  Minister  of  the  Union  of 
Myanmar,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Soe  Win,  who  passed 
away on Friday, 12 October 2007. 

On behalf of the General Assembly, I request the 
representative of Myanmar to convey our condolences 
to the Government and the people of Myanmar and to 
the bereaved family of His Excellency Mr. Soe Win. 
I now invite representatives to stand and observe 

a  minute  of  silence  in  tribute  to  the  memory  of  His 
Excellency Mr. Soe Win. 

The members of the General Assembly observed a 
minute of silence. 
The  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 

representative of Myanmar. 

the 
Government and people of Myanmar, I wish to express 
my  profound  gratitude  to  you  for  the  words  of 
condolence  expressed  on  behalf  of 
the  General 
Assembly  on  the  passing  away  of  His  Excellency 
General  Soe  Win,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Union  of 
Myanmar.  He  was  a  soldier  and  a  statesman  who 
devoted his life to the service of his country. He will be 
remembered.  He  was  respected  by  all  who  came  into 
(Myanmar):  On  behalf  of 
Mr.  Swe 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-55167 (E) 
*0755167* 

A/62/PV.27 

(a)    New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 






progress in implementation and international 
support 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/62/203) 

(b)    Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/62/204) 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/62/321) 
The  President: On  behalf  of 

2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa 


the  General 
Assembly I  wish to welcome the Secretary-General to 
the  meeting  and  to  thank  him  and  the  World  Health 
Organization  for  their  respective  reports  on  each 
agenda item.  

The  three  issues  under  consideration  today  are 
central  to  the  overall  work  of  the  United  Nations 
system and the link between them is self-evident. The 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD), 
which 
is  an  Africa-owned  vision  and  strategic 
framework  for  the  renewal  and  development  of  the 
continent, aims to address the very issues that lie at the 
heart of conflict on the continent, namely, the issues of 
governance and socio-economic development. Durable 
peace and sustainable socio-economic development are 
inextricably  linked.  As  the  Secretary-General’s  High-
level  Panel  on  Threats,  Challenges  and  Change 
recognized, development is the first line of defence in a 
collective security system. 

Eradicating  poverty  and  promoting  development 
not  only  saves  lives  that  would  otherwise  have  been 
lost  to  hunger  and  disease,  it  also  strengthens  the 
capacity  of  States  to  ensure  durable  peace. As  we  all 
know,  disease  impedes  development.  Each  year  there 
are  an  estimated  350-500  million  cases  of  malaria, 
resulting in over one million deaths. Over 90 per cent 
of  those  deaths  are  in  Africa,  mostly  children  under 
five  years  of  age.  The  annual  economic  cost  due  to 
malaria 
in  Africa  has  been  estimated  at  around 
$12 billion. It is difficult to envisage development and, 
therefore,  durable  peace 
those 
circumstances. 

In  the  fifth  consolidated  report  on  progress  in 
implementation  and  international  support  to  NEPAD 
(A/62/203),  the  Secretary-General  highlights  policy 
measures  and  actions  taken  by  African  countries  and 
in  Africa  under 
in 
in 
areas, 
including 
international 
organizations  in  the  implementation  of  NEPAD  in  a 
number  of  key 
infrastructure 
development,  agriculture,  health  and  education. 
Commendable  progress  has  been  made  in  those  areas. 
In  agriculture,  for  example,  progress  was  made  in 
the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture 
translating 
Development  Programme  framework 
into  specific 
actions,  while  in  the  health  sector,  there  was  progress 
in  advancing 
the  African  Union/NEPAD  health 
strategy. 

Clearly  there  is  still  a  long  road  ahead.  As  is 
recognized 
the  NEPAD  principles,  African 
ownership and leadership is critical and must continue 
to guide responses to the challenges that lie ahead. The 
NEPAD  principles  also  recognize  the  imperative  for 
strong 
involvement  and  partnership. 
During  the  reporting  period  covered  in  the  Secretary-
General’s fifth report, there was commendable progress 
in  the  response  and  support  of  the  international 
community,  particularly  in  the  areas  of  debt  relief,  by 
through 
extending  and  deepening  debt  relief 
the 
Multilateral  Debt  Relief 
Initiative, 
the  Heavily 
Indebted  Poor  Countries  (HIPC)  Initiative  and  other 
bilateral  debt 
report  also 
recognizes  a 
foreign  direct 
investment (FDI), greater South-South cooperation and 
some progress in market access for trade. The need for 
measures 
implementation  of 
commitments  on  official  development  assistance 
(ODA) and trade is also acknowledged. 

We  also  have  before  us  the  progress  report 
(A/62/204) of the Secretary-General on implementation 
of the recommendations  contained in the report of the 
Secretary-General  on  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the 
promotion 
sustainable 
development in Africa. While we welcome the fact that 
there are fewer conflicts in Africa today than a decade 
ago, we also recognize that one fifth of the population 
of the continent still lives in areas affected by conflict. 
The  effectiveness  and  readiness  of  the  international 
community,  including African  countries,  to  respond  to 
conflict  on  the  continent  is  a  major  factor  in  the 
improvement  of  security.  Initiatives  by  the  African 
Union,  notably  the  creation  of  the  African  Peace  and 
Security  Architecture  comprising  the  African  Union 
Peace  and  Security  Council,  a  Panel  of  the  Wise,  a 
continental early warning system and the beginnings of 
an  African  standby  force,  are  all  commendable  and 
should be encouraged. 
initiatives.  The 
increase 
to  accelerate  further 
relief 
further 
durable 
peace 
and 
of 
2 

07-55167 
report  of 
the 
(WHO) 
(see  A/62/321) 



The  continued  support  of  the  United  Nations 
system  in  assisting Africa  to  address  those  challenges 
is critical. I agree with the Secretary-General that more 
action  is  needed  both  to  strengthen  and  support 
Africa’s own efforts to bring peace to the continent and 
to tackle the wider global sources of armed conflict. I 
therefore  welcome  his  intention  to  revamp  efforts  for 
United Nations support to Africa, including deepening 
the  engagement  in  support  of  the  African  Union 
through capacity-building. 

Finally, 
the  World  Health 
Organization 
reviews 
developments in case management and prevention and 
prospects  for  the  elimination  of  malaria.  It  also 
addresses  the  problems  associated  with  malaria  in 
pregnant  women,  among  other  issues.  It  is  most 
encouraging  that  some  interventions,  such  as  long-
lasting  insecticidal  nets,  have  begun  to  yield  progress 
in  recent  years.  We  have  also  witnessed  increased 
access to effective case management and coverage with 
indoor residual spraying, though this is progressing at a 
slower pace.  

Yesterday’s announcement that tests on a malaria 
vaccine  conducted  in  Mozambique  indicate  that  the 
vaccine is safe and provides a high level of protection 
is  very  promising.  This  is  potentially  a  ground-
breaking  development  in  the  fight  against  malaria. 
Challenges  are  significant,  particularly  the  lack  of 
funding and a lack of capacity, which act on each other 
in  a  vicious  circle  and  which  result  in  capacities  that 
fall dramatically short of what is needed to effectively 
combat  the  disease.  Also  noted  was  a  shortage  of 
reliable and accurate data. 

the  General 
Assembly and the United Nations system to continue to 
work together to combat that disease. It is unacceptable 
that  an  entirely  preventable  disease  claims  over 
1 million  lives  each  year,  mostly  children.  National 
programmes 
in  malaria-epidemic  countries  must 
continue  to  be  implemented  and  supported,  as  the 
international  community  continues 
the 
Global Fund, WHO and UNICEF. 

The  issues  before  us  in  this  debate  call  for  the 
active  involvement  of  all  States  and  illustrate  the 
necessity for Member States to recommit themselves to 
implementing 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). To  that  end,  I  look  forward  to  the  continued 
support  of  the  General  Assembly  for  my  plan  to 
therefore  encourage 
to  support 
I  would 
A/62/PV.27
the  cornerstone 
the  New  Partnership 
I now give the floor to the Secretary-General, His 
convene  a  leaders  meeting  on  the  MDGs  during  this 
session. 

Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon. 
The  Secretary-General:  I  am  pleased  to  have 

this  opportunity  to  introduce  my  reports  on  Africa  at 
this important debate on agenda items 47 and 64. I am 
also  pleased  that  the  Chief  Executive  Director  of  the 
secretariat  of 
for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD), Mr. Firmino Mucavele, is with 
us today. 

Since  I  took  office  as  Secretary-General,  Africa 
and  its  special  needs  have  topped  my  agenda.  That  is 
why  my  first  extended  official  mission  overseas  took 
me  to  the  African  Union  Summit  in  Addis  Ababa, 
followed  by  visits  to  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo, the Republic of the Congo and Kenya. 

I  have  since  visited  the  Sudan  to  underscore  the 
United  Nations  commitment  to  the  Comprehensive 
Peace  Agreement  as 
for  peace 
throughout  the  country  and  to  advance  efforts  to 
resolve  the  crisis  in  Darfur.  As  I  have  said  on  many 
occasions,  peace  in  Darfur  remains  my  most  urgent 
priority.  We  must  all  work  together  to  ensure  the 
success  of  the  Darfur  peace  negotiations  commencing 
in  Libya  later  this  month.  For  my  part,  I  intend  to  do 
everything I can to bring an end to the intense suffering 
in Darfur. 
I  have  also  made  it  a  priority  to  advance  our 

development 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Many  African 
countries have made good progress towards the Goals. 
But overall, the continent is not on track to reach those 
development targets by 2015. Just past the midpoint of 
our marathon, the challenges remain daunting. Extreme 
poverty,  reinforced  by  a  lack  of  access  to  basic 
education,  health  care  and  adequate  nutrition, 
continues  to  prevent  million  of  talented,  promising 
young Africans from fulfilling their potential. 

The  status  quo  is  unconscionable  for Africa  and 
for  the  world.  Changing  it  requires  a  strengthened 
global  partnership.  It  demands  shared  responsibility. 
And  it  needs  the  implementation  of  all  existing 
commitments.  That  is  why  I  have  established  the 
Millennium Development Goals Africa Steering Group 
to  bring 
and 
intergovernmental development organizations. The aim 
all  major  multilateral 
in  Africa, 
especially 
agenda 
together 
07-55167 

3 

in 
Africa 
(A/62/204) 
A/62/PV.27 

is  to  galvanize  international  action  towards  attaining 
the Goals in full, on time and across Africa. 

We  know  that  peace,  development  and  human 
rights go hand in hand. Fighting extreme poverty is key 
to  preventing  conflict.  My  progress  report  on  the 
causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  peace  and 
development 
clearly 
acknowledges  that  reality.  It  is  therefore  heartening 
that  over  the  past  decade, Africa  has  made  significant 
progress  towards  ending  armed  conflict.  It  has  also 
progressed  in  building  its  own  architecture  in  support 
of  conflict  prevention,  mediation  and  conflict 
resolution, particularly through the African Union. 

Conflicts  in  Angola,  Liberia,  Sierra  Leone  and 
Burundi have come to an end. Fragile peace processes 
are  being  reinforced,  largely  through  African  efforts 
strongly  supported  by  the  international  community.  In 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  successful 
democratic  elections  have  at  last  taken  place.  The 
United Nations is supporting the Government’s efforts 
to consolidate State authority in the eastern Democratic 
Republic of the Congo. We are also helping to address 
the serious humanitarian challenges in the Kivus. 

As  outlined  in  my  report,  we  must  now  help 
consolidate  the  positive  changes  in  Africa  through 
stronger,  more  coherent  United  Nations  support, 
including  in  the  areas  of  governance  and  institutional 
capacity-building.  We  must  ensure  that  the  United 
Nations  plays  its  role  to  the  fullest  extent  possible 
along the peace continuum, from conflict prevention to 
peacemaking,  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding.  We 
must  use  all  possible  resources  to  support  Africa’s 
development  and  to  empower  women  to  strengthen 
their  essential  role  in  the  process.  And  we  must  do 
more  to  help  Africa  deal  with  the  increasing  threat 
posed  by  climate  change,  because  we  know  that  poor 
countries stand to bear the brunt of it. 

Much  has  changed  since  1998,  when  my 
predecessor prepared the initial report on the causes of 
conflict in Africa (A/52/87). The time has come to take 
stock of progress made and lessons learned so that we 
can build on the results attained thus far. That is why I 
am  proposing  a  comprehensive 
the 
recommendations  contained  in  the  1998  report.  As 
requested  by  the  Assembly,  my  report  also  includes 
proposals  for  United  Nations  action  in  support  of  the 
goal of achieving a conflict-free Africa by 2010. 
review  of 
the 
underscore 
importance 

In  my  report  on  progress  in  implementation  of 
and  international  support  for  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (A/62/203),  I  have  provided  an 
overview of the progress being made in implementing 
the  NEPAD  blueprint.  I  have  also  provided  Member 
States with a picture of the multifaceted ways in which 
the  United  Nations  system  is  working  closely  with 
Africa  and  African  institutions  in  the  implementation 
of NEPAD. 

The New Partnership for Africa’s Development is 
a  good  example  of  the  resolve  demonstrated  by 
Africans to take full responsibility for their continent’s 
future.  A  growing  number  of  African  countries  are 
participating  in  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism. 
Improvements  in  governance  have  been  accompanied 
by sustained economic growth and better management 
of  the  economies  of  many  African  countries.  Those 
developments 
of 
international  support for NEPAD as an African-owned 
and Africa-driven framework for the region’s future. 

In  spite  of  many  positive  developments,  the 
special  needs  of  Africa  remain  immense.  And  today, 
there  is  no  more  pressing  need  than  addressing  the 
fight against the pandemics that continue to ravage the 
continent.  Malaria,  AIDS, 
tuberculosis  and  other 
infectious  diseases  are  taking  their  worst  social  and 
economic toll on countries that can least afford it. They 
also  pose  threats  to  peace  and  stability  due  to  the 
devastation they wreak on capacity and governance. 
Malaria alone kills more than one million people 

every  year,  mostly 
infants,  young  children  and 
pregnant women — and most of them in Africa. In its 
report  on  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  (see 
A/62/321), the World Health Organization outlines the 
significant progress made in the international campaign 
against this  ancient  enemy of humanity. We now have 
the  tools  and  increased  resources  to  control  malaria. 
But  there  is  no  time  to  waste.  Every  minute  we 
deliberate,  another  two  children  die  needlessly.  Let  us 
keep  pushing  to  reverse  the  incidence  of  this  killer 
disease. 
African  countries  are  the  first  to  acknowledge 

their  primary 
tackle  Africa’s 
problems.  They  accept  the  urgent  need  to  continue  to 
fight  corruption, 
improve  governance,  empower 
women  and  create  jobs.  They  recognize  that  tens  of 
millions of young people need education, that essential 
infrastructure  must  be  built  and  that  Africa  must  be 
responsibility 
to 
4 

07-55167 
The President: I thank the Secretary-General for 


able  to  compete  effectively  in  the  world  economy. 
Africa’s  courageous  efforts  at  reform  must  continue, 
but  the  international  community  must  also  rise  to  the 
challenge. 

The  United  Nations  has  a  crucial  role  to  play  in 
helping Africa  meet  its  challenges  and  realize  its  full 
potential.  That  is  why  I  will  do  my  utmost  to  further 
enhance  the  Secretariat’s  capacity  to  support  our 
Africa-related programmes and efforts.  

I look forward to a substantive and useful debate 
on  these  Africa-related  agenda  items.  And  I  am 
confident  that  the  Assembly  will  reaffirm  its  strong 
political  will  to  assist  the  Governments  and  people  of 
Africa  in  their  struggle  for  lasting  peace,  poverty 
eradication and sustainable development. 

his statement. 
Mr.  Akram  (Pakistan):  May  I  at  the  outset 

express  the  condolences  of  the  Pakistan  delegation  on 
the sad demise of the Prime Minister of Myanmar. 

I have the honour today to speak on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China on agenda item 64 (a), entitled 
“New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development:  progress 
in  implementation  and  international  support”.  The 
Group  of  77  and  China  thanks  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  report  (A/62/203)  on  that  item.  There  is  much 
that has been achieved in Africa since the launch of the 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), a 
six year-old programme of the African Union. Through 
NEPAD,  African  leaders  have  taken  ownership  and 
leadership  of  the  continent’s  socio-economic  renewal 
agenda and transformed the content of that agenda. 

NEPAD  represents  the  collective  determination 
and commitment of Africa to place its countries on the 
road  to  sustainable  economic  and  social  development 
by  taking  control  of  their  own  development  and  by 
fighting poverty. NEPAD’s policies and priorities have 
become 
approved 
framework for Africa’s development. 

have 
Through  NEPAD,  African 
fundamentally changed the development paradigm. The 
narrow  approach  of  the  Poverty  Reduction  Strategy 
Papers has been expanded to include a comprehensive 
and  holistic  approach  to  development  through African 
ownership.  In  fact,  most  African  countries  now  have 
their  own  national  development  strategies.  Today,  as 
we stand at the halfway point before the target date of 
internationally 
acceptable 
leaders 
an 
A/62/PV.27
remains 
2015  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  unfortunately,  Africa 
the  sole 
continent  which  is  not  on  track  to  achieve  the  Goals. 
The  situation  is  particularly  bleak  in  sub-Saharan 
Africa. 

If  we  are  to  succeed  in  eradicating  poverty  and 
hunger  in  Africa,  urgent  and  concerted  action  by 
developed countries and the international community is 
imperative.  Today,  inadequacy  of  resources  is  widely 
seen  as  the  main  constraint  on  African  development. 
Despite  serious,  sincere  and  consistent  efforts  by 
African  countries  themselves  to  implement  NEPAD, 
Africa  is  still  far  from  realizing  the  levels  of  support 
required under that partnership. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  is  deeply  concerned 
in  particular  about  the  overall  decline  of  official 
development  assistance  flows,  including  to  Africa, 
despite  the  promises  made  by  the  Group  of  Eight  at 
Gleneagles in 2005 to double aid to Africa by 2010. 

The  welcome  debt  relief  under  the  Heavily 
Indebted  Poor  Countries  (HIPC)  Initiative  and  the 
Multilateral  Debt  Relief  Initiative  may  have  released 
resources  for  development-related  expenditures 
in 
Africa,  yet  they  are  completely  inadequate  in  helping 
African  countries  to  realize  the  internationally  agreed 
development  goals including the MDGs. The situation 
clearly  demands  urgent,  bold  and  more  encompassing 
initiatives  to  solve  the  external  debt  problems  of 
African countries.  

The  international  community  should  also  ensure 
that  multilateral  trade  agreements,  including  those 
which  will  result  from  the  Doha  Round,  should  give 
priority  to  Africa’s  needs  and  incorporate  appropriate 
development  provisions.  Efforts  should  be  made  to 
ensure that the Aid for Trade initiative is formulated in 
a  manner 
is  adequately  funded,  efficiently 
managed  and  effectively  implemented  as  quickly  as 
possible. Resources granted to the initiative should be 
additional  to  existing  resources,  predictable,  adequate 
and sustainable.  

inflows  of 
$31 billion  in  2005,  Africa’s  share  in  global  foreign 
direct  investment  has  remained  low,  at  about  3  per 
cent.  Conscious  efforts  are  thus  needed  to  direct 
investment 
infrastructure 
investments,  to  support  and  sustain  the  development 
objectives of Africa. 
record  high 
particularly 
levels  of 
flows, 
that 
Despite 
07-55167 

5 
to 
of 
into  all 
implementing 
implementation 
A/62/PV.27 


The  Group  of  77  and  China  is  of  the  view  that 
resources  must  be  mobilized  for  African  States,  the 
regional economic communities and the African Union 
in  order  to  support  efforts  aimed  at  achieving  the 
MDGs  within  the  framework  of  national  development 
programmes  and  at 
the  NEPAD 
programme.  We  note  the  innovative  approaches  that 
have  been  developed  by  some  of  the  institutions 
regarding  funding  and  project 
in 
priority areas for NEPAD. 

We are pleased that United Nations agencies have 
organized themselves into various clusters in line with 
NEPAD  priority  areas  as  a  way 
increase 
coordination  and  cooperation  in  their  work  relating  to 
NEPAD. Additionally,  a  number  of  these  agencies  are 
playing  a  critical  role  in  supporting  the  work  of 
NEPAD.  We  welcome  this  important  support  and  we 
still believe that there is need for the United Nations to 
mainstream  NEPAD 
its  normative  and 
operational activities. 

The Group of 77 and China also looks forward to 
the convening of and active participation of all partners 
in  the  high-level  meeting  on  “Africa’s  development 
needs: 
various 
commitments,  challenges  and  the  way  forward”  to  be 
held during the sixty-third session of the Assembly. We 
will  work  with  our  partners  during  this  session  to 
decide  on  the  modalities  and  scope  of  the  high-level 
meeting in order to make it a success. 
Mr.  Ehouzou  (Benin)  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 

the honour to take the floor on behalf of the Group of 
African  States  to  talk  under  item  64,  on  the  New 
Partnership  for  the  Development  of  Africa  (NEPAD), 
international 
on  progress 
in 
support,  and  on 
the 
promotion 
sustainable 
development  in  Africa,  as  well  as  on  item  47  on  the 
Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries, 
Particularly in Africa.  

The  African  Group  would  like  to  express  its 
satisfaction  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  various 
detailed reports and for the support that he continues to 
provide for Africa’s development efforts. We welcome 
the  fact  that  he  has  drawn  attention  to  the  risks 
involved  in  pursuing  the  traditional  path  that  has 
tended  to  lead  to  the  lack  of  respect  for  commitments 
and to delays in the implementation of the Millennium 
implementation  and 
the  causes  of  conflict  and 
durable 
implementation 
state 
of 
of 
peace 
and 

In  2001, 
Through  NEPAD,  African 
Declaration  Goals  (MDGs)  and  the  implementation  of 
NEPAD. 

the  African  heads  of  State  and 
Government,  convinced 
that  each  country  bears 
primary  responsibility  for  its  own  development  and 
that African countries should pursue their programmes 
of reform, both economic  and social, adopted NEPAD 
as a framework for development and the reinvigoration 
of our continent.  

countries  have 
committed themselves to creating conditions conducive 
to  economic  growth  and  sustainable  development  and 
to  mobilizing  the  African  people  so  that  they  can 
become the main stakeholders in development. The call 
launched  to  the  rest  of  the  world  is  to  promote 
complementary action to support African nations in the 
implementation  of  their  own  programmes  of  self-
sufficiency and development. 
We  can  assert  that  Africa  is  making  progress 

along  these  lines. The  economy  is  turning  around  and 
key  indicators  are  improving.  NEPAD  has  launched  a 
kind  of  revolution  based  on  a  global  programme  that 
aims to exploit scientific and technological progress so 
as to improve agricultural production. Progress is also 
being  made  in  the  key  areas  of  infrastructure,  energy, 
information  technology,  communication,  transportation, 
water and sanitation. 

important 
efforts  in  gender  equality  aimed  at  implementing 
programmes  capable  of  giving  free  rein 
the 
economic  potential  of  women,  combating  poverty, 
overcoming 
the  gap  between  men  and  women, 
increasing  women’s  economic  power  and  contributing 
to  the  realization  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs) and sustainable development. 

Another  important  fact  is  the  pace  at  which  the 
African  countries  are  acceding  to  the  African  Peer 
Review  Mechanism.  Today,  26  countries  have 
voluntarily  signed  on 
this  completely  African 
mechanism.  This  confirms,  once  again,  that  African 
countries are taking the reforms and transparency very 
seriously indeed.  
However, despite all of these achievements, they 

are  still  faced  with  major  challenges 
to  further 
progress,  such  as  HIV/AIDS,  capacity-building,  the 
need for increased official development assistance, the 
need  for  foreign  direct  investment  and  the  need  for  a 
Recently,  NEPAD  has  undertaken 
to 
to 
6 

07-55167 
to 
of 
The 
for 
the 
concern 
question 
subsidies 


breakthrough  in  the World Trade  Organization  (WTO) 
negotiations. 

Most  African  countries  are  ready  to  accelerate 
economic  and  social  reforms  and 
implement 
programmes  of  essential  development  in  education, 
science,  technology,  health  and  agriculture.  However, 
as  you  know,  they  have  neither  the  capacity,  nor  the 
resources,  nor  the  means  to  do  so.  These  challenges 
must  not  be  taken  lightly.  Africa  can  only  make 
progress if it finds appropriate solutions to them. 
by 

accorded 
industrialized countries to their agricultural sectors is a 
major 
continent  of  Africa. 
Unfortunately,  the  negotiations  within  the  WTO  have 
been  progressing  extremely  slowly.  The  developed 
countries are reluctant to take the necessary steps. They 
know  that  their  policies  are  not  compatible  with  the 
positions that they defend in international proceedings. 
They  know  that African  farmers  are  becoming  poorer 
and  poorer,  even  though  they  are  working  harder  and 
harder.  Moreover,  although  the  developed  countries 
know  that  these  subsidies  undermine  the  poorest 
countries,  they  do  not  have  the  political  courage  to 
admit the truth and act appropriately. African countries 
know that they have to improve intra-African trade and 
NEPAD  gives  high  priority  to  this  issue,  as  it  is  a 
fundamental  factor  in  helping  African  countries  to 
achieve sustainable development. 

Therefore,  we  welcome  the  call  made  by  the 
Secretary-General  to  the  development  partners  of 
Africa, 
their 
commitments.  We  welcome  the  fact  that  he  asked 
donors and trade partners to open up access to markets 
and  to  reschedule  international  aid,  so  that  African 
products  and  services  can  benefit  from  equitable 
opportunities.  The  partners 
supporting  African 
development  should  translate  their  commitments  into 
true  development  assistance.  It  is  regrettable  that  the 
official  development  assistance 
the 
Development Assistance Committee provides to Africa, 
apart from debt relief measures, dropped in real terms 
in 2005 and stagnated in 2006.  

the  progress 
accomplished  in  debt  relief  for  indebted  African 
countries.  However,  more  remains  to  be  done  to  free 
Africa  from  the  debt  burden  that  has  sapped  its 
development  efforts  over  decades.  Here,  while 
recognizing the efforts of the Group of Eight (G-8), the 
We  welcome  with  satisfaction 
honour 
(ODA) 
calling 
upon 
them 
to 
A/62/PV.27
World  Bank,  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) 
and other bilateral donors, we would stress the fact that 
Africa  needs  nothing  less  than  100  per  cent  debt 
cancellation.  

African  countries  welcome  recent  developments 
in  South-South  cooperation.  We  are  convinced  that 
South-South  cooperation 
is  mobilizing  essential 
resources  to  optimize  its  potential  through  sharing 
know-how  with  the  goal  of  promoting  the  sustainable 
development of our continent.  
African  countries  have  been  at  the  forefront  of 

deciding  upon  their  own  destiny.  The  African  Union, 
with  the  support  of  the  main  African  countries,  has 
assumed  a key role in seeking ways to settle  conflicts 
and  has  refused  to  recognize  unconstitutional  changes 
of  Government.  Strong,  new  leadership  is  emerging; 
this  is  supported  by  the  emergence  of  a  better 
organized civil society.  
We take note of the Secretary-General’s report on 

the implementation of recommendations on the causes 
of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable development in Africa (A/62/204). Despite 
the  fact  that  the  report  indicates  that  the  major 
handicaps 
the  consolidation  of  peace  and 
development  persist  owing  to  extreme  poverty,  weak 
governmental  institutions,  the  poor  management  of 
natural 
insufficient  protection  of 
fundamental human rights and increased threats linked 
to  climate  change,  Africa 
still  attaches  great 
importance  to  questions  of  peace  and  security.  there 
can be no development without peace; there can be no 
development without security.  

Thus, the African Union has promised that it will 
attack  the  conflicts  and  the  political  instability  in 
Africa  so  as  to  rid  the  continent  of  all  conflicts  by 
2010. The  decision  of  heads  of  State  and  Government 
was taken at the Sirte Summit. The Peace and Security 
Council  of  the  African  Union  continues  to  play  an 
important  role  in  the  prevention  and  resolution  of 
conflicts  throughout  the  continent.  Here,  we  welcome 
the  efforts  of 
in 
cooperation  with  the  African  Union  to  assist  us  in 
strengthening  capacity-building 
the  sphere  of 
peacekeeping.  
The African  Union  is  endeavouring  to  tackle  the 

challenges  confronted  by 
its  States  and  peoples 
emerging  from  conflict  situations.  The  programme 
entitled Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Development 
the  United  Nations 
resources, 
to  work 
the 
to 
in 
that 
07-55167 

7 

to  promote 
the  work  of 
to  complement 
A/62/PV.27 

is  one  the  African  Union’s  tools  to  help  reduce  the 
harshness  and  frequency  of  relapses  into  conflict 
situations,  as  well  as 
sustainable 
development. That African Union programme has also 
endeavoured 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission by identifying those States 
that  risk  falling  back  into  conflict  by  providing  them 
with appropriate, timely and effective assistance. They 
are helping to reduce the rate at which those countries 
torn  apart  by  war  slide  back  into  conflict.  The  Post-
Conflict  Reconstruction  and  Development  programme 
underscores  the  fact  that  the  strategy  of  post-conflict 
rebuilding  is  a  long-term  one  by  its  very  nature.  This 
strategy  must  be  decided  upon  by 
the  African 
communities and States themselves.  
I  wish  to  congratulate  the  Secretary-General  on 

his extensive report on the efforts made to contain and 
reverse  the  spread  of  the  most  murderous  disease  on 
the  continent:  malaria.  Since  the  beginning  of  Decade 
to  Roll  Back  Malaria,  we  have  seen  significant  steps 
taken  by  both  the  international  community  and  by 
African  Governments  themselves.  Partnerships  have 
expanded  to  include  local  organizations,  civil  society 
and individual households.  

Africa  needs  the  international  resources  of  the 
Global  Fund  to  fight  malaria.  We  are  very  grateful 
indeed to all of our partners for their solidarity and for 
their support; however, much remains to be done. The 
issue of impregnated mosquito nets to be distributed to 
all  households  is  still  an  issue  of  serious  concern  for 
the African Governments and people themselves. Even 
though we can see progress in that we are seeing a drop 
in maternal and infant mortality and morbidity in many 
countries,  we  still  need  to  strengthen  this  partnership. 
It  is  important  to  make  sure  that  there  are  sufficient 
funds available so that African countries continue with 
the  same  determination  to  lead  this  victorious  fight 
against this scourge that has already hampered Africa’s 
economic  and  social  development. A  sick  citizen  in  a 
country  is  not  an  efficient  economic  actor. This  is  the 
situation and we need to bear that in mind.  

To conclude, I would say that time is passing and 
that  it  is  not  favouring Africa. Africa  calls  for  action; 
many  challenges  still  need 
the 
consolidation  of  democracy,  good  governance  and 
durable  economic  growth  throughout  the  continent. 
The  fact  that  the  international  community  is  not 
responding  to  the  pressing  needs  to  finance  Africa 
constitutes  for  us  and  for  the  whole  of  the  African 
tackled: 
to  be 
these 
issues  within 
the  countries  of 
the  realization  of 
the  Secretariat  of 
continent  a  huge  source  of  disappointment. Africa  has 
demonstrated  its  commitment  and  works  to  establish 
institutions and subregional groups that play a key role 
in 
the  objectives  of  regional 
integration.  Africa  also  works  to  ensure  the  optimal 
utilization  of  the  resources  of  the  different  areas  of 
Africa.  

Africa  is  impatiently  awaiting  the  appointment 
for the new Special Adviser on Africa in the context of 
the  reforms  proposed  by  the  Secretary-General. These 
activities are very important to promoting the interests 
of  the  African  continent  here  within  the  United 
Nations. 

There is no doubt that in order for development to 
make  progress,  Africa  needs  key  individuals  to  deal 
with 
this 
Organization. 
Mr.  Godinho  (Portugal):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU).  The 
the  former  Yugoslav 
candidate  countries  Croatia, 
Republic  of  Macedonia, 
the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates  Albania,  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina, 
Montenegro,  Serbia,  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic 
of  Moldova,  Armenia  and  Georgia,  align  themselves 
with this statement. 
For  the  sake  of  efficiency,  and  in  order  to  save 

time,  I  will  shorten  my  oral  statement  today.  The  full 
text has been distributed.  

First  of  all,  the  European  Union  wishes  to 
congratulate 
sixth 
anniversary of the adoption of the New Partnership for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD). As in previous years, 
the European Union welcomes today’s Africa debate in 
the  United  Nations  General  Assembly  and  welcomes 
the  opportunity  to  address  three  key  items,  namely, 
NEPAD,  peace  and  security  aspects  and  the  fight 
against malaria on the African continent. 
I  will  start  with  NEPAD.  Africa  is  one  of  the 

main  points  of  focus  of 
the  European  Union’s 
development  policy.  The  EU  continues  to  support  the 
NEPAD initiative, which provides an appropriate basis 
for 
international 
community  and  African  nations.  We  can  surely  state 
that,  thanks  to  NEPAD,  democratic  and  accountable 
governance is gaining ground on the African continent. 
This is most  clearly shown by the growing number of 
the  partnership  between 
its  African  partners  on 
the 
the 
8 

07-55167 
is 
in 
to 
strengthen 
challenges 
accountability 
However,  key 
the  Mechanism,  an  African  way 


multiparty elections, more representative and effective 
legislatures,  improved  space  for  civil  society  and  the 
adoption  of  policy  milestones,  such  as  the  January 
2007  African  Charter  on  Democracy,  Elections  and 
Governance. 

The  European  Union  will  continue  to  support 
these processes at the institutional and field levels, as it 
is  already  doing,  for  example  with  its  assistance  to 
electoral observer missions in many African countries. 
One  of  the  most  significant  results  of  NEPAD 

activities,  however, 
the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism. The EU is pleased to note that, as of June 
2007,  26  countries  have  voluntarily  acceded  to  this 
entirely  African-owned  process.  The  EU  has  been 
following  the  activities  of  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism  with  great  interest  in  2007  and  is  pleased 
that 
to  good 
governance,  has  encouraged  countries  to  adopt  policy 
measures 
and 
transparency. 

the 
implementation of  projects and  programmes identified 
in national programmes of action. The EU is, therefore, 
willing  to  support  countries  that  are  tackling  the 
problems 
identified 
the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism process. 
The  EU  strongly  supports  the  orientation  of  the 

member States of the African Union,  confirmed  at the 
highest  level  on  the  occasion  of  the Accra  meeting  of 
heads  of  State  and  Government,  to  proceed  steadily 
towards  the  objective  of  economic  and  institutional 
integration,  which,  as  shown  by 
the  EU’s  own 
experience, is an invaluable asset for ensuring stability 
and development. 

Africa  is  at  the  heart  of  the  EU’s  development 
policy.  The  African  continent  has  great  potential,  as 
evidenced  by  its  people,  its  culture  and  its  economic 
and  political  successes  during  the  last  decade.  But 
Africa also has its continuing problems. Poverty is not 
just  a  concept  in  Africa  —  it  is  a  reality.  Armed 
conflicts, failing States, lack of economic development, 
inadequate  social  infrastructure,  poor  standards  of 
education, 
the 
HIV/AIDS  pandemic  are  depressing  its  standard  of 
living. 

As  far  as  official  development  assistance  (ODA) 
is  concerned,  the  European  Council  reiterated  in 
environmental 
degradation 
remain 
and 
in 
A/62/PV.27
through 
to  fulfil 
including 
the  commitments  undertaken 
Brussels  in  June  2005  that  the  EU  would  intensify  its 
efforts 
in 
Monterrey, 
the  exploration  of 
innovative  sources  of  financing.  The  EU,  which  is 
already  the  world’s  main  purveyor  of  development, 
with  over  50  per  cent  of  the  total,  has  collectively 
agreed to increase its ODA to 0.56 per cent of its gross 
national income by 2010, and to 0.7 per cent by 2015. 

The  European  Union  stands  ready  to  assist  with 
its commitment to ODA and debt relief. The resolution 
of  Africa’s  external  debt  problem  is  critical  for  the 
sustainable  development  of  the African  countries. The 
Union  remains  committed  to  the  extended  Heavily 
Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative (HIPC) and the 
Multilateral  Debt  Relief  Initiative  to  help  eligible 
countries reach and maintain a sustainable level of debt 
in order for them to reinforce poverty reduction efforts 
and promote growth. 

By  2008,  European  Union  economic  partnership 
agreements  with  four  African,  Caribbean  and  Pacific 
regions in Africa will enter into force, thus promoting 
regional  integration  and  a  comprehensive  approach  to 
tackling  barriers  to  trade  and  to  attracting  investors. 
The EU has taken its Africa Strategy as a starting point 
for  the  programming  of  relevant  EU  aid  instruments. 
We  would  also  like  to  highlight  the  10th  European 
Development  Fund,  with 
to 
22.7 billion euros for the period 2008-2013, 90 per cent 
of  which  will  be  allocated  to  sub-Saharan  Africa. 
Moreover, 
the  European  Union  and  Africa  have 
decided  to  further  strengthen  the  ties  linking  both 
continents  by  developing  a  co-owned  joint  strategy 
reflecting  the  needs  and  aspirations  of  the  peoples  of 
Africa and Europe. In that connection, we are heading 
towards  a  second  EU-Africa  Summit,  scheduled  to 
place in Lisbon at the end of 2007. 
On  the  subject  of  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the 

promotion 
sustainable 
development in Africa, I would like to say that Africa 
today  is  afflicted  by  far  fewer  armed  conflicts  than  it 
was a decade ago, but one fifth of the population of the 
continent still lives in areas affected by conflict. There 
has been considerable progress over the past few years. 
Today,  while  conflicts  in  Somalia,  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  the  Darfur  region  of  the 
Sudan  are  cause  for  concern,  other  conflicts,  such  as 
the  civil  wars  in  Angola,  Sierra  Leone  and  Liberia, 
have been resolved; and many other conflicts are in the 
course of being settled. 
that  amount 
durable 
peace 
funds 
and 
of 
07-55167 

9 

to 
the  parties 
A/62/PV.27 


The  EU  expresses  its  deep  concern  about  the 
security  and  humanitarian  situation  in  Darfur  and 
condemns  the  continuing  violations  of  the  ceasefire. 
The  EU  actively  supports  the  transition  from  the 
African Union Mission in Sudan to the African Union-
United  Nations  Hybrid  Operation  in  Darfur  and  calls 
upon  all  parties  to  participate  constructively  at  the 
Darfur peace negotiations to begin on 27 October. The 
EU  also  calls  upon 
the  2005 
Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement  to  implement  the 
Agreement in full and in good faith. 

Furthermore,  we  would  like  to  expresses  our 
concern over the security and humanitarian situation in 
Somalia  and  eastern  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo. 

Numerous  actions  have  been  taken  by  the  EU  in 
the  area  of  peace  and  security  in  Africa.  Under  the 
African Peace Facility, around €300 million have been 
provided  to  support  the  Africa  Union  Mission  in  the 
Sudan;  while  the  operation  in  the  Central  African 
Republic  led  by  the  Central  African  Economic  and 
Monetary  Community  was  supported  with  over 
€23 million and the African Union Mission in Somalia 
(AMISOM)  with  another  €15  million.  A  number  of 
capacity-building  programmes  have  been  launched  as 
well.  The 
the  African  Peace  
Facility  —  €250  million  —  was  raised  to  a  total  of 
€385 million.  

The EU welcomes the role of the United Nations 
in  preventive  diplomacy  and  reiterates  its  support  for 
the  Summit  Outcome  conclusion  that  each  individual 
State  has  the  responsibility  to  protect  its  population 
from  genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and 
crimes against humanity. 
The  EU  condemns  all  forms  of  sexual  violence 

and underscores the importance of integrating a gender 
perspective and the protection of children into conflict 
prevention.  Urgent  preventive  measures  should  be 
developed,  especially 
to  gender-based 
violence in conflicts. 

The EU also supports the strengthening of fragile 
States,  as  well  as  disarmament,  demobilization  and 
reintegration  (DDR), 
together  with  security-sector 
reform programmes, in African States. In that context, 
we  welcome  the  second  International  Conference  on 
DDR  and  Stability  in  Africa,  which  was  held  in  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo in June 2007. 
initial  funding  for 
in  relation 
in 
to  AMISOM 
Increasingly,  countries  on 

Conflict  prevention  and  reconstruction  efforts  in 
Africa  go  hand-in-hand  with  the  building  of  durable 
peace and the promotion of economic growth. The new 
Instrument  for  Stability  therefore  combines  short-term 
measures  in  situations  of  political  crisis  or  natural 
disaster  and  long-term  activities  in  a  stable  context 
aimed  at  mitigating  threats  that  could  fuel  conflicts. 
Initiatives 
that  are  currently  planned  or  being 
implemented  this  year  include  support  for  security-
sector  reform  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  accompanying  measures 
in 
Somalia  and  the  support  for  the  Juba  peace  talks  in 
Uganda.  

the  continent  are 
holding democratic elections. The EU has played a key 
role 
the  peaceful  completion  of  presidential 
elections in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and 
Sierra Leone.  

Africa  is  moving  in  the  direction  of  economic 
prosperity,  with  a  6  per  cent  growth  rate  expected  in 
2007. 

The rule of law has become the centrepiece of all 
policymaking processes. Twenty-nine African countries 
are now parties to the Rome Statute of the International 
Criminal Court. 

in  post-conflict 
The  EU 
reconstruction in Africa and supports, in particular, the 
United  Nations  Peacebuilding  Commission.  The 
Commission  provides  an  agreed 
for 
monitoring  commitments  from 
the  country  under 
consideration,  the  Commission  and  other  partners  and 
for  ensuring  greater  coherence  and  coordination  of 
for  many  years  provided 
efforts.  The  EU  has 
considerable 
in 
Africa and elsewhere in the world. The Union is ready 
to continue its commitments by actively supporting the 
work  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  in  the  two 
African  countries  inscribed  on  its  agenda,  namely, 
Burundi and Sierra Leone. 

Decade to Roll Back Malaria. 

Health is inextricably linked to development. It is 
a  fundamental  element  in  reducing  poverty  and  in 
promoting  human  security.  After  many  years  of 
impressive  gains  in  human  health  worldwide,  we  are 
now  in  a  situation  where  countries  are  unable  to  cope 
Let  me  focus  my  remaining  comments  on  the 
input  for  peacebuilding  activities 
fully  engaged 
is 
framework 
10 

07-55167 
on 
in 
growth 
indicated 
economic 
long-term 
the  poorest  20  per  cent  of 


with  the  burden  that  disease  poses  to  their  health 
systems.  

Malaria  disproportionately  affects  poor  people, 
with  almost  60  per  cent  of  malaria  cases  occurring 
among 
the  world’s 
population. The disease also exacerbates the poverty of 
poor countries and communities, through its significant 
effects 
and 
development.  As 
the  World  Health 
Organization (WHO) report, which was transmitted by 
the Secretary-General in document A/62/321, evidence 
shows  that  malaria  keeps  poor  people  poor  —  costing 
Africa  $12  billion  per  year  in  lost  gross  domestic 
product (GDP). 

There  are,  however,  positive  signs.  There  is 
evidence that cases of malaria have decreased in seven 
African countries. South Africa is a success story, and 
so  is  Swaziland.  The  EU  takes  note  with  great 
appreciation of those positive developments. 

The EU will support endeavours to ensure access 
to  effective  antimalarial  drugs.  The  Global  Fund  to 
Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  whose  budget 
receives support from European Union member States, 
has financed a massive campaign for the distribution of 
insecticide-treated  bed  nets 
the 
European  Union  hopes  will  result  in  a  substantial 
reduction  in  malaria  cases  and  deaths,  in  particular 
among children under the age of five. While attempting 
to  stimulate  research  and  development  so  as  to  lower 
the  prices  of  new  drugs  and  to  enhance  procurement 
and distribution, it is also crucial to closely monitor the 
impact of both new treatments and problems relating to 
drug 
community 
knowledge  —  including  encouraging  access  to  long-
lasting insecticide-treated bed nets and indoor residual 
spraying, 
the 
Stockholm  Convention,  and  other  preventive  and 
awareness-enhancing measures. 

Let  me  conclude  by  saying  that  Africa  needs 
peace and stability and that the European Union is fully 
committed  to  helping  Africa  to  reach  that  goal.  Our 
relationship,  which  is  conducted  in  a  spirit  of  equal 
partnership, 
firm  and  shared 
commitments  to  democracy,  the  promotion  of  human 
rights, good governance and respect for the rule of law, 
mutual respect and accountability. 
in  accordance  with 
is  also  based  on 
in  Africa,  which 
strengthen 
resistance 
rules  of 
the 
and 
to 
A/62/PV.27
health, 
education 
in  key  areas,  such  as 
and 
Mr.  Cheok  (Singapore):  May  I  also  express  my 

condolences on the passing away of the Prime Minister 
of Myanmar.  

I have the honour to speak today on behalf of the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN), 
whose  member  countries  are  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Cambodia,  Indonesia,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Malaysia,  Myanmar, 
the  Philippines, 
Singapore, Thailand and Viet Nam. ASEAN also aligns 
itself with the statement made by the representative of 
Pakistan on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

Six  years  have  passed  since  the  adoption  of  the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD). 
It  has  become  the  key  mechanism  through  which 
multilateral  financial 
institutions  and  development 
partners seek to engage Africa. The Secretary General’s 
fifth consolidated report on progress in implementation 
and  international  support  (A/62/203)  notes  forward 
movement 
infrastructure, 
agriculture, 
information 
technology.  Those  trends  indicate  the  good  work  that 
has been done through NEPAD. 
But  Africa  still  faces  daunting  challenges.  The 

report  reminds  us  that  African  countries  are  behind 
schedule  in  meeting  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals 
concerted 
international support, there is a real danger that Africa 
will continue to lag behind, despite the best efforts  of 
its leaders and peoples. In that regard, we welcome the 
those 
Secretary-General’s  efforts 
countries  back  on 
track, 
the 
convening  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
Africa Steering Group. 

Leadership and accountability are key factors for 
sustainable development. ASEAN sees the African Peer 
Review  Mechanism  as  an  innovative  instrument  for 
promoting  good  governance.  This 
is  not  about 
recrimination; this is about assistance and support. We 
are  encouraged  by  the  growing  enthusiasm  among 
NEPAD  countries  for  that  initiative. According  to  the 
Secretary-General’s 
have 
voluntarily acceded to the Review Mechanism. That is 
a positive sign. 

NEPAD  is  a  regional  initiative,  but  in  this 
globalized world none of us can go it alone. While the 
primary responsibility for change  obviously rests with 
Africa, 
international  community  should  also 
support these efforts. For instance, several members of 
to  help  bring 
including 
2015.  Without 
countries 
(MDGs) 
through 
report, 
the 
26 
by 
07-55167 

11 
report, 
official 
fight  HIV/AIDS,  malaria 
the  2007  Heiligendamm  Summit 
A/62/PV.27 

the Association  of  Southeast Asian  Nations  (ASEAN) 
have  contributed  to  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria.  Thailand  has  contributed 
$1 million  annually  to  the  Fund  since  2003.  We  also 
welcome  the  decision  of  the  Group  of  Eight  countries 
to  dedicate 
at 
$30 billion 
and 
tuberculosis in Africa.  

But more must be done if the Group of Eight is to 
meet  its  commitment  of  doubling  aid  to  Africa  by 
2010.  It  is  also  worrying  that,  according  to  the 
Secretary-General’s 
development 
assistance (ODA) flows to Africa are declining despite 
pledges  of  support.  This  is  about  credibility.  Donors 
should live up to their stated commitments. 

There is a long history between Africa and Asia. 
The  first  Asia-Africa  summit  was  held  in  Bandung, 
Indonesia,  in  1955.  In  fact,  leaders  of  both  regions 
marked  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  summit  two 
years  ago,  again  in  Indonesia,  by  agreeing  on  a 
declaration  to  focus  cooperation  on  three  pillars: 
political,  economic,  and  social  and  cultural  relations. 
Activities are being pursued via the New Asian-African 
Strategic  Partnership  in  areas  such  as  like  capacity-
building, environmental law and policy, preservation of 
genetic  resources  and  traditional  knowledge,  and  the 
development  of  small  and  medium-sized  enterprises. 
ASEAN  considers  this  initiative  to  be  an  excellent 
example of South-South cooperation.  

Another  concrete  outcome  is  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  Centre 
South-South  Technical 
Cooperation 
initiated  by 
Indonesia and Brunei Darussalam in 1995. The Centre 
promotes 
and  dissemination  of 
development  experiences  through  technical  assistance 
and training. 

also 
strengthened  their  relations  with  NEPAD  countries. 
Trade  between  the  regions  has  grown  in  volume  and 
now encompasses an ever-growing list of products and 
services.  Both  ASEAN  and  NEPAD  have  a  common 
interest  in  the  early  conclusion  of  a  successful  Doha 
Round.  It  is  clear  that  trade  barriers  imposed  on 
developing-country  products  are  a  huge  handicap  to 
economic development.  

ASEAN  countries  have  also  sought  to  share 
development  experiences  with  our  African  friends 
respective  cooperation  programmes. 
through  our 
Individually,  ASEAN  members  have 
in  Jakarta,  which  was 
exchange 
the 
for 
to 

and 
health, 
support” 
associates 
itself  with 
international 
development 
My  delegation 
Several ASEAN  members,  my  country  included,  have 
provided assistance in areas such as education, human 
resource 
particularly 
HIV/AIDS  treatment  and  prevention.  We  have  done 
this through study visits and training programmes. 

Let  me  conclude  by  saying  that  all  of  us  in 
ASEAN  will  continue  to  work  closely  with  NEPAD 
countries to achieve our common development goals. 
Mr. Nguyen Tat Thanh (Viet Nam): First of all, 

I  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report 
entitled  “New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development: 
fifth consolidated report on progress in implementation 
and 
(A/62/203),  which 
highlights progress made so far towards the realization 
of Africa’s aspiration to eradicating hunger and poverty 
and  attaining  sustainable  development  and  durable 
peace, and which focuses on the special needs of Africa 
regarding  the  implementation  of  the  internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  including  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). 

the 
statements just made by the representative of Pakistan 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  and  by  the 
representative  of  Singapore  on  behalf  of 
the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). We 
also  strongly  support  the  statement  made  by  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Benin  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of African States.  

This  year  marks  the  midpoint  towards  the  target 
date  for  attaining  the  MDGs.  We  are  delighted  to 
witness  some  encouraging  progress  made  by  African 
States  in  their  struggle  for  lasting  peace,  poverty 
eradication,  HIV/AIDS  prevention  and  sustainable 
development.  More African  countries  are  participating 
in the African Peer Review Mechanism, which enables 
them  to  improve  their  political,  economic  and  social 
performance.  

Despite  these  positive  developments,  however, 
there  remain  enormous  challenges  facing  African 
States  in  their  endeavours  to  achieve  the  MDGs.  The 
continent  continues  to  lag  behind  the  rest  of  the 
developing world and has not yet achieved the target of 
6 per cent growth in gross national product per annum 
established by the United Nations New Agenda for the 
Development of Africa in the 1990s. Moreover, Africa 
is  known  to  have  the  lowest  share  of  global  foreign 
direct  investment  flows,  to  shoulder  growing  debt 
12 

07-55167 
the 
to 
decision 
establish 
these  challenges 


burdens  and  to  seriously  lack  adequate  resources  for 
development. 

Viet Nam holds that, in response to the daunting 
magnitude  of 
international 
community  should  strengthen  global  partnership  to 
provide  African  States  with  support  and  assistance  in 
their  efforts  to  reach  the  MDGs,  including  through 
more  and  better  aid  for  trade,  further  debt  relief  and 
cancellation,  and  improved  market  access  for  African 
products.  In  this  regard,  Viet  Nam  fully  supports  the 
Secretary-General’s 
the 
Millennium Development Goal Africa Steering Group, 
which  calls  for  international  support  for  Africa’s 
implementation  of  the  Goals,  and  notes  with  pleasure 
that  the  Multilateral  Debt  Relief  Initiative  and  the 
Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  Initiative  have  been 
complemented  by  bilateral  debt  relief  efforts  of  the 
Group of Eight and other donor countries. 

It  is  also  worth  restating  that  the  Aid  for  Trade 
initiative  performs  a  vital  role  in  bringing  additional 
resources to scale up investments necessary for African 
States  to  achieve  the  MDGs. Viet  Nam  is  of  the  view 
that, by enabling better use of trading opportunities and 
facilitating trade flows, the Aid for Trade initiative has 
great  potential  for  accelerating  growth  in  Africa. 
However,  we  should  not  consider Aid  for Trade  to  be 
an  isolated  response  to  the  trading  challenges  facing 
African countries, but rather to be part of the ongoing 
effort to build a global partnership for development, in 
which  South-South  and  North-South  cooperation  are 
both of paramount importance.  

In  this  connection,  Viet  Nam  welcomes  the 
ongoing  initiatives  and  partnerships  being  undertaken 
by the Special Unit for South-South Cooperation at the 
subregional,  regional,  interregional  and  global  levels 
towards 
partnership 
mechanisms aimed at enhancing and expanding South-
South  cooperation,  including  triangular  cooperation  in 
trade and investment. 

Over  the  past  years,  the  scope  of  cooperation 
between Viet Nam and its African brothers and sisters 
has  been  expanded  bilaterally  and  in  the  South-South 
cooperation 
from 
agriculture,  industry  and  science  and  technology  to 
health  care,  education  and  environmental  protection. 
Viet Nam has signed numerous cooperation agreements 
and projects with African States, such as the agriculture 
cooperation  project  with  Mozambique,  under 
the 
public-private 
establishing 
framework 
in  areas 
ranging 
A/62/PV.27
by 
conclude 
Let  me 
reaffirming 
sponsorship  of  the  Japan  International  Cooperation 
Agency;  the  tripartite  cooperation  project  between 
Viet Nam, France and Mali; and the project on lessons 
learned  from  economic  development  and  poverty 
eradication  in  Viet  Nam,  with  the  participation  of 
Viet Nam,  Benin  and 
the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations.  Driven  by  a 
dynamism  of  mutual  interest,  Viet  Nam’s  two-way 
trade volume with Africa grew manyfold between 1991 
and  2006,  from  just  $15  million  to  approximately 
$1 billion last year. 

that 
strengthening  all-sided  relations  with Africa  continues 
to  be  a  cornerstone  of  Viet  Nam’s  foreign  policy.  We 
shall  continue  to  explore  ways  and  means  to  further 
contribute to the successful implementation of the New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development. 
Mr.  Mori  (Japan):  Allow  me  to  join  previous 

speakers  in  thanking  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
comprehensive  report  (A/62/203)  on  progress  in  the 
implementation  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD).  Japan  also  commends  the 
Office of the Special Adviser on Africa, the Economic 
Commission for Africa and other bodies of the United 
Nations  system  for  their  tireless  efforts  for  African 
development. 

We  are  approaching  the  midpoint  towards  2015, 
the 
target  year 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  Many  African  countries 
are making strides towards the Goals, but they still face 
many  daunting  challenges.  Japan  believes  that  the 
international  community  must  stand  behind  African 
countries  and  support  their  efforts  to  take  charge  of 
their development. 
Japan  is  dedicated  to  helping  African  countries 

achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Next 
year,  Japan  will  co-organize 
fourth  Tokyo 
International  Conference  on  African  Development 
(TICAD  IV)  in  May  with  the  United  Nations,  the 
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and 
the World Bank, and will host the Group of Eight (G-8) 
Hokkaido-Toyako  Summit  in  July.  We  are  determined 
to utilize the momentum generated by these two events 
to  mobilize 
for  African 
development  and African  countries’  efforts  to  achieve 
the MDGs. 
As  an  initiative  created,  led,  implemented  and 

monitored  by  African  countries,  the  New  Partnership 
for  achieving 
international 
support 
the 
07-55167 

13 
in  Africa. 
its  contribution 
A/62/PV.27 

for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  deserves  special 
to  effective  and 
recognition  for 
sustainable  development 
Japan  has 
cooperated  with  and  supported  NEPAD  since  its 
beginning  in  2001.  Through  regular  consultations 
between  Japan  and  the  NEPAD  secretariat,  led  by  its 
Chief  Executive,  Mr.  Firmino  Mucavele,  several  areas 
have been designated  as priority areas for cooperation 
for the foreseeable future. These include infrastructure; 
agriculture;  trade  and  investment  and  private  sector 
development;  and  human 
resources  development. 
Recently,  Japan  and  the  NEPAD  secretariat  agreed  to 
add  the  environment  as  the  fifth  priority  sector  of 
Japan’s support to NEPAD, in response to the concerns 
about climate change expressed by African countries at 
the  TICAD  Ministerial  Conference  on  Energy  and 
Environment  for  Sustainable  Development,  held  in 
Nairobi, Kenya, last March, and the second meeting of 
the  NEPAD-Japan  Dialogue,  held  in  South Africa  last 
August. 

Japan’s  support  for  NEPAD  takes  various  forms, 
as  indicated  in  paragraph  57  of  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General (A/62/203). Bilateral and subregional 
projects in the aforementioned priority areas are being 
developed,  including  six  infrastructure  projects  that 
Japan  has  selected  for  funding  from  NEPAD’s  short-
term action plan. Meanwhile, Japan is moving steadily 
towards  its  goal  of  doubling  its  official  development 
assistance  to  Africa  by  the  end  of  this  year  while 
mobilizing 
the 
international community to assist Africa in the areas of 
boosting  economic  growth,  ensuring  human  security 
and  addressing  environmental 
issues  and  climate 
change. Japan believes that TICAD IV will further the 
aims  of  NEPAD  and  contribute  to  making  Africa  a 
vibrant  continent  of  hope  and  opportunity.  On  the 
subject  of  peace  consultations,  Japan,  as  Chairman  of 
the  United  Nations  Peacebuilding  Commission,  will 
contribute to various peacebuilding activities in Africa. 

Japan  agrees  with  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  on  NEPAD  that  free  trade  and  debt  relief  are 
crucial for the sustainable development of Africa. The 
objective  of  poverty  reduction 
through  economic 
growth  has  long  been  one  of  the  pillars  of  Japan’s 
development  cooperation  with  Africa,  along  with  the 
consolidation 
human-centred 
development. As  its  contribution  to  the Aid  for  Trade 
initiative,  Japan  has  been  steadily  implementing  the 
development 
to  help 
the  knowledge  and  resources  of 
launched 
initiative 
in  2005 
of 
peace 
and 

to 
to 
report  stresses 
The  Secretary-General’s 
far  contributed  about  $3.4  billion 
developing countries reap the benefits of free trade by 
building their capacity to export goods. 

Regarding  debt  relief,  the  Government  of  Japan 
has  implemented  the  Cologne  debt  initiative  and  has 
thus 
the 
18 countries in Africa eligible for the Heavily Indebted 
Poor Countries Debt (HIPC) Initiative. 
Turning  now  to  agenda  item  47,  I  would  like  to 

convey 
the  Secretary-General  my  delegation’s 
sincere  appreciation  for  his  report  (A/62/321)  on  the 
progress brought about by the international response to 
malaria.  It  has  been  almost  a  decade  since  the  Roll 
Back Malaria Partnership was established by the World 
Health Organization (WHO), the World Bank, UNICEF 
and  UNDP.  Yet,  malaria  continues  to  threaten  107 
countries and territories and at least 40 per cent of the 
world’s population. More than 500 million people still 
suffer from acute malaria, and 1 million lose their lives 
to it every year, mostly in sub-Saharan Africa. 

the 
importance  of  both  early  diagnosis  and  effective 
treatment, especially the parasitological-based confirmation 
and  standardized  artemisinin-based  combination  therapies 
(ACTs),  which  WHO  recommends.  According  to  the 
report,  75  countries  have  implemented  a  monitoring 
system using a national sentinel site network, and more 
than 60 of the 82 countries where falciparum malaria is 
endemic  have  shifted  their  anti-malarial  drug  policies 
away  from  the  use  of  monotherapy  to ACTs.  Japan  is 
encouraged that there has been a change for the better 
in  so  many  places  around  the  world  as  a  result  of  the 
Roll Back Malaria Partnership. 

The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  also  points 
out the importance of prevention and of the recent shift 
in  WHO’s  guidance  towards  the  use  of  insecticide-
treated  mosquito  nets.  For 
its  part,  Japan  has 
committed itself to distributing 10 million long-lasting 
insecticide-treated  mosquito  nets  in  Africa.  As  of 
August 
this  year,  9.5  million  nets  had  been  
distributed — enough to prevent the deaths of 150,000 
African  children,  according 
to  one  estimate  by 
UNICEF.  Japan  has  also  contributed  $660  million  to 
the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and 
Malaria, which has allocated 24 per cent of its funding 
to  combating  malaria.  At  the  international  level,  the 
Global  Fund  accounts  for  64  per  cent  of  international 
funding commitments for malaria. 
14 

07-55167 
that 
fully 
respects 
the  New  Partnership 



Health  is  one  of  the  most  important  elements  of 
human  security.  In  June  2005,  Japan  launched  its 
Health  and  Development  Initiative,  which  promotes 
Japan’s  comprehensive  aid  approach  as  a  means  of 
achieving  the  three  health-related  MDGs  —  that  is, 
Goals  4,  5  and  6. As  part  of  this  initiative,  Japan  will 
help  developing  countries  control 
the  spread  of 
infectious  diseases  such  as  malaria.  I  assure  the 
Assembly  that  Japan,  through  these  and  other  efforts, 
will  continue  to  improve  the  quality  of  the  global 
response  to  malaria  by  working  as  a  responsible 
partner alongside developing countries. 

In  closing,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  Japan’s 
commitment  to  supporting  African  countries  in  a 
manner 
their  ownership  and 
leadership. Japan will continue to support NEPAD as a 
means of achieving a better future for Africa. 
Mr.  Al-Najem  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

delegation  of  Kuwait  is  pleased  to  participate  in  this 
debate  on 
for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD). We read with great interest the 
fifth  consolidated  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on 
the progress in the implementation of and international 
support  for  NEPAD  (A/62/203).  Kuwait  attaches 
special  importance  to  this  subject  because  it  is  linked 
to our concerns and interests on the African continent, 
with which we share close historical ties. 

Six  years  have  passed  since  African  leaders 
adopted  the  NEPAD  initiative,  which  aims  to  achieve 
balanced 
to 
alleviate poverty and become better integrated into the 
world  economy.  Kuwait  hopes  that  decisions  adopted 
at  many 
to  promote 
sustainable  development  will  lay  the  foundations  of 
true  partnership  between  developed  and  developing 
countries.  This  could  contribute  to  the  stability  and 
development  of  economic  relations  by  laying  fair  and 
balanced  foundations  for  international  trade,  in  which 
each party assumes its responsibilities to meet Africa’s 
special needs. 

The  NEPAD  initiative  bolstered  a  principle  in 
which  we  have  always believed: that of the  close link 
between successful development and political stability. 
Here we pay tribute to the efforts of African countries 
in  incorporating  the  priorities  of  NEPAD  in  their 
national  policies  and  development  planning  while 
endeavouring  to  establish  firm  institutional  systems 
large-scale  growth,  enabling  Africa 
international 
conferences 
A/62/PV.27
long  before 
and mechanisms that will guarantee the success of the 
initiative.  

African countries are striving to break the vicious 
circle  of  debt.  Ensuring  that  they  have  the  financial 
resources they need for their development goals is one 
of  the  most  significant  challenges  facing  us.  Some 
highly indebted African countries have benefited from 
the  cancelling  of  bilateral  debts  announced  by  some 
donor countries, including the Multilateral Debt Relief 
Initiative, the Group of Eight commitments announced 
at  the  United  Kingdom  Summit  in  2005  and  Highly 
Indebted  Poor  Countries  (HIPC)  Initiative  originally 
proposed  by  the  World  Bank  and  the  International 
Monetary  Fund.  Together,  they  offer  a  reduction  of 
almost  $70  billion  in  the  debt  of  African  countries, 
which represents an average savings of $2 billion every 
year  in  debt-servicing  costs.  That  cancellation  is  a 
positive step and has drawn Kuwait’s attention.  

Kuwait was one of the  first countries to  work to 
alleviate  Africa’s  debt  burden, 
the 
announcement  of  the  NEPAD  initiative.  That  was 
illustrated  in  the  address  by  the  late  Emir  of  Kuwait, 
His  Highness  Sheikh  Jaber  Al-Ahmad  Al-Jaber 
Al-Sabah,  to  the  General  Assembly  at  its  forty-third 
session, 
the 
international community, especially donor countries, to 
take action to lighten the debt burden encumbering the 
economies of developing countries and to cancel debts 
for countries with economies in difficulty. The Kuwait 
Fund  for  Economic  Development  has  contributed  to 
alleviating  the  burden  of  foreign  debt  for  African 
countries  in  the  framework  of  the  Heavily  Indebted 
Poor  Countries  Debt  Initiative.  Those  debts  were 
rescheduled  over  a  period  of  40  years,  on  very 
favourable terms. Here, we wish to reaffirm the content 
of the fifth report of the Secretary-General on progress 
in  the  implementation  of  and  international  support  for 
NEPAD. The report calls upon African Governments to 
adopt  wise  debt  policies  while  pursuing  capacity-
building and debt management. Countries must remain 
vigilant  about  financing  conditions,  particularly  when 
these  involve  income  from  exports.  We  must  not 
simply cancel or alleviate debt without providing funds 
for development assistance.  

  Mr. Soborun (Mauritius), Vice-President, took the 
Chair. 

Kuwait  is  proud  to  have  abided  by  all  of  its 
international  obligations  in  contributing  to  economic 
in  which  he  called  upon 
in  1988, 
07-55167 

15 

to  many  development  projects 
The  Kuwait  Fund  has  contributed 
A/62/PV.27 

development  programmes 
in  developing  countries 
through  the  Kuwait  Fund  for  Economic  Development. 
The Fund has granted development loans of $12 billion 
to  more  than  100  countries  around  the  world,  40  per 
cent  of  which  are  African  countries.  Last  August, 
Kuwait announced a gift of $300 million to the Islamic 
Development Bank, to fight poverty in Africa. 

to  many 
different  development  institutions  in Africa,  including 
the  African  Development  Fund, 
the  African 
Development  Bank  and  the  Arab  Bank  for  Economic 
Development in Africa. The Fund has also contributed 
to  many  rehabilitation  programmes,  including  more 
than $100 million to 11 African countries to fight river 
blindness.  Its  contribution  continued  on  through  the 
fifth  phase  of  that  initiative,  in  2003,  which  included 
additional  African  countries.  We  have  contributed 
effectively 
in 
developing  countries  through  the  Organization  of  the 
Petroleum  Exporting  Countries  (OPEC)  Fund  for 
International  Development.  The  total  of  soft  loans 
reached $5.4 billion last year. 

Before  I  conclude  my  statement,  I  would  like  to 
make  the  following  points.  African  countries  must 
redouble  their  efforts  to  avoid  focusing  on  a  few 
donors for the continent and exclude others. They must 
create  international  awareness  of  the  need  to  provide 
development  assistance  to  Africa  while  incorporating 
NEPAD  in  African  Union  structures  and  operations, 
providing  more  assistance  to  the  private  sector  and 
increasing the awareness of civil society. 

Partnership  is  not  a  temporary  process;  it  is  a 
long-term  process  that  needs  continuous  assessment. 
We  welcome  the  leading  role  played  by  the  United 
Nations  to  mobilize  the  international  community  in 
favour  of  that  initiative. African  countries  have  made 
significant  efforts  to  heed  the  call  of  the  international 
community  by  assuming  a  major  role  in  achieving 
stability 
to  encourage  donor 
countries  and  the  private  sector  to  offer  the  necessary 
economic  and  technical  support  to  the  continent.  It  is 
high  time  for  the  international  community  to  make 
more  progress  in  honouring  its  commitments. African 
countries,  for  their  part,  must  take  all  measures 
necessary  to  effectively  implement  the  many  NEPAD 
projects and programmes in order to ensure that we can 
prepare 
for 
development. 
the  peaceful  environment  necessary 
in  Africa, 
in  order 
for 
incapacitating 
the  New  Partnership 
Mrs. Swaraj (India): We would like to thank the 

Secretary-General  for  the  fifth  consolidated  report  on 
progress  in  the  implementation  of  and  international 
support 
for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  (A/62/203)  and 
the  other 
reports  prepared  for  this  joint  debate.  We  broadly 
associate  ourselves  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
Chair of the Group of 77, but I would like to deal with 
some of the issues discussed in the reports before us. 

First of all, I would like to talk about malaria. It 
is  regrettable  that  malaria  continues  to  plague  several 
regions of the world, particularly many parts of Africa. 
As the former Health Minister of India, I can state with 
authority that this disease affects people of all ages, but 
is  particularly  dangerous  and  debilitating  in  young 
children  and  pregnant  women.  It  disproportionately 
affects  poor  people  and  worsens  the  poverty  of  poor 
countries  and  communities  by 
the 
workforce,  decreasing  economic  productivity  and 
reducing output. In rural areas, where the transmission 
season  generally  coincides  with  the  planting  and 
harvesting  seasons,  malaria  imposes  a  dual  burden  on 
the poor.  
The human suffering and economic losses caused 

by  malaria  are  unnecessary,  as 
is 
preventable, treatable and perfectly curable. The report 
(A/62/321)  discusses  mosquito  nets  and  adequate 
resource  flow:  that  is  necessary.  But  what  is  more 
necessary  is  protecting  access  to  affordable  generic 
medicines,  which  —  I  am  sorry  —  the  present 
intellectual  property  rights  regime  does  not  protect.  I 
would  therefore  like  to  emphasize  that  the  United 
Nations should try to improve that situation.  
is  economic  development, 

which  historically  eliminated  malaria 
the 
developed  world.  For  this,  capacity-building,  science 
and technology and a truly developmental Doha Round 
are  all  necessary.  I  would  like  now  to  respond  to  the 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  progress  regarding 
the  causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable 
peace  in Africa  (A/62/204).  The  report  states  that  the 
last 
few  years  have  witnessed  many  positive 
developments  in Africa  and  that  the  number  of  armed 
conflicts has been significantly reduced. The Secretary-
General  is  right  in  saying  that  more  action  is  needed, 
both  to  strengthen  and  support Africa’s  own  efforts  to 
bring  peace  to  the  continent  and  to  tackle  the  wider 
sources of armed conflicts. 
Equally  necessary 
the  disease 
from 
16 

07-55167 
to 
to 
India 
them  on 
the  objectives  and  work  of 


In  this  context,  India  welcomes  the  creation  of 

is  strongly 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
committed 
the 
Commission and has contributed to the resources of the 
Peacebuilding  Fund.  The  mobilization  of  resources  is 
the  key  vehicle  by  which  the  international  community 
can  assist  post-conflict  societies  in  addressing  critical 
issues  in  peace  consolidation,  on  the  basis  of  national 
ownership of that process. Hopefully that would bring 
the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  into  the  ambit  of  a 
larger perspective. 

It  is  worth  remembering  that  many  African 
countries  in  which  conflicts  have  broken  out  were, 
during  the  preceding  decade,  under  an  International 
Monetary Fund programme for 60 to 80 per cent of the 
time.  Economic  advice  given 
trade, 
subsidies and agriculture caused many to fall back into 
civil conflict. Therefore, the United Nations must play 
a  central  role  in  the  reform  of  the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions,  including  by  increasing  the  voice  and 
participation  of  developing  countries,  which  would 
make  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  more  responsive 
to their needs, including those of Africa. 

I am happy to say that India has been one of the 
oldest,  largest  and  most  consistent  contributors  to 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions 
in  Africa. 
Indian  soldiers  have  been  part  of  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  and  observer  missions  in  more  than 
10 African countries, including the first United Nations 
mission  to  the  Congo,  established  in  1960.  Currently, 
there  are  more  than  8,000  Indian  personnel  on  the 
ground in Africa. Indian soldiers have been recognized 
for their humanitarian and basic infrastructure projects, 
including 
the  provision  of  medical,  water  and 
vocational  training  assistance  programmes.  India  has 
also  contributed  female  military  and  police  officers  to 
United Nations missions in Africa. In a response to the 
Secretary-General’s  call,  India  provided 
the  first 
all-female formed police unit for peacekeeping work in 
Liberia at the beginning of this year. In addition to its 
normal duties, the unit has been successful in reaching 
out  to  the  most  vulnerable  sections  of  society,  that  is, 
women and children. 
Despite  positive  developments,  the  Secretary-

General  reminds  us  of  the  serious  challenges  that  lie 
ahead:  challenges  posed  by  poverty  and  by  a  lack  of 
economic  development  and  access  to  basic  education, 
health care and adequate nutrition, which are stumbling 
blocks  to  unleashing  the  latent  talent  of  the  African 
07-55167 

17 
the 
A/62/PV.27
(NEPAD) 
science 
to 
implement 
(A/62/203) 
and  organizations 
and 
technology, 
information 
and 
people.  It  is  in  that  context  that  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General on the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development 
assumes 
the  commitment  of 
significance.  NEPAD  reflects 
African countries to implement their own programmes 
of  development  and  self-reliance  and  the  commitment 
of the international community to support these efforts. 

The  Secretary-General’s  report  highlights  the 
extensive  measures  and  actions  taken  by  African 
countries 
the 
objectives  of  NEPAD. The  report  highlights  details  of 
the  achievements  of African  countries  in  the  areas  of 
infrastructure,  agriculture,  health,  education, 
the 
communication 
environment, 
technology, 
gender 
mainstreaming  and  civil  society  involvement,  and  the 
progress of the African Peer Review Mechanism. 

While several measures have been initiated by the 
international community to support NEPAD, and while 
there  is  indeed  a  greater  understanding  and  awareness 
about the special needs of Africa, NEPAD can succeed 
only  if  the  global  partnership  delivers  in  terms  of 
resources.  Pessimism  results  from  the  facts  that  total 
official  development  assistance  to Africa  provided  by 
the  Development  Assistance  Committee,  excluding 
debt relief, declined in real terms in 2005 and stalled in 
2006 and that, with the continuation of present trends, 
the  Group  of  Eight  will  not  be  on  track  to  meet  the 
commitments  of  doubling  aid  to  Africa  by  2010. 
Timely  fulfilment  of  the  commitments  made  by  the 
Group  of  Eight  at  the  2005  Gleneagles  Summit  and 
those  made  at  the  2007  Heiligendamm  Summit  is  an 
imperative. 
The  problem  of  indebtedness  has  received  the 

attention  of 
community.  The 
Multilateral  Debt  Relief  Initiative  (MDRI)  and  the 
Heavily 
(HIPC)  Debt 
Initiative,  combined,  are  currently  helping  African 
countries through savings in debt servicing. The MDRI 
will,  however,  not  be  fully  successful  unless  donor 
countries adequately offset the lost debt repayments to 
the  International  Development  Association  and  the 
African  Development  Fund,  thus  maintaining  their 
capacity to issue new grants and affordable loans. 

As  we  have  seen,  external  assistance  and  an 
optimal  enabling  international  economic  environment 
must  be  governed  by 
logic  of  economic 
development.  For  instance,  the  Doha  Round  needs  to 
Indebted  Poor  Countries 
the 
international 
reform  of 
the 
A/62/PV.27 

address the problem of tariff escalation so that there is 
an  incentive  for  Africa  to  specialize  in  processing 
rather  than  in  raw  materials.  Consequently,  trade  that 
helps  development, 
international 
financial  architecture,  meeting  official  development 
assistance  commitments  and  the  like  are  all  essential 
for the achievement of the objectives of NEPAD.  

Historically,  the  invasions  of  Africa  were  in 
search  of  raw  materials  such  as  ivory,  gold  and 
diamonds.  Unless  there  is  a  complete  break  with  that, 
the difference from those who marched in the armies of 
Cecil  Rhodes  will  be  one  of  degree  rather  than  kind. 
The great African writer Chinua Achebe, in his Anthills 
of  the  Savannah,  made  the  point  that  the  most 
important  problem  in  Africa  is  not  governance  but 
foreign  manipulation.  That  prevents  the  poor  and 
dispossessed,  who  are  the  bruised  heart  that  throbs  so 
painfully  at  the  core  of  Africa’s  being,  from  coming 
into their own. 

India’s  solidarity  with  Africa  goes  back  a  long 
time. The Foreign Minister of South Africa, speaking at 
the informal plenary meeting of the General Assembly 
on  2  October  2007  to  observe  the  first  International 
Day  of  Non-Violence,  said  that  South  Africans  are 
proud  to  claim  Mahatma  Gandhi  as  one  of  their  own 
because  it  is  in  South  Africa  that  he  developed  and 
fashioned satyagraha as a tool of liberation. 

India’s  economic  cooperation  with  Africa  is 
undertaken  through  its  contribution  to  NEPAD  and 
through  several  bilateral  and  other  projects  and 
programmes.  Initiatives  such  as  the  Techno-Economic 
Approach  for  Africa-India  Movement  (TEAM-9)  and 
cooperation  with  the African  Union  and  the  Southern 
African  Development  Community  and  others  are  in 
addition  to  the  several  bilateral  cooperation  efforts 
between  India  and  Africa 
inter  alia, 
infrastructure,  including  railways;  food  processing; 
technology; 
information 
pharmaceuticals; 
and  medium-sized 
enterprises.  Indian  companies,  while  contributing  to 
economic  growth,  are  encouraged 
the 
mechanism  of  joint  ventures  and  employ  African 
managerial and labour talent. 
India has been making its contribution to Africa’s 

human  resource  development  efforts 
the 
training  of  personnel  under  the  Indian  Technical  and 
Economic Cooperation Programme (ITEC) programme 
with  an  outlay  of  $1  billion  and  the  provision  of 
communication 
that  cover, 
to  use 
and 
and 
small 

to  several  African  countries.  Cooperation 
experts 
through 
the  supply  of  materials  and  medicines, 
including antiretroviral drugs to fight HIV/AIDS, are a 
part  of  our  overall  effort.  The  Pan-African  e-network 
project  is  proceeding  on  schedule.  The  network  is 
aimed at sharing India’s expertise in the fields of health 
care and education with all the countries of Africa and 
will  connect  53  African  countries  into  one  network 
through  satellite,  fibre  optics  and  wireless  links  to 
provide  tele-education,  telemedicine  and  voice  and 
video  conference  facilities  amongst  African  Heads  of 
State.  

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  the  hope 
that with such initiatives, we will see very soon a self-
reliant  and  economically  and  technologically  vibrant 
Africa. We wish them all the best. 
Mr. Chávez (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): Peace and 

security  should  be  viewed  not  simply  from  their 
political,  military  and  strategic  aspects,  but  rather  as 
fundamentally  social  and  economic  factors.  Social, 
economic,  political,  ethnic  and  religious  exclusion, 
poverty  and  human  rights  issues  are  in  general  the 
main  factors  that  engender  violence,  instability  and 
national  fragmentation.  That  is  particularly  true  in 
Africa.  

Economic growth was at 6 per cent last year, but 
that  was  essentially  due  to  increases  in  commodity 
prices.  Today,  only  3  per  cent  of  foreign  investment 
flows  go  to  Africa,  and  that  investment  is  linked, 
usually,  to  the  exploitation  of  natural  resources  or 
related services.  
In  many  countries,  international  aid  is  still 

a 
functioning  State 
necessary 
to  maintaining 
mechanism.  That  aid,  as 
the  Secretary-General 
mentioned in  his report, is  decreasing. The population 
continues  to  grow  beyond  the  capability  of  the  labour 
market  to  absorb  them.  The  greater  part  of  the 
population, 60 per cent, especially young people, lives 
on one or two dollars per day. This year, we have noted 
once  again  that  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
will  not  be  met  by  2015  in  most  of  the  countries  of 
sub-Saharan Africa, unless radical  action reverses that 
trend.  

For  those  reasons,  the  priority  for  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  and 
international  cooperation,  in  the  short  term,  is  to  help 
sub-Saharan Africa reach the Millennium Development 
Goals and join the global economy. Accomplishing that 
07-55167 
through 
18 

in 
and 
them 
regional 
they  have 
its  approach 
the  work  of 
to 
for  example, 


will  require,  among  other  measures,  a  cancellation  — 
or  at  least  a  substantial  reduction  —  of  its  debt,  good 
prices for its export commodities and, at the same time, 
effective access to markets.  

Economic dysfunctionality and inadequate reform 
processes have often helped to destroy the social fabric 
of  countries,  sometimes  sinking 
into  civil 
conflict.  That  is  why  it  is  interesting  to  note  that  the 
the 
World  Bank  has  reassessed 
continent,  assigning  a  priority, 
to 
agriculture.  Together  with  the  International  Monetary 
Fund, 
the 
joined 
Peacebuilding Commission.  

The  challenges  of  peace  and  security  in  Africa 
require  that  the  United  Nations,  and  in  particular  the 
Security Council, have a strategic vision that considers 
peace  and  security  in  Africa  to  require  successful 
management  of  four  main  variables:  prevention, 
cooperation  with 
subregional 
organizations,  humanitarian  issues  and  post-conflict 
management.  
For  that  reason,  we  support  the  proposal  of  the 

reinforce  United  Nations 
Secretary-General 
mediation  capabilities  and,  by extension,  assistance  to 
regional  organizations  in  this  and  other  peacekeeping 
areas.  It  is  also  important  to  note  the  leading  role 
assumed  by  the  Africans  themselves  in  the  area  of 
peace  and  security 
regional  and 
subregional  organizations,  in  particular  the  Peace  and 
Security Council of the African Union. We support that 
evolution  and  close  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations  Security  Council  pursuant  to  Chapter  VIII  of 
the Charter of the United Nations. We also support the 
work  of  international  tribunals  and  the  processes  for 
transitional justice in Africa.  

When  a  conflict  breaks  out  and  peacekeeping 
operations  are  required,  those  operations  must  have  a 
multidimensional and strengthened mandate in order to 
protect  civilians  and  undertake  peacebuilding  efforts. 
The  presence  of  the  United  Nations  should  then 
provide 
comprehensively  manage 
humanitarian  crises  and  the  transition  to  post-conflict 
stabilization.  

the 
continent.  The  challenge  is  to  establish  democratic 
governance,  social 
integration,  due 
respect  for  human  rights,  the  foundations  for  a  viable 
economy that include adequate management of natural 
Post-conflict  situations  are  prevalent  on 
inclusion  and 
a  way 
through 
their 
to 
to 
A/62/PV.27
that 
With 
those 
regard 
Bearing 
in  mind  all  of 
to  Somalia,  Peru 
in  Darfur.  We  hope 
resources,  and  sustainable  reforms  of  the  security 
sector,  accompanied  by  a  viable  disarmament, 
demobilization and reintegration process. If we are not 
successful,  some  countries  could  fall  back  into  to 
conflict.  That  is  why  we  support  the  work  of  the 
Peacebuilding Commission, in particular as regards the 
establishment of comprehensive strategies for countries 
such  as  Burundi  and  Sierra  Leone  on  the  basis  of 
leadership by each country concerned. 

issues,  Peru 
co-sponsored  the  resolution  that  provides  for  a  hybrid 
operation 
it  will  be 
implemented  as  soon  as  possible.  We  also  hope  the 
political dialogue among rebel groups and between the 
groups  and  the  Government  of  National  Unity  will  be 
strengthened.  The  ultimate  objective  is  to  protect  the 
civilian population and to prevent an expansion of the 
humanitarian catastrophe. Peru supports the Secretary-
General in his efforts, in particular those carried out to 
ensure  the  protection  of  all  civilians.  Lastly,  we 
reiterate  the  need  for  all  parties  to  put  an  end  to  their 
use of violence. 

realistically 
acknowledges  that  the  efforts  of  all  the  parties  to  the 
conflict have thus far not been able to achieve stability 
and  lasting  peace.  We  believe  that  external  support 
must be aimed at building a viable, inter-Somali peace 
accord,  after  which  the  country  must  be  supported  in 
regaining  a  centralized  authority  structure  and  control 
over its entire territory. 

A third case is the conflict in the eastern region of 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  Thus  far,  the 
military  conflict  has  exacerbated 
immense 
humanitarian  crisis.  We  must  continue  to  pursue 
political  options  in  the  quest  for  a  comprehensive 
solution  that  includes,  beyond  the  re-establishment  of 
the  authority  of  the  Government  in  the  area,  the 
repatriation  of  the  Forces  démocratiques  de  libération 
du  Rwanda  (FDLR)  and  attention  to  the  needs  of  the 
Tutsi  population.  Those  are  steps  that  will  decide  the 
course of the conflict. 

A  fourth  case  is  the  situation  on  the  border 
between  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea.  We  hope  that  those 
countries  will  exercise  the  utmost  caution  in  their 
actions, in order to avoid an escalation of the situation 
and 
international 
obligations. Both countries must redouble their efforts 
to contribute to peace in their own region. 
effectively 
discharge 
their 
the 
07-55167 

19 
there 
is 
Despite 
certain 
associates 
in  Africa, 
difficulties, 
this  debate  on 
My  delegation 
in  particular  on 
to  be  responsible  and  not  squander 
A/62/PV.27 


an 
opportunity to rebuild the social fabric of many African 
States that are emerging from conflict situations and to 
give newborn democracies a chance at being viable and 
governable. The  efforts  of  the  countries  of  the  region, 
the  international  community  and,  in  particular,  the 
people themselves are urgently required. We call on all 
actors 
the 
opportunities for peace, security and development that 
the  international  community  can  help  them  attain  and 
which their peoples demand and deserve. 
Mr.  Mansour  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  First 

and  foremost,  allow  me  to  express  my  delegation’s 
appreciation to the President of the General Assembly 
for  the  very  rewarding  introduction  with  which  he 
opened 
the  economic  and  social 
situation 
the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  and 
for the reports presented by the Secretary-General.  

itself  with 
the 
statements made by Pakistan, on behalf of the Group of 
77  and  China,  and  Benin,  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group, and we wish to raise a few points of particular 
interest to Tunisia. 
the 

international  community  and 
the  United  Nations 
system  in  Africa  is  based  on  two  facts.  First,  the 
African  continent  is  the  region  most  affected  by  the 
three  principal  scourges  facing  humanity,  namely, 
poverty,  conflicts  and  pandemics.  This  explains  to  a 
large  extent  the  fact  that  Africa  is  lagging  behind  in 
achieving 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  Secondly,  Africa  is  a 
continent  on  the  move,  courageously  taking  care  of 
itself  and  endeavouring,  in  political  and  economic 
terms at the national and regional level, to take charge 
of its fate and to progress despite the challenges of its 
environment.  

The  fifth  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on 
progress  in  implementation  and  international  support 
for  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(A/62/203)  notes  a  number  of  contrasting  issues  with 
regard to the support of the international community in 
the  implementation  of  NEPAD  —  the  comprehensive 
and  integrated  programme  serving  in  the  development 
of  Africa  —  in  particular  the  achievement  of  the 
MDGs,  and  the  basis  of  cooperation  with  its  partners. 
The  report  highlights 
to 
increasingly  marked 
in  particular 
interest  of 
the  need 
The 
the 
deadlines 
for 

the 
the  heart  of 
their  partners, 
is  certainly  at 
Tunisia  welcomes 
the  conclusions  of 
increased  commitment  of 
strengthen national and regional capacities responsible 
for implementing NEPAD and to insure coherency and 
coordination  between 
the  national  development 
programmes,  international  support  and  the  NEPAD 
priorities. 

It  is  well  established  that  despite  the  desire  of 
African countries to take charge of their own fate and 
the 
the 
implementation of NEPAD and the achievement of the 
MDGs  still  depend  on  greater  mobilization  of  the 
international  community  and  better  harmonization  of 
the different aid instruments. Giving priority to specific 
African  needs 
the 
international  and  the  United  Nations  agenda,  but  that 
consensus  must  be  translated  into  a  true  development 
partnership  for  our  continent,  which  has  long  been 
weakened  by 
torments  of  armed  conflicts, 
instability, poverty and pandemics.  

the 
Committee  for  Programme  and  Coordination  (CPC) 
concerning  renewed  United  Nations  commitment  to 
provide  more-coordinated  support  and 
to  better 
integrate  strategies  favourable  to  the  objectives  and 
priorities  of  NEPAD.  On  the  basis  of  the  CPC 
recommendations,  my 
for 
strengthening the material and human resources of the 
Office of the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General 
on Africa, which is also the centre for coordinating the 
support of the United Nations system for NEPAD. 

With  regard  to  political  instability  and  conflict 
and  post-conflict  situations,  my  delegation  believes 
that  normalization  of  reconstruction  and  development 
calls  for  enhanced  and  better-targeted  international, 
economic  and  political  support.  In  that  context,  the 
establishment  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  can 
benefit  Africa,  considering  that  our  continent  is  the 
theatre of 75 per cent of the conflict and post-conflict 
situations worldwide. 

Given that, we should highlight the welcome role 
of  the  African  Union,  in  particular  its  Peace  and 
Security  Council,  an 
to  which  more 
material,  political,  legal,  regulatory  and  institutional 
resources  must  be  made  available.  The 
recent 
establishment of an hybrid force of the African Union 
(AU)  and  the  United  Nations  in  Darfur  is  an  edifying 
illustration of how structured, targeted and coordinated 
cooperation between the AU and the United Nations is 
well able to contribute to setting up an African capacity 
instrument 
delegation 
calls 
20 

07-55167 
than  financial  and 
technical  operations 


for  preventing  conflicts  and  for  peacekeeping  and 
peacebuilding. Without the commitment of all partners, 
the  ambitious  goal  of  achieving  a  conflict-free Africa 
by 2010 will remain far out of reach. 

With regard to pandemics, given their devastating 
impact  on  human  resources  and  on  development 
prospects, as well as their repercussions that aggravate 
conflicts  and  penalize  all  stabilization  plans,  a  global 
partnership  with  adequate  funding  and  human  and 
technical  resources  is  for  us  not  only  a  choice  but  an 
imperative.  At  this  pace,  without  a  more  consistent 
global mobilization at all levels, the MDG objective of 
eradicating malaria by 2015 will be nothing but a pious 
wish.  And  despite  all  the  efforts  made  and  all  the 
mechanisms  established,  malaria  causes  the  death  of 
1 million  people  each  year,  the  majority  of  whom  are 
children  and  90  per  cent  of  whom  live  in  Africa.  As 
stated  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  that 
subject,  international  efforts  —  here  we  salute  their 
worthiness  and  —  have  more  often  taken  the  form  of 
emergency  action  focused  on  providing  resources, 
to 
rather 
strengthen 
and 
infrastructure.  

Far  from  being  a  cause  of  despair,  that  rather 
gloomy  picture  of  the  situation  in  Africa  should  spur 
all  sectors  of  the  international  community  to  redouble 
efforts,  within  the  framework  of  a  true  development 
partnership,  to  enable  Africa  to  experience  a  true 
revival  and  to  adapt  and  accelerate  its  political  and 
social  development  processes  and  thus  its  effective 
integration into the world economy.  

My  delegation  hopes  that  the  high-level  meeting 
on Africa’s development, which will take place during 
the  Assembly’s  sixty-third  session,  will  lead  to  more 
concrete 
of  Africa, 
commitments  which  will  truly  make  an  effective 
contribution 
to  building 
the  peace,  security  and 
prosperity of the continent. 
in 

Spanish): Cuba acknowledges the efforts carried out by 
our African  brethren  through  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD), which was conceived 
as  a  collective  vision  and  strategic  framework  for 
development  in  Africa.  However,  there  still  remain 
huge obstacles and challenges to confront in order for 
the  African  continent  to  be  able  to  overcome  the 
Mrs.  Núñez  Mordoche
commitments 
(Cuba) 
(spoke 
in 
favour 
national 
healthcare 
capacities 
A/62/PV.27
Africa  remains  marginalized  and  at  a 
critical  situation  it  suffers  today  and  to  attain  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

Many  developed  countries  continue  to  hold  a 
wrong  view  of  Africa.  Their  deliberate  political 
blindness makes them regard that great continent only 
as  a  myth  and  a  source  of  wealth  from  which  to  get 
substantial  profits  for  their  own  benefit,  disregarding 
the  catastrophic  consequences  that  the  centuries-long 
plundering and exploitation process has brought to the 
African  peoples.  That  misguided  view  has  impeded 
understanding  and  acquiring  a  genuine  awareness  of 
the difficult situation the continent is experiencing and 
of the need to pay the incalculable historic debt that all 
humankind owes to Africa. 

They  have  apparently  forgotten  that  it  was  the 
economic  and  financial  policies  and  the  waves  of 
unrestrained  privatization  that  they  imposed  on  the 
African  countries  that  have  been  responsible  for 
strengthening  the  precarious  situation  that  African 
countries are experiencing and suffering from. 

total 
disadvantage  in  international  economic  relations.  In 
addition  poverty,  unemployment,  the  surge  of  armed 
the  spreading  of  diseases  such  as 
conflicts  and 
HIV/AIDS  are  decimating  entire  nations  of 
the 
continent, all of which predicts that the region will not 
be  able  to  attain  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
within the set deadline. 

In  the  last  20  years,  the  imposition  of  trade 
liberalization has cost the African countries more than 
$270  billion,  an  amount  that  could  have  paid  off  the 
continent’s  debt.  Moreover,  it  has  brought  about  a 
serious  deterioration  in  the  terms  of  trade  and  an 
increase in the flight of capital, which continues to be 
the greatest in the world in regional terms. 
With  11  per  cent  of  the  world’s  population  and 

the  most  natural  reserves  of 
the  planet,  Africa 
contributes only 1 per cent to the world gross domestic 
product,  and  its  participation  in  international  trade  is 
barely  2  per  cent.  The  commitment  of  the  developed 
countries  to  increase  aid  by  $50  billion  annually  until 
2010 
illusion.  Official  development 
assistance  to  Africa  has  not  changed  since  2004  and 
remains  far  from  the  amount  needed  for  our  African 
brothers to attain the Millennium Development Goals. 
While  foreign  direct  investment  flows  in  Africa  have 
increased  somewhat,  Africa’s  percentage  of  global 
foreign investment continues to be small, around 3 per cent.  
is  still  an 
07-55167 

21 

to  African  peoples 
A/62/PV.27 


For Cuba, Africa is not a legend far off in time or 
space. Africa  is one of the nourishing elements of our 
identity and culture. It is part of what we are. It is one 
of the main roots of the Cuban population. Our nation 
germinated  from 
the  fertile  mixture  of  African, 
European  and  Chinese  blood,  and  it  sprang  forth 
proclaiming  its  pride  in  its  African  roots  and  the 
emancipation of its children of African origin.  

The  uprisings  of  slaves  and  their  running  away 
nurtured  our  hunger  for  freedom.  Our  wars  of 
independence depended on the massive participation of 
African descendants, who provided brilliant leaders for 
our army of liberation.  

That is why, in the early years of our revolution, 
Cuba  offered  and  continues  to  offer  its  support  and 
solidarity 
through  consistent 
internationalism and solidarity with the peoples of the 
world, a cardinal principle of our foreign policy. 
Despite the fact that Cuba is a country with scant 

resources  and  that  it  has  been  subject  for  more  than 
four  decades  to  a  cruel  and  genocidal  economic, 
commercial and financial blockade by the Government 
of the United States, more than 30,000 African students 
have been trained in Cuba. Around 2,000 young people 
from 44 African countries are currently studying in our 
universities.  Of  them,  more  than  700  are  studying 
medicine.  

Tens  of  thousands  of  Cuban  doctors,  teachers, 
engineers and builders have gone to Africa. More than 
2,400  Cuban  assistance  workers  may  be  found  in 
African  countries  unselfishly  providing  their  services. 
Among them, close to 2,000 Cuban doctors, nurses and 
health  technicians  are  working  in  the  fight  against 
AIDS,  tuberculosis,  malaria  and  other  illnesses  that 
continue to bring suffering to the continent. 

In  the  context  of  our  comprehensive  health 
programme,  our  doctors  have  saved  the  lives  of  more 
than 730,000 Africans, and currently, in several African 
countries,  a  literacy  campaign  is  being  carried  out  to 
ease  the  critical  situation  of  illiteracy  facing  the 
continent. 

When it became necessary, Cuban blood was also 
shed  in  Africa.  We  brought  back  from  there  only  the 
physical  remains  of  our  combatants. We  did  not  go  to 
bring back gold, diamonds or oil. We went to fight for 
freedom, against colonialism and apartheid. 
its  exports,  access 

Our  cooperation  with  African  countries  proves 
that  significant  results  can  be  achieved  when  there  is 
serious political will. 

Cuba reiterates its unwavering solidarity with the 
peoples  and  the  Governments  of  Africa  in  their 
struggles  against  the  poverty  and  underdevelopment 
inherited  from  centuries  of  slavery,  wars  of  pillage, 
colonialism  and  an  utterly  unfair  and  exclusive 
international economic order. 

We  also  reaffirm  our  determination  to  continue 
providing, as far as our capabilities allow, our helping 
hand  and  the  support  of  our  principal  resource  — 
human capital created by the Revolution. 

The peoples of Africa do not need to be reminded 
of  their  difficulties  and  sufferings.  They  do  not  need 
alms  or  paltry  initiatives  or  false  commitments  or 
hypocritical lessons on what is most useful for them. 

Africa needs to have its foreign debt cancelled. It 
needs  special  and  differentiated  treatment,  access  to 
markets, 
to 
technology  and  to  the  training  of  human  resources,  as 
well as assistance in the fight against disease. 

Africa  needs  international  cooperation  and  the 
political  will  of  all  for  our African  brethren  to  have  a 
decent future. 
Mr. Korga (Togo) (spoke in French): It is a great 

privilege for us to address this Assembly on one of the 
most  crucial  issues  on  the  international  community’s 
agenda.  

We  fully  subscribe  to  the  statement  made  by 
Pakistan on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and 
the  one  made  by  Benin  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African 
like, 
nevertheless,  to  make  a  number  of  observations  and 
underscore  certain  points  that  are  very  important  for 
our country. 

international 
community  became  truly  aware  of  the  severity  of  the 
economic and social difficulties that Africa was facing, 
a  certain  number  of  programmes  were  designed  under 
the  aegis  of  the  United  Nations  to  help  the  continent 
find 
and 
development.  

I  will  mention  only  two  —  The  United  Nations 
Program of Action for African Economic Recovery and 
Development  (UNPAAERD)  in  the  1980s  and  the 
When  some  decades  ago, 
delegation  would 
economic  growth 
its  way 
towards 
fair  prices 
for 
States.  Our 
the 
22 

07-55167 
from 
the 
thanks 
support 
technical 
long-term  development, 


United  Nations  New  Agenda  for  the  Development  of 
Africa  in  the  1990s  (UN-NADAF). The  optimism  and 
hope  evoked  by  those  two  programmes  inspired  our 
countries to courageously pursue the economic reforms 
undertaken from the beginning of the 1980s and aimed 
at  promoting 
in 
particular to the installation of a regulatory framework 
that  was  much  more  liberal  and  likely  to  act  as  an 
incentive for the promotion of the private sector as the 
engine of growth. 

Despite  the  efforts  and  the  sacrifices  made,  the 
main objective of those programmes was not obtained 
owing  to  the  lack  of  sustained  and  adequate  financial 
and 
international 
community.  Faced  with  these  facts  and  given  the 
sustained  deterioration  of  the  social  and  economic 
situation  in  Africa,  six  years  ago  the  leaders  of  the 
continent  jointly  designed  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD).  

As  a  veritable,  complete  and  comprehensive 
strategic  plan,  the  realization  of  which  should  allow 
our countries to overcome the challenges that they are 
facing, NEPAD is also proof of the commitment of our 
heads  of  State  taken  before  their  peoples  to  free  them 
from destitution and extreme poverty. NEPAD is above 
all  an  appeal  for  a  new  partnership  with 
the 
international community, where its support is necessary 
or  even  indispensable  to  hasten  the  integration  of 
Africa into the world economy. 

It is thus with great hope and satisfaction that the 
leaders  of  Africa  noted,  following  the  launching  of 
NEPAD, 
their  appeal  received  a  favourable 
reception  from  the  international  community.  In  effect, 
the  General  Assembly  immediately  made  NEPAD  the 
guiding  plan  for  the  actions  of  the  international 
community, in particular of the United Nations, actions 
to  be  undertaken 
the  development 
programme of the continent. 

The  need  to  reinforce  support  for  NEPAD  was 
reaffirmed  by 
in 
resolution  61/229,  adopted  in  December  2006,  called 
for greater coherence in the work of the United Nations 
system in support of African countries. 

the  development  partners 
undertook  numerous  commitments,  particularly  at 
Group  of  Eight  summits.  These  initiatives,  aimed  at 
providing  direct  or 
indirect  support  for  NEPAD 
the  General  Assembly,  which 
their  part, 
to 
support 
that 
For 
A/62/PV.27
programmes, include commitments intended to respond 
to the specific needs of Africa.  

At the outset of our statement, we looked back a 
few  years  to  pose  the  serious  question  of  whether 
NEPAD  is  going  to  suffer  the  same  luck  as  its 
predecessors,  and  if  consciously  or  unconsciously  the 
international  community  is  going  to  insert  it  in  the 
spiral of missed opportunities for Africa.  

The  Secretary-General’s  fifth  report  on  progress 
made  in  the  implementation  of  and  international 
support  for  NEPAD  (A/62/203)  is  not  encouraging.  In 
that  report  the  Secretary-General  underscored  that,  in 
real  terms,  official  development  assistance  (ODA) 
contributions  to  sub-Saharan  Africa  have  suffered  a 
drop  in  2005,  stagnated  in  2006  and  risk  further 
reduction in 2007. The Secretary-General warns that, if 
the  current  trend  continues,  the  Group  of  Eight  (G-8) 
countries might not be able to fulfil their commitment 
to double aid to Africa by 2010.  

The  areas  of  debt  alleviation  and  growth  of 
investment  flows  have  slightly  improved,  but  we  are 
disappointed in that there has been very little progress 
in  multilateral  trade  negotiations,  specifically  on  the 
thorny  question  of  the  elimination  of  agricultural 
subsidies.  Also, 
economic 
partnership  agreements  between  the  European  Union 
and Africa constitute, in their present form, a source of 
concern for our countries.  

Built  upon  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  the  NEPAD  development  model  favours  the 
attainment  of  those  Goals.  How  is  it  that,  as  this 
session is taking place, halfway to 2015, the target date 
for the MDGs, and given the lack  of  progress, we are 
not  concerned  by  the  fact  that  not  a  single  African 
country will attain all of the established goals. This sad 
reality demands the attention of the entire international 
community.  That  is  why  we  call  once  again  on  all  of 
Africa’s  development  partners  in  general,  and  to  the 
G-8 countries in particular, to honour the commitments 
they  assumed  in  different  international  forums  from 
Monterrey  and  Gleneagles  to  Heiligendamm,  so  as  to 
enable our countries to advance the vision of NEPAD.  

Urgent  measures  must  be  undertaken  to  increase 
aid  flows,  to  improve  their  effectiveness  pursuant  to 
the Paris Declaration, to cancel the entirety of African 
debt  and  to  ensure  that  trade  will  benefit  Africa, 
including  by  the  prompt  conclusion  of  the  Doha 
the  negotiation  of 
Round. 
the  negotiations  of 
important 
for 
is 
It 
07-55167 

23 

others.  We 
especially  welcome 
in  Africa.  Despite 
A/62/PV.27 

partnership  agreements  between  the  European  Union 
and  African  groups  to  be  more  than  simple  trade 
agreements. Rather, they should favour development in 
order  to  accelerate  and  enhance  the  integration  of  our 
region and the renewal of our economies.  

In  requesting  the  support  of  the  international 
community  for  the  implementation  of  this  ambitious 
initiative called NEPAD, African leaders are aware that 
they bear primary responsibility for the development of 
their  continent.  That  is  why  our  countries  are  sparing 
no effort to advance NEPAD in those priority areas.  

As  underscored  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his 
report,  progress  has  been  achieved  in  priority  areas, 
such  as  infrastructure,  agriculture,  health,  education, 
the environment, new information and communications 
technologies, science and technology and gender issues 
among 
the 
establishment of the African Peer Review Mechanism, 
the  cornerstone  of  good  political  and 
which 
is 
economic 
governance 
the 
insufficiency  of  institutional  financial  means,  year  by 
year  our  countries  are  strengthening  the  Mechanism 
and  achieving  full  ownership.  Furthermore,  major 
efforts  have  been  made  to  create  greater  awareness 
among  the  public,  especially  in  the  private  sector, 
about  NEPAD  and  its  programmes.  In  Togo,  the 
creation of the NEPAD Business Group Togo is part of 
those efforts.  

In  inviting  the  international  community  to  assist 
them  the  implementation  of  NEPAD,  the  leaders  of 
Africa  call  for  the  necessary  human  solidarity  that 
alone will make it possible to overcome the challenges 
of our times. The shared problems of development and 
realization of our people call for a spirit of partnership 
and  shared  responsibility 
to  achieve  appropriate, 
lasting  solutions  to  the  issues  facing  the  international 
community.  In  this  era  of  globalization,  small  islands 
of  prosperity  are  insignificant  when  surrounded  by  an 
ocean  of  poverty.  Let  us  globalize  democracy  and 
peace,  but 
let  us  also  globalize  prosperity  and 
well-being. That is the vision of NEPAD; together, let 
us work to achieve it.  
Mr.  Sahel  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  My 

delegation  associates  itself  with  the  statements  made 
by the representative of Benin on behalf of the African 
Group and by the representative of Pakistan on behalf 
of the Group of 77 and China. 
it  moves 
The 
to 
themselves 
to  achieve 
indeed  committed 

During  the  general  debate  at  the  sixty-first 
session,  in  September  2006,  Morocco  proposed  that  a 
high-level dialogue be held on Africa and development 
(see A/61/PV.17).  This  proposal  was  approved  by  the 
General  Assembly,  which  decided  to  hold  in  2008  a 
high-level meeting on Africa’s development needs (see 
resolution  61/229).  That  meeting,  we  hope,  will 
provide  an  opportunity  for  us  to  identify  the  needs  of 
Africa  as 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  the  development 
goals  of  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD).  It  should  also  be  an  opportunity  to  breathe 
new  life  into  cooperation  across  the African  continent 
and to highlight the continent’s huge potential. 

international  community  has  committed 
itself,  particularly  at  the  Monterrey  Conference,  the 
Johannesburg  Summit, 
the  Conference  on  Least 
Developed Countries, held in Brussels, the Millennium 
Summit  in  2000  and  the  2005  World  Summit,  to 
provide aid and support to Africa. Developed countries 
have 
increasing 
official development assistance (ODA) to Africa and to 
facilitating the creation of an international environment 
conducive  to  its  development.  Other  initiatives  have 
been adopted for Africa, in particular that of the Group 
of  Eight  (G-8)  to  double  ODA  to  Africa  by  2010. 
However, the Secretary-General’s report on the work of 
the Organization (A/62/1) and the report on progress in 
and  international  support  for  the  implementation  of 
NEPAD  (A/62/203),  note  a  decrease  in  ODA  for 
Africa. 
On  a  different  note,  notable  progress  has  indeed 

been achieved on external debt relief. Several countries 
have  been  able  to  benefit  from  substantial  debt  relief 
thanks  to  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt 
Initiative and the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative, as 
well  as  to  bilateral  debt-relief  initiatives.  However, 
much  remains  to  be  done  to  ensure  that  all  African 
countries that meet the required conditions are able to 
benefit from these initiatives. 

On  foreign  direct  investment,  Africa  still  is  the 
region  that  receives  the  lowest  amount  of  investment 
flows.  The  continent  attracts  only  3  per  cent  of 
worldwide investment flows, and those investments are 
in general focused in a very small number of countries. 
Despite  the  progress  seen  in  the  majority  of  African 
countries in the areas of macroeconomic policy reform, 
good governance and the rule of law, Africa has not yet 
24 

07-55167 
the 
into 
remains 
integrated 
Africa  cannot  be 
capacity.  Capacity-building 


been  able  to  attract  the  investment  necessary  for  its 
development.  

the  world 
economy  without  a  massive  influx  of  foreign  direct 
investment  and  a  strengthening  of  production  and 
export 
a 
considerable challenge, and lack of capacity is a major 
structural  handicap  that  hampers  the  development  of 
our continent. It is clear that, without improved market 
access,  the  policies  undertaken  by  African  countries 
aimed at economic liberalization and opening up to the 
outside world cannot succeed.  
The  United  Nations  system,  particularly  the 

development  agencies  and 
international  and 
regional  financial  institutions,  must  play  the  lead  role 
in mobilizing the aid and support necessary for Africa. 
We  await  with  interest  the  recommendations  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals Africa Steering Group, 
which  was  recently  established  by  the  Secretary-
General. The work of the Group, which brings together 
the  heads  of  United  Nations  agencies,  will  be  very 
useful for the high-level meeting planned for the sixty-
third session. 

Those are some of the areas that should be at the 
heart  of  the  discussions  with  a  view  to  next  year’s 
high-level meeting. Morocco is prepared to participate 
constructively  in  the  preparations  for  that  event, 
particularly  within  the  framework  of  the  Group  of 
African States and the Group of 77. 

With  regard  to  activities  aimed  at  promoting 
cooperation  for  economic  and  social  development  in 
Africa  and  contributing 
the  achievement  of 
NEPAD’s  objectives,  Morocco  has  undertaken  many 
incentive  measures  not  only  to  produce  immediate 
results,  but  also,  and  in  particular,  to  create  lasting 
momentum  and  ensure  sustainable  development.  It  is 
from  that  perspective  that  Morocco  has  decided  to 
provide  free  access  to  exports  from  Africa’s  least 
developed countries. Consultations are under way with 
other countries with a view to trade liberalization. 

Thus, Morocco has committed itself to promoting 
commercial  trade  with  the  countries  of  the  West 
African Economic and Monetary Union and is about to 
conclude  a  free-trade  agreement  with 
the  States 
members  of  that  organization  to  strengthen  trade  and 
investment cooperation. Furthermore, in 2001 Morocco 
joined 
the  Community  of  Sahelo-Saharan  States, 
comprising  16  countries  of  the  region.  We  remain 
to 
A/62/PV.27
sectors  — 
sector.  Many 
also  developed 
actively  engaged  in  other  processes  involving  North 
African countries. 

Promoting  partnerships  with  countries  of  our 
continent is particularly important to us. Indeed, within 
the  framework  of  our  activities  to  fulfil  NEPAD’s 
objectives  and  priorities,  Morocco  encourages  the 
establishment  of  partnerships  with  our  partners  on  the 
African  continent,  involving  the  participation  of  the 
private 
particularly 
infrastructure,  telecommunications,  banking,  air  and 
sea  transport,  housing,  water  and  agriculture  —  are 
involved.  

All these initiatives attest to the strengthening of 
Morocco’s  ties,  solidarity,  partnership  and  trade  with 
other  African  countries  in  the  context  of  regional 
economic integration. 

Similarly, Morocco distinguishes itself through  a 
cooperation policy in the areas of university education 
and  training.  The  Kingdom  of  Morocco  offers  more 
than  7,000  scholarships  to  students  from  African 
countries. That is a considerable investment in training, 
which remains a key to human development. Morocco 
has 
in 
collaboration  with  European  countries,  Japan  and 
regional and international organizations. 

to  promote  South-South 
cooperation  accord  priority  to  concrete  projects  in 
areas  vital  for  human  development  and  sustainable 
development.  Ours  is  an  innovative  approach  that 
places 
the  centre  of 
through  a  participative 
development  discussions 
approach 
through  non-
governmental organizations and local elected officials, 
in the definition of needs and priorities.  

Furthermore,  it  is  in  that  spirit  that  Morocco,  in 
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme,  hosted  the  first  African  Conference  on 
Human  Development,  last  April.  The  debates  among 
the  49  ministers  who  took  part  in  the  Conference 
showed  a  real  will  to  strengthen  their  solidarity  and 
their ties of cooperation in order to improve the living 
conditions  of  African  populations.  The  Conference 
adopted 
setting  out 
fundamental  principles  that  will  enable  the  African 
continent  to  instil  new  momentum  into  South-South 
cooperation.  The  Conference  also  made  it  possible  to 
launch  exchange  mechanisms  and  networks 
to 
strengthen  such  cooperation.  Gabon  has  indicated  its 
a  ministerial  Declaration 
social  dimension  at 
Morocco’s  activities 
the  population, 
triangular 
cooperation 
the 
involving 
07-55167 

25 

The  United  States  congratulates 
A/62/PV.27 

willingness  to  host  a  second  African  Conference  on 
Human Development, in 2009. 

In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  reaffirm  my 
country’s  resolve  to  continue  its  efforts  to  promote 
investment  and  development  in Africa  and  to  work  to 
create an environment conducive to thriving trade and 
growth.  We  reaffirm  our  full  support  for  all  NEPAD 
initiatives to that end.  
Ms.  Knight  (United  States  of  America):  We 

should  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  and  the 
members of the Secretariat who have provided us with 
the progress report on the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  (A/62/203),  the  report  on 
implementing  the  recommendations  of  the  Secretary-
General on the causes of conflict and the promotion of 
durable  peace  and  sustainable  development  in  Africa 
(A/62/204) and the report on the Decade to Roll Back 
Malaria in Developing Countries, particularly in Africa 
(A/62/321). 

the  African 
members  of  NEPAD  on  six  years  of  enhancing 
economic  growth  and  good  governance  across  the 
continent. During the past six years, the United States 
Government  has  collaborated  with  NEPAD  on  a  wide 
variety  of  programmes 
agriculture,  power 
infrastructure,  trade  development  and  other  areas.  A 
major  NEPAD  programme  that  the  United  States  has 
continued  to  support  is  the  Comprehensive  Africa 
Agriculture  Development  Programme  (CAADP).  We 
support  the  CAADP  in  six  countries  that  are  meeting 
their  pledges  to  increase  support  and  attention  to  the 
agricultural  sector.  We  hope  that  the  CAADP  will 
reduce  food insecurity by  facilitating  the development 
of regional agricultural markets and trade. 
For the United States, support for NEPAD is one 

way  of  recognizing  that  Africa,  more  than  ever,  is 
taking  advantage  of  the  synergy  between  democracy, 
good  governance  and  free  markets.  In  1990,  the  
non-governmental 
Freedom  House 
classified  24  sub-Saharan African  countries  as  free  or 
partly free. In 2007, 33 are seen as free or partly free, 
with only 15 classified as not free. 
than 

3 per cent  last  year  is  a  sign  that  African  States  are 
succeeding  at  encouraging  entrepreneurship  and 
economic  activity.  Indeed,  this  year  the  World  Bank’s 
“Doing  Business  2007”  reports  that Africa  ranks  third 
Per  capita  economic  growth  of  more 
organization 
in 
such  as  NEPAD,  on  meeting 
We  firmly  support  sub-Saharan  countries 
among  the  world’s  regions  in  introducing  regulatory 
reform. 

in 
implementing  policies  and  creating 
infrastructure 
necessary  for  development,  economic  growth  and  job 
the  Millennium  Challenge 
creation.  Recently, 
Corporation  announced  a  $698  million  grant 
to 
Tanzania  for  infrastructure  improvements  in  transport, 
energy and water and a $164 million grant to Lesotho 
for  dam  construction  and  water  urban  infrastructure. 
The  programmes  of 
the  Millennium  Challenge 
Corporation, the United States Agency for International 
Development and the African Growth and Opportunity 
Act  are  strong  signs  of  the  commitment  of  the  United 
States  to  work  with  African  nations  and  African 
institutions, 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  through  economic 
growth and poverty reduction. 

The  United  States  welcomes  the  report  on  the 
Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries, 
Particularly 
in  Africa  (A/62/321).  Each  year,  an 
estimated  300  to  500  million  people  become  ill  with 
malaria  worldwide  and  more  than  1  million  die. 
Eighty-five  per  cent  of 
in 
sub-Saharan  Africa.  Recognizing  the  critical  need  for 
greater  international  efforts  to  reduce  the  burden  of 
malaria  across  Africa,  President  George  W.  Bush  in 
June 2005 announced the President’s Malaria Initiative 
(PMI).  

The PMI represents a historic five-year expansion 
of United States Government resources to fight malaria 
in regions most affected by the disease. President Bush 
committed  an  additional  $1.2  billion  to  this  Initiative, 
and  set 
the  ambitious  goal  of  reducing  malaria 
mortality  by  50  per  cent  in  the  15  Malaria  Initiative 
focus  countries  by  2010.  Those  countries  include 
Angola,  Benin,  Ethiopia,  Ghana,  Kenya,  Liberia, 
Madagascar,  Malawi,  Mali,  Mozambique,  Rwanda, 
Senegal, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia.  

President  and  Mrs.  Bush  also  hosted  a 
White House  summit on malaria in December 2006 to 
raise  awareness  about  malaria  and  mobilize  a  grass-
roots effort to save millions of lives from the disease. 
These 
combined  with  major 
contributions  from  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria  are  helping 
ramp  up 
comprehensive control efforts in African countries, and 
in all malaria-endemic countries.  
these  deaths  occur 
resources, 
new 
26 

07-55167 
in  net  ownership  and  use  of 
the  enormous  burden  of  malaria  and 



Nearly  one  third  of  these  resources  are  provided 
by  the  World  Bank  Booster  Programme  for  Malaria 
Control,  the  Bill  and  Melinda  Gates  Foundation,  the 
World  Health  Organization,  UNICEF,  the  Malaria 
Control and Evaluation Partnership in Africa, the Roll 
Back  Malaria  Partnership  and  the  generosity  of  the 
American  people,  including  from  those  in  my  home 
state of Kentucky.  

PMI has moved quickly. By the end of 2007, we 
expect  to  reach  30  million  people  with  life-saving 
prevention  and  treatment  measures,  and  by  the  end  of 
next  year,  working 
in  partnership  with  national 
Governments,  the  Global  Fund,  the  World  Bank, 
UNICEF  and  others,  PMI  is  expected  to  make  major 
gains 
lifesaving 
artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs).  
Partnerships  are  at  the  heart  of  PMI’s  strategy. 

Given 
the 
ambitious target of reducing malaria deaths by half by 
2010, effective partnerships, particularly at the country 
level,  are  essential  to  reach  the  maximum  number  of 
people.  For  this  reason,  PMI  closely  coordinates  its 
activities  with  host  Governments, 
international 
organizations, the private sector and non-governmental 
and faith-based organizations.  

The  United  States  is  working  with  the  private 
sector  to  mobilize  further  financial  support  and  draw 
on  its  experience  in  planning  and  logistics  to  create 
robust  public-private  partnerships 
those 
affected by this preventable and treatable disease.  
According  to  a  new  UNICEF  report,  tangible 

progress  is  being  made  in  the  fight  against  malaria, 
setting  the  stage  for  dramatic  gains  in  the  next  few 
years.  With  a  new  set  of  sophisticated,  cost-effective 
tools,  such  as  insecticide-treated  nets,  indoor  residual 
spraying of households and ACTs, the world is poised 
to  radically  reduce  the  human  and  economic  costs  of 
malaria.  We  celebrate  this  good  news,  recommit  our 
efforts and urge other countries and public and private 
groups  to  expand  their  commitments  to  address  this 
tremendous burden. 

To  conclude,  let  me  emphasize  that  the  United 
States supports the members of NEPAD and the people 
of  Africa  in  achieving  peace  and  stability,  freedom 
from  highly  endemic  disease  and  prosperity  through 
trade and economic freedom. Our commitment will not 
falter.  We  stand  ready  to  work  with  our  partners  to 
to  reach 
A/62/PV.27
(NEPAD) 
(A/62/203) 
and 
to 
I 
endorse 
the 
statements  made  by 
meet  these  global  challenges  and  realize  Africa’s 
promise.  
Mr. Abdelaziz (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): At the 

outset,  I  wish  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  report  on  progress  in  the 
implementation  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development 
on 
implementation  of  the  recommendations  in  the  report 
on the causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace  (A/62/204)  and  sustainable  development  in 
Africa. We also appreciate the report on the Decade to 
Roll  Back  Malaria 
in  Developing  Countries, 
Particularly in Africa (A/62/321).  

the 
representative of Pakistan on behalf of the Group of 77 
and China and by the representative of Benin on behalf 
of the African Group.  

Egypt attaches great importance to the review of 
progress achieved in the implementation of NEPAD, as 
that  initiative  represents  a  collective  framework  and  a 
joint vision agreed to by the countries of the continent 
and  supported  by  the  international  community,  with  a 
view 
agreed 
development 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  Six  years  have  passed 
since NEPAD was launched; also, we are approaching 
the  midpoint  review  of  the  MDGs.  The  Secretary-
General’s report shows that most African countries are 
still  far  off  track  in  achieving  the  Goals.  This  is  a 
source  of  major  concern  to  us,  especially  as  our 
continent,  Africa,  is  home  to  the  greatest  number  of 
least developed countries (LDCs).  

their 
obligations in accordance with the NEPAD initiative in 
various  fields,  such  as  basic  infrastructure,  health, 
agriculture, education, information and communications 
technology,  science  and  technology,  including  the 
establishment and the operationalization of the African 
Peer  Review  Mechanism,  which  26  countries, 
representing  about  75  per  cent  of  the  total  African 
voluntarily.  However, 
population, 
Organization 
and 
Development  (OECD)  statistics  reflect  a  drop  in  the 
total volume of official development assistance (ODA) 
provided to the continent in 2005. This is the first time 
this has happened since 1997, and it parallels the delay 
by the Group of  Eight industrial countries in reaching 
their  target  of  doubling  the  volume  of  their  assistance 
for  Economic  Cooperation 
achieving 
goals, 
the 
including 
are 
implementing 
African 
countries 
internationally 
have 
joined 
07-55167 

27 
trade 
represents 
Because 
international 
A/62/PV.27 

to Africa by 2010. This confirms the need for an honest 
and  swift  implementation  of  previous  commitments 
and  for  increased  foreign  direct  investment  in African 
countries. At present, Africa’s share of such investment 
does not exceed 3 per cent, which limits the continent’s 
ability to continue building the national and capacities 
institutions  that  can  improve  its  productive  capacity, 
promote diversification and upgrade its labour force.  

an 
important engine for development in African countries, 
Egypt  concurs  with  the  Secretary-General  that  any 
agreement  resulting  from  the  Doha  Round  of  trade 
negotiations  —  and  any  other  multilateral 
trade 
agreements  —  must  take  into  account  the  specific 
development  needs  of  the  African  continent.  While 
welcoming  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt 
(HIPC)  Initiative  and  the  Multilateral  Debt  Relief 
Initiative,  progress  is  still  slow  in  this  regard. African 
countries  are  in  need  of  additional  and  innovative 
resources to finance their development. The High-level 
Dialogue  on  financing  for  development  scheduled  for 
next  week  offers  a  timely  opportunity  to  call  upon 
donor countries and international and regional financial 
to  seriously  assist 
institutions 
in 
achieving its development goals.  

The  issue  of  climate  change  is  an  essential 
international priority. Here, Africa is one of the regions 
of  the  world  most  adversely  affected  by  climate 
the 
change,  although 
lowest 
contributors 
to  climate 
change. If the countries of the continent are to adapt to 
the  effects  of 
this  phenomenon  and  effectively 
contribute 
it, 
international  assistance  to  African  countries  in  the 
fields  of  capacity-building  and  technology  transfer, 
including 
the  required 
financial  resources,  must  become  an  integral  part  of 
any  international  action  to deal  with  this  phenomenon 
in the future.  
I  would  like  to  further  point  out  that  the  United 

Nations  plays  an  important  role  in  supporting  the 
efforts  of Africa. We  look  forward  to  the  continuation 
and  strengthening  of  that  role  in  order  to  extend  it  to 
evaluating  and  monitoring 
implementation  of 
United  Nations  activities  towards  the  implementation 
of  the  goals  of  NEPAD. That  goes  hand  in  hand  with 
the  positive  role  played  by  regional  organizations  and 
institutions, such as the African Development Bank and 
the  Economic  Commission  for  Africa,  in  addition  to 
its  countries  are 
leading 
international  efforts 
the  provision  of 
the  emissions 
the  continent 
to  address 
the 
to 
to 
through 

and 
that 
facing 
development 
together  with 
the  challenges 
the  vital  efforts,  at  the  subregional  level,  of  the 
regional economic groupings. 

In that regard, I would like to refer to the efforts 
of 
the  Egyptian  National  Fund 
for  Technical 
Cooperation  with  Africa  since  1981  in  providing 
Egyptian support to African countries in such fields as 
health, education, agriculture, humanitarian assistance, 
which  constitute  the  main  pillars  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  This  assistance  is  provided  on  a 
bilateral  basis  or  through  trilateral  cooperation  with 
other donor countries. 

We  also  have  before  us  the  Secretary-General’s 
progress report (A/62/204) on the causes of conflict in 
Africa, 
the 
continent.  Such  challenges  obstruct  the  establishment 
of  peace  and  development  and  require 
the 
international community intensify its engagement with 
African  countries  to  help  them  achieve  their  national 
priorities 
objectives  without 
infringing upon national sovereignty or imposing more 
conditionalities. 

On  the  basis  of Africa’s  belief  in  the  correlation 
among  security,  development  and  human  rights,  the 
African  Union  has  established  the  African  Peace  and 
Security Architecture,  which  comprises  the  Peace  and 
Security  Council  of  the African  Union,  a  Panel  of  the 
Wise,  a  continental  early  warning  system  and  the 
beginnings  of  an  African 
force.  This 
culminated in a partnership between the African Union 
and  the  United  Nations,  through  the  signing  of  the 
declaration  regarding  cooperation  between  the  two 
organizations in November 2006. Efforts are also being 
exerted 
to  prepare  a  10-year  capacity-building 
programme for the African Union, encompassing, inter 
alia,  the  boosting  of  cooperation  in  all  phases  of 
conflict  management;  early  warning;  preventive 
diplomacy; making, building and keeping peace; post-
conflict reconstruction; and human rights. 

The  joint  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
African Union in Côte d’Ivoire, Liberia, Sierra Leone, 
the Sudan, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
have  produced  numerous  achievements.  We 
look 
forward to increasing those achievements by achieving 
peace  in  Darfur.  These  achievements  also  include  the 
restructuring of the partnership between the specialized 
agencies  and Africa,  and  to  an  increase  in  the  interest 
of  United  Nations  bodies  such  as  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  and  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  in 
standby 
28 

07-55167 


dealing  with  the  new  challenges  facing  the  African 
continent. 

The  Egyptian  delegation  shares  in  the  ambitious 
plan  presented  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his  report 
aiming  at  achieving  a  conflict-free  Africa  by  2010. 
Egypt  also  supports  the  initiative  of  the  Secretary-
General  for  a  comprehensive  review  of  the  proposals 
made  in  1998  by  the  former  Secretary-General  to 
establish peace and security in Africa.  

On  the  proposal  to  strengthen  negotiations  to 
formulate  a  legally  binding  comprehensive  instrument 
setting  out  new  global  standards  for 
importing, 
exporting  and  transferring  conventional  weapons,  we 
reiterate  the  need  for  the  Secretariat  to  respect  its 
mandate  pursuant 
that 
resolution, 
to 
establish a group of governmental experts, to examine, 
commencing  in  2008,  the  feasibility,  scope  and  draft 
parameters  for  reaching  a  binding  instrument  on  the 
import, export and transfer of conventional arms. There 
is  still  no  agreement  on  the  principle  of  drafting  such 
an  instrument,  and  the  Secretariat  can  neither  expand 
nor  constrain  the  scope  of  its  mandate  until  there  has 
been a report by the group of experts on the matter.  

the  enhancement  of  African 
institutions  in  the  area  of  regional  cooperation  and 
integration  with  a  view 
trust  and 
promoting economic relations that benefit all countries, 
including  the  attainment  of  better  control  of  the 
exploitation of and trade in natural resources. 
the  Secretary-General 
resolution  61/89. 
is  requested 
to 
increasing 
We  call 
for 
to 
In 
A/62/PV.27
this  disease.  That 
facing  overall  development  and 
requires 

Malaria  causes  more  than  a  million  deaths  per 
year.  Eighty-six  per  cent  of  those  deaths  are  in  
sub-Saharan  Africa.  That  means  that  we  must  try  to 
reduce  the  mortality  rate  by  75  per  cent  by  2015.  We 
look  forward  to  the  publication  of  the  World  Malaria 
Report early next year and expect it to provide reliable 
indicators  to  assess  the  scale  of  infection,  the  success 
of  the  programmes  implemented  and  the  financial 
needs.  The  preliminary  indicators  highlighted  in  the 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  note  that  malaria  has 
the  highest  association  of  any  disease  with  poverty. 
That in turn makes the elimination of poverty a major 
the 
challenge 
elimination  of 
the 
participation  of  all  of  society,  non-governmental 
organizations,  civil  society  and  the  private  sector.  We 
need  to  increase  international  assistance  in  order  to 
find  flexible  solutions  that  allow  for  the  provision  of 
health services to all segments of society. 
We  need  to  find  radical  solutions  to  intellectual 

property 
regarding  medications  and  new 
vaccines  and  ensure  that  we  enhance  national  and 
regional  capacities  to  combat  malaria,  particularly  in 
Africa.  Malaria  overburdens  countries  in  Africa  and 
costs  them  $12  billion  per  year  in  lost  gross  domestic 
product. Egypt launched an initiative, with the African 
Union,  at  the  Sirte  Summit  in  2005,  to  establish  an 
African  centre  to  promote  cooperation  and  share 
expertise  in  the  fight  against  malaria  in  Africa.  We 
hope that the centre’s efforts will be strengthened. 
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. 

issues 
07-55167 

29 
