United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

51st plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 14 November 2007, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

A/62/PV.51
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia)





The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.  


Agenda items 9 and 122 (continued) 
Report of the Security Council (A/62/2) 
Question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and 
related matters 

Mr.  İlkin  (Turkey):  At  the  outset,  let  me  thank 
you,  Mr.  President,  for  convening  this  joint  debate, 
which  provides  us  a  timely  and  useful  opportunity  to 
reflect on the reform of the Security Council. I would 
also  like  to  express  my  appreciation  to  Ambassador 
Marty  Natalegawa  of  Indonesia,  President  of  the 
Security  Council  for  the  month  of  November,  for  his 
introduction of the Council’s annual report (A/62/2) to 
the General Assembly. 

The  report  confirms  once  again  the  increasing 
work load of the Council, in which African issues have 
continued to be at the forefront of its agenda. It gives 
an  accurate  account  of  the  work  of  the  Council, 
although  it  could  be  more  analytical.  As  has  been 
underlined by many other speakers, there is still much 
room for further improvement in the working methods 
of  the  Council  in  order  to  enhance  its  transparency, 
accountability 
therefore 
encourage  the  Council  to  continue  its  efforts  to  this 
end. At the same time, we should also continue to look 
into the working methods of the Security Council. 

Security  Council 
We are fully committed to the early reform of the 
it  more 
inclusiveness.  We 
to  make 
in  order 
and 
its 
further 
enhancing 
legitimacy 
representative,  efficient,  transparent  and  democratic, 
thereby 
and 
credibility.  Those  widely  shared  general  principles 
should  continue  to  guide  our  efforts  in  the  next  phase 
of our work.  

While  focusing  on  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  we  should  not  overlook  the  revitalization  of 
the  General Assembly. The  reform  of  the  Council  and 
the  revitalization  of  the  Assembly  are  inevitably  two 
interrelated  issues  that  should  proceed  separately  but 
simultaneously. 

Despite  the  divergence  of  views  among  the 
membership on the nature and modalities of achieving 
the  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  we  managed  to 
generate momentum and make positive progress during 
the  sixty-first  session,  thanks  to  President  Al-Khalifa 
and  her  facilitators.  We  must  now  build  on  that 
progress  and  show  greater  understanding,  flexibility 
and  cooperation  —  and  thereby  try  to  seek  the  widest 
possible  agreement  among  the  membership.  Having 
said  that,  let  me  make  a  few  observations  on  the  way 
ahead. 

First, we strongly believe that you, Mr. President, 
should  continue  your  informal  consultations  with  all 
interested  parties.  Your 
leadership,  guidance  and 
wisdom  at  this  critical  stage  of  our  work  are  needed 
more than ever. 

Secondly, the Open-ended Working Group on the 
Question  of  Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase 
in  the  Membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  Other 
the  Security  Council  should 
Matters  Related 
to 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-59780 (E) 
*0759780* 

A/62/PV.51 

continue to be the main forum within which we should 
prepare  the  ground  for  an  eventual  intergovernmental 
negotiation. The crux of the matter is not how we label 
our meetings but to what extent we can be flexible and 
forthcoming  with  regard  to  the  enlargement  of  the 
Security Council. 

Thirdly, our future work should be guided by the 
report of Open-ended Working Group (A/61/47), and in 
particular  the  reports  of  the  facilitators  annexed  to  it. 
Those  reports  should  be  the  basis  of  our  future 
discussions. 

Fourthly,  in  every  stage  of  our  work,  we  should 
take  into  account  the  views  and  concerns  of  small 
States and island States on the reform process, in order 
to  garner  the  general  agreement  of  the  membership. 
Without their consent, there can be no reform. 

Let me underline once again our readiness for an 
open-minded  discussion  under  your  able  leadership, 
Sir,  with  flexibility,  inclusiveness,  transparency  and 
constructiveness as the key words to be kept in mind. 
Ms.  Štiglic  (Slovenia):  First,  let  me  thank  you, 

Mr. President, for convening this meeting. I would also 
like 
the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Indonesia  for  presenting  to  the  General Assembly  the 
report of the Security Council for the period 1 August 
2006 
to  31  July  2007  (A/62/2),  which  contains 
revealing facts regarding the ever-increasing workload 
and complexity of the issues before the Council. 

The  second  agenda  item  under  consideration 
today — “Question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council and 
related matters” — has attracted an even longer list of 
speakers to address the Assembly in the past two days. 
That  is  a  clear  sign  of  the  great  importance  we  all 
attach to the issue of Security Council reform. 

The valuable work of the facilitators appointed by 
your  predecessor,  Sir,  and  the  subsequent  discussions 
in  the  previous  session,  have  moved  us  further  along 
on this item and have generated momentum which we 
cannot  afford  to  squander.  We  find  the  proposed 
intermediate  solution  to  be  a  possible  way  forward 
towards  a  compromise.  We  have 
in 
negotiating  a  solution  that  will  lead  us  to  the  goal  we 
all 
share,  namely,  an  efficient,  effective  and 
representative Security Council. 
Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  state  once  again 

the  Slovenian  position  in  a  nutshell:  we  support  the 
to  engage 
thank 
to 
including 
an 
like 
to 
Mr.  Acharya
see  a 
seats, 
(Nepal):  On  behalf  of 
enlargement  of  the  Security  Council  in  both  the 
permanent  and  non-permanent  categories.  We  would 
representative  geographical 
also 
distribution  of 
additional 
non-permanent seat for the Group of Eastern European 
States. We also believe there is a need for improvement 
in the working methods of the Security Council. 

We hope that your leadership, Mr. President, and 
the  necessary  flexibility  among  the  membership  will 
bring  us  to  a  successful  conclusion  of  the  prolonged 
debates on the issue of Security Council reform. 
the 

delegation  of  Nepal,  I  appreciate  this  opportunity  to 
discuss the report of the Security Council (A/62/2) and 
the question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters.  

The Security Council is one of the most important 
organs  of  the  United  Nations.  Its  responsibility  and 
relevance in the maintenance of international peace and 
security  need  no  elaboration.  Unless  we  make  the 
Council  effective,  we  cannot  achieve  the  objectives 
stipulated  in  the  Charter.  In  view  of  the  changing 
reality of our times and the complexities of the issues 
that confront the Council, its composition and working 
methods need improvement. 
The reform of the Security Council is among the 

unfinished business on the reform agenda of the United 
Nations.  Such  reform  should  include  the  question  of 
equitable  representation  on  and 
the 
membership of the Council and the improvement of its 
working methods. Reform measures should be aimed at 
further  strengthening  the  Council’s  effectiveness  and 
legitimacy 
to 
international peace and security, and at increasing more 
meaningful  participation  by  the  entire  membership  of 
the United Nations in that process. 

Nepal supports the expansion of the membership 
of  the  Security  Council  in  both  the  permanent  and 
non-permanent  categories.  We  feel  that  India,  Brazil, 
Germany  and  Japan  deserve  permanent  seats,  while 
the 
Africa  should  also  be  fairly  represented 
expanded  Council. 
the 
non-permanent  category  should  take  into  account  the 
aspirations of smaller countries, especially those which 
regularly  contribute  to  the  work  of  the  Council  by 
sending 
to  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
missions. We  can  also  develop  a  membership  rotation 
in  dealing  with  emerging 
expansion 
increase 
in 
threats 
The 
in 
in 
troops 
2 

07-59780 
troops 
resources 
they  are  currently  devoting 


mechanism  for  non-permanent  seats,  so 
that  all 
Member  States  can  be  represented  in  the  Security 
Council in rotation and can thus focus the energy, time 
and 
to 
campaigning for membership on dedicating themselves 
to  more  productive  activities  in  the  Security  Council 
and other organs of the United Nations. 

Nepal  attaches  great  significance  to  the  work  of 
the  Council  and  has  been  responding  to  its  call  by 
sending 
to  various  peacekeeping  missions 
around  the  world.  Next  year  will  mark  the  fiftieth 
anniversary  of  Nepal’s  continued  participation 
in 
peacekeeping missions. It is currently the fourth largest 
troop  contributor,  participating  in  13  United  Nations 
missions  with  more  than  3,000  troops  and  police 
personnel. 

As a troop-contributing country, Nepal would like 
to  see  a  more  coordinated  approach  and  a  more 
clarified  role  towards  troop-contributing  countries  in 
the  working  methods  and  decision-making  of  the 
Security  Council.  The  Council  can  involve  troop-
contributing non-members in its work more proactively 
and more regularly. 

tangible 
improvement in the working methods of the Council to 
increase its transparency and accountability to Member 
States, which it is supposed to serve. For example, the 
current method of excluding concerned Member States 
from  the  Council’s  consultations  and  briefings  cannot 
be said to be highly transparent and inclusive.  
There also needs to be a concrete improvement in 

the relationship between the General Assembly and the 
Security  Council,  so  that  the  two  complement  one 
another and do not compete for decision-making space. 
In particular, the General Assembly should be allowed 
to  play  its  legislative  role  against  the  current  practice 
in  the  Security  Council  of  adopting  resolutions  of  a 
legislative nature that apply to all Member States. 
In  the  past  session  we  agreed  to  move  ahead  on 

this  agenda  item,  including  through  intergovernmental 
negotiation. We should not delay any further in making 
progress  on  this  important  issue.  Nepal  welcomes  the 
idea  of  an  interim  arrangement  to  break  the  deadlock 
on this important matter. 

remarks, 
Mr. President,  the  need  of  the  hour  is  to  agree  on  a 
process.  The  Open-ended  Working  Group  can  start 
in  your  opening 
substantive  and 
As  you  stated 
We  also 
favour 
A/62/PV.51
negotiations on the content of a package for an interim 
arrangement,  for  which  there  seems  to  be  a  certain 
degree  of  desirability.  Perhaps 
the  Open-ended 
Working Group can develop a negotiating proposal. As 
it develops, that process needs to be further augmented 
with  few  rounds  of  informal  consultations  at  the 
plenary,  as  we  did  with  regard  to  most  other  agenda 
during  the  reforms  last  year.  In  conclusion,  Nepal 
pledges  to  constructively  engage  in  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  with  the  members  of  the  General 
Assembly and we are thankful for this initiative. 
Mr. Butagira (Uganda): I do not have a prepared 

text.  I  will  try  to  be  as  interactive  as  possible  in  my 
contribution.  

First  of  all,  I  want  to  align  myself  with  the 
statement  made  by  Angola  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group.  

My own remarks will be confined to the issue of 
reform  of  the  Security  Council.  Various  positions,  as 
we  all  know,  have  been  put  forward.  This  process 
culminated in the two facilitators’ reports, which have 
been  discussed  at  length.  These  discussions  led  to  a 
decision to the effect that we should build on the work 
of  the  facilitators  and  continue  the  process,  including 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  My  reading  of  that 
decision  does  not  entitle  us,  does  not  obligate  us  to 
start  intergovernmental  negotiations  straight  away. 
Intergovernmental negotiations are one of the elements 
that we will be considering. 

Therefore,  we  have  not  reached  the  stage  where 
we  are  set  to  start  intergovernmental  negotiations. We 
have to consider the roadmap; we have to consider the 
elements that will form the basis of intergovernmental 
negotiations.  I  believe  that  this  process  can  best  be 
conducted  within 
the  General 
the 
Assembly’s  Open-ended  Working  Group  on 
Security  Council.  Therefore, 
this  process  has 
to 
continue and we must build on it.  
the  facilitators’ 

report,  I  did  point  out  that,  as  far  as  Africa  is 
concerned,  our  position  seems  not  to  have  been  taken 
into  account  in  either  of  the  facilitators’  reports, 
especially 
the 
intermediary  approach. 
that  any 
negotiations,  in  order  to  be  all-encompassing,  must 
take into account all of the positions of the group. I am 
very  glad that that  also was the position taken by this 
When  we  were  considering 
last  one,  with  regards 
the  framework  of 
insisted 
thus 
the 
in 
I 
to 
07-59780 

3 

A/62/PV.51 

Assembly  —  that  all  positions  advanced  so  far  by  the 
groups must also form the basis of negotiations.  

It  is  therefore  not  correct,  or  arguably  right,  to 
single  out  one  position  and  insist  that  this  position 
should  form  the  basis  of  negotiations  to  the  exclusion 
of  all  other  positions.  In  our  effort  to  form  an 
extremely  comprehensive  basis  for  negotiations,  we 
have to ensure that all of the positions, plus the views 
of the two facilitators, are all considered as a whole. 

In this regard, the African position has been well-
articulated  and  is  well-known:  in  brief,  at  least  two 
permanent seats with a veto. The rationale behind this 
has  also  been  well-articulated  and  is  well-known. 
Africa  is  a  continent  that  has  no  permanent  seat,  and 
we  insist  that  this  historic  wrong  be  corrected.  Some 
people  have  misunderstood  us,  thinking  that  we  are 
adopting a maximalist approach, that we are saying to 
do this or nothing. But this is not our position. We are 
very  articulate, our position is very well-reasoned and 
we  hope  and  think  that  it  can,  along  with  other 
positions, form a basis for negotiations. 

If  we  look  carefully  at  the African  position,  one 
can see that it states that the two permanent seats that 
we  are  demanding  should  be  given  to  the  region,  to 
Africa as a  whole. But within the African  context, we 
shall determine who will occupy those seats. We shall 
also have the right to recall our member, because, very 
often, a State campaigns to be on the Security Council, 
but, immediately after gaining this seat, sometimes the 
State in question simply pushes for its own interest and 
disregards the interests of the group. In this context, we 
want  the  African  position  not  to  be  disregarded  by 
whoever  is  elected  to  the  Council.  We  insist  on  our 
proposal that there should be a built-in mechanism for 
recall. 

the  best 
criterion for joining the Security Council should not be 
how  powerful  the  country  is,  in  terms  of  political  or 
economic  power.  We  are  not  comfortable  with 
arguments  that  say  that  “country A,  because  it  is  very 
powerful  economically  should  qualify  to  be  on  the 
Security  Council”.  This  criterion 
is  a  bit  false. 
Country B, which is not, at the moment, economically 
powerful,  tomorrow  can  become  so.  Does  this  then 
mean that country B, once it attains that power, should 
now  also  qualify  to  be  on  the  Security  Council  as  a 
permanent member? In other words, we do not want to 
entrench  the  privileges  that  have  led  to  the  current 
Our  position  also  emphasizes 
that 
Lastly, 
let  me  also 
touch 
the 
through 
this  process 
the  United  Nations 
is  continued  within 
fight. If the criteria to join are based on power, we are 
back to the situation of 1945. 

To  avoid  all  these  configurations,  we  think  that 
any  country  is  entitled  to  be  on  the  Security  Council. 
This  is  why  I  want  to  examine  the  criteria  in  a  very 
careful  manner,  so  that  whatever  we  conclude  at  the 
end of the day takes into  account all  positions and all 
interests of the countries concerned. 

In  a  nutshell,  what  the  delegation  of  Uganda  is 
insisting  upon  is  that  this  process  of  Security  Council 
reform  has  not  reached  a  stage  where  we  can  fully 
launch intergovernmental negotiations. There are many 
areas to consider, many loose ends to tie up and we can 
only  do  that  if  for  now,  under  the  President’s  wise 
guidance, 
the 
framework of the Working Group. 

issue  of 
peacekeeping. We  are  very  proud  of  the  peacekeeping 
role  played  by 
the 
appropriate  organs.  I  believe  that  whenever  blue-
helmeted personnel are seen, they represent the theme 
of peace. That does the United Nations proud. For the 
most part, peacekeeping operations are in Africa. But if 
we keep to the traditional role of peacekeeping — that 
is,  carrying  out  peacekeeping  where  there  is  peace  to 
keep  —  then,  I  am  afraid,  certain  conflict  situations 
may not be addressed.  

Take the example of Somalia, where the situation 
has been bad. If we apply the traditional peacekeeping 
approach,  the  United  Nations  will  not  deploy  in 
Somalia,  since  there  is  no  peace  to  keep  there.  Does 
that mean that the United Nations will watch helplessly 
as  slaughter  takes  place?  Surely,  the  United  Nations 
should  be  concerned.  It  should  move  beyond  the 
traditional  approach  and  even  engage 
in  robust 
peacekeeping: peacemaking as well as peacekeeping.  

My  country  is  proud  to  have  played  exactly  that 
role.  We  have  deployed  in  Somalia  as  part  of  the 
African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), and the 
countries participating in the Mission are the only ones 
that are there. We knew the consequences of going into 
Somalia;  we  knew  all  these  things.  But  if  we  had 
folded our hands and done nothing, it would have been 
a  real  abnegation  of  responsibility  at  the  international 
level. So we deployed; we are there. And we know that 
our  presence  has  reassured  the  people  of  Somalia  that 
the international community cares.  
4 

07-59780 



Therefore,  we  call  on  the  United  Nations  to 
examine  its  position  on  peacekeeping,  to  engage  in 
peacemaking in Somalia, to encourage those countries 
that  have  pledged  to  deploy  troops  there  and  to  give 
them  all  the  logistics  necessary  to  do  so.  However,  I 
want  to  reassure  the  Assembly  that  Uganda  is  in 
Somalia for a noble cause and that we are not leaving 
the  country,  despite  all  these  setbacks  —  despite  the 
fact  that  we  are  there  alone.  We  hope  that,  one  day, 
others will join us for the sake of peace. 
Mr.  Piperkov  (Bulgaria): Allow  me  to  begin  by 

thanking you, Mr. President, for this timely initiative. I 
would also like to join those who have expressed their 
gratitude 
to  Ambassador  Natalegawa,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Indonesia  and  President  of  the 
Security  Council,  who  presented  the  annual  report  of 
the  Council  (A/62/2).  We  understand  the  difficulties 
associated  with  the  preparation  of  a  report  that  goes 
beyond  enumerating 
the  Council’s  activities  and 
meetings, and we encourage the Council to continue to 
strive to submit reports that fulfil the expectations and 
needs of Member States. 

I would like to share with members some aspects 
of  the  Bulgarian  position  on  the  other  agenda  item 
before  us,  namely, 
the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security Council and related matters. 

Reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  part  of  the 
international  community’s  overall  efforts  to  promote 
positive  change  and  transformation  of  the  United 
Nations  in  conformity  with  the  new  economic  and 
political realities. Any reform will remain inconclusive 
unless it addresses the issue of improving the body that 
is  at  the  core  of  the  United  Nations  mission  of 
maintaining international peace and security. 

Security  Council  reform  should  enhance  the 
representative  character,  as  well  as  the  effectiveness, 
legitimacy and transparency of the Council’s activities. 
Expansion  should  be  carried  out  in  such  a  way  as  to 
ensure  the  Council’s  effectiveness  and  strengthen  its 
capacities. 

the  debate  on  Security  Council 
reform  has  consumed  much  energy  and  time  over  the 
years, with no apparent substantive result. We share the 
disappointment  prevailing  among  Member  States  in 
that  regard,  although  we  do  not  think  that  our  efforts 
have been in vain. Some progress has been made on the 
issue of working methods. Here, I would like to stress 
Regrettably, 
A/62/PV.51
the 
to 
their 
With  regard 
to 
and  of 
to  successfully  perform 
the  contribution  of  the  five  countries  sponsoring  the 
relevant  initiative.  Their  efforts  have  injected  some 
impetus  into  the  Council’s  efforts  to  achieve  greater 
transparency and openness in its proceedings. 

As to the issue of composition, Bulgaria believes 
that  the  Security  Council  should  be  expanded  in  both 
categories. We  are  convinced  that  some  countries  will 
be  able 
the  duties  and 
responsibilities  stemming  from permanent membership, 
owing 
increased  economic  and  political 
potential  and  their  widely  acknowledged  international 
roles.  Similarly,  the  increased  overall  number  of 
Member  States  in  recent  decades  —  including  those 
belonging to the Group of Eastern European States — 
points  strongly  to  the  need  for  expansion  in  the 
non-permanent category as well. 

the  non-permanent  category, 
Bulgaria  supports  an  expansion  that  would  ensure 
maintenance  of  the  balance  between  permanent  and 
non-permanent  members 
equitable 
distribution  of  seats  among  the  regional  groups.  We 
want  to  support  a  formula  that  takes  into  account  the 
legitimate  and  justified  aspiration  of  the  Eastern 
European  Group  —  whose  membership  has  doubled 
over  the  past  decade  —  to  an  additional  seat  in  the 
non-permanent category. 

My  delegation  welcomes  the  decision  of  the 
General Assembly,  taken  during  the  previous  session, 
to  consider  the  question  of  Security  Council  reform 
during  the  current  session  of  the  Assembly  so  that 
further  concrete  results  can  be  achieved,  including 
through intergovernmental negotiations, on the basis of 
the  progress  achieved  so  far,  particularly  at  the 
sixty-first  session,  and  the  positions  and  proposals  of 
Member States. 

Bulgaria welcomed the idea of seeking innovative 
formulas. We are encouraged by the sense of flexibility 
shown  by  various  delegations  during  this  debate.  We 
understand  the  arguments  in  favour  of  a  so-called 
interim  decision  until  the  time  is  ripe  for  permanent 
solutions.  Given  the  uncertainty  regarding  the  final 
outcome of such an intermediate process, we are of the 
view  that,  should  it  be  accepted,  we  must  envisage 
necessary  provisions  that  would  make  it  subject  to 
appropriate review. As the process advances, we stand 
ready  to  examine  this  and  other  initiatives  that  might 
help  to  give  rise  to  widely  supported  ideas  on  the 
reform process. 
07-59780 

5 
in 
aimed 
in  both 
it  more 
at  making 
the  dichotomy 
transparent  and 
the  Security  Council 
A/62/PV.51 


Mr. President, I would like to assure you that, in 
seeking  the  right  formula  for  reform  of  the  Security 
Council, we will continue to rely on your wise advice 
and  your  able  guidance  in  the  process  of  defining  the 
best way to move forward. 
Ms.  Enkhtsetseg  (Mongolia):  I  am  taking  the 

floor  today  to  express  my  Government’s  position  on 
the issue of structural reform of the Security Council. 
Mongolia  supports  early  reform  of  the  Security 

broadly 
Council 
thus 
representative,  efficient  and 
further  enhancing  its  effectiveness  and  the  legitimacy 
and  implementation  of  its  decisions.  My  country 
believes  that  there  should  be  a  just  and  equitable 
expansion  of 
its 
permanent and non-permanent membership categories, 
ensuring  due  representation  for  both  developing  and 
developed countries. 
Expansion  in  the  permanent-member  category 

should  address 
the  Council’s 
composition  as  well  as  today’s  geopolitical  realities. 
Factors  such  as  a  country’s  global  outreach  and  its 
economic and political weight must therefore be taken 
into consideration. After all, permanent membership is 
not  only  a  privilege;  it  is  also  a  heavy  responsibility. 
Mongolia  thus  supports  the  aspirations  of  Japan, 
Germany and India, which are willing and, we believe, 
well positioned to serve as new permanent members of 
the  Security  Council.  Moreover,  Africa  and  Latin 
America  should  be  adequately  represented  on  the 
Council. 

My delegation supports the creation of additional 
non-permanent  seats,  which  would  reflect  the  changes 
in  the  Organization’s  membership  in  recent  decades 
and  would  give  small  States  greater  opportunities  to 
serve on the Council. In the same vein, my delegation 
does not support proposals to amend Article 23 of the 
Charter.  The  provision  that  retiring  members  of  the 
Security  Council  shall  not  be  eligible  for  immediate 
re-election  has  been  instrumental  in  ensuring  the 
rotation  of Council members  and the election of more 
countries  to  the  Council  than  otherwise  would  have 
been  the  case.  Needless  to  say,  smaller  States  have 
been the main beneficiary of this rule. 

I would like to add that we find objectionable any 
proposals that entertain ideas of establishing a third tier 
of membership in the Security Council. We believe that 
it would result in the devaluation and sidelining of the 

I 
take 
this  opportunity 
existing  category  of  non-permanent  members,  and  is 
not, as such, in the best interest of small States. 

The  improvement  of  working  methods  of  the 
Security Council is an essential element of the reform 
process and one that is of particular significance for the 
majority of Member States. My delegation notes in this 
respect  the  work  of  the  Informal  Working  Group  on 
Documentation  and  Other  Procedural  Questions  to 
improve the working methods of the Security Council. 
Increased transparency, openness in the Council’s work 
and better access for States that are not members of the 
Council,  as  well  as  enhanced  accountability  to  the 
membership as a whole, can only enhance the authority 
of  the  Council  and  increase  the  legitimacy  of  its 
decisions. 

Our  deliberations  over  the  years  have  revealed 
that  all  Member  States  share  the  view  that  no  reform 
effort  of  the  United  Nations  is  complete  without 
Security  Council  reform.  Another  point  of  universal 
convergence  is  the  necessity  to  make  progress  on  the 
Security Council reform track, as everyone agrees that 
the status quo is unacceptable. 
to  commend  your 

predecessor,  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa, 
President  of  the  sixty-first  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, for her remarkable leadership in steering the 
work of the General Assembly and in moving this vital 
reform  dimension  forward.  Indeed,  her  efforts  and 
those of the facilitators were instrumental in generating 
a  unique  momentum  that  has  carried  over  to  this 
session,  as  exemplified  by  the  number  of  delegations 
that are taking the floor in this debate. 

The  last  session  of  the  General  Assembly  was 
marked  by  an  extensive  process  of  consultations  that 
allowed delegations to engage in a focused exchange of 
views on every aspect of Security Council reform. But 
even  more 
in 
adoption  by  the  General  Assembly  of  a  decision  in 
which it decided that the question of Security Council 
reform should be considered during the current session 
of  the  General  Assembly,  so  that  further  concrete 
through 
results  might  be 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  building  on 
the 
progress  achieved  so  far,  particularly  at  the  sixty-first 
session, based on the positions of and proposals made 
by Member States. 
My  delegation  takes  the  current  debate  as  the 

beginning  of  the  process  that  should  yield  concrete 
this  process  resulted 
importantly, 
achieved, 
including 
6 

07-59780 
thanks 
to  express 


results  over  the  course  of  this  session.  We  look 
forward,  Mr.  President,  to  hearing  your  suggestions 
and proposals on the way to proceed. Rest assured, Sir, 
that my delegation shall spare no effort to assist you in 
your efforts. 
Mr. Siles Alvarado (Bolivia) (spoke in Spanish): 

My  delegation  wishes 
to  and 
congratulate  the  representative  of  Indonesia  for  his 
presentation of the report of the Security Council in his 
capacity as President of the Council. 
We  do  not  intend  to  reiterate  the  exhaustive 

analysis set forth in most of the statements during this 
debate. However, we do believe that it is appropriate to 
stress  the  need  to  elaborate  with  greater  emphasis  on 
some factors that should be taken into account in order 
to  contribute  to  the  reform  process  in  the  United 
Nations,  a  reform  that  has  been  under  way  and 
addressed for more than a decade.  
The majority of delegations recognizes that this is 

the right moment in which to make great changes in the 
current  structure  of  the  bodies  of  the  United  Nations, 
but  we  continue  to  observe  the  same  non-convergent 
positions  on  one  side  and  another.  Many  delegations 
have  mentioned  the  fact  that  little  progress  has  been 
made  concerning  reform  of  the  Security  Council  and 
that  the  issue  might  not  be  worth  the  effort  that  has 
been made during all these years of debate.  

The Bolivian delegation takes the view that most 
countries  are  fully  in  agreement  as  to  the  need  to 
strengthen  the  authority  of  the  General  Assembly, 
which,  given  its  broad  democratic  representation, 
should serve as a central axis of the Organization, thus 
averting  interference  from  the  Security  Council  in 
issues that are not strictly within its jurisdiction.  

We  all  agree  fully  to  the  need  to  reform  the 
Security  Council. As  far  as  Bolivia  is  concerned,  it  is 
extremely important that this body should have a more 
democratic membership. I  would like to indicate what 
our  vision  is  of  the  concept  of  a  more  democratic 
Security Council.  

We  take  the  view  that  the  fundamental  principle 
of  democracy  is  the  equality  of  all  the  components  of 
the Organization. But when we have a Security Council 
in  which  there  are  countries  with  certain  privileges  in 
comparison to others, that is not democracy. Nor do we 
believe that the democratic composition of the Council 
can  be  notably  improved  by  increasing  the  number  of 
A/62/PV.51
propose 
a  more 
When  we 
capable  of 
privileged members. When we talk about a democratic 
Security  Council,  we  should  think  in  terms  of  all  its 
members  having  exactly  the  same  rights,  the  same 
powers, the same obligations. That is democracy.  

democratic 
membership,  we  are  also  speaking  of  a  composition 
that  would  reflect  broader  regional  vision,  so  that, 
through its legitimate representativity, it would become 
a  genuine  watchdog 
safeguarding 
international  peace  and  security.  It  is  not  possible  to 
build a lasting peace when, at the same time, there are 
countries that threaten others with pre-emptive wars or 
wars of reprisal for any reason.  

The  current  composition  of  the  Security  Council 
reflects the political situation of the last century, times 
in  which  the  hegemonistic  nature  of  the  victors  was 
clearly predominant. Today, we are living in a different 
era, in which we aspire to achieve complementarity for 
all  countries,  respect  for  human  rights,  respect  for  the 
self-determination  of  peoples,  peaceful  coexistence, 
without modern masters or modern slaves. It is natural 
that  this  new  reality  should  be  reflected  in  the 
structures of the United Nations. 

We  must  not  deceive  ourselves  by  thinking  that 
merely  enlarging  the  Security  Council  would  change 
the  imbalance  that  is  patent  in  the  current  structure. 
Even less effective would be an increase in the number 
of  privileged  countries  with  permanent  membership 
status.  We  feel  that,  as  long  as  there  are  countries  on 
the  Security  Council  with  the  right  to  veto,  those 
countries will always be the ones to take the important 
decisions. In some cases those countries might consult 
with  others  that  might  come  in  as  permanent  or 
non-permanent  members,  but  that  is  almost  always 
done  in  isolation,  without  taking  into  account  the 
general  views  of  the  Security  Council,  let  alone  those 
of the General Assembly. At present in this process of 
reform,  it  is  necessary  to  expand  the  number  of 
non-permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  to 
make it more regionally representative.  

initiatives  aimed  at 
analyzing and reaching consensus on limiting the scope 
of the veto — if the veto has to be maintained in order 
to  preserve  the  unity  and  integrity  of  the  United 
Nations. We have no doubt whatsoever that the United 
Nations  was  born  with  a  body,  with  a  head  and  with 
limbs; we do not seek to  decapitate this Organization. 
For  this  reason,  when  conditions  improve,  we  may  be 
Bolivia 
supports 
the 
07-59780 

7 

A/62/PV.51 

able  to  talk  about  the  elimination  of  the  veto;  but  for 
the  time  being,  we  support  the  proposal  to  limit  the 
scope of the veto.  

The  credibility  of  the  United  Nations  in  the 
international  context  is  ever-shrinking,  and  we  know 
that there is a single and very simple reason for this: no 
decision of the General Assembly, even if appropriate, 
is  of  a  binding  nature.  The  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  does  not  grant  this  power  to  the  General 
Assembly.  I  believe  that  if  we  really  want  to  make 
progress  in  serious  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  we 
must  face  the  need  to  introduce  amendments  to  its 
Charter — amendments that would endow the General 
Assembly  with  powers  to  take  decisions  binding  in 
nature,  and  therefore  duly  heeded  and  complied  with 
by  all  countries  without  exception.  For  example,  we 
know  that  the  imbalance  that  prevails  in  the  Security 
Council  will  always  be  maintained,  regardless  of 
whether its number of permanent members increases or 
not.  If  we  wish  the  United  Nations  to  become  more 
democratic and more representative, we should endow 
the  General  Assembly  with  the  power  to  review 
decisions  vetoed 
the  Security  Council,  when 
appropriate.  We  would  suggest  that  this  proposal, 
together  with  others,  should  be  analyzed  in  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group  on  the  reform  of  the  United 
Nations.  
We are not persuaded that this is the right time to 

embark  on  a  dialogue  of  an  intergovernmental  nature. 
We believe that there is an inherent danger in this: the 
most powerful economic countries might exert pressure 
on  countries  that  are  the  most  economically  needy  in 
order to get them to comply and take certain positions 
on  these  matters.  We  believe  that  this  matter  should 
continue to be discussed and analyzed in a completely 
democratic  and  transparent  fashion  in  the  Open-ended 
Working Group analyzing United Nations reform.  
Mr.  Spatafora  (Italy):  I  thank  the  President  for 

organizing  these  consultations,  which,  following  these 
two days of debate, have been very timely and useful. 
We have found a lot of common ground, even though it 
may  not  appear  so  at  first  sight.  I  also  thank  the 
President  for  his  introductory  remarks  that  are  of 
fundamental  importance  for  all  of  us  in  their  political 
weight.  

I  was  supposed  to  take  the  floor  yesterday 
afternoon,  and  I  wanted  to  be  very  brief  and  simply 
express a few remarks, because I thought that there was 
in 
8 

nothing  really  that  I  could  add  after  those  speakers. 
The  position  of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group  was 
fully  presented.  The  Permanent  Representatives  of 
Mexico, Pakistan, Canada, Colombia, Spain and Costa 
Rica  and  this  morning  the  representative  of  Turkey 
among others presented their views, which I fully share 
and support. I will quickly add that I fully support their 
guidance and leadership, and we are ready to move the 
process forward and keep the momentum going.  

After having listened to the 45 minute speech by 
Ambassador  Sen,  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
India, I feel that if we heed his call to give substantive 
inputs  and  to  be  more  interactive  and  count  on 
everyone’s  indulgence,  we  could  elaborate  a  bit  more 
and act more in the spirit of a constructive interactive 
approach.  

First  of  all,  allow  me  to  begin  by  joining  other 
Permanent  Representatives  in  thanking  Ambassador 
Marty  Natalegawa,  President  of  the  Security  Council, 
for his presentation of the annual report of the Security 
Council (A/62/2). As we have  heard, the issue is  very 
sensitive  for  the  Council’s  membership,  because  it 
involves differing views on the wider picture, the need 
to  preserve  the  Security  Council’s  role,  its  interaction 
with other organs of the United Nations and, in short, 
its “behaviour”. 

There  have  been  conflicting  assessments  of  the 
matter, as we all have heard. Owing to time constraints, 
I  will  not  elaborate  this  point  today,  but  I  would  just 
like  to  draw  attention  to  the  linkage  that Ambassador 
Sen  established,  with  great  eloquence  and  passion, 
between  the  alleged  weaknesses  and  shortcomings  of 
the  Security  Council  as  it  stands  now  —  in  more 
general terms, its alleged inadequacies — and the need 
for  Security  Council  reform,  which  might  bring  in 
more  permanent  members,  even  without  veto  power. 
This would bring about a shift in the balance and in the 
structure of power. The idea is to balance, so to speak, 
the  excess  of  power  of  the  P5,  or  looking  at  the 
substance, to “contain” the P5.  

Security Council reform, with an expansion in its 
permanent membership, is to be seen, from the point of 
view of substance, as part of a strategy of containment 
of  the  P5.  Of  course,  this  is  nothing  new.  We  have 
heard  this  argument  by  Ambassador  Sen  and  other 
distinguished  representatives,  advocating  shaking  the 
tree  and  restructuring  power  within 
the  Security 
Council.  The  former  Permanent  Representative  of 
07-59780 
the  P5 
influence  within 
in  what  Ambassador  Sen 


Germany,  Mr.  Pleuger,  was  very  vocal  on  this  topic. 
We veterans recall this plea for restructuring. I mention 
Mr.  Pleuger  because  the  current  Ambassador,  Mr. 
Matussek, is much more subdued on this point.  

If it is true that we need new permanent members 
in order to balance or restructure the power within the 
Security  Council,  what  puzzles  me  is  that  the  United 
States  —  for  example, Ambassador  Khalilzad,  and,  as 
we  have  heard,  President  Bush,  speaking  in  this 
General  Assembly  —  and  other  permanent  members 
seem to favour expansion of the number of permanent 
members. However, the rationale behind the increase is 
presumably  to  curtail  their  power.  Either  the  P5 
members  that  support  expansion  have  not  understood 
the  rationale,  as  has  been  explained  by  Ambassador 
Sen, or they are masochists. Or, perhaps, something is 
wrong 
and  other 
representatives have been saying. 

In  fact,  the  situation  is  exactly  the  contrary.  It 
may seem a paradox — and we do not have time now 
to elaborate further on this point — but, if one wants to 
strengthen 
the  Security 
Council,  what  you  have  to  do  is  just  enlarge  it  with 
new  permanent  members  without  veto  power.  To 
understand  my  line  of  thought,  let  us  recall  how  the 
Roman  Empire  expanded  and  strengthened  itself.  In 
facing  the  challenges  from  the  provinces,  the  Empire 
strengthened  itself  by  co-opting  them,  by  integrating 
them.  And  you,  Mr.  President,  you  come  from  the 
region  and  you  understand  very  well  and  know  the 
history of the region very well; you understand how the 
Roman  Empire  strengthened  itself.  We  can  also  read 
Marguerite Yourcenar’s Memoirs  of Hadrian  to  see  it. 
From the generals, who were co-opted at the top, to the 
prisoners,  who  were  given  Roman  citizenship,  all  the 
while staying prisoners, all were co-opted. 

In fact, today, for the P5 and the Security Council 
to have new members without the veto is a very clever 
that  strengthens  influence.  There  is  a  great  advantage 
in having to deal always with the same members. There 
can  be  a  lot  of  trade-offs  with  a  member  that  cannot 
block you because it has no veto power, but will, at the 
same  time,  inevitably  tend  to  behave  as  a  fellow 
member of the same privileged “boardroom”.  

Let  us  not  mix  permanent  membership,  which 
implies veto power and can, indeed, make a difference 
in  the  balance  of  power  in  the  Security  Council,  with 
the  permanent  presence  of  a  member  that  has  a  seat 
A/62/PV.51
the  rationale  behind 
without  veto  power.  Ambassador  Sen’s  scenario  is  as 
follows: if you want to contain or curtail the powers of 
the P5 in order to have a “different” Security Council, 
then  you  should  not  settle  for  anything  less  than 
permanent  members  with  veto  power.  Here,  we  can 
also  understand 
the  African 
position  as  it  was  presented  so  passionately  this 
morning  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Uganda, 
Mr. Butagira. 

What  we  will  have,  if  we  have  an  expansion 
without veto power, is simply a strengthening of the P5 
club. Let us be blunt. We will have more members that 
will  benefit  from  the  cascade  effect,  a  point  that  has 
been  so  forcefully  highlighted  by  the  Permanent 
Representative  yesterday  of  Costa  Rica,  Ambassador 
Urbina,  and  before  him, Ambassador  Ugarte,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Costa Rica. 

As  an  alternative  to  new  permanent  members 
with veto power, if you really want to shift the balance 
of  power  within 
the  Security  Council,  maybe 
something  else  is  needed,  something  different  from 
what  Ambassador  Sen  and  other  distinguished 
representatives  have  advocated.  I  do  not  like  very 
much  the  idea  of  containment,  because  it  goes  a  bit 
against  my  thinking.  I  prefer  not  to  go  against 
somebody  but  to  build  together  with  somebody.  I 
prefer to say that we really want to make the Security 
Council  more  representative  of  today’s  geopolitical 
realities.  

Let me now recall, as I have done in the past, in 
1945, in Dumberton Oaks in Washington D.C., the idea 
of  “regional  seats”  was  suggested.  Among  those 
advocating  regional  seats  —  in  1945,  more  than  60 
years  ago  —  were  Brazil,  Colombia,  Cuba,  Egypt, 
Philippines  and  Uruguay.  The  Egyptian  delegate, 
Badawi Pasha, was among the most vocal in favour of 
regional seats. At that time, the big Five flatly rejected 
the  notion  of  regional  seats,  because 
they  were 
potentially very dangerous as a counterbalance to their 
power. 

Today, in the last twenty years, what is the reality 
that we have in front of us? It is regional organizations, 
regional ownership and regional empowerment. This is 
what  we  have  to  address  and  we  have  to  see  how  to 
address  this  within  the  context  of  the  reform  that  we 
have  been  discussing  for  twenty,  thirty,  forty,  fifty 
years.  
07-59780 

9 
talk  about 
A/62/PV.51 


A  few  days  ago,  we  had  a  very  interesting 
thematic  debate  in  the  Security  Council,  organized  by 
the Indonesian presidency, on the relationship between 
the  United  Nations  and  regional  and  subregional 
organizations  (see  S/PV.5776).  It  became  very  clear 
that the central pillars of our system are now regional. 
What  struck  me  was  the  lack  of  coherence  in  the 
debate.  On 
the 
the  one  hand,  we 
fundamental 
importance  of  regional  organizations, 
such as the African Union and the European Union. As 
Ambassador  Butagira  recalled  this  morning,  Africa 
takes up 78 per cent of our time in the Council. On the 
other  hand,  when  we  talk  about  Security  Council 
reform,  we  forget  about  the  importance  of  regional 
organizations.  Somewhere  along  the  line,  we  are 
missing something. 

Have  we  sufficiently  explored  the  notion  of 
permanent  regional  representation  as  a  basis  for 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform?  I  recall  a 
very lively discussion on that subject in a consultation 
with  the  five  Facilitators;  there  was  a  very  vigorous 
intervention  by  Ambassador  Abdelaziz  of  Egypt.  But 
we  cannot  say  that  we  have  addressed  this  issue  just 
because we discussed it on a couple of afternoons.  

the 
that 
representative  of  Indonesia  said  yesterday  that  the 
regional  approach  brought  with  it  some  interesting 
ideas  that  were  worthy  and  needed  to  be  further 
explored.  Moreover,  yesterday  or  the  day  before,  the 
representative of El Salvador flagged the importance of 
addressing the issue of the regional approach.  

That  brings  me  back  to  the  African  vision,  but 
because,  as  Ambassador  Butagira  said,  we  have  to 
listen.  I  recall  that,  at  a  meeting  at  African  Union 
headquarters  at  least  two  years  ago,  it  was  made  very 
clear  that  the  African  vision  —  which  dates  back  to 
1945, 60 years ago — looks forward. At that time, the 
African  vision  was  defeated.  This  time,  because  we 
will be responsible for the reform that we carry out, let 
us not allow that vision to be defeated. 

This  morning,  Mr.  Butagira  clearly  reaffirmed 
that  the  African  Union  is  not  asking  for  permanent 
membership for one nation. So there is a substantial — 
I 
the 
aspirations  of  African  countries  and  those  of  other 
member  countries.  The 
language  being  used  — 
permanent membership — is the same, but the concept 
is substantially different. What Africans are requesting 
repeat,  substantial  —  difference  between 
to 
recall 
like 
Here, 
I 
should 

is a permanent seat for the region in order to correct a 
historical imbalance. 

What  we  must  do  now  is,  rather  than  trying  to 
split the African Union, to see whether it is possible to 
apply  the  African  concept  of  regional  ownership  and 
empowerment  to  other  areas  so  that  they  can  benefit 
from  it.  If  that  is  possible,  we  must  find  ways  to  do 
this,  as  I  believe  Ambassador  Akram  of  Pakistan 
hinted.  We  must  address  how  to  “export”  the African 
vision  to  other  areas,  taking  into  account  the  cultural 
and political differences and the historical development 
of  States.  As  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Egypt 
forcefully emphasized during those consultations three 
or  four  months  ago,  there  cannot  be  different  models 
for  reform;  we  cannot  carry  out  reform  with  different 
models for Africa and Asia. So we must work for a new 
San Francisco in that regard. 

As  I  said  at  the  outset,  the  positions  of  some  of 
the  countries  that  agree  with  the  principles  of  the 
Uniting  for  Consensus  idea  have  been  very  clearly 
stated  during  the  consultations.  Once  again,  we  have 
placed  on  record  our  ideas  on  how  to  proceed,  on  the 
need  to  carefully  prepare  for  the  next  phase  of 
negotiations, on the critical importance of including all 
stakeholders  at  every  stage  of  the  process  —  as  you, 
Mr.  President,  so  wisely  stated  at  the  outset  of  the 
consultations  —  and,  finally,  on  the  importance  of 
continuing  our  work  in  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group,  which  is  the  most  flexible  and  inclusive  body 
of the General Assembly. 

I should like to comment on the last two of those 
issues.  We  cannot  carry  out  reform  without  including 
the entire membership, as you said in your introductory 
statement,  Mr.  President.  In  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  there  are  no  major  players  or  second-class 
players;  we  are  all  primary  players.  Allow  me  to  be 
very frank: I would not like to see a repeat of what we 
saw  during  the  final  stages  of  preparing  the  World 
Summit  Outcome  Document  (resolution  60/1),  when 
doors  were  shut  in  the  faces  of  United  Nations 
Members. That cannot happen a second time.  

It  has  been  said  by  some,  including Ambassador 
Matussek,  that  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  is  not 
the right forum for bringing forward the work that you 
will  lead,  Mr.  President.  To  say  that  the  Open-ended 
Working Group is not effective is to say that the United 
Nations  is  not  effective,  which  perhaps  is  true.  But  if 
the  Working  Group  is  not  effective,  it  is  because  we 
07-59780 
10 

At 
to  engage 
the  sixty-first  session, 


have not made it effective over the past 15 years. The 
United  Nations  will  not  work,  if  we  do  not  want  it  to 
work or want to have its decisions implemented. So if 
we  have  the  necessary  political  will,  the  Open-ended 
Working  Group  will  work  marvellously  well.  It  is  the 
best  tool  that  we  have  at  our  disposal  —  provided,  of 
course, we have the necessary political will.  

the  Open-ended 
Working Group was very successful, thanks to the truly 
outstanding performance of the Facilitators and the two 
other colleagues who succeeded them. They submitted 
two reports, and substantial progress has been made in 
following up on those reports. So how can we say that 
the Open-ended Working Group is not effective? There 
has been substantial progress, and, as we have decided 
by consensus, we must build on that progress. 

Before  proceeding  further,  I  should  like  to  point 
out  that  we  must  not  be  held  hostage  by  the  Babel  of 
languages,  as  Ambassador  Sen  is  always  saying.  We 
need 
in  discussion,  consultation  and 
negotiation,  because  perhaps  we  are  talking  about 
exactly  the  same  thing.  If  we  begin  with  what  should 
be  the  first  point  to  be  addressed  in  deciding  on 
reform —  whether  to  expand  the  Council  to  19  or  26 
members —  we  should  realize  that  those  are  two 
completely different things. So if we decide that there 
should  be  19  members,  that  decision  would  have 
certain  consequences,  and  if  we  decide  that  there 
should be 26 members, that decision would have other 
consequences. But let us suppose that we conclude that 
the  best  solution  is,  say,  22  members.  What  has 
occurred is that we have had discussions, consultations, 
negotiations — it does not matter what we call them — 
the  point  is  that  every  day  we  are  in  negotiations  — 
negotiations  in  the  broadest  sense  of  the  word.  That 
said,  having  addressed  the  question  of  language,  I  do 
not think it has very much importance.  

Let  us  go  back  to  the  reports  of  the  facilitators, 
although I do not want to dwell on their substance, in 
the  interests  of  time.  What  is  the  central  point  of  the 
intermediary  approach?  While,  again,  not  going  into 
the  substance,  I  want  to  draw  attention  to  a  point  that 
was  forcefully  made  by  Ambassador  Wenaweser  of 
Liechtenstein. As  far  as  I  can  recall,  he  has  been  the 
only  one  to  say  —  or  at  least  the  one  who  made  the 
point  most  forcefully  when  he  spoke  the  day  before 
yesterday  —  that  the  intermediary  approach  —  and  I 
would  add  “or  any  negotiated  solution”,  although  he 
was  talking  only  about  the  intermediary  approach  — 
A/62/PV.51
has to be sustainable. Otherwise, as soon as an interim 
solution is adopted, we will start working for a change 
in that solution through a long electoral campaign.  

If we are indeed going to  embark on the path of 
the  intermediary  approach,  it  should  not  be  presented, 
as Ambassador Wenaweser put it, as a “less-than-ideal 
solution” — and that is a bit of an understatement — 

“that  we  would  set  about  to  change  or  further 
refine as soon as it was adopted. Rather, such an 
intermediary approach should only be considered 
if  it  finds  the  largest  possible  political  support, 
which has been elusive for all the other proposed 
solutions presented in the past”. (A/62/PV.47) 
is 
think 
today.  I 
Thus,  unless  we  have  it  set  in  our  minds  that  the 
intermediary  approach 
the  right  one,  as  was 
forcefully  stated  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Djibouti, if I remember correctly, it would be better not 
to embark on that path, since it would be useless to do 
so if there is some hidden agenda behind it or if we are 
simply postponing something that we want and that we 
could  have 
that,  as  Ambassador 
Wenaweser said, if we really believe in the potential of 
this  approach,  that  is  the  path  the  facilitators  have 
indicated, without excluding any other solution. 

Many others, in different words, have, in the last 
two  days,  emphasized  the  importance  of  laying  the 
ground  work  first.  As  Ambassador  Yousfi  of  Algeria 
said, if I remember correctly, in order for negotiations 
to succeed, we have to properly prepare the ground for 
them. The same idea was also articulated this morning 
by,  for  example,  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Uganda.  But  I  would  say  that  the  most  forceful 
language  on  this  point  has  been  yours,  Mr.  President, 
because  you  have  said  that  our  objective  should  be  to 
develop  a  framework  for  beginning  intergovernmental 
negotiations by identifying and reaching agreement on 
the  various  negotiable  elements.  I  do  not  have  to  add 
anything else to that statement. That is what is at stake.  

I could very well mention many others of the 80 
members  who  have  taken  the  floor,  but  I  shall  limit 
myself  to  mentioning  only  two  more.  The  Permanent 
Representative of Egypt, Ambassador Abdelaziz, stated 
that  “the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  should 
lead more consultations” — note that he used the word 
“consultations” —  

the 
“within 
the  Open-ended 
Working  Group  to  narrow  the  difference  in 
framework  of 
07-59780 

11 
A/62/PV.51 


consultations 
positions  between  the  conflicting  interests  of  all 
stakeholders.  Such 
could  be 
undertaken  with  the  aim  of  reducing  the  number 
of alternatives stipulated under every category of 
the  facilitators’  reports  with  a  view  to  creating  a 
positive  environment  that  could  lead  to  the 
eventual introduction of a vision that could work 
as a basis for negotiations based on a proposal or 
proposals from Member States”. (A/62/PV.47) 
to  keep  up 
Here, too, what is at stake is very clear. 
Allow  me  finally  to  cite  the  statement  of  the 

Permanent  Representative  of  China,  Ambassador 
Wang Guangya. With Asian wisdom, he stated:  

“Regarding the negotiating process, we must first 
reach agreement on the entire framework through 
full  consultations  among  all  sides,  because  an 
edifice  can  be  built  only  on  a  firm  foundation”. 
(A/62/PV.48) 

Mr.  President,  I  would  conclude  by  saying  that, 
under your guidance, we need to set a common ground. 
And  that  common  ground  should  not  be  the  lowest 
common  denominator.  We  have 
the 
momentum.  There  is  no  question  of  maintaining  the 
status quo. Furthermore, just to put the record straight, 
there  appears  to  be  some  subliminal  message  in 
members’ statements that there is a group — the Group 
of  Four  or  some  other  like-minded  States  —  that  is 
advocating  negotiations.  And  it  is  never  said,  but  it 
sounds as though there is another group that wishes to 
counter  the  notion  of  negotiations;  the  subliminal 
message is that this is the Uniting for Consensus group. 
Now, this situation is completely the opposite of what 
one would expect. Since the Musharraf-Prodi event of 
September  2006,  the  United  for  Consensus  group  has 
been  the  front-runner  —  indeed,  the  record  speaks  of 
it — the front-runner in asking for negotiations. Before 
the  Prodi-Musharraf  event,  nobody  was  asking  for 
negotiations.  The  only  game  in  town  was  to  sell  a 
product  as  the  best  product  available.  It  was  a  selling 
exercise, not a negotiating exercise.  

So  let  us  say  it  frankly:  United  for  Consensus  is 
the  front-runner  in  asking  for  negotiations.  I  say  that 
just  to  set  the  record  straight.  As  I  said  before  — 
because  it  is  the  central  point  —  we  need  for  all  the 
stakeholders  to  participate  in  the  negotiation  process, 
because  we  all  have  an  interest  in  it. That  is  why  the 
General  Assembly  adopted  decision  61/561 
last 
September, of which we are all well aware. That is our 
guide;  we  do  not  have  to  reinvent  the  wheel.  We 
agreed,  in  a  consensual  way,  to  a  very  important 
decision.  

At  its  previous  session,  the  General  Assembly 
entrusted  to  the  present  session  and  its  President  the 
task of moving this process forward. We have to move 
together, and we must not be pushed. I read in the press 
of  some  countries  that  “we  will  push  hard”.  I  think  it 
would  be  counterproductive  to  push  hard. We  have  to 
push, but we must not be pushed. We have to move in 
an  orderly  and  effective  manner.  We  need  your 
guidance,  Mr.  President.  Above  all,  we  trust  you  and 
we are ready to continue to work with you, and with all 
the States Members of the United Nations. 
Mr. Al-Khater (Qatar) (spoke in Arabic): I wish 

to begin, Sir, by welcoming your election as President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-second  session, 
and by congratulating you on your assumption of your 
high post. We assure you of our support in discharging 
your heavy responsibilities in the course of the session. 

I  also  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  Her  Excellency 
Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa  and  to  offer  our 
gratitude  for  her  prudent  leadership  of  the  sixty-first 
session,  for  her  outstanding  contributions  towards 
invigorating the work of the Assembly and for moving 
forward with the question of Security Council reform, 
which  will  enhance  the  overall  reform  process  of  the 
United Nations. 

The  delegation  of  the  State  of  Qatar  will  focus 
here  on  agenda  item  112,  entitled  “Question  of 
equitable  representation  on  and 
the 
membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters”. Reform is long overdue and the composition 
of  the  Security  Council  cannot  remain  as  it  was  in 
1945.  While  major  decisions  are  usually  confined  to 
the  close  circle  of  the  five  permanent  members,  all 
Council  members  should  be  closely  involved  in  the 
decision-making  process.  There  should  also  be  a 
mechanism  to  ensure  the  full  participation  of  other 
United  Nations  Member  States,  in  particular,  the 
consultative  mechanism  should  be  enhanced  through 
the  involvement  of  countries  directly  impacted  by 
conflict. 

Non-permanent  Council  members  should  bear 
increased responsibility in order to reflect the positions 
of  the  larger  membership  that  elected  them.  An 
expanded  Security  Council  is  essential  in  order  to 
reflect  the  international  community  of  today.  Those 
increase 
in 
12 

07-59780 
issue,  given 
the  dangers 
facing 
remain  —  especially  as 


changes would enhance the mandate of the Council and 
improve  its  credibility  as  a  prominent  organ  of  the 
United Nations system.  

Of  course,  no  solution  can  satisfy  all  Member 
States, but we should be ready to achieve consensus on 
a  complete  set  of  proposals.  It  is  also  clear  that  the 
representation of certain regions, including Asia, Latin 
America,  Africa  and  the  Middle  East,  must  be  an 
objective  and  that  the  large  contributions  by  those 
countries should be taken into account. 
Now  that  United  Nations  reform  has  become  a 

pressing 
the 
international political order, the Security Council must 
be fully capable of addressing the crises and threats to 
world  peace  at  the  beginning  of  the  twenty-first 
century. The  Council  must  therefore  be  equipped  with 
the  necessary 
for  effective  action.  The 
international  community  as  a  whole  should  first  and 
foremost  see  Council  resolutions  as  binding  and 
legitimate  and  the  composition  of  the  Council  should 
not 
far  as  permanent 
membership is concerned — without change, 60 years 
after its establishment. 

The Council cannot afford to ignore the changing 
world,  which  is  witnessing  new  geopolitical  realities. 
Terrorism  and  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  are  greater  threats,  as  are  civil  wars. 
Although  those  factors  should  be  taken  into  account, 
the 
the  appearance  of  developing  countries  on 
international  arena 
recognized. 
Developing  countries  have  become  effective  elements 
that  are  increasingly  playing  a  significant  role  in 
settling conflicts by peaceful means. 

of 
international  peace  and  security  lies  with  the  Security 
Council  and  it  is  necessary  for  its  legitimacy  that  its 
composition  reflect  the  state  of  the  world  today.  The 
Security  Council  should  therefore  be  enlarged  and 
additional  permanent  members  should  be  added;  we 
also  need  newly  elected  non-permanent  members  to 
enable  the  Council  to  be  more  representative.  In  our 
vision,  a  reformed  Security  Council  should  represent 
regional  dynamics.  Its  composition  should  be  flexible 
and better able to respond to global changes and to the 
new power structures. It should be a Council that does 
not support privilege or double standards.  
Qatar  remains  convinced  that  the  right  of  veto 

should be abolished and, if that is impossible, it should 
the  maintenance 
should  also  be 
tools 
Responsibility 
for 
07-59780 

A/62/PV.51
is  regrettable  —  and  we  must  state 
not  be  expanded  for  any  reason  whatsoever.  We  must 
not pretend that the United Nations can remain relevant 
and  important  and  at  the  same  time  be  a  club  for  the 
few.  It 
it 
explicitly — that the political will that is necessary to 
move  from  conceptual  discussion  regarding  reform  to 
actual reform is still lacking. 

We  are  convinced  that  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  has  become  more  urgent  and  cannot  be 
postponed  further.  In  point  of  fact,  our  countries 
decided  in  the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution 
55/2) that joint efforts should be intensified to achieve 
a comprehensive reform of the Security Council in all 
its aspects, and now we have a good chance to do that 
at the current session of the General Assembly. 

The  Millennium  Declaration,  which 
is  a 
collective  vision  of  all  United  Nations  Member  States 
for a better and more just world, should be our guiding 
light; we should not only comply with the Declaration 
in  general  terms  but  should  fully  implement  its 
objectives. 

Last  but  not  least,  during  its  non-permanent 
membership of the Security Council for 2006-2007, the 
State  of  Qatar  has  gained  extensive  experience  in  the 
work of that organ. It has observed the good aspects of 
the  Council  as  well  as  its  weak  areas,  learning  more 
about  its  importance  and  its  real  scope  of  functions 
Unless the Security Council adjusts to the new realities 
in international relations, it will be unable to maintain 
its credibility and authority across the globe. 
We must ensure fair representation of all Member 

States  in  the  Security  Council.  The  State  of  Qatar 
stands  ready  to  participate  actively  and  constructively 
in  intergovernmental  negotiations  to  achieve  concrete 
results  during  the  present  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  in  order  to  accomplish  the  difficult  task  of 
making  the  Security  Council  more  effective  and  more 
representative  of  the  new  geopolitical  realities  of  our 
times.  Then,  no  one  could  question  the  Council’s 
legitimacy.  

In  that  regard,  we  stress  the  need  for  a  united 
position with respect to all proposals and reform issues 
within  the  United  Nations.  Reform  should  not  focus 
exclusively  on  the  issue  of  the  expansion  of  Security 
Council  membership.  Qatar  rejects  that  approach  and 
will  oppose  pushing  any  weak  premature  draft 
resolution  to  a  vote  in  the  General  Assembly.  In  this 
context we stress the need for consensus. 
13 

The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
A/62/PV.51 


the debate on the items. 

May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  takes 
note of the report of the Security Council contained in 
document A/62/2? 
It was so decided. 

The  President:  Allow  me  first  of  all,  to  avail 

myself  of  the  opportunity  to  thank  the  Permanent 
Representative  of 
Indonesia,  Ambassador  Marty 
Natalegawa,  for  his  introduction  of  the  report  of  the 
Security  Council  to  the  General  Assembly  for  the 
period 1 August 2006 to 31 July 2007, in his capacity 
as  President  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  month  of 
November. 

During  the  discussion  of  agenda  item  9,  “Report 
of  the  Security  Council”,  Member  States  expressed 
their appreciation for the role played by Indonesia, the 
current  President  of  the  Security  Council.  However, 
some  serious  concerns  were  expressed  regarding  the 
report  itself,  in  particular  the  lack  of  comprehensive 
evaluation of the various deliberations of the Council. 
In order to preserve the balance between the main 

organs  of 
improve 
transparency  and  strengthen  cooperation  between  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council,  many 
participants  in  the  debate  stressed  the  importance  that 
the  report  should  in  future  be  more  analytical  and 
substantive.  That  is  why  we  will  probably  have  to 
pursue  a  course  where  we  seek  simultaneously  to 
revitalize  the  General  Assembly  and  to  reform  the 
Security Council. 

I  am  particularly  pleased  to  be  able  to  state  that 
we  have  had  a  very  profound  and,  above  all, 
comprehensive  and  fruitful  discussion  on  Security 
Council reform under agenda item 122. It was a frank 
and  effective  dialogue,  which  provided  valuable  input 
for further General Assembly deliberations on this very 
important  aspect  of  the  overall  United  Nations  reform 
agenda. It fully supported the notion that the reform of 
the United Nations system is one of the priority issues 
for the sixty-second session of the General Assembly. 
clear 

commitment  of  Member  States  to  embark  upon  a  new 
stage that offers the prospect of achieving the ultimate 
goal of comprehensive reform of the Security Council. 
Delegates,  you  have  paved  the  way  towards  the 
objective  of  developing  a  framework  to  identify  and 
also  demonstrated 
this  Organization 
The  debate 
and 
the 
to 
and 
the 
prudent 
Thirdly, 
Secondly, 
the  way 
forward  ought 
Fourthly, the Open-ended Working Group should 
framework  and 
reach  agreement  on  the  various  negotiable  elements 
that would then allow us to arrive at the point to begin 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  In  other  words,  the 
bridge  between  the  results  achieved  during  the  sixty-
first  session  and  the  way  forward  during  the  sixty-
second  session  needs  to  be  constructed. The  pillars  of 
the  edifice  called  intergovernmental  negotiations  must 
be set up in the manner that this Assembly has defined 
them during the debate that we are now concluding. 

First, we must bear in mind that Security Council 
reform  is  an  integral  part  of  strengthening  the  United 
Nations.  It  must,  therefore,  go  hand  in  hand  with  the 
transformation of the wider United Nations system. 

principle-oriented 
guidance  by  the  President  of  the  General Assembly  is 
required,  although  it  must be  based  on  a  joint  venture 
with Member States in good faith and mutual respect. 

to  be 
accomplished  through  an  objective  and  transparent 
process  starting  with  identifying  the  negotiables  in 
order then to move to intergovernmental negotiations. 

carry  out  consultations  on 
modalities for intergovernmental negotiations. 

Fifthly,  further  steps  must  contain  components 
and  notions  that  will  allow  the  membership  to  reach 
general  agreement  on  all  aspects  of  Security  Council 
reform, in particular on the composition of the Council 
and its working methods. 
Sixthly,  reform  of  the  Security  Council  must 

accommodate  the  interests  and  concerns  of  all  sides, 
especially those who are currently under-represented. 

Lastly,  Member  States  should  refrain  from  steps 
that  could  serve  to  undermine  the  current  momentum 
and consensus and seek to continue a process aimed at 
achieving result-oriented solutions. 

Let  me  briefly  refer  to  some  sparks  that  have 
characterized  the  debate  over  the  last  two  and  a  half 
days. Member States pleaded for clear, common sense, 
knowing  that  we  all  have  a  shared  responsibility  to 
achieve results. One cannot agree more. However, this 
will 
efforts,  based  on 
pragmatism,  political  courage,  mutual 
faith  and 
respect,  as  well  as  flexibility  and  the  political  will  to 
reach the broadest possible agreement. 
require  our 
combined 
14 

07-59780 



There were also requests to speed up the rhythm 
of  the  process.  At  the  same  time  we  must  avoid  the 
danger of doing things too hastily. The speed at which 
we  proceed  should  not  be  conditioned  solely  by  the 
authority  of  the  leadership,  but  rather  by  the  political 
will of Member States. 

On the way forward, we should bear in mind that 
all  the  achievements  so  far  are  the  result  of  our 
collective  actions.  We  cannot  afford  therefore,  to 
undermine 
this  collective  political  momentum  by 
calculatingly  imparting  it  with  hesitation  in  order  to 
derail or disrupt the process. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  stress  that  I  will 
count  very  much  on  your  support  and  cooperation  in 
conducting  the  process  during  the  coming  period.  We 
should  all  continue  to  work  together  in  a  spirit  of  

A/62/PV.51
With this in mind, I will shortly communicate to 
constructive  cooperation  and  tackle  all  the  issues  and 
tasks  set  out  by  the  General Assembly  in  its  decision 
61/561,  adopted  on  17  September  2007,  in  order  to 
faithfully fulfil its recommendations. 

Member States the outline of the follow-up process. 
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 

Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 9? 
It was so decided. 

The  President:  The  General  Assembly  has  thus 

concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 122. 
The meeting rose at 11.50 a.m. 



07-59780 

15 
