United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

25th plenary meeting 
Monday, 15 October 2007, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .










  In the absence of the President, Mr. İlkin (Turkey), 
Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 


Agenda item 132 (continued) 
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the 
expenses of the United Nations 
  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/62/478) 


The  Acting  President: If  there  is  no  proposal 
under  rule  66  of  the  rules  of  procedure,  may  I  take  it 
that  the  General  Assembly  decides  not  to  discuss  the 
report  of  the  Fifth  Committee  that  is  before  the 
Assembly today? 


be limited to explanations of vote. 

the 
recommendation  of  the  Fifth  Committee  have  been 
made  clear  in  the  Committee  and  are  reflected  in  the 
relevant official records. 

decision 34/401, the General Assembly agreed that,  

resolution 
  It was so decided. 
The Acting  President:  Statements  will  therefore 
May I remind members that under paragraph 7 of 
The  positions  of  delegations 

is 
considered  in  a  Main  Committee  and  in  plenary 
meeting,  a  delegation  should,  as  far  as  possible, 
explain  its  vote  only  once,  i.e.,  either  in  the 
Committee  or  in  plenary  meeting,  unless  that 
delegation’s  vote  in  plenary  meeting  is  different 
from its vote in the Committee.” 
same  draft 
regarding 
“When 
the 

A/62/PV.25
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia)
to 
take  action  on 
Before  we  begin 

May I remind delegations that, also in accordance 
with  General  Assembly  decision  34/401,  explanations 
of vote are limited to 10 minutes. 

the 
recommendation  contained  in  the  report  of  the  Fifth 
Committee, I should like to advise representatives that 
we are going to proceed to take a decision in the same 
manner as was done in the Fifth Committee. 

The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  the 
draft resolution, recommended by the Fifth Committee 
in  paragraph  6  of  its  report.  The  Committee  adopted 
the draft resolution, entitled “Scale of assessments for 
the  apportionment  of  the  expenses  of  the  United 
Nations:  requests  under  Article  19  of  the  Charter”, 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same? 

  The  draft  resolution  was  adopted  (resolution 
62/1). 

The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  thus 
concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 
132. 



Agenda items 74 and 75 
Report of the International Criminal Tribunal for the 
Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and 
Other Serious Violations of International 
Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of 
Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for 
Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in 
the Territory of Neighbouring States between 
1 January and 31 December 1994 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-54249 (E) 
*0754249* 
A/62/PV.25 


  Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the 
  twelfth annual report of the International 
  Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (A/62/284) 



Report of the International Tribunal for the 
Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious 
Violations of International Humanitarian Law 
Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia 
since 1991 

 Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the 
 fourteenth annual report of the International 
 Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (A/62/172) 

The  Acting  President: May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly takes note of the twelfth annual report of the 
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda?  
  It was so decided. 


The  Acting  President: May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly takes note of the fourteenth annual report of 
the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia? 
It was so decided. 

The Acting President: I now call on Mr. Dennis 

Byron, President of the International Criminal Tribunal 
for Rwanda. 
Mr. Byron: I am greatly honoured to address the 

members of the General Assembly. Today, as President 
of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda 
(ICTR),  I  am  presenting  the  twelfth  annual  report  of 
the  Tribunal  of  its  activities  from  1  July  2006  to 
30 June 2007 (see A/62/284).  

I would like to take this opportunity to extend my 
most sincere congratulations to President Kerim on his 
election as President of the General Assembly.  

The  report  demonstrates  that  the Tribunal’s Trial 
Chambers  continued 
to  vigorously  work  at  full 
capacity.  They  rendered  judgements  involving  five 
accused  and  more  than  250  interlocutory  and  pretrial 
decisions.  Trials  involving  five  other  accused  have 
been completed and await judgement. In addition, trials 
involving 22 accused are in progress. According to our 
projections,  judgements  concerning  five  of  them  will 
be delivered  early next year. As of today, the cases of 
the  six  remaining  detainees  are  at  the  pretrial  stage. 
They will be ready to commence in early 2008, as soon 
as Trial Chamber and courtroom capacity permits. 

The Appeals  Chamber  heard  and  disposed  of  an 
increased number of cases between July 2006 and June 
the 
international  community  on 
2007. Judgements on appeal were delivered concerning 
six  individuals,  bringing  the  total  number  of  persons 
whose  appeals  are  completed  to  19.  During  the 
reporting  period,  over  100  interlocutory  decisions  and 
pretrial  orders  and  decisions  were  delivered.  Four 
accused  have  pending  appeals.  As  a  result  of  the 
10 anticipated judgements to be delivered by early next 
year,  the  workload  of  the  Appeals  Chamber  will 
progressively and substantially increase. 

The efforts of the Prosecutor, Mr. Hassan Jallow, 
continued  to  be  focused  on  securing  the  arrest  of  the 
accused  still  at  large,  notably  Félicien  Kabuga.  The 
three  organs  of  the  Tribunal  have  been  constantly 
sensitizing 
the 
importance of this issue. The Prosecutor, in particular, 
has  conducted  diplomatic  missions  to  several  States 
and  has  deployed  investigators  to  track  the  fugitives. 
Following a report submitted by the three principals of 
the  Tribunal,  INTERPOL’s  19th  African  Regional 
Conference  passed,  in  July  2007,  a  resolution  calling 
on  all  National  Central  Bureaus  to  provide  assistance 
in arresting the remaining fugitives. By October 2007, 
three  of  them  had  been  arrested  in  coordination  with 
INTERPOL. On behalf of the Tribunal, I would like to 
thank  INTERPOL  and  the  national  law  enforcement 
agencies  of  the  countries  in  which  the  fugitives  were 
arrested for their efforts. 
During the reporting period, the Registry, headed 

by  Mr. Adama  Dieng,  continued  to  play  a  crucial  role 
in the work of the Tribunal by providing administrative 
and  judicial  support  to  all  its  trials.  The  continuous 
diplomatic efforts of the Office of the Registrar led to 
successful  cooperation  and  assistance  of  Members 
States  with  the  Tribunal,  including  the  relocation  of 
acquitted  persons.  Moreover,  the  Registry  worked 
successfully  to  enhance  the  public  image  of  and 
interest  in  the  work  of  the Tribunal  by  carrying  out  a 
diverse range of public  relations activities in Rwanda. 
The  Outreach  Programme  also  greatly  contributed  to 
capacity-building in Rwanda by organizing visits to the 
seat  of  the  Tribunal  and  training  sessions  and  by 
producing documentaries and other publications. 

I  assure  the  Assembly  that  all  sections  of  the 
Tribunal  are  coordinating  their  efforts  to  achieve  its 
mandate  and  to  complete  its  work  at  the  earliest  date 
possible. 

In  addition,  the Tribunal  continues  to  coordinate 
its  efforts  with  those  of  the  International  Criminal 
2 

07-54249 
the 
However, 
continued 
assistance 


Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  and  the  United 
Nations  Office  of  Legal  Affairs  in  addressing  the 
residual  mechanisms  that  are  needed  to  achieve  its 
work and promote its legacy. 

and 
cooperation  of  Member  States  is  paramount  for  the 
successful  accomplishment  of  our  vital  mission.  It  is 
critical for securing the arrest of the 15 accused still at 
large.  The  nations  represented  here 
today  must 
recognize  the  risks  posed  to  achieving  international 
justice  if  they  remain  fugitives.  It  is  clear  that  the 
Tribunal’s mandate, as defined by the Security Council, 
may  require  that  some  of  the  remaining  fugitives  be 
considered as candidates for trial at the Tribunal itself. 
The date of their arrest and transfer to the Tribunal may 
impact on the ability of the Tribunal to effect a timely 
completion of all trials at first instance. The referral of 
cases,  the  serving  of  sentences  for  convicted  persons, 
the  relocation  of  acquitted  persons  and  convicted 
persons who have served their sentences are all issues 
that require the assistance  of Member States  and need 
to  be  urgently  addressed  as  the  Tribunal  moves 
forward. Currently there are six pending referral cases 
before the Tribunal. 

Strengthening the Rwandan judicial capacity is a 
key  component  of  the  Tribunal’s  mandate  to  bring 
about justice, stability and reconciliation in the region. 
As  fully  described  in  the  annual  report,  the  Tribunal 
provides support in Rwanda to the judicial sector, civil 
society and academic institutions through its capacity-
building and the Outreach Programme.  

These  and  many  other  activities  were  made 
possible  by  the  gracious  financial  assistance  of  the 
European  Commission  and  the  Tribunal’s  Voluntary 
Trust  Fund,  established  in  response  to  resolution 
49/251  of  20  July  1995  to  support  essential  work 
programmes  that  are  not  adequately  funded  by  the 
assessed  budget.  I  invite  Member  States  to  replenish 
the  Fund  and  sustain  these  projects,  which  defend  the 
Tribunal’s  legacy  and  meet  the  completion  milestones 
set out by the Security Council. 

The  successful  completion  of  trials  will  be 
realized  thanks  to  the  highly  dedicated  work  of 
Tribunal  staff.  However,  I  should  emphasize  the  fact 
that the Registry continues to be faced with challenges 
related to the retention of staff. Staff departures are on 
the  rise.  Unless  something  is  done  to  slow  this  trend, 
there is the likelihood that this could negatively impact 
that  for 
07-54249 

3 
A/62/PV.25
that 
jobs.  This  situation 
on  the  completion  strategy.  The  vacancy  rate  is 
continuously  increasing.  By  the  end  of  September 
2007,  it  had  reached  20  percent  for  professional  staff 
and  above,  as  staff  members  continue  to  leave  the 
Tribunal  for  more  stable 
is 
aggravated by the difficulties in recruiting new staff as 
the Tribunal moves closer to completion. The Tribunal 
calls  upon  Member  States 
to  come  up  with  a 
mechanism  that  addresses  their  concern  in  order  to 
ensure  that  adequate  resources  are  made  available  to 
the  Tribunal  for  the  successful  and  timely  completion 
of its work. 
The twelfth annual report shows that a high level 

of  performance  has  been  achieved  and 
the 
workload  of  the  Tribunal  is  under  control.  It  also 
demonstrates  the  Tribunal’s  unwavering  commitment 
to its mandate to bring about justice and reconciliation 
in  Rwanda  and  in  the  region,  while  upholding  due 
process. 

At  this  juncture,  I  would  like  to  pay  special 
tribute  to  all  judges  of  the  Tribunal,  with  special 
emphasis  on  the  ad  litem  judges,  who  have  continued 
to contribute greatly to the Tribunal’s achievements.  

Since  the  beginning  of  its  trial  proceedings,  in 
January 1997, the Tribunal has arrested 75 individuals 
out  of  the  90  indicted  persons,  including  the  former 
Prime Minister, Jean Kambanda, and 14 other members 
of his interim Government of Rwanda, as well as many 
journalists, 
senior  political  and  military 
and 
intellectuals, 
businessmen. 
those 
individuals  have  been  delivered  in  first  instance: 
28 were  sentenced  to  prison  terms  ranging  from  five 
years  to  life,  while  5  persons  were  acquitted.  During 
the next 15 months, the Tribunal will be moving to the 
rapid  completion  of 
the  remaining 
42 persons  who  have  already  been  arrested  and  to  the 
arrest and trial of some or all of the 15 fugitives. But I 
am  sure  that  all  members  will  agree  with  me  that 
15 months constitutes a daunting challenge. 

I  must  recall  that,  in  the  founding  resolution  of 
the ICTR (Security Council resolution 955 (1994)), the 
Security  Council  explained  that  the  motive  for  setting 
up the Tribunal was to bring peace to the Great Lakes 
region  and  to  deter  the  concept  of  impunity  for  mass 
atrocity.  It 
those  political 
purposes, a judicial institution was established. At first 
glance, the Tribunal might be judged as a success or a 
religious 
Judgements 
against  33  of 
is  significant 
and  youth 
the 
trials  of 
leaders, 
leaders 

international  criminal 
A/62/PV.25 

failure  by  certain  political  criteria.  But  there  are  legal 
criteria by which it must be judged as a court. It will be 
held to have succeeded or failed by the credibility and 
fairness  of  its  trial  process.  More  important,  I  submit 
that  the  explicit  political  purpose  in  its  creation  may 
best  be  served  by  its  success  as  a  court  and  by  the 
fairness of its process.  

While  the  Tribunal  has  introduced  measures  to 
speed up trials, it is critically important to ensure that 
essential fair-trial rights are not prejudiced, so that no 
reasonable onlooker will be able to regard the process 
or  the  end  result  as  unfair.  Nonetheless,  the  political 
impact  of  the  Tribunal’s  work  has  already  extended 
beyond 
the  number  of  persons  prosecuted  and 
judgements  rendered.  Through  the  trial  proceedings 
and  judgements,  it  has  established  an  essential  record 
of  the  grave  violations  of  international  humanitarian 
law  committed  in  Rwanda  in  1994.  It  has  built  an 
impressive and unprecedented body of jurisprudence of 
both  substantive 
law  and 
procedure.  Its  leading  decisions  and  judgements  are 
already  providing  essential  guidance  for  national  and 
international  courts  designed  to  enforce  international 
humanitarian law, such as the Special Court for Sierra 
Leone  or  the  International  Criminal  Court.  It  has 
influenced  and  will  continue  to  influence  legal  and 
constitutional reforms in Rwanda and the Great Lakes 
region. 

One of the fundamental and lasting contributions 
of the Tribunal is the bringing of justice to the peoples 
of  Rwanda  and  the  Great  Lakes  region.  Justice  is  an 
essential  element  of  peace  and  reconciliation.  There 
will  be  no  lasting  peace  if  there  is  no  credible 
international justice perspective that unites, on a higher 
level,  the  peoples  of  Rwanda  and  the  Great  Lakes 
region,  who  have  suffered  from  the  heinous  crimes 
committed in 1994. That is still as true today as it was 
12  years  ago,  when  the  late  Judge  Laity  Kama 
presented the first annual report of the Tribunal to this 
body, in which he stressed, “If justice is not done, there 
may be no end to hatred” (A/51/PV.78, p. 5). 

I  want  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the 
members  of  the  General Assembly  for  their  dedicated 
support  for  the  Tribunal  over  the  years.  That  support 
has  been  instrumental  in  furthering  the  common 
practice worldwide of fighting against the impunity of 
those  responsible  for  war  crimes,  crimes  against 
humanity and genocide. 

I  stand  before  the  Assembly  to  reiterate  our 
unwavering  commitment  to  the  mandate  given  to  the 
Tribunal,  to  the  implementation  of  its  completion 
strategy  and  to  bringing  to  justice  those  persons  who 
were  most  responsible  for  the  genocide  and  the 
violations of international humanitarian law in Rwanda 
in  1994.  Our  work  will  not  be  completed  until  we 
establish  the  guilt  or  innocence  of  the  accused,  bring 
justice  to  victims  of  the  massive  crimes  that  were 
committed  and  establish  a  record  of  facts  that  can  aid 
reconciliation  in  Rwanda.  I  respectfully  request  the 
continued assistance of all Member States as we pursue 
our  commitment  to  completing  the  trials  and  to 
guaranteeing  the  triumph  of  international  justice  and 
the fight against impunity. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Judge 

Fausto  Pocar,  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia.  
Mr.  Pocar:  I  am  honoured  to  appear  before 

members today for the second time as President of the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal 
the  Former 
Yugoslavia,  to  present  to  the  General  Assembly  the 
fourteenth  annual 
(see 
A/62/172). 

Before  I  begin  my  address,  I  would  like  to 
congratulate  President Kerim on his recent election as 
President of the General Assembly. Let me also express 
my deep gratitude to the members of the Assembly for 
the  crucial  support  that  they  have  given  the  Tribunal 
since its inception. I wish to acknowledge that without 
that  support,  the  International  Tribunal  would  not 
represent, as it does today, a beacon in the development 
and  enforcement  of 
justice  and  a 
mechanism for advancing the rule of law in the region 
of the former Yugoslavia. 

In my address today, I would like to consider for 
a  moment  the  impact  of  the  work  of  the  Tribunal  on 
what  was,  at  the  time  of  its  establishment,  an  as  yet 
untested  belief  in  the  idea  that  international  criminal 
law  was  not  only  enforceable  but  capable  of 
contributing  to  the  restoration  of  international  peace 
and  security.  When,  in  the  wake  of  reports  of  untold 
atrocities  arising  from  the  conflict  in  the  former 
Yugoslavia,  the  Security  Council  determined  in  its 
wisdom  to  create  an  international  criminal  tribunal,  it 
did so without precedent and with little real assurance 
of  whether  such  an 
tribunal  could 
succeed.  
the  Tribunal 
international 
for 
report  of 
international 
4 

07-54249 
its 
level, 
through 
loans  and 
substantive 
the  more  practical 
the  Tribunal’s  achievements  on 



The  Tribunal  has  not  only  demonstrated  that 
international  criminal  law  is,  in  fact,  an  enforceable 
body  of  law,  but  has  also  acted  as  a  catalyst  for  the 
proliferation  of  other  ad  hoc  international  or  mixed 
tribunals  administering  international  criminal  justice, 
in  relation  to  Rwanda,  Sierra  Leone,  Cambodia,  East 
Timor,  Lebanon  and,  of  course,  for  the  establishment 
of  the  permanent  International  Criminal  Court.  The 
influence  of 
the 
decision  to  establish  these  other  bodies  and  the 
importance  of 
and  procedural 
jurisprudence  to  the  success  of  these  institutions  has 
the 
been  profound.  At 
International  Tribunal  has  also  supported 
these 
institutions 
transfers  of  our 
experienced staff and through training workshops. The 
message proclaimed by the Tribunal and now by all of 
the  successor  institutions  is  clear  —  there  will  be  no 
impunity where there is international will. 
In  reporting  on  the  progress  of  the  Tribunal,  I 

must draw the attention of the Assembly to the fact that 
the  International Tribunal  is  also  an  example  in  terms 
of  efficiency.  By  way  of  illustration,  the  most  current 
figures  show  that  the  Tribunal  has  indicted  a  total  of 
161 accused persons, with trial and appeal proceedings 
completed to date against 109 of those persons, if one 
also  considers  the  appeal  judgment  to  be  delivered 
tomorrow in the Halilović case. Currently, proceedings 
in seven cases concerning eight persons are pending on 
appeal. Additionally, appeals in a case concerning three 
persons  are  expected.  Further,  25  accused  in  seven 
cases  are  in  trial  proceedings.  Only  12  accused  are 
awaiting trial and, unfortunately, four fugitives remain 
at large. In fact, taking into account that most cases are 
heard  at  both  first  instance  and  on  appeal,  the 
International Tribunal has issued more than three times 
the  number  of  judicial  decisions  than  all  the  other 
international  criminal  courts  and 
taken 
together. In other words, the efficiency of the Tribunal 
remains unparalleled today.  

Currently,  the  International Tribunal  is  operating 
at  unprecedented  speed,  with  seven  trials  running 
simultaneously  in  its  three  courtrooms.  To  conduct 
these trials, a number of Tribunal’s ad litem judges sit 
on two cases simultaneously, either as full judges or as 
reserve  judges.  Accordingly,  many  judges  sit  from 
early  in  the  morning  into  the  evening.  In  addition, 
several of the permanent judges are preparing for new 
trials  while  finishing  judgement  in  another  case  and, 
tribunals 
A/62/PV.25
the 
Likewise, 
judgement.  All  of 
where possible, starting new trials while working on an 
outstanding 
International 
Tribunal’s  trial  judges,  permanent  and  ad  litem,  are 
working at maximum capacity.  

judges  have  had  an 
the  appeals 
exceptionally  productive  year,  rendering  a  record 
11 judgments,  both  in  International  Criminal  Tribunal 
for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  and  International 
Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) cases, including 
seven  judgments  in  the  last  six  months.  That  is  in 
addition  to  hundreds  of  interlocutory  decisions,  over 
decisions  on  review  and  reconsideration,  and  two 
contempt decisions issued.  

As President of the International Tribunal, I have 
been  heartened  by  the  commitment  and  dedication 
shown  by  all  of  the  judges  of  the Tribunal  to  meeting 
the  objectives  of  the  completion  strategy  without 
sacrificing  due  process  and  to  retaining  the  crucial 
support of the international community. I am confident 
that the General Assembly will share my appreciation.  

In  addition  to  the  judgements  it  issues,  the 
Tribunal  has  remained  focused  on  ensuring  that  the 
countries  on  whose  soil  the  conflicts  were  fought  are 
benefiting  as  much  as  possible  from  its  work.  Indeed, 
through  its  ability  to  refer  the  cases  of  mid-  to  low-
level  accused  to  the  courts  of  the  region,  pursuant  to 
rule 11 bis of its  rules of procedure  and  evidence, the 
International  Tribunal  is  helping  to  establish  those 
courts  as 
the  domestic 
prosecution of war crimes cases.  
As part of their commitment to ensuring that the 

courts of the region have the capacity to prosecute war 
crimes 
international 
standards, the judges of the International Tribunal have 
welcomed  members  of  courts  of  the  region  to  the 
International  Tribunal  on 
to 
participate  in  round  table  discussions  and  workshops 
and  have  also  travelled  to  the  region  themselves  to 
participate in local conferences, where they have been 
able to share their experiences and exchange expertise 
on a range of subjects.  

Such meetings have led to a growing partnership 
between  judges  of  the  International  Tribunal  and 
judges  of  the  domestic  courts  and  in  that  spirit  the 
International  Tribunal  recently  amended  its  rules  of 
procedure  and  evidence 
judicial 
authorities to directly petition the Tribunal’s judges for 
access  to  protected  information  held  by  the  Tribunal 
in  accordance  with 
several  occasions 
the  national 
to  allow 
leaders 
cases 
in 
local 
07-54249 

5 

to 
facilitate 
appropriate, 
A/62/PV.25 

and  relevant  to  local  proceedings.  The  importance  of 
opening  up  the  materials  of  the  International Tribunal 
to those courts is critical to preserving the legacy of the 
Tribunal  through  their  continued  prosecution  of  war 
crimes cases.  
In addition, the Prosecutor has developed parallel 

cooperative  relationships  with  prosecutors  of 
the 
region  through  training  sessions,  conferences  and 
seminars  aimed  at  furthering  the  rule  of  law.  The 
Office of the Prosecutor has also been instrumental in 
providing  relevant  materials  to  the  authorities  in  the 
region  and  in  granting  direct  access  to  its  electronic 
databases,  where 
the 
prosecution  by 
local  prosecutors  of  alleged  war 
criminals not indicted by the International Tribunal.  

While the judges and the Prosecutor have worked 
with the relevant judicial and prosecutorial authorities, 
the  Registry  has,  through  the  Tribunal’s  outreach 
programme, also continued its outreach efforts towards 
local populations to disseminate awareness of the work 
of  the Tribunal  and  provide  information  and  access  to 
its  judgements  and  decisions.  This  work  has  been 
instrumental in gaining the support of people from the 
region  for  the  work  of  the  Tribunal  and  in  furthering 
domestic prosecution of war crimes cases.  

As  the  International  Tribunal  comes  closer  to 
completing  its  mandate,  the  importance  of  ensuring 
local  judicial  capacity  becomes  all  the  more  pressing. 
It  is  these  local  courts  that  will  carry  on  what  I 
consider  to  be  the  real  legacy  of  the  International 
Tribunal — our contribution to ending impunity. In that 
respect,  the  international  community  must  ensure  that 
local  courts  can  avail  themselves  of  the  resources 
necessary to ensure the integrity of the prosecutions of 
persons  accused  of  serious  violations  of  international 
humanitarian  law.  In  particular,  I  note  the  need  for 
additional training of prison staff and for ensuring the 
provision  of  conditions  of  detention  that  conform  to 
international human rights standards.  

As the completion strategy’s final dates loom, the 
International Tribunal has also focused its attention on 
other issues of importance to its legacy. In conjunction 
with 
the 
12 residual  issues  that  will  remain  following  the 
completion  of  cases  currently  pending  on  its  docket. 
Those 
important  matters  such  as 
outstanding  fugitives,  witness  protection,  enforcement 
the  Tribunal  has 
issues  concern 
the  ICTR, 
identified 
to 
to 
the 
the 
tied 
that 
ensure 
arrested 
tribunals 
long-standing 
fugitives  were 
and  commutation  of  sentences,  requests  for  review  of 
judgements and archives. 

Currently,  the  Tribunal  is  working  with  the 
Security  Council  Working  Group  on  the  ad  hoc 
international 
residual 
mechanisms  are  in  place  to  deal  with  all  of  these 
matters and to guarantee the continued integrity of the 
Tribunal’s work. In that respect, a final paper on legacy 
issues  was  submitted  in  September  of  this  year.  The 
Tribunal  will  continue  its  work  with  the  Working 
Group in the coming months. 
The  timely  completion  of  the  mandate  of  the 

Tribunal  has  always  been 
issue  of 
cooperation  of  the  States  in  the  region,  including  in 
respect  of  the  arrest  of  outstanding  fugitives.  During 
the reporting period, two of the International Tribunal’s 
six 
and 
transferred  to  The  Hague:  Zdravko  Tolimir  from 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  in  May  2007,  and  Vlastimir 
Dordevič  from  Montenegro  on  17  June  2007.  Those 
arrests  were  made  with 
cooperation  of 
Governments  in  the  region:  Serbia  and  the  Republika 
Srpska,  an  entity  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  assisted 
in 
the  apprehension  of  Tolimir  and  Serbia  and 
Montenegro  assisted  with  the  arrest  of  Vlastimir 
Dordevič. 

While  the  International  Tribunal  is  appreciative 
of the cooperation of those States in the arrests of those 
two  fugitives,  it  remains  frustrated  with  the  continued 
failure  of  the  international  community  to  arrest  the 
remaining  fugitives.  We  do  not  believe  that  nobody 
knows  where  these  fugitives  are  and  consider  the 
continued  failure  to  effect  their  arrests,  particularly 
those of Radovan Karadžić and Ratko Mladić, to be an 
affront  to  justice  and  the  rule  of  law  over  impunity. 
Indeed, that  failure stands  in contradiction to the very 
principles  that  were  proclaimed  by  the  international 
community  and  upon  which  the  establishment  of  the 
Tribunal was based. Accordingly, I again urge all States 
to abide by their international obligations to effect the 
arrest  of  all  of  these  fugitives  immediately.  Without 
their  arrest  and  trial,  the  mission  of  the  International 
Tribunal will not be completed.  

Another  issue  that  involves  State  cooperation  is 
the relocation of witnesses and the enforcement of the 
International Tribunal’s sentences. During the reporting 
period, the Registry managed to secure two additional 
agreements on the relocation of sensitive witnesses and 
6 

07-54249 
from 
judges.  The 
results  directly 
to  maintain  and 
enforcement-of-sentence 


two 
agreements,  with 
Belgium and the Ukraine, the latter being the first East 
European State to enter into such an agreement. While 
this represents progress, the Tribunal calls on all States 
which have not yet entered into any such agreements to 
do  so  in  order  that  the  burden  of  international  justice 
can be better shared. 

I  would  now  like  to  turn  to  another  issue  of 
pressing concern to me as President of the International 
Tribunal,  that  is,  the  retention  of  the  International 
Tribunal’s  qualified  and  talented  staff  and  of  the 
International  Tribunal’s 
International 
Tribunal’s  efficiency 
the 
commitment  and  dedication  of  the  individuals  who 
carry out its  activities. The judges and  staff employed 
by the International Tribunal are motivated by the ideal 
of  serving  the  cause  of  international  justice  and  by 
their  desire  to  bring  justice  to  the  victims  of  the 
conflict.  However,  working  at  the  Tribunal  is  not 
without  its  pressures,  related  to  the  need  to  speed  up 
our  work  to  meet  completion  strategy  dates,  the 
reassessments  of  our 
constant  assessments  and 
increase  current 
methodologies 
efficiency 
the  continuing 
support  of  the  international  community  and  of  course, 
pressures about the future.  

We  all  know  that  the  Tribunal  will  complete  its 
work  in  the  near  future  and  that  those  who  have 
dedicated many years of service to it will have to seek 
new career opportunities. Member States have assisted 
us  with  improving  conditions  and  further  training 
opportunities for our staff and we look forward to their 
continued support for further measures as we approach 
the downsizing phase of the Tribunal. We will continue 
to work with the United Nations Secretariat to develop 
measures  which  may  further 
the  career 
prospects  for  our  staff  as  we  close.  It  is  with  concern 
that I note that, already, talented members of staff are 
leaving the Tribunal for more attractive employment in 
other institutions dedicated to the cause of international 
justice,  including  taking  up  offers  from  other  United 
Nations  bodies.  I  urge  the  General  Assembly  not  to 
overlook  the  impact  of  staff  departures  on  the  timely 
completion  of 
the  International  Tribunal’s  work. 
Member  States’  support  for  suitable  staff  retention 
policies is critical.  

I must also express to the  General Assembly my 
concern  about  the  retention  of  the  Tribunal’s  judges. 
Members  of  the  Assembly  are  aware  of  the  long-
the  question  of 
increase 
levels, 
A/62/PV.25
in 
the 
the 
ICTY 
judges 
International  Court  of 
standing  issue  of  the  conditions  and  service  of  the 
International  Tribunal’s  judges  and,  in  particular,  the 
discrimination  suffered  by 
the 
assessment  of  their  pension  entitlements  vis-à-vis  the 
judges  of 
Justice. 
Unfortunately,  a  failure  to  resolve  this  issue  in  a 
favourable manner is likely to result in the departure of 
some  of  the  Tribunal’s  most  experienced  judges,  who 
will  feel  compelled  to  leave  the  Tribunal  to  secure 
pension  entitlements  in  their  national  jurisdictions. 
This is not a situation that would sit comfortably with 
the  timely  and  efficient  completion  of  the  Tribunal’s 
work. I invite members of the Assembly to look closely 
at  this  issue  and  its  likely  broader  implications  before 
making a binding decision on these matters. 
The noteworthy achievements of the International 

Tribunal  thus  far  have  been  possible  because  of  the 
unwavering support of members of the Assembly. With 
their  assistance, 
International  Tribunal  has 
demonstrated to the world that fighting impunity while 
upholding due process norms is possible.  

However,  I  must  reiterate  that  the  Assembly’s 
continued support will be more vital than ever in these 
last few years of the Tribunal’s mandate. I call upon all 
Member States to assist us in meeting our commitment 
to seeing the work of the Tribunal successfully through 
to the end. This is not only necessary to ensure that the 
historic work of the Tribunal is complete; it is essential 
to the cause of international justice and as a means of 
addressing  threats  to  international  peace  and  security 
and of promoting human rights.  

successful 
the 
International Tribunal is shoring up the foundations of 
a  still  nascent  international  system  of  criminal  justice 
comprising a growing number of international judicial 
institutions acting together in a coordinated partnership 
with 
International 
Tribunal’s  pioneering  role  and  its  unprecedented  body 
of  practice  and  case  law  will  be  its  most  significant 
achievement and the continuation of its work by local 
prosecutions  of  war  criminals  in  the  region  its  real 
legacy.  
The Acting President: I now have the honour of 

giving  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ivo  Sanader, 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. 
Mr. Sanader (Croatia): It is a great privilege for 

me to participate in the deliberations at this session of 
the  General  Assembly  dedicated  to  the  International 
jurisdictions.  The 
prosecution, 
domestic 
With 
each 
07-54249 

7 
criminal 
for 
adjudication 
A/62/PV.25 

Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY).  
I  listened  with  the  utmost  interest  to  the  introduction 
by  the  President  of  the  ICTY,  Judge  Fausto  Pocar,  of 
the  Tribunal’s  annual  report  (A/62/172).  We  highly 
appreciate  Judge  Pocar’s  work.  I  am  also  pleased  that 
the Tribunal appreciates its cooperation with Croatia. 

I want to emphasize that the Republic of Croatia 
was one of the proponents  of the establishment of the 
ICTY — not only as a country directly affected by the 
war, but also as a country committed to establishing an 
international institution devoted to the implementation 
of 
the  purpose  of 
international justice. Now, 14 years later, we note with 
satisfaction that a number of the goals of the Tribunal’s 
mandate and mission have been achieved. Some of the 
major  perpetrators  have  been  prosecuted,  peace  has 
been  restored  and  confidence  is  growing.  However, 
there is still room for improvement. It is only through 
proper  analysis  of  the  work  of  the  ICTY  that  we  can 
draw  precious  lessons  for  the  future. And  it  is  with  a 
view  to  the  future  that  we  have  to  be  thorough  and 
critical in evaluating its work. 

The  role  of  the  ICTY,  and  the  messages  that  it 
sends  through  its  practice,  are  of  extreme  importance 
today,  when  humanity 
continuously 
challenged.  By  properly  and  justly  prosecuting  those 
responsible for war crimes and atrocities committed in 
the  past  in  places  such  as  Vukovar,  Srebrenica  and 
Rwanda,  we  also  discourage  those  who  are  willing  or 
aiming to do — or who are already doing — the same 
things today in places such as Darfur. 

We  strongly  believe  that  one  of  the  aims  of 
reform  of  the  United  Nations  system  should  be  to 
enhance  the  indispensable  role  of  United  Nations 
institutions  in  the  prevention  of  gross  human  rights 
violations  and  in  the  protection  and  promotion  of 
humanitarian  law  and  of  the  rule  of  law  in  general. 
Strict  adherence  to  humanitarian  law  and  the  rule  of 
law at the national and international levels is essential 
for a more peaceful and just world, for human security 
and  for 
trustful  cooperation  among  peoples  and 
nations.  The  prosecution  of  war  crimes  and  of  the 
gravest  breaches  of  humanitarian  law  must  be  fully 
ensured. 

the 
responsibilities  of  existing  institutions,  including  the 
Hague Tribunal. In many cases, the Tribunal has been a 
vehicle  for  justice  and  for  asserting  the  values  of 
That  brings 
is  being 
into 
focus 
the 
role  and 

humanity.  However,  no  institution  should  be  immune 
from  criticism.  Proper  analysis  of  the Tribunal’s  work 
does  not  challenge  its  independence;  rather,  it  is  the 
only  way  to  learn  from  experience,  for  the  benefit  of 
international justice. 

Ensuring  a  just  outcome  of  prosecution  is  the 
only  way  to  discourage  those  who  might  consider 
repeating  such  crimes,  today  or  in  the  future.  Just 
punishment offers a measure of respect for the victims. 
Just  punishment  is  the  best  deterrent.  Just  punishment 
also  serves  truth  and  opens  the  way  for  lasting  peace, 
security and reconciliation. 

With that in mind, I have come here to express to 
the Assembly the dismay of the people of Croatia over 
the recent first-instance ruling in the Vukovar hospital 
case,  concerning  the  massacre  of  patients  at  Ovcara 
farm.  In  my  letter  of  28  September  2007  (A/62/378, 
annex),  I  informed  United  Nations  Member  States 
accordingly. 

Vukovar  is  a  Danube  River  town  located  on  the 
eastern  border  of  Croatia.  Like  the  inhabitants  of  any 
town in any other part of the world, its people wanted 
nothing  more  than  to  live  peacefully  and  to  work  to 
build  a  prosperous  future.  But  in  1991,  during  the 
aggression against Croatia, Vukovar was attacked with 
great  force  by  the  so-called  Yugoslav  People’s  Army 
(JNA).  That  attack  had  been  planned  in  great  detail, 
with  lines  of  command  clearly  established  by  the 
military and political leadership of Milosevic’s regime 
in  Belgrade.  During  the  attack,  the  JNA  had  both  
de jure and de facto command and control over all Serb 
forces, 
forces  and 
paramilitary  units.  Tens  of 
troops 
participated  in  the  aggression  and  the  siege  directed 
against Vukovar.  

Hundreds of tanks pounded the town for months, 
razing  it  to  the  ground.  The  52  mass  graves  later 
discovered in the Vukovar area attest to the severity of 
the  onslaught.  Gunboats  and  combat  aeroplanes  were 
used  indiscriminately  by  the  JNA.  Families  were 
expelled  from  their  homes  by  the  thousands  in  what 
would  later  become  known  as  a  pattern  of  ethnic 
cleansing.  The  survivors  of  the  Vukovar  siege  were 
displaced  and  sought  refuge  in  570  locations  around 
the world. 

Vukovar is the place where the worst war crimes 
in  the  territory  of  the  Republic  of  Croatia  were 
committed  during  the  Serb  aggression  by  Milosevic’s 
territorial  defence 
thousands  of 
including 
8 

07-54249 
in 
the 
its  utter  cruelty  and 


regime.  On  20  November  1991,  after  Serb  forces  had 
occupied  the  city,  261  patients  from  the  Vukovar 
hospital  were  taken  to  Ovcara  farm,  where  they  were 
tortured and killed in cold blood. Out of 200 exhumed 
crime victims, 190 have been identified; 61 victims are 
still  missing.  The  documents  on  the  bodies  of  the 
identified  persons  undoubtedly  confirmed  that  they 
were the people who had been taken from the Vukovar 
hospital. Those  documents  have  been  delivered  to  the 
ICTY,  and  the  Ovcara  massacre  was  included  by  the 
prosecution 
indictment  against  Slobodan 
Milosevic in 2001. 
The crime committed at Ovcara farm, because of 

its  horrifying  nature, 
the 
helplessness  of  its  victims,  occupies  a  special  place 
among the crimes committed in the modern world. On 
27  September  2007,  16  years  later,  the Trial  Chamber 
of  the  ICTY  issued  a  judgement  concerning  three 
former  senior  officers  of  the  JNA.  Mile  Mrksic  was 
sentenced  to  20  years’  imprisonment  and  Veselin 
Sljivancanin to 5 years’ imprisonment, while Miroslav 
Radic was acquitted. 

That  judgement  has  caused  consternation  in 
Croatia  and  throughout  the  world.  It  defies  the  well-
known  and  documented 
the 
establishment  of  responsibility.  The  Tribunal  treated 
the Ovcara massacre as an isolated case, rather than as 
part  of  a  systematic  policy  whose  chain  of  command 
led  to  the  JNA’s  military  headquarters  and  to  the  then 
political  leadership  in  Belgrade.  Although  all  three 
indictees had been involved in numerous war crimes in 
Vukovar  and  Eastern  Slavonia, 
the  prosecution 
restricted  its  indictments  to  the  best-known  and  most-
documented  Ovcara  massacre.  The  prosecution  might 
have  expected  that  the  horrible  crimes  committed  in 
Ovcara would be sufficient for the maximum sentences 
to be imposed, but that did not happen. 

Without  a  doubt,  the  mistreatment  and  killing  of 
the patients from the Vukovar hospital  were the result 
of  premeditated  unlawful  actions  by  the  occupying 
Power.  Therefore,  we  have  the  right  to  ask  why  the 
Geneva  Conventions,  whose 
principles  were 
incorporated into the Statute of the ICTY, were ignored 
in  determining  the  guilt  of  these  JNA  officers?  The 
Ovcara crime was not an isolated incident. War crimes 
do  not  begin  at  the  scene  of  the  crime;  nor  are  they 
committed only as a result of circumstances existing in 
the battlefield. These crimes were preceded by policies 
that had created the conditions for future violence, with 
relevant 
facts 
A/62/PV.25
the 
European  Union-Croatia 
in  Vukovar  by  demeaning 
the  goal  of  ethnically  cleansing  that  Croatian  territory 
and the expelling the non-Serb population. 

That is supported by the fact that, ever since late 
August  1991,  mass  graves  have  appeared,  not  only  in 
the territory of Eastern Slavonia, but also in other parts 
of  Croatia  that  have  experienced  aggression,  such  as 
Banovina, Western Slavonia and Lika. So far, 143 mass 
graves  have  been  discovered  and 
their  contents 
exhumed.  Those  mass  graves  contained,  for  the  most 
part, the remains of ordinary citizens who remained in 
their homes following the occupation, as well as those 
of prisoners of war. 

At  the  time  of  the  Vukovar  massacre  the  world 
was shocked. Sixteen years later a new shock followed. 
Croatia  is  deeply  hurt  by  the  injustice  done  to  the 
Croatian  people 
this 
undeniable, inhumane and deliberate crime in the first-
instance sentence. In this respect, Croatia is not alone: 
the  sentence  provoked  many  negative  reactions  from 
international  human  rights  groups  and  prominent 
individuals,  Government  officials  and  parliamentarians, 
including 
Joint 
Parliamentary  Committee. The  victims  of  this  atrocity 
are sorely missed by their families and by the Croatian 
people.  Let  me  be  clear.  I  am  bringing  back  the  most 
painful  memories  of  those  days  because  I  strongly 
believe  they  must  serve  as  a  reminder  for  the  world 
today: never again! 
This is where the responsibility of the ICTY is so 

evident,  as  nothing  encourages  crime  more 
then 
impunity.  And  it  is  precisely  for  this  reason  that  the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal 
the  Former 
Yugoslavia was established in 1993. 

Croatia expects that upon the Prosecutor’s appeal, 
the  ICTY Appeals  Chamber  will  carefully  re-examine 
this  verdict  and  act  in  accordance  with  the  clear 
mandate assigned to it by the Security Council. We ask 
for  justice  for  all  victims  in  Vukovar  and  elsewhere. 
This  is  of  paramount  importance  for  the  future  of 
international criminal justice. 

It is of paramount importance because all crimes 
are individual. They must not be related to any nation. 
Fairness,  truth  and  justice  should  help  to  close  the 
pages  of  recent  history  in  South-Eastern  Europe. 
Croatia is ready to lead the way in this endeavour. We 
hope 
today’s  post-Milosevic  democratically 
oriented  political  forces  and  leadership  in  Serbia  are 
choosing  the  same  direction.  That  would  further 
that 
for 
to 
07-54249 

9 

A/62/PV.25 

strengthen  regional  confidence  and  cooperation  and 
ensure lasting peace and stability in the region. One of 
the  preconditions  for  this  is  the  extradition  of  two  of 
the most infamous indicted war criminals Karadžić and 
Mladić,  as  well  as  Hadžić,  indicted  for  war  crimes 
committed  in  Vukovar  and  Eastern  Slavonia.  In  that 
way, justice would be fully served. 

The  indictment  against  Milosevic  came  too  late 
after the horrible crimes committed in Croatia to serve 
as a deterrent for new crimes, not only in Croatia, but 
also  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  and  in  Kosovo.  His 
death  made  it  impossible  for  his  sentence  to  clearly 
outline the development of a political policy that used 
aggression  and  the  systematic  application  of  war 
crimes  and  which  represents  the  framework  within 
which all other individual crimes in the territory of the 
former Yugoslavia have been committed, regardless of 
their perpetrators. 

Moreover,  no  indictments  have  ever  been  filed 
against Veljko Kadijevic and Blagoje Adzic, leaders of 
the JNA, who were instrumental in implementing such 
policies  through  military  means,  and  at  the  very  least 
through  command  responsibility  —  but  also  likely 
through  participation  in  a  joint  criminal  enterprise 
responsible for numerous war crimes.  

Improvement is also possible in some other areas, 
and in this respect Croatia reaffirms its commitment, as 
a responsible and credible member of the international 
community,  to  continue  to  fully  cooperate  with  the 
Tribunal  and  its  readiness  to  offer  help  and  assistance 
in order to enable the Tribunal to fulfil the tasks I have 
described. 

The Croatian  judiciary has  shown its maturity in 
fairly  and  freely  trying  even  the  most  sensitive  cases. 
As  a  result,  the  ICTY  demonstrated  its  trust  in  the 
Croatian  judiciary  by  transferring  the  cases  of  the 
Croatian  officers  Ademi  and  Norac  to  the  Croatian 
court. Within the framework of the ICTY’s completion 
strategy,  which  we  fully  support,  Croatia  stands  ready 
to take over all the remaining cases involving Croatian 
citizens. 

The issue of punishment for war crimes relates to 
responsibility  in  a  broader  sense.  It  relates  to  the 
responsibility of the international community to ensure 
effectiveness in preventing conflict and protecting and 
promoting human rights, humanitarian law and the rule 
of law in general. It relates also to the present state of 
affairs in the world. Let us look around us. Evidence of 
time, 
the  EU  urges  States 
to  fulfil 
10 

07-54249 
inhumanity,  violence  and  human  suffering  is  only  too 
visible. 

My  message  from  this  rostrum  is  clear  and 
forthright:  everybody,  everywhere,  should  have  no 
doubt that any and all crimes against humanity will not 
be  allowed  to  go  unpunished.  That  is  our  common 
responsibility.  Only  then  can  we  create  a  better  world 
for  posterity.  Croatia  considers  the  United  Nations  to 
be an indispensable instrument in our common struggle 
for such a future — a future that will bring hope to new 
generations and a more peaceful and just world. 

The world must be a better place tomorrow. This 
is  our  responsibility  today.  Vukovar’s  victims  deserve 
justice. 
Mr.  Tavares  (Portugal):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU).  The 
candidate  country  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia,  the  countries  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidates  Albania 
and  Montenegro,  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic  of 
Moldova  and  Armenia  align  themselves  with  this 
declaration. 
The European Union is strongly supportive of the 

International  Criminal  Tribunal 
the  Former 
Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  and  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR).  The  Tribunals  are 
making  an 
the 
attainment  of  our  shared  goal  of  ending  impunity  for 
those  who  perpetrate  genocide,  crimes  against 
humanity and war crimes. They have played a key role 
in  the  development  of  international  criminal  law  by 
building  up  an  extensive  jurisprudence,  not  least  in 
relation  to  the  crime  of  genocide.  One  such  important 
contribution  from  the  case  law  of  the  ICTR  is  the 
finding that acts of rape and sexual violence committed 
with  intent  to  destroy  a  protected  group  as  such  can 
constitute  genocide.  And  by  bringing  to  justice  the 
perpetrators  of 
the 
Tribunals have helped to strengthen the rule of law and 
promote  long-term  stability  and  reconciliation  in  the 
Balkans and in Rwanda. 

The  European  Union  welcomes  the  ongoing 
efforts  by  the  ICTY  and  the  ICTR  to  fulfil  their 
completion  strategies  and  continues  to  urge  both 
Tribunals to build on the progress already made. At the 
same 
their 
obligations  under  Security  Council  resolutions  1503 
(2003)  and  1534  (2004)  in  order  to  enable  the 
these  most  shocking  crimes, 
invaluable  contribution 
towards 
for 
in 
to 
to 
the 
order 
support 
their  work. 
imposed  on 
to  speedily  complete 


Tribunals 
In 
particular,  the  EU  calls  on  all  those  involved  to 
redouble  their  efforts  to  expedite  the  arrest  and 
surrender  of  the  remaining  fugitive  indictees.  In  the 
context  of  the  ICTY,  the  EU  remains  absolutely 
committed  to  seeing  Ratko  Mladić  and  Radovan 
Karadžić face international justice. 
The  European  Union  has  adopted  two  Common 

Positions 
effective 
implementation  of  the  mandate  of  the  ICTY  by 
imposing  an  assets  freeze  on  indicted  fugitives  and  a 
travel ban on persons assisting ICTY indictees to evade 
justice. Cooperation with the Tribunal is also addressed 
in  the  context  of  the  Stabilization  and  Association 
Process (SAP). Full cooperation with the International 
Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY) is 
a  condition 
the  Stabilisation  and 
Association  Process  (SAP)  countries,  namely  Croatia, 
the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Bosnia 
and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbia and Albania, for 
their  moving  forward  in  the  process.  Since  2003,  the 
SAP  countries  have  been  asked  to  align  themselves 
with  the  Common  Positions.  When  the  Tribunal  ends 
its  mandate,  those  countries  will  have  the  main 
responsibility for bringing justice to the victims of the 
conflicts. It is therefore important that the judiciary and 
the police of the countries of the region cooperate with 
a view to dismantling the  support network of possible 
fugitives.  Governments  should  not  intervene  in  the 
work of domestic prosecution. 
The  European  Union  welcomes  Serbia’s  recent 

ICTY. 
efforts 
Nonetheless,  the  European  Union  continues  to  believe 
that full cooperation between Serbia and the Tribunal is 
a  fundamental  requirement  for  its  conclusion  of  the 
SAP. 
Let me also briefly address some issues related to 

for  Rwanda 
International  Criminal  Tribunal 
the 
(ICTR).  The  European  Union  welcomes 
the 
achievements of the ICTR since we last discussed this 
issue a year ago. In his address to the Security Council 
on 18 June 2007, Judge Dennis Byron, President of the 
ICTR,  recalled 
total  number  of  cases 
completed  in  the  first  instance  is  now  27,  involving 
33 accused.  The  major  challenge  in  terms  of  ongoing 
trials  remains  four  multi-accused  cases,  involving 
17 accused. 
improve  cooperation  with 
that 
the 
the 
A/62/PV.25
the 
the 
incarcerated 
its  capacity 
the  Rwandan 
also  welcomes 
in  Mali,  while 
improvement  of 
initiatives,  namely 
The  European  Union 
Concerning  convicted  persons,  six  of  them  are 

currently 
the  other 
convicted  persons  remain  at  the  facility  in Arusha.  In 
addition,  the  Tribunal  has  concluded  enforcement  of 
sentence  agreements  with  Benin,  Swaziland,  France, 
Italy  and  Sweden.  The  European  Union  strongly 
encourages  States  to  conclude  agreements  on  the 
relocation  of  witnesses  and 
the  enforcement  of 
sentences with both Tribunals. 
judicial 

The  strengthening  of 
system  and 
to 
prosecute cases transferred from the Tribunal is also a 
goal that the European Union fully supports. It is fully 
in  line  with  Security  Council  resolution  1503  (2003). 
The  Tribunal  provides  support  to  local  judiciary  and 
prosecutors  in  the  region,  as  further  described  in  the 
completion strategy. 

the 
Tribunal’s  outreach  programme  and  its  work  through 
various 
ICTR  Outreach 
Programme,  awareness-raising  programmes  within 
Rwanda,  efforts  to  strengthen  relations  with  academic 
institutions in Rwanda and to develop media there, and 
the  development  of  active  cooperation  with  and 
assistance to Rwandan civil society organizations. 

The  ICTR  faces  two  particular  challenges  — 
fugitive indictees and the proposed transfer of cases to 
Rwanda.  There  are  currently  17  fugitive  indictees, 
including Félicien Kabuga. The European Union urges 
all States to  fulfil their obligations with  respect to the 
arrest  and  surrender  of  outstanding  indictees.  With 
regard  to  the  transfer  of  cases,  the  European  Union 
welcomes  Rwanda’s  efforts  to  strengthen  its  judicial 
system  and  build  capacity 
to  prosecute  cases 
transferred by the ICTR. The final decision on transfer 
is, of course, a question for the ICTR judges. 

the  Tribunals  cannot  succeed 
without the firm commitment of States to cooperate in 
accordance  with  their  legal  obligations.  It  is  vital  that 
this  commitment  be  strengthened  and  sustained  as  the 
Tribunals approach the final stages of their work. This 
work  will  not  be  finished  before  Radovan  Karadžić, 
Ratko Mladić and Félicien Kabuga  are brought before 
the  ICTY  and  the  ICTR  respectively.  The  European 
Union therefore reiterates its strong call to all Member 
States  to  live  up  to  their  international  obligations  by 
arresting  and  transferring  the  accused  at  large  to  The 
Hague and Arusha without delay. Continuing delays in 
To  conclude, 
07-54249 

11 
for 
the 
the  way  for  other 
that  perpetrators  of 
A/62/PV.25 

transfer also put in jeopardy the timely implementation 
of the completion strategies. 

The  international  community  must  not  send  the 
message 
the  most  serious 
international  crimes  of  genocide,  war  crimes  and 
crimes  against  humanity  can  go  unpunished.  Impunity 
is simply not an option. 
Mr. McNee (Canada): I have the honour to speak 

on  behalf  of  Australia,  New  Zealand  and  Canada 
(CANZ) today.  
Allow  me  to  begin  by  paying  tribute  to  the 

International  Criminal  Tribunals 
former 
Yugoslavia and Rwanda. Their work has contributed to 
ensuring  greater  accountability  for  those  who  commit 
war  crimes,  crimes  against  humanity  and  genocide.  In 
so doing, they have developed a body of jurisprudence 
on multiple questions of international criminal law that 
two  International  Criminal 
is  unprecedented.  The 
Tribunals  paved 
international 
criminal tribunals, including the International Criminal 
Court. 

Both tribunals are scheduled to end their pending 
trials  in  the  next  two  years.  CANZ  is  encouraged  by 
the  attention  being  given  by  each  Tribunal  to  its 
completion 
the 
reappointments  of  the  Prosecutors,  Hassan  Jallow  and 
Carla  Del  Ponte,  who  will  continue  to  lend  their 
expertise and knowledge of the courts as they complete 
their work. 

CANZ  fully  supports  the  implementation  of  the 
completion  strategies  of  both  Tribunals.  We  also 
welcome  efforts  to  refer  cases  involving  intermediate 
and lower-ranking accused to national jurisdictions, as 
part  of  the  Tribunals’  completion  strategies.  In  this 
regard, we would note that all referred cases should be 
the  highest 
conducted 
standards  of  due  process.  We  encourage 
the 
international  community  to  help  strengthen  national 
justice  systems,  where  required,  in  support  of  the 
overall  completion  strategy.  With  respect  to  national 
justice  systems,  we  especially  welcome  Rwanda’s 
decision  to  formally  abolish  the  death  penalty.  This 
important 
the 
development of human rights. 

In order for the Tribunals to complete their work, 
however, it is imperative that all remaining indictees be 
surrendered.  We  note  with  satisfaction  that  this  past 
full  compliance  with 
and  we  welcome 
decision  will 
strategy, 
enhance 
in 
further 

As 
implementing 
the  Tribunals  begin 
year  has  seen  the  arrest  and  transfer  of  Vlastimir 
Dordevič  and  Zdravko  Tolimir  to  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY). 
More must be done, however, including the immediate 
surrender  of  Radovan  Karadžić,  Ratko  Mladić  and 
Félicien  Kabuga.  States  that  continue  to  provide 
protection  to  these  fugitives  from  international  justice 
undermine  not  only  our  common 
fight  against 
impunity, but also their own commitment to the rule of 
law. 
(spoke in French)  

their 
completion strategies, increasing attention will need to 
be  paid  to  so-called  legacy  issues  —  the  important, 
practical  and  sometimes  complex  actions  that  need  to 
be taken on the judicial level and others, activities that 
will  need  to  be  carried  out  once  the  last  indictee  has 
been tried. In that regard, we note with appreciation the 
plans  for  a  study  on  the  future  of  the  archives  of  the 
Tribunals.  Canada,  Australia  and  New  Zealand 
encourage the Tribunals to make tackling those issues a 
priority  and  to  work  in  close  cooperation  with  other 
international criminal courts, such as the Special Court 
for  Sierra  Leone, 
ideas  and 
experience. 

Australia,  New  Zealand  and  Canada  are  strong 
supporters  of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
the  Former  Yugoslavia  and  International  Criminal 
Tribunal  for  Rwanda  and  will  continue  to  lend  them 
assistance  as  they  lead  the  way  towards  enhanced 
accountability  for  international  crimes.  We  call  on  all 
States  to  assist  the  Tribunals  and  to  support  their 
efforts  to  complete  their  work  within  the  agreed  time 
frames.  

but they cannot do it without our support. 
Mr.  Løvald  (Norway):  Allow  me  to  begin  by 

expressing  Norway’s  continuing  support  and  full 
recognition of the achievements and the high standards 
of the International Criminal Tribunals for Rwanda and 
the  former  Yugoslavia,  as  reflected  in  the  Tribunals’ 
well-reasoned 
the  annual  reports 
before us. We would like to thank the Presidents of the 
Tribunals  for  their  detailed  and  informative  reports, 
which  reflect  the  progress  made  during  the  period 
under review. 
The  Tribunals  have  accomplished  a  great  deal, 
judgements  and 
in  order 
to  share 
12 

07-54249 
for 
We 
commend 
ran  seven 
both  Tribunals 
full  capacity  and 



As  we  have  consistently  held,  the  work  of  the 
Tribunals contributes to bringing justice to the victims 
of  the  massive  crimes  that  were  committed.  It  will 
leave  a  legacy  of  international  jurisprudence  that  can 
guide  future  courts,  deter  the  future  commission  of 
those  grave  crimes  and  prevent  impunity  for  potential 
perpetrators.  As  such,  they  are  contributing  to  the 
development  of  international  criminal  justice  and  the 
fight against impunity for mass atrocities in general. 

their 
commitment to meeting the completion strategy, while 
ensuring  that  due  process  standards  and  fundamental 
legal principles are fully respected. 

According  to  the  report  of  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia,  the 
Tribunal has concluded proceedings against 106 of the 
161 who have been charged to date. For the first time 
in  the  Tribunal’s  history,  the  three  Trial  Chambers 
operated  at 
trials 
simultaneously,  three  of  which  involved  18  accused 
persons.  In  addition,  the  Appeals  Chamber  issued  a 
record  number  of  decisions,  including  11  judgements 
in  the  past  year,  seven  of  which  were  in  the  past  six 
months. 

To  date,  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
Rwanda has concluded proceedings against 33 accused 
persons.  In  addition,  trials  involving  22  accused  in 
various  cases  are  in  progress.  Eight  detainees  are 
awaiting trial. The Appeals Chamber has issued a large 
number of decisions, including four appeal judgements 
in respect of six persons. 

The report of the International Criminal Tribunal 
for Rwanda stresses that the success of the completion 
strategy will continue to depend on the assistance and 
cooperation of States. We fully agree. We appeal to all 
States to demonstrate — not just in words, but also in 
practice — their full cooperation with the Tribunals. As 
the work of the Tribunal nears completion, it is crucial 
that States give it their unreserved support. It is of the 
utmost importance that all States honour their financial 
commitments  and  pay  their  assessed  contributions  on 
time. 
Furthermore,  Member  States  must  fulfil  their 

obligation  to  arrest  and  transfer  fugitives  to  the 
Tribunals without delay. We compliment the Prosecutors 
on  their  efforts  to  secure  the  arrest  of  the  remaining 
fugitives, and we urge the States involved to cooperate 
fully with the Tribunals. 
A/62/PV.25
for 
their 
We  strongly  support 
All  States  must  honour 

It  is  not  acceptable  that  perpetrators  of  serious 
international crimes evade legal proceedings. The main 
mission of the Tribunals will not be fulfilled unless the 
highest-ranking indictees are brought to justice. 

Norway  has  an  agreement  with  the  International 
Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia regarding 
the  enforcement  of  sentences  and  cooperates  closely 
with the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda in 
several fields. There is a pressing need for more States 
to  enter  into  agreements  regarding  the  enforcement  of 
judgements. It is unreasonable that only a few Member 
States should shoulder that important responsibility. 

the  Tribunals’  external 
activities  and  their  involvement  and  cooperation  with 
local  judiciaries.  As  stated  in  the  report  of  the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal 
the  Former 
Yugoslavia, an active engagement with local judiciaries 
will  help  to  ensure  that  local  courts  have  the  capacity 
to continue the Tribunal’s work in the future. 

international 
obligation to cooperate with regard to requests for full 
and  effective  assistance  to  the  Tribunals.  That  applies 
with regard to witnesses, financial and material support 
the  enforcement  of 
and  practical  assistance 
sentences.  All  States 
their 
commitment  to  the  Tribunals  by  means  of  active  and 
concrete actions. 

Norway  will  stand  by  its  long-term  commitment 
to the successful completion of the mandates assigned 
to the two Tribunals by the Security Council. 
Mr.  Jevremović  (Serbia): At  the  outset,  I  would 

like  to  give  my  respects  to  the  President  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court 
the  Former 
Yugoslavia, Judge Fausto Pocar. Special tribute should 
also go to the Chief Prosecutor, Mrs. Del Ponte, who is 
today  reporting  to  the  European  Union  ministers  in 
Luxembourg.  We  highly  appreciate  their  efforts  and 
contributions  to  strengthening  international  law  and 
moral  standards  in  bringing  to  justice  perpetrators  of 
the most serious violations of humanitarian law and the 
law of the conduct of war in the tragic conflicts in the 
territory of the former Yugoslavia. 

We welcome the recognition, in the report, of the 
cooperation by the relevant Serbian authorities with the 
Prosecutor’s  Office,  and  I  can  assure  you  that  in  the 
future 
that  cooperation  will  be  maintained  and 
expanded. Only through joint efforts can we solve the 
should  demonstrate 
for 
in 
07-54249 

13 

the  remaining 
A/62/PV.25 

outstanding  cases  of  apprehending 
fugitives, notably Ratko Mladić and others. 

There  were  disagreements  and  objections  by  the 
Prosecutor’s Office, particularly regarding the level of 
cooperation  on  the  part  of  our  relevant  authorities. At 
some points, we were critical of the proceedings of the 
Tribunal. However, the contribution of the Tribunal is, 
overall,  positive,  and  lasting  and  evident.  Effectively 
prosecuting  persons  responsible  for  war  crimes  and 
bringing them to justice is an imperative and has been 
a  prerequisite  for  the  reconciliation  process  and  for 
peaceful life in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. 
The only way to accomplish that is for  every national 
community  to  disassociate  itself,  through  the  legal 
judiciary  process,  from  the  grave  crimes  that  were 
committed in the past. That is an indispensable part of 
the  process  of  joining  in  European  integration  and 
shared values. 

Successful  completion  of  our  cooperation  with 
the  ICTY  is  one  of  the  objectives  of  the  Serbian 
Government, reflecting the general consensus that it is 
in  Serbia’s  interest  to  take  all  requisite  measures  to 
complete  that  cooperation  swiftly  and  effectively. 
There  should  be  no  doubt  that  we  are  committed  to 
fulfilling our international obligations in that regard. 

I would like to point out that, just a few days ago, 
the Serbian National Security Council decided to offer 
€1 million  for  information  leading  to  the  location  and 
subsequent  arrest  of  Ratko  Mladić.  As  for  the  other 
Hague 
is  being  offered  for 
information  concerning  Stojan  Zupljanin  and  Goran 
Hadzić.  

We  fully  support  the  completion  strategy  of  the 
ICTY,  as  defined  in  Security  Council  resolutions 
1503 (2003)  and  1534  (2004).  The  basic  prerequisite 
for  the  success  of  the  strategy  is  undoubtedly  the 
capacity  of  domestic  courts  to  process,  in  accordance 
with international legal standards, cases that have been 
transferred by the ICTY. The referral of the cases from 
the  Tribunal  to  national  jurisdictions  has  helped  in 
many ways to achieve a full level of trust between the 
Governments  of  the  Balkan  region  and  international 
institutions.  Similarly,  the  referral  of  such  legal  cases 
to  national 
full 
jurisdictions 
cooperation with the ICTY. 

I  can  assure  the  Assembly  that,  as  a  result  of 
substantial reforms, our national judiciary is now able 
to legally process the most complicated  cases. Let me 
indictees,  €250,000 
facilitates 
further 
informed 
bring  to  the  attention  of  Members  that  two  important 
cases  are  currently  being  heard  regarding  crimes 
committed  in  Croatia  and  Kosovo:  the  notorious 
Ovcara case and the Suva Reka case, respectively. 
The  Prime  Minister  of  Serbia,  in  a  letter  dated 

25 July  2007, 
the  Secretary-General  of 
Serbia’s  intention  to  launch  in  the  region  an  initiative 
to  transfer  persons  convicted  by  the  ICTY  to  the 
countries  of  their  citizenship.  Serbia  has  officially 
called  upon  the  representatives  of  the  Government  of 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  and  of  the  Government  of 
Croatia to support that initiative.  

We  are  all  aware  that  there  is  no  statute  of 
limitation  for  war  crimes,  and  national  judiciaries, 
including  that  of  Serbia,  are  obliged  to  process  such 
cases in the future. International experience reminds us 
that bringing to justice those who have committed war 
crimes remains an enduring legal and moral obligation. 
Mr.  Nsengimana  (Rwanda):  I  wish  to  thank 

Judge  Dennis  Byron,  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR),  for  presenting 
the twelfth annual report on the work of the Tribunal. 

As  we  come  towards  the  end  of  the  mandate  of 
the  Tribunal,  it  becomes  ever  more  critical  for  the 
United Nations to focus its attention on the legacy and 
residual issues of the Tribunal. Key among those issues 
are 
the  court’s  documents  and  materials.  The 
Government  and  the  people  of  Rwanda  would  like 
those documents — which tell the story of our painful 
history  —  to  be  transferred  after  2008  to  Rwanda, 
where  they  could  form  an  important  basis  for  an 
international  educational  and 
research  centre  on 
genocide  prevention.  We  look  forward  to  an  early 
decision in that regard by the Security Council, as well 
as  to  support  from  the  international  community  aimed 
at the establishment of the centre.  

training 
programmes  for  the  Rwandan  judiciary,  those  efforts 
must  be  accelerated  significantly  in  view  of  the 
completion  strategy.  We 
the 
Tribunal  to  take  further  steps  in  that  respect  in 
collaboration  with  the  Government.  We  also  welcome 
the outreach activities, although much work remains to 
be  done 
the 
Tribunal’s  work  to  the  areas  and  villages  that  were 
most affected by the genocide. 
While  we  welcome 
therefore  call  upon 
information  about 
to  disseminate 
the  Tribunal’s 
14 

07-54249 
times,  before 
Rwanda  has  stated  many 



Rwanda  has  welcomed  the  transfer  of  cases  to 
national  jurisdictions,  principally  Rwanda.  Significant 
progress has been made with respect to the referral of 
cases.  The  Rwanda  Government  is  committed  to 
continuing its preparations to that end. An organic law 
has  been  promulgated  to  govern  all  legal  matters 
pertaining  to  the  referral  of  cases  to  Rwanda.  Other 
arrangements  have  been  undertaken  to  ensure  that  all 
the  requirements  outlined  under  rule  11  bis  are  met. 
Our  partnership  with  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  has 
enabled us to make significant progress in these areas. 

the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council,  that  the 
transfer  of  cases  to  our  country  is  essential,  so  that 
justice is seen to be done where the crimes have been 
committed.  It  would  also  complement  and  reinforce 
ongoing  Government  policies  aimed  at  reconciliation, 
which  is  central  to  the  mandate  of  the  ICTR.  In 
addition, in practical terms, holding the trials would be 
less  costly  and  more  efficient,  since  the  evidence  and 
the witnesses are mostly within the country. 

The  death  penalty  is  no  longer  an  issue  of 
concern with respect to the transfer of trials, since the 
Rwandan  parliament 
legislation 
abolishing that practice.  

the  question  of 
transferring convicts to serve sentences in Rwanda. We 
believe  that  ICTR  convicts  must  serve  their  sentences 
in  Rwanda,  where  they  committed  the  crimes  and 
where  they  should  be  seen  serving  their  sentences. 
Continued  delay  in  this  area  is  causing  substantial 
damage  to  the  process  and  to  the  reputation  of  the 
ICTR.  We  urge 
take  urgent 
measures to remedy that situation. 

German 
Ngirabatware on 17 September 2007. 
However,  on  the  issue  of  fugitives  still  at  large, 

key 
particularly  Félicien  Kabuga 
masterminds of the genocide, we once again appeal to 
Member  States  to  work  closely  with  one  another  to 
ensure  that  these  indictees  do  not  escape  justice.  The 
completion  strategy  is  not  an  exit  strategy  for  our 
collective  commitment  to  bring  to  justice  the  authors 
and  planners  of  the  genocide.  There  is  fairly  good 
information  about  the  whereabouts  of  many  of  the 
fugitives,  but  there  is  still  little  progress  in  arresting 
them. We  believe  that  measures  should  be  undertaken 
Rwanda  appreciates  the  efforts  made  by  the 
apprehending  Augustin 
recently  adopted 
those  concerned 
importance 
Of  equal 
authorities 
other 
in 
is 
to 
and 
A/62/PV.25
to  conduct 
fourteenth  annual 
to ensure that all States cooperate in apprehending and 
handing over these fugitives for trial and that those that 
fail to do so are brought to account. 

I  would  like  to  conclude  by  expressing  our 
profound  appreciation  to  the  international  community 
and to specific countries for their continued support of 
the  Tribunal  through  both  assessed  and  voluntary 
contributions. As we enter the last leg of the Tribunal’s 
work,  we  urge  Member  States  to  continue  their 
commitment to ensuring that the Tribunal is adequately 
resourced 
its  work  efficiently  and 
effectively  through  the  full,  timely  and  unconditional 
disbursement of assessed contributions. 

We also thank the Tribunal President and his team 
for  their  work  in  ensuring  the  implementation  of  the 
completion strategy. 
Mr.  Prica  (Bosnia  and  Herzegovina):  At  the 

outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Prosecution  of  Persons 
Responsible  for  Serious  Violations  of  International 
Humanitarian  Law  Committed  in  the  Territory  of  the 
Former Yugoslavia since 1991, Judge Fausto Pocar, for 
the 
the  Tribunal 
(A/62/172).  The  Government 
and 
Herzegovina has studied the report by the President of 
the Tribunal with due attention.  
Allow  me  to  express  our  appreciation  for  the 

Tribunal’s  recognition  of  the  efforts  made  by  the 
authorities  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  at  all  levels  in 
order  to  achieve  satisfactory  cooperation  with  the 
Tribunal,  especially  at  the  operational  level.  I  would 
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  my  country’s 
firm  commitment  to  continued  full  cooperation  with 
the  Tribunal,  a  commitment  confirmed  and  proved  by 
the 
additional  measures 
undertaken  on  the  ground  aimed  at  targeting  fugitive 
support  networks, 
the 
manoeuvring  space  for  those  indictees  who  remain  at 
large. 

It  is  very  important  to  mention  the  cooperation 
between the War Crimes Chamber of the State Court of 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  established  in  March  2005, 
and  the  Office  of  the  State  Prosecutor  of  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina.  That  cooperation  has  made  significant 
progress  in  processing  a  number  of  war  crimes  cases, 
five of which have been transferred from the Tribunal. 
We  are  very  pleased  to  find  very  positive  remarks  in 
further  diminishing 
of  Bosnia 
report  of 
extensive 
efforts 
thus 
and 
07-54249 

15 
A/62/PV.25 

paragraph  86  of  the  report  regarding  the  activities  of 
our aforementioned national judiciary bodies.  

Bosnia and Herzegovina will continue to support 
the work of the Tribunal and to fully cooperate with the 
Office of the Prosecutor. Bosnia and Herzegovina is of 
the position that the Tribunal should continue its work 
until  the  trials  of  all  persons  indicted  for  war  crimes 
are  completed  by  the Tribunal,  especially  the  cases  of 
Radovan  Karadzić  and  Ratko  Mladić,  who  are  still  at 
large. 
Mr.  Sangqu  (South  Africa):  My  delegation 

wishes  to  thank  Judge  Pocar  of  the  International 
Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia and Judge 
Byron  of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
Rwanda  for  their  statements  presenting  the  respective 
reports of the Tribunals.  

My  delegation  commends  the  Tribunals  for  the 
steps  they  are  taking  to  ensure  that  they  achieve  their 
completion  strategies.  In  particular,  we  welcome  the 
measures  taken  to  increase  the  efficiency  of  the 
Tribunals in processing trials by holding a high number 
of  trials  simultaneously,  making  amendments  to  the 
rules  of  procedure  for  the  purpose  of  expediting 
proceedings  and  making  optimal  use  of  ad  litem 
judges. 

The  completion  strategies  are  time-bound,  and 
therefore,  notwithstanding  the  steps  that  the Tribunals 
are  taking  to  increase  efficiency,  there  are  cases  that, 
due  to  the  passage  of  time  and  an  inability  to  effect 
to  national 
arrests,  will  have 
jurisdictions.  Therefore, 
to 
national 
jurisdictions  are  central  to  achieving  the  completion 
strategies, 
in  accordance  with  Security  Council 
resolution  1534  (2004). To  that  end,  we  commend  the 
various  countries  that  have  accepted  cases  from  the 
Tribunals. We are, however, particularly keen to see the 
countries where the crimes were committed assume the 
responsibility of accepting referrals from the Tribunals. 
We  therefore  welcome  all  efforts  to  provide  technical 
assistance to those countries, to enable them to reform 
their  justice  and  prison  systems  to  absorb  the  cases 
from  the  Tribunals.  We  strongly  believe  that  justice 
sector  reform  is  a  critical  element  of  post-conflict 
reconstruction and that it contributes to security sector 
reform.  

In  the  case  of  both  Tribunals,  there  are  indicted 
persons still at large, and some of them are particularly 
high-level  accused  or  are  alleged  to  have  committed 
referrals 
referred 
to  be 

crimes  that  should  be  dealt  with  at  an  international 
level. It is important that those fugitives ultimately be 
brought to justice, and we call for full cooperation with 
the  Tribunals  to  arrest  them  and  surrender  them  for 
trial.  My  delegation  calls  for  cooperation  between 
States and the two Tribunals. 

The  fact  that  the  Tribunals  are  working  towards 
completing their work means that we must ensure that 
they  continue  to  receive  sufficient  resources  to  enable 
them  to  complete  their  work  and  their  mandates.  As 
States,  we  must  continue  to  extend  cooperation  with 
respect to travel of witnesses; the pursuit and bringing 
to  justice  of  fugitives;  the  arrest  and  transfer  of 
accused;  and  the  resettlement  of  individuals  who  are 
acquitted by the Tribunals.  

Furthermore, we need to address the issue of the 
legacy that will be left by the Tribunals and ensure that 
we  preserve  their  achievements.  The  Tribunals  were 
established by the Security Council, consistent with its 
responsibility  to  maintain  international  peace  and 
security.  Therefore,  as  we  consider  their  legacy  and 
achievements, we must measure them by the extent of 
their  contribution  to  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security.  
It  has  been  said  that  there  can  be  no  peace 

without 
the  Tribunals  have 
immensely  contributed  to  stability  and  peace,  both  in 
Rwanda  and  in  the  former  Yugoslavia.  There  will, 
however,  continue  to  be  ongoing  work  to  consolidate 
those  achievements  and  to  ensure  the  preservation  of 
the  legacy  of  the  Tribunals.  That  work  includes 
ensuring  that  the  passage  of  time  does  not  result  in 
impunity  for  any  fugitives.  It  is  important  that  the 
archives  of  the  Tribunals  be  preserved  and  stored  in 
places  where  future  generations  can  have  access  to 
them  and  can  take  lesson  from  the  work  of  both 
Tribunals. 
Mr.  Kuzmin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian): We thank the leadership of both Tribunals for 
their annual reports on the work of those bodies. 

We  note  the  active  work  of  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  in  the  last  year.  We 
welcome the transfer of the cases of those accused by 
the  Tribunal  to  national  judicial  bodies,  which,  we 
believe,  will  ensure  the  timely  implementation  of  the 
completion strategy within Security Council deadlines. 
In that regard, we believe that it is important to step up 
judicial  system, 
efforts 
justice.  We  believe 
the  Rwandan 
to  develop 
16 

07-54249 
for 
The 
International  Tribunal 


including strengthening its  capabilities  for the judicial 
prosecution  of  individuals  whose  cases  have  been 
transferred to it by the Tribunal.  

the  Former 
Yugoslavia has also achieved a certain acceleration and 
enhancement in the effectiveness of its adjudication in 
the last year,  in particular  by introducing amendments 
to  its  rules  of  procedure  and  evidence.  We  note  the 
arrest  and  transfer  to  the Tribunal  of  Zdravko Tolimir 
and Vlastimir Dordevič, which we hope will also serve 
as a positive  element  for the timely  completion of the 
Tribunal’s  work.  We  believe  that  more  active  efforts 
should  be  devoted  to  transferring  the  cases  of  the 
accused for consideration by the courts of States of the 
former  Yugoslavia.  We  note  the  Tribunal’s  work  on 
protecting  witnesses  for  Tribunal  cases.  We  call  on 
other international bodies to assist the Tribunal in that 
task. 

The  Russian  Federation  maintains  its  position  of 
principle  that  the  work  of  both  Tribunals  should  be 
completed  within  the  completion  strategy  time  frame. 
It  is  our  view  that  the  fact  that  the  Tribunals  do  not 
have  Félicien  Kabuga,  Ratko  Mladić,  Radovan 
Karadžić  or  other  accused  cannot  be  considered  as 
justification for an unlimited extension of the work of 
those bodies. 

We  believe  that  at  this  stage,  the  substantively 
final  phase  of  the  work  of  the  Tribunals,  they  should 
focus a portion of their efforts on thinking through the 
options  for  settling  the  organizational  aspects  of 
completing 
in  particular, 
maintaining the archives and judges’ pensions. It is our 
view that that process will be effective and will in fact 
provide  for  the  timely  resolution  of  current  Tribunal 
tasks  without  engaging 
financial 
expenditures for United Nations Member States. 
Mr. Ehouzou (Benin): I have the honour to speak 

on  behalf  of  the African  Group. The African  Group  is 
grateful to you, Mr. President, for convening this joint 
debate on the reports of the two International Criminal 
Tribunals  established  for  the  prosecution  of  persons 
international 
responsible  for  serious  violations  of 
humanitarian 
and 
neighbouring  States  and  in  the  territory  of  the  former 
Yugoslavia.  

We  thank  the  Presidents  and  Prosecutors  of  the 
two Tribunals  for  the  comprehensive  reports  that  they 
have  presented  on  the  ongoing  activities  of  the  two 
in  additional 
in  Rwanda 
their  work, 
committed 
including, 
law 
A/62/PV.25
factors: 
their 
to  give 
law. 
The 
increased 
sentences,  or 
in  organizing 
the  efficiency  displayed  by 
Tribunals in the discharge of their respective mandates 
and  for  their  invaluable  contribution  to  the  fight 
against impunity for serious violations of international 
humanitarian 
efficiency 
demonstrated by the two Tribunals is a clear testimony 
to  their  commitment  to  the  cause  of  international 
restorative justice and to their completion strategy.  

The  African  Group  considers  that  the  progress 
achieved  in  the  implementation  of  their  completion 
strategies  was  made  possible  owing  to  the  following 
major 
the 
Tribunals’  leadership  in  adjusting  their  mandate  by 
focusing on the prosecution and trial of the most senior 
leaders suspected of being most responsible for crimes 
within  their  area  of  jurisdiction;  the  transferring  of 
cases  involving  persons  of  lower-  to  mid-levels  of 
responsibility  to  national  jurisdictions  in  accordance 
with the  completion strategy endorsed  by the Security 
Council  in  its  resolution  1503  (2003);  the  cooperation 
of  Members  States,  be  it  in  the  form  of  efforts  to 
localize,  arrest  and  transfer  the  indictees  to  the 
Tribunals,  in  protecting  witness,  in  hosting  persons 
serving 
the 
their  national 
prosecution  of  cases 
jurisdiction; and the generous contributions of Member 
States  and  donors  who  have  financially  supported  the 
activities  of  the  Tribunals  in  their  core  elements  but 
also in elements funded with voluntary contributions as 
Outreach Programmes. In that respect, the work of the 
an  historical 
International  Tribunals 
example 
the 
administration  of  international  justice  and  for  the 
enforcement of international law. 

high 
appreciation  to  all  Member  States  that  are  supporting 
the  activities  of 
those 
concerned 
the  full  desired  support  and 
assistance to the Tribunals for the arrest and transfer of 
the remaining fugitives in order to enable the Tribunals 
to  fulfil  their  mandate  according  to  their  completion 
strategy. 

The  African  Group  calls  upon  the  Governments 
with  which  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
Rwanda  is  currently  conducting  negotiations  for  the 
referral  of  cases  to  their  national  jurisdictions  to 
cooperate  actively  with  the  Tribunal.  The  African 
Group  welcomes  the  dedication  shown  by  the African 
Commission on Human and Peoples’ Rights in offering 
to  monitor  all  cases  transferred  to  African  countries. 
the  Tribunals,  and  urge 
The  African  Group 
of  multilateral 
cooperation 
constitutes 
expresses 
referred 
to 
for 
its 
07-54249 

17 
the 
two 
for 

their  sentences 
to 
improve 
The  proceedings  of 
the  strong  resolve  of 
A/62/PV.25 

The African  Group  urges  the  international  community 
to  assist  the  African  countries  who  accept  to  host 
persons  serving 
their 
penitentiary facilities. 
International 

Tribunals  demonstrate 
the 
international  community  to  strengthen  the  rule  of  law 
in the regions affected by mass atrocities. The African 
Group  welcomes 
through 
training  and  assistance 
the  development  of 
domestic  jurisdictions. They  are  of  utmost  importance 
for  the  legacy  of  the  Tribunals  as  regards  their 
jurisprudence, which will inevitably not only enrich the 
law  practice  in  the  regions  concerned,  but  are  also  of 
great  value  for  the  international  judicial  practice  as  a 
whole. 

The  African  Group  further  welcomes  the  steps 
undertaken by the two Tribunals to efficiently manage 
their  archives,  especially  the  project  initiated  for  the 

the  efforts  undertaken 
preparation  and  organization  of  the Tribunals’  records 
with the goal of meeting future preservation and access 
requirements. 

In  conclusion,  the African  Group  encourages  the 
two International Tribunals to maintain the dynamic of 
their  activities in order to  bring justice  to the victims. 
Only  thus  can  they  achieve  their  rightful  aspiration  to 
legitimacy  to  the  greatest  extent  possible,  and  also 
further  the  promotion  of  national  reconciliation  and 
lasting  peace  in  the  countries  concerned,  as  well  as 
contribute  to  the  enhancement  of  the  authority  of 
international humanitarian law as a paramount pillar of 
human dignity. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  in  the  debate  on  these  agenda  items.  May  I 
take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General Assembly  to 
conclude its consideration of agenda items 74 and 75? 



It was so decided. 
The meeting rose at 12.15 p.m. 
18 

07-54249 
