President:  Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

45th plenary meeting 
Monday, 5 November 2007, 3 p.m. 
New York 








the  absence  of 
  In 
(Democratic  Republic  of 
President, took the Chair. 
the  President,  Mr.  Ileka 
the  Congo),  Vice-

The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m. 

Agenda item 19 (continued) 

The situation in Afghanistan 
is  pleased 
Draft resolution (A/62/L.7) 
Report of the Secretary-General (A/62/345) 





Mr.  Al-Najem  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 

country’s  delegation 
to  congratulate 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  to  thank  him  for 
his sincere efforts to ensure success in Afghanistan and 
to  achieve  peace  and  stability  there.  His  continuous 
efforts have included his personal visit to Afghanistan 
in July and his presiding over the Rome Conference on 
The  Rule  of  Law  in  Afghanistan.  His  efforts  also 
included  alternately  presiding  with  President  Karzai 
over  the  high-level  meeting  on  Afghanistan  held  last 
September in the margins of the general debate during 
the  sixty-second  session  of  the  General Assembly. We 
also  wish  to  commend  the  efforts  of  his  Special 
Representative  for Afghanistan  and  of  United  Nations 
staff,  who  continue  to  carry  out  their  duties  under 
difficult and increasingly dangerous circumstances and 
whose  courage  and  dedication  have  been  fundamental 
in achieving progress on the ground in Afghanistan. 

A/62/PV.45
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia))
for 
the  draft 
introducing 
We would also like to thank the representative of 

Germany 
resolution 
(A/62/L.7) on the situation in Afghanistan. My country 
supports  that  draft  resolution,  which  emphasizes  the 
key  and  impartial  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
strengthening  peace  and  stability  in  Afghanistan  by 
leading the efforts of the international community. 

Recurring  wars  in  the  course  of  more  than  two 
decades have caused tremendous damage in all areas of 
life  in  Afghanistan.  They  have  taken  a  heavy  toll  in 
lives and caused the destruction of infrastructure in the 
areas  of  water,  electricity  services,  transportation, 
communications, education and health care. They have 
also  led  to  the  collapse  of  the  economic  and  financial 
systems  and  for 
the  basic 
agricultural infrastructure. 
As  the  transition  in  Afghanistan  comes  under 

increasing  strain  due 
insurgency,  weak 
governance  and  an  economy  based  on  drugs,  the 
Government  of  Afghanistan,  with  the  support  of  the 
international  community,  will  need  to  demonstrate 
political will by boldly taking the initiative in each of 
those  areas  and  working  to  restore  confidence  among 
the  population  in  tangible  ways.  As  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan 
(A/62/345)  points  out,  without  stronger  leadership 
from  the  Government,  greater  donor  coherence  — 
including  improved  coordination  between  the  military 
and 
in 
Afghanistan  —  and  a  strong  commitment  from 
neighbouring  countries,  many  of 
security, 
the  deterioration  of 
international 
engagement 
civilian 
to 
the 
the 
the 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-58370 (E) 
*0758370* 

in 
the 
those  working 
A/62/PV.45 

institution-building and development gains made since 
the Bonn Conference may yet stall or even be reversed. 

The  State  of  Kuwait  strongly  condemns  the  rise 
in  violence  and  suicide  attacks  in  Afghanistan,  in 
particular in the southern and eastern provinces, due to 
an increase in acts of violence and terrorism carried out 
by  the  Taliban  movement,  Al-Qaida,  other  militant 
groups,  and  groups  active  in  the  drug  trade.  That  has 
led to an increase in the number of victims among the 
Afghan  civilian  population, 
the  Afghan  national 
security  forces,  the  International  Security  Assistance 
Force,  the  coalition  forces  of  Operation  Enduring 
Freedom,  employees  of  Afghan  and  international  aid 
agencies  and 
field  of 
humanitarian assistance. 

In  addition  to  the  progress  made  in  numerous 
areas  —  such  as  in  disarming,  demobilizing  and 
reintegrating child soldiers from Afghan military forces 
and in providing care for other children injured in the 
war  —  achievements  in  the  areas  of  mine  action, 
developing  the Afghan  National Army  and  Police  and 
enhancing their capabilities, strengthening Afghan and 
international  commitment  to  reforming  the  judiciary 
and  integrating  Afghanistan  into  the  South  Asian 
Association  for  Regional  Cooperation  also  provide 
opportunities 
economic 
cooperation  for  development.  However,  the  pace  of 
change in the living conditions of the Afghan people is 
still very slow and is a source of increasing frustration 
for the civilian population. 

The continued increase in opium production is an 
ever-greater  threat  to  stability  and  nation-building  in 
Afghanistan:  the  cultivation  of  opium,  the  production 
and  trafficking  in  drugs  and  the  increasingly  strong 
links between the drug trade and the terrorist activities 
of extremist groups all pose a serious threat to security, 
the rule of law and development. That requires that the 
Government pay greater attention to the dangers posed 
by drugs and that it prosecute smugglers. With support 
from  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime, 
the  international  community  must  support  an  Afghan 
Government integrated plan of action in that regard. 

The  State  of  Kuwait  urgently  appeals  to  all 
Member  States, 
the  United  Nations  system  and  
non-governmental organizations to continue to provide 
Afghanistan  with  all  the  humanitarian  assistance  it 
needs,  in  close  cooperation  with  the  Government  of 
regional 
increase 
to 
for 
hope 
that 
the 
its  national 
Finally,  we 
in  accordance  with 
Afghanistan  and 
development strategies. 

In that regard, the State of Kuwait has contributed 
to  the  reconstruction  of  Afghanistan  by  donating 
$4 million  over  the  past  five  years  to  support  United 
Nations  efforts  to  help  the  Afghans  and  Afghan 
refugees. The Kuwait Fund for Economic Development 
granted  a  loan  of  $30  million  in  fulfilment  of  the 
commitments  we  made  at  the  Tokyo  Conference, 
$15 million  of  which  was  earmarked 
the  
now-completed reconstruction of the highway between 
Kandahar  and  Spin  Boldak  and  $15  million  for  the 
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund. 

The  assistance  provided  by  the  Kuwaiti  Red 
Crescent  Society  during  the  past  five  years  exceeds 
$6.5 million. Other Kuwaiti charities and organizations 
are also continuing to provide assistance. 

international 
the 
organization  will  continue  its  efforts  to  assist  the 
Afghan  Government  to  strengthen  peace  and  stability 
in Afghanistan. That will in turn have a positive impact 
on the situation in the region and enable Afghanistan to 
resume its natural role in the international community. 
this 

opportunity 
in 
Afghanistan  in  the  General  Assembly.  We  thank  the 
delegation  of  Germany 
the  draft 
resolution  (A/62/L.7)  before  us.  As  a  sponsor,  Japan 
fully  supports  the  draft  resolution.  I  believe  that  the 
adoption  of  the  draft  resolution  will  demonstrate  the 
renewed will of Member States to support Afghanistan. 
the  organization  and  strengthening  of 

Afghan  Government 
there  has  been 
progress  in  nation-building  in  Afghanistan  since  the 
international  community  agreed 
the  Afghanistan 
Compact, 
those 
developments  and  commend  the  Afghan  Government 
for its tireless efforts in that regard. 

At the same time, however, we must acknowledge 
the  worrisome  reality  of  the  current  conditions  in  the 
country.  As 
the 
challenges  facing Afghanistan  are  intertwined  and  are 
yet  to  be  resolved.  The  international  community  must 
coordinate 
its  efforts  at  effective  and  efficient 
assistance. Next year, Japan will host a meeting of the 
Joint  Coordination  and  Monitoring  Board  (JCMB). To 
date, the JCMB has been the most useful framework to 
Mr.  Shinyo  (Japan):  Japan  appreciates 
situation 
two  years  ago.  We  welcome 
for  preparing 
institutions, 
to  discuss 
today 
the  draft 
resolution 
illustrates, 
With 
2 

07-58370 
of 
the 
further 
building 
on 
look  forward 
Secretary-General 
to  Mr.  Tom  Koenigs, 


coordinate  and  prioritize  international  assistance  and 
reconstruction  programmes.  We 
to 
discussing  at  the  next  meeting  how  we  can  better 
deliver our assistance to the nation. 

I would like to take this opportunity to stress the 
pivotal  role  that  the  United  Nations  has  played  in 
leading  international  efforts.  Japan  appreciates  the 
work  of  the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in 
Afghanistan,  which  has  expanded  its  presence  in  the 
provinces under difficult conditions. We pay tribute to 
its  staff  for  their  dedication.  Japan  also  extends  its 
appreciation 
Special 
Representative 
for 
Afghanistan,  for  his  dedicated  efforts.  We  wish  his 
successor 
success, 
the 
achievements of Mr. Koenigs. 

Improving  the  security  situation  is  the  most 
pressing of the various tasks to be addressed. While we 
take  note  of  the  strengthening  of  the Afghan  National 
Army  and  the  efforts  to  reform  the  Afghan  National 
Police,  the  growing  frequency  of  terrorist  acts  is  a 
matter  of  great  concern  for  us.  We  must  not  allow 
terrorism  to  prevail  in  Afghanistan.  We  must  not  let 
Afghanistan revert to being a safe haven for terrorists. 
It 
international  community 
continue  to  present  a  united  front  in  the  fight  against 
terrorism.  
the  continuing 
to  underscore 

the 
importance  of 
tenacious  activities  of 
International  Security  Assistance  Force  and 
the 
Operation  Enduring  Freedom  coalition,  including  its 
maritime interdiction component. 
In  order  to  play  a  responsible  role  in  the 

international 
Japan’s 
Maritime  Self-Defence  Force  has  been  refuelling 
vessels  of  the  maritime  interdiction  component  of  the 
Operation  Enduring  Freedom  coalition,  based  on  its 
anti-terrorism  special  measures  law.  Although  Japan 
had  to  terminate  refuelling  activities  due  to  the 
expiration of the law on 2 November, the Government 
of  Japan  will  continue  its  effort  to  achieve  the  early 
enactment  of 
is  now  under 
consideration at the Diet to provide a legal basis for the 
resumption  of  such  refuelling  activities  as  soon  as 
possible. 

the 
As 
disbandment of illegal armed groups is one of the keys 
to  stabilizing  the  country.  Much  needs  to  be  done  in 
We  also  wish 
the 
community’s 
is  essential 
resolution, 
the  draft 
the  new 
law 
that 
that 
the 
stressed 
in 
joint 
efforts, 
A/62/PV.45
in 
the 
international  community  for 
that  area,  building  on  the  results  of  the  Tokyo 
Conference  held  in  June,  in  particular  improving 
coordination  between  disbandment  and  police  reform 
efforts and other security-sector reform activities. 

Other  issues,  such  as  narcotics  and  corruption, 
are  also  impeding  nation-building  in  Afghanistan. 
Japan places importance on a comprehensive approach, 
with  capacity-building  at  its  core,  in  addressing  those 
issues.  In  addition  to  assistance  in  the  amount  of 
$1.24 billion  already  provided,  we  will  continue  to 
explore  possibilities  to  extend  further  assistance  in 
response to the requests of the Afghan people. 

Japan will assume the chairmanship of the Group 
of  Eight  next  year.  Notwithstanding  the  challenges 
ahead  of  us,  we  look  forward  to  working  with  our 
partners 
the 
stabilization and reconstruction of Afghanistan. 
Mr. Hanesson (Iceland): Iceland, as a member of 

the  European  Economic Area  but  not  of  the  European 
Union (EU), has aligned itself with the statement made 
by the representative of Portugal on behalf of the EU. 
However,  I  would,  in  addition,  like  to  make  a  few 
remarks. 

Allow  me  first  of  all  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  comprehensive  report  (A/62/345)  on 
the current situation in Afghanistan and its implications 
for  international  peace  and  security.  As  in  previous 
years,  Iceland  is  a  traditional  sponsor  of  the  draft 
resolution  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan,  contained 
this  year  in  document  A/62/L.7.  I  would  like  to  take 
this  opportunity 
the 
delegation  of  Germany  for  preparing  and  facilitating 
the draft resolution. 
the  Secretary-General  clearly 

that  Afghanistan  has  made  significant 
indicates 
progress 
towards  political,  economic  and  social 
development since the fall of the Taliban. An important 
case  in  point  is  the  immense  growth  in  schooling  for 
Afghanistan’s  children,  including  for  girls.  However, 
the  report  also  clearly  identifies  the  serious  and 
complex  challenges  and  threats  that  Afghanistan  still 
faces,  and  underscores  the  need  for  a  comprehensive 
approach.  

Much  more  remains  to  be  done  with  regard  to 
institution-building,  strengthening  the  rule  of  law  and 
the practice of good governance. Afghan ownership is 
a  key  issue  in  that  regard,  as  my  German  colleague 
to  express  my  gratitude 
The  report  of 
to 
07-58370 

3 

Iceland 
for  concern  and  continues 
A/62/PV.45 

stated  this  morning.  In  that  connection,  the  United 
Nations  is  key  to  coordinating  the  efforts  of  the 
international  community.  I  would  like  to  express  our 
gratitude  to,  and  admiration  of,  the  way  in  which 
United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  is 
working  in  Afghanistan  under  the  leadership  of  Tom 
Koenigs,  often 
in  very  difficult  and  dangerous 
environments. 
The  security  situation  in  Afghanistan  remains  a 

cause 
to  undermine 
reconstruction  and  confidence-building  efforts.  The 
work  of  the  International  Security  Assistance  Force 
(ISAF),  led  by  NATO,  is  crucial  in  that  context.  The 
increasing  role  and  effectiveness  of 
the  Afghan 
National  Army,  the  Afghan  National  Security  Forces 
and the Afghan National Police are also vital elements 
in  uprooting  the  insurgency  and  ensuring  long-term 
security  in  cooperation  with  ISAF.  We  welcome  the 
conclusions contained in the Secretary-General’s report 
regarding the need for an effective, integrated civilian-
military strategy and security plan for Afghanistan. 

strongly  condemns  attacks  against 
civilians  and  international  staff intended to undermine 
the democratic process. The increase in violence and in 
the  Taliban-led  insurgency  has  grave  implications  for 
the  human  rights  and  humanitarian  situation.  We  note 
with the greatest concern that there has been an overall 
increase in reported violence against women across the 
country. 

the  continued 
We 
increase  in  opium  production  and  poppy  growing, 
which reached record levels this year, according to the 
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). 
Opium production and narcotics trafficking undermine 
reconstruction  and  nation-building  in Afghanistan. We 
must  increase  our  efforts,  including  through  regional 
cooperation,  to  combat  this  evil  at  all  levels.  Drug 
traffickers must be brought to justice. Here, we would 
emphasize the vital role of the UNODC. 

The  Government  of  Afghanistan  also  needs  to 
take  firm  measures  to  tackle  corruption  and  weak 
governance,  which  are  serious  obstacles  to  economic 
and  social  development.  Indeed,  the  draft  resolution 
before  us  expresses  deep  concern  about 
those 
developments. 

We  strongly  support  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, which has 
remain  concerned  about 
and 
the 
Iceland 
to  making 
Increased 
strengthening 
is  firmly  committed 
international  community. 
international  airport  by  providing 
an  important  supporting  role  to  play  in  confidence-
building and promoting respect for human rights. 

its 
contribution to peacebuilding efforts in Afghanistan. In 
2004,  Iceland  played  the  leading  role  in  the  operation 
of  Kabul 
the 
Commander of the airport base, and since then we have 
provided  technical  and  support  staff  to  facilitate  that 
operation.  Iceland  now  deploys  half  of  its  personnel 
working  in  international  peacekeeping  operations  to 
the Mission in Afghanistan and is currently looking at 
further options aimed at rebuilding and supporting the 
infrastructure in the country. 

The international community must stand united in 
rebuilding  Afghanistan 
its 
democracy.  Achieving  our  goals 
in  Afghanistan 
depends on long-term political commitment on the part 
of all stakeholders, the Government of Afghanistan and 
the 
regional 
cooperation  and  strong  commitment  by  neighbouring 
countries is also of the utmost importance. The United 
Nations has a key role to play in such efforts. Iceland 
remains  firmly  committed  to  supporting  the  United 
Nations  and  other  international  partners  in  building  a 
secure and democratic Afghanistan. 
Ms.  Banks  (New  Zealand):  We  recognize  that 

Afghanistan faces serious ongoing challenges and that 
it  will  require  assistance  from 
international 
community for some time to come. Considerable effort 
is  being  directed  to  helping  with  the  development  of 
the  Afghanistan  National  Army  and  Police  so  that 
Afghanistan  will  eventually  be  able  to  provide  for  its 
own security. However, there is no military solution to 
the  problems  of  Afghanistan;  military  and  policing 
inputs  need  to  be  complemented  by  development 
initiatives  aimed  at  building  Afghanistan’s  State 
institutions  and  its  economy. We  hope  that  the  overall 
international  and  local  effort  can  be  better  brought 
together in order to make more rapid progress. 

Opium  production  is  undermining  the  future  of 
Afghanistan.  Alongside  eradication,  the  international 
community  needs  to  commit  to  the  development  of 
alternative  sustainable  livelihoods. The Afghan  people 
will  support  an  international  presence  only  if  they 
believe  that  it  will  improve  their  lives,  their  security 
and  their  prosperity.  That  requires  an  approach  that 
fully  integrates  the  political,  security,  economic  and 
social aspects of peacebuilding. 
4 

07-58370 
internally  and 
to  profitable  markets, 



The  United  Nations,  through  the  United  Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  (UNAMA),  has  a 
central  role  to  play  in  coordinating  international 
assistance  to  Afghanistan,  and  also  in  helping  the 
Government  to  rebuild  the  country’s  civil  institutions. 
In  addition,  the  Joint  Coordination  and  Monitoring 
Board,  established  under  the  Afghanistan  Compact  to 
oversee the implementation of the Compact and of the 
Afghanistan  National  Development  Strategy, 
is  a 
critical  mechanism  to  improve  overall  coordination. 
Afghanistan’s  neighbours  have  an  important  role  to 
play, as the pace of development will be affected by the 
degree  to  which  those  States  assist  in  the  rebuilding 
process and cooperate with Afghanistan to improve its 
security. 
Afghanistan’s economic development needs to be 

greatly  accelerated.  Afghan  producers  need  assured 
access 
in 
neighbouring countries, if the Afghan people are to be 
given  the  opportunity  to  move  from  being  reliant  on 
aid  to  being  self-sustaining  and  responsible  for  their 
own economic choices. 

Since 2001, New Zealand has made a substantial 
commitment  to  the  international  effort  to  secure  and 
rebuild Afghanistan. We contribute to UNAMA. We are 
also  an  active  contributor  to  NATO’s  International 
Security  Assistance  Force 
in  Afghanistan.  New 
Zealand’s  Provincial  Reconstruction  Team  provides 
security  in  Bamian  province.  In  Bamian,  the  New 
Zealand  Defence  Force  works  closely  with  the  New 
Zealand Agency for International Development and the 
New  Zealand  Police.  We  have  worked  to  make  a 
practical  difference:  improving  the  lives  of  the  people 
of  Bamian.  We  also  provide  training  to  the  Afghan 
police  there. We  have  helped  with  the  construction  of 
schools, roads, bridges and a maternity ward. 

We  all  recognize  that Afghanistan  faces  difficult 
social, political, economic and security challenges. The 
Government  and 
the  people  of  Afghanistan  are 
courageously  taking  up  the  challenge  of  addressing 
those  challenges,  in  particular  through  efforts  to 
develop  resilient  and  sustainable  Afghan  National 
Army and Police forces. Nevertheless, the extent of the 
challenge  will  require  sustained  commitment  and 
continuity of effort from the international community. 

In closing, I should like to express our support for 
the  draft  resolution  on Afghanistan  (A/62/L.7)  and  to 
A/62/PV.45
its  role 
in  facilitating 
that 
Mr.  Shervani
thank  Germany  for 
consensus text. 
(India):  Let  me  begin  by 

expressing  India’s  appreciation  for  the  scheduling  of 
this discussion on a subject of great significance for us, 
our  region  and  the  world.  I  also  commend  the 
outstanding  effort  by  the  delegation  of  Germany  in 
coordinating  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  that 
have brought forth this improved version of the annual 
General  Assembly  draft  resolution  on  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan  (A/62/L.7).  We  are  happy  to  continue  to 
sponsor this draft resolution, which should be adopted 
by consensus, as in the past. 

Today, the General Assembly has the opportunity 
to  review  developments  since  the  high-level  meeting 
held in this building nearly two months ago, which was 
presided  over  by  the  Secretary-General  and  President 
Karzai.  We  welcome  the  communiqué  adopted  at  that 
meeting  as  a  symbol  of  the  international  community’s 
commitment  to  the  stabilization  and  reconstruction  of 
Afghanistan in an involvement that must be long-term 
if it is to succeed. Today’s draft resolution is a further 
sign of our collective determination. 

The  international  community  shares  the  goal  of 
creating a peaceful, stable and democratic Afghanistan, 
securely  restored 
the  path  of  socio-economic 
development  and  anchored  within  its  region.  The 
central challenge we face in achieving that objective is 
the need for a security environment that is conducive to 
addressing  the  challenges  in  a  developing  nation  that 
has  undergone  unparalleled  levels  of  destruction  and 
privation.  We  must  collectively  upgrade  our  efforts, 
directly  and 
to 
Afghanistan. At the same time, we must expand direct 
assistance  in  reconstruction  and  development,  while 
simultaneously developing capacities in Afghanistan to 
enable maximum local involvement in nation-building. 
Those aspects are reflected in the resolution before us. 

The  international  community  needs  to  consider 
whether it has done all it can to avoid duplication and 
improve coordination on the ground in Afghanistan and 
whether  the  targets  we  have  set  are  achievable  and 
based on ground realities. In all candour, there is room 
to fine-tune our efforts in both areas. 

First,  we  need  to  set  realistic  and  achievable 
benchmarks  of  progress.  They  must  be  based  on  the 
reality  of  where  Afghanistan  is  coming  from,  rather 
than  reflect  an  idealized  version  of  what  we  expect 
indirectly, 
security 
to 
to 
restore 
07-58370 

5 

thus 
recorded 
successes 
A/62/PV.45 

Afghanistan  to  be.  That  is  essential  if  the  national 
ownership  of  our Afghan  partners  of  the  development 
process is to have genuine meaning. 

Second,  we  must  expand  coordination  on  the 
ground,  both  among  ourselves  and  with  Afghan 
interlocutors.  Assistance  must  be  more  closely  linked 
to  Afghan  priorities,  as  reflected  in  the  National 
Development  Strategy  and  the  Afghanistan  Compact. 
The challenge for us is to transform our commitments 
into  realistic,  coordinated  and  effective  strategies  and 
concrete  outcomes  on  the  ground,  including  through 
the Joint Coordination and Monitoring Board. 

Therefore,  our  collective  goal  must  be  to  set 
ourselves  reasonable  expectations  and  build  upon  the 
significant 
far,  while 
recognizing that the road ahead will be long. We must 
redouble  our  political  and  economic  commitment  to 
help  Afghanistan  over  the  medium  to  long  term,  and 
maintain  our  resolve  in  the  face  of  challenges  in  the 
short term. 

Of these challenges, none is more of a test of our 
collective will than that posed by the Taliban, Al-Qaida 
and other terrorist and extremist groups. This threat is 
the  key  —  and  I  repeat,  the  key  —  challenge  to  our 
collective efforts in Afghanistan, and its first objective 
is  to  weaken  our  resolve. Therefore,  we  cannot  afford 
to  underestimate  the  ongoing  resurgence  of  terrorist 
groups. 

India  fully  supports  the Afghan  position  that  the 
challenge  of  terrorism  —  especially  the  recent  and 
growing 
suicide  attacks,  cross-border 
infiltration  and  the  growing  nexus  between  terrorism 
and  drug 
trafficking  —  requires  both  a  robust 
international  political  solution  and  a  stronger  military 
response  at  the  local  level.  We  need  to  display  our 
sustained  resolve,  while  steadily  fortifying  the  ability 
of Afghan agencies to respond to this challenge. 

terrorism  must  be  addressed 
realistically, on the basis of a clear-eyed perception of 
what  and  who  are  involved  and  how  to  respond  to  all 
aspects  of  the  problem.  We  must  not  be  tempted  by 
partial  solutions  that  provide  temporary  and  local 
relief; terrorism cannot be fought piecemeal. 

for  stabilization  of 
Afghanistan  must  be  predicated  upon  short-,  medium- 
and  long-term  strategies  to  address  the  developmental 
challenge.  The  efforts  of  the  international  community 
A  sustainable  strategy 
Most  of  all, 
trend  of 
to 
to 
creation 
them 
to 
take 
if  we 
invest 
infrastructure 
in  place  since 
fuller  ownership  of 
that,  a  multipronged  approach 
in  Afghanistan  can  be  sustained  over  the  long  term 
in  developing  Afghan  human 
only 
resources.  For 
is 
required. At one level, we must invest in rebuilding the 
economic and social infrastructure of the nation, while 
generating  jobs.  At  another,  we  must  progressively 
transfer  skills  and  authority  to  our Afghan  friends,  to 
enable 
the 
reconstruction of their country. 

India  is  fully  committed  to  implementing  the 
benchmarks  of 
the  Afghanistan  Compact  and 
to 
addressing 
the 
interrelated  security,  political  and 
developmental  challenges  facing  Afghanistan.  Our 
commitment 
reconstruction,  development  and 
capacity-building in Afghanistan is unflinching. India’s 
assistance  programme, 
the  Berlin 
Conference,  has  now  reached  $750  million.  Of  this 
total  pledge,  India  has  already  disbursed  around  $300 
million  in  the  implementation  of  assistance  projects 
that  span  the  gamut  of  requirements,  ranging  from 
capacity-building 
and 
reconstruction. 

Capacity-building  is  a  priority  area  for  India. 
Thus  far,  we  have  trained  more  than  2,700  Afghan 
including  students  and  public 
citizens 
officials.  We  are  also 
implementing  a  capacity 
development  programme  in  public  administration,  in 
partnership  with  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme, to depute 30 Indian civil servants to assist 
in Afghan  ministries.  In  addition,  India  is  including  a 
strong  capacity  development  component 
in  all 
infrastructure projects it is executing in Afghanistan. 

Apart  from  ongoing  megainfrastructure  projects, 
India  is  also  focusing  on  small  development  projects. 
These include endeavours requiring the participation of 
local communities and aimed at providing direct peace 
dividends  in  areas  that  are  yet  to  see  development. 
India  has  worked  to  align  its  assistance  programmes 
with  Afghan 
local 
implementation, management and ownership of assets. 
Regional  cooperation  is  also  a  key  pillar  to 

economic 
stabilizing 
cooperation 
the 
Afghanistan  Compact  and  is  a  strategic  element  of  its 
National  Development  Strategy.  Afghanistan’s  entry 
into 
for  Regional 
Cooperation  in  April  2007  will  not  only  further 
strengthen  its  historical  links  with  the  South  Asian 
the  South  Asian  Association 
important  benchmark  of 
Afghanistan. 
is  an 
in  India, 
priorities, 
focusing 
on 
Regional 
6 

07-58370 
to 
resolving 
collective 
to 
in 
turn, 
to 
that  hinder 
impediments 
the  potential 
to  contribute, 
to  develop  measures 


region, but will also provide the region lasting benefits 
in free trade and shared economic activities. All of this 
has 
the 
stabilization  of  Afghanistan  itself,  but  also  of  our 
region.  In  this  context,  several  important  regional 
cooperation events have taken place over the past few 
years,  including  the  Regional  Economic  Cooperation 
Conferences in Kabul and New Delhi. 
However,  the  central  challenge  in  our  region  is 

the  need 
implement 
programmes  evolved  in  regional  processes.  These 
include 
the 
expansion  of  commercial  and  economic  linkages, 
including  barriers  to  effective  overland  trade  and 
transit,  limited  regional  trade  and  business  linkages, 
and  other  measures  that  can  contribute  to  the  early 
realization  of  Afghanistan’s  historic  role  as  a  land 
bridge  between  South  Asia,  Central  Asia  and  West 
Asia.  At  the  same  time,  our  region  also  needs  to 
consider ways of addressing regional and transregional 
political  and  security  challenges,  such  as  cross-border 
terrorism,  cooperation  in  regional  enforcement  and  in 
identifying 
approaches 
expand 
governance and enforcement capacities. 

It  is  our  conviction  that  the  best  riposte  to  those 
who  challenge  the  supportive  role  of  the  international 
community in Afghanistan is to display our heightened 
resolve. At the same time, we must also work together 
in  a  more  effective  partnership  with  one  another  and 
the Government of Afghanistan. Most of all, we should 
expand regional cooperation in the common interest of 
all.  Finally,  our  efforts  to  achieve  greater  donor 
coherence  need  to  be  paralleled  by  efforts  to  build 
incrementally  on 
impressive  successes 
recorded thus far.  
These  are  the  key  elements  for  us  to  build  upon  the 
gains collectively made since the fall of the Taliban. 
Mr.  McNee  (Canada):  Canada  appreciates  this 

opportunity  to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
situation  in  Afghanistan.  Canada,  alongside  a  large 
group  of  Member  States,  has  participated 
in 
the  German 
cooperative  efforts,  skilfully 
delegation, 
resolution 
(A/62/L.7)  on Afghanistan.  We  are  extremely  pleased 
to co-sponsor its passage. 
The  breadth  of  the  draft  resolution,  and  its 

the  entire 
eventual  adoption  by  consensus  by 
membership of the General Assembly, demonstrates the 
today’s  draft 
to  produce 
the  many 
led  by 
A/62/PV.45
the 
and 
depth  of  the  international  community’s  engagement  in 
Afghanistan.  It  also  signals  our  collective  intention  to 
continue  to  support  the  Afghan  Government.  But 
however  strong  the  text  may  be,  the  draft  resolution 
will  only  be  as  effective  as  our  collective  resolve  to 
implement  it.  That  means  building  on  the  gains 
achieved 
to  date,  while  confronting  continuing 
challenges  with  action.  Thanks  to  the  fortitude  of  the 
Afghan  people,  the  tireless  work  of  the  Afghan 
Government  and  the  growing  engagement  of  the 
international community, those efforts are bearing fruit.  

Afghans  are  beginning  to  emerge  from  poverty, 
with  the  help  of  small  loans.  The  Afghan  army  is 
increasingly  able  to  defend Afghan  sovereignty  and  a 
new  generation  of Afghan  children  is  learning  to  read 
and write. Those are important gains, achieved against 
daunting  odds.  Afghans 
international 
community should be proud of those accomplishments, 
but  realistic  about  their  fragility  and  candid  about  the 
areas in which progress is still urgently required. 

The  draft  resolution  before  us  is  clear:  for  those 
achievements  to  be  sustained,  Afghanistan  and  the 
international  community  must  do  more.  We  must  do 
more  to  enhance  regional  cooperation.  We  must  do 
more  to  support  the  development  of  a  professional 
Afghan  police  force.  We  must  do  more  to  strengthen 
the  Afghan  justice  system.  Success  in  each  of  those 
areas is fundamental to Afghanistan’s future. 

solutions. 
shared 
Thousands  of  people  travel  between  Afghanistan  and 
Pakistan  every  day.  Legitimate  trade  between  the  two 
countries  has  been 
increasing  considerably.  The 
potential  for Afghanistan  to  generate  customs  revenue 
is  great.  Capitalizing  on  that  potential  will  require 
constructive  collaboration  on  practical  management 
measures.  It  will  also  involve  intensive  efforts  to 
ensure  that  insurgents,  illicit  drugs  and  arms  do  not 
cross into Afghanistan. 

capacity-building  between 
and 
Afghanistan  and  Pakistan,  as  well  as  other  regional 
partners,  will  be  critical.  In 
that  vein,  Canada 
welcomes the results of the Afghanistan-Pakistan peace 
jirga,  and  urges  both  States  to  begin  to  address 
important issues highlighted during that historic event. 
Canada  stands  ready  to  work  with  the  Afghan  and 
Pakistani  Governments  to  advance  the  conclusions  of 
that meeting. 
Shared  problems 
Confidence- 
require 
07-58370 

7 
the  Afghan  Government  and 
A/62/PV.45 


Afghanistan’s  future  will  also  depend  on  a 
professional,  effective  and  respected  national  police 
force  —  one  that  will  serve  as  the  cornerstone  of 
Afghanistan’s  long-term  domestic  security  and  build 
public confidence in the national Government. Canada 
therefore  welcomes  the  draft  resolution’s  call  for 
accelerated  efforts  to  professionalize  and  strengthen 
the  Afghan  National  Police.  Canada  is  assisting  the 
policing  sector  through  the  provision  of  training, 
infrastructure and salary support. However, progress in 
police  development  will  require  more  coherent  action 
by 
international 
partners. 
(spoke in French) 

A  strong  justice  sector  is  necessary  in  order  to 
ensure  that  the  primacy  of  the  rule  is  well  understood 
and respected in the entire country in the future. Along 
with the draft resolution’s other sponsors, Canada calls 
on  the  Afghan  Government  to  finalize  its  national 
justice sector strategy and national justice programme. 
We  also  call  on  our  international  partners  to  help 
provide  the  necessary  support  for  the  Afghan  justice 
system.  Moreover,  Afghanistan  and  its  international 
partners must honour the commitments made this year 
at the Rome Conference. Canada intends to do its part 
in  that  regard,  including  by  supporting  the  priority 
projects  identified  at  the  Conference  by  the  Afghan 
Government. 

Canada  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
express  its  appreciation  to  the  United  Nations  for  its 
central  role  and 
in 
Afghanistan. In all of the areas to which I have referred 
today  —  regional  cooperation,  policing  and  justice 
sector  reform  —  the  United  Nations  must  provide 
strong 
that 
Afghanistan  can  continue  to  make  progress  down  the 
path of security and independence. 

As the primary representative of the international 
community  in  Afghanistan,  the  United  Nations  must 
also  enhance  its  coordinating  role,  in  particular  by 
deepening  and  expanding  its  presence.  To  that  end, 
Canada  remains  committed  to  supporting  the  United 
Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan and United 
Nations agencies active on the ground.  

In conclusion, we encourage other Member States 
to ensure that the United Nations is endowed with the 
capacity  and  latitude  needed  to  continue  to  exercise 
leadership  with  a  view 
in  efforts  made 
to  ensuring 
impartiality 
its 

in 
for 
in  Afghanistan, 
the  Government  of 
the  consolidation  of  peace  and  stability 
leadership 
support  of 
Afghanistan and all Afghans. 
Mr.  Khazaee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  May  I 

begin  by  extending  our  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  comprehensive  reports  on  various 
aspects  of  the  situation  in  Afghanistan.  I  would  also 
like  to  thank  him  and  his  Special  Representative,  as 
well  as  all  their  colleagues  in  the  United  Nations 
Assistance  Mission 
their 
unwavering  commitment and commendable dedication 
to 
in 
Afghanistan.  We  continue  to  stress  and  support  the 
central  and  essential  role  that  the  United  Nations  is 
playing in Afghanistan. 

In the past several years, by taking various steps 
to  establish  democratic  institutions  and  a  vibrant 
political  system,  the  Afghan  people,  led  by  President 
Karzai, have demonstrated their firm commitment to a 
stable  and  democratic  future.  Moreover,  the  most 
recent  report  (A/62/345)  of  the  Secretary-General  on 
Afghanistan  highlights  a  number  of  promising 
improvements  in  the  economic  and  social  fields. That 
includes  in  particular  valuable  achievements  with 
regard to economic growth, education, health, building 
infrastructure and rural development. We commend the 
Afghan people for those remarkable achievements. We 
assure  them  of  our  ongoing  full  support  in  their 
endeavours to rebuild their country. 

Despite those remarkable accomplishments, much 
remains  to  be  done.  As  indicated  by  the  Secretary-
General  in  his  report,  the  security  situation  in  the 
country  and  the  threat  of  opium  production  and  drug 
trafficking have increased and continue to be of grave 
concern. 
Increased terrorist attacks and violence in certain 

parts  of  Afghanistan  caused  by  Al-Qaida,  the  Taliban 
and other criminal and terrorist groups, coupled with a 
pervasive  drug  economy  and  an  increase  in  the 
production  and  trafficking  of  narcotic  drugs,  have 
created  alarming  challenges  that  seriously  undermine 
the security of the country and beyond. 

As  an  immediate  neighbour  of  Afghanistan,  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran has a vital interest in a stable, 
secure  and  prosperous  Afghanistan  and 
in  an 
Afghanistan  free  from  terrorism  and  extremism.  Iran 
has  always  been  unequivocal  in  its  condemnation  of 
the heinous terrorist acts committed in Afghanistan and 
has  extended  its  full  support  to  the  efforts  of  the 
8 

07-58370 
have 
proved 
to 
be  wrong 
to  address 
the 
insecurity 
integrity  of 
is  experiencing 


Afghan  Government  to  improve  the  security  and 
economic situation in the country. We believe that the 
increase  in  insecurity  in  Afghanistan  and  the  recent 
increase  in  terrorist  activities  clearly  suggest  that  the 
unwarranted  attempts  made  by  certain  foreign  Powers 
in  Afghanistan  to  appease  some  terrorist  groups  and 
elements 
and 
counterproductive. 

in 
Undoubtedly, 
Afghanistan,  full  national  ownership  of  Afghans  over 
the security of their country should be expedited. That 
can  be  done  through,  inter  alia,  strengthening  the 
autonomy  and 
the  Afghan  National 
Security  Forces  and  increasing  home-grown  security. 
The  reconstruction  of  infrastructure,  capacity-building 
and  utilizing  regional  potentials  for  the  reconstruction 
of the country can also contribute to the improvement 
of the situation in Afghanistan. 

Unfortunately, as a producer of 93 per cent of the 
world’s  opiates,  Afghanistan 
the 
biggest  opium  harvest  in  its  history.  The  cultivation 
and  production  of  and  trafficking  in  narcotic  drugs  in 
Afghanistan,  which  adversely  affect  that  country’s 
economic  reconstruction  and  undermine  its  stability 
and  security,  along  with  those  of  the  wider  region, 
especially neighbouring countries, continue unabated. 
In  our  view,  the  impact  of  a  pervasive  drug 

and 
economy 
reconstruction  of  Afghanistan,  and 
that 
terrorism  and  insurgency  feed  on  drug  production  and 
trafficking, should always be kept in sight in all efforts 
to  address  the  security  situation  and  reconstruction  of 
Afghanistan.  Combating  that  menace  requires  a  long-
term and multifaceted strategy and more serious efforts 
by  Afghanistan  and 
international  community. 
Indeed,  the  present  situation  attests  to  the  bitter  fact 
that  the  international  community  has  not  yet  been 
successful  in  curbing  the  scourge  of  narcotic  drugs  in 
Afghanistan,  and  those  foreign  forces  in  the  country 
that have been entrusted with certain responsibilities in 
that regard have not fulfilled their task satisfactorily. 

The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  has  fought,  almost 
single-handedly,  a  costly  and  deadly  war  against 
heavily armed drug traffickers. As I stated in a meeting 
of the Security Council, over the past 25 years we have 
lost  about  4,000  of  our  great  and  brave 
law 
enforcement personnel, who have sacrificed their lives 
to fight that vicious threat. We continue to be resolute 
rehabilitation 
the  fact 
on 
the 
security, 
the 
A/62/PV.45
at  the  forefront  of  the  worldwide  war  against  drug 
traffickers  and  encourage  others  to  join  us  in  that 
important fight in order to save our present as well as 
future generations from the devastating impacts of the 
calamity. 

By  pledging  more  than  half  a  billion  dollars  in 
grants and credits to the reconstruction of Afghanistan, 
Iran  has  been  actively  participating  in  the  country’s 
reconstruction.  We  have  been  engaged  in  various 
infrastructure  activities  in Afghanistan,  including  road 
construction,  manpower  training,  electricity  projects, 
humanitarian  services  and  many  other  projects. 
Moreover, we have just started the second phase of our 
development assistance to Afghanistan, granting about 
$50  million  at  a  demanding  time,  while  several 
important  agreements,  including  a  general  agreement 
on  bilateral  cooperation  and  on  capacity-building  of 
Afghan  ministries  were  also  signed  between  the  two 
countries  during  our  President’s  visit  to  Kabul  in 
August. 

Furthermore, Iran has incurred huge costs during 
the  past  three  decades  by  hosting  almost  3  million 
Afghan  brothers  and  sisters  as  refugees.  We  earnestly 
hope  that  conditions  in Afghanistan  will  facilitate  the 
voluntary repatriation of Afghan refugees to their home 
country in a more timely and promising manner. 

Before concluding, we are pleased to see the full 
support of member countries for the draft resolution at 
hand.  Also,  allow  me  to  thank  the  delegation  of 
Germany for its efforts in the negotiating process of the 
draft resolution before us today. 
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 

will  now  hear  a  statement  by  Mr.  Alberto  Romulo, 
Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the Philippines. 
(Philippines):  My  delegation 

welcomes  the  comprehensive  report  of  the  Secretary-
General on the situation in Afghanistan. 

Afghanistan  still  faces  challenges  in  view  of  the 
serious  insurgency  problem.  With  the  support  of  the 
international  community,  including  my  own  country, 
which  co-sponsored  draft  resolution  A/62/L.7,  we  are 
confident  that  progress  in  all  fronts  will  improve  the 
situation in Afghanistan. 

With  the  Assembly’s  kind  indulgence,  I  would 
now  like  to  touch  on  agenda  item  12,  on  the  topic  of 
new or restored democracies. 
Mr.  Romulo
07-58370 

9 

that  emerged 
for  15  countries 
in  1994,  saw  participation  grow 
A/62/PV.45 


The opening years of the post-cold-war era were 
defined by the immutable gust of democratic wind that 
lifted many nations to democratic heights. Building on 
the  momentum  created  by 
the  fresh  breeze  of 
democracy, several nations banded together and created 
the  International  Conference  of  New  or  Restored 
Democracies  (ICNRD).  Spanning  six 
international 
conferences  in  the  past  19  years,  that  movement 
remains  strong  and  eager  to  further  invigorate  its 
cooperation with the United Nations. 

The first Conference, held in Manila, Philippines, 
in  1988,  and  open  to  all  newly  restored  democracies, 
accounted 
from 
authoritarian  rule  to  constitutional  democracy  from 
1973 to 1988. Participating countries issued the Manila 
Declaration,  which  mainly  called  for  a  consultative 
mechanism  for  mutual  cooperation  in  times  of  danger 
and crisis to their restored democracies. 

The  second  Conference,  held 
in  Managua, 
Nicaragua, 
to 
52  countries  from  a  wave  of  new  democracies  that 
emerged  between  1989  and  the  early  1990s.  They 
adopted  the  Managua  Declaration,  which  introduced  a 
plan  of  action  to  promote  international  dialogue  on 
democracy  focused  on  structural  vulnerabilities,  the 
isolated  transition  process  and  the  common  principles 
and interests of interdependence. 

in  Bucharest, 
Romania,  in  1997,  had  100  participating  countries, 
including  democracies  from  Eastern  and  Central 
Europe. It pushed for the participation of civil society, 
affirmed the important role of the United Nations, and 
recognizes  that  democracy  ensures  a  framework  of 
liberties for lasting solutions to economic, political and 
social problems. 

The  fourth  Conference,  held  in  Cotonou,  Benin, 
in  2000,  had  114  countries  from  the  wave  of  political 
liberalization that swept Africa in the mid-1990s. There 
were many firsts. The Secretary-General attended, civil 
society  held  a  parallel  forum,  and  regional  and 
international  organizations  joined  in.  The  Conference 
highlighted  the  importance  of  national  responsibility, 
human 
people’s 
empowerment,  the  rule  of  law,  good  governance,  the 
freedom of media, and a free civil society.  

in  Ulaanbaatar, 
Mongolia,  in  2003,  was  comprehensive  in  terms  of 
preparation,  participation  and  outcome  documents.  It 
third  Conference,  held 
fifth  Conference,  held 
pluralism, 
political 
rights, 
The 
The 
of 
the 
and 
tripartite 
participation 
outcomes. 
partnership 
noted  the  global  support  for  democratization  at  the 
national, regional and international levels.  

The  sixth  Conference,  held  in  Doha,  Qatar,  in 
2006,  was  the  most  elaborate  in  terms  of  scope  and 
It 
breadth 
institutionalized 
of 
Governments, parliaments and civil society.  
The Philippines is grateful to the United Nations 

Development  Programme  and 
the  Department  of 
Political Affairs for the support they have extended to 
the  ICNRD.  We  look  forward  to  their  continued 
cooperation,  as  well  as  that  of  the  rest  of  the  United 
Nations  system,  not  only  in  preparation  for  the 
triennial  conferences,  but  also  throughout  the  ICNRD 
process, in particular during the follow-up period. For 
that 
reason,  my  delegation  co-sponsored  draft 
resolution  A/62/L.9,  calling  for  the  support  of  the 
United  Nations  system  to  promote  new  or  restored 
democracies. 

To enrich and strengthen the ICNRD process, the 
Philippines wishes to  reiterate the recommendations it 
made in Doha, which were adopted by the Conference. 

First,  migration  and  development  are  essential 
elements  of  the  ICNRD.  Citizens  of  new  or  restored 
democracies  are  found  beyond  their  borders,  assisting 
both 
their  countries  of  origin  and  countries  of 
destination.  Their  potential  to  promote  development 
should  be  both  recognized  and  harnessed,  in  tandem 
with  respect  for  and  protection  of  their  rights.  The 
United  Nations 
to 
mainstream the element of migration and development 
in its partnership with the ICNRD. In that connection, 
the  Philippines  invites  Member  States  and  the  United 
Nations system to join us in Manila when we host next 
year  the  Second  Global  Forum  on  Migration  and 
Development. 

Secondly,  new  or  restored  democracies  are 
burdened  by  debt.  To  breathe  life  into  their  painful 
development process, which can threaten their stability 
if  unattended, 
the  Philippines  has  proposed  an 
innovative  development  financing  option  called  Debt 
For  Equity  in  Millennium  Development  Goal  (MDG) 
Projects,  which  would  enable  50  per  cent  of  all 
scheduled debt payments to be converted into equities 
in MDG-related projects. It will be beneficial to debtor 
and  creditor  alike.  The  scheme  can  strengthen  the 
resolve of poor indebted countries to fight poverty and 
likewise 
invited 
system 
is 
10 

07-58370 
the 
I 
Finally, 
ICNRD 


create  the  needed  fundamentals  for  democracy  and 
sustainable development. 

Thirdly,  the  spirit  of  reconciliation  is  needed  to 
ensure  durable  peace  among  new  or 
restored 
democracies  through  interreligious  and  intercultural 
respect, 
tolerance  and  understanding.  As  a  key 
proponent  of  interfaith  dialogue  and  cooperation,  the 
Philippines  invites  Governments,  the  United  Nations 
system  and  civil  society  to  adhere  to  the  spirit  of 
interfaith  dialogue  and  cooperation  for  the  promotion 
of peace, development and human dignity. 

follow-up  process  can 
effectively prosper given the requisite resources. Thus, 
my  delegation  invites  the  United  Nations  to  set  up  a 
trust fund for new or restored democracies, in addition 
to  the  Democracy  Fund,  so  that  the  decisions  reached 
in  Doha  can  come  to  fruition.  My  delegation  also 
recommends  that  the  ICNRD  secretariat  be  housed  at 
United  Nations  Headquarters,  representing  the  United 
Nations system’s tangible expression of support for the 
ICNRD. 
Mrs.  Aitimova  (Kazakhstan):  Kazakhstan  fully 

aligns  itself  with  the  statements  delivered  by  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  the  Kyrgyz  Republic  on 
behalf  of  the  Collective  Security  Treaty  Organization 
and  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Tajikistan  on 
behalf  of  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization.  I 
will add only a few remarks in my national capacity. 

the 
Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive  report  on 
different aspects of the situation in Afghanistan and for 
his determination to be personally engaged in working 
with the Government of Afghanistan and other partners 
to ensure success in that country. 

As President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbaev 
pointed  out  in  his  statement  at  a  General  Assembly 
plenary meeting in September, the difficulties involved 
in 
in 
Afghanistan  are  a  matter  of  concern  to  Kazakhstan. 
Peace  and  security  in  the  entire  Central  Asian  region 
depend  on 
in 
Afghanistan, and Kazakhstan is deeply interested in the 
speedy  transition  of  life  in  that  long-suffering  country 
to  a  peaceful  track  and  the  restoration  of  its  ruined 
economy. 

Kazakhstan  supports  the  central  role  of  the 
United Nations in leading international efforts to assist 
the  process  of  stabilizing 
join  my  colleagues 
the  stabilization  of 
in  commending 
the  situation 
the  situation 
A/62/PV.45
the 
trade  on 
the  basis  of 
the  main  coordinating  centre 
the  Afghan  authorities  in  bringing  lasting  peace  and 
prosperity  to  their  country,  and  welcomes  the  positive 
achievements  in  the  political,  social  and  economic 
spheres as a result of the joint work of the Government 
of  Afghanistan  and  the  international  community.  We 
commend  the  determination  of  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan  to  contribute  to  regional  security  and 
prosperity, and share the view of the Secretary-General 
that  progress  will  depend  on 
international 
community  and  the  Government  of Afghanistan  better 
coordinating  their  efforts  to  defeat  the  insurgency, 
promote  good  governance  and  provide 
tangible 
improvements to the lives of Afghans. 

As  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  indicates, 
the  unprecedented  increase  in  opium  production  in 
2007 poses a grave threat to reconstruction and nation-
building  in  Afghanistan.  Kazakhstan  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  anti-drug  activities  of  the  United 
Nations  as 
for 
international efforts on that track. We fully support the 
efforts  and  uncompromising  determination  of 
the 
Organization  to  overcome  the  global  problem  of  the 
illegal  drug 
increased 
the  development  of 
international  cooperation  and 
national strategies to eliminate the illegal supply of and 
demand for drugs. 

Reaffirming its commitment to actively cooperate 
with  the  United  Nations  against  illegal  drug  threat, 
Kazakhstan has provided all the required conditions to 
establish within its territory the Central Asian Regional 
Information  and  Coordination  Centre  to  combat  the 
illegal  drug  trade,  in  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, and is determined 
to actively participate in the work of that body. 

in 
Afghanistan, which we fully support and co-sponsor, it 
is  pointed  out  that  one  effective  means  of  promoting 
security  and  development  in  Afghanistan  is  regional 
cooperation,  and  we  strongly  believe 
is 
necessary  to  enable  the  potential  of  such  regional 
organizations  as  the  Conference  on  Interaction  and 
Confidence-building Measures in Asia, which includes 
Afghanistan,  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization, 
and the Collective Security Treaty Organization for the 
purpose  of  creating  collective  security  mechanisms  in 
order  to  cut  the  channels  of  financing  for  terrorist 
activities  and  drug  trafficking  from  Afghanistan  to 
Europe. 
the  draft  resolution  on 
the  situation 
that 
In 
it 
07-58370 

11 
initiatives, 
in 
for 
to 
furthering 
the  Special  Programme 
A/62/PV.45 


We fully share the view of the Secretary-General 
that  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  must  retain  the 
trust  of  its  neighbours  by  engaging  constructively  in 
bilateral  and  multilateral 
including  on 
counter-narcotics and migration issues, and by building 
its  capacity  to  manage  and  deepen  complex  bilateral 
relationships.  In  our  view,  the  active  participation  of 
Afghanistan 
the 
Economies of Central Asia (SPECA), which it joined in 
2005,  will  greatly  contribute 
the 
integration  of Afghanistan  into  the  regional  economy. 
The  Programme  was 
initiated  by  President  of 
Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbaev in 1997 and is being 
pursued  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations 
Economic  and  Social  Commission  for  Asia  and  the 
Pacific and the United Nations Economic Commission 
for  Europe.  SPECA  has  great  potential  in  tackling  the 
pressing  issues  of  the  region  of  Central  Asia  through 
the promotion of regional cooperation and coordination. 
I  should  like  briefly  to  address  the  issue  of 

bilateral  relations  with  Afghanistan.  The  Kazakhstan 
Government  has  elaborated  a  plan  of  assistance  to 
Afghanistan  for  2007-2008.  Our  country  is  ready  to 
assist  Afghanistan 
of 
communications, house-building, and the development 
of  new  oil  and  gas  deposits,  as  well  as  in  personnel 
training in the spheres of economics, industry, finance, 
transport 
education.  The  Government  of 
Kazakhstan  already  provides  100  scholarships  for 
Afghani 
the 
construction  of  schools  and  hospitals,  and  provides 
school books for children in some provinces.  

the 
commitment  of  the  Government  of  Kazakhstan  to  the 
long-term  reconstruction  of  Afghanistan  and  our 
readiness  to  participate  actively  in  international  and 
regional  programmes  in  order  to  reach  our  common 
goal of a stable and prosperous Afghanistan. 
Mr. Maksom (Malaysia): Let me first extend my 

delegation’s  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for 
his report on the situation in Afghanistan, as contained 
in  document  А/62/345  of  21  September  2007.  The 
report  provides  a  comprehensive  description  of  the 
situation 
valuable 
observations  on  possible  course  of  actions.  My 
delegation  also  recognizes  the  valuable  work  of  the 
Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  for 
Afghanistan,  Mr.  Tom  Koenigs,  and  members  of  the 
United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan 
In  conclusion,  I  would 
annually,  participates 
in  Afghanistan 
like 
to  stress 
and 
offers 
in 
the 
reconstruction 
and 
students 
in 

and 
the  prevailing  difficult 
(UNAMA)  under 
challenging conditions in the country. 

My  delegation  congratulates  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan on its commendable strides in developing 
the institutional capacities of the different branches of 
Government  to  fulfil  their  mandated  responsibilities. 
We  applaud  the  work  carried  out  in  the  National 
Assembly,  especially  in  the  final  drafting  of  the  draft 
electoral law and the accompanying law to reform the 
Independent  Electoral  Commission,  in  anticipation  of 
the  next  presidential  and  parliamentary  elections  in 
2009  and  2010,  respectively.  That  is  a  crucial  step  to 
further entrench the democratic process in the country. 
The National Assembly has also succeeded in passing a 
national  budget and is currently working on a number 
of  important  laws,  including  the  Advocates  Law,  the 
Media  Law  and  a  number  of  laws  relevant  to  key 
security sector reforms. 

My delegation also commends the progress made 
in improving the Government delivery system, notably 
in  the  economic  development,  education,  health  and 
rural  development  sectors. We  are  pleased  to  note  the 
increasing  number  of  children  receiving  education  in 
Afghanistan,  which  has  reached  a  record  high  of 
6.07 million, including 2.17 million girls. We also note 
the  improvement  in  health  care,  with  health  coverage 
reaching  82  per  cent  of  the  population.  Likewise,  the 
infant  mortality  rate  and  maternal  mortality  rate  have 
been  reduced  to  3.5  per  cent  and  6.6  per  cent, 
respectively. 

those  achievements,  we  note  with 
Despite 
concern  that  the  situation  in  Afghanistan  remains 
fragile.  A  slight  reverse  in  the  security  situation, 
especially  with  regard  to  the  threat  of  insurgency  and 
the  credibility  of  the  Government’s  ability  to  deliver 
further  on  the  reform  process,  could  undo  all  the 
progress made thus far. 

In  the  light  of  those  concerns,  my  delegation 
continues  to  remain  apprehensive  over  the  reported 
deterioration  in  the  security  sector.  Violent  attacks, 
including  suicide  attacks  attributed  to  Al  Qaeda,  the 
Taliban  and  other  armed  extremist  groups,  have 
increased  in  the  course  of  the  year,  especially  in  the 
southern and eastern provinces. We note the increase in 
violent incidents per month from 425 in 2006 to nearly 
548 in the first three quarters of 2007, including a total 
of  100  suicide  attacks.  Those  incidents  have  claimed 
many  civilian  lives.  More  alarming  are  the  number  of 
12 

07-58370 
trade  and 
the  narcotics 
trade  activities 
further  exacerbate 
repercussions  both 


deaths and injuries of a large and increasing number of 
civilians  and  non-combatants  caused  by  the  combat 
operations  of  both  pro-  and  anti-Government  forces. 
UNAMA  recorded  some  1,000  civilian  deaths  from 
January  to  31 August.  More  efforts  must  therefore  be 
made to protect civilians. 

My  delegation  also  views  with  concern  the 
deteriorating  narcotics  situation  in  Afghanistan.  In 
spite  of  the  Government’s  counter-narcotic  efforts, 
poppy cultivation has increased by 17 per cent, which 
potentially increases opium production by 34 per cent, 
thus  making  Afghanistan  the  world’s  main  opium 
producing  country.  That  situation  has  far-reaching 
security 
for  Afghanistan  and 
countries beyond its borders. At the domestic level, the 
burgeoning  poppy  cultivation  is  creating  a  growing 
nexus  between 
insurgent 
groups,  and  is  feared  to  finance  terrorism.  Moreover, 
narcotics 
the 
corruption  problem  within  Government  and  provincial 
machineries, which in the end may seriously erode the 
credibility and capacity of the Government. 

We  share  the  view  that  a  resolution  of  the 
situation  in  Afghanistan  would  require  an  integrated 
and  concerted  civilian  and  military  approach.  Military 
actions  alone  will  not  be  sufficient  to  overcome  the 
root  causes  of  the  problem.  The  Government  delivery 
system,  including  good  governance  and  respect  for 
human rights, should be improved to foster confidence 
in  and  the  credibility  of  the  Government  among  the 
Afghan population. There is also a need to carry out an 
all-inclusive  national  reconciliation  process  to  avoid 
the marginalization of any group. 

My  delegation  firmly  believes  that  the  sustained 
support  of 
remains 
indispensable 
the 
immediate  challenges  and  to  help  it  implement  the 
National  Development  Strategy,  which  offers  a  viable 
prospect  for  lasting  political  stability  and  economic 
prosperity.  We  reiterate  our  support  for  UNAMA’s 
continuing  to  play  the  central  and  impartial  role  in 
galvanizing different elements of international support 
and monitoring the implementation of the development 
and  security  strategies  on 
in  close 
consultation with the Afghan Government. 

On Malaysia’s part, we reiterate our commitment 
to  cooperating  and  working  closely  with  Afghanistan 
and,  where  appropriate,  other  members  of 
the 
the 
if  Afghanistan 
international  community 
to  overcome 
the  ground, 
is 
A/62/PV.45
continuing 
despite  many 
to  Afghanistan  under 
international  community.  We  will  continue  to  extend 
assistance 
the  Malaysian 
Technical  Cooperation  Programme  to  develop  the 
much  needed-human  capital  in  various  fields  for 
Afghanistan’s development. 
Mr. Lee Do-hoon (Republic of Korea): Allow me 

to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive 
report on the situation in Afghanistan (A/62/345). Our 
thanks  also  go  to  the  delegation  of  Germany  for 
coordinating  the  important  draft  resolution  on  the 
subject (A/62/L.7). The Republic of Korea is pleased to 
join the sponsors of the draft resolution. 

Since  the  adoption  of  the  Bonn  Agreement  in 
2001,  Afghanistan  has  achieved  important  political 
progress, 
challenges, 
culminating in the first-ever direct presidential election 
in  October  2004,  and  parliamentary  elections 
in 
September  2005.  The  international  community  must 
continue  to  work  closely  with  Afghanistan  to  ensure 
that  these  successes  have  a  lasting  impact. We  should 
not  underestimate  what  has  been  accomplished,  but 
neither  should  we  believe  that  our  work  is  nearing 
completion.  There  is  still  much  to  be  done  before 
comprehensive  peace  and  recovery  are  achieved  in 
Afghanistan. 
As  the  Secretary-General’s  report  acknowledges, 

a  deteriorating 
situation,  coupled  with 
uncontrolled  violence  and  criminal  drug  trafficking, 
hamper  not  only  the  reconstruction  process,  but  also 
the 
implementation 
national 
development strategy. 

My  delegation  is  deeply  concerned  about  the 
continuing  instability  in  some  parts  of  Afghanistan. 
The gravity of the situation is underlined by the recent 
cases  of  abduction  and  murder  of Afghan  and  foreign 
civilians, 
the  Taliban’s  kidnapping  of 
23 citizens  of  the  Republic  of  Korea,  two  of  whom 
were subsequently killed. 
We agree with the Secretary-General’s report that 

a 
re-establishing 
multidimensional 
coordinating  military, 
police,  political  and  economic  and  social  activities. 
Essential to the success of that strategy are the efforts 
of 
in 
Afghanistan  and  the  International  Security  Assistance 
Force,  as  well  as  the  coalition  forces  of  Operation 
Enduring Freedom, working in close coordination with 
the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission 
of  Afghanistan’s 
lasting 
strategy 
including 
requires 
security 
security 
07-58370 

13 
the  view 
that 
the  Joint 
therefore  share 
A/62/PV.45 

the  Government  of  Afghanistan  and 
Coordination and Monitoring Board. 

We  are  also  concerned  by  the  increasing  threat 
that  drug  trafficking  poses  to  the  national  security, 
social  development  and  governance  of  Afghanistan. 
Until  the  Afghan  people  can  find  other  sources  of 
income, many will continue to engage in that criminal 
business.  We 
the 
international  community  and  the  Afghan  Government 
should work together to deal with that serious problem, 
which  affects  almost  every  aspect  of  Afghanistan’s 
security and development.  

The  Republic  of  Korea  strongly  hopes  that 
Afghanistan  will  continue  to  work  towards  fully 
the  national  drug  control  strategy 
implementing 
presented  by 
its  Government  at 
the  London 
Conference,  and  stands  ready  to  join  the  international 
support for the strategy by contributing to the Counter-
Narcotics Trust Fund. 

To  deal  with  those  ongoing  challenges,  active 
efforts by the Afghan Government in a spirit of Afghan 
ownership must go hand in hand with  assistance from 
the  international  community.  In  that  regard,  we  note 
that  many  countries,  including  the  Republic  of  Korea, 
have 
for 
Afghanistan since the London Conference. We believe 
that 
announcements  demonstrate  donors’ 
continuing confidence in Afghanistan. 

The Republic of Korea has strongly supported the 
reconstruction  process  of  Afghanistan.  Building  upon 
our contribution of approximately $60 million in grant 
aid  to  Afghanistan  from  2001  to  2005,  we  have  set 
aside $20 million for the subsequent three-year period 
for projects focusing on human resources development, 
agricultural  and 
rural  development  and  public 
administration.  In  addition,  engineering  and  medical 
units from our armed forces have been contributing to 
the  Afghan 
their 
deployment in February 2002.  

resolution  on 
Afghanistan now before us, the Republic of Korea once 
again pledges to renew its  unwavering support for the 
people and Government of Afghanistan in their pursuit 
of peace and prosperity. 
Mr.  Çorman  (Turkey): Turkey  aligns  itself  with 

the statement made by the Permanent Representative of 
Portugal  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union.  However, 
reconstruction  process 
As  a  sponsor  of 
announced  new 
the  draft 
since 
financial 
assistance 
those 

It  also  demonstrates 
the  great  number  of 
given  the  importance  we  attach  to  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan,  as  well  as  our  extensive  involvement  in 
the  reconstruction  efforts  in  that  country,  I  would  like 
to briefly add our voice to the debate. 
The  draft  resolution  we  are  to  adopt  today 

(A/62/L.7)  and 
sponsors 
supporting  it  underline  the  priority  of Afghanistan  on 
our  common  agenda. 
the 
determination of the international  community to assist 
and  support  the  Afghan  people  during  their  difficult 
times. 

In  fact,  we  have  already  started  to  see  some 
positive  results  of  that  common  endeavour.  With  the 
help  of  the  international  community,  much  has  been 
achieved  during  the  last  few  years  reflecting  the 
genuine desire of the Afghan people for an independent 
and  democratic  Afghanistan.  Yet,  there  are  many 
factors  which  prevent  us  from  becoming  all  too 
optimistic.  The  security  situation  is  still  precarious; 
terrorists are now resorting to different tactics, such as 
suicide  bombs  and  kidnappings;  poppy  production 
continues;  and  there  are  still  certain  problems  of 
governance. 

those  rather  discouraging  factors 
should not dishearten us in helping the Afghan people 
and  Government.  On  the  contrary,  they  should  oblige 
us to redouble our efforts in assisting Afghanistan in a 
more efficient and result-oriented way.  

For Turkey’s part, we do all we can to contribute 
to the security and stability of Afghanistan in line with 
our  centuries-old  ties  of  close  friendship  with  the 
Afghan  people.  Indeed,  following  our  lead  in  the 
International  Security  Assistance  Force  (ISAFII  and 
ISAFVII),  we  have  continued  to  maintain  our  active 
participation  in  the  Force  by  assuming  the  leadership 
of  the  Regional  Command  in  Kabul  as  of April  2007. 
Together  with  recent  reinforcements,  we  now  have 
about 1,200 troops in Afghanistan. 
However, we all know that achieving our goals in 

Afghanistan  requires  more  than  military  means  alone. 
Indeed,  issues  such  as  unemployment,  health  care, 
access to clean water, and electricity shortages occupy 
the  minds  of  the  Afghan  people  at  least  as  much  as 
security considerations. Thus we need a comprehensive 
and practical approach. 

that  serious  projects  are  already 
underway  to  address  the  shortcomings  in  those  areas 
That  said, 
true 
is 
It 
14 

07-58370 
in 
their  daily 


and  improve  the  infrastructure  of  the  country.  But 
many  of  the  projects  require  a  long  time  to  be 
completed.  The  Afghan  people,  however,  need  to  see 
tangible  and  rapid  changes 
lives. 
Therefore,  providing  new  employment  opportunities, 
ensuring the delivery of basic services and generating a 
viable  local  economy  should  be  among  our  leading 
priorities. To  that  end,  we  must  utilize  the  services  of 
more  Afghan  companies  and  employ  more  Afghan 
personnel in our projects. 

Turkey,  for  its  part,  is  certainly  committed  to 
doing  so.  That  is  why  Afghan  participation  and 
ownership  is  a  key  principle  that  guides  us  in  all  the 
development  and  reconstruction  projects  we  continue 
to carry out in various parts of Afghanistan. 

In  that  regard,  our  projects  are  concentrated 
mainly in those areas that can make a most immediate 
and  visible  impact  on  the  lives  of  the Afghan  people, 
such as health, education, agriculture and construction 
activities.  For  instance  Turkish-built,  equipped  and 
operated  health  centres  in  Afghanistan  provide  free 
medical  treatment  to  some  900  patients  a  day.  The 
number of Afghan citizens who received such medical 
treatment  in  those  health  centres  has  so  far  exceeded 
750,000. 

We  have  also  built  and  equipped  27  schools  in 
various  parts  of  Afghanistan,  which  provide  modern 
education  to  almost  40,000  Afghan  students  —  girls 
and boys alike. In addition to 13 new schools that will 
be 
soon,  Turkish  non-governmental 
organizations are also running 6 private schools across 
the  country.  Likewise,  the  number  of  safe  drinking-
water  wells  drilled  by  Turkey  across  the  country  has 
already  exceeded  60  and  we  have  many  more  in  the 
pipeline.  

On  the  other  hand,  one  of  the  most  tangible 
examples  of  our  commitment  to  the  Afghan  people’s 
stability 
Provincial 
Reconstruction  Team  (PRT)  that  we  established  one 
year  ago  in  the  province  of Wardak. This  PRT  carries 
out  various  projects  ranging  from  police  training  to 
literacy  courses  for  Afghan  girls  and  women,  from 
electricity interconnection to agricultural development.  

No  matter  how  much  we  strive  to  improve  the 
security and economic environment inside Afghanistan, 
regional cooperation remains key to ensuring long-term 
stability in Afghanistan and beyond. With this in mind, 
Turkey  is  working  closely  with  all  the  regional 
completed 
prosperity 
and 
the 
is 
A/62/PV.45
public 
and 
prepare 
opinion 
countries, in particular with Pakistan and Afghanistan. 
In this regard, we have initiated а trilateral mechanism 
to build confidence and diversify areas  of cooperation 
between the two countries. 

As  mentioned  in  the  draft  resolution  before  the 
Assembly  (A/62/L.7),  the  Ankara  process,  which  was 
launched  at  the  trilateral  summit  meeting  held  in 
Turkey on 29 and 30 April 2007, is an important means 
for  strengthening  regional  cooperation,  and  we  are 
committed to taking it forward with concrete projects. 
As а final word, I would like to stress once again 

that  achieving  our  common  goals  in Afghanistan  will 
not be an  easy or swift process. We  all must be ready 
for a long-term engagement in Afghanistan. We should 
also 
parliaments 
accordingly. We  ought  to  realize  that  failure  is  not  an 
option.  Indeed, Afghanistan  remains  а  central  element 
in our efforts to achieve global security, and, if we do 
not  succeed,  no  one  will  be  spared  from  the  dire 
consequences.  

The  United  Nations  has  а  central  role  to  play  in 
coordinating the efforts of the international community 
and assisting the Afghan Government in its endeavours 
to  achieve  lasting  peace  and  stability.  Under  the  able 
leadership of the United Nations Assistance Mission in 
Afghanistan  much  has  already  been  achieved  to  this 
end  under  extremely  difficult  circumstances.  The 
Afghanistan  Compact,  in  particular,  has  provided  а
most  useful  road  map.  However,  we  believe  there  is 
still  room  for  an  even  more  active  and  robust 
engagement  on  the  part  of  the  United  Nations.  Thus, 
we  hope  that  the  new  Special  Representative  of  the 
Secretary-General  will,  when  appointed,  carry  the 
banner  even  further  and  enable  the  United  Nations  to 
utilize its full capacity. Turkey is committed to exerting 
every  effort  in  support  of  the  United  Nations  and 
Afghanistan.  
In conclusion, I would like to express our sincere 

thanks 
the 
consultations  on  the  draft  resolution  before  us  today. 
We are pleased to be sponsoring it and hope that it will 
be adopted by consensus.  
Mr.  Vohidov  (Uzbekistan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

The  delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Uzbekistan  fully 
supports 
the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Tajikistan  to  the  United  Nations  on 
behalf  of  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization,  and 
the  Kyrgyz 
by 
the  Permanent  Representative  of 
the  German  Mission  for 
statements  by 
leading 
today’s 
to 
07-58370 

15 
in 
the 
that 
serve 
to 
today, 
stability 
interested 
consolidate 
it.  We  are  sincerely 
like  many  other  countries  of 
A/62/PV.45 

Republic  on  behalf  of  the  member  States  of  the 
Collective  Security Treaty  Organization. We  share  the 
main points set out in those statements.  

Our country is a direct neighbour of Afghanistan 
and  has  shared  many  centuries  of  good  neighbourly 
relations  with 
in 
establishing  a  peaceful  and  stable  Afghan  State. 
Uzbekistan, 
the 
international  community 
is  making  every 
possible effort and is taking practical steps to assist the 
Afghan  people  in  the  speedy  stabilization  of  the 
situation in that country.  

Objectively taking into account the real situation 
within and around Afghanistan, we consider one of the 
factors 
in 
Afghanistan  to  be  measures  taken  to  integrate  that 
country  into  the  political  and  economic  system  of 
communications  and  links  among  the  countries  of 
Central Asia. In this context, it is important to increase 
Afghanistan’s participation in the process of creating a 
common  market 
region.  Afghanistan’s 
participation  as  an  observer  country  in  the  activities 
with the Shanghai Cooperation Organization — is very 
significant.  

It  should  be  noted  that  a  particular  role  in 
improving the socio-economic situation in Afghanistan 
and  in  the  development  of  the  integrated  process  is 
being  played  by  transport  communications.  In  this 
connection,  we  draw  attention  to  the  importance  of 
implementing  the  initiative  to  create  an  international 
trans-Afghan  transport  corridor.  For  our  part,  we  are 
ready  to  expand  cooperation  with  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan in very diverse areas, such as prospecting, 
power  generation 
international 
telecommunication  lines,  and  so  on.  We  assure  the 
Assembly  that  this  kind  of  economic  cooperation 
serves  the  interests  of  Afghanistan,  its  neighbouring 
countries and the international community as a whole.  

Central Asia, due to its growing geopolitical and 
geostrategic  significance,  as  well  as  its  huge  natural 
economic  and  resource  potential, 
the 
attention  of  many  countries  of  the  world  community. 
However,  Central  Asia  unfortunately  continues  to 
remain in focus as a region where there are continued 
threats and challenges to security and stability. One of 
the  main  reasons  for  this  is  continuing  tension  in 
Afghanistan.  We  must  be  seriously  concerned  by  the 
situation in that country today, characterized by a trend 
is  drawing 
local 
and 
and 

technology,  weapons 
to  further  deterioration  against  the  background  of 
significant military actions by Taliban movement.  

The continuing growth in the volume, production 
and traffic of drugs is evoking growing concern on the 
part  of  the  international  community  and  the  States  of 
the  region.  In  order  to  counter  this  threat,  security 
zones  must  be  created  around  the  country  and  there 
must  be  profound  structural  reform  in  the  Afghan 
economy.  Without 
this,  narcotics  coupled  with 
terrorism  will  remain  the  main  threats  to  the  national 
security of Afghanistan and to the effective functioning 
of the Government.  

One  of  the  serious  factors  complicating  and 
aggravating  the  situation  in  the  country  is  the  huge 
arsenal  of  military 
and 
ammunition  accumulated  over  the  decades  of  war  in 
Afghanistan. As noted by our President in his letter to 
the  Secretary-General  in  2001,  the  gradual  process  of 
stabilization of the situation and restoration of peaceful 
life in Afghanistan must be accompanied by a solution 
to  the  question  of  the  reduction  and  removal  of  those 
mountains  of  armaments,  which  would  make 
it 
possible  to  create  the  necessary  prerequisites  for 
preventing further militarization of this country.  

We  are  profoundly  convinced  that  achieving 
peace  and  stability  in  Afghanistan  must  occur  not 
through  further  militarization  and  expansion  in  the 
scale  of 
through 
demilitarization  and  through  the  implementation,  with 
the  assistance  of  the  world  community,  of  projects 
aimed  chiefly  at  resolving  the  most  acute  economic 
problems,  as  well  as  by  giving  social  support  to  the 
population of the country.  

Agreed  joint  actions  by  all  parties  that  are  truly 
interested  in  stabilizing  the  situation  and  promoting 
reconstruction  in  Afghanistan  will  be  the  decisive 
factor in finding solutions to this problem. That is why 
Uzbekistan  welcomed  the  draft  resolution  submitted 
today  by  the  delegation  of  Germany. We  hope  that  its 
adoption  by  consensus  will  reaffirm  once  again  the 
international community’s willingness to do everything 
possible 
recovery  of 
Afghanistan. 

have heard the last speaker in the debate on this item. 

The  General Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision 
on draft resolution A/62/L.7. I should like to announce 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  We 
the  peaceful 
the  use  of 
to  promote 
force,  but 
rather 
16 

07-58370 


that  since  the  introduction  of  the  draft  resolution  the 
following  countries  have  become  sponsors:  Algeria, 
Andorra,  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Armenia,  Austria, 
Azerbaijan, Belarus, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Cape 
Verde,  the  Central  African  Republic,  Chile,  China, 
Cyprus,  the  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  El 
Salvador,  Ethiopia,  Gabon,  Georgia,  Greece, 
Guatemala,  Guinea,  Haiti,  Honduras, 
India, 
Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Lesotho,  Liberia,  Madagascar, 
Mali,  Malta,  Mauritius,  Moldova,  Monaco,  Nigeria, 
Norway, Oman, Panama, Peru, the Philippines, Poland, 
the  Republic  of  Korea,  San  Marino,  Slovakia,  Sri 
Lanka,  Tajikistan,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Ukraine  and 
Yemen. 
A/62/PV.45
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 

draft resolution A/62/L.7? 

Draft resolution A/62/L.7 was adopted (resolution 
62/6). 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  May  I 

take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General Assembly  to 
conclude its consideration of agenda item 19? 

The meeting rose at 4.55 p.m. 


It was so decided. 
07-58370 

17 
