
A/62/PV.4
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

4th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 25 September 2007, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia)
May I repeat, it is a model of how I hope we can 
United  Nations,  so  that  we  will  all  be  united  in 
combating  climate  change. 
It  was  already  any 
enormous undertaking, and it is in this way that I hope 
that we will work together in the future.  
(spoke in English) 

work together in the future. 

Looking to the coming year, and beyond, we can 
foresee  a  daunting  array  of  challenges  to  come.  They 
are  problems  that  respect  no  borders,  that  no  country, 
big or small, rich or poor, can resolve on its own. 

More  than  ever,  we  live  in  an  era  of  collective 
action.  Often  it  seems  as  though  everybody  wants  the 
United  Nations  to  do  everything.  We  cannot  deliver 
everything, of course. But that cannot be an excuse for 
doing nothing. 

United Nations for a Better World”. 

Our  changing  world  needs  a  stronger  United 
Nations. We all understand the importance of a strong, 
robust,  empowered  Secretariat.  My  vision 
is  an 
administration focused on results — efficient, directed, 
pragmatic  and  accountable  —  an  administration 
representing  excellence,  integrity  and  pride  in  serving 
the global good.  

To  deliver  on  this  vision,  we  must  modernize 
ourselves.  We  need  an  internal  climate  change  at  the 
United Nations. We need to think freshly about how we 
Hence the theme of these remarks — “A Stronger 





  The meeting was called to order at 9.15 a.m. 


(spoke 
Agenda item 109 
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/62/1) 
The  President:  In  accordance  with  the  decision 

taken at its 3rd plenary meeting, held on 21 September 
2007, the General Assembly will hear a presentation by 
the Secretary-General of his annual report on the work 
of the Organization under agenda item 109. I give the 
floor to the Secretary-General. 
The  Secretary-General 
in  French): 

Mr. President, I would like to congratulate you on your 
election. Welcome, all, to New York in this wonderful 
season. For me, it is both a pleasure and an honour to 
be with you for the opening of the general debate of the 
sixty-second  session  of  our  General  Assembly.  I 
believe  that  this  year  will  be  the  most  intense  in  our 
history. I also very firmly believe that, together, we can 
make it one of the most fruitful.  

We have gotten off to a good start. Last week, we 
were able to bring together a high-level meeting of the 
Millennium Development Goals Africa Steering Group, 
which  is  a  clear  priority.  Leaders  from  around  the 
world also met to discuss the course to be taken in the 
Middle East, in Afghanistan, in Darfur and in Iraq.  

And  yesterday  we  had  a  very  productive 
conference on climate change. The aim was to marshal 
energies, political determination and to coordinate our 
action  by  all  meeting  under  the  same  roof,  that  of  the 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-51578 (E) 
*0751578* 
successfully 
to 
Together,  we 
the  past  nine  months 
A/62/PV.4 

do  our  work.  Our  main  themes  should  be  to  simplify, 
rationalize and delegate.  

To  deliver  on  the  world’s  high  expectations  for 
us, we need to be faster, more flexible and mobile. We 
need  to  pay  less  attention  to  rhetoric  and  more 
attention to results — to getting things done. 
I  place  a  very  high  priority  on  implementing  the 

management  reforms  that  the  General  Assembly  has 
previously  approved  to  promote  greater  transparency, 
accountability  and  efficiency.  I  welcome  the  progress 
we  have  made  over 
in 
streamlining our budget processes, crafting our Capital 
Master Plan and putting our financial house in order. I 
am  especially  grateful  to  the  102  Governments  that 
have paid their annual budget assessments in full. 

reorganized  our 
peacekeeping  operations,  affecting  more  than  100,000 
United Nations personnel in 18 multinational missions. 
I  plan  to  continue  the  effort  by  strengthening  the 
Department of Political Affairs. We must become more 
proactive  in  responding  to  crises.  Well-planned  and 
well-executed  preventive  diplomacy  can  save  many 
lives  and  forestall  many  tragedies  —  a  core  Charter 
responsibility of our United Nations. 

I will leave no stone unturned to end the tragedy 
in Darfur. The Government of Sudan must live up to its 
pledge 
talks  and 
implement  a  ceasefire.  We  must  also  move  forward 
with  the  agreement  that  ended  the  long-running  civil 
war between north and south and prepare for elections 
in 2009.  

The crisis in Darfur grew from many causes. Any 
enduring solution must address all of them — security, 
politics, 
and 
development issues. There, as elsewhere, we must deal 
with the root causes of conflict, however complex and 
entangled. 

Peace in the Middle East is vital to the stability of 
the region and the world. We know what is required — 
an  end  to  violence,  an  end  to  occupation,  the  creation 
of  a  Palestinian  State  at  peace  with  itself  and  Israel, 
and a comprehensive regional peace between Israel and 
the Arab world.  

With renewed leadership from the Arab world and 
the  United  States,  coupled  with  the  efforts  of  the 
Quartet representative, Mr. Tony Blair, the elements for 
a renewed push for peace are being brought together.  
join  comprehensive  peace 
resources,  water, 
humanitarian 
to 
the 
relevant  parties 
in  accordance  with 

We also sincerely hope that the Lebanese people, 
through  national  reconciliation,  will  be  able  to  restore 
political  and  social  stability  by  electing  their  new 
president 
their  constitutional 
process.  

Iraq has become the whole world’s problem. With 
the  newly  adopted  Security  Council  resolution  1770 
(2007),  the  United  Nations  has  an  important  role  to 
play  in  promoting  political  negotiation  and  national 
reconciliation,  as  well  as  in  providing  humanitarian 
assistance  to  the  Iraqi  people.  But  we  recognize  that 
the  safety  and  security  of  United  Nations  staff  is 
paramount.  

In  Afghanistan,  we  must  work  more  effectively 
with our partners to deal with drug trafficking and the 
financing of terrorism.  

We are closely following events in Myanmar. We 
again  urge  the  authorities  in  Myanmar  to  exercise 
utmost  restraint,  to  engage  without  delay  in  dialogue 
with  all 
the  national 
reconciliation  process  on  the  issues  of  concern  to  the 
people of Myanmar. In this regard, my Special Adviser 
is expected to visit Myanmar very soon.  

From  my  first  day  in  office,  I  have  stressed  the 
importance of disarmament, as mandated most recently 
in  the  General Assembly’s  support  for  my  proposal  to 
establish  an  Office  for  Disarmament Affairs. We  must 
reinvigorate  our  efforts  to  stop  the  proliferation  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  related  technology, 
especially to prevent such material from falling into the 
hands of terrorists. I am encouraged by recent progress 
on  the  issue  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea.  I  sincerely  hope  that  the  forthcoming  inter-
Korean  summit  meeting  will  create  a  historic 
momentum  to  bring  peace,  security  and  eventually  a 
peaceful  reunification  of  the  Korean  Peninsula.  I  am 
confident that we will reach a negotiated solution with 
the Islamic Republic of Iran. Our ultimate goal remains 
the  complete  elimination  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction.  If  we  fail,  these  weapons  may  one  day 
eliminate us. 

We  at  the  United  Nations  must  take  the  long 
view,  in  politics  as  in  life.  Even  as  we  deal  with  the 
here  and  now,  we  must 
tomorrow. 
Yesterday,  I  spoke  about  climate  change  as  a  defining 
issue  of  our  time.  We  all  agreed:  now  is  the  time  for 
action. Let us go to Bali and make a breakthrough. We 
also  agreed  that  solutions  to  global  warming  cannot 
think  about 
2 

07-51578 
That 
is  why 
I  convened 


come  at  the  expense  of  economic  development,  the 
second pillar of the work of the United Nations. Issues 
of  development  and  social  equity  cannot  take  a  back 
seat to issues of peace and security.  

This year marks the midpoint for our Millennium 
Development  Goals.  We  have  had  successes.  Around 
the world, unprecedented numbers of people are lifting 
themselves  out  of  poverty.  Yet  the  rising  tide  of 
globalization has not lifted all boats.  

We see this most acutely in Africa, home to most 
of  what  one  World  Bank  economist  calls  “the  bottom 
billion”  of  the  world’s  poor.  We  must  pay  careful 
attention to these nations with special needs. We must 
heed the voices of the world’s poorest peoples, who too 
often go unheard.  

the  Millennium 
Development  Goals Africa  Steering  Group  earlier  this 
month,  bringing  together  leaders  of  major  multilateral 
development organizations.  

Our  Millennium  Development  Goals  remain 
achievable so long as we help the poorest nations break 
free of the traps that ensnare them. Some of those traps 
relate  to  bad  governance,  others  to  disease  and  poor 
health  care.  It  is  intolerable  that  HIV/AIDS  continues 
as  a  modern-day  scourge.  It  is  intolerable  that  almost 
10  million  children  die  each  year  before  their  fifth 
birthday,  mostly  from  such  preventable  diseases  as 
malaria.  It  is  a  scar  on  the  moral  conscience  of  the 
world. 

This is not to say that we will do things that these 
countries  should,  and  can  and  do,  do  for  themselves. 
The  “Asian  Miracle”  has  shown 
that  successful 
development owes much to smart choices and rigorous 
execution.  

For our part, we must try to make our multilateral 
development programmes more effective and coherent, 
to  better  integrate  our  efforts  in  health,  education, 
agriculture  and  infrastructure  so  as  to  deliver  better 
results. 

For  their  part,  donor  nations  must  do  more  to 
deliver on their promises of aid, debt relief and market 
access.  Open,  fair  and  non-discriminatory  market 
access, trading and financial systems are critical to the 
future  of  every  developing  country,  in  Africa  and 
elsewhere.  That  is  why  we  must  do  our  utmost  to 
advance  the  Doha  Development  Agenda,  with  its 
emphasis on development and aid for trade. 
A/62/PV.4
the 
and 
brave 
Meanwhile, 

The  third  pillar  of  the  United  Nations,  human 
rights,  is  codified  in  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human Rights, which marks its sixtieth anniversary in 
2008.  The  Human  Rights  Council  must  live  up  to  its 
responsibilities  as  the  torchbearer  for  human  rights 
consistently  and  equitably  around  the  world.  I  will 
strive  to  translate  the  concept  of  our  responsibility  to 
protect from words to deeds, to ensure timely action so 
that populations do not face genocide, ethnic cleansing 
or crimes against humanity. 

Our  international  tribunals  continue  their  work, 
from  Rwanda  to  Sierra  Leone  and  soon  in  Lebanon. 
The age of impunity is dead. 

exceptionally 
committed  United  Nations  humanitarian  aid  workers 
do  their  best  to  save  lives.  They  help  protect  civilian 
populations  from  the  degradations  of  armed  militias, 
children  from  starvation  and  women  from  shameful 
violence.  

This  year  did  not  bring  a  natural  disaster  on  the 
scale  of  the  2004  tsunami,  but  the  intensity  of  floods, 
droughts  and  other  extreme  weather,  perhaps  made 
worse  by  climate  change,  have  brought  pain  and 
suffering  to  many  millions.  This,  above  all,  is  the 
United  Nations  front  line.  We  stand  up  to  help  those 
who cannot help themselves. 
(spoke in French) 

I am often filled with a sense of deep humility in 
the  face  of  the  great  challenges  ahead  of  us.  So  many 
hopes  have  been  placed  in  us,  but  it  is  our  duty  to 
respond  to  these  hopes  with  perseverance,  patience, 
courage and discipline. We must transform the way in 
which  the  United  Nations  does  its  work,  the  way  that 
we  work.  Let  us  focus  more  on  results,  rather  than 
bureaucratic  procedures.  The  pendulum  of  history  is 
swinging  in  our  favour.  Multilateralism  is  back.  An 
increasingly  interdependent  world  acknowledges  that 
the United Nations is the best way — in fact the only 
way — to take up the challenges of the future. 



Agenda item 8 
General debate 
The  President:  There  are  over  180  languages 

spoken  in  the  five  boroughs  of  New  York.  This 
cosmopolitan  city  really  is  a  microcosm  of  the  world. 
What  better  place  than  this  to  bring  together  at  the 
07-51578 

3 
A/62/PV.4 

highest  level  all  192  Member  States  of  the  United 
Nations?  

We are here today to debate the urgent challenges 
that  our  peoples  and  nations  face  collectively  and 
individually. This is one of the rare occasions each year 
when  so  many  heads  of  State  and  Government  gather 
together in one place. What a unique opportunity. This 
historic Hall is indeed the parliament of the peoples of 
the world.  

It is therefore my sincere honour and pleasure to 
welcome  you  all  to  the  general  debate. The  theme  for 
this year’s debate is “Responding to Climate Change”. 
I would also  like to use this opportunity to draw your 
attention  to  the  other  key  priorities  we  will  work  on 
together during the sixty-second session. 

As I set out in more detail at the opening of this 
session,  in  consultations  with  members,  I  identified 
five  priority  topics  that  we  need  to  address  in  this 
session:  climate  change,  financing  for  development, 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  countering 
terrorism and renewing the management, effectiveness 
and  coherence  of  the  Organization,  including  Security 
Council  reform.  I  believe  that  those  five  priorities 
represent  an  equilibrium  of  interests  that  all  Member 
States can identify with  and take  forward successfully 
together.  
Climate  change  and  its  dramatic  effects  are 

increasingly visible and increasingly violent. The irony 
is  that  those  least  responsible  for  it  will  suffer  most. 
Yesterday, many participants reaffirmed that and sent a 
strong  political  message  that  the  time  for  action  had 
come.  That 
is  why  I  have  proposed  creating  a 
comprehensive road map to guide the way forward for 
the United Nations system and its Member States.  

First,  we  need  to  take  stock  to  outline  the 
instruments  we  have  and  the  structures  necessary  to 
address climate change. Then, we need a clearer vision 
of  the  way  forward. And  finally,  we  must  formulate  a 
strategy  to  get  us  there  together.  Modernizing  our 
management  and 
implementing  greater  coherence 
across  the  system  will  enable  the  Organization  to 
deliver  better  results  on  all  the  priorities  I  have 
outlined.  And  to  make  swift  progress,  I  call  on  all 
members 
the 
Secretary-General  in  his  endeavour  to  advance  the 
agenda  of  the  United  Nations  and  to  make  it  more 
effective and modern.  
their  support  for 
to  renew 
today 
life  of 
The  patterns  of 
is  growing  daily.  Education, 

Together,  dealing  systematically  with  substance, 
the  General  Assembly  can  demonstrate  its  global 
leadership on these important issues. To revitalize this 
House  is  also  to  renew  our  faith  in  each  other  and  in 
the Organization’s cherished values. 

The  basic  values,  norms  and  principles  of 
international  relations  are  undergoing  a  profound 
transition. This  is  characterized  by  great  opportunities 
as well as by great challenges.  
individuals  and 

increasingly  shaped  by  global 
communities  are 
economic  forces.  Overall,  our  wealth  is  increasing. 
More  and  more  people  are  benefiting  from 
the 
expansion  of  trade,  commerce  and  new  jobs  in  a 
system based on the rule of law and human rights. But 
for  the  benefits  of  development  to  be  sustained,  they 
have  to  be  shared  by  all.  Sharp  social  divisions  and 
inequalities continue to persist. About half the world’s 
people  still  live  on  less  than  two  dollars  per  day.  In  a 
world  where  we  are  confronted  by 
images  of 
prosperity,  the  burden  of  the  expectation  of  a  better 
future 
to 
empowerment,  is  for  some  more  accessible. Yet,  each 
day,  100  million  young  children  do  not  receive  an 
education.  Let  us  spare  no  effort  in  moving  the  world 
towards  a  sense  of  genuine  belonging,  shared 
opportunity and responsibility. 

Achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs) is not solely a test of our ability to deliver on 
our  promises.  It  is,  above  all,  a  test  of  our  moral 
convictions.  That  is  why,  in  consultation  with  the 
Secretary-General,  I  intend  to  work  closely  with 
members to hold an MDG leaders meeting here at the 
United Nations during this session.  
(spoke in French) 

In  this  era  of  globalization,  we  face  other 
challenges. Capital flows are becoming more and more 
complex,  volatile  and  opaque.  We  are  increasingly 
vulnerable  to  the  new  threats  to  which  we  need  to 
respond. Terrorism, arms trafficking, weapons of mass 
destruction,  pandemics  and 
the  consequences  of 
climate change are but a few examples. That is why I 
am  calling  upon  members  to  take  every  opportunity 
offered  to  us  in  the  course  of  this  session  to  move 
towards  sustainable  peace,  in  particular  in  the  Middle 
East, Iraq, Afghanistan and Darfur.  
the  key 
4 

07-51578 
in 
to 
We  must  rise 
those  challenges 


this 

fast-paced  world.  Political  decision-
increasingly 
making  processes  can  seem  very  slow  and 
too 
cumbersome.  As  Ms.  Al  Khalifa  said  during  the 
previous  General  Assembly  session,  we  are  facing  a 
growing gap between the actions that we must take and 
the multilateral means at our disposal to do so. 
(spoke in English) 

By  confronting  the  challenges  of  our  time  and 
nurturing  new  patterns  of  cooperation,  we  can  forge  a 
new  culture of international relations, demonstrate the 
courage  to  rise  above  ourselves  and  achieve  our 
common  goals.  We  must 
act  with  purpose, 
determination and vision, all of us accepting our shared 
but  differentiated  responsibility  to  work  together  for 
change.  If  fully  implemented,  the  commitments  made 
at  the  2005  World  Summit  and  at  other  summits  and 
conferences  can  create  the  conditions  for  lasting 
prosperity  and  stability  based  on  the  principles  of 
peace  and  security,  international  development,  human 
rights and the rule of law. 

To  demonstrate  this  and  to  achieve  more  during 
this  session  and  in  the  future,  the  General  Assembly 
should  be  more  of  a  dialogue,  not  a  monologue;  it 
should  be  more  engaging  and  insightful;  it  should  be 
more  focused  on  results  and  should  continually  strive 
to  exemplify  the  spirit  of  cooperation  and  mutual 
respect.  

There is an old saying: “Keep your mind level. If 
the mind is level, the whole world will be level”. It is 
my  hope  that  that  spirit  will  guide  us  in  our  joint 
efforts,  not  only  during  this  session,  but  in  the  future. 
Acting in that manner requires us to realize that all the 
distinctions  of 
the 
discriminatory views of the mind. 

Before giving the floor to the first speaker for this 
morning, I should like to remind members that the list 
of  speakers  has  been  created  on 
that 
statements  will  have  a  time  limit  of  15  minutes  per 
statement to enable all the speakers to be heard at any 
given meeting. Within this time frame, I should like to 
appeal  to  speakers  to  deliver  their  statements  at  a 
normal  speed  so  that  interpretation  may  be  properly 
provided.  

I should also like to draw the General Assembly’s 
attention  to  the  decision  made  by  the  Assembly  at 
previous  sessions,  namely, 
the  practice  of 
the  world  are  caused  by 
the  basis 
that 
A/62/PV.4
inside 
congratulations 
expressing 
the  General 
Assembly  Hall  after  a  speech  has  been  delivered  are 
strongly discouraged. In that connection, I should like 
to invite speakers in the general debate after delivering 
their  statements  to  exit  the  General  Assembly  Hall 
through  room  GA-200,  located  behind  the  podium, 
before returning to their seats.  

May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
proceed in the same manner during the general debate 
of the sixty-second session? 
It was so decided.  

The President: Finally, I should like to draw it to 

the  attention  of  members  that  during  the  general 
debate,  official  photographs  of  speakers  are  taken  by 
the  Department  of  Public  Information.  Members 
interested in obtaining those photographs are requested 
to contact the Photo Library of the United Nations. 


Address by Mr. Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, President 
of the Federative Republic of Brazil 
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  hear  an 

address by the President of the Federative Republic of 
Brazil. 

Mr.  Luiz  Inácio  Lula  da  Silva,  President  of  the 
Federative  Republic  of  Brazil,  was  escorted  into 
the General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, 
President  of  the  Federative  Republic  of  Brazil,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
in  Portuguese; 

English text provided by the delegation): I congratulate 
the Secretary-General on his assumption of such a high 
office  within  the  international  system.  I  welcome  his 
decision 
the 
extremely  grave  issue  of  climate  change.  It  is  most 
appropriate  that  that  discussion  take  place  here  at  the 
United Nations.  
Let us not delude ourselves. If the groundwork of 

global  development 
the  risks  of 
unprecedented  environmental  and  human  catastrophe 
will grow. We must overcome the apparently pragmatic 
and  sophisticated  notion  —  which 
is  actually 
anachronistic,  predatory  and  senseless  —  that  profits 
and  wealth  can  grow  forever,  at  any  cost.  There  are 
to  encourage  high-level  debate  on 
President  Da  Silva 
is  not  rebuilt, 
(spoke 
07-51578 

5 
under 
Protocol 
the  Kyoto 
A/62/PV.4 

prices that humanity cannot afford to pay at the risk of 
destroying the material and spiritual foundations of our 
collective  existence  —  at  the  risk  of  self-destruction. 
The  preservation  of  life  must  prevail  over  mindless 
greed. 

The  world  will  not  correct  its  irresponsible 
relationship with nature, however, until we change the 
way development relates to social justice. If we want to 
salvage  our  common  heritage,  a  new  and  more 
balanced  distribution  of  wealth 
is  needed,  both 
internationally  and  within  each  country.  Social  equity 
is  our  best  weapon  against  the  planet’s  degradation. 
Each one of us must do our part. It is unacceptable that 
the  cost  of  the  irresponsibility  of  a  privileged  few  be 
shouldered by the dispossessed of the Earth. 

The most highly industrialized countries can and 
must  set  the  example.  Full  compliance  with  their 
commitments 
is 
indispensable. That is not enough, however. We need to 
set  more  ambitious  goals  for  2012  onwards  and  we 
must take strong action to ensure universal accession to 
the  Protocol.  Developing  countries  must  also  help  in 
combating  climate  change.  We  need  clear  national 
strategies  to  hold  Governments  accountable  to  their 
peoples. 

Brazil  will  soon  launch  its  own  national  plan  to 
combat  climate  change.  The  Amazon  forest  is  one  of 
the  areas  most  vulnerable  to  global  warming,  but  the 
threats  cover  all  continents.  They  range  from  greater 
desertification 
the  outright  disappearance  of 
territories or even of entire countries lost to rising sea 
levels. Brazil has undertaken major efforts to minimize 
the impact of climate change. Suffice it to say that, in 
recent  years,  we  have  halved  the  rate  of  deforestation 
in the Amazon region. 

Results  like  that  should  come  as  no  surprise. 
Brazil  will  under  no  circumstance  abdicate  either  its 
sovereignty  or  its  responsibilities  in  the Amazon.  Our 
recent  achievements  derive 
increasing 
presence of the Brazilian State in the region, fostering 
sustainable  development  with  economic, 
social, 
educational  and  cultural  benefits  for  its  more  than 
20 million inhabitants. 

I  am  convinced  that  our  experience  can  enrich 
similar  endeavours  in  other  countries.  In  Nairobi, 
Brazil proposed the adoption of economic and financial 
incentives to reduce deforestation on a global scale. We 
must  also  increase  South-South  cooperation  while 
from  an 
to 
of 
but 
shared 
promoting  innovative  modalities  of  joint  action  with 
developed  countries.  That  is  how  we  can  materialize 
the 
principle 
differentiated 
responsibilities. 

It  is  very  important  to  adopt  an  integrated 
political  approach  to  the  environmental  agenda  as  a 
whole. Brazil hosted the United Nations Conference on 
Environment  and  Development  —  the  Earth  Summit. 
We need to review what has been achieved since then, 
and set a new course of action. I therefore propose that 
we  hold  a  new  Conference,  in  2012,  the  “Rio  +20” 
Conference to be hosted by Brazil. 

We  will  not  overcome  the  terrible  impacts  of 
climate  change  until  humanity  changes  its  patterns  of 
energy  production  and  consumption.  The  world 
urgently  needs  to  develop  a  new  energy  matrix  in 
which  bio-fuels  will  play  a  vital  role.  Bio-fuels 
significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. With its 
increased and more efficient use of ethanol, Brazil has 
kept  644  million  tons  of  carbon  dioxide  from  being 
emitted into the atmosphere over the past 30 years. 

Bio-fuels  can be much more than a clean-energy 
alternative.  Ethanol  and  bio-diesel  can  open  up 
excellent  opportunities 
for  over  100  poor  and 
developing  countries  in  Latin  America,  Asia  and, 
especially, Africa. They can enhance energy autonomy, 
without  costly  investments.  They  can  create  jobs  and 
income  and  promote  family  farming.  They  can  help 
balance 
imports  and 
generating surplus exportable crops. 
Brazil’s experience over three decades has shown 

that  bio-fuel  production  does  not  affect  food  security. 
Sugarcane crops cover just 1 per cent of the country’s 
arable land, and yields continue to rise. People do not 
go hungry around the world for lack of food, but rather 
for lack of income, which afflicts almost 1 billion men, 
women and children. 

It  is  entirely  possible  to  combine  bio-fuels  with 
environmental protection and food production. We will 
ensure that bio-fuel production complies with all social 
and  environmental  guarantees.  Our  Government  has 
decided  to 
implement  a  complete  agro-ecological 
zoning of the country in order to identify farmland best 
suited  to  producing  bio-fuels.  Brazilian  bio-fuels  will 
reach  the  world  market  with  a  seal  of  assurance  for 
their social, labour and environmental quality. 
trade  deficits  by 
reducing 
6 

07-51578 
is  not 
just 
lasting  peace 
Sustainable  development 



In  2008,  Brazil  is  set  to  host  an  international 
conference  on  bio-fuels  that  will  lay  the  foundations 
for wide-ranging global cooperation. I hereby invite all 
countries to participate. 

an 
environmental  issue;  it  is  also  a  social  challenge.  We 
are making Brazil less unequal and more dynamic. The 
country is growing again, creating jobs and distributing 
income. This  time,  opportunities  are  being  created  for 
all. We are paying off a centuries-old social debt, while 
at the same time investing heavily in quality education, 
science and technology.  

We  have  honoured  our  commitment  to  “zero 
hunger” by sweeping away that scourge from the lives 
of  over  45  million  people.  We  achieved  the  first 
Millennium  Development  Goal  10  years  ahead  of 
schedule,  cutting  extreme  poverty  in  our  country  by 
more than half. Fighting hunger and poverty should be 
the  concern  of  all  peoples. A  global  society  held  back 
by  growing  income  disparities  is  simply  not  viable. 
There  will  be  no 
if  we  do  not 
progressively reduce inequality. 
In  2004,  we  launched  the  global  Action  against 

Hunger  and  Poverty.  Early  results  are  encouraging, 
particularly  the  creation  of  the  International  Drug 
Purchase  Facility  (UNITAID).  UNITAID  has  already 
achieved  45-per-cent  price  cuts  in  drugs  used  against 
AIDS,  malaria  and 
the  poorest 
countries of Africa. The time has come for us to give it 
a  new  push.  We  cannot  allow  ideas  that  so  mobilized 
our countries to fade because of bureaucratic inertia. 

However,  the  final  defeat  of  poverty  demands 
more than international solidarity. It depends above all 
on new economic relations that no longer penalize poor 
countries.  The  Doha  Round  of  the  World  Trade 
Organization 
for 
development  by  adopting  fair  and  balanced  rules  for 
international  trade.  Farm  subsidies  that  make  the  rich 
richer and the poor poorer are no longer acceptable. We 
cannot 
that 
perpetuates  dependency  and  underdevelopment.  Brazil 
will spare no effort for a successful conclusion of those 
negotiations, which must, above all, benefit the poorest 
countries. 

is  no 
rhetorical  turn  of  phrase;  it  is  a  matter  of  common 
sense.  Brazil  is  proud  of  its  contribution  to  South 
the 
American 
should  promote  a 
international  order 
Building  a  new 
tuberculosis  for 
protectionism 
integration, 
particularly 
through 
true  pact 
accept 
agricultural 
A/62/PV.4
for 
the  need 
is 
the  way 
processes  within 
We  all  agree  on 
challenges. 
It 
that  we  find 
Common Market of the South. We are working to bring 
together  peoples  and  regions.  We  seek  to  enhance 
political  dialogue  and  economic  links  with  the  Arab 
world,  Africa  and  Asia,  and  we  do  so  without 
sacrificing our traditional partners. Brazil has set up an 
innovative  cooperation  mechanism  with  India  and 
South  Africa.  Together  we  are  working  on  specific 
projects  to  help  in  various  countries,  including  Haiti 
and Guinea-Bissau. 

increased 
participation  by  developing  countries  in  the  major 
international  decision-making  bodies,  in  particular  the 
Security  Council.  The  time  has  come  to  move  from 
words  to  action.  We  appreciate  recent  proposals  by 
President Sarkozy to reform the Security Council, with 
the  inclusion  of  developing  nations.  A  review  of 
decision-making 
international 
financial institutions is also required. 
The  United  Nations  is  our  best  tool  to  deal  with 

through 
today’s 
international 
to 
multilateral  diplomacy 
fostering  peace  and  development.  Brazil’s 
role 
alongside  other  Latin  America  and  Caribbean  nations 
in  the  United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti 
highlights  our  efforts 
to  strengthen  multilateral 
institutions.  In  Haiti,  we  are  showing  that  peace  and 
stability  are  built  with  democracy  and 
social 
development. 

Walking into this building, representatives to the 
United  Nations  can  admire  a  work  of  art  that  Brazil 
presented  to  the  United  Nations  50  years  ago.  I  am 
referring  to  the  murals  that  portray  war  and  peace 
painted  by  a  great  Brazilian  artist,  Cândido  Portinari. 
The  suffering  so  expressively  portrayed  in  the  mural 
depicting  war  brings  to  mind  the  United  Nations 
crucial  responsibility  in  containing  the  risk  of  armed 
conflict.  The  second  mural  reminds  us  that  peace  is 
much  more  than  the  absence  of  war.  It  evokes  well-
being, health and harmonious coexistence with nature. 
It calls for social justice, freedom and overcoming the 
scourges  of  hunger  and  poverty.  It  is  not  by  mere 
chance that those who enter the building face the mural 
portraying  war,  while  those  who  leave  see  the  mural 
depicting  peace.  The  artist’s  message  is  simple  but 
powerful:  transforming  suffering  into  hope,  and  war 
into  peace,  is  the  essence  of  the  United  Nations 
mission.  Brazil  will  continue  to  work  to  realize  those 
high expectations. 
07-51578 

7 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
A/62/PV.4 


the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Federal 
Republic of Brazil for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Luiz  Inácio  Lula  da  Silva,  President  of  the 
Federal Republic of Brazil, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. George W. Bush, President of the 
United States of America 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address  by  the  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America. 

Mr.  George  W.  Bush,  President  of  the  United 
States of America, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  George  Walker  Bush, 
President of the United States of America, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
President  Bush:  Thank  you  for  the  opportunity 

to address the General Assembly of the United Nations.  

Sixty  years  ago,  representatives  from  16  nations 
gathered  to  begin  deliberations  on  a  new  international 
bill of rights. The document they produced is called the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  and  it  stands 
as  a  landmark  achievement  in  the  history  of  human 
liberty.  The  Declaration  opens  by  recognizing  the 
inherent dignity and the equal and inalienable rights of 
all members of the human family as the foundation of 
freedom  and  justice  and  peace  in  the  world.  As  we 
gather  for  the  sixty-second  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, the standards of the Declaration must guide 
our work in this world.  

confronting 
answering the immediate needs of today. 

We nations in this Hall have our differences. Yet, 
there  are  some  areas  where  we  can  all  agree.  When 
innocent  people  are  trapped  in  a  life  of  murder  and 
fear,  the  Declaration  is  not  being  upheld.  When 
millions  of  children  starve  to  death  or  perish  from  a 
mosquito bite, we are not doing our duty in the world. 
When whole societies are cut off from the prosperity of 
the  global  economy,  we  are  all  worse  off.  Changing 
these  underlying  conditions  is  what  the  Declaration 
Achieving the promise of the Declaration requires 
requires 
long-term 
It  also 
threats. 
This  great 
calls  the  work  of  larger  freedom,  and  it  must  be  the 
work of every nation in this Assembly. 

institution  must  work  for  great 
purposes,  to  free  people  from  tyranny  and  violence, 
hunger  and  disease,  illiteracy  and  ignorance  and 
poverty  and  despair.  Every  member  of  the  United 
Nations  must  join  in  this  mission  of  liberation.  The 
first  mission  of  the  United  Nations  requires  liberating 
people  from  tyranny  and  violence.  The  first  article  of 
the  Universal  Declaration  begins  by  stating  that  all 
human  beings  are  born  free  and  equal  in  dignity  and 
rights. This truth is denied by terrorists and extremists 
who  kill  the  innocent  with  the  aim  of  imposing  their 
hateful  vision  on  humanity.  The  followers  of  this 
violent  ideology  are  a  threat  to  civilized  people 
everywhere.  All  civilized  nations  must  work  together 
to  stop  them  by  sharing  intelligence  about  their 
networks and choking off their finances and bringing to 
justice their operatives. In the long run, the best way to 
defeat extremists is to defeat their dark ideology with a 
more  hopeful  vision  —  the  vision  of  liberty  that 
founded this body. 

The  United  States  salutes  the  nations  that  have 
recently 
including 
Ukraine,  Georgia,  Kyrgyzstan,  Mauritania,  Liberia, 
Sierra  Leone  and  Morocco.  The  Palestinian  territories 
have  moderate  leaders  —  mainstream  leaders  —  who 
are  working  to  build  free  institutions  that  fight  terror, 
enforce  the  law  and  respond  to  the  needs  of  their 
people.  The  international  community  must  support 
these leaders so that we can advance the vision of two 
democratic States — Israel and Palestine — living side 
by side in peace and security. 

Brave  citizens  in  Lebanon  and  Afghanistan  and 
Iraq  have  made  the  choice  for  democracy.  Yet,  the 
extremists  have  responded  by  targeting  them  for 
murder. This is not a show of strength; it is evidence of 
fear;  and  the  extremists  are  doing  everything  within 
their  power  to  bring  down  these  young  democracies. 
The people of Lebanon and Afghanistan and Iraq have 
asked  for  our  help,  and  every  civilized  nation  has  a 
responsibility  to  stand  with  them.  Every  civilized 
nation  also  has  a  responsibility  to  stand  up  for  the 
people  suffering  under  dictatorship.  In  Belarus,  North 
Korea, Syria and Iran, brutal regimes deny their people 
the  fundamental  rights  enshrined  in  the  Universal 
Declaration. 
taken  strides 
towards 
liberty, 
8 

07-51578 



Americans  are  outraged  by  the  situation  in 
Burma,  where  a  military  junta  has  imposed  a  19-year 
reign of fear. Basic freedoms of speech, assembly and 
worship  are  severely  restricted.  Ethnic  minorities  are 
persecuted. Forced child labour, human trafficking and 
rape  are  common.  The  regime  is  holding  more  than 
1,000 political prisoners, including Aung San Suu Kyi, 
whose  party  was  elected  overwhelmingly  by  the 
Burmese people in 1990. 

The  ruling  junta  remains  unyielding,  yet  the 
people’s  desire  for  freedom  is  unmistakable.  This 
morning,  I  am  announcing  a  series  of  steps  to  help 
bring peaceful change to Burma. The United States will 
tighten  economic  sanctions  on  the  leaders  of  the 
regime and their financial backers. We will impose an 
expanded  visa  ban  on  those  responsible  for  the  most 
egregious violations of human rights — as well as their 
family  members.  We  will  continue  to  support  the 
efforts  of  humanitarian  groups  working  to  alleviate 
suffering in Burma. And I urge the United Nations and 
all  nations  to  use  their  diplomatic  and  economic 
leverage  to  help  the  Burmese  people  reclaim  their 
freedom. 

In  Cuba,  the  long  rule  of  a  cruel  dictator  is 
nearing  its  end. The  Cuban  people  are  ready  for  their 
freedom.  And  as  that  nation  enters  a  period  of 
transition,  the  United  Nations  must  insist  on  free 
speech,  free  assembly  and,  ultimately,  free  and 
competitive elections. 

In  Zimbabwe,  ordinary  citizens  suffer  under  a 
tyrannical  regime. The  Government  has  cracked  down 
on peaceful calls for reform and has forced millions to 
flee  their  homeland.  The  behaviour  of  the  Mugabe 
regime is an assault on its people and an affront to the 
principles  of  the  Universal  Declaration.  The  United 
Nations must insist on change in Harare and must insist 
on freedom for the people of Zimbabwe. 

innocent  civilians  are  suffering 
repression;  and  in  the  Darfur  region,  many  are  losing 
their  lives  to  genocide.  America  has  responded  with 
tough  sanctions  against  those  responsible  for  the 
violence.  We  have  provided  more  than  $2  billion  in 
humanitarian  and  peacekeeping  aid.  I  look  forward  to 
attending a Security Council meeting that will focus on 
Darfur,  chaired  by  the  French  President.  I  appreciate 
France’s  leadership  in  helping  to  stabilize  Sudan’s 
neighbours.  The  United  Nations  must  answer  this 
In  Sudan, 
A/62/PV.4
challenge  to  conscience  and  live  up  to  its  promise  to 
promptly deploy peacekeeping forces to Darfur. 

Secondly,  the  mission  of  the  United  Nations 
requires  liberating  people  from  hunger  and  disease. 
Article  25  of  the  Universal  Declaration  states  that 
everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate 
for  the  health  and  well-being  of  himself  and  of  his 
family, including food, clothing, housing, and medical 
care. Around the world, the United Nations is carrying 
out noble efforts to live up to these words. 
Feeding  the  hungry  has  long  been  a  special 

calling  for  my  nation.  Today,  more  than  half  the 
world’s food assistance comes from America. We send 
emergency food stocks to starving people, from camps 
in  Sudan  to  slums  around  the  world.  I  have  proposed 
an innovative initiative to alleviate hunger under which 
America would purchase the crops of local  farmers  in 
Africa  and  elsewhere,  rather  than  shipping  in  food 
from  the  developed  world.  This  would  help  build  up 
local  agriculture  and  break  the  cycle  of  famine  in  the 
developing  world,  and  I  urge  our  United  States 
Congress to support this initiative. 
Many  in  this  Hall  are  bringing  the  spirit  of 

generosity  to  fighting  HIV/AIDS  and  malaria.  Five 
years  ago,  in  sub-Saharan  Africa,  an  AIDS  diagnosis 
was  widely  considered  a  death  sentence,  and  fewer 
than  50,000  people  infected  with  the  virus  were 
receiving  treatment.  The  world  responded  by  creating 
the  Global  Fund,  which  is  working  with  Governments 
and  the  private  sector  to  fight  the  disease  around  the 
world. The United States decided to take these efforts a 
step  further  by  launching  the  $15  billion  Emergency 
Plan  for  AIDS  Relief.  Since  2003,  this  effort  has 
helped  bring  cutting-edge  medicines  to  more  than  a 
million people in sub-Saharan Africa. It is a good start. 
So  earlier  this  year,  I  proposed  to  double  our  initial 
commitment — to $30 billion. By coming together, the 
world can turn the tide against HIV/AIDS, once and for 
all. 

Malaria  is  another  common  killer.  In  some 
countries,  malaria  takes  as  many  lives  as  HIV/AIDS, 
the  vast  majority  of  them  children  under  the  age  of 
five. Every one of these deaths is unnecessary, because 
the  disease  is  preventable  and  treatable.  The  world 
knows what it takes to stop malaria — bed nets, indoor 
spraying  and  medicine  to  treat  the  disease. Two  years 
ago, America launched a $1.2 billion malaria initiative. 
Other  nations  and  the  private  sector  are  making  vital 
07-51578 

9 
Thirdly, 
Finally, 
textbooks.  So, 
the  mission  of 
A/62/PV.4 

contributions as well. I call on every Member State to 
maintain its focus, to find new ways to join this cause 
and to bring us closer to the day when deaths caused by 
malaria are no more. 

the  United  Nations 
requires liberating people from the chains of illiteracy 
and ignorance. Article 26 of the Universal Declaration 
states  that  everyone  has  the  right  to  education.  When 
nations  make  the  investments  needed  to  educate  their 
people,  the  whole  world  benefits.  Better  education 
unleashes the talent  and potential of citizens  and adds 
to the prosperity of all of us. Better education promotes 
better  health  and  greater 
independence.  Better 
education  increases  the  strength  of  democracy  and 
weakens the appeal of violent ideologies. So the United 
States is joining with nations around the world to help 
them provide a better education for their people. 

A  good  education  starts  with  good  teachers.  In 
partnership  with  other  nations,  America  has  helped 
train more than 600,000 teachers and administrators. A 
good  education  requires  good 
in 
partnership with other nations, America has distributed 
tens  of  millions  of  textbooks.  A  good  education 
requires access to good schools. So, in partnership with 
other  nations,  America 
raise 
standards  in  their  schools  at  home  and  providing 
scholarships  to  help  students  come  to  schools  in  the 
United  States.  And  in  all  our  education  efforts,  our 
nation  is  working  to  expand  access  for  women  and 
girls so that the opportunity to get a decent education is 
open to all. 

the  United  Nations 
requires  liberating  people  from  poverty  and  despair. 
Article  23  of  the  Universal  Declaration  states  that 
everyone  has  the  right  to  work,  to  free  choice  of 
employment  and  to  just  and  favourable  conditions  of 
work. In the twenty-first century, this requires ensuring 
that  people 
the  same 
opportunity  to  benefit  from  the  global  economy  that 
citizens of wealthy countries have. 

The  United  Nations  provides  vital  economic 
assistance  designed  to  help  developing  nations  grow 
their  economies  and  reach  their  potential.  The  United 
States agrees with that position. We have dramatically 
increased our own development assistance, and we are 
delivering  that  aid  in  innovative  ways.  We  started  the 
Millennium  Challenge Account  to  reward  nations  that 
govern  justly,  fight  corruption,  invest  in  their  people 
in  poor  countries  have 
is  helping  nations 
the  mission  of 
largest 
increase 
investment, 
to  open  markets  around 
and  promote  economic  freedom. With  this  aid,  we  are 
reaching  out  to  developing  nations  in  partnership,  not 
paternalism. And  we  are  ensuring  that  our  aid  dollars 
reach those who need them and achieve results. 

In the long run, the best way to lift people out of 
poverty is through trade and investment. A nation that 
is  open  and  trading  with  the  world  will  create 
economic rewards that far exceed anything it could get 
through  foreign  aid.  During  the  1990s,  developing 
nations  that  significantly  lowered  tariffs  saw  their  per 
capita income grow about three times faster than other 
developing  countries.  Open  markets  ignite  growth, 
encourage 
transparency, 
strengthen  the  rule  of  law  and  help  countries  help 
themselves. 
The  international  community  now  has  a  historic 

chance 
the  world  by 
concluding  a  successful  Doha  Round  of  trade  talks. A 
successful  Doha  outcome  would  mean  real  and 
substantial openings in agriculture, goods and services, 
and  real  and  substantial  reductions  in  trade-distorting 
subsidies.  The  world’s 
trading  nations, 
including  major  developing  countries,  have  a  special 
responsibility  to  make  the  tough  political  decisions  to 
reduce  trade  barriers.  America  has  the  wí11  and 
flexibility  to  make  those  necessary  decisions.  Our 
negotiators  are  demonstrating  that  spirit  in  Geneva.  I 
urge  other  leaders  to  direct  their  negotiators  to  do  the 
same.  And  I  am  optimistic  that  we  can  reach  a  good 
Doha  agreement  and  seize  this  once-in-a-generation 
opportunity. 

In  the  meantime,  America  wí11  continue  to 
pursue  agreements  that  open  trade  and  investment 
wherever  we  can.  We  recently  signed  free-trade 
agreements  with  Peru,  Colombia,  Panama  and  South 
Korea.  These  agreements  embody  the  values  of  open 
markets,  transparent  and  fair  regulation,  respect  for 
private  property  and  resolving  disputes  under  rules  of 
international law. These are good agreements. They are 
now  ready  for  a  congressional  vote,  and  I  urge  our 
Congress to approve them as soon as possible. 

As  America  works  with  the  United  Nations  to 
alleviate immediate needs, we are also coming together 
to  address  longer-term  challenges.  Together,  we  are 
preparing  for  pandemics  that  could  cause  death  and 
suffering  on  a  global  scale.  Together,  we  are  working 
the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
to  stop 
destruction.  Together,  we 
the 
confronting 
are 
10 

07-51578 
to 
is  open 


challenges  of  energy  security,  environmental  quality 
and  climate  change.  I  appreciate  the  discussions  on 
climate change led by the Secretary-General last night. 
I look forward to further discussions at the meeting of 
major economies in Washington later this week. 

The  goals  I  have  outlined  today  cannot  be 
achieved  overnight,  and  they  cannot  be  achieved 
without  reform  of  this  vital  institution.  The  United 
States  is  committed  to  a  strong  and  vibrant  United 
Nations. Yet  the American  people  are  disappointed  by 
the  failures  of  the  Human  Rights  Council.  That  body 
has been silent on repression by regimes from Havana 
and Caracas to Pyongyang and Tehran, while focusing 
its  criticism  excessively  on  Israel.  To  be  credible  on 
human  rights  in  the  world,  the  United  Nations  must 
first reform its own Human Rights Council. 

Some have also called for reform of the structure 
of  the  Security  Council,  including  an  expansion  of  its 
membership.  The  United  States 
this 
prospect.  We  believe  that  Japan  is  well  qualified  for 
permanent  membership  on  the  Security  Council  and 
that  other  nations  should  be  considered  as  well.  The 
United States will listen to all good ideas, and we will 
support  changes  to  the  Security  Council  as  part  of 
broader United Nations reform. And in all we do, I call 
on  Member  States  to  work  for  an  institution  that 
adheres  to  strict  ethical  standards  and  lives  up  to  the 
high principles of the Universal Declaration. 

With the commitment and courage of those in this 
Hall,  we  can  build  a  world  where  people  are  free  to 
speak,  assemble  and  worship  as  they  wish  —  a  world 
where  children  in  every  nation  grow  up  healthy,  get  a 
decent education and look to the future with hope — a 
world where opportunity crosses every border. America 
will  lead  towards  that  vision,  in  which  all  are  created 
equal  and  free  to  pursue  their  dreams.  That  is  the 
founding  conviction  of  my  country.  It  is  the  promise 
that established this body. And, with our determination, 
it can be the future of our world.  
the  General 

Assembly, I  wish to thank the President of the United 
States of America for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  George  W.  Bush,  President  of  the  United 
States of America, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President: On  behalf  of 

07-51578 

A/62/PV.4

Address by Mr. John Agyekum Kufuor, President of 
the Republic of Ghana 

address by the President of the Republic of Ghana. 

The  President: The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
Mr.  John  Agyekum  Kufuor,  President  of  the 
Republic of Ghana, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President: On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  John  Agyekum  Kufuor, 
President of the Republic of Ghana, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 

President  Kufuor  (Ghana):  Permit  me  first  to 
congratulate  you, Sir, on your election as President of 
the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-second  session. The 
Assembly  is  certainly  the  richer  for  the  wealth  of 
diplomatic experience that you bring to the job. 
Yesterday there was a vibrant debate in this Hall 

on the critical issue of climate change, which is a main 
theme  of  this  year’s  session.  The  phenomenon  of 
consensus  among  contributors  portends  catastrophic 
impact on the whole globe, but more especially on poor 
countries,  which  are  least  equipped  financially  and 
technologically to adapt in a sustained manner. Since it 
is  generally  accepted  that  the  threat  is  universal,  it  is 
Ghana’s  considered  view  that  the  United  Nations 
should  be  vested  with  the  authority  to  fashion  a  full-
fledged  agency  equipped  with  the  necessary  scientific 
and  technological  resources  to  study  the  problem 
globally and to focus on where and when it is going to 
occur so that, through the organization, such places can 
be  prepared,  with  due  warning  and  relief,  to  adapt  to 
the impact. 
individual  nations, 

especially in the developing world, cannot be the way 
forward. There should be shared responsibility, even if 
various solutions are sought. In any case, this menace 
must  be  tackled  on  an  emergency  basis  by  the 
Organization  and  all  its  Member  nations,  individually 
and collectively, for humanity’s survival. 

On  6  March  2007,  Ghana  celebrated  the  fiftieth 
anniversary of its independence as a sovereign nation. 
Ghanaians  were  overwhelmed  by  the  incredible  level 
of  goodwill  from  well-wishers  around  the  world. 
Permit  me  to  use  this  occasion  to  convey  Ghana’s 
heartfelt thanks and appreciation to the members of the 
Assembly and, indeed, to the rest of the world for the 
the  problem 
Leaving 
to 
11 
to 
itself 
respect 
and 
and 
through 
economic 
for  human 
accountable 
growth 
A/62/PV.4 

singular  solidarity  displayed  to  us  on  that  occasion. 
May all the peoples of the world become one and be at 
peace with each other. 

In line with its independence ideal of freedom of 
justice  and  a  jubilant  spirit  of  renewal,  Ghana  has 
rededicated 
rights, 
democracy,  good  governance  and  sound  economy  to 
enable  its  people  to  develop  their  full  potential  for 
sustained national development.  

Again,  recalling  its  role  in  Africa’s  liberation 
struggle  against  colonialism  and  apartheid,  Ghana  has 
once more committed itself to working in harmony and 
union  with  sister  African  nations  and  also 
in 
partnership  with  the  global  community,  as  far  as  it  is 
feasible, to end years of impunity, exploitation and bad 
governance,  which  have  undermined  the  economic 
growth and development of the continent. Henceforth, 
all  energies  should  be  directed  at  empowering  the 
continent 
transparent 
governance, 
sustainable 
development to enable it to tackle the myriad problems 
that  afflict  it  and  to  facilitate  its  launching  into 
mainstream globalization. 

In July this year, Ghana had the honour of hosting 
the  ninth  Ordinary  Session  of  the  Summit  of  the 
African  Union  in  Accra.  The  sole  agenda  of  the 
Summit  was  to  stage  a  grand  debate  in  search  of  a 
continental union government to accelerate the growth 
and  development  of  Africa  and  its  peoples  in  a 
sustained  manner.  After  very  frank  and  fruitful 
deliberations,  the  Summit  firmly  resolved  to  launch 
certain necessary steps towards achieving that laudable 
objective. 

To  pave  the  way,  the  Summit  continues  to  place 
high  priority  on  the  resolution  and  prevention  of 
conflicts  within  and  among  member  nations.  The 
African Union Peace and Security Council is tasked to 
develop  a  robust  and  dependable  security  architecture 
on the continent, including the setting up of an African 
standby  force  as  soon  as  possible.  Those  initiatives, 
which  are  supported  by  the  international  community, 
have  already  helped  to  reduce  significantly  the  high 
incidence of armed conflicts, which have been common 
on the continent over the past four decades.  

In line with our concerted efforts to restore peace 
and  stability  in  Africa,  the  prevailing  crises  in  the 
Darfur  region  of  the  Sudan  and  in  Somalia  and  the 
Ethiopia-Eritrea  conflict  must  be  resolved.  Similarly, 
the  consent  of 
in  Darfur,  with 
measures  to  consolidate  peace  in  countries  that  are 
emerging  from  conflict,  such  as  Burundi,  Guinea-
Bissau,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Liberia,  Sierra  Leone  and  the 
Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo,  must  be 
substantially  supported  by  the  Organization  and  the 
international community to avoid a relapse. 

To  that  end,  we  commend  the  efforts  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  whose  first  annual  report 
(A/62/137)  highlights  the  challenges  associated  with 
post-conflict 
reconstruction  and  development  of 
countries  such  as  Sierra  Leone  and  Burundi.  As  a 
member  and  a Vice-Chair,  Ghana  will  work  diligently 
with  other  members  to  achieve  the  goals  of  the 
Commission.  

We  also  welcome  Security  Council  resolution 
1769  (2007),  authorizing  the  deployment  of  a  hybrid 
operation 
the 
Government  of  the  Sudan,  and  call  for  its  speedy 
implementation within the agreed time frame. Here, we 
acknowledge  the  tireless  joint  efforts  of  the  African 
Union and the Security Council, which  finally  got the 
Government  of  the  Sudan  and  the  Darfur  warring 
factions to resume dialogue. 

We  also  recognize  the  special  initiative  being 
taken by Secretary-General Ban and the Libyan leader, 
Brother  Muammar  Al-Qadhafi,  to  get  the  remaining 
warring  factions  to  join  the  dialogue  in  order  to 
achieve full-scale and rounded negotiations.  

in 
Somalia  is  proving  extremely  challenging  and  well 
beyond the capacity of the African Union alone. We are 
therefore  calling  for  the  concerted  and  timely  support 
of  the  United  Nations.  In  that  respect,  we  urge  the 
Organization  to  consider  the  African  Union’s  request 
for  financial,  logistical  and  technical  support  towards 
the full and effective deployment of the African Union 
Mission  in  Somalia  (AMISOM).  That  will  be  within 
the letter and spirit of Security Council resolution 1772 
(2007), adopted in August 2007. It will enable Member 
States,  such  as  Ghana,  which  have  pledged 
to 
contribute  troops  to  do  so. A  contingency  plan  for  the 
possible  deployment  of  a  United  Nations  force  to 
replace  AMISOM  by  next  February  must  also  be 
developed. 
is  making  progress,  with 

improvement 
the  macromanagement  of  many 
African  economies.  Average  gross  domestic  product 
growth  has  increased  steadily,  from  5.2  per  cent  in 
the  ongoing  peace 
Decidedly,  Africa 
Meanwhile, 
initiative 
in 
12 

07-51578 
and 
its 
Energy, 
for 
to  opening  up 
economy 


2005 to 5.7 per cent in 2006 to the current 6 per cent, 
which is expected to be sustained or even exceeded in 
coming  years. Africa  is  therefore  more  than  ready  for 
good  business.  This  is  evidenced  by  the  increasing 
interest  shown  by  both  local  and  foreign  investors.  In 
the  mean  time,  the  African  Union’s  agency,  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  is 
seriously  engaged  in  studying  viable  projects  that 
the  entire 
should  prove  strategic 
accelerated 
continent 
developments. 
communications 
and 
infrastructure development rank highly in this.  

The African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM) is 
also  a  NEPAD  creation.  The  Mechanism  has  already 
proven  helpful  in  deepening  respect  for  human  rights 
and democracy, as well as transparent and accountable 
governance.  Indeed,  as  more  countries  voluntarily 
subscribe  to  it,  the  Mechanism’s  real  value  as  a 
creative and ingenious process for addressing many of 
the  root  causes  of  conflict  is  becoming  evident.  The 
General Assembly’s  decision  to  endorse  NEPAD  as  a 
framework  for  cooperation  with  the African  Union  is, 
therefore, timely and appreciated.  

There  has  been  a  general  improvement  in  the 
relationships between Africa and the various developed 
parts of the world and regional blocs. This is reflected 
including 
in  various 
the  Millennium 
Challenge  Account  and 
the  African  Growth  and 
Opportunity Act  of  the  United  States  of America;  the 
African,  Caribbean  and  Pacific  agreements  with  the 
European  Union;  the  Tokyo  International  Conference 
on  African  Development  with  Japan;  the  Forum  on 
China-Africa  Cooperation;  the  Indo-Africa  Forum  for 
Cooperation and the Africa-Brazil forum, among many 
others.  

Despite this trend, however, there is still a serious 
gap  in  official  development  assistance.  This  must  be 
bridged quickly to enable struggling African nations to 
attain 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  The 
developed  partners  are,  therefore,  urged  to  fulfil  their 
pledges.  

On the world trade talks, we urge them to commit 
seriously  to  the  aid-for-trade  appeal  as  a  critical 
principle 
the 
proposed 
the 
European Union should agree to relax the timeline for 
conclusion. They should also agree to review timelines 
for  trade  barriers  and  procurement,  given  that  the 
the  Doha  Round.  Similarly,  on 
agreement, 
in 
economic  partnership 
initiatives 
A/62/PV.4
rather weak economies of many African, Caribbean and 
Pacific  nations  might  not  be  able  to  withstand  the 
shocks of implementation in the short to medium term 
without some adjustment.  

The Secretary-General’s proposal to establish the 
Office  for  Disarmament Affairs  within  the  Secretariat 
to  be  part  of  the  decision-making  process  is  timely, 
owing  to  the  proliferation  of  small  arms  and  light 
weapons and  the menace of terrorism. In many places 
in the world, these dangers together constitute the real 
weapons  of  mass  destruction.  Ghana  welcomes 
initiatives  like  the  restructuring  of  the  Department  of 
Peacekeeping  Operations  and  the  establishment  of  the 
Department  of  Field  Support. The  latter  initiative  will 
not  only  reduce  the  work  of  the  Department  of 
Peacekeeping Operations but will also help to promote 
its efficiency, accountability and transparency.  

The General Assembly’s approval of the overhaul 
of the system of administration of justice at the United 
Nations,  for  the  first  time  in  60  years  is  also  long 
overdue and commendable. However, Ghana urges the 
Organization  to  reflect  also  on  mechanisms  for  the 
enforcement  of  the  judgments  of  the  International 
Court of Justice.  
Conflicts,  particularly  those  in  the  developing 

world,  have  consistently  undermined  policies 
to 
improve the circumstances of our peoples. Sustainable 
development  can  be  achieved  only  in  an  international 
environment of peace and security. The United Nations 
remains  the  main  and  the  best  multilateral  instrument 
available for guaranteeing such an environment and for 
promoting fruitful international cooperation, especially 
in  this  era  of  globalization.  All  its  Member  States 
should,  therefore,  be  committed  unequivocally  to  its 
ideals and purposes.  

To  conclude,  permit  me  once  again  to  wish  the 
Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, Godspeed during 
his  tenure  and  to  assure  him  of  Ghana’s  continued 
cooperation and support.  

the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Ghana for the statement he has just made.  

Mr.  John  Agyekum  Kufuor,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Ghana,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall.  
The  President:  May  I  request  that  the  members 

of  delegations  who  are  conducting  informal  bilateral 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
from 
07-51578 

13 
A/62/PV.4 

exchanges  in  the  General Assembly  Hall  to  carry  out 
such  contacts  outside  the  Hall  in  deference  of  the 
speakers.  Please  be  seated  before  the  next  speaker 
takes the floor.  


the  President  of 
Address by Mr. Nursultan A. Nazarbayev, President 
of the Republic of Kazakhstan 

address  by 
Kazakhstan.  

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
the  Republic  of 
Mr.  Nursultan  A.  Nazarbayev,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.  
The  President: On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nursultan A.  Nazarbayev, 
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.  

President Nazarbayev (spoke in Russian): I want 
to  invite  us  all  to  take  a  short  journey  down  memory 
lane and recall that in 1946 the United Nations General 
Assembly, convened for the very first time, by its very 
first decision established a Committee to deal with the 
problems raised by the discovery of atomic energy. 

Almost  nothing  has  happened  since  that  time  to 
allay the fears of humankind. On the contrary, the race 
to  possess  nuclear  weapons,  which  even  terrorist 
organizations  have  now 
joined,  has  continued 
unabated.  Even  though  the  community  of  nations  has 
long  recognized  the  need  to  reform  the  international 
security system, there has been no real progress. 

The  lack  of  an  international  consensus  on  the 
issue has led to a dramatic weakening of the collective 
security  system.  Speaking  in  general  terms,  we  are 
dealing  with  a  systemic  crisis  of 
international 
governability,  and  the  international  community  is 
running out of legitimate levers capable of stopping the 
spread of weapons of mass destruction. 

Quite  apart  from  any  ethical,  economic  or  other 
such  considerations,  we  need  to  erect  legal  barriers  to 
stop  proliferation.  For 
reason,  Kazakhstan 
proposes  that  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons 
to 
accommodate the new realities. 

It  should  be  acknowledged  that  the  NPT  has 
become  an  asymmetrical  agreement  under  which 
(NPT)  should  be  adapted 
this 
taken  by  Kazakhstan  after  gaining 
testing  site.  That  was  followed  by 
sanctions  are  applicable  only  to  non-nuclear  States. 
Yet,  if  nuclear  Powers  call  for  the  development  of 
nuclear weapons to be banned, they themselves should 
set  an  example  by  reducing  and  renouncing  their 
nuclear arsenals. That is not the case. This unfairness is 
an  inducement  for  those  States  that  still  aspire  to 
acquire weapons of mass destruction. I would only add 
that, to our way of thinking, this aspiration is irrational. 

The people of Kazakhstan have lived through all 
the  horrors  of  the  effects  of  nuclear  explosions.  Four 
hundred  and  fifty-six  such  explosions  were  conducted 
at the Semipalatinsk nuclear testing ground. 
It  was  for  this  reason  that  the  first  milestone 

decision 
its 
independence  was  to  shut  down  the  Semipalatinsk 
nuclear 
the 
renunciation  of  its  nuclear  missile  arsenal,  the  fourth 
largest  in  the  world,  and  the  dismantling  of  its 
infrastructure. I want to note here that at that time we 
had not only the trained personnel but also practically 
all means for delivery of nuclear warheads. 

Those steps have shaped the strategy of our State 
in  the  area  of  global  security.  For  the  first  time  in 
human  history,  a  nation  possessing  destructive  force 
has given it up voluntarily. 

I  am  sure  that  by  taking  that  action  Kazakhstan 
established trust in the world. Thanks to that step, the 
country  has  witnessed  an  inflow  of  considerable 
investment 
for 
impressive achievements in development known today 
throughout 
that  step,  we 
consolidated  our 
received 
security  assurances  from  all  nuclear-weapon  States.  I 
have  a  question  for  others:  why  not  follow  our 
example, instead of wasting astounding amounts on the 
arms race? 

Over  recent  years,  international  terrorism  has 
significantly  undermined  world  security.  International 
drug trafficking serves as a financial pillar of terrorism. 
Today,  the  international  drug  industry  accounts  for  a 
third  of  the  annual  volume  of  the  “economy  of 
terrorism”.  It  is  a  well-established  fact  that  terrorism 
finds fertile ground in unstable and poor countries. We 
have  such  a  country  in  our  region,  Afghanistan.  That 
country is driving an ever-growing trade in drugs. 

Poor  countries  need  the  assistance  of  developed 
nations. They need assistance that would give tangible 
independence,  having 
that  has  become 
the  world.  By 
foundation 
taking 
the 
14 

07-51578 
to 
the 
related 
enhancement  of 


results.  Thanks  to  a  thriving  economy,  our  country, 
until  recently  a  foreign  aid  recipient,  has  joined  the 
group  of  “new  donors”.  Over  the  last  few  years, 
Kazakhstan  has  seen  its  economy  grow  at  an  annual 
rate of some 10 per cent. And now we are in a position 
to help our neighbours.  

We  are  concerned  with  the  difficulties  in  the 
process  of  reconstruction  of  Iraq  and  the  stabilization 
of  the  situation  in  Afghanistan.  The  peoples  of  our 
region,  like  the  entire  international  community,  count 
on  a  peaceful  solution  of  the  so-called  crisis  around 
Iran.  The  best  way  to  achieve  that  is  for  Iran,  whose 
people  have  a  great  history  and  culture,  to  prove  the 
peaceful character of its nuclear programme. 

Today,  the  peacekeeping  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations  remain  the  most  effective  instrument  for  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  regional  crises.  Fifteen  years 
ago,  from  this  rostrum,  Kazakhstan  put  forward  an 
initiative 
the 
Organization’s  peacekeeping  potential.  We  proposed 
the  establishment  of  a  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
fund, with States voluntarily contributing 1 per cent of 
their military budgets. 

That  idea  has  been  supported  by  the  Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  who  has  proposed  to 
redirect  1  per  cent  of  global  military  spending  to 
development.  I  believe  that  such  a  decision  would 
constitute 
the 
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  strategy  to 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals. 
Allow  me  now  to  draw  the Assembly’s  attention 

to a number of issues that are important in the context 
of  Kazakhstan’s  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations 
and its Member States. 

First,  Kazakhstan  welcomes  the  decision  by  the 
General  Assembly  to  identify  problems  involving 
climate  change  as  a  priority  theme  of  the  current 
session. 

In this context, I would like to draw attention to 
our initiative put forward at the Johannesburg Summit 
on  Sustainable  Development,  by 
reiterating  our 
proposal  to  establish,  within  the  framework  of  the 
United  Nations,  a  register  of  global  environmental 
problems. Such an instrument would help us to develop 
mechanisms for addressing environmental disasters. 
By  the  1990s,  the Aral  Sea,  once  a  large  inland 

sea,  had  lost  three  fourths  of  its  water.  That  spelled 
important 
towards 
step 
an 
A/62/PV.4
to 
to  give 
to  rehabilitate 
disaster for millions of people living around it. The salt 
from  the  exposed  seabed  is  being  sprinkled  on  the 
entire  Eurasian  continent,  damaging  its  environment. 
The  countries  of  the  Central  Asian  region  have  done 
much 
the  sea.  However,  without 
consolidation  of  the  efforts  of  the  world  community, 
this  problem  cannot  be  solved.  As  I  did  at  the  2002 
Earth  Summit,  I  again  propose 
the 
international  fund  to  save  the Aral  Sea  the  status  of  a 
United Nations institution. 

Secondly,  a  deepening  global  energy  crisis  and 
the  growing  threat  of  negative  climate  changes  taking 
place  on  our  planet  present  acute  problems  for  the 
world community. We share the concern of the leaders 
of the Group of Eight (G-8) and Asia-Pacific Economic 
Cooperation (APEC) countries over these problems. It 
is advisable that we develop, within the framework of 
the  United  Nations,  a  global  energy  and  environment 
strategy  and  discuss  it  at  the  2012  World  Summit  on 
Sustainable Development. 

Thirdly,  Kazakhstan  forms  part  of  the  Caspian 
region, which is playing a growing role in international 
energy  markets.  As  of  today,  Kazakhstan  has  the 
world’s seventh largest reserves of oil, the sixth largest 
reserves  of  gas  and  the  second  largest  deposits  of 
uranium. 

By  2017,  Kazakhstan  will  be  among  the  world’s 
10  largest  oil  producers  and  exporters.  Kazakhstan  is 
also  increasing  its  gas  production.  Possessing  large 
deposits  of  uranium,  we  will  be  playing  an  important 
role  in  the  development  of  the  nuclear  energy  sector. 
That  said,  Kazakhstan  is  fully  aware  of  its  share  of 
responsibility for ensuring a global energy balance and 
security. 
To  promote  further  diversification  of  energy 

delivery  to  consumers  and  also  to  provide  assurances 
to energy producers, Kazakhstan proposes the adoption 
of a Eurasian pact on stability of energy delivery. 
Fourthly,  the  first-ever  global  United  Nations 

conference  on  problems 
landlocked 
developing  countries,  hosted  by  Kazakhstan  in  2003, 
adopted  an 
the  Almaty 
Programme of Action. We believe that it will facilitate 
effective  assistance 
that  group  of  countries. 
Decisions  on  the  development  of  regional  cooperation 
and  transport  and  transit  infrastructure  adopted  at  the 
latest session of the Economic and Social Commission 
for Asia and the Pacific, held in Kazakhstan last May, 
international  document, 
faced  by 
to 
07-51578 

15 
in  Asia 
A/62/PV.4 

have become an important and logical step in the same 
direction. 

Fifthly,  speaking  of Asia,  we  must  mention  here 
the 
issue  of 
the  establishment  of  a  continental 
arrangement  for  collective  security.  That  has  become 
possible  through  the  implementation  of  Kazakhstan’s 
initiative to convene the Conference on Interaction and 
Confidence-Building  Measures 
(CICA), 
announced  by  me  from  this  very  podium,  during  the 
forty-seventh session of the General Assembly in 1992. 
Today,  the  CICA  process  brings  together  18  States, 
which  occupy  90  per  cent  of  Asia’s  territory.  Their 
population  makes  up  half  of  the  people  living  on  our 
planet.  Time  has  proven  the  relevance  of  the  CICA 
process, within which a political dialogue among Asian 
States is gaining momentum. 

Sixthly, we support joint efforts to reform United 
Nations  activities.  In  our  view,  the  Security  Council 
should be enlarged in the categories of both permanent 
and  non-permanent  members  and  on  the  basis  of 
equitable  geographical  representation  and  respect  for 
the sovereign equality of States. The working methods 
of  the  Security  Council  should  also  be  reformed  in 
order  to  increase  its  transparency  and  accountability. 
The General Assembly should play a central role as the 
main  deliberative,  decision-making  and  representative 
body of the United Nations. 

the  sensational  predictions  of  an 
inevitable “clash of civilizations,” fortunately, have not 
yet  been  accurate.  However,  we  should  be  clear  that 
interfaith tension feeds the social basis of international 
terrorism  and  religious  extremism.  I  believe  that 
seeking  an  accord  between  religions  and  the  peaceful 
coexistence  of  ethnic  groups  is  a  crucially  important 
element  in  the  process  of  maintaining  international 
security. 

to  130  ethnic  groups 
representing  45  religions,  has  set  an  example  of 
tolerance, which has become a decisive factor in efforts 
to ensure peace, stability and the economic progress of 
Kazakhstan. 

Conscious of the critical importance of a dialogue 
between  world  religions  on  key  issues  of  the  modern 
world  order,  Kazakhstan  hosted,  in  2003  and  2006, 
forums  of  leaders  of  world  and  traditional  religions 
where religious opinion makers were trying to find not 
only  a  language  of  mutual  understanding  but  also 
Kazakhstan,  a  home 
Most  of 
tensions 
in 
the 
the 
terrorist 
interfaith 
Just  days 
mechanisms  for  easing 
planet’s hot spots. 

I propose that the Third Congress of the Leaders 
of  World  and  Traditional  Religions,  scheduled  for 
2009,  be  convened  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations. I also propose the proclamation of one of the 
coming  years  as  an  international  year  of  convergence 
of cultures and religions. 

attacks  on 
after 
11 September  2001,  Pope  John  Paul  II  visited  our 
country.  He  said  that  that  tragic  event  should  not 
become  a  cause  for  confrontation  between  religions.  I 
strongly believe that there are no problems in the world 
that cannot be solved if we set harmony, tolerance and 
spirituality  against  animosity,  relying  on  mutual  trust 
and  cooperation.  That  understanding  instils  hope  and 
enhances confidence in the future. 

The  United  Nations  plays  a  special  role  in  the 
strengthening  of  those  hopes.  We  are  not  sceptical 
about the legitimacy of international law and have faith 
in the effectiveness of such multilateral mechanisms as 
the  United  Nations  in  the  promotion  of  security  and 
fairness.  We  are  against  attempts  to  weaken  our 
Organization.  Kazakhstan  associates  itself  with  those 
States  that  are  willing  to  strengthen  the  role  and 
authority of the United Nations because they view it as 
the  only  international  body  capable  of  influencing,  in 
an effective way, the issues of war and peace. 

the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Kazakhstan for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Nursultan  A.  Nazarbayev,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President: On  behalf  of 


Address by Mr. José Manuel Zelaya Rosales, 
President of the Republic of Honduras 

The  President: The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Honduras.  
Mr. José Manuel Zelaya Rosales, President of the 

Republic  of  Honduras,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President: On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  José  Manuel  Zelaya 
16 

07-51578 
logging  and 


Rosales, President of the Republic of Honduras, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.  

President  Zelaya  Rosales  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Allow  me  to  express  our  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  who  has  done  a  laudable 
job, thus enhancing the prestige of the United Nations. 

I  am  here  on  behalf  of  the  people  of  Honduras, 
who  have  entrusted  to  me  the  torch  of  Central 
American  peace  so  that  I  can  hold  high  in  the 
Assembly Hall this light that illuminates understanding 
among peoples and nations.  

Honduras is filled with a spirit of hope. Today we 
have the best social and economic indicators of recent 
decades. We have an average economic growth of more 
than 7 per cent. We have very good results in the area 
of  job  creation.  We  have  begun  to  speed  up  poverty 
reduction  by  more  than  6  per  cent  in  18  months.  We 
have reduced forest fires by 40 per cent, together with 
illegal 
the  advance  of  migratory 
agriculture  and  extensive  ranching.  We  now  have  a 
climate conducive to public and private enterprise. We 
are  beginning  to  strictly  implement  the  transparency 
law  as  a  civic  instrument  to  provide  better  access  to 
public information. 

We  have  already  presented,  during  the  recently 
concluded sixty-first session of this very special forum, 
the  Assembly  of 
the  people,  our  demands,  our 
proposals  and  a  reaffirmation  of  our  values.  Most  of 
the  people  of  Honduras  believe  in  democracy  and 
social  liberalism,  and  in  a  free-market  economy  in  its 
true  meaning,  as  a  useful  instrument  for  the  equitable 
trade of commodities — the fruits of human labour.  

However,  in  actual  practice  —  the  only  possible 
means  of  testing  our  theories  —  international  trade 
operates  in  an  unequal  and  inequitable  way,  as  do  the 
relations  between  powerful  and  economically  weak 
countries.  Free  trade,  so  highly  touted  in  all  our 
speeches  and  international  propaganda  may,  if  we  do 
not  redirect  it  properly,  turn  into  yet  another  ruse 
disguising  unequal  relations,  the  unjust  distribution  of 
advantages and the undue, invisible code of unfair and 
discriminatory competition.  

Let us just look at the figures of the World Trade 
Organization,  which  acknowledge  that  barely  7  per 
cent  of  international  trade  goes  through  free  channels 
and the free market of economic and transparent rules. 
The rest, that is, more than 90 per cent of global trade, 
A/62/PV.4
takes place outside the scope of the illusory standards 
of liberty and justice that we all aspire to.  

We must remedy this situation. Now is  the time. 
We  must  continue  to  establish  the  conditions  to 
improve  international  agreements.  I  acknowledge  that 
we  are  competing  in  imperfect  markets  with  unequal 
rules  of  the  game,  which  provide  advantages  and 
disadvantages. Some receive all kinds of subsidies and 
preferential tariffs, which transform their products into 
privileged  goods.  Speculative  pricing,  dumping, 
monopolies,  oligopolies  and  other  discriminatory 
practices  are  promoted,  and  certain  parties  are  able  to 
advance  their  interests  and  impose  their  will  on  those 
of us who are struggling just to reach the threshold of 
development.  

We  demand  that  the  rules  of  true  free  trade  and 
competition  be  respected.  We  do  not  want  to  be 
relegated to the basement of history. Our peoples have 
the right to reach the summits of prosperity. 

One of the most obvious and classic examples of 
this  problem,  which  is  worth  mentioning  in  this 
Assembly,  is  the  excessive  charges  and  increased 
tariffs imposed by the European market on the bananas 
from  our  region.  A  similar  example  is  the  recent 
revision request from the United States that we impose 
new tariffs on products and on the sale of textiles and 
finished  fabrics  that  Honduras  exports  to  the  United 
States market. This weakens the spirit of the trade rules 
we  signed  barely  a  year  ago  and  would  affect 
Honduras’  sales  to  the  United  States  market  —  a 
market  that  investors  in  our  country  have  gained  by 
dint of hard work, competing in order to sell at the best 
price and to sell goods of better quality.  

As the Assembly can see, we are not coming here 
to  ask  for  the  impossible  or  to  demand  what  is  not 
owed  to  us.  We  simply  want  to  go  on  record  in 
expressing our just and necessary demand for equitable 
treatment in trade relations in the international market. 
We 
sympathy  or  pious 
condescension.  We  are  asking  for  respect.  We  want 
people  to  pay  a  proper  price  for  our  products  and  to 
value our effort and work with the same criterion that 
is  used  to  rate  the  effort  of  other  peoples  and  other 
communities  that  produce  goods  and  services.  We 
demand  equitable  rules  and  standards.  We  require  the 
just  treatment  that  we  deserve  as  authentic  and  real 
members of this planet that we all share.  
are  not 
asking 
for 
07-51578 

17 
and 
A/62/PV.4 

Likewise,  we  would  like  to  mention  in  the 

Assembly  a  problem 
that  almost  all  of  us  are 
experiencing.  We  are  suffering  the  same  fate  because 
of speculative increases in the international markets in 
the  price  of  oil  and  its  derivatives.  Barely  five  years 
ago, the price of a barrel of oil was about $13; today it 
is  already  above  $80  a  barrel.  It  has  increased  by  a 
dramatic 600 per cent, thus subjecting our nations to a 
state  of  greater  dependence 
international 
destitution.  

The economies of our countries cannot withstand 
this  economic  blood-letting,  which  destroys  any 
attempt  for  social  protection. A  large  part  of  what  we 
can invest in order to combat illness, ignorance, hunger 
and  age-old  backwardness  now  drains  to  the  large 
transnational oil corporations. While we are fighting to 
reduce poverty and its ills — ills caused by those who 
claim to be free of all blame and responsibility — the 
masters of the world and of trade are increasing prices 
to  indecent  scales  as  instruments  of  pressure  with  the 
rise of oil.  

We  are  appealing  to  the  global  conscience  to 
share  urgent  efforts  to  intervene  in  the  extreme 
speculation  in  oil  prices.  We  need  to  establish  mutual 
cooperation  in  order  to  produce  forms  of  alternative 
energy without it becoming a new opportunity to come 
up  with  low-  or  high-intensity  wars  that  only  threaten 
the  sovereign  rights  and  the  right  to  strengthen  peace 
of the democracies of the world. 
These  are  the  contrasts  of  the  modern  world. 

Paradoxically,  while  borders  are  opening  up 
to 
speculation, abuse and free trade in commodities, they 
are closing to people, especially to emigrants. The lack 
of ethical limits of a society of unfettered consumption 
produces  false  expectations  among  young  people  in 
developing 
alienating 
propaganda,  illusions  are  created  that  later  turn  into 
urgent economic needs, producing diasporas compelled 
by the famous pursuit of the American dream. 

There is no better opportunity than this universal 
forum to expand on a theme that concerns all of us — 
countries of origin as well as receiving countries. It is 
impossible  to  measure  the  drama  of  the  emigrant 
experience,  the  modern  self-exiles  that  go  from  place 
to place in search of better opportunities. 

Honduras,  my  country,  is  a  multi-ethnic  and 
multiracial society and full of immigrants. My country 
throughout  its  history  has  been  a  territory  of  passage 
countries.  Bombarded  by 
18 

and  a  refuge  for  foreign  migrants  and  a  centre  which 
has produced its own emigrants looking for a better life 
in  far-off  places.  This  triple  status  as  a  country  of 
origin,  a  receiving  country  and  a  country  of  transit  is 
what  gives  us  the  moral  authority  to  talk  about  this 
topic with the necessary  correctness  and firmness, but 
also with indispensable feeling and solidarity.  

To  be  an  emigrant  is  not  to  commit  a  crime. 
Migration has not been and should never be considered 
a  crime  or  threat,  but  rather  a  human  right.  Migration 
does  not  belong  to  nor  should  it  be  included  in  the 
security agenda of any country. That was done only in 
the  time  of  fascism.  It  should  be  included  and 
considered  within  the  framework  where  it  really 
belongs,  that  is,  the  development  agenda  of  our 
countries. In this way, we would no longer witness the 
monstrous  spectacle  of  inhuman  persecution  simply 
because  people  are  migrants,  undocumented  aliens, 
pursued and humiliated. Emigration is a right, a simple 
and basic human right.  

Those  who  see  the  problem  of  migration  simply 
from the point of view of family remittances or voting 
by  emigrants  abroad  are  committing  a  serious  and 
short-sighted  error.  They  are  wrong  to  look  at  the 
phenomenon  of  growing  migratory  flows  in  the  world 
in this way. The problem is complex and difficult. It is 
related  to  the  economic  structure  of  the  country  that 
produces  emigrants  —  political  problems,  natural 
disasters,  war,  violence,  poverty,  unemployment. 
Migration  weakens  the  social  cohesion  of  the  country 
that  produces  emigrants,  facilitates  outflows  of  share 
capital  and  stimulates  the  fleeing  of  manpower  at  its 
most  productive  and  hard-working  stage.  It  empties 
communities, impedes the processes of democracy and 
generates  unfavourable  conditions  because  of  which 
this wonderful working force is compelled to leave. 

Migration  is  a  very  complex  and  contradictory 
social  phenomenon  that  deserves  serious  scientific 
treatment,  beyond  simple  emotions  and  feelings. 
Immigrants  are  people  who  are  simply  looking  for 
better  market  opportunities  in  order  to  sell  the  only 
thing they have: their power to work, their energy, and 
their  boundless  desire  to  overcome  their  poverty  and 
set out on the road to prosperity and well-being, which 
are basic elements of life. They are human beings who 
deserve  to  be  treated  as  such  and  to  enjoy  the  basic 
respect  that  humans  should  enjoy.  They  want  us  to 
recognize their rights and to give them responsibilities, 
to value and consider them in what they represent, and 
07-51578 
to 
the 
and 
establish 
ensure 
agreement 
framework 
international 


to see them for what they are: a productive and mobile 
human  force  that  is  vital  and  beneficial  both  to  the 
economy  that  they  serve  and  to  the  economy  of  their 
country of origin. 
I propose that we provide a legal basis, a fair and 

that 
legal 
immigration  becomes 
an  ordered  phenomenon 
beneficial  to  all.  I  propose  that  we  seek  consensus, 
reach 
the  necessary 
international cooperation. Our world needs immigrants 
and I implore its representatives, in the name of mercy 
and  justice,  to  help  stop  the  shameful  persecution  of 
immigrants.  We  must  apply 
law  of  family 
reunification.  It  is  God’s  will  that  the  families  of 
immigrants be reunified.  

All  of  us  in  Central America,  Mexico  and  Latin 
America  deeply  regret  the  fact  that  we  have  seen  no 
progress on the corresponding legislative initiative that 
the  President  of  the  United  States  submitted  to  the 
United  States  Congress. We  know  that  he  did  so  with 
the  best  of  wills,  and  we  therefore  believe  that 
President  Bush  should  not  falter  in  promoting  that 
proposal. The construction of a wall can only separate 
us.  We  must  find  other  mechanisms  to  resolve  the 
problem. Halting the mass deportations and reunifying 
families  would  be  a  gesture  highly  appreciated  in 
national  and  international  public  opinion.  We  also 
recognize 
in 
particular  the  efforts  of  President  Rodríguez  Zapatero 
of Spain, who has reached immigration agreements and 
quotas with various countries. 

Just as the Kyoto Protocol protects biological life 
on the planet, the Charter of the United Nations and the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  guarantee  life 
and peace in our societies. Let us ensure that they are 
implemented.  

We  express  solidarity  with  peoples  who  are 
fighting for their identity, and reaffirm our support for 
the  Republic  of  Taiwan  in  its  efforts  to  achieve 
recognition  in  this  forum  of  nations,  in  its  fight  for 
independence,  and  in  its  constructive  and  faithful 
dedication  to  the  many  development  processes  under 
way in Central American countries.  

Central  America  and  Honduras,  El  Salvador, 
Guatemala, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama, Belize and 
the  Dominican  Republic  are  united  by  the  dreams  of 
Francisco Morazán, the champion of Central America, 
a region of leaders in contemporary continental thought 
the  work  of  various  Governments, 
A/62/PV.4
tourism, 
bio-energy, 
and artists of stature throughout Latin America and the 
world,  the  belt  of  the  Americas  and  a  bridge  to  the 
world, in the words of General Omar Torrijos. Through 
me, they offer a fraternal and united invitation to visit. 
We  have  every  facility.  We  have  the  most  beautiful 
places on the planet, with great potential in such areas 
as 
telecommunications, 
agriculture and the environment. 

We cannot remain passive or inactive in the face 
of social despair. Our lives are replete with dreams. We 
must, where necessary, overcome the neglect to which 
the  developing  world  is  subject.  Our  great  poet  and 
thinker, Alfonso Guillén Zelaya, said that we certainly 
cannot  control  fate.  Prometheus  always  has  to  find 
someone  to  liberate  him  if  civilization  is  to  move 
forward. It is not possible for humankind to come to an 
end  of  its  history  without  first  giving  the  most 
disadvantaged peoples of  the world the opportunity to 
live.  

We  trust  in  the  future.  Humankind  knows  that 
hope  is  not  lost  and  has  full  confidence  in  the 
principles  of  the  infinite  god  of  love  who  guides  us, 
and not in the god of violence, whom we reject. Before 
this Assembly, we express the fervent wish for peace in 
the  world,  a  new  dawn  for  humankind  in  which 
everything  would  be  different  and  our  energies  would 
focus on serving human beings and not on trade. 
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Honduras for the statement he has just made. 

Mr. José Manuel Zelaya Rosales, President of the 
Republic  of  Honduras,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 


Address by His Highness Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa 
Al-Thani, Emir of the State of Qatar 

address by the Emir of the State of Qatar. 

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani, Emir of the 
State  of  Qatar,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Sheikh  Hamad  bin  Khalifa 
Al-Thani, Emir of the State of Qatar, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
07-51578 

19 
A/62/PV.4 

Sheikh Al-Thani (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 

I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election 
to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-
second  session.  I  wish  you  every  success  in  your 
mission.  I  would  like  also  to  thank  your  predecessor, 
Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa,  for  successfully 
presiding over the previous session. 

I  would  like  further  to  pay  tribute  to  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon,  who  has  assumed  his  post  at  a 
critical  moment  in  which  the  Organization  is  facing 
several  serious  challenges  that  threaten  international 
peace and security. 

The  current  session  has  begun  at  a  time  when 
more  than  one  fifth  of  the  world’s  population  of 
Muslims  are  observing  mandatory  fasting  during  the 
month of Ramadan. We were eager to participate in the 
activities of this session being held in this holy month 
in  order  to  stress  our  conviction  in  the  need  to 
contribute to promoting coexistence among nations and 
to  raise  an  important  issue  related  to  the  purposes  of 
the international community with respect to the future 
of peace and progress. 
Given its great significance, I would like to refer 

to  Security  Council  resolution  1770  (2007),  on  the 
subject of Iraq, which was adopted on 10 August 2007. 
That  resolution  has  partly  restored  to  the  United 
Nations  its  rightful  role  in  addressing  Iraq’s  tragedy, 
after it was proven that it is no longer possible for that 
matter  to  remain  confined  to  a  single  State  or  to  a 
coalition of States of converging interests.  
The world’s major conflicts have become far too 

big  for  a  single  Power  to  handle  them  on  its  own. 
Responsibility for addressing them should therefore be 
placed  with  the  United  Nations,  as  it  constitutes  the 
political embodiment of the international community’s 
principles, laws and broad aspirations to peacebuilding 
and  to  achieving  progress  on  the  basis  of  the  rule  of 
law and the will of those upholding its authority. If the 
role  of  the  United  Nations  is  to  be  more  effective,  its 
structure must be reformed to adapt to the changes that 
have taken place in the world since the adoption of the 
Charter of the United Nations, in 1945. 
While  the  current  situation  in  Iraq  requires  that 

the 
its 
responsibilities,  the  main  responsibility  remains  with 
the  leaders  of  the  whole  Iraqi  people,  who  are 
primarily  responsible  for  hammering  out  a  formula  of 
national  reconciliation  that  ensures  justice,  peace  and 
international 
community 
assume 
is  subject 
on 
Financing 
Conference 
security  and  preserves  the  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity of Iraq. 

The international order has witnessed both “cold” 
and  actual  wars.  Although  real  wars  are  humanly 
unacceptable, cold wars are psychologically unbearable 
because they  inevitably lead to proxy  conflicts, which 
are  incompatible  with  a  world  in  which  the  forces  of 
enlightenment  and 
the  elements  of  understanding 
among  nations  and  cultures  have  strived 
in  an 
unprecedented manner. 
The  work  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  areas  of 

development  should  be  accorded  high  priority,  given 
the  close 
that  exist  between  development, 
security  and  peace.  We  were  indeed  pleased  that  the 
General Assembly  approved  the  initiative  of  the  State 
of  Qatar  to  host  the  first  follow-up  conference  to  the 
International 
for 
Development,  which  is  to  be  held  at  Doha  during  the 
second half of 2008. 

One  of  the  major  challenges  that  we  all  have  to 
address  pertains  to  the  protection  of  the  environment. 
In addition to the destructive effects of climate change, 
the  environment 
to  degradation  and 
pollution, which threaten human life as well as that of 
all living  creatures. Such  a situation requires  both our 
cooperation and concerted efforts by industrialized and 
developing countries alike to find new approaches and 
visions leading to effective short-, mid- and long-term 
solutions. 
to 
underscore  my  country’s  support  for  any  measures 
aimed  at  protecting  the  environment  and  achieving 
sustainable development. 

International aid is one of the areas for promoting 
international  partnership.  The  volume  of  aid  should 
therefore  be  increased  and  its  efficiency  improved  by 
easing  the  conditions  on  which  it  is  granted  so  as  to 
promote 
the  national  development  strategies  of 
recipient  countries.  In  that  regard,  we  are  concerned 
about  the  decline  in  2006  of  the  real  value  of  official 
development 
should  make 
additional  efforts  to  double  the  assistance  provided  to 
sub-Saharan  African  countries  and  to  promote  the 
development agenda of the United Nations. 

Moreover, given the important, major role played 
by global trade in financing development, a successful 
conclusion  to  the  Doha  Round  would  provide  new 
opportunities 
trade 
the 
transactions.  While  we  are  concerned  about 
promote  multilateral 
assistance.  Donors 
that  connection, 
I  would 
like 
links 
In 
to 
20 

07-51578 
in 
phase 
in 
the  ongoing  consultations  on 


deadlock 
the 
implementation of the Doha Development Agenda, we 
hope that we will be able to put that phase behind us. 
We  also  hope  that  all  parties  concerned,  especially 
developed countries, will show the sufficient flexibility 
to reach mutually beneficial, practical results. 

I  have  not  come  to  this  session  to  present  issues 
or  crises  related  to  my  country  or  the  Arab  world, 
although  some  of  them  have  reached  proportions 
constituting human tragedies. I have come here to raise 
broader  issues,  as  I  am  convinced  that  all  Arab  and 
Muslim issues are related to the problems of the world 
as a whole. In the light of a global understanding of the 
new 
an 
understanding that emphasizes the belief in the need to 
resort to the collective international will, as embodied 
by  the  United  Nations,  its  leadership  and  system,  and 
in  the  set  of  principles  on  which  the  Organization’s 
Charter is based — Arab and Muslim causes would not 
be  the  only  ones  to  benefit  from  it;  it  would  also 
benefit  the  entire  world.  Just  causes  are  always 
protected  by  the  principles  of  the  law,  and  the  law 
provides  their  true  guarantee,  as  well  as  powerful 
support. 
the  General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Emir  of  the  State  of 
Qatar for the statement he has just made. 

His  Highness  Sheikh  Hamad  bin  Khalifa 
Al-Thani, Emir of the State of Qatar, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
progress  — 
international 

Address by Mr. Nicolas Sarkozy, President of the 
French Republic 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by the President of the French 
Republic. 

Mr.  Nicolas  Sarkozy,  President  of  the  French 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Nicolas Sarkozy, President 
of the French Republic, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly. 
President Sarkozy (spoke in French): To all the 

peoples  represented  here,  I  convey  the  brotherly 
greetings  of  France.  Mr.  Secretary-General,  you  have 
A/62/PV.4
the  genocide  of 
insoluble.  Remember 
an  enormous  responsibility,  and  you  have  the  trust  of 
France. 

This is the first time that I address this Assembly 
on behalf of France. It is a solemn and moving moment 
for me. I cannot help thinking of all of those men and 
women who, at one of the most tragic moments in the 
history of humanity, as the world stood on the brink of 
barbarity,  finding  that  prospect  intolerable,  succeeded 
in  countering  force  and  violence  and  barbarity  with 
justice and peace. Thus was the United Nations born. 
The  United  Nations  is  not  a  mere  political 

construct.  It  is  not  a  mere  legal  construct.  It  is  an 
awakening of the human conscience against everything 
that threatens to destroy humanity. 
I  have  never  believed  that  the  United  Nations 

could  one  day  root  out  the  violence  that  lies  within 
human  beings.  But  what  I  do  know  deep  down  inside 
me, what we all know deep down, is that in spite of all 
its  failures,  without  the  United  Nations  it  would  have 
been impossible to put an end to conflicts that seemed 
to  be 
the 
Cambodian  people,  remember  the  suffering  inflicted 
upon  them;  remember  the  independence  of  Namibia; 
remember  the  independence  of  Timor.  Look  at  the 
Great Lakes region, or West Africa. Without the United 
Nations,  the  world  might  have  experienced  a  third 
world  war,  doubtless  even  more  terrible  than  the  two 
previous ones. 

France is convinced that the United Nations is the 
only  remedy  we  have  for  the  blindness  and  folly  that 
sometimes take hold of human beings. 

The  message  I  wish  to  bring  to  you  in  the  name 
of France is a simple one: in this world where the fate 
of each of us depends on the fate of others, the United 
Nations  should  not  be  weakened;  the  United  Nations 
must be strengthened. Reforming the United Nations so 
as to adapt it to the realities of our world is an absolute 
priority  for  France.  We  cannot  afford  to  wait  any 
longer.  The  world’s  problems  must  be  addressed  and 
resolved  globally.  No  one  on  this  Earth  can  alone 
protect  themselves  from  the  consequences  of  climate 
warming,  the  clash  of  civilizations,  major  epidemics. 
Against selfishness, against fanaticism, against hatred, 
it  is  our  duty  to  renew  that  appeal  to  the  universal 
conscience by virtue of which, for the first time in the 
history  of  all  the  peoples  of  the  world,  all  nations 
agreed to meet within a common forum in order to set 
aside what divides us and talk to one another. 
07-51578 

21 
is 
A/62/PV.4 


This  appeal  to  the  universal  conscience  is  an 
appeal for peace. It is an appeal for open-mindedness. 
It  is  an  appeal  for  diversity.  And  it  is  an  appeal  for 
justice. France has always sought greatness for the sake 
of  men  and  women,  not  for  its  own  sake.  Like  all 
nations,  France,  in  the  course  of  its  long  history,  has 
made  mistakes,  and  has  sometimes  been  at  fault.  But 
its people, the people of France, have always chosen to 
be  on  the  side  of  freedom  and  democracy.  France  is 
loyal  to  its  friends  and  to  the  values  it  shares  with 
them. But this loyalty is not submission. This loyalty is 
not  a  shackle.  And  France  intends  to  draw  on  that 
loyalty in the cause of openness to others, of openness 
to  the  world.  I  want  the  world  to  know  that  France  is 
willing  to  talk  to  everybody  in  the  world,  in  every 
continent. 
But I would also like to say that openness is not 

renunciation.  Understanding 
not  weakness. 
Weakness  and  renunciation  are  not  factors  of  peace; 
they are factors of war. France and Europe in the past 
experienced the tragic consequences of such an attitude 
for themselves and for the whole world. When you are 
weak and submissive, you get ready to accept war. We 
all have a duty to ensure that that never happens again. 
There will be no peace in the world if the international 
community  compromises  with  the  right  of  peoples  to 
self-determination  and  if  it  compromises  with  human 
rights. 
There  will  be  no  peace  in  the  world  unless  the 

international  community 
its 
determination to fight terrorism. There will be no peace 
in the world unless the international community stands 
united  in  its  resolve  to  put  an  end  to  the  wars  in  the 
Middle  East,  to  put  an  end  to  the  horror  in  Darfur,  to 
the tragedy of Lebanon or to the humanitarian disaster 
in  Somalia.  And  I  weigh  my  words  carefully.  There 
will  be  no  peace  in  the  world  if  the  international 
community  falters  in  the  face  of  the  proliferation  of 
nuclear weapons. 
Iran  is  entitled  to  nuclear  power  for  civilian 

purposes.  But  if  we  allow  Iran  to  acquire  nuclear 
weapons,  there  would  be  an  unacceptable  risk  to 
stability  in  the  region  and  in  the  world.  I  want  to  say 
here,  in  the  name  of  France,  that  we  can  only  resolve 
this crisis by combining firmness with dialogue. It is in 
that spirit that France will act. 

I want to say here, in the name of France, that it 
is the duty of the international community to confront 
is  unshakeable 
in 
those  who  seek  power  and  constantly  threaten  the 
fragile  balance  of  peace  and  to  do  so  by  bringing  to 
bear  its  unwavering  unity  and  its  determination  to 
uphold  the  law.  I  want  to  say,  in  the  name  of  France, 
that there will be no peace in the world without respect 
for  diversity,  without  respect  for  national  identities, 
without  respect,  I  venture  to  say,  for  religions  and 
beliefs,  or  without  respect  for  cultures. Attachment  to 
one’s  faith,  to  one’s  identity,  to  one’s  language  and 
culture, and to one’s way of life, thought and belief — 
all  that  is  legitimate,  and  profoundly  human.  To  deny 
that is to sow the seeds of humiliation. It would stoke 
the  fires  of  nationalism,  fanaticism  and  terrorism.  We 
will  not  avert  the  clash  of  civilizations  by  forcing 
everyone  to  think  and  to  believe  the  same  things. 
France  intends  to  pursue,  together  with  all  people  of 
goodwill, this battle to build a new world order of the 
twenty-first century. 

We want a Lebanon living independently, and we 
say that France will always stand shoulder to shoulder 
with Lebanon in its desire for independence. Tomorrow 
we hope that  Israelis  and Palestinians will find within 
themselves  the  strength  to  live  in  peace.  Peace  is 
possible. It is possible now. And we will devote all of 
our energies to that. 
We  want  to  see  the  peaceful  coexistence  of  the 

main 
fundamentalism  and 
fanaticism. But I want to say, with all due gravity, that 
there is too much injustice in the world for the world to 
hope to live in peace. 

The founding fathers of the United Nations knew 
that  the  world’s  future  could  be  read  in  the  eyes  of  a 
tortured child; a hungry child; children who watch their 
parents being humiliated; children who since birth have 
known  nothing  but  war;  children  torn  from  their 
homes,  their  lands,  their  families.  Because  in  those 
children’s  desperate  eyes  there  is  not  only  suffering, 
but  also  all  the  wars  and  revolts  that  will  drench  the 
world in blood tomorrow. 

Let  us  look  at  the  world  as  it  is.  Let  us  look  at 
what  we  have  made  of  it.  Have  we  wanted  enough  to 
make  it  more  just?  The  answer  is  no.  Have  we  done 
enough to achieve that end? The answer is no.  

When  the  Berlin  wall  fell,  we  all  dreamed  that 
history  would  cease  to  be  tragic.  Let  us  look  at  our 
world  as  it  is  so  that  we  can  make  it  better.  Let  us 
judge  our  world  by  the  yardstick  of  justice.  Justice 
means that the Palestinian people can regain a country 
to  vanquish 
religions 
22 

07-51578 


and build a State. Justice means that the Israeli people 
can  enjoy  the  right  to  live  in  security.  Justice  means 
that  the  Lebanese  people  can  regain  their  freedom. 
Justice  means  that  the  Iraqi  people,  in  all  their 
diversity,  can  find  within  themselves  the  path  to 
reconciliation  and  democracy.  Justice  means  that  a 
developing  country  on  which  we  wish  to  impose 
environmental  rules,  even  though  its  inhabitants  have 
barely enough to eat, can be helped to put such rules in 
place.  Justice  means  that  we  cannot  tap  a  country’s 
resources without paying a fair price for them. 

Let  us  look  squarely  at  our  world.  Never  before 
has  there  been  so  much  easy  money,  with  so  much 
wealth concentrated in the hands of a few large groups. 
Throughout  the  world,  even  in  the  richest  countries, 
there  are  many  men  and  women  who  no  longer  have 
even a hope of emerging some day from their material 
and moral distress.  

In  conclusion,  I  appeal  to  the  conscience  of  all 
those  who  have  a  responsibility  for  the  conduct  of 
world  affairs.  Because  if  we  do  nothing,  the  poor  and 
the exploited will one day rise up against the injustice 
done to them. 

What  the  world  needs  is  a  new  mindset:  a 
genuine New Deal on a global scale, an ecological and 
economic New Deal. On behalf of France, I call on all 
States to join together to found the new world order of 
the twenty-first century, predicated on the key idea that 
the  common  goods  of  humanity  must  be 
the 
responsibility of all of humanity.  
On  behalf  of  France,  I  solemnly  appeal  to  the 

United Nations to provide itself, in this era marked by 
the return of scarcity, with the means to guarantee that 
all  people  throughout  the  world  have  access  to  vital 
resources:  water, 
and 
knowledge. I solemnly appeal to the United Nations to 
concern  itself  with  the  issue  of  fairer  distribution  of 
wealth  and  of  the  income  derived  from  commodities 
and  technology.  I  solemnly  appeal  to  the  United 
Nations  to  concern  itself  with  the  moralization  of 
financial  capitalism.  I  solemnly  appeal  to  the  United 
Nations  to  go  further  in  combating  corruption,  which 
saps countries that are suffering and all too poor. 

Things  must  change.  Mindsets  must  change. 
Behaviour must change. This is our responsibility now, 
because tomorrow it will be too late. If we fail to act, 
we  will  see  a  resurgence  of  all  the  threats  that  the 
food,  medicine 
energy, 
A/62/PV.4
together  here 
people  of  the  post-war  world  believed  they  had 
overcome. Let us not take this risk lightly.  

Peoples  of  the  world,  we  can,  together,  build  a 
better future for all people. It is up to us alone; it is up 
to  our  capacity  to  remain  faithful  to  the  values  that 
have  brought  us 
today.  You  have 
understood. France believes that we have no more time 
to  wait.  France  calls  for  action.  France  urges  action. 
France  is  committed  to  action  in  the  service  of  world 
peace. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the French Republic for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Nicolas  Sarkozy,  President  of  the  French 

Republic,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
from 


Address by Mr. Daniel Ortega Saavedra, President 
of the Republic of Nicaragua 

The  President: The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Nicaragua. 
Mr.  Daniel  Ortega  Saavedra,  President  of  the 

Republic  of  Nicaragua,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President: On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Daniel  Ortega  Saavedra, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Nicaragua,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly. 

President  Ortega  Saavedra  (Nicaragua)  (spoke 
in Spanish): I should like to begin by remembering the 
millions  of  human  beings  who  are  the  victims  of  the 
policies  of  colonialism  and  neo-colonialism.  Let  us 
remember 
the  Holocaust.  Let  us 
remember the victims of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Let 
us remember the victims of slavery and apartheid. Let 
us  remember  the  victims  of  the  wars  of  occupation  of 
Viet  Nam  and  Afghanistan,  the  Dominican  Republic, 
Grenada, Panama and Nicaragua. Let us remember the 
heroic and noble Cuban people, who have suffered all 
kinds  of  aggression  and  a  brutal  and 
inhumane 
blockade.  Let  us  remember  the  five  heroes  who  are 
prisoners  of  the  empire  because  they  were  fighting 
terrorism. Let us remember the victims of the terrorist 
attacks on the World Trade Centre and the millions and 
millions  of  men  and  women  who  have  been  and 
continue to be victims of the genocide caused by global 
the  victims  of 
07-51578 

23 
through 
remember 
imperialist  capitalism,  which, 
A/62/PV.4 

capitalism.  Let  us 
the  victims  of 
discrimination and apartheid at the hands of those who 
refuse  to  admit  into  the  developed  countries,  peoples 
who, in Latin America, are attempting to come into the 
United  States,  and  people  in Africa  and Asia  who  are 
trying to go to the European nations. Our thoughts, our 
appreciation  and  our  solidarity  go  to  the  victims  of 
natural  disasters,  who  are  at  the  same  time  victims  of 
its 
global 
development-oriented  policy  continues 
to  bring 
destruction,  death  and  poverty,  becoming  the  greatest 
aggressor  of  mother  Earth,  now  destroyed  by  the 
avarice of imperialist capitalism. 

Let  us  remember  the  recent  victims  of  natural 
occurrences  triggered  by  these  spoliations  resulting 
from  imperialist  global  capitalism:  the  victims  of 
Hurricane  Katrina,  the  victims  of  the  earthquake  in 
Peru,  the  victims  of  the  floods  in  Africa,  the  victims 
among  the  indigenous  peoples  —  the  Miskito  and 
Mayan  peoples  —  of  Hurricane  Felix,  in  Central 
America,  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  and  the 
land  of  Sandino  and  Rubén  Darío.  Our  brothers  and 
sisters in the Miskito and Mayan peoples who achieved 
autonomy in 1987 and who, today, are part of a process 
whereby their full rights will be recognized, under the 
Autonomy  Act,  have  asked  me 
their 
appreciation  to  the  United  Nations  because  that  battle 
has been going on for more than 20 years and now we 
are  beginning  to  recognize  the  rights  of  indigenous 
peoples. They  have  asked  me  to  circulate  here,  in  the 
United Nations, a document signed by our brothers, the 
leaders  of 
and  Mayan  peoples, 
Afrodescendant peoples, victims of Hurricane Felix, so 
that it may be seen by you all, our brothers and sisters 
who represent the peoples of the world. 
In  the  period  from  1979  to  1989,  I  had  the 

opportunity to speak before the United Nations General 
Assembly,  and  I  remember  well  the  speeches  and 
messages and positions from that time. Eighteen years 
have  gone  by,  and  thanks  to  the  unending  struggle  of 
the Sandinist people, I am here again today to address 
these words to the Assembly. This morning, when this 
general debate began, I listened carefully to the words 
of 
the  second  speaker,  who  spoke  for  exactly 
20  minutes  —  and  I  myself  hope  not  to  exceed 
20 minutes — and I cannot find any difference between 
the  thoughts,  words  and  actions  of  those  who,  at  the 
time,  were  at  the  helm  of  that  imperialist  power,  and 
the speech that I heard this morning. 
the  Miskito 
to  express 

The  presidents  of  the  United  States  change,  and 
they  may  come  to  office  with  the  best  intentions  and 
may  feel  that  they  are  doing  good  for  humanity.  But 
they  fail  to  understand  that  they  are  no  more  than  the 
instruments  of  yet  another  empire  among  the  many 
empires  that  have  imposed  themselves  on  our  planet, 
and  they  forget  that  the  life  of  empires  is  ephemeral. 
They  rise,  they  grow  arrogant  and  mighty  and  then 
begin to dictate as if they were gods — telling people 
what  is  good  and  bad,  determining  how  they  provide 
what  they  call  assistance  —  which  is  no  more  than 
paying  back  the  historical  debt  they  owe  to  our 
peoples.  What  they  are  doing  is  simply  responding  to 
empire, to the politics of Empire and for that reason we 
should not be surprised that not only are we hearing the 
same  speeches  all  over  again,  but  also  that  we  are 
seeing the same conditions of oppression and violence 
and  terror  being  suffered  by  humanity. And  today,  we 
are more threatened than we were 18 years ago when I 
last  had  the  opportunity  to  speak  before  the  United 
Nations. 

Today,  under  the  tyranny  of  global  imperialist 
capitalism, there is an international economic order, of 
course  there  is,  but  who  dictates  that  international 
economic  order?  It  is  dictated  by  a  minority  of 
dictators  who  impose  their  interests,  the  same  old 
interests. They are the ones who enslaved Africans and 
enslaved  and  oppressed  our  indigenous  forefathers. 
They are the  ones who wiped out the original peoples 
of  the  United  States.  Then  immigrants  from  Europe 
came over here and unperturbedly — by what right? — 
began to mix with those people, and to become in turn, 
owners  of  what  did  not  belong  to  them.  They  robbed 
the  original  peoples  of  their  rights  and  their  cultures 
and  imposed  their  culture  and  the  interests  of  the 
colonizers. That is what gave rise to what we call today 
the  most  exemplary  democracy  in  the  world,  when 
really, 
the  biggest,  most 
overwhelming  dictatorship 
that  has  ever  existed 
throughout the history of humanity. 

I am referring to the tyranny of the United States 
empire.  If  anyone  has  doubts,  let  us  see  how  its 
President spoke to us this morning. He spoke of Cuba 
with  a  complete  lack  of  respect  while  representing  a 
system  that  ordered  the  assassination  of  its  President, 
our  dear  brother  Fidel  Castro,  whom  we  had  for  his 
extraordinary 
firmness  and  principled 
consistency in his struggle for the cause of humankind. 
tyranny  — 
solidarity, 
is  a 
it 
24 

07-51578 
them  and 



They  have  maintained  a  brutal  blockade  against 
Cuba,  while  for  interests  of  State,  they  set  aside  their 
so-called  democratic  principles  when,  for  economic 
reasons,  they  act  together  with  other  nations  with 
which  they  supposedly  have  ideological  differences: 
capital  unites 
ideological  differences 
disappear.  

On  what  authority  and  by  what  right  does  he 
question  the  right  of  the  peoples  of  Iran  and  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  nuclear 
development  for  peaceful  purposes? And  even  if  they 
wanted to use nuclear power for military purposes, on 
whose authority and by what right does the only State 
in  history  to  have  dropped  atomic  bombs  on  innocent 
people, as it did on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, condemn 
the people of Iran, who are working to develop nuclear 
energy  for  peaceful  purposes? They  have  decided  that 
this  is  not  for  peaceful  purposes,  but  who  gave  them 
that  right?  They  gave  it  to  themselves,  and  they  are 
imposing  that  on  the  General  Assembly,  and  the 
Assembly  is  simply  a  reflection  of  the  realities  of  a 
world  where  a  capitalist  and  imperialist  minority  is 
imposing global capitalism and establishing an order to 
exploit,  repress, 
impose 
apartheid against Latin American migrants and against 
African migrants in Europe. Global capitalism has only 
one head, but it has tentacles everywhere.  
On what authority can the country that possesses 

the  greatest  nuclear  arsenal  in  the  world,  or  any  other 
country  possessing  nuclear  weapons,  come  here  and 
seek  to  question  the  rights  of  other  countries  to  the 
peaceful  development  of  nuclear  energy?  What  moral 
authority  do  they  have  to  question  the  right  of  any 
people to develop nuclear energy for peaceful or even 
for military purposes?  

this 
the  best  path  for 
humankind. The best path for humankind is for nuclear 
weapons  to  disappear  altogether.  If  the  United  States, 
its  people  and  its  Presidents  —  and  I  do  not  want  to 
single  out  any  individual  President  or  leader  of  an 
empire; an empire is an empire, and it does not matter 
who 
they  call 
themselves  Democrat  or  Republican  —  really  want  to 
demonstrate their commitment to putting an end to the 
threat  of  nuclear  energy  being  used  for  military 
purposes,  then  they  have  to  be  the  first  to  move 
towards a policy of nuclear disarmament, a policy that 
should  encompass  all 
that  possess  nuclear 
weapons. Then they would have the moral authority to 
impoverish,  enslave  and 
the  empire,  whether 
Objectively, 
is  heading 
is  not 
those 
A/62/PV.4
States 
the  most 
retrograde 
The  United 
say that no people in the world should devote resources 
to developing nuclear technology for military purposes. 
Then,  all  nations  would  have  the  possibility  and  the 
right to opt for nuclear energy for peaceful purposes — 
an  option  that  they  would  seek  to  deny  to  developing 
peoples. 

Eighteen  years  ago,  from  this  very  rostrum,  I 
spoke  of  the  Palestinian  issue.  The  Palestinian  people 
endure an ongoing bloody conflict with a country that 
possesses  nuclear  weapons  and  that  is  entrenched  in 
the historic territory of the Palestinian people.  

Eighteen  years  ago  we  spoke  of  the  people  of 
Puerto  Rico,  a  nation  which  is  still  fighting  for  its 
independence. 
continues 
unambiguously  to  pursue  its  neo-colonial  policies, 
combining  the  most  advanced  and  modern  forms  of 
domination  with 
forms  of 
domination, such as its military base in Guantánamo.  
Eighteen  years  ago  we  spoke  of  armament,  and 

nothing  has  changed.  Eighteen  years  ago  we  spoke  of 
war, and today things look much worse because of the 
brutal war imposed by the empire and by its economic 
and  oil  interests.  They  thought  it  would  be  easy  to 
occupy  Iraq  and Afghanistan,  but  they  have  met  with 
resistance  from  those  peoples.  It  was  an  invasion 
launched  on  the  basis  of  a  campaign  of  lies:  it  was 
uncertain that Iraq was in a position to produce nuclear 
weapons.  

So  what  can  I  conclude?  I  can  conclude  that  the 
enemy is still the same after these 18 years: here I am 
again in the United Nations, and the enemy is still the 
same. 

The enemy is called global imperialist capitalism 
and  it  is  only  we,  the  people,  who  can  change  things. 
Peoples that have attained liberation were not given it 
by those that enslaved them, but rather thanks to their 
own  struggle  and  the  blood  they  shed,  for  example  in 
South Africa’s independence struggle. How many years 
of  disgrace,  suffering,  slavery  and  apartheid  did  they 
endure in South Africa? That story is true for the whole 
of the African continent. Those peoples achieved their 
freedom despite modern colonialists consistently trying 
to  sustain  these  forms  of  occupation. To  be  sure,  they 
have adopted new forms of occupation and domination. 

The  liberation  of  our  peoples  is  not  guaranteed. 
Our peoples must continue to give battle. The unity of 
our peoples is the key: the unity of the Latin American 
07-51578 

25 
the  Central  American  peoples  and 
A/62/PV.4 

peoples, 
the 
Caribbean peoples under the Bolivarian Alternative for 
the  Americas  (ALBA).  They  are  trying  to  repeat  the 
kind  of  action  taken  against  Venezuela,  when  a 
democratically  elected  president  was  faced  with  a 
military  coup. They  are  trying  to  repeat  the  history  of 
Salvador Allende, the history of Chile. But the United 
Nations  was  not  convened  to  say  what  barbarity  had 
taken  place.  Yet  what  had  happened  in  Venezuela 
needed to be condemned, because the Government had 
been  democratically  elected.  But  no:  in  fact,  the 
imperialist Power moved immediately to recognize the 
leaders of the coup. It was the Venezuelan people who 
rose  up  to  return  the  elected  President  to  his  place. 
Thus, it is the people who decide their own fate.  
Hence,  we  can  all  be  full  of  the  best  intentions 

about changing the United Nations. I do not doubt that 
even  representatives  of  countries  that  espouse  global 
capitalism and imperialism come here with the best of 
intentions — some of them. But they lose sight of the 
fact  that  they  are  continuing  their  handout  proposals 
and approaches — for these are indeed handouts. When 
they talk about aid, they are insulting us. They have to 
understand  that  once  and  for  all.  They  have  profited 
from 
in  developing 
countries by the huge multinational corporations. They 
say  that  they  come  to  help  us.  What  businessman 
comes to help? When a businessman invests, he invests 
in order to make the biggest profit he can: not to invest 
in  the  country,  but  rather  to  take  away,  because  we 
developing  countries are considered to  be insecure. In 
short, we are the victims of a ransacking. 

Compare  the  volume  of  the  wealth  that  the 
capitalist  and  developed  countries  are  currently 
the  developing 
extracting 
countries, 
companies 
and 
multinational  corporations  with  what  Latin  American 
immigrants send back to their families from the United 
States or what Asian and African immigrants in Europe 
send  back  to  their  families:  the  latter  really  is  a 
miserable  amount  compared  to  the  volume  of  wealth 
that  is  being  plundered  on  a  daily  basis  by  these 
institutionalized forms of oppression.  
However,  immigrants  working  in  the  United 

States or in Europe work harder than anyone else. They 
are  doing  jobs  that  neither  Europeans  nor  Americans 
want to do, and for miserable wages. So who is doing 
whom  a  favour?  Indeed,  nobody  is  doing  any  favours 
for  the  Latin Americans  who  find  work  in  the  United 
the  privatization  carried  out 
from  our 
through 
countries, 
big 
their 
to 
radical 
change 
leading 
States and who manage to put aside a bit of money so 
they  can  send  $100  or  $200  back  to  their  families, 
compared  to  the  plundering  by  big  businesses,  which 
go  to  developing  countries  not  only  to  reap  enormous 
profits, but also to take advantage of cheap labour and 
the  conditionalities  imposed  by  free  trade  agreements. 
Human  beings,  societies  and  nations  are  all  clashing 
with  free  trade,  and  it  remains  to  be  seen  who  is  the 
strongest.  Logically,  it  will  be  the  strongest  who 
prevail. Free trade is the law of the jungle. 

What  the  world  needs  is  fair  trade.  What  the 
world  demands  is  genuine  change  in  the  capitalist, 
globalized,  imperialist  countries. They  have  to  change 
their  concept  of  a  free  market;  they  have  to  exchange 
the concept of free trade for that of fair trade and a fair 
international  market.  Solving  this  problem  is  not  a 
question  of  reducing  subsidies  because  plainly  the 
disparities are so enormous that that is impossible. This 
problem will never be resolved piecemeal but through 
profoundly 
the 
democratization  of  the  minority  on  planet  Earth  who 
own the wealth, own the nuclear weapons, impose their 
policies on the Assembly and go over the heads of the 
Security  Council. They  impose  their  own  laws,  which 
are  now  solidly  entrenched,  and  they  have  no  respect 
for humanity. It is only by changing the policy within 
those  peoples,  within  those  nations,  within  those 
Governments  that  we  can  really  obtain  the  fair  world 
that  we  are  all  talking  about.  For  we  all  talk  about  a 
just world. We all talk  about a peaceful  world. We  all 
talk about a world of brotherly love and solidarity. But 
there is a wide gap between words and deeds. 

Dear  brothers  and  sisters,  please  accept  the 
greetings of the people of Nicaragua, a fighting people, 
a people that has suffered interference from the empire 
since  1856  —  before  the  triumph  of  the  October 
Revolution,  the  great  Lenin  revolution.  Before  the 
East-West  conflict  had  begun,  Nicaragua  was  already 
suffering  from  the  expansionist  policies  of  empire; 
already  we  had  to  take  arms  to  defend  ourselves 
against  those  who  wanted  to  trample  upon  us  and 
impose Yankee presidents.  

Dear brothers and sisters,  we ask you to pass on 
to  your  peoples  our  belief  —  our  certainty  —  that 
today,  more  than  ever,  there  exist  conditions  for  unity 
among the Latin American and Caribbean peoples. We 
are  seeing  growing  unity  among  the  African  peoples. 
The unity of the Asian peoples must grow as well, but 
free  from  global  capitalism.  What  good  is  speaking 
26 

07-51578 
fighters; 
the  same 
the  principles  of 
the  same  vigour  and 


about  socialism  if  what  we  are  actually  building  is 
capitalism  and  if  we  are  just  creating  a  holy  alliance 
with  global  capitalism  and  imperialism?  We  have  to 
build this great unity in Africa, in Asia — and in Latin 
America,  where  we  are  marching  with  the  same 
strength, 
living 
principles  that  were  those  of  the African  fighters  like 
Lumumba and Sekou Touré; the principles of the Latin 
American 
the  North 
American  fighters,  the  United  States  fighters;  the 
principles  of  the  European  fighters;  the  principles  of 
the Latin America of Bolívar, of Martí, of Sandino, of 
Tupac  Katari,  of  Tupac  Amaru.  Those  principles  still 
live and will live as long as these forms of oppression 
persist. 
I have faith in God and the certainty that, just as 

peoples,  despite  so  much  oppression  and  destruction, 
have not surrendered or sold out, today, more than ever 
before, peoples should rise up with pride and firmness 
and dignity. They are not going to sell out and they are 
not going to surrender to the global capitalist empire. 
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Nicaragua for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Daniel  Ortega  Saavedra,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Nicaragua,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.  
The  President: On  behalf  of 


Address by Mr. Branko Crvenkovski, President of 
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia 
The  President: The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Branko  Crvenkovski, 
President of the Republic of Macedonia. 

Mr. Branko Crvenkovski, President of the former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  was  escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  President: On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Branko  Crvenkovski, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Macedonia,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly. 

Greece on a point of order. 
Mr.  Mourikis  (Greece):  With  regard  to  your 

reference to the country of origin of the next speaker, I 
would like to point out the following.  
I  first  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
A/62/PV.4
the  Security  Council,  by 

The  Security  Council,  by  its  resolution  817 
(1993),  has  recommended,  and  the  General Assembly, 
by  its  resolution  47/225  of  8 April  1993,  has  decided 
that  that  country  will  be  provisionally  referred  to,  for 
all  purposes  within  the  United  Nations,  as  the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  pending  settlement 
of the difference that has arisen over the name of this 
State.  Furthermore, 
its 
resolution  845  (1993)  urged  “the  parties  to  continue 
their  efforts  under  the  auspices  of  the  Secretary-
General  to  arrive  at  a  speedy  settlement  of  the 
remaining issues” (para. 2).  

I  would  therefore  request  that  the  proper  name, 
the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  be  used 
for all purposes within the United Nations, pursuant to 
the aforementioned resolutions and in view of the fact 
that  there  are  ongoing  negotiations  between  the  two 
countries. 
The  President: I  am  fully  aware  of  the  fact 

pointed  out  in  the  statement  by  the  representative  of 
Greece. At  the same time,  as President  of the General 
Assembly,  I  am  required  to  show  full  respect  for  the 
dignity  of  every  single  State  Member  of  the  United 
Nations, including my own.  

Crvenkovski. 
President  Crvenkovski:  It  is  a  privilege  and  an 

honour  for  me  to  address  this  forum  and  to  share  the 
views  of  the  Republic  of  Macedonia  regarding  issues 
of  utmost  importance  for  the  current  session  of  the 
General  Assembly.  However,  allow  me  first  of  all  to 
avail  myself  of  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  my 
fellow  countryman,  Mr.  Srgjan  Kerim,  on  his  election 
as  President  of  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-second 
session.  His  nomination  to  this  prestigious  position  is 
yet another proof of the full dedication of the Republic 
of  Macedonia  to  the  promotion  of  the  aims  of  this 
unique global Organization. 
I  would  also  like  to  congratulate  the  previous 

General  Assembly  President,  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed 
Al Khalifa,  for  her  successful  presidency  of 
the 
Assembly at its sixty-first session. Allow me as well to 
take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  the  Secretary-
General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, on the energetic start of his 
mandate  and  his  dedication  in  this  time  of  great 
importance for our Organization. 
to  President  Branko 
I  now  give 
the  floor 
07-51578 

27 
for 
the 
also 
countries,  but 
A/62/PV.4 


The issue of climate change was rightly proposed 
by the President of the General Assembly as a topic to 
be discussed during this general debate. The alleviation 
of  the  impact  of  global  warming  and  climate  change, 
which  has  become  one  of  the  greatest  challenges  for 
individual 
entire 
international  community,  calls  for  the  undertaking  of 
coordinated  and  serious  measures.  It  is  our  obligation 
to  preserve  our  planet  for  the  generations  to  come. 
Therefore, one of our imperatives would be to provide 
clear  political  support  in  responding  to  the  negative 
impact  of  global  warming,  while  not 
impeding 
economic growth and the reduction of poverty. In this 
context,  apart  from  recognizing  the  central  role  of  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change,  we  should  also  promote  consultations  within 
the United Nations environmental institutions. 

People  around  the  world  expect  the  United 
Nations  to  improve  its  performance  and  continue  to 
deliver. For many, this Organization remains a symbol 
of  hope  and  of  support  in  times  of  need,  but  also  a 
helping hand in times of crisis. The world has changed, 
and  so  have  the  challenges.  The  United  Nations  must 
also continue to change in order to be ready to respond. 

The 2005 World Summit Outcome created a solid 
basis  for  all  necessary  reforms.  A  lot  has  been 
achieved — perhaps not as much as was expected, but 
the  progress  made  so  far  is  visible. We  must  continue 
working  on  the  reforms  of  the  main  bodies,  in  the 
interest of transparency and effectiveness. 

The Republic of Macedonia strongly supports the 
current management reform directed towards achieving 
efficiency  and  accountability  in  the  United  Nations 
system. The new bodies are already a reality and fully 
operational. What we expect in particular is the Human 
Rights  Council  to  strengthen  its  role  in  the  global 
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights.  Driven  by 
our strong will to contribute to the work of this highly 
important  body,  we  have  put  forward  our  application 
for membership for the period from 2009 to 2012. 

The  report  of  the  United  Nations  High-level 
Panel on System-wide Coherence offered a number of 
valuable  recommendations  for  the  reform  of  United 
Nations  operational  activities. 
the 
discussions  during  the  current  session  will  help  to 
create  a  consensus  on  measures  to  strengthen  United 
Nations  capacities 
the  areas  of  development, 
humanitarian assistance and environment. 
I  hope 
that 
in 
and 
Plan 
joint 
promote 
Johannesburg 
actions.  We  must 

The  issue  of  disarmament,  arms  control  and 
non-proliferation must remain high on our agenda. We 
must  therefore  attach  further  importance  to  these 
issues,  which  are  relevant  for  the  achievement  of 
global peace, security and development. 

Terrorism  continues  to  threaten  our  world.  The 
fight against terrorism is yet another area in which we 
must stand united. The United Nations Global Counter-
Terrorism Strategy and its Plan of Action, adopted last 
year, provide an excellent framework for our individual 
and 
their 
implementation  at  the  national  and  regional  level  and 
seek to achieve visible results. 

At  the  2005  World  Summit,  we  reaffirmed  our 
commitment  to  global  partnership  for  development  as 
stated  in  the  Millennium  Declaration,  the  Monterrey 
Consensus 
of 
Implementation.  We  fully  agree  that  every  country 
bears the responsibility for its own development, which 
depends mainly on national policies and strategies. We 
also  agree  that  global  actions  are  necessary  as  a 
support to national efforts.  
Some  regions  need  more  shared  responsibility 

than  others  in  order  to  achieve  the  projected  targets. 
Africa,  where  the  situation  remains  alarming,  requires 
special attention. With this in mind, we endorse the call 
for renewed commitment to the implementation of the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  and  we  await  the 
forthcoming  High-level  Dialogue  on  Financing  for 
Development,  which  is  expected  to  bring  specific 
results. 

United  Nations  involvement  in Africa,  including 
in  the  Sudan,  remains  of  exceptional  importance.  The 
situation  in  Darfur  is  extremely  critical  and  alarming. 
Member  States  must  reunite  once  again  and  provide 
support to United Nations activities in order to respond 
to the challenges on the ground. 

The  Middle  East  situation  continues  to  be  an 
issue  of  utmost  concern.  People  in  the  Middle  East 
deserve to live free from fear and threats. The Republic 
of  Macedonia  supports  the  efforts  of  the  Quartet  and 
the  Road  Map.  A  renewed  peace  process  is  also  of 
utmost urgency. The situation in Lebanon also remains 
high  on 
the 
Republic  of  Macedonia  joined  the  United  Nations 
forces  in  that  area  by  sending  military  officers  to  the 
United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon.  
international  agenda.  Recently, 
the 
the 
28 

07-51578 
Since 
the  very  beginning, 
the  successful  reforms 



the  Republic  of 
Macedonia  has  been  part  of  the  international  anti-
terrorist  coalition 
in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan.  The 
Republic of Macedonia fully supports the unity of Iraq. 
We also support the recent Security Council resolution 
1770  (2007)  regarding  an  extended  role  for  the 
Organization in Iraq. Building peace and democracy in 
those  two  countries  remains  a  key  challenge  both  for 
the  international  community  and  for  the  Iraqis  and 
Afghans themselves. 

The Republic of Macedonia continues on its path 
towards a functional multi-ethnic democracy. There are 
many challenges on that path that we should tackle and 
obligations  that  we  must  fulfil.  We  are  committed  to 
comprehensive reforms in all segments of Macedonian 
society  in  order  to  obtain  a  date  for  the  beginning  of 
pre-accession  negotiations  for  membership 
the 
European Union in 2008. At the same time, bearing in 
mind 
that  we  have  been 
implementing  for  years,  we  are  deeply  convinced  that 
it  would  be  realistic  to  obtain  an  invitation  for 
membership of the Republic of Macedonia in the North 
Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO)  at  the  next 
summit  of  that  organization,  scheduled  for April  2008 
in Bucharest. 

The region of South-East Europe has come a long 
way in the past decade. We are all striving towards the 
common  goal  of  European 
and  Euro-Atlantic 
integration, which is a strong driving force in terms of 
reforms  and  final  stabilization  of  the  region.  The 
Republic  of  Macedonia  remains  firmly  committed  to 
good-neighbourly  relations  and  regional  cooperation, 
and  we  believe  that  dialogue  is  of  key  importance  for 
all outstanding issues in the interest of everyone in the 
region. 

the 
international community regarding the resolution of the 
status  of  Kosovo.  At  this  stage,  the  Republic  of 
Macedonia  hopes  that  the  next  round  of  negotiations 
and  consultations  led  by  the  Troika  will  bring  the 
positions  of  both  parties  closer.  We  also  endorse  the 
position that a resolution of the Kosovo issue should be 
formulated within a reasonable time frame, in the best 
interest of stability in the region and the region’s Euro-
Atlantic perspective. 

In  that  context,  I  would  like  to  underline  in 
particular  that  we  do  not  agree  with  the  recently 
mentioned  idea  of  partition  of  Kosovo  according  to 
the  efforts  of 
We  continue 
to  support 
in 
A/62/PV.4
implementing 
to  respecting  and 
ethnic  lines,  since  that  might  have  serious  negative 
implications  for  the  entire  region.  The  issue  of  the 
technical  demarcation  of  our  northern  border  with 
Kosovo  according  to  a  predefined  procedure  and 
agenda  remains  a  top  priority  for  the  Republic  of 
Macedonia. 

Allow  me  to  assure  the  Assembly  that  we  will 
spare  no  efforts  translating  our  words  into  actions,  so 
that people around the world may be convinced of our 
commitment 
the 
principles  and  values  enshrined  in  the  United  Nations 
Charter. 

Finally — with or without any points of order —
the name of my country is the Republic of Macedonia 
and will be the Republic of Macedonia. 

The  President: On  behalf  of 
the  General 
Assembly  and  in  my  own  name,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Macedonia  for  the 
statement just made. 

Mr. Branko Crvenkovski, President of the former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall. 
Mr.  Ehouzou  (Benin),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 


the 
the 
Address by Mr. Bingu Wa Mutharika, President of 
the Republic of Malawi 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French): The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Malawi. 

Mr.  Bingu  Wa  Mutharika,  President  of 
Republic  of  Malawi,  was  escorted 
into 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Bingu Wa Mutharika, President of the Republic of 
Malawi, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 

President  Mutharika: I  am  happy  to  have  this 
opportunity  to  address  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-second  session.  I  convey  my  congratulations 
Mr. Kerim on his election as President of the Assembly 
at this session. The Malawi Government would like to 
assure him of our support in carrying out his duties as 
President. 
to 
07-51578 

29 
the 
in 
is  making 
steady 
progress 
in 
I  commend 
livelihood  of  people 
the  previous  President  of 
A/62/PV.4 


I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  our  hosts, 
President George W. Bush and the Government and the 
people  of  the  United  States  of  America,  for  the 
hospitality accorded to me and my delegation since our 
arrival in the state of New York. 

the 
Assembly,  Her  Excellency  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed 
Al  Khalifa,  for  the  sterling  leadership,  direction  and 
guidance she gave in steering the Assembly at its sixty-
first session. 
I wish to focus my address on Malawi’s efforts to 

meet  the  objectives  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs). Malawi believes that the MDGs are the 
tools  for  enhancing  growth  and  development  and  for 
improving 
the  poor 
countries  of  the  world.  I  am  pleased  to  state  that  my 
country 
the 
implementation  of  the  MDGs.  We  have  adopted  the 
Malawi Growth and Development Strategy as a home-
grown  overarching  national  policy  for  creating  new 
wealth, for achieving sustainable economic growth and 
development  and  for  combating  the  poverty  that  still 
engulfs many of our people. 

The people of Malawi share a common vision to 
eliminate  poverty  in  the  shortest  period  possible  by 
from  a  predominantly 
transforming 
importing 
a  predominantly 
manufacturing  and  exporting  economy.  That,  we 
believe,  will  enable  our  country  to  position  itself 
within the global economy and to compete favourably 
in the world markets. 

To  achieve  that  vision,  we  are  implementing  a 
sound  system  of  economic  governance  in  both  the 
public  and  private  sectors.  That  includes  fighting 
corruption,  reform  of  the  public  and  private  sectors, 
safeguarding  human  rights  and 
law, 
increasing social protection for vulnerable groups, and 
developing 
for  development.  My 
Government  has  also  placed  research,  science  and 
technology, including information and communications 
technology,  gender  empowerment  and  environmental 
protection, at the top of our development paradigm. 
Based on the limitation of our resources, financial 

and  human  alike,  we  have  identified  six  priorities 
within priorities that we believe can pull Malawi out of 
the 
agricultural 
development  and  food  security,  irrigation  and  water 
communications 
development, 
trap.  Those 
infrastructure 
the  country 
and 
consuming 
to 
the  rule  of 
transport 
and 
poverty 
include 
energy 
the  poverty 
living  below 
infrastructure  development, 
and  power, 
integrated  rural  development,  and  management  and 
prevention  of  HIV  and  AIDS.  I  am  pleased  to  report 
that the Malawi Government began to implement those 
priorities in 2004 and that, by 2006, we had achieved a 
phenomenal  growth  rate  of  8.5  per  cent. We  therefore 
believe  that  the  selection  of  these  top  priorities  is  a 
good  one.  We  are  also  implementing  an  effective 
system of income distribution targeting the rural poor. I 
can  therefore  boldly  say  that  the  Malawi  Government 
is confident that most of the Millennium Development 
Goals will be met or even surpassed by the year 2015. 

I  now  wish  to  briefly  review  some  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  For  instance,  we  are 
certain  to  decrease  by  half  the  proportion  of  the 
population  that  suffers  from  extreme  poverty  and 
hunger,  and  to  improve  their  nutritional  status  by  the 
year  2015.  Malawi  has  also  made  significant  progress 
in the past three years in reducing poverty. In 1998, for 
instance,  people 
line 
represented 53.9 per cent of the total population. That 
number was reduced to 45 per cent in 2006.  

For  the  past  two  years,  Malawi  has  achieved  a 
high  rate  of  agricultural  production  and  food  security. 
Presently, Malawi has a food surplus amounting to 1.4 
million  metric  tons  over  and  above  our  national  food 
requirement. We  are  now  able  to  export  food  to  other 
countries in southern Africa. 

the  highest  budgetary 
Malawi  has  one  of 
allocations  to  agriculture  and  food  security.  We  are 
empowering  smallholder  farmers  to  access  essential 
farm  inputs,  mainly  seeds  and  fertilizer,  through  a 
subsidy  programme. We  also  support  the  development 
of  viable  small-,  medium-  and  large-scale  irrigation 
schemes to reduce dependence on rain-fed agriculture. 

The  other  aspect  of  the  MDGs  that  Malawi 
considers critical is the reduction in maternal and child 
mortality.  Here  again,  my  country  has  achieved 
remarkable  progress,  largely  through  the  adoption  of 
the  Essential  Health  Package  as  the  main  strategy  for 
the  delivery  of  a  cost-effective  package  of  health 
services  through  a  donor-funded  sector-wide  approach 
programme.  We  are  also  addressing  the  challenge  to 
reduce  the  under-five  mortality  rate  by  two  thirds  by 
the  year  2015  and  to  reduce  the  maternal  mortality 
ratio by three quarters. 
We have identified several highly preventable and 

treatable  diseases,  such  as  malaria,  pneumonia, 
30 

07-51578 
is 
One  of  Malawi’s  biggest  challenges 


diarrhoea  and  malnutrition.  Malawi  is  therefore  on 
track  towards  attaining  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  We  have  reduced  the  rate  of  child  deaths  per 
1,000 from 189 live births in 2000 to 133 in 2006. 

In  the  fight  against  malaria,  Malawi  has  so  far 
distributed about 5 million insecticide-treated mosquito 
nets to various households. The percentage of pregnant 
women  and  children  under  five  sleeping  under  treated 
nets increased from 8 per cent in 2000 to 20 per cent in 
2006.  In  2007,  we  plan  to  give  out  3  million  more 
mosquito nets with support from the Global Fund and 
President George Bush’s Malaria Initiative in that area. 

the 
management  and  prevention  of  tuberculosis,  whose 
prevalence  rate  is  very  high,  especially  with  regard  to 
patients  having  HIV  and  AIDS.  The  Malawi 
Government  has  therefore  declared  tuberculosis  to  be 
an  emergency  and  launched  a  five-year  plan  for 
addressing the problem. 

I  am  pleased  to  state  that  Malawi  is  one  of  the 
few  African  countries  that  have  been  successful  in 
meeting  the  challenges  of  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic. 
Malawi  has  also  been  successful 
its  public 
awareness  campaign  about  the  HIV/AIDS  epidemic 
and 
its  consequences.  In  2004,  Malawi  had  14 
voluntary  counselling  and  testing  centres,  and  those 
have now been increased to 250. Over 5 million people 
within Malawi have been tested within a period of less 
than  three  years.  With  the  support  of  the  Bill  Clinton 
Foundation,  Malawi  now  has  over  130,000  people 
receiving free antiretroviral drugs. Additionally, in the 
prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV and 
AIDS,  we  are  now  reaching  over  60  per  cent  of 
pregnant  women  in  Malawi.  The  General  Assembly 
may  wish  to  note  that  the  Malawi  national  HIV  and 
AIDS  and  antiretroviral 
therapy  programmes  are 
among  the  fastest  growing  in  the  world  and  that  the 
pandemic is showing signs of a decline. 

I  wish  to  reiterate  the  statement  I  made  to  this 
Assembly  in  2006  that  we  should  regard  HIV  and 
AIDS  not  only  as  a  medical  crisis,  but  also  as  having 
economic, socio-cultural and political dimensions. That 
being  the  case,  the  solution  to  the  crisis  must  be 
comprehensive 
therefore 
established  a  Department  of  Nutrition,  HIV  and AIDS 
in  my  Office  as  a  technical  arm  in  implementing  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  I  am  also  pleased  to 
report that, from 2004 to date, Malawi has developed a 
and  holistic. 
I  have 
in 
A/62/PV.4
and 
national nutrition policy and accompanying documents 
as a guide for action. As a result, 350,000 orphans are 
now  getting  nutrition  support.  That  has  reduced  the 
negative impacts of malnutrition, HIV and AIDS, such 
as absenteeism, and many of those affected now return 
to work quickly and are reintegrated into the economy. 

The Government of Malawi recognizes that water 
is  life.  We  have  therefore  placed  high  priority  on  the 
resources.  We  are 
development  of  our  water 
rehabilitating  water-supply 
schemes 
are 
constructing many earthen dams country-wide to allow 
rural  communities  access  to  clean  water.  Currently, 
about 66 per  cent of the population has access to safe 
and clean water. Malawi is therefore confident that the 
MDG on access to water for all will be achieved before 
2015. 

In  the  area  of  universal  primary  education,  the 
MDGs  have  set  the  target  for  universal  primary 
education  for  both  boys  and  girls.  Malawi  has  a  very 
high  budget  allocation  for  education,  science  and 
technology,  in  order  to  meet  the  relevant  MDG.  To 
date,  60  per  cent  of  Malawi’s  children  are  enrolled  in 
primary  schools.  We  are  also  creating  a  conductive 
teaching  and  learning  environment  in  order  to  reduce 
absenteeism, poor performance and drop-out rates. 
Malawi is on the right path to achieving the Goal 

on 
the  management  of  natural 
resources  and 
environmental  sustainability.  We  have  reviewed  our 
natural resources policies, legislation  and programmes 
to curb the misuse  and  abuse of natural  resources  and 
to prevent environmental degradation. My Government 
is  involving  rural  communities  in  the  management  of 
such existing resources as forestry, as well as in annual 
national 
the 
prevention  of 
soil  erosion  and  desertification. 
Furthermore, 
implementing 
management  programmes  for  the  sequestration  of 
carbon,  as  well  as  other  ecosystem  services 
to 
encourage the extensive planting of trees. 

In  the  area  of  gender  equality  the  MDGs  set  out 
to  promote  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of 
women by integrating targeted programmes for women 
to  enable  them  to  become  part  of  economic  growth. 
Malawi  has  a  high  level  of  female  adult  illiteracy, 
namely, 48 per cent — as compared to 24 per cent for 
men. However, girls in Malawi also have a high drop-
out  rate  from  the  formal  schooling  system,  as  well  as 
reforestation  and 
the  Government 
tree  planting 
for 
is 
07-51578 

31 
and 
clerk  of  Parliament 
A/62/PV.4 

high  vulnerability  to  HIV  and AIDS  infection. We  are 
addressing those problems. 

My  Government  is  also  empowering  women  in 
the  political,  economic  and  social  areas.  In  the  past 
three years, there have been more women in ministerial 
and other management positions than ever before. The 
following  key  positions  are  now  held  by  women:  the 
posts  of  attorney-general,  deputy  governor  of  the 
Reserve  Bank  of  Malawi,  five  full  Cabinet  ministers, 
one  deputy  minister,  chairperson  of  the  human  rights 
commission, 
several 
ambassadors,  principal  secretaries  and  chairpersons  of 
statutory corporations. 

I  would  like  to  conclude  by  stating  that  Malawi 
has  successfully  positioned  itself  to  attain  the  MDGs. 
We are optimistic that many of those objectives will be 
attained. We therefore appeal to the United Nations to 
recognize  Malawi’s  heroic  efforts  and  assist  us  to 
maintain the development momentum.  

I  would  also  like  to  appeal  to  our  development 
partners  to  support  Malawi’s  policy  to  manufacture 
new  goods  and  to  provide  new  services  to  meet  the 
MDGs. We  need  support  to  conduct  our  own  research 
and  to  apply  science  and  technology  —  including 
information  and  communication  technology  —  to 
create new wealth, to build new capacity and to move 
Malawi from poverty to prosperity. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Malawi for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Bingu  Wa  Mutharika,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Malawi,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The President returned to the Chair. 



Address by Mrs. Michelle Bachelet Jeria, President 
of the Republic of Chile 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Chile. 

Mrs.  Michelle  Bachelet  Jeria,  President  of  the 
Republic of Chile, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Michelle  Bachelet  Jeria, 
and  world  peace  —  with  dignity 
President of the Republic of Chile, and to invite her to 
address the Assembly. 
President  Bachelet  Jeria  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to 
preside over the General Assembly. I would also like to 
reiterate Chile’s support for the new Secretary-General. 
Chile  will  participate  in  all  the  undertakings  of  the 
United Nations.  

The  international  community  knows  about  my 
people’s  devotion  to  peace,  justice,  freedom  and 
solidarity.  It  knows  that  this  country  at  the  southern 
edge  of  the  world  —  despite  the  size  of  its  economy 
and  population,  as  well  as  its  remoteness  —  has 
espoused  the  great  causes  of  humankind.  It  knows 
about  Chile’s  contributions  in  the  areas  of  poverty, 
AIDS,  hunger  and  social  cohesion.  It  knows  that  we 
have  made  substantial  contributions  to  the  promotion 
and observance of human rights. It knows that, even in 
difficult times, we have always supported international 
law 
and 
determination. 

Mine is a country that believes in progress and in 
the  ability  of  human  beings  to  be  the  authors  of  their 
own destiny and to build a better future. The world is 
an uncertain place when we are not able to act together. 
Globalization becomes unpredictable when we are not 
able  to  manage  it.  That  is  the  reason  we  need  to 
promote the  greatest possible sustainable development 
with  greater 
for  all 
humankind.  To  that  end,  it  is  crucial  that  we  craft 
agreements  and strengthen multilateral institutions,  all 
the while making progress in the areas of disarmament 
and  non-proliferation;  that  we  begin  negotiations  on 
the reform and expansion of the Security Council; and 
that  we  make  progress  in  the  area  of  management 
reform — on the subject of which Chile, South Africa, 
Sweden and Thailand have put forth a proposal for the 
consideration of Member States. 

The  major  tasks  facing  us  today  will  probably 
require  more  consensus-building  than  ever  before 
known. How can we ensure once and for all that human 
rights are respected throughout the entire world? How 
can  we  halt  climate  change  on  all  continents  and 
oceans? How can we make equity and social justice for 
all  the  men  and  women  of  the  world  a  concern  of  all 
countries? Those are the major challenges which we, as 
an international community, must today tackle urgently 
and with dedication. 
justice  and  social  equity 
32 

07-51578 



Chile  will  vigorously  promote  universal  respect 
for  human  rights.  The  establishment  of  a  fairer  and 
more humane international order will be possible only 
if we place respect for the dignity of the human person 
at  the  heart  of  the  debate.  We  in  Chile  will  work  not 
only  to  improve  our  own  practices  and  domestic 
legislation,  but  also  to  promote  the  strengthening  of 
human rights, economic and social development, peace 
and security. 

As the General Assembly is aware, human rights 
have  been  at  centre  of  Chile’s  recent  history.  For  the 
citizens of my country no place is too remote nor any 
situation  too  foreign  when  it  comes  to  protecting 
human lives and dignity. 

We are pleased with the progress made in the area 
of  norms,  both  internationally  and  nationally.  We 
welcome the adoption and opening for signature of the 
International  Convention  for  the  Protection  of  All 
Persons  from  Enforced  Disappearance,  which  fills  a 
gap  in  the  system  for  protecting  human  rights  from  a 
crime  against  humanity.  Chile  signed  that  instrument 
and  expects  to  ratify  it  in  the  near  future.  In  addition, 
the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture 
and  Other  Cruel,  Inhuman  or  Degrading  Treatment  or 
Punishment is in the process of being approved by our 
National Congress. 

The  new  United  Nations  Human  Rights  Council 
should  continue 
to  promote  a  more  effective 
international  regime  for  protection,  early  warning  and 
promotion  in  the  area  of  human  rights.  We  also 
strongly support the United Nations Declaration on the 
Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples,  which 
is  a  very 
important step in the recognition of the rights of those 
peoples. 
We shall also work to ensure that democracy and 

freedom  are  consolidated 
the  world. 
Democracy is a universal value, but it is a process that 
must  be  supported  over  time.  That  is  why  we  will 
strongly support the United Nations Democracy Fund, 
so that this aspiration becomes a reality. 

We  are  studying  with  concern  the  scientific 
evidence  showing  the  devastating  effects  of  climate 
change on our planet. Yesterday we were discussing its 
social,  human  and  economic  effects.  We  are  glad  that 
the world is beginning to take notice of this. It is clear 
that there is a serious threat to our future, and we must 
act now. 
throughout 
A/62/PV.4
to  enlist 
the  greatest  possible  support, 

In  Chile,  for  example,  we  have  seen  that  the 
speed with which the glaciers are melting has doubled 
in  the  past  ten  years.  Our  southern  zones  are,  in  turn, 
experiencing a dangerous depletion of the ozone layer, 
jeopardizing the health of our citizens. Although we are 
not  the  ones  mainly  responsible  for  this  deterioration, 
Chile has begun to take the necessary steps to mitigate 
the effects of global warming and to combine efforts so 
that, as a matter of urgency, solutions may be found. 

As  has  been  said  here  many  times,  there  is  no 
time  to  lose.  The  consensus  that  we  must  reach,  the 
effort 
is 
comparable  only  to  the  international  mobilization  that 
led  to  the  adoption  of  the  San  Francisco  Charter  six 
decades  ago.  If  we  do  not  act  now,  the  future  of  all 
humanity will be endangered. 

Therefore we all have the obligation to construct 
a new global political consensus to generate collective 
action  capable  of  solving  the  problem  in  accordance 
with 
the  principle  of  shared  but  differentiated 
responsibility and within the framework of the United 
Nations. All of us must contribute, but especially those 
who have already polluted and achieved development. 
We ask the developed countries to pledge technical and 
financial  assistance  to  the  developing  countries  that 
most  need  help  with  their  efforts  to  combat  climate 
change. 

We  strongly  hope  that  at  the  meetings  of  the 
Parties  to  the  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change and the Kyoto Protocol to be held in December 
in  Bali,  progress  will  be  made 
the 
parameters  of  a  post-2012  process.  We  also  hope  that 
greater 
the 
commitments 
adaptation, 
technology transfer and financing. 

We must, however, realize that the greatest efforts 
by  the  developed  countries  will  not  suffice  to  halt 
climate change. It is also necessary that the developing 
countries take additional emission reduction actions in 
the framework of a global effort within the scope of the 
Convention. 

I am the bearer of a message of hope as well for 
all nations seeking to eradicate poverty and build fairer 
and more inclusive societies. We still have a lot to do. 
Nonetheless, we can say that Chile has moved closer to 
becoming  the  country  that  we  so  deeply  desire, 
enjoying  greater  prosperity  and  greater  social  justice. 
We are eradicating poverty. In 17 years of democracy, 
regarding  mitigation, 
in  defining 
developed 
countries  will  make 
07-51578 

33 
A/62/PV.4 

we have reduced poverty from 40 to 13.7 per cent. We 
have  achieved  practically  all  of 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  It  is  an  ambitious  objective,  but 
one  that  is  justified  by  our  achievements.  We  are 
constructing a social welfare system that guarantees the 
social  rights  of  Chilean  men  and  women  from  the 
cradle  to  old  age.  We  are  protecting  our  children  — 
girls  and  boys,  our  young  people,  our  mothers  and 
fathers, grandfathers and grandmothers. 

We  know  that  we  are  not  alone  in  this  effort. 
Poverty,  hunger,  extreme  inequality  and  exclusion  are 
realities that exist all over the world. With regard to the 
fulfilment of the Millennium Goals, progress has been 
made  in  some  regions,  but  it  is  not  enough.  We, 
therefore,  join  in  the  commitment  to  the  forthcoming 
launch  of  the  Global  Business  Plan  for  Millennium 
Development  Goals  4  and  5  —  that  is,  to  greatly 
reduce  maternal  and  child  mortality.  We  do  not  need 
new  commitments;  we  simply  need  to  fulfil  the 
commitments already made. 

My  country  supports  the  idea  of  holding  an 
international  conference to focus concerted worldwide 
efforts on attaining the Millennium Goals, proposed by 
the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, so that the 
dream of also globalizing the prosperity that some have 
already  achieved  can  come  true  in  the  not  too  distant 
future. 

We  can  also  emphasize  innovative  development 
financing  mechanisms  for  development  in  order  to 
combat inequality and promote social cohesion. 
We are on the right track. As the Assembly knows 

well, the Presidents of Brazil, France, Chile, Spain and 
Germany,  among  others,  organized  an  Initiative  on 
Action  Against  Hunger  and  Poverty  and 
their 
UNITAID  Initiative,  through  which  we  have  managed 
to collect hundreds of millions of dollars to finance the 
purchase  of  drugs  to  treat  AIDS,  tuberculosis  and 
malaria;  these  medicines  have  been  given  to  hundreds 
of thousands of children, mainly in Africa. 

But  we  have  to  do  more.  Social  equity  and  the 
construction  of  a  world  with  a  human  face  should 
become a central topic on our global agenda. 

The three major causes that I have mentioned can 
be tackled only by common accord of the international 
community. Hence, the importance of our commitment 
to  effective  and  efficient  multilateralism,  with  the 
United  Nations  as  its  centre  of  gravity.  We  are  at  a 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
complex  juncture,  but  one  of  great  opportunity.  What 
we do or fail to do in the next few years will determine 
the  future  of  our  descendants.  It  all  depends  on  us. 
Now is the time to act. 
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Chile for the statement she has just made. 

Mrs.  Michelle  Bachelet  Jeria,  President  of  the 
Republic of Chile, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall. 



Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate 



  Address by Mr. José Socrates, Prime Minister 
of the Portuguese Republic  
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Portuguese 
Republic. 

  Mr. José Socrates, Prime Minister of the 
Portuguese Republic,, was escorted to the 
rostrum. 
The  President:
I  have  great  pleasure 

in 
welcoming  Mr.  José  Socrates,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Portuguese  Republic,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly on behalf of the European Union. 
Mr.  Socrates  (Portugal)  (spoke  in  Portuguese; 

English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  have  the 
honour to  address this General Assembly on behalf  of 
the European Union. 

I  would  like  to  start,  Mr.  President,  by  wishing 
you  all  the  best  in  the  mandate  you  are  beginning.  I 
would like you to know that you can count on the firm 
support  of  the  European  Union  (EU)  throughout  this 
General  Assembly,  certain  that  you  will  continue  the 
excellent  work  of  your  predecessor,  Ms.  Haya  Al-
Khalifa, whom I would also like to congratulate. 

Since  this  is  the  first  session  of  the  General 
Assembly to be convened since our Secretary-General, 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, assumed office, I also wish to take 
this  opportunity,  on  behalf  of  the  EU,  to  renew  our 
solid  support  to  him  in  his  leadership  of  the  United 
Nations. 

In  this  globalized  and  interdependent  world  in 
which we live, only strong multilateral institutions can 
promote  the  fundamental  values  of  peace,  democracy, 
34 

07-51578 
that 
the  primacy  of 
the  United  Nations 
they  can  rely  on  us 


human  rights  and  development.  This  is  why  the  EU 
supports 
in 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security  as  the 
foundation and focal point of our shared ambitions and 
concerted efforts. And that is why we adopted effective 
multilateralism and a rules-based international order as 
the objective of the European security strategy. 

Let  me  make  this  clear:  if  the  new  century  has 
taught  us  only  one  lesson,  it  is  that  global  challenges 
require  global  responses.  What  is  needed  is  effective 
multilateralism. That is what we are engaged in here at 
the United Nations, and that is what we are seeking to 
promote  in  the  United  Nations.  The  message  that  I 
wish to leave with members today, on behalf of the EU, 
is 
to  make  effective 
multilateralism a reality, today. 

I propose to begin with what is undoubtedly one 
of the greatest objectives that we in the United Nations 
have  so  far  set  for  ourselves,  which  is  to  meet  the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  Those 
goals  are  demanding,  but  they  should  not  discourage 
us; on the contrary, they should inspire us to accelerate 
our  work  and  enhance  its  effectiveness  in  eradicating 
poverty,  building  a  true  partnership  for  development, 
promoting education for all and decent health standards 
and combating climate change. 

In that context, I must mention one of the stated 
objectives  of  the  European  Union:  the  adoption  of  a 
joint EU-Africa strategy to be endorsed by the second 
EU-Africa summit, to be held in Lisbon in December. I 
mention that objective because it is a clear sign of our 
times:  a  strategy,  defined  jointly  by  Africans  and 
Europeans, that reflects our commitment to the MDGs 
and is in keeping with the activities of both continents’ 
multilateral 
inclusive  and 
ambitious  strategy  that  reflects  the  progress  made  in 
Euro-African cooperation in a broad range of areas and 
sets  standards  to  be  met  through  shared  responses  to 
the  challenges  likewise  shared  by  the  continents  of 
Africa and Europe. 

the  great  global 
challenges  facing  humanity  today.  It  threatens  our 
prosperity  and  could  undermine  our  ability  to  achieve 
the MDGs. Here, too, our response must be global and 
collective.  
I was pleased to take part in the high-level event 

on climate change. Its results are encouraging and give 
Climate  change 
institutions. 
is  one  of 
It 
is  an 
A/62/PV.4
itself 
to  cutting 
Even  more 
rise to optimism. They clearly show a political will to 
move  forward.  Sustainable  development  and  emission 
reductions  must  go  hand  in  hand;  therefore,  they  are 
our  shared  responsibility.  This  initiative  will  add 
momentum  to  the  formulation  of  a  post-2012  global 
comprehensive  agreement  on  a  climate  regime.  I 
believe  that  we  should  agree  to  begin  negotiations  on 
such a regime at the Bali climate change conference, to 
be held in December. I wish to make it absolutely clear 
that  the  EU  will  make  every  effort  to  achieve  an 
ambitious  and  solid  international  consensus  at  the 
conference. 

important,  however,  we  need 
everyone’s  support.  The  EU  has  already  unilaterally 
committed 
its  greenhouse  gas 
emissions  by  at  least  20  per  cent.  But  we  want  to  go 
further, and we are prepared to do so. That is why we 
announced that, as part of a future global agreement on 
climate  rules,  we  would  increase  that  commitment  to 
30 per cent. Here, I would like to reiterate our call for 
global emissions to be reduced by at least 50 per cent 
of  their  1990  levels  by  2050.  I  believe  that  by 
undertaking  those  commitments,  the  EU  is  sending  a 
clear signal that it wishes to lead these global efforts. 
I also wish to say something about reform of the 

institutional 
for  United  Nations 
environmental  efforts.  The  EU  firmly  believes  that 
ambitious  reform  is  required  if  we  are  to  achieve  real 
change.  In  that  context,  the  EU  is  in  favour  of 
transforming 
the  United  Nations  Environment 
Programme  into  a  specialized  agency  —  a  United 
Nations  Environment  Organization  —  because  we 
believe  it  is  essential  to  take  heed  of  international 
public opinion.  

involves 
Sustainable 
respecting,  protecting  and  fulfilling  human  rights 
throughout  the  world.  We  believe  that  that  is  crucial 
and  that  it  must  remain  at  the  centre  of  all  United 
Nations  sectoral  activities.  The  General  Assembly’s 
Third Committee should continue to play a central role 
in  promoting  and  protecting  human  rights  throughout 
the  world.  At  the  present  session,  the  EU  will  do  its 
utmost, as it has in the past, to ensure the Committee’s 
success.  

Here,  I should like to say  to the members of the 
General Assembly that the EU is following closely the 
situation  in  Myanmar.  We  express  our  solidarity  with 
the people of that country and call on its authorities to 
development 
framework 
also 
07-51578 

35 
also 
I  wish 
requires 
the  EU’s 
to  reaffirm 
Effective  multilateralism 
A/62/PV.4 

respect human rights. In particular, we call on them to 
refrain from using any form of violence against people 
who  are  engaged  in  peaceful  protest.  The  authorities 
must  endeavour  to  promote  a  genuine  process  of 
political reconciliation, because that is what democracy 
and respect for human rights require.  

long-standing 
opposition  to  the  death  penalty  and  to  reiterate  once 
again  our  appeal  for  its  total  abolition  throughout  the 
world.  In  that  regard,  the  EU  will,  together  with 
countries  from  every  region  of  the  world,  formulate  a 
draft  resolution  on  a  universal  moratorium  on,  and 
abolition of, the death penalty. 

a 
concerted  response  to  the  ever-widening  range  of 
threats to international peace and security.  

We  welcome  the  establishment  of  the  African 
Union-United  Nations  Hybrid  Operation  in  Darfur  so 
that we can jointly contribute to the political resolution 
of  that  conflict,  which  has  had  tragic  humanitarian 
consequences  in  the  Sudan  and  the  entire  region.  In 
order  to  address  those  consequences,  the  European 
Union  reaffirms  its  support  for  the  deployment  of  a 
multidimensional  presence  in  eastern  Chad  and  the 
northern  Central  African  Republic  and  welcomes  the 
opening  of  political  talks  on  Darfur,  which  will  take 
place in Libya on 27 October. 

But  peace  and  security  are  also  a  challenge  in 
Europe. We share the opinion of the Secretary-General 
that  the  status  quo  in  Kosovo  is  not  sustainable.  For 
that 
the  European  Union  supports  and 
participates  actively  in  the  ongoing  efforts  of  the 
international  community,  namely  those  of  the  Troika, 
to  bring  the  parties  closer  together  and  obtain  a 
comprehensive  political  solution  that  will  lead  to  a 
democratic 
and  will 
contribute 
the  consolidation  of  stability  and 
prosperity in that part of Europe: the Balkans. We urge 
both parties to engage constructively and creatively in 
that process. The European Union stands ready to play 
a  significant  role  in  the  implementation  of  a  future 
status settlement at the end of the negotiations. 
The reactivation of the Middle East peace process 

remains a priority for the international community. We 
have  to  act  quickly,  because  the  door  is  open  at  the 
moment,  but  it  will  not  stay  open  for  long.  The 
European Union, as a member of the Quartet, reiterates 
its commitment to reaching a just, comprehensive  and 
and  multi-ethnic  Kosovo 
to 
reason, 
to 
In 
fully 
terrorism,  but 
respecting  human 
the  same  manner, 
that  must  be  done 
ensuring  Lebanon’s 
lasting  solution  to  the  Israeli-Arab  conflict.  That  can 
happen  only  through  the  creation  of  an  independent, 
democratic  and  viable  Palestinian  State  living  side  by 
side with Israel in peace and security. 

The stabilization of Lebanon will also contribute 
to  the  stabilization  of  the  Middle  East.  Resolving  the 
present  political  crisis  requires  a  special  commitment 
and dialogue by Lebanon’s leaders and the countries of 
the  region.  For  its  part,  the  European  Union  is 
committed 
sovereignty, 
independence, unity and territorial integrity. 

the  European  Union 
continues  to  support  the  promotion  of  peace,  stability 
and prosperity in Afghanistan and the wider region.  
All  terrorist  acts  are  criminal  and  unjustifiable, 

regardless  of  their  motivation,  their  form  or  their 
manifestation. We must therefore make resolute efforts 
to  counter 
in 
accordance  with  our  obligations  under  international 
law,  while 
rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms,  the  protection  of  which  are 
essential in tackling the threat of terrorism. 

I  wish  to  say  a  word,  from  the  standpoint  of 
Europe,  about  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations.  It  is  an 
important and timely initiative that seeks to strengthen 
dialogue  among  peoples,  cultures  and  religions.  The 
European  Union  supports  the  appointment  of  former 
Portuguese  President  Jorge  Sampaio  to  the  post  of 
High  Representative  for  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations 
and welcomes his action plan. I would also like to take 
this opportunity to acknowledge the commitment of the 
Group  of  Friends  of  the Alliance  of  Civilizations,  for 
which we ask for everyone’s support. 

For  centuries,  international  trade  has  been  the 
main means of bringing different cultures and peoples 
together.  That  is  why  we  also  call  for  the  earliest 
possible  agreement  in  the  World  Trade  Organization’s 
Doha  Development  Round.  This  month  will  be 
absolutely  crucial  for  the  Doha  Development Agenda. 
Therefore,  it  is  vital  for  all  key  members  to  show  a 
spirit  of  compromise  and  constructiveness  and  the 
genuine  will  to  commit  to  a  fair  and  balanced 
agreement that can bring greater wealth for all. 

Peace must be consolidated; failing this, it can be 
no  more  than  the  interval  between  wars.  One  of  the 
newest  Members  of  the  United  Nations  is  an  example 
of that. I am referring to Timor-Leste, which, thanks to 
36 

07-51578 
the 
to  consolidate 
the  foundations  of 


international 
the  efforts  and  commitment  of 
community 
its 
statehood, its democracy and its development, recently 
successfully  held  its  first  independently  organized 
elections.  But,  notwithstanding  that  success  —  which 
is enormous — the presence of all players continues to 
be required, to ensure the country’s political, economic 
and social stability. 

We  believe  and  wish  to  make  it  clear,  here, 
beyond all doubt that the only possible response to the 
challenges of our times lies in effective multilateralism 
based on the United Nations system. For that reason we 
remain  committed  to  the  reform  of  its  main  bodies  in 
order  to  enhance  the  Organization’s  representivity, 
transparency and effectiveness. 

Political  will  is  needed  in  order  to  adapt  our 
international  system  to  the  challenges  we  face  today. 
The  General Assembly  and  the  Secretary-General  can  

A/62/PV.4
rely  on  the  European  Union  to  help  turn  that  political 
will  into  action. The  response  to  those  challenges  lies 
in active and effective multilateralism. For all of us, it 
lies  in  the  United  Nations  and  in  support  for  the 
Organization.  That  is  the  final  message  I  wish  to 
convey  to  the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the 
European Union. 
the  General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Portuguese  Republic  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

The  President: On  behalf  of 
Mr.  José  Socrates,  Prime  Minister  of 
the 
Portuguese  Republic,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m. 

07-51578 

37 
