United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

17th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 4 October 2007, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

A/62/PV.17
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia)
encounters 
telecommunication  and  economic 

During  the  general  debate,  heads  of  State  and 
Government from all regions placed great emphasis on 
the value of tolerance and  mutual understanding. That 
demonstrates  the  commitment  of  the  international 
community  to  promote  those  values.  I  would  like  in 
particular  to  acknowledge  the  delegations  of  Pakistan 
and  the  Philippines  for  spearheading  this  initiative, 
which  complements  and  builds  upon  other  initiatives 
undertaken  by  the  United  Nations,  including  the 
Alliance of Civilizations. 
We  live  in  unprecedented  times.  Cultures  and 

religions are being pulled ever closer together by a web 
of 
links.  While 
contributing  to  the  richness  of  our  human  experience, 
those 
deep-rooted 
misunderstandings.  However, 
of 
globalization  we  have  the  unrivalled  opportunity  and 
responsibility to replace intolerance and discrimination 
with understanding and mutual acceptance. 

Open and sustained dialogue, respect for freedom 
of  expression  and  freedom  of  religion  or  belief  is 
fundamental to that endeavour. The United Nations has 
a  crucial  role  in  promoting  such  a  dialogue  and 
advancing  the  fundamental  freedom  that  we  must  all 
respect  others’  religions  and  beliefs.  In  doing  so,  we 
should  also  recognize  that  a  crime  committed  in  the 
name of religion is the greatest crime against religion, 
and  that  religion  should  not  be  used  as  a  pretext  for 
war. 

In that regard, several recommendations emerged 
from  the  General  Assembly’s  thematic  debate  on  the 
reveal 
also 
this 
era 
in 





The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 



High-level Dialogue on Interreligious and 
Intercultural Understanding and Cooperation 
for Peace 
Agenda item 49 
Culture of peace 

  Reports of the Secretary-General (A/62/97 and 
A/62/337)

The  President: The  General Assembly  will  now 
begin  the  High-level  Dialogue  on  Interreligious  and 
Intercultural Understanding and Cooperation for Peace, 
under agenda item 49, entitled “Culture of peace”, and 
in accordance with resolution 61/269, of 25 May 2007.  

As  members  are  aware,  the  High-level  Dialogue 
will  discuss  the  overall  theme  of  interreligious  and 
intercultural  cooperation 
the  promotion  of 
tolerance,  understanding  and  universal  respect  on 
matters  of  freedom  of  religion  or  belief  and  cultural 
diversity. 

I  welcome  all  participants  to  the  first  High-level 
Dialogue  of  the  General  Assembly  on  Interreligious 
and  Intercultural  Understanding  and  Cooperation  for 
Peace. By convening this event, the General Assembly 
has  taken  an  important  stand.  We  are  reaffirming  the 
values  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  But, 
more  important,  we  are  taking  concrete  steps  to 
promote those values around the world. 
for 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-52846 (E) 
*0752846* 

this 
held 
earlier 
tools  available 
A/62/PV.17 

subject  of  civilizations  and  the  challenge  for  peace, 
which  was 
year.  Those 
recommendations stated: that we must acknowledge the 
legitimate rights of others to assert their identity, if we 
want  to  have  meaningful  dialogue;  that  religious 
leaders have a duty, drawing on the principles of their 
own  faiths,  to  promote  mutual  understanding  and 
tolerance  in  their  communities;  and  that  there  are 
already  many  helpful 
to  promote 
positive encounters among people of different cultures. 
To  that  end,  we  should  all  become  instruments  of 
peace.  We  must  begin  a  global  dialogue  using  public 
campaigns  and  all  forms  of  media  to  spread  greater 
awareness of the issues.  

Governments  can  play  an  additional  role  by 
adopting  educational  curricula  that  instil  values  of 
peace  and  tolerance.  Children  are  not  born  with 
prejudice; it is learned. It is our common challenge to 
eliminate,  together,  all  distorted  notions  that  deepen 
barriers and widen divides, for they all originate in the 
discriminatory practices of the mind.  

We  can  achieve  this  through  a  multifaceted 
dialogue  that  promotes  unity  in  diversity  and  replaces 
misunderstanding  with  mutual  understanding  and 
acceptance.  The  success  of  this  global  dialogue  also 
rests  on  the  active  involvement  of  the  media,  the 
private 
faith  groups  and 
non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Their insight 
and outreach will be instrumental in helping to achieve 
our  goal.  That  is  why  I  am  delighted  that  later  this 
afternoon 
the  General  Assembly  will  hold  an 
interactive  hearing  with  those  important  stakeholders. 
All Member States are invited to participate.  

Next year we celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of 
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  Many 
people  still  feel  that  their  rights  are  not  respected.  In 
some  regions,  many  people  feel  that  their  dignity  has 
been violated and that internationally agreed principles 
and values are not equally applied to all. These issues 
cut to the core of the perceived lack of justice and the 
political instability in the world today.  

To make peace some people believe that you need 
to  forget.  From  my  own  experience,  I  would  suggest 
that  reconciliation  is  a  fair  compromise  between 
remembering  and  forgetting.  The  only  means 
to 
achieve  this  is  through  intensive  dialogue  at  both  the 
political  and  the  cultural  and  social  levels.  Promoting 
human  dignity  and  equal  access 
to  rights  and 
sector,  civil 
society, 
the  cornerstone  of 
I now give the floor to the Secretary-General, His 
opportunities  constitutes 
this 
conversation.  Here,  I  would  like  to  quote  the  great 
Dante Alighieri:  

“The  greatest  gift  that  God  in  his  bounty 

created,  and 
the  most  consonant  with  his 
goodness, and that which he prizes the most, was 
free will, with which all intelligent creatures, and 
they alone, were and are endowed.”  

In  going  forward  then,  let  us  each  respect  the 
uniqueness of each other’s perspective so that together 
we can honour the rich diversity of humanity. 

Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon.  
The  Secretary-General:  I  am  honoured  to  be 

here  for  this  Dialogue.  In  the  nine  months  that  I  have 
been  in  office,  I  have  travelled  to  all  corners  of  the 
united nations, from Kinshasa to Kabul, from Brussels 
to Beirut. Everywhere I have visited, and among all the 
different  people  I  have  met,  I  have  encountered  one 
common  sentiment:  a  universal  longing  for  peace  and 
an aspiration to prosperity. 
But  all  too  often  I  have  discovered  that  people 

who aspire to the same things also suffer from the same 
prejudices.  They  all  fear  that  which  is  different  from 
them:  the  other  ethnicity,  the  other  skin  colour,  the 
other cultural or linguistic tradition and, above all, the 
other religion. 

And  yet,  in  today’s  era  of  global  travel  and 
instant  satellite  transmissions,  people  everywhere  are 
encountering less of the familiar and more of the other. 
This 
and 
interreligious  tensions,  as  well  as  growing  alienation 
among vast segments of the world population. 

Today,  there  is  an  urgent  need  to  address  this 
worrying trend. We need to rebuild bridges and engage 
in  a  sustained  and  constructive  intercultural  dialogue, 
one that stresses shared values and shared aspirations. 
It is time to promote the idea that diversity is a virtue, 
not  a  threat;  it  is  time  to  explain  that  different 
religions,  belief  systems  and  cultural  backgrounds  are 
essential to the richness of the human experience; and 
it  is  time  to  stress  that  our  common  humanity  is 
greater — far greater — than our outward differences. 

In short, it is time — indeed, it is past time — for 
a  constructive  and  committed  dialogue:  a  dialogue 
among  individuals,  among  communities  and  between 
reality  has 
intercultural 
rising 
fed 
2 

07-52846 
the 


nations.  The  General Assembly  is  a  unique  forum  for 
such  an  exchange.  Indeed,  by  bringing 
together 
representatives  of  all  countries  under  one  roof,  the 
Assembly provides a universal platform to reach out to 
different nations and cultures.  

Today’s  gathering  also  comes  at  a  particularly 
auspicious  time,  as  Jews  mark  the  celebration  of  the 
Torah and Muslims approach the end of the holy month 
of  Ramadan.  Such  occasions  remind  us  that  men  and 
women  of  faith  around  the  world  can  be  brought 
together, rather than separated, by their convictions and 
their belief in something greater than themselves. 

Last week, there was also a ministerial meeting of 
the  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  the  United  Nations 
initiative  to  help  build  bridges  and  promote  dialogue 
between  cultures  and  religions.  I  was  delighted  to  see 
how  membership  of  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  had 
nearly doubled since the inaugural meeting a year ago. 
That reflects the valuable work being performed by the 
Alliance  under 
leadership  of  His  Excellency  
Mr.  Jorge  Sampaio.  But  it  also  represents  a  growing 
resolve among nations to work together to heal divides 
in our world.  

I draw strength from that resolve at a time when 
so  many  of  the  challenges  we  face  are  aggravated  by 
distrust  and  hostility.  I  also  draw  strength  from 
gatherings  such  as  this  one.  Looking  around  this  Hall 
today, I feel that we are all united: we are united in our 
choice  of  dialogue  before  confrontation;  united  in  our 
pursuit of engagement before alienation; united in our 
embrace of harmony and understanding. 

In  that  spirit,  I  wish  all  participants  a  most 
productive meeting and look forward to the outcome of 
their discussions. 

his statement.  

Before  proceeding  further  I  would  now  like  to 
draw  attention  to  a  number  of  organizational  matters 
pertaining to the conduct of the meeting.  

We turn first to the length of statements. In order 
to  accommodate  all  the  speakers  on  the  list,  I  urge 
speakers  to  adhere  to  the  seven-minute  time  limit  for 
their  statements,  on  the  understanding  that  that  does 
not preclude the distribution of more extensive written 
texts. I earnestly appeal to speakers to cooperate in this 
respect,  so  that  all  speakers  can  speak  today  and 
tomorrow. 
The President: I thank the Secretary-General for 
A/62/PV.17
on 
Interreligious 
and 
the 
floor 
I  now  give 

In order to assist speakers in managing their time, 
a light system has been installed at the rostrum, which 
functions as follows: a green light will be activated at 
the start of a speaker’s statement; an orange light will 
be  activated  30  seconds  before  the  end  of  the  seven 
minutes;  and  a  red  light  will  be  activated  when  the 
seven-minute limit has elapsed. 

Before  giving  the  floor  to  the  first  speaker,  I 
would  like  to  note  that  I  have  been  informed  by  the 
delegation of Israel that, due to the Jewish holidays of 
Shmini  Atzeret/Simhat  Torah  and  the  last  days  of 
Sukkot, which are being celebrated on 4 and 5 October, 
Israel  regrets  its  inability  to  participate  in  the  High-
Level  Dialogue  and  looks  forward  to  joining  future 
interreligious and intercultural events.  

to  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Manuel  de  Castro, Vice-President  of  the  Republic 
of the Philippines. 
Mr. De Castro (Philippines): It is a great honour 

for  me  to  represent  my  country  at  the  High-Level 
Dialogue 
Intercultural 
Understanding  and  Cooperation  for  Peace.  As  this  is 
the  first  time  that  I  address  the  General  Assembly, 
allow me, Mr. President, to convey to you my warmest 
congratulations on your well-deserved  election. May  I 
also  convey  my  congratulations  to  the  Secretary-
General  in  his  maiden  year  at  the  helm  of  the  United 
Nations system. 

The  promotion  of  interreligious  and  intercultural 
dialogue and cooperation has become a cornerstone of 
Philippine policy for peace and development. It is not a 
new  concept  for  us,  given  that  our  history  has  been 
largely shaped by cultural and religious diversity. Thus, 
the  highest 
the  Philippine 
constitution — mandates the promotion and protection 
of the  rights  and welfare of all Filipinos, in particular 
those  of 
indigenous 
communities. 
As  early  as  the  1960s,  religious  and  grass-roots 

organizations  and  other  civil  society  groups  — 
particularly  in  Muslim  Mindanao,  in  the  southern 
Philippines — had already been engaged in the practice 
of  interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue  as  an 
effective  tool  for  peace.  The  national  Government 
therefore  saw  fit  to  enact  laws  and  adopt  measures  to 
strengthen and enhance the engagement of civil society 
in  promoting  economic  and  human  development  and 
the peace process. 
religious  minorities 
law  of  our 
land  — 
and 
07-52846 

3 

in 
the 
of 
human 
The 
is 
the 
tools  for 
promotion 
framework 
programmes 
2004-2010  medium-term 
A/62/PV.17 

Philippine 

for 
development  plan,  which 
governance  of 
the  present  Administration,  values 
interfaith  dialogue,  education  and  advocacy  as 
the  conduct  of  healing  and 
effective 
reconciliation 
conflict-affected 
communities. The 2006-2010 Philippine plan of action 
on  interfaith  dialogue  and  cooperation  strengthens 
society  partnership  and 
Government  and  civil 
capacities 
in  promoting 
interfaith  dialogue  and 
solidarity,  in  particular  in  the  areas  of  education  and 
training,  media  advocacy,  peace  processes,  poverty 
reduction, 
rights, 
environmental protection, the empowerment of women 
and anti-corruption efforts. 
In  June  of  this  year,  our  President  created  the 

National  Committee  on  Interfaith  Cooperation 
to 
strengthen  the  implementation  of  our  Government’s 
interfaith  policy.  Basic  madrasa  education  has  now 
been  institutionalized  in  all  public  elementary  schools 
that have Muslim students. Moreover, a number of our 
universities  are  developing  and  incorporating  peace 
studies  into  their  school  curricula.  Our  Congress  has 
also passed the Indigenous Peoples Rights Act of 1997, 
which is recognized to be among the world’s strongest 
State-promulgated  laws  that  respect  and  protect  the 
fundamental  freedoms  and  ways  of  life  of  indigenous 
peoples. Key development policies are thus in place in 
the Philippines to provide an environment conducive to 
the  development  of  a  vibrant  culture  of  peaceful 
interfaith communities, which has made it possible for 
civil  society  groups  to  participate  in  development 
efforts at the national, local and community levels. 

The  Philippine  experience  has  demonstrated  the 
significance  of  interfaith  and  intercultural  dialogue  in 
preventing  conflicts  and  healing  social  wounds  in 
conflict-stricken  communities  such  as  those  in  the 
southern  Philippines.  Interfaith  dialogue  has  been 
found  to  be  essential  in  translating  shared  values  of 
peace  and  respect  into  practical  action  at  the  grass-
roots level. It offers a way out of the vicious circle of 
mistrust  and  conflict  among  religious  and  ethnic 
groups, for two reasons. 
First,  it  provides  a  venue  for  building  trust  and 

respect  based  on  appreciation  and  acceptance  of  the 
common  values  and  differences  among  religions, 
cultures  and  ethnicities.  Secondly,  it  provides  an 
opportunity  to  establish  a  common  understanding  of 
the causes of armed conflicts affecting multi-ethnic and 
in 
are 
those 
involved 
Inspired  by  our  achievements 
multicultural  communities  such  as 
the 
southern  Philippines.  That  approach  complements  our 
Government’s efforts in resolving conflicts through its 
comprehensive  peace  process, 
in  which  religious 
leaders  and  workers  and  various  faith-based  and 
interfaith  organizations 
in  peace 
negotiations,  the  monitoring  of  ceasefire  agreements 
and  advocating  for  human  rights  and  international 
humanitarian law. 

Our very own Bishops-Ulama Conference, which 
is  recognized  as  the  first  of  its  kind  in  the  world, 
continues  to  be  a  partner  of  Government  in  pursuing 
the national peace agenda. That organization and many 
other  interfaith  groups  form  part  of  the  civil  society 
network  whose  strength  and  support  significantly 
define  the  outcome  of  the  peace  process.  Along  with 
the  business  community,  those  groups  are  converging 
in  building  a  dedicated  peace  constituency, 
in 
particular by carving out zones of peace that bar armed 
conflict within delineated territories. 

in  promoting 
interfaith  dialogue  and  cooperation  at  home,  in  2004 
the  Philippines  introduced  an  unprecedented  General 
Assembly  draft  resolution  on 
the  promotion  of 
interreligious  cooperation  for  peace.  Adopted  as 
resolution 59/23, it inspired the convening of the 2005 
Conference on Interfaith Cooperation for Peace, which 
led  to  the  holding  of  the  2005  summit,  which  was 
chaired  by  our  President  and  which  adopted  the 
Declaration on Interfaith Dialogue and Cooperation for 
Peace.  

As an offshoot of the Conference, in March 2006 
the  Philippines  launched  the  Tripartite  Forum  on 
Interfaith  Cooperation  for  Peace,  which  is  a  platform 
for  collaboration  supportive  of 
the  peace  and 
development  goals  of 
the  United  Nations.  The 
Tripartite  Forum  has  much  to  offer.  I  invite  all 
Governments that have not yet done so to join us in the 
Tripartite Forum. 

The Philippines has also been active in promoting 
interfaith  dialogue  at  the  regional  level  —  promoting 
interfaith  dialogue  at  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  the 
Group  of  77,  the  Asia-Europe  Meeting,  the  Regional 
Forum  of  the Association  of  Southeast Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN)  and  the Asia-Pacific  Forum  —  all  of  which 
have  espoused  that  concept.  Last  year,  the  Philippines 
hosted  the  Cebu  Dialogue  on  Regional  Interfaith 
4 

07-52846 


Cooperation  for  Peace,  Development  and  Human 
Dignity.  

This  year,  the  Philippines  co-sponsored  the  third 
Asia-Pacific  Regional  Interfaith  Dialogue,  which  was 
held in New Zealand, where over 150 participants from 
Asian  and  Pacific  nations  resolved  to  build  bridges 
among  faith  communities  and  Governments  to  learn 
from  each  other’s  experiences  and  promote  peace  and 
security in the Asia-Pacific region. 

Last June, the Philippines co-sponsored the third 
Asia-Europe  Meeting  Interfaith  Dialogue,  which  was 
held 
in  Nanjing,  China,  where  160  participating 
countries  vowed  to  deepen  both  government  and  civil 
society  participation  in  the  promotion  and  observance 
of  interfaith  dialogue  for  peace  and  development. The 
fourteenth  summit  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  in 
Havana in 2006 endorsed the offer of the Philippines to 
host a NAM special meeting on interfaith dialogue and 
cooperation for peace in the Philippines in 2009, which 
will  include  the  participation  of  non-governmental 
organizations and the religious sector. 

Indeed,  the  present  global,  regional  and  national 
peace  and  security  situation  highlights  the  need  for 
in 
deliberate, 
interfaith 
through 
strengthened  partnership  between  governments,  the 
United Nations system and civil society. In that regard, 
my  delegation  proposes  the  following  ways  forward. 
First,  United  Nations  Member  States  would 
institutionalize  interfaith  and  interreligious  initiatives 
through 
implementing 
mechanisms;  in  that  regard,  the  Philippines  puts 
forward  as  a  model  the  Philippine  national  committee 
on  interfaith  cooperation.  Secondly,  Member  States 
would uphold freedom of religion and strengthen their 
respective  mechanisms 
the  promotion  and 
protection  of  human  rights.  Thirdly,  Member  States 
would  adopt  a  common  plan  of  action  and  declare  an 
international  year  of  dialogue  among  religions  and 
cultures. Fourthly, Member States would adopt policies 
and  programmes  to  promote  and  protect  the  rights  of 
indigenous  peoples  and  would  implement  the  United 
Nations  Declaration  on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous 
Peoples.  Fifthly,  Member  States  would  encourage 
interfaith centres in schools of higher learning. Sixthly, 
the  United  Nations  would  strengthen 
the  newly 
established  focal  unit  on  interreligious,  intercultural 
and  intercivilizational  matters  to  ensure  that  global, 
towards  promoting 
regional  and  national  efforts 
strategic  and  coordinated  efforts 
dialogue 
cooperation 
appropriate 
policy 
and 
and 
for 
A/62/PV.17
to 
the  urgent 
interfaith  and  intercultural  dialogue  and  cooperation 
for  peace  are  monitored,  reported,  sustained  and 
supported. 

The  Philippines  has  played  and  will  continue  to 
play  an  active  role  in  the  promotion  of  interfaith  and 
intercultural  dialogue  and  cooperation  for  peace, 
development  and  the  protection  of  human  dignity. We 
are  committed 
task  of  deepening 
cooperation  and  understanding  between  cultures, 
religions  and  civilizations to  eliminate  racial  tensions, 
myths  and  prejudices  that  exacerbate  conflicts  and  to 
effectively deal with global problems and issues. 

I would like to close with an appeal to everyone 
present  here  today.  Let  us  commit  ourselves  to  work 
for  United  Nations  system-wide  interreligious  and 
intercultural  dialogue and  cooperation as an important 
means  to  pursue,  build  and  sustain  a  culture  of  peace 
and let us remain aware of the positive contributions of 
faith  communities  in  the  discharge  of  the  respective 
mandates of the United Nations. 
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 

Mr.  Munir  Akram,  chairman  of  the  delegation  of 
Pakistan. 
Mr.  Akram  (Pakistan):  This  is  a  moment  of 

immense pleasure for me to be able to participate in the 
High-level Dialogue on Interreligious and Intercultural 
Understanding and Cooperation for Peace. The event is 
being  organized  as  a  follow-up  to  General  Assembly 
resolution  61/221,  which  was  jointly  sponsored  by 
Pakistan  and  the  Philippines.  It  is  also  the  first  high-
level  dialogue  on  the  important  issue  of  interfaith 
cooperation  that  has  emerged  as  one  of  the  greatest 
issues which faces the international community. 

The  history  of  the  last  two  millenniums  proves 
that  all 
the 
world  —  Judaism,  Christianity  and  Islam  —  share  a 
common  heritage  and  converge  on  a  multiplicity  of 
universal  values.  The  basic  tenets  of  all  religions  and 
cultures 
similar:  prescribing 
indivisible  peace,  dignity,  honesty,  equality,  harmony, 
tolerance,  cooperation,  commitment,  patience  and 
fortitude.  Throughout  history,  confrontation  between 
faiths  and  civilizations,  when  it  has  occurred,  was 
motivated by competing political or economic interests 
rather  than  incompatibility  between  the  fundamental 
precepts of any religion. 
the  major  monotheistic  religions  of 
fundamentally 
are 
07-52846 

5 
Today 
also, 
the 

manifestations 
The  post-9/11  world  has  accentuated 
A/62/PV.17 


of 
misunderstanding  and  friction  between  cultures  and 
civilizations are not the result of religious differences. 
They  arise  from  divergent  political  perspectives  on 
certain  important  issues  such  as  the  crises  in  the 
Middle East. 

that 
polarization  amongst  communities  belonging 
to 
different faiths and  religions. There are  perceptions in 
the West about Islam, which is portrayed by some as a 
faith  propagating  terrorism  and  extremism  and  bent 
upon  striking  at  the  values  of  the Western  world. The 
image of Islam is further distorted by the role of some 
religious and political extremists on both sides.  

In the Muslim world, there is a general belief that 
the  West  is  deliberately  suppressing  or  allowing  the 
suppression  of  Muslim  peoples  in  Palestine,  Iraq, 
Kashmir  and  elsewhere.  And  it  is  felt  at  the  popular 
level  that  freedom  of  expression  is  exploited  as  a 
weapon  for  the  propagation  and  projection  of  insults 
and  hate  against  Islam  and  its  sacred  symbols  and 
personalities. 
Islam is not a threat to Western civilization. It is a 

religion  of  peace  and  submission.  There  have  been 
numerous instances throughout history where Muslims, 
Christians  and  Jews  have  lived  together  peacefully  as 
citizens  in  one  State.  Today  Muslims  should  also  be 
able  to  live  in  fraternity  and  freedom  in  Western 
countries. As the British historian Karen Armstrong has 
stated, if we are to avoid catastrophe, the Muslim and 
Western worlds must learn not merely to tolerate but to 
appreciate one another. 

the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations launched under the auspices of the United 
Nations, can provide the organizational framework for 
the adoption of a comprehensive strategy for action at 
the 
to  promote 
understanding  and  cooperation  between  religions  and 
cultures. Such a strategy should be inclusive involving 
Governments,  civil  society,  religious 
the 
private sector, media and international organizations. 

level,  each  country  should 
promote conscious action to counter extremism within 
its  society.  We  must  prohibit  extremist  organizations 
and  hate  literature,  prevent  the  misuse  of  places  of 
worship for the promotion of extremist views, prohibit 
the  defamation  and  denigration  of  religions  and 
religious personalities under the pretext of freedom of 
international  and  national 
At 
the  national 
It 
is  Pakistan’s  hope 
that 
leaders, 
levels 
for 
expression,  adopt  appropriate  reforms  in  educational 
curricula  to  promote  the  correct  interpretation  of 
various faiths and cultures, initiate dialogue among our 
own  people  to  build  further  understanding  of  the  true 
spirit and values of their own faith as well as the major 
religions  and  adopt  conscious  policies 
the 
protection of religious minorities. 

At  the  international  level,  a  series  of  actions  are 
required,  such  as  sincere  efforts  to  resolve  major 
international  disputes,  especially  where  these  involve 
friction  between  different  religions  and  faiths;  the 
promotion  of  equitable  socio-economic  development 
and an end to the exploitation of the natural resources 
the  promotion  of 
of  developing  countries;  and 
universal  and  multicultural  education, 
inculcating 
greater  understanding  of  other  religions  and  cultures. 
To  this  end,  one  specific  step  we  could  take  is  the 
establishment  of  a  common  school  for  the  training  of 
officials  and  diplomats  from  nations  representing 
different  faiths.  Additionally,  we  could  encourage 
greater  intercivilizational  and  interreligious  exchanges 
and  communication  among  Member  States,  including 
through the proper use of the Internet and other modern 
information  technologies.  Finally,  in  certain  societies 
where migration has created a sudden mixture of faiths 
and cultures,  we could launch conscious processes for 
gradual  and  peaceful  integration,  coexistence  and 
cooperation.  A  start  could  be  made  in  this  direction 
with adoption of confidence-building measures that can 
overcome  the  hate  and  negative  stereotypes  that  have 
sometimes been allowed to arise. 
It  is  not  surprising  that  there  are  differences 

within  and  between  societies,  cultures,  civilizations 
and  religions.  These  differences  and  diversity  should 
not  be  the  cause  of  confrontation.  On  the  contrary,  as 
the Holy Quran says, “this ethnic diversity is only for 
the sake of identity”.  

Each  one  of  us  is  a  member  of  the  same  human 
family, with the same hopes and aspirations for a happy 
and  positive  life.  Each  human  being  must  have  the 
right  and  the  opportunity  to  realize  these  hopes  and 
aspirations  in  accordance  with  his  or  her  own  values 
and  beliefs,  without  coercion  or  intervention.  For,  as 
the Holy Quran also says, and we in Islam believe, “a 
man’s 
is  only  between  himself  and  God 
faith 
Almighty”. 
6 

07-52846 


The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Fiorenzo Stolfi, Head of Government and Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of San Marino. 
Mr.  Fiorenzo  Stolfi  (San  Marino)  (spoke  in 

Italian;  English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  Let 
me  start  by  expressing  my  most  sincere  appreciation 
for  this  high-level  meeting,  which,  together  with  the 
initiatives of numerous United Nations agencies on the 
topic  of  cultural  diversity  and  projects,  such  as  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations,  highlight  the  urgent  need  to 
promote,  within  our  societies,  the  strengthening  of 
dialogue  among  cultures  and  religions  and  therefore, 
the  need  for  a  commitment  on  the  part  of  competent 
institutions and civil society to that dialogue. 

This commitment to the strengthening of dialogue 
is,  indeed,  the  sine  qua  non  required  for  overcoming 
division  and  mistrust  and  for  building  confidence  and 
strengthening  cooperation  within  States  and  among 
peoples,  which  will,  in  turn,  lead  to  the  achieving  of 
the United Nations Millennium Development Goals.  
The  Republic  of  San  Marino,  which  maintained 

the  promotion  of 
interreligious 
dialogue as the main priority of the programme during 
its  six-month  chairmanship  of  the  Committee  of 
Ministers  of  the  Council  of  Europe,  ending  last  May, 
organized  a  conference  on  the  religious  dimension  of 
intercultural  dialogue,  with 
the  representation  of 
diplomatic  and  religious  representatives,  researchers, 
and representatives of associations and the media from 
all over Europe. On this occasion, the representative of 
the  United  Nations  Secretary-General  underlined  the 
current  and  urgent  need  to  rebuild  bridges  and  to  be 
involved  in  a  constant  and  constructive  intercultural 
dialogue  that  promotes  common  values  and  shared 
aspirations.  

Indeed,  the  role  that  people  of  faith  can  play 
seems  to  be  fundamental  in  that  they  represent  the 
underlying  belief  and  ideal  which  belong  to  all  great 
religious traditions: compassion, solidarity, respect for 
life and love for others, while calling on their believers 
to  treat  others  as  they  themselves  would  like  to  be 
treated. 
Additionally,  on  this  occasion,  the  White  Paper 

on  Intercultural  Dialogue  was  also  presented.  This 
document  will  be  published  by  the  Council  of  Europe 
in  2008  —  the  very  year  the  European  Union  has 
dedicated  to  intercultural  dialogue.  Furthermore,  the 
Council  of  Europe  entrusted  San  Marino  with  the 
intercultural  and 
A/62/PV.17
values 
the 
common 
representing 
coordination  of  the  first  annual  meeting  dedicated  to 
the  religious  dimension  of  intercultural  dialogue  to  be 
held, on an experimental basis, in spring 2008 and with 
the  participation  of  the  representatives  of  the  47 
member  States,  as  well  as  representatives  of  religions 
and civil societies.  

On  the  basis  of  this  experience,  my  country 
deems it clearly useful for international organizations, 
in  addition  to  States,  to  multiply  these  occasions  of 
meeting  and  dialogue,  which,  first  of  all,  strengthen 
their  mutual  cooperation  to  face  the  challenges  and 
new  opportunities  of  cultural  and  religious  diversity, 
and,  secondly,  provide  them  with  new  ideas,  while 
lending momentum to the activities to be carried out by 
each of them. 

However,  dialogue  cannot  be  separated  from 
respect.  Cultures  and  religions,  both  in  terms  of  their 
expressions  and  mutual  relationships,  must  respect 
those 
very 
foundations  of  coexistence  within  the  international 
community  and  cooperation  among  peoples.  That  is, 
respect  for  human  rights  —  which  are  universal, 
unalienable and indivisible — democratic rule, the rule 
of law and the principle of justice. 

Therefore, I share the  assessments,  concerns and 
aspirations  of  the  representatives  of  the  countries  and 
Governments present here today. I note the complexity 
of 
increasingly  characterizes  our 
national realities, involved as we all are in the process 
of globalization, and leads to claims and problems that 
often  call  for  novel  and  urgent  answers.  We  believe 
dialogue  can  decisively  help  us  overcome  fears,  the 
rejection  of  others  and  the  emergence  of  cultural  or 
religious  discrimination,  radicalism  and  violence.  It 
can help us respect the integrity of the individual and, 
therefore,  their  practice  of  a  faith  or  set  of  cultural 
values;  a  practice  which,  of  course,  must  be  a 
conscious and free choice.  

Indeed,  through  dialogue,  we  can  effectively 
strengthen our civil and social contracts by promoting 
the  message  of  peace  and  dignity  shared  by  various 
religious  identities  while  rejecting,  at  the  same  time, 
distorted uses of religion.  

the  participation  and 
periodic  campaigns  of  specific  issues  promoted  by 
international  organizations,  as  well  as  the  attention 
paid  to  particular  themes,  such  as  those  promoted  by 
the  United  Nations,  can  serve  as  the  engine  for  an 
the  national 
the 
issues 
that 
At 
level, 
07-52846 

7 

cooperation 
international 
A/62/PV.17 

activity  that  originates  in  our  national  reality  and  can 
then  spread  in  a  incisive  manner,  involving  different 
groups, in particular youth, who remain the main target 
of our action. 

In conclusion, I would like to share a good wish 
with all participants of this meeting. A small cave has 
been carved into the stone of Mount Titano, where the 
small  and  millenary  Republic  of  San  Marino  is 
situated. This space is devoted to meditation and prayer 
and  open  to  all,  regardless  of  their  ideological  or 
religious beliefs. It provides a haven for meditation and 
peace,  which  have  for  centuries  been  the  fundamental 
values  of  my  country  and  the  priority  goal  of  its 
participation in international affairs.  

However, even this small, rocky cave reflects the 
light  of  the  immense,  universal  message  emanating 
from  this  Assembly,  from  which  I  take  inspiration  to 
wholeheartedly express the wish that, with the support 
of 
and  moments  of 
significance  such  as  this,  the  international  community 
can  overcome  the  barrier  of  hostility  in  hearts  and 
minds  and  allow  space  for  open-mindedness,  meeting 
and  dialogue  where 
the  constructive  purposes 
characterizing all our peoples can be pooled together to 
build a future of peace for all of humanity.  
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Vartan  Oskanian,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Armenia.  
Mr.  Oskanian  (Armenia):  An  ancient  people, 

serving as the perennial buffer between empires on the 
most  trampled  path  on  earth, Armenians  have  become 
living  witnesses  to  the  benefits  of  dialogue  between 
and  within  cultures.  We  have  been  engaged  in  that 
international exchange for a very long time. Today, we 
in  Armenia  are  among  the  greatest  promoters  of 
dialogue, especially in our immediate region. 

Our geography has compelled us to seek bridges 
with peoples and cultures different from our own. If we 
have  an  independent  State  today,  it  is  because  we 
succeeded  in  perpetuating  our  identity  even  as  we 
interacted and exchanged with societies around us.  

It  is  because  of  our  experience  that  we  feel 
compelled  to  continually  search  for  non-traditional 
ways  to  approach  the  overarching  issue  of  our  time: 
living at peace in a pluralist society. Not only have we 
lived  in  a  pluralist  society,  we  have,  because  of 
genocide  and  dispersion,  had  to  set  up  homes  and 
the  means  and 
shops  in  nearly  every  country  on  Earth.  This  began 
when  Armenian  genocide  survivors  were  welcomed 
and  happily  integrated  into  the  fabric  of  the  Arab 
Middle  East.  Religious  differences  did  not  preclude 
inclusion. Our diaspora, living as it did across borders, 
became  both 
the  beneficiary  of 
international exchange and dialogue. 

We  are  living  witnesses  then  to  the  fact  that 
religious and linguistic differences need not translate to 
enmity  and  exclusion.  It  is  intolerance,  from  its 
simplest form to its most complex, and the consequent 
rejection  of  individuals’  human  dignity,  that  causes 
ruptures  in  and  between  societies.  To  build  a  peace 
atop pain and destruction, it is clear that solutions can 
only  be  found  through  the  genuine  and  universal 
acceptance  and  application  of  basic  and  fundamental 
human rights, both individual and collective. 

Those rights include the right to determine one’s 
destiny,  to  live  free  of  security  and  oppression.  The 
struggle  of  our  brothers  and  sisters 
in  Nagorno 
Karabagh is exactly that: a struggle for the most basic 
human right — the right to live free. It is not a struggle 
against anyone’s religion or culture. The effort to seek 
support against their struggle by relying on ethnic and 
religious  solidarity  belies  the  universality  of  their 
claim,  that  people  everywhere,  whether  Armenians 
from  Nagorno  Karabagh  or  Palestinians  or  the  people 
of Darfur, all deserve to live in freedom and dignity. 

As  societies  which  have  experienced  pain  and 
suffering at the hands of oppressors, we must teach and 
rely on the moral, ethical, social and political benefits 
of  tolerance  and  cooperation.  We  must  not  feed  the 
fears  of  otherness  and  exclusion.  The  frustrations, 
resentments  and  hostilities  of  victims  of  xenophobia 
and racism should not be underestimated or dismissed. 
The  security  implications  of  pent-up  anger,  daily 
humiliation  and  hopelessness  cannot  be  exaggerated. 
We  must  all  be  concerned  by  them,  for  reasons  of 
principle as well as enlightened self-interest. 

Our objective is a country and a world where the 
rights  of  individuals  and  groups  are  respected,  where 
each  neighbourhood  and  community,  each  city  and 
country and each region and continent are safe havens 
for all who live or travel there. Religion is used to tear 
people apart, as are economic disparities, language and 
ideology.  But 
fascinating 
contradiction  is  that  faith  and  humanity  also  bind 
people together. 
frustrating 
and 
the 
8 

07-52846 
time 
scope 
enhanced 
the  same 


The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Iftekhar  Ahmed  Chowdhury,  The  Honourable 
Adviser for Foreign Affairs of Bangladesh. 
Mr.  Chowdhury  (Bangladesh):  Mr.  President, 

may  I  begin  by  applauding  your  stewardship  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  your  leadership  regarding  the 
topic  we  are  dealing  with  today.  I  also  applaud  the 
enthusiasm of the Secretary-General in this respect and 
his  stimulating  introductory  remarks.  I  congratulate 
Pakistan  and  the  Philippines  for  their  initiative,  to 
which Bangladesh accords unswerving support.  
The  present  age  of  globalization  poses  a  myriad 

of  challenges.  At 
it  opens  up 
opportunities  for  the  promotion  of  cultural  diversity. 
Interactions  among  States  and  other  actors  have 
substantially increased over the past decade. They have 
also 
cooperation, 
complementarities  and  fulfilment  of  mutual  interests. 
They  have  increased  the  potential  for  both  cohesion 
and  clash.  Sadly,  mistrust,  suspicion,  prejudice  and 
misperception  of  the  “other”  continue  to  persist. 
Various  new  manifestations  of  intolerance  towards 
vulnerable  groups,  ethnic  and  religious  minorities, 
immigrants,  refugees  and  migrant  workers  are  on  the 
rise. 

We have witnessed the proliferation of extremism 
and  racism.  Millions  have  been  rendered  victims  of 
religious  and  ethnic  profiling  or  cultural  intolerance. 
This  situation  has  further  been  exploited  by  certain 
groups  in  order  to  widen  the  gap  between  various 
religions and faiths. Religious and cultural intolerance 
and disrespect are based on a false notion of supremacy 
of  one  religion  or  culture  over  others.  This  attitude 
fosters  hatred,  mistrust  and  exclusion.  Eventually  it 
leads  to  social,  economic  and  political  disparities  and 
polarization in society.  

We  are  convinced  that  people  can  overcome 
hatred  through  proper  education  that  inculcates  a 
culture  of  peace.  Education  is  also  essential  for 
spreading better understanding and harmony. The State 
removing  hatred  and 
has  a 
the  citizens  from 
intolerance  and  for  protecting 
discrimination. 
enacting 
appropriate  laws  and  cultivating  mutual  respect  can 
help  establish  a  society  of  religious  and  communal 
harmony. The civil society along with the Government 
can  and  indeed  must  play  a  very  crucial  role  towards 
this  end.  The  media  can  also  make  a  significant 
responsibility 
institutions, 
Building 
the 
for 
for 
A/62/PV.17
in 
this 
context 
Bangladesh  believes 
the  absence  of  violence  and 
contribution  towards  raising  awareness  against  such 
discrimination and intolerance and can bring to the fore 
the fact that humanity transcends all.  
Peace is not simply the absence of war. Neither is 

insecurity. 
it  only 
Sustained  peace 
is  accompanied  and  must  be 
accompanied  by  progress  and  development,  by  which 
we mean poverty eradication, rule of law, adherence to 
democratic  principles  and  pluralism,  dissemination  of 
proper  education,  empowerment  of  women  and  the 
like.  

that 
international  cooperation  is  a  precondition  for  the 
pursuit of global peace, security and development. We 
stress that such international cooperation must be based 
on social inclusion, equality and equity, human dignity 
and justice. It is, therefore, necessary to promote better 
understanding  among  various  religions,  beliefs  and 
cultures.  It  is  also  desirable  to  spread  the  message  of 
universal  respect  for  cultures  and  religions  by  all  and 
for all. The United Nations can play a catalytic role in 
that noble endeavour. 
The  challenge  before  us  is  to  transform  the 

diversity  of  cultures,  religions,  traditions  and  customs 
into  a  unifying  force.  That  force  can  contain  the 
proliferation  of  ethnic,  religious  and  civil  conflicts.  It 
can also eliminate the existing sense of insecurity and 
fear. In the final analysis, it can contribute to the global 
transition  from  a  culture  of  war  to  a  culture  of  peace. 
Indeed,  each  year  Bangladesh  submits  to  the  General 
Assembly  a  draft  resolution  on  a  culture  of  peace, 
which  gains  the  overwhelming  support  of  member 
States. We shall do the same during the current session, 
and we look forward to the same level of support.  
Bangladesh  has  always  played  an  important  role 

in the maintenance of international peace and security. 
Our commitment to United Nations peacekeeping as a 
major  troop-contributing  country  remains  unwavering. 
With the growing mandate of peacekeeping operations, 
peacebuilding  responsibilities  —  which  include  many 
of the subjects we are talking about today — now play 
important  role  in  post-conflict  situations.  We  believe 
that  the  promotion  of  tolerance  and  cultural  diversity 
can  substantially  reduce  conflict  and  crime.  We  also 
underscore  the  importance  of  inclusion  of  the  culture 
of  peace 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission.  In  our  own  country, 
Bangladesh, followers of different faiths live in a state 
the  operational  activities  of 
in 
07-52846 

9 
on 
and 
interreligious 
A/62/PV.17 

of tranquil harmony, as we have managed to inculcate 
in  our  people  a  sense  of  tolerance  and  respect  for 
diversity. 

The great religions and faiths of the world profess 
and  promote  the  same  values.  These  relate  to  the 
sanctity of human life, peace, justice and tolerance. Is 
that too tall an order or too high an aim for humanity to 
conform to? I do not think so. Earlier today when you 
spoke, Sir, you quoted from Dante Alighieri, that great 
Italian  writer  of  the  Renaissance.  Another  great  poet 
said,  and  said  very  aptly  that  man’s  reach  should 
exceed his grasp, for what else are the heavens for?  
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 

The Honourable S. K. Boafo, Minister for Chieftaincy 
and Culture of Ghana. 
Mr.  Boafo  (Ghana):  It  is  a  privilege  for  me  to 

participate in this very important meeting to engage in 
dialogue 
intercultural 
understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace.  In  view  of 
globalization,  every  nation  should  strive  for  peaceful 
coexistence  with  every  other.  The  importance  of 
dialogue  on  issues  that  can  create  peace  cannot  be 
underestimated. 

Modern  pluralistic  societies,  if  they  wish  to 
ensure  peace  and  preserve  the  well-being  of  their 
citizens, cannot afford to pay the price of cultural and 
religious  monologue  or 
religious 
cultural 
technological  era,  when 
fundamentalism.  In 
this 
distances 
between 
become 
insignificant  and  when 
the  populations  of  many 
countries  have  acquired  a  multinational  and  multi-
ethnic  character,  the  development  of  a  democratic 
society  is  impossible  without  enabling  each  citizen  to 
integrate  his  or  her  values  and  principles  with  the 
values of other cultural and religious groups. 

Certain  values  and  principles  are  universally 
shaped and cut across all civilizations, be they Western, 
European, Asian or African, in  establishing a sense  of 
human  community.  They  propound  basic  truths  and 
standards of behaviour that constitute the very basis of 
social  cohesion  and  collective  efforts.  Any  dialogue 
must  therefore  focus  on  the  importance  of  shared 
values  which  give  meaning  to  life  and  provide  form 
and  substance  to  identities.  It  must  also  foster  respect 
for the other and acknowledge and uphold diversity.  

In  situations  of  major  social  and  economic 
transformation,  often  induced  by  the  consequences  of 
and 
continents 
have 

that 
Intercultural  and 
globalization,  the  constant  promotion  and  renewed 
awareness of ethical principles and human rights are of 
key  importance.  I  am  therefore  happy  to  inform  the 
Assembly 
the  1992  constitution  of  Ghana 
recognized  the  key  issue  of  human  rights  which  is 
manifested in its preamble.  

interreligious  contacts  and 
exchanges  open  new  opportunities  for  societies  to 
better  understand  others  and 
themselves.  Such 
interaction  is  therefore  an  integral  feature  of  and 
precondition  for  social  progress  and  peacebuilding. 
This  High-level  Dialogue  on 
Interreligious  and 
Intercultural Understanding and Cooperation for Peace 
is  an  opportune  forum  for  all  of  us,  especially  in  this 
era,  when  the  world  is  embroiled  in  inter-ethnic, 
intercultural and interreligious conflicts. It is expected 
that  this  Dialogue  will  assist  countries  that  have  such 
challenges  to  find  lasting  solutions  and  deepen  their 
understanding in that respect. 

Having  expressed  my  country’s  support  for  this 
Dialogue,  I  wish  to  share  a  few  experiences  from 
Ghana  which  have  created  a  sense  of  peaceful 
coexistence  and  harmony  among  our  varied  cultures 
and  religions.  That  has  been  achieved  through  the 
promotion  of  respect  for  values  and  attitudes  and 
policies  based  on  mutual  respect,  understanding  and 
non-discrimination  on  the  basis  of  ethnicity,  faith  or 
other cultural characteristics. 
Our diverse culture has its roots in our institution 

of  chieftaincy,  which  plays  a  vital  function 
in 
peacebuilding  and  partnering  with  Government  to 
create  peace  within  our  communities.  Our  chiefs 
extend  compassion  to  everyone,  irrespective  of  faith, 
culture or origin. Our traditional values are also geared 
towards  sustaining  and  protecting  the  environment, 
which sometimes involves issues that create recipes for 
conflicts. 

In  Ghana,  all  the  religious  institutions  team  up 
with the Government to create a peaceful environment 
for  our  people.  The  communication  machinery,  be  it 
governmental  or  private,  allows  different  faiths  and 
cultures to utilize its facilities without any hindrance.  
Despite  the  different  cultures  existing  in  Ghana, 

there is always unity in diversity in everything that our 
people do. Therefore, Government has little to grapple 
with  in  the  area  of  conflicts  among  the  cultures  and 
religions that are a common denominator in our lives. 
Culture  and  religion  have  blended  so  well  that  it  is 
10 

07-52846 
that  have 
interreligious  and 


difficult to identify the lines of division. For instance, 
traditional music, drumming and dancing are common 
practices  in  our  churches,  which  are  mostly  of  the 
Western tradition. It behoves all countries, in particular 
those 
intercultural 
challenges,  to  learn  from  other  countries  and  regions 
that  have  successfully  managed  religions  among 
cultures and regions.  
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Tarek  Mitri,  Minister  of  Culture  and 
Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Emigrants  of 
Lebanon. 
Mr.  Mitri  (Lebanon)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  First,  I 

wish  to  congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  on  your 
assumption  of  your  new  and  responsible  task.  I  also 
wish  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-General 
and 
to  your  predecessor,  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  
Al-Khalifa. My thanks go also to the delegations of the 
Philippines and Pakistan for all of the efforts they have 
made.  

Interest  in  this  subject  is  increasing  due  to 
repeated  initiatives  on  the  subject,  and  because  of  the 
difficulties that arise in relations among nations and the 
dangers  and  fears  caused  by  ignorance  in  the  face  of 
policies  that  manipulate  religious  symbols,  emotions 
and  cultural  characteristics  in  the  fight  for  power. 
Because  of  their  extremism,  such  policies  force  us  to 
assert  our  identity  and  individualism  and  to  feel 
hostility  towards  others,  whether  they  be  near  or  far 
away.  
in 

dialogue  has  intensified  as  a  result  of  concern  about 
new  and 
renewed  phenomena  characterized  by 
religious  and  ethnic  violence,  terrorism,  intimidation 
and  disinformation  intended  to  slander  and  humiliate 
others.  Efforts  have  been  made 
improve 
understanding,  but  such  efforts  should  not  be  the 
province of our elites; rather, they should be the work 
of society as a whole. This problem must be addressed 
urgently, not just over the long term.  

Over the past two decades, against a background 
of tension and confrontation, attempts have been made 
to  address  fanaticism  and  extremism  and  to  find 
peaceful  solutions  to  conflicts.  The  increased  demand 
for  dialogue  among  intellectuals  and  adherents  of 
various  religions  encourages  us  to  wonder  whether  its 
promises  are 
realistic.  We  must  promote  such 
initiatives on the basis of two perspectives: credibility 
community’s 
international 
to 
The 
interest 
A/62/PV.17
respect 
in  building 
indirectly,  on 
and  effectiveness.  Credibility  means  not  only  good 
intentions, but also the capacity to be serious and to be 
respected  by 
the  broadest  majority  of  people. 
Obviously,  effectiveness  does  not  mean  immediate 
change;  rather,  it  means  tangible  effects  on  mindsets, 
feelings  and  attitudes  and, 
the 
development of relationships and events.  

We  must  also  be  more  specific  in  defining  the 
goals of dialogue so that we can highlight its value and 
agree  on  its  rules.  Dialogue,  like  culture  and  religion, 
has  many  meanings.  That  is  why  it  lends  itself  to  a 
multitude  of  uncoordinated  and  sometimes  divergent 
efforts.  Lebanon  has  been  dealing  with  this  issue, 
because  we  have  made  dialogue  part  of  our  national 
consciousness. Our country’s message is that we attach 
great  importance  to  dialogue,  although  we  have  not 
always  succeeded 
the  confidence  of 
Lebanese  citizens  in  dialogue’s  capacity  to  strengthen 
citizenship,  equality, 
for  diversity  and 
coexistence,  to  which  our  constitution  refers  several 
times. 

At this time of religious and political division and 
tensions  —  whatever  the  reasons  behind  them  may 
be  —  we  are  facing  challenges  as  a  result  of  the 
dialogue of life. Those challenges pose difficulties for 
us in our attempts to preserve  our  unity and diversity. 
Ensuring unity in the areas of culture and politics can 
threaten the richness of our diversity and our ability to 
benefit  from  that  richness.  Sometimes  we  fear  that 
diversity threatens our national identity and allegiance; 
such  fear  leads  to  alienation.  Thus,  we  must  always 
choose  the  potential  offered  by  dialogue,  which  is 
sometimes lacking in situations of confrontation.  

Dialogue  is  not  a  search  for  agreement  at  any 
cost; it requires that we accept and embrace difference 
and  that  we  put  it  in  its  proper  context,  rather  than 
either minimizing or exaggerating it. Dialogue does not 
eliminate rivalry or confrontation,  but proposes a way 
to  organize  those  elements  without  succumbing  to  an 
endless  negotiating  process.  Negotiation  is  limited  by 
power relationships, while dialogue helps to liberate us 
from 
to  change  and  sometimes  even 
restructure  them  by  putting  the  parties  on  an  equal 
footing.  Dialogue  opens  the  door  that  we  close  when 
people  are  reduced  to  a  single  category,  mould  and 
identity,  whereas  identities  are  in  fact  interlocked  and 
diverse. 
them  and 
07-52846 

11 
that 
to 
interest  of 
the  common 
A/62/PV.17 

In  Lebanon  and  other  countries,  the  idea  has 

arisen 
religious  and  cultural  groups  have 
harmonious  personalities  and  unique  characteristics. 
Individuals  have  an  idealized  image  of  their  own 
communities in comparison with those of others. Thus, 
the differences of others are seen as flaws and defects. 
The  essence  of  the  group  is  personified  in 
the 
individual.  That  justifies  reduced  accountability  when 
reprehensible acts are committed by those who belong 
to the same religious community or nationality, even if 
they  live  far  away.  Thus,  violence  —  whether  real  or 
symbolic  —  spreads.  Distant  conflicts  can  thus  affect 
relationships  between  neighbours.  Several  countries, 
including  my  own,  face  that  danger,  which  serves  the 
political  purposes  of  foreign  interference  and  runs 
counter 
the  national 
community. Our experience has shown us that dialogue 
is  credible  and  effective  and  that  it  can  promote  the 
autonomy of individuals, particularly at difficult times 
of  ideological  mobilization.  Dialogue  enables  us  to 
move  away 
intimidation  and  provides  an 
alternative  path  of  differing  points  of  view.  Dialogue 
enables  us  to  put  out  the  fires  ignited  by  various 
conflicts.  

its  agencies  have 
embarked  on  various  initiatives  and  programmes  that 
the  General  Assembly  adopted  last  year.  We  are 
seeking  to  expand  the  number  of  participants  in  these 
exchanges  of  views  and  to  encourage  dialogue  and 
understanding. But we must not stop there. Dialogue is 
a 
for 
communications;  it  is  not  limited  to  intellectuals  or 
religious  dignitaries.  Dialogue 
involves  us  all, 
particularly 
and  politicians.  Their 
statements,  news  stories  and  images  often  emphasize 
sensationalism 
than 
providing explanations and details.  

For  many  people,  particularly  those  living  in 
diverse  societies,  genuine  and  effective  dialogue 
remains  the  alternative  to  clashes  of  ignorance,  which 
draw  borders  of  blood  between  religions,  cultures, 
countries  and 
regions.  The  United  Nations  has 
understood what is at stake; we are all confronting this 
renewed challenge with respect to religious, moral and 
cultural  values.  We  must  recall  that  when  we  choose 
dialogue and its culture, we respect the Charter of the 
United Nations.  
I  should  like  to  close  by  noting  that  Lebanon’s 

close relationship with the United Nations ensures that 
The  United  Nations  and 
generalizations 
a  paradigm 
the  media 
language, 
rather 
a 
culture 
and 
from 
and 

its 
this  diversity  among  nations, 
the  Organization  will  not  forget  our  country  and  will 
focus  on  Lebanon’s  defence  of 
freedom, 
independence and stability. Thus, Lebanon can remain 
faithful  to  its  role  as  a  witness  to  the  richness  and 
vitality  of  this  dialogue  among  various  religions  and 
cultures. 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Nitya Pibulsonggram, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of Thailand. 
Mr.  Pibulsonggram  (Thailand):  Sixty-two  years 

ago,  our  predecessors,  inspired  by  a  shared  aspiration 
to  save  succeeding  generations  from  the  scourge  of 
conflict, created this institution, the United Nations, on 
the  basis  of  a  common  faith:  faith  in  the  ability  of 
humanity  to  resolve  its  differences  peacefully.  That 
faith  is  based  fundamentally  on  the  following  belief: 
that  differences,  whether  in  ideas  or  in  values,  in 
political systems or in cultural heritage, are not barriers 
to cooperation; and that differences need not be feared, 
but rather should be celebrated, as they reflect the rich 
diversity  of  humanity,  of  civilization  and  of  history. 
Our  United  Nations  was  founded  to  promote  respect 
for 
to  promote 
cooperation between countries, despite differences, for 
the betterment of humanity as a whole. 

this 
this  Organization  — 
generation  —  faces  a  great  challenge,  one  posed  by  a 
rising  culture  of 
intolerance  and  extremism,  of 
disrespect  and  violence.  For  some,  this  is  being 
perceived  as  no  less  than  an  impending  clash  among 
civilizations.  But  whatever 
this 
phenomenon  is  the  very  antithesis  of  what  the  United 
Nations  stands  for,  because  it  challenges  the  very 
notion  of  respect  for  the  diversity  of  humanity.  We 
cannot let this come to pass. 

There are many causes for this rising intolerance 
and  lessening  of  mutual  respect,  ranging  from  a 
perceived  sense  of  injustice  to  misunderstandings  or 
miscommunication.  Many  times  this  intolerance,  this 
violence,  is  propagated  by  the  few  to  misguide  the 
many  in  order  to  bring  harm  to  them,  or  harm  to  all. 
For  some,  it  involves  portraying  a  problem  as  a 
religious  conflict  where  in  fact  there  is  none.  Indeed, 
this is what some are trying to do in my own country, 
Thailand, and they have failed utterly. No one believes 
them. 
Such  intolerance,  whatever  the  cause  may  be,  if 

not addressed, will likely exacerbate misunderstanding. 
indeed, 
Today, 
called, 
is 
it 
12 

07-52846 
in 


This  could  lead  to  distrust,  to  disagreement  and,  of 
course, to dispute. We cannot let this happen.  

For all these reasons and more, the convening of 
this  High-level  Dialogue  on 
Interreligious  and 
Intercultural Understanding and Cooperation for Peace 
is as timely as it is necessary. Here, I wish to commend 
the  Philippines  and  Pakistan  for  their  pivotal  role  in 
helping to realize this important meeting, because now 
is the time. It is the time for the moderate majority, for 
those  who  believe 
tolerance  and  respect  for 
diversity, to speak out and take action. 

The question before us is: what is the best way to 
achieve  this?  How  do  we  move  from  noble  ideas  to 
concrete  action?  How  do  we  feasibly  promote  greater 
respect  for  cultural  diversity  and  tolerance  in  our 
societies and between societies? How do we inculcate a 
culture of peace in our countries and around the world? 

We  ourselves  will  have  to  take  the  first  step, 
within  our  own  countries  and  within  our  respective 
regions.  In 
the  Kingdom  of  Thailand,  our  new 
Constitution  continues  to  protect  and  to  promote 
religious  freedoms,  with  our  Monarch  serving  as 
Defender of all Faiths. Interfaith dialogue is organized 
by local religious leaders to address common problems 
shared  by  people  of  various  faiths  in  the  same 
community  —  problems  such  as  environmental 
degradation, for example. 

In  our  region  of  South-East  Asia  we  have 
countries that are predominantly Muslim, Christian and 
Buddhist,  all  working 
to  building  an 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  community 
where  diversity  is  considered  to  be  a  source  of 
strength. Each nation, each region, will identify its own 
best  means  to  promote  tolerance  and  respect  for 
diversity,  in  a  manner  that  reaches  out  to  the  grass 
roots. This is not something that can be imposed from 
without,  least  of  all  by  the  United  Nations;  but  it  is 
something  that  can  be  encouraged,  because  tolerance 
and 
for  diversity  are  universal  values, 
beneficial to all, detrimental to none — save for those 
who stand to lose, such as extremists. 

The  second  step  is  to  identify  critical  target 
groups  to  determine  the  critical  instruments  that  can 
help accelerate the momentum of support for a culture 
of  peace  and  tolerance.  Here,  I  believe  the  key  target 
group is youth, and the key instrument is education — 
an  education  that  inculcates  tolerance  and  respect  for 
the  values  of  other  cultures  and  faiths,  a  curriculum 
together 
respect 
A/62/PV.17
to  ensure 
that promotes understanding of different cultures while 
promoting  pride  in  one’s  own,  and  also  an  exchange 
programme  that  enables  youths  to  be  exposed  to 
peoples  of  different  cultures  and  beliefs,  whether  in 
their own countries or beyond. 

We  have  tried  using  these  tools  in  our  own 
country. A new course on all the religions in Thailand 
is  being  designed,  with  a  view  to  enhancing  tolerance 
in  our  pluralistic  society.  Exchange  programmes  to 
bring our youths of one religion to live in communities 
belonging  to  another  religion,  as  well  as  in  other 
countries, are being implemented. 

The  third  step  is  to  coordinate  and  consolidate 
our  various  efforts  at  the  global  level  to  promote 
respect  for  diversity  and  tolerance.  There  are  many 
important  initiatives  in  this  regard,  and  they  all  have 
great  added  value.  But  we  can  always  seek  to  avoid 
duplication of efforts. 
General  Assembly  resolution  61/221  on  this 

the 
issue,  which  Thailand  co-sponsored,  requests 
Secretary-General 
the  systematic  and 
organizational  follow-up  on  all  such  initiatives  within 
the  United  Nations  framework.  In  his  report  dated 
25  September  2007  (A/62/337),  the  Secretary-General 
has taken an important first step by compiling activities 
undertaken  under 
the 
important  contributions  by  UNESCO.  Perhaps  further 
efforts  would  also  include  interfacing  with  similar 
initiatives  outside 
including 
regional and interregional initiatives. 
No  peace  among  humankind  can  long  endure  if 

cultural  and  civilizational  fault  lines  are  allowed  to 
form  and  to  deepen.  No  progress  for  humanity  can  be 
sustained 
tolerance  are 
overshadowed  by  misunderstanding  and  hatred, 
because  the  threat  of  religious  intolerance,  the  danger 
of  intercultural  conflict,  can  emanate  from  not  only 
between  civilizations  and  countries  but  also  from 
within  nations  and  societies.  Such  intolerance,  such 
conflict,  whether  between  countries  or  within  nations, 
are unacceptable. 

It is thus up to us, women and men of goodwill, 
to  see  to  it  that  a  culture  of  peace  and  a  culture  of 
tolerance  prevail  and  flourish.  It  is  up  to  us,  the 
Member States of the United Nations, to see to it that a 
core  value  of 
this  Organization  —  respect  for 
diversity — is nurtured and sustained. For only through 
goodwill among nations, understanding among peoples 
the  United  Nations, 
initiatives, 
trust  and 
including 
these 
for 
long 
if 
07-52846 

13 

the  Governments  of 
A/62/PV.17 

and  concerted  action  among  Member  States,  all  based 
on mutual respect, can we be assured that the challenge 
posed  by 
intolerance  and  extremism  will  be 
surmounted. 
In this important task, we cannot afford to fail. 

The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Sven  Alkalaj,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
Mr. Alkalaj  (Bosnia  and  Herzegovina):  It  is  my 

great  pleasure  and  honour  to  be  here  with  you  today 
and  I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  my  sincere 
gratitude  to  the  President  of  the  United  Nations 
General  Assembly  and 
the 
Philippines and Pakistan for convening this meeting on 
such an important topic.  

Dialogue,  respect  and  coexistence  are  the  three 
keys words for a better world and a sustainable future, 
where  reconciliation  will  lead  to  the  termination  of 
conflict  and  overcoming  the  “us  vs.  them”  mentality, 
leading  us  into  a  world  of  tolerance,  peace  and  true 
prosperity.  From  the  whole  range  of  cultures  and 
peoples  around  the  world  and  the  whole  range  of 
religions  and  attitudes  found  on  our  planet  to  the 
extraordinary  multiplicity  of  the  natural  world,  we 
depend on diversity. 

Diversity  is  the  real  spice  of  our  lives  and  has 
become  a  factor  much  sought  after  and,  at  the  same 
time,  much  feared.  Recognizing  of  our  common 
destiny  as  human  beings  can  help  us  overcome  the 
“us vs.  them”  mentality.  Unity  and  diversity  must  be 
our common goal.  

But  how  do  we  reach  this  goal?  The  United 
Nations  has  provided  an  excellent  forum  for  the 
exchange of views on how to attain this goal. Through 
the  constant  activity  of  its  main  bodies  and  many 
initiatives, the United Nations provides guidelines and 
additional  impetus  to  Member  States,  encouraging 
them  to  pursue,  in  their  activities  and  efforts,  the 
promotion  of  tolerance  and  understanding,  as  well  as 
universal respect for religious and cultural diversity.  

Dialogue  among  civilizations,  cultures  and 
religions  has  great  potential  for  aiding  conflict 
prevention  on  the  international,  national  and  local 
levels  by  reducing  misunderstanding  and  mistrust  and 
by laying the foundations for the non-violent resolution 
of  conflict.  It  also  has  enormous  potential  for  solving 
current  and  future  political,  social  and  economic 
to  share 
problems  by  encouraging  people 
their 
experiences,  knowledge,  trust  and  all  the  beautiful 
expressions  and  content  of  the  real  spice  of  our  life, 
namely, diversity. 

The  need  for  dialogue  between  cultures  and 
religions  has  become  a  fact  of  life.  Respect  for  all 
things  that  are  different  from  ourselves  and  from  our 
own system of values can  help in understanding these 
things  as  well  as  other  people’s  visions  of  the  future, 
their  core  beliefs  and  the  content  of  their  lives.  The 
values  and  viewpoints  of  one’s  own  civilization, 
culture,  religion  and  system  must  not  be  taken  as 
absolute and universal. Only once this view is adopted 
can we really be sure that the ground has been laid for 
dialogue and for hope for a better, violence-free world.  

People from all over the world, with all kinds of 
different ethnic and religious backgrounds, work, learn 
and  live  together  every  day.  That  is  the  environment 
that  makes  tolerance  important  and  brings  about  an 
appreciation of diversity. 

Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of those places at 
the crossroad between East and West, North and South. 
It  is  just  like  a  small  world.  Christianity,  Islam  and 
Judaism  are  all  found  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina. We 
are almost a bridge between civilizations. It is here that 
Western rationality meets Eastern sentiment, ultimately 
making Bosnia and Herzegovina such a wonderful and 
vibrant community. 

For centuries in Bosnia and Herzegovina, people 
lived  not  only  side  by  side  with  one  another  — 
Muslims, Jews, Christians — but lived as one with one 
another.  Abundant  proof  of  this  coexistence  can  be 
found 
in  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina:  in  its  culture,  literature,  architecture  — 
everywhere.  In  our  capital,  Sarajevo,  you  can  find 
within a 200 metres circle, a synagogue, a mosque and 
Catholic  and  Orthodox  churches 
that  have  been 
standing next to each other since the fifteenth century, 
almost  leaning  on  each  other  and  supporting  one 
another, without being inconvenienced  by the other in 
any way. 

Such  a  rich  cultural  heritage  in  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina,  with  its  diversity  of  cultures,  religions 
and  people,  ultimately  enriches  our  lives.  Children 
grow  up  aware  of  differences,  but  they  are  taught 
tolerance 
and 
neighbours — a lesson that has been passed down from 
generation to generation. 
in  every  step  you 
for 
their 
take 
and 
respect 
friends 
14 

07-52846 
and 
intercultural 



It  is  important  to  instil  those  same  values  in 
children  around  the  world.  They  are  the  future,  and 
teaching  them  tolerance,  respect  and  appreciation  for 
cultures  and  religions  will  prove  as  important  as 
teaching  them  writing  and  the  basics  of  mathematics. 
But teaching our children will mean nothing, if we do 
not lead by our example.  

Many preach tolerance and respect, but it cannot 
simply  end  with  preaching.  To  take  the  next  step  and 
practice  what  we  preach  is  what  needs  to  be  done. 
Religious  groups  and  religious  leaders  around  the 
world  have  a  very  important  duty  when  it  comes  to 
interreligious 
cooperation. 
Interreligious  dialogue  as  a  dimension  of  intercultural 
communication  will  have  reached  its  full  potential 
when a priest in a church, an imam in a mosque and a 
rabbi in a synagogue talk to each other and work with 
each  other,  conveying  a  common  message,  a  message 
of tolerance, respect and mutual understanding. 

Religious  communities  have  enormous  potential 
to become a  positive  force for peace and tolerance by 
making  it  clear  that  an  attack  against  one  faith  is  an 
attack  against  all  faiths.  Such  collaboration  and 
dialogue  based  on  mutual  respect  represents  key 
instruments  for  improving  relations  and  cooperation 
among peoples and countries. 

Nowadays, more than ever, people in Bosnia and 
Herzegovina  are  fully  aware  that  there  will  be  no 
prosperous 
reconciliation, 
tolerance,  mutual  respect  and  understanding.  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  with  its  experience  and  history,  can 
fully  contribute  to  a  dialogue  between  cultures  and 
religions.  On  the  international  level,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina is very proud of its Interreligious Council 
and 
the  future.  A 
magnificent  venue  for  cooperation,  collaboration  and 
dialogue, 
together  with 
religious  communities,  can  help  us  to  live  together 
peacefully and constructively in a multicultural world.  

Bosnia and Herzegovina has reached many of its 
goals. We are determined to reach all of them. We are 
dedicated  to  building  a  praiseworthy  society  with  the 
highest  of  ethical  norms  based  on  dialogue, 
understanding  and  acceptance.  We  are  armed  with 
courage  to  face  the  differences  and  diversities  of 
others.  We 
and 
interculturally, we cooperate for peace.  
tremendous  potential  for 
interreligious  body, 
future  without 
cooperate 
interreligiously 
true 
its 
this 
A/62/PV.17
The 
time  has  come 
to  move  beyond 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
la 

To  share  and  discuss  points  of  view  on  such 
matters  is  necessary  and  important,  but  unfortunately, 
not  enough.  Education,  from  the  youngest  age,  is  a 
prerequisite  for  a  better  life  and  future.  Our  ultimate 
challenge  seems  to  be  to  educate  a  new  generation 
capable of building a new spirit, one which accepts and 
respects  diversity,  capable  of  accepting  rather  than 
excluding, forgiving rather than hating. 

We all know that it has always been easy to point 
out  differences  among  ourselves.  What  we  must  do, 
however, is to focus on what we have in common and 
realize  that  we  are  bound  by  those  commonalities. 
Then,  when  it  comes  to  our  differences,  we  can  learn 
that they are  not obstacles  in our lives,  but something 
to  appreciate.  We  must  not  only 
respect  our 
differences,  but  we  must  learn  how  to  make  use  of 
them,  how  to  learn  from  each  other  and  how  to 
appreciate that which differentiates us. 

just 
tolerance. Diversity is not something to be endured, but 
rather  it  is  something  that  we,  as  a  society,  must 
actively engage ourselves in every day. 

Mr. Agustin  Komoe,  Minister  of  Culture  and 
Francophonie of Côte d’Ivoire. 
Mr. Komoe (Côte d’Ivoire) (spoke in French): It 

is an honour for me to address this Assembly to discuss 
understanding  among  religions  and  cultures,  and 
cooperation for peace.  

This  subject  is  of  great  importance  for  my 
country, Côte d’Ivoire, which is a nation-State of West 
Africa on the Gulf of Guinea, covering 322,000 square 
kilometres.  Côte  d’Ivoire  is  an  ethnic  mosaic  of  more 
than  60  ethnicities,  which  can  be  classified  into  four 
main groups. With a population of 16 million, we host 
between 4 and 5 million foreigners — almost one third 
of the population, a case almost unique in the world.  

Linguistically, our country offers diversity just as 
great,  counting  some  70  languages,  even  though  the 
official  language  and  the  language  used  in  schools  is 
French.  
Turning  to  religion,  Côte  d’Ivoire  offers  to  the 

world  a  model  of  syncretism  and  peaceful  interfaith 
coexistence.  There  is  no  majority  religion  in  Côte 
d’Ivoire. More than one third of Ivorians are Muslims, 
22  per  cent  are  Christians  and  17  per  cent  of  our 
population  has  remained  faithful  to  traditional  or 
07-52846 

15 
Therefore, 
the  nation 
in 

So 
is  rebuilding  and 
the  secular  nature  of 
far,  coexistence  between 
A/62/PV.17 

non-revealed religions, which have had a considerable 
influence  on  the  other  beliefs.  Lastly,  17  per  cent  of 
Ivorians have chosen other religious faiths.  

these  various 
religions has not led to any major conflict. Each citizen 
practices  his  faith  while  strictly  observing  freedom  of 
worship  and 
the  State. 
Furthermore,  the  motto  and  the  national  anthem  of 
Côte  d’Ivoire  emphasize 
the  virtues  of  work, 
discipline, union and hospitality.  
The  same  goes  for  our  constitution,  which 

emphatically stresses respect for freedoms and the need 
for  a  civic  life  underpinned  by  democracy.  How  can 
one not mention inter-ethnic alliances that are veritable 
social  cement,  serving  as  covenants  between  peoples 
and ethnic groups? When these alliances take place in a 
family  setting,  they  are  the  subject  of  friendly  banter. 
These  agreements  seal  the  social  contract  among  the 
communities involved.  

is 
gradually  reducing  its  difficult  toll  of  divisions  from 
the past. Our rich and diversified cultural heritage calls 
upon  citizens  to  own  their  traditions  and  customs  in 
order  to  better  participate  in  the  dialogue  of  cultures 
and 
their  Ivorian  cultural 
exception.  
The  military  and  political  crisis  that  we  are 

gradually but resolutely emerging from has reaffirmed 
the  importance  of  solidarity  at  the  national,  regional 
and  global  scales.  The  Economic  Community  of  West 
African  States, 
the  West  African  Economic  and 
Monetary  Union  and  the  United  Nations  have  helped 
Ivorians throughout our social crisis, which could have 
become irreparable, contributing greatly to limiting the 
harmful effects of the crisis. The attitude of the United 
Nations in view of the Ouagadougou Accord, as well as 
the  conclusive  results,  show  the  need  to  help  in  the 
resolution of conflicts while remaining attentive to the 
fundamental needs of the players.  

The Ivorian crisis — the problems as well as the 
process of resolving them — is an obvious example of 
the  consubstantial  and  incompressible  nature  of  our 
cultural  exception  and  of  the  dialogue  of  cultures  in 
our  quest  for  peace  and  sustainable  development 
through  multilateral  cooperation.  This  is  why  Côte 
d’Ivoire  is  pleased  that  it  ratified  the  conventions  and 
protocols  that  should  give  the  world  the  proper 
defences essential for making them long-term.  
the  affirmation  of 
in 
their 
traditions.  Because  of 

Côte  d’Ivoire  also  wants  all  peoples  to  be 
convinced  that  the  culture  of  human  abilities  is  more 
than 
identifying  and 
economic  dimensions,  cultural  products  express  the 
creative  vitality  of  peoples  and  contribute 
to 
democratic awareness and social cohesion. That is why 
those  who  use  violence,  sometimes  in  the  name  of 
religion, seriously betray that message. We need to get 
out  of  this  spiral  of  distrust,  intolerance  and  violence, 
and  restore  religions 
their  ethic  dimensions. 
Furthermore, if people who are culturally or religiously 
different  overcome  their  distrust  and  exchange  it  for 
mutual  human  values,  they  will  discover  the  extent  to 
which they share and live with common values.  

Côte d’Ivoire is made up of distinct communities, 
each  with  its  own  exclusive  cultural  characteristics. 
Accordingly,  a  citizen’s  feeling  of  belonging  and  of 
cultural  identity  often  depends  on  his  degree  of 
familiarity  with  the  cultural  characteristics  of  his  own 
community and those of others.  

Consequently,  our  Government’s  policy  helps 
people  become  familiar  with  the  characteristics  of  the 
society  of  which  they  are  a  part  and,  in  doing  so, 
strengthens  their  feeling  of  belonging  and  cultural 
identity.  Accordingly  the  Ministry  of  Culture  seeks, 
inter  alia, 
the  creation,  spread  and 
preservation  of  culture  and  access  to  that  creation 
throughout the national territory, and to think about the 
issues that the society should consider in order to get to 
know each other better.  

This is how the manner of being, acting, speaking 
and  thinking  as  Ivorians  forms  a  whole,  a  relatively 
stable  and  open  system  that  can  preserve  and  impart 
itself from one generation to another, while improving 
on contributions from outside.  

This  approach  mainstreams  the  plurality  and 
mobility  that  characterize  the  elements  that  make  up 
cultures.  In  addition  to  the  necessary  diversity  of 
traditions  and  dialogue  of  cultures,  the  concept,  the 
basic  element,  of  culture  is  inherent  in  humanity. 
Languages  differ,  and  with  them  the  methods  of 
symbolizing, conceptualizing and theorizing. Forms of 
labour  and  production  also  vary  in  time  and  space. 
Lastly, judicial, moral and political institutions vary as 
well.  

That  is  why  culture  is  not  just  an  issue  of 
ethnicity. It is a fundamental human fact, the combined 
play of symbolism and imagination. Culture is closely 
to  promote 
16 

07-52846 


connected with language and work, but it cannot really 
be reduced to just that. Religious life and political life, 
and  sometimes  both,  play  a  very  important  role  in 
human  societies,  but  they  assume  forms  that  do  not 
lend themselves to a single definition.  

Accordingly, the variety of cultures is enormous. 
However,  this  cultural  diversity  does  not  mean  that 
cultures are heterogeneous and without any connecting 
points  or  unifying  factors.  Unity  may  be  the  result  of 
the  persistence  of  a  common  identity  —  that  of  a 
nature,  a  condition  or  a  shared  code  of  conduct. They 
can  also  result  from  a  history  that  is  sometimes  very 
checkered, progressive and adaptive. Cultures start out 
by  being  alien  to  each  other,  sometimes  hostile.  Each 
considers  itself  exclusive  and  superior,  but  gradually 
these  cultures  intermingle  and  start  to  question  their 
own foundation.  

The distribution on a scale of conflicts shows that 
tension  is  not  merely  between  a  common  culture  and 
future  interpretations  of  it.  The  distribution  of  culture 
within  a  given  society 
reflects  a  hierarchy  of 
institutions and social status, and from that, wrenching 
situations  of  inequality  and  privation  result.  Culture 
involves  mechanisms  of 
inclusion,  but  also  of 
exclusion. These are not just the result of spontaneous, 
uncontrollable  social  tendencies,  but  are  also  acts  that 
have  to  do  with  conflict  of  ownership,  both  real  and 
symbolic,  and  sometimes 
to  do  with 
strategies of controls.  

the  active 
participation of conscientious citizens. Peace is rooted 
in  social  justice,  respect  for  human  rights  and  the 
implementation  of  international  law.  That  is  why  the 
emergence  of  civil  society  as  a  new  stakeholder  for 
peace  opens  up  important  prospects  for  resolving  and 
even preventing conflicts. 

As an example of the quest for hegemony, world 
military expenditures increased by 34 per cent between 
1996  and  2005  and  are  now 
to  be 
$1,118 trillion,  at  a  time  when  a  billion  people  are 
living  in  extreme  poverty.  Surely  something  can  be 
done to develop, democratize and disarm.  
Furthermore,  the  theme  of  the  debate  and  the 

thinking  at  this  meeting  reflect  existential  problems. 
Relations  between  religions  and  cultures  must  help 
build peace between peoples; otherwise extremism and 
intolerance will impede sustainable development.  
inconceivable  without 
they  have 
reckoned 
Peace 
is 
A/62/PV.17
on 
and 
religious 
Interreligious 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

It  is  the  mission  of  humankind  to  enshrine 
brotherhood  and  build  bridges  between  religions  and 
cultures to bring about true peace. Tolerance, solidarity 
and brotherly love proceed from a culture that respects 
religious and cultural foundations. Therefore, we could 
say, paraphrasing one of the pioneers of negritude, that 
Côte d’Ivoire is a hand that is wounded but open to the 
world and to people of goodwill, seeking fair trade and 
global solidarity. 

Cheikh Tidiane Sy, Minister of Justice of Senegal. 
Mr. Sy (Senegal) (spoke in French): I should like 

at the outset to warmly congratulate you, Mr. President, 
on  the  excellent  initiative  to  hold  the  High-level 
Dialogue 
Intercultural 
Understanding  and  Cooperation  for  Peace,  at  a  time 
when  doubt  seems  to  beset  us  and  when  conflict 
situations  —  particularly  those  arising  out  of  lack  of 
understanding  and 
intolerance  —  are 
multiplying and becoming increasingly complex.  

The holding of this debate is further proof of the 
international  community’s  resolute  commitment  to 
working 
to  strengthen  dialogue  among  peoples, 
cultures and religions in order to frustrate the efforts of 
prophets  of  doom  and  deny  the  theories  of  those  who 
believe  in  an  inevitable  clash  of  civilizations.  In  that 
regard,  several  national,  regional  and  international 
initiatives  have  already  been 
the 
foundations for a fruitful dialogue among cultures and 
religions.  That  is  reflected  in  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  (A/62/337),  in  which  he  reports  on 
efforts  being  made  by  the  principal  institutions  of  the 
United  Nations  system  working  in  this  area.  In  that 
connection,  I  should  like  to  welcome  the  relevant 
initiatives of UNESCO and the praiseworthy efforts of 
the Alliance of Civilizations. I can assure the Assembly 
that Senegal, as always, is engaged alongside all those 
who are working to bring people together, to overcome 
obstacles  born  of  a  lack  of  understanding  and  to  fight 
intolerance. 

Today  more  than  ever  before,  the  world  is 
wracked by crises whose principal causes include, inter 
alia, 
the 
extremism of certain people having hidden agendas. In 
the name of supposed religious or cultural convictions, 
those  people  are  committing  terrible  atrocities  whose 
main  victims  are  often  innocent  women  and  children. 
Such actions, fuelled and maintained by ignorance, run 
religious  differences, 
intolerance  and 
taken 
to 
lay 
07-52846 

17 

and 
instil 
forever 
eradicate 
life.  We  must 
respect,  acceptance 
A/62/PV.17 

counter to the principles and precepts of every religion 
and reflect contempt for and violation of the sanctity of 
human 
this 
phenomenon,  which  has  increased  so  much  over  the 
past few years. 

That  is  precisely  why  this  encounter  is  so 
relevant:  it  should  enable  us  to  embark  on  paths  of 
reflection  aimed  at  overcoming  any  attempt 
to 
manipulate religious or cultural specificities for hidden 
purposes. I believe that the time has come to establish 
an open and unconditional dialogue that can enable us 
to 
remove  obstacles,  move  beyond  clichés  and 
stereotypes 
and 
understanding among peoples.  

The  success  of  such  a  dialogue  will  depend 
greatly  on  our  commitment  to  demonstrating  our 
attachment to certain common universal values, such as 
justice  and  equity,  and  our  determination  to  eliminate 
antagonism  and  discord.  It  will  also  have  to  be 
predicated on mutual respect and acceptance of others’ 
differences,  as  an  alternative  to  cultural  contempt. 
Mutual respect is a sine qua non for any dialogue and 
indeed  for  any  joint  human  endeavour,  for,  as  former 
Secretary-General Kofi Annan declared, “We  can love 
what  we  are,  without  hating  what  we  are  not” 
(A/56/PV.42, p. 3).  

Those  words  of  Kofi Annan  are  well  understood 
in  my  country,  Senegal,  where  the  95  per  cent  of  the 
people  who  are  Muslim  and  the  5  per  cent  who  are 
Christian  live  in  peaceful  coexistence  on  the  basis  of 
shared values of tolerance and respect for others. This 
interfaith  coexistence  is  so  deeply  rooted  in  Senegal 
that it is not rare to find Christians and Muslims in the 
same family as a result of mixed marriages, which have 
become a tangible sociological reality.  

However,  in  order  to  consolidate  and  strengthen 
that achievement, which is a result of the open spirit of 
the  Senegalese  and  their  natural  impulse  to  engage  in 
dialogue,  we  constantly 
to  attend 
interfaith  meetings  to  overcome  prejudice  and  lack  of 
understanding.  For  it  is  true  that,  despite  our  physical 
proximity,  intolerance  and  extremism  can  separate  us 
from one another. It is precisely to invigorate and share 
this  valuable  achievement  that  the  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Senegal,  Mr. Abdoulaye Wade,  has  called 
for  the  holding  of  a  summit  on  Islamic-Christian 
dialogue  —  an  appeal  that  I  should  like  to  solemnly 
reiterate here.  
invite  people 

However,  President  Wade,  in  the  printed  text  of 
the  statement  he  made  during  last  week’s  general 
debate at the present session of the General Assembly, 
recalled: 

“It is unacceptable that the feelings of more than 
a  billion  Muslims  continue  to  be  attacked  by 
ill-intentioned  individuals  in  the  name  of  a 
supposedly  limitless  freedom  of  expression.  All 
freedoms are limited by responsibility.” 
extremism 
Freedom  of  expression,  respect  for  human  rights  and 
democracy all require moral authority so that they can 
be  not  only  consolidated  and  strengthened,  but  also, 
and above all, refined. Those principles remain fragile 
and  require  a  framework  to  prevent  both  censorship 
and  a  drift  away  from  them,  which  often  has  tragic 
consequences  for  innocent  people.  That  is  why  all 
sectors of society in all countries of the world must be 
fully  involved  in  this  endeavour  of  dialogue  so  as  to 
build a reliable and viable consensus. 

As  President  Wade  has  said,  the  international 
community  must,  without  delay,  cooperate  to  find 
paths  of  peaceful  coexistence  for  current  and  future 
generations.  How  can  we  make  the  world’s  political 
leaders,  intellectuals  and  religious  leaders  shoulder 
their  responsibility  to  put  an  end  to  extremists’  use  of 
religion?  Indeed,  it  is  important  to  say  loudly  and 
clearly 
a 
misunderstanding  of  holy  writ.  This  quest  for  peace 
and 
everyone’s 
responsibility,  but  the  media  have  a  primary  role:  to 
help us gain better understanding and avoid the pitfall 
of facile criticism and caricature. To banish the demon 
of 
the  sources  of 
misunderstanding  among  peoples  and  to  educate  our 
young people to accept differences and respect others.  

No  culture  is  superior  to  another;  no  civilization 
can  presume  to  teach  lessons  to  others.  Everyone  has 
the right to dignity and respect for his or her religious 
convictions.  That  is  the  golden  rule  that  must  be  the 
basis for dialogue among religions and cultures. 
The President: I now call on His Excellency The 

Rev. Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann, Presidential Adviser 
on  Foreign  Affairs  and  former  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Nicaragua. 
Mr. d’Escoto Brockmann (Nicaragua) (spoke in 

Spanish):  May  the  all  merciful  God  of  love,  peace, 
non-violence,  unity, 
reconciliation  and  solidarity 
to  eliminate 
intolerance 
harmony 
among 
people 
results 
from 
is 
that 
such 
is 
18 

07-52846 


enlighten our minds and open our hearts, so that all of 
us together as brothers and sisters, children of the same 
father will be able to take strong steps towards creating 
the  culture  of  peace  and  non-violence  that  is  so  badly 
needed in the world. 

Nicaragua  celebrates  the  fact  that  the  United 
Nations  is  discussing  dialogue,  understanding  and 
cooperation among religions and cultures for peace. We 
would like to congratulate the Philippines and Pakistan 
for that important initiative.  
Nicaragua  strongly  believes  that  there  is  nothing 

more  urgent  in  the  world  than  to  set  ourselves  free 
from the terrible human addiction to violence, whether 
it is used to appropriate the belongings of others or in 
self-defence.  It  is  absolutely  clear  that  what  is  most 
needed in the world is a culture of peace to counteract 
the  culture  of  war,  death  and  destruction,  or  terrorism 
disguised  under  the  name  of  low-intensity  warfare, 
preventive warfare or any other such camouflage. Our 
Organization was created specifically to put an end to 
the  cycle  of  war  which,  by  the  middle  of  the  last 
century, had resulted in two world wars. 
Respect  for  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  our 

Organization  was  supposed  to  put  an  end  at  least  to 
megawars.  But  if  we  look  at  the  United  Nations  from 
the perspective of its effectiveness in avoiding war, we 
would have to conclude that it has not been effective at 
all. Among the mightiest of our own Members we find 
those who are the most powerfully addicted to warfare 
as a tool to advance their own interests.  
international  political  dialogue  has  not 

managed  to  stop  wars.  They  seem  to  be  increasing  in 
number day by day and threaten to continue to multiply 
with the insane concept of preventive war whereby the 
potential aggressor resorts to his crystal ball to identify 
the  next  target  of  his  aggression  and  occupation. 
Among 
the  Security 
Council  itself,  you  will  find  some  who  have  tried  to 
convert the Council into a clearing house to approve or 
license their war plans.  

In  the  meantime,  the  great  majority  of  our 
Members can only watch from the sidelines, because at 
the 
is  considered 
politically incorrect to draw attention to or criticize the 
powerful  even  when  the  most  egregious  violations  of 
the Charter are being committed. 
the  permanent  members  of 
The 
level  of  political  dialogue 
it 
A/62/PV.17
together.  It  will  be 

We  must  therefore  go  beyond  a  purely  political 
dialogue to meet each other at the deepest level of our 
shared  humanity  —  in  other  words,  on  the  terrain  of 
our  religions  where  we  find  the  most  deeply  rooted 
beliefs  concerning  the  value  and  meaning  of  human 
life. We are keenly aware that interfaith dialogue is not 
without  arrogance  and  other  flaws  that  often  derail 
political dialogue. For that reason, Nicaragua would be 
inclined to promote cooperation among religions in the 
context of the creation of a culture of peace.  

Ecumenical  dialogue  is  very  important,  but  we 
believe that through ecumenical cooperation we will be 
able  to  discover  more  rapidly  that  there  are  far  more 
things  that  unite  human  beings  than  things  that 
supposedly  separate  us.  The  supreme  principle  of 
unconditional  love  without  exception  or  exclusion  is 
undoubtedly  the  most  important  value  that  ties  all 
religions 
through  a  mutual 
discovery  of  our  values,  concrete  cooperation  and 
through  the  creation  of  a  culture  of  peace  and 
non-violence  that  we  will  be  better  able  to  advance 
towards  greater  understanding  between  religions  and 
the cultures they influence.  
It is through our religious faith and the teachings 

of  our  religions 
that  most  of  us  find  universal 
fraternity.  We  are  all  brothers  and  sisters  because  we 
are  all  children  of  the  same  father.  In  other  words, 
because God is everyone’s father, so we are all brothers 
and  sisters  created  to  live  in  peace  and  harmony  as 
stewards  of  creation.  But  creation  does  not  belong  to 
us, for God is the only Lord and master of life and of 
everything that exists in creation.  

Nothing could be more contrary to the will of our 
common father and creator than the reliance on warfare 
that has become the greatest scourge in the world. All 
who  have  reached  that  conclusion  by  the  path  of 
culture,  religion  or  ethics  have  a  duty  to  speak  out  in 
favour of a culture of peace and non-violence. It is also 
incumbent upon us to rid ourselves once and for all of 
the  thought  that  denouncing  the  reliance  on  war 
practised  by  the  powerful  is  politically  incorrect.  On 
the contrary, not to denounce that concept as forcefully 
as  it  deserves  to  be  denounced  would  be  suicidal  and 
unacceptable  from  an  ethical  and  religious  point  of 
view.  

It is through love of God and our neighbours that 
we  will  find  the  strength  to  unfailingly  struggle  for  a 
culture of peace and non-violence. Mahatma Gandhi is 
07-52846 

19 

Metropolitan  Valentin
A/62/PV.17 

a  prime  example  for  us  all.  On  one  occasion,  noting 
that  Gandhi  had  a  picture  of  Jesus  on  his  wall,  Louis 
Fischer, his famous biographer, asked him why he had 
a  picture  of  Jesus  on  his  wall  when  he  was  not 
Christian. And  Gandhi  replied  that  he  was,  of  course, 
Christian  and  Muslim  and  Hindu  and  Buddhist  and 
Jewish. God is the same god and, through our different 
religions,  teaches  us  that  love  and  peace  must  be  the 
essential qualities in the lives of the children of God — 
in other words, all the men and women on Earth. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Eminence  Metropolitan  Valentin  of  Orenburg,  Leader 
of  the  Russian  Orthodox  Church  of  the  Russian 
Federation. 
(Russian  Federation) 

(spoke  in  Russian):  Cooperation  among  religions  and 
cultures is becoming tremendously important in today’s 
world,  which  is  confronting  exacerbated  inter-ethnic 
political  and  social  contradictions,  attempts  to  use 
religion  to  justify  terrorism  and  extremism,  and  the 
failure  of  the  secular  system  of  social  relations  to 
properly  address  certain  challenges  that  relate  to 
spiritual matters. 

More and more people today are concluding that 
attempts  to  deny  religion  the  right  to  be  heard  in  the 
public forum — to make it the business of private life 
alone  —  that  these  attempts  are  futile  and  constitute 
encroachment on human freedom. The main problem of 
societies that  are losing the concept of  religion is that 
they  are 
the  cult  of 
consumerism and rampant egoism make them unstable 
and  divided.  Without  the  spiritual,  vertical  dimension 
of  life,  people’s  lives  will  not  be  made  happier  by 
money,  things,  entertainment  or  technology.  Without 
allegiance  to  the  eternal  moral  principles,  individuals 
cannot maintain or make an ideal either of the law or of 
freedom. I am convinced that it is precisely traditional 
morality  that  can  be  the  solid  foundation  of  the 
peaceful coexistence of peoples of various cultures and 
religions. 

One  of  the  factors  leading  to  the  growth  of 
extremism  is  religious  illiteracy  among  many  of  our 
contemporaries.  That  is  why  it  is  so  essential  to 
educate  young  generations  in  the  spirit  of  traditional 
religions.  Recently,  this  idea  was  supported  by  the 
President  of  the  Russian  Federation,  Mr.  Vladimir 
Putin. I believe that everywhere where people so desire 
they must have the right to receive in-depth knowledge 
fragmented.  Clearly, 
too 
the  basis  of 
in  1998,  acts  on 
in  a  regular  public  school  about 
their  religious 
tradition,  and  also  basic  knowledge  about  the  views 
and convictions of those living side by side with them. 

The Russian model of interreligious relations has 
long been built on respect for the faith and the way of 
life and customs of traditional communities, and for the 
principles  of  establishing  a  family  and  a  social  entity 
among  them.  The  inhabitants  of  our  country  have 
different  faiths;  but  we  have  always  recognized  the 
right  of  us  all  to  live  and  act  according  to  our 
principles,  both  in  private  life  and  in  public  life.  It  is 
precisely that which has created the conditions for civil 
peace and strengthened stability. As a result, Russia has 
never  had  religious  wars.  Today,  communities  of  the 
traditional  religions  of  Russia,  namely  Orthodoxy, 
Islam, Judaism and Buddhism, continue their centuries-
old interreligious dialogue. 
The  Interreligious  Council  of  Russia,  which  was 

established 
the 
inviolability of religious teachings and of moral rules, 
which, to a large extent, are the same across religions. 
We were convinced that our model of dialogue was the 
right  one  at  the  World  Summit  of  Religious  Leaders 
held  in  Moscow  in  July  2006.  Authoritative  religious 
leaders  from  49  countries  supported  our  concept 
regarding  the  link  between  human  freedom  and  moral 
responsibility. 

The universal nature of the United Nations makes 
it  crucial  to  take  into  account  the  spiritual  traditions 
and diversity of world cultures and religions. In recent 
years,  attention  to  this  factor  has  been  reflected  in 
various  initiatives  within  the  context  of  this  world 
of 
Organization.  These 
Civilizations, 
Interfaith 
Cooperation  for  Peace,  the  Ministerial  Meeting  on 
Interfaith Dialogue and Cooperation for Peace, as well 
as  other 
is 
important  and  valuable.  The  World  Summit  of 
Religious  Leaders  unanimously  supported  a  more 
systematic  dialogue  between  the  religious  community 
and the United Nations. 

Accordingly, I would imagine that it would make 
sense  now  to  develop  the  outcomes  of  the  Summit 
discussions  and  think  about  creating,  under  United 
Nations  aegis,  a  special  forum,  a  kind  of  consultative 
council of religions, for the exchange of views among 
representatives of the main world faiths. We hope that 
the  activities  of  this  council  could  help  not  just  to 
the  Tripartite  Forum  on 
initiatives.  Each  of 
the  Alliance 
include 
these 
initiatives 
20 

07-52846 
to 
the  countries 
that 


strengthen  the  foundations  of  interreligious  peace,  but 
also  to  enrich  the  process  of  the  elaboration  and 
adoption  of  decisions  by  the  world  community.  This 
idea could become the subject of a thorough discussion 
at this and at future sessions of the General Assembly. 
And  I  am  pleased 
the  High-level  Dialogue 
provides  a  good  opportunity  to  discuss  such  an 
important question. 
I  am  grateful  to  the  President  of  the  General 

Assembly  and 
that  sponsored 
resolution  A/61/269  and  to  the  organizers  of  today’s 
forum  for  implementing  the  initiative  of  the  Dialogue 
that, for the first time, is taking place within the walls 
of this world Organization. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Hidayat  Orujov,  Head  of  the  State 
Committee  on  Relations  with  Religious  Organizations 
of Azerbaijan. 
Mr.  Orujov  (Azerbaijan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

First  of  all,  I  should  like  to  discharge  the  honourable 
duty  entrusted  to  me  by  transmitting  to  this  General 
Assembly  the  sincere  greetings,  as  well  as  good 
wishes,  of  the  people  of  Azerbaijan  and  the  personal 
wishes  of  our  head  of  State,  President  Ilham Aliyev.  I 
express the hope that this meeting will be an important 
contribution in expanding cooperation among religious 
communities  and  cultures,  conducive  to  global  peace 
and security. 

This  stage  of  globalization  brings  peoples  and 
populations closer together but exposes even more the 
characteristics that draw sustenance from a unique kind 
of  mentality  and  expression  of  faith.  Today,  we  are 
living  at  a  time  of  heightened  religious  awareness, 
which  sometimes  takes  on  exaggerated  forms.  And 
sometimes  it  is  maliciously  exploited  to  fuel  conflicts 
on  religious  grounds.  For  that  reason,  it  is  so  crucial 
for tolerance to be established and to prevail. 

I must say with a feeling of pride that tolerance, 
established  by  the  civilized  world  as  one  of  the  main 
democratic values, is a characteristic of our people that 
has  evolved  over  centuries  and  could  serve  as  an 
example for others. 

Historically  speaking, Azerbaijan  was  a  meeting 
place  for  various  faiths  and  civilizations.  Today,  it  is 
successfully  carrying  out  that  function.  Together  with 
Islam,  other 
in 
Azerbaijan — Christianity and Judaism, among others. 
faiths  have  historically  existed 
07-52846 

A/62/PV.17
Basically, since time immemorial, Azerbaijan became a 
second  homeland  for  people  suffering  from  religious 
discrimination.  People  congregated  in Azerbaijan  with 
hope,  not  only  the  persecuted  adherents  of  various 
religions,  but  adherents  of  various  interpretations  of 
Islam, too. Perhaps that is precisely why the population 
of Azerbaijan is so varied in ethnic and religious terms. 

Fortunately,  in  Azerbaijan,  where  various  faiths 
and  religious  trends  were  propagated  throughout  our 
history,  relations  of  tolerance  were  established  and 
prevailed  between  various  communities.  And  we  had 
no  noted  instances  of  xenophobia  on  ethnic,  racial  or 
religious  grounds. Various  groups  that  put  down  roots 
in the territory of Azerbaijan did not feel that they were 
outsiders and made themselves at home. 

For  example,  the  history  of  the  emergence  of 
Jews  in  Azerbaijan  goes  back  a  long,  long  way  — 
2,500  years  —  and  during  this  enormous  period  of 
history,  there  is  no  evidence  of  any  discrimination 
against them by the Azerbaijan people. 

Christianity in Azerbaijan historically was one of 
the  leading  religions,  and  today  our  people  views  its 
past  as  being  connected  with  that  faith,  as  being  a 
component  of  its  glorious  history.  I  am  pleased  that 
Azerbaijan is one of the few countries where mosque, 
church  and  synagogue  coexist  side  by  side,  in  peace, 
and  where  there  are  no  instances  of  any  discord 
between people of different religious faiths. 

We  note,  however,  with  some  bitterness  the  fact 
that  Azerbaijani  territory  is  still  being  occupied  by 
Armenia, which is  abusing the traditional tolerance of 
our people in carrying out at the State level a policy of 
ethnic cleansing and genocide. During the last century, 
more  than  one  million Azerbaijanis  lived  in Armenia; 
today, not a single representative of our people remains 
there.  The  same  fate  hit  Azerbaijanis  living  in  the 
Nagorno-Karabakh  region  of  Azerbaijan,  too.  And 
regions  contiguous  with  it  are  now  occupied  by  the 
armed forces of the Republic of Armenia. 

The  General  Assembly  must  agree  that  it  is 
therefore hard to believe the statement about tolerance 
that  we  heard  coming  from  the  mouth  of  the  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Armenia today in this very Hall. 
Among  the  casualties  of  this  aggression  are  our 
historical  and  religious  monuments;  the  shrines  of 
other faiths have also fallen victim. And this is before 
the eyes of the entire world. In our lands that have been 
occupied, they have razed our religious monuments to 
21 

to  all  countries  and 
A/62/PV.17 

the  ground.  Many  times  we  have  turned  to  this 
Organization  and  to  the  world  community  demanding 
that  the  four  Security  Council  resolutions  on  the 
problem  be  implemented  calling  for  the  unconditional 
liberation of the lands occupied by Armenia. 

More  than  a  million  citizens  of Azerbaijan  have 
been condemned to be refugees and have been forcibly 
displaced; and they must be returned to their ancestral 
homes. Yet, the occupier, Armenia, still does not want 
to give up its territorial appetites. 
I  appeal  to  you  and  through  you,  participants  in 

this 
international 
forum, 
organizations,  and  I  call  for  your  cooperation,  in  the 
name  of  restoring  the  trampled  rights  of  a  million  of 
my  compatriots  rendered  hapless  by  the  occupiers.  I 
call  upon  you  to  heed  the  voice  of Azerbaijan,  which 
for  centuries  has  revered  the  lofty  tenets  of  good-
neighbourliness,  love  of  humankind  and  tolerance 
inherent in all of the great religions. 

I hope that the Azerbaijan people and my country 
will  receive  due,  well-deserved  consideration  in  this 
respect  and  that  our  experience  will  help  and  benefit 
other peoples and States. 

Kemp of Australia. 
Mr.  Kemp  (Australia):  The  right  to  freedom  of 

religion  or  belief  is  a  basic  right  and  an  essential 
element  of  any  harmonious  society.  It  is  embodied  in 
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  which 
states  that  everyone  has  the  right  to  freedom  of 
thought, conscience and religion. 

Unfortunately, in many areas of the world, many 
people  do  not  enjoy  these  freedoms:  they  cannot 
worship 
from  discrimination. 
Religious 
to 
threaten  global  security,  peace  and  stability.  The 
importance  of  defending  religious  freedom,  cannot, 
therefore be overstated. 

To  build  and  maintain  free  societies,  we  have  to 
recognize  that  different  ideas  and  beliefs  can  and 
should  be  allowed  to  coexist  and  flourish,  because 
tolerance and respect for pluralism are essential values 
for an open society. 

Australia is a culturally and linguistically diverse 
society,  with  about  300  languages  spoken  and  a  wide 
variety  of 
religions  practised.  The  Australian 
freely; 
intolerance  and  extremism  continue 
The  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  Senator  Rod 
they  suffer 
training 
and 
specialist 
projects, 
engagement 
Government  promotes  acceptance  and  respect  among 
Australians of all cultural and religious backgrounds. 

In  this  context,  Australia  has  implemented  the 
“Living  in  Harmony”  programme  for  several  years, 
bringing  Australians 
from  different  backgrounds 
together to  forge  a sense of belonging,  mutual respect 
and  understanding.  More  than  50  projects  to  promote 
interfaith  dialogue  have  been  funded  under 
this 
programme. 

In 2006, Australia embarked on a national action 
plan to build on social cohesion, harmony and security, 
to  which  the  Australian  Government  has  committed 
A$ 35 million over four years. Measures under the plan 
include  the  creation  of  a  centre  of  research  in  Islamic 
studies,  the  promotion  of  interfaith  understanding 
through 
interschool  cooperation,  employment  and 
crisis 
inter-community 
management 
education 
materials. 

Australia  strongly  supports  freedom  of  religion 
and belief and is determined to promote understanding 
and  foster  harmony  between  faith  communities  across 
our region. Our regional  efforts aim to bridge  cultural 
and  religious  differences  and  counter  the  spread  of 
extremism. 

interfaith  cooperation 
through  our  involvement  in  the  Regional  Interfaith 
Dialogue,  a  process  which  we  co-sponsor  with 
Indonesia,  New  Zealand  and  the  Philippines.  The 
inaugural  Regional  Interfaith  Dialogue  took  place  in 
Yogyakarta  in  2004  and  was  co-chaired  by  Indonesia 
and Australia.  New  Zealand  hosted  the  third  Regional 
Interfaith  Dialogue 
in  May  2007. 
Participants  in  those  dialogues  are  drawn  from  the 
major faith groups of the region, the 10 nations of the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations,  East  Timor, 
Fiji,  New  Zealand  and  Papua  New  Guinea.  The  2007 
Dialogue  resulted 
the  Waitangi 
Declaration  and  Plan  of  Action.  The  Plan  of  Action 
outlined recommendations by representatives for future 
regional  engagement  on  interfaith  issues,  particularly 
in  the  areas  of  partnership-building,  education  and 
media. 
important  forum 

within  which 
tolerance  and 
understanding  by  working  with  faith  and  civil  society 
groups 
and  beyond.  Although 
Governments can play an important role in facilitating 
Interfaith  dialogues  are  an 
Australia  has  fostered 
to  promote  peace, 
in  agreement  on 
in  Waitangi 
in  our 
region 
22 

07-52846 
rest  with 
communities 
is  also  hosting 
the  global  promotion  of 


dialogue,  the  responsibility  for  promoting  tolerance 
and  understanding  between  and  within  communities 
must 
themselves, 
particularly their leaders. Faith and community leaders 
have  a  critical  role  to  play  in  denying  extremists  any 
religious  or  moral  legitimacy  and  in  building  trust 
between communities. 

Separately,  Australia  and  the  European  Union 
will  co-host  a  youth  interfaith  forum  in  Australia  in 
December  2007.  The  event  will  focus  on  promoting 
understanding and encouraging personal links between 
young  leaders  of  religious  communities  in  South-East 
Asia,  Australia  and  Europe.  In  support  of  interfaith 
dialogue  processes,  Australia 
the 
Parliament  of  the  World’s  Religions  in  2009  —  the 
world’s largest multi-faith event, which is usually held 
every five years in different cities around the world. 

Australia  will  continue  to  engage  constructively 
on  this  issue  with  the  Human  Rights  Council  by 
encouraging 
religious 
tolerance  in  that  important  forum.  The  Council  needs 
to  play  an  active  role  in  ensuring  the  promotion  and 
protection of the right to freedom of religion or belief, 
including by monitoring international adherence to the 
provisions of the Declaration on the Elimination of All 
Forms  of  Intolerance  and  of  Discrimination  Based  on 
Religion or Belief. 

Australia  welcomes  the  United  Nations  Alliance 
of  Civilizations  initiative  to  support  projects  that 
promote  cross-cultural  and  religious  understanding. 
Australia  believes 
initiatives 
complement the interfaith activities taking place in our 
region. 

We, the international community, should continue 
to  forge  interfaith  and  international  partnerships  that 
aim  to  ensure  that  the  right  to  freedom  of  religion  is 
respected in all countries.  
The President: I call on His Excellency Mr. João 

Gomes Cravinho, Minister of State for Foreign Affairs 
and Cooperation of Portugal, who will speak on behalf 
of the European Union. 
Mr.  Gomes  Cravinho  (Portugal):  In  Portugal’s 

role  as  European  Union  (EU)  presidency,  I  have  the 
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union. We 
welcome  this  High-level  Dialogue  on  Interreligious 
and  Intercultural  Understanding  and  Cooperation  for 
Peace, 
interactive  hearing  with 
its  practical 
including 
that 
the 
the 
A/62/PV.17
it  entails 
the  willingness 
through  dialogue,  understanding 
representatives  of  civil  society  to  take  place  this 
afternoon.  We  believe  that  Europe  has  a  key  role  to 
play in the promotion of interreligious and intercultural 
understanding, along with other regions of the world. 

In  the  history  of  international  relations,  the 
challenge for so long has been the peaceful coexistence 
of  different  value  systems.  Over  the  centuries,  many 
different  ways  to  avoid  conflict  have  been  sought.  
One  solution  is  for  nations  to  share  peace  and 
prosperity 
and 
tolerance. 

Mutual  understanding  does  not  entail  imposing 
one’s  values,  culture  or  faith  on  others.  It  involves 
respecting  different  values  and  beliefs  based  on  an 
awareness  of  the  common  political,  economic,  social, 
ecological  and  cultural  challenges  that  we  face  in  an 
increasingly  global  and  vulnerable  world.  It  means 
protecting  and  promoting  all  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms 
that  have  been  repeatedly 
reaffirmed  as  universal; 
freedom  of 
expression  and  freedom  of  religion  or  belief;  and  it 
requires  an  open  mind  and 
to 
understand  the  pluralism  of  cultures,  religions  and 
beliefs. 

intercultural 
competences,  we  must  focus  on  concrete  cooperation 
and  common  actions.  Pluralism  in  European  society 
and the legal, political and social conditions for coping 
with  it  have  been  major  factors  for  prosperity  and 
development.  We  must  enhance  mutual  understanding 
on  the  basis  of  our  firm  conviction  that  human  rights 
and  fundamental  freedoms,  including  the  freedom  of 
expression, are the common ground on which we stand. 

Dialogue will succeed only if we make sure that 
both  men  and  women’s  experiences  and  expertise  are 
integrated  effectively 
intercultural  and 
interreligious  dialogue  and  into  social  and  political 
initiatives of conflict prevention at all levels. Dialogue 
will  bear  fruit  only  if  we  enable  our  youth  to  respond 
actively  and  positively  to  the  challenges  of  our 
pluralistic and vulnerable world. 

The European Union is founded on the principles 
of  liberty,  democracy,  respect  for  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms,  and  the  rule  of  law.  Those 
principles  are  common  to  all  member  States  and  the 
EU is ready to play its part in the process. A common 
understanding  and  acceptance  of  core  values  among 
religious 
Europeans  of  all  social,  cultural  and 
into  our 
attitudes 
Beyond 
those 
and 
07-52846 

23 

The 
European  Union’s 
A/62/PV.17 

backgrounds  is  crucial  for  peaceful  cohabitation  and 
social  cohesion.  In  consequence,  the  EU  applies  its 
core  values  and  principles  in  all  of  its  policies  and 
promotes them within Europe and beyond. 
and 

integration 
non-discrimination  policies  are  guided  by 
the 
following  principles:  the  principle  of  equality  before 
the law; the  prohibition of discrimination on the basis 
of any ground and the fight against racism; respect for 
cultural, linguistic and religious diversity; and equality 
between men and women. 

The  EU  promotes  freedom  of  religion  and  belief 
throughout  European  societies  and  beyond,  including 
through  the  media.  The  resolution  introduced  to  the 
Assembly by the EU on the elimination of all forms of 
intolerance  and  of  discrimination  based  on  religion  or 
belief,  which  was  adopted  last  year  by  consensus,  is 
but  one  example  of  our  commitment  to guarantee  that 
fundamental freedom. 

European  culture  has  been  enriched  by  outside 
influences throughout its history, and European culture 
and  ideas  have  had  a  profound  influence  on  many 
cultures  throughout  the  world.  Europeans  of  various 
social, cultural and religious backgrounds contribute to 
the  diversity  and  prosperity  of  Europe  today.  Today’s 
European identity is a multiple one; it reflects manifold 
and  pluralist  influences,  including  those  of  migration 
and  globalization.  Europe  faces  the  challenges  of 
continuously  developing 
the 
its  various  communities,  ethnic 
dialogue  with 
minorities  and  numerous 
religious  communities, 
including  the  very  positive  engagement  with  Muslims 
of  and  in  Europe.  The  European  Union  views  its 
political  and  legal  framework  as  essential  to  ensuring 
social  peace  and  cohesion  and 
to  marginalizing 
radicalism  and  extremism  on  all  sides.  Freedom  of 
religion,  non-discrimination 
recognition  of 
religious  communities 
in  particular  are  crucial 
preconditions for any successful dialogue.  

intercivilizational 
understanding is strongly reflected in European Union 
policy  and  action.  The  EU  is  active  in  promoting 
intercultural  and  interreligious  understanding,  both 
within Europe and with international partners. I would 
like  to  give  some  examples  of  initiatives  strongly 
supported  by 
that  aim  at 
promoting a more peaceful and cohesive society.  
the  European  Union 
strengthening 
importance 
The 
and 
and 
of 
in 

The  Euromed  Barcelona  process  provides  a 
framework  for  dialogue  between  the  European  Union 
and its Mediterranean partners. It established the Anna 
Lindh  Euro-Mediterranean  Foundation  for  Dialogue 
between  Cultures.  The  Foundation’s  main  objective  is 
to bring people and organizations  from  both shores of 
the  Mediterranean  closer  to  each  other  and  to  help 
bridge the gap between them. Particular importance is 
given  to  the  development  of  human  resources,  while 
youth is the main target group. Another priority is the 
promotion  of  tolerance  among  people  by  furthering 
exchanges between members of diverse civil societies. 
The  Foundation,  which  facilitates  the  coordination  of 
35 national networks, has programmes in the fields of 
media, education, women and youth. 
With  a  membership  of  43  Asian  and  European 

States,  the  Asia-Europe  Meeting  (ASEM)  is  uniquely 
placed to foster links between Asia and Europe through 
interfaith  and  intercultural  dialogue.  ASEM  Interfaith 
Dialogues  have  helped  to  build  mutual  understanding 
between  Asians  and  Europeans 
the  fields  of 
interfaith and interreligious relations. The third ASEM 
Interfaith Dialogue was held in Nanjing, China, in June 
this  year. Together  with  the  two  previous  meetings  — 
in Bali, Indonesia in 2005, and in Larnaca, Cyprus, in 
2006  —  they  addressed  the  relations  of  interfaith 
dialogue  to  peace,  justice,  compassion  and  tolerance. 
The  Nanjing  Statement  issued  at  the  end  of  the 
Dialogue  reflected  the  role  of  interfaith  dialogue  in 
globalization, peace, social cohesion and development, 
and  cultural  and  educational  cooperation.  A  fourth 
Dialogue is scheduled for 2008 in Amsterdam. 

Additionally, the ASEM partnership has achieved 
substantial  results  in  boosting  cultural,  educational, 
intellectual and people-to-people exchanges, expanding 
and  facilitating  research,  networking  and  promoting 
cultural diversity.  
Europe  is  a  strong  supporter  of  the  Alliance  of 

Civilizations 
the 
President  of  the  Spanish  Government  in  2005  and 
co-sponsored  by  the  Turkish  Prime  Minister.  In April 
2007, the Secretary-General appointed Jorge Sampaio, 
former  President 
his  High 
Representative  for  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations.  The 
Alliance,  with  the  endorsement  of  the  Secretary-
General,  intends  to  galvanize  collective  action  across 
diverse  societies 
to  combat  extremism, 
overcome  cultural  and  social  barriers  between  mainly 
the  Western  and  predominantly  Muslim  worlds,  and 
It  was  proposed  by 
of  Portugal, 
initiative. 
in  order 
as 
24 

07-52846 


reduce tensions and polarization between societies that 
differ in religious and cultural values.  

It  is  our  understanding  that,  in  order  to  most 
effectively  move  forward  the  agenda  of  dialogue  and 
tolerance,  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  and  other 
United  Nations  initiatives  for  enhancing  dialogue  and 
mutual  understanding  should  be  carried  out  in  a 
coordinated,  coherent,  and  complementary  manner 
within  the  existing  institutional  framework.  The  EU 
sees 
the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  as  a  flagship 
initiative  in  that  area,  and  we  would  see  it  as  a 
potential  focal  point  for  the  increasing  number  of 
initiatives. Through a better coordination of initiatives, 
rather than their proliferation, we improve our chances 
of making a difference. 

Turning  again  to  Europe,  the  Council  of  Europe 
white paper on intercultural dialogue is expected to be 
adopted  in  November  2007.  On  its  website  devoted 
entirely  to  the  role  of  intercultural  dialogue,  the 
Council states its firm belief that  
“[d]ialogue between cultures, the oldest and most 
fundamental mode of democratic conversation, is 
an antidote to rejection and violence. Its objective 
is  to  enable  us  to  live  together  peacefully  and 
constructively  in  a  multicultural  world  and  to 
develop a sense of community and belonging”. 
Finally, 
in  October  2005, 
the  European 

Commission  proposed  that  2008  be  declared  the 
European Year of Intercultural Dialogue. With a budget 
of  €10  million,  the  European  Year  of  Intercultural 
Dialogue  will  present  a  wide  variety  of  enriching 
concrete  projects  that  will  be  implemented  in  the 
framework  of  EU  programmes  and  other  Community 
actions.  The  Year  of  Intercultural  Dialogue  will 
encourage  the  mobilization  of  civil  society  and  actors 
at  the  European,  national  and  local  levels.  Culture, 
education,  youth,  sport  and  citizenship  will  be  the 
focus of activities. 
term 

To  conclude, 
“intercivilizational  or  intercultural  dialogue”  might  be 
construed as an endorsement of the idea that humanity 
is  divided  by  monolithic  and  entirely  distinguishable 
civilizations,  but  that  is  far  from  accurate.  In  reality, 
the boundary lines between cultures are mostly unclear. 
Over time and space, different cultures  influence each 
other profoundly. Most civilizations harbour people of 
different  cultures  who  coexist  peacefully.  The 
European  Union  is  committed  to  promoting  dialogue 
is  possible 
it 
that 
the 
A/62/PV.17
It 
recognizes 
the  Foreign  Ministers  of  Pakistan  and 
and  understanding,  and 
to  striving  for  universal 
appreciation of different religions, cultures and beliefs. 
The President: I give the floor to Her Excellency 

Ms.  Karen  Hughes,  Under-Secretary 
for  Public 
Diplomacy  and  Public  Affairs  of  the  Department  of 
State of the United States of America.
Ms.  Hughes  (United  States  of  America):  I  am 

honoured  to  be  here.  I  thank  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly,  Mr.  Srgjan  Kerim,  for  convening 
this  dialogue  on  religious  and  cultural  understanding, 
and 
the 
Philippines for proposing it.  

A noble framework — the Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights, which President Bush cited here last 
week  —  guides  our  work. 
that 
“[e]veryone  has  the  right  to  freedom  of  thought, 
conscience  and  religion”  and  the  right  to  manifest 
those  beliefs  in  “teaching,  practice,  worship  and 
observance” (Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 
art.  18). This  historic  Declaration  states  that  the  right 
of  religious  freedom  is  both  universal  and  human, 
applying to all people in all places. 

Unfortunately,  in  too  many  places  today,  people 
are still persecuted for their beliefs or denied the right 
to worship. Yet our Universal Declaration and my own 
country’s  guarantee  of  freedom  of  religion  challenge 
all  of  us  to  live  up  to  our  own  high  principles  —  to 
allow  people 
to  respect 
different  beliefs,  to  seek  to  understand  even  when  we 
do  not  agree,  and  to  speak  out  against  those  who, 
through words or actions, trample religious tolerance.  

My job of public diplomacy is to reach out to the 
rest  of  the  world  and  other  peoples  in  a  spirit  of 
friendship and to respect and listen to the concerns and 
interests  of  others,  and  President  Bush  asked  me  to 
make encouraging interfaith dialogue part of my work. 
Faith is foundational in many people’s lives, and world 
leaders  would  not  be  wise  to  ignore  its  power  or  to 
cede its discussion to extremists.  

As  I  travel  the  world,  it  is  often  my  privilege  to 
meet  people  whose  faith  has  called  them  to  do  great 
good.  I  have  met  Muslim  American  doctors  who 
travelled  to  Pakistan  to  help  care  for  victims  of  the 
earthquake  there;  Catholic  nuns  who  helped  families 
left  homeless  by  mudslides  in  Central  America;  and 
volunteers  from  many  nations  whose  good  hearts  led 
them  to  help  fight  AIDS  and  malaria  in  Africa  and 
to  practice  faith  freely, 
07-52846 

25 

to 
try 
A/62/PV.17 

build  schools  in  Afghanistan.  I  know  first-hand  that 
there are people of good will in all faiths and cultures. 

My country is known for the separation of church 
and State, meaning that the United States Government 
can neither impose religion nor restrict its practice. Yet 
I  worry  that  people  in  other  parts  of  the  world 
sometimes  mistake  freedom  of  religion 
to  mean 
freedom  from  religion.  Nothing  could  be  further  from 
the  truth.  In America,  people  of  many  different  faiths 
and those of no faith live side by side and try to respect 
each other’s views. We are not perfect, and religion is 
sometimes a source of division, as is race, but respect 
for  each  other’s  diversity  is  our  goal,  and  in  the 
aftermath of 11 September, many Christian, Jewish and 
Muslim  Americans  reached  out 
to  better 
understand each other.  

I have found  that people of all  faiths have much 
in common. As a Christian, my highest commandments 
are  to  love  God  and  love  my  neighbour.  My  Muslim 
and  Jewish  friends  tell  me  the  same  is  true  for  them. 
While  there  are  theological  differences,  ultimately  I 
believe  that  the  vast  majority  of  people  of  every  faith 
and  culture  want  similar  things  for  themselves  and 
their  families  —  education  and  health  care,  a  safe 
neighbourhood,  a  good  job  —  and  most  people  want 
our lives to make a difference and to leave our world a 
little  better.  These  are  not  dreams  owned  by  any  one 
nation  or  people,  but  shared  human  dreams.  Despite 
differences  of  language  or  culture  or  skin  colour,  so 
much more unites us as human beings than divides us.  

Yet,  we  live  in  a  world  where  misunderstanding 
and mistrust are being inflamed by rhetoric of hate and 
acts  of  terror. And,  as  leaders  from  Malaysia  and  the 
Palestinian territories said in their addresses before the 
General  Assembly  this  year,  we  must  not  leave  the 
debate  only  to  those  who  seek  to  pervert  religion  by 
using violence to pursue political agendas.  

As I travel the world representing my country and 
listening to people of other countries, I find two major 
misperceptions.  First, 
in  many  Muslim-majority 
nations,  people  worry  that  the  war  against  terror  is 
directed at them. I want to assure our friends across the 
world  that  this  is  not  the  case.  Most  Americans 
recognize  that  terrorists  do  not  represent  mainstream 
thinking and  do not represent, but, instead, pervert  all 
faiths with their barbaric acts. Many of America’s own 
citizens  have  roots  in  the  Arab  world.  Others  come 
from virtually every culture and faith tradition. Islam is 
President  Karzai 
innocents,  saying,  “This  religion 
part  of  the  West  and  part  of  America,  and  several 
million  American  Muslims  live,  work  and  worship 
freely in our country. 

The second major misperception comes from my 
fellow  Americans.  I  hear  the  complaint  that  Muslims 
do  not  speak  out  against  terrorist  violence. Yet  that  is 
not the case either. Many constructive voices speak out 
strongly.  Afghanistan’s 
has 
condemned  suicide  bombing  as  contrary  to  Islam  and 
says  that  terrorists  cheat  children  by  recruiting  them. 
The  Secretary-General  of  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic  Conference  speaks  out  strongly  against 
terrorist  acts. 
Iraqi  and  Algerian  citizens  have 
denounced  terrorists  as  murderers.  Sheikh  Salman  
al-Awdah,  a  leader  of  the  Sahwa  reform  movement, 
sent  an  open  letter  condemning  Osama  bin  Laden  for 
murdering 
that 
protects  the  sanctity  of  blood,  even  that  of  the  birds 
and animals, can never approve the killing of innocents 
whatever  the  reasons  or  motives  might  be”.  As  the 
Sheikh’s letter suggests, the time has come when good 
people  of  all  faiths  must  join  together  to  state  clearly 
that killing oneself in order to kill others is wrong and 
a matter of shame, never honour. 

There  are  many  legitimate  grievances  in  our 
world,  but  none  can  ever  justify  the  targeting  and 
murder  of  innocents.  This  has  no  place  in  a  civilized 
world. We  all  have  a  role,  and America  wants  to  be  a 
partner in encouraging dialogue. Through websites and 
communications alerts, we are working to highlight the 
many voices speaking out against terrorist violence and 
greater 
for 
are 
encouraging 
interfaith  dialogue  and  conversations 
between cultures.  

Through  a  new  programme  called  Citizen 
Dialogue,  we  have  sent  Muslim-American  citizens 
across the world to engage with grass-roots citizens in 
Muslim 
international 
religious clerics here and sent American clerics abroad. 
We  have  sponsored  summer  programmes  for  young 
people, teaching respect for diversity. We have sent out 
musicians  to  promote  tolerance  and  to  show  that 
differences can enrich rather than divide us. 
We  are  dramatically  expanding  our  two-way 

education 
exchange  programmes,  bringing 
international  visitors  here  and  sending  Americans 
abroad.  I  believe  that  there  is  no  better  way  to  build 
respect and understanding than to visit, study and work 
communities.  We  brought 
understanding.  We 
interfaith 
and 
26 

07-52846 
for 
This  year, 
respectful  world 


in  each  other’s  countries.  We  have 
increased 
participation  in  these  vital  programmes  from  27,000 
people just a few years ago to more than 40,000 today, 
and  we  are  hoping  to  increase  it  further,  to  more  than 
50,000. 

We  are  also  encouraging  more  Americans  to 
travel and study overseas to experience the world’s rich 
cultural  and  religious  contributions,  to  learn  more 
about other nations of the world. We have started a new 
language 
initiative,  encouraging  America’s  young 
people  to  study  Arabic,  Chinese,  Hindi  and  other 
important world languages.  

Today’s  gathering  is  a  reminder  that  we  are  all 
part  of  an  increasingly  interconnected  world  that  calls 
on  each  of  us  —  no  matter  what  our  culture  or  faith 
community  —  to  work  for  peace,  life  and  hope.  Each 
faith and culture has the responsibility of confirming to 
all  that  it  respects  other  faiths  and  cultures.  As  we 
listen to and learn from one another, we are building a 
safer  and  more 
the  next 
generation.  

the 
800th anniversary  of  the  birth  of  Rumi,  the  great  Sufi 
poet, who wrote, “When someone asks what there is to 
do,  light  the  candle  in  their  hand”. Through  dialogue, 
we are lighting candles, and I hope this light will shine 
across the world. 
to 

His Excellency  Mr.  Viktar  Gaisenak,  Deputy  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Belarus. 

Mr.  Gaisenak  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
Religious  intolerance,  xenophobia  and  opposition  of 
one culture to another today pose a real threat to peace 
and  stability  in  our  world. Accordingly,  engaging  in  a 
dialogue  among  cultures  and  religions,  based  on 
mutual  understanding,  equality,  mutual  respect  and 
tolerance, is a major challenge of our day. 

repeatedly 
The  Republic  of  Belarus  has 
proclaimed its commitment to intensifying this kind of 
dialogue  for  peace.  Proof  of  this  is  the  initiative  put 
forward  by  President  Lukashenka  at  the  2005  World 
Summit (see A/60/PV.5) to recognize diversity of ways 
to progress in the development of States as a value of 
human civilization.  
Respect  for  the  sui  generis  nature  of  States  and 

the right of peoples to follow their own path based on 
international  dialogue  is  an  essential  condition  for  the 
The  President: 
is  celebrating 
I  now  give 
the  world 
floor 
the 
A/62/PV.17
is 
is 
Belarus 
taking  concrete 
in 
implemented 
the 
in  everyday 
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security. 
Dialogue  among  cultures  and  religions  has  to  take 
place at all levels — national, regional and global. The 
Republic  of  Belarus  and  its  Government  are  making 
the necessary effort to support this kind of dialogue at 
the  national  level.  Our  country  is  a  multi-ethnic  and 
multireligious State. Belarus has more than 140 ethnic 
groups,  and  more  than  3,000  organizations  reflecting 
25 faiths and religious beliefs operate in Belarus.  

The concern of the State to ensure the right of our 
citizens  to  enjoy  the  freedom  of  conscience  and 
religion,  as  enshrined 
legislation  of  our 
Republic, 
life.  The 
Government’s  programme  for  the  development  of 
cooperation  with  religions  has  been  adopted  and  is 
being  successfully  carried  out,  as  is  cooperation  with 
ethnic groups and our compatriots living abroad.  

the 
steps  at 
international level as well, including within the United 
Nations  in  order  to  support  religious  and  cultural 
understanding.  Our  country  was  one  of  the  first  to 
accede  to  the  UNESCO  Convention  on  the  Protection 
and  Promotion  of 
the  Diversity  of  Cultural 
Expressions. The Republic of Belarus has traditionally 
been  a  sponsor  of  all  draft  resolutions  adopted  by  the 
General  Assembly  that  seek  to  encourage  dialogue 
among civilizations and cultures. 

In  June  2007,  our  country  participated  in  the 
Conference on Interfaith Cooperation for Peace and the 
Ministerial  Meeting  on 
Interfaith  Dialogue  and 
Cooperation 
for  Peace.  The  purpose  of  our 
participation in these initiatives is to support real steps 
to 
intercultural 
and 
understanding and dialogue for peace.  
Accordingly,  we  welcome  the  establishment  in 

the  Secretariat  of  a  focal  point  for  questions  of 
interreligious 
and 
cooperation.  In  addition,  we  believe  it  would  be 
desirable  to  make  better  use  of  the  information  and 
communication  technology  mechanisms  within  the 
Secretariat, including United Nations Radio, as well as 
the  resources  of  the  specialized  agencies,  funds  and 
programmes of the United Nations system, to promote 
the  development  of 
interfaith  understanding  and 
cooperation.  We  also  welcome  the  productive  steps 
taken  towards  the  implementation  of  international 
initiatives within the United Nations to mutually enrich 
cultures  and  to  make  progress  towards  implementing 
interreligious 
intercultural 
expanding 
dialogue 
and 
07-52846 

27 

of 
to  choose 
particular 
the 
it 
is  a  key 
appointment 
to  achieving 
A/62/PV.17 

the  Global Agenda  for  Dialogue  among  Civilizations, 
in 
the  High 
Representative for the Alliance of Civilizations. 

In  the  context  of  the  item  that  we  are  now 
discussing, a truly remarkable international event took 
place  in  September  this  year:  the  Ministerial  Meeting 
of  the  Non-Aligned  Countries  held  in Tehran.  For  the 
first  time  ever,  the  topic  of  cultural  diversity  and 
human  rights  was  discussed  within  the  context  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement. That  is  a  natural  outcome  of 
the  development  of  the  Movement,  which  does  not 
endorse  confrontation  and  defends  every  country’s 
right 
its  own  path  of  progressive 
development  for  the  benefit  of  its  population,  without 
fear  of  the  powerful  of  this  world.  The  Movement  is 
focusing  on  intercultural  dialogue  and  cooperation 
because 
sustainable 
development and mutual understanding at all levels.  

We  believe  that  the  Tehran  Declaration  and 
Programme  of  Action  on  Human  Rights  and  Cultural 
Diversity,  which  was  adopted  as  the  outcome  of  that 
meeting,  and  the  decision  to  establish  a  Non-Aligned 
Movement  Centre  for  Human  Rights  and  Cultural 
Diversity  are  of  great  importance  not  only  for  the 
Movement but also for the international community as 
a  whole.  The  Declaration,  inter  alia,  calls  upon  the 
international  community  to  maximize  the  benefits  of 
globalization 
promote 
understanding  and  respect  for  cultural  diversity.  It 
emphasizes that it is only through broad and sustained 
efforts that we can create a shared future based on our 
common  humanity  and  all  its  diversity.  It  indicates 
priority  areas  for  such  efforts,  in  particular  education, 
the  mass  media,  cultural  and  academic  activities  and 
cooperation  within  the  United  Nations  and  other 
international  organizations,  as  well  as  activities  by 
non-governmental  organizations.  The  Movement’s 
Ministers  for  Foreign  Affairs  also  agreed  that  issues 
related  to  respect  for  human  rights  and  cultural 
diversity must be taken into account in programmes in 
the main areas of the Movement’s activities.  

I  assure  the  General Assembly  that  the  Republic 
of  Belarus  will  continue  to  participate  actively  in 
coordinated international efforts to achieve full mutual 
understanding  among  cultures  and  religions,  in  the 
service of peace and progress in our world. 
and 
cooperation 
to 
28 

The  President:  I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency 

Ms. Helena  Bambasova,  Deputy  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Czech Republic. 
Ms.  Bambasova  (Czech  Republic):  The  Czech 

Republic  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made  earlier 
by  the  representative  of  Portugal  on  behalf  of  the 
European Union. 

Over the centuries, the inhabitants of the territory 
of the Czech Republic, a country at the very centre of 
Europe, have witnessed the disastrous consequences of 
many periods of religious intolerance and of the failure 
to  respect  cultural  diversity  and  diversity  of  opinion. 
Many  people  had  to  go  into  exile  to  preserve  their 
beliefs  and  ideas,  and  we  take  pride  in  the  fact  that 
many of them took their ideals of peaceful cooperation 
and cultural tolerance along with them. Among others, 
Jan  Amos  Comenius  and  many  of  his  Moravian 
brothers  had  to  leave  their  country  in  search  of  more 
tolerant places. 

When  the  Czechoslovak  State  first  saw  the  light 
of  day,  in  1918,  wide-reaching  religious  freedom,  and 
freedom  of  faith  and  conscience  were  constitutionally 
guaranteed.  That  paved  the  way  for  interreligious 
dialogue and for an equal partnership between religion 
and a democratic State based on civil society. After the 
fall  of  communism,  our  society  once  again  opened  up 
to  the  outside  world,  and  we  began  to  learn  new 
lessons  about  accepting  cultural  and 
religious 
differences as a value rather than a threat. 

Nearly 60 years ago, the Universal Declaration of 
Human  Rights  became  an  inspiration  for  all  societies. 
Following  the  tragic  events  of  the  Second World War, 
and  with  the  painful  memory  of  suffering  still  vivid, 
nations demonstrated a strong commitment not to allow 
a repetition of such tragedies. The spirit and the text of 
the  Declaration  —  which 
long  nor 
complicated  —  reflect  the  best  ingredients  for  peace: 
tolerance,  respect  for  diversity  and  the  protection  and 
promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms. 
Indeed, today, 60 years later, there is no better solution: 
using  these  three  avenues  is  the  best  way  to  reduce 
tension,  to  explain  misunderstandings  and  to  come  to 
the  realization  that  the  values  of  humanity  unite  us  in 
all our differences, which enrich our shared existence.  

If  we  are  to  be  tolerant  in  our  words  and  deeds 
and to appreciate the differences of others, we have to 
know  ourselves,  and  we  have  to  understand  our 
differences. For that, we need dialogue. Where there is 
is  neither 
07-52846 
the 
value 
of 
differences 


no  genuine  and  open  dialogue  across  religious  and 
cultural  lines,  there  is  space  for  prejudice.  Only 
dialogue 
facilitates  mutual  understanding,  which 
prevents  violence  and  plays  an  important  role  in  the 
maintenance  of  peace  and  the  prevention  of  conflict. 
As the UNESCO Constitution states, “since wars begin 
in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the 
defences of peace must be constructed”.  

In  order  to  lead  a  genuine  dialogue,  one  must 
come  to  it  with  an  open  mind  and  listen  to  others. To 
create  the  conditions  for  a  free,  spontaneous  and 
fruitful dialogue that reflects the variety of opinions in 
a  society,  we  must  ensure  freedom  of  expression, 
pluralism and free participation by civil society and the 
public.  

We need to learn about all cultures and religions. 
Indeed, we need to learn the art of leading a dialogue. 
Education  for  tolerance  must  not  be  limited  to  school 
education.  In  our  efforts,  we  should  include  all  of 
society,  not  only  young  people,  although  their  role  in 
crossing  traditional  borders  and  in  being  willing  to 
accept 
be 
underestimated.  We  must  further  include  journalists, 
teachers and all members of the public.  

In  supporting  dialogue,  cooperation,  tolerance 
and education, the United Nations has played and must 
continue  to  play  a  crucial  and  instrumental  role. 
Tolerance  is  one  of  the  key  principles  on  which  the 
United  Nations  was  founded  in  its  struggle  for  a 
peaceful  future.  The  closer  we  come  together  in  our 
globalized  world, 
our 
understanding  and  our  capacity  for  intercultural  and 
interreligious dialogue will become.  

For that reason, we were pleased to participate in 
the informal thematic debate on “Civilizations and the 
Challenge  for  Peace:  Obstacles  and  Opportunities”, 
held  during  the  sixty-first  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. We would like to commend the President of 
the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first  session,  Sheikha  Haya 
Rashed  Al-Khalifa,  for  organizing  that  event,  which 
was  in  the  right  direction,  as  it  encouraged  genuine 
dialogue.  
We would like to pay special tribute to the work 

of  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  and  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  express  our  full  support  for  Mr.  Jorge 
Sampaio,  High  Representative  for  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations, and for his efforts. We also fully support 
the  activities  of  UNESCO.  We  participate  actively  in 
the  more 
important 
cannot 
07-52846 

A/62/PV.17
those and other valuable projects and programmes. We 
welcome opportunities to learn more about others, and 
we  are  prepared  to  support  genuine  dialogue  in  all 
bodies of the United Nations. 

Once we have succeeded in learning how to lead 
an  open,  friendly  and  genuine  dialogue  among  our 
cultures and religions and to promote the principles of 
tolerance, non-discrimination, respect and protection of 
the  human  rights  of  every  individual  in  our  societies, 
we will be on the way to achieving the goals enshrined 
in the United Nations Charter.  

In conclusion, let me assure the Assembly that the 
Czech  Republic  is  prepared  to  contribute  actively  to 
the  achievement  of  our  common  goal  of  promoting 
interreligious  and 
intercultural  understanding  and 
cooperation for peace. 

The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Lyubomir Kyuchukov, Deputy Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of Bulgaria. 
Mr.  Kyuchukov  (Bulgaria):  On  behalf  of  the 

Bulgarian  Government,  I  commend  the  convening  of 
today’s  High-level  Dialogue  on  Interreligious  and 
Intercultural Understanding and Cooperation for Peace. 
I will try to be very concrete, practical and pragmatic. 

is  one  of 
tolerance  among  its  citizens,  irrespective  of  their 
religious  denomination  and  cultural  heritage.  My 
country  is  at  the  crossroads  between  Christianity  and 
Islam.  Bulgarians, Turks,  Jews,  Roma, Armenians  and 
other ethnic groups form the modern Bulgarian nation 
and  are  proud  that  ethnic  and  religious  tolerance  has 
always prevailed and that Bulgaria was one of the two 
European  States  where,  even  in  the  most  turbulent 
historical  moments  —  such  as  the  Second  World 
War  —  Jews  were  saved  from  deportation  by  their 
fellow countrymen.  

In recent times, Bulgaria has embodied the model 
of transition that is characterized by preserving  ethnic 
and religious peace. Everyone can understand what that 
means when we look at the map of South-East Europe 
and the western Balkans in post-Yugoslavia times. That 
is  not  to  say  that  we  feel  immune,  yet  tolerance 
remains predominant at the societal level — a genuine 
characteristic of the national mentality. 

That  is  why  we  supported  and  will  consistently 
continue to support the Alliance of Civilizations. I take 
this  opportunity  to  extend  congratulations  to  the  High 
Bulgaria’s  historical  experience 
29 

for 
The 
success  of 
the  Secretary-General 
A/62/PV.17 

Representative  of 
the 
Alliance of Civilizations, President Jorge Sampaio, and 
to wish him success, in which we all have a stake and 
to  which  we  can  all  contribute.  As  a  member  of  the 
Alliance of Civilizations Group of Friends, Bulgaria is 
currently developing its national action plan.  

the  noble  endeavour  of 
intercultural dialogue depends to a great extent on the 
interaction  between  the  United  Nations  and  relevant 
regional  organizations.  The  European  Union, 
in 
partnership with the United Nations and on its own, is 
a factor for the promotion of interfaith and intercultural 
understanding.  Bulgaria  strongly  supports  the  ongoing 
initiatives  aimed  at  promoting  peaceful  coexistence 
and  cooperation,  such  as  the  Euromed  Barcelona 
process,  with  its  Anna  Lindh  Euro-Mediterranean 
Foundation  for  Dialogue  between  Cultures,  the  Black 
Sea  Synergy,  and  the  European  Union  Strategy  on 
Central Asia. Bulgaria joined the Asia-Europe Meeting 
(ASEM) Forum and intends to participate in the ASEM 
Interfaith Dialogue. 

We  also  welcome  the  declaration  of  2008  as  the 
European  Year  of  Intercultural  Dialogue,  meant, 
inter alia, 
integration  of 
minority  groups  and  faith-based  communities, 
in 
particular  Muslim 
in  non-Muslim 
environments.  I  should  like  to  refer  to  a  specific 
example. 
in  Bulgaria 
the 

Government 
attribute  great 
importance  to  the  integration  of  the  Roma  population. 
Ample  proof  of  such  joint  action  was  the  Decade  of 
Roma  Inclusion  initiative.  Conceived  by  the  United 
Nations Development Programme, it was supported by 
nine  Governments 
from  Central  and  South-East 
Europe. It marked the first attempt on an international 
scale at joint action aimed at improving the lives of the 

to  bring  about  a  better 
in  Europe, 
society 
Like  elsewhere 
communities 
and 
civil 
stability,  because 
Roma in Europe. The Decade was officially announced 
in  2005  in  Sofia.  In  the  course  of  the  Bulgarian 
presidency  of  the  Decade,  the  first  monitoring  report 
was prepared by Roma civil society organizations and 
released in Sofia in June this year. 

The  region  of  South-East  Europe  represents  a 
crossroads  of  cultural  and  religious  diversity.  The 
Bulgarian  chairmanship-in-office  of  the  South-East 
European Cooperation Process is an opportunity for us 
to  contribute  in  an  even  more  active  manner  to  the 
consolidation  of 
intercultural, 
interethnic and interfaith dialogue in our region means 
nothing less than peace, stability and security. 

Guided  by  such  an  approach,  we  launched  and 
helped  to  materialize  concrete  steps  to  enhance  direct 
dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina at the level of 
ministers  of  culture,  leading  to  the  restoration  and 
preservation  of  cultural  and  religious  monuments  in 
Kosovo.  In  2003,  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Bulgaria, Georgi Parvanov, launched the idea of a joint 
project  on  cultural  corridors  in  South-East  Europe, 
intended  to  promote,  together  with  UNESCO,  the 
centuries-old  connections  between  the  peoples  of  the 
region  that  today  form  the  basis  for  better  regional 
cooperation and development. Several regional forums 
traced  a  road  map  to  a  new  kind  of  attitude  and 
interpretation of the rich cultural heritage of the region. 

We therefore firmly support international efforts, 
including  the  unique  role  of  the  United  Nations,  to 
promote  development,  peace  and  security  through 
international 
and 
interreligious  dialogue.  Today’s  forum  could  make  a 
difference if it helps us get closer to a consensus in that 
respect. 
The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m. 

intercultural 
cooperation 
and 
30 

07-52846 
