
A/62/PV.43
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

43rd plenary meeting 
Thursday, 1 November 2007, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia)






  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Rosselli 
(Uruguay), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 



the  countries  of 
Agenda item 76 (continued)
Report of the International Criminal Court 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/62/314) 

Mr.  Tavares  (Portugal):  At  the  outset,  I  would 

like  to  congratulate  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal Court.  

Today I have the honour to speak on behalf of the 
European  Union.  The  candidate  countries  of  Croatia 
and  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia, 
Turkey, 
the  Stabilization  and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidates Albania, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Serbia  and  Montenegro,  the 
European  Free  Trade  Association  (EFTA)  country 
Iceland,  member  of  the  European  Economic  Area,  as 
well as Ukraine, Moldova, Armenia and Georgia align 
themselves with this statement.  
The European Union (EU) is firmly committed to 

ending  impunity  for  the  most  heinous  crimes  of 
concern 
community.  The 
International Criminal Court (ICC), created almost ten 
years  ago,  is  one  of  the  greatest  achievements  in  the 
fight  against  impunity.  The  EU  reiterates  its  strong 
support for the work of the Court.  

The importance of the ICC should be seen within 
the  wider  context  of  international  order.  The  Court  is 
international 
the 
to 
for 
respect 
States  have 
the  primary 
responsibility 
importantly placed to contribute to a more peaceful and 
just  world,  promoting 
international 
humanitarian  law,  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law. 
The European Union remains convinced that peace and 
justice  are  not  conflicting  goals,  quite  the  contrary.  In 
our  view,  sustainable  peace  cannot  be  achieved  if  the 
demands  for  individual  accountability  for  the  most 
serious international crimes are not duly addressed.  

for 
bringing offenders to justice. The ICC will only step in 
as a last resort, if States fail to carry out their duty. The 
ICC plays a significant role in ensuring accountability 
where  national  judicial  systems  have  failed  or  are  not 
willing  or  able  to  function.  As  for  deterrence  and 
prevention,  the  European  Union  views  the  ICC  as  an 
essential  instrument  for  the  prevention  of  genocide, 
crimes against humanity and war crimes.  

The European Union expresses its appreciation to 
the  Court  for  its  report  (A/62/314). The  report  clearly 
demonstrates  that  the  Court  is  a  living  institution  that 
has  achieved  substantial  progress  in  its  investigations 
and judicial proceedings. In this respect, the EU shares 
the  Court’s  concerns  in  relation  to  the  outstanding 
arrest warrants arising from the ICC’s investigations in 
Darfur  and  Uganda. The  EU  urges  all  parties  to  work 
with  the  Court  to  ensure  that  these  individuals  are 
brought  to  justice  as  soon  as  possible.  The  EU 
emphasizes the obligation on the Government of Sudan 
to cooperate with the Court under the terms of Security 
Council resolution 1593 (2005).  


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-58072 (E) 
*0758072* 

The  European  Union  echoes 
A/62/PV.43 


The 105 States party to the Rome Statute and the 
four  situations  before  the  Court  represent  significant 
achievements  for  a  young  Court.  In  this  context,  we 
would like to underline three key developments in the 
situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The 
trial  against  Mr.  Lubanga  Dyilo  is  under  preparation, 
and  four  victims  participated  in  the  hearing  through 
their  legal  representatives.  This  was  the  first  time  in 
the  history  of  an  international  criminal  court  that 
victims  participated  in  proceedings  in  their  own  right, 
without  being  called  as  witnesses.  In  that  connection, 
the  EU  also  welcomes  the  arrest  and  transfer  of 
Germain  Katanga  to  custody  of  the  ICC  custody  on 
18 October.  

the  Secretary-
General’s  statement  marking  the  fifth  anniversary  of 
the  Court,  in  which  he  said  that  the  ICC  had  already 
established  itself  as  a  centrepiece  of  a  system  of 
international  criminal  justice.  The  EU  welcomes  the 
Court’s  increased  cooperation  with  other  international 
and hybrid tribunals in particular the Special Court for 
Sierra Leone.  

We  all  agree  that  the  Court  has  taken  its  first 
well-grounded  steps  and  that  the  report  shows  its 
achievements. The  Court,  however,  relies  critically  on 
effective cooperation and assistance by States, as well 
as  on  the  United  Nations  and  other  international  and 
regional organizations.  

As  the  ICC  does  not  have  an  enforcement 
capacity, assistance is particularly needed for the arrest 
of suspects, the provision of evidence, the relocation of 
witnesses, 
the 
enforcement of sentences. We stress the importance of 
cooperation  by  States  Parties  and  non-States  Parties 
with  the  Court,  both  in  general  and  as  regards 
specifically the execution of arrest warrants.  
Furthermore,  the  EU  appreciates  the  deepened 

cooperation  with 
in 
particular with the United Nations. The United Nations 
is a critical partner to the ICC in the field, as it may be 
in  a  position  to  provide  the  Court  with  evidence  or 
logistical  support.  The  EU  invites  the  Secretary-
General to make this support even more tangible on the 
ground.  

cooperation  and  assistance 
European  Union 
The EU and the ICC concluded an agreement on 
in  April  2006.  The 
relevant 
the  protection  of  victims  and 
international  organizations, 
encourages 
other 
to 
for 
organizing 
the 
to 
including 
the  African  Union, 
The  European  Union  wishes 
organizations, 
formalize their cooperation with the Court.  

The  European  Union  is  a  strong  and  active 
advocate  for  the  universality  of  the  ICC  and  a 
dedicated defender of the integrity of the Rome Statute. 
The EU reiterates its  call for the universal ratification 
of the Rome Statute, as well as of the Agreement on the 
Privileges and Immunities of the Court. The EU recalls 
its  Common  Position  and  Action  Plan  to  support  the 
Court, as well as the array of instruments at its disposal 
to  promote  the  universality  and  integrity  of  the  Rome 
Statute.  

The  EU  also  welcomes  the  ICC’s  intensified 
efforts  relating  to  its  outreach  activities  in  the  field. 
Reaching out to societies and people affected by crime 
is paramount for the successful discharge of the wider 
mandate  of  the  Court.  In  that  respect,  the  Court’s 
activities are particularly important when it is reaching 
out to victims, who have a unique role under the Rome 
Statute. 
thank 

Liechtenstein 
intersessional 
meetings  of  the  Special  Working  Group  on  the  Crime 
of Aggression, held at Princeton. Those meetings have 
proved  to  be  highly  conducive  to  the  preparation  of 
provisions  relating  to  the  crime  of  aggression,  the 
definition  of  which  is  of  interest  to  the  entire  United 
Nations  membership.  The  EU 
to 
contribute to the finalization of the work on the crime 
of  aggression  and  will  support  solutions  that  are 
consistent  with  the  letter  and  the  spirit  of  the  Rome 
Statute and the United Nations Charter. 

The  EU  would  like  to  underline  once  again  that 
cooperation  and  assistance  by  all  of  us,  the  United 
Nations 
regional 
organizations, 
to 
if 
successfully carry out its activities. 
Mr.  Sealy  (Trinidad  and  Tobago):  Trinidad  and 

Tobago  has  the  honour  and  the  privilege  to  speak  on 
behalf  of  the  members  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM) that are States parties to the Rome Statute 
of the International Criminal Court (ICC) on the report 
of the Court contained in document A/62/314. 

That  report,  which  is  issued  in  keeping  with 
article  6  of  the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the 
United  Nations  and 
relevant 
information on the activities that the Court has carried 
the  ICC,  provides 
is  committed 
remains  vital 
international 
and  other 
the  Court 
is 
and 
2 

07-58072 


out during the past year as it has sought to discharge its 
mandate in accordance with the provisions of the Rome 
Statute.  We  acknowledge  the  role  of  the  ICC  as  the 
only permanent international tribunal charged with the 
responsibility  to  prosecute  individuals  accused  of 
committing  the  most  serious  crimes  of  concern  to  the 
international  community,  namely,  genocide,  war 
crimes,  crimes  against  humanity  and  —  when  a 
definition  of  the  crime  is  finally  adopted  pursuant  to 
articles 121 and 123 of the Rome Statute — the crime 
of aggression. 

On  1  July  of  this  year,  we  celebrated  the  fifth 
anniversary of the entry into force of the Rome Statute. 
In  a  short  period  of  five  years,  the  Court  has  made 
substantial progress in putting the necessary systems in 
place  to  effect  the  prosecution  of  individuals  accused 
of  committing  crimes  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court,  thus  ensuring  that  justice  is  brought  to  the 
hapless victims of serious crimes, without prejudice to 
the rights of the accused. 

In  that  regard,  CARICOM  States  parties  note 
with  satisfaction  the  progress  made  by  the  Court  in 
March  2007  with  the  confirmation  of  charges  in  the 
Thomas Lubanga Dyilo case, relating to the situation in 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  and  with  the 
preparations  for 
trial. 
CARICOM  is  further  pleased  to  note  the  arrest  and 
surrender  of  Germain  Katanga  earlier  this  month  and 
the  prompt  commencement  of  pre-trial  proceedings  in 
his case.  

However,  we  are  concerned  about  the  non-
apprehension  to  date  of  those  accused  of  committing 
crimes  in  the  Darfur  region  of  the  Sudan  and  also  in 
northern  Uganda,  despite 
issuance  of  arrest 
warrants for those individuals. We are satisfied that the 
Prosecutor  has  conducted  adequate  investigations  into 
those cases, and we wish to reiterate previous calls for 
the  relevant  authorities  of  the  States  concerned  and 
other  entities  to  cooperate  with  the  Court  in  the 
execution  of  the  arrest  warrants  and  the  surrender  of 
the accused persons to face trial. 

CARICOM  States  parties  recognize  and  affirm 
the importance of cooperation between national justice 
and 
recent 
conclusion  of 
the  memorandum  of  understanding 
regulating  the  establishment  and  functioning  of  the 
Court  on  the  territory  of  the  Central African  Republic 
is exemplary. 
the  commencement  of  his 
justice.  The 
international 
criminal 
the 
A/62/PV.43
The 
the 
ICC 
to 
jurisdiction  of 
is,  however, 

complementary 
that  of  national  courts.  This 
principle,  which  is  enshrined  in  article  1  of  the  Rome 
Statute, is a clear demonstration that the drafters of the 
Rome Statute were conscious of the sovereign right of 
States  to  prosecute  their  nationals  accused  of  the 
commission of crimes within the scope of the Statute.  

Correspondingly,  we  also  recognize  that  States 
have  a  legal  obligation  to  cooperate  with  the  Court  in 
several areas, including through the execution of arrest 
warrants, the surrender of accused persons, the transfer 
of  prisoners,  the  enforcement  of  sentences  and  the 
protection and relocation of witnesses. In that respect, 
we call upon all States parties that have not yet done so 
to  enact  comprehensive  legislation  to  give  domestic 
legal effect to their binding legal obligations under the 
Statute.  The  enactment  of  implementing  legislation 
would not  only ensure that States  have the legal  basis 
for the prosecution of those accused of the commission 
of crimes domestically, in keeping with the well-known 
principle of law Nulla poena sine lege, but would also 
assist  in  negating  any  possible  challenges  to  the 
jurisdiction of the Court in instances where a State has 
referred  a  matter  to  the  Court.  We  also  call  on  States 
parties  and  others  to  ratify  as  soon  as  possible  the 
Agreement  on  the  Privileges  and  Immunities  of  the 
ICC  so  that  the  Court  can  perform  its  work  in  their 
jurisdictions in an unencumbered manner. 

We  are  encouraged  by  the  steps  taken  by  the 
Court  to  meet  with  several  individuals,  organizations 
and  groups,  including  representatives  of  the  African 
Union  and  of  African  States,  in  the  context  of  the 
relationship  agreement  between  the  ICC  and  the 
African  Union.  Additionally,  we  welcome  with 
appreciation 
the  Headquarters 
Agreement  between  the  International  Criminal  Court 
and the Kingdom of the Netherlands, which defines the 
relationship between the Court and the host State. 

Over  the  past  year,  the  Court  has  shown  great 
resolve  in  becoming  a  truly  global  judicial  institution. 
In  addition  to  welcoming  five  new  States  parties  — 
including  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  of  the  CARICOM 
region  —  the  Court  has  embarked  on  an  enhanced 
outreach  programme.  That  has 
to  a  greater 
awareness  of  the  role  of  the  Court,  especially  in  the 
situation 
any 
misconceptions  concerning  its  operations,  while  also 
enhancing its legitimacy. 
signing  of 
countries, 
reducing 
thereby 
led 
the 
07-58072 

3 

A/62/PV.43 


The  preamble  to  the  Rome  Statute  contemplates 
cooperation between the Court and the United Nations, 
while  recognizing  the  independence  of  the  Court. 
Consequently,  we  note  with  satisfaction  the  contacts 
made  between  officials  of  both  institutions  during  the 
past  year  on  matters  germane  to  their  respective  work 
programmes.  International  confidence  in  the  work  of 
the Court was also strengthened with the conclusion of 
the  memorandum  of  understanding  between  the  Court 
and  the  Special  Court  for  Sierra  Leone.  Through  the 
provision  of  assistance  for  the  conduct  of  the  Charles 
Taylor trial, the ICC has demonstrated its commitment 
to assist in the fight against impunity in any part of the 
globe. 

The  sixth  session  of  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties to the ICC will be held here at United Nations 
Headquarters  from  30  November  to  16  December 
2007.  We  are  hopeful  that  attendance  during  this 
session  of  the Assembly  of  States  Parties  will  surpass 
that  of  all  previous  sessions  because  all  105  States 
parties and all signatory States and observer States are 
represented  at  United  Nations  Headquarters  in  New 
York.  This  will  be  an  opportune  moment  for  the 
continuation of efforts aimed at universalization of the 
Rome Statute.  

Included  among  the  items  on  the  agenda  of  the 
forthcoming  session  of  the Assembly  of  States  Parties 
is  the  election  of  judges  to  fill  the  judicial  vacancies 
occasioned by the retirement of three judges, including 
Judge Hudson-Phillips from Trinidad and Tobago. The 
Government  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  has  announced, 
and  CARICOM  has  endorsed,  the  candidature  of 
retired Justice of Appeal Jean Permanand, a person  of 
high  moral  integrity  and  a  distinguished  jurist  with 
competence  in  criminal  law  and  procedure,  to  fill  one 
of those three vacancies. 

CARICOM States parties are of the view that the 
International Criminal Court is an international judicial 
institution of which the international community can be 
justly  proud.  These  States  will  continue  to  steadfastly 
support  the  ICC  and  will  encourage  other  States, 
including  CARICOM  member  States,  to  adhere  to  the 
Rome  Statute  since  we  are  firmly  convinced  that  it  is 
only through the effective functioning of an institution 
such  as  this  that  we  can  put  an  end  to  the  culture  of 
impunity  for  these  grave  crimes  of  concern  to  the 
international  community  and  bring  peace  and  stability 
to  countries  where  these  heinous  crimes  have  been 
committed. 
Mr.  Van  Bohemen  (New  Zealand):  I  have  the 

honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  Canada,  Australia  and 
New  Zealand  (CANZ).  We  wish  to  thank  Judge 
Philippe  Kirsch,  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC),  for  his  positive  and  direct 
presentation of the report on the work and situation of 
the Court.  

Since its creation, just five years ago, the ICC has 
made  important  progress.  There  are  now  105 States 
parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  ICC. The  Office  of 
the Prosecutor is currently investigating crimes in four 
situations.  Arrest  warrants  have  been  issued  against 
alleged  perpetrators  in  three  of  these  situations.  In 
January this  year, the Court confirmed  charges of  war 
crimes  against  Thomas  Lubanga  Dyilo,  a  former 
Congolese  militia  leader.  We  await  his  trial,  the  first 
ever  before  the  International  Criminal  Court,  due  to 
start in early 2008. 

CANZ welcomes and commends the recent action 
by the Government of the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo  to  surrender  Germain  Katanga  to  the  Court. 
This surrender provides a timely example of the results 
that  can  be  achieved  with  the  cooperation  of  the 
situation country. 

Zealand 
acknowledge, however, that the  ICC continues to  face 
major challenges. Perhaps the most significant of these 
arises from the fact that the Court is heavily reliant on 
support  and  assistance  from  States  and,  on  occasion, 
from international organizations and others, in order to 
fulfil its mandate under the Rome Statute. This is well-
illustrated  by 
the  six 
outstanding arrest warrants for the Darfur and Uganda 
investigations.  The 
if 
perpetrators  believe  it  has  the  power  to  act.  This 
requires  the  cooperation  of  all  States  to  give  effect  to 
arrest  warrants  and  assist  with  other  ongoing 
investigations. 

CANZ  calls  on  the  Governments  of  Sudan  and 
Uganda to play their part in the ICC’s work to bring an 
end  to  impunity  for  the  most  serious  international 
crimes.  In  particular,  we  urge  the  Government  of  the 
Sudan  to  take  all  steps  to  arrest  Minister  of  State  for 
Humanitarian  Affairs,  Ahmad  Harun,  and  militia 
leader, Ali Kushayb, and transfer them to the Court for 
trial. Acting  on  these  arrest  warrants  will  demonstrate 
not only respect for the rule of law but also support for 
international criminal justice generally. 
the  current  situation  with 
Australia 
ICC  can 
succeed  only 
Canada, 
and 
New 
4 

07-58072 



Canada, Australia and New Zealand consider that 
support for and cooperation with the Court is critical to 
its success, although such support can take a variety of 
different  forms.  For  example,  New  Zealand  recently 
signed  an  agreement  with  the  ICC  to  provide  specific 
cooperation. We  would  encourage  all  States  parties  to 
consider  what  practical  measures  they  can  take  to 
support the work of the Court. 

The  ICC  has  continued  to  develop  cooperative 
relationships with a number of international courts and 
tribunals.  A  unique  and  unprecedented 
level  of 
cooperation  exists  between  the  Court  and  the  Special 
Court for Sierra Leone. We welcome the assistance the 
ICC is providing to this Special Court in relation to the 
trial  of  Charles  Taylor.  We  see  this  as  helping  to 
achieve 
the  broader  goal  of  combating  criminal 
impunity  which  underpins  the  very  establishment  of 
the ICC. 

Universal ratification of the Rome Statute is also 
crucial  to  the  ICC’s  success.  If  we  are  to  ensure  that 
the  perpetrators  of  the  most  world’s  most  egregious 
crimes  are  denied  a  safe  haven,  we  must  step  up  our 
collective  efforts  to  promote  the  universality  of  the 
Rome  Statute.  In  that  regard,  Canada,  Australia  and 
New  Zealand  welcomed,  at  last  year’s  assembly  of 
States  parties,  the  adoption  of  the  plan  of  action  for 
achieving  universality  and  full  implementation  of  the 
Rome  Statute.  Since  then,  we  have  also  welcomed 
Japan  as  a  party  to  the  Rome  Statute.  We  hope  that 
Japan’s  accession  will  encourage  additional  States  to 
join, particularly States from Asia. 
Canada,  Australia  and  New  Zealand  have 

continued 
to 
encourage  further  ratifications. For  example, Australia 
recently  took  the  opportunity  presented  by  the  ICC’s 
Prosecutor’s visit to Australia in August, to convene a 
regional  seminar  attended  by  70  officials  from  the 
Asia-Pacific, 
senior 
Government  officials,  to  promote  accession  to  the 
Rome Statute. 

Since  September  2000,  Canada’s  International 
Criminal  Court  and  Accountability  Campaign,  funded 
by Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada, has 
provided more than $4.3 million in funding to support 
events  and  projects  that  promote  ratification  and 
implementation  of  the  Rome  Statute,  assist  with  the 
effective 
the  Court  and  other 
international  criminal  tribunals  and  provide  education 
including  ministers 
functioning  of 
and 
their  efforts  at 
the  regional 
level 
A/62/PV.43
and outreach related to the ICC and other international 
criminal tribunals. 

CANZ will continue to provide the ICC with our 
strong and unwavering support. We call on all Member 
States to do the same. 
Mr. Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  I  would  like  to 

thank the President of the International Criminal Court 
(ICC), Mr. Philippe Kirsch, for presenting the report of 
the ICC to the General Assembly today.  

The  Court  has  continued  to  make  important 
progress  in  its  operations  and  judicial  work.  This  is 
evidenced, in particular, by the situation regarding the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  We  note  with 
satisfaction  the  recent  surrender  of  a  second  indicted 
person  in  that  situation,  which  will  give  the  ICC  a 
further opportunity to prove its excellence.  

We  commend  all  organs  of  the  Court  for  their 
highly  professional,  independent  and  impartial  work 
over  the  last  year.  Indeed,  we  have  no  doubt  that  the 
ICC  is  working  in  the  manner  envisioned  by  the 
drafters  of  the  statute  and  its  activities  in  The  Hague 
and in the field clearly have an impact on the situations 
under  consideration,  but  also  a  preventative  impact  in 
general. 

As  outlined  in  the  ICC’s  report,  the  Court 
continues to rely and depend on cooperation by States 
and  international  organizations  with  respect  to  the 
operational aspect of its work, in particular, arrest and 
surrender. We note with great concern that currently six 
arrest  warrants  are  still  awaiting  their  execution.  For 
some of them, this has been the case for more than two 
years.  This  state  of  affairs  is  unacceptable.  We  call 
upon all States, parties and non-parties alike, as well as 
on other relevant actors, such as the Security Council, 
to  consider  the  consequences  of  such  inaction  at  this 
juncture.  The  commitment  to  end  impunity  for  the 
worst crimes is as relevant today as it was at the time 
of adoption of the Rome Statute.  

In  Rome,  we  sent  a  clear  signal  to  past  and 
potential  future  perpetrators  of  such  crimes  that  they 
will  not  get  away  with  their  actions.  The  Statute  has, 
furthermore,  given  a  firm  legal  answer  to  what  some 
like to  refer to as the “peace versus justice” dilemma, 
in the form of a legal obligation to cooperate with the 
ICC, in particular, regarding arrest and surrender. This 
obligation 
is  not  negotiable  and  must  be  fully 
implemented.  
07-58072 

5 

A/62/PV.43 


As  far  as  the  United  Nations  is  concerned, 
cooperation  is  required  at  the  technical  level,  as 
regulated by the United Nations-International Criminal 
Court  Relationship  Agreement,  as  well  as  at  the 
political level.  

The Security Council has a very important role to 
play  in  this  respect.  Both  the  Rome  Statute  and  the 
Relationship Agreement envisage a mutually beneficial 
relationship  between  the  ICC  and  the  United  Nations, 
reflecting the nature of the Court as an institution that 
promotes and delivers justice, based on the principle of 
complementarity, and thereby contributes to peace and 
security. 

Liechtenstein  has  always  strongly  supported  the 
International Criminal Court, and continues to do so as 
the  Court  begins  to  leave  its  mark  in  the  system  of 
international  institutions.  We  welcome  Japan  as  the 
105th  State  party  to  the  Rome  Statute  and  call  upon 
other  States  that  have  not  yet  ratified  the  Statute  to 
consider  doing  so  in  the  near  future. We  fully  respect 
the  approach  of  some  States  that  continue  to  evaluate 
the  merits  of  ratification  or  accession  and 
the 
difficulties  attached  thereto,  and  encourage  them  to 
enter  into  a  dialogue  with  the  Court  and  with  other 
States parties with a view to addressing any concerns. 
While  the  number  of  States  parties  will  continue  to 
rise, it can already be clearly stated that the entry into 
force of the Statute has brought about a paradigm shift 
towards the rule of law that is irreversible. 

We  look  forward  to  the  sixth  session  of  the 
Assembly  of  States  Parties  to  the  Rome  Statute,  to  be 
held  here  at  Headquarters  from  30  November  to 
14 December 2007, and we hope that all States will use 
this opportunity to participate  actively,  as members  or 
as observers. In this respect, we will once again place 
great  emphasis  on  the  work  on  the  definition  of  the 
crime  of  aggression.  Our  mission 
in  New  York 
organized for the fourth time an intersessional meeting 
on  the  crime  of  aggression  at  Princeton  University  in 
June  2007,  where  further  progress  was  made  on  this 
important  question.  We 
the 
continuation of this constructive dialogue among States 
parties,  as  well  as  non-States  parties,  as  we  get  closer 
to the Review Conference. 
Mrs. Nguyen  Thi Thanh  Ha  (Viet  Nam):  Five 

years  ago,  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  entered  into  force,  marking  an 
historic  event  in  the  development  of  international 
forward 
look 
to 
times 
for  an 
6 

07-58072 
today 
reached  105,  a 
law.  My  delegation 
criminal 
thanks  Judge 
Philippe  Kirsch,  President  of  the  ICC,  for  having 
presented  the  Court’s  report,  submitted  to  the  General 
Assembly  in  document  A/62/314.  My  delegation  also 
shares the view expressed in paragraph 4 of the report, 
which states that 

“By  helping  to  put  an  end  to  impunity  for  the 
perpetrators  of  the  most  serious  international 
crimes, the Court is intended to contribute to the 
prevention of such crimes and to the maintenance 
of peace and security”. 
By 1 October 2007, the number of States parties 

to 
the  Rome  Statute 
figure 
demonstrating  the  strong  support  of  United  Nations 
Member States for the Court. The activities of the ICC, 
as shown in the report, once again reaffirm the view of 
the United Nations Secretary-General that the Court is 
a  centrepiece  of  a  system  of  international  criminal 
justice. So far, four situations have been referred to the 
Court. The vast amount of communications relating to 
purported crimes that the Court has been receiving also 
testifies to its increasing prestige. Cooperation between 
the  ICC  and  the  United  Nations,  States,  international 
organizations  and  civil  society  continues 
to  be 
promoted. 

While  taking  note  of  the  substantial  progress 
made by the International Criminal Court, it should be 
emphasized  that  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  will  not  be 
complete  until  the  crime  of  aggression  is  defined  and 
included  in  the  Rome  Statute.  The  Special  Working 
Group on the Crime of Aggression of the Assembly of 
States  Parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  has  made  great 
efforts 
the 
conditions  for  the  Court  to  exercise  jurisdiction  over 
this crime. The sixth session of the Assembly of States 
Parties, to be convened in New York at the end of this 
month,  is  expected  to  offer  another  opportunity  for 
fruitful discussions of this important, unsettled part of 
the Court’s jurisdiction. 

Viet Nam has been following the development of 
the ICC with great interest. We have stated our support 
many 
independent  and  objective 
international  criminal  court  that  complements  national 
juridical  systems  and  operates  in  accordance  with  the 
fundamental principles of international law. In fact, the 
competent  authorities 
in  Viet  Nam  are  seriously 
studying  the  possibility  of  acceding  to  the  Rome 
Statute. We take particularly great interest in the work 
the  act  of  aggression  and 
to  define 
in  hosting 


of  the  Special  Working  Group  on  the  Crime  of 
Aggression  and  support  General  Assembly  resolution 
3314  (XXIX),  adopted  at  its  twenty-ninth  session,  as 
an important guide to the Group’s substantive work. 
Mr.  Maurer  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 

Switzerland  would first like to express its gratitude  to 
President  Philippe  Kirsch  for  presenting  the  third 
annual report of the International Criminal Court (ICC) 
(A/62/314),  covering  the  main  developments  in  the 
Court’s  activities  and  cooperation  between  the  Court 
and the United Nations. Switzerland would also like to 
express  its  appreciation  to  the  Court’s  officials  and 
staff  for  their  outstanding  work  in  carrying  out  the 
colossal task bestowed upon them. 

Switzerland  welcomes  the  positive  cooperation 
between the Court and various United Nations offices, 
as  well  as  the  Court’s  institutional  support  to  the 
Special  Court  for  Sierra  Leone 
the 
proceedings  of 
the  Charles  Taylor  case.  It  also 
welcomes  the  support  to  the  ICC  from  several  States, 
in  particular  the  various  bilateral  arrangements  that 
have been concluded with the Court on specific issues 
of cooperation. 

As  mentioned  in  the  report,  the  Court  is  up  and 
running,  and  four  situations  have  been  referred  to  it. 
Switzerland  welcomes the important progress made in 
2007 — namely, the first referral of a case, Prosecutor 
v.  Thomas  Lubanga  Dyilo,  to  the  trial  stage,  and  the 
transfer  to  The  Hague  of  Germain  Katanga  by  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo. The very fact that 
after  such  a  short  period  of  time,  the  Court  is  already 
investigating and has started legal proceedings in four 
situations  confirms 
the  establishment  of  a 
permanent  international  criminal  court  was  a  very 
much needed development in international law. States, 
as well as the United Nations as a whole, worked very 
hard to reach an agreement on the Statute of the Court 
and  to  achieve  its  establishment.  Five  years  after  its 
creation,  the  ICC  has  already  come  a  long  way.  The 
efforts of States and the United Nations to support and 
promote the Court’s work should not, however, waver. 
On  the  contrary,  the  international  community  and 
States  individually  must,  more  than  ever,  strive  to 
pursue these efforts. 

Switzerland  wishes  to  stress  the  positive  effects 
of  the  Court’s  activities  in  the  field.  One  notable 
example  concerns 
in  northern 
Uganda.  Following  the  issuance  of  arrest  warrants  by 
the  developments 
that 
A/62/PV.43
the  Court,  the  humanitarian  situation  has  improved 
considerably,  and  peace  negotiations  have  become 
possible. 
Switzerland  is  convinced  that  there  cannot  be 

lasting  peace  and 
security  worldwide  without 
international  justice.  The  international  community  has 
very high expectations for the Court. Indeed, the Court 
is  expected  to  play  a  central  role  in  the  fight  against 
impunity and in providing justice — two elements that 
are  crucial  in  reaching  lasting  peace  and  security,  in 
particular in post-conflict situations. This task is vital. 

The ICC was provided, through the Rome Statute, 
with  the  necessary  jurisdiction  and  legal  tools  to  try 
those responsible for the most heinous crimes in cases 
where  States  that  have  jurisdiction  over  such  crimes 
are  unwilling  or  unable  to  complete  such  proceedings 
themselves.  

The Court is not lacking the financial resources to 
carry  out  its  mandate  at  this  stage,  despite  some 
remaining arrears. What the Court is lacking, however, 
are  the  enforcement  tools  necessary  to  accomplish  its 
tasks. The Court therefore relies heavily on the support 
and  cooperation  of  States. As  President  Kirsch  rightly 
pointed  out  in  his  report,  States  are  the  enforcement 
pillar of the international criminal justice system. 

Switzerland  would  like  to  stress  the  important 
role  States  must  play  in  supporting  and  cooperating 
with 
the 
responsibility of the States, under the Rome Statute and 
in line with the aims of the United Nations Charter in 
terms  of  upholding  peace  and  security,  to  support  and 
fully cooperate with the Court. 

the 
strongly 
relationship  between  States  and  the  Court  is  based  on 
reciprocity. Not only do States have high expectations 
for the Court, but the Court also has high expectations 
vis-à-vis  States.  The  Court  will  be  able  to  meet  these 
expectations  and  fulfil  its  mandate  only  if  States 
provide their full support. 

Switzerland  would  also  like  to  recall  that  full 
cooperation  with  the  Court  must  exist  at  all  stages, 
whether  during  the  investigation  period  or  when 
enforcing  decisions  of 
the  Court,  notably  arrest 
warrants. Furthermore, cooperation is not only needed 
from  States  directly  concerned  by  the  cases  under  the 
Court’s scrutiny, but also from other States. Indeed, as 
was pointed out in the third annual report, investigating 
the  International  Criminal  Court.  It 
Switzerland 
believes 
is 
that 
07-58072 

7 

A/62/PV.43 

the  situations  referred  to  the  Court  has  involved 
activities  both  on  the  territories  of  the  four  relevant 
States  and  in  over  25  other  countries  during  the 
reporting  period.  It  is  therefore  crucial  that  all  States, 
and not merely those directly involved in cases before 
the  Court,  cooperate  with  the  Court.  In  this  regard, 
cooperation provided by non-States parties is not only 
provided  for  under  the  Statute,  it  is  also  particularly 
welcome. 

Finally, Switzerland fully agrees with the report’s 
view  according  to  which  “[t]he  aims  of  the  States 
Parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  in  establishing  the  Court 
overlap with the purposes and principles of the United 
Nations”  (A/62/314,  para.  4).  This  message  supports 
the  idea  that  the  Rome  Statute  should  be  of  universal 
scope.  Switzerland  therefore  calls  upon  all  States  that 
have not yet done so to join the Rome Statute as soon 
as possible. 
Mr.  Manuel  Pérez  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

My country has supported and will continue to support 
the  establishment  of  an 
impartial,  non-selective, 
efficient  and  just  international  criminal  court  that 
complements  the  national  systems  of  justice  and  is 
truly  independent,  hence  rid  of  subordinations  to 
political interests that could distort its essence. 

lack  of 
independence  is  of  concern,  considering  the  way  in 
which its relations with the Security Council have been 
defined. Article 16 of the Rome Statute grants power to 
the  Council  to  suspend  investigations  or  indictments 
carried out by the Court, and article 5 of the same text 
purports to regulate in the  future the Criminal Court’s 
jurisdiction based on the determination by the Security 
Council  that  an  act  of  aggression  has  been  committed 
by  a  State.  These  two  elements  call  into  question  the 
true  efficiency  and  independence  of  the  Court  in  its 
work. 
Also of concern are  actions by the United States 

aimed  at  signing  bilateral 
immunity  agreements 
exempting  its  citizens  from  the  International  Criminal 
Court’s 
jurisdiction.  Such  agreements  not  only 
preclude  handing  over  to  the  Court  a  great  many 
persons,  including  former  and  current  Government 
officials, military personnel and United States citizens 
in  general,  but  they  do  not  include  that  country’s 
obligation  to  investigate  and  try  those  persons.  Cuba 
denounces  such  actions,  which  are  clearly  aimed  at 
weakening the efficiency and credibility of the ICC and 
International  Criminal  Court’s 
The 
the 
system  of 
international 
dodging 
criminal 
responsibility  of  its  citizens,  in  open  violation  of  the 
rules of international law. 

The  Cuban  delegation  has  participated  with 
particular interest in all phases of the establishment of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  and  recognizes  the 
relevance  of  the  Rome  Statute  for  international  law. 
However, basic expectations set at the beginning of the 
process,  such  as  the  elaboration  of  a  definition  of  the 
crime of aggression, have not yet been met. 
We  hope  that  the  Special Working  Group  on  the 

Crime of Aggression, open to all States Members of the 
United  Nations  on  an  equal  footing,  can  carry  out  its 
work  satisfactorily,  elaborating  a  broadly  accepted 
definition  of  this  crime  under  which  its  perpetrators 
can  be  tried  and  condemned.  In  this  regard,  we 
consider  that  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  should 
provide  more  possibilities  for  the  functioning  of  the 
Special Working Group, assigning it more time within 
its  agenda  and  convening  intersessional  meetings,  as 
required. 

Once again, the Cuban delegation was not able to 
participate  in  the  informal  meeting  of  the  Special 
Working Group, which was held in Princeton, because 
the  United  States 
denied  without 
justification  permission  for  two  Cuban  representatives 
to  travel  beyond  the  25-mile  radius,  measured  from 
Columbus  Circle,  despite  the  fact  that  permission  was 
requested  within 
it. 
Officials  from  the  Cuban  Mission  to  the  United 
Nations  are  subject  to  this  discriminatory  restriction, 
which  is  in  violation  of  the  Headquarters  Agreement 
and the rules of diplomatic law. 

blockaded 
small 
economically  and  financially,  which  has  endured 
countless  aggressions  by  the  greatest  Power  that  has 
ever existed, it is very difficult to take the decision to 
join  the  Rome  Statute  without  there  being  a  clear  and 
precise definition of the crime of aggression. We have 
upheld  and  continue  to  uphold  a  constructive  position 
towards  the  establishment  of  an  international  criminal 
impartial,  efficient, 
justice  system 
independent 
national 
jurisdictions.  In  this  regard,  we  have  followed  with 
interest  the  evolution  and  functioning  of  this  new 
institution,  inter  alia,  through  our  participation  as 
observers in meetings of the Assembly of States Parties 
to the Rome Statute. 
the  deadline  established  for 
truly 
is 
complementary 
For  Cuba, 
that 
and 
to 
authorities 
a 
country 
8 

07-58072 
itself 
into 
requires 
determined 
cooperation 
legal  systems, 



My  delegation  reaffirms  its  will  to  contribute  to 
the  implementation  of  a  truly  efficient  international 
criminal justice system, in accordance with the rules of 
international  law  and,  in  particular,  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations. 
Mrs. Juul (Norway): Norway welcomes the third 

annual report of the International Criminal Court (ICC) 
(A/62/314) and would like to thank the President of the 
ICC, Judge Philippe Kirsch, for his presentation. 

Norway is a staunch supporter of the ICC, and we 
are very pleased to see the progress it has made during 
the  past  year.  This  year,  the  ICC  celebrated  the  fifth 
anniversary of the entry into force of the Rome Statute. 
In spite of its young age, the Court is already steadily 
integrating 
international 
institutions and international relations. 

The relationship between the ICC and the United 
Nations  is  of  great  importance.  Ending  climates  of 
impunity 
by 
interlocutors who have international peace, justice and 
security  as  their  common  goals  and  their  common 
ambition.  The  ICC  is  independent,  but  it  has  strong 
legal,  historical  and  operational  ties  with  the  United 
Nations.  The  United  Nations  seeks  to  promote  peace 
and  justice  based  on  human  rights.  Those  are  distinct 
but closely related objectives. They may be difficult to 
achieve simultaneously, but we have to strive for their 
achievement.  In  its  quest  for  the  attainment  of  those 
objectives,  the  ICC  is  an  effective  and  important  tool 
for ending impunity and promoting the rule of law. 
The ICC can bring perpetrators of mass atrocities 

to justice when national systems are not able or willing 
to do so. The principle of complementarity provides a 
safety  net. That  is  why  the  success  of  the  ICC  should 
never be evaluated solely on the basis of the number of 
cases  it  hears.  We  must  remember  that  the  mere 
existence of the Court is having an impact on national 
systems,  which  are 
towards 
prevention and prosecution. 

The success of the Rome Statute should therefore 
be  measured  in  terms  of  the  overall  decrease  in 
impunity for such crimes, not in terms of the number of 
defendants brought to The Hague. Moreover, whenever 
national  authorities  investigate,  prosecute  and  pass 
judgement  in  cases  concerning  serious  international 
crimes, that in itself reaffirms the core objective of the 
ICC:  that  perpetrators  of  such  crimes  will  be  held 
accountable. 
increasingly  geared 
A/62/PV.43
the 
ICC’s 
is  one  of 

The  interplay  between  the  Court  and  the  United 
Nations is made clear in the Rome Statute itself and in 
the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the  two  parties. 
The  preamble  of  the  Rome  Statute  reaffirms  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  in  particular  that all  States  shall  refrain  from 
the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity 
or political independence of any State, or in any other 
manner  inconsistent  with  the  purposes  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  ICC  aspires  to  act  in  accordance  with 
those purposes and principles.  

That  is  also  apparent  from  the  role  that  the 
Security Council is given in the Statute. Referral by the 
Security  Council 
trigger 
mechanisms.  The  Security  Council  can  also  defer 
investigations  or  prosecutions  in  a  resolution  adopted 
under Chapter VII of the Charter. 

It  is  with  great  satisfaction  that  we  welcome  the 
strengthening of the relationship between the ICC and 
the United Nations. We urge all States and international 
organizations  to  support  the  Court  and  the  United 
Nations in their efforts to achieve their common goals. 
Justice  is  also  an  important  building  block  for  peace, 
and  the  international  community  must  ensure  that  the 
foundation for peace is solid and that it stands the test 
of time. 

Norway  welcomes  the  Organization’s  support  in 
facilitating the ICC’s operation in the field. We are also 
pleased to note that, under the arrangements set out in 
the  Relationship  Agreement, 
the  United  Nations 
provided  facilities  and  services  for  the  resumed  fifth 
session  of  the Assembly  of  States  Parties,  which  was 
held at Headquarters at the beginning of the year. The 
sixth  session  will  also  be  held  at  Headquarters,  from 
30 November to 14 December. 

for 
achieving  universality  and  full  implementation  of  the 
Rome  Statute,  and  we  will  contribute  actively  to  the 
achievement of its full implementation. We are pleased 
to  note  that  today,  105  States  are  parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute.  That  is  also  a  geographical  reflection  of  the 
regions  represented  in  the  General  Assembly.  In  that 
respect, it is a great pleasure to welcome Japan as the 
most recent entry on the list of States parties. That is an 
important  step  towards  universality.  The  number  of 
States  parties  is  rising  year  by  year,  and  Norway 
strongly  hopes  that  the  ICC  will  enjoy  universal 
adherence in the future. 
the  plan  of  action 
Norway  welcomes 
07-58072 

9 
the  Court’s 
true  nature  and 
A/62/PV.43 


The  ICC  depends  on  the  cooperation  of  States 
parties.  All  States  parties  must  do  their  utmost  to 
provide  the  ICC  with  the  best  possible  working 
conditions.  Norway  expects  States  that  have  legal 
obligations under the Statute or that have  entered into 
cooperation  agreements  with  the  ICC  to  fulfil  their 
obligations  and  to  demonstrate  their  commitment  to 
justice in practice. Those States have a responsibility to 
proclaim 
its  vital 
importance in the pursuit of justice. 

It  is  with  grave  concern  that  we  note  that  six 
arrest  warrants  are  outstanding:  two  pertaining  to  the 
situation in Darfur and four pertaining to the situation 
in  Uganda.  We  urge  all  the  States  involved  to  fulfil 
their responsibility to make those warrants effective. 

It  is  also  important  that  non-States  parties  give 
the  ICC  their  support. We  were  pleased  to  receive  the 
news that Ukraine has acceded to the Agreement on the 
Privileges  and  Immunities  of  the  ICC.  It  is  the  first 
non-State party to do so, and we encourage other States 
to follow that example. 

The  interplay  among  the  various  courts  and 
tribunals in the international criminal justice system is 
important 
sustainable 
jurisprudence. We therefore welcome the memorandum 
of  understanding  between  the  ICC  and  the  Special 
Court  for  Sierra  Leone.  The  ICC 
is  providing 
assistance to enable the Special Court for Sierra Leone 
to conduct the trial of Charles Taylor in The Hague. We 
would  also  like  to  draw  particular  attention  to  the 
ICC’s Legal Tools Project. That practical and analytical 
tool, which is under continuous development, is funded 
by  the  Norwegian  Government,  inter  alia.  It  aims  to 
rationalize  the  way  in  which  a  number  of  institutions 
and  individuals  work  with  regard  to  international 
crimes. The goal is to increase the quality of such work 
flows  and 
to  precise 
information concerning international criminal law. 

Finally,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  Norway’s  firm 
and  long-standing  commitment  to  the  integrity  of  the 
Rome  Statute  and 
to  an  effective  and  credible 
International  Criminal  Court. We  believe  that  the  ICC 
should enjoy the broadest possible support on the part 
of  all  States.  We  also  believe  that  the  long-term 
interests  of  all  nations,  irrespective  of  size,  region  or 
political  orientation,  are  served  by  strengthening  the 
rule  of  law  and  promoting  justice.  We  all  share  the 
universal  values  related  to  the  protection  of  human 
increase  general  access 
the  development  of 
for 
to 

(ICC), 
dignity. Such protection is enhanced through concerted 
action to suppress the most serious crimes that concern 
the international community as a whole. 
Mr. Chávez (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): I wish to 

the 
thank  Judge  Philippe  Kirsch,  President  of 
International  Criminal  Court 
the 
for 
comprehensive and detailed introduction of his annual 
report on the work of the Court (A/62/314).  

The International Criminal Court was established 
not  only  to  be  an  effective  tool  for  ensuring  that  the 
perpetrators  of  the  most  serious  crimes  are  punished, 
but  also  to  serve  as  an  element  of  prevention  and 
deterrence  with  regard  to  the  commission  of  such 
atrocities. Likewise, the assistance provided by the ICC 
to  the  Special  Court  for  Sierra  Leone  in  the  trial  of 
Charles  Taylor,  former  President  of  Liberia,  is  an 
example  of  the  Court’s  substantial  contribution  to  a 
broader  system  for  promoting  international  criminal 
justice and an international system in which the rule of 
law is paramount.  

The  progress  made  by  the  ICC  during  the 
reporting  period  has  been  significant  in  terms  of  both 
investigations  and  judicial  proceedings.  In  particular, 
we  highlight  the  surrender  of  Germain  Katanga  to  the 
Court,  where  he  will  be  prosecuted  for  alleged 
commission  of  crimes  against  humanity  and  war 
crimes.  We  note 
the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  in  this  context,  as 
well  as  the  decision  of  the  Prosecutor  to  open  an 
investigation  into  the  situation  in  the  Central  African 
Republic.  

As  its  President  has  said,  for  the  International 
Criminal Court to fulfil its mandate, it must receive the 
support  and  cooperation  of  States,  of  international 
organizations  and  of  non-governmental  organizations, 
among  other  possible  sources  of  support.  Peru 
therefore urges all States to cooperate so that the arrest 
warrants  issued  by  the  Court  may  be  executed.  Also, 
we  believe  that  the  United  Nations,  including  the 
Security Council, should offer assistance in this regard 
within the existing legal framework of cooperation.  

In this regard, we regret that, to date, none of the 
members  of  the  Lord’s  Resistance  Army  for  whom 
arrest  warrants  have  been  issued  have  been  arrested. 
Also,  because  the  situation  in  Darfur  was  referred  to 
the Court by the Security Council in 2005, through its 
resolution  1593  (2005),  there  is  a  legal  obligation  to 
cooperate  with  the  Court  based  on  the  Charter  of  the 
the  cooperation  given  by 
10 

07-58072 


United Nations. That is why we hope that these arrest 
warrants  will  be  promptly  executed.  The  Security 
Council, for its part, must maintain the relevance of its 
decisions by ensuring compliance.  

We are pleased with the steps taken to strengthen 
international  cooperation,  especially  with  the  United 
Nations, above all on regarding facilitating the Court’s 
activities  in  the  field  —  a  particularly  sensitive  area 
where  enormous  challenges  arise. The  safety  of  Court 
personnel, witnesses and victims is a matter of constant 
concern. We urge all international organizations which 
are present in the field to join their efforts to those of 
the Court. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  recall  that  Peru 
strongly  supports  the  fight  against  impunity.  We  thus 
reaffirm  at  this  time  our  commitment  to  contribute  so 
that  the  International  Criminal  Court  can  effectively 
fulfil  its  mandate  and  promote  the  integrity  of  its 
Statute.  
Mr.  Kanu  (Sierra  Leone):  We  are  making  the 

following  remarks,  born  of  our  national  perspective, 
which has been shaped through the experience we have 
gained  through  the  operations  of  an  international 
criminal  court  on  our  territory,  that  is,  the  Special 
Court for Sierra Leone. 

Before  doing  so,  we  would  like  to  express  our 
heartfelt  welcome  to  those  States  that  have  joined  the 
Rome  Statute  since  the  International  Criminal  Court’s 
(ICC)  report  to  this  body  last  year.  Universality 
remains  a  critical  goal 
the 
International  Criminal Court reach its full potential as 
a key actor in the fight against impunity worldwide and 
as  an  important  and  necessary  component  of  lasting 
peace. We look forward to welcoming more new States 
parties  in  the  future,  and  we  continue  to  urge  our 
friends  that  have  not  yet  signed  or  ratified  the  Rome 
Statute to do so as soon as possible. 

The  report  delivered  this  morning  by  Court 
President  Kirsch  (see  A/62/PV.42),  whom  we  thank 
once  again  for  his  ongoing  commitment  and  his 
leadership  of  the  Court,  shows  that,  in  many  respects, 
tremendous  progress  has  been  made.  The  arrest  and 
transfer  of  Germain  Katanga  to  face  trial  for  crimes 
allegedly committed in the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo  is  surely  an  important  step  for  which  we  have 
all  been  waiting. We  very  much  hope  that  this  second 
arrest  will  form  the  centre  of  a  swiftly  moving 
snowball,  around  which  more  arrests  will  come, 
if  we  wish 
to  see 
A/62/PV.43
particularly those of accused whose warrants have been 
outstanding for such a long time now. 

Like many others, we remain concerned that there 
are  fugitives  from  justice  who  continue  to  escape 
facing  international  criminal  proceedings,  and  we 
fervently hope that this situation will not be allowed to 
continue,  whether 
it  be  Mladic  and  Karadzic 
continuing to evade the International Criminal Tribunal 
for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  or  the  six  individuals  for 
whom there are outstanding arrest warrants at the ICC. 

The International Criminal Court may be the bold 
new  centrepiece  of  the  international  criminal  justice 
system, but it needs cooperation and support in order to 
flourish and to retain its strength and vitality. The real 
deterrence value of the ICC, and indeed of any criminal 
justice  institution,  is  the  likelihood  of  enforcement  of 
its processes and the legal norms and proscriptions that 
are  its  foundation.  The  critical  contribution  of  justice 
and  accountability  to  assisting  societies  to  reach 
lasting,  sustainable  and  prosperous  peace  can  be  truly 
realized  only  when  all  components  of  conflict 
resolution  and  post-conflict  reconstruction  are  given 
sufficient space to do their job. 

Sierra  Leone  recognized  this  with  the  Special 
Court,  to  the  extent  that  our  parliament  decided  that 
orders  of 
the  Special  Court  should  have  direct 
application  in  Sierra  Leone,  translating  into  law  the 
level  of  commitment  to  cooperation  that  the  Special 
Court needed then and that the ICC needs now. We call 
on  all  States  to  cooperate  with  the  ICC,  in  particular 
through enforcing the outstanding arrest warrants, and 
in  so  doing,  to  strengthen  the  international  criminal 
justice  system  and 
to  deter  such 
horrendous crimes. 
We  continue  to  welcome  the  emphasis  the  Court 

is  putting  on  its  strategic  vision  and  the  work  it  is 
doing  to  conceptualize,  refine  and  present  that  vision. 
The  primary  purpose  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court,  indeed  the  raison  d’être  of  the  international 
criminal justice system as a whole, is to provide justice 
and  redress  to  the  thousands  of  men,  women  and 
children  who  have  been  victims  of  the  most  serious 
crimes  that  prick  the  conscience  of  humankind.  It  is 
difficult to do that from thousands of miles away from 
the  scenes  of  the  crimes,  and  we  must  recognize  and 
commend  the  efforts  being  undertaken  to  ensure  that 
affected populations understand, engage with and feel a 
stake in the Court’s work. 
its  potential 
07-58072 

11 

it 
learned 
through 
is  an  operational  necessity.  We 
A/62/PV.43 


For this reason, we welcome the emphasis in this 
latest  report  (see  A/62/314)  on  the  ICC’s  outreach 
work. The  prominence  given  to  this  issue  underscores 
what  Sierra  Leone  has 
its  own 
experiences  with  the  Special  Court,  which  we  hope 
will  stand  as  a  lesson  for  all  international  courts  and 
tribunals:  outreach  is  a  core  function  of  such  a  court, 
and 
therefore 
continue to insist that the Court’s outreach programme 
be given top priority and urge the Court to continue to 
develop  its  strategic  vision,  to  intensify  its  efforts  for 
Darfur  and  to  implement  its  plan  for  outreach  in  the 
Central  African  Republic  as  a  matter  of  utmost 
urgency. 

As  we  have  said  before,  we  have  a  strong 
preference  for  proceedings  to  be  held  in  the  countries 
or  regions  where  the  crimes  took  place,  and  we  trust 
that this remains an important goal also for the Court. 
We  continue  to  look  forward  to  further  developments 
in this respect. 

The  presence  of  Court  President  Kirsch  here 
today  is  an  important,  outward  symbol  of  the  ever-
growing  relationship  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the International Criminal Court. We have always said 
that the cooperation and support of the United Nations 
will  be  of  critical  importance  for  the  International 
Criminal  Court 
effective 
international criminal justice institution. 

We  can  now  see  in  action  how  important  it  is  to 
nurture and develop that relationship, particularly with 
the support the United  Nations provided for the  arrest 
and  transfer  of  Mr.  Katanga.  We  look  forward  to  the 
continuing  dialogue  and  cooperation  between 
the 
Court,  international  and  regional  organizations  and  all 
other  actors  around  the  world  who  remain  committed 
to ensuring that the Court can reach its full potential. 

Allow me to  conclude by restating our  hope and 
desire that one day, the building blocks of international 
criminal  justice,  which  we  are  discussing  here  today, 
will be at the foundation of a world in which everyone 
can  rest  assured  that  those  who  commit  war  crimes, 
crimes  against  humanity  and  genocide  can  run  but 
cannot hide: they will surely be brought to justice. 
Mr.  Argüello  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Argentina  wishes  to  convey  its  appreciation  and 
gratitude to the President of the International Criminal 
Court, Mr. Philippe Kirsch, for his presentation of the 
to  become 
fully 
a 
to 
transfer 
and  his 
subsequent 
third report of the Court (see A/62/314) to the General 
Assembly.  

Several positive elements of the report should be 
highlighted. In 2002, the Rome Statute had received 60 
ratifications;  this  year,  105  States  are  parties.  That 
shows  that  the  efforts  towards  universality  and  full 
application of the Rome Statute are achieving results.  

Also, referring the situation in Darfur, the Sudan, 
to  the  International  Criminal  Court  was  a  historic 
decision,  from  both  a  legal  and  a  political  standpoint. 
That  precedent  shows  that  there  cannot  be  peace, 
security and reconciliation if those who violate human 
rights  continue  to  enjoy  impunity  in  countries  in 
conflict  or  during  the  peacebuilding  period.  That 
connection  was  underlined  by Argentina  on  numerous 
occasions  during  its  membership  of  the  Security 
Council in 2005 and 2006.  

Another development that shows that the Court is 
fully operational has been the arrest by the authorities 
of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  of  Germain 
Katanga 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  in  October  2007  on 
charges  of  war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity. 
Thus,  two  persons  have  now  been  transferred  to  the 
Court on charges that fall within its jurisdiction.  

Moreover, the decision of the Prosecutor in May 
to  open  a  new  investigation  into  the  situation  in  the 
Central  African  Republic,  along  with  the  situation  in 
Uganda  and  the  two  aforementioned  cases,  sends  a 
clear message to the perpetrators of crimes committed 
in  the  past  and  to  potential  perpetrators  in  the  future: 
even  if  they  are  not  brought  to  justice  in  their  own 
countries,  there  is  still  the  credible  possibility  of 
international prosecution. Securing the detention of the 
wanted persons who remain at large is fundamental to 
reaching  that  goal  and  thus  maximizing  the  Court’s 
influence.  

In  that  sense,  we  must  not  forget  that  there  are 
still  six  outstanding  arrest  warrants.  States  parties  and 
non-parties  alike  must  cooperate  with  the  Court  with 
regard to the execution of arrest warrants. As the Court 
does not have its own police, the cooperation of States, 
United Nations regional organizations and other actors 
is  essential  to  achieving  the  objectives  stated  by  the 
States parties in the preamble to the Rome Statute.  

late  2006,  Argentina 
implemented  the  provisions  of  the  Rome  Statute  and 
regard, 
that 
In 
in 
12 

07-58072 


established 
the  relations  of  cooperation  between 
Argentina and the Court in its national legislation and 
ratified the Agreement on Privileges and Immunities of 
the International Criminal Court, allowing the Court to 
act without limitation in our country’s territory.  

We  also  welcome  the  headquarters  agreement 
with  the  host  country,  the  Netherlands,  and  the  full 
functioning of the Court’s New York liaison office with 
the  United  Nations,  which  will  help  promote 
cooperation  between  the  two  organizations.  We  hope 
for  greater  support  by  the  Security  Council  through 
broader  mandates  for  peacekeeping  operations 
in 
places where there are situations under investigation by 
the Court, in order to support the Court in its task.  

Finally, in view of the fact that the purposes and 
principles  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  reflect  those  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations and are thus universal, Argentina calls 
upon  all  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  accede  to 
and  ratify  the  Rome  Statute,  in  order  to  guarantee 
universality in the fight against impunity. 
Mr.  Muharemi  (Croatia):  I  take  pleasure  and 

pride  in  the  fact  that  we  can  once  again  welcome  His 
Excellency  Judge  Philippe  Kirsch,  President  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  to  the  General 
Assembly.  As  Croatia  aligns  itself  fully  with  the 
statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of  Portugal 
on  behalf  of  the  European  Union,  please  allow  me  to 
highlight just a few points that, in our opinion, deserve 
the full attention of the United Nations community. 
The annual report presented today (see A/62/314) 

reflects the steady progress that the Court has achieved 
over  just  five  years  of  its  existence.  We  are  proud  of 
the  impact  it  has  achieved  thus  far.  Its  establishment, 
which was our common endeavour, was  not an end in 
itself.  It  remains  our  common  responsibility 
to 
effectively  prevent  conflicts,  protect  and  promote 
human  rights  and  uphold  international  humanitarian 
law and the rule of law in general.  

Without  putting  an  end  to  impunity  for  the  most 
serious  international  crimes,  those  efforts  will  remain 
incomplete.  Nothing  can  serve  the  interests  of  justice 
better  than  a  functioning  and  credible  Court.  It  is 
reassuring to note that, in all aspects of its mandate, the 
ICC has made its presence felt.  

However,  the  experience  of  the  ad  hoc  criminal 
tribunals  has  made  it  all  too  clear  how  dependent 
A/62/PV.43
and 
just 
prosecution 
are 
indispensable 
for  making 
justice  is  on  the  goodwill,  not  just  of  States,  but  of 
other international actors as well. State cooperation and 
support 
justice 
operational.  We  believe  it  is  equally  important  that 
other  actors  —  both  regional  and  global,  beginning 
with the United Nations — do not lose sight of the ICC 
dimension  when  dealing  with  issues  of  peace  and 
security that are of relevance to the Court’s mandate. 

The Court does not operate in a textbook reality, 
and  it  would  be  wrong  to  contemplate  its  mandate 
without paying attention to the  ways its  existence and 
actions  can  influence  the  decision-makers  on  the 
ground.  However,  the  ICC  is  not  a  political  tool.  It  is 
the expression of all our collective will, embodied in a 
treaty. It is first and foremost a judicial body that deals 
with  individual  criminal  accountability.  That  is  of 
importance,  because  all  crimes  are 
paramount 
individual.  Timely 
and 
punishment  are  an  essential  ingredient  of  sustainable 
peace. 
Mr.  Jevremović  (Serbia):  I  wish  to  thank  the 

President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  Judge 
Philippe  Kirsch,  for  his  presentation  of  the  report  of 
the International Criminal Court (see A/62/314) today. 
With four situations before the Court, it is now evident 
that the International Criminal Court has evolved into a 
pillar  of  international  justice,  promoting  the  values  of 
international  humanitarian 
the 
ongoing  quest  for  a  world  based  on  justice  and 
accountability.  

The accession of Japan to the Rome Statute as its 
105th State party is yet another significant step towards 
achieving  the  universality  of  the  Court  and  its  noble 
goals,  and  it  should  be  commended  as  such.  We 
therefore wish to call on States to  continue to support 
universal ratification of the Rome Statute. 

The Republic of Serbia fully aligns itself with the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Portugal  on 
behalf  of  the  European  Union  but  would  like  to 
reiterate certain points from a national perspective. 

My  country  is  one  of  the  founders  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  and,  as  such,  it  has 
committed  itself  to  incorporating  all  its  obligations 
under the Rome Statute into its domestic legal system. 
The  new  constitution  of  the  Republic  of  Serbia  is  but 
one  of  the  documents  that  bear  testimony  to  that 
process.  
law  and  furthering 
07-58072 

13 

As  regards 
justice  capabilities, 
that  Court,  have  proven 
A/62/PV.43 


As  my  country  was  among  the  first  to  have 
ratified  the  Rome  Statute,  I  am  pleased  to  recall  the 
activities that we have undertaken in order to facilitate 
the  work  of  the  Court.  The  Republic  of  Serbia  was 
among  the  first  countries  to  ratify  the  agreement  on 
Privileges and Immunities of the ICC. At this moment, 
we  are  in  the  process  of  negotiating  an  agreement  on 
persons  charged  by  the  ICC  serving  their  prison 
sentences in Serbia. An initiative has been launched for 
concluding an agreement on witness relocation. Let me 
also point out that a working group has been set up in 
the  Serbian  Ministry  of  Justice  to  prepare  a  draft  law 
on cooperation with the ICC. 
the 

internal 
District  Court  of  Belgrade  and 
its  War  Crimes 
Chamber,  as  well  as  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  for 
War  Crimes  of 
their 
professional  and  technical  ability  to  process  the  most 
complex  cases  in  line  with  prevailing  international 
standards of justice. Furthermore, the Belgrade District 
Court  has  expressed  its  readiness  to  contribute  to  the 
establishment  of  a  database  of 
the  International 
Criminal Court that would contain all national judicial 
decisions  and  cases  pertaining  to  the  substance  of 
international criminal law, such as crimes of genocide, 
crimes against humanity and war crimes. 
My country supports the further strengthening of 

institutional  capacity  and  activities  of 
the 
the 
International Criminal Court and stresses the necessity 
for full and unconditional cooperation by all States and 
international  organizations.  We  believe  that  the  only 
way 
through  universal 
acceptance of the Rome Statute and active advocacy of 
its aims. 
Mr.  Park  Hee-kwon  (Republic  of  Korea):  I 

would  like  to  begin  by  thanking  the  President  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  Judge  Philippe 
Kirsch,  for  his  presentation  of  the  Court’s  report  (see 
A/62/314) to the General Assembly. 

On 1 October, Japan became the 105th State party 
to  the  ICC  Statute,  marking  an  important  step  on  the 
road towards universal ratification of the Rome Statute. 
This  is  a  goal  that  the  Republic  of  Korea  strongly 
supports. It is our belief that there must be a seamless 
web of justice throughout the world. 
Currently,  however,  there  are  only  13  States  in 

that  are  parties 
the  Rome  Statute.  My 
Asia 
delegation  is  eager  to  see  more  Asian  States  become 
to  eradicate 
impunity 
to 
is 
fully 
judicial 
functional 
in  each  of 
taking  place 
the  Prosecutor  decided 
parties to the Statute as soon as possible. Asian States 
should  also  become  partners  in  efforts  to  establish 
international  criminal  justice,  which  will  serve  the 
interests  of  regional  peace  and  security.  We  hope  that 
the  Court,  as  well  as  States  parties,  will  provide 
assistance  to  Asian  States  in  order  to  enable  them  to 
prepare  for  accession  to  the  Rome  Statute.  The 
Republic  of  Korea  will  do  its  part  by  engaging  in 
outreach and advocacy efforts to encourage more Asian 
States to join the ICC. 

My  delegation  is  pleased  to  note  that  the  ICC  is 
now  a 
institution.  The 
Prosecutor of the Court is continuing to investigate the 
situations  in  Uganda,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo and Darfur, the Sudan; and judicial proceedings 
are 
those  situations. 
Additionally, 
to  open  an 
investigation  into  the  situation  in  the  Central  African 
Republic  in  May  of  this  year.  As  for  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, the Court confirmed charges of 
war crimes against Mr. Thomas Lubanga Dyilo, and his 
case was referred to trial. 

Such  progress  will  not  only  bring  to  justice 
perpetrators of heinous crimes, but it will also serve as 
a deterrent to future atrocities. The success of the Court 
will  send  a  strong  message 
international 
community  that  there  will  be  no  impunity  for  those 
who would commit crimes against humanity, genocide 
and war crimes. 

How  the  ICC  handles  these  cases  will  be  an 
important  determinant  of  the  Court’s  future  and  of 
whether it will be embraced by the entire membership 
of  the  United  Nations.  To  ensure  the  best  possible 
performance by the Court, States should provide it with 
the  financial,  logistical  and  political-legal  support  it 
needs  to  perform  its  work,  thus  enabling  it  to  realize 
the  rule  of  law  and  end  impunity  for  crimes  against 
humanity, genocide and war crimes. States parties must 
also ensure that assessed contributions are paid in full 
and on time. Voluntary contributions are encouraged as 
an important source of revenue. 

is 
important  to  note  that  the  ICC  does  not  have  its  own 
enforcement  arm.  The  Court  needs  the  assistance  and 
cooperation  of  States  to  apprehend  indictees,  collect 
evidence and execute its sentences. It is, thus, critically 
important that the Court receive the full cooperation of 
States,  the  relevant  regional  organizations  and  United 
the  Court’s  functioning, 
terms  of 
to 
the 
In 
it 
14 

07-58072 
the  Government  of 
It 
in 
is 
this 
the  United  Nations  and 
to  suspects  and  enabling 
Information-sharing  between 


Nations  operations.  In  this  regard,  my  delegation 
commends 
the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo for its surrender of Mr. Germain 
Katanga to the Court on 18 October of this year. I am 
also  pleased  to  announce  that  the  Republic  of  Korea 
has  completed  its  domestic  legal  procedures  for  the 
Agreement  on  Privileges  and  Immunities  of 
the 
International Criminal Court and became a State party 
to the Agreement as of November 2006. 

The  Relationship Agreement  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  ICC  provides  many  avenues  for 
mutually beneficial cooperative efforts to establish the 
rule  of  law  and  end  impunity.  Particularly  important 
areas  of  cooperation  in  the  field  are  communications, 
transportation,  logistics,  and  security,  including  the 
protection of  victims, witnesses and investigators, and 
providing  access 
the 
collection  of  evidence  and  documents.  Each  of  theses 
areas  requires  the  cooperation  and  support  of  the 
United  Nations. 
the 
United  Nations  and  the  Court  is  essential,  both  at 
Headquarters and in the field. To facilitate cooperation 
between 
the  ICC,  my 
delegation  strongly  supported  the  establishment  of  a 
liaison  office  for  the  Court  at  the  United  Nations  in 
New  York  and  supports  the  endowment  of  adequate 
resources for its effective functioning. 
We also urge the continued participation of States 

in  the  Special  Working  Group  on  the  Crime  of 
that  States  actively 
Aggression. 
participate 
the 
definition  of  the  crime  of  aggression,  including  the 
conditions  under  which  the  ICC  would  exercise  its 
jurisdiction.  My  delegation  looks  forward  to  further 
progress on this issue in coming years. 

My  delegation  welcomes  the  increasing  trust  of 
the  international  community  in  the  independence, 
fairness, impartiality and effectiveness of the ICC. That 
trust was demonstrated when the situations in Uganda, 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Central 
African  Republic  were  referred  to  the  Court  by  the 
States  themselves  in  2005.  The  first  referral  to  the 
Court  by  the  Security  Council,  of  the  situation  in 
Darfur,  the  Sudan,  is  strong  testimony  that  peace  and 
justice,  often  misunderstood  to  be  mutually  exclusive, 
can go hand in hand. 

With  these  positive  developments  in  mind,  the 
Republic of Korea once again reaffirms its unswerving 
important 
important  discussion  on 
A/62/PV.43
these 
the  common  objectives  of 
(see  A/62/314)  submitted 
in  accordance  with 
commitment  to  support  the  ICC  in  bringing  about  its 
noble goals. 
Mr.  Al-Allaf  (Jordan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Allow 

me  at  the  outset  to  welcome  Judge  Philippe  Kirsch, 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC), 
and  to  thank  him  for  the  third  annual  report  of  the 
Court 
the  General 
to 
Assembly 
the  Relationship 
Agreement between the United Nations and the Court. 
Jordan  welcomes  the  report,  which  covers  the  major 
developments in the Court’s activities during the period 
from  1  August  2006  to  1  August  2007,  and  which 
recounts  the  continued  interaction  and  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Court  in  the 
service  of 
two 
international entities. As seen in the report, the ICC is a 
major  pillar  in  promoting  international  justice  and  in 
the maintenance of international peace and security and 
in upholding the rule of law. 

The work of the Court and its success in realizing 
its  objectives  depend  on  constructive  cooperation  and 
continued support by States and by the United Nations 
and  its  organs.  In  this  regard,  Jordan  especially 
welcomes  the  cooperation  provided  by  the  United 
Nations to the Court, as described in the report.  

Jordan emphasizes  the importance of the plan of 
action  adopted  in  2006  by  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties to the Rome Statute to achieve universality and 
full  implementation  of  the  Statute,  in  view  of  its 
importance  in  ending  impunity  for  perpetrators  of  the 
most  heinous  crimes  and 
in  ensuring  full  and 
permanent respect for criminal justice and international 
humanitarian law. 

Jordan also emphasizes the importance of full and 
comprehensive  preparation  by  States  for  the  Rome 
Statute review conference scheduled for early 2010, so 
as  to  ensure  that  the  necessary  amendments  are 
introduced  and  that  a  definition  of  the  crime  of 
aggression is included. 

Finally, Jordan welcomes the Court’s signature of 
the  Headquarters  Agreement  with  the  host  State,  the 
Netherlands.  It  also  welcomes  the  deposit  by  the 
Comoros  and  Chad  of  their  instruments  of  ratification 
of  the  Rome  Statute  with  the  Secretary-General,  and 
the deposit by Japan and Saint Kitts and Nevis of their 
instruments  of  accession,  as  well  as  the  fact  that 
Montenegro has informed the Secretary-General that it 
07-58072 

15 

ratified 
the  Statute  of 
Mr.  Stemmet  (South  Africa):  Allow  me 
A/62/PV.43 

had  succeeded  to  the  Statute.  These  events  contribute 
to the universality of the Court. 

to 
express  the  appreciation  of  my  delegation  to  the 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC), 
His  Excellency  Judge  Philippe  Kirsch, 
for  his 
statement in introducing the report of the International 
Criminal Court (see A/62/314) this morning. 

The  South  African  Government  is  a  committed 
supporter of the ICC. My Government was among the 
first  to  sign  the  Rome  Statute  in  1998,  and  the  South 
African  parliament 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  and  adopted  national 
legislation  to  enable  cooperation  with  the  Court  in 
2002.  We  see  the  International  Criminal  Court  as  a 
central  element  in  ending  impunity  for  international 
crimes  and  in  establishing  conditions  under  which 
justice can be maintained. 
We  commend  the  Court  for  the  work  it  has 

engaged in since its inception and for the role it plays 
in  deterring  the  further  commission  of  international 
crimes. We take note of the cases currently before the 
Court  and  also  have  taken  note  of  the  decision  of  the 
Court  with  regard  to  the  role  of  victims,  in  particular 
the measures the Court is taking to ensure wider access 
to victims during all stages of a trial. 
We are acutely aware of the challenges facing the 

Prosecutor,  arising  primarily  from  the  fact  that  the 
Court does not have its own police or army to effect its 
warrants of arrest and therefore depends entirely on the 
cooperation  of  States.  This  dependency  of  the  Court 
upon States places a responsibility on States committed 
to 
individually  and 
collectively  cooperate  with  the  Court,  be  it  within  the 
context  of  regional  organizations  such  as  African 
Union  and  the  League  of  Arab  States  or  in  a  larger 
family of nations such as the United Nations. 

We have taken note of the  concern  raised by the 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  at  the 
lack of implementation of the six arrest warrants issued 
by  the  Court,  some  as  far  back  as  2005.  The  lack  of 
implementation  of  these  arrest  warrants  illustrates  the 
challenges  facing  the  system  of  international  criminal 
justice, which as a system requires the Court and States 
to  work  together.  The  Court  has  played  its  part  by 
issuing  the  arrest  warrants;  now  it  is  up  to  States  to 
play their part by implementing them. Our hope is that 
all  States  of  goodwill  that  wish  to  put  an  end  to 
the  principle  of 
justice 
to 
in 
in 
into 
justice 
investigation 
the  situation 
(see  A/62/314) 
the  Rome  Statute 
to  achieve 
Mr.  Hernández  García  (Mexico)  (spoke 
impunity will cooperate with the Court by giving effect 
to the Court’s decisions. 
in 

Spanish): The delegation of Mexico wishes to express 
its  gratitude  to  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC),  Judge  Philippe  Kirsch,  for  his 
introduction  of  the  Court’s  third  report  to  the  General 
Assembly 
conformity  with 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and the Court.  
is  a 
The  universality  of 

the  aims  of 
common  goal  necessary 
international 
to  which  we  aspired  by 
establishing  the  International  Criminal  Court.  In  this 
regard,  the  Mexican  Government  welcomes  Japan’s 
recent accession to the Rome Statute, which raises the 
number of States parties to 105. 

On  29  January  2004,  a  State  party,  Uganda, 
referred  the  first  situation  to  the  Court.  Five  months 
later, as a result of the second referral of a situation to 
the  Court  by  a  State  party,  the  Prosecutor  announced 
the  first 
the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  which  led  to  the 
case  against  Thomas  Lubanga  Dyilo,  whose  trial  is 
about  to  begin.  We  also  note  with  interest  the  recent 
arrest  of  Mr.  Germain  Katanga.  The  Mexican 
delegation  welcomes  the  birth  of  the  judicial  system 
established in the Rome Statute three and a half years 
ago  as  an  important  achievement,  but  also  remains 
cognizant  of  the  challenges  which  the  Court  is  facing 
today in carrying out its mandate.  

Allow  me  to  address  some  of  my  Government’s 
views concerning the work of the Court in the context 
of  our  wish  to  have  a  transparent,  swift  and  efficient 
model  of  justice.  In  terms  of  transparency,  the  report 
presented  today  (A/62/314)  reflects  the  complexity  of 
the Court’s work in the field, in particular as it relates 
to  its  perception  by  societies  affected  by  armed 
conflicts,  and  to  the  persistent  insecurity  faced  by  its 
personnel.  

For the Mexican Government, it is crucial for the 
Court  to  expand  its  outreach  activities  in  a  creative 
manner, so that it may come closer to the members of 
the  affected  communities  and  to  reach  those  who  are 
still sceptical or doubtful about the Court’s work.  

A fundamental part of the Court’s mandate relates 
to  the  victims’  rights  to  participate  in  the  different 
16 

07-58072 


stages  of  the  judicial  process.  Mexico  considers  that 
this  right  contained  in  the  Statute  is  also  a  way  to 
ensure trust and transparency, and should be supported 
especially.  In  this  respect,  the  work  of  the  Court  is 
deserving of admiration.  

With  respect  to  swift  justice,  my  Government 
considers that the Rome Statute contains the minimum 
necessary  tools  for  the  Court  to  meet  the  principle  of 
“justice  without  delay”.  In  this  sense,  Mexico  notes 
that in the four situations submitted to the Court, it has 
taken between five and six months for investigations to 
begin.  Likewise,  we  note  that  in  the  three  cases  in 
which there have been arrest warrants, namely Uganda, 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Sudan, 
these were issued on average one year after the referral 
of  each  corresponding  case.  This  period  of  time  is 
acceptable and consistent with the nature of the type of 
investigations that the Court has to undertake.  

Nevertheless,  we  note  with  great  concern  that, 
with  the  exception  of  the  Lubanga  Dyilo  case  and  the 
recent surrender of Mr. Germain Katanga, both related 
to  the  case  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
the  arrest  warrants  in  the  cases  of  Uganda  and  the 
Sudan  have  not  been  executed.  This  situation  is  no 
longer entirely within the Court’s competence, and this 
cannot continue if we aim to achieve a judicial model 
by which prompt justice is offered.  
It is the responsibility of States and international 

and  regional  organizations 
the 
necessary  measures  to  cooperate  with  the  Court  in  its 
work  —  in  this  case,  particularly  by  detaining  and 
surrendering  the  alleged  perpetrators  of  crimes.  We 
consider  that  the  United  Nations  has  basic  tools  that 
can  be  made  available  to  the  Court.  Indeed,  the 
Relationship Agreement  offers  the  legal  basis  for  this 
cooperation. It is necessary and urgent for the General 
Assembly,  the  Security  Council  and  the  Secretariat  to 
act  within  the  framework  of  their  capacities  to  assist 
the Court in discharging its mandate.  
Allow  me  to  recall  what  the  preamble  to  the 

Statute  clearly  recognizes  —  putting  an  end 
to 
impunity is a necessary precondition to the preventive 
role created under this Statute. Without justice there is 
no long-lasting process of prevention, but without trials 
there  is  no  opportunity  to  achieve  justice.  Mexico 
expresses its concern that the absence of cooperation in 
this respect may affect the preventive role of the Court. 
That  is  why  we  call  upon  the  actors  concerned  not  to 
to  urgently  adopt 
A/62/PV.43
the 
the  mandate  of 
defer their actions and to bring alleged perpetrators to 
justice.  

In  this  context,  my  delegation  is  extremely 
worried  about  the  fact  that  the  situation  that  has 
prevailed  for  more  than  four  years  now  in  Darfur  is 
still in a spiral of violence, generating one of the worst 
humanitarian  crises  of  this  century  and  exceeding  the 
boundaries  of 
International 
Criminal  Court.  In  addition  to  more  than  200,000 
civilian  deaths,  there  are  also  thousands  of  refugees 
and  internally  displaced  persons.  Moreover,  dozens  of 
humanitarian  workers  have  been  injured  or  killed, 
often  intentionally,  thereby  impeding  the  delivery  of 
urgent humanitarian assistance.  

We strongly condemn the attacks on humanitarian 
workers  of 
the  United  Nations  and  associated 
personnel,  and  we  appeal  for  cessation  of  these 
criminal  acts  that  are  prohibited  under  international 
law.  

The  cooperation  of  the  Sudanese  Government  is 
key  in  addressing  one  of  the  multiple  facets  of  the 
complex emergency in that country, which is related to 
the  fight  against  impunity  and  the  rule  of  law.  Those 
who have committed or ordered the commission of the 
crimes  being  investigated  by  the  Court  must  be 
detained  and  brought  to  justice,  regardless  of  their 
status,  official  position  or  rank.  States  have  the 
obligation to ensure compliance with this objective, for 
today  there  is  no  room  for  impunity  under  the  Rome 
Statute.  
With  respect  to  financial  efficiency,  Mexico 

closely  follows  the  financial  developments  pertaining 
to  the  Court.  We  believe  that  the  Court  has  an 
enormous  responsibility  towards  States  parties  to  the 
Statute  for  the  good  management  of  its  financial 
resources  under  the  principle  of  “one  Court”.  The 
Court has to be a model of international administration. 
To that end, it can benefit from the experience of other 
international  organizations  in  their  efforts  to  be  cost 
effective. My delegation will actively contribute to the 
consideration  of  the  budget  to  be  undertaken  by  the 
next Assembly of States Parties.  
The  establishment  of  the  International  Criminal 

Court,  through  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  in 
1998,  marked  a  turning  point  in  the  way  in  which 
international justice is conceived. It now behoves us to 
work  together  to  maintain  its  validity  and  efficiency. 
Mexico pledges its support to the Court in its task. 
07-58072 

17 

for 
law, 
international  criminal 
A/62/PV.43 

Mr.  Muburi-Muita  (Kenya):  My  delegation 

takes  the  opportunity  to  thank  Judge  Philippe  Kirsch, 
President of the International Criminal Court (ICC), for 
his leadership and for his comprehensive report on the 
activities of the Court during the past year (A/62/314). 
I would like to assure him of our support in the Court’s 
quest to effectively carry out its duties.  

The entry into force of the Rome Statute ushered 
in  a  new  era  in  the  administration  of  international 
criminal justice. The ICC was founded to put an end to 
impunity,  through  prevention  of  the  most  serious 
international  crimes  and  the  guarantee  of  lasting 
respect for the rule of law. Needless to say, this is the 
very  basis  on  which  the  United  Nations  was  founded 
more than 60 years ago. The presence of impunity not 
only  encourages  the  recurrence  of  abuses,  but  also 
strips  human  rights  and  humanitarian  law  of  their 
deterrent  effect.  The  Court  provides  an  enforcement 
mechanism 
the 
legitimacy  of  which  would  be  placed  in  jeopardy 
without the existence of such a mechanism. 

The  success  of  the  ICC  depends  largely  on  the 
widespread ratification of the Rome Statute and States 
Parties’  compliance  with  their  obligations  under  the 
treaty.  In  this  regard,  I  reiterate  Kenya’s  commitment 
to render support to the work of the ICC in upholding 
its  objectives.  Kenya  ratified  the  Rome  Statute  in 
March  2005  and  is  on  course  with  the  internal 
procedures for its domestication. 

Kenya  is  gratified  to  note  the  progress  in  the 
Court’s  infrastructure  and  operations,  as  demonstrated 
through  its  growth  and  involvement  in  the  referrals 
before  it.  My  delegation  commends  the  efforts  of  the 
Court  in  monitoring  the  overall  situation  in  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  gathering 
information  on  the  activities  of  armed  groups  in  that 
territory.  We  also  recognize  the  continued  efforts  to 
raise  the  level  of  awareness  and  understanding  about 
the Court’s operations globally. 

the  Court’s  cooperative 
arrangements  with  the  United  Nations  have  been  very 
instrumental  in  the  success  of  the  Court’s  activities  in 
all the situations under investigation by the Court. We 
applaud 
the  Court  and  urge 
strengthened and enhanced cooperation with the United 
Nations, 
the  Relationship 
Agreement. 
this  approach  by 
is  evident 
provided 
under 
It 
that 
as 
remains 
community 

The  movement  towards  the  universality  of  the 
Court  is  clearly  visible  from  the  manner  in  which  its 
establishment has been welcomed by several countries, 
as  evidenced  by  the  number  of  ratifications  to  the 
Statute  and  the  many  visits  by  dignitaries  from  States 
not  party  to  the  Rome  treaty.  The  accession  to  the 
Agreement  on  the  Privileges  and  Immunities  of  the 
Court  on  29  January  2007  by  Ukraine,  which  is  not  a 
State Party to the treaty, underscores the global nature 
and support for the ICC. 

To  maintain  this  momentum,  the  support  of  the 
international 
critical.  We, 
therefore,  urge  the  Court  to  intensify  its  efforts  to 
conclude  negotiations  on  cooperative  arrangements 
with  States  Parties,  regional  organizations  and  other 
actors  in  all  regions,  regardless  of  their  conflict 
situation.  This  would  promote  and  enhance 
the 
dialogue that is necessary to realize the plan of action 
for  achieving  universality  and  full  implementation  of 
the Rome Statute. 

Given  that  the  operations  of  the  ICC  are  in 
harmony with the principles enshrined in the Charter of 
the United Nations, the Court’s work contributes to the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  For 
this  reason,  my  delegation  urges  States  to  uphold  the 
model  law  they  have  helped  establish,  by  enforcing 
arrest  warrants  issued  by  the  Court.  This  call  should 
transcend  political  considerations  in  order  to  help 
preserve the Court’s independence and integrity. 

In connection with the aforementioned, the Rome 
Statute affords States the opportunity to deal with cases 
of  human  rights  violations  under  domestic  law  and 
allows  the  ICC  to  assume  jurisdiction  only  when 
affected  States  are  either  unable  or  unwilling  to  act. 
This  principle  of  complementarity 
is  a  positive 
development  in  the  quest  to  promote  and  protect 
human rights. 

By way of conclusion, I wish to say that respect 
for  the  law  is  the  only  guarantee  of  lasting  peace.  In 
this  regard,  Kenya  supports  and  looks  forward  to  the 
early  conclusion  of  the  deliberation  on  the  definition 
and elements of the crime of aggression. 
Mr.  Riofrio  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

the 
delegation  wishes 
International  Criminal  Court 
for  having 
introduced  the  third  report  of  the  Court  to  this 
Assembly. 
the  President  of 
(ICC) 
thank 
to 
18 

07-58072 



Allow  me  to  begin  by  stating  that  the  full 
operational capacity of the Court and the constant and 
sustained  work  undertaken  by  it  in  four  countries,  as 
well as its presence in 25 others, have demonstrated its 
suitability  as  well  as  its  importance  and  the  global 
nature  of  its  work.  Perhaps  during  the  past  year  the 
presence of the Court has been more noticeable, and its 
work is beginning to be better understood. 

The  international  community  has  witnessed  an 
unprecedented  event  in  history  —  the  participation  of 
victims  in  a  hearing  in  their  own  right,  and  not  as 
witnesses.  In  this  sense,  it  is  worth  stressing  the 
importance  of  the  Court’s  care  to  provide  security  to 
victims,  witnesses  and  their  families,  putting  their 
protection  ahead  of  its  own  judicial  responsibilities. 
These  measures  have  brought  us  closer  to  the  full 
recognition  of 
individual  as  a  subject  of 
international law and to the need to place people at the 
centre  of 
the  policies  and  actions  of  States, 
international organizations and civil society. 

Even  though  the  Court  has  made  progress  on 
issues  such  as  cooperation  with  States  in  order  to 
facilitate  preventive  measures  and  the  protection  of 
information, 
that  agreements  on 
witness  protection  and  relocation  have  not  grown  in 
proportion 
the  number  of  protected  persons. 
Furthermore,  it  continues  to  be  essential  to  strengthen 
mechanisms leading to the execution of arrest warrants 
and to reach agreements on carrying out sentences. 

My  delegation  wishes  to  repeat  its  call  for 
commitments by States to strengthen their cooperation 
with  the  Court  and  to  find  ways  of  making  the  Court 
more  effective. 
is 
interested  in  learning  of  proposals  relating  to  the 
specific 
the 
strengthening of the Court. 

Ecuador wishes to reaffirm its belief that the fight 
against  impunity,  for  the  rule  of  law  and  respect  for 
human  rights  strongly  contribute  to  strengthening 
international peace and security. My country has taken 
several measures to promote legislative reform, so as to 
bring  about  the  full  implementation  of  the  Rome 
Statute  and  is  currently  working  on  a  process  of 
judicial reform that will focus in particular on criminal 
matters. 

interesting 
moment  of  political  and  institutional  change  that  will 
lead to the constitution of a national assembly that will 
that  connection,  Ecuador 
is  now  experiencing  an 
is  worrisome 
cooperation 
required 
Ecuador 
to 
ensure 
it 
to 
the 
In 
A/62/PV.43
to 
its 
The  constitutional 
reform  will  allow 
the  Rome  Statute  and 
reform  the  political  Constitution  of  the  State.  A 
mainstay  of  this  reform  is  to  place  individuals  at  the 
centre of the actions of the State and respect for human 
rights in its broadest and unrestricted sense. 

the 
extension  of  the  criminal  reform  under  way  and  the 
finalization of a bill on crimes against humanity, which 
will define and categorize those crimes under the Rome 
Statute,  as  well  as  norms  to  observe  the  principle  of 
complementarity  and  comply  with  obligations 
to 
cooperate with the International Criminal Court. 

I  wish  to  congratulate  the  Governments  of  Saint 
Kitts  and  Nevis  and  Japan  for  their  decision  to  ratify 
the Rome Statute, as well as to commend Montenegro 
for having become a Party to it by succession. 
It  is  vital  to  continue  working  for  the  universal 

adherence 
full 
implementation.  Ecuador  wishes  to  underscore  the 
importance  of  strengthening  the  dialogue  with  all 
States and international organizations. 

My  country  considers  it  important  to  continue 
striving to promote the Court in States that have not yet 
ratified  the  Statute,  and  we  hope  that  visits  will  be 
made to States Parties that need to continue to count on 
the  support  of  the  international  community  to  achieve 
the implementation of the Rome Statute. 
Mr.  Shinyo  (Japan):  It  is  my  great  pleasure  and 

honour to speak today on behalf of the Government of 
Japan  on  the  agenda  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  at  this  Assembly.  My  delegation  would 
like  to  express  its  appreciation  to  President  Philippe 
Kirsch  for  his  comprehensive  report  on  the  current 
situation of the ICC and the Court’s achievements over 
the past year. 

I am especially privileged to address the General 
Assembly  this  year,  as  this  statement  is  the  first 
intervention  by  the  Government  of  Japan  under  this 
agenda  item  as  a  full-fledged  State  party  to  the  Rome 
Statute. I would like to report to all Member States that 
Japan  deposited  its  instrument  of  accession  to  the 
Rome  Statute  this  year  on  the  highly  symbolic  day  of 
17  July,  the  World  Day  for  International  Justice,  and 
has  become  its  105th  State  party  as  of  1  October.  In 
that  connection,  I  would  like  to  express  our  gratitude 
for the reference made by the delegate of Ecuador, who 
spoke just before me.  
07-58072 

19 

A/62/PV.43 


The internal process of ratification for Japan was 
not  without  its  difficulties.  President  Kirsch,  who 
visited  Japan  last  December,  had  productive  talks  and 
exchanges  of  views  with  Japanese  political  leaders, 
which  surely  provided  a  timely  impetus  to  accelerate 
the process of Japan’s accession to the ICC. 

I  would  like  to  pay  high  tribute  to  the  efforts  of 
the  ICC  to  effectively  address  the  four  situations  in 
Africa  currently  under  investigation.  Japan  welcomes 
the  most  recent  development 
the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  that  is,  the  second  arrest  and 
surrender  of  a  perpetrator.  I  believe  that  the  devoted 
work  of  the  ICC  in Africa  will  certainly  contribute  to 
peace and stability on the continent and thus lead to the 
realization of a more vibrant Africa. Japan attaches the 
utmost  importance  to  the  issues  of  Africa  in  its 
diplomacy  and  will  be  hosting  the  fourth  Tokyo 
International  Conference  on  African  Development 
(TICAD IV) in Yokohama next May. From this broader 
perspective,  Japan  will  also  continue  to  pay  close 
attention  to  the  development  of  the  ICC’s  work 
regarding the situation in Africa. 

As  a  new  member  of  the  ICC,  Japan  wishes  to 
contribute  to  the  maximum  extent  possible  to  the 
development  of 
financial 
perspective, Japan now becomes the largest contributor 
to the Court, providing 22 per cent of its total budget. 
The Government of Japan will discharge its obligation 
faithfully  while  seeking  intensively,  together  with  the 
ICC  and  other  States  parties,  for  the  most  efficient 
ways  to  manage  the  work  of  the  Court  both  in  The 
Hague and in the field.  

From  the  viewpoint  of  human  resources,  Japan 
intends  to  send  as  many  highly  skilled  Japanese  as 
possible  to  the  ICC  to  serve  as  its  judges  and  staff. 
Currently, the Asian region, including Japan, seems to 
be  seriously  underrepresented 
ICC.  My 
delegation  expects  the  Court  to  take  all  necessary 
measures  to  address  this  issue  and  hopes  to  see 
significant progress in the coming year. 

Japan hopes that the Court will continue to work 
diligently  towards  the  eradication  of  the  culture  of 
impunity  and  to  further  consolidate  its  status  as  the 
only  permanent  international  criminal  court  in  the 
world. 
Mr. Butagira (Uganda): Allow me first to thank 

the  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
the  Court.  From 
the 
the 
in 
in 
the  peace 
(ICC),  Judge  Philippe  Kirsch,  for  the  report  presented 
to the General Assembly earlier today. 

Uganda holds in high regard the work of the ICC. 
My  delegation  has  full  confidence  in  the  Court. 
Without such confidence, Uganda could not have made 
referrals to the Prosecutor to commence investigations 
into  the  situation  of  the  Lord’s  Resistance  Army 
(LRA). Uganda is determined to put an end to impunity 
for  the  perpetrators  of  grave  crimes  and  we  shall  do 
everything within our power and means to bring them 
to account. 

We  note  with  concern  the  statement  of  the 
President of the Court that “a number of direct requests 
for  cooperation  have  not  yet  been  fulfilled”  (supra). 
Particular  emphasis  was  put  on  failure  to  execute  the 
outstanding warrants. 

For purposes of clarification, I would like to state 
that  none  of  the  indicted  individuals  is  on  Uganda’s 
territory.  Moreover, 
talks,  which  are 
monitored  by,  among  others,  Mr.  Joachim  Chissano, 
the  Special  Envoy  of  the  Secretary-General  to  LRA-
affected  areas,  are  being  held  outside  Uganda. 
Therefore, it should not be understood that Uganda has 
control over the indictees and is refusing to hand them 
over for trial. 

With regard to cooperation, Uganda has benefited 
greatly  from  the  operations  of  the  Court.  Indeed,  it  is 
significantly due to the warrants of the Prosecutor that 
peace  talks  are  taking  place  in  Juba  between  the 
Government  of  Uganda  and  the  LRA  and  that  peace 
now  prevails  in  northern  Uganda.  For  that  we  are 
grateful,  and  we  will  continue  to  cooperate  with  the 
Prosecutor,  indeed  with  the  whole  Court,  in  the 
furtherance of its mandate. 

Further  testimony  of  Uganda’s  cooperation  may 
be observed from the fact that my Government has not 
withheld  any  evidence,  including  raw  data,  from  the 
Office  of  the  Prosecutor.  Investigators  have  had  free 
access  to  the  witnesses,  without  interference  from 
Government officials. 

In  his  presentation  earlier  today,  Judge  Kirsch 
quoted from an expert report of the International Crisis 
Group, stating that “the ICC investigation of the Lord’s 
Resistance Army has been crucial for promoting peace, 
improving security in northern Uganda and embedding 
international 
into 
negotiations” (supra). 
accountability 
standards 
20 

07-58072 



Uganda  is  proud  to  be  associated  with  the  work 
of the ICC. It is for this reason that my country was the 
first to offer to host the review conference due to take 
place in 2009. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 

have heard the last speaker in the debate on this item. 
However, one representative has requested the exercise 
of his right of reply. I should like to remind Members 
of the General Assembly that statements in the exercise 
of the right of reply are to be limited to ten minutes for 
the  first  statement  and  five  minutes  for  the  second. 
Delegations are to speak from their seats. 
Mr.  Abdelsalam  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

Some  delegations  made  statements  under  this  agenda 
item  about  the  need  of  the  Government  of  Sudan  to 
commit  itself  to  cooperating  with  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC),  in  accordance  with  Security 
Council  resolution  1593  (2005).  While  my  delegation 
welcomes  and  commends  these  countries  for  their 
boldness  and  their  desire  to  see  international  justice 
implemented,  we  call  upon  them  to  possess  the  same 
courage  and  draw  attention  to  the  content  of  the 
aforementioned  resolution  and  to  its  exemption  of  a 
Security  Council  member  from  the  jurisdiction  of  the  

A/62/PV.43
Court. What kind of justice are they talking about? Is it 
that  which  is  happening  in  Darfur  while  it  closes  its 
unjust  eyes  to  daily  violations  that  are  shameful  and 
are  known  and  witnessed  by  the  world  everyday? 
Justice is indivisible, and so is courage in dealing with 
such cases.  

Resolution  1593  (2005)  is  shameful,  not  only 
because of this defective exception, but also because it 
is  political  in  the  first  place  and  aims  only  at  settling 
political accounts according to an agenda known to one 
and  all.  The  Sudan  is  not  a  member  of  the  Rome 
Statute  that  established  the  Court,  and  the  Court  has, 
therefore, no jurisdiction to try Sudanese nationals. The 
national Sudanese judiciary, which is independent  and 
neutral, is capable of trying all those proven guilty.  

In  conclusion,  we  ask  people  to  stop  shedding 
crocodile  tears  and  to  encourage  an  all-inclusive 
peaceful settlement in the country.  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

General Assembly has listened to the delegation of the 
Sudan in the exercise of its right of reply. The General 
Assembly  has 
thus  concluded 
its 
consideration of agenda item 76.  
The meeting rose at 5.20 p.m. 
this  stage  of 
07-58072 

21 
