United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

35th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 25 October 2007, 10 a.m. 
New York 

A/62/PV.35
Official Records
President: Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia)







The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m. 







Agenda item 53 (continued) 
Follow-up to and implementation of the outcome of 
the International Conference on Financing for 
Development 
  (b)  High-level  dialogue  for  the  implementation  of 
the  outcome  of  the  International  Conference 
on Financing for Development 
  Reports of the Secretary-General (A/62/190 and 
A/62/217) 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/62/271) 
Summary by the President of the Economic and 
Social Council (A/62/76 and A/62/76/Corr.1) 
The President: I give the floor to Her Excellency 

Ms. Byrganym Aitimova, chairperson of the delegation 
of Kazakhstan. 
Mrs.  Aitimova  (Kazakhstan):  I  will  try  to  be 

brief  today  because  I  know  that  we  are  so  tired  from 
trying to finalize our discussions yesterday. 

Economic and social development is an issue that 
concerns  humankind  as  a  whole.  Globalization  is  a 
contemporary  phenomenon  that,  on  the  one  hand, 
speeds  up  economic  processes,  offering  opportunities 
for  the  economic  and  social  development  of  all 
countries  while,  on  the  other,  it  highlights  ever  more 
strongly 
the  rich  and  poor 
countries.  That  divide,  if  ignored  or  treated  with 
the  divide  between 
fully 
agrees 
It 
support 
creation 
outlined 
recognized 
Kazakhstan 
and  greater 
The  Monterrey  Consensus 
that 
and  owned  development 
indifference,  may  become  an  obstacle  and  a  threat  to 
the world’s peace and stability. 
the 

comprehensive  national  and 
international  policy 
actions  required  to  achieve  the  internationally  agreed 
development  goals. 
that  enhanced 
financial  flows  are  critical  to  the  realization  of  those 
development goals. 
nationally 

formulated 
strategies, 
adequate  policy  space,  greater  overall  coherence  and 
coordination,  including  donor-recipient  coordination, 
employment 
for  
private-sector  growth  are  all  critical  elements  in 
attaining the agreed development goals. In that context, 
good  governance,  particularly  enhancing  transparency 
and combating corruption, also plays an important role. 

We are convinced that strengthening international 
trade  is  also  an  important  factor  in  the  financing  of 
development.  The  creation  of  a  liberal  multilateral 
trade  system  will  considerably  stimulate  development 
and  produce  certain  benefits  that  are  available  to  all 
countries. 

Kazakhstan  is  committed  to  its  obligations  to 
reach  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  is 
tirelessly 
long-term  development 
strategy  known  as  “Kazakhstan-2030”.  Kazakhstan’s 
main  objective  in  the  area  of  economic  policy  is  to 
ensure  that  our  country  joins  the  ranks  of  the  most 
competitive  economies.  To 
that  end,  we  are 
implementing  innovative  industrial  programmes  to 
implementing  a 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-56373 (E) 
*0756373* 

transit 
improved 
Kazakhstan  has 
transport  capabilities, 
A/62/PV.35 

diversify  the  economy,  increase  the  production  of 
value-added goods and services, and lay the foundation 
for a high-technology service economy. 

significantly 
its 
macroeconomic and fiscal management. In our country, 
an  economic  financial  environment  has  been  created 
that  corresponds  to  the  standards  of  a  developed 
market.  Moreover,  in  recent  years  the  Republic  of 
Kazakhstan has been making considerable investments 
in the economies of other developing countries through 
bilateral  and  multilateral  channels.  Joining  the  World 
Trade  Organization  will  help  Kazakhstan  in  that 
endeavour. We deem it important that this should take 
place on equitable and non-discriminatory terms. 

As  a  continental  country,  Kazakhstan  strongly 
believes  that  it  is  important  to  take  into  account  the 
interests  of  landlocked  developing  countries  in  the 
development  of 
the 
promotion  of  trade,  and  obtaining  access  to  world 
markets.  This  year  has  significant  importance  for  the 
Almaty  Programme  of  Action.  Now  is  the  time  to 
review the progress achieved in the implementation of 
the Programme. 
Kazakhstan hopes that the success of this meeting 

the 
will  help 
development-related  objectives 
the 
Millennium  Declaration  and  contribute  to  the  good 
preparation of the Doha Conference at the end of 2008. 
In order to provide for the further implementation 

of 
the  Monterrey 
Conference,  there  is  a  need  to  improve  cooperation 
between  Governments,  international  organizations,  the 
private  sector  and  the  non-governmental  organization 
sector  within  the  framework  of  the  agreed  agenda  for 
the  Conference.  In  that  context,  the  United  Nations 
system  and  especially 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council have a very important role to play, not least in 
the monitoring and coordination of the implementation 
process. 
The  President:  I  thank  the  representatives  of 

Albania,  Suriname  and  Tajikistan  and  the  observer  of 
the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  for  having  graciously 
accepted  not  to  take  the  floor  this  morning.  I  ask  the 
Secretariat 
this 
meeting. 

Wolfe, chairman of the delegation of Jamaica. 
I  now  call  on  His  Excellency  Mr. Raymond 
the  achievement  of 
in 
long-term  commitments  of 
their  statements  at 
to  distribute 
to  enable 
set  out 
the 
in 
to 
policies 
financial 
in  mind 
instability, 
implementing 
and 
institutions 
economic 
democratic 
Mr.  Wolfe  (Jamaica):  Let  me  at  the  outset 

indicate  that  Jamaica  wishes  to  align  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  Pakistan  on  behalf  of  the  Group 
of 77 and China. 

The  reports  of  the  Secretary-General  before  us 
speak to the overall improvement in the performance of 
developing countries and the mixed results in terms of 
the  progress 
the  Monterrey 
Consensus. It is therefore important that as we read the 
reports,  we  bear 
the  diverse  needs  of 
developing countries and their extreme vulnerability to 
global  economic  and 
rising 
commodity prices and natural disasters.  

In looking at the overall framework, we take the 
view that the starting point for our deliberations should 
be an acknowledgement that efforts at the domestic and 
global 
levels  are  mutually  reinforcing.  A  broad 
framework  of  reference  that  encapsulates  the  rule  of 
law, 
sound 
effective, 
participatory 
includes 
objectives  that  are  not  confined  to  the  activity  at  the 
country level. They permeate action at the global level 
and  are  central  to  the  effective  functioning  of  the 
global  economy.  We  therefore  expect  that  due  regard 
will be given to the dynamic nature of this relationship 
during 
the  course  of  our  discussions,  especially 
regarding  the  voice  and  effective  participation  of 
developing countries in global economic governance. 

Commenting on national efforts, Jamaica accepts 
that each country has the primary responsibility for its 
own development. Jamaica remains fully committed to 
that  objective.  The  Government  also  continues  to  pay 
special  attention 
trade  and 
investment  as  engines  for  growth  and  development  in 
the context of job creation, poverty eradication and the 
overall  improvement  in  the  standard  of  living  of  our 
people.  
We  therefore  see  merit  in  the  recommendations 

advanced 
the  Secretary-General 
(A/62/217)  related  to  mobilizing  domestic  financial 
resources  for  development 
to  provide  developing 
countries  with  the  enabling  environment  to  attract 
private  investment.  We  also  concur  that  the  necessary 
regulatory  framework  has  to  be  put  in  place,  and  we 
are  convinced  of 
that  national 
development banks can play in the process, particularly 
in  providing  financing  for  small  and  medium-sized 
enterprises.  With  respect  to  the  latter,  and  in  keeping 
the  promotion  of 
the  report  of 
the  strong 
role 
in 
2 

07-56373 
The  Government 
is  essential  for  countries 


with  our  own  experiences,  we  wish  to  underscore  the 
urgent  need  for  technical  assistance  and  innovative 
public and private partnerships to strengthen access by 
small and medium-sized enterprises to financing. 

the 
is  also  working  with 
Jamaican  Diaspora  to  see  how  best  we  can  build 
partnerships and support initiatives aimed at enhancing 
the  welfare  of  local  communities.  We  see  this  as 
important  since  it  is  not  limited  to  a  rather  skewed 
focus on remittances, but encapsulates a much broader 
approach for the overall development of the country. 

At  the  same  time,  our  efforts  can  be  successful 
only  in  a  global  economic  environment  conducive  to 
growth  and  with  the  requisite  support  of  developed 
partners.  Such  an  approach  is  necessary  if  long-term 
development  objectives,  plans  and  strategies  are  to  
be  realized.  This 
like  
Jamaica  that,  notwithstanding  our  classification  as  a  
middle-income  developing  country,  are  especially 
susceptible  to  natural  disasters,  are  highly  indebted, 
have limited access to global capital markets and have 
limited resources, productive and export diversification 
capacities. 

Against  this  background,  we  welcome  the  call 
made  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/62/217)  for 
foreign direct investment (FDI) flows to be broadened 
to a wider range of countries, including least developed 
countries,  landlocked  developing  countries  and  small 
island  developing  States.  We  further  wish  to  reiterate 
that  FDI  flows  should  respond  more  commensurately 
with the reform efforts being undertaken in developing 
countries. We  see  merit  in  the  recommendation  of  the 
Secretary-General 
financial 
institutions  should  adapt  the  range  of  products  and 
services  they  provide  to  meet  the  evolving  needs  of 
both low and middle-income countries. 

There  is  also  a  need  for  predictable  and  stable 
flows of official development assistance (ODA), given 
that ODA continues to remain crucial for financing the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  believe  that 
the  discussions  in  the  context  of  the  Development 
Cooperation  Forum  of 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council can enhance progress in this regard. 

With  respect  to  debt,  we  wish  to  underscore  the 
need for a renewed and vigorous approach to resolving 
the  external  debt  problem  of  developing  countries, 
including middle-income developing countries.  
multilateral 
that 
A/62/PV.35
the 
the 
through 
to  strengthen 
implementation  of 
implementation  of 
that  our  deliberations  on  how  best 

On  the  issue  of  trade,  I  wish  to  reiterate  my 
delegation’s  expectation  that  development  will  remain 
at the core of the Doha trade negotiations and that due 
regard  will  be  given  to  the  principles  of  special  and 
differential treatment. 

Finally,  we  remain  firmly  convinced  of  the 
crucial  role  that  the  United  Nations  can  play  in 
advancing 
the  Monterrey 
Consensus. We see this responsibility evolving through 
greater collaboration and cooperation with the Bretton 
Woods  institutions  as  well  as  with  the  World  Trade 
Organization,  especially  through  the  annual  spring 
meeting of the Economic and Social Council with these 
organizations as well as the United Nations Conference 
on Trade and Development.  
We also recognize and accept that more has to be 

done 
the 
Consensus  and  that  the  now  strengthened  Economic 
and  Social  Council, 
the  Development 
Cooperation  Forum,  is  better  poised  to  fulfil  this 
responsibility.  For  this  reason,  Jamaica  wishes  to 
reiterate 
to 
strengthen the review process should bear in mind the 
many  existing  forums  that  have  been  established  for 
this  purpose, 
to  avoid  any  unintended 
duplication of efforts and mechanisms. 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Ahmed  Mekki Ahmed,  chairman  of  the  delegation 
of Sudan. 

Mr. Ahmed (Sudan): On behalf of my delegation, 
I  would  like  to  congratulate  you  for  convening  this 
timely  High-level  Dialogue  on  Financing 
for 
Development.  We  are  confident 
that  under  your 
diligent  and  able  leadership  our  deliberations  will  be 
steered to fruitful conclusions. 

My  delegation  aligns  its  statement  with  that  of 
the  representative  of  Pakistan,  speaking  on  behalf  of 
the  Group  of  77  and  China,  and  the  statement  of  the 
representative of Benin on behalf of the African Group, 
as well as the statement of Bangladesh on behalf of the 
least developed countries. 

I  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
Secretary-General for his comprehensive reports on the 
issue  at  hand.  My  delegation  attaches  special 
importance to this meeting and recognizes its vital role 
in paving the way to the follow up of the International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  to  Review 
in  order 
07-56373 

3 

to 
the 
and 
strengthen 
We  recall 
best  means 
to  modest  progress, 
in  2002,  members  of 
A/62/PV.35 

Implementation  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus,  to  be 
held in 2008 in Doha. 

We  are  hopeful  that  the  Conference,  which  will 
take  stock  of  what  has  been  achieved  five  years  after 
the  adoption  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus,  will  also 
address 
its 
implementation as we move ahead within a fluid global 
environment 
that  carries  both  opportunities  and 
challenges. 

The  Monterrey  Consensus  is  predicated  on  the 
principle of partnership and a set of commitments to be 
carried  out  by  both  the  developing  countries  and 
developed  countries.  The  Secretary-General,  in  his 
analytical  assessment,  states  that  the  picture  is  quite 
mixed  and  points  to  considerable  advances  in  some 
areas 
stagnation  or 
retrogression in others. 

the 
that, 
Development  Assistance  Committee  made  various 
promises  before  and  at  the  Monterrey  International 
Conference on Financing for Development to increase 
their aid by 2006 from the previous levels set in 2000. 
While  some  managed  to  do  so,  others  failed  to  fulfil 
their  promises,  and 
total  official  development 
assistance  (ODA)  fell  by  5.1  per  cent  to  around 
$103.9 billion  in  2006,  which  is  0.3  per  cent  of  gross 
national income, way below the internationally agreed 
target of 0.7 per cent of gross national income in ODA. 

Donors’  promises  to  double  aid  to  Africa,  a 
continent that is off track in meeting the internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  including  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
remain  unfulfilled. 
Despite  the  fact  that  preliminary  data  shows  that 
bilateral  net  ODA  to Africa  rose  by  23  per  cent,  most 
of the increase was due to debt relief grants for one or 
two  countries,  and  in  fact  ODA  is  expected  to  further 
decline in 2007. 

In  my  own  country,  the  Sudan,  ODA  has  been 
declining  since  the  early  1990s.  Over  the  period  
1989-1995,  ODA 
the  Sudan  averaged  about 
$22.2 per  capita,  while  in  1982  it  was  $31.  In  1990  it 
was  $29  and  has  diminished  since  then  due  to  the 
unfair unilateral sanctions imposed on the Sudan since 
the early 1990s. We also note that, while humanitarian 
aid  to  the  Sudan  increased  per  capita,  ODA  declined 
sharply over that period. The declining ODA is a major 
issue  that  needs  to  be  underscored,  as  it  constitutes  a 
the  developed 
vital  commitment  on 
the  part  of 
(MDGs), 
to 
to 
the 
role 
important 
is  being  devoted 
the  expansion  of 
A  project  aimed  at 
countries  to  assist  the  developing  countries  if  the 
MDGs are ever to be achieved by 2015. 

Despite  serious  challenges  and  constraints,  the 
Sudan has continued to implement macroeconomic and 
microeconomic  reform  policy  packages 
that  have 
lowered  inflation  from  the  130  per  cent  level  of  the 
1990s  to  a  single-digit  figure  since  the  year  2000. 
Greater  attention 
the  most 
vulnerable  portion  of  the  population  so  as  to  improve 
the  quality  of  life  of  the  poor.  The  Sudan  has 
established a community development fund in order to 
facilitate  easy  access  by  the poor  to  microcredit  loans 
to  enable  them  to  produce  their  food  and  virtually 
generate income. 

the 
microfinance sector in the Sudan, commissioned by the 
country’s  central  bank,  has  been  established 
in 
recognition  of 
that  vibrant 
microfinance  can  play  in  mobilizing  resources  for  the 
economic  development  of  the  country,  particularly  in 
terms  of  poverty  eradication.  The  main  aim  of  the 
strategy  is  to  facilitate  access  to  financial  services  by 
the  poor  in  rural,  semi-urban  and  urban  areas  by 
expanding and developing the microfinance sector in a 
cost-effective, 
sustainable 
manner. 

As  a  result  of  favourable  amendments  to  the 
country’s  Investment  Act,  and  as  an  outcome  of  the 
peace  agreements,  an  atmosphere  conducive 
to 
investment  has  been  created,  and  a  considerable  level 
of foreign direct investment is being attracted to many 
sectors,  especially  agriculture,  animal 
resources, 
energy and light industries.  

It must be pointed out that all of those efforts are 
being  impeded  by  the  country’s  huge  external  debt, 
which stands  at more than  $27 billion, of which more 
than  50  per  cent  constitutes  accumulated  arrears.  The 
Sudan’s  external  debt  problem  continues  to  limit  the 
country’s  access  to  external  development  financing. 
The Government is concerned that, after seven years of 
successful 
staff-
monitored  programmes,  it  is  not  benefiting  from  any 
debt-relief initiatives.  

On international trade, it is necessary to develop 
a strong global partnership for development in order to 
guarantee  an  open, 
rule-based,  predictable  and  
non-discriminatory  trading  and  financial  system.  The 
special  need  of  the  least  developed  countries  for  
implementation  of 
gender-sensitive 
successive 
and 
4 

07-56373 
in 
the 
Within 
of 
in 
the 
face  of 
framework 
the  context  of 


duty-free and quota-free unhindered market access for 
all their products must be addressed. 

On  South-South  cooperation,  the  Sudan  strongly 
believes in the value of utilizing complementarity and 
geographical  proximity 
rapid 
globalization,  the  benefits  of  which  have  not  been 
equally shared, in order to forge strong and expanding 
economic  relations  between  countries  in  Africa,  Asia 
and Latin America. 

strengthening  
the 
South-South  cooperation  for  enhancing  economic 
partnerships  and 
the  Cotonou 
Agreement,  the  Sudan  in  December  2006  hosted  the 
African,  Caribbean  and  Pacific  group  summit  to 
accelerate the process of finalizing the negotiations on 
economic  partnership  agreements  as  quickly  as 
possible,  and  will  pursue  that  effort  throughout  the 
term of its presidency up to December 2008. 
In  conclusion,  while  the  Monterrey  Consensus 

for 
highlighted 
mobilizing 
international 
assistance remains a key factor, and we look forward to 
further addressing those issues and to crafting our way 
forward in Doha next year. 
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 

Mr. Paul Badji, chairman of the delegation of Senegal. 
Mr.  Badji  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  My 

statement  was  to  have  been  made  two  days  ago  by 
Mr. Cheikh Tidiane Gadio, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of Senegal, who had other duties to attend to and was 
compelled  to  leave  New  York.  He  asked  me  to  make 
this statement on his behalf. I shall deliver an abridged 
version. 

internal  conditions 
the 
resources, 
role  of 
role  of 
direct 
investment, 
“I  wish  to  share  some  notes  I  made  in 

reviewing the high-quality reports submitted to us 
by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in documents 
A/62/190  and  A/62/217.  My  notes  address  the 
principal  sources  of  financing  for  development: 
foreign 
official 
trade, 
development assistance (ODA) and debt. 

“The  reports  tell  us  that,  for  all  developing 
countries,  foreign  direct  investment  increased 
from 18 per cent to 48 per cent of total financial 
outlay  between  1970  and  2006.  However,  such 
investments  are  strongly  concentrated  in  some 
regions  and  there  is  a  great  disparity  between 





A/62/PV.35
under 
liberalization 
countries in the same region. That is particularly 
true for sub-Saharan Africa. 

“Turning  to  international  trade,  the  reports 
stress  that  developing  countries  remain  seriously 
hampered in gaining access to the markets of the 
developed  countries  and  that  commitments  to 
services 
the  General 
Agreement  on  Trade  in  Services  are  of  limited 
scope. 

“With  respect  to  ODA,  the  situation  is 
hardly  any  better.  According  to  the  Secretary-
General,  despite  an  increase  from  $27  billion  to 
$73  billion  on  average  between  1980  and  2005, 
we  are  still  far  from  achieving  the  goal  of 
0.7 per cent of gross national income. He goes on 
to  say  that,  according  to  initial  estimates,  ODA 
flows have slightly dropped in 2006 and that they 
will stop practically increasing in 2007, according 
to  projections.  In  the  same  vein,  the  Secretary-
General  indicates  that,  foreign  debt  relief  has 
only  had  a  limited  effect  because,  for  the  most 
part, it has been applied to debt stocks that in any 
case would have been difficult, if not impossible, 
to pay back, in addition to the fact that debt relief 
measures, however salutary they may be, are not 
enough to ensure the viability of the debt stock.  

“These  are  the  rather  eloquent  reasons  for 
the  limits  on  the  four  main  sources  of  financing 
for  development,  and  they  are  the  reason  for  the 
poor  results  that  we  have  seen  since  2002.  The 
promises of Monterrey will be fulfilled only if, in 
addition  to  acting  on  those  commitments,  we 
strive  to  find  instruments  to  mobilize  additional 
resources  — 
instruments  which  would 
supplement the four main sources that I have just 
mentioned.  

“The Leading Group on Solidarity Levies to 
Fund  Development  has  been  involved  in  this 
exercise since it was set up in 2006. This Group, 
which now includes 54 member countries, has set 
as  its  main  goal  to  identify,  test  on  a  pilot  basis 
and  disseminate  innovative  projects  to  finance 
development.  Among 
new 
mechanisms  identified  by  the  Group,  we  might 
refer,  among  others,  to  the  International  Drug 
Purchase  Facility  as  well  as 
the  air-ticket 
solidarity  levy  and  the  Global  Digital  Solidarity 
Fund.  
potential 
the 
07-56373 

5 
Its 
Principle. 
flexibility 
initiator  of 
“I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 

recall 
the  Digital  Solidarity  Fund,  an 
initiative  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  is  recognized  as  a  special  way  to 
combat  poverty  and  was  endorsed  by 
the 
community  of  nations  during  the  World  Summit 
on  the  Information  Society.  It  proposed  a  “one 
per  cent  of  digital  solidarity…”  initiative  known 
as  the  Geneva  Principle,  the  implementation  of 
which  seems  to  us  crucial  if  we  want  to  reduce 
the  digital  divide 
in  developing  countries, 
especially in Africa.  

“This Principle consists of proposing to any 
company that awards public contracts to pay one 
per  cent  of  the  amount  of  the  contract  to  the 
Digital  Solidarity  Fund  as  a  contribution  to  deal 
with  the  digital  divide.  National  administrations 
and  local  communities  could  also  apply  the 
Geneva 
of 
implementation  and  voluntary  nature  strongly 
advocate in favour of its dissemination. 
“The  Head  of  State  of  Senegal,  Mr. 

Abdoulaye  Wade, 
the  Digital 
Solidarity Fund and of the Geneva Principle, has 
also  proposed  a  formula  to  mitigate  the  terrible 
shocks  that  our  fragile  economies  suffer  because 
of the huge surge in oil prices that we have seen 
since 2003. By making it possible to identify the 
profits  made  by  the  oil  companies  operating  in 
Africa  because  of  the  staggering  increase  in  the 
price  of  crude  oil  as  well  as  the  surcharge 
imposed  on  African  countries  that  import  the 
black  gold,  this  formula,  better  known  as  the 
Wade Formula is proof of the duty of solidarity of 
those companies towards those countries. 

after  Monterrey, 
economic and social well-being is still an elusive 
goal  towards  which  many  member  countries  of 
our  Organization  continue 
to  strive.  Indeed,  
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  appear 
increasingly  unattainable,  particularly  in  Africa, 
and poverty is gaining ground, thus increasing the 
gap between nations. Accordingly, no initiative at 
this  crucial  stage  should  be  disregarded  if  we 
want 
the  successful 
implementation of the Monterrey Consensus.  

“It is for this reason that the countries of the 
Leading  Group  on  Solidarity  Levies  to  Fund 
to  continue  hoping  for 
“Today, 
years 
five 
A/62/PV.35 


that 





6 

Development,  which  include  Senegal,  solemnly 
call upon all States Members of our Organization 
to consider implementing innovative mechanisms 
to  finance  development  that  they  have  identified 
and started to implement.” 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Zachary  Muburi-Muita,  chairman  of 
the delegation of Kenya. 
Mr.  Muburi-Muita  (Kenya):  Mr.  President,  I 

express  my  appreciation  to  you  for  organizing  this 
High-level  Dialogue  on  Financing  for  Development. 
My  delegation  associates  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered by the representatives of Pakistan and Benin 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and the Group 
of  African  States,  respectively.  In  the  spirit  of  your 
address  to  this  meeting  yesterday,  I  will  present  a 
highly condensed version of my statement, the full text 
of which has already been submitted to the Secretariat 
for circulation. 

The  Monterrey  Consensus  provides  a  conceptual 
framework  incidental  to  efforts  aimed  at  dealing  with 
issues  of  financing  for  development  at  all  levels  in  a 
comprehensive  and  systematic  manner.  My  delegation 
therefore  calls  on 
international  community, 
particularly  the  developed  countries,  to  meet  their 
commitments  in  order  to  keep  the  spirit  of  Monterrey 
alive.  
For  Kenya  and  many  developing  countries, 
a number of wide-ranging reforms have been instituted 
since 
the  Monterrey  Conference  as  part  of  our 
commitments.  
However,  Kenya’s  capacity  to  raise  resources 

domestically  for  development  remains  constrained, 
hence  the  need  for  development  partners  to  move  fast 
to  meet  their  commitments  in  providing  adequate 
support for development. 

Countries,  have  been  on  a  steady  decline  since 
the  1990s,  particularly  in  Africa.  There  is  a  need  to 
institute  measures 
this  negative  and 
worrying trend. It has been established that fair trade is 
a  vital 
tool  and  development  catalyst  for  both 
developed and developing countries. We call for a fair, 
global, 
rule-based,  open,  non-discriminatory  and 
equitable multilateral trading system that can stimulate 
development worldwide. 

to 
is 
development  in  developing  countries.  A  number  of 
initiatives  that  have  been  formed  —  for  instance,  the 
External  debt 
impediment 
a  key 
reverse 
the 
to 
07-56373 
framework 
for  development 


Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative — have not 
benefited us owing to the perception that Kenya’s debt 
is  sustainable.  This  is  not  realistic.  The  international 
community should put in place mechanisms within the 
financing 
that  will 
expedite  the  process  of  securing  unconditional  debt 
relief for developing countries.  

The  Bretton Woods  institutions  have  a  particular 
and historically significant role in providing resources 
to finance development in needy countries. For a long 
time,  developing  countries  have  continued  to  call  for 
the reform of the International Monetary Fund and the 
World Bank in order to make them responsive to their 
needs with little or no success. It will be appreciated if 
our collective call can be heard and acted upon.  

looks  forward 
successful  forthcoming  review  of 
Consensus in 2008. 
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 

Mr.  Camillo Gonsalves,  chairman  of  the  delegation  of 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. 
the 

Grenadines):  Five  and  a  half  years  ago,  world  leaders 
gathered in Monterrey and emphatically stated that  

  “[o]ur  goal  is  to  eradicate  poverty,  achieve 
sustained 
promote 
sustainable development as we advance to a fully 
inclusive  and  equitable  global  economic  system” 
(A/CONF.198/11,  chap.  I,  resolution  1,  annex, 
chap. I, para. 1). 
to  a 
the  Monterrey 
Finally,  my  delegation 
Mr.  Gonsalves
(Saint  Vincent 
economic 
growth 
and 
and 
Today,  the  question  you  have  put  before  us,  Sir,  is 
whether we have lived up to those noble sentiments. 

In  an  environment  of  uneven  progress  towards 
the Millennium Development Goals, of reduced official 
development  assistance  (ODA)  and  of  entrenched 
global  inequality,  we  must  concede  that,  in  spite  
of  some  welcome  bright  spots,  our  collective  
post-Monterrey progress has been inauspicious. 
The  operative  word  in  the  phrase  “financing  for 

development” 
development.  The  Monterrey 
Consensus  cannot  be  viewed  through  the  prism  of 
balance-sheet  sleight  of  hand,  where  items  are  rotated 
from  one  budgetary  column  to  another  in  a  grand 
international  shell  game.  We  must  focus  on  our 
commitment  to  improving  the  lot  of  the  billions  of 
is 
A/62/PV.35
line  of 
the  front 
people worldwide living in crushing and unimaginable 
poverty. 
Such a people-centred perspective recognizes that 

to 
there  can  be  no  one-size-fits-all  approach 
development.  We  must  abandon 
the  monolithic, 
inflexible, process-driven approaches to financing that 
have  doomed  so  many  initiatives.  The  efficient  and 
flexible  disbursement  of  financing  would  be  more 
beneficial  than  simply  increasing  the  amounts  of 
financing  available under  existing modalities.  In Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  for  example,  farmers 
seeking  generously  donated  financing  for  agricultural 
diversification have found themselves hopelessly mired 
in  externally-imposed  red  tape  and  requirements  that 
are impractical in the domestic context. Those farmers, 
who  are  on 
the  fallout  from 
globalization and iniquitous agricultural subsidies, find 
themselves  lost  in  the  world  of  bureaucrats  and  no 
closer  to  the  promised  and  much-needed  development 
assistance. 

Small  countries  like  ours  would  benefit  if  donor 
countries  were  to  streamline  their  financing  apparatus 
in such a way as to recognize our gains in democracy, 
anti-corruption  and  good  governance  and  therefore 
trust us to give relatively small amounts of money to a 
variety  of 
impractical 
bureaucratic encumbrances. 

Most  middle-income  countries  and  small  island 
developing States were not given a fresh development 
start  at  Monterrey.  We  were  left,  as  always,  to 
uncomfortably  serve  two  exacting  masters:  foreign 
creditors,  for  whom  debt-servicing  and  belt-tightening 
are  paramount,  and  our  domestic  populations,  for 
whom expanded social and infrastructural investments 
are urgently required. 

are  being 
excluded  from  comprehensive  debt  relief  in  a  manner 
that  calls 
the 
commitments  made  at  Monterrey.  Indeed,  for  all  but 
the  most  heavily  indebted  countries,  there  is  a  vexing 
conundrum. 
very 
indebtedness  compromises 
their  governance  and 
stability,  are  told  to  clean  up  their  domestic  act  as  a 
precondition  for  debt  relief.  Middle-income  countries, 
on the other hand, often stable and well-governed, are 
told 
in  avoiding 
economic disaster precludes them from debt relief. As 
such, middle-income countries, home to 41 per cent of 
their  marginal  competence 
small  projects  without 
Small  middle-income 
countries,  whose 
into  question 
sincerity  of 
countries 
Indebted 
the 
that 
07-56373 

7 

in 
unrest 
instability, 
A/62/PV.35 

the  world’s  poor,  are  condemned,  like  Sisyphus,  to 
push the debt boulder endlessly uphill. 

If  broad  debt  cancellation  is  unpalatable  in  the 
abstract,  surely  it  is  not  beyond  the  ingenuity  of  this 
body  to  fashion  ways  in  which  a  debtor  nation  can 
satisfy  its  obligations  to  creditors  by  reallocating  its 
debt-servicing dollars domestically to mutually agreed 
development projects.  
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines again bemoans 

the 
imposition  of 
trade  distorting  barriers  and 
subsidies,  which  short-sightedly  serve  the  gods  of 
domestic  political  expediency.  Those  policies  are 
investments 
and 
underdevelopment  and,  as  we  have  seen,  solving  their 
global repercussions and manifestations requires much 
more than 0.7 per cent of gross national income. 
In  that  context,  St.  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines 

the 
echoes  Horst  Köhler,  Managing  Director  of 
the 
International  Monetary  Fund,  who  stated 
to 
Economic and Social Council in 2003 that “[a]dvanced 
economies  must  live  up  to  their  pledges,  and  the 
longstanding  target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  domestic 
product  remains  for  me  a  concrete  test  of  their 
credibility”. The Monterrey Consensus must be viewed 
holistically,  and  the  continued  failure  of  some  nations 
to  make  tangible  progress  towards  that  modest  goal 
belies their commitment to the process.  

Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  notes  that  the 
concept of ODA totalling 0.7 per cent of gross national 
income was first mooted in 1969. That was before the 
challenges of climate change, the digital divide and the 
special  development  issues  of  the  post-cold-war  and 
post-9/11  world.  By  right,  the  question  we  should  be 
asking  ourselves  today  is  whether  0.7  per  cent  is 
enough, not whether it is achievable. It is past time that 
this  moral  benchmark  is  given  juridical  effect  and 
automaticity of process. 

Development in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 
is heavily dependent on  ODA, foreign investment and 
technical  cooperation,  and  we  are  deeply  grateful  for 
the  bilateral  assistance  we  continue  to  receive  from 
countries in North America, Europe, Latin America, the 
Caribbean 
the 
indispensable  role  of  South-South  cooperation 
in 
achieving the lofty goals of the Monterrey Consensus. 
As  such,  Saint Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  is  grateful 
for the initiatives of Cuba and the Bolivarian Republic 
of  Venezuela,  despite  their  initial  criticisms  of  the 
and  Asia.  We 
recognize 
also 
that 
recall 
that 
and 
expansion 
an 
of 
view 
In  closing,  we 
in  2002,  when  he  prayed 
interdependence 
that 
enhancement  of 
peace 
the 
of 
and  peace  means 
requires 
system 
Monterrey  process,  and  of  the  Republic  of  China  on 
Taiwan,  despite  its  continued  unjust  exclusion  from 
this  body. They  have  proven  themselves  to  be  willing 
and  innovative  partners  in  development  and,  in  that 
regard, exemplary global citizens. 

One  of  the  greatest  artists  of  our  Caribbean 
civilization,  the  late  Bob  Marley,  once  observed  that 
“a hungry  mob  is  an  angry  mob”.  The  Monterrey 
Consensus  embraces  the  same  principle,  recognizing 
“that peace and development are mutually reinforcing”. 
between 
Recognition 
development 
enhanced 
the 
development 
security. 
international 
Accordingly,  we 
and 
democratization of the Security Council as an integral 
component of further credible global development. 

the  words  of  our  
Prime  Minister,  the  Honourable  Ralph  Gonsalves,  at 
Monterrey 
the 
Conference  would  not  devolve  into  “a  dragon’s  dance 
upon  a  decorous  platform  of  the  finest  diplomatic 
language  which  few  are  determined  to  embrace  for 
action”. Put another way, talk is cheap, and the road to 
hellish  underdevelopment 
is  paved  with  good 
intentions. Five years after Monterrey, all countries — 
developed and developing alike — must deliver on our 
well-meaning words. 
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 

Mr.  Harold  Landveld,  chairman  of  the  delegation  of 
Suriname. 
Mr.  Landveld  (Suriname):  On  behalf  of  Her 

Excellency  Mrs.  Lygia  Kraag-Keteldijk,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  of  Suriname,  and  Ambassador  
Mac-Donald,  I  would  like  to  express  the  appreciation 
of the Republic of Suriname to you, Sir, for organizing 
this  important  Dialogue,  which  is  very  significant  in 
preparing  for  the  Follow-up  International  Conference 
on  Financing 
the 
Implementation of the Monterrey Consensus to be held 
in Doha, Qatar, next year. 

At the outset, my delegation wishes to align itself 
with  the  statement  made  by  the  State  Minister  for 
Economic Affairs  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  and 
underscores 
the  Monterrey 
Consensus as a comprehensive agreement outlining the 
for  Development 
to  Review 
the 
importance  of 
8 

07-56373 
the 
fact 
Conference 
report  on 
on 
follow-up  of 
Financing 
the  flow  of  private  resources 


national  and  international  policies  required  to  achieve 
the internationally agreed development goals. 

We strongly believe that the United Nations is the 
principal  forum  for  discussing  this  important  matter, 
finding  ways  to  resolve  global  economic  development 
issues,  and  improving  the  standards  of  living  of 
millions  of  the  world’s  poorest  people.  Although  the 
Secretary-General’s 
the 
International 
for 
Development  mentions  some  improvements,  it  also 
calls our attention to unresolved issues. Those include 
unequal  distribution  of  wealth,  nationally  and 
that 
internationally,  as  evidenced  by 
70 per cent  of 
to 
developing  countries  is  being  absorbed  by  a  dozen 
countries;  increasing  poverty  worldwide;  emerging 
new  forms  of  protectionism  and  lack  of  decisive 
progress  in  the  Doha  trade  negotiations;  declining 
current  and  projected  levels  of  official  development 
assistance, which fall far short of targets to achieve the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  worldwide; 
and the total debt of developing countries increasing at 
a significant pace.  

While  debt  relief  can  influence  the  development 
process positively, at the same time the vulnerability of 
middle-income  countries  is  increasing  due  to  a  major 
shift from official to private debt. There are incomplete 
efforts 
financial 
architecture  in  response  to  profound  changes  in  the 
global economy.  

The Government of Suriname remains committed 
to  realizing  by  2015  the  targets  set  forth  in  the 
the  guiding 
Millennium  Declaration,  which  form 
principles 
and 
programmes.  

Suriname  has  achieved  an  economic  growth  of 
approximately 5 per cent per year during the past five 
years  as  a  result  of  new  investments  in  the  mining 
sector,  implementation  of  stringent  macroeconomic 
policies  and  increased  cooperation  with  bilateral  and 
multilateral donors.  
The  economic  growth  of  our  country,  as  with 

is  extremely 
many  other  developing  countries, 
vulnerable  because  of  our  dependency  on  a  limited 
number  of  sectors.  This  vulnerability  is  compounded 
by  the  fact  that  Suriname  is  a  low  lying  coastal 
country,  and 
is 
concentrated in the coastal zone where most economic 
the  majority  of 
the  population 
development 
international 
restructure 
policies 
for 
our 
to 
the 
A/62/PV.35
activities, including fisheries, agriculture and industrial 
works,  are  located.  It  is  indisputable,  therefore,  that 
sea-level  rise  would  be  catastrophic  for  our  country 
and others alike.  

It  is  therefore  important  to  include  this  issue  on 
the  2008  Doha  agenda  and  to  find  innovative  ways  to 
finance 
the  adaptation  and  mitigation  of  climate 
change, including the transfer of technology.  

Suriname  acknowledges  the  contribution  of  the 
private  sector  and  civil  society  to  development  and 
development  financing.  We  are  therefore  proud  to 
recall  that  Suriname  organized  the  first  worldwide 
Civil  Society  Forum  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  in  our  capital  city  of  Paramaribo  from 
2 to 4 May this year. This was a successful partnership 
effort  of  the  Government  of  Suriname,  MDG  Global 
Watch  and  regional  United  Nations  Associations,  
civil  society,  international  organizations,  including 
United Nations  bodies,  the  Organization  of  American 
States, the Caribbean Community, the European Union 
and  a  number  of  countries  with  whom  Suriname 
maintains close bilateral relations.  
As  we  look  forward  to  next  year’s  Follow-up 

International 
for 
Development  to  Review  the  Implementation  of  the 
Monterrey  Consensus  in  Doha,  we  are  reminded  that 
the  development  promise  of  the  Doha  Round  of  trade 
negotiations  is  yet  to  be  fulfilled.  This  new  road  to 
Doha offers us all a welcome opportunity to ensure that 
mechanisms are put in place to deliver on the pledge to 
place  development  at  the  centre  of  the  international 
trade  agenda.  The  exceptional  challenges  faced  by 
small States must, therefore, be fully addressed in this 
framework  by,  more  specifically,  putting  emphasis  on 
the  special  and  differential  treatment  of  the  most 
vulnerable economies among us.  

In closing, allow me to summarize a few essential 
points  that  will  help  bring  about  speedy  development 
for  all.  First,  it  is  time  to  introduce  a  monitoring 
mechanism 
the 
Monterrey  Consensus  in  order  to  keep  it  on  track. 
Secondly,  we  should  continue  efforts  to  increase  aid 
effectiveness  and  explore 
for 
development  financing.  Thirdly,  we  should  strengthen 
international  financial  institutions  as  a  crucial  step  in 
their  governance,  and  give 
the 
developing 
and 
representation.  Fourthly,  we  need  to  actively  support 
implementation  of 
innovative  ways 
reformation  of 
Conference 
to  assess 
Financing 
countries 
adequate 
voice 
the 
on 
07-56373 

9 

the 
floor 
I  now  give 
The  President: 
A/62/PV.35 

the  poorest  countries  in  their  efforts  to  integrate  into 
the  world  trade  and  economic  systems  by  allowing 
them  to  protect  their  markets  during  a  transitional 
period  against  unfair  competition  that  affects  their 
development  and  food  security.  Fifthly,  in  Doha  next 
year, we are obliged to deliver substantial change in the 
current  development  process  by  supporting  innovative 
finance  initiatives.  Finally,  South-South  cooperation, 
including  through  triangular  cooperation,  should  be 
supported  under  the  condition  that  it  should  not  be 
complimentary to North-South cooperation. 

the 
to 
Mr. Hassan  Ali  Saleh,  chairman  of  the  delegation  of 
Lebanon. 
Mr.  Saleh  (Lebanon):  My  delegation  wishes  to 

thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for  guiding 
third  
High-level  Dialogue  on  Financing  for  Development. 
We are quite confident that under your able leadership 
we will be able to conclude our work  and make some 
substantive achievements.  

My  delegation  wishes  to  align  itself  with  the 
statement made by Her Excellency Ms. Rabbani Khar, 
Minister for Economic Affairs of the Islamic Republic 
of Pakistan, on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.  

This  third  High-level  Dialogue  on  Financing  for 
Development  is  quite  important  this  year  as  it  is 
intended  to  assess  the  state  of  implementation  of  the 
Monterrey  Consensus,  to  define  the  framework  and 
modalities  of  the  Follow-up  International  Conference 
on  Financing 
the 
Implementation  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus,  to  be 
held in Doha, Qatar, in the second half of 2008, and to 
provide 
the 
preparation of the aforementioned Conference.  

We are looking forward to a significant review of 
the  implementation  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus.  In 
this  respect, 
the  Secretary-General 
(A/62/217)  presents  an  image  that  varies  in  landscape 
from  considerable  advances 
some  areas  of 
implementation,  to  modest  progress,  stagnation  or 
retrogression  in others. This should inspire our  efforts 
towards  a  greater  determination  to  implement  the 
Monterrey  Consensus.  This  image  is  further  coloured 
by  certain  factual  realities  that  we  need  to  take  into 
account  and  try  to  address.  These  range  from  the 
decrease  in  official  development  assistance  (ODA)  to 
the  lack  of  progress  in  the  Doha  Development  Round 
of World Trade Organization trade negotiations.  
for  Development 
the  report  of 
contribution 
to  Review 
substantive 
some 
to 
in 
the 

Actions  need  to  be  taken  at  different  levels.  At 
the national level, there is a need to pursue appropriate 
legal  and  regulatory  reforms  to  create  an  enabling 
environment  for  private  economic  activity. This  is  not 
to deny the developmental role of the public sector, but 
a  constructive  synergy  between 
two  could 
encourage growth and development.  

In  this  respect,  it  is  important  to  develop  a 
diversified  domestic  financial  system  that  promotes 
financial  services  capable  of  facilitating  the  financing 
of  productive  investments,  providing  microcredits  and 
microfinances  and  making  access  to  such  services 
affordable  to  all  and  procedurally  straightforward. 
Macroeconomic policies need also to be geared toward 
employment generation. In Lebanon, financial services 
are  advanced,  and 
there  are  special  programmes 
earmarked  for  the  provision  of  microcredits  and  for 
facilitating the access to finance of small and medium 
size enterprises.  

At  the  international  level,  several  issues  need  to 
be  addressed.  First,  the  inflows  of  foreign  direct 
investment  (FDI)  to  the  developing  countries  reached 
$400  billion  in  2006. Although  we  are  encouraged  by 
this  figure,  we  note  with  great  concern  the  fact  that 
70 per cent of FDI inflows went to about 12 developing 
countries, channelled mainly to the primary commodity 
sector, particularly oil.  

an 
increasing source of FDI. Such cooperation should not 
be  considered  as  a  substitute 
for  North-South 
cooperation,  but  rather  complementary  to  it.  It  could 
further  be  enhanced  by  triangular  South-South-North 
cooperation, which can not only lead to an increase in 
the  inflow  of  FDI  to  developing  countries,  but  also  to 
the  diffusion  of  technology.  The  migrant  community 
could form another source of FDI in their countries of 
origin;  hence 
reduce  barriers  on 
remittances.  

the  Doha  Development  Round 
represents  an  opportunity  to  redress  the  imbalances  in 
the  multilateral  trading  system  by  providing  enhanced 
and  real  market  access  and  entry  for  developing 
countries’ exports of manufactured goods, commodities 
and services. We are quite concerned by the appearance 
of  new  forms  of  protectionism,  and  we  consider  that 
the lack of progress in the World Trade Organization’s 
Doha  Development  Round  is  affecting  in  one  way  or 
another 
trade  and 
the  growth  of 
international 
South-South 
cooperation 
the  need 
becoming 
Secondly, 
to 
is 
10 

07-56373 
for 
internationally 
financing 
goals, 
the 
including 
income  of  countries  members  of 
for  Economic  Cooperation 


decreasing its capacity to become a leading engine for 
development.  
Thirdly, ODA remains among the most important 

agreed 
tools 
development 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). We are concerned by the 
decline  in  official  development  assistance  (ODA), 
which diminished in 2006 to 0.30 per cent of the gross 
the 
national 
Organization 
and 
Development, from 0.33 per cent in 2005. We consider 
that  the  inclusion  of  debt  relief,  technical  assistance 
and emergency relief as ODA does not really represent 
additional  resources  for  development.  It 
is  quite 
obvious  that  there  is  a  pressing  need  to  increase  the 
overall  flows  of  ODA,  net  of  debt  relief,  technical 
assistance  and  emergency 
relief.  We  call  upon 
developed countries to meet their aid commitments and 
to  make  concrete  efforts  to  achieve  the  target  of 
0.7 per cent of gross national product (GNP) as official 
development assistance to developing countries and the 
target of 0.15 to 0.2 per cent of the GNP of developed 
countries as ODA to least developed countries. 

Fourthly,  debt  is  still  among  the  most  important 
factors that could hamper the development efforts of an 
indebted  country,  thus  setting  back  its  development 
agenda.  The  developed  countries  need  to  carry  out 
major  debt 
restructuring  and  debt 
cancellation in order to enable developing countries to 
allocate  to  development  the  financial  resources  saved. 
In  that  respect,  we  consider  that  the  Heavily  Indebted 
Poor  Countries  Initiative  and  the  Multilateral  Debt 
Relief  Initiative  are  aimed  in  the  right  direction.  We 
call  upon  creditors  and  debtors  to  prevent  or  address 
unsustainable  debt  situations. We  call  upon  developed 
countries  to  carry  out  debt  relief,  cancellation  and 
restructuring for middle-income countries. 

Fifthly,  we  support  the  current  efforts  to  reform 
the international financial institutions. We consider that 
the final outcome should result in a significant increase 
the  voice,  participation  and  voting  power  of 
in 
developing  countries 
those 
institutions. 

Sixthly,  there  is  an  urgent  need  to  find  new  and 
innovative  sources  of  financing  for  development. 
Lebanon  welcomes  any  initiative  in  that  direction  and 
considers 
financial 
resources  would  help  all  developing  countries  move 
the  governance  of 
the  appropriate 
relief,  debt 
finding 
that 
in 
A/62/PV.35
to 
the 
floor 
to  achieving 
I  now  give 
The  President: 
the  dialogue  on 
the  Millennium  Development 
the  Millennium  Summit  and 
Mr.  Belinga-Eboutou  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
closer 
Goals. 

Finally, we would like to reaffirm once again our 
continued  commitment 
the 
implementation of the Monterrey Consensus and would 
like to assure you, Sir of our cooperation and support. 
to 

His Excellency Mr. Martin Belinga-Eboutou, chairman 
of the delegation of Cameroon. 

in 
French):  At  this  advanced  stage  of  our  debate,  when 
everything  has  been  said,  well  said  and  sometimes 
excellently  said,  I  come  rather  late.  My  delegation 
shares  the  concerns  expressed,  particularly  regarding 
the  need  to  redouble  the  political  will  to  move  from 
words to action — to fulfil the commitments we made 
at 
the  Monterrey 
Conference. Thus, my delegation could have refrained 
from taking the floor. However, the importance of this 
debate, which has had such high participation, suggests 
to  us  a  number  of  comments,  which  my  delegation 
would  like  to  share  with  members. We  shall  do  so  by 
placing this debate in context with regard to Africa, on 
the  one  hand,  and  to  the  very  raison  d’être  of  the 
United Nations, on the other. And, of course, we shall 
do  so  while  respecting 
that  you 
proposed, Mr. President.  

First,  I  shall  discuss  Africa.  Last  week,  the 
General Assembly considered the progress report of the 
Secretary-General (A/62/204) on implementation of the 
recommendations  contained  in  the  1998  report  on  the 
causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace 
and  sustainable  development  in  Africa.  Indeed,  the 
debate  focused  on 
international  community’s 
implementation  of  the  commitments  undertaken  to 
support  Africa  in  its  development  efforts.  Is  it  an 
accident  of  scheduling  that  today,  the  same Assembly 
is  talking  about  financing  for  development?  For  our 
part,  we  wish  to  see  it  as  a  happy  coincidence  that 
could be a sign of the times. We find many reasons for 
hope in this debate. 

Here, we wish once again to express our gratitude 
to  all  our  development  partners  who  have  made 
commitments  or  decisions  to  cancel  the  multilateral 
and  bilateral  debt  of  African  countries  that  fulfil  the 
required conditions. We also wish to thank them for the 
multifaceted  support  provided to Africa in its difficult 
limit 
time 
the 
the 
07-56373 

11 

the 
from 
towards 
the  Millennium 
trade  negotiations 
level  of  assistance 
A/62/PV.35 

and  uneven  progress 
Development Goals. 

But much still needs to be done if we are to meet 
the  deadline  and  attain  the  goals  set  for  2015, 
particularly  the  eradication  of  poverty,  of  ignorance 
and  of 
the  major  pandemics.  That  explains  and 
highlights the relevance of the recommendations by the 
Secretary-General in his report on the New Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development 
(A/62/203).  Those 
recommendations  are  directed  to  our  partners,  and  we 
would like to touch upon a few of them. 
The  lack  of  progress  in  the  Doha  Round  of 

multilateral 
remains  a  major 
problem  for Africa.  That  is  why  we  are  waiting  for  a 
high 
international 
community. The members of the Group of Eight should 
urgently and substantially increase their aid to Africa if 
they want to double it by 2010, as they have pledged to 
do. Accordingly,  they  are  invited  to  design  a  series  of 
innovative  financing  mechanisms  to  compensate  for 
any  reduction  in  core  budget  credits.  It  is  also 
important to ensure that multilateral trade agreements, 
including  the  final  arrangements  of  the  Doha  Round, 
accord  priority 
include 
development  provisions tailored to needs. The Aid for 
Trade  Initiative  should  help  African  countries  to 
implement  various  trade  arrangements,  including  the 
Doha Round and economic partnership agreements, by 
removing 
the  many  obstacles  faced  by  African 
countries.  

Secondly, this debate harks back to the dream of 
the  founding  fathers  of  our  Organization  —  a  dream 
that  was  solemnly  reaffirmed  at 
the  Millennium 
Summit: to build a world that is peaceful because it is 
prosperous. The preamble of the Charter is particularly 
eloquent in that regard:  


“We  the  peoples  of  the  United  Nations, 
determined  ...  to  promote  social  progress  and 
better standards of life in larger freedom, and for 
these  ends  ...  to  employ  international  machinery 
for  the  promotion  of  the  economic  and  social 
advancement  of  all  peoples,  have  resolved  to 
combine our efforts to accomplish these aims”. 

That reminder gives a very particular tone to our 
debate:  it  is  about  peace,  which  is  gravely  threatened 
today  by  poverty 
extreme  poverty.  The 
commitments  that  we  made  at  Monterrey,  which  are 
related  to  financing  for  development,  in  fact  concern 
to  Africa’s  needs  and 
and 
to 
or 
and 
individual 
responding 
inequalities  can  no 
As  President  Paul  Biya  recalled  on  23  October 
the financing of peace. Thus, we must fulfil them. We 
have the means to do so; we must simply demonstrate 
the political will and solidarity needed.  

2007,  

“Such solidarity should not be limited to the 

expression of good intentions or to catalogues of 
resolutions 
collective 
commitments,  whose  implementation  is  always 
It  must  be  effective  solidarity, 
postponed. 
translated 
into  significant  actions  and  facts 
capable  of 
the  needs  and 
expectations  of  countries  of  the  South  —  needs 
that, as we know, are enormous”.  
We  have  no  choice.  The  waste  of  resources  and 

the  worsening  of 
longer  be 
tolerated.  They  are  threats  not  only  to  the  pace  of 
development  and  the  stability  of  institutions,  but  also, 
and above all, to the survival of all of us.  

What  future  can  there  be  for  peace,  security  or 
prosperity  in  a  world  where  20  per  cent  of  the 
population  holds  85  per  cent  of  all  assets  while  the 
immense  majority  of  individuals  lack  the  most  basic 
necessities? How can a world that numbers more than a 
billion  of  illiterate  people  —  most  often  exploited, 
living 
in  extreme  poverty  and  excluded 
from 
participation of any kind —aspire to democracy? 

The twenty-first century will be one of sharing or 
it will simply not be. It is thus urgent — indeed vital —
that  today’s  States  and  peoples  become  convinced  of 
the necessity of sharing: sharing wealth so that we can 
all  live  decently;  sharing  knowledge  to  facilitate 
endogenous  development.  It  is  in  full  awareness  that 
the  twenty-first  century  will  be  one  of  sharing  that  at 
the Millennium Summit, the President of the Republic 
of Cameroon, His Excellency Paul Biya, made the case 
for  an  ethics  in  relations  among  nations,  for  an  ethics 
of globalization which would put mankind at the centre 
of all of our policies. 

the  
This  proposal, 
thirty-fourth  session  of  the  General  Conference  of 
UNESCO, calls for, and is based on, a contract of true 
solidarity.  Such  a  contract  would  allow  us  to  tackle 
urgently the eradication of the poverty, marginalization 
and  exclusion  that  seem  to  characterize  our  world. As 
said earlier, we need to help all countries to acquire the 
knowledge  and  technology  they  need.  Those  who  are 
reiterated 
strongly 
at 
12 

07-56373 
in 
I  now  give 
the 
floor 
The  President: 
the  promises  we  made 


suffering, or those who are particularly disadvantaged, 
deserve assistance from those who are privileged. That 
is  what  heads  of  State  affirmed  in  the  Millennium 
Declaration (resolution 55/2). I hope that we will never 
forget  that.  Thus  imbued  with  this  ethic  of  shared 
solidarity,  let  us  honour,  without  further  delay,  all  the 
commitments,  all 
the 
the  Monterrey 
Millennium  Declaration  and  at 
Conference. 

We  need  to  invest  in  development  and  thus  in 
peace. As  the  Secretary-General  has  said,  peace  is  the 
child  of  development.  We  know 
the  causes  of  
non-development,  conflict  and  war;  we  also  know  the 
ingredients of development for peace. Let us remember 
what  the  poet  Saadi  told  us:  “He  who  learns  the  rules 
of wisdom without living by them, is like the man who 
labours in his fields without ever sowing the seeds”. It 
is never too late to sow the seeds. 
to 

His Excellency,  Mr.  Riyad  Mansour,  chairman  of  the 
observer delegation of Palestine. 
Mr.  Mansour  (Palestine):  During  the  debate  at 

the  beginning  of  the  sixty-second  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  Sir,  President  Abbas  conveyed  to 
you 
the  congratulations  of  Palestine  on  your 
assumption of the high post of President of the General 
Assembly (see A/62/PV.10). Since this is the first time 
I  speak  before  you,  I  too  would  like  to  convey  my 
personal  congratulations  to  you  and  to  say  how 
delighted I am to see you in the presidency. 
(spoke in Arabic)  

It  gives  me  pleasure  to  address  the  General 
Assembly on a question that is extremely important for 
all  of  us.  We  support  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative of Pakistan on behalf of the Group of 77 
and China.  
The region of the Middle East, together with the 

other  countries  of 
the 
developing  countries,  is  confronting  problems  and 
challenges  relating  to  development.  The  countries  of 
our  region  know  that  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  adopted  in  2000  are  closely  linked  to  the 
Monterrey  Consensus 
for 
development is crucial in  freeing countries from abject 
poverty.  Despite 
its  geopolitical  and  economic 
importance, the region of the Middle East continues to 
confront additional challenges, such as the occupation, 
the  world,  particularly 
financing 
process: 
A/62/PV.35
to 
international  aid.  Thanks 
that  has  gone  on  for  more  than  40  years  and  that  has 
contributed  immensely  to  the  instability  of  the  region 
and  undermined  development  there.  Observers  and 
experts  agree  that  instability  is  the  main  cause  of  the 
region’s  weak  economic  performance  and  for  its  lack 
of integration into the international economy. 

Palestine  has  an  important  place  in  that  region. 
Over  the  years,  it  has  been  among  the  principal 
recipients  of 
the 
international  community,  we  have  over  the  years 
carried out numerous achievements and reforms in the 
economic  area  because  of  the  self-motivation  of  the 
Palestinian  people.  We  have  made  major  strides 
towards  economic  and  political  reform,  with  the  goal 
of  establishing  a  solid,  transparent  and  open  financial 
system. The overall aim is to give our people a system 
of  governance  consonant  with  international  systems, 
which  is,  an  absolute  right  it  shares  with  all  other 
peoples of the world. 

But  despite  many  achievements  made  thanks  to 
aid  and  support  from  donors,  the  humanitarian  and 
economic situation of the Palestinian people continues 
to  be  grim.  Development  efforts  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territories  are  still  thwarted  by  Israel,  the 
occupying Power, through arbitrary measures which in 
recent  years  have  made  it  practically  impossible  to 
make any economic progress, or achieve any financial 
stability. Through these illegal practices, which violate 
international  law  and  international  humanitarian  law, 
Israel has, over the past seven years, destroyed most of 
the  infrastructure,  institutions    and  facilities  which, 
thanks to the generosity of donor countries, were built 
in  occupied  Palestine  following  the  signing  of  the 
Declaration of Principle in 1993. The current situation 
is  a  humanitarian  disaster.  Instead  of  channelling  the 
energies  of  our  people  towards  development  and 
building a bright future, our people are obliged, due to 
continuous  Israeli  military  aggression  and  economic 
embargo, to depend totally on humanitarian aid.  
It  was  reaffirmed  at  the  Monterrey  Conference, 

that  development  is  a  shared  responsibility  of  the 
international  community.  The  world  leaders  agreed  to 
take  specific  steps  in  a  number  of  fields  to  support 
international  partnerships 
for  development.  The 
Palestinian  people,  who 
the  yoke  of 
occupation,  attach  great  importance  to  this  issue 
because it is their lifeline.  
live  under 
07-56373 

13 

that 
have 
deepened 
form  about  half 
A/62/PV.35 


However,  the  economic  and  financial  situations 
have  deteriorated  rapidly.  Since  the  January  2006 
legislative  elections,  we  have  been  subjugated  to  the 
most  terrible  forms  of  punishment.  As  Ms.  Karen 
Koning AbuZayd, Commissioner-General of the United 
Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine 
Refugees in the Near East, has stated, the irony is that 
there  is  a  contradiction  between  the  international 
commitment to eliminate poverty and the imposition of 
one  of  the  most  atrocious  regimes  to  punish  the 
Palestinian  people.  Mr.  John  Dugard,  the  Human 
Rights  Council’s  Special  Rapporteur  on  human  rights 
in  the  Occupied  Palestinian  territories,  has  said  that 
this  is  the  first  time  that  an  occupied  people  has  been 
so  treated.  The  punishment  includes  Israel’s  keeping 
the  duty  and  tax  revenue  it  collects  on  behalf  of  the 
Palestinians,  monies 
the 
Palestinian  budget.  The  economic  and  trade  embargo 
against  our  people  is  being  stepped  up  through  the 
imposition  of  banking  restrictions  for  transfers  of 
funds,  including  those  that  come  to  us  in  the  form  of 
assistance  provided  by  donor  countries.  Those 
measures 
and 
humanitarian crisis in Palestine.  

In  2006,  third-quarter  gross  national  product 
(GNP)  fell  about  8  per  cent  compared  to  the  same 
period  in  2005.  Poverty  and  unemployment  rates 
continue to rise and now stand at about 64 and 30 per 
cent  respectively.  Although  donor  countries  have 
promised that they will resume aid and Israel has said 
that it will transfer part of the tax revenue it is illegally 
withholding,  the  humanitarian  situation  has  not  seen 
any  tangible  improvement  because  of  the  continued 
occupation  and  violations  and  because  of  Israel’s 
refusal to transfer to the Palestinian Authority the taxes 
that it is holding illegally.  
The  Monterrey  Consensus  indicated  that  trade  

is  an  engine 
in  many  
instances  the  most  important  foreign  resource  for 
financing 
for 
development  continues  to  be  stalled  because  of  the 
stifling  economic  embargo  imposed  by  Israel  and  the 
blocking of our access to markets for extended periods 
of  time,  making  it  impossible  for  trade  to  exist.  A 
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development 
report states that there is little opportunity to engage in 
trade in the Palestinian territories, because of external 
and  internal  restrictions  imposed  by  Israel. All  of  the 
economic  indicators  in  Palestine  are  falling.  Over  the 
for  development,  and 
development.  But 
economic 
engine 
that 
the 
two 
the 
floor 
today’s 
thirds  of 
thus  entitled 
illegal  practices 
levels  are  only 
than  40  years,  are 
economy.  Palestinians 
Israel’s  occupation  and 
that  we  might  achieve 
past  five  years,  our  economy  has  lost  $8.4  billion  in 
income,  which  is  equivalent  to  more  than  double  the 
volume  of 
are 
increasingly dependent on imports from Israel. Current 
production 
local 
production  levels  of  1998.  The  trade  deficit  thus 
reached some $2 billion in 2006. That does not involve 
only figures: it is the reality that we live each day, and 
it  has  a  direct  impact  on  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
Palestinians.  This  reality  is  a  threat  to  our  livelihood 
and  to  our  lives,  as  well  as  a  threat  to  our  future  and 
the future of our children. 

in 
Palestine  have  halted  all  activity  on  the  six  areas  of 
attention  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus,  thus  thwarting 
any  possibility 
tangible 
economic development. The challenge of development, 
as was discussed in Monterrey, is a global challenge. It 
includes the achievement of the MDGs for all peoples 
of  the  world  without  any  exception.  The  Palestinian 
people, who  have been suffering under  occupation for 
more 
to  enjoy 
development  like all the world’s other peoples, and to 
play our rightful role, which has long been absent from 
the world scene. 
to 

His Excellency  Mr.  Fernando  Valenzuela,  chairman  of 
the observer delegation of the European Community. 
Mr.  Valenzuela  (European  Community):  Earlier 

in the debate, the Assembly heard the statement of the 
Presidency of the European Union (EU). Naturally, the 
European  Commission  fully  aligns  itself  with  the 
EU statement. 

I am addressing the Assembly today to elaborate 
on  and  to  underscore  certain  important  aspects  of  the 
financing  for  development  agenda.  There  are  three 
issues I would particularly like to highlight. They are: 
first,  the  importance  of  scaling  up  aid;  secondly,  the 
need to improve the effectiveness of aid, including aid 
predictability  and  aid  modalities;  and  thirdly,  the 
impact of trade on development. 
The  year  2008  will  be  a  crucial  year  for 

the 
development.  It  will 
international community and our global partnership. At 
the  Third  High-level  Forum  on  Aid  Effectiveness,  in 
Accra,  we  will  further  promote  aid  effectiveness.  At 
the  Follow-up  International  Conference  in  Doha  we 
will  look  into  the  implementation  of  the  Monterrey 
the  credibility  of 
The  President: 
I  now  give 
test 
14 

07-56373 
for 
that 
(ODA), 


Consensus. And in Doha too, we expect to see further 
progress in the global trade negotiations. 

The  eradication  of  poverty  and  the  achievement 
of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) remain 
at  the  centre  of  the  European  Union’s  agenda.  To 
achieve  these  objectives  we  need  more  and  better  aid 
and  the  ability  to  implement  it  faster,  as  well  as 
institutional and structural reforms in partner countries. 

Europe’s drive to further increase aid stems from 
the  European  Consensus  on  Development,  which 
defines, at the Union level, common values, principles, 
objectives  and  methods 
facilitate  poverty 
eradication.  It  has  triggered  change  in  the  way  we 
deliver  our  assistance  and  in  how  we  cooperate  at  the 
international level. 
Following  the  EU’s  commitment  to  increase 

official  development  assistance 
the 
European  Union,  doing  more  means  meeting  the 
objective  of  allocating  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national 
income  (GNI)  to  official  development  assistance  by 
2015. We are on track to deliver that objective. EU aid 
reached  a  record  high  of  €48  billion  —  that  means 
$67 billion  —  in  2006,  against  the  global  trends  of 
ODA  in  2006,  and  remains  on  the  rise,  even  when 
excluding debt relief.  

We  are  now  working  towards  our  next  EU 
intermediate target of 0.56 per cent of GNI for ODA by 
2010. If the trends continue in a similar direction, EU 
aid  will  represent  70  per  cent  of  global  aid  in  2010. 
That is why we call upon all in the donor community to 
live up to their commitments and to further increase aid 
to ultimately achieve the 0.7 per cent target by 2015. 

At  country  level,  in  our  partner  countries  our 
determination to do more and better means much more 
than  simply  making 
in 
resources, 
sub-Saharan  Africa. 
Increasing resources will not bring the intended results 
if we do not make a profound review of the way we use 
those resources. 

We see three ways to improve the situation. First, 
we  must  give  concrete  content  to  the  concept  of 
complementarity  of  aid.  The  European  Union  has 
adopted  an  EU  Code  of  Conduct  on  the  Division  of 
Labour  in  Development  Policy,  which  aims  to  avoid 
excessive  fragmentation  of  aid  at  global,  country  or 
sector levels and to improve aid effectiveness. We hope 
that  bilateral  donors,  the  World  Bank  and  the  United 
the  necessary 
particularly 
increases 
in 
A/62/PV.35
to 
respect 
improving 
Nations  will  take  a  strong  interest  in  the  Code  of 
Conduct.  It  is  also  important  for  our  developing 
country  partners  to  understand  that  the  division  of 
labour  among  donors  will  particularly  serve 
the 
interests  of  beneficiary  countries  by  providing  better 
managed  aid  with  lower  administrative  costs,  better 
targeted aid in the context of scaling up, and aid which 
is less volatile. This does not imply the lowering of aid 
allocations at all.  

Secondly, we must review our aid modalities. An 
ever-increasing  number  of  projects  would  be  highly 
detrimental  to  the  benefits  of  the  scaling  up  process. 
The European Commission is convinced that increased 
use of budget support, whenever possible, is essential. 
Budget  support  is  the  aid  modality  which  is  the  most 
favourable to ownership.  

Thirdly, we need to seriously put into practice the 
concept  of  aid  predictability.  Our  partner  countries 
need stable aid and longer-term perspectives regarding 
future  aid  flows  in  order  to  plan  MDG-related  public 
spending  better.  With 
the 
predictability of our aid, the European Commission has 
been developing an MDG contract in consultation with 
the  EU  Member  States  as  a 
longer-term,  more 
predictable form of budget support. The MDG contract 
targets  well-performing 
have 
successfully  implemented  budget  support  and  that 
show  a  commitment  to  achieving  and  monitoring  the 
MDGs.  This  form  of  budget  support  would  cover  six 
years  and  provide  a  minimum,  guaranteed  level  of 
support  within  a  strong  framework  for  monitoring 
performance and results. We expect the MDG contract 
to account for more than half of all our general budget 
support  provided  to  African,  Caribbean  and  Pacific 
countries from the tenth European Development Fund. 
We believe that this approach will provide our partner 
Governments with a higher degree of predictability and 
thus  help  them  to  prepare  longer-term  strategies  and 
spending  programmes  with  greater 
confidence, 
enabling  them  to  accelerate  progress  towards  the 
MDGs. 
But  we  also  recognize  that  the  effectiveness  of 

the  MDG  contract  will  be  enhanced 
is 
implemented  in  harmony  with  other  budget  support 
providers. We therefore  remain committed to  ensuring 
that  the  MDG  Contract  will  be  pursued  in  accordance 
with in-country harmonization processes. 
countries 
that 
if 
it 
07-56373 

15 

to 
support 
trade  and 
trade  policy  needs 
trade 
A/62/PV.35 


Trade is a powerful engine for economic growth, 
and  in  substantial  part  countries  rely  on  trade  to  fight 
poverty.  While  trade  alone  cannot  solve  development 
problems,  openness 
for  
supply-side  capacity  are  important  elements  in  any 
coherent development strategy. For trade to serve as an 
engine  for  growth,  a  number  of  conditions  need  to  be 
fulfilled.  First,  there  needs  to  be  sufficient  access  to 
to 
export  markets.  Secondly, 
encourage  competitiveness.  The  role  of 
in 
development  is  thus  something  that  concerns  both 
developed  and  developing  countries.  Hence,  we  all 
have a shared interest in a successful Doha deal.  

The good news is that the Doha negotiations have 
made  more  progress  than  people  realize.  A  balanced, 
equitable  and  development-oriented  outcome  can 
improve 
the  prospects  for  economic  growth  and 
development  and  can  contribute  to  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Therefore,  members 
should take this last chance to agree on the modalities 
for  a  Doha  deal.  In  the  light  of  that,  it  is  absolutely 
vital  for  all  key  members 
to  show  a  spirit  of 
compromise and constructiveness and a genuine will to 
reach a balanced agreement by the end of this year. 

The  EU  is  doing  all  that  it  can  to  keep  up  the 
momentum.  For  example,  we  have  shown  genuine 
flexibility  on  agricultural  market  access.  Equally,  big 
emerging economies should move to deliver their side 
of  the  bargain.  That  is  why  we  in  the  EU  are  asking 
them  to  bolster  confidence  in  the  negotiations  by 
making clear that they are ready to engage on the basis 
of  the  negotiating  texts  of  the  Chairs  of  the  World 
Trade Organization. 

Of  course,  we  must  ensure  that  the  Doha  Round 
delivers  on  its  development  promises.  The  EU  will 
continue to watch carefully to ensure that development 
issues,  such  as  aid  for  trade,  duty-free  and  quota-free 
access  and  measures  against  preference  erosion,  are 
adequately taken into account. 

the 
Monterrey  Consensus  to  be  a  key  achievement  of  the 
international  community.  In  Monterrey  we  subscribed 
to 
for 
development and established the global partnership for 
development.  The  Consensus  clearly  spelled  out  that 
such a partnership is needed to eradicate poverty and to 
make real progress in the developing countries towards 
the  internationally  established  development  goals  and 
The  European  Commission 
commitments 
important 
considers 
financing 
on 
(IPU) 
targets. It is evident that without this global partnership 
and  without  mutual  responsibility,  our  efforts  are  not 
likely to bear fruit. 

The  European  Commission  and  the  European 
Union are playing our parts in an active manner in the 
global  partnership,  and  we  are  looking  forward  to 
working together with our partners during this session 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  in  the  follow-up  to  the 
Monterrey implementation review in Doha next year. 
The  President:  In  accordance  with  General 

Assembly  resolution  57/32  of  19  November  2002,  I 
call  on  Her  Excellency  Mrs. Anda  Filip,  the  Observer 
for the Inter-Parliamentary Union. 
Mrs. Filip (Inter-Parliamentary Union): I will be 

briefly  presenting  the  main  points  of  an  intervention 
prepared  by  Mr.  François  de  Donnea  of  Belgium,  
Inter-Parliamentary  Union 
rapporteur  on 
development  assistance.  He  was  in  New  York  for  the 
time allotted for the high-level debate and had to return 
to his capital last night.  

Official  development  assistance  (ODA)  is  a  key 
component of the Monterrey Consensus, and it remains 
one of the principle concerns of the Inter-Parliamentary 
Union. It is an area where parliaments can provide very 
direct 
the  budgetary 
process.  In  order  to  draw  attention  to  the  many 
problems  besetting  the  management  of  ODA,  a  report 
was 
IPU  Standing 
Committee  on  Finance,  Sustainable  Development  and 
Trade for a broad-based consultation with our member 
parliaments.  That  consultation  will  culminate  in  a 
political resolution on foreign aid to be adopted at the 
118th  IPU Assembly,  in  Cape  Town,  South Africa,  in 
April 2008. 

There is broad recognition of the fact that one of 
most  important  problems  in  ODA  management  has  to 
do  with  weak  ownership  at  the  country  level  —  the 
cause  of  a  continuing  misalignment  between  aid 
allocation and countries’ priorities, and consequently of 
poor  results  on  the  ground.  Stronger  ownership  of  the 
ODA  process  can  be  achieved 
through  more 
substantive  involvement  by  parliaments.  That  would 
also buttress politically the case for future increases of 
ODA,  and  it  will  become  critical  as  ODA  flows  are 
increasingly  being  channelled  through  general  budget 
support. 
input,  particularly 
introduced 
recently 
through 
the 
to 
16 

07-56373 
at 
in 
To 
funds 
increase  ownership  of  ODA 



the 
parliamentary  level  at  least  two  things  are  required: 
more  regular  and  in-depth  scrutiny  and  information-
sharing  between  the  executive  and  the  legislative 
branches, but also more understanding by members of 
parliament of how ODA truly works. Truth be told, too 
many members of parliament, especially in developing 
countries,  do  not  have  the  capacities  to  exercise  that 
role  fully  or  have  not  yet  fully  grasped  the  technical 
complexities  of  the  ODA  machinery.  That  is  why  we 
urge  all  donor  agencies  to  pay  special  attention  to  the 
needs  of  parliaments  in  developing  countries  and  to 
earmark  more 
for  parliamentary  capacity-
building. 

I  should  say  in  this  regard  that  developments  in 
the  context  of  the  recent  creation  of  the  Development 
Cooperation  Forum  of 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council suggest that the need to involve parliaments in 
improving aid effectiveness is gaining ground. The IPU 
was invited to attend the first substantive consultation 
on  the  Forum,  which  took  place  in  Vienna  this  past 
May, and also participated in the official launch of the 
Forum in July in Geneva.  More important, we will  be 
working with the Forum secretariat to help organize the 
parliamentary  component  of  a  tripartite  stakeholders 
forum,  including  civil  society  and  private  sector 
representatives,  in  May  of  next  year.  We  very  much 
believe in the value of that exercise.  
In the interest of time I will conclude my remarks 

here.  The  full 
the 
Conference  Room,  and  we  very  much  hope  that 
members will be able to take a look at the full text.  
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 

the  High-level  Dialogue.  It  is  time  now  for  my 
concluding remarks. 
I  would  like  to  express  my  appreciation  to  all 

delegations  —  more 
for 
participating  in  our  High-level  Dialogue.  Their  active 
contributions to the plenary meetings, as well as to the 
round tables, have greatly contributed to the success of 
the meeting. The conduct of the meeting has followed 
on from the success of the sixty-second session general 
debate. I would like to state with great satisfaction that 
Member  States  have  risen 
the  challenge  of 
revitalizing  the  Assembly  by  engaging  in  a  true 
interactive  dialogue  in  the  spirit  of  consensus  and 
international cooperation. 
text  has  been  circulated 
than  90  of 
them  — 
to 
A/62/PV.35
the  active  participation  and 

Participants  have  put  forward  a  wealth  of  ideas, 
new initiatives and recommendations that enriched the 
policy  debate  on  which  we  can  build  towards  the 
financing  for  development  conference  in  Doha.  I  am 
encouraged  by 
the 
contributions  of  the  key  institutional  stakeholders, 
intergovernmental  organizations,  other  international 
development  institutions,  the  private  sector  and  civil 
society. The  engagement of all partners  is also crucial 
on  the  road  to  Doha.  I  am  confident  that  the  spirit  of 
discussions  during  our  High-level  Dialogue  augurs 
well for a successful outcome in Doha. 

Given the time constraints and the richness of the 
policy discussion over the past few days, it would not 
be  appropriate  for  me  to  attempt  to  summarize  the 
various  substantive  issues  that  have  been  raised. 
Rather,  I  will  present  a  summary  within  the  coming 
weeks. Still, allow me to make some brief remarks on a 
few  key  topics  to  highlight  the  rich  dialogue  that  has 
taken place. 

Many  representatives  expressed  their  concern 
about growing economic inequalities, not only between 
countries  but  also  within  countries,  in  the  context  of 
globalization, particularly in the context of the current 
instability in global financial markets. On the domestic 
front,  according  to  several  speakers,  there  is  a  crucial 
need 
tax  revenues  and  create  more 
distributive  tax  systems.  This  would  not  only  help  to 
reduce  disparities,  but  would  also  increase  public 
spending  on  basic  infrastructure  and  services.  In  the 
same  vein,  good  domestic  governance,  effective  and 
transparent regulatory mechanisms and the rule of law 
were stressed as key to the financing for development 
agenda by many participants.  

For a large number of representatives, the current 
trends in foreign direct investment (FDI) in developing 
countries  were  very  encouraging.  Yet,  a  major 
challenge 
in 
lower-income  countries  or  those  with  less  stable 
governance  in  order  to  boost  productive  economic 
activity.  Many  delegations 
the  critical 
importance of making decisive progress in the  current 
round  of  multilateral  trade  negotiations  in  order  to 
accelerate  progress  on  development  and  poverty 
reduction. 

A substantial number of participants reiterated the 
need to achieve the United Nations 0.7 per cent official 
development  assistance 
to  deliver  on 
to  promote  FDI 
remained:  how 
to  enhance 
target  and 
stressed 
07-56373 

17 
to  maintain 
the  overall  credibility  of 
A/62/PV.35 

commitments  to  increase  aid,  including  to  Africa,  in 
order 
the 
Monterrey  Consensus  and  as  an  essential  prerequisite 
for  achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  In 
this  regard,  many  speakers  supported  further  work  to 
develop innovative sources of finance.  

In  the  view  of  several  participants,  much  had 
been  done  to  increase  debt  relief.  But  long-term  debt 
sustainability  continued  to  remain  a  significant  policy 
issue for a number of developing countries, particularly 
the least developed countries. 

Many participants reiterated the need to improve 
the  voice  and  effective  participation  of  developing 
countries  in  international  economic  decision-making. 
Finally,  participants  stressed  that  adapting  to  climate 
change was the emerging issue that needed to be linked 
to the financing for development process.  

The  General  Assembly  will  shortly  begin 
consultations on a procedural draft resolution to set out 
the  modalities 
International 
Conference  on Financing  for Development, to be held 
in  Doha  in  2008.  After  informal  consultations  with 
Member States and the major groups, I have concluded 
that this process can most effectively be taken forward 
by the  facilitators that  I  appointed  at the beginning  of 
the  sixty-second  session:  His  Excellency  Ambassador 
Maged Abdelaziz, Permanent Representative of Egypt, 
and  His  Excellency  Ambassador  Johan  Løvald, 
Permanent Representative of Norway.  
In the spirit of Monterrey, I would encourage all 

full  support  and 
Member  States 
cooperation to the facilitators as they work to conclude 
agreement  on 
in  an  open, 
transparent  and  inclusive  manner,  and  to  present  it  to 
the  Assembly  by  the  end  of  the  main  part  of  this 
session.  
the  draft  resolution 
the  Follow-up 
for 
to  give 
their 

I  declare  the  High-level  Dialogue  on  Financing 

Once  the  modalities  of  the  Doha  Conference  are 
agreed  upon,  we  can  move  to  substantive  discussions 
on  the  six  chapters  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus  and 
other important matters in the early new year.  

for Development closed. 
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  the 

High-Level  Dialogue  on  Financing  for  Development 
and  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  sub-item  (b)  of 
agenda item 53.  

item 
concerning 
like 
agenda 
The  President:  I  would 
Organization of work 
to  make  an 

announcement 
71: 
Strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian and 
disaster  relief  assistance  of 
the  United  Nations, 
including  special  economic  assistance,  and  agenda 
item 72:  Assistance  to  survivors  of  1994  genocide  in 
Rwanda,  particularly  orphans,  widows  and  victims  of 
sexual violence.  

I  have  requested  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jean-Marc 
Hoscheit, Permanent Representative of Luxembourg, to 
be the coordinator of the informal consultations on the 
draft resolutions under agenda items 71 and 72, and he 
has graciously accepted.  

May  I  request  those  delegations  intending  to 
submit draft resolutions under agenda items 71 and 72 
to do so as early as possible in order to allow time, if 
need  be,  for  negotiations  with  a  view  to  reaching 
consensus on the draft resolutions. Representatives are 
requested to consult the Journal for the announcement 
of the time, date and venue for the first meeting of the 
informal consultations on these two agenda items.  
The meeting rose at 11.45 a.m.
18 

07-56373 
