United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

37th plenary meeting 
Monday, 29 October 2007, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

A/62/PV.37
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia)
reiterates  the  important  and  indispensable  role  of  the 
IAEA in that respect. 

Iceland  attaches  great  importance  to  the  IAEA’s 
technical cooperation work aimed at the use of nuclear 
technology  in  a  safe,  secure  and  sustainable  manner. 
That  includes  the  areas  of  human  health,  food  and 
agriculture,  nuclear  science  and  the  management  of 
radioactive  waste.  Nuclear 
technology  plays  an 
important  role  in  combating  the  spread  of  disease  and 
hunger,  in  particular  in  developing  countries.  Iceland 
recognizes  that  valuable  work,  an  makes  an  annual 
voluntary contribution to the IAEA’s technology fund. 

We welcome  recent developments with regard to 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  Iceland 
appreciates the swift response by the IAEA in February 
following  the  diplomatic  breakthrough.  The  shutdown 
of 
the 
implementation  of  verification 
and  monitoring 
measures  by  the  IAEA  are  important  first  steps.  We 
urge  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to 
its  comprehensive 
resume 
safeguards  agreement  under 
the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. 

With respect  to the nuclear activities of  Iran, we 
hope that the current work plan between the IAEA and 
Iran will lead to a resolution of outstanding questions. 
Effective implementation of the work plan is of course 
a prerequisite for any progress. However, we still have 
strong  concerns  concerning  the  implications  of  Iran’s 
nuclear  programme.  We  regret  that  Iran  has  not 
fulfilled 
its  obligations  under  Security  Council 
the  Yongbyon  nuclear 
implementation  of 
the  Treaty  on 
facilities 
and 
the 






  In the absence of the President, Mr. Beck (Palau), 
Vice-President, took the Chair. 
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 




Iceland  is  among  the  States  sponsoring  the  draft 
Agenda item 87 (continued)
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency  
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/62/258) 

  Draft resolution (A/62/L.5**) 

Mr.  Hannesson  (Iceland):  Let  me  start  by 

thanking  Director  General  ElBaradei 
for  his 
comprehensive report on the work of the International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).  

resolution on the report of the IAEA. 

The  IAEA  celebrated  its  fiftieth  anniversary  last 
July. Iceland would like to reaffirm its commitment to 
the  organization  and  its  valuable  role  in  international 
nuclear  cooperation  and  nuclear  safety.  The  three 
pillars  of  the  IAEA’s  Statute  —  safety  and  security, 
science 
and 
verification — remain solid. But the verification of the 
peaceful uses of nuclear materials in order to curb the 
proliferation of nuclear weapons is currently facing its 
greatest  challenge. We as  Member States cannot spare 
any effort to secure a high level of safety in all nuclear 
and  radiological  applications  and  installations.  My 
country  strongly  supports  international  cooperation  in 
order to maintain and improve safety in that area, and 
technology, 
safeguards 
and 
and 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-57052 (E) 
*0757052* 
in 
to 
to 
thank 
elaborate 
to  contribute 
and  user-friendly 
the  Director  General  of 
A/62/PV.37 

resolutions  or  the  requirements  established  by  the 
IAEA.  The  Government  of  Iran  must  take  steps  to 
build confidence with regard to the scope and nature of 
its nuclear programme. We urge Iran to ratify and bring 
into force the additional protocol to the comprehensive 
safeguards agreement. 

In  conclusion,  the  IAEA  is  indispensable  for 
nuclear  cooperation  and  global  nuclear  safety.  I 
reiterate Iceland’s full support for the organization, and 
our  willingness 
its  work  and 
cooperation efforts. 
Mr. Gumbi (South Africa): My delegation would 

also 
like 
the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  for  the 
very  insightful  annual  report  of  the  Agency  covering 
the  year  2006.  We  commend  the  Agency  for  yet 
another 
report  on 
achievements  and  shortcomings 
the  areas  of 
technology, safety and verification, which are the three 
pillars  of  the  Agency’s  mandate  to  accelerate  and 
enlarge  the  contribution  of  atomic  energy  to  peace, 
health and prosperity throughout the world. 
The  annual  report  of  the  Agency  for  2006  has 

once more strengthened our correctness in recognizing 
the  Agency  as  the  leading  multilateral  institution  for 
ensuring the peaceful uses of nuclear energy as set out 
in  article  II  of  the  IAEA’s  Statute.  This  annual  report 
has  also  reaffirmed  my  delegation’s  belief  that  the 
peaceful application of nuclear energy has the potential 
to make a meaningful contribution to the improvement 
of  living  standards,  the  fight  against  poverty  and  the 
promotion  of 
thereby 
strengthening  international  peace  and  security  and 
facilitating 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

Our meeting is taking place at a time when there 
is a worldwide increase in the number of countries that 
are  considering  the  nuclear  power  option  in  their 
national energy mix to meet their energy demands. We 
are  indeed  in  an  era  where  nuclear  power  is  suddenly 
gaining  prominence  because  of  the  potential  it  has  to 
place  countries  in  a  better  position  to  enhance  the 
security  of  energy  supplies  and 
the 
discharge of carbon into the atmosphere, as the energy 
produced  from  fossil  fuel  accounts  for  about  half  of 
human-made greenhouse gases. 
The rise in the demand for nuclear power comes 

with  challenges  and  responsibilities.  Nuclear  material 
sustainable  development, 
the  achievement  of 
to  mitigate 
nuclear 
assistance, 
cooperation 
IAEA’s  verification 
and  its  production  have  become  harder  to  control. 
There is an increase in the number of countries seeking 
to  master  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle  to  ensure  a  supply  of 
nuclear fuel. In turn, mastering the fuel cycle, and the 
ability arising therefrom to enrich uranium or separate 
plutonium,  brings  more  countries  closer  to  a  nuclear 
weapons  capability.  Needless  to  say,  this  all  has  a 
direct  bearing  on  the  Agency’s  verification  activities, 
technical 
fuel 
management and nuclear safety and security. 

My delegation is concerned that in budgeting for 
the  Agency  there  are  always  inadequate  funds  for 
necessary technological innovation investments. South 
Africa believes that that situation needs to be corrected 
in order to  extricate the Agency from the predicament 
of  having  to  rely  on  one  or  a  few  countries’  technical 
resources  to  carry  out  its  verification  mandate.  That 
unjustified  dependency  has  the  potential  to  put  into 
question 
findings  and  will 
ultimately  undermine  the  credibility  of  its  verification 
function. 

That  near-crisis  situation  is  further  exacerbated 
by the small number of safeguards agreements between 
the Agency and its member States. That matter requires 
our  urgent  and  serious  attention,  because  there  are 
some  States  that  have  yet  to  take  the  first  basic  step 
required  by  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons 
force 
the 
comprehensive 
Agency.  We  call  on 
their 
obligations  under  article  III  of  the  NPT  as  soon  as 
possible. 
The  Agency’s  safeguards  system  is  not  a  static 

one,  but 
to  changing 
circumstances.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  South  Africa 
supported  —  unfortunately,  to  no  avail  —  attempts  at 
the  recently  concluded  IAEA  General  Conference 
aimed  at  strengthening  the  safeguards  system  through 
the 
resolution 
language directly derived from article III.B, paragraph 
1, of the IAEA Statute, as well as from step 10 of the 
13  practical  steps  for  nuclear  disarmament  agreed  at 
the  2000  NPT  Review  Conference.  The  rejection  of 
these  proposals 
is  a  cause  for  concern  for  my 
delegation and seems to represent a tendency by some 
Member States to renege on commitments made when 
joining the Agency and on their previous undertakings 
made  in  the  NPT.  We  also  wonder  if  these  negative 
developments  are  not  a  manifestation  of  complacency 
to 
agreements  with 
to  fulfil 
(NPT) 
safeguards 
to  be  adapted 
the  safeguards 
incorporation 
those  States 
it  needs 
into 
put 
into 
2 

07-57052 
and 
it 
that 
is  an 
their  nuclear 
security-building  measure 


and the false belief that the safeguards system has been 
perfected.  

Notwithstanding,  South  Africa  recognizes  the 
indispensable role that the Additional Protocol can play 
as  an  additional  measure  to  provide  the  necessary 
confidence  and  the  desired  assurances  that  Member 
States  apply 
technology  solely  for 
peaceful  purposes  and  that  no  declared  or  undeclared 
material  is  diverted  to  weapons  programmes.  South 
Africa believes that countries with access to advanced 
technologies  bear  a  greater  responsibility  to  provide 
such assurances and to build confidence in the peaceful 
nature of their nuclear programmes.  

Inasmuch as the Additional Protocol is voluntary, 
South  Africa  believes 
important 
confidence- 
that 
continues  to  play  an  essential  role  in  creating  an 
environment  conducive  to  nuclear  disarmament  and 
nuclear non-proliferation but that it should not be used 
as a condition for supplying nuclear material. As stated 
in  previous  occasions,  South  Africa  will  continue  to 
reject that discriminatory attempt.  
the  Agency’s 

verification  function  in  these  challenging  moments, 
South  Africa  believes 
the  Agency’s  Technical 
Cooperation Fund deserves urgent and decisive action. 
This Fund is a statutory and political commitment that 
needs to be realized. The technical cooperation projects 
of  the Agency  constitute  important  building  blocks  to 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  in  the 
areas  of  water  security,  environmental  sustainability, 
maternal and child health and the combating of disease, 
hunger and poverty.  

Over  the  years,  the  developing  countries  have 
repeatedly  stressed  that  the  funding  of  the  Agency’s 
technical  cooperation  projects  must  be  sufficient, 
predictable  and  assured.  They  have  also  stressed  the 
need  for  the  technical  cooperation  budget  to  be 
increased,  as  it  is  clearly  not  sufficient.  South  Africa 
believes  that  the  time  has  arrived  to  conclusively 
correct 
the  past  fifty  years  by 
incorporating  the  funding  of  technical  cooperation 
projects into the regular budget.  

Likewise,  my  delegation  expresses  its  fullest 
support  for  the  proposal  of  the  Director  General  to 
engage  a  high-level  panel  of  experts  to  study,  review 
and  consider  options  for  financing 
the  Agency’s 
requirements.  South  Africa  is  of  the  view  that  the 
to  strengthening 
the  mistake  of 
In  addition 
A/62/PV.32
findings  of  this  process  should  be  engaged  in  a 
constructive manner and be carefully considered with a 
view to making appropriate recommendations.  

The  supply  of  nuclear  fuel  is  a  factor  that  will 
play  a prominent  role in the  anticipated future growth 
of  nuclear  power.  In  this  connection  South Africa  has 
been  following  with  keen  interest  the  debate  and 
various  proposals  on  multilateral  approaches  to  the 
nuclear fuel cycle, as well as developments in the area 
of  research  reactor  conversion  and  highly  enriched 
uranium repatriation.  

With  regard  to  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle,  South 
Africa  has  noted  with  deep  concern  that  a  number  of 
proposals made on this matter during the last few years 
are geared towards restricting the right of countries to 
develop domestic capabilities. Such conditionalities do 
not  only  contradict  the  inalienable  right  of  States  to 
pursue  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes  as 
provided  for  in  the  NPT,  but  also  exacerbate  existing 
inequalities,  including  through  the  creation  of  another 
kind  of  cartel  that  would  exclude  full  participation, 
particularly  by  States  in  full  compliance  with  their 
safeguards obligations.  

South Africa thinks that it is imperative to ensure 
that  no  unwarranted  restrictions  are  imposed.  What  is 
required  is  a  non-discriminatory  approach  that  would 
assure  the  reliable  supply  of  nuclear  fuel,  while  fully 
respecting  the  choices  of  States  and  protecting  their 
inalienable 
nuclear 
programmes,  consistent  with  their  non-proliferation 
obligations.  
for 

cooperation  with  other  countries  over 
the  entire 
nuclear-fuel  cycle,  from  the  mining  and  processing  of 
uranium  through  to  nuclear  power  generation,  fuel 
reprocessing  and  the  disposal  of  nuclear  waste.  South 
Africa has also produced a draft nuclear energy policy 
and strategy paper for public comment. Given the scale 
of  the  intended  South African  nuclear  programme  and 
the  need  for  regulatory  efficiency,  it  is  envisaged  that 
all  the  regulatory  functions  —  such  as  environmental, 
design, construction, operations, decommissioning and 
decontamination  processes  —  will  be  centralized  in  a 
single nuclear and radiation safety statutory agency.  

While South Africa acknowledges that prevailing 
proliferation concerns have prompted others to propose 
restrictions  and  controls  over  the  legitimate  peaceful 
uses  of  nuclear  energy,  it  is  important  that  such 
considering  options 
South  Africa 
peaceful 
pursue 
right 
to 
is 
07-57052 

3 
the 
threats 
to  reducing 
reinforcement  of 
A/62/PV.37 

concerns  be  matched  by 
obligation to achieve nuclear disarmament.  

My  delegation  would  also  like  recall,  for  the 
benefit  of  this  gathering,  its  position  on  research 
reactor conversion and highly enriched uranium (HEU) 
repatriation.  As  South  Africa  pointed  out  at  the 
International  Symposium  on  HEU  in  Norway  in  June 
last year, we are supportive of national efforts towards 
the  conversion  of  civilian  facilities  from  HEU  to  low 
enriched  uranium  (LEU),  but  we  caution  against 
attempts  aimed  at  efforts  related  to  the  reduction  of 
HEU  for  peaceful  civilian  purposes.  Such  national 
decisions  are  indeed  laudable  and,  in  our  view,  are 
contributing in a very real way towards minimizing the 
inherent risks associated with HEU. 
However,  if  we  are  indeed  concerned  about  and 

committed 
to  our  collective 
security,  and  not  merely  the  real  or  perceived  threats 
against  a  select  few,  we  cannot  exclusively  focus  on 
reducing  reliance  on  HEU  for  peaceful  purposes, 
without any real commitment and progress towards the 
elimination of HEU and other fissile materials that are 
primarily  being  used  for  military  purposes.  In  South 
the 
Africa’s  view, 
to  our  very  existence 
constituted  by 
the  continued  utilization  of  such 
material for weapons purposes remains as real as ever.  

Nuclear  safety  is  fast  proving  to  be  an  integral 
part  of  nuclear  programmes  and  will  require  serious 
consideration  as  more  countries  are  considering  the 
introduction  or  expansion  of  nuclear  power.  South 
Africa  commends  the Agency  for  its  work  in  the  area 
of  nuclear  safety  and  supports  the  various  safety 
standards,  guides  and  requirements.  South  Africa 
welcomes  the  networking  practices  to  improve  the 
global  nuclear  safety  regime  and  has 
the 
initiative  to  establish  an  African  forum  of  nuclear 
regulators  to  share  experiences  and  has  requested  the 
Agency  to  provide  guidance  and  assistance  in  this 
endeavour.  

South  Africa  is  committed  to  the  use  of  IAEA 
Safety Standards as a benchmark in the implementation 
of  our  regulatory  mandate  and  supports  the  IAEA 
initiative 
and 
harmonization  of  the  Safety  Standards.  South  Africa 
would  like  to  recommend  a  greater  harmonization  of 
the  requirements  related  to  safety  and  those  related  to 
security,  as  those  requirements  are  interdependent  in 
many cases.  
rationalization 
related 
threat 
taken 
the 
to 
irreversible  progress 
non-proliferation.  The 
illegally  obtained  or  used, 
In  conclusion,  South  Africa  believes 

South  Africa  remains  seriously  concerned  and 
shares  the  international  community’s  concern  over 
nuclear security. South Africa agrees that the threat of 
nuclear  terrorism  is  one  of  the  challenges  the  world 
faces in reaching our common goal of a world free of 
nuclear  weapons.  Although  each  and  every  State  has 
the responsibility to control and secure fissile material 
or other nuclear materials and to prevent such materials 
from  being 
relevant 
instruments  can  and  should  play  an  important  role  in 
strengthening our national and collective efforts in this 
regard. 

The  issue  of  protection  against  nuclear  terrorism 
lies very much at the heart of South Africa’s concerns 
as  we  may  draw  from  the  Agency’s  expertise  and 
require equipment for the array of security measures to 
be  put  in  place  for  the  soccer  world  championship  in 
South Africa in 2010. 

that 
continuous  and 
in  nuclear 
disarmament  and  other  related  nuclear  arms  control 
measures  remain  fundamental  to  the  promotion  of 
nuclear 
and 
progressive elimination of all nuclear weapons and the 
assurance  that  they  will  never  be  produced  again 
remains  the  only  assurance  against  their  use.  That 
should remain our goal. 

non-
proliferation  are  two  sides  of  the  same  coin,  and  are 
mutually  reinforcing.  The  verifiable  and  irreversible 
elimination of nuclear weapons should prevent the use 
of  nuclear  weapons,  irrespective  of  whose  hands  they 
are  in. That  would  effectively  curb  their  proliferation, 
because one cannot proliferate what one does not have. 

Last but not least, my delegation associates itself 
with 
the 
the  statement  made 
Ambassador  of  Benin  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African States. South Africa will also support, and has 
co-sponsored, the draft resolution on the IAEA, which 
was  introduced  by  the  Chairperson  of  the  Agency’s 
Board of Governors. 
Mr.  Khazaee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  Allow 

me,  at  the  outset,  to  express  our  gratitude  to  Mr. 
ElBaradei,  Director  General  of 
International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), for his tireless efforts 
and  for  the  insightful  report  to  the  General Assembly 
on  the  main  activities  of  the  Agency  during  the  year 
2006.  
this  morning  by 
disarmament 
systematic 
Nuclear 
nuclear 
and 
the 
4 

07-57052 
It 
to 
The 
report 
that 
fact 
indicates 
the  need 
technology 
the  Agency 
is  a  well-recognized 



is 
increasingly  developing  its  activities  in  many  areas  of 
nuclear  technology  that  are  of  great  interest  and 
importance  to  the  human  community.  The  IAEA  was 
established with the principal objective of accelerating 
and  enlarging  the  contribution  of  atomic  energy  to 
peace, health and prosperity throughout the world. The 
ever-increasing demands of member States for the use 
of  nuclear  science  and  associated 
to 
sustainably  meet  their  socio-economic  requirements 
underscore 
to  ensure  comprehensive 
fulfilment of the Agency’s main responsibility. 
that  nuclear 

technology  has  broad  peaceful  applications 
in 
numerous  fields  —  ranging  from  food  production, 
human  health,  water 
resources  management  and 
agricultural  and  industrial  applications  to  providing  a 
renewable source of energy. In particular, the IAEA has 
a specific mandate in relation to nuclear power. Access 
to reliable  and adequate sources of  energy is  essential 
for  development.  The  demand  for  energy  around  the 
world  continues  to  increase  rapidly.  That  has  led  a 
in  particular  developing 
number  of 
countries, 
the 
construction  of  nuclear  power  reactors,  as  well  as  for 
significant expansion in their existing programmes. 

As  the  report  indicates,  for  the  first  time,  the 
latest projections recognize that nuclear power will not 
only  help  to  meet  the  increased  demand  for  energy 
supplies but will also mitigate the discharge of carbon 
into 
to 
cooperation 
strengthen 
activities  aimed  at 
the  capabilities  of 
developing countries in nuclear energy production, as a 
component of their energy mix, should be pursued as a 
matter of priority. 

The  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons (NPT) reaffirmed the important objectives of 
the Agency and recognized the inalienable  right of  all 
States parties to the NPT to the peaceful use of nuclear 
energy.  Under  article  IV  of  the  NPT,  States  parties 
undertook to facilitate the fullest possible exchange of 
equipment,  materials  and  scientific  and  technological 
information for the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. In 
fact,  the  inalienable  right  of  all  NPT  States  parties  to 
nuclear  technology  for  peaceful  purposes,  without 
discrimination,  constitutes  one  of  the  three  major 
pillars upon which the NPT is founded.  
the  atmosphere.  In 
the  Agency’s 
embark  upon  planning 
that  context,  efforts 
improving 
countries, 
technical 
for 
A/62/PV.32
is 
such 
requirements, 
Notwithstanding 

the 
cooperation  of  developed  countries  —  as  the  main 
suppliers  of  sophisticated  nuclear  technology  —  with 
developing  nations  has  remained  at  an  unsatisfactory 
level.  In  fact,  nuclear  cooperation  between  suppliers 
and recipients has been beset by restrictions, obstacles 
and disruptions. Instead of promoting cooperation, the 
club  of  nuclear  haves,  which 
laden  with 
discrimination and a lack of transparency, was created, 
inter alia, to hamper the access of developing members 
of  the  NPT  to  nuclear  power  technology,  under  the 
pretext  of  non-proliferation  concerns.  To  remedy  that 
shortcoming,  the  IAEA  could  and  should  play  a 
decisive  role  by  vigorously  pursuing  balanced  and 
non-discriminatory application of the provisions of the 
NPT and IAEA safeguards.  

Moreover, it is unfortunate that, after 50 years of 
existence,  the  budget  of  the  international  cooperation 
section  of  the  Agency  remains  unsteady  due  to  its 
voluntary  nature  and  the  conditionality  imposed  by 
certain member States on its allocations. 

The application of safeguards is among the main 
functions of the Agency. While great efforts have been 
made  by  the  Agency  to  apply  and  promote  the 
universality  of  the  safeguards  system  to  all  relevant 
nuclear  activities,  it  is  distressing  that  some  members 
of 
their 
comprehensive  safeguards  agreements.  We  call  on  all 
such  members  to  fulfil  their  obligations  at  the  earliest 
possible time. 

Furthermore,  there  is  a  dangerous  trend  at  work 
that is moving in the opposite direction of safeguarding 
the NPT and ensuring its universality. Under that trend, 
those  who  have  chosen  not  to  accede  to  the  NPT  not 
only  are  not  subject  to  any  pressure  to  do  so,  but  are 
also encouraged and rewarded in different ways. For an 
example,  the  Zionist  regime  has  been  allowed  to 
acquire  a  large  stockpile  of  nuclear  weapons  in  the 
volatile Middle East region, and to defy the will of all 
the  States  of 
international 
community to turn the Middle East into a zone free of 
nuclear weapons. 

The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  considers  the 
development  of  nuclear 
for  peaceful 
purposes to be its inalienable right. We have therefore 
invested extensive human and material resources in the 
field  of  nuclear  power,  within  the  framework  of  the 
country’s overall economic plan. 
the  Agency  have  yet 
region  and 
technology 
conclude 
the 
the 
to 
07-57052 

5 
A/62/PV.37 


As  we  have  stressed  time  and  again,  Iran’s 
nuclear programme is completely peaceful. All reports 
issued  by  the  IAEA  since  November  2003  have  been 
indicative of the peaceful nature of the Iranian nuclear 
programme. The Agency has repeatedly reaffirmed that 
it  “has  not  seen  indications  of  diversion  of  nuclear 
material to nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive 
devices”. That assertion has also been attested to by the 
Director  General  of  the  IAEA  in  his  various  public 
statements.  Nevertheless,  in  an  unwarranted  move 
orchestrated  by  a  few  of  its  permanent  members,  the 
Security  Council  has  taken  unlawful,  unnecessary  and 
unjustifiable  actions  against 
the  peaceful  nuclear 
programme  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran.  Indeed, 
Iran’s  peaceful  nuclear  programme  poses  no  threat  to 
international  peace  and  security.  Therefore,  dealing 
with  this  issue  in  the  Security  Council  is  unwarranted 
and void of any legal basis or practical utility. 

Without  a  doubt,  the  move  to  bring  the  Iranian 
nuclear file to the Security Council and the intention of 
the  co-sponsors  of  the  resolutions  adopted  thus  far 
have  been  derived  from  their  ulterior  motives  and 
narrow  national  considerations  in  order  to  deprive  the 
Iranian  people  of  their  inalienable  rights,  rather  than 
emanating from so-called proliferation concerns. 
Despite the politically motivated actions by a few 

countries,  which  have 
the  deadlock  and 
interruption  of  negotiations,  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran  has,  once  again,  taken  a  new  initiative  that  has 
received  worldwide  support  and  appreciation.  In  that 
context, Iran agreed to take a major step in negotiating 
with the Agency on the modalities of dealing with the 
few  outstanding  issues.  As  a  result  of  intensive 
negotiations  which  were  held  between  the  two  sides, 
the final text of the mutual understanding, reflected in 
the Agency’s  document  INFCIRC/711,  was  concluded 
on 21 August 2007 in Tehran.  

Bearing  in  mind  past  experience  in  dealing  with 
such  technical  issues  with  the  Agency,  it  was  agreed 
that  all  issues  should  be  taken  up  in  a  sequential  and 
well-defined time frame, rather than dealing with them 
simultaneously  and  without  prioritization.  In  a  very 
short period of time, two of the major remaining issues, 
namely 
the 
contamination at the Karaj facility, were resolved.  

According to the agreed work plan, the issues of 
P-1 and P-2 centrifuges are under extensive discussion. 
In  order  to  carry  these  discussion  forward,  several 
experimentation 
plutonium 
and 
led 
to 
seek 
Iran  only 
meetings  have  been  held  between  Iranian  and  IAEA 
officials in a professional and cooperative atmosphere. 
At  present,  the  new  round  of  such  meetings  is  taking 
place in Tehran. 

As  the  IAEA  Director  General  reported  to  the 
Board  of  Governors,  the  agreed  work  plan  is  “a 
significant  step  forward”.  Therefore,  it  is  essential  to 
note  that  Iran’s  initiative  has  created  a  new  and 
positive environment that necessitates the return of its 
nuclear  dossier  to  the Agency’s  framework  in  full.  In 
our  view,  the  right  path  for  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
the  nuclear  issue  goes  through  dialogue  and  technical 
elaboration  within  its  proper  and  legal  context,  which 
is the framework of the IAEA. 

In  the  same  vein,  I  wish  to  echo  the  view 
expressed by many delegations that the Iranian nuclear 
issue  needs  to  be  settled  through  multilateral  means, 
and  that  resorting  to  unilateral  measures  would  only 
exacerbate  the  situation  and  complicate  its  resolution. 
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  recent  United  States 
unilateral  measures  against 
to 
undermine  the  current  negotiations  and  cooperation 
between Iran and the Agency. In this respect, it suffices 
to  make  it  clear  that  no  number  of  irrational  United 
States  policies  will  be  able  to  dissuade  us  from 
pursuing  our  legitimate  rights  and  interests.  We  have 
already enunciated our position on this issue in detail, 
both here in New York and in the capital. 

Finally,  the  people  and  the  Government  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  are  determined  to  exercise 
their 
technology  for 
peaceful purposes  and to build on their  own scientific 
advances in developing various peaceful aspects of this 
technology. Iran commits itself to its obligations under 
the  NPT  and  does  not  request  anything  more  than  the 
exercise of its inalienable rights. 
Mr. Park Hee-kwon (Republic of Korea): At the 

outset, my delegation would like to express its sincere 
appreciation to Mr. ElBaradei, Director General of the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for  his 
comprehensive  report  on  the  Agency’s  activities.  We 
are  pleased  to  take  note  of  the  Agency’s  recent 
achievements  in  the  fields  of  technology,  safety  and 
security  and  verification,  which  are  described  in  the 
annual  report  of  the  IAEA  for  2006.  In  addition,  my 
delegation  commends  the  Director  General  and  his 
staff 
their 
responsibilities with integrity and professionalism. 
their  dedication 
inalienable  right 
to  nuclear 
fulfilling 
for 
to 
6 

07-57052 
technology,  and 
is  committed 
in  all  areas  of 



As  a  strong  supporter  of  the  work  of  the  IAEA, 
the  Republic  of  Korea  underlines  the  importance  of 
promoting the safe, secure and peaceful uses of nuclear 
science  and 
to 
maintaining  full  cooperation 
the 
Agency’s  activities.  In  this  regard,  my  delegation 
would  like  to  highlight  some  issues  that  we  consider 
relevant to the future development of the IAEA. 

First,  we  believe  that  the  universalization  of  the 
Model  Additional  Protocol  is  an  essential  means  for 
improving  the  current  safeguards  and  verification 
regime. We fully share the Director General’s view that 
only  for  those  States  with  comprehensive  safeguards 
agreements  and  the  additional  protocols  in  place  will 
the  Agency’s  ability  to  detect  undeclared  nuclear 
material  or  activities  be  fully  realized.  In  this  regard, 
my  delegation  hopes  that  those  States  that  have  not 
done so will sign, ratify and fully implement additional 
protocols without undue delay. 

Secondly,  the  Republic  of  Korea  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  development  of  a  new  multilateral 
framework for the nuclear fuel cycle. My Government 
supports initiatives to develop a mechanism to provide 
reliable  and  equitable  access  to  nuclear  technologies 
and  fuel  while  limiting  proliferation  risks. As  a  major 
user  of  nuclear  energy,  the  Republic  of  Korea  will 
continue 
in  and  make  positive 
contributions to the relevant discussions on this issue. 

Thirdly,  we  believe  that  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear  energy  should  be  promoted,  ensuring  a  high 
standard of nuclear safety  and security.  In this regard, 
the  Republic  of  Korea  will  continue  to  support  the 
Agency’s 
an 
international  nuclear  safety  and  security  regime  and 
further enhance its cooperation with the Agency. 

My delegation would like to take this opportunity 
to briefly highlight the recent developments in the Six-
Party Talks  process.  Since  the  resumption  of  the  Fifth 
Round of the Six-Party Talks in February of this year, 
there  has  been  significant  progress  in  realizing  the 
Joint Statement of 19 September 2005. On 13 February 
2007,  the  Six  Parties  agreed  on  the  Initial Actions  for 
the  Implementation  of  the  Joint  Statement,  taking  that 
consensus  forward  another  step  by  laying  out  specific 
actions to implement the Joint Statement. 

The  13  February  agreement  paved  the  way  for 
re-establishing  the  relationship  between  the  IAEA  and 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  resulting 
to  participate 
strengthen 
to  build 
efforts 
and 
A/62/PV.32
to 
timely, 
implement 
in 
in  a 
is  continuing 
the  September  2005 
the  Second-Phase  Actions  for 
in  visits  to  that  country  by  Agency  teams  and  an 
agreement  between  the  two  parties  on  an  ad  hoc 
arrangement  for  monitoring  and  verification  of  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic’s  Yongbyon  nuclear 
facility.  Since  July  of  this  year,  the Agency  has  been 
able  to  verify  the  shutdown  of  the  Yongbyon  facility 
and 
the  ad  hoc 
arrangement,  with  the  cooperation  of  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic. 
My delegation welcomes the Agency’s successful 

implementation  of 
the  ad  hoc  arrangement  and 
reiterates  its  support  and  appreciation  to  the  Director 
General and his staff for conducting the monitoring and 
the  Democratic  People’s 
verification  activities 
Republic  of  Korea 
impartial  and 
professional manner. 

Following  the  13  February  agreement,  another 
step  forward  was  taken  during  the  Second  Session  of 
the Sixth Round of the Talks, held in Beijing from 27 
to 30 September 2007, at which the Six Parties reached 
the 
agreement  on 
Implementation  of 
Joint 
Statement. 
According  to  that  agreement,  the  Democratic 

People’s  Republic  of  Korea  will  complete 
the 
disablement  of  the  5-megawatt  experimental  reactor, 
the  reprocessing  plant  and 
the  nuclear  fuel  rod 
fabrication plant at Yongbyon by the end of this year. It 
is  expected  that  the  actual  disablement  process  will 
start  in  early  November.  In  addition,  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic will provide a complete and correct 
declaration  of  all  of  its  nuclear  programmes,  in 
accordance with the 13 February agreement, within the 
same time frame. The other five parties also agreed, in 
turn,  to  take  corresponding  measures  in  accordance 
with the 13 February agreement. 

If  the  declaration  and  the  disablement  measures 
are  smoothly  implemented,  we  believe  that  we  can 
achieve  the  main  process  of  abandonment  of  these 
nuclear  facilities  by  next  year.  Completing  these 
second-phase  actions  in  a  timely  manner  will  give 
impetus  to  the  negotiations  aimed  at  achieving  the 
verifiable  denuclearization  of  the  Korean  Peninsula  in 
a  peaceful  manner.  To  that  end,  my  delegation  hopes 
that  the  Six  Parties  will  continue  to  take  further  steps 
without  delay,  in  accordance  with  their  commitments, 
towards the full implementation of the Joint Statement. 
07-57052 

7 
the 
the 
that 
trusts 
This  year,  we  are  celebrating 
A/62/PV.37 


As  the  Six-Party  Talks  process  continues,  my 
Government  will  continue  to  work  closely  with  all 
parties  concerned  for  a  peaceful  resolution  of  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  nuclear  issue 
and 
international  community  will 
continue to render its valuable support in that regard. 
Mr.  Figueiredo  (Angola):  On  behalf  of  the 

Republic  of Angola,  it  is  my  pleasure  to  congratulate 
the  President  on  his  well-deserved  election  to  preside 
over  the  work  of  the  sixty-second  session  of  the 
General  Assembly.  Allow  me  also  to  extend  my 
congratulations  to  the  other  members  of  the  Bureau. 
We  are  confident  that  under  his  able  leadership  the 
session will successfully conclude its work. He can be 
assured of our full support and cooperation. 

fiftieth 
anniversary  of  the  foundation  of  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). For the  past 50 years 
the  organization  has  carried  out  its  mandate  with 
efficiency  and  credence.  The  Nobel  Peace  Prize 
awarded  in  2005  to  the  Agency  and  to  its  Director 
General,  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  was  a  tribute  to  the 
professional  and  impartial  performance  over  the  last 
half century. The Angolan Government would therefore 
like  to  reiterate  its  support  for  and  full  confidence  in 
the Director General and the secretariat. 

in  document  GC(51)/5 
correctly 
the 
organization  during  the  year  2006  under  the  three 
pillars  of  its  mandate,  namely,  technology,  safety  and 
security,  and  verification.  It  clearly  illustrates  that  the 
Agency  continued  to  carry  out  a  wide  range  of 
activities 
the  application  of  nuclear 
technologies  in  areas  such  as  human  health,  food  and 
agriculture, industry, water resources management, the 
environment,  knowledge  management  and  nuclear 
energy  planning  and  production,  thereby  contributing 
to  sustainable  development 
in  Members  States, 
especially in the developing countries. 

The Agency’s Technical Cooperation Programme 
is the main statutory vehicle for cost-effective transfer 
of  nuclear  technologies  and  know-how  to  Member 
States.  To  encourage  greater  self-reliance,  the Agency 
helps  to  build,  strengthen  and  maintain  national  and 
regional  capacities  for  using  nuclear  technology  in  a 
safe, secure and sustainable manner.  

developing 
The  Technical  Cooperation  Programme  helps 
appropriate 
the  work  carried  out  by 
The  Agency’s  report 
in  matching 
countries 
reflects 
related 
to 
to 
for 
developing 
is  of 
countries 
identified  needs  and 
the  Agency  and 
to 
technologies 
in  building 
relevant national technical competencies and expertise. 
In  that  context,  we  wish  to  underscore  that  the 
promotion  of  the  peaceful  applications  of  atomic 
energy  constitutes  a  fundamental  element  of  the  core 
the  utmost 
activities  of 
importance 
the 
improvement  of  their  socio-economic  condition.  We 
therefore  believe  that  insufficient  and  unpredictable 
funding  of  the  Technical  Cooperation  Programme 
would  have  a  negative  impact  on  the  promotional 
activities.  
In that connection, we wish to recall a resolution 

of 
the  Agency’s  General  Conference, 
resolution 
GC(50)RES/12,  which  in  its  preamble  states  that  the 
financing  of  technical  cooperation  should  be  in  line 
with the concept of shared responsibility, under which 
there  is  a  common  engagement  towards  financing  and 
enhancing the activities of the Agency.  

The Angolan Government encourages all Member 
States  to  pay  their  contributions  to  the  regular  budget 
and  the  Technical  Cooperation  Fund  in  full  and  on 
time. The payment of extrabudgetary contributions for 
the  financing  of  projects  that  are  Board  approved  but 
for  which  no  immediate  funds  are  available  for 
implementation should not be neglected.  The  Republic 
of Angola  became  a  member  of  the  IAEA  eight  years 
ago, and we are among the States which regularly pay 
their  assessed  contributions  to  the  organization.  The 
Angolan  Government  appreciates  the  assistance  from 
which the country benefits within the framework of the 
IAEA’s technical cooperation programme. 

At  present,  the  ongoing  technical  cooperation 
programme  consists  of  nine  projects  dealing  with  the 
establishment  of 
radiotherapy  centre, 
introduction of nuclear medicine techniques to clinical 
practices,  veterinary  drug  residue  monitoring,  isotope 
techniques  to  study  the  effect  of  bio  and  inorganic 
fertilizers, mutation breeding and the establishment of 
non-destructive 
industrial 
applications. 

Angola is also taking part in several regional and 
interregional projects included in the African Regional 
Co-operative  Agreement 
(AFRA) 
programmes.  In 
to 
like 
underline  the  importance  of  the  IAEA  project  on 
coastal zone management, which addresses the adverse 
for  Research 
this  context,  we  would 
laboratories 
testing 
first 
the 
for 
8 

07-57052 
For 
the 
the 
2009-2011 
technical 
towards 
important  step 
improvement  of  beans 


effects of harmful algal blooms and in which Namibia 
and the Republic of South Africa are also participating. 

In  addition, the  IAEA has  provided assistance to 
my  country  in  establishing  the  legal  framework  and 
regulatory infrastructure for the peaceful use of nuclear 
energy.  On  28  June  a  national  atomic  energy  law  was 
promulgated  as  an 
the 
establishment  of  a  national 
radiation  protection 
institute, which will become a reality in the near future. 
In  this  regard,  we  wish  to  thank  the  IAEA  for  its 
valuable support. 

cooperation 
programming  cycle,  the  Angolan  Government  has 
submitted  for  the  IAEA’s  consideration  six  project 
concepts  in  the  areas  of  nuclear  physics,  agriculture, 
human  health,  water  resources,  industrial  applications 
and  radiation  protection.  The  projects  involve  the  use 
of  nuclear  control  systems,  isotope  hydrology  for 
sustainable  management  of  groundwater  resources, 
sustaining  national  capability  in  maintenance  and 
repair, 
through  mutation 
breeding,  the  extension  of  a  nuclear  physics  teaching 
laboratory to phase II and the strengthening of national 
capacity  in  medical  physics.  For  considerations  of 
efficiency, 
training  courses, 
seminars,  workshops,  scientific  visits  and  fellowships 
and provides expert advice and equipment. 

My Government recognizes that the strengthening 
of  the  IAEA’s  technical  cooperation  activities  relating 
to  the  peaceful  use  of  atomic  energy,  and  its  practical 
applications,  will  substantially  contribute  to  the  well-
being  and  quality  of  life  of  the  peoples  of  the  world, 
particularly those of developing member States.  

However,  we  believe  that  for  many  developing 
countries, in particular Africa, the reduction of extreme 
poverty and hunger by 50 per cent by 2015, as foreseen 
by 
the 
eradication  or  control  of  cancer,  tsetse  flies  and 
trypanosomiasis,  HIV/AIDS,  anopheles  mosquitoes 
and malaria, and locusts, among other things. All these 
factors  are  additional  hindrances  to  socio-economic 
development.  
the 

atmospheric  pollution  resulting  from  human  activity, 
which  has  been  causing  dramatic  and  dangerous 
climate  changes,  has  become  a  serious  threat  to 
development and the security of humanity. We believe 
that  as  a  first  step  to  countering  this  scourge,  all 
Global  warming  as  a  consequence  of 
the  United  Nations, 
requires  especially 
IAEA  organizes 
A/62/PV.32
to  foster 
countries  should  sign  and  implement  the  international 
protocols relating to the protection of the environment, 
such  as  the  Kyoto  and  Montreal  Protocols.  In  this 
regard, my Government welcomes the initiative of the 
Secretary-General  in  inviting  the  countries  that  are 
major  polluters  of  the  atmosphere  to  contribute  to  its 
protection more resources. 

With regard to cancer, we appreciate the policy of 
seeking to develop a strategy for the implementation of 
the Programme of Action for Cancer Therapy (PACT). 
We encourage the IAEA to proceed in its collaboration 
with other relevant national, regional and international 
organizations 
the  development  of  cost-
effective  systems  for  radiation  treatment  of  cancer.  In 
the  same  vein,  we  appeal  to  all  member  States  to 
continue  making  contributions  to  PACT  to  enable  the 
achievement of its goal, inter alia, to assist developing 
countries  in  integrating  radiotherapy  into  the  broader 
framework  of  cancer  prevention  and  control.  We  also 
welcome  the  voluntary  contributions  of  some  member 
States, 
the  Organization  of  Petroleum  Exporting 
Countries  Fund  for  International  Development,  the 
United  States  National  Cancer  Institute  and  private 
corporations. 

Regarding  the  tsetse  fly  and  the  trypanosomiasis 
disease  it  transmits,  my  country  supports  the  IAEA’s 
activities  aimed  at  the  eradication  or  control  of  the 
tsetse  fly 
the  Sterile  Insect 
Technique  (SIT).  We  appreciate  its  continued  support 
to  African  member  States  in  their  efforts  to  build 
national capabilities and further develop techniques for 
applying  SIT  in  the  creation  of  tsetse-free  zones.  We 
also  appreciate  the  Agency’s  support  for  the  African 
Union’s  Pan  African  Tsetse  and  Trypanosomiasis 
Eradication  Campaign 
the 
implementation of plan of action in some countries on 
the continent. 

Taking into account the progress  achieved in the 
application  of  SIT  in  combating  tsetse  fly  in  some 
African  countries,  Angola  wishes  to  encourage  the 
IAEA, in partnership with other relevant organizations 
such  as  the  Food  and Agriculture  Organization  of  the 
United Nations and the World Health Organization, to 
further  strengthen  their  research  with  a  view  to 
utilizing  SIT  in  the  control  or  eradication  of  the 
anopheles  mosquito  and  malaria,  locusts  and  other 
insects  which  hinder  the  socio-economic  development 
of the continent. In the same context, we welcome the 
decision  of  the  United  Nations  Regional  Consultation 
its  contribution 
the  use  of 
through 
in 
to 
07-57052 

9 
relevant  national, 
A/62/PV.37 

on the New Partnership for Africa’s Development, held 
in Algiers in July 2006, where methods and techniques 
for  the  integrated  campaign  against  locusts  were 
discussed and where recommendations emerged for the 
integration of nuclear applications in eliminating these 
insects  and in establishing  regional centres for studies 
and training in this field. 

Last but not least, HIV/AIDS has been one of the 
most serious public health problems in modern history 
since its discovery in 1981. This disease is a far worse 
problem  in  some  parts  of  the  world  than  in  others. 
Most people infected with AIDS live in the developing 
countries of Asia and Africa, while most of the deaths 
occur  in  sub-Saharan  Africa.  AIDS  retards  economic 
growth by destroying human capital and, consequently, 
increasing poverty.  
In  this  context,  we  encourage  the  IAEA,  in 

partnership  with 
regional  and 
international organizations, to explore new possibilities 
to  counter  this  ever-growing  scourge.  The  Angolan 
Government  notes  with  appreciation 
the  regional 
project,  Initiatives  in  HIV  —  molecular  epidemiology 
and  immunology,  in  support  of  the  WHO/UNAIDS 
African AIDS Vaccine Programme. 

With  regard  to  nuclear  verification,  the  nuclear 
non-proliferation and arms control regime continues to 
face  a  broad  set  of  challenges.  The  Government  of 
Angola  is  of  the  view  that  it  is  important  to  reinforce 
the  monitoring  of  the  application  of  the Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  to  move 
towards  global  disarmament.  We  appreciate  all 
pertinent  initiatives  taken  in  compliance  with  United 
Nations  Charter,  according 
the  concept  of 
multilateralism  and 
the  principles  which  govern 
relations between States. That means the equality of all 
States.  

Angola, like the great majority of other members 
of the Assembly, recognizes the inalienable right of all 
States to produce nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. 
In 
this  context,  my  Government  appreciates  and 
supports  the  initiative  to  assist  developing  countries 
interested in small and medium-sized reactors, in order 
to address economic development while protecting the 
environment and ensuring safety and security. 

The  Angolan  Government  associates  itself  with 
the statement delivered by the representative of Benin 
on behalf of the African States.  
to 
their 
With 
regard 

To conclude,  the Government of the Republic of 
Angola  recommends  the  approval  of  the  report  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  by  the  General 
Assembly. 
Mr.  Ali  (Malaysia):  I  wish  to  join  previous 

speakers  in  thanking  the  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  for  his 
presentation to the Assembly of the annual report of the 
Agency for 2006.  

Malaysia  highly  appreciates  the  IAEA’s  role  in 
assisting developing Member States in planning for and 
in the peaceful uses of nuclear science and technology 
for  peaceful  purposes.  However,  more  should  be  done 
to  advance 
inalienable  rights  of  developing 
Member  States,  especially  to  develop  the  research, 
production  and  use  of  nuclear  energy,  as  well  as  the 
right  to  participate  in  the  fullest  possible  exchange  of 
equipment,  material  and 
technology  for  peaceful 
purposes,  without  discrimination  and  in  conformity 
with 
respective  safeguards  agreements,  as 
enshrined  under  article  IV  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT).  
the 

peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  technology,  I  am  pleased  to 
inform  the  Assembly  that  Malaysia  is  one  of  those 
countries  that  has  greatly  benefited  from  the  IAEA’s 
Technical  Assistance  and  Cooperation  Programme. 
Initially  a  Programme  recipient,  Malaysia  is  now 
to  other 
providing  experts 
developing  countries  under 
In 
addition, we are an active supporter of the Programme, 
particularly 
IAEA 
conferences,  seminars,  workshops,  meetings  and 
regional  training  courses,  as  well  as  training  Agency 
fellows.  A 
local 
organizational  costs  are  absorbed  by  the  Government 
of Malaysia. We do this because we see much value in 
the  Programme,  particularly  for  developing  Member 
States,  in  developing  nuclear  technology  for  peaceful 
purposes.  

Despite  our  commitment  to  the  Programme,  we 
are somewhat disappointed that at times we are unable 
to  secure  places  for  our  scientists  and  engineers  to  be 
trained  in  the  nuclear  field  in  countries  with  more 
highly developed nuclear technology and programmes. 
This  could  be  attributed  to  a  tightened  control  regime 
by  those  countries  on  the  transfer  of  nuclear  and 
nuclear-related material, equipment and technologies.  
terms  of  hosting  various 
to  cooperation  concerning 
the  Programme. 
for 
IAEA  missions 
of 
the 
the 
in 
substantial 
amount 
10 

07-57052 
While  appreciating 
the  concerns  of 


those 

countries  with  more  advanced  nuclear 
sectors, 
Malaysia  wishes  to  reaffirm  that  our  intention  in 
seeking  to  develop  indigenous  expertise  in  peaceful 
uses  of  nuclear  technology,  in  line  with  our  non-
proliferation  and  safeguards  commitments  under  the 
NPT,  is  with  a  view  to  further  contributing  to  the 
Agency’s  Technical  Assistance  and  Cooperation 
regime. Malaysia therefore urges the IAEA to look into 
this matter with a view to finding a way forward on the 
issue.  

Having forsworn nuclear weapons, Malaysia is of 
the  view  that  developing  non-nuclear-weapon  States 
parties to the NPT deserve to be accorded preferential 
treatment  in  terms  of  access  to  nuclear  equipment, 
material and technology for peaceful civilian uses over 
States not parties, whether through the IAEA Technical 
Assistance  and  Cooperation  Programme  or  through 
bilateral arrangements.  

We  are  now  witnessing  increased  interest  in 
nuclear  energy  as  an  alternative  source  of  energy. 
Currently, among the developing countries, particularly 
in Asia, there is a strong interest in harnessing nuclear 
power for meeting future energy needs. As indicated in 
the  IAEA  report,  15  out  of  the  30  nuclear  reactors 
currently being constructed in developing countries are 
located in Asia.  

interest,  as 
identified  by  the  Director-General  in  his  statement  to 
the  fifty-first  regular  session  of  the  IAEA  General 
Conference,  on  17  September  2007,  are  the  steady 
growth  in  energy  demand,  the  increasing  concerns 
about  energy  security  and  the  challenge  of  climate 
change. Malaysia shares that view. Currently, Malaysia 
depends  on  natural  gas  resources  for  over  70  per  cent 
of  its  power  generation.  But,  as  a  rapidly  developing 
country,  it  will  need  to  keep  its  future  energy  options 
open.  

In  this  connection,  Malaysia  maintains  a  keen 
interest in any possible progress in the development of 
equitable  multilateral  approaches  to  the  nuclear  fuel 
cycle.  Malaysia  is  of  the  view  that  such  arrangements 
regarding the nuclear fuel cycle would be beneficial to 
developing  countries  in  the  long  term,  especially  in 
cases  where  those  countries  would  need  to  eventually 
embark  on  a  nuclear  power  programme  to  help  meet 
future energy demands. In that context, Malaysia views 
any  such  multilateral  approach  as  a  means  of 
three  factors  fuelling 
The 
this 
07-57052 

A/62/PV.32
That  notwithstanding,  Malaysia  also 
minimizing  the  investment  costs  required  for  any 
country to embark on nuclear power generation to help 
meet its future energy demand, while also guaranteeing 
supplies.  

Malaysia  is  also  of  the  view  that  a  temporary 
voluntary  waiver  of  such  rights  as  a  precondition  for 
participation  in  any  such  multilateral  approach  could 
be  considered.  We  wish  to  emphasize,  however,  that 
the  application  of  such  a  waiver  should  be  effective 
only  for  the  duration  of  the  multilateral  arrangement. 
Furthermore, such a waiver should also be paired with 
an  assurance  of  continued  supply  to  the  relevant 
nuclear fuel cycle services and material, as well as with 
appropriate  guarantees,  including  guaranteed  financial 
and  other  relevant  compensation  for  failure  of  supply 
for  reasons  other  than  violation  or  breach  of  nuclear 
non-proliferation commitments.  

firmly 
believes  that  any  multilateral  approach  to  the  nuclear 
fuel cycle should not adversely affect the fundamental 
inalienable rights of the NPT States parties to develop 
nuclear  technology  for  peaceful  purposes,  either  by 
imposing  a  mandatory  permanent  suspension  of  any 
part  of  such  rights  as  a  precondition  for  participation 
by  any  NPT  State  Party  in  any  such  multilateral 
approach, or otherwise.  

Notwithstanding  Malaysia’s  support  for  moves 
towards improving the assurances of supply in the field 
of  nuclear  power  generation  technology,  which  in  our 
view  would  significantly  contribute  towards  reducing 
the  risks  of  the  further  proliferation  of  sensitive 
technologies,  such  moves  should  also  not  distract 
global  attention  away  from  the  obligation  of  nuclear-
weapon  States  to  undertake  to  pursue  negotiations  in 
good  faith  on  effective  measures  relating  to  nuclear 
disarmament.  

Despite the overwhelming attention and emphasis 
placed on ensuring nuclear non-proliferation, Malaysia 
remains  firmly  convinced  that  the  pursuit  of  general, 
complete  and  irreversible  nuclear  disarmament  under 
strict  and  effective  international  control  is  the  most 
effective  way  of  removing  the  threat  of  nuclear 
weapons proliferation, and that the total elimination of 
such weapons remains the only guarantee against their 
use or the threat of their use.  

In  the  context  of  pursuing  the  aim  of  total 
elimination  of  nuclear  weapons,  Malaysia  remains 
concerned that a majority of the nuclear-weapon States 
11 
A/62/PV.37 

have yet to conclude the Protocol to the Treaty on the 
South-East  Asia  Nuclear  Weapon  Free  Zone.  In  this 
regard, we welcome China’s readiness to accede to the 
Protocol,  and  call  upon  the  remaining  nuclear-weapon 
States  to  consider  acceding  to  the  Protocol  at  the 
earliest opportunity. On a related note, we welcome the 
establishment  of  the  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in 
Central Asia as the first such zone to be established in 
the Northern Hemisphere. 

Malaysia  also  wishes  to  call  for  the  prompt 
establishment of a similar nuclear-weapon-free zone in 
the  Middle  East,  in  accordance  with  Security  Council 
resolutions  487  (1981)  and  687  (1991),  and  relevant 
General  Assembly  resolutions  adopted  by  consensus. 
Malaysia also calls on Israel to accede to the NPT and 
promptly place all of its nuclear facilities under IAEA 
full-scope  safeguards,  in  accordance  with  Security 
Council resolution 487 (1981). 

On  the  implementation  of  the  NPT  Safeguards 
Agreement with the Islamic Republic of Iran, Malaysia 
reiterates  its  recognition  of  the  IAEA  as  the  sole 
competent  authority 
the 
safeguards obligations of that country as well of other 
member  States.  Malaysia  believes 
Iran’s 
willingness  to  allow  continuous  IAEA  inspection  and 
verification of its nuclear facilities will help in gaining 
the  trust  and  in  building  the  confidence  of  the 
international  community  in  the  peaceful  nature  of  its 
nuclear programme. In this regard, Malaysia welcomes 
Iran’s 
the 
cooperation  with 
that  all 
Iranian  nuclear 
outstanding  questions  over 
programme  can  be  resolved  in  an  amicable  and 
mutually agreeable manner. 

Similarly, Malaysia welcomes the positive actions 
taken on the part of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea,  particularly  its  decision  to  shut  down  the 
Yongbyon  nuclear  facility  and  in  allowing  IAEA 
inspectors  access  to  its  nuclear  facilities,  pursuant  to 
the  13  February  agreement.  Malaysia  views  such 
actions  as  significant  confidence-building  measures 
towards  efforts  aimed  at 
that  could  contribute 
achieving 
the  Korean 
Peninsula. Malaysia remains convinced of the value of 
the  Six-Party  Talks  process,  particularly  in  terms  of 
reaching  a  peaceful  and  diplomatic  solution  to  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  nuclear  issue, 
and we hope that all concerned parties will continue to 
remain committed to the process. 
concerning 
the  IAEA  and  hopes 
the  denuclearization  of 
the  verification  of 
developments 
positive 
for 
that 
the 
its 
(IAEA)  on 

In  conclusion,  Malaysia  would  like  to  express 
once again its appreciation to Mr. Mohamed ElBaradei, 
Director General of the IAEA, as well as to the IAEA 
secretariat  for  their  significant  and  valuable  work  in 
upholding the three pillars of the Agency’s mandate — 
namely, nuclear disarmament, nuclear non-proliferation 
and peaceful uses of nuclear energy. 
Mr.  Pramudwinai  (Thailand): At  the  outset,  my 

delegation  wishes  to  congratulate  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency 
fiftieth 
anniversary this year and for its achievements, notably 
the  progress  made  on  the  workplan  with  Iran  and  the 
monitoring,  verification  and  disablement  of 
the 
Yongbyon nuclear facilities in the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea. We strongly encourage and support 
Iran and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to 
continue  their  cooperation  with  the  IAEA  in  order  to 
maintain  the  momentum  of  creating  an  environment 
conducive to peace and prosperity in the region. 

Thailand also wishes to express its support for the 
broadening  of  the  IAEA’s  mandate  in  promoting  and 
regulating  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  power  for 
development.  Thailand  stands  ready  to  work  with  the 
IAEA in improving nuclear safety and security towards 
the  objective  of  nuclear  non-proliferation  through 
effective  safeguards  and  verification  measures.  In  this 
connection,  we  welcome 
five  new 
members,  and  the  11  incoming  members  of  the 
Agency’s Board of Governors. 

Thailand notes with satisfaction the IAEA’s 2006 
Annual  Report,  in  particular  the  new  initiatives  and 
implementation  of  nuclear  application  programmes  in 
various  fields.  In  our  view,  nuclear 
technology 
applications  constitute  an  area  where  the  constructive 
role  of  the  IAEA  in  promoting  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear  power  deserves  more  emphasis  and  active 
support. 

As the fifty-eighth member of the IAEA and one 
of its founding members — since 1957 — and current 
member of the Board of Governors for the term 2006-
2008, Thailand fully complies with the Agency’s rules 
and regulations and with all relevant codes of conduct 
on  the  safety  and  security  of  radioactive  sources.  We 
welcome 
the  keynote  address  by  Mr.  Mohamed 
ElBaradei,  the  IAEA’s  Director  General,  at  the  Sixth 
Congress on Science and Technology for Development 
in Thailand on 16 July 2007, where the role of nuclear 
power as an engine for development was underscored. 
IAEA’s 
the 
12 

07-57052 
In  July  of 


In particular, we fully support the view that the role of 
nuclear  energy  in  relation  to  sustainable  development 
needs to be re-evaluated in the context of emerging and 
interrelated  issues  —  namely,  energy  security  and 
climate change. 

As a State party to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation 
Treaty  (NPT),  Thailand  recognizes  and  supports  the 
inalienable  right  of  all  States  to  develop,  research, 
produce  and  utilize  nuclear  technology  for  peaceful 
purposes,  without  discrimination,  under 
the  NPT. 
Acknowledging the symbiotic linkage between energy, 
security  and  development,  and  the  exigencies  of 
climate  change  resulting  from  the  use  of  fossil  fuels, 
Thailand  considers  nuclear  power  to  be  one  of  the 
sources  of  viable  alternative  energy  options  and 
therefore  welcomes  the  reassessment  of  its  role  in 
sustainable  development 
in  accordance  with  both 
Agenda  21  and  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). 

As there is a need to diversify energy sources and 
to reduce dependency on fossil fuels, Thailand looks to 
nuclear  energy. 
this  year,  Thailand 
announced its plan to develop nuclear energy under the 
National  Power  Development  Plan  for  the  next  14 
years,  in  which  nuclear-powered  electricity  generation 
is envisaged by 2021. The Office of Atoms for Peace of 
Thailand, as the national regulatory body, together with 
Thailand’s  Institute  of  Nuclear  Technology  and  the 
National Energy Policy Council, as the operational and 
policymaking  bodies, 
respectively,  have  already 
commenced  work  with  the  IAEA  on  issues  relating  to 
the  necessary  educational, 
legal,  and 
institutional  instruments.  Thailand’s  Nuclear  Power 
Infrastructure  Preparatory  Committee  has  also  already 
been set up. 

Thailand further welcomes the IAEA’s active role 
in  applying  nuclear  technology  for  other  development 
purposes, especially in the fields of medicine, food and 
agriculture,  environmental  management  and  industry. 
Thailand  thus  encourages  countries  to  work  with  the 
IAEA 
fulfilling 
international  obligations  regarding  the  peaceful  use  of 
nuclear 
the 
implementation of safeguards systems. 

The  report,  which  outlines  programmes  and 
activities undertaken by the IAEA in conjunction with 
its member States, provides encouraging signs that the 
Agency  is  taking  the  right  approach  in  supporting  the 
their  progress 
strengthening 
industrial, 
in 
reporting 
in 
energy 
and 
in 
A/62/PV.32
Regarding 
the  IAEA  for 
rights  of  its  members  to  utilize  nuclear  energy  for 
peaceful  purposes  and  in  strengthening  its  legal  and 
institutional role in safety and verification regimes.  
With  regard  to  strategies  on  non-proliferation 

issues,  Thailand  welcomes  the  IAEA’s  efforts 
to 
explore  multilateral  mechanisms  to  ensure  reliable 
supply  of  and  access  to  fuel  cycle  services  for  States 
that choose not to acquire full fuel cycle capabilities. 

the  Technical  Cooperation  Fund 
(TCF),  Thailand  applauds  the  important  role  the  TCF 
has  been  playing  in  strengthening  technology  transfer 
and promoting scientific and technological cooperation 
in  areas  such  as  basic  human  needs  and  sustainable 
development.  Nevertheless,  additional  emphasis  must 
be given to how the Fund could be used and managed 
more  effectively  without  sacrificing  the  benefits  of 
nuclear technology to Member States.  

Finally,  Thailand  reiterates  its  support  for  the 
indispensable  role  of  the  IAEA  in  nuclear  technology, 
safety and verification  for  the peace and prosperity of 
its  member  States  and  the  international  community. 
Thailand  commends 
integrity, 
impartiality  and  professionalism  in  promoting  and 
ensuring  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  for 
development,  and  hence  its  competence  and  central 
role  as  part  of  the  disarmament  and  non-proliferation 
agenda. 
Mrs.  Mladineo  (Croatia):  Croatia  has  aligned 

itself with the statement made by the representative of 
Portugal  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union.  I  shall 
therefore limit my remarks to a few issues of particular 
interest to my country. 

At  the  outset,  let  me  stress  that,  following  last 
year’s  election  to  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA), 
the 
Governor  from  Croatia  was  elected  Vice-Chairman  of 
the  Board  this  September.  This  result  confirms  our 
readiness to play a constructive part in IAEA activities. 
Moreover, it demonstrates Croatia’s appreciation of the 
Agency’s  unique  contribution  to  peace,  security  and 
development  in  the  world  at  this  difficult  and  critical 
time for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. 

Let me also express Croatia’s appreciation for the 
Agency’s comprehensive annual report. I would like to 
thank 
for 
presenting  the  report  this  morning.  Croatia  fully 
the  Director  General,  Mr.  ElBaradei, 
its 
07-57052 

13 
the 
and 
safe, 
secure 
peaceful 
standard.  Achieving 
A/62/PV.37 

supports its substance and is again pleased to be among 
the sponsors of the draft resolution on the report. 

Croatia commends the Agency for the successful 
continuation of its wide-ranging activities in the fields 
of  technology,  safety  and  verification. We  particularly 
support  efforts  to  continuously  upgrade  and  develop 
the Agency’s concepts and means to effectively address 
dangerous new trends in nuclear proliferation. 
The  Agency  was  established  50  years  ago  to 

promote 
nuclear 
technologies.  In  this  regard,  Croatia  reiterates  that 
comprehensive  safeguards  agreements  together  with 
the  Additional  Protocols  constitute  the  current  IAEA 
verification 
universal 
application  of  a  strengthened  safeguards  system  is  an 
urgent  priority,  and  the  fact  that  more  than  100 
countries  have  yet  to  bring  into  force  their  additional 
protocols is a cause of great concern. At the same time, 
there  is  a  parallel  need  to  increase  the  Agency’s 
verification  resources  to  enable  it  to  deal  effectively 
with growing verification demands. 

Croatia  supports  the  Agency’s  activities  in  the 
area  of  strengthening  national  capacities  in  order  to 
prevent  proliferation  and  increase  nuclear  security. 
National  measures  should  include  improvement  of 
export  and  import  controls,  strengthening  of  border 
controls, re-evaluation of legislative frameworks, more 
frequent  exchanges  of  relevant  information  at  the 
national and international levels, and the improvement 
of public awareness on the issue of proliferation. 
the  Additional 

Protocol,  the  amendment  to  article  VI  of  the  IAEA 
statute  and  the  amendment  to  the  Convention  on  the 
Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear  Material.  Croatia  also 
supports  the  Code  of  Conduct  on  the  Safety  and 
Security of Radioactive Sources and the supplementary 
guidance  on  the  import  and  export  of  radioactive 
sources. 
One  of  the  most  beneficial  aspects  of  successful 

cooperation between Croatia and the Agency has been 
within  the  framework  of  its  technical  cooperation 
programme,  where  the  Agency  supports  five  ongoing 
projects  in  Croatia,  together  with  its  contributions  to 
and co-organization of workshops and seminars hosted 
by  Croatia,  addressing  issues  of  non-proliferation, 
radiation  protection  and  the  fight  against  trafficking 
and  potential  threats  by  terrorists  against  the  security 
of nuclear and radioactive material. 
Croatia  signed  and 
ratified 
the  path 
non-governmental 

In  that  context,  we  are  also  pleased  to  have 
strengthened our role in the region, bearing in mind the 
importance  of  coordinated  and  effective  regional 
measures  aimed  at  maximizing  the  peaceful  use  of 
nuclear  energy  and  confronting  the  growing  risks  of 
proliferation and nuclear terrorism. 

As  the  role  of  the  Agency  continues  to  expand, 
the  challenges  it  faces  remain  important  and  difficult. 
The  annual  report  makes  it  perfectly  clear  that  these 
challenges  can  be  addressed  only  by  partnering 
with  its  stakeholders:  member  States,  international 
organizations, 
organizations, 
national  counterparts  and  the  public.  Croatia  pledges 
its  unequivocal  commitment  to  that  partnership  as  we 
move  along 
towards  sustainable  non-
proliferation and genuine “atoms for peace”. 
Mr. Rachkov  (Belarus)  (spoke in Russian): This 

year,  the  International Atomic  Energy Agency  (IAEA) 
is celebrating its fiftieth anniversary. In its 50 years of 
existence, the Agency has acquired exclusive status as 
the leading international body capable of dealing with 
the  question  of  the  safe  use  of  nuclear  power  for 
peaceful  purposes  and  for  ensuring  effective  control 
over  the  implementation  of  international  obligations 
relating to the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.  

States members of the Agency and its secretariat 
are  doing  truly  colossal  work. As  part  of  its  technical 
cooperation  programme, 
is  providing 
interested  member  States  with  multifaceted  assistance 
in making use of cutting-edge nuclear technology. Very 
careful work is being done to ensure a global system of 
nuclear  and  radiological  security.  An  action  plan  to 
combat  nuclear 
is  being  carried  out. 
Measures  are  being  taken  to  enhance  the  physical 
radioactive  materials. 
protection  of  nuclear  and 
Consistent  steps  are  being 
taken 
the 
universalization of the nuclear non-proliferation regime 
and 
the  IAEA 
safeguards system. Work is also being done to protect 
nuclear knowledge and train nuclear specialists.  

the 
Belarus  has  been  actively  promoting 
implementation of all of these activities in the work of 
IAEA. Our country is fully behind the activities of the 
agency in its work towards achieving the IAEA slogan, 
“Atoms  for  peace”.  We  believe 
the 
machinery  available  in  the Agency  should  be  used  to 
the maximum extent possible in order to achieve those 
aims.  We  consider 
technical 
the  effectiveness  of 
the  machinery 
that  all  of 
to  enhance 
to  ensure 
terrorism 
the 
IAEA 
for 
14 

07-57052 
those 
their 
intentions 
to 
The 
implementation  of 


cooperation  within  IAEA  today  as  the  most  important 
instrument  for  transmitting  and  implementing  up-to-
date nuclear ideas, technology and experience.  

technical  cooperation 
projects  by  the  Agency  in  Belarus  have  provided 
considerable assistance to national efforts in a number 
of  areas  relating  to  the  possible  use  of  nuclear  know-
how  and  technology.  Moreover,  Belarus  suffered  the 
full brunt of the Chernobyl tragedy, and the success of 
mutual  assistance  as  part  of  its  cooperation  with  
IAEA  has  made  it  possible  to  implement  a  number  of 
socio-economic  and  medical  measures 
that  have 
allowed  for  the  rehabilitation  of  the  damaged  regions 
and have ensured their sustainable development. 

At this stage of its existence, IAEA is particularly 
important in terms of cooperation with member States 
that  are  interested  in  setting  up  their  own  nuclear 
power programmes. We are pleased to note that IAEA 
activities  along 
lines  are  becoming  more 
systematic  in  nature.  That  is  particularly  important 
given the increasing number of Governments that have 
implement  national 
announced 
programmes 
including 
projects  to  construct  nuclear  power  stations  on  their 
territory. In that context, a very promising area of work 
for  the Agency  is  its  evaluation  of  new  approaches  to 
the nuclear fuel cycle to ensure guaranteed supplies of 
nuclear fuel to interested consumers.  

Belarus  is  a  convinced  and  consistent  supporter 
of  enhancing  and  ensuring  the  universalization  of  the 
non-proliferation  regime,  and  we  have  unfailingly 
discharged  our  obligations  under  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and  the 
safeguards agreements. We are aware of the complexity 
and  the  multifaceted  nature  of  the  implementation  of 
the  NPT,  but  we  nonetheless  do  believe 
that 
cooperation  under  that  Treaty  should  lead  to  positive 
experiences  in  implementing  all  of  its  provisions, 
including the IAEA safeguards agreement.  

In that connection, any country that discharges its 
obligations  under  the  NPT  should  have  unimpeded 
access to the development of its nuclear power.  
The delegation of Belarus is pleased to note that 

the  IAEA  resolution  on  strengthening  the  Agency’s 
activities  in  the  field  of  technical  cooperation  reflects 
the value of the Agency’s contribution to international 
efforts 
the 
Chernobyl  accident.  The  Government  of  Belarus 
to  develop  nuclear  power, 
the  consequences  of 
in  overcoming 
A/62/PV.32
in 
health 
intends to continue to create favourable conditions for 
the Agency in its work to mitigate the consequences of 
the  catastrophe  at  the  Chernobyl  nuclear  power  plant. 
We call on all member States of the Agency to support 
IAEA activities in that very important area. 
Mr.  Akram  (Pakistan):  I  would  like  to  thank 

Mr. ElBaradei,  Director  General  of  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for  presenting  the 
annual  report  of  the Agency.  Pakistan  appreciates  the 
role played by IAEA in promoting the peaceful uses of 
the  diverse  areas  of  power 
nuclear  energy 
generation, 
and  medicine, 
agriculture, 
hydrology,  industry,  environment  and  basic  sciences. 
We assure Mr. ElBaradei and his colleagues of our full 
support  and  cooperation  in  achieving  progress  and 
prosperity for all. 

IAEA  has  completed  five  decades  working  as  a 
successful  organization.  Its  role  as  the  world’s  focal 
point  in  promoting  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy 
assumes  greater  significance  in  view  of  the  rapidly 
growing  global  energy  demand  and  shortage  of  fossil 
fuel  reserves,  as  well  as  the  diverse  challenges  of  the 
environment and proliferation.  

The Agency’s report for 2006 underscores the key 
role  of  nuclear  power  in  enhancing  the  security  of 
energy  supply  while  also  mitigating  the  discharge  of 
carbon  into  the  atmosphere.  The  Agency  can  make  a 
significant  contribution  to  meeting  the  needs  and 
challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century  by  ensuring 
equitable  access  to  nuclear  materials,  technology  and 
equipment for peaceful purposes. 

Pakistan  attaches  the  highest  importance  to  the 
technical  cooperation  programme  of  the  IAEA.  We 
have  benefited  from  and  contributed  to  the  technical 
cooperation programme.  

Pakistan  was  one  of  the  earliest  countries  to 
launch  a  programme  of  nuclear  power  generation  and 
have  developed  the  entire  range  of  nuclear  fuel  cycle 
facilities.  Parallel  to  the  development  of  the  nuclear 
fuel  cycle,  I  would  briefly  draw  attention  to  our 
achievements in other sectors. 

In  the  area  of  nuclear  research,  the  Pakistan 
Institute  of  Nuclear  Science  and  Technology  has 
emerged  as  a  major  research  institution  in  the  region 
for  basic  and  applied  research  in  the  fields  of  nuclear 
physics,  nuclear  chemistry,  nuclear  materials,  nuclear 
engineering, radioisotope production and applications.  
07-57052 

15 
A/62/PV.37 


The  Pakistan  Atomic  Energy  Commission  is 
playing a vital role in the application of nuclear science 
and  technology  in  the  human  health  sector.  The 
Commission has so far established 13 nuclear medicine 
and  oncology  centres  and  institutions  throughout  the 
country  for  diagnostic  and  therapeutic  purposes.  The 
PAEC is also collaborating with international agencies 
such as the IAEA, the Japan International Cooperation 
Agency,  the  International  Union  Against  Cancer,  the 
World  Health  Organization  and  others  in  technical 
cooperation  projects,  providing  training  for  technical 
human resource development. 

The  PAEC  has  been  playing  a  major  role  in 
harnessing  nuclear  techniques  in  agriculture  and  other 
biological  research  since  its  inception.  Our  National 
Institute for Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering is 
a  centre  dedicated  to  the  application  of  biotechnology 
in  agriculture,  industry,  health  and  environment.  The 
Pakistan  Atomic  Energy  Commission  has  also 
established research laboratories in the fields of isotope 
hydrology and isotope ecology.  

With  a  sizeable  civilian  nuclear  programme  and 
decades  of  experience  in  nuclear  operations  in  the 
areas  of  power  generation,  health,  medicine, 
agriculture,  biotechnology  and  industrial  applications, 
Pakistan  is  uniquely  placed  to  offer  cooperation  in 
peaceful uses of nuclear energy to developing countries 
under  IAEA  safeguards.  We  look  forward  to  further 
strengthening  our  participation 
IAEA’s 
promotional activities. 
the  atomic  energy 

that 
programme,  Pakistan  has  always  recognized 
nuclear  safety  and  security 
the  national  and 
international  context  is  a  vital  objective.  We  have 
therefore  established  strong  safety  and  security 
infrastructure,  including  a  strong  and  independent 
Pakistan  Nuclear  Regulatory  Authority 
(PNRA). 
Pakistan  is  a  party  to  the  Nuclear  Safety  Convention, 
the  Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material and other relevant IAEA instruments. Nuclear 
safety arrangements at civilian facilities in Pakistan are 
subjected  to  peer  reviews  and  regular  inspections  by 
IAEA  missions.  On  the  security  side,  the  PNRA 
requires  all  operators 
the  security 
arrangements  as  contained 
IAEA  document 
INFCIRC/225/Rev.4,  which  constitutes  the  current 
international standard in this regard. 
the  foundation  of 
implement 
Since 
the 
to 
in 
in 
in 
imported 
Pakistan’s 
containing 
such  materials; 
the  power  sector 
the  current  rate  of  growth, 

The  PNRA  is  implementing  a  National  Nuclear 
Security Action Plan which aims at, first, strengthening 
the  security  of  nuclear  and  radioactive  materials  and 
facilities 
secondly, 
prevention and detection of illicit trafficking in nuclear 
and  radioactive  materials;  and,  thirdly,  responding  to 
incidents  of  illicit  trafficking  and  emergencies.  The 
PNRA  is  cooperating  with  the  IAEA  for  capacity-
building in this context. 

Pakistan’s  economy  has  expanded  at  an  average 
annual  growth  rate  of  7  per  cent  from  2002  to  2007. 
Electricity demand increased at 8 per cent per annum. 
At 
the  demand  for 
electricity  would  increase  from  20,000  megawatts  at 
present to 163,000 megawatts by 2030. 

indigenous  energy 
resources  are 
limited.  The  Government  of  Pakistan  has  therefore 
launched  a  25-year  Energy  Security  Plan  to  cater  for 
the  rising  demand  for  energy.  The  strategy  for  the 
development  of 
is  maximum 
utilization  of  indigenous  energy  resources  to  reduce 
dependence  on 
fuels.  Nuclear  power 
generation  will  be  an  indispensable  element  in  our 
national energy security strategy.  

This  Energy  Security  Plan  envisages  increase  in 
nuclear  power  generation  capacity  from  the  present 
425  megawatts  to  8,800  megawatts  by  the  year  2030, 
representing  an  increase  in  the  proportion  of  energy 
that nuclear electricity generation will supply from the 
0.8 per cent to 4.2 per cent. This will entail setting up 
several additional nuclear power reactors.  

To  support  the  planned  expansion  of  nuclear 
power  in  Pakistan,  we  have  embarked  upon  the 
establishment of a uranium conversion and enrichment 
facility  that  will  cater  for  the  needs  for  fuel  of  our 
nuclear  power  plants.  At  the  last  IAEA  General 
Conference,  Pakistan  made 
announcement 
concerning the possibility of placing this facility under 
IAEA  safeguards.  This  voluntary  measure  would  be 
facilitated 
through  Pakistan’s  non-discriminatory 
integration  into  the  international  arrangements  for 
peaceful nuclear cooperation. 
Pakistan  has  been  closely  following  recent 

proposals  and  initiatives  on  assurances  of  supply  of 
nuclear  fuel.  The  basis  of  acceptance  of  any  such 
mechanism will be that of trust in the system. It should 
encourage  expansion  of  nuclear  power  through  the 
assured  supply  of  nuclear  fuel  and  other  related 
an 
16 

07-57052 
the  existing 
the  establishment  of  nuclear  parks 


services  in  a  non-discriminatory  manner.  Above  all, 
consistent  with 
realities,  any  such 
mechanism  should  include  all  States  with  advanced 
fuel  cycle  capabilities,  without  discrimination.  In 
particular,  the  report  of  the  Expert  Group  established 
by  the  Director  General  of  the  IAEA  emphasizes  the 
need to make the three non-NPT States partners of the 
multilateral  nuclear  fuel  cycle  approach.  It  also 
envisages 
in 
countries under IAEA supervision. 

Pakistan recognizes the important role played by 
the IAEA verification regime. We have fully complied 
with  our  obligations  pursuant 
to  our  safeguards 
agreements with the IAEA. We share the view that all 
States  should  fully  comply  with  their  safeguards 
obligations  and  international  commitments.  The  most 
important  step  towards  maintaining  the  credibility  of 
the  safeguards  regime  is  the  fulfilment  of  their  legal 
obligations  by  all  States.  A  balance  between  the 
Agency’s  regulatory,  promotional  and  safety  functions 
will  ensure  the  continuing  relevance  of  the Agency  in 
the twenty-first century in the context of promoting the 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  as  well  as  non-
proliferation. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  say  that  the  international 
community  has  well  recognized  and  commended  the 
vital  role  that  Director  General  ElBaradei  and  the 
IAEA are playing in the promotion of peaceful nuclear 
cooperation  and  non-proliferation.  Mr.  ElBaradei’s 
remarks regarding several current issues deserve close 
consideration by all the concerned parties.  

There is a disconnect, however, between the call 
of  some  for  full-scope  safeguards  and  the  additional 
for  peaceful  nuclear 
protocol  as 
the 
cooperation,  and 
to 
consider  selective  exceptions  from  such  standards. 
Pakistan supports the Director General’s call for a new 
framework for the use of nuclear energy that responds 
to “the lessons we have learned and the current reality” 
(A/62/PV.36). And this will have to be done on a non-
discriminatory basis. We also welcome the recognition 
of 
and 
disarmament.  For  its  part,  for  the  past  several  years, 
Pakistan  has  called  for  evolving  a  new  consensus  on 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation  which  would 
encompass the new framework for the peaceful uses of 
nuclear  energy.  We  hope  that  the  Secretary-General 
will consider convening an international conference or 
standard 
their  simultaneous  readiness 
A/62/PV.32
Last  year,  we  were 
a  special  session  of  the  General  Assembly  to  help  in 
evolving such a new consensus. 
Ms. Mohamed-Noor (Singapore): My delegation 

would  first  like  to  thank  the  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  Mr. 
Mohamed  ElBaradei,  for  his  comprehensive  report. 
The  IAEA  continues  to  do  excellent  work,  despite  the 
challenges  it  faces.  That  is  testimony  to  the  skill  and 
leadership of its Director General. We believe that the 
IAEA should  continue to be the global  focal  point  for 
nuclear  cooperation,  in  line  with  its  three  pillars  of 
technology, safety and security and verification. 

focused  on  nuclear 
developments  in  Iran  and  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea. This year, we welcome the closure 
of  the Yongbyon  nuclear  facility  in  the  latter  country, 
as  verified  by  the  IAEA,  and  the  return  of  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  the  Six-
Party Talks. Continuing cooperation between the IAEA 
and  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  will 
lead  to  enhanced  security  in  the  Korean  peninsula.  In 
tandem,  we  hope  that  Iran  will  also  continue  to 
cooperate  with  the  IAEA  in  building  confidence  and 
resolving  the  outstanding  questions  pertaining  to  its 
nuclear programme. 

The Asia-Pacific region’s demand for energy has 
increased  with  its  rapid  economic  development.  This 
demand  can  only  become  more  pronounced  in  the 
future.  At  present,  fossil  fuels  meet  most  of  Asia’s 
energy  needs.  The  question  going  forward  is  whether 
this  situation  can  continue.  Fossil  fuels  are  finite  and 
not  always  easy  to  extract;  high  oil  prices  are  one 
manifestation of this. There are also concerns about the 
pollutive  effects  of  fossil  fuels  and  how  fossil  fuel 
emissions  contribute  to  climate  change.  With  these 
concerns in mind, it is no surprise that many countries 
are exploring alternative sources of energy that may be 
cleaner and more stable in terms of price and long-term 
availability.  In  short,  many  countries  are  looking  at 
nuclear power. 

Under  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  States  have  the  sovereign 
right  to  use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  means. 
However,  countries  that  explore  the  nuclear  energy 
option  also  have  a  grave  responsibility  to  carefully 
consider  safety  issues.  Accidents  involving  nuclear 
facilities  have  horrible  effects  that  range  over  great 
distances and manifest themselves over a very lengthy 
the 
linkage  between  non-proliferation 
07-57052 

17 
A/62/PV.37 

period  of  time.  One  need  only  hark  back  to  the 
Chernobyl tragedy of more than 20 years ago. Just this 
year,  there  was  a  fire  and  a  leak  at  the  Kashiwazaki-
Kariwa  nuclear  plant  when  an  earthquake  struck 
Niigata province in Japan. 

States  newly  considering  nuclear  power  should 
also  adopt  measures  to  assuage  concerns  about  safety 
and security issues. The IAEA’s Department of Nuclear 
Safety and Security has a pivotal role to play in helping 
these countries achieve the necessary safety standards. 
The  IAEA  can  help  States  build  capacity  regarding 
safety  and  security  issues  associated  with  the  use  of 
nuclear  energy.  We  fully  support  the  Department’s 
objective  of  a  strong,  sustainable  and  visible  global 
safety regime that provides for the protection of people 
and  the  environment  from  the  effects  of  ionizing 
radiation,  for  the  minimization  of  the  likelihood  of 
accidents or malicious acts that could endanger life and 
property and for the effective mitigation of the effects 
of  any  such  incidents.  In  this  regard,  we  welcome  the 
IAEA’s  activities  to  build,  strengthen  and  maintain 
national  and  regional  capacities  for  using  nuclear 
technology  in  a  safe,  secure  and  sustainable  manner, 
and  we  encourage 
these 
activities. 

The  IAEA  should  also  continue  its  technical 
cooperation  with  relevant  countries  and  explore  more 
partnerships  and  cooperation  with  other  players  in  the 
nuclear  energy  market.  States  should  draw  on  the 
IAEA’s expertise in these areas. 

the  IAEA’s  objective  of 
providing authoritative guidance and advice on nuclear 
safety approaches, policies and principles. To this end, 
IAEA’s  safety  standards  are  of  paramount  importance 
and provide a widely accepted basis for nuclear safety. 
States  considering  nuclear  power  should  look  towards 
these  international  standards  in  setting  their  own 
guidelines  and  should  build  on  the  IAEA’s  framework 
when  developing  nuclear  safety  regimes.  Singapore 
thus  welcomes  the  IAEA’s  efforts  to  extend  its  safety 
and  security  standards  and  best  practices  throughout 
the world. 

We  support  the  introduction  of  a  new  IAEA 
safety  review  initiative,  the  Integrated  Regulatory 
Review  Service,  the  adoption  of  the  Fundamental 
Safety Principles by the IAEA Board of Governors, and 
the continuation of the IAEA’s peer review mechanism. 
These  initiatives  will  help  countries  and  regional 
Singapore  supports 
to  continue 
the  IAEA 
Within 
Importantly, 
in  developing  a 
the  effectiveness  of 
organizations build up a body of standards, knowledge 
and expertise on nuclear safety issues. 

the  IAEA 
necessarily  depends  in  large  part  on  cooperation  from 
States.  States  should  continue  to  work,  in  cooperation 
with  the  IAEA,  on  creating  a  culture  of  safety  among 
nuclear  regulators,  operators  and  employees.  Regional 
safety  and  security  regimes  under  the  auspices  of  the 
IAEA,  such  as  the Asian  Nuclear  Safety  Network,  are 
useful  in  building  up  State  capacity  based  on  the 
IAEA’s safety protocols and standards. 

the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations  (ASEAN),  we  also  recognize  the  IAEA’s  role 
and  expertise  in  the  area  of  safety. The  plan  of  action 
that was adopted by ASEAN Foreign Ministers in July 
to implement the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free 
Zone,  for  instance,  calls  for ASEAN  to  work  with  the 
IAEA  and  other  partners 
legal 
framework  to  meet  international  standards  on  nuclear 
safety.  ASEAN  energy  ministers,  at 
their  annual 
meeting 
in  Singapore  on  23  August  2007,  also 
endorsed  in  principle  the  establishment  of  a  nuclear 
energy  safety  subsector  network  to  discuss  nuclear 
safety issues. 

These developments go hand in hand with efforts 
to  look  for  alternative,  carbon-free  and  sustainable 
energy  sources.  In  this  regard, ASEAN  looks  forward 
to  working  closely  with  the  IAEA  in  developing  a 
regional  framework  of  collaboration  and  cooperation, 
as well as adopting the best practices in this field. We 
believe  this  is  timely,  as  more  South-East  Asian 
countries  have  either  indicated  an  interest  in  or  are 
pursuing  nuclear  energy  programmes,  in  line  with 
increasing energy needs. We believe that, for their part, 
companies involved in the provision of nuclear energy 
plants must also help ensure that nuclear power plants 
meet the highest safety standards. This includes issues 
such  as  location  and  design,  the  management  and 
disposal  of  spent  nuclear  fuel  and  human  capacity  to 
run the plants properly. 

The IAEA’s role in building confidence about the 
safety and security aspects of nuclear energy is crucial. 
Nuclear  energy  is  obviously  an  option  for  States 
considering  alternative  sources  of  energy.  But  those 
same  States  must  ensure  that  this  energy  can  be 
sourced  safely.  Cooperation  with 
in 
developing  their  nuclear  power  is  essential  for  those 
States’ — and, indeed, the wider regions’ — safety and 
the 
IAEA 
18 

07-57052 
itself  with 
Mr.  Kryzhanivskyi
the  statement  made  by 


security.  It  would  be  tragic  if  nuclear  energy  became 
the source of future problems. Singapore believes that 
the IAEA can continue to do good work in this regard. 

Singapore  will  continue  to  support  the  IAEA’s 
mission and activities in the future. 
(Ukraine):  Ukraine  has 

the 
aligned 
representative  of  Portugal  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union (EU) and associated countries. Therefore, I shall 
limit  my  remarks  to  a  few  issues  of  particular 
importance to my country. 

At  the  outset,  on  behalf  of  the  Government  of 
Ukraine,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  the  new  States 
members  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA) — the Republic of Cape Verde, the Republic of 
the  Congo,  the  Republic  of  Burundi,  the  Kingdom  of 
Bahrain and Nepal — and to wish them every success 
in  their  activities  within  the Agency. The  enlargement 
of the IAEA’s membership is additional evidence of the 
Agency’s growing authority. 

As is known, Ukraine voluntarily renounced what 
was  then  the  world’s  third  largest  nuclear  weapons 
arsenal. That is further evidence that we are a country 
for which the peaceful use of nuclear energy is one of 
the fundamental principles of sustainable development 
for  all  nations  seeking  a  more  secure  and  predictable 
environment. 

We  share  the  view  that  it  is  necessary  to  expand 
the peaceful uses of nuclear energy in a safe and secure 
manner, with  reduced  risk  of proliferation. That is the 
idea  behind  the  Global  Nuclear  Energy  Partnership, 
which  we  joined  on  l6  September  2007  by  signing  its 
Statement of Principles. 
Regarding the Agency’s activity in evaluating the 

worldwide long-term use of nuclear energy, my country 
attaches  special  importance  to  the  IAEA’s  work  in 
studying  the  options  for  meeting  energy  demands. We 
note  and  value  the  initiative  of  the  Agency  on  the 
creation of a non-discriminatory mechanism of nuclear 
fuel  supply. We  believe  that  a  guaranteed  nuclear  fuel 
supply,  in  conformity  with  the  principle  of  nuclear 
non-proliferation and under the Agency’s auspices, will 
be essential in improving the energy independence and 
security of Member States, especially developing ones. 

Since  my  country  suffered  the  world’s  worst 
nuclear  accident,  at  the  Chernobyl  nuclear  plant,  we 
pay  special  attention  to  compliance  with  effective 
My 
A/62/PV.32
in 
aimed 
at 
importance 
institutional  capabilities  of 
safety  standards  and  to  ensuring  that  these  are  in 
accordance  with  internationally  recognized  norms. 
Safety  performance  indicators  at  Ukrainian  nuclear 
power  plants  meet  the  requirements  of  national  and 
international  norms 
this  sphere,  which  was 
confirmed  by  Operational  Safety  Review  Team 
missions 
to  Ukrainian  nuclear  power  plants. 
Nevertheless,  my  country  continues  to  upgrade  its 
approaches to nuclear power plant safety improvement. 
We  do  this  at  the  national  level  and  in  the  framework 
of international cooperation. We also update legislation 
in  the  field  of  nuclear  energy  use,  and  we  strengthen 
relevant 
the  national 
regulatory authority.  

It is my pleasure to note that the enhancement of 
nuclear security, the improvement of nuclear materials 
and  the  security  of  radioactive  sources  worldwide 
remain  among  the  Agency’s  priorities.  My  country 
attaches  special 
to  activity  aimed  at 
supporting  the  Illicit  Trafficking  Database  because  it 
gives an opportunity to assess trends in this sphere for 
further improvement, development and implementation 
of  measures 
the  nuclear 
non-proliferation regime. We have actively participated 
in  that  programme  since  1997,  and  we  call  upon  all 
Member  States  to  engage  more  actively  in  exchanges 
of information with the Database.  
the  Comprehensive 

Safeguards  System  as  an  important  tool  to  ensure  the 
absence of undeclared activities and of the diversion of 
related  nuclear  materials.  We  are  confident  that  the 
safeguards  agreements, 
together  with  additional 
protocols,  should  constitute  the  IAEA  verification 
standard.  Ukraine  encourages  all  States  that  still  have 
not  done 
implement 
comprehensive  safeguards  agreements  without  further 
delay.  

My country fulfils its international obligations in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Additional 
Protocol on safeguards between Ukraine and the IAEA. 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  once  again 
express our gratitude to the Agency for its assistance in 
implementing the Additional Protocol in Ukraine.  
We reaffirm our position that achievement of the 

universality  of 
the  safeguards  system  must  be 
considered  a  priority  task  by  the  Agency.  The  IAEA 
must 
safeguards 
considers 
attention 
securing 
country 
special 
so 
to 
sign, 
ratify 
and 
devote 
to 
07-57052 

19 
A/62/PV.37 

implementation in countries striving to develop nuclear 
activities. 

It is well known that the issues of the mitigation 
of  consequences  of  the  Chernobyl  disaster  and  the 
transformation  of  the  shelter  object  at  the  Chernobyl 
nuclear  power  plant  into  an  environmentally  sound 
system remain among the priorities for Ukraine.  

I am pleased to inform the General Assembly that 
in September the contracts in the construction of a new 
safe  confinement  over  the  shelter  and  of  an  interim 
spent  fuel  storage  facility  for  the  Chernobyl  site  were 
signed in Kyiv. We appreciate highly the efforts of all 
the  countries  involved,  contributors  and  donors  to  the 
Chernobyl  Shelter  Fund  and 
the  Nuclear  Safety 
Account of the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development for their valuable contributions that made 
the  conclusion  of  those  contracts  possible.  We  are 
convinced that the implementation of the contracts will 
be  crucial  for  overcoming 
the  consequences  of 
Chernobyl,  and  we  call  upon  all  parties  concerned  to 
further foster this process.  

Ukraine  welcomes  the  long-standing  partnership 
with  the  IAEA  in  the  implementation  of  radiological 
support for the rehabilitation of the Chernobyl-affected 
areas.  We  particularly  welcome  the  efforts  of  the 
Agency  to  enhance  the  radiation  safety  of  the  local 
communities  in  the  Chernobyl  area,  to  improve  the 
long-term  strategy  of  radiological  monitoring  and  to 
disseminate information.  

During  this  General  Assembly  session,  we  will 
submit  a  draft  resolution  on  the  strengthening  of 
international cooperation to mitigate and minimize the 
consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. We shall look 
forward  to  its  adoption  by  consensus  next  month.  In 
the spirit of solidarity, we kindly invite other Member 
States to join in sponsoring that document.  

the  concerns  regarding  new 
threats  of  nuclear  terrorism.  Therefore,  we  welcome 
the  development  of  effective  measures  aimed  at 
preventing  the  acquisition  by  terrorists  of  nuclear  and 
radiological weapons and the means of their delivery in 
the  framework  of  initiatives  on  the  suppression  of 
nuclear  terrorism,  as  well  as  other  international  and 
regional  programmes  in  this  field.  At  this  point,  we 
note with satisfaction the entry into force in July 2007 
of the International Convention for the Suppression of 
Acts of Nuclear Terrorism.  
Ukraine  shares 
to  meet 
implementing 
to 
in 
Ukraine 
fully  supports 
the  draft 
its  obligations 
to  participate  actively 
the  Additional  Protocol 

In conclusion, I would like to echo the words of 
support  expressed  earlier  regarding  the  report  of  the 
IAEA,  and  to  note  again  our  appreciation  for  the 
activities of the IAEA Director General, Mr. ElBaradei, 
as  well  as  for  those  of  the  Agency’s  secretariat,  in 
strengthening international cooperation in the sphere of 
the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy.  Ukraine  will 
continue 
the  Agency’s 
activities  in  order  to  help  to  fulfil  this  important 
mission.  

resolution 
entitled  “Report  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency” (A/62/L.5). 
Mrs. Aitimova (Kazakhstan) (spoke in Russian): 

First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  join  other  delegations  in 
thanking Director General Mohamed ElBaradei for his 
presentation  of  the  annual  report  of  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).  
As  a  member  of  the  IAEA,  Kazakhstan  takes 

effective  measures 
in 
strengthening  the  non-proliferation  regime,  as  well  as 
in 
its 
Safeguards Agreement.  By  renouncing  our  possession 
of the world’s fourth-largest nuclear arsenal, we again 
confirmed  our  country’s  devotion  to  implementing  its 
international  obligations.  We  have  established  and  are 
consistently  improving  a  system  to  combat  the  illicit 
transfer  of  nuclear  material  and  technology.  At  the 
same  time,  we  call  for  careful  reflection  on  the 
introduction  of  new  limits  to  the  transfer  of  nuclear 
technologies  so  as  not  to  create  unjustified  barriers  to 
the peaceful use of nuclear power.  

We  in  Kazakhstan  are  working,  with  IAEA 
assistance,  to  implement  the  provisions  of  the  new 
version  of  the  Code  of  Conduct  on  the  Safety  and 
Security of Radioactive Sources.  

In  the  town  of  Kurchatov,  we  have  started  work 
on a nuclear technology park, which will be a basis for 
the  development  of  peaceful  applications  of  nuclear 
power, including the development of nuclear power in 
our  country.  We  have  begun  operating  a  heavy  ion 
accelerator  and  are  continuing  the  construction  of  a 
Kazakh  research  tokomak.  We  are  also  designing  a 
major nuclear medicine centre.  

largest  uranium 
deposits  in  the  world,  and  we  clearly  understand  the 
importance and responsibility of not using uranium for 
Kazakhstan  has 
the  second 
20 

07-57052 


any  purposes  other  than  peaceful  ones.  This  year, 
Kazakhstan  signed  an  intergovernmental  agreement 
with Russia on the creation of an international uranium 
enrichment  centre  in  Angarsk.  My  colleague,  the 
representative  of  the  Russian  Federation,  alluded  to 
this earlier today (see A/62/PV.36). We believe that the 
creation  of  a  multinational  centre 
for  uranium 
enrichment  would  make  it  possible  to  ensure  reliable 
uranium  fuel,  while  at  the  same  time  deferring  the 
proliferation  of  sensitive  technology  from  the  civilian 
nuclear  fuel  cycle. We  are  an  active  participant  in  the 
process  of  strengthening  the  non-proliferation  regime, 
both worldwide and in the Central Asian region. 

Kazakhstan  recognizes  the  right  of  each  country 
to  develop  peaceful  nuclear  technology. We  must  find 
ways to resolve the conflict situations that have arisen 
recently. These ways should not infringe on the right of 
countries to technological development or their access 
to knowledge and should restore the confidence of the 
international  community  with  regard 
to  peaceful 
nuclear activity. This is certainly a very complex task, 
but  the  experience  of  the  IAEA  and  of  its  Director 
General with his firm and principled position makes it 
possible  for  us  to  hope  for  a  successful  resolution  to 
this problem. 

We  need  to  improve  the  monitoring  system 
regarding a whole range of problems relating to nuclear 
weapons  and  technology  while  at  the  same  time 
ensuring  that  the  nuclear  atom  is  used  for  exclusively 
peaceful  purposes,  not  for  military  purposes.  We  feel 
that  it  is  logical  to  create,  under  the  auspices  of  the 
IAEA,  mechanisms,  including  international  centres,  to 
ensure a reliable fuel supply for nuclear power stations 
and  to  manage  the  secure  storage  and  reprocessing  of 
waste at particularly sensitive stages of the fuel cycle. 

It  is  clear  that  we  will  need  to  resolve  political, 
commercial and financial questions to do this and it is 
possible  that  such  proposals  may  seem  somewhat 
unrealistic  today,  but  I  think  we  have  to  start  moving 
along  these  lines. We  do  support  the  IAEA  report  and 
note the statement made today by the Director General 
and  his  initiative  for  new  approaches  to  the  peaceful 
use of nuclear power. We believe that, once they have 
been thoroughly discussed, we could agree  on general 
guidelines 
nuclear 
technology. 

In conclusion, we would like to express again our 
firm  support  for  the  activities  of  the  IAEA,  and  we 
developing 
innovative 
for 
A/62/PV.32
that  Kazakhstan  will  continue 
assure  you 
to 
consistently  live  up  to  its  reputation  as  a  responsible 
international  partner  in  this  area.  As  is  our  custom, 
Kazakhstan is one of the sponsors of the resolution to 
be  adopted  today  by  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
IAEA. 
Mr. Abdallah (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): I would 

like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Kerim  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  and  wish  him 
every  success  in  his  lofty  post. We  would  also  like  to 
express  our  appreciation  and  thanks  to  Mr.  ElBaradei, 
the  Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency  (IAEA),  for  his  comprehensive  report 
to the General Assembly. This report reviews the action 
and  plans  of  the  IAEA  with  regard  to  the  transfer  of 
technology  for  peaceful  purposes,  the  preservation  of 
the  international  nuclear  security  regime  and  the 
strengthening  of  the  security  of  nuclear  installations. 
This stresses the growing role of the IAEA, particularly 
in  the  area  of  cooperation  for  the  peaceful  use  of 
nuclear energy and for development. 

My  delegation  welcomes  the  draft  resolution 
presented by Chile on the report of the IAEA for 2006. 
We support this draft resolution, in conformity with the 
African  Group’s  position  as  expressed  to  the  General 
Assembly by the representative of Benin. On behalf of 
the  delegation  of  Sudan,  it  is  a  great  pleasure  to 
welcome 
to 
congratulate him on his election as Head of the Board 
of  Governors.  We  highly  appreciate  the  efforts  of  the 
IAEA in the area of cooperation with various scientific 
bodies 
their 
characteristics,  as  well  as  to  develop  vaccines,  a 
nuclear medicine programme, particularly in medicines 
used  in  the  fight  against  cancer,  one  of  the  deadliest 
diseases of our time. 

My  delegation  reaffirms  the  right  of  States, 
without  any  discrimination,  to  undertake  research  and 
produce  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes,  in 
accordance  with  international  conventions. We  call  on 
States  to  preserve  the  credibility  of  the  IAEA  and  its 
vital  role  by  refraining  from  exerting  pressure  on  the 
Agency  or  from  interfering  with  its  activities.  In  this 
context, we ask that justice and equity be respected in 
dealing  with  certain  States,  through  dialogue  and 
negotiations,  so  as  to  come  to  suitable  solutions  in 
accordance with international agreements. 
improve  agricultural  crops  and 
representative  of  Chile 
and 
the 
to 
07-57052 

21 
repeated  calls  of 
The  delegation  of 
the  Sudan  reaffirms 
A/62/PV.37 


its 
established  position  to  support  the  aspirations  of  all 
geographical  regions  to  make  their  regions  free  from 
nuclear  weapons,  on  the  basis  of  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), which is 
one  of  the  main  pillars  of  international  peace  and 
security.  The  Middle  East  region  is  still  a  long  way 
away  from  achieving  this  goal.  For  decades  now, 
Israel,  the  only  State  in  the  region  to  possess  nuclear 
weapons,  is  opposed  to  such  initiatives  and  refuses  to 
sign  the  NPT  and  its Additional  Protocol,  despite  the 
appeals  and 
international 
community  to  that  effect.  Israel’s  accession  to  the 
Treaty and its Protocol is the only way to put an end to 
tensions in the region and to open the path to peace for 
everyone.  Declaring 
the  Middle  East  a  nuclear-
weapon-free  zone  remains  the  best  way  to  reinforce 
regional security and to maintain international peace. 

Helping  developing  countries  to  develop  their 
national  legislation  will  complete  the  work  of  the 
IAEA  in  implementing  the  programmes  and  plans  for 
technical  cooperation.  We  hope  that  cooperation  will 
be  promoted  within  the  framework  of  the  Agency’s 
health  programmes  in  order  to  activate  and  support 
regional  and  continental  projects  in  the  fight  against 
mosquitoes that transmit malaria, the disease that kills 
most  people  in  Africa,  so  that  our  continent  can 
implement 
its  economic  and  social  development 
programmes.  We  highly  appreciate  the  work  of  the 
IAEA  on  the  African  continent  and  we  hope  that  the 
Agency’s  budget  will  be  increased  so  that  it  can  fight 
poverty  and  diseases  and  support  nuclear  treatment 
institutions, on the African continent. 
The Acting  President: We  shall  now  proceed  to 

consider  draft  resolution  A/62/L.5,  but  before  giving 
the floor to speakers in explanation of vote before the 
vote,  may  I  remind  delegations  that  explanations  of 
vote are limited to ten minutes and should be made by 
delegations from their seats. 
Mr.  Hong  (Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 

Korea): Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula is, in 
essence,  an  issue  directly  linked  to  the  end  of  the 
hostile policy of the United States and its nuclear threat 
against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. A 
peaceful  resolution  of 
through 
dialogue and negotiations is our consistent policy. This 
is  well  proved  by  our  efforts  dedicated  to  the  hard 
process  of  resolving  the  issue  since  the  early  1990s. 
the  nuclear 
the 
issue 
to 
terminating 
the  obligations  of 
the  Government  of 
Our  ultimate  goal,  with  regard  to  the  nuclear  issue,  is 
the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula. 

The  19  September  2005  Joint  Statement  and  the 
practical  actions  taken  for  its  implementation  thus  far 
are  a  clear  indication  of  the  unwavering  political  will 
of 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea to realize the denuclearization of the 
Korean  peninsula.  The  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  will  continue  to  implement  faithfully  its 
obligations  pursuant 
the  19  September  Joint 
Statement  on  the  basis  of  the  principle  of  actions  for 
actions. That requires the United States to take political 
measures  such  as  removing  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  from  the  list  of  States  sponsors  of 
terrorism  and 
the 
Trading  with  the  Enemy Act,  as  they  have  pledged  to 
do. 

In  particular,  Japan  should  do  positive  things  to 
achieve  progress  in  the  ongoing  Six-Party  Talks,  not 
merely  in  words  but  in  actions.  Japan’s  call  for  the 
implementation  of  Security  Council  resolution  1718 
(2006)  is  nothing  but  a  manifestation  of  their  ulterior 
intentions to block current progress. No issues will be 
resolved  by  sanctions  or  pressure,  as  has  been  proven 
by history. 

As for the draft resolution before us, with strong 
reservations  on  some  paragraphs  contained  in  IAEA 
General  Conference  resolution  GC(51)/RES/16,  my 
delegation  wishes  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  would  like  to 
join  in  the  consensus  adoption  of  draft  resolution 
A/62/L.5,  entitled “Report  of the  International Atomic 
Energy  Agency”,  with  the  expectation  of  continued 
progress  in  the  six-party  talks  and  a  fair  approach  by 
the  Agency  to  the  nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean 
peninsula. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  only 

speaker in explanation of position before the Assembly 
takes a decision on the draft resolution. 

The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/62/L.5.  I  should  like  to  announce  that, 
since  the  introduction  of  the  draft  resolution,  the 
following countries have become sponsors of the text: 
Belize,  Botswana,  Ethiopia,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan, 
Moldova, Morocco and Tunisia. 
22 

07-57052 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 



draft resolution A/62/L.5? 



limited 
adopted 
A/62/L.5  was 
It was so decided. 
  Draft 
resolution 
(resolution 62/2). 
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 

the  representative  of  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  who 
wishes  to  speak  in  explanation  of  position  on  the 
resolution just adopted, may I  remind  delegations that 
explanations  of  vote  or  position  are 
to 
10 minutes  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats. 
Mr.  Darwish  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  Our  delegation  joined  the  consensus  on  the 
draft  resolution  entitled  “Report  of  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency”  (A/62/L.5),  guided  by  its 
belief  in  the  importance  of  the  role  of  the Agency  in 
monitoring  nuclear  non-proliferation  and  guaranteeing 
the right of all Member States, big and small alike, to 
the peaceful use of nuclear energy.  

However,  our  delegation  wishes  to  place  on 
record  our  disappointment  and  regret  over  the  double 
standards  exhibited  by  several  States  in  the  various 
successive  conferences  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency  (IAEA)  on  the  issue  of  Israeli  nuclear 
capabilities  and  the  Israeli  nuclear  threat.  That  has 
resulted  in  the  annual  postponement  of  the  discussion 
of  this  question,  while  major  international  pressure  is 
being brought to bear on  other States as they  exercise 
their  sovereign  right  to  possess  nuclear  energy  for 
peaceful purposes.  
In  that  regard,  we  recall  that  this  item  has 

remained  on 
the  IAEA  General 
Conference for over a decade, during which time many 
resolutions  emerged 
in  favour  of  establishing  a 
nuclear-weapon-free  zone  and  calling  upon  Israel  to 
abandon  the  nuclear  option,  to  subject  its  nuclear 
facilities 
the 
safeguards  agreement,  along  with  the  other  States  in 
the region, and to strive to establish a nuclear-weapon-
free  zone  that  has  no  place  for  the  policies  of  nuclear 
terrorism.  

We  should  also  mention  that  we  were  also 
disappointed  with  the  failure  of  the  international 
community to send a clear message to Israel, in which 
it affirms the importance of good intentions and serious 
work  to  implement  the  principle  of  nuclear  non-
the  agenda  of 
inspection  and 
international 
to 
to 
A/62/PV.32
proliferation  in  an  equitable  and  transparent  manner, 
instead of the policy of nuclear hypocrisy practiced by 
some  States  which  will  only  lead  to  greater  threats  to 
international peace and security.  

Our  delegation  would  like  to  emphasize  that 
continuous  manoeuvring  to  silence  the  voice  of  the 
truth  vis-à-vis  the  Israeli  nuclear  threat  and  danger  to 
the  Middle  East  will  lead  to  frustration  on  the  part  of 
the  States  and  peoples  of  the  region  and  will  cause  a 
nuclear  arms  race,  the  results  of  which  will  be  the 
responsibility  of  the  States  that  are  covering  up  the 
danger posed by Israeli nuclear weapons. 

The annual vote which is usually held in the First 
Committee  on  the  draft  resolution  entitled  “Threat  of 
nuclear  proliferation  in  the  Middle  East”  is  clear 
evidence  of  the  unsound  position  of  those  States  that 
have mounted obstacles to the discussion of this item at 
previous IAEA General Conferences. That is especially 
true  since  the  seventh  preambular  paragraph  of  this 
year’s First Committee draft resolution (A/C.1/62/L.2) 
refers  to  concerns  about  the  continued  presence  of 
nuclear facilities in the Middle East that are not subject 
to  the  safeguards  regime.  The  eighth  preambular 
paragraph  of  the  same  draft  also  notes  that  Israel 
remains the only State in the Middle East that is not yet 
a  party  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons (NPT). 

Also,  operative  paragraphs  2  and  3  of  the  First 
Committee’s draft resolution emphasize the importance 
of  Israel  joining,  without  any  delay,  the  NPT,  and 
having 
to 
comprehensive IAEA safeguards. Israel is urged not to 
develop, produce, test or possess nuclear weapons, but 
to  abandon  the  possession  of  such  weapons  as  an 
important  confidence-building  measure  among  all 
States  in  the  region  and  a  step  towards  promoting 
peace and security.  

All those demands represent the international and 
regional will to protect international and regional peace 
and security from the threat of Israeli nuclear arms.  

only speaker in explanation of position. 

May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 
87? 

The  Acting  President:  We  have  now  heard  the 
It was so decided. 
its  nuclear 
subjected 
facilities 
all 
07-57052 

23 

A/62/PV.37 

 Organization of work 
The  Acting  President:  I  would  like  to  draw  to 

the attention  of members that a  revised  programme of 
work  of  the  General  Assembly  has  been  re-issued  as 
document A/INF/62/4/Rev.1, for technical reasons.  

Further  to  the  announcement  made  at  the  33rd 
plenary  meeting,  on  24  October  2007,  concerning  the 
programme  of  work, 
the  following  changes  are 
reflected in the revised version: the postponement to a 
later  date  of  the  consideration  of  agenda  item  11, 
“Elimination  of  unilateral  extraterritorial  coercive 
economic  measures  as  a  means  of  political  and 
economic compulsion”; agenda item 14, “Prevention of 
armed conflict”; and agenda item 44, “Implementation 
of  the  Declaration  of  Commitment  on  HIV/AIDS  and 
the  Political  Declaration  on  HIV/AIDS.”  The  specific 
meeting  focused  on  developments  under  agenda  item 

116,  “Follow-up  to  the  outcome  of  the  Millennium 
Summit”,  is  now  scheduled  for  Thursday  afternoon, 
6 December 2007. 

Additionally,  I  wish  to  inform  members  that  on 
Wednesday afternoon, 31 October 2007, as the second 
item,  the  General Assembly  will  take  up  sub-item  (b) 
of  agenda  item  66,  “Follow-up  to  the  outcome  of  the 
special session on children”, for the purpose of taking 
action on a draft decision submitted by the President of 
the  General  Assembly.  The  draft  decision  is  entitled 
“Participation  of  children  and  non-governmental 
organizations 
the 
Commemorative  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  Devoted 
to the Follow-up to the Outcome of the Special Session 
on  Children”.  This  will  be  issued  under  the  symbol 
A/62/L.8. 

tables 
of 
The meeting rose at 5.40 p.m.




in 
the 
round 
24 

07-57052 
