United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

42nd plenary meeting 
Thursday, 1 November 2007, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Ms.  Bethel 
(Bahamas), Vice-President, took the Chair. 

A/62/PV.42
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia)

All  United  Nations  Members  are  ipso  facto 
parties to the Court’s Statute. There are thus 192 States 
currently  parties  to  the  Statute,  65  of  which  have 
accepted  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  in 
accordance with article 36, paragraph 2, of the Statute. 
Furthermore,  approximately  300  treaties  refer  to  the 
Court  in  relation  to  the  settlement  of  disputes  arising 
from their application or interpretation. 

the  working 
The  Court  has  been  applying 
methods  on  which  I  reported  last  year  —  that  is, 
always  dealing  with  more  than  one  case  at  a  time, 
producing  judgments  in  a  timely  fashion,  taking  short 
vacations and working intensely. 

I am pleased to state that the Court has had a very 
productive year. This year it has already delivered three 
substantive  judgments,  one  of  them  just  three  weeks 
ago  and  falling  outside  the  period  covered  by  the 
annual  report.  Even  before  31  July,  the  Court  had 
already handed down two judgments and one order on 
a request for the indication of provisional measures.  

completed hearings in three cases.  

the  Court  heard  oral  argument  on 
preliminary objections in the case concerning Ahmadou 
Sadio  Diallo  (Republic  of  Guinea  v.  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo)  in  November  and  December 
2006, delivering its Judgment a short five months later.  
Secondly,  the  Court  also  completed  hearings  on 

concerning  Maritime 
the  merits 
Delimitation  between  Nicaragua  and  Honduras  in  the 
the  Court  has 
In  addition, 
this  period 
First, 
case 
the 
in 
in 







The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.  




Agenda item 73 
Report of the International Court of Justice 

  Report of the International Court of Justice 
(A/62/4) 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/62/171) 

The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 

General  Assembly  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the 
International Court of Justice? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  In  connection  with  this 

item,  the  Assembly  also  has  before  it  the  report 
(A/62/171)  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  Secretary-
General’s Trust Fund to Assist States in the Settlement 
of Disputes through the International Court of Justice.  

I call on Judge Rosalyn Higgins, President of the 
International Court of Justice. 
Ms.  Higgins:  I  am  very  pleased  to  address  the 

General Assembly  on  the  occasion  of  its  examination 
of the report of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) 
for  the  period  1  August  2006  to  31  July  2007.  The 
opportunity  for  the  President  to  speak  to  the  General 
Assembly  on  the  occasion  of  the  Court’s  report  is  a 
tradition which the Court greatly values. 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-57552 (E) 
*0757552* 

A/62/PV.42 

Caribbean  Sea  (Nicaragua  v.  Honduras)  in  March 
2007,  and  that  Judgment  was  delivered  three  weeks 
ago. 

Finally, the Court also heard oral argument on the 
preliminary objections in the Territorial and Maritime 
Dispute  (Nicaragua  v.  Colombia)  case  in  June  2007, 
and that Judgment is under preparation. 

I  wish  to  emphasize  that  the  judgments  of  the 
Court  represent  a  work  effort  that  fully  engages  its 
members throughout the year. Cases coming before the 
Court  are  never  trivial  matters.  They  are  of  immense 
importance  to  the  countries  concerned,  which  put  in 
voluminous  written  pleadings  and  often  ask  for  two 
rounds to explain their legal arguments and supporting 
materials.  
In  the  Malaysia/Singapore  case,  for  example, 

which begins next week, every judge must study some 
4,000 pages. The parties are entitled to expect that we 
will  examine  every  single  thing  they  put  before  us  — 
and  we  do.  There  follow  the  often  lengthy  oral 
arguments that the States concerned wish to make. And 
our  work  on 
is 
collegial — it is not passed over to a juge-rapporteur. 

We  are,  after  all,  the  United  Nations  principal 
judicial  organ,  representing  all  the  leading  judicial 
systems  of  the  world.  So  we,  the  judges,  draft  every 
word  ourselves.  All  of  us  deliberate  as  to  what  our 
findings  will  be.  A  small  drafting  committee  selected 
by  the  Court  itself  prepares  the  draft  judgment,  and 
every  single  judge  is  engaged  in  the  collegial  process 
of  polishing  and  refining  the  judgment,  making  sure 
that no legal points are missed. 

During  the  period  under  review,  one  new  case 
was entered on the General List: Certain Questions of 
Mutual  Assistance  in  Criminal  Matters  (Djibouti  v. 
France).  Djibouti  filed  an  Application  on  9  January 
2006,  but  the  Court  took  no  action  in  the  proceedings 
until France consented on 9 August 2006 to the Court’s 
jurisdiction, pursuant to article 38, paragraph 5, of the 
Rules of Court. 

The  cases  we  have  decided  in  this  period  have 
involved  States  of  Latin America,  Europe  and Africa. 
The  subject  matter  that  interests  the  States  of  those 
regions  has  ranged  from  environmental  matters  to 
genocide  to  diplomatic  protection  of  shareholders  to 
maritime delimitation.  
that  will  follow 
the  Judgment 
intercontinental 
character.  The  Court 
that  Uruguay  unilaterally  authorized 

The current number of cases on the docket is 11. 
There  are  three  cases  between  European  States,  three 
between  Latin  American  States,  two  between  African 
States and one between Asian States, whilst two are of 
an 
thus 
manifestly  remains  the  court  of  the  entire  United 
Nations. 

Today  I  plan,  as  is  traditional,  to  report  on  the 
judgments  rendered  by  the  Court  over  the  past  year.  I 
will deal with them in chronological order. 
On  23  January  2007,  the  Court  handed  down  an 

Order  in  the  case  concerning  Pulp  Mills  on  the  River 
Uruguay  (Argentina  v.  Uruguay)  on  a  request  for  the 
indication  of  provisional  measures  submitted  by 
Uruguay. 

In  May  2006,  Argentina  initiated  proceedings 
against  Uruguay  concerning  the  construction  of  two 
pulp mills on the River Uruguay, which constitutes the 
border between the two States in that region. Argentina 
alleges 
the 
construction  of  the  two  pulp  mills  in  violation  of  the 
obligations of the 1975 Statute of the River Uruguay, a 
treaty  signed  by  the  two  States  for  “the  optimum  and 
rational  utilization”  of  the  river. Argentina  claims  that 
the mills pose a threat to the river and its environment, 
and are likely to impair the quality of the river’s water 
and  cause  significant 
to 
Argentina. 

In  an  Order  dated  13  July  2006,  the  Court 
rejected  a  request  by  Argentina  for  the  indication  of 
provisional measures, finding that the circumstances at 
the  time  did  not  require  it  to  exercise  its  power  to 
indicate provisional measures. 

On  29  November  2006,  Uruguay  submitted  its 
own request for the indication of provisional measures, 
on the ground that since 20 November 2006 organized 
groups  of  Argentine  citizens  had  blockaded  a  vital 
international  bridge  over  the  river,  that  this  was 
causing  great  economic  damage  to  Uruguay,  and  that 
Argentina  had  taken  no  steps  to  put  an  end  to  the 
blockade.  

Uruguay  requested  the  Court  to  order Argentina, 
first,  to  take  “all  reasonable  and  appropriate  steps  to 
prevent  or  end  the  interruption  of  transit  between 
Uruguay  and  Argentina”;  secondly,  to  abstain  from 
actions  that  might  aggravate,  extend  or  make  more 
difficult  the  settlement  of  the  dispute;  and,  thirdly,  to 
transboundary  damage 
2 

07-57552 
they 
that 


abstain  from  any  other  measure  that  might  prejudice 
the rights of Uruguay in dispute before the Court. 

In its Order of 23 January 2007, the Court found 
that 
the  circumstances,  as 
then  presented 
themselves to the Court, were not such as to require the 
exercise of its power to indicate provisional measures. 
In  this  regard,  the  Court  was  not  convinced  that  the 
blockades risked prejudicing irreparably the rights that 
Uruguay claimed on the basis of the 1975 Statute, nor 
that, were there such a risk, it was imminent. The Court 
observed  that,  despite  the  blockades,  the  construction 
of  one  of  the  pulp  mills  had  progressed  significantly 
since the summer of 2006, and that work continued. 

Argentina  and  Uruguay  have  since  elected  to 
have  a  second  round  of  written  pleadings,  and  the 
Court has fixed 29 July 2008 as the time limit for the 
filing of the last of those pleadings. 

On  26  February  2007,  the  Court  rendered  its 
Judgment  in  the  case  concerning  Application  of  the 
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the 
Crime of Genocide (Bosnia and Herzegovina v. Serbia 
and Montenegro). This is the first case before any court 
in  which  allegations  of  genocide  have  been  made  by 
one State against another.  

it  had 
jurisdiction,  in  a  previous  Judgment  rejecting  the 
preliminary  objections  raised  by  the  then  Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia. However, the Respondent was 
permitted  to  address  the  Court  on  renewed  issues  of 
jurisdiction  said  to  arise  out  of  its  admission  as  a 
Member of the United Nations in 2000. 

In  its  Judgment  of  26  February  2007,  the  Court 
affirmed that  it had jurisdiction on the  basis of article 
IX  of 
the  Prevention  and 
Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. The Court noted 
that,  since  its  jurisdiction  was  based  solely  on  the 
Genocide  Convention,  it  could  only  rule  on  genocide 
and associated violations of that Convention, and could 
not 
rule  on  breaches  of  other  obligations  of 
international law. 

The Court initially determined that States parties 
to the Genocide Convention were bound not to commit 
genocide  or  any  of  the  other  acts  prohibited  in  the 
Convention  through  the  actions  of  their  organs  or 
persons or groups whose acts were attributable to them. 
It  also  noted  that,  in  order  to  make  a  finding  of 
genocide,  it  was  necessary  to  establish  specific  intent 
The  Court  had  already  found 
the  Convention  on 
A/62/PV.42
to destroy the protected group as such,  in whole or in 
part. The Court considered that the protected group in 
the case was that of the Bosnian Muslims. 

In  its  Judgment,  the  Court  made  extensive  and 
detailed findings of fact as to whether alleged atrocities 
had  occurred,  and,  if  so,  whether  the  facts  established 
the  specific  intent  to  destroy  in  whole  or  in  part  the 
group  of  the  Bosnian  Muslims.  The  Court  examined 
the  factual  allegations  according  to  the  categories  of 
prohibited  acts  set  out  in  the  Genocide  Convention: 
killing;  causing  serious  bodily  or  mental  harm; 
deliberately  inflicting  conditions  of  life  calculated  to 
bring  about  the  physical  destruction  of  the  group; 
preventing  births  within  the  group;  and  transferring 
children to another group. 
The  Court  found  that  there  was  overwhelming 

evidence 
that  massive  killings  and  many  other 
atrocities had been perpetrated during the conflict, but 
it could not find, on the basis of the evidence before it, 
that those acts were committed with the specific intent 
to destroy in whole or in part the group of the Bosnian 
Muslims.  However,  the  Court  did  find  that  the  killing 
of more than 7,000 Bosnian Muslim men at Srebrenica 
by  Bosnian  Serb  forces  had  been  accompanied  by  the 
intent  to  destroy  in  whole  or  in  part  the  group  of  the 
Bosnian  Muslims.  Accordingly,  it  found  that  those 
events in Srebrenica constituted genocide. 

The Court then turned to the question of whether 
it  could  be  established  that  the  then  Federal  Republic 
of  Yugoslavia  had  been  responsible  for  the  genocide 
committed  at  Srebrenica.  Judging  on  the  basis  of  the 
materials put before it, the Court found that the acts of 
genocide had not been committed by persons or entities 
that  could  be  considered  to  be  organs  of  the  Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia.  

The  Court  further  found  that  it  had  not  been 
established  that  the  massacres  were  committed  on  the 
instructions  or  under  the  direction  of  the  Federal 
Republic  of Yugoslavia,  nor  that  the  Federal  Republic 
of  Yugoslavia  exercised  effective  control  over  the 
operation in question.  

Consequently,  in  the  light  of  the  information 
available  to  it,  the  Court  found  that  the  acts  of  those 
who  committed  genocide  at  Srebrenica  could  not  be 
attributed 
the  Respondent  under 
the  rules  of 
international law on State responsibility. 
to 
07-57552 

3 

A/62/PV.42 


The Court did, however, find that the Respondent 
had  violated  its  obligation  under  article  I  of  the 
Genocide  Convention  to  prevent  the  genocide  in 
Srebrenica. The Court noted that, owing to the strength 
of the political, military and financial links between the 
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bosnian Serbs, 
the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  had  been  in  a 
position  of  influence  over  the  Bosnian  Serbs  who 
devised and implemented the genocide in Srebrenica.  

The  Court  found  that,  despite  the  fact  that  the 
Respondent  was  aware,  or  should  normally  have  been 
aware, of the serious risk of genocide in Srebrenica, it 
had  not  shown  that  it  employed  all  means  reasonably 
available to it in order to prevent the atrocities.  

The  Court  further  held  that  the  Respondent  had 
violated its obligation under article VI of the Genocide 
Convention  to  cooperate  fully  with  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  with 
respect  to  the  arrest  and  handing  over  for  trial  of 
General  Mladić,  and  thus  violated  its  obligation  to 
punish genocide under article I of the Convention.  
Finally, the Court found that the Respondent had 

including 
breached 
provisional  measures,  by  failing  to  take  all  measures 
within its power to prevent the commission of genocide 
and to ensure that any organizations and persons which 
might be subject to its influence did not commit acts of 
genocide.  

As  regards  reparations  for  the  Respondent’s 
violation  of  the  obligation  to  prevent  genocide,  the 
Court recalled that the Applicant had in fact suggested 
that  a  declaration  of  the  Court  would  itself  be 
appropriate  satisfaction,  and  it  made  a  declaration  to 
that effect.  

As for the obligation to punish acts of genocide, 
the  Court  found  that  a  declaration  in  the  operative 
clause that the Respondent had violated its obligations 
under the Convention and that it must immediately take 
effective steps to comply with the obligation to punish 
acts  of  genocide,  to  transfer  individuals  accused  of 
genocide to the International Criminal Tribunal for the 
Former  Yugoslavia,  and  fully  to  cooperate  with  that 
Tribunal, would constitute the appropriate satisfaction.  

in  South 
America and Europe, the Court next turned to Africa.  
On  24  May  2007,  the  Court  handed  down  its 

Judgment on the admissibility of the Application in the 
After  having  considered  disputes 
the  Court’s  earlier  Orders, 
in 
the  authorities  of 
case concerning Ahmadou Sadio Diallo brought by the 
Republic of Guinea against the Democratic Republic of 
the Congo.  

The  case  raised  important  issues  relating  to  the 
diplomatic  protection  by  States  of  their  nationals.  It 
concerned  Mr.  Diallo,  a  businessman  of  Guinean 
nationality  who  was  resident 
the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo for 32 years and was the gérant 
of  and  associé  —  a  type  of  shareholder  —  in  two 
companies  incorporated  under  Congolese  law,  named 
Africom-Zaire and Africontainers-Zaire.  
Guinea  claimed  that  Mr.  Diallo  was  unjustly 

imprisoned  by 
the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo;  that  he  was  deprived  of  his 
investments,  businesses,  property  and  bank  accounts; 
and, finally, that he was expelled from the Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo.  Guinea  argued  that  those 
actions  by  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
violated Mr. Diallo’s rights, and that, according to the 
law of diplomatic protection, the Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo  had  committed  internationally  wrongful 
acts which engaged its responsibility to Guinea.  
The  Court  noted  that  Guinea  sought  to  exercise 

diplomatic protection with regard to Mr. Diallo for the 
violation of the three categories of rights: Mr. Diallo’s 
individual  personal  rights;  his  direct  rights  as  an 
associé in Africom-Zaire and Africontainers-Zaire; and 
the 
themselves  by 
rights  of 
“substitution”.  

With regard to Mr. Diallo’s individual rights, the 
Court found that Guinea had standing to seek to protect 
those rights, since Mr. Diallo had Guinean nationality. 
It  further  found  that  this  part  of  the  Application  was 
admissible,  since  Mr.  Diallo  had  exhausted  all 
available  and  effective  remedies  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  against  the  violation  of  his 
rights.  
Turning  to  Mr.  Diallo’s  direct  rights  as  associé, 

the  Court,  having  considered  Congolese  company  law 
and the relevant law of diplomatic protection, held that 
Guinea  also  had  standing  to  seek  to  protect  those 
rights.  It  further  held  that  this  part  of  the Application 
was  admissible,  since  Mr.  Diallo  had  exhausted  all 
available  and  effective  remedies  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  against  the  violation  of  his 
rights as associé.  
those  companies 
4 

07-57552 



The  complicated  part  of  the  case  was  whether 
Guinea  could  exercise  diplomatic  protection  of  Mr. 
Diallo with respect to alleged violations of the rights of 
the  two  companies  of  Congolese  nationality, Africom-
Zaire  and Africontainers-Zaire.  This  is  also  known  as 
the theory of diplomatic protection “by substitution”. It 
seeks  to  allow  a  State  to  indirectly  offer  protection  to 
its  nationals  who  are  shareholders  in  a  company  of  a 
different nationality in situations in which the rights of 
those shareholders are not protected under a treaty, and 
no  other  remedy  is  available,  because  the  allegedly 
unlawful acts were committed against the company by 
the  State  of  its  own  nationality.  This  would  be  an 
exception to the usual rule in international law that the 
right of diplomatic protection of the company may only 
be exercised by the State of nationality of the company.  

Having carefully examined the practice of States 
and  the  decisions  of  international  courts  and  tribunals 
on  this  question,  the  Court  concluded  that,  at  least  at 
the present time, there was no established exception in 
international law allowing for diplomatic protection by 
substitution.  Guinea therefore had  no standing to seek 
to protect the rights of the two companies, and this part 
of the Application was inadmissible.  

The  Court  has  now  fixed  the  time  limit  for  the 
filing  of  written  pleadings  on  the  merits  by  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo.  

International Court. 
Next week we begin public hearings on the merits 

the  case  concerning  Sovereignty  over  Pedra 
in 
Branca/Pulau  Batu  Puteh,  Middle  Rocks  and  South 
Ledge (Malaysia/Singapore).  

I am glad to inform the Assembly that the Court 
has decided to open hearings on 21 January 2008 in the 
case  Certain  Questions  of  Mutual  Assistance 
in 
Criminal Matters (Djibouti v. France).  

Later  in  the  year,  we  will  hold  hearings  in  the 
cases concerning Application of the Convention on the 
Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the  Crime  of  Genocide 
(Croatia  v.  Serbia  and  Montenegro)  and  Maritime 
Delimitation in the Black Sea (Romania v. Ukraine). 

Last  year  I  informed  the Assembly  that  our  aim 
was to increase further our throughput  while retaining 
the high quality of our judgments. As I believe must be 
apparent  from  what  I  have  reported  today,  we  have 
indeed made much progress. 
I  turn  to  what  is  next  on  the  horizon  for  the 
A/62/PV.42

The  Court  has  always  delivered  its  judgments 
within  a  reasonable  time  after  the  conclusion  of 
hearings  in  a  case.  There  has  never  been  a  problem 
with that phase of proceedings. But we have in the past 
had problems with the scheduling of oral hearings, and 
a  backlog  had  built  up.  By  “backlog”,  I  mean  a  State 
having  to  wait  an  unreasonably  long  time  after  the 
deposit of its written pleadings for oral hearings to be 
scheduled. 

At the beginning of 2006, it seemed possible that 
if  we  made  a  prodigious  effort  we  would  be  able  to 
clear  the  backlog  of  cases  by  2008.  I  am  extremely 
happy  to  report  that  we  have  essentially  reached  that 
stage  now.  In  planning  our  schedule  for  the  coming 
year, we were in a position to hear any cases in which 
the  parties  had  exchanged  a  single  round  of  pleadings 
and were ready to be heard.  

In some instances, of course, States prefer to have 
an  extra  round  of  written  pleadings,  so  we  will  wait 
until  that  process  is  completed  before  scheduling  the 
oral hearings. Thus, some occasional delay in bringing 
on the oral hearings is now a product of the choice of 
the States to ask for a further written round, and not of 
any backlog in the Court. 

The  important  thing  is  that  States  thinking  of 
coming  to  the  International  Court  can  today  be 
confident  that  as  soon  as  they  have  finished  their 
written exchanges we will be ready to move to the oral 
stage in a timely manner. 

That  goal  having  been  achieved,  our  push  for 
efficiency  continues.  Unfortunately,  we  have  had  to 
spend more time than we would have wished this year 
on  a  matter  not  of  our  choosing.  I  am  referring  to  the 
consequences  of  the  adoption  of  General  Assembly 
resolution  61/262,  “Conditions  of 
service  and 
compensation  for  officials  other 
than  Secretariat 
officials: members of the International Court of Justice 
and  judges  and  ad  litem  judges  of  the  International 
Tribunal 
the 
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda”.  

Informed  at  the  last  moment  of  the  imminent 
adoption of that resolution, on which the Court had not 
been  consulted,  I  sent  a  letter  to  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly,  which  was  circulated 
to  all 
permanent representatives, expressing the Court’s deep 
concern that the proposed action regarding emoluments 
under  the  resolution  would  create  inequality  among 
judges,  which  is  prohibited  under  the  Court’s  Statute. 
the  Former  Yugoslavia  and 
for 
07-57552 

5 

that 
the  fact 
including 
A/62/PV.42 

That issue will be addressed in the forthcoming report 
of  the  Secretary-General  on  conditions  of  service  and 
compensation  for  officials  other 
than  Secretariat 
officials.  

A  memorandum  that  the  Court  produced  in  July 
to  assist  the  Office  of  the  Secretary-General  in  the 
preparation of that forthcoming report clearly lays out 
the serious legal consequences arising out of resolution 
61/262, 
it  establishes  a 
transitional  measure  that  draws  a  distinction  between 
current  judges  of  the  Court  and  those  judges  elected 
after 1 January 2007. That will result in judges elected 
after  1  January  2007  having  an  income  substantially 
below the current remuneration. It will be the first time 
in the history of the United Nations that judicial salary 
levels  have  been  reduced.  And  it  would  be  without 
precedent — this is the key point — for judges on the 
same Bench to receive different salaries. 

Equality  between  the  judges  of  the  International 
Court  is  one  of  the  fundamental  principles  underlying 
its  Statute.  It  should  be  recalled  that  the  parties 
appearing  before  the  Court  are  sovereign  States,  not 
individuals  or  corporations.  Although  judges  serve  as 
independent  members  of  the  judiciary,  States  are 
entitled  to  assume  that  a  judge  of  their  nationality, 
whose  election  they  have  worked  hard  for,  is  in  a 
position  of  full  equality  with  all  other  judges  on  the 
Bench.  

No  discrepancy  in  treatment  can  be  allowed  to 
exist,  not  only  among  permanent  judges,  but  also 
between permanent judges and judges ad hoc — that is, 
judges  chosen  by  States  parties  to  a  litigation  not 
having  a  national  on  the  Bench  —  or  between  two 
judges  ad  hoc.  Indeed,  that  is  what  the  Statute  of  the 
Court  requires.  The  Statute  is  an  integral  part  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter,  attached  to  the  Charter,  and 
has a central status in United Nations instruments. It is 
not just to be ignored or put aside. 

Let me put this to the Assembly in graphic terms, 
and  ask  Member  States  this:  “When  you  come  to  the 
Court with a case and you do not have a judge of your 
nationality  on  the  Bench,  are  you  going  to  be  pleased 
that the judge ad hoc to whom you are entitled will be 
paid less than the rest of us, and perhaps less than the 
judge ad hoc nominated by the other party, if that other 
judge ad hoc was appointed before January 2007? Was 
that really what you thought you were achieving when 
you adopted resolution 61/262?” 
for 
for 
the  Former  Yugoslavia  and 
No  further  elections  are  envisaged  for 

I cannot believe that any State represented in this 
Hall  wishes  to  put  judges  of  its  own  nationality  in  a 
position  of  financial  inferiority  to  others.  Nor  do 
Member  States  wish  to  see  the  Statute  of  the  Court 
violated. 

The  deep  irony  is  that  paragraph  7  of  resolution 
61/262 — the purpose of which was to address certain 
budgetary matters related to the International Criminal 
Tribunal 
the 
International  Criminal Tribunal  for  Rwanda  —  in  fact 
at the present time has its negative impact only on the 
International Court of Justice.  
the 

International  Criminal  Tribunal 
the  Former 
Yugoslavia until 2009, and the Tribunal until then has a 
sufficiency of judges ad litem for its work. If the term 
of  office  of  its  judges  were  to  be  extended  in  2009, 
instead  of  there  being  new  elections  upon  the  end  of 
their current term, the adverse impact of the provisions 
of  paragraph  7  of  resolution  61/262  would  even  then 
concern  only 
the  International  Court  of  Justice. 
Moreover, there may well be no new elections  for the 
International Criminal Court for Rwanda.  

So the International Court of Justice stands alone 
at  the  moment  in  bearing  the  negative  impact  of  the 
resolution  and  all  the  problems  of  principle  that  it 
brings  with  it  about  the  equality  of  judges  under  the 
Court’s  Statute.  We  have  cases  here  and  now  where 
judges  ad  hoc  are  coming,  and  the  Statute  clearly 
requires that they be in a position of full equality with 
other  judges  and  with  each  other.  Further,  the  Court 
will have elections for new judges in autumn 2008. 

I do not believe that the Fifth Committee and the 
Assembly  ever  meant  that  the  Court  alone  should  be 
put  into  a  disadvantageous  situation.  I  do  not  believe 
that the Fifth Committee and the Assembly ever meant 
to  put  the  Court  in  conflict  with  its  Statute.  I  do  not 
believe  that  they  ever  meant  to  create  awkward 
situations for States appearing in front of the Court.  

For  our  part,  we  appreciate  the  understandable 
objectives  behind  the  resolution,  both  as  regards 
transparency  and  as  regards  putting  the  International 
Criminal Tribunal  for  Rwanda  back  into  a  position  of 
real  equality  with  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal 
for  the  Former Yugoslavia  and  the  International  Court 
of  Justice.  I  am  hopeful  that  the  Secretary-General’s 
forthcoming  report  on  conditions  of  service  and 
than  Secretariat 
compensation  for  officials  other 
6 

07-57552 


officials will provide some solutions that will meet all 
of our legitimate needs and concerns.  

The Assembly will remember that last year I also 
highlighted  one  matter  in  the  International  Court’s 
budget request for 2008-2009: the request for nine P-2 
law  clerks,  which  would  enable  us  to  achieve  a  full 
complement  of  one  law  clerk  for  each  member  of  the 
Court  —  a  request  first  raised  nine  years  ago  by 
President  Schwebel.  I  explained  to  the Assembly  that 
this  form  of  assistance  is  routinely  provided  to  every 
other international court and tribunal, and many senior 
national courts. Each of the judges of the International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda, 
the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  Yugoslavia  and  indeed  the 
International  Criminal  Court,  just  beginning  its  work, 
has a law clerk.  

Law clerks can do the sort of support work for us, 
such as researching, analysing and laying out data, that 
will  allow  the  judges  to  get  on  with  addressing  legal 
issues,  drafting  the  judgments  and  maximizing  the 
service we provide to the United Nations membership.  

If  we  are  granted  a  limited  number  of  extra  law 
clerks, of course that will be an appreciated gesture by 
the  United  Nations.  But  it  remains  the  case  that  we 
need  a  law  clerk  each,  in  view  of  the  increasing 
number  of 
rising 
importance  of  researching  and  evaluating  diverse 
materials.  

This year marks the one hundredth anniversary of 
the 1907 Hague Peace Conference; various events have 
been held at The Hague to mark this centenary. It was 
at  the  Hague  Peace  Conference  that  the  idea  of  a 
standing international  court was born. The momentum 
towards  the  launching  of  an  international  court  was 
interrupted by the First World War, but the founding of 
the  Permanent  Court  of  International  Justice  in  1922 
and its legal continuation as the International Court of 
Justice  in  1946  were  clearly  inspired  by  the  ideas  of 
1907.  

Dispute  settlement  has  assumed  a  greater  and 
greater  importance  in  the  past  century.  Provision  for 
judicial settlement is routinely included, in one form or 
another,  in  the  vast  majority  of  multilateral  treaties. 
The  past  two  decades  have  seen  the  burgeoning  of 
international courts and tribunals equipped to deal with 
disputes  that  might  arise  under  the  growing  reach  of 
international law.  
fact-intensive  cases  and 
the 
We 
that 
07-57552 

7 
A/62/PV.42

The  interest  of  States  in  the  International  Court 
has continued to flourish. The Court has handed down 
94 judgments in its 60 years of existence; of those, one 
third  have  been  delivered  in  the  last  decade.  I  assure 
the Assembly that the Court will continue to work with 
dedication and its customary impartiality. Our aim is to 
meet  the  expectations  of  those  States  that  trust  us  to 
find  a  solution  for  them  in  a  timely  fashion,  while 
always maintaining the high standard of our decisions, 
born  of  a  collegial  working  method  in  which  every 
judge  is  involved  in  each  stage  of  a  case.  We  have 
made  great  progress  in  that  regard,  and  we  will 
continue our efforts in the year to come. 
Mr. van Bohemen (New  Zealand): On behalf of 

Canada, Australia  and  New  Zealand  (CANZ),  I  thank 
the  President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice, 
Judge Rosalyn Higgins, for her excellent report on the 
work of the Court over the past year.  

CANZ continues strongly to support the Court in 
its  role  as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations.  

This year the Court has had a full caseload that is 
notable  not  only  for  the  regional  diversity  of  the 
parties, but also for the increasing diversity of subject 
matter. We find it encouraging that there is  a growing 
interest  of  States  in  using  the  Court  to  resolve  issues 
that  go  beyond  “classic”  disputes,  such  as  maritime 
delimitation, 
such  as  questions  of 
environmental law and violations of human rights.  

That  has  been  illustrated  this  year  by  the  case 
concerning  the  Genocide  Convention.  As  President 
Higgins has just noted, this is the first case in any court 
in  which  allegations  of  genocide  have  been  made  by 
one  State  against  another.  Such  cases  illustrate  the 
value of the Court’s contribution to international peace 
and  security  and  the  development  of  important  issues 
of international law.  

CANZ  recognizes  that  the  Court  will  have  a 
similar caseload in the coming year. As Judge Higgins 
has  reported,  however, 
the 
advantage that it has effectively cleared its backlog of 
hearings. We commend the Court for this achievement 
and  for  the  positive  steps  it  has  taken  for  increased 
efficiency  through  issuing    practice  directions  and 
having meetings for strategic planning.  

adequate 
resources  are  required  to  enable  the  Court  to  handle 
recognize,  nonetheless, 
the  Court  will  have 
to  matters 
A/62/PV.42 

cases  in  a  timely  fashion.  We  therefore  support 
consideration  of  measures  that  apply  in  comparable 
courts to meet this goal.  

We  listened  carefully  to  President  Higgins’s 
concerns relating to the impact of resolution 61/262 on 
the salaries of the judges of the Court. We understand 
this  matter  to  be  of  importance  to  the  judges,  and 
CANZ  is  ready  to  discuss  these  issues  further  during 
the sixty-second session.  

The  launch  this  year  of  the  improved  Court 
website  is  a  welcome  development. With  a  searchable 
database  of  every  decision  since  1946,  the  website  is 
an  excellent  resource  that  will  greatly  benefit  judges, 
media, scholars and the general public worldwide. 
The  International  Court  plays  a  vital  role  in  the 

peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes  and  in 
strengthening the international legal order, as mandated 
by  the  Charter.  Wider  acceptance  of  its  compulsory 
jurisdiction  enables  the  Court  to  fulfil  its  role  more 
effectively. Accordingly,  we  continue  to  urge  Member 
States  that  have  not  done  so  to  deposit  with  the 
Secretary-General  a  declaration  of  acceptance  of  the 
Court’s compulsory jurisdiction. 
Mr. Kamal (Egypt): I start by expressing Egypt’s 

appreciation  for  the  valuable  introduction  by  Ms. 
Rosalyn  Higgins,  President  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  (ICJ),  of  the  Court’s  report  on  its  work  last 
year.  
in 
the 

International  Court’s  major 
securing 
implementation  of  the  provisions  of  international  law, 
in  adjudicating  conflicts  between  States  and 
in 
providing  States  and  international  organizations  with 
advisory opinions to help them perform their role in the 
best possible manner.  

Since  its  inception,  the  Court  has  reinforced 
important  international  legal  norms  and  principles 
through  its  Advisory  Opinion  on  the  Legality  of  the 
Threat  or  Use  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  the  Advisory 
Opinion  on 
the 
Construction  of  a  Wall  in  the  Occupied  Palestinian 
Territory  and 
the 
Application  of  the  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and 
Punishment  of  the  Crime  of  Genocide  (Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  v.  Serbia  and  Montenegro)  in  respect  of 
the Srebrenica massacre. That last decision, on Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  put  an  end  to  a  horrendous  stage  of 
the  Legal  Consequences  of 
to  emphasize  Egypt’s  belief 
recent  decision  on 
its  most 
I  wish 
role 
in 

in 
of 
terms 
positively 
conflict  in  the  Balkan  region  and  consecrated  the 
concept of a State’s responsibility to take all measures 
to prevent genocide on its territory based on ethnicity, 
religion or language. 

The Court’s experience over the years has shown 
the need to reinforce the capacity of States, the United 
Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies  in  requesting  the 
opinion of the Court in matters that are difficult to deal 
with  unilaterally.  These  are  based  on  the  legal  and 
moral  value  of  the  judgments  and  advisory  opinions 
issued  by  the  Court.  These  judgments  and  opinions 
contribute  to  enriching,  developing  and  codifying  the 
rules  of  international  law,  and  entrench  the  principles 
of  justice  and  equality  at  the  international  level,  thus 
reflecting 
enhancing 
international peace and security. 

Hence,  for  the  United  Nations  reform  process  to 
be  comprehensive  and  inclusive,  it  must  include  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  since  this  is  one  of  the 
Organization’s major organs; this would  guarantee the 
effectiveness  of  the  United  Nations  and  its  ability  to 
keep  abreast  with  the  requirements  of  the  times, 
without  confining  reform  to  the  Security  Council,  the 
General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
and the Secretariat. 

The  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  Document 
decisions  tasked  Member  States  with  studying  means 
of  strengthening  the  Court.  However,  the  United 
Nations has yet to witness discussion of any initiative 
or study in this regard. This makes it incumbent upon 
us to adopt a clear position and take serious measures 
in order to activate the role of the Court and harness its 
legal potential to the optimum extent. 

Perhaps  this  would  require  the  Court  itself  to 
project its vision of the development of its role in the 
judicial and legal realm. There is no doubt that the role 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  should  expand  to 
deal with the most contentions cases raised lately at the 
United Nations. 

Therefore,  we  were  pleased  to  observe  the  latest 
Judgment  of  the  Court  on  the  allegations  of  serious 
violations  of  human  rights,  including  the  crime  of 
genocide,  in  Srebrenica.  However,  we  hope  that  the 
Court,  through  its  judgments  in  such  cases,  will 
establish clear legal norms to guarantee that the United 
Nations  deals  effectively  with  the  most  serious  of 
crimes, such as aggression and war crimes.  
8 

07-57552 
to 
to 
the  Court 
With  regard 
to  establish  general 



We also look forward to the Court’s dealing with 
the  current  contradiction  regarding  human  rights, 
through  which  some  are  trying  to  suggest  that  their 
national  standards  are  more  worthy  of  application  on 
the international level, without taking into account the 
diversity  of  cultures,  civilizations  and  religions.  This 
poses an element of increasing danger to all humanity. 

the  management  of  natural 
resources, we feel that the Court has a more important 
role to play in enabling developing countries to realize 
their  development  aspirations,  through  consolidating 
strong legal norms that affirm the sovereignty of States 
over their natural resources. The era of occupation and 
exploitation by the occupier of the natural resources of 
the  occupied  State  is  over,  and  a  new  international 
order  has  been  put  in  place,  based  on  cooperation 
between countries of the North and those of the South. 
There  is  no  doubt  that  such  an  order  will  increase  the 
burden  on 
legal 
principles  to  deal  effectively  with  it,  in  accordance 
with the rules of international law. 

Regarding  the  question  of  diplomatic  protection, 
we are very pleased that the Court is dealing with this 
issue, especially in the light of the attempts by some to 
shy away from their obligations on the basis of illegal 
considerations 
the 
international war on terrorism.  

We affirm the need to revert to the principal rules 
of  international  law,  above  all  the  1961  Vienna 
Convention  on  Diplomatic  Relations, 
the  1946 
Convention  on  the  Privileges  and  Immunities  of  the 
United Nations, and other such conventions that are the 
mainstay of international relations and that are violated 
daily by some on ethnic, religious or political grounds. 

The  delegation  of  Egypt  supports  the  request  of 
the ICJ to establish nine law clerk posts, as well as the 
establishment  of  a  senior  official  post,  in  the  biennial 
programme  budget  for  2008-2009,  for  the  reasons 
contained in paragraph 23 of the report’s summary. 
At the same time, our delegation affirms that the 

judgments 
the 
responsibility  of  the  judges  themselves,  since  they 
represent 
the 
international  system  and  are  the  defenders  of  the 
implementation of the rulings. 

Our delegation will work with others in the Fifth 
Committee  in  order  to  respond  to  such  requests, 
conscience  of 
security  or 
the  Court 
relating 
the 
living 
legal 
to 
of 
should 
remain 
A/62/PV.42
the 
the 
to  all 
judges  of 
the  Court, 
recognition  of 
judges  of 
especially  since  they  come  at  a  time  of  increasing 
international  efforts  to  revitalize  the  Organization  in 
the discharge of its role in the context of international 
legality,  to  preserve  international  public  order,  in 
accordance with the principles we agreed on when the 
United Nations was established. 

Finally,  the  delegation  of  Egypt  expresses  its 
appreciation 
its 
President,  Registrar  and  staff  for  their  efforts  during 
the  year  under  consideration,  and  we  wish  them 
success in discharging the desired role of the Court in 
the future. 
Mr.  Voto-Bernales  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

thank  the  President  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice, Judge Rosalyn Higgins, for her comprehensive 
and  detailed  presentation  of  the  annual  report  on  the 
work of the Court. I would also like to convey to Judge 
the 
Higgins  my  Government’s 
invaluable  work  done  by  all 
the 
International Court. 

The  number  of  cases  on  the  docket  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  shows  the  growing  will 
of  States  to  resolve  their  judicial  disputes  by  peaceful 
means, as well as the confidence that the international 
community  has  in  the  impartiality,  independence  and 
professionalism  of  the  one  universal  international 
tribunal with general jurisdiction. 

With regard to the legal proceedings this year, we 
wish  to  mention  the  recent  decisions  of  the  Court  on 
cases under its jurisdiction that have led, particularly in 
the case of our region, to the resolution of disputes and 
the broadening of spaces of cooperation and friendship 
between neighbouring countries. 

Peru  considers  it  of  the  utmost  importance  that 
the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  be  universally  accepted. 
We therefore call upon all States that have not yet done 
so to consider accepting the compulsory jurisdiction of 
the Court over disputes. 

The  Court’s  contribution  in  its  advisory  capacity 
is also very important. Peru urges organs of the United 
Nations and the relevant international organizations to 
request  of  the  Court  advisory  opinions  with  a  view  to 
resolving legal disputes. 

The  high  cost  of  litigation  at  the  international 
level means that some countries, especially developing 
countries, may be deterred from resorting to the Court. 
In order to make recourse to international justice more 
07-57552 

9 

to 
improve 
the  Court  continues 
A/62/PV.42 

accessible for them, the Trust Fund to Assist States in 
the  Settlement  of  Disputes  through  the  International 
Court of Justice was created in 1989. Peru is grateful to 
States  that  have  contributed  to  the  Fund,  and  joins  in 
the repeated appeal of the Secretary-General to States, 
intergovernmental  organizations,  national  institutions 
and  non-governmental  organizations,  as  well  as  legal 
persons  —  both  individuals  and  entities  —  to  make 
financial contributions to it.  

The  administration  of  justice  should  be  efficient 
and timely. The Court has recognized that need, and for 
that  reason  constantly  improves  its  working  methods. 
In  that  regard,  we  commend  the  recent  changes  to  its 
Practice  Directions,  and  encourage  it  to  continue 
considering such measures. 
Similarly,  aware  of  the  universal  importance  of 

its  work, 
its 
information  tools.  In  particular,  I  wish  to  mention  its 
new website,  launched last April, which  contains very 
full  information  on  its  activities;  it  is  an  excellent 
source  of  information.  We  await  with  interest  the 
improvements  which  have  been  announced,  with  the 
inclusion of audio and video material from hearings.  

It  is  necessary  to  preserve  and  strengthen  the 
valuable support that the International Court of Justice 
gives  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security, as an ideal setting for the peaceful resolution 
of  legal  disputes  between  States,  the  development  of 
international law and the operation of the rule of law at 
the international level.  
To  shoulder  that  great  responsibility,  the  Court 

must  have 
resources.  The  Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
must consider, bearing in mind the international system 
as  a  whole,  the  Court’s  request  for  law  clerks  for  the 
judges.  We  should  ensure  that  all  members  of  the 
Court,  permanent  and  ad  hoc,  receive  the  same 
treatment.  
Peru  understands  the  needs  of  the  Court,  and 

supports  the  requests  presented  by  Judge  Rosalyn 
Higgins. 
Mr.  Qasuri  (Pakistan):  I  thank  Judge  Rosalyn 

Higgins, President of the International Court of Justice, 
for presenting the latest report of the Court, on its work 
between August  2006  and  July  2007.  I  also  thank  her 
for her detailed and thought-provoking briefing. 
adequate 
the 
accepting 
Secretary-General 
realization  of  all  human 

Justice and the rule  of law are key  to  an orderly 
international  society.  The  need  for  international  legal 
order and justice has never been as acutely felt as it is 
today.  Justice  and  fairness  have  become  an  integral 
requirement of present-day existence and are critical to 
the 
rights,  peaceful 
coexistence and cooperation among Member States. 
Pakistan  recognizes  the  International  Court  of 

Justice  as 
international  court  of  a  universal 
character  with  general  jurisdiction.  All  192  Member 
States  of  the  United  Nations  are  States  parties  to  its 
Statute. Pakistan is  not only a signatory, but is  one of 
the 65 countries that have deposited a declaration with 
the 
the  Court’s 
compulsory  jurisdiction  in  accordance  with Article  36 
of  its  Statute.  That  speaks  volumes  for  Pakistan’s 
respect for the rule of law and access to justice.  

We  have  taken  note  of  the  fact  that  about  300 
bilateral and multilateral treaties provide for the Court 
to have jurisdiction in the resolution of disputes arising 
out of their interpretation and implementation. We also 
recognize  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  in  the  situations  of 
forum  prorogatum  arising  from  the  implementation  of 
article 38 of the Rules of Court. 

We support the recommendation in the report that 
the Court may be consulted by the General Assembly, 
the  Security  Council,  and  other  organs  of  the  United 
Nations  and  specialized  agencies  authorized  by  the 
General  Assembly,  on  legal  questions  arising  in  the 
scope  of  their  activities.  That  could  facilitate  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  as  annunciated  in  the 
Charter.  The  rule  of  law  is  a  much  better  option  than 
the rule of thumb for world peace and security. 

in  Chapter  VI,  offers  vast 
possibilities  for  the  United  Nations  and  its  organs  to 
play  an  important  role  in  the  pacific  settlement  of 
disputes and conflict prevention. Article 36, paragraph 
3,  of  the  Charter  sets  out  the  role  of  the  Court  in  the 
settlement  of  disputes.  Article  1,  paragraph  1, 
recognizes that the settlement of international disputes 
“by  peaceful  means,  and  in  conformity  with  the 
principles of justice and international law” is one of the 
basic  principles  of  the  United  Nations.  Hence,  the 
Security  Council  should  make  the  maximum  possible 
use  of  its  powers  under  Articles  36  and  37  to 
recommend that legal disputes be referred to the Court 
as a general rule. That would bring a desirable balance 
The  Charter, 
10 

07-57552 
to 
of 
and 
development 
the  United  Nations  for 
The  Court  has  uniquely  contributed 


to an otherwise unfavourable political tilt so visible at 
the United Nations level. 

Those provisions offer a wide range of options to 
Member  States  and 
the 
settlement of disputes. It is up to them to make the best 
possible use of the facilities.  
the 

interpretation 
customary 
international  law.  Its  work  and  decisions  are  closely 
monitored  by  Member  States,  the  international  legal 
fraternity  and  others,  as  the  Court  plays  an  important 
role in the implementation and promotion of the rule of 
law at the international level.  

We  have  studied  the  Court’s  five  decisions 
delivered  during  the  period  under  consideration.  The 
recent  decisions  indicate  that  the  Court  has  adopted  a 
cautious approach. 

The Court in January 2007 delivered a Judgment 
in  the  Pulp  Mills  on  the  River  Uruguay  (Argentina  v. 
Uruguay)  case.  Uruguay  was  of  the  view  that  an 
influential group of people in Argentina had blocked a 
vital international bridge over the Uruguay River, thus 
causing  enormous  economic  damage 
to  Uruguay. 
Uruguay  further  pleaded  to  the  Court  that  Argentina 
should  take  all  reasonable  and  appropriate  steps  to 
prevent the damage.  

The  Court,  on  the  basis  of  the  circumstances 
presented to it at the time  of the decision, declined to 
use  its  power  under  Article  41  of  its  Statute.  The 
factual  evidence,  not  other  limitations,  provided  the 
basis for the decision. 

The  Court’s  decision  in  February  2007  in  the 
genocide  case,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  v.  Serbia  and 
Montenegro, was very important. It was the first legal 
case  in  which  allegations  of  genocide  had  been  made 
by one State against another.  

On  the  jurisdictional  part  of  the  case,  it  was 
clarified  that  the  Court  had  jurisdiction  to  give  a 
judgment,  as  that  issue  had  been  decided  in  an  earlier 
case.  The  new  basis  of  challenge  to  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction was also rejected. The Court found that 

“the  killings  in  Srebrenica  in  July  1995  were 
committed  with  the  specific  intent  to  destroy  in 
part  the  group  of  the  Muslims  of  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  in  that  area  and  …  what  happened 
there was indeed genocide.” (A/62/4, para. 15)  
A/62/PV.42
found 
that  Serbia  had  violated 
The  Court 
its 
obligations  contained  in  article  1  of  the  Genocide 
Convention. 

On  the  point  of  State  responsibility,  some  new 
questions  emerged.  Draft  article  4  of  the  International 
Law Commission’s draft articles on State responsibility 
states that a State is responsible for an act if an organ 
of  the  State  is  involved.  The  Court  found  that  some 
members  of  the  army  of  the  Republika  Srpska  Main 
Staff  were  involved  in  the  genocide.  To  some  this 
amounted  to  the  involvement  of  a  State  organ,  as 
involvement of a State organ in an act could be proved 
through  the  involvement  of  its  personnel,  especially 
Main Staff. The Court remained shy of accepting this. 
In  May  2007,  in  the  Ahmadou  Sadio  Diallo 

(Republic  of  Guinea  v.  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo)  Judgment,  on 
the  point  of  diplomatic 
protection by substitution, the Court upheld Ahmadou’s 
rights  as  an 
individual  and  direct  shareholder. 
However,  due  to  the  lack  of  exceptions  in  customary 
international law on allowing protection on the basis of 
substitution,  the  Court  did  not  allow  protection  by 
substitution. 

We  have  noted  the  Court’s  request  to  the  United 
Nations  for  additional  staff,  including  nine  law  clerk 
posts and one additional post of a senior official in the 
Department  of  Legal  Matters.  In  recent  years  the 
Court’s work has gradually expanded. The judges have 
few clerks at their disposal; hence, they are compelled 
to share these human resources.  
Although the Court was established in 1946, one 

third of its judgments and half of its orders have been 
rendered in the last 10 years. Therefore, the request for 
expansion  of  the  cadre  is  justified,  and  my  delegation 
supports the addition of those new posts in the Court’s 
Department of Legal Matters. 

The rule of law and access to justice are the sine 
qua  non  of  democracy  and  good  governance.  That,  in 
turn,  is  the  surest  guarantee  of  world  peace,  human 
dignity and the sovereign equality of States. 
Mr.  El  Hadj  Ali  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  French): 

First, 
for  her 
introduction  of  the  annual  report  of  the  International 
Court of Justice. She has given a detailed picture of the 
accomplishments  and  exceptional  role  still  played  by 
that supreme institution of international justice.  
thank  Judge  Rosalyn  Higgins 
I 
07-57552 

11 

A/62/PV.42 


For  more  than  60  years  now,  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  has  spared  no  effort  in  fully  playing 
the role assigned to it by the Charter: the promotion of 
the  ideals  of  law  through  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes, the non-use of force and the advancement of 
international law, and thus of the primacy of the rule of 
law in international relations. 

Our  heads  of  State  and  Government,  it  must  be 
remembered,  strongly  reaffirmed  at  the  2005  World 
Summit the obligation upon States to settle disputes by 
peaceful means, pursuant to Chapter VI of the Charter, 
including,  if  necessary,  by  referring  them  to  the 
International Court of Justice.  

The  judgments  of  the  Court  in  the  past  60  years 
have dealt with disputes over matters of various kinds, 
including States’ navigation rights, nationality, asylum, 
expropriation,  law  of  the  sea  and  land  and  maritime 
borders. Its judgments, as well as its advisory opinions, 
have considerably helped in the gradual codification of 
international law. 

Last year, the Court handed down two judgments 
and  one  order  on  a  request  for  the  indication  of 
provisional  measures. Yet  the  number  of  cases  on  the 
Court’s  docket  still  remains  high,  as 
the  report 
emphasizes. 

The diversity, complexity and growing number of 
cases submitted to the Court demonstrate the increased 
confidence  of  the  various  parties  in  the  competence, 
impartiality and independence of that institution. Such 
a  trend  should  be  not  just  welcomed,  but  encouraged, 
particularly among developing countries.  

That  noteworthy  expansion  is  taking  place  in 
parallel with the growth of new international, regional 
and  specialized  judicial  bodies,  a  phenomenon  that  in 
part  responds  to  a  real  need  felt  at  the  international 
level. The results seem to be of additional usefulness to 
international justice. 

The  International  Court,  for  example,  has  had  to 
address  the  jurisdiction  of  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  in  the  case  of 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  v.  Serbia  and  Montenegro. 
Such  an  approach  —  rightly  positive  —  will  foster 
more  harmonization  and  reduce  possible  conflicts 
between existing international jurisdictions. 

Algeria  welcomes  the  Judgments  of  the  Court  in 
2006-2007 in the case pertaining to the Application of 
the  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of 
in 
reconsider 
the  Crime  of  Genocide  (Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  v. 
Serbia  and  Montenegro),  and  that  concerning  the 
admissibility  of  the  application  made  by  the  Republic 
of Guinea in the Ahmadou Sadio Diallo case, as well as 
the recent Judgment on Maritime Delimitation between 
Nicaragua  and  Honduras 
the  Caribbean  Sea 
(Nicaragua  v. Honduras).  Such  results  are  the  fruit  of 
intense  efforts  by  the  judges,  in  spite  of  logistic 
difficulties  pointed  out  for  many  years  by  successive 
Presidents of the Court.  

It  is  unfortunate  that  the  main  legal  body  of  the 
United  Nations  remains  the  poor  relation  of  our 
Organization  in  budgetary  matters.  Member  States, 
through  the  General Assembly,  have  a  duty  to  follow 
up  on  requests  by  the  Court  to  give  it  the  necessary 
resources  —  human  and  financial  —  to  permit  it  to 
effectively carry out the tasks given it by the Charter.  
Algeria  welcomes  the  continued  efforts  by  the 

Court 
its  working  methods,  and 
especially the changes and adjustments made this year 
through its new Practice Directions. 

Judge  Higgins  has  described  the  many  cases  the 
Court  has  considered  and  its  judgments  and  opinions 
since  its  creation.  Respect  for  and  implementation  of 
the judgments are crucial for the parties concerned and 
the  whole  international  community.  The  Charter  gave 
the Security Council a role in that regard.  

The same is true of the advisory opinions handed 
down  by  that  main  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations.  They  are  not  simply  points  of  view;  they 
reaffirm 
law  and 
contribute  to  the  enrichment  and  development  of  that 
law. They  must  therefore  be  respected  by  all  Member 
States,  and  above  all  by  the  principal  organs  of  the 
United Nations: the General Assembly and the Security 
Council.  
Alas,  too  many  opinions  go  unheeded,  the  latest 

the  Legal 
being 
Consequences  of  the  Construction  of  a  Wall  in  the 
Occupied  Palestinian  Territory.  That  Opinion,  which 
enshrines  the  principle  of  the  inadmissibility  of  the 
acquisition  of  land  by  force,  should  be  taken  into 
account by the major United Nations organ responsible 
for the maintenance of international peace and security.  

States  Members,  through  the  various  relevant 
bodies  of  the  United  Nations  system,  should  continue 
to  make  use  of  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  by  requesting 
the  Advisory  Opinion 
to 
the  principles  of 
international 
on 
12 

07-57552 
(spoke 
(Mexico) 
Mr.  Gómez-Robledo


advisory opinions on subjects of interest or concern to 
them. That would result in the promotion of the rule of 
law,  peaceful  coexistence  and  the  other  principles  and 
ideals advocated by those who wrote the Charter in the 
aftermath of the Second World War. 
in 

Spanish): At the outset, allow me to express Mexico’s 
gratitude  to  Judge  Rosalyn  Higgins,  President  of  the 
International Court of Justice, for her excellent work in 
the  past  year  at  the  helm  of  the  highest  international 
tribunal,  and  to  express  our  thanks  for  the  report 
submitted to the Assembly. 

I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  Mexico’s 
solemn  commitment  to  respect  international  law  and 
promote  mechanisms  for  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
disputes,  including,  of  course,  recourse  to  the  Court. 
Because  of  that  conviction,  Mexico  promotes  the  role 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  in  every  effort 
under  way  to  strengthen  the  United  Nations.  We  are 
therefore steadfastly committed to expanding the use of 
the Court’s consultative jurisdiction.  

Likewise, in the Sixth Committee, in dealing with 
agenda  item  86,  “The  rule  of  law  at  the  national  and 
international 
the 
consideration  of  further  ways  and  means  to  facilitate 
the  submission  of  disputes  between  States  to  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  as  a  way  to  strengthen 
the rule of law. 

The  report  of  the  Court  allows  us  to  understand 
the  development  of  international  law  through  its 
application to real cases. The report also points to the 
role  of  the  Court  in  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security 
its 
jurisdiction. 

Mexico  recognizes  the  great  legal  value  of  the 
Court’s judgments, both for States parties to a dispute 
and for the international community as a whole. There 
is  no  doubt  that  its  judgments  chart  the  course  of  the 
development of international law, while contributing to 
essential  preventive  work 
to  avoid  breaches  of 
international peace and security. 

In that regard, Mexico acknowledges the Court’s 
Judgment  in  the  case  regarding  the  Application  of  the 
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the 
Crime of Genocide (Bosnia and Herzegovina v. Serbia 
and Montenegro), handed  down on 26  February 2007. 
We  would  like  to  highlight  the  fact  that  the  Court’s 
levels”,  we  have  called 
the  exercise  of 
through 
for 
A/62/PV.42
the 
by 
for 
regime 
established 
strict  interpretation  of  the  Convention,  particularly  of 
article  II,  made  it  possible  to  set  the  threshold  of  the 
intentionality to destroy a group as such, in whole or in 
part, as a fundamental element in determining whether 
the  crime  of  genocide  has  been  committed. That  is  of 
paramount importance in an age when genocide is too 
often confused with other crimes against humanity. 

As that was the first time an international tribunal 
had ruled on the commission of the crime of genocide 
from  the  perspective  of  adjudicating  the  international 
responsibility  of  a  State,  as  opposed  to  individual 
criminal responsibility, the Judgment constitutes a very 
important  step  for  the  suppression  of  genocide  and 
strengthening 
the 
Convention. 

In addition, Mexico underscores the fact that that 
Judgment gave us an opportunity to assess the value of 
cooperation  between  two  international  tribunals  —  in 
this  case,  between  the  International  Court  and  the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal 
the  Former 
Yugoslavia.  That  is  an  excellent  example  of  how 
cooperation  between  international  jurisdictions  does 
not  necessarily  pose  the  threat  of  fragmentation  in 
international law — quite the contrary.  
A  year  ago  President  Higgins  told  us  of  her 

optimism  with 
to  cooperation  between 
international  tribunals. The  Judgment  to  which  I  have 
referred  confirms  that  such  cooperation  can  benefit 
international law. 

The  Government  of  Mexico  is  giving  special 
attention  to  the  request  by  the  Court,  in  paragraph  23 
of  its  report,  for  the  establishment  of  nine  law  clerk 
posts and one additional post for a senior official in the 
Department  of  Legal  Matters  for  the  next  two  years. 
We believe that promoting the submission by States of 
their 
the  Court  must  be 
accompanied  by  the  support  it  needs  to  carry  out  its 
tasks efficiently.  
In  view  of  the  number  of  pending  cases  and 

potential 
the 
extraordinary effort being made to clear the backlog, as 
well  as  the  great  deal  of  research  and  investigation 
required of judges in that connection, it is clear that the 
Court should have more than five assistants to serve all 
the  judges.  Five  are  clearly  not  enough.  As  the 
President  pointed  out,  the  Court’s  current  pace  is 
essential  if  States  want  justice  to  be  done  without 
unacceptable delays, but it cannot be maintained if the 
future  disputes,  not 
legal  differences 
to  mention 
regard 
to 
07-57552 

13 
for 
It 
that 
if 
the 

the 
Malaysia 
report  of 
the  Court 
the  Court’s 
relevance  as 
to  understand  and  appreciate 
A/62/PV.42 

members  of  the  Court  do  not  receive  more  support. 
Mexico  will  give  its  full  support  on  this  issue  in  the 
debates to be held in the Fifth Committee. 

In  conclusion,  Mexico  believes  that  the  rule  of 
law  is  not  possible  without  efficient  jurisdictional 
mechanisms  to  peacefully  resolve  disputes  that  may 
arise in the application or interpretation of international 
law by States. The judgments and advisory opinions of 
the Court illustrate the validity of international law as 
well  as 
the  highest 
international tribunal of the international system. 
Ms.  Govindasamy  (Malaysia):  My  delegation 

thanks  Judge  Rosalyn  Higgins,  President  of 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  for  her  eloquent 
presentation  of 
the  Court.  The 
comprehensive  report  is  extremely  useful  in  enabling 
Member  States 
the 
complexity  of  the  work  of  the  Court  and  the  complex 
issues that the Court deals with. 

its 
compliments 
contribution  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes 
between States and to the development of international 
law. 
international 
community wishes to resolve and prevent conflicts in a 
peaceful  manner  it  needs  an  impartial  third  party 
competent to deal with the relevant legal questions.  
The  Court  has  undoubtedly  played  an  important 

and  influential  role  in  the  promotion  of  peace  and 
harmony  between  nations  and  peoples  of  the  world 
through  observance  of  the  rule  of  law  by  helping  to 
resolve  disputes  between  States  through  legal  means 
and  by  giving  advisory  opinions  on  legal  questions 
referred  to  it  in  accordance  with  international  law. 
Malaysia recognizes that role,  and has  full confidence 
in  the  Court’s  competence  and  ability  to  discharge  its 
role  as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations, as stipulated in the Charter and in the Court’s 
Statute. 
The Court has been accessible to all States for the 

peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  Acceptance  of  its 
compulsory  jurisdiction  signifies  that  a  nation  is 
willing to acknowledge the adjudicative powers of the 
Court  in  all  legal  disputes  regarding  the  interpretation 
of a treaty, in any question of international law and in 
interpretation of other international obligations.  

Malaysia  is  pleased  to  note  that  since  1946  the 
Court has delivered no fewer than 92 judgments and 40 
is  self-evident 
orders,  with  one  third  of  those  judgments  and  nearly 
half  of  those  orders  rendered  in  the  last  decade.  The 
increased  use  of  the  Court  is  strong  evidence  that  the 
level  of  confidence  in  it  is  extremely  high,  because  it 
can  be  trusted  to  be  impartial  and  effective.  We  are 
pleased  that  the  Court  has  handed  down  very  high-
quality judgments and advisory opinions. 

Malaysia’s  belief  that  the  Court  is  the  most 
appropriate avenue for the peaceful and final resolution 
of  disputes,  when  all  efforts  in  diplomacy  have  been 
exhausted,  has  been  further  strengthened  by 
the 
confidence  that  we  and  the  international  community 
have  in the role,  function  and accomplishments of the 
Court.  

Malaysia  itself,  in  agreement  with  the  other 
parties concerned, has submitted territorial disputes for 
adjudication.  Malaysia  will  fully  respect  the  Court’s 
decision  in  such  cases,  consistent  with  its  abiding 
adherence to international law. We strongly believe that 
respect  for  the  Court’s  decisions  would  contribute 
greatly  to  enhancing  its  stature  and  prestige,  and  in 
turn inculcate a culture of respect for the rule of law at 
the international level. 

the  significant 
increase of cases on the Court’s docket augurs well for 
the  progressive  development  of  international  law  and 
the  role  of 
the  Court  as  a  dispute  settlement 
mechanism.  

We  note  the  acceptance  by  65  States  of  the 
Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction,  in  accordance  with 
Article  36,  paragraph  2,  of  its  Statute,  and  that  some 
300 bilateral or multilateral treaties contain provisions 
for  the  Court  to  have  jurisdiction  in  the  resolution  of 
disputes arising out of the application or interpretation 
of 
treaties.  These  welcome 
developments  clearly  demonstrate 
increasing 
confidence  in  the  Council’s  decisions  and  reliance  on 
the  settlement  of  disputes  through  adjudication  rather 
than  by  the  use  of  force.  This  manifestation  of 
confidence  in  the  rule  of  law  is  particularly  important 
when  the  world  is  facing  many  daunting  threats  and 
challenges. 
My  delegation  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the 

Secretary-General  on  the  Secretary-General’s  Trust 
Fund  to  Assist  States  in  the  Settlement  of  Disputes 
through the International Court of Justice. We note the 
Secretary-General’s  appeal  for  all  States  and  other 
to 
relevant  entities 
to  give  serious  consideration 
My  delegation  believes 
respective 
those 
that 
the 
14 

07-57552 
students 
and 
academicians, 
Malaysia  commends 


making  contributions  to  the  Fund,  which  has  had  a 
decreasing  level  of  resources  since  its  inception.  We 
also note the revision in the Fund’s terms of reference. 

the  Court’s  efforts  — 
through  its  publications  and  lectures  by  the  President, 
members  of  the  Court,  the  Registrar  and  members  of 
the Registry  staff — to increase public awareness  and 
understanding of its work in the judicial settlement of 
international  disputes,  its  advisory  functions,  case  law 
and  working  methods,  as  well  as  its  role  within  the 
United  Nations.  We  welcome  the  Court’s  distribution 
of press releases, background notes and its handbook to 
keep the public informed about its work, functions and 
jurisdiction.  

We  concur  that  the  Court’s  website  has  been 
extremely  useful  and  well  utilised  by  diplomats, 
lawyers, 
interested 
members of the public as an important source of access 
to  the  Court’s  judgments,  which  constitute  the  most 
recent developments in international case law.  

We hope that the Court will be granted adequate 
resources  to  allow  it  to  continue  to  fulfil  its  mandate 
and meet the demands of an increasing workload. 
Mr.  Krishnaswamy  (India):  We  welcome  the 

opportunity  to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
report  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  thank 
the President of the Court, Judge Rosalyn Higgins, for 
her introduction. 

We  commend  Judge  Higgins  for  her  dedicated 
stewardship of the Court and for the Court’s impressive 
achievements  over  the  period  under  review.  This  will 
no doubt further enhance the international community’s 
confidence  in  this  unique  organ  of  international  law, 
which  has  made  a  distinctive  contribution  to  the 
maintenance of international peace and security. 

India  continues  to  believe  that  no  other  judicial 
organ  in  the  world  can  have  the  same  capacity  for 
dealing  with 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  which  is  the  principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  entrusted  with 
settling legal disputes between sovereign States and the 
promotion of the rule of law in international relations. 

Over  the  years,  the  Court  has  been  engaged  in 
finding  just  and  equitable  solutions  to  legal  disputes 
between  States,  and  there  has  been  a  noticeable 
increase in the number of cases referred to it.  
legal  problems  as 
international 
A/62/PV.42
law.  There 
international 
the  period  under  review, 

Another significant development is that, unlike in 
the past, when the jurisdiction phases of cases occupied 
most  of  the  Court’s  time,  the  Court  is  now  frequently 
called upon to deal directly with a diversity of complex 
substantive issues of international law from all regions 
of the world. 

the  Court 
During 
rendered  three  very  important  decisions  involving 
cases  from  Latin  America,  Africa  and  Europe.  Their 
subject matter covered issues ranging from diplomatic 
protection of shareholders to environmental protection 
to genocide. This affirms once again the important role 
that the Court and international law play in the search 
for  solutions  to  the  problems  of  an  interdependent 
world,  in  which  economic,  social  and  humanitarian 
issues have assumed paramount importance. 

The recent period has witnessed the creation of a 
number of specialised regional and international courts. 
Along  with  their  creation  have  come  concerns  about 
the  fragmentation  of 
is 
apprehension  that  similar  legal  issues  or  disputes  may 
well  be  subjected  to  final  and  binding  interpretations 
by  two  different  bodies,  projecting  differing  views. 
There  is  considerable  apprehension  that  the  expansion 
of  the  field  in  this  regard  could  create  problems  of 
coherence  between  different  specializations,  institutions 
and norm systems. 

The  challenge,  therefore,  is  to  find  a  balance 
between,  on  the  one  hand,  the  need  for  diversity  and 
specialized  regimes  and  solutions,  and,  on  the  other, 
the importance of maintaining an overall framework or 
system  of  international  law  that  offers  a  sufficient 
degree  of  security  and  coherence.  It  has  been  pointed 
out  that  the  toolbox  of  international  law  —  especially 
general  international  law  and  the  Vienna  Convention 
on  the  Law  of  Treaties  —  is  not  perfect,  but  flexible 
enough  to  assist  negotiators,  lawyers  and  judges  in 
finding this balance. 

We welcome the initiative taken by the President 
of  the  Court  for  a  regular  dialogue  between  the 
international  courts  and  tribunals  and  exchanges  of 
information  with  a  view  to  improving  the  unity  of 
the  problem  of 
international 
overlapping 
the  fragmentation  of 
international law. 

In  order  for  the  Court  to  respond  effectively  to 
the increasing demands on resources made on it and to 
carry  out  its  mandate  efficiently,  it  must  be  provided 
law  and  addressing 
jurisdictions  or 
07-57552 

15 

My  delegation 
A/62/PV.42 

with adequate resources. It is a matter of concern that 
the  15  judges  have  to  share  and  rely  on  five  legal 
professionals  to  carry  out  research  on  complicated 
questions  of  international  law  and  to  prepare  studies 
and notes for the judges and the Registrar. We therefore 
reiterate  that  the  Court’s  request  for  individualized 
legal  assistance  for  all  its  members  is  reasonable  and 
should  be  granted  to  enable  it  to  efficiently  carry  out 
its designated functions as the principal judicial organ 
of the United Nations. 

Finally,  I  urge  a  re-examination  of  resolution 
61/262,  which  has  created  a  discriminatory  salary 
regime among the 15 judges of the International Court 
of Justice. We hope that that unintended anomaly will 
be rectified. 
Ms. Defensor-Santiago (Philippines): It gives me 

great  pleasure,  on  behalf  of  the  delegation  of  the 
Republic  of  the  Philippines,  to  address  the  General 
Assembly  on  its  consideration  of  the  report  of  the 
International Court of Justice. 

Judge  Rosalyn 
Higgins,  President  of  the  Court,  for  her  dedicated 
the  World  Court  and 
stewardship  of 
the 
comprehensive report she has just presented. 

treaties  negotiated 
between  and  among  States  underlines  the  heightened 
need  to  regulate  the  complex  web  of  international 
relations  in  our  increasingly  interdependent  world. 
With  that  end  in  mind,  our  world  leaders  adopted  in 
2000  the  Millennium  Declaration,  in  which  they 
resolved to, among other things, strengthen respect for 
the  rule  of  law  in  international,  as  in  national,  affairs 
and  ensure  compliance  with  the  decisions  of  the 
International Court of Justice. 

My  delegation  notes  with  profound  appreciation 
the  efforts  made  by  the  World  Court  to  make  its 
decisions more transparent and widely accessible to the 
public  through  effective  use  of  the  World  Wide  Web. 
We  cannot  overemphasize  the  value  of  having  those 
decisions  more  widely  known  in  strengthening  the 
foundations for the effective implementation of the rule 
of law. 

New  and  emerging  subjects  of  specialization  in 
international  law  demand  thorough  consideration  in 
order to ensure that rights are not encumbered and that 
obligations are respected. 
The  growing  number  of 
commends 
for 
its  resort 

The  report  of  President  Higgins  highlights  the 
diversity  of  issues  brought  before  the  World  Court.  It 
underscores  the  evolution  of  the  body  of  rights, 
privileges and obligations that presents the modern-day 
intricacies of international law. 
The Philippines notes the structural flexibility of 

the  World  Court,  demonstrated  by 
to 
chambers in considering specialized cases. We support 
the  idea  that  such  a  mechanism  may  be  useful  in 
settling  disputes  involving  specialized  issues.  For 
example,  the  Chamber  for  Environmental  Matters  is 
available  for  resolving  issues  involving  environment-
related disputes. 

The Philippines reaffirms its support for the work 
of the International Court of Justice and the invaluable 
role  it  plays  in  promoting  an  international  legal  order 
founded  on  the  primacy  of  the  rule  of  law  and  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes.  
We subscribe to the premise that the rule of law is 

ultimately  enforced  through  the  assumption  by  States 
of  their  duties  and  obligations  with  regard  to  treaties 
negotiated  between  and  among 
their 
application  of  the  doctrines  of  sovereign  equality, 
democratic principles and generally accepted norms of 
international  law  in  their  relations  with  one  another. 
The  role  and  importance  of  the  World  Court  in 
guaranteeing  the  peaceful  resolution  of  international 
disputes could not be made more obvious. 

The increased workload of the International Court 
of Justice should be seen as a positive expression, not 
of  the  inability  of  States  to  settle  disputes  peacefully, 
but  of  the  increasing  trust  and  confidence  in  the  legal 
supremacy  of  our World  Court  in  ensuring  respect  for 
the rule of law and its universal jurisdiction. 
Mr.  Castellón  Duarte  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in 

Spanish):  At  the  outset,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
express 
to  Judge  Rosalyn  Higgins, 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  for 
trading the tranquillity of The Hague  for the bustle of 
this city to introduce the Court’s report.  

The  presence  of  the  President  at  the  meetings  of 
the Assembly at which the Court’s report is considered 
and her oral presentation of her thoughts on that body’s 
most  relevant  recent  activities  are  both  extremely 
useful,  ensuring  that  the  annual  consideration  of  the 
report  is  not  just  a  mere  review  of  that  document. 
Certainly, 
is 
its  gratitude 
information 
them  and 
the 
in 
the 
report 
16 

07-57552 


comprehensive,  intelligently  presented  and  illustrative 
of  the  facts.  However,  the  boost  given  by  the  annual 
presence and statement of the Court’s highest official is 
extremely  gratifying  and  rewarding,  as  it  enlivens 
consideration  of  the  report  and  adds  solemnity  to  the 
event. 

No  one  will  be  surprised  to  hear  me  express  my 
Government’s  pleasure  over  the  Court’s  most  recent 
Judgment,  which  less  than  a  month  ago  put  an  end  to 
the dispute that had strained our friendly relations with 
the brotherly Government and people of Honduras and 
divided  our  two  countries.  Fortunately,  that  important 
Judgment  was  well  received  by  both  countries.  In 
effect,  it  satisfied  both  parties,  since  there  were  two 
facets to the matter — the insular and the maritime — 
and on each the Court’s decision was favourable to one 
of the parties. 

We  have  no  doubt  that  the  Court’s  position  on 
each  facet  was  the  result  of  an  absolutely  objective, 
complete, conscientious and impartial consideration of 
the  legal  norms  and  relevant  facts. We  underscore  the 
maturity  of  both  Governments,  which,  unprecedentedly, 
pledged  support,  whatever  the  outcome,  before  the 
Judgment was made public. 

We are pleased that, particularly in paragraph 303 
of  its  Judgment,  the  Court  affirmed  its  own  case  law, 
and that it made progress in an area of great interest for 
the international community as a whole, and especially 
for  countries  with  Caribbean  coast  lines.  I  refer  to 
maritime delimitation, an area in which — through no 
fewer 
the  most 
recent —  the  Court  has  made  a  very  important  and 
interesting  contribution.  In  that  undertaking  its  work 
has  been  complemented  by  arbitral  awards,  including 
the  two  most  recent,  in  2006  and  2007,  determining 
delimitations  in  the  Caribbean  Sea  and  agreeing  with 
the  Court’s  jurisprudence  in  the  matter.  We  of  course 
recognize 
ideal  would  be  conventional 
delimitation. 

In that regard, we would also like to refer to the 
Managua Declaration: The Gulf of Fonseca, a zone of 
peace, 
security 
(A/62/486),  signed  by  the  Presidents  of  El  Salvador, 
Honduras  and  Nicaragua  on  4  October  2007.  The 
signing  of  that  document  was  an  important  step 
forward 
international  peace  and 
security, in line with the Judgment of the International 
Court of Justice handed down on 11 September 1992. 
than  eight  Judgments, 
in  strengthening 
development 
sustainable 
including 
that 
the 
and 
A/62/PV.42

I would like to highlight, in order to give special 
recognition to the Court, the difficulties in application 
that are characteristic of the type of law with which it 
deals. 

With  regard  to  one  of  the  main  branches  of  this 
body  of  law  —  which Article  38  of  the  Statute  of  the 
Court  calls  “international  custom”  and  which  is  more 
commonly  known  as  customary  international  law  —  I 
recall  an  opinion  expressed  by  a  distinguished  former 
President of the Court, from Latin America.  In one of 
his  works,  that  eminent  jurist  compared  customary 
international law to an amorphous Medusa.  

If  we  consider  the  other  main  branch  of  law 
applied  by  the  Court,  treaty  law,  we  see  that  that 
normative area includes texts that are not always of the 
technical  quality  that  would  have  been  desirable  — 
and, I might add, possible. 

To give a more complete idea of the difficulty of 
the  Court’s  tasks,  I  should  also  like  to  mention 
something that my country has observed at first hand: 
problems that can cause political factors to interfere in 
matters  brought  before  the  Court.  Because  the  Court 
has  been  largely  successful  in  dealing  with  those  and 
other  difficulties,  we    warmly  congratulate  it,  through 
its President. 
Finally,  very  regrettably,  I  must  now  turn  from 

the 
the  positive 
difficulty —  or,  rather,  the  injustice  —  created  by 
paragraph  8  of  resolution  61/262,  adopted  on  4 April 
2007.  Ms.  Rosalyn  Higgins,  President  of  the  Court, 
spoke of it this morning. 

At  the  meeting  at  which  the  resolution  was 
adopted, the concerns expressed by the President of the 
Court in a letter dated 3 April 2007 to the President of 
the General Assembly (A/61/837) were noted on behalf 
of the Group of 77 and China, as recorded at page 5 of 
A/61/PV.93.  It  was  also  stated  on  behalf  of  those 
countries  that  those  concerns  would  be  taken  into 
account  at  the  current  session.  I  believe  it  is  very 
important  to  indicate  that  Nicaragua  unreservedly 
supports  the  positions  taken  by  the  Group  of  77  and 
China. 

I wish to add that we believe that paragraph 8 of 
resolution 61/262 is not in conformity with paragraph 2 
of  article  23  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights,  which  provides  that  “Everyone,  without  any 
the  negative  and 
refer 
to 
to 
07-57552 

17 

Mr.  Tavares
A/62/PV.42 

discrimination,  has  the  right  to  equal  pay  for  equal 
work”.  

(Portugal):  Let  me  start  by 
expressing  the  gratitude  of  the  delegation  of  Portugal 
to  the  President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice, 
Judge Rosalyn Higgins, for the thorough report on the 
work of the Court over the past year. 

The  Court’s  essential  role  in  the  international 
legal  system  must  be  underlined  and  remembered,  as 
the  Court  is  the  principal  judicial  body  of  the  United 
Nations  and,  in  that  capacity,  carries  out  two  of  the 
most  important  tasks  in  the  international  community: 
the peaceful settlement of disputes between States and 
the strengthening of the international rule of law. 
As stated in the report, the workload of the Court 

steadily  continues  to  increase.  In  July  2007,  the 
number of cases on the docket stood at 12. The Court 
has  handed  down  two  Judgments  and  one  Order  on  a 
request  for  the  indication  of  provisional  measures.  In 
the  meantime,  another  judgment  has  been  rendered. 
The Court has also held hearings in four other cases. 

It  is  important  to  note  that  the  cases  before  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  come  from  all  over  the 
world  and  relate  to  diverse  areas  of  international  law, 
demonstrating  not  only  the  universality  of  the  Court, 
but also the expansion of the scope of its work and its 
growing  specialization.  That  dramatically  strengthens 
the Court’s contribution to the progress of international 
law, and therefore the Court should be able to count on 
the  full  support  of  all  members  of  the  international 
community. 

In  that  context,  it  should  also  be  recalled  that 
although the International Court of Justice is a leading 
player  in  the  international  judicial  arena,  as  a  truly 
universal Court in the exercise of general jurisdiction, 
there are other international courts and tribunals whose 
existence and importance should be underlined. In that 
regard,  Portugal  welcomes  the  remarks  made  by 
President Higgins in her address to the meeting of legal 
advisers  held  at  the  beginning  of  this  week.  We  view 
increased 
between 
international  courts  and  tribunals  as  a  very  positive 
development.  It  is  our  strong  view  that  they  all  work 
together  to  enhance  the  international  legal  order  and 
that 
the 
furtherance of that goal. 
they  must  complement  one  another 
cooperation 
contacts 
and 
in 

If  the  Court  is  to  be  able  to  carry  out  its 
fundamental  tasks,  and  if  a  greater  number  of  States 
are to be engaged in the resolution of their disputes, it 
is  important  that  Member  States  acknowledge  the 
Court’s  need  for  adequate  resources.  That  is  so,  for 
instance,  with  regard  to  the  Court’s  request  for  law 
clerk posts to assist judges in the increasing number of 
fact-intensive cases. Having just celebrated its sixtieth 
anniversary, the Court has indeed been busier than ever 
before.  

As of 31 July 2007, 192 States were parties to the 
Statute of the Court, and 65 of them had deposited with 
the  Secretary-General  a  declaration  of  acceptance  of 
the Court’s compulsory jurisdiction, in accordance with 
paragraph  2  of  Article  36  of  the  Statute.  Moreover, 
approximately  300  bilateral  or  multilateral  treaties 
provide  for  the  Court  to  have  jurisdiction  in  the 
resolution of disputes arising out of their application or 
interpretation.  That  highlights  the  Court’s  role  as  the 
main judicial body in the interpretation and application 
of  international  law.  In  that  context,  Portugal  recalls 
the  recommendation  of  the  2005  World  Summit  that 
States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  should  consider 
accepting  the  Court’s  jurisdiction,  in  accordance  with 
the Statute. 

in 
contemporary international law there is an intrinsic and 
unavoidable  paradox  —  the  obligation  of  States  to 
settle their disputes in a peaceful manner and the need 
for  sovereign  consent 
into  practice  such 
settlement  mechanisms  —  Portugal  holds  the  firm 
conviction that the International Court of Justice plays 
a  crucial  role  in  the  international legal  order,  and that 
that  role  is  more  and  more  accepted  by  the  whole 
international community. 
this 

opportunity  to  thank  the  President  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  Judge  Rosalyn  Higgins,  for  her 
address  in  presenting  the  report  of  the  Court  for  the 
period from 1 August 2006 to 31 July 2007. 

The  delegation  of  South  Africa  has  noted  the 
report, from which it is clear that the Court’s caseload 
has increased considerably over recent years, while the 
subject matter of the cases before it has become more 
diverse and the issues dealt with more complex. Those 
developments,  in  our  view,  serve  to  illustrate  the 
international community’s continued confidence in the 
In  conclusion,  while 
(South  Africa): 
Mr.  Stemmet
recognizing 
to  put 
take 
that 
I 
18 

07-57552 


Court  as  an  institution  able  to  resolve  disputes,  as  the 
principal judicial organ of the United Nations. 

We have also noted with satisfaction the report’s 
references  to  increased  efficiency  in  the  management 
and  operation  of  the  Court,  which  have  enabled  it  to 
cope  with  its  increased  caseload.  We  commend  the 
Court in that regard.  

We further wish to point out that in what can be 
considered to be a somewhat unusual development in a 
domestic jurisdiction, the Court’s finding in the case of 
Ahmadou  Sadio  Diallo 
(Republic  of  Guinea  v. 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo)  has  resonated 
before the Supreme Court of Appeal in South Africa as 
a  source  of  reference  in  a  recent  case  on  diplomatic 
protection.  The  use  of  that  case  in  arguments  and 
judgement  in  our  national  courts  demonstrates  the 
strong  persuasive  power  of  the  jurisprudence  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  upon  national  justice 
systems.  

We have also taken note with great interest of the 
Court’s decision in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina 
v.  Serbia  and  Montenegro,  which  we  believe  will 
become 
the 
responsibility of States  with regard to the commission 
of international crimes, in particular, in relation to the 
interpretation of the Convention on the Prevention and 
Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. 

countries, 
particularly  developing  countries,  to  resolve  their 
disputes  by  using  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
must  be  encouraged.  Hence,  the  Trust  Fund  to  Assist 
States  in  the  Settlement  of  Disputes  through  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  must  be  maintained  and 
given wider publicity. It is our hope that the Fund will 
see an increase in its level of resources, and that it will 
contribute  to  more  States  utilizing  the  Court  for  the 
resolution of their disputes. 
Mr.  Muburi-Muita  (Kenya):  On  behalf  of  my 

delegation,  Madam  Vice-President,  I  congratulate  you 
on  the  excellent  manner  in  which  you  continue  to 
conduct our deliberations. 

Judge  Rosalyn 
Higgins, President of the International Court of Justice, 
for the comprehensive report presented to us, detailing 
the work accomplished by the Court over the past year. 

We wish to underscore the central role played by 
the  Court  in  the  administration  of  global  justice 
the  seminal  case  on 
My  delegation 
the  growing 
commends 
trend  of 
issue  of 
Finally, 
the 
A/62/PV.42
jurisdiction, 
the  exercise  of 
We  urge  States, 
the  Court’s  compulsory 
through 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  as 
enshrined  in  the  Charter. The  adjudication  of  disputes 
by the Court, the principal judicial organ of the United 
Nations,  plays  a  pivotal  role  in  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace,  order  and  stability,  for  which  we 
commend the Court. 

We  note  that  over  the  past  year  the  Court  has 
continued  to  be  seized  of  a  number  of  contentious 
cases, on which it has handed down two judgments and 
one order. Even as we acknowledge the complexity of 
the cases before the Court, we are confident that it and 
the parties involved will strive to reach an expeditious 
settlement of the disputes. 

their 
sovereignty,  to  freely  submit  disputes  to  the  Court. 
However, we note with concern that only 65 of the 192 
States  parties  to  the  Statute  have  declared  their 
acceptance of the Court’s compulsory jurisdiction. We 
encourage  States  that  have  not  done  so  to  consider 
accepting 
in 
accordance  with  article  36  of  the  Statute.  As  a  State 
party to the Statute, Kenya is among the countries that 
have accepted the Court’s compulsory jurisdiction. 

The official visits to the Court by Heads of State 
and  Government  and  other  high-ranking  government 
officials reflect the recognition conferred on the Court, 
and play an important role in enhancing its image as a 
central  organ  for  international  dispute  resolution.  We 
encourage  such  visits  as  part  of 
the  awareness 
programmes,  and  therefore  call  upon  the  Court  to  put 
in  place  measures  by  which  officials  from  Member 
States can be educated during such visits. 

The  decisions  of  the  Court  contribute  to  the 
progressive  development  of  international  law,  and  we 
encourage  the  Court  to  continue  disseminating  these 
decisions  through  publication  and  distribution  to  the 
relevant institutions in Member States. 

In  closing,  I  reiterate  the  importance  Kenya 
attaches  to  the  work  of  the  Court.  We  urge  Member 
States to make greater use of its advisory powers and, 
most 
its 
decisions. 
Mr.  Wai  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We  express 

our  appreciation  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice, 
which celebrated its sixtieth anniversary last year.  
the 

the  Court  has  met 
expectations of States by establishing the rule of law in 
increase  compliance  with 
the  years, 
important, 
Over 
in 
to 
07-57552 

19 

the  Charter  and  bringing  about 
A/62/PV.42 

international  relations.  We  express  our  thanks  to  Ms. 
Higgins,  the  President  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice,  for  presenting  the  detailed  report  on  its 
activities.  

The report gives us an overview of the important 
activities  carried  out  by  the  Court.  Once  again,  it 
shows  that  the  Court  is  the  major  forum  and  strict 
guarantor of respect for the principles of  international 
law,  the  rule  of  law  and  the  principles  of  the  Charter, 
especially the non-use of force in inter-State relations, 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  the  equal 
sovereignty of States.  

The  efforts  referred  to  in  the  report  show  once 
again that the Court is the major judiciary body of the 
United Nations and the only tribunal with international 
jurisdiction and overall competence. It is also the most 
appropriate mechanism for implementing the principles 
of 
the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  between  States  in  an  impartial, 
transparent  manner,  in  accordance  with  the  rules  of 
justice and international law. That is why the Court is 
essential to the maintenance of international peace and 
security.  

We  welcome  the  fact  that  192  States  are  now 
parties  to  the  Statute  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice, with 65, including the Sudan, having agreed to 
the  Court’s  binding 
the 
confidence that the international community has in the 
role of the Court, which can then settle disputes among 
States in a peaceful manner, develop international law 
and strengthen peaceful coexistence among peoples.  

The  report  also  refers  to  the  number  of  cases 
brought  before  the  Court. Those  are  more  complex  in 
nature.  However,  the  Court  has  shown  its  ability  to 
settle those questions effectively, especially since it has 
recently  demonstrated  its  ability  in  strategic  planning, 
which strengthens its effectiveness.  

My  delegation  would  like  to  refer  to  the  2005 
World  Summit  decision  emphasizing  the  need  for 
States  to  settle  their  disputes  peacefully,  pursuant  to 
Chapter VI of the Charter. That includes making use of 
the International Court of Justice.  

the  declared 
principles  of  international  law  and  friendly  relations 
and cooperation among States, pursuant to the Charter. 
That is why it is necessary to support the Court, and to 
jurisdiction.  That  shows 
States  must 
then  comply  with 
Finally,  we  reiterate  our  confidence 
recognize the binding competence of its decisions and 
judgments, so that the rule of law can be enhanced.  

Agreeing  to  the  Court’s  budget  proposals,  as 
contained  in  the  report,  would  help  to  strengthen  its 
role  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  at  a  lower 
cost  and  with  more  effectiveness.  The  Court  should 
shed  light  on  the  obstacles  it  faces,  and  in  its  future 
reports  make  recommendations  that  States  will  note 
and follow.  

Next  we  refer  to  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  on  the  Secretary-General’s  Trust  Fund  to 
Assist States in the Settlement of Disputes through the 
International  Court  of  Justice.  We  agree  with  the 
Secretary-General’s  recommendation  that  States  and 
other relevant bodies consider making contributions to 
the Fund in order to help States, especially poor States, 
to use the services of the Court. 

My  delegation  thanks  the  Court  for  the  efforts 
made in issuing its documents, as well as the contents 
of its orders and decisions, especially those on its new 
website.  

the 
important  role  played  by  the  International  Court  of 
Justice,  which  is  the  main  judicial  body  of  the  United 
Nations. We also reaffirm our support for the Court in 
carrying  out  its  responsibilities  in  the  best  possible 
manner. 
Mr. Aniokoye (Nigeria): The Nigerian delegation 

warmly welcomes Judge Rosalyn Higgins, President of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice,  and  thanks  her  for 
the Court’s report covering the period 1 August 2006 to 
31 July 2007. We are also appreciative of her briefing 
on  29  October  to  the  legal  advisers  of  Ministries  of 
Foreign  Affairs  of  Member  States.  We  welcome  this 
enlightening annual exchange. 

report. 
We are happy that the Court has worked tirelessly 

and  consistently  in  the  discharge  of  its  twofold 
mandate  of  adjudicating  legal  disputes  submitted  to  it 
by  States  and  giving  advisory  opinions  on  legal 
questions  referred  to  it  by  duly  authorized  United 
Nations organs and specialized agencies. 

It  is  heartening  to  note  that  the  Court  has  had  a 
very  productive  year,  with  three  judgments  already 
rendered, one order on provisional measures made, one 
We  also  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
in 
20 

07-57552 
revealed  when 
interchange  and 


case under preparation and a new case opening shortly. 
Since  the  first  case  was  entered  in  the  general  list  of 
the court, on 22 May 1947, a total of 136 cases have to 
date been entered in the list. 

What I have described is a positive development, 
especially since the value of the ICJ is to be judged not 
only by the number of cases it handles, but, even more, 
by its contributions to the development of international 
law. The invaluable nature of the Court’s contributions 
was  only  slightly 
the  President 
addressed  legal  advisers  on  29  October,  through  her 
reference  to  but  a  few  of  the  cases.  Her  discussion  of 
the  cases  threw  light  on  some  of  the  issues  currently 
being  deliberated  upon  by  the  Sixth  Committee,  such 
as  diplomatic  protection  and 
the  question  of 
overlapping  jurisdictions  between  international  courts 
and tribunals. 
The  Nigerian  delegation  notes  with  satisfaction 

the 
refreshing 
regular  dialogue 
between  the  Court  and  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia. Issues decided by 
other  international  or  regional  judicial  bodies  arise  in 
International  Court  cases,  and  the  judicial  work  of 
other 
tribunals  also  has 
relevance  to  its  findings.  This  development  is  highly 
commendable,  especially  as 
in 
forestalling  the  fragmentation  of  international  law.  In 
this  connection,  we  commend  the  Court  for  putting  in 
place  a  detailed  programme  of  cooperation  between  it 
and other international judicial bodies. 

The Nigerian delegation equally supports the call 
for  increased  resources  for  the  Court  to  enable  it  to 
effectively  bear  its  ever-increasing  caseload  and  its 
other responsibilities. We also call upon Member States 
to  ensure  that  they  contribute  to  the  transformation  of 
the World Court.  

It  was  in  recognition  of  the  indispensable  and 
dependable nature of the Court’s work that my country 
submitted  to  its  jurisdiction  in  the  dispute  between  it 
and a neighbouring country. In the same vein, since the 
Court’s   Judgment in  2002 we have painstakingly and 
in 
complete 
implementation.  

We  urge  Member  States  to  take  disputes  before 
the  Court.  This  will  ensure  peaceful  resolution  of 
disputes, as well as enlarge the spectrum of the Court’s 
contribution to the further development of international 
law. 
international  courts  and 
cooperation  worked 
it  could  help 
towards 
its 
A/62/PV.42
to 
Mr.  Romero-Martinez  (Honduras)  (spoke  in 

Spanish): My delegation is grateful for the presentation 
of the report of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) 
by  its  President,  Judge  Rosalyn  Higgins.  In  thanking 
her, my country also wishes to thank her and the other 
judges  who  make  up  the  Court  for  their  continuous 
efforts  in  the  application  of  international  law  for  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  which  undoubtedly 
make  a  positive  contribution 
strengthening 
international peace and security. 

Just  a  few  weeks  ago,  the  ICJ  handed  down  its 
judgment  on  the  maritime  delimitation  between  our 
country  and 
the  sister  Republic  of  Nicaragua. 
Honduras,  through  the  President  of  the  Republic,  the 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  its  officials,  has 
always  reiterated  that  it  will  abide  by  and  accept  the 
compulsory obligation.  

Honduras  believes  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes and firmly believes in the effective application 
of  international  law.  The  Presidents  of  Honduras  and 
Nicaragua met on the day of the decision and embraced 
in  solidarity,  peace,  harmony,  and,  above  all,  in  the 
knowledge that there would be compulsory application 
of  international  legal  order  and  compliance  with  its 
decisions. 

Our  countries  believe  in  peace.  They  believe  in 
international  justice. They  believe in legal order. And, 
above  all, 
to  creating  an 
environment of world harmony that can, in some way, 
send messages that confirm that there can be no dispute 
that  cannot  find  a  legal  solution  under  established 
international mechanisms. 

The  International  Court  of  Justice,  as  the  main 
juridical  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  takes  important 
matters  and  decisions  under 
jurisdiction.  Its 
judgments  contribute  to  a  world  of  peace  and  order. 
Hence,  my  delegation,  in  addition  to  recognizing  its 
juridical  work,  will  contribute  to  giving  it  legitimate 
support in the various Committees of this Organization. 
We  are  sympathetic  to  the  concerns  that  the  President 
expressed  today,  and  she  will  have  our  support  in  the 
discussions in the Fifth Committee and the Assembly. 
Once  again,  on  behalf  of  Honduras,  I  thank  the 

President  of  the  Court,  Judge  Rosalyn  Higgins,  for 
presenting  its  important  report.  I  also  reiterate  the 
commitment  of  Honduras  to  support  the  work  of  the 
Court, 
the  application  of 
the  peaceful  settlement  of 
international 
to  continue  supporting 
they  are  committed 
law  and 
its 
07-57552 

21 

A/62/PV.42 

disputes,  and,  fundamentally,  to  support  the  compulsory 
jurisdiction of the International Court. 
Mr. Park Hee-kwon (Republic of Korea): At the 

outset,  on  behalf  of  my  delegation,  I  thank  Judge 
Rosalyn  Higgins,  President  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice,  for  her  lucid  introduction  of  the  Court’s 
report.  The  report  convinces  us  that  the  Court  has 
diligently  fulfilled  its  noble  mission  as  the  principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  The  increasing 
number of cases brought before it attests to the level of 
trust  given  it  by  States.  In  this  regard,  my  delegation 
commends  the  judges  and  all  the  Court’s  staff  for 
converting  many  sceptics  into  believers  in  the  rule  of 
law. 

Notably,  the  Court  rendered  two  final  judgments 
this  year.  In  both  cases,  the  Court  met  our  high 
expectations  of  authoritative  language  on  matters  of 
international  law.  I  would  like  to  touch  briefly  upon 
one of the two judgments. 

In  February  this  year,  the  Court  delivered  its 
Judgment in the case Application of the Convention on 
the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the  Crime  of 
Genocide  (Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  v.  Serbia  and 
Montenegro).  The  case  marked  the  first  time  that  one 
State  had  brought  allegations  of  genocide  against 
another. In its Judgment, the Court rejected the “overall 
control”  test  for  determining  responsibility  for  acts 
committed by paramilitary units — the test adopted by 
the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former 
Yugoslavia in the Tadic case — and instead once again 
applied  an  “effective  control”  test.  My  delegation 
supports  the  Court’s  position,  because  we  believe  that 
the  “effective  control”  test  could  reasonably  set  the 
scope  of  State  responsibility,  which  is  not  necessarily 
determined under the same legal standard as individual 
criminal responsibility. 

The International Court of Justice has not always 
enjoyed its current level of trust from the international 
community.  Indeed,  its  case  load  remained  fairly  low 
until the 1970s, when the Court successfully overcame 
the suspicion among many developing countries that it 
was  biased.  Since  then,  the  Court’s  client  base  has 
expanded  dramatically.  The  changing  perceptions  of 
the  Court’s  work  can  be  attributed  to  a  number  of 
factors,  including  the  end  of  the  cold  war,  but  most 
importantly  they  have  resulted  from  the  Court’s  own 
successful responses to the challenges facing the world 
today.  The  report  shows  that  this  continues  to  be  the 
case  as  the  Court  faces  the  challenge  of  handling  an 
increased workload with limited resources. 

Indeed, there is a kind of virtuous cycle at work: 
the  more  successful  the  Court  is  in  fulfilling  its 
responsibilities,  the  more  cases  will  be  brought  to  it. 
Moreover, taking into account the increasing number of 
States  parties  to  the  Court  accepting  the  Court’s 
compulsory  jurisdiction,  and  the  number  of  treaties 
with provisions that confer jurisdiction upon the Court, 
it would not surprise us to see a continued increase, or 
even  an  acceleration,  in  the  number  of  cases  brought 
before the Court.  

High expectations that the Court will play a more 
active  role  are  also  bound  to  increase  its  workload. 
Thus,  the  Court,  and  the  international  community  that 
supports  it,  must  recognize  that  the  challenge  of  an 
increasing workload is likely to stay with us for some 
time.  This  is  a  challenge  that  we  must  meet  as  we 
strive  to  achieve  the  ideal  of  resolving  disputes 
peacefully by judicial means. 

It  has  been  said  that  one  of  the  necessary 
conditions  for  more  effective  law  is  to  strengthen  and 
improve  the  institutions  and  processes  for  the  law’s 
administration. We agree with this sentiment, which is 
why  we  support  the  Court’s  initiatives  to  improve  its 
efficiency  by 
streamlining  procedures,  adopting 
advanced  technologies  and  asking  for  more  resources. 
We believe that adequate resources should be allocated 
to  support  the  Court’s  efforts  to  meet  its  growing 
workload, and we therefore hope that this request will 
be considered favourably by the relevant bodies. 
By  the  same  token,  we  emphasize  that  the 

challenge  of  an 
requires 
cooperation  among  Member  States.  In  many  of  the 
recent  contentious  cases,  too  many  of  the  Court’s 
limited 
the 
preliminary  stages,  rather  than  being  used  in  the 
consideration  of  the  merits.  While  we  should  respect 
the  right  of  States  to  full  access  to  the  procedures  of 
the  Court,  and 
the  Court’s 
jurisdiction  unless  they  have  given  their  due  consent, 
overburdening the Court with unnecessary requests for 
provisional  measures,  preliminary  objections  or 
applications  of  cases,  as  a  pure  litigation  strategy, 
should  be  avoided  for 
the  common  good.  Such 
prudence  on  the  part  of  States  will  greatly  assist  the 
Court in completing its important work. 
resources  have  been  wasted  during 
to  be  exempt  from 
increased  case 
load 
22 

07-57552 
its  appreciation 
My  delegation  expresses 



The most recent challenge to the Court, however, 
comes  from  outside.  In  this  era  of  proliferating 
international  courts and tribunals, we cannot overstate 
the  importance  of  the  Court’s  leadership  role.  As  the 
only  universal 
international  court  with  general 
jurisdiction,  the  Court  is  now  obligated  to  distribute 
and disseminate its work even more widely. 

I conclude by reaffirming the Republic of Korea’s 
steadfast  and  unwavering  support  for  the  untiring 
efforts of the Court to achieve the ideal of peace under 
the rule of law. 
Mr.  Shinyo  (Japan):  It  is  my  great  pleasure  and 

honour  to  address  the  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the 
Government of Japan.  
to 

President  Rosalyn  Higgins  for  her  comprehensive 
report  on  the  current  situation  of  the  International 
Court of Justice, and would also like to offer its praise 
and  support  for  the  achievements  in  the  Court’s  work 
during the past year.  

The devoted work and profound legal wisdom of 
the Court have been gaining the respect and support of 
the  international  community.  The  report  states  that 
countries from a broader area of the world have begun 
to  bring  cases  before  the  Court  to  seek  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  conflicts.  This  clearly  demonstrates  that 
in  today’s  international  community  the  Court  now 
enjoys  the  universal  commitment  that  the  principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  ought  to  have. 
From  this  point  of  view,  we  have  full  confidence  that 
the Court’s role will continue to increase in importance 
in  the  efforts  to  promote  peace  and  security  and 
establish 
international 
community.  

As  regards  activities  to  advance  the  rule  of  law, 
the past year  has been  a remarkable one for Japan. At 
the  beginning  of  the  year,  our  Government  designated 
“rule  of  law”  as  one  of  the  major  pillars  of  Japanese 
diplomacy,  enabling  us 
in 
promoting such universal values as democracy, respect 
for  basic  human  rights,  the  market  economy  and  the 
rule of law in the international community.  

In  addition  to  its  previous  activities  contributing 
to  the  establishment  of  the  rule  of  law  in  the  world, 
Japan 
further 
cooperative relations with international judicial organs 
in  line  with  this  policy.  Japan  acceded  to  the  Rome 
to  develop 
took  steps 
this  year 
initiative 
rule  of 
take 
law 
the 
to 
the 
in 
the 
A/62/PV.42
to  Japan 
in  April,  giving 
international  community 
Statute of the International Criminal Court and became 
its 105th party as of 1 October this year. With regard to 
the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, Japan 
referred  two  cases  to  the  Tribunal  in  July,  thus 
contributing to the development of judicial precedents 
in the area of the law of the sea.  

First  and  foremost,  Japan  has  been  placing  great 
importance  on  its  cooperative  relationship  with  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  the  sole  international 
court with general jurisdiction. My Government invited 
President  Higgins 
the 
Japanese  people  an  invaluable  opportunity  to  hear  an 
insightful presentation on the work of the Court and on 
international  law,  which  contributed  significantly  to 
promoting  the  advocacy  of  the  international  judicial 
system  in  Japan.  We  fully  intend  to  continue  this 
productive relationship with the Court.  
I would like to draw the attention of all members 

of 
the 
imminent 
necessity  of  strengthening  the  institutional  capacity  of 
the Court so that it can continue to discharge its noble 
responsibility.  The  Government  of  Japan  hopes  that 
this  issue  will  be  favourably  discussed  in  appropriate 
bodies, giving due consideration to the recommendation of 
the  Advisory  Committee  on  Administrative  and 
Budgetary Questions. At the same time, it expects that 
the  Court  will  continue  its  efforts  to  increase  the 
efficiency of its work.  

To conclude, one cannot overstate the importance 
of the lofty  cause  and work of the  International Court 
of  Justice.  I  take  this  occasion  to  reaffirm  that  Japan 
will continue to contribute to its invaluable work. 

speaker in the debate on agenda item 73.  

May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 73? 

The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
It was so decided. 
the 
to 



Agenda item 76 (continued) 
Report of the International Criminal Court 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/62/314) 

The  Acting  President:  I  call  on  Mr.  Philippe 

Kirsch, President of the International Criminal Court.  

07-57552 

23 

the 
to  present 
Mr. Kirsch (spoke in French): I am very pleased 
the 
A/62/PV.42 


today 
third  annual  report  of 
International Criminal Court to the United Nations.  

Since  its  establishment,  the  Court  has  developed 
substantially in its activities and in its relationship with 
the  United  Nations.  Nevertheless,  we  are  still  at  an 
early stage in the life of the Court. Much more remains 
to  be  done  to  guarantee  the  success  of  this  nascent 
institution.  

I  would  like  to  give  a  brief  overview  of  recent 
developments, elaborate on the Court’s contributions to 
the  aims  of  the  United  Nations  and  speak  about  the 
importance of continued support and cooperation from 
the Organization.  
Today,  the  Court  stands  on  the  verge  of  its  first 

trial.  In  January  this  year,  a  chamber  of  three  judges 
confirmed  charges  of  war  crimes  against  Mr.  Thomas 
Lubanga  Dyilo,  an  alleged  militia  leader  from  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  He  is  accused  of 
enlisting, conscripting and using children under the age 
of  15  to  participate  actively  in  hostilities.  A  trial 
chamber composed of another three judges is currently 
addressing  preliminary  issues  before  the  trial  begins 
early next year.  

In  another  case  regarding  the  situation  in  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Mr.  Germain 
Katanga  was  surrendered  to  the  Court  on  18  October. 
The  crimes  alleged  in  the  warrant  of  arrest  for  Mr. 
Katanga 
three  counts  of  crimes  against 
humanity  and  six  of  war  crimes,  namely,  murder, 
inhumane  acts,  sexual  slavery,  wilful  killing,  inhuman 
or  cruel  treatment,  attacking  civilians,  pillaging  and 
using children under the age of 15 years to participate 
actively  in  hostilities. An  initial  hearing  was  held  last 
week  following  his  surrender.  Pre-trial  proceedings 
will take place over the coming months.  

In  regard  to  the  situation  in  Darfur,  Sudan, 
referred  to  the  Court  by  the  Security  Council,  a 
chamber  of  three  judges  issued  warrants  of  arrest  for 
two individuals in May. Mr. Ahmad Harun and Mr. Ali 
Kushayb are each wanted on over 40 counts of crimes 
against  humanity  and  war  crimes,  including  murder, 
persecution,  forcible  transfers  of  populations,  attacks 
against  civilians,  pillaging  and  the  destruction  or 
seizure  of  enemy  property.  The  Court  has  issued  to 
States requests for the arrest and surrender of those two 
suspects. Neither warrant has been executed yet.  
include 
In  May, 
The  Court 
the  Prosecutor  opened  a 

In  regard  to  the  situation  in  Uganda,  the  Court 
issued  five  warrants  of  arrest  in  2005  for  members  of 
the  group  known  as  the  Lord’s  Resistance  Army, 
including its leader, Joseph Kony. Two of the suspects 
are  wanted  on  over  30  counts  of  crimes  against 
humanity  and  war  crimes,  including  murder,  attacking 
civilians,  pillaging,  cruel  treatment  and  enslavement. 
Two  others  are  wanted  on  ten  and  seven  counts 
respectively  of  crimes  against  humanity  and  war 
crimes,  also  including  murder,  enslavement,  attacking 
civilians and pillaging. One of the suspects was killed, 
rendering that warrant without effect. None of the other 
four warrants have been executed yet.  

fourth 
investigation;  this  is  into  the  situation  in  the  Central 
African Republic. Two weeks ago, the Court opened a 
field  office  in  the  capital,  Bangui.  It  is  the  fifth  field 
office opened by the Court.  

The Office of the Prosecutor is also analysing and 
assessing  information  on  alleged  crimes  within  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  in  other  situations  on  three 
different continents. 
fully  operational.  The 

Prosecutor  is  conducting  investigations  and  collecting 
evidence. Judicial proceedings have taken place at the 
pre-trial  and  appeals  levels,  and  are  beginning  at  the 
trial  level.  The  special  regard  accorded  to  victims 
under the Rome Statute has developed in practice. The 
Trust  Fund  for  Victims  is  fully  functioning.  For  the 
first time in the history of international criminal courts 
and  tribunals,  victims  are  participating  in  proceedings 
in their own right. 

for 
to 
international crimes is important in itself. But it is also 
a  means  to  achieve  other  objectives  found  in  both  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Statute  of  the 
International Criminal Court. Throughout the course of 
history,  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  and  other 
serious 
arisen 
spontaneously.  Rather,  those  crimes  have  occurred  — 
and  continue  to  occur  —  in  the  context  of  complex 
political conflicts. More often than not, there have been 
attempts  to  resolve  such  conflicts  through  expedient 
political  compromises;  more  often  than  not,  those 
compromises  have  ignored  the  need  for  justice  and 
accountability;  and,  more  often  than  not,  expedient 
political  solutions  that  ignored  the  need  for  justice 
international 
responsible 
justice 
those 
Bringing 
is  now 
crimes 
have 
not 
24 

07-57552 
accountability 


unravelled,  leading  to  more  crimes,  new  conflicts  and 
recurring threats to peace and security. 

The  International  Criminal  Court  was  created  to 
break  that  vicious  cycle  of  crimes,  impunity  and 
conflict.  It  was  set  up  to  contribute  to  justice  and  the 
prevention  of  crimes,  and  thereby  to  peace  and 
security.  

The  Court  is  contributing  to  the  realization  of 
those  objectives.  Earlier  this  year,  the  Secretary-
General noted, “Already the activities of the Court and 
its  Prosecutor  have  a  deterring  effect  on  potential 
international  crimes.”  {UN  News 
perpetrators  of 
Centre,  29  June  2007)  A  recently  published  expert 
report on the  situation in Uganda  observed: “The  ICC 
investigation  of 
the  LRA”  —  Lord’s  Resistance 
Army —  “has  been  crucial  for  promoting  peace, 
improving security in northern Uganda and embedding 
international 
into 
negotiations.”  (Africa  Briefing  No.  46,  p.  8,  14  Sept. 
2007, International Crisis Group) 
(spoke in English) 

The  impact  of  the  Court  has  resulted  from  its 
credibility  as  an  independent  and  impartial  institution 
whose  decisions  will  be  enforced.  Sustaining  that 
credibility  depends  on  the  two  pillars  of  the  Rome 
Statute system.  

The  Court  itself  is  the  judicial  pillar.  It  is  the 
Court’s  responsibility  to  continue  to  maintain  its 
credibility  as  an  independent  and  impartial  judicial 
institution 
the  Rome 
Statute.  

The  other  pillar  of  the  Rome  Statute  —  the 
enforcement pillar — has been reserved to States and, 
by  extension,  international  organizations.  The  Court 
requires  support  and  cooperation  in  many  areas,  in 
particular, the arrest and surrender of suspects and the 
protection  of  victims  and  witnesses.  The  primary 
responsibility  for  providing  cooperation  and  support 
rests,  of  course,  with  the  States  parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute.  However,  States  not  party  to  the  Statute  and 
international  organizations,  in  particular,  the  United 
Nations,  are  also  in  a  position  to  provide  valuable 
assistance to the Court. 

the 
achievements of the Court by responding positively to 
requests  for  cooperation  or  assistance  —  for  example, 
by providing information, logistics and other support to 
Individual  States  have  contributed 
through  strict  adherence 
to 
standards 
to 
A/62/PV.42
field operations or to the surrender of individuals to the 
Court.  States  have  provided  diplomatic  and  public 
support for the Court through at the bilateral level and 
in multilateral forums. Several States have entered into 
agreements to provide additional support, in particular, 
with  respect  to  the  enforcement  of  sentences  or  the 
protection of victims and witnesses. 

The  United  Nations  has  provided  critical 
cooperation and support to the Court. I would note, in 
particular,  that  the  Court  has  received  strong  support 
from  various  United  Nations  bodies  in  the  field.  The 
Court  appreciates  the  steps  taken  by  the  Secretary-
General  to  raise  the  outstanding  warrants  of  arrest  in 
the situation in Darfur. The General Assembly and the 
Security  Council  have  provided 
important  public 
support  to  the  Court  in  recent  years  by  emphasizing 
respectively  that  “justice  ...  is  a  fundamental  building 
block of sustainable peace” (resolution 61/15) and that 
“ending  the  climate  of  impunity  is  essential  in  a 
conflict  and  post-conflict  society’s  efforts  to  come  to 
terms  with  past  abuses,  and  in  preventing  future 
abuses.” (S/PRST/2004/34). 

Notwithstanding  the  support  and  cooperation 
received to date, certain issues need to be addressed in 
order to sustain the credibility and effectiveness of the 
Court. 

 First, a number of direct requests for cooperation 
have  not  yet  been  fulfilled.  Of  those  requests,  the 
outstanding warrants of arrest are the most significant. 
Without  arrests,  there  can  be  no  trials;  without  trials, 
victims  will  again  be  denied  justice,  and  potential 
perpetrators will be encouraged to commit new crimes 
with impunity.  

judicial 
Secondly, 
decisions  issued  by  the  Court  has  been  uneven.  It  is 
clear, of course, that the situations and cases before the 
Court  are  linked  to  broader,  complex  political  issues 
and  developments,  as  has  always  been  the  case  in 
similar situations in the past. Nevertheless, compliance 
with the decisions of the Court is not just another issue 
on  the  negotiating  table.  It  is  a  legal  obligation  under 
the  Rome  Statute  and  under  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions.  Conversely,  it  is  to  be  clearly  understood 
that the Court is bound to adhere strictly to its judicial 
mandate and to limit itself to that. 

Thirdly,  relative  silence  has  been  observed  in 
situations in which public support for the Court and for 
the  need  for  justice  more  broadly  would  be  expected. 
implementation 
the 
of 
07-57552 

25 

A/62/PV.42 

Silence  in  those  situations  may  send  the  wrong 
message  to  perpetrators  and  potential  perpetrators  of 
serious  international  crimes.  If  the  very  purposes  for 
which  the  Court  was  created  are  to  be  preserved,  it  is 
important that the international community reaffirm its 
fundamental  commitment  to  the  principles  of  justice 
and  international  law  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations and in the Statute of the Court. 

The Court has already had opportunities to draw 
the  attention  of  States  parties  to  the  issues  I  have  just 
mentioned.  The  reactions  of  States  parties  have  been 
encouraging  for  the  future,  and  indeed  have  already 
resulted in concrete, positive developments. As for the 
United  Nations  itself  —  including  its  Member  States, 
the  General  Assembly,  the  Security  Council  and  the 
Secretariat  —  it  is  in  a  position  to  take  a  number  of 
actions  to  sustain  and  build  upon  the  early  impact  of 
the  Court.  That  support  and  cooperation  can  be 
grouped into three general areas.  

First,  operational  cooperation  from  the  United 
Nations  and  its  Member  States  will  continue  to  be 
critical,  especially  in  the  field.  In  addition  to  arrests, 
another area  of pressing importance is  assisting in the 
relocation and protection of victims and witnesses. The 
number  of  persons  seeking  protection  or  being 
accepted  into  the  Court’s  protection  programme  has 
increased  dramatically.  The  Court  invites  States  that 
have  not  yet  done  so  to  conclude  agreements  on  the 
relocation or protection of victims and witnesses. 

Secondly,  United  Nations  or  other  missions  that 
can  assist  the  Court  should  be  empowered  to  fully 
support  and  cooperate  with  it.  The  objectives  of  the 
United Nations and those of the International Criminal 
Court  are  complementary.  That  is  reflected  in  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the  Rome  Statute  and 
the Relationship Agreement between the Court and the 
United  Nations,  as  well  as  in  the  first  referral  of  a 
situation by the Security Council to the Court. 
to 
to  contribute 

Thirdly, the public and diplomatic support of the 
United  Nations  for  the  Court,  and  for  international 
justice  more  broadly,  is  vital  to  ensuring  a  strong  and 
effective Court. Such support fosters an environment in 
which States are more likely to comply with their legal 
obligations and to cooperate with the Court. Public and 
diplomatic  support  can  also  contribute  directly  to  the 
prevention  of  crimes  by  reinforcing  expectations, 
including among potential perpetrators, that the Court’s 
decisions will be carried out and that the international 
community’s commitment to justice will be upheld. 

The Court did not create itself. The Court was set 
up  by  States  to  achieve  the  objectives  that  they 
expressed in  the preamble  to the Rome Statute: to put 
an  end  to  impunity  for  genocide,  crimes  against 
humanity  and  war  crimes; 
the 
prevention  of  those  crimes,  which  threaten  peace  and 
security;  and  to  guarantee  lasting  respect  for,  and  the 
enforcement  of,  international  justice.  Those  aims  are 
universal. They are reflected in the Charter and in the 
statements  and  practice  of  the  Member  States  and  of 
the Organization. 

Ten  years  ago,  the  General Assembly  decided  to 
convene  the  Rome  Conference,  which  adopted  the 
Rome  Statute.  On  17  July  next  year,  the  world  will 
celebrate the tenth anniversary of the Rome Statute and 
will ask what has been achieved.  

It  is  our  collective  responsibility  to  ensure  that 
the  momentum  created  in  1998  continues  and  that 
international  justice  prevails.  I  assure  the  Assembly 
that the Court will continue to do its part to ensure its 
effectiveness and credibility through independence and 
impartiality in strict accordance with the Rome Statute. 
The  Court  is  confident  that  it  can  count  on  the  strong 
support and cooperation of States, the United Nations, 
other international and regional organizations and civil 
society, now and in the future. 
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. 

26 

07-57552 
