United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

36th meeting 
Monday, 29 October 2007, 10 a.m. 
New York 





The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 

A 
Tribute to the memory of His Excellency Mr. Rüdiger 
von Wechmar, President of the General Assembly at 
its thirty-fifth session  
The  Acting  President:  Before  we  take  up  the 

item on our agenda for this morning, it is my sad duty 
to  pay  tribute  to  the  memory  of  the  late  Rüdiger  von 
Wechmar,  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
thirty-fifth  session  and  eighth  emergency  special 
session,  who  passed  away  on  Wednesday,  17  October 
2007. 

journalist,  politician  and  diplomat,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  von  Wechmar  had  a  distinguished 
career in international news agencies as well as in the 
information  media  and  foreign  service  of  his  country. 
From  1974 
the  permanent 
representative  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  to 
the United Nations. 
As  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  Mr.  von 

Wechmar  played 
the 
Organization,  and  made  a  major  contribution  towards 
the achievement of the objectives set out in the Charter. 

On behalf of the General Assembly, I should like 
to convey our deepest condolences to the Government 
and people of Germany and to the bereaved  family of 
Mr. von Wechmar. 
to  1980  he  was 
an  outstanding 
role 
in 
President:  Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Outlule 
(Botswana), Vice-President, took the Chair. 








A/62/PV.36
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) 

I now invite representatives to stand and observe 
a  minute  of  silence  in  tribute  to  the  memory  of  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Rüdiger  von  Wechmar, 
former 
President of the General Assembly. 

The members of the General Assembly observed a 
minute of silence. 
Mr.  Ehouzou  (Benin)  (spoke  in  French):  I  am 

speaking  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States, 
which  was  deeply  saddened  to  learn  of  the  passing  of 
Rüdiger  von Wechmar,  and,  through  me,  expresses  its 
profound  condolences  to  the  Assembly,  the  Federal 
Republic  of  Germany,  the  German  people  and  his 
family. 
Rüdiger von Wechmar was a soldier in the Afrika 

Korps. After the Second World War, he made his mark 
as a journalist, politician and eminent diplomat.  

As  a  spokesman  for  the  Government  of  Willy 
Brandt, Mr. von Wechmar left his mark on his time and 
era  as  a 
for  Ostpolitik  and 
rapprochement  between  East  and  West,  at  the  side  of 
one  of  the  most  brilliant  German  statesmen  of  the 
twentieth century.  

to  1981,  as  ambassador  and 
From  1974 
permanent  representative  of  his  country  to  the  United 
Nations in New York, he took on great responsibilities, 
including 
the 
the  General 
Organization, 
that  of  President  of 
Assembly.  Under  his  guidance,  at 
thirty-fifth 
session  the  Assembly  adopted  important  resolutions 
that  speak  volumes  about  his  tremendous  contribution 
fervent  worker 
responsibility 
highest 
the 
its 
of 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-56776 (E) 
*0756776* 
that 
the  great  disarmament 
A/62/PV.36 

to the quest for solutions to the major challenges facing 
mankind.  It  was  under  his  presidency 
the 
Assembly  adopted  the  declaration  on  the  Second 
Disarmament  Decade  at  a  time  when  détente  was 
becoming  a  reality  and  needed  to  be  reinforced  — 
witness 
treaties  negotiated 
within the Assembly during the 1980s.  

The  thirty-fifth  session  was  also  a  decisive 
turning point in the promotion of economic and social 
development, as indicated by the adoption of important 
resolutions  on  the  protection  of  the  environment, 
following  the  commitment  of  his  country  to  this  great 
cause.  One  of  the  most  important  resolutions  of  the 
session  was  resolution  35/8,  “Historical  responsibility 
of States for the preservation of nature for present and 
future generations”.  

It was also during the thirty-fifth session that the 
first World Food Day, now commemorated annually on 
16  October,  was  proclaimed,  as  well  as 
the 
International  Drinking  Water  Supply  and  Sanitation 
Decade.  

Africa  identifies  with  the  work  done  by  this 
eminent  diplomat,  which  made  possible  notable 
progress  in  combating  hunger  in  the  world  and  in 
guaranteeing  the  right  to  access  to  water,  which 
remains central to the concerns of the continent.  
The  decisions  of  the  thirty-fifth  session  gave 

impetus  to  the  implementation  of  the  United  Nations 
Plan  of Action  to  Combat  Desertification.  It  is  in  the 
wake  of  that  initiative,  certainly,  that  the  United 
Nations Convention to Combat Desertification finds its 
place.  The  decisions  prepared  the  ground  for  the 
international mobilization that led to the holding of the 
major international conferences in the 1990s.  

It  was  at  the  thirty-fifth  session  that  the  concept 
of  the  special  needs  of  Africa  emerged  at  the  United 
Nations, with the momentum created by the Lagos Plan 
of  Action,  which  preceded  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  to  a  certain  extent. 
Some  20  resolutions  concerning  assistance  to African 
countries were adopted at the thirty-fifth session.  

Africa  owes  much  to  the  leadership  of  Mr.  von 
Wechmar.  The  African  Group  pays  a  well-deserved 
tribute  to  the  memory  of  that  great  man  and  to  his 
country,  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany,  which  he 
worthily  represented  for  more  than  a  decade  in  New 
York.  

Rüdiger  von  Wechmar  served  with  loyalty  and 
distinction  the  spirit  of  multilateralism  and  the  ideals 
of  the  Organization. The  United  Nations  must  cherish 
his  memory  as  a  great  and  highly  skilled  diplomat  of 
our times.  
Mr. Cho Hyun (Republic of Korea): As Chair of 

the Asian Group for the month of October, I would like 
to  express  our  condolences  to  the  Government  and 
people  of  Germany  on  the  passing  of  His  Excellency 
Ambassador  Rüdiger  von  Wechmar.  May  he  rest  in 
peace. 

Ambassador von Wechmar was for many years a 
friend  to  the  United  Nations.  As  the  permanent 
representative of the Federal Republic of Germany, he 
served as Vice-President of the General Assembly and 
of the First Committee, and as President of the Security 
Council.  In  1980,  he  undertook  the  responsibilities  of 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  thirty-fifth 
session.  

this  Organization, 
Ambassador  von  Wechmar  led  a  life  dedicated  to 
service, not only as a diplomat, but also as a journalist 
courageously 
from  Eastern  European 
countries  during 
the  cold  war.  Ambassador  von 
Wechmar  is  remembered  fondly  by  those  who  were 
lucky enough to work with him. His kindness, decency 
and  commitment  to  bettering  the  world  stand  as 
examples  that  all  of  us  in  the  United  Nations  family 
should strive to follow.  
The  member  States  of  the  Asian  Group  are 

that 
grateful 
Ambassador von Wechmar gave to the United Nations, 
and  we  extend  our  sympathies  and  kind  wishes  to  the 
bereaved.  

May  God  bless  Ambassador  von  Wechmar,  and 
may God bless all those who knew him and who mourn 
his loss. 
Mr.  Towpik  (Poland):  On  this  sad  occasion,  I 

have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
Eastern European States.  

We mark today the passing of Baron Rüdiger von 
Wechmar — an excellent German journalist, politician, 
diplomat  and  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly. 
His  life  is  an  example  of  the  complicated  biographies 
of 
rich  and 
multidimensional  career,  Rüdiger  von  Wechmar 
demonstrated  great  determination  in  overcoming  the 
the  years  of  devoted  service 
twenty  century.  During  his 
the 
Beyond  his  work  with 
reporting 
for 
2 

07-56776 


difficult  legacy  of  the  past.  He  proved  his  deepest 
commitment  to  the  values  and  principles  upon  which 
our Organization is based. His contribution to the work 
of the United Nations was outstanding.  
As  permanent  representative  of  Germany  to  the 

United  Nation  and  as  President  of 
the  General 
Assembly, he gave many years of dedicated service to 
our  Organization.  He  contributed  significantly 
to 
international  efforts  to  promote  peace  and  stability, 
rapprochement of nations and justice in the world. We 
all  will  remember  and  cherish  his  great  diplomatic 
passion, his personal character, his voice of reason and 
his  devotion  to  the  United  Nations  and  to  the  world 
diplomatic community.  

On behalf of the Eastern European group, I would 
like  to  convey  to  the  Government  and  people  of 
Germany, as  well as to the family of Ambassador von 
Wechmar,  our  deepest  sympathy  and  most  sincere 
condolences. 
Mr. Voto-Bernales (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): On 

behalf  of  the  Group  of  Latin American  and  Caribbean 
States,  I  have  the  honour  to  pay  a  posthumous  tribute 
to the former President of the General Assembly, Baron 
Rüdiger von Wechmar, who passed away recently.  

long  and 
distinguished  career  at  the  service  of  his  nation, 
Germany.  It  is  particularly  noteworthy  that  when  he 
was  only  17  years  old  he  fought  in  the  Second World 
War  and  was 
taken  prisoner.  After  becoming  a 
journalist  he  entered  the  diplomatic  service  of  his 
country.  That  change  in  his  life  is  an  example  of 
someone  who,  having  been  within  the  conflagration 
and  having  intimate  knowledge  of  its  devastating 
consequences,  embraces  new  professions  geared  to 
spreading 
for 
international peace.  
As  a  result,  he  also  held  several  important 

positions 
the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany, 
including  Under-Secretary  of  State  and  Government 
spokesman.  More  specifically 
the  diplomatic 
multilateral  sphere, 
in  1974  he  was  appointed 
ambassador  to  the  United  Nations,  and  he  represented 
Germany  with  distinction  on  the  Security  Council  in 
1977  and  1978.  He  was  elected  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  for  its  thirty-fifth  session,  from 
1980  to  1981,  and  he  also  presided  over  the  eighth 
emergency special session.  
Ambassador  von  Wechmar  had  a 
truth 
in 
the 
in 
the  ongoing  quest 
in 
A/62/PV.36
He  was  elected  President  of 

He was a key player in the multilateral sphere at a 
time when the United Nations was also part of the cold 
war,  demonstrating  his 
remarkable  professional 
capacity and steadfast vocation to achieve the timeless 
goals of the Organization.  

At this moment of grief my delegation extends its 
most  heartfelt  condolences  to  the  Government  and 
people of Germany, and in particular to the members of 
his family for their profound loss. 
Mr. İlkin (Turkey): As Chairman of the Western 

European  and  Other  States  Group  for  October,  I  have 
the  sad  duty  of  extending  our  heartfelt  condolences 
over  the  loss  of  a  great  diplomat  who  contributed  in 
many  capacities  to  the  realization  of  the  ideals  and 
objectives enshrined in the Charter. Indeed, the passing 
away  of  Mr.  Rüdiger  von  Wechmar,  permanent 
representative  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany 
from  1974  to  1981,  and  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  thirty-fifth  session,  is  a  great  loss  not 
only  for  his  family  and  country,  but  for  the  entire 
United Nations community. 

the  General 
Assembly in 1980, at a time when the United Nations 
was  faced  with  formidable  challenges.  The  bipolar 
character of the international system was at its climax, 
and  the  United  Nations  was  searching  for  innovative 
ways to provide effective solutions to the problems of 
our globe.  
As  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  that 

critical 
time,  Mr.  Rüdiger  von  Wechmar  worked 
resolutely  to  bridge  the  differences  and  pave  avenues 
of  cooperation.  His  efforts  were 
in  many  cases 
instrumental  in  the  adoption  of  important  resolutions 
dealing  with  a  wide  array  of  issues,  ranging  from 
development to disarmament. That is why, after almost 
30  years,  his  contributions  from  the  Chair  are  still 
vividly remembered and appreciated.  

For  instance,  in  his  inaugural  address  upon 
election  as  the  President  of  the  General Assembly,  he 
strongly  stressed  the  importance  of  addressing  the 
legitimate  needs  of  the  underdeveloped  countries,  and 
called for a new economic order in which the rich and 
the  poor  would  join  hands  for  a  truly  common  and 
prosperous  future.  I  believe  his  remarks  make  even 
more sense today. 

I  conclude  by  paying  tribute  to  the  distinctive 
heritage of Rüdiger von Wechmar and conveying once 
07-56776 

3 
A/62/PV.36 

again our heartfelt sympathy to his family, friends and 
colleagues. 
Mr.  Young  (United  States  of  America):  I  speak 

on  behalf  of  the  host  country,  which  extends  its 
sincerest  condolences  on  the  passing  of  Rüdiger  von 
Wechmar,  a  great  diplomat  and  friend  of  the  United 
Nations.  

We  appreciate  Mr.  von  Wechmar’s  long-term 
commitment  and  service  to  the  ideals  of  the  United 
Nations,  first  as  the  permanent  representative  of  the 
Federal  Republic  of  Germany  and  then  as  the  thirty-
fifth President of the General Assembly, from 1980 to 
1981. He is remembered as a charismatic, effective and 
talented diplomat.  
We  extend  our  sincerest  sympathy  to  his  family, 

friends  and  colleagues.  The  entire  United  Nations 
community  mourns  the  loss  of  this  good  friend  and 
skilled diplomat. 
Mr.  Matussek  (Germany):  On  behalf  of  the 

Federal  Government,  and  also  in  the  name  of  the 
family of the late Rüdiger von Wechmar, I would like 
to express my heartfelt gratitude for the warm words of 
sympathy expressed by previous speakers.  

Rüdiger  von  Wechmar  was  the  longest-serving 
permanent representative of Germany to date, heading 
the  Permanent  Mission  from  1974 
to  1981.  He 
represented  his  country  here  in  New York  in  a  period 
that might be called the formative years of Germany at 
the  United  Nations.  Having  served  previously  as 
spokesman  to  Federal  Chancellor  Willy  Brandt,  he 
became 
to  be 
appointed  after  the  admission  of  the  Federal  Republic 
of  Germany  and  the  German  Democratic  Republic  to 
the United Nations in 1973.  

After  the  election  of  the  Federal  Republic  as  a 
non-permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council  in 
1977,  he  represented  the  Federal  Republic  in  the 
Council  from  1977  to  1978.  He  crowned  his  career  at 
the  United  Nations  by  being  elected  President  of  the 
General Assembly in 1980. 

As  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
thirty-fifth  session,  he  worked  relentlessly  for  a 
number of very important issues on the agenda at that 
time.  He  partook 
the  General  Assembly’s 
achievements,  but  also  —  as  he  himself  frankly 
admitted  in  his  last  statement  as  President  —  in  the 
many drawbacks. In his typical straightforward way of 
the  first  permanent  representative 
in 
speaking,  he  did  not  shy  away  from  calling  the 
Assembly  he  had  presided  over  an  Assembly  of 
frustrations.  One  of  the  frustrations  he  identified  was 
the  working  methods  of  the  General  Assembly.  “Our 
General Assembly  —  indeed  our  United  Nations,”  he 
said,  “is  being  slowly  suffocated  by 
too  many 
resolutions,  too  many  meetings,  too  many  subsidiary 
organs,  far  too  much  documentation.”  (A/36/PV.1, 
para.32) 

believed that Member States could opt for change: 

But,  being  a  man  of  unstoppable  optimism,  he 
is  vision 
“What  the  world  is  expecting  from  its  leaders, 
especially  from  those  at  the  helm  of  the  most 
powerful  Member  States, 
and 
compassion,  determination  and  dedication.  We 
have  been  talking  so  much  and  so  often  of  the 
need  for  political  will.  The  time  to  act  and  to 
show such political will is now; tomorrow may be 
too late.” (ibid., para. 42) 
Twenty-five  years  later  those  words  have  lost 

none of their significance. 

Rüdiger  von  Wechmar  was  also  a  man  of  letters 
and a stylish writer, renowned for his ability in difficult 
diplomatic  situations  to  break  the  ice  with  a  good 
quotation  and  some  proven  words  of  wisdom.  So,  in 
to  repeat  a  verse  by  an 
conclusion,  allow  me 
eighteenth-century 
theologist  whom  Rüdiger  von 
Wechmar  cherished  and  quoted  in  his  concluding 
statement in 1981: 

“God,  grant  us  the  serenity  to  accept  the  things 
we  cannot  change,  the  courage  to  change  the 
things  we  can,  and  the  wisdom  to  know  the 
difference between the two.” (ibid, para. 43) 
If we could take this piece of advice as guidance 

in  our  work  at  the  United  Nations  today,  that  would 
probably  be  the  most  beautiful  tribute  to  Rüdiger  von 
Wechmar that he himself could have imagined. 




Agenda item 87 
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency 



ElBaradei,  Director  General  of 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/62/258) 
  Draft resolution (A/62/L.5**) 
The  Acting  President:  I  invite  Mr.  Mohamed 
International 
the 

4 

07-56776 
and 
countries; 
the  development  of 


Atomic  Energy Agency,  to  introduce  the  report  of  the 
Agency for 2006. 
Mr.  ElBaradei  (International  Atomic  Energy 

Agency):  The  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA)  was  created  50  years  ago  in  an  atmosphere 
charged  with  both  concern  and  hope  regarding  the 
future of atomic science. The IAEA was entrusted with 
ensuring that nuclear energy would not become a cause 
for  human  destruction,  but  would  be,  rather,  a  vehicle 
for peace and prosperity. 
If  one  were  to  recall  our  history  since  then,  a 

number  of  milestones  and  trends  would  stand  out:  the 
rapid  expansion  of  nuclear  power  in  the  1960s  and 
1970s;  the  landmark  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation Treaty 
(NPT)  of  1970  and 
the 
comprehensive IAEA verification regime; the evolution 
of  the  Agency’s  technical  assistance  programme  as  a 
key  vehicle  for  the  transfer  of  nuclear  science  and 
developing 
technology 
to 
the 
development  of 
international  nuclear  safety  and 
security regimes. 

Throughout its history, the IAEA has also faced a 
number  of  challenges  and  painful  experiences 
necessitating  change,  adjustment  and  innovation:  the 
1986  accident  at  Chernobyl,  the  discovery  of  Iraq’s 
clandestine  nuclear  weapons  programme  in  the  early 
1990s or the nuclear security challenge revealed in the 
aftermath of 11 September 2001.  

Today,  I  would  like  to  discuss  some  of  the 
Agency’s  current  challenges  and  developments.  But  I 
believe  it  is  worth  recalling  the  ideals  and  objectives 
that have guided the Agency since its formation. They 
remain as relevant and meaningful today as they were 
to the founders of the IAEA. 

in 
rising 
expectations  for  nuclear  power.  But  forecasting  is 
always  difficult.  In  my  view,  the  role  of  the  IAEA  is 
not so much to predict the future as to do its utmost to 
plan and prepare for it.  

What  seems  clear  today  is  that  there  are  three 
strong  factors  driving  a  renewed  global  interest  in 
nuclear  power:  the  steady  growth  in  energy  demand; 
the increasing concerns about energy security; and the 
challenge of climate change. 

There are currently 439 nuclear power reactors in 
operation  in  30  countries.  These  reactors  supply  just 
over 15 per cent of the world’s electricity. To date, the 
recent  years  of 
I  have  spoken 
A/62/PV.36
in 
innovation 
institutional 
those  considering 
Technological  and 
in 
use  of  nuclear  power  has  been  concentrated 
industrialized  countries.  But 
terms  of  new 
construction  the  pattern  is  different:  half  of  the  30 
reactors now being built are in developing countries. 

In parallel with the increase in interest in nuclear 
power,  the  IAEA  has  experienced  a  sharp  rise  in 
requests for assistance with national energy studies. We 
are  currently  supporting  studies  in  77  Member  States. 
Of these studies, 29 are  exploring nuclear energy as  a 
potential  option.  Algeria,  Belarus,  Egypt,  Indonesia, 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  Jordan,  the  Libyan Arab 
Jamahiriya,  Nigeria,  Thailand,  Turkey,  Viet  Nam  and 
Yemen  are  among 
introducing 
nuclear  power  programmes,  or  moving  forward  with 
the  infrastructure  needed.  And  many  others,  such  as 
Argentina,  Bulgaria,  China,  Finland,  France,  India, 
Japan,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  Pakistan,  South Africa, 
the  Russian  Federation  and  the  United  States  of 
America,  are  working  to  add  new  reactors  to  their 
existing programmes. 

is 
naturally  a  key  factor  in  ensuring  the  long-term 
sustainability  of  nuclear  power.  By  “institutional 
innovation”,  I  mean  creative  policy  and  infrastructure 
approaches. In some cases, a shared regional approach 
to  nuclear  power 
infrastructure,  construction  and 
operation  may  be  feasible.  A  good  example  is  the 
ongoing cooperation among the Baltic States on energy 
strategies,  which  now  includes  collaboration  with 
Poland  on  plans  to  construct  a  nuclear  power  plant  to 
help meet regional electricity demands. 

On the technology innovation front, I should note 
that  the  Agency’s  International  Project  on  Innovative 
Nuclear  Reactors  and  Fuel  Cycles  (INPRO)  is  now 
considering 
specific 
technological  issues  that  need  to  be  addressed  for 
improved  economics,  safety,  proliferation-resistance 
and other characteristics. 

Given  the  fundamental  importance  of  energy  for 
development, it is important that we actively pursue the 
design and production of small and intermediate sized 
reactors.  Successful  production  of  safe  and  affordable 
reactors  in  this  size  range  will  be  essential  if  nuclear 
power  is  to  be  a  feasible  option  for  countries  and 
regions with small electrical grids. 

The  expected  expansion  in  nuclear  power  will 
drive a corresponding increase in the need for countries 
to  ensure  a  reliable  supply  of  nuclear  fuel. This  could 
collaborative 
projects 
on 
07-56776 

5 
legal, 
With  respect 
the  urgent  need  for 
Controlling  nuclear  material 
A/62/PV.36 

also increase the potential proliferation risks created by 
the spread of sensitive nuclear technology, particularly 
if more countries decide to create independent uranium 
enrichment  and  plutonium  separation  facilities.  These 
trends  point  clearly 
the 
development  of  a  new,  multilateral  framework  for  the 
nuclear fuel cycle, both the front and the back end. 

the  front  end,  some  have 
proposed  the  creation  of  an  actual  or  virtual  reserve 
fuel  bank  of  last  resort,  under  IAEA  auspices,  for  the 
assurance  of  supply  of  nuclear  fuel.  This  bank  would 
operate  on 
the  basis  of  apolitical  and  non-
discriminatory non-proliferation criteria.  
The  Russian  Federation  proposes  to  convert  a 

national  facility 
international  enrichment 
centre.  Germany  is  proposing  the  construction  of  a 
new,  multinational  enrichment  facility  under  IAEA 
these 
control.  The  Agency  has  been  examining 
proposals  and 
their  associated 
technical, 
financial and institutional aspects.  

is  a  complex 
process,  yet  if  we  fail  to  act,  it  could  be  the Achilles’ 
heel  of  the  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.  In  my 
view,  an  incremental  approach  is  the  way  to  move 
forward,  beginning  with 
the  establishment  of  an 
equitable system for assurance of supply. The next step 
would  seek  to  bring  any  new  operations  for  uranium 
enrichment 
under 
multinational  control.  Over  time,  these  multinational 
controls would also be extended to existing facilities. 
The Agency directs much of its scientific activity 

to  peaceful  nuclear  applications  related  to  health, 
agriculture, 
and 
preservation  of  the  environment.  I  will  offer  a  few 
examples. 

Since  last  September,  we  have  increased  the 
fundraising  efforts  of  our  Programme  of  Action  for 
Cancer  Therapy  (PACT).  Working  with  the  World 
Health  Organization  (WHO)  and  other  international 
partners, we have also begun to develop demonstration 
sites 
to  enhance  multidisciplinary  cancer  control 
capacity  in Albania,  Nicaragua,  Sri  Lanka,  the  United 
Republic  of Tanzania, Viet  Nam  and Yemen. As  these 
projects  mature,  they  will  serve  as  a  platform  for 
raising  awareness  and 
regional 
fundraising. 
industry,  water  management 
larger-scale 
separation 
and 
plutonium 
to 
to 
into  an 
for 
For more than 40 years, the Agency has benefited 

from  an  active  partnership  with 
the  Food  and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), 
through  the  Joint  Division  established  in  1967.  With 
persistent  hunger  affecting  more  than  820  million 
people  in  the  world,  efforts  to  enhance  food  security 
and  safety  and  increase  crop  productivity  have  never 
been more relevant.  

With  thousands  of  new  varieties  of  food  crops 
released  in  dozens  of  countries  over  the  past  half 
century, plant breeding has been one of the real success 
stories  of  Atoms  for  Peace.  For  example,  a  recent 
regional project in Asia used plant breeding to develop 
more  than  20  new  food  crop  varieties. As  one  result, 
farmers in areas of Sri Lanka affected by the December 
2004 tsunami are now growing a variety of green bean 
that is tolerant of saline soil, as well as being nutritious 
and giving higher yield. 

The  safety  and  security  of  nuclear  activities 
around the globe remain key elements of the Agency’s 
mandate.  With  the  renewed  interest  in  nuclear  power 
generation,  comparable  attention  and  commitment 
must  be  given  to  ensuring  the  nuclear  safety  and 
security infrastructure that must go with it. 

The  primary  responsibility  for  safety  rests  with 
the  operator  of  a  nuclear  facility  or  the  user  of  a 
nuclear 
the  national 
Government  overseeing 
that  operation  or  use. 
Technology  can  be  transferred,  but  safety  culture 
cannot;  it  must  be  learned  and  embedded.  For  those 
countries  embarking  on  nuclear  power  programmes,  it 
is essential that they become part of the global nuclear 
safety 
its 
sustainability. 
The  strong,  steady  safety  performance  of  recent 

years is reassuring. But complacency, an overemphasis 
on  cost  savings,  the  impulse  to  cover  up  problems  or 
even  falsification,  are  hazards  against  which  both 
operators  and  regulators  must  constantly  guard.  The 
recurrence of events with these characteristics makes it 
clear  that  the  promotion  of  a  strong  safety  culture 
should always be viewed as “work in progress”. 
As  the  nuclear  industry  becomes  increasingly 

international,  IAEA  Safety  Standards  are  used  as  a 
reference point by an ever greater number of countries 
and  serve  as  a  benchmark  for  IAEA  safety  review 
services. Last year we began offering, for the first time, 
an  Integrated  Regulatory  Review  Service  (IRRS), 
technique,  as  well  as  with 
responsibility 
regime  and 
share 
for 
6 

07-56776 
through 
training 


which  combined  previous  services  ranging  from 
nuclear  safety  and  radiation  safety  to  emergency 
preparedness and nuclear security. IRRS missions have 
been conducted in France, Australia and Japan over the 
past  year.  This  is  contributing  towards  a  more  active 
exchange  of  knowledge  among  senior  regulators,  and 
promoting  harmonized  nuclear  regulatory  approaches 
worldwide. 

The  IAEA’s  nuclear  security  programme  has 
maintained  its  rapid  pace  of  programme  delivery. 
Among  other  efforts  over  the  past  year,  the  Agency 
assisted in improving physical protection at facilities in 
a  number  of  States,  helping  to  fix  weaknesses  in 
security systems at those facilities. We have also been 
able  to  assist  many  countries  to  improve  their  border 
detection  capability 
in  detection 
techniques and the use of relevant instruments. 

The  international  community  has  also  taken  on 
board a variety of international instruments relevant to 
nuclear  security.  The  rapid  entry  into  force  of  the 
International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of 
Nuclear  Terrorism 
forward. 
However,  progress  on  ratifying  the Amendment  to  the 
Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material remains slow. Of the 128 States parties, only 
11  so  far  have  accepted  the  amendment.  I  urge  all 
States  to  adhere  to  the  Convention  and  accept  the 
amendment. 

The Agency is seen as playing an important role 
in  the  implementation  of  these  instruments.  To  that 
end,  we  have  started  an  effort  to  provide  nuclear 
security guidance that would facilitate implementation.  

As  these  and  other  nuclear  security  efforts  have 
expanded  and  matured  in  recent  years,  the  IAEA  has 
begun  to  transition  away  from  ad  hoc  approaches  to 
towards  more 
strengthening  nuclear  security  and 
normative,  sustainable  national  and 
international 
approaches. 
The  nuclear  non-proliferation  and  arms  control 

regime  continues  to  face  a  broad  set  of  challenges. 
Effective  verification  must  be  supported  by  four 
essential  elements:  adequate  legal  authority,  state-of-
the-art  technology,  access  to  all  relevant  information, 
and sufficient human and financial resources. 

It  is  now  more  than  10  years  since  the  model 
additional  protocol  was  approved  by  the  Board  of 
Governors.  The  additional  protocol  enhances 
the 
is  a  welcome  step 
A/62/PV.36
Agency’s  access  to  nuclear  facilities  and  relevant 
information,  enabling  the  IAEA  to  draw  credible 
conclusions regarding not only the peaceful nature of a 
country’s  declared  nuclear  programme,  but  also  the 
absence  of  undeclared  nuclear  facilities.  But  to  date 
just  over  half  of  the  162  States  with  safeguards 
agreements  have  brought  additional  protocols  into 
force. This is far from satisfactory progress. More than 
a  hundred  States  have  yet  to  conclude  additional 
protocols,  and  31  States  parties  to  the  NPT  have  not 
even  brought  into  force  their  required  comprehensive 
safeguards agreements with the Agency. 

the  Agency 
Without  safeguards  agreements, 
cannot  provide  any  assurance  about  a  State’s  nuclear 
activities.  And  without  the  additional  protocol,  the 
Agency  cannot  provide  credible  assurance  regarding 
the absence of undeclared nuclear material or activity. 
Therefore,  I  urge  all  States  that  have  not  done  so  to 
bring these instruments into force. 

At  the  invitation  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, an Agency team visited the country 
in  June  to  work  out  agreed  modalities  for  verification 
and  monitoring  by  the  IAEA  of  the  shutdown  and 
sealing  of 
the  Yongbyon  nuclear  facility.  These 
modalities  were  implemented  in  subsequent  visits. As 
of  17  July,  we  were  able  to  verify  shutdown  of  the 
Yongbyon nuclear facility. I welcome the return of the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
the 
verification  process. 
the  active 
cooperation  the  IAEA  team  has  received  from  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  The  Agency 
looks  forward  to  continuing  to  work  with  it  as  the 
verification process evolves. 

implementation  of  Agency 
safeguards  in  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  I  would 
make four brief points.  

First, the Agency has been able to verify the non-
diversion of declared nuclear material in Iran. Iran has 
continued  to  provide  the  access  and  reporting  needed 
to enable Agency verification in this regard.  

Secondly,  Iran  has  recently  provided  the Agency 
with  additional  information  and  access  needed  to 
resolve  a  number  of  long  outstanding  issues,  such  as 
the scope and nature of past plutonium experiments.  

Thirdly, contrary to the decisions of the Security 
Council  under  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter,  calling  on 
Iran to take certain confidence-building measures, Iran 
I  also  welcome 
Regarding 
to 
the 
07-56776 

7 
A/62/PV.36 

has not suspended its enrichment-related activities and 
is  continuing  with  its  construction  of  the  heavy  water 
reactor at Arak. This is clearly regrettable.  

Fourthly,  the  Agency  so  far  has  been  unable  to 
verify  certain  important  aspects  relevant  to  the  scope 
and nature of Iran’s nuclear programme. However, Iran 
and the secretariat agreed in August on a work plan for 
resolving  all  outstanding  verification  issues.  These 
verification issues have been at the core of the lack of 
confidence  about  the  nature  of  Iran’s  programme. 
Iran’s  agreement  on  such  a  work  plan,  with  a  defined 
timeline  —  in  response  to  repeated  requests  by  the 
Security Council and the IAEA Board of Governors — 
is therefore an important step in the right direction.  

But,  naturally,  Iran’s  active  cooperation  and  full 
transparency are key in this regard. If the Agency were 
able  to  provide  credible  assurance  about  the  peaceful 
nature of Iran’s past and current nuclear programme, it 
would go a long way towards building confidence and 
could  help  create  the  conditions  for  a  comprehensive 
and durable solution. Such a solution would assure — 
and  should  assure  —  the  international  community 
about the peaceful nature of Iran’s nuclear programme, 
while  enabling  Iran  to  make  full  use  of  nuclear 
technology  for  economic  and  social  development.  I 
intend to report on the implementation of the work plan 
to  the  Agency’s  Board  of  Governors  meeting  next 
month. 

IAEA’s  Technical 
Cooperation  Programme  was  in  its  infancy.  Most 
member States lacked basic nuclear capacities, and the 
programme  therefore  focused  on  building  up  nuclear 
expertise and helping give birth to the institutions and 
facilities  that  would  support  the  safe  introduction  of 
nuclear technology. 

Today,  the  picture  has  changed,  due  to  the 
evolution  of  skills,  infrastructure  and  needs  in  IAEA 
member  States.  Several  member  States  are  leaving 
behind 
status.  The 
development of nuclear capacities and infrastructure in 
some  regions  has  paved  the  way  for  South–South 
cooperation,  stimulating  an  increase  in  regional  self-
sufficiency and an expansion in collective, specialized 
expertise.  
Opportunities for cooperative ventures — such as 

shared  multinational  management 
common 
underground  water  aquifers,  transborder  programmes 
for  the  elimination  of  insect  pests  and  other  causes  of 
developing 
country 
their 
of 
Fifty 
years 
ago, 
the 
8 

After  prolonged  discussions, 
disease, and jointly owned and managed nuclear power 
plants — are coming to the drawing board, adding new 
significance to technical cooperation. These are clearly 
positive trends. 

the  Board  of 
Governors  recommended  in  July  a  budget  for  2008-
2009.  This  process  has  once  again  highlighted  the 
urgent  need  for  adequate  resources  to  ensure  effective 
delivery  of  the  IAEA  programme  as  mandated  by  the 
Statute  and  as  requested  by  its  member  States.  The 
IAEA  remains  underfunded  in  many  critical  areas,  a 
situation which, if it remains unaddressed, will lead to 
a  steady  erosion  of  our  ability 
to  perform  key 
functions. This is not a sustainable approach to meeting 
the Agency’s financial needs. 

To remedy this untenable situation, I have tasked 
the secretariat with conducting a detailed review of the 
nature  and  scope  of  our  programme  in  the  next 
decade —  in  the  light  of  our  statutory  obligations, 
decisions  of  the  IAEA  policy-making  organs  and 
foreseen high priority activities — and what resources 
would be needed to fund these activities.  
We have given a name to this study — “20/20” — 

reflecting  our  effort  to  look  ahead  to  2020  with  the 
clearest possible vision. I intend to set up a high-level 
panel  of  experts  to  review  the  report,  including 
providing  guidance  on  appropriate  funding  levels  and 
mechanisms, before submitting the report to our Board 
of  Governors.  This  will  help  to  clarify  expectations 
about the IAEA’s mission in the coming years and how 
these  expectations  can  be  matched  by  the  necessary 
financial  and  human  resources  in  a  predictable  and 
assured  manner. The Agency’s  critical  missions  in  the 
fields  of  development,  safety  and  security,  and 
verification deserve no less. 

Fifty years after the Atoms for Peace initiative, I 
believe the time has come to think of a new framework 
for  the  use  of  nuclear  energy,  a  framework  that 
accounts for both the lessons we have learned and the 
current reality.  

This  new  framework  should  include  swift  and 
concrete  action  to  achieve  several  things.  The  first  is 
robust  technological  development  and  innovation  in 
nuclear  power  and  nuclear  applications.  Secondly,  a 
new  multinational  framework  for  the  fuel  cycle  is 
needed,  both  the  front  and  the  back  ends,  to  assure 
supply and curb proliferation risk. Thirdly, there should 
be  universal  application  of  comprehensive  safeguards 
07-56776 
and 
should 
disarmament 
for  deployed  nuclear  weapons  and 


and the additional protocol as the standard for nuclear 
verification, to enable the Agency to provide assurance 
about  declared  activities  as  well  as  the  absence  of 
undeclared  activities.  Fourthly,  the  linkage  between 
non-proliferation 
be 
recognized. From that arises the need for concrete and 
rapid  progress  towards  nuclear  disarmament  through 
deep  cuts  in  existing  arsenals,  downgrading  of  alert 
levels 
the 
resuscitation  of  multilateral  disarmament  efforts, 
starting  with  bringing  into  force  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and beginning negotiations on 
a  fissile  material  cut-off  treaty.  Fifthly,  a  robust 
international  security  regime  is  needed  in  the  light  of 
the  diverse  threats  we  face,  as  is,  sixthly,  an  effective 
and  universal  nuclear  safety  regime,  a  cornerstone  for 
any  expansion  in  the  use  of  nuclear  power.  Seventh, 
there must be sufficient funding for the Agency to meet 
its  increasing  responsibilities  in  an  effective  and 
efficient manner. 

At  the  beginning  of  this  statement,  I  highlighted 
some of the challenges and achievements that stand out 
from a review of the Agency’s history. I believe that it 
is  when  we  view  the  history  of  the  Agency  in  its 
totality  that  we  can  really  understand  the  concept  of 
Atoms  for  Peace.  Our  mission  is  critical  in  both  good 
times  and  bad.  Our  professionalism,  impartiality  and 
independence  are  vital,  both  publicly  and  behind  the 
scenes. 

As I said in Oslo a couple of years ago, when we 
were  honoured  with  the  Nobel  Peace  Prize,  another 
landmark  in  our  history,  “a  durable  peace  is  not  a 
single achievement, but an environment, a process and 
a  commitment”.  It  is  with  this  understanding  that  we 
look to the future. 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 

representative  of  Chile  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/62/L.5.  
Mr.  Skoknic  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  As 

Chairman  of 
the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  I  thank 
the Director General, Mr. Mohamed ElBaradei, for the 
introduction  of  the  annual  report  of  the  work  of  the 
Agency 
important  additional 
information  he  has  given  us  this  morning  on  the 
Agency’s main activities during the period covered.  
The  Director  General’s  succinct  statement  gave 

us a comprehensive overview of the diverse challenges 
the  Board  of  Governors  of 
for  2006  and 
the 
A/62/PV.36
to 
its 
the  member  States  of 
the  Agency,  as  well  as 
faced in carrying out the functions and responsibilities 
entrusted 
limited 
resources.  I  would  add  that  the  Board  of  Governors 
works  very  closely  with  the  Director  General  and  his 
efficient and professional secretariat to define priorities 
and rationalize its work. 

On  behalf  of  the  delegation  of  Chile,  I  have  the 
honour  to  introduce  draft  resolution  A/62/L.5  on  the 
annual  report  of  the  IAEA,  in  a  version  dated  26 
October  that  contains  technical  corrections.  I  shall 
refer  to  the  technical  corrections  at  the  end  of  my 
statement. 

The draft resolution enjoys the support of nearly 
90  delegations,  which  I  will  not  mention  individually, 
in order not to unduly lengthen my statement. They are 
listed  in  documents A/62/L.5  and A/62/L.5/Add.1. We 
thank  all  the  sponsors  for  their  support  for  the  draft 
resolution. The list of sponsors is still open. 
The draft resolution reflects the broad consensus 

among 
the  Agency.  That 
consensus was reaffirmed during both the consultations 
held  at  Headquarters  in  Vienna  and  at  the  various 
consultation  forums  here  in  New  York.  I  should  add 
that  there  was  a  general  understanding  during  the 
Vienna consultations that the draft resolution would be 
neither amended nor renegotiated in New York. 
The  draft  resolution  is  a  very  simple  and  brief 

factual  text  based  on  the  resolution  adopted  by  the 
General Assembly at its previous session. It takes note 
of  the  annual  report  of  the  Agency  and  of  the 
resolutions adopted by the IAEA’s General Conference, 
held in Vienna between 17 and 21 September.  

In  addition,  the  draft  resolution  reaffirms  strong 
support  for  the  indispensable  role  of  the  Agency  in 
encouraging the development and practical application 
of atomic  energy for peaceful purposes,  in technology 
transfer  to  developing  countries  and  in  nuclear  safety, 
verification and security.  

The  brief  draft  resolution  concludes  with  an 
appeal  to  Member  States  to  continue  to  support  the 
work of the Agency. 
The  technical  corrections  were  made  in  order  to 

make  the  draft  resolution  before  the  Assembly  today 
identical to that adopted in Vienna. They include minor 
details, such as the inclusion of the proper acronym for 
the  IAEA  in  English  and  the  word  “Agency”  in  some 
paragraphs, as well as a specific reference to the dates 
07-56776 

9 
the  secretariat  of 
The  EU  commends 
A/62/PV.36 

of  the  fifty-first  session  of  the  General  Conference, 
namely, 17 to 21 September 2007. 

The  large  number  of  sponsors  and  the  positive 
dialogue that has taken place with various delegations 
makes  me  hopeful  that  the  draft  resolution  will  be 
adopted without the need for a vote. 
Mr.  de  Lemos  Godinho  (Portugal):  I  have  the 

honour to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU). 
The  candidate  countries  Turkey,  Croatia  and 
the 
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the countries 
of 
the  Stabilisation  and  Association  Process  and 
potential candidates Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
Montenegro  and  Serbia,  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the 
Republic  of  Moldova,  Armenia  and  Georgia,  align 
themselves with this statement. 

the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and  Mr. 
Mohamed  ElBaradei,  its  Director  General,  for  the 
excellent  work  done  by  the  Agency  during  the  past 
year. We also thank the Director General for his report 
on the IAEA’s activities in 2006. 

The  member  States  of  the  EU  welcome  the 
outcome  of  the  fifty-first  IAEA  General  Conference, 
held  in  Vienna  between  17  and  21  September  2007, 
including the resolutions and decisions adopted. 

As  in  the  past,  the  European  Union  is  a  co-
sponsor  of  the  draft  resolution  on  the  report  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency.  The  European 
Union  fully  supports  its  contents.  With  over  75  co-
sponsors, the draft resolution reflects broad agreement 
among 
the  IAEA’s  member  States.  We  sincerely 
commend  the  efforts  of  the  Chairman  of  the  IAEA 
Board of Governors and hope that the draft resolution 
will be adopted by consensus. 

The  three  pillars  of  the  Agency’s  Statute  — 
verification,  safety  and  nuclear  applications  —  are 
more  valid  than  ever  today  as  nuclear  threats  increase 
all  over  the  world.  The  European  Union  is  therefore 
profoundly committed to the contents of the pillars, as 
they  are  responsible  for  a  major  contribution  to 
promoting peace and security in the world. 
The European Union reaffirms its full support for 

the  work  of  the Agency  in  pursuing  the  objectives  of 
peaceful  nuclear  cooperation  and  nuclear  safety. 
Furthermore, we recognize its indispensable global role 
in nuclear verification. 
comprehensive 
The  Agency’s 

With  regard  to  nuclear  security  in  particular,  we 
wish  to  refer  to  the Agency’s  Nuclear  Security  Fund, 
which  the  European  Union  continues  to  support.  We 
call on all States to commit themselves to financing of 
the Fund. 

safeguards 
agreements  and  the  additional  protocols  constitute  the 
current  Agency  verification  standard.  The  European 
Union regards them as prerequisites to an effective and 
credible safeguards system.  
The European Union is working towards making 

the  additional  protocols  a  condition  for  the  supply  of 
nuclear  exports.  All  European  Union  member  States 
have had additional protocols in force since May 2004. 
We urge all States that have not yet done so to sign an 
additional protocol without further delay. We also urge 
all  States  that  have  signed  but  not  yet  brought  into 
force 
their  respective  safeguards  agreements  and 
additional  protocols  to  do  so  without  further  delay,  as 
both  strengthen 
international  non-proliferation 
regime,  contribute  to  the  security  of  all  States  and 
increase  the  confidence  necessary  for  international 
cooperation in the exclusively peaceful uses of nuclear 
energy. 

Through  our  joint  action  under  the  European 
Union’s  Common  Foreign  and  Security  Policy,  we 
support  the  Agency’s  activities  in  nuclear  security, 
verification 
strengthening  of  national 
legislative  and 
the 
implementation  of  international  instruments  in  the 
areas  of  nuclear  security  and  control  of  nuclear  and 
other radioactive materials.  

Increasing the capabilities of States to detect and 
respond  to  illicit  trafficking  in  nuclear  and  other 
radioactive  materials 
field  of 
cooperation  between  the  European  Union  and  the 
Agency. 

The safety and security of radioactive sources and 
the  role  of  the  Code  of  Conduct  adopted  by  the 
Agency’s  General  Conference  in  2003  are  of  the 
utmost  importance.  The  European  Union  is  therefore 
committed  to  following  the  Code,  in  accordance  with 
the  European  Directive  on  the  control  of  highly 
radioactive  sealed  sources  and  orphan  sources.  The 
European  Union  urges  all  countries  to  declare  their 
political commitment to the Code and to implement the 
Guidance  on  the  Import  and  Export  of  Radioactive 
Sources. 
is  another  major 
regulatory 
infrastructures 
for 
the 
and 
the 
10 

07-56776 
its 



The Agency continues to be of critical importance 
to  the  global  fight  against  nuclear  terrorism  and  the 
spread of nuclear weapons. That is another reason why 
all  Agency  members  greatly  value 
impartial 
expertise. 

The  European  Union  regrets  that  more  than  a 
hundred  States  have  yet  to  sign  and  bring  into  force 
additional  protocols.  We  urge  those  States  to  do  so 
without delay. 

Just  last  July,  the  Agency  officially  turned  50 
years of age. As was underlined at the time, the Agency 
has  contributed  decisively  to  diminishing  all  the  risks 
associated  with  nuclear  activities  related  both  to  civil 
security issues and the global nuclear non-proliferation 
regime. The  European  Union takes this  opportunity to 
express its gratitude to the Agency for the benefits its 
work  have  brought  for  a  more  peaceful  and  safer 
world. 
The European Union reiterates its full support for 

the  Agency.  It  is  pleased  to  co-sponsor  the  draft 
resolution  on  this  year’s  report  of  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency. 
Mr.  Rosselli  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  It  is 

an  honour  for  me  to  make  this  statement  on  behalf  of 
the  Common  Market  of  the  South  (MERCOSUR)  and 
its associated States: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, 
Colombia,  Ecuador,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Uruguay  and 
Venezuela. 

Let  me  first  congratulate  Mr.  Kerim  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
convey  to  him  the  support  of  the  countries  to  which  I 
have just referred as he conducts his work.  
MERCOSUR and its associated States would also 

to 
thank  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  Director 
like 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA), 
today  and  his 
introduction of the Agency’s annual report on its work. 
MERCOSUR and its associated States would also like 
to  express 
the  presence  of 
Ambassador  Milenko  Skoknic  of  Chile,  who 
introduced  draft  resolution  A/62/L.5,  “Report  of  the 
International Atomic  Energy Agency”,  in  his  capacity 
as Chairman of the IAEA Board of Governors. 

The  International Atomic  Energy Agency,  which 
is celebrating its fiftieth anniversary, has become a key 
multilateral  forum  in  the  area  of  promoting  activities 
for  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy.  Our  countries 
for  his  presence  here 
their  gratitude 
for 
A/62/PV.36
on 
the  Director  General 
value  highly  their  relationships  with  the  Agency.  We 
congratulate 
the 
professionalism and impartiality with which he carries 
out his great responsibilities. 

It is important to maintain a balance between the 
Agency’s three main pillars: technology transfer, safety 
and verification. 

MERCOSUR and its associated States would like 
to  emphasize  the  need  for  all  States  parties  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT)  to  strictly  adhere  to  the  goals  of  nuclear 
disarmament,  non-proliferation  and  the  promotion  of 
the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. In that regard, we 
reiterate  the  inalienable  right  of  States  to  develop 
nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes  in  accordance 
with international commitments and in line with article 
IV of the NPT.  

I also emphasize that any attempt to redefine the 
delicate balance between Treaty rights and obligations  
that puts into question the legitimacy of the aspirations 
of  States  to  the  technological  development  of  nuclear 
energy  for  solely  peaceful  purposes  can  contribute  to 
undermining  the  system  established  by  the  Treaty, 
which enjoys widespread acceptance. 

initiatives to multilateralize the fuel cycle. 

MERCOSUR  and  its  associated  States  express 
their  full  support  for  the  authority  of  the  IAEA  as  the 
the 
competent  body 
obligations 
the 
safeguards 
agreements of respective member States. 

We  welcome  the  new  member  States  of  the 
IAEA:  the  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Burundi,  Nepal, 
Bahrain and Cape Verde. We also congratulate Ecuador 
on having been elected a member of the IAEA’s Board 
of Governors. 

We would also emphasize the value we attach to 
international  cooperation  and  technical  assistance  at 
the  multilateral  level  through  active  participation  and 
collaboration  with  the  IAEA’s  Technical  Cooperation 
Programme  and  the  Regional  Co-operative Agreement 
for 
the  Advancement  of  Nuclear  Science  and 
Technology in Latin America and the Caribbean, which 
has been chaired by Venezuela since last September. 

We are also pleased to acknowledge efforts by the 
Agency and  member States to strengthen international 
to  verify  compliance  with 
the  debate  regarding 
We  note  with 
interest 
entered 
into  under 
07-56776 

11 
to 
in 
the 
those 
relating 
efficiencies 
information 
A/62/PV.36 

cooperation  in  nuclear,  radiation  and  transport  safety 
and waste management. In particular, we would like to 
highlight  the  progress  made  in  the  various  activities 
aimed  at  maintaining  and  enhancing  security  —  for 
example, 
and 
communications  networks  for  radiation  and  nuclear 
safety  —  as  well  as  those  intended  to  strengthen 
national  regulatory  infrastructure  for  the  control  of 
radioactive sources. 

We  also  recognize  the  efforts  of  the  IAEA’s 
secretariat and member States in the areas of education 
and training on radiation and nuclear safety. 

We  would  also  like  to  point  to  the  effectiveness 
of the verification system implemented by the IAEA as 
a  mechanism  to  reassure  the  international  community 
about  the  peaceful  purposes  of  nuclear  programmes. 
Nevertheless,  we  believe  that,  with  the  assistance  of 
member  States,  efforts  must  continue  to  put  in  place 
greater 
implementation  of 
safeguards. 

Allow  me  to  refer  in  particular  to  the  Common 
System  for  Accounting  and  Control  of  Nuclear 
Materials  used  by  the  Argentine-Brazil  Agency  for 
Accounting  and  Control  of  Nuclear  Materials 
(ABACC), as well as the valuable cooperation between 
ABACC and the IAEA. 
We  also  wish  to  emphasize  the  IAEA’s  positive 

outcomes in achieving its goal of facilitating the use of 
nuclear  science  to  sustainably  address  the  socio-
economic needs of member States through the safe use 
of  nuclear  energy,  including  with  regard  to  food 
production, 
resources 
management,  environmental  protection  and  industrial 
applications. 

Faced  with  new  medium-term  projections  of  a 
substantial expansion in the use of nuclear power, and 
aware  that  access  to  adequate  and  reliable  sources  of 
energy  is  essential  for  development,  our  countries 
recognize  the  invaluable  support  that  the  Agency  can 
continue  to  give  member  States  that  are  exploring  the 
possibility  of  introducing  or  expanding  their  use  of 
nuclear energy. 

We also agree with the Agency’s assessment that 
scientific  and  technological  research  should  focus  on 
new  reactor  designs  of  varying  power  that  are  more 
efficient and more widely available, can be built more 
quickly and require lower capital investment. 
health,  water 
human 
installations.  Additionally,  we  welcome 

With regard to the management of spent fuel and 
waste, we believe that the management and disposal of 
this long-term fuel remains a challenge in view of the 
rising  expectations  of  nuclear  power  and  rising 
inventories of spent fuel. We appreciate the efforts that 
the  secretariat  continues  to  make  on  options  for  the 
final  geological  disposal  of  high-activity  waste,  long-
term waste or spent fuel. 

We also acknowledge the work done by the IAEA 
in  the  area  of  safety  and  security  of  nuclear  materials 
and 
the 
improvement  it  has  made  in  regard  to  the  safety  of 
nuclear  installations  and  the  safe  maintenance  of 
nuclear materials. 

We would like to draw attention to the September 
2006 publication of “Fundamental Safety Principles”, a 
set of 10 new principles which consolidate and replace 
the  previous  publication  on  the  subject  and  constitute 
the  basis  of  requirements  for  the  safety  of  nuclear 
installations  as  well  as  action  to  be  taken  to  protect 
people and the environment from exposure to ionizing 
radiation. 
Finally, let me express our support for the IAEA’s 

efforts  against  nuclear  and  radiological  terrorism,  and 
our  support  for  its  activities  aimed  at  promoting  the 
universal application of international legal instruments 
relating to the physical protection of nuclear materials 
and facilities and radioactive sources. 

the honour to speak on behalf of the African Group.  

the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  Mr. 
ElBaradei, for presenting its report for 2006 and for the 
update on developments in 2007. We also commend the 
IAEA for the efficient discharge of its mandate. 
The growing interest of Member States in nuclear 

energy  as  a  source  of  electricity  heightens 
the 
responsibility  of  the  IAEA,  which  should  support  the 
process  of  strengthening  developing  countries’  use  of 
nuclear energy to meet their needs while mitigating the 
environmental  impact  of  increased  energy  production 
and consumption. 

the 
reliability  of  nuclear  power  plants  around  the  world, 
especially of previously shut-down reactors, and plant-
life  management  for  long-term  operation.  We  urge  all 
reliability  assessment 
Member  States  performing 
Mr.  Ehouzou  (Benin)  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
the  Director  General  of 
We  welcome  measures 
to  ensure 
thank 
taken 
We 
12 

07-56776 
to 
is  making  efforts 
to  member  States  for 


procedures to fully involve the IAEA in order to ensure 
that  the  highest  standards  of  safety  and  security  are 
observed.  We  welcome  the  extension  of  assistance 
offered by the Integrated Regulatory Review Service. 

The decommissioning of nuclear facilities should 
be  carried  out  in  full  awareness  of  the  threats  facing 
humankind, especially nuclear terrorism. We commend 
the  assistance  offered 
the 
evaluation  and  decommissioning  of  former  nuclear 
facilities  and  also  for  cleaning  up  sites  of  dismantled 
nuclear  power  plants.  We  rely  fully  on  the  IAEA  for 
steps  to  harmonize  safety  standards  and  strengthen 
regulatory  infrastructure.  We  are  pleased  to  note  that 
the  IAEA 
identify  —  and 
appropriately respond to — key challenges in this field. 

The  growing  interest  in  nuclear  energy  as  a 
source of electricity increases the importance of efforts 
to  develop  innovative  technologies  for  nuclear  power 
generation. In this respect, we welcome the upgrading 
of  the  IAEA’s  International  Project  on  Innovative 
Nuclear  Reactors  and  Fuel  Cycles  to  its  Phase-II, 
aimed at ensuring improved economy and safety, with 
a  special  focus  on  the  development  of  small  and 
intermediate-sized reactors that are safe and affordable. 
Africa  has  made  a  significant  contribution  to  these 
efforts.  In  this  context,  we  commend  South Africa  for 
the  development  of  the  165  megawatt  pebble  bed 
modular reactor. 
We  urge  the  IAEA  to  enhance  its  research  and 

development  activities 
to  find  reliable 
solutions  to  the  problems  of  the  management  of  spent 
fuel and high- level waste in order to preserve the life 
cycle on earth. In the same vein, we welcome various 
proposals aimed at establishing reliable supply sources 
of nuclear fuel, including that concerning the creation, 
under the auspices of the IAEA, of a real or virtual fuel 
bank that would operate  on the basis of apolitical and 
non-discriminatory  non-proliferation 
criteria.  We 
encourage  the  Agency  to  take  the  lead  in  developing 
credible international supply options to induce member 
States to build mutual trust in this area. 

transparency  and 
completely  depoliticize  the  supply  of  nuclear  fuel  for 
peaceful use. They also secure the inalienable rights of 
developing  countries,  in  keeping  with  agreed  nuclear 
non-proliferation  norms.  We  support  the  incremental 
approach,  with  multiple 
in  place, 
recommended  by  the  Director  General,  and  welcome 
Such  endeavours 
assurances 
in  order 
increase 
A/62/PV.36
the 
of 
about 
interest 
knowledge 
pest-control 
and  water 
We  note  with  great 
the  establishment  of 
International  Steering 
Committee  on  Denials  of  Shipments  of  Radioactive 
Materials to ensure that decisions made in this area are 
scrutinized, to the benefit of all parties involved. 

the  Agency’s 
activities  as  regards  the  development  and  sharing  of 
other  peaceful  applications  of  nuclear  energy, 
especially  in  the  fields  of  medicine,  food  supply  and 
agriculture, 
resource 
management.  We  encourage  the Agency  to  step  up  its 
efforts  to  mobilize  resources  to  enable  the  broad 
dissemination 
available 
applications.  We  thank  the  generous  donors  who 
contributed  to  the  increase  registered  in  the  resources 
mobilized for this purpose in 2007. 

Notwithstanding  the  efforts  made  to  enhance  the 
safety  and  security  of  nuclear  energy  activities, 
incidents  and  emergencies  cannot  yet  be 
totally 
excluded. The  IAEA  has  carried  out  various  measures 
to enhance preparedness, as well as early and adequate 
responses. We urge Member States to fully support the 
steps  it  has  taken.  In  this  respect,  we  call  for  the 
universality  of  the  international  legal  instruments  on 
nuclear safety and security.  
technical 

cooperation  activities  developed  by 
the  Agency, 
particularly the adoption by the Commission on Safety 
Standards  of  a  roadmap  for  updating  the  transport 
regulations, and publishing a new edition in 2009, and 
the inter-agency cooperation to this end. 
The  African  Group  attaches  great  importance  to 

initiatives  by  the  Agency  to  assist  member  States  to 
improve  their  radiation  detection  capabilities  with 
handheld and fixed instruments. Such assistance should 
be  extended  to African  countries  in  the  framework  of 
the  implementation  of  Security  Council  resolution 
1540 (2004).  

As regards verification activities, the Agency has 
fully  demonstrated  that  it  is  the  sole  international 
authority  on  which  the  international  community  can 
rely  for  assurances  regarding  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear  materials.  We  call  on  all  States  that  are 
developing  nuclear  activities  to  conclude  with  the 
Agency comprehensive safeguards agreements in order 
to  bring  about  the  universalization  of  the  safeguards 
system. We encourage all States to conclude additional 
protocols  and  to  cooperate  fully  with  the  Agency  for 
their implementation.  
the  wide  variety  of 
We  welcome 
07-56776 

13 
in 
A/62/PV.36 


The African Group welcomes the efforts made by 
the Agency to promote such cooperation. We rely on it 
to  pursue  implementation  of  the  Declaration  and  Plan 
of Action that African Energy Ministers adopted at the 
ministerial  Conference  held  in  Algiers  on  9  and  10 
January 2007. The Ministers pledged in the Declaration 
to  promote  and  enhance  nuclear  safety  and  security 
within a global approach aiming at accountable use of 
nuclear  energy 
full 
for  peaceful  purposes 
compliance with the non-proliferation norms. 

Finally, the African Group stresses the need for a 
cooperative approach to the settlement of international 
disputes  related  to  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy, 
and  welcomes  recent  progress  with  regard  to  current 
cases under consideration. We welcome the prospect of 
the  return  of  IAEA  personnel  to  conduct  monitoring 
and  verification  in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea,  as  agreed  between  the  Agency  and  that 
country. 
We  call  for  the  implementation  of  the  General 

Assembly  resolutions  on 
the  establishment  of  a 
nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle  East,  and  for 
the  full  cooperation  of  all  parties  concerned  for  the 
peaceful settlement of all pending issues in this regard. 

In conclusion, the African Group reaffirms its full 
support  for  the  Director  General  of  the  IAEA  and  the 
endorsement  by  African  States  of 
the  Agency’s 
indispensable  role  in  assisting  developing  countries, 
particularly  African  States,  in  the  peaceful  practical 
application  of  atomic  energy  and  the  acquisition  of 
related technologies. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian): We are glad to welcome the Director General 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA), 
Mr.  ElBaradei,  and  to  thank  him  for  presenting  the 
Agency’s annual report.  

Russia was one of the founders of the IAEA and 
has always actively supported its work. Over the half-
century  of  its  existence,  the  Agency  has  become  a 
prominent and influential organization. Today it enjoys 
well-deserved  authority  and  seeks  to  ensure  that 
nuclear  energy  is  used  in  the  safest  possible  way,  and 
exclusively  for  peaceful  purposes.  Its  activities  are 
marked by a high degree of professionalism and lack of 
political opportunism. We are sure that during this age 
of  renaissance  of  nuclear  energy  the  IAEA’s  role  and 
importance will grow. We commend the efforts of Mr. 
law  entitled  “On 
the  Ratification  of 
ElBaradei,  to  whom  the  Agency  largely  owes  its 
success.  

The IAEA is a unique international body with the 
authority  to  assess  compliance  by  States  with  their 
nuclear non-proliferation obligations under the Nuclear 
Non-Proliferation  Treaty  (NPT).  We  favour  further 
development  of  its  verification  mechanism  and  its 
oversight activities. Special attention must continue to 
be  given  to  universalization  of  the  additional  protocol 
to the Safeguards Agreement as an essential instrument 
for  increasing  the  efficiency  of  the  IAEA  safeguards 
activities to verify compliance by States with their NPT 
obligations. 

On  3  October  this  year  the  President  of  the 
Russian  Federation,  Mr.  Vladimir  Putin,  signed  a 
federal 
the 
Additional  Protocol  between  the  Russian  Federation 
and  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  to  the 
Agreement  between  the  Union  of  Soviet  Socialist 
Republics and the International Atomic Energy Agency 
on  the  Application  of  Safeguards  in  the  Union  of 
Soviet  Socialist  Republics”.  The  law  was  adopted  by 
the State Duma on 14 September and approved by the 
Council of the Federation on 19 September. 

is  a 
practical  contribution  by  Russia  to  strengthening  the 
IAEA’s  verification  capabilities  as  regards  compliance 
by  the  NPT  States  parties  with  their  non-proliferation 
obligations.  The  additional  protocol  to  the  agreement 
on  IAEA  safeguards  is  an  effective  measure  to  ensure 
confidence  by  the  international  community  in  the  use 
of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, and in timely 
identification  of  undeclared  nuclear  activities.  We 
regard its universalization as one of the important areas 
of non-proliferation activities. 
Russia  has  given,  and  will  continue  to  give, 

assistance 
the  IAEA  safeguards 
system,  which  is  25  years  old  this  year.  Means  of 
providing 
its  national 
programme  of  scientific  and  technological  support  for 
the safeguards. 

The  threat  that  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
(WMDs) may fall into the hands of terrorists increases 
the  urgency  of  effective  international  efforts  in  the 
field  of  non-proliferation.  The  inhumanity  of  terrorist 
acts,  including  those  in  Russia,  shows  the  need  for 
reliable safeguards to prevent terrorists gaining access 
to  WMDs,  mainly  through  consolidation  of  joint 
the  additional  protocol 
in  strengthening 
Ratification  of 
that 
assistance 
include 
14 

07-56776 
the 
the 
Initiative 
This  year 
the  Convention  on 


actions  to  create  a  global  system  to  address  new 
challenges  and  threats  —  in  particular,  in  the  nuclear 
field.  

In  this  regard,  we  note  the  development  of  the 
Global  Initiative  to  Combat  Nuclear  Terrorism,  put 
forward  by  the  Presidents  of  Russia  and  the  United 
States,  which  has  already  been  subscribed  to  by  62 
States.  It  primarily  seeks  to  mobilize  the  efforts  of 
States to fulfil their obligations under the International 
Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  Acts  of  Nuclear 
the  Physical 
Terrorism  and 
Protection  of  Nuclear  Material.  We  believe 
that 
implementation  of 
is  significantly 
strengthening  and  expanding  the  work  done  by  the 
IAEA, which has observer status to the Initiative.  

We are pleased with the expansion of interaction 
between the IAEA and the Security Council Committee 
established by the Council’s resolution 1540 (2004) on 
the non-proliferation of WMDs. 

IAEA  has  given  significant 
attention to developing its efforts to ensure compliance 
with non-proliferation norms. In the nuclear field, this 
means the development of practical measures to ensure 
access  to  the  benefits  of  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
energy  for  countries  that  faithfully  comply  with  their 
commitments. 
The initiative by the Russian President, Mr. Putin, 

to develop a global nuclear energy infrastructure, with 
the  creation  of  international  centres  providing  nuclear 
fuel cycle services, is designed to carry out that task. It 
envisages  creating  international  centres  to  provide 
nuclear fuel  cycle  services. As a  first step, Russia has 
established 
international  uranium 
enrichment centre. It will give States the possibility of 
guaranteed access to uranium enrichment capacities to 
meet their nuclear fuel requirements, without the need 
to  set  up  their  own  nuclear  fuel  cycles.  Founded  by 
Russia  and  Kazakhstan,  the  centre  is  open  for  the 
participation  of  third  parties,  without  any  political 
conditions.  It  is  now  completing  the  IAEA  safeguards 
compliance procedures. 

initiatives  aimed  at 
resolving  the  issue  of  large-scale  development  of 
nuclear energy based on international cooperation. The 
United  States-Russia  Declaration  on  Nuclear  Energy 
and Non-proliferation Joint Actions, adopted on 3 July 
this year, aims at merging those initiatives to establish 
a  new  format  for  international  interaction  in  nuclear 
We  also  support  other 
in  Angarsk  an 
A/62/PV.36
to 
in 
the 
framework  of 
important  role 
in 
and  Fuel  Cycles 
The  IAEA  plays  an 
in  solving  problems  of 
initiative  on  energy  support  for 
We  support  IAEA  activities  in  the  area  of 
the 
energy development. All interested States — those that 
have  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle  and  nuclear  technologies 
and  those  that  only  plan  to  use  nuclear  energy  —  can 
take part in that work. 

the 
development  of  innovative  nuclear  technologies  in 
support  of  the  International  Project  on  Innovative 
Nuclear  Reactors 
(INPRO) 
the  Russian 
implemented 
President’s 
the 
sustainable  development  of  humankind,  a  very 
important  step 
the  non-
proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons  and 
the  earth’s 
environmental recovery. 

We  commend  the  progress  made  in  recent  years 
in  regard 
to  nuclear  safety.  With  active  IAEA 
participation,  it  has  become  possible  to  achieve  great 
success in increasing the safety of nuclear power plant 
operation  and  the  handling  of  radioactive  materials, 
sources and wastes. 

technical  cooperation  with  and  assistance 
developing countries. 

aspects of the activities of the IAEA. 

for  comprehensive 
approaches.  That  is  true  of  the  situation  around  the 
Iranian  nuclear  programme.  We  are  pleased  with  the 
cooperation that has begun between Iran and the IAEA 
to  resolve 
issues.  Agreeing  and 
implementing  the  work  plan  between  the Agency  and 
Tehran is a step in the right direction. The search for a 
comprehensive  political  and  diplomatic  solution  to 
Iran’s  nuclear  programme  must  continue,  and  the 
emerging positive trends must be bolstered. There is no 
alternative to the peaceful resolution of this problem.  

A graphic example of that is the situation around 
the  nuclear  programme  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea. On the whole, we assess positively 
the  work  done  in  the  format  of  the  Six-Party Talks  to 
resolve  the  nuclear  problem  of  the  Korean  Peninsula. 
The 
stage  of  denuclearization  has  been 
accomplished successfully. Concrete steps must now be 
taken to implement the second stage. 

I reaffirm our support  for the draft resolution on 
the  IAEA  report. As  a  sponsor  of  the  draft  resolution, 
Russia fully believes in the importance of the Agency’s 
I  should  also  like  to  mention  certain  prominent 
Complex  problems  call 
the  outstanding 
first 
07-56776 

15 
the  past  half  century, 
A/62/PV.36 

work,  and  is  sure  that  it  will  be  continued,  in  the 
interest of strengthening international security. 
Mr.  Cheng  Jingye  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

First,  the  Chinese  delegation  expresses  its  sincere 
thanks  to  Mr.  ElBaradei,  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for  his 
detailed report on the work of the IAEA during the past 
year. 
This  year  marks  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the 

IAEA.  Over 
it  has  had 
remarkable  achievements  in  promoting  the  peaceful 
uses of nuclear energy and preventing the proliferation 
of  nuclear  weapons.  The  international  community 
greatly  appreciates  its  work  and  achievements.  On 
behalf  of 
the  Chinese  delegation,  I  extend  my 
congratulations  to  the  IAEA. As  it  always  has,  China 
will  support  the  IAEA  in  playing  a  greater  role  in  the 
promotion  in  a  balanced  manner  of  the  two  major 
objectives to which I have referred. 

We are pleased to note that the IAEA made much 
progress  in  technical  cooperation  in  2006,  when  there 
was  a  clear  increase  over  the  previous  year  in  new 
technical  cooperation  resources, the  rate of  attainment 
and  the  rate  of  programme  implementation.  Technical 
cooperation  programmes  have  made  a  positive 
contribution  to  the  promotion  of  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear  energy  by  member  States.  We  hope  that  the 
IAEA  will  make  more  inputs  and  spur  member  States 
to attach greater importance to technical cooperation. 

China  maintains  comprehensive  cooperation  in 
the peaceful uses of nuclear energy with the IAEA and 
member  States.  China 
and 
participates in technical cooperation programmes under 
the  aegis  of  the  IAEA.  In  2006,  China  carried  out  26 
national technical cooperation projects and 50 regional 
and transregional projects in nuclear power generation, 
nuclear  physics,  nuclear  chemistry  and  nuclear 
engineering technologies. 
China  has  always  supported  and  taken  part  in 

IAEA activities to enhance nuclear security and safety. 
In 2006 China began participation in the IAEA’s Illicit 
Trafficking  Database,  relating  to  nuclear  and  other 
radioactive  materials.  We  also  established  in  Beijing 
the  Joint  Training  Centre  on  Nuclear  Safeguards  and 
Security,  which  will  not  only  train  experts  on  nuclear 
security and safeguards for China, but will also provide 
relevant services to other member States in the region.  
supports 
actively 
strengthen 
the  universality 
and 
issues.  In  addition 
the  IAEA’s  objective  and 

China  has  also  made  specific  arrangements  with 
the  IAEA  on  nuclear  security  cooperation.  The  two 
sides will cooperate on nuclear security at major public 
events, including the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games. 

With  regard  to  nuclear  non-proliferation,  China 
supports  the  IAEA’s  unremitting  efforts  to  strengthen 
the  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of  the  safeguards 
system.  It  is  our  hope  that  the  IAEA  will  further 
improve 
and 
effectiveness of the additional protocol system. 
The  IAEA  has  also  played  an  important  role  in 

resolving  regional  nuclear 
to 
conducting monitoring and verification on the shutting 
down and sealing of the Yongbyon nuclear facilities in 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  it  has 
made  progress  with  Iran  in  clarifying  outstanding 
issues  concerning  that  country’s  nuclear  programme. 
China  appreciates 
just 
positions  in  addressing  relevant  issues,  and  supports 
the Agency in continuing its efforts. 

China  takes  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm  its 
support  for  preservation  of  the  international  nuclear 
non-proliferation  regimes,  as  well  as  its  opposition  to 
the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons.  We  believe  that 
regional  nuclear  issues  should  be  resolved  peacefully 
through  diplomatic  negotiations  on 
the  basis  of 
dialogue and consultation on an equal footing, so as to 
maintain  global  and  regional  security  and  stability. 
Together  with  other  parties  concerned,  China  will 
continue to play a constructive role in the resolution of 
such issues. 
Mr.  Benítez  Versón  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

This  debate  is  taking  place  at  a  special  time.  We  are 
celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  which  deserves  our 
recognition  for  its  important  role  on  the  international 
scene.  

IAEA. We will continue to fully support its work. 

The  world  is  in  the  midst  of  an  unprecedented 
energy  crisis.  We  must  take  urgent  action.  Oil  prices 
are  rising  daily,  having  reached  levels  unimaginable 
just a few years ago. Today there is a greater need than 
ever for feasible alternatives and sustainable sources of 
energy.  In  that  regard,  Cuba  commends  the  efforts 
made  in  the  framework  of  the  IAEA  for  capacity-
Cuba is proud of being a founding member of the 
16 

07-56776 
the  coordinated 
increasing  awareness  of  electricity 


building  and 
generation by nuclear power.  

We reject any attempt to use the supply of nuclear 
fuel as a means of political or economic coercion, or as 
a way to establish a monopoly over its distribution by a 
few countries. 
Cuba  attaches  special  importance  to  cooperation 

between developing countries. We reiterate our support 
for  the  Regional  Co-operative  Agreement  for  the 
Advancement  of  Nuclear  Science  and  Technology  in 
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  (ARCAL)  as  a  key 
mechanism to foster cooperation in matters of nuclear 
energy  for  peaceful  purposes  among  the  countries  of 
Latin American and the Caribbean. 
The  results  of  implementation  of  the  action  plan 

for  the  strategic  alliance  between  ARCAL  and  the 
IAEA  are  remarkable,  as  is  its  first  specific  outcome, 
elaboration  of  the  regional  strategic  framework  for 
Latin  America  and 
the  Caribbean.  Cuba  also 
participates  actively 
research 
in 
programmes,  whose  importance  and  effectiveness  are 
unquestionable. 
We acknowledge the IAEA’s efforts to strengthen 

infrastructure 
to  address  radiological  emergencies. 
Cuba will continue to contribute to that objective with 
experts and in other ways. 

seventeenth 
anniversary of the Cuban health programme to provide 
treatment  to  children  from  the  areas  affected  by  the 
Chernobyl  accident.  Under  this  programme,  23,000 
patients  —  mainly  from  the  Ukraine,  Russia  and 
Belarus  —  have  been  treated  in  our  country.  We 
reiterate  Cuba’s  readiness  to  continue  sharing  our 
specialists’  vast  expertise  acquired 
this 
programme. 
The  criminal  and  illegal  economic,  commercial 

and 
financial  blockade 
the  United  States 
Government has imposed on Cuba for the last 47 years 
directly affects the technical cooperation that the IAEA 
provides  to  Cuba. The  blockade  significantly  impedes 
our country’s purchase of equipment and reagents. Last 
year  there  were  several  new  cases  of  United  States 
companies, or companies from other countries but with 
some United States capital, refusing to sell to the IAEA 
equipment bound for Cuba. Likewise, the United States 
authorities denied visas to Cuban specialists to prevent 
This  year  we 
celebrate 
through 
that 
the 
A/62/PV.36
in 
IAEA 
the 
Cuba 
technical 
reiterates 
important 
to  verify 
the  efforts  of 
Cuba  welcomes 
their  participation 
meetings held on United States territory. 

rejection  of 
its  categorical 
political  manipulation  of  IAEA  technical  cooperation. 
Such manipulation is contrary to the Agency’s Statute. 

The inalienable right of States to the peaceful use 
of  nuclear  energy,  without  discrimination  and  in 
accordance with their respective legal obligations, must 
be strictly respected.  

Attempts  by  some  to  prejudge  the  peaceful  or 
non-peaceful  nature  of  certain  countries’  nuclear 
programmes  are  unacceptable.  The  IAEA  is  the  only 
authority  competent 
fulfilment  of 
obligations  incurred  under  the  respective  safeguards 
agreements of member States. No State, no matter how 
powerful,  can  usurp  this  mandate.  There  must  be  no 
pressure  of  any  sort  or  wrongful  interference  in  the 
Agency’s  working  methods  that  may  compromise  its 
efficiency and credibility. 

the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  and  the  IAEA’s  secretariat  to  settle 
outstanding issues. We commend and support the work 
plan agreed by the two parties. The intensive talks that 
led to its adoption prove the willingness of both parties 
to advance constructively towards a rational solution. 

Some  States  furiously  hastened  to  disqualify  the 
text of the agreement, even before it was published, in 
a  clear  challenge  to  the  favourable  opinion  of  the 
majority  of  the  international  community.  We  reiterate 
our opposition to any attempt to make the resolution of 
this issue — or any negotiation — contingent on Iran’s 
unilateral suspension of its nuclear fuel cycle activities. 
That  is  discriminatory  and  illegal,  and  it  violates  the 
principle of the sovereign  equality of States enshrined 
in  the  Charter.  Only  unconditional  dialogue,  on  the 
basis  of  equality  and  mutual  respect,  will  lead  to  a 
resolution of this matter. 

Moreover,  we  reiterate  our  support  for  the  Six-
Party Talks to find a long-term solution to the Korean 
nuclear  question  through  diplomacy  and  dialogue.  In 
this  regard,  Cuba  welcomes  the  agreements  for  the 
denuclearization  of  the  Korean  Peninsula,  in  whose 
implementation the IAEA has a key role. 

Despite the proclaimed end of the cold war, there 
are  30,000  nuclear  weapons  in  the  world,  more  than 
12,000 of which are ready for immediate use. Nuclear-
weapon  modernization  programmes  have  not  stopped. 
07-56776 

17 
to  be  relegated 
Having  reviewed 
the  annual  report  of 
A/62/PV.36 

The  mere  existence  of  nuclear  weapons  and  the 
doctrines  prescribing  their  possession  and  use  are  a 
serious threat to international peace and security. 

Cuba  rejects  the  selective  application  of  the 
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Questions related to 
nuclear  disarmament  and  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
energy  cannot  continue 
to 
the 
background,  while  horizontal  non-proliferation 
is 
favoured. Nuclear disarmament is, and should continue 
to be, the highest disarmament priority. 
I  conclude  by  reiterating  Cuba’s  full  support  for 

the IAEA’s important work in promoting the peaceful, 
safe use of nuclear energy. 
Mr. Al-Murad (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): Today 

the  General  Assembly  is  discussing  an  important 
agenda item closely linked with principle on which the 
United  Nations  was  founded  —  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. 

the 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the State 
of  Kuwait  wishes  to  convey  its  sincerest  appreciation 
to the Director General, Mr. Mohamed ElBaradei, and 
all  its  staff  for  their  efforts.  We  thank  them  for  their 
tireless  work  to  achieve  the  objectives  and  aspirations 
of the world’s peoples and States by strengthening the 
principle of the peaceful use of nuclear energy for the 
positive benefit of humanity. 

permanent 
representative  of  Chile  to  the  Agency,  Mr.  Milenko 
Skoknic,  on  his  election  as  Chairman  of  its  Board  of 
Governors,  and  we  thank  him  for  submitting  the  draft 
resolution on the Agency’s 2006 report. My country is 
a sponsor of the draft resolution. 
Since  acceding  to  the  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation 

Treaty (NPT) on 15 August 1986, the State of Kuwait 
has  concentrated  its  cooperation  with  the  Agency’s 
Department 
on 
implementation  of  a  set  of  projects  dealing  with 
building  its  own  capacities  and  establishing  special 
laboratories 
level  of  radioactive 
isotopes found in Kuwait’s water and soil. 
importance  of  preparing 

national  qualified  cadres  in  the  prevention  of  nuclear 
radioactivity  and  the  safe  handling  of  radioactive 
materials,  my  country  took  the  initiative  during  the 
past 
in 
cooperation  with  the  IAEA.  We  are  also  eager  to 
to  host  regional  workshops, 
Convinced  of 
congratulate 
Cooperation 
to  measure 
three  years 
Technical 
the 
We 
also 
of 
the 
the 
of 
by 
the 
the 
note 
foundation 
continue  sending  trainees  to  participate  in  training 
courses held at the Agency’s headquarters. 

Through  its  nuclear  technology  programme,  the 
Agency  is  playing  a  key  role  in  the  exchange  and 
transfer  of  nuclear  information  and  know-how  to 
member States, especially to developing countries. The 
programme aims to facilitate the use of nuclear science 
and  related  technologies  and  to  sustainably  meet  the 
economic  and  social  needs  of  member  States  through 
the  safe  use  of  nuclear  power  in  the  fields  of  energy, 
food  production,  human  health  care,  water  resources 
management,  environmental  protection, 
industrial 
applications and nuclear medicine. 

The efforts of the Agency under the three pillars 
of its mandate — technology, safety and verification — 
constitute 
to  guarantee  nuclear 
technology’s  contribution  to  the  promotion  of  peace, 
health  and  prosperity.  In  that  context,  we  endorse  the 
contents  of  the  Agency’s  annual  report  for  2006, 
transmitted 
the  Secretary-
General(A/62/258),  with  regard  to  the  application  of 
nuclear science and technology to treat cancer.  
The  Agency’s  Programme  of  Action  for  Cancer 

Therapy (PACT) seeks to assist developing countries to 
incorporate  radiation 
the  wider 
framework  of  preventing  and  combating  cancer.  In 
2006  it  helped  to  raise  awareness  about  the  rampant 
spread of cancer in the developing world and the need 
for  comprehensive  and  multi-specialized  planning  to 
combat  it.  We  commend  the  efforts  to  raise  funds  for 
PACT, including the number of scholarships, donations 
and  material  and  in-kind  contributions  that  have  been 
secured. We acknowledge the contribution of the Fund 
for  International  Development  of  the  Organization  of 
Petroleum  Exporting  Countries, 
in  which  Kuwait 
participates actively, contributing $500,000 to PACT. 

There is no doubt that in playing the vital role of 
preventing  the  use  of  nuclear  power  for  military 
purposes,  and  promoting  its  safest  possible  use  for 
peaceful  purposes,  the  IAEA  cannot  achieve  its  goals 
without concerted efforts by all States.   We  note  with 
increased  regret  that  calls  by  the  Agency  on  some 
countries  carrying  out  advanced  nuclear  activities  to 
adhere 
the  IAEA’s 
safeguards  regime  are  going  unheeded.  That  has  an 
adverse effect on international peace and security.  
In that context, the Middle East region will never 

achieve its goal of peace and stability as long as Israel 
treatment  within 
the  NPT  and 
implement 
to 
18 

07-56776 


remains  the  only  country  in  the  region  that  refuses  to 
subject  its  facilities  to  the  IAEA’s  safeguards  regime. 
That  is  a  major  obstacle  to  achieving  the  universality 
of  the  NPT,  one  that  greatly  disrupts  the  effort  to 
strengthen  the  NPT  regime.  The  continuation  of  that 
irregular situation could be an incentive to other States 
of  the  region  to  attempt  to  acquire  or  build  nuclear 
weapons on the pretext of the Agency’s overlooking, or 
being lax in dealing with, countries that refuse to open 
their installations to inspection.  

Israel’s  intransigence  in  refusing  to  cooperate 
with the IAEA could lead to more anxiety and tensions 
in  the  Middle  East  region  and  undermine  the  ongoing 
calls  by  other  States  regarding  the  need  to  free  the 
Middle  East,  including  the  Gulf  region,  from  all 
weapons of mass destruction, while acknowledging the 
right  of  States  of  the  region  to  acquire  the  necessary 
experience  in  the  use  of  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes.  Such  knowledge  must  be  made  available  to 
all  within  the  framework  of  relevant  international 
conventions. 

In that regard, I note that the Supreme Council of 
the Arab Gulf Cooperation Council has recommended a 
joint  study  by  its  member  countries  to  create  a  joint 
programme  in  the  field  of  nuclear  technology  for 
peaceful  purposes,  in  accordance  with  international 
standards and regimes. 

With  regard  to  the  Iranian  nuclear  issue,  on  the 
basis  of  our  belief  in  the  need  to  respect  international 
legitimacy  and  the  principle  of  resolving  conflicts  by 
peaceful  means,  the  State  of  Kuwait  calls  upon  the 
international community to join its efforts and continue 
to work to find a peaceful solution to the crisis, thereby 
sparing  the  Gulf  region  any  crisis  that  can  disrupt 
security and stability.  

We  welcome  the  recent  agreement  between  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran and the IAEA as an important 
step in dispelling fears and doubts with regard to Iran’s 
nuclear  programme.  We  hope 
that  dialogue  and 
cooperation will continue in a transparent manner until 
all international issues and concerns are addressed. We 
also  hope  that  sufficient  time  will  be  accorded  to 
diplomacy, so as to ensure that a peaceful solution can 
be 
and 
responsibility  on  all  sides.  We  hope  for  a  successful 
outcome  of  the  discussions  currently  taking  place  in 
Tehran between Iranian officials and a delegation from 
the IAEA. 
flexibility,  wisdom 
implemented  with 
A/62/PV.36
of 
all 
(Peru) 
(spoke 
implementation 
Mr.  Chávez  Basagoitia

In  concluding,  I  express  my  country’s  hope  that 
the  international  community  will  continue  to  support 
the work of the IAEA to ensure the complete and non-
selective 
international 
agreements  pertaining  to  disarmament,  including  the 
NPT  and  its  three  main  pillars:  nuclear  disarmament, 
non-proliferation  and  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy. 
in 

Spanish): The delegation of Peru expresses its gratitude 
for  the  presence  of  the  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and  for 
his  presentation  of  the  annual  report  on  the Agency’s 
work. 

We  also  thank  Ambassador  Milenko  Skoknic  of 
Chile  for  his  introduction  of  the  draft  resolution 
“Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency” in 
his  capacity  as  Chairperson  of  the  IAEA’s  Board  of 
Governors. 

My delegation associates itself with the statement 
made by the representative of Uruguay on behalf of the 
Common Market of the South and its associated States.  

Peru is firmly committed to all efforts to achieve 
comprehensive  disarmament  and  the  non-proliferation 
of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, and their 
delivery  systems,  which  pose  a  threat  to  international 
peace  and  security.  With  regard  to  the  effort  to 
establish a robust and credible international regime, we 
would  refer  to  our  participation  in  the  Treaty  for  the 
Prohibition  of  Nuclear Weapons  in  Latin America  and 
the  Caribbean,  which  countries  of  our  region  have 
signed  and  ratified.  The  spirit  of  that  Treaty  has 
inspired  other  regions,  and  should  continue  to  guide 
them  in  achieving  their  objectives  of  peace  and 
security.  

Peru  also  participates  in  the  Andean  Zone  of 
Peace  and  the  South  American  Zone  of  Peace  and 
Cooperation  initiatives,  which  the  General  Assembly 
has supported on various occasions. 

that  nuclear 
proliferation  poses  to  the  international  regime.  We 
therefore attach the utmost importance to strengthening 
all  aspects  of  the  regime,  and  will  continue  to 
contribute to that effort. In that regard, we reiterate our 
concern  about  the  current  stalemate  in  disarmament 
negotiations.  We  also  reiterate  our  call  for  joint 
We  are  aware  of 
the  danger 
07-56776 

19 
in 
the 
the 
towards 
international 
fulfilment  of 
A/62/PV.36 

progress 
commitments. 

With  regard  to  nuclear  energy,  the  international 
community  has  seen  how 
intergovernmental 
organization  Atoms  for  Peace,  created  in  1957,  has 
become  the  global  centre  of  nuclear  cooperation  and 
how the IAEA is currently the principal instrument that 
the international community relies upon to prevent the 
proliferation  of  nuclear  arms  and  to  counter  new 
threats of nuclear terrorism. 
Peru,  as  a  founding  member  of  the  IAEA,  has 

actively contributed to its objectives, principally in the 
application of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, in 
the  regulation  of  its  use  through  adequate  safety 
measures,  and 
the  application  of  verification, 
safeguards and physical protection. 

Peru would like to point out the support that the 
IAEA offers in its work to foster the development and 
practical  application  of  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes  and  to  offer  assistance  in  the  transfer  of 
technology 
to  developing  countries.  My  country 
benefits from this important technical cooperation with 
the  IAEA,  through  the  Peruvian  Institute  of  Nuclear 
Energy and other related institutions. 
As  a  sign  of  its  commitment  to  the  need  to 

the 
improve 
the  Non-
international  regime  of 
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), Peru, signed, 
in 1999, the additional protocol to the IAEA safeguards 
agreements,  as  a  contribution  to  the  objectives  of  the 
non-proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons.  As  a  result,  in 
2006, Peru applied integrated safeguards. 

Peru  believes  that  the  role  of  the  IAEA  can  be 
strengthened  so  that  it  may  serve  as  the  main  conduit 
for  the  transfer  of  nuclear  technology,  with  a  view  to 
increasing  cooperation  in  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
energy. New challenges and realities make it necessary 
to  review  the  role  that  the  IAEA  should  play  in  the 
future in the areas of physical safety of nuclear waste, 
the 
trafficking  of  nuclear  material  and 
verification in nuclear-free zones. 

In  this  regard,  Peru  supports  actions  within  the 
United Nations to prevent the proliferation of weapons 
of mass destruction by State and non-State actors. 
the 
implementation  of 
It  also  aims 
international 
mechanisms 
existing 
instruments,  such  as  the  NPT,  as  well  as  international 
the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of 
to  see 
adopted 
the  Treaty  on 
the 
in 
illicit 
to 
the 
the 
that 
return 
that  country’s 
implementation  of 
disarmament commitments. We encourage transparency 
in nuclear matters and confidence-building measures to 
this end. 

Specifically,  Peru  continues  to  favour  dialogue 
and  negotiation  to  ensure  compliance  with  Security 
Council  resolutions  and  commitments  to  the  IAEA. 
Peru is therefore pleased with progress on the issue of 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and 
IAEA 
welcomes 
verification  process.  My  country  hopes 
this 
process will continue and deepen. 

The  NPT  is  the  cornerstone  of  the  nuclear  non-
proliferation regime and a necessary step to achieve the 
ultimate  goal  of  general  and  complete  nuclear 
disarmament.    In  this  context,  even  though  Peru 
recognizes  the  right  of  any  State  to  develop  the 
research,  production  and  use  of  nuclear  energy  for 
peaceful  purposes,  we  believe  that  that  must  be 
conditional on strict compliance with non-proliferation 
commitments  and 
IAEA 
safeguards regime, which complements and strengthens 
the international verification system. In this respect, we 
look  forward  to  the  report  of  the  Director  General  on 
Iran’s  extension, 
in 
resolving outstanding verification matters. 

demands 
situation 
strengthening the credibility of the international regime 
for  disarmament,  non-proliferation  and  the  peaceful 
use of nuclear energy. To this end, we must enhance the 
role  of  the  IAEA,  both  in  its  control  and  verification 
capacities and in its remaining responsibilities. Making 
better  use  of  this  tool  will  allow  us  to  achieve  the 
exclusively  peaceful  purposes  of  nuclear  energy  and 
avoid the spectre of proliferation by States or terrorist 
groups becoming a reality. 
Mr.  Abdelaziz  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We 

thank  Mr.  ElBaradei,  Director  General  of 
the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for  his 
valuable  presentation  of  the  report  on  the  Agency’s 
activities 
the 
competence  of  the  IAEA  in  performing  its  lofty 
mandate  in  achieving  a  balanced  interest  in  the  three 
main  areas  of 
technology,  safety  and 
verification.  

We  add  our  voice  to  the  statement  by  the 
representative of Benin on behalf of the African Group. 
in  various  areas.  This  confirms 
transparency  and  cooperation 
its  work: 
current 
global 
The 
20 

07-56776 
the 
of 
Furthermore, 
comprehensive 



Five  decades  ago  Egypt  participated  in  the 
establishment of the IAEA, convinced of the Agency’s 
role  in  the  strengthening  of  international  peace  and 
promoting  the  responsible  use  of  nuclear  technology 
for  peaceful  purposes, 
thus  serving  development 
ambitions  and  responding  to  international  needs  in  a 
wide range of areas.  

safeguards 
regime  applied  by  the  IAEA  in  non-nuclear-weapon 
States parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  has  become  one  of  the  most 
central  international  verification  systems  employed  in 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
However,  that  system  remains  far  from  universal, 
especially  in  the  region  of  the  Middle  East,  where  all 
States except Israel have joined the safeguards regime, 
pointing  to  an  ever  more  urgent  need  for  intensified 
international  efforts  aimed  at  the  application  of  the 
IAEA comprehensive safeguards regime in all States of 
the region, without exception. 

Egypt  is  firmly  convinced  that  the  establishment 
of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East will 
contribute to confidence-building and the achievement 
of comprehensive peace in the countries of the region. 
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  lack  of  stability  due  to  the 
presence 
the 
comprehensive  safeguards  regime  demands  a  more 
effective response, as this situation threatens to trigger 
an  arms  race  that  would  endanger  the  security  and 
stability  of  the  entire  region.  This  is  particularly  true 
given  statements  made  to  the  media  on  Israel’s 
acquisition of nuclear weapons, an acquisition to which 
the  international  community  has  not  yet  effectively 
responded. 

to 
The 
acquire  and  employ  peaceful  applications  of  nuclear 
technologies is indeed inalienable, as clearly anchored 
in  article  IV  of  the  NPT. At  a  time  when  the  need  of 
developing  countries  for  clean  and  economical  energy 
is  growing  rapidly,  the  importance  of  this  right 
becomes  more  evident  and  more  closely  associated 
with  the  realization  of  development  plans  and  the 
enhancement  of  economic  and  social  standards  of 
peoples,  while  contributing  to  the  achievement  of 
international  peace  and  security.  Egypt 
therefore 
believes  that  the  IAEA  indeed  has  a  growing  role  in 
supporting 
and 
effectively  contributing  to  the  acquisition  of  nuclear 
power  and  the  satisfaction  of  the  growing  nuclear 
right  of  non-nuclear-weapon  States 
sustainable  development 
facilities 
nuclear 
outside 
efforts 
A/62/PV.36
in 
the 
light  of 
to  address 
strengthened 
power  needs  of  non-nuclear-weapon  States  parties  to 
the NPT. 
The  importance  of  the  role  of  the  IAEA  is 

shortcomings,  both 
growing, 
qualitatively  and  quantitatively,  affirmed  by 
the 
international  community  regarding  the  transfer  of 
nuclear  technology  from  developed  to  less  developed 
countries. It is regrettable that, instead of international 
cooperation  being 
this 
imbalance, we see attempts to impose more unjustified 
restrictions  and  preconditions  regarding  the  nuclear 
technology and materials required to develop peaceful 
nuclear programmes in non-nuclear-weapon countries.  

These  attempts  have  gone  so  far  as  to  work 
towards producing reinterpretations of article IV of the 
NPT, reinterpretations that have nothing to do with the 
letter or spirit of the treaty and will only lead to further 
mistrust  among  its  parties  and  add  new,  unhelpful 
challenges  to  the  credibility  and  effectiveness  of  the 
IAEA comprehensive safeguards regime. 

Although  non-nuclear-weapon  States  have  given 
up  the  military  nuclear  option  and  have  temporarily 
accepted  a  discriminatory  status  vis-à-vis  the  nuclear-
weapon  States,  non-nuclear-weapon  States  still  face 
additional  pressures 
imposing  more 
obligations  and  restrictions  on  them  in  the  form  of 
additional  safeguards,  while  ignoring  the  voluntary 
nature  of  any  new  international  commitment  and  the 
inevitability of focusing first on the universality of the 
IAEA  comprehensive  safeguards  system,  which  is  a 
necessary condition for any strengthening of it.  

Egypt  confirms  the  important  priority  that  the 
IAEA technical cooperation work represents for it and 
other  developing  countries  which  benefit  from  such 
programmes for the use of nuclear technologies in the 
fields  of,  inter  alia,  health,  agriculture,  food,  water 
resources, isotopes and radiation. 

In  this  regard,  Egypt  welcomes  the  development 
and  improvement  of  the  IAEA  technical  cooperation 
strategy to better serve the developmental priorities of 
member States, including through the identification of 
vital  fields  which  nuclear  technologies  can  effectively 
support  in  the  short-  and  medium-term.  Accordingly, 
we reiterate the importance of strengthening the role of 
the  IAEA  in  technology  transfer  through  ensuring  and 
increasing  funds  allocated  for  technical  cooperation, 
that being one of its main statutory responsibilities. 
aimed 
at 
07-56776 

21 
in 
this 
field, 
through 
international 
in  particular, 
forum  mandated 
in  proceeding  with 
We look forward to the full support of the Agency 
A/62/PV.36 

Taking into consideration the role of the Agency 

as 
the 
to  work 
multilaterally  towards  the  application  of  the  highest 
standards  of  nuclear  safety  in  nuclear  power  reactors, 
and  towards  the  extension  of  the  benefits  of  nuclear 
power  to  developing  countries,  Egypt,  in  its  efforts  to 
rely  on  nuclear  power 
its 
development  course,  closely  follows  the  Agency’s 
work 
the 
International  Project  on  Innovative  Reactors  and  Fuel 
Cycles.  

Egypt  is  also  working  on  further  expanding  its 
cooperation  with  the  Agency  in  order  to  enhance  our 
national  capabilities  in  the  peaceful  application  of 
nuclear  technologies  as  well  as  to  explore  increased 
benefits  of  such  technologies  for  the  purpose  of 
generating  electricity,  and  other  peaceful  applications 
of nuclear energy. 

for our endeavours. 
Mr.  Vundavalli  (India):  The  delegation  of  India 

thanks the Director General of the International Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  for  presenting  the  Agency’s 
annual report to the General Assembly.  

On  the  occasion  of  its  fiftieth  anniversary,  it  is 
gratifying to recognize the IAEA’s unique place within 
the  United  Nations  system.  The  prestige,  credibility 
and  authority  of  the  IAEA  in  this  century  rest  in  very 
large measure on the consistent good work done by its 
secretariat, under the wise leadership of Mr. ElBaradei.  

Over  the  last  half-century,  the  Agency’s  and 
India’s  nuclear  programmes  have  grown  and  evolved 
side by side. The IAEA’s achievements in the past half-
century have done much to contribute to the emergence 
of a nuclear dawn in the coming years. 

The world today is on the threshold of a paradigm 
shift. On the one hand, demand for energy continues to 
rise, and it is clear that 70 per cent of growth will come 
from  developing  countries.  It  is  imperative  that  this 
need  be  met  if  the  benefits  of  development  are  to  be 
accessed  more  equitably  by  the  vast  majority  of 
underprivileged  mankind  in  the  developing  countries. 
On the other hand, there is the challenge of addressing 
the  serious  consequences  for  future  generations  of 
unmindful  and  unsustainable  use  of  fossil  energy 
leading to global warming and climate change. 
training  workshops  and 

Nuclear  power  can  certainly  play  an  important 
role  in  this  context,  by  helping  to  meet  the  ever-
growing  demand  for  energy  without 
the  serious 
environmental consequences associated with the use of 
fossil  fuels.  India  therefore  notes  and  supports  all  the 
Agency’s activities related to the promotion of nuclear 
power.  

We  believe  that  the Agency  has  a  crucial  role  to 
play in allaying the misapprehensions of the public and 
Member  States  about  the  safe  design,  operation, 
maintenance  and  decommissioning  of  nuclear  power 
plants, as well as the waste disposal and environmental 
aspects, taking into due account current advances in the 
relevant areas of design and technology. We encourage 
the  publication  of  IAEA  technical  documents,  the 
organization  of 
technical 
conferences and the maintenance and dissemination of 
nuclear knowledge to help achieve these objectives. 

India  has  been  pursuing  its  robust  three-stage 
nuclear  programme  designed  to  maximize  the  energy 
potential  from  its  domestic  uranium  and  thorium 
resources, which will contribute around 25 per cent of 
electricity  generation  in  the  country  by  2050.  The 
objective  is  to  realize  the  huge  energy  potential  that 
can  be  obtained  from  these  nuclear  energy  resources 
without  having  to  add  to  the  global  carbon  dioxide 
burden.  

The  programme  is  moving  ahead  steadily,  with 
the  first  stage,  consisting  of  indigenously  developed 
pressurized heavy water reactors (PHWRs), well into a 
commercially  successful  phase.  The  second  stage  has 
commenced  with  the  construction  of  a  500-megawatt 
electric (MWe) prototype fast breeder reactor, which is 
now fairly advanced. The third stage is about to begin 
with 
technology 
demonstrator,  the  300  MWe  advanced  heavy  water 
reactor.  

implemented 
sequentially  to  reach  the  goal  of  large-scale  thorium 
utilization, and are linked through their respective fuel 
cycles,  which  are  also  well  under  way.  During  the 
calendar  year  2006,  the  generation  of  electricity  from 
domestic  nuclear  power  plants  was  17,794  million 
units  (MUs).  While  Unit  4  of  the  Rajasthan  atomic 
power  project  operated  continuously  for  a  record  373 
days,  Unit  1  of  the  Kaiga  atomic  power  station 
recorded uninterrupted operation for 356 days. 
the  start  of  construction  of  a 
three  stages  are  being 
Those 
22 

07-56776 
importance 



We look forward to the possibility of opening up 
international civil nuclear cooperation. We expect such 
cooperation  to  be  sustainable,  free  from  interruptions 
and consistent with our national policy of a closed fuel 
cycle.  Such  initiatives  also  open  up  the  possibility  of 
the export of reactors and services.  

India  today  is  the  only  country  to  have  a  live 
technology, design and infrastructure for small PHWRs 
with a unit capacity of 220 MWe; these reactors have a 
great potential for export, particularly to countries with 
small grids that wish to begin nuclear power generation 
with  relatively  modest  investments  and  infrastructure. 
Given the large manufacturing base and relatively low 
manufacturing costs, there is also a potential for India 
to  become  a  manufacturing  hub  for  equipment  and 
components for the global nuclear industry. 

India  supports  all  the Agency’s  activities  related 
to  advanced  technologies,  namely,  accelerator-driven 
systems  and  high-temperature  reactors  for  non-power 
applications  such  as  hydrogen  production  and  nuclear 
desalination.  We  attach  great 
the 
International  Project  on  Innovative  Nuclear  Reactors 
and Fuel Cycles programme, have been associated with 
it since its inception, and have contributed significantly 
to  its  progress.  We  are  happy  to  note  the  continued 
growth  in  its  membership,  and  stand  committed  to 
ensuring  the  successful  implementation  of  its  Phase  2 
activities. 

In  the  area  of  material  technology,  we  note  with 
approval  the  Agency’s  activities  aimed  at  improving 
the  utilization  of  nuclear  fuel  for  both  light  water 
reactors and PHWRs through increased burnup and the 
associated  degradation  and  failure  issues.  In  this 
context, in December 2006 India hosted in Mumbai an 
international  conference  on  processing,  performance 
and phenomena, and a satellite conference on materials 
behaviour far from equilibrium, in cooperation with the 
IAEA. 

India  commends  the  Agency  for  its  activities 
related  to  capacity  building  and  nuclear  knowledge 
maintenance 
for  sustainable  energy  development, 
aimed at providing training to several member States in 
using the analytical tools and databases, as detailed in 
the report.  
We  take  note  of  and  appreciate  the  Agency’s 

work  programme  and  achievements 
in  nuclear 
applications in food and agriculture; human health and 
the  Programme  of  Action  for  Cancer 
nutrition; 
to 
A/62/PV.36
advanced 
equipment 
courses  on 
Therapy;  water  resources  management;  protection  of 
the  environment;  and  industry.  India  has  donated  a 
state  of  the  art  teletherapy  machine,  Bhabhatron  II,  to 
the  Programme,  with  Viet  Nam  being  the  intended 
beneficiary.  We  note  and  support 
the  Agency’s 
activities envisaged under the rubric of nuclear science. 

In  the  area  of  nuclear  security  and  physical 
protection, India has organized a number of workshops 
and  training  courses  for  the Asia-Pacific  region  under 
the aegis of the IAEA. So far, we have conducted four 
regional  training  courses  on  physical  protection  of 
nuclear  installations,  as  well  as  regional  training 
courses  on  the  physical  protection  of  radioactive 
sources.  In  addition,  we  have  conducted  regional 
training 
and 
responding  to  criminal  unauthorized  acts  involving 
nuclear or other radioactive material,  and a regulatory 
authority information system training course.  

India is among the first countries to deposit their 
instrument  of  ratification  of  the  amendments  to  the 
Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material.  We  note  with  approval  the  round-the-clock 
operations  of  the  Agency’s  Incident  and  Emergency 
Centre,  the  emergency  preparedness  review  conducted 
by  the  Agency  and  the  establishment  of  a  centre  for 
advanced safety assessments tools. 

the  safety  of  nuclear 
installations,  we  note  with  satisfaction  the  activities 
undertaken  by  the Agency  to  promote  a  safety  culture 
in  member  States.  In  India,  the  World  Association  of 
Nuclear Operators (WANO) completed peer reviews of 
the  atomic  power  stations  at  Kakrapar,  Narora, Kaiga, 
Rawatbhata and Tarapur. We have offered our third unit 
of  the  Tarapur  atomic  power  project  for  a  pre-startup 
peer  review  by  a  WANO  team  of  experts.  Similar 
reviews for the fifth unit of the Rajasthan atomic power 
project  and the fourth unit of the  Kaika atomic power 
project are also planned for the next year. 

nuclear 
priority 
verification,  and  notes  with  approval  all  the  activities 
undertaken  by 
transparent  and 
impartial  manner.  Our  delegation  has  actively 
participated  in  the  Special  Committee  on  Safeguards 
and  Verification,  within  the  framework  of  the  IAEA 
Statute,  to  consider  ways  and  means  to  strengthen  the 
safeguards system. 
A global nuclear  energy renaissance increasingly 

appears not just inevitable, but a necessity. However, it 
the  context  of 
the  Agency 
in  a 
In 
India 
attaches 
high 
to 
07-56776 

23 
to 
reliable 
Mr.  Gatan
the  safety  of 
functioning  on 
A/62/PV.36 

will rest on fragile foundations unless robust inclusive 
partnerships  are  built  on  the  basis  of  trust  and  mutual 
understanding, 
and 
predictable  basis.  The  adoption  of  closed  fuel  cycle 
options to maximize energy availability needs to be an 
integral part of that.  

We  have  justifiable  concerns  about  the  risks 
related 
the  environment  and 
proliferation  arising  from  irresponsible  behaviour  of 
States  and  non-State  actors.  However,  we  need  to  be 
even  more  concerned  about 
the  vastly  enhanced 
security  risks  to  which  future  generations  will  be 
exposed as a result of the storage of spent fuel for tens 
of thousands of years.  

There are, thus, risks and challenges, but they are 
within 
the  professional  competence  of  existing 
technology  and  institutional  control.  Answers  can 
easily be found, if every responsible partner is seen not 
as a problem, but as part of the solution. 
International 
(Philippines):  The 

Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  has  been  a  success 
story  during  the  50  years  of  its  existence  —  in 
particular,  in  the  pursuit  of  its  dual  purpose  of 
promoting  nuclear  energy 
for  development  and 
ensuring  nuclear safety  and security — in spite of the 
numerous challenges it has faced.  
The  Philippines  welcomes  the  report  of  the 

Agency, and recognizes once again its important role in 
promoting both peace and development. 

The Philippines has been a member and a partner 
of the IAEA for 49 of the 50 years of Agency’s life and 
has  gained  much  from  its  collaboration  with  the 
Agency.  That  strong  partnership  has  also  helped  the 
Philippines 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

The  Philippines  attaches  great  importance  to  the 
peaceful uses of nuclear energy and its vast benefits for 
all  nations,  particularly  the  developing  world.  My 
country  and  the  Agency  have  expansive  links  in  the 
area  of  technical  cooperation.  It  is  here  that  we  have 
much  success  in  terms  of  increasing  agricultural  and 
industrial productivity, the  irradiation of food  exports, 
access 
to  clean  drinking  water  and  addressing 
environmental challenges. 

the  Agency’s 
Technical  Cooperation  Department  —  specifically,  its 
Asia  and  Pacific  division  and  the  Department  of 
the  attainment  of 
My  delegation 
is  grateful 
in 
a 
to 
in 
in 
terms 
important 
information 
the  Philippines 
My  country’s  participation 
Nuclear Sciences and Applications, whose support and 
effective  collaboration  enabled 
to 
achieve  an  implementation  rate  of  84  per  cent  for 
technical  projects  in  2006.  Much  of  that  success  has 
filtered  down  to  the  grassroots  level.  The  Agency’s 
technical  assistance  has  also  enabled  the  Philippines 
Nuclear Research Institute to upgrade its multipurpose 
irradiation  facility  and  non-destructive  testing training 
centre, as well as to establish its national environment 
isotope laboratory. 

the  Regional 
Cooperative Agreement’s projects on the environment, 
such  as  those  on  air  pollution,  has  enabled  us  to 
undertake  several  environmental  studies  using  nuclear 
those  studies  have 
techniques.  Data  culled  from 
provided 
of 
implementing  national  laws  and  regulations  on  the 
environment. 

Another  essential  programme  is  the  Agency’s 
Programme of Action on Cancer Therapy (PACT). The 
Philippines is pleased to note that the Agency has made 
that a priority activity, given the rise in the number of 
cancer patients, including in the developing world. My 
delegation believes that collaboration with PACT could 
lead  to  enhanced  cancer-training  capabilities  in  the 
region,  in  the  context  of  the  regional  cancer  training 
network.  The  Philippines  is  therefore  grateful  for  the 
large  contribution  of  donor  countries,  which  helped 
built the Programme. 

the  comprehensive 
report  of  the  Agency  and  commends  its  work  in  the 
areas  of  nuclear  safety,  verification,  security  and 
disarmament, and even social issues under its mandate, 
such  as  poverty,  disease  and  hunger.  Among  the 
important activities of the Agency cited in its report are 
capacity-building  and  nuclear-knowledge  maintenance 
for sustainable development. 

Other  vital  aspects  of  the  report  are  nuclear 
science,  allowing  for  its  application  to  economic 
development; 
focusing  on 
achieving  food  security  through  the  application  of 
nuclear  techniques;  human  health,  which  deals  with 
enhancing  the  capacities  of  member  States  to  detect, 
prevent  and  treat  various  illnesses  through  nuclear 
technology;  and,  finally,  water  resources,  where  the 
sustainable  management  of  this  essential  resource  is 
improved through isotope application. 
My  delegation  welcomes 
food  and  agriculture, 
24 

07-56776 
My  delegation  urges  all  delegations  to  sponsor 



Nuclear  security  is  another  important  area  of 
concern.  The  support  that  the  Agency  provides  to 
member  States  is  essential  to  establishing  effective 
national  nuclear  security  regimes  and  preventing 
nuclear accidents. The Philippines agrees that the high 
standards  of  safety  for  nuclear  power  facilities  should 
be maintained, especially given the increasing number 
of nuclear power plants. One nuclear accident can lead 
to  massive  environmental  damage,  endangering 
millions of innocent civilians. 

In conclusion, I once again commend the Agency 
for its work in promoting the use of the atom for peace. 
Indeed, mankind will benefit from the atom’s peaceful 
use.  It  can  spur  development,  cure  illnesses,  increase 
the  production  of  food  and  provide  energy  for  our 
world’s growing population.  

the draft resolution on the IAEA’s report. 
Mr. Natalegawa (Indonesia): I thank the Director 

General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA) for the 2006 IAEA report. I commend him very 
warmly  for  his  commitment  and  dedication  to  the 
mandate  of 
its 
continuing work in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. 

My  delegation  expresses  its  sincere  appreciation 
for  the  role  of  the  IAEA  in  the  promotion  of  nuclear 
technology  for  peaceful  purposes,  under  the  three 
pillars  of  its  mandate,  including  through  technical 
cooperation between the Agency and my country. I take 
this  opportunity  to  express  our  appreciation  for  last 
December’s  official  visit  by  the  Director  General  to 
several  countries  in  Asia,  including  Indonesia,  as 
further  proof  of 
the 
importance  of  the  development  of  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear energy in our region. 

Over  the  past  several  years  the  role  of  nuclear 
power  has  been  shaped  by  many  factors.  We  are 
pleased that the IAEA has been emphasizing the role of 
nuclear 
for 
development. Indeed, it is becoming more evident that 
the  IAEA  has  an  important  role  to  play  in  myriad 
aspects of human life, thereby contributing to meeting 
the world’s growing energy demands and other welfare 
needs. 

rising 
expectations of nuclear energy in different parts of the 
world,  especially  for  electricity  generation.  We  are 
the  Agency’s  attention 
important  Agency  and 
technology 
report 
again 
highlights 
the 
The 
energy 
and 
nuclear 
this 
for 
to 
A/62/PV.36
encouraged to learn that the Asia-Pacific region is one 
of  the  most  dynamic  in  the  world  in  terms  of  nuclear 
power  development,  and  that  national  and  regional 
projects have been conducted by the Agency under its 
Technical  Cooperation  Programme  in  response  to  the 
needs of member States. 

Let  me  note,  in  this  regard,  that  the  Agency’s 
promotion  of  the  safe  and  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
energy  is  particularly  important  for  Indonesia  and  the 
region.  As  a  country  with  more  than  200  million 
people, bearing in mind the current situation of energy 
resources, we are now at the stage of dissemination of 
information  and  education  to  the  public  about  the 
necessity  for  nuclear  energy  and  its  important  role  in 
our sustainable development. Along with its decision to 
embark  on  a  nuclear  power  programme,  Indonesia  is 
also  taking  steps  to  promulgate  relevant  national 
regulation  and  continue  its  close  cooperation  with  the 
IAEA in this regard. 

Recently  the  IAEA  has  broadened  awareness  of 
the  role  of  nuclear  energy  in  the  challenge  of  climate 
change.  Climate change concerns have highlighted the 
advantages  of  nuclear  power  in  terms  of  its  minimal 
greenhouse  gas  emissions.  This  is  an  issue  of  great 
interest  to  Indonesia,  as  host  of  the  United  Nations 
Climate  Change  Conference,  to  be  held  in  Bali  in 
December. 

attached  paramount 
importance to technical cooperation with the Agency in 
connection  with  the  transfer  of  nuclear  science  and 
technology to member States, and as a basic instrument 
for  promoting  peaceful  uses  of  atomic  energy  for 
sustainable  socio-economic  development. 
this 
regard, under an agreement with the IAEA, in 2007 and 
2008  Indonesia  will  implement  eight  projects  in  the 
fields  of  energy,  food  and  agriculture,  human  health 
and the environment. 

The Agency has been working with Indonesia on 
radiation-induced breeding for inventing new varieties 
of  plants,  and  many  new  and  improved  varieties  of 
staple food crops were released up to 2006. This year, 
high-quality 
rice  mutant  varieties  produced  by 
irradiation  techniques  were  planted  in  Indonesia  on 
over  a  million  hectares.  Several  new  higher-quality 
strains  of  crops  have  been  developed  with  IAEA 
cooperation.  
Indonesia  has  also  enjoyed  the Agency’s  support 

in the commissioning of its first radiotherapy centre, in 
Indonesia  has 
always 
In 
07-56776 

25 
and 
predictable 
its  activities.  For 
A/62/PV.36 

Kalimantan,  expected  to  be  operational  by  the  end  of 
the year, and in the development of isotopic techniques 
for  evaluating  the  effectiveness  of  tuberculosis  drugs. 
Some  IAEA 
technical  cooperation  projects  have 
focused  on  using  nuclear  techniques  to  assess  and 
manage  Indonesia’s  underground  water  resources, 
monitor  water  quality  and  pollution  in  Indonesian 
rivers and improve livestock nutrition. 

In  the  light  of  the  increasing  needs  and  requests 
of  member  States  for  technical  cooperation,  it  is 
essential  that  the Agency  have  sufficient,  assured  and 
predictable  resources  for 
that 
that  proposals  for  a  more 
purpose,  we  suggest 
sufficient, 
assured  Technical 
Cooperation  Fund  be  developed,  with  a  view  to 
strengthening  the  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of  the 
Agency’s 
technical  cooperation  activities,  without 
imposing  an  additional  financial  burden  on  member 
States, especially developing countries. 

In  view  of  the  numerous  challenges  facing  the 
IAEA,  and  the  need  to  preserve  its  efficiency  and 
performance,  we  should  continue  to  seek  ways  to 
enhance its resources. To this end, we look forward to 
the upcoming study by a high-level panel of experts on 
the  Agency’s  future  programmatic  and  budgetary 
requirements, including the financing of the Technical 
Cooperation Programme. 

My delegation also stresses the importance of the 
Agency’s  pursuing  a  more  balanced  allocation  of  the 
budget so as to reflect the equal importance of its three 
pillars  and  to  maintain  a  balance  between  its  various 
statutory  activities  and  the  need  to  promote  technical 
cooperation.  

For  its  part,  Indonesia  has  been  supportive  of 
technical  cooperation  activities  and  has  consistently 
paid 
the  Technical 
Cooperation Fund targets. We will continue to do so in 
the future. 
My  delegation  places  great  importance  on  the 

Agency’s  measures  to  strengthen  nuclear  safety  and 
security. We share the view that measures to strengthen 
nuclear  security  should  not  hamper 
international 
cooperation in peaceful nuclear activities, the exchange 
of  nuclear  material  for  peaceful  purposes  and  the 
promotion of the peaceful use of nuclear energy. As an 
is  concerned  about 
archipelagic  State,  Indonesia 
potential 
the 
transportation  of  spent  fuel,  high-level  nuclear  waste 
its  pledged  annual  share  of 
accidents 
incidents 
during 
or 
to 
to 
the 
IAEA 
nuclear 
the  efforts  of 
the  NPT,  we  are  committed 
the  Convention  on  Nuclear  Safety, 
and  radioactive  materials  by  sea.  We  continue  to 
support 
to  strengthen 
cooperation and coordination to address this issue. 
In the field of safety and security, Indonesia is a 

party 
the 
Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material,  the  Convention  on  Early  Notification  of  a 
Nuclear Accident and the Convention on Assistance in 
the  Case  of  a  Nuclear  Accident  or  Radiological 
Emergency.  As  to  the  security  of  radioactive  sources 
and  safety  of  the  community  and  environment  in  the 
use of nuclear energy, we are pleased to announce that 
Government  Regulation  Number  33  of  2007  on  the 
Ionizing  Radiation  and  Security  of 
Safety  of 
Radioactive  Sources,  based  on 
the  IAEA  Basic 
Standards, was enacted in June 2007. 

Indonesia appreciates the work carried out by the 
Agency in implementing and strengthening safeguards 
and  verification  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  the 
Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  (NPT).  As  a  State 
party 
to  fully 
implementing  the  integrated  safeguards,  which  could 
lead  to  strengthening  global  nuclear  non-proliferation, 
pursuing 
facilitating 
cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. 

At the regional level, as a party to the Treaty on 
the  South-East  Asia  Nuclear  Weapon  Free  Zone  and 
bearing  in  mind  the  importance  of  such  a  zone  in 
promoting 
non-proliferation, 
Indonesia,  along  with  the  other  nine  States  parties  to 
the Treaty, has initiated and tabled for the first time  a 
draft  resolution  on 
the  South-East  Asia  Nuclear 
Weapon Free Zone at this sixty-second session. 

We  take  note  of  the  call  for  the  development  of 
new,  multilateral  approaches  to  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle 
as  a  measure  for  strengthening  non-proliferation  and 
coping  with  the  expected  expansion  of  the  use  of 
nuclear  power. As  a  party  to  the  NPT,  Indonesia  fully 
supports  the  inalienable  right  of  States  parties  to  the 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy,  in  accordance  with 
article  IV. We  reiterate  that  each  country’s  choice  and 
decision  on  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  should 
be respected, without undermining its national policies 
or 
and 
arrangements  for  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy 
and its fuel-cycle policies. 
My  delegation  once  again  voices  its  concern 

about  the  continued  inability  to  establish  a  nuclear-
disarmament 
disarmament 
international 
cooperation 
agreements 
and 
and 
26 

07-56776 
in 
the  Middle  East  and 
the  Modalities  of  Resolution  of 


weapon-free  zone 
the 
continuously  defiant  attitude  and  policy  of  a  single 
country  in  the  region  regarding  placing  its  nuclear 
installations under the IAEA safeguards or acceding to 
the  NPT.  We  caution  that  this  could  exacerbate  the 
situation in the region and impact negatively on efforts 
to prevent proliferation there. 

Turning to our own region, Indonesia stresses the 
importance  of  the  denuclearization  of  the  Korean 
Peninsula for the maintenance of peace and stability in 
the  region.  We  are  therefore  pleased  with  the  current 
positive  development  concerning  the  implementation 
the  Democratic 
of  arrangements  agreed  between 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and 
the  IAEA  for 
monitoring  and  verification  by  the  Agency  of  the 
shutdown of the Yongbyon nuclear facilities, as part of 
the  complete  declaration  of  the  nuclear  programme  of 
the Democratic People’s Republic. 

We  welcome  the  work  plan  contained  in  the 
Understandings of the Islamic Republic of Iran and the 
IAEA  on 
the 
Outstanding  Issues. We  consider  it  to  be  a  step  in  the 
right  direction  for  continued  and  more 
intensive 
cooperation  between  Iran  and  the  IAEA  towards 
resolving  the  outstanding  issues.  We  are  of  the  view 
that timely implementation of the work plan is the key 
to  a  peaceful  and  statutory  resolution  of  the  Iranian 
issues, and favour more intensive dialogue on this issue 
among all interested parties. 

reiterate  my  Government’s 
commitment to supporting the Agency in the promotion 
of  international  cooperation  in  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear energy; in ensuring that the benefits of nuclear 
technology  are  shared  globally,  especially  to  benefit 
developing  countries;  in  conducting  safe,  peaceful 
nuclear  activities;  and  in  providing  a  framework  for 
curbing  nuclear-weapon  proliferation  and  moving 
towards nuclear disarmament. 
Mr.  Takasu  (Japan):  It  gives  me  particular 

pleasure  to  extend  a  warm  welcome  to  New  York  to 
Director  General  Mohamed  ElBaradei  and  to  express 
my  appreciation  for  his  presentation  of  the  detailed 
annual  report  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA). As the IAEA is celebrating its fiftieth 
anniversary 
I  express  my  heartfelt 
congratulations to the Director General and the staff of 
the  IAEA,  whose  work  has  greatly  contributed  to  the 
Agency’s healthy development. 
this  year, 
closing, 
In 
I 
A/62/PV.36
it 
in 
for 
safety 
and 
framework, 
is  essential 
Japan  will 
security.  From 

In  recent  years  energy  demands  have  expanded 
and  global  warming  has  intensified.  Nuclear  power 
generation is expected to expand worldwide as a means 
to  ensure  a  steady  energy  supply  and  combat  global 
warming.  Last  May  Japan  introduced  a  new  proposal, 
“Cool Earth 50”, to address global warming. As part of 
to  establish  an  effective  post-2012 
a  proposal 
international 
promote 
international  efforts  to  expand  safe  and  peaceful  uses 
of  nuclear  power  and  provide  assistance,  such  as 
infrastructure  development,  for  the  introduction  of 
nuclear power to developing countries. 
In  introducing  and  expanding  the  use  of  nuclear 

to  ensure  nuclear  non-
energy, 
proliferation, 
that 
perspective,  the  role  of  the  IAEA  has  become  ever 
more important. The Agency has prepared a document, 
“Milestones 
the  development  of  a  national 
infrastructure  for  nuclear  power”,  which  provides 
guidelines 
infrastructure  development  when 
introducing  nuclear  power  generation.  Japan  highly 
appreciates such an effort by the Agency. 

Japan  has  strictly  limited  the  use  of  nuclear 
energy solely to peaceful purposes since the enactment 
of its Atomic Energy Basic Law in 1955, when nuclear 
power  was  first  introduced  in  Japan.  Since  then  we 
have  come  a 
international 
confidence  through,  among  other  measures,  faithful 
implementation  of  our  IAEA  safeguards  agreement, 
the  early  conclusion  of  our 
concluded 
additional  protocol  and 
implementation  of 
integrated safeguards.  

In  Japan  further  expanded  utilization  of  nuclear 
energy  is  expected.  Japan  continues  to  uphold  its 
established  policy  on  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy through the strict application of safeguards. 

The  international  community  currently  faces  a 
number  of  serious  challenges,  such  as  the  nuclear 
issues concerning the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea  and  Iran,  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  and  their  means  of  delivery  and  the  threat 
of  nuclear  terrorism.  The  unanimous  adoption  of 
Security  Council  resolutions  against  those  threats 
demonstrates  the  strong  will  of  the  international 
community.  Japan  welcomes  the  concerted  efforts  of 
the  international  community  to  address  those  threats 
and  calls  upon  all  Member  States  to  implement  the 
relevant resolutions. 
in  gaining 
long  way 
in  1977, 
the 
07-56776 

27 
of 
the 
Japan’s 
towards 
chairmanship 
the  success  of 
A/62/PV.36 


The  first  session  of  the  Preparatory  Committee 
for  the  2010  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT) was held in Vienna from April to May this year, 
under 
resident 
representative in Vienna, Ambassador Amano. Despite 
some  difficulties,  the  Preparatory  Committee  reached 
common  recognition  of  the  need  to  promote  all  three 
pillars  of  the  NPT:  namely,  nuclear  disarmament, 
nuclear  non-proliferation  and  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear energy. The Committee therefore made a good 
start 
the  2010  Review 
Conference. It was an important step in reinforcing the 
NPT regime. 

The strengthening of the IAEA safeguards system 
is  vital  to  reinforcing  the  nuclear  non-proliferation 
regime.  Japan  believes  that  universalization  of  the 
additional  protocol  is  the  most  realistic  and  effective 
way to achieve that objective. Japan, as the initiator of 
the  Friends  of  the  Additional  Protocol,  has  been 
implementing  various  activities  for 
that  purpose, 
focusing on the Asian region. Progress has been made, 
with  the  number  of  countries  that  have  concluded 
additional protocols increasing from 39 to 83 over the 
past  three  years.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  call  upon 
those  States  that  have  not  yet  concluded  additional 
protocols to do so as soon as possible. 
The  nuclear  test  proclaimed  by  the  Democratic 

People’s  Republic  of  Korea  in  October  last  year, 
combined  with 
its  buildup  of  ballistic-missile 
capabilities, is a threat to the peace and security of not 
only  Japan,  but  also  East  Asia  and 
the  entire 
international  community. 
represents  a  serious 
challenge  to  the  NPT  regime.  In  that  respect,  it  is 
important that Security Council resolution 1718 (2006) 
be steadfastly implemented.  

It is a welcome development that the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea has committed itself, in the 
Six-Party  Talks  outcome  document 
issued  on  3 
October,  to  the  declaration  of  all  nuclear  programmes 
and the disablement of the three facilities at Yongbyon, 
as  measures  to  be  taken  in  the  second  phase.  That 
action  follows  implementation  of  the  initial  actions 
agreed  earlier  at  the  Six-Party  Talks,  including  the 
shutdown of the Yongbyon nuclear facility. It is above  

It 
that 
regarding 
implement 
issues  within 
important 
of  Korea 
the  Democratic  People’s 
fully 
those 
all  most 
Republic 
commitments.  
Japan  continues  to  actively  work  towards  a 

peaceful  resolution  of  nuclear 
the 
framework  of  the  Six-Party  Talks  with  a  view  to 
comprehensively  resolving  outstanding  matters,  such 
as  abductions,  nuclear  and  missile  issues,  settling  the 
unfortunate  past  and  realizing  the  normalization  of 
relations  with  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea on the basis of the Pyongyang Declaration by it 
and Japan.  

Japan  has  made  a  positive  contribution  to  the 
Agency’s  monitoring  and  verification  activities  in  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. 

Iran  regrettably  continues  to  expand  its  uranium 
enrichment-related activities, in defiance of calls from 
the international community. Japan hopes that Iran will 
sincerely cooperate with the IAEA in the consultations 
currently  being  held  between  it  and  the  IAEA  in 
attempts  to  resolve  outstanding  issues.  It  should  be 
noted, however, that resolving those outstanding issues 
alone  will  not  remove  all 
the 
international  community 
Iran’s  nuclear 
programme. Iran has to make further efforts to restore 
the  confidence  of  the  international  community  by 
responding  sincerely  to  the  requirements  set  forth  by 
the  relevant  resolutions  of 
the  IAEA  Board  of 
Governors  and 
including 
suspension  of  uranium  enrichment-related  activities 
and  the  heavy-water-related  programme,  as  well  as 
ratification  and 
the  additional 
protocol.  Japan  continues  to  work  for  a  peaceful  and 
diplomatic  resolution  of  the  issue,  in  concert  with  the 
other members of the international community. 

With  many  important  challenges  accumulating, 
the importance of the IAEA can only increase. I assure 
the  Assembly  of  Japan’s  continued  support  for  the 
IAEA in fulfilling its vital mission. 

Finally,  I  would  like  to  express  our  full  support 
for  the  draft  resolution  submitted  by  Chile,  of  which 
we are a sponsor. 
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. 

the  Security  Council, 
implementation  of 
the  concerns  of 
28 

07-56776 
