United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

23rd plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 10 October 2007, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

A/62/PV.23
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia)





  The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 
Agenda items 10 and 110 
Report of the Peacebuilding Commission (A/62/137) 
Report of the Secretary-General on the 
Peacebuilding Fund (A/62/138) 

The  President: The  2005  United  Nations  World 
Summit  Outcome  (resolution  60/1)  called  on  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  to  create 
new  institutional  mechanisms  for  strengthening  the 
capacity  of  the  United  Nations  to  support  countries 
emerging from conflict. As a result, the Peacebuilding 
Commission, the Peacebuilding Support Office and the 
Peacebuilding Fund were established. Those innovative 
achievements  represent  the  most  significant  outcomes 
of  the  Summit  to  date.  Therefore,  it  gives  me  great 
pleasure  to  open  the  first  joint  debate  to  review  the 
annual 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
(A/62/137) and the  report  of the Secretary-General on 
the Peacebuilding Fund (A/62/138).  

Over  the  past  two  decades,  the  United  Nations 
has  been  at  the  centre  of  expanding  peacebuilding 
activities  in  all  parts  of  the  world,  including  my  own 
region, South-Eastern Europe. The United Nations has 
a unique comparative advantage in addressing the huge 
challenges  faced  by  countries  emerging  from  conflict. 
The  demand  for  our  peacebuilding  operations  and 
capacities is obviously set for growth. 

The  evidence  shows  that  half  of  the  countries 
emerging  from  conflict  will  relapse  into  violence 
report  of 
the 
that 
law,  on 
the  rule  of 
that  equation  and 
within  five  years.  To  break  that  vicious  circle,  it  is 
critical 
international  community  provide 
sustained  practical  support  and  resources  to  assist 
national efforts.  

There is feedback between peace and stability, on 
the  one  hand,  and  economic  development,  human 
rights  and 
the  other.  The 
Peacebuilding Commission has a critical role to play in 
balancing  both  sides  of 
in 
accelerating  post-conflict  peacebuilding  and  recovery. 
In  addition  to  that  substantive  operational  role,  the 
Commission coordinates international efforts, marshals 
donor  resources  and  focuses  the  attention  of  global 
opinion on peacebuilding issues. We all have a duty to 
ensure that the Peacebuilding Commission works well 
and  that  the  decision  to  create  it  is  translated  into 
practical  action  aimed  at  promoting  the  well-being  of 
millions of people trapped in post-conflict situations. 

I  believe  that  the  Commission  has  now  firmly 
established  itself;  it  has  made  a  good  start.  However, 
that is just the beginning of a longer process. Given the 
organizational  complexity  of  the  Commission,  it  is 
crucial  that  its  coordination  with  all  other  United 
Nations  organs  and  with  other  parts  of  the  system  be 
maintained in a balanced and proportionate manner. We 
also need to ensure that duplication is avoided.  

The  success  of  the  Commission  will  clearly 
depend  on  cooperation  from  all  of  us  to  support  its 
work — in particular, our full commitment to resolving 
the few remaining procedural hurdles, so that it can be 
fully  effective.  In  that  context,  it  is  important  to 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-53720 (E) 
*0753720* 

us 
two 
The 
time, 
before 
reports 
that  short 
However,  even  during 
A/62/PV.23 

recognize that it has been operational for a little more 
than a year.  

the 
Commission has brought a more coherent system-wide 
approach  to  peacebuilding  and  has  strengthened  the 
impact of the international community. We should learn 
from that example and apply what we have learned to 
the context of other areas in which we seek to improve 
the  effectiveness  of  United  Nations  activities.  I  am 
confident that the Assembly will seize this opportunity 
to  review  and  assess  the  work  undertaken  thus  far  by 
the Peacebuilding Commission and to provide it with a 
strategic vision of the way forward.  

include  
thought-provoking  recommendations  and  conclusions 
that  the Assembly  may  wish  to  address.  In  particular, 
the  Assembly  may  wish  to  reflect  on  the  progress 
achieved  by  the  Commission  and  the  Fund  in  the  two 
countries under their consideration, thus demonstrating 
our  continued  commitment  to  the  peoples  of  both 
countries. In that regard, I look forward to the remarks 
to  be  made  by  the  delegations  of  Burundi  and  
Sierra  Leone.  Their  views  and  experiences  related  to 
working  with  the  Commission  on  the  ground  will  be 
invaluable.  
Looking ahead, the Commission should  continue 

to 
refine 
the  countries  under 
consideration,  develop  its  advocacy  role  among  all 
stakeholders  engaged  in  peacebuilding  activities  and 
become  more  effective  at  marshalling  resources. The 
Commission will also need to identify ways to improve 
coherence  and  synergies  in  its  numerous  activities  in 
order  to  contribute  to  better  peacebuilding  policy  and 
practice. 
The  main  challenge  now  facing  the  Commission 

is to maximize its impact on the ground. In order to be 
as 
the  United  Nations 
peacebuilding  architecture  must  be  based  on  the 
principle of national ownership.  

It  is  also  critical  that  the  $250  million  funding 
target  of  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  be  met.  I  would  like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  Her  Excellency 
Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa,  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first  session,  for  her 
efforts to raise additional resources — with the support 
of 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  Ambassador  Gaspar  Martins,  Permanent 
former  Chairman  of 
its  strategies 
as  possible, 
effective 
the 
in 
to 
of 
the 
the 
floor 
judge 
I  now  give 
the  success  of 
Representative  of  Angola  —  and  for  her  unique 
personal contribution to the Fund. 

Going  forward,  I  am  sure  that  the  membership 
will  lend  its  full  support  and  cooperation  to  the  new 
Chairman 
Peacebuilding  Commission, 
Ambassador  Takasu,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Japan, in his efforts to strengthen the Commission and 
to  fund  the  remaining  $20  million  shortfall  in  the 
Peacebuilding Fund.  

I  hope  that  our  debate  today  will  send  a  strong 
signal  that  we  will  reach  out  to  meet  the  needs  and 
aspirations of all peoples who have suffered the horrors 
of  war.  For  the  people  in  countries  emerging  from 
conflict, this Organization represents the best and only 
hope of attaining a more dignified life. 
Therefore,  the  only  relevant  standard  against 

which  we  can 
the  new 
peacebuilding architecture is by the practical results it 
achieves on the ground. 

the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Japan,  who  is  also  the  Chairman  of 
the Peacebuilding Commission. 
Mr. Takasu (Japan): First of all, on behalf of the 

members  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  allow  me 
to express our heartfelt gratitude to you, Mr. President, 
for  providing  a  timely  opportunity  to  discuss  the 
annual report of the Peacebuilding Commission. 

In September 2005, our leaders adopted the 2005 
World  Summit  Outcome,  which  explicitly  emphasized 
the  need  for  a  “coordinated,  coherent  and  integrated 
approach 
and 
reconciliation  with  a  view  to  achieving  sustainable 
peace”  (A/res/60/1,  para.  97).  The  document  further 
states  that  the  Commission  was  established  “to  bring 
together all relevant actors to marshal resources and to 
advise  on  and  propose  integrated  strategies  for  post-
conflict peacebuilding and recovery” (ibid, para. 98). 
With that in mind, let me briefly look back on the 

first  year  of  the  work  of  the  Commission.  The  first 
annual  report  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  as 
contained  in  document  A/62/137,  provides  a  detailed 
account  of  the  work  and  activities  of  the  Commission 
during  the  first  year  of  its  operation.  The  process  of 
compiling  the  report  reflected  the  seriousness  with 
which  the  Commission’s  membership  has  undertaken 
its  work  and 
its 
anticipated contribution to peace consolidation and the 
the  significance 
peacebuilding 
post-conflict 
it  attaches 
to 
to 
2 

07-53720 
In  addition, 
issues.  By  establishing 
for  mutual  commitments  between 


promotion  of  national  ownership  of  peacebuilding 
measures in post-conflict situations. Here I would like 
to pay special tribute to Ambassador Martins of Angola 
for his dedication and leadership in steering the initial 
stage of the Commission. 

In  the  course  of  approximately  50  formal  and 
informal  meetings  and  briefings  held 
in  various 
configurations, 
Peacebuilding  Commission 
addressed  critical  organizational,  methodological  and 
thematic  issues,  as  well  as  country-specific  issues 
relating  to  Burundi  and  Sierra  Leone,  coordinating 
various contributions to sustainable peace and opening 
avenues 
the 
international  community  and 
the  countries  under 
consideration.  I  believe  that,  in  its  first  year,  the 
Peacebuilding Commission contributed significantly to 
the promotion of integrated post-conflict peacebuilding 
strategies in Burundi and Sierra Leone. 

the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
sought  to  accumulate  best  practices  and  lessons  on 
critical  peacebuilding 
the 
Working  Group  on  Lessons  Learned,  the  Commission 
was  able  to  benefit  from  existing  experience  in  peace 
consolidation in many parts of the world. 
As clearly underlined in its first annual report, the 

tremendous 
Peacebuilding 
challenges 
involving 
establishing  its  organizational  structures,  defining  its 
working  methods  and  finding  ways  to  fulfil  its  core 
mandates. Some of these challenges are likely to be the 
subject  of  additional  discussion  during  the  second 
session. The “Conclusions” part of the report contains 
issues  and 
serious  reflection  on  key  outstanding 
challenges  before 
the  Commission, 
the 
question of financing its field missions. 

The United Nations peacebuilding architecture is 
now  in  place  and  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  is 
entering its second year of activity. The Peacebuilding 
Commission’s  activities  need  to  be  carried  out  in  a 
coherent manner. We believe that it may be appropriate 
for the Commission to begin addressing the addition of 
new  countries 
in  close 
consultation with the referring bodies. 

Strengthening the Commission’s relationship with 
relevant bodies and actors, such as the United Nations’ 
principal  organs,  namely,  the  General  Assembly,  the 
Security  Council,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
and  the  Secretariat,  funds  and  programmes,  regional 
its  consideration, 
Commission 
including 
during 
faced 
its 
initial 
phase 
the 
for 
A/62/PV.23
relevant 
thematic 
Exploring 
this  year’s  Chairman  of 
and  subregional  organizations,  international  financial 
institutions  and  civil  society,  is  essential.  As  part  of 
such  efforts,  I,  as 
the 
Commission,  will  devote  constant  efforts  and  avail 
myself of every opportunity to establish closer working 
relationships with those organizations. 

to 
issues 
peacebuilding  is  also  a  matter  of  great  importance.  I 
am particularly convinced that discussing broad policy 
guidelines  on  peacebuilding  activities 
in  general, 
without  focusing  on  a  specific  country,  is  also  worth 
pursuing. 

Raising awareness of the Commission’s work, not 
only  among  relevant  actors  but  also  among  the  public 
at  large,  would  greatly  enhance  the  understanding  of 
and necessary attention to the work of the Commission 
and  the  countries  under  its  consideration.  In  this 
regard, we intend to make every effort to heighten the 
visibility of the Commission’s work. At the same time, 
we would hope that individual Member States will join 
our efforts to promote the work of the Commission. 

As Chairman of the Commission, I would like to 
assure  all  Members  of  our  full  dedication  and 
commitment  to  the  real  success  of  the  Commission, 
that is to say, making change in the field. In that spirit, 
we request  all of you to lend your valuable and much 
needed support to our work at the Commission. 

I  would  like  to  add  just  a  few  words  in  my 
capacity  as  Permanent  Representative  of  Japan.  Japan 
has provided very active support for the Peacebuilding 
Commission and the Fund. It coordinates its activities 
with  those  of  the  Commission.  Recently,  we  sent  
high-level  missions  to  Burundi  and  Sierra  Leone, 
headed  by  then  Vice-Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs, 
Mr. Hamada, 
the 
peacebuilding  process  in  those  two  countries,  and  a 
report on his visit to Sierra Leone was compiled for the 
Commission’s  forthcoming  discussion.  Japan  shares 
the views of the Commission in its annual report with 
regard  to  the  critical  priority  areas,  and  we  have 
accordingly provided those countries with development 
assistance  in  fields  such  as  basic  infrastructure.  Our 
activities  have  included  the  rehabilitation  of  power 
plants in Sierra Leone and community development in 
Burundi. 
Japan  accords  high  priorities  to  post-conflict 

the  Japanese 
peacebuilding  efforts.  Last  month, 
Government contributed to these efforts by launching a 
the  purpose  of  enhancing 
for 
07-53720 

3 

the 
A/62/PV.23 

new  programme  for  training  civilian  peacebuilding 
professionals 
from  Japan  and  also  other  Asian 
countries.  The  training  takes  place  in  Hiroshima  and 
many other places in the world. 

Japan  will  redouble  its  efforts  to  achieve  the 
Commission’s  goal  of  building  and  consolidating 
sustainable  peace  by  hosting 
fourth  Tokyo 
International  Conference  on African  Development  and 
the G-8 Hokkaido Toyako Summit. 
Mr.  Salgueiro  (Portugal):  I  have  the  honour  of 

speaking  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  and  the 
candidate  countries  of  Turkey,  Croatia,  the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  the  countries  of  the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates  Albania,  Montenegro,  Serbia,  as  well  as 
Ukraine,  Georgia  and Armenia,  align  themselves  with 
this statement. 

The  European  Union  would  like  to  congratulate 
you,  Mr.  President,  for  organizing  this  important 
debate.  The  Peacebuilding  Commission 
is  a  key 
achievement  of  the  United  Nations  reform  process. 
Created to address a gap in the United Nations system 
to  support  countries  emerging  from  conflict,  this  new 
advisory  body,  together  with  the  establishment  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office  and  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund,  has  provided  an 
institutional 
framework  within  which  the  Governments  concerned, 
the  international  community  and  civil  society  have 
begun to address some key peacebuilding issues.  

the 
to 
commitment  of  the  previous  Chairpersons  of  the 
Organizational  Committee  of 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  Ambassador  Ismael  Gaspar  Martins  and 
Ambassador Kenzo Oshima, the two Vice-Chairpersons 
and  the  two  Chairpersons  of  the  country-specific 
configurations.  The  European  Union  would  like  to 
congratulate  them  for  their  valuable  work  and  for  the 
progress achieved under their leadership. 
congratulate 

to 
Ambassador Yukio  Takasu  for  his  recent  election  as 
Chairperson  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
wish him all the success for his mandate. The European 
Union looks forward to the Commission having a real 
impact  on  the  ground,  including  by  bringing  about 
greater  coherence  in  international  efforts  to  build 
peace. 
This  was  made  possible 
We  would 
innovative 
thanks 
also 
like 
and 
a 
In 
it 
reports 
of 
both 
The 
is  crucial 
this  sense, 
nation-building, 
sector,  Governments, 
including  national  civil  society, 

the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  (A/62/137)  and  the  Peacebuilding  Fund 
(A/62/138)  submitted  to  the  General  Assembly  stress 
that  consolidation  of  peace  must  be  based  on  national 
ownership and international partnership. The European 
Union  agrees  that  efforts  to  consolidate  peace  and 
development  must  be  based  on 
the  needs  and 
perspectives  of  the  affected  countries  themselves. 
Experience  shows  that  a  nationally  owned  and  led 
process is the veritable key to success of peacebuilding 
and ultimately of sustainable peace. Experience equally 
shows that an inclusive and participatory peacebuilding 
process  is  the  only  way  to  ensure  nationwide  shared 
priority-setting 
truthful 
correspondence  between  real  needs  and  external 
assistance,  and  a  sustained  conformity  between 
commitments and implementation. 
to  engage  all 

the 
stakeholders, 
non-governmental 
private 
organizations  and  current  and  potential  donors.  Close 
coordination between United Nations Headquarters and 
the  national  actors  is  essential  in  order  to  identify  the 
most  pressing  priorities,  such  as  good  governance, 
youth  empowerment,  job  creation,  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  human  rights,  gender,  rule  of  law  and 
justice or security sector reform. 
In  order  to  ensure  that  peacebuilding  efforts  are 

sustainable, they should be monitored and tracked with 
quantitative  and  qualitative  indicators  at  the  strategic 
level  to  assess  progress  towards  agreed  goals,  to  take 
appropriate  action  when  threats  to  peace  arise,  to 
enhance  coherence  of  multidimensional  efforts  and  to 
track  fulfilment  of  mutual  commitments  by  national 
and  international  actors.  In  this  context,  the  Working 
Group  on  Lessons  Learned 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  apply  best  practices  to  its 
work  at  the  field  level.  Additionally,  in  order  to 
maximize  the  Commission’s  positive  impact  on  the 
ground, we believe that the link between Headquarters 
and  the  field  should  be  strengthened.  Where  possible, 
representatives from the field should participate in the 
Commission’s  discussions  in  New  York  via  video 
conference  or 
the 
Commission,  but  also  to  engage  in  the  assessment  of 
progress and the detailing of next steps to be taken. In 
addition 
coordination  meetings, 
Commission meetings could also be held in-country so 
that more actors can be involved. 
in  person,  not 
should  help 
to  brief 
existing 
just 
to 
4 

07-53720 
in 
the 
field 
through 
enable 
that  would 
to  consolidate 
this  mechanism, 
Another  priority 
improved  outreach 


the 

Commission 
its  added  value  and 
maximize its impact would be to increase its visibility 
in 
and 
communication  strategies  as  well  as  greater  publicity. 
Also,  we  are  of  the  opinion  that  the  Peacebuilding 
Support Office needs to be equipped with the adequate 
resources  necessary  to  continue  to  efficiently  support 
the Commission’s growing work.  

The  European  Union  welcomes  the  engagement 
that  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  has  shown  in 
Sierra Leone  and  Burundi 
the  past  year.  We 
commend  the  intensive  work  of  all  stakeholders  that 
have  contributed  to  the  Strategic  Framework  for 
peacebuilding  in  Burundi  and  consider  it  a  critical 
instrument  providing  guidance  for  the  Government  of 
Burundi,  the  Commission  itself,  and  all  partners  for 
their common work in peacebuilding. We underline the 
importance of the monitoring and tracking mechanism 
that is currently being developed between Burundi and 
the  Commission  to  allow  for  reviewing  progress  in 
peacebuilding  activities  and  objectives  on  a  regular 
basis.  Without 
the  Strategic 
Framework will not have much impact on the ground. 

With regard to Sierra Leone, the European Union 
considers that the Peacebuilding Commission has made 
a  valuable  contribution  to  enhancing  international 
attention and financial support and in aiding the overall 
peace  consolidation  process.  The  European  Union 
stands ready to continue to assist in the finalization of 
the  Sierra  Leone  Compact  and  in  developing  tools  to 
track progress. The Commission should ensure that the 
peacebuilding  process  remains  on  track  and  that  gaps 
are  addressed  in  a  timely  and  coherent  manner.  The 
European  Union  believes  that  the  Compact  should 
build  on  existing  frameworks,  such  as  the  Poverty 
Reduction  Strategy  Paper,  the  Peace  Consolidation 
Strategy  and  the  frameworks  of  assistance  of  other 
main  donors.  We  have 
the  optimal 
articulation  of  these  frameworks  while  highlighting 
national 
and 
encouraging their implementation. 
tracking 

for 
mechanism 
peacebuilding  in  Burundi  will  be  based  to  the  extent 
possible on the monitoring mechanism and timelines of 
the  Poverty  Reduction  Strategy  Paper 
an 
encouraging development in the right direction. In this 
the  European  Community,  as  a  main 
context, 
the  Strategic  Framework 
the  monitoring  and 
The  fact 
of 
commitments 
international 
to  ensure 
and 
that 
is 
A/62/PV.23
is 
and 
financing 
important 
to  ensure 
predictable 
multilateral  donor  in  both  Burundi  and  Sierra  Leone, 
stands ready to work constructively towards this end at 
the strategic and field level. 
The  European  Union  recognizes  the  importance 

of 
for 
sustained 
peacebuilding.  The  Peacebuilding  Fund,  in  operation 
since  January  2007,  plays  a  critical  role  in  providing 
countries with start-up funding for early recovery. The 
European Union member States have been contributing 
to  this  Fund,  and  the  Union  is  collectively  its  largest 
donor.  It 
that  additional 
countries  are  declared  eligible  for  support  from  the 
Peacebuilding Fund and that mobilization of resources 
is  enhanced  in  order  to  achieve  the  $250  million 
funding target and to effectively address the transition 
gap. 

The European Union sees the Peacebuilding Fund 
as  a  catalyst  for  work  on  peacebuilding  efforts,  but 
long-term  funding  must  still  come  from  multilateral 
and bilateral donors. The scope of the Fund should not 
overlap  with  other  existing  instruments.  In  order  to 
ensure  broad  and  effective  use  of  the  Fund,  all  of  its 
three  funding  windows  should  be  fully  utilized.  The 
role of the Peacebuilding Fund Advisory Group can be 
particularly  helpful  in  providing  guidance  on  the 
effective use of the funds. 

As  recognized  in  both  reports,  it  is  crucial  that 
the distinction between the Peacebuilding Fund and the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  is  clarified  for  all  the 
parties involved in peacebuilding from the outset of the 
process.  We 
the 
interrelationship  between  the  Commission  and  the 
Fund,  in  particular  what  the  sequencing  is  between 
them  and  how  to  link  short-term  early  interventions 
with a long-term strategy. 

The  European  Union’s  assessment  of  the  first 
year  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  is  positive. At 
the  same  time,  we  are  aware  of  the  major  challenges 
that  still  lie  ahead.  The  Commission  must  prove  its 
ability to deliver real benefits to the countries under its 
consideration.  Effective  working  practices  for  the 
Commission’s  relationship  with  other  United  Nations 
bodies  also  need  to  be  established. The  Commission’s 
relationship  with  the  Security  Council,  the  General 
Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the 
Bretton  Woods  institutions  should  be  enhanced,  and 
those organs, in particular the Security Council, should 
further 
should 
reflect 
on 
07-53720 

5 
of 
to 

the 
better 
advantage 
Peacebuilding 
the  work  of 
A/62/PV.23 

take 
Commission’s advisory role.  

The Peacebuilding Commission can consider new 
countries  in  its  second  year. At  least  one  country  has 
already  expressed  its  wish  to  be  included  in  the 
Commission’s agenda. The Commission should ensure 
that it has the capabilities to address those countries, in 
terms of human resources and capacity, and that it has 
learned  the  lessons  from  its  experiences  with  Burundi 
and  Sierra  Leone.  The  Peacebuilding  Commission 
should  also  continue  its  reflections  on  the  appropriate 
time  for  scaling  down  and  ending  the  Commission’s 
engagement with a country.  
To  conclude,  the  European  Union  will  maintain 

its  positive  contribution 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission. We are determined to help 
the  Commission  make  a  positive  and  measurable 
impact  in  the  regions  where  it  is  engaged.  In  this 
context,  we  stress  the  importance  of  the  standing 
invitation  extended  to  the  European  Community  as  an 
institutional donor to participate in the meetings of the 
Peacebuilding  Commission.  We  look  forward  to  the 
arrangement 
for 
adequate  representation  of  the  European  Union,  given 
the  major  contributions 
the  Union,  as  an 
international actor, makes in a number of post-conflict 
countries  and  regions  worldwide,  particularly  in  the 
areas of diplomacy, military and security. 
Mrs. Angella Brown (Jamaica): Please allow me, 

Sir,  on  behalf  of  the  caucus  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  (NAM)  in  the  Peacebuilding  Commission, 
to  extend  sincere  congratulations  to  you  on  your 
election  to  the  presidency  of  this  body.  We  are 
confident  that  under  your  able  leadership  the  General 
Assembly  will  complete  its  slate  of  activities  in  a 
cordial, 
professional  manner 
commensurate  with  the  high  office  of  the  presidency 
and  the  expectations  of  the  many  delegations  which 
make up this Organization. 

The  report  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
(A/62/137)  to  the  Assembly,  as  mandated  by  the 
founding  resolutions  —  General  Assembly  resolution 
60/180 and Security Council resolution 1646 (2005) — 
is a strong signal that the latest initiatives in the United 
Nations reform process are under way, in earnest. The 
completion  of  its  first  year  in  operation  and  the 
presentation of this report to the Assembly not only is a 
defining  moment  in  the  existence  of  the  Commission, 
implemented, 
allowing 
efficient 
finally 
that 
and 
in 
Throughout 
the  preceding  12  months, 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  caucus 
but  will  also  form  a  solid  basis  for  work  to  move 
forward  and  add  another  facet  to  the  already  existing 
body  of  knowledge,  aiding  in  the  consolidation  of 
peace  and  laying  the  foundation  for  the  immediate 
rehabilitation  and  sustained  economic  recovery  and 
development  of 
the  post-conflict  countries  under 
consideration. 

the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  successfully  grappled  with 
several  administrative,  organizational  and  directional 
issues  as  it  sought  to  establish  itself  and  fulfil  its 
mandate,  catering  for  the  peacebuilding  needs  of 
Burundi and Sierra Leone, the first two countries under 
its consideration. 

the 
Peacebuilding Commission is particularly pleased with 
the  comprehensive  character  of  the  content  of  the 
report, which in our estimation represents a factual and 
faithful account of what transpired over the period and 
in  so  doing,  provides  an  accurate  record  of  the 
Commission’s work for posterity. 

to 
emphasize that the development aspects of any strategy 
geared  towards  extricating  countries  emerging  from 
conflict  cannot  be  over  emphasized.  The  Movement 
strongly  agrees  that  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
cannot  ignore  fundamental  principles  such  as  the  rule 
of  law,  security  sector  reform  and  human  rights.  But 
certainly those principles cannot be emphasized at the 
expense  of  providing  immediate  post-conflict  risk-
reduction  strategies,  which  is  the  precise  and  direct 
purpose of the Commission. Such strategies are geared 
towards  poverty  reduction  and  include  education  and 
training,  rural  agricultural  development,  private  sector 
reform 
initiatives, 
including 
investor-friendly 
climate  —  all  of  which  lead  towards  job  creation, 
together with enhanced employment opportunities and, 
by  extension,  overall  improvement  in  the  lives  and 
living conditions of local populations. 

The Non-Aligned Movement looks forward to the 
continuation  of  the  dialogue  within  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  as  we  continue  to  build  on  the  successes 
of  the  past  months,  always  mindful  that  the  countries 
under  consideration  by  the  Commission  require  swift 
action  to  implement  priority  projects  as  part  of  the 
rehabilitation and reconstruction process. 
capacity-building 
creation  of 
continues 
other 
and 
the 
an 
6 

07-53720 
The 
second 
year 
of 
Additionally, 
are 
approved 
those  on 
the  ground 
for  disbursement  by 



the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
must  continue  to  identify  the  means  by  which  funds 
that 
the 
Peacebuilding Fund reach the recipient countries in the 
shortest possible time. It is not sufficient to identify the 
urgency  of  the  need  while  paying  scant  regard  to  or 
becoming  lax  in  the  critical  follow-up  actions  at  the 
most crucial stage of the process.  

the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  will  demand  close  coordination  between 
the  Commission,  other  United  Nations  bodies,  the 
Peacebuilding Fund and donor countries and agencies, 
particularly 
in  post-conflict 
situations, if  some of the  pitfalls of the recent months 
are  to  be  avoided.  It  is  also  important  that  the 
Commission continue its work in the next months with 
the  same  level  of  commitment,  dedication  and  drive 
that was evident during the period under review. In that 
connection, the Non-Aligned Movement would like to 
reiterate  several  key  principles  which  should  continue 
to guide the Commission’s work. 

While we welcome the commitment of the donor 
community  in  the  activities  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission, 
is  not  a  donor 
organization.  Its  activities  involving  all  stakeholders 
must be executed in a far broader, more comprehensive 
and  participatory  context  consistent  with  its  mandate. 
Decisions 
financial 
resources  should,  therefore,  be  guided  by  national 
priorities  and  be  based  on  the  collective  decision  of 
members 
Peacebuilding  Commission. 
Recommendations  for  assistance  must  highlight  the 
priority  areas  established  by  the  Government  of  the 
country  under  review  by  the  Commission.  The  matter 
of  Government  guidance  should  also  be  uppermost  in 
planning  the  way  forward  and  will  certainly  serve  to 
strengthen  the  process  of  national  ownership.  This 
holistic  and  inclusive  approach  to  evaluation  and 
recommendations adopted at country-specific meetings 
can only add to the integrity of the process within the 
Commission. 

We  believe  that,  with  the  architecture  of  the 
Commission  now  completed,  its  work  should  take  on 
another dimension as it responds to the expectations of 
the  international  community,  particularly  those  of 
countries  emerging 
from  conflict,  by  producing 
tangible results with greater and more robust activities 
in  the  coming  months,  including  the  addition  of  more 
the  provision  of 
the  Commission 
regarding 
of 
the 
A/62/PV.23
in 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  caucus 
countries  for  consideration  as  they  try  to  consolidate 
peace and engineer prosperity. 

the 
Peacebuilding Commission calls for the streamlining of 
the  meetings  of  the  Commission.  We  must  move  to 
dispel  the  misconception  that,  because  of  its  different 
configurations, there is more that one Commission. In 
this regard, the Organizational Committee must be the 
focal point of all Commission activities, including the 
work of the country-specific meetings. 
Finally,  the  NAM  continues  to  pay  tribute  to 

Angola,  the  first  Chair  of  the  Commission,  under 
whose  guidance  the  achievements  of  the  Commission 
during the initial stage were accomplished. 
Please  allow  me  to  also  express  appreciation  to 

the  respective  chairs  of  the  country-specific  meetings 
and the Peacebuilding Support Office for their tireless 
efforts  and  excellent  contributions  during  the  first 
session of the Commission. 

We  also  take  this  opportunity  to  welcome  and 
extend  best  wishes  to  Japan,  the  new  Chair  of  the 
Commission, and other incoming members of the new 
Bureau of the Commission. 
Mr. Akram (Pakistan): The decision to establish 

the  Peacebuilding  Commission  taken  by  the  2005 
World Summit was a belated but important recognition 
of the need for a comprehensive approach to peace and 
the 
relationship  between  peace  and 
development. 
As  a  founding  member  of  the  Commission, 

Pakistan  has  had  the  privilege  of  contributing  to  its 
work in its formative phase. We are deeply committed 
to  the  Commission’s  success.  I  would  like  to  thank 
Ambassador  Martins  of  Angola  for  skilfully  guiding 
the  work  of  the  Commission  during  its  first  year.  We 
are also thankful to Ambassador Løvald of Norway and 
Ambassador  Frank  Majoor  of  the  Netherlands  for 
coordinating  the  Commission’s  work  in  the  country-
specific formats on Burundi and Sierra Leone, as well 
as  to  Ambassador  Gallardo  of  El  Salvador  for  his 
useful work as chair of the Working Group on Lessons 
Learned.  We  also  assure  our  full  support  to  the  new 
Chair of the Commission, Ambassador Yukio Takasu of 
Japan,  who  has  already  displayed  his  energy  in 
promoting the work of the Commission. Let me finally 
thank  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office  for  their 
important contribution to the work of the Commission. 
inextricable 
07-53720 

7 
on 
issues 

outstanding 
the  elaboration  of 
A/62/PV.23 


During  the  first  year,  the  main  focus  of  the 
Commission was on peacebuilding in the two countries 
on  its  agenda,  that  is,  Burundi  and  Sierra  Leone. 
Substantive work has been done on the two situations, 
including 
integrated  strategies, 
which are to form the framework for the Commission’s 
engagement  with  the  two  countries.  The  process  was 
informed  and  driven  by  national  ownership  and  by 
consultations  and  initiatives  at  the  field  level.  The 
Commission undertook field visits to the two countries. 
The  contribution  of  the  United  Nations  integrated 
offices in Burundi and Sierra Leone was also crucial in 
this process. 

Apart  from  describing  the  Commission’s  work, 
the  report  of  the  Commission  offers  observations  and 
recommendations 
and 
challenges.  Since  this  is  formative  phase  of  the 
Commission, it may be too early to start measuring its 
real  impact  or  evaluating  its  work  in  terms  of  success 
or  failure.  Its  performance,  during  the  first  year, 
considering the inherent difficulties and the differences 
of  opinion  and  expectations  that  characterized  the 
evolutionary  discussions  of  the  Commission,  is  by  all 
means commendable. We believe that despite “teething 
problems”,  good  groundwork  has  been  done  with 
regard  to  the  organizational  and  substantive  agenda. 
Building on this, we hope that the Commission will be 
able to improve its output in both quality and quantity 
in the coming years. 

The  Commission  also  faces  several  challenges: 
political,  conceptual,  organizational  and  functional. 
From the outset, there has been an effort on the part of 
some  to  keep  the  Commission  closely  tied  to  and, 
indeed,  subservient  to  the  Security  Council.  The 
resulting  friction  could  have  been  avoided  if  the 
Commission’s  relationship  with  the  three  principal 
organs  had  been  more  clearly  defined  in  the  founding 
resolutions. We hope that the Commission’s work will 
evolve with much greater appreciation for the value of 
collaborative  and  complementary  efforts  by  the  three 
principal  organs.  Indeed,  it  was  this  need  for  such  a 
complementary arrangement that served as the rational 
for the creation of the Commission. 
Another problem has been the effort to reduce the 

role  of  the  Organizational  Committee.  We  agree  that 
most  of  the  work  should  take  place  in  the  country-
specific 
the  concept 
promoted  in  Pakistan’s  2004  proposal  for  the  creation 
of ad-hoc composite committees. However, once we all 
this  was 
formats. 
Indeed, 
its  chair  should  be 
agreed to establish the Organizational Committee, this 
Committee  should  be  accorded  its  due  place  and  be 
fully utilized. It should have a strategic oversight of the 
work  of  the  Commission,  including  country-specific 
meetings and the Working Group on Lessons Learned. 
The  Committee  should  meet  more  frequently.  The 
Committee  and 
the  primary 
interface  of  the  Commission  with  all  external  actors, 
particularly  the  principal  organs,  institutional  donors 
and  others.  The  country-specific  formats,  designed  to 
generate  maximum  efficiency  and  flexibility,  should 
not appear to bypass the Organizational Committee.  

Neither should the Commission turn into another 
forum for donors and recipients. One casualty of such a 
development  would  be  national  ownership  on  the  part 
of  the  countries  under  consideration,  and  a  much 
bigger casualty could be the Commission itself. 

Demands for onerous commitments on the part of 
the countries on the agenda, introduction of conditions 
and  multiple  scrutiny  will  shift  the  Commission  from 
its  main  task  of  assisting  these  countries  which  are, 
after  all,  faced  with  special  circumstances.  We  have 
seen,  for  instance,  in  the  discussion  on  the  strategic 
framework for Burundi, that, while commitments were 
expected  from 
there  was 
reluctance,  on  the  part  of  the  partners,  to  agree  to 
concrete commitments themselves. 

On  the  operational  side,  the  main  objective 
should be to maximize the Commission’s impact on the 
ground. 
and 
coordination is the key to assisting the transition from 
conflict  to  sustainable  peace  and  development.  We 
must  not  forget  that  these  are  complex  crises.  They 
must  be  addressed  comprehensively, 
their 
aspects  —  political,  security,  economic,  social  and 
humanitarian.  It  is  also  necessary  to  address  the  root 
causes  in  order  to  effectively  prevent  relapse  into 
conflict. 

The line between peacebuilding and development 
is  not  always  clear.  Still,  there  is  a  need  to  strike  a 
balance  between  immediate  peacebuilding  activities 
and 
longer-term  development  priorities.  Trade, 
investment, official development assistance, debt relief 
and  development  of  the  private  sector  have  to  be  part 
of the peacebuilding programme. 
Sustainable  peace  and  development  cannot  be 

towards  self-
ensured  without  moving  a  country 
sufficiency  and  reducing  its  reliance  on  external 
the  country  concerned, 
system-wide 
Increased 
approach 
in  all 
8 

07-53720 


assistance.  The  best  utilization  of  the  country’s  own 
resources should be promoted, inter alia, through trade 
and value addition of raw materials. 

The  Peacebuilding  Commission  held  around  50 
meetings in different formats during the first year. This 
kind  of  attention  given  to  the  two  countries  on  its 
agenda  would  not  have  been  possible  in  the  Security 
Council, which can only address issues periodically. It 
is for this reason that we had earlier proposed that the 
comprehensive reports of the two Integrated Offices in 
Burundi and Sierra Leone should be considered in the 
Commission as well. This would improve coordination 
between the field and headquarters. 

There  is  a  need  also  to  make  the  most  effective 
use  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission’s  advice  and 
recommendations.  The  Commission 
is  a  unique 
mechanism  in  the  sense  that  all  actors  are  around  the 
table. This  should  translate  into  better  communication 
and swift action by all concerned. It is important to see 
also how the  advice of the Commission is influencing 
the  work  and  decisions  of  relevant  actors. The  advice 
of  the  Commission  can  be  accorded  more  weight  and 
greater  sanction  if  it  is  subsequently  incorporated  and 
reflected in the decisions of the principal organs. 

The  international  financial  institutions,  for  their 
part, should demonstrate greater operational flexibility 
in their interactions with and assistance to the countries 
under consideration. 
the  Peacebuilding 

advocacy 
Commission  needs 
to 
marshal  resources,  help  ensure  predictable  financing 
and ensure the continued attention of the international 
community  on  the  country  concerned.  The  assistance 
can  be  made 
the 
Peacebuilding  Fund,  which  is  invaluable.  However, 
such assistance is intended to be of immediate or short-
term  nature.  It  is  therefore  important  to  enhance  the 
catalytic  impact  of  the  interventions  of  the  Fund, 
including  assistance  provided  through  its  emergency 
window.  But  it  should  be  recognized  that  much  larger 
resources are required and on a sustained basis to carry 
out  the  agreed  objectives,  plans  and  programmes 
related  to  peacebuilding  in  the  countries  concerned. 
The Commission is best placed to help mobilize these 
resources 
through  other  established  mechanisms 
including  donor  conferences.  The  principal  organs  of 
the  United  Nations  can  all  help  in  this  resource-
generation effort. 
to  be  further  strengthened 
available 
role  of 
through 
readily 
The 
A/62/PV.23
to 
and 
gaps 
critical 
thus  have 
success  of 
Coordination  and  exchange  of 

information, 
including  lessons  learned,  between  the  Fund  and  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  are  vital  for  a  proper 
perspective 
the  peacebuilding 
architecture.  It  may  be  a  good  idea  to  arrange  close 
interaction  between  the  members  of  the  Commission 
and the Fund’s Advisory Group. 

In  the  final  analysis,  the  key  to  success  lies  in 
implementation and follow-up. Peacebuilding strategic 
frameworks  are  the  common  platform  for  our  work. 
They  will  need 
to  be  complemented  by  agreed 
monitoring and tracking mechanisms with regard to the 
commitments  of  both  the  countries  concerned  and  the 
international  community.  We  will 
live 
strategies,  which  will  allow  fine-tuning  and  course 
responding 
correction, 
and 
requirements as they arise. 

The  mapping  of  completed,  current  and  planned 
activities  and  the  overall  resource  flows  remains  an 
important  ongoing  exercise.  Typical  challenges  of 
external  resource  mobilization  have  been  identified  in 
the mapping exercises carried out by the Peacebuilding 
Support  Office.  This  should  help  identify  gaps  and 
potential partners and mechanisms to address them. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  say  that  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  has  shown  great  promise. 
Its  efforts  during  the  first  year  have  been  generally 
appreciated,  including  by  the  two  countries  on  its 
agenda. This should encourage other countries to seek 
the advice and assistance of the Commission. Pakistan 
believes that the Peacebuilding Commission is capable 
of  addressing  complex  crises  in  several  additional 
countries.  The 
the 
resources  and  the  capacity  to  address  the  challenges 
that are being confronted by so many countries caught 
in  the  vortex  of  the  problems  and  politics  of  scarcity. 
Ultimately,  it  is  poverty  and  scarcity  which  must  be 
conquered  comprehensively 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  and  in  the  other  relevant  organs  and 
bodies at the disposal of the international community. 
Mr. Abdelaziz (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): It is my 

pleasure  to  commence  my  statement  by  thanking  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  Secretary-General 
for  the  presentation  of  the  first  annual  report  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  on 
session 
(A/62/137) and the  report  of the Secretary-General on 
the Peacebuilding Fund (A/62/138). 
international  community  has 
in 
its 
first 
07-53720 

9 
and 
procedural 
substantive 
A/62/PV.23 


Convinced  of  the  important  role  to  be  played  by 
the Peacebuilding Commission in preventing countries 
from relapsing into conflict after a post-conflict stage, 
Egypt sought to become a member of the Commission 
from  its  establishment  and  to  have  it  implement  its 
tasks  in  accordance  with General Assembly resolution 
60/180  in  a  manner  that  would  achieve  the  best 
possible results. 

The  first  annual  report  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  (A/62/137)  outlines  the  achievements  of 
the Commission during its first year, in addition to all 
related 
aspects. 
Accordingly,  the  General  Assembly  should  assess  the 
pros and cons and make recommendations designed to 
enhance the roles of the Organizational Committee, the 
country-specific  configurations  of  Sierra  Leone  and 
Burundi and the Working Group on Lessons Learned to 
enable them to carry out their mandates in the optimum 
manner. 

It  is  necessary  to  ensure  that  the  Commission 
continues  to  work  actively  on  bringing  together  all 
relevant  actors  and  that  it  provides  recommendations 
and  suggestions  based  on  in-depth  studies  in  order  to 
adopt 
integrated  peacebuilding 
strategies 
for 
sustainable  development  in  the  countries  emerging 
from  conflict.  This  requires 
to 
strengthen  its  relations  with  various  relevant  organs, 
departments and programmes of the United Nations as 
well  as  with  the  international  financial  institutions, 
subregional 
donor 
organizations 
peacebuilding, 
particularly  those  existing  in  the  same  regions  as  the 
countries 
the  Commission’s 
consideration. 

the 
Commission  to  develop  its  tools  of  engagement  with 
the  countries  on  its  agenda.  In  this  regard,  I  wish  to 
emphasize  the  usefulness  of  field  missions,  which,  by 
facilitating 
dialogue  with  Governments, 
Parliaments,  civil society  and the private sector, make 
it possible to obtain first-hand information and directly 
assess peacebuilding priorities. 

Experience  has  demonstrated  the  importance  of 
the  continued  promotion  by  the  Commission  of  its 
institutional  relationships  with  the  General  Assembly, 
the  Security  Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council.  These 
further 
the  Commission 
Consequently, 
foundations 
relationships 
still  need 
consolidate 
countries 
and 
regional 
and 
imperative 
and 
implement 
concerned 
that 
are 
under 
and 
to 
with 
it 
is 
for 
direct 

their  Charter 
delineation  and  clarification,  in  a  spirit  of  full  respect 
for  the  institutional  balance  between  these  organs  in 
accordance  with 
responsibilities. 
Furthermore,  the provisional rules  of procedure of the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  need  to  be  continually 
revisited  in  the  light  of  developments  and  experience 
gained  from  the  work  of  the  Commission  during  its 
first  year,  with  a  view  to  the  formulation  of  clear 
institutional  rules  and  unified  criteria  that  have  not 
been  influenced  by  political  considerations  and  the 
reflection of all the cases under consideration. 

The  Commission  should  not  only  focus  its  work 
on  the  country-specific  meetings,  but  it  should  also 
enhance  the  institutional  role  of  the  Organizational 
Committee  with  the  aim  of  promoting  debate  on 
specific subjects and the refinement of regulations and 
procedures related to the rules and working methods of 
the Peacebuilding Commission, taking into account the 
findings of the Working Group on Lessons Learned. 

In  order  that  our  efforts  may  succeed,  the 
Commission  should  ensure,  while  pursuing  its  work, 
full  respect  for  and  adherence  to  its  main  principles, 
particularly  the  principle  of  national  ownership  of  the 
countries under consideration by the Commission. This 
principle 
the  planning, 
implementation  and  termination  of  the  work  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  in  the  country  concerned, 
based  on  a  sovereign  national  decision  by  the  country 
concerned  without  any  political  or  financial  pressure. 
Moreover,  monitoring  and  follow-up  mechanisms 
should  be  established  to  ensure  that  national  and 
international  stakeholders  abide  by  their  commitments 
related  to  peacebuilding  priorities  agreed  between  the 
Commission and the countries concerned. 

The Peacebuilding Commission should not act as 
a  “trusteeship  commission”  passing  judgement  on  the 
capabilities of countries emerging from conflict, nor as 
a  mediator  seeking  to  gather  donor  and  recipient 
countries  together,  nor  as  a  club  for  donors,  which 
might  lead  to  the  marginalization  of  the  role  of 
non-donor  countries  members  of  the  Commission. 
Accordingly,  the  Commission  should  undertake  an 
in-depth  study  of  the  role  of  the  steering  committees 
that review and adopt projects to be incorporated in the 
priority  plans  of  each  of  the  countries  concerned. The 
Commission  should  also  specify  the  unified  criteria 
that these committees should adhere to while reviewing 
the  projects  to  be  submitted  to  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission for adoption, so as not to give the donors 
should  be  applied 
to 
10 

07-53720 
these  projects,  which  would  constrain 
the  country  concerned  and 


the chance to impose any conditionalities for agreeing 
the 
on 
sovereignty  of 
the 
independence of its national decisions. 

The  General Assembly  should  also  fully  support 
the  secretariat  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
provide  it  with  the  necessary  posts  and  financial 
resources to fulfil its role fully, as well as the financial 
resources  needed  for  increasing  the  number  of  field 
missions  to  the  countries  under  consideration  by  the 
Commission. 

In  the  light  of  Egypt’s  persistent  support  for  the 
Peacebuilding  Fund  and  its  goals,  we  think  that 
countries  should  fulfil  their  pledges  to  the  budget  of 
the  Fund,  especially  since  the  Fund  has  received  only 
$142  million  out  of  the  $226  million  pledged  by  34 
countries.  It  is  estimated  that  the  budget  of  the  Fund 
should be $250 million. Delays or non-fulfilment of the 
pledges  will  hinder  the  Fund  from  performing  its 
functions. 

In  this  regard,  it  is  essential  to  explain  the 
relation  between  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
the Peacebuilding Fund. Despite the fact that the Fund 
is  independent  and  works  under  the  authority  of  the 
Secretary-General, its name — Peacebuilding Fund — 
shows that more coordination and coherence is needed 
between 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  especially  since  several 
countries  consider  that  the  Fund  has  become  a  forum 
connecting 
the  donor 
countries, 
Peacebuilding 
Commission.  This  also  requires  that  the  management 
of the Fund develop in a way that increases its capacity 
to  accomplish  its  work  quickly  and  effectively  and  to 
disburse the funds allocated to specific projects. In this 
context,  the  Commission  should  insist  on  issuing 
guidance  on  the  general  policies  of  the  Fund  pursuant 
to the terms of reference. 
In  this  connection,  we  call  upon  the  Secretary-

the 
General 
Peacebuilding  Commission 
in  cases  where  he 
determines that a country is eligible for Peacebuilding 
Fund  support. 
the 
Commission  after  issuing  his  decision  to  disburse 
resources from the Fund for one country or another. We 
are  looking  forward  to  the  creation  by  the  Fund  of  a 
mechanism  to  assess  the  usefulness  of  the  resources 
disbursed and for reporting on whether those resources 
the  Secretary-General  with 
separate 
consultation  with 
its  activities  and 
the  activities  of 
is  not  enough 
to  notify 
increase 
from 
the 
to 
It 
A/62/PV.23
to 
of 
In 
Ms.  Jahan
conclusion, 
to 
lead  to  minimizing  the  possibility  of  the  countries 
concerned relapsing into conflict. 
extend  my 
I  wish 

the 
congratulations 
the  Chairperson 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  Mr. 
Ismael  Gaspar 
Martins,  the  Permanent  Representative  of Angola,  for 
the  reporting  period.  By  the  same  token,  we  wish  to 
extend  our  congratulations  to  the Ambassadors  of  the 
Netherlands,  El  Salvador  and  Norway  for  the  success 
of their efforts in guiding the work of the Commission. 
We  wish  also  to  congratulate  the  Peacebuilding  Fund 
on the considerable efforts made last year, as explicitly 
reflected  in  the  report.  We  wish  to  reiterate  our  trust 
that 
the  coming  period  will  witness  extensive 
cooperation between the Peacebuilding Support Office 
and  the  members  of  the  Commission  with  a  view  to 
overcoming the problems that faced the Commission in 
its first year. We wish Japan and the new Peacebuilding 
Commission  members  every  success  in  leading  the 
deliberations of the Commission next year. 
(Bangladesh):  The  Bangladesh 

delegation  welcomes  this  opportunity  to  deliberate  on 
the  work  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  during  its 
first year of operation. 

We  associate  ourselves  with  the  statement  made 
by  the  representative  of  Jamaica  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  caucus.  However,  we  would 
like to highlight the following points. 

The  Peacebuilding  Commission,  as  we  are  all 
aware,  was  established  to  address  a  lacuna  in  the 
United Nations structure and thus reduce post-conflict 
countries’  risk  of  relapsing  into  the  quagmire  of 
conflict  and  crisis.  With  this  end  in  view,  the  work 
done  so  far  by  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  in  its 
maiden two ventures in Sierra Leone and Burundi has 
made significant and tangible contributions towards the 
consolidation of peace in these two countries. 

Despite being in a nascent stage, the first year of 
operation  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  has  been 
quite satisfactory, given the complexity of its work, the 
heavy mandate and the fact that it has had to chart its 
own  way  of  functioning  and  address  some  critical 
organizational,  procedural  and  methodological  issues, 
in  addition  to  its  substantive  work  of  peacebuilding. 
integrated 
The 
the  right 
peacebuilding  strategies  appears 
approach 
their 
configuration,  have  all  the  potential  to  become  an 
country-specific 
to  be 
formulation  of 
strategies, 
given 
these 
and 
07-53720 

11 
of 
A/62/PV.23 

effective  tool  for  peacebuilding.  The  Peacebuilding 
Support Office, the Peacebuilding Fund and the chairs 
of  the  country-specific  meetings  also  deserve  their 
share  of  credit.  We  commend  the  countries  of  Sierra 
Leone and Burundi for their cooperation and for taking 
national  ownership  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
initiatives. 

There can be no sense of complacency, however. 
There  still  remains  much  scope  for  improvement.  We 
are  of  the  view  that  operational  relations  of  the 
Peacebuilding Commission with the General Assembly, 
the  Security  Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  other 
intergovernmental  United  Nations 
bodies, relevant international, regional and subregional 
organizations,  national  stakeholders,  financiers  and 
civil society should be further strengthened. Similarly, 
operational  relations  with  the  recently  restructured 
United  Nations  Department 
Peacekeeping 
Operations  should  also  be  enhanced.  The  wrangling 
with  which  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  was  faced 
in  developing  its  rules  of  procedure  and  working 
methods  during  its  early  stage  of  operation  should  be 
avoided  by  further  streamlining.  The  Organizational 
Committee  should  infuse  more  dynamism  into  the 
peacebuilding  architecture  by  playing  a  more  pro-
active and lead role. 

The  Peacebuilding  Commission  should  have  a 
built-in  system  for  stocktaking,  so  as  to  continuously 
build upon its own achievements of peacebuilding. The 
Commission  should  also  develop  a 
tracking  and 
monitoring  mechanism  to  feed  the  tracking  functions 
of  the  integrated  peacebuilding  strategies  in  order  to 
assess  their  accountability  and  effectiveness.  This 
would  enable  the  Commission  to  make  necessary 
adjustments in its efforts to have the maximum impact 
on the ground. The integrated peacebuilding strategies 
should  be  comprehensive  enough  to  cover  all  the 
peacebuilding priorities. 

As the Working Group on Lessons Learned plans 
to  consider  a  number  of  other  peacebuilding  issues,  it 
should  devote  some  time  to  sharing  the  valuable 
peacekeeping  experiences  of  the  troop-contributing 
countries. The lessons learned in that regard should be 
duly 
integrated  peacebuilding 
strategies.  One  of  the  key  factors  for  success  in  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission’s  work  is  the  attention  of 
the 
its  peacebuilding 
the  countries  of  engagement.  The 
activities 
Commission  and  its  work,  therefore,  should  be  given 
international  community 
reflected 
the 
in 
in 
to 

As 
that 
to  an 
regards 
the  work 
their  own  destiny  and 
adequate visibility, through outreach activities, in order 
to retain this attention. 

My  delegation  is  also  of  the  view  that,  in  the 
cases  of  Burundi  and  Sierra  Leone,  the  issue  of 
economic  recovery  of  the  post-conflict  societies  was 
somewhat  less  focused  on.  For  furthering  the  work  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  we  believe  attention 
should  also  be  given  to  building  pluralistic  political 
institutions, creating peace constituencies, restoring an 
environment  of mutual trust, confidence and tolerance 
and  establishing  a  process  of  societal  reconciliation 
and healing. 

of  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  Bangladesh  from  the  very  outset  has 
advocated  the  view  that  post-conflict  societies  must 
take  charge  of 
the 
Commission’s  work  should  be  based  on  national 
ownership.  It  is  gratifying  that  the  Commission  has 
subscribed 
inclusive  and  nationally  driven 
process  aimed  at  maximizing  the  involvement  of  all 
relevant  actors  on  the  ground.  In  addition,  to  make 
peacebuilding  initiatives  more  effective  and  better 
suited  to  realities  on  the  ground,  we  would  like  the 
Commission to include in the integrated peacebuilding 
strategies  domestic  initiatives,  such  as  home-grown 
ideas 
like  microcredit  and  women’s  non-formal 
education, combined with external material support. 

The  Peacebuilding  Commission,  on  the  basis  of 
its  operational  experience  over  the  first  year,  has  to 
define the process and timing of disengagement with a 
country.  Before  any  such  disengagement,  it  should 
make sure to leave behind an integrated peacebuilding 
strategy or another mechanism that would make peace 
self-sustainable even after disengagement. At the same 
time, the Commission has to expand its operations and 
chalk  out  a  procedure  and  basis  for  the  selection  of 
new countries. 

We  feel  that  members  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission should be more frequently updated on the 
operations  of 
that 
information  on  disbursements  must  be  shared  with 
adequate  lead  time.  The  relationship  between  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
the  Peacebuilding 
Fund, and their individual roles, have to be made clear 
to  the  stakeholders  on  the  ground  in  order  to  dispel 
confusion as regards eligibility for Peacebuilding Fund 
support. 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund  and 
12 

07-53720 
for  coordinating 
In  closing,  I  would  also 



For  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  it  is  just  the 
beginning  of  a  long  and  arduous  journey.  As  more 
countries  are  brought  under  its  consideration,  the 
expectation,  responsibilities  and  complexities  of  its 
workload  will  become  heavier.  To  cope  with  that,  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  its  supporting  bodies 
require incremental political and material support. We, 
as  a  member  of  the  Commission,  would  expect  the 
international  community  to  come  forward  to  assist  us 
in fulfilling our mandate. 

It would be grossly remiss of me not to place on 
record our special tribute to Ambassador Ismael Gaspar 
Martins of Angola, the first Chair of the Commission, 
for his wise stewardship, especially at the initial stages 
of the Commission’s work. I also take this opportunity 
to  convey  our  thanks  to Ambassador  Johan  Løvald  of 
Norway  and  Ambassador  Frank  Majoor  of 
the 
Netherlands 
the  country-specific 
mandate  of  the  Commission.  Our  thanks  go  also  to 
Ambassador  Carmen  María  Gallardo  Hernández  of 
El Salvador for her stewardship of the Working Group 
on Lessons Learned. 

this 
opportunity to welcome and extend the full support of 
my  delegation  to  the  new  Chair,  Ambassador  Yukio 
Takasu. 
Mr. Matussek (Germany): Let me say first of all 

that Germany fully supports the statement made by the 
Portuguese  presidency  of  the  European  Union  on 
behalf of the Union. 
Let me thank all those who contributed so greatly 

to the success of the Peacebuilding Commission in its 
first  session.  Let  me  specifically  thank  the  first 
Chairman  of  the  Organizational  Committee  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  Ambassador  Gaspar 
Martins  of  Angola,  as  well  as  the  two  Vice-Chairs, 
Ambassador  Gallardo  Hernández  of  El  Salvador  and 
Ambassador Løvald of Norway. Let me also commend 
Assistant  Secretary-General  Carolyn  McAskie  and  her 
colleagues in the Peacebuilding Support Office for the 
excellent work done. I would also like to congratulate 
Ambassador Takasu on his election as Chairman of the 
Peacebuilding  Commission;  I  want  to  wish  him  all 
success in his work. 

Peacebuilding 
Commission’s  first  year  of  work  will  help  us  to 
evaluate the work done and the results achieved so far, 
and  decide  on  the  way  forward  for  the  sixty-second 
Today’s 
debate 
take 
like 
the 
to 
on 
A/62/PV.23
of 
the 
The 
establishment 
the  Commission  were  adopted  after  a 
session  of  the  General Assembly  and  the  second  year 
of the Peacebuilding Commission. 

Peacebuilding 
Commission  is  part  of  the  important  reforms  of  the 
United  Nations.  World  leaders,  at  the  2005  World 
Summit,  recognized  that  international  peacebuilding 
efforts 
lacked  an  overall  strategic  approach  and 
coherence.  Countries  emerging  from  conflict  face  a 
unique  challenge  and  a  high  risk  of  relapsing  into 
violence. The Peacebuilding Commission assists those 
countries  in  laying  the  foundations  for  sustainable 
peace and development. 

The  first  year  of  work  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission was a difficult one. The Commission had 
to  find  out  how  to  approach  its  tasks  and  how  to 
approach  its  workload.  Provisional  rules  of  procedure 
long 
for 
consultative  process  among  member  States. 
In 
addition, a provisional formula was found to ensure the 
active  and  productive  participation  of  civil  society, 
including non-governmental organizations, in the work 
of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  From  our  point  of 
view,  that  was  an  important  step.  Burundi  and  Sierra 
Leone  were  placed  on  the  agenda  of  the  Commission. 
The  work  in  the  country-specific  meetings  included, 
inter  alia,  field  missions,  many  videoconferences, 
special briefings and, last but not least, the formulation 
of integrated peacebuilding strategies. 
The  report  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  on 

its 
first 
(A/62/137)  provides  us  with 
recommendations  on  what  we  should  try  to  achieve 
during second session: to  maximize the Commission’s 
impact on the ground and improve interaction with the 
field; 
the  current  peacebuilding 
processes  remain  on  track;  to  develop  monitoring 
mechanisms for the integrated peacebuilding strategies; 
and  finally,  to  ensure  that  challenges  and  gaps  are 
addressed in a timely and coherent manner. 

In  addition,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  some 
specific issues we should look at in the second year of 
the Peacebuilding Commission. 
The  first  is  the  issue  of  coordination.  The 

the  Peacebuilding 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
Support  Office  should  strengthen  their  capacity  to 
make  recommendations  and  to  provide  information  in 
order to improve the coordination of all relevant actors 
within and outside the United Nations. 
to  ensure 
session 
that 
07-53720 

13 
It 

the 
The 
for  peacebuilding 
in  building  peace. 
is 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
A/62/PV.23 


The  second  is  the  issue  of  lessons  learned.  The 
Peacebuilding  Commission  should  broaden  its  agenda 
by  intensifying  dialogue  on  general  peacebuilding 
issues, such as security sector reform and post-conflict 
national  reconciliation,  and  should  draw 
lessons 
learned from past experiences. The Working Group on 
Lessons Learned is a promising first step in that regard. 

issue  of  strategies.  The 
third 
engagement  of 
in 
Burundi  and  Sierra  Leone  is  being  felt.  Discussions 
and  visits  have  facilitated  the  coming  together  of  key 
stakeholders.  The  critical  threats  to  the  peace  process 
in both countries have been addressed in the integrated 
peacebuilding  strategies.  The  next  step  should  be 
strengthening the relevance of the strategies as a tool to 
generate  enhanced  support 
in 
Burundi, Sierra Leone and other countries. 

The fourth is adding real value. Most important is 
that the Peacebuilding Commission adds real value and 
does  not  duplicate  efforts  in  the  task  of  supporting 
specific  countries 
Integrated 
the  decisive 
peacebuilding  strategies  should  set 
national 
frameworks 
peacebuilding 
the 
Commission will take a supportive stance. 

during 
the 
Commission. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  Achieving  stable  peace  and  an  effective 
settlement  of  armed  conflicts  is  possible  only  on  the 
basis  of  a  comprehensive  strategic  approach  and 
to  sustainable  socio-
agreement.  The 
economic 
accompanied  by  many 
difficulties.  The  danger  of  renewed  conflict  is  always 
present  in  societies  where  the  original  causes  of  the 
crisis have not been eliminated. 

Countries that have emerged from armed conflict 
should not find themselves plunged into crisis. That is 
where 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission, whose creation, by parallel 
resolutions  of  the  General Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council, was one of the important achievements in the 
reform  of 
in  accordance  with 
the  Organization 
decisions of the 2005 Summit. 

A  key  task  of  the  Commission  is  to  eliminate  a 
serious gap in the international system of post-conflict 
Those  are  my  main  suggestions  for  our  work 
the  Peacebuilding 
they  must  be  effectively  helped  by 
international 
those 
second  year  of 
countries  where 
transition 
recovery 
for 
in 
and 
is 
is 
in 
areas 
priority 
receiving 
important 
extremely 
assistance, 
to  enhance 
should  help 
to  countries  emerging  from  crisis, 
peacebuilding. 
the 
coordination  and  the  effectiveness  of  international 
assistance 
in 
the  United  Nations, 
conjunction  with  efforts  of 
international financial institutions and the world donor 
community.  We  note  in  particular  the  Commission’s 
role,  in  solid  interaction  with  the  Governments  of  the 
countries 
identifying, 
prioritizing  and  targeting  donor  resources  in  order  to 
resolve fundamental problems. 

The  first  annual  report  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  confirms  that  the  Commission  has  much 
practical  potential  and  is  capable  of  becoming  one  of 
the  most  important  international  mechanisms  in  that 
sphere. 

The  Commission’s  work,  first  on  Burundi  and 
Sierra Leone, generally deserves a positive assessment. 
Four 
for 
strengthening  peace  in  each  of  those  two  countries 
were defined. The process of developing an integrated 
strategy  of  peacebuilding  was  begun  and 
the 
parametres of the monitoring mechanisms were agreed 
upon.  The  practical  work  of  the  Commission  on 
specific 
and 
accompanied  by  an  impartial  collective  analysis  and 
clearly  defined  priorities 
for  peacebuilding.  We 
anticipate  agreed  and  effective  recommendations  from 
it,  which  will  be  expected  by  the  recipient  countries 
first of all. 

Next year, the Commission will continue its work 
on  resolving  questions  of  strengthening  the  functional 
links  between 
institutions, 
international 
regional  organizations  and 
the  donor  community. 
Additional  attention  should  be  given  to  improving 
cooperation  on  the  ground  with  all  actors  in  the 
peacebuilding process and to harmonizing the activities 
of 
the 
Commission  with  existing  coordination  mechanisms, 
first  those  within  the  United  Nations  system.  Their 
interaction with United Nations agencies, in particular 
in  the  field,  should  not  disrupt  the  existing  system  of 
operational  activities  of  the  Organization  but,  on  the 
contrary should bolster it. 
task  of 

strengthening 
the 
Commission  and  the  Security  Council,  above  all  with 
regard to issues that are on the agenda of both bodies. 
It 
timely  exchange  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office  and 
Of  particular 
the 
importance 
organic 
the 
between 
transparent 
to  ensure 
important 
is 
link 
financial 
countries 
should 
be 
14 

07-53720 
and 
evaluation  of 


information  between  both  bodies  and  a  clear  division 
of labour and complementarity. Of course, that must be 
done in parallel with the development of links between 
the Commission and the Economic and Social Council.  

In addition, we cannot but welcome the great deal 
of  work  done  by  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office,  in 
which  hope  lies  both  for  improving  the  work  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  for  managing 
the 
Peacebuilding Fund. 

We support focusing the activities of the Fund on 
assisting  countries  in  the  earliest  stages  of  emerging 
from  conflict,  while  the  traditional  mechanisms  for 
mobilizing  development  assistance  are  not  yet 
functioning.  We  note  the  Fund’s  catalytic  role  in 
attracting  more-permanent  mechanisms  of  support  for 
the  post-conflict  recovery  processes.  In  our  view,  that 
is the area where the Fund should concentrate its work 
first of all. 
I  wish  to  stress  the  importance  of  improving  the 

analysis 
the  peacebuilding 
requirements  of  relevant  countries  by  the  United 
Nations  country  teams,  which,  according  to  the  scope 
of  the  Fund,  can  initiate  decisions  on  giving  the 
country  access  to  Fund  resources  without  approval  by 
the  Commission.  That  places  particular  responsibility 
on  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office,  which  takes  the 
final decision. We are in favour of clarity, transparence 
and  openness  of  the  criteria  for  giving  countries  such 
access. It must first be given to those countries that are 
dangerously  close  to  the  brink  of  relapsing  into 
conflict.  We  count  on  increased  accountability  in  the 
functioning of the Fund. 

Not much time has passed in order to  be able to 
draw exhaustive conclusions on the effectiveness of the 
work  of  the  Fund.  However,  in  the  future  it  would 
make  sense  to  think  about  organizing  an  independent 
study of its activities. 

A clear manifestation of our support for the Fund 
is the decision by the Government of Russia to make a 
2  million  dollar  contribution  to  the  Fund  annually, 
starting in 2008. We expect that those funds will truly 
strengthen the Fund’s potential in the above-mentioned 
areas of its work. 
Mr.  Scott  (United  States  of  America):  It  is  an 

honour to present the views of my Government on the 
important work of the Peacebuilding Commission. The 
Peacebuilding Commission is an innovation with much 
A/62/PV.23
to 
together  stakeholders, 
this  past  year  and  point 
promise.  This  plenary  item  —  a  discussion  of  the 
annual  reports  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund  —  brings  to  a  close  the  first 
year  of  activity  by  the  Commission.  In  our  view,  this 
has  been  a  year  of  considerable  focus  on  procedural 
issues, with progress made on building a foundation for 
the Commission’s productive future work. 

Sadly,  however,  we  do  not  believe  that  the 
members  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  can  look 
back  over 
tangible 
contributions to the lives of the people in Sierra Leone 
and Burundi — the first two countries taken up by the 
Commission. 

In  its  second  year,  we  look  to  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  to  sharpen  its  role  in  promoting  dialogue 
and  coordination  on  critical  challenges  to  stability  in 
the  countries  on  its  agenda.  We  expect  that  the 
Commission  will  do  more  to  draw  the  international 
community’s  attention  to  the  need  for  sustained  long-
term  engagement  in  the  countries  on  the  agenda.  We 
look  for  practical  engagement  on  difficult  thematic 
issues  where  the  Commission  has  a  role  to  play  in 
bringing 
in  producing  best 
practices and in broadening the donor base. 

The  agenda  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
will  likely  broaden  over  the  coming  year  to  include 
additional  countries,  beginning  with 
the  pending 
request  of  Guinea-Bissau  that  is  currently  before  the 
Security Council. Members of the Security Council and 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  should  reflect  on  how 
the  specific  considerations  of  candidate  countries  will 
best mesh with the strategic vision and multi-year work 
of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  In  doing  so,  we 
suggest that as a fledgling institution, the Commission 
should  walk  before  it  runs.  Demonstrating  delivery  of 
concrete results in the countries currently on its agenda 
should  have  priority  over  expanding 
its  work 
elsewhere. 

While  working  from  lessons  learned  in  its  first 
year, 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  should  also 
consider  new  ways  of  providing  advice  and 
recommendations.  We  saw 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission’s  first  year,  that  while  countries  on  its 
agenda  face  many  of  the  same  challenges,  differing 
local  circumstances  dictate  unique  approaches. As  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  takes  on  new  countries,  it 
should  not 
to  promoting  a  global 
comprehensive  peacebuilding  strategies  approach  to 
in 
limit 
itself 
07-53720 

15 

these  key 
We  do  not  see 
the  annual  reports  of 
issues  which  confront 
A/62/PV.23 

countries  under  consideration,  but  also  consider 
targeted  advice  and  recommendations  on  specific 
thematic sectors or even a geographic region. 
the 

Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
the  Peacebuilding 
Fund  as  reflecting  a  consensus  on  the  above  issues 
among  members  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  In 
particular,  we  invite  your  attention  to  the  issue  of 
financing  missions  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
outlined in paragraph 43 as an issue demanding further 
discussion.  However,  in  our  view,  both  reports  are  a 
useful reference to the challenges and topics currently 
before the Peacebuilding Commission and we welcome 
their publication. 

In conclusion, may I add our thanks to the current 
and former Chairmen of the Commission for their hard 
work  in  leading  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  as  it 
addresses 
the 
international community. 
Mr.  Hannesson  (Iceland):  Let  me  join  others  in 

thanking  you,  Sir,  for  giving  us  the  opportunity  to 
participate  in  the  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly 
devoted  to  the  important  work  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission and its first annual report (A/62/137). Let 
me  also  use  this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
former  Chairman  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission, 
my colleague Gaspar Martins from Angola, and the two 
colleagues from Norway and the Netherlands for their 
steering  of  the  country-specific  work  on  Burundi  and 
Sierra  Leone,  as  well  as  my  colleague 
from 
El Salvador,  for  chairing 
the  Working  Group  on 
Lessons  Learned.  The  new  Chairman,  Ambassador 
Yukio  Takasu,  can  be  assured  of  our  full  support  and 
cooperation. 
From  the  outset,  Iceland  has  been  a  strong 

supporter of the Peacebuilding Commission. We regard 
the  Commission  as  a  key  achievement  of  the  United 
Nations 
Peacebuilding 
Commission  together  with  the  Peacebuilding  Support 
Office  and  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  have  important 
roles to play  in bridging the gap between conflict and 
development and focusing on activities in the field. 
The  Government  of  Iceland  has  contributed 

$1 million  to  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  and  is  planning 
further  contributions.  We  urge  Member  States  to 
contribute  to  the  Fund.  We  are  pleased  to  note  that 
more  than  $230  million  has  already  been  pledged  or 
contributed to it. 
process. 
reform 
The 
of 
and 
We 
are 
has 
report  of 
the  development  of 
the  concept  paper  setting  up 

After  one  year  of  operation,  it  is  time  to  take 
stock of where we are and offer guidance for our future 
work.  In  that  context,  we  warmly  welcome  the  first 
annual 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
(A/62/137).  This  comprehensive  and  important  report 
clearly  indicates  that  considerable  progress  has  been 
made towards establishing the working methods of the 
applaud 
Commission.  We 
the 
the  work 
Organizational  Committee  of 
the  Commission  on 
organizational and procedural issues. Here I would like 
to  mention  the  adoption  of  the  provisional  rules  of 
procedure  and 
the 
framework 
integrated 
for 
peacebuilding strategies. 

The  Peacebuilding  Commission  has  identified 
critical  priority  areas  for  peace  and  consolidation  for 
Burundi  and  Sierra  Leone.  The  development  of  an 
integrated  peacebuilding  strategy  for  Burundi  is  an 
important step in that regard. Iceland welcomes the fact 
that  an  integrated  peacebuilding  strategy  for  Sierra 
developed 
Leone 
as  well.  The 
been 
recommendations  of 
the  Commission  must  be 
implemented in the countries concerned and within the 
institutional  framework  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
Peacebuilding  Commission  must  now  build  upon  that 
work  and  further  develop  its  working  methods.  The 
underpinnings  are  already  in  place.  The  focus  should 
remain on practical, effective cooperation and avoiding 
duplication of effort. 

the 
The  working 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  the  Security  Council,  the 
General  Assembly  and 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council should be strengthened through dialogue on a 
regular  basis.  Regular  meetings  between 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  Chairs  and  the  Presidents 
of those bodies would be one possibility. We also need 
the 
to  consider 
Peacebuilding  Commission 
and 
subregional  organizations 
to  promote 
peacebuilding in the countries under consideration. 

the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  has  recognized  the  link  between  poverty, 
weak  State  capacity  and  conflict  and  has  ensured  that 
the  integrated  peacebuilding  strategies  include  job 
creation,  especially  for  youth,  capacity  development 
and  the  delivery  of  basic  social  services  as  priorities. 
Only by making substantial progress in those areas can 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  help  to  ensure  the 
sustainability of national peacebuilding efforts. 
increased  cooperation  between 
regional 
relationships 
in  order 
between 
pleased 
that 
16 

07-53720 
tool 
facing 



Iceland remains firmly committed to the work of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  The  success  of  that 
body  is  absolutely  dependent  on  the  political  will  of 
the  countries  concerned  and  the  Member  States.  The 
main  challenge  now 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  is  to  maximize  its  impact  on  the  ground. 
We  all  have  a  duty  to  ensure  that  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  becomes  an  effective 
that  can 
contribute in a significant manner to the establishment 
of  peace,  stability  and  development  in  post-conflict 
countries. My country is committed to doing its share.  
Mr.  Hoang  Chi Trung  (Viet  Nam):  It  is  a  great 

honour  for  me  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Vietnamese 
delegation  at  this  important  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly. My delegation is convinced that our debate 
today  demonstrates  our  sustained  attention  to  the 
strengthening  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
the  enhancement  of  the  coordination  amongst  the 
principal organs of  the United Nations  for the sake  of 
sustainable peace and development in the world. 

In  order  to  develop  an  overall  strategic  and 
coherent  approach  to  the  question  of  international 
the  2005  World 
peacebuilding,  world 
Summit  decided 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission, 
the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office.  The  new  peacebuilding 
architecture  is  expected  to  serve  as  a  dedicated 
mechanism  to  address  the  special  needs  of  conflict-
prone countries in various regions of our world. 

In that regard, Viet Nam wishes to commend the 
recent  efforts  undertaken  by 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission 
light  of  General  Assembly 
resolution  A/60/180  and  Security  Council  resolution 
1645  (2005)  respectively.  We  note  with  satisfaction 
that  the  Organizational  Committee  has  addressed  a 
series 
and 
methodological  issues  in  its  first  year  of  operation, 
including the finalization of the operational framework 
and provisional rules of procedure, the organization of 
country-specific  meetings  and  the  establishment  of  an 
ad hoc working group. 

The  Peacebuilding  Fund  has  also  made  laudable 
efforts  in  mobilizing  resources  from  the  international 
donor  community  and  in  examining  projects  eligible 
for  funding  in  post-conflict  countries.  We  are  even 
more  encouraged  by  the  fact  that  Sierra  Leone  and 
Burundi, 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  have  made  remarkable 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund 
first  countries 
organizational, 
supported  by 
to  establish 
leaders  at 
procedural 
and 
key 
the 
the 
of 
in 
A/62/PV.23
an 
The 
in  a 
architecture 
to  provide, 
progress in critical areas of national reconstruction and 
rehabilitation,  such  as 
the  promotion  of  good 
governance, strengthening of the rule of law, reform of 
justice and the security sector, and capacity-building. 

While  recognizing  the  fact  that  peacebuilding  is 
naturally  a  complex  and  long-term  process  which 
requires  persistent  and  long-term  commitments,  my 
delegation  shares  the  view  expressed  by  various 
delegations that a lot of ground remains to be covered. 
A daunting challenge is how the Commission can build 
up  an  engaged  partnership  and  active  participation 
among different stakeholders and marshal the resources 
necessary  for  stability,  recovery  and  development  in 
war-torn  countries.  It  is  therefore  necessary  for  the 
international  community 
timely 
manner, adequate resources and support. My delegation 
fully  agrees  with  the  assessment  in  the  report  that  the 
main challenge facing the Commission is to maximize 
its  impact  on  the  ground  and  to  make  the  United 
Nations  peacebuilding 
effective 
instrument  of  international  cooperation  in  support  of 
countries emerging from conflicts. 

the  Peacebuilding 
first  anniversary  of 
Commission  has  elapsed  with  both  achievements  and 
challenges.  If  it  is  to  live  up  to  the  expectations  and 
aspirations 
community, 
improvements  should  be  made  in  some  crucial  areas 
and a number of outstanding issues must be addressed 
in  the  coming  years.  That  should  include  the  further 
the 
development  of 
Commission, 
for 
integrated  peacebuilding  strategies,  and  enhanced 
operational  relationships  with  other  intergovernmental 
bodies 
subregional 
organizations. 

Enhanced interaction among various stakeholders 
engaged  in  post-conflict  peacebuilding  activities  is  of 
vital importance. The United Nations broad experience 
spanning conflict prevention, mediation, peacekeeping, 
humanitarian  and  election  assistance,  reconstruction 
and sustainable development must be fully exploited in 
conjunction  with  inputs  from  international  financial 
institutions,  non-governmental  organizations,  civil 
society and the private sector. 
We strongly believe that integrated peacebuilding 

strategies  must 
the  socio-economic 
reconstruction  and  development  priorities  of  recipient 
countries,  as  well  as  the  comparative  advantages  and 
the  working  methods  of 
the  monitoring  mechanisms 
international 
as  well 
regional 
reflect 
fully 
and 
the 
as 
of 
07-53720 

17 
endeavours 
for 
reinforcing 
enhancing 
capacity-building 
A/62/PV.23 

practical  commitment  of  international  donors.  Such  a 
well-coordinated  process,  we  believe,  helps  avoid 
wasteful  duplication  or  misuse  and,  at  the  same  time, 
needs periodical review to bring about better outcomes. 

We  wish  to  reiterate  that  the  national  ownership 
of  post-conflict  peacebuilding  priority  plans  and 
initiatives  must  remain  at  the  forefront  of  any  effort 
aimed  at  sustaining  peace,  initiating  development  and 
promoting  post-conflict  recovery.  Foreign  assistance 
plays  a  supplementary  role  and  cannot  replace  home-
grown 
institutional 
frameworks, 
and 
strengthening  legal  and  administrative  systems  that 
ultimately bolster autonomy and self-determination. 

My delegation agrees that the future work of the 
Commission  must  ensure  that  peacebuilding  processes 
remain on track and that challenges are addressed in a 
timely  and  coherent  manner  by  all  relevant  actors.  In 
the  early  phase  of  its  life,  the  Commission  has  a 
number  of  issues  to  address  in  order  to  improve  its 
effectiveness and broaden its impact on the ground. To 
that effect, the General Assembly plays the central role 
in  conducting  regular  reviews  of  the  activities  of  the 
Commission, as well as in formulating sound guidance 
and  policies  for 
the 
Commission. 
Mr.  Heller  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation  welcomes  this  opportunity  to  consider  the 
report  submitted  by  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  at 
the  end  of  its  first  session,  pursuant  to  resolution 
60/180. 

the  work  done  by 
Ambassador  Gaspar  Martins  of  Angola,  who  had  the 
sensitive task of leading the Organizational Committee 
at the beginning of its work. We express the hope that 
the  chairmanship  of  Ambassador  Yukio  Takasu  of 
Japan will be crowned with success. 

My  delegation  also  commends  the  dedication 
shown  by  the  coordinators  of  the  country-specific 
configurations,  Ambassador  Johan  Løvald  of  Norway 
and Ambassador  Frank  Majoor  of  the  Netherlands,  as 
well  as  by  Ambassador  Gallardo  Hernández  of 
El Salvador in her work as coordinator of the working 
group on lessons learned. 

We congratulate Ms. Caroline McAskie, Assistant 
Secretary-General in the Peacebuilding Support Office, 
on  her  work  and  commitment  during  this  innovating 
the  effective  operation  of 
Mexico  acknowledges 

therefore  required 
phase  of the  new peacebuilding architecture being put 
together by our Organization. 

The  recognition  of  major  gaps  in  the  United 
Nations  peacebuilding  efforts  in  countries  emerging 
from  conflict, as well  as the recurrence  of violence in 
some  national  situations,  led  our  heads  of  State  and 
Government  at  the  2005  World  Summit  to  agree  to 
establish  the  Commission  —  one  of  the  concrete 
outcomes of the United Nations reform process.  

During the Commission’s first year of operations, 
it has become clear that the peacebuilding process must 
be  approached  on  the  ground  and  by  taking  into 
consideration  the  specificities  of  the  various  countries 
concerned.  No  model  repeats  itself;  every  country  has 
its  own  characteristics  and  history.  Creative  proposals 
are 
to  build  frameworks  and 
programmes  that  harmonize  with  national  realities. 
Mexico  therefore  believes  that  the  Commission  must 
be directed by the following guiding points. 

First,  the  full  consent  of  a  country  and  its 
Government that may be included in the Commission’s 
programme is necessary. Secondly, the process must be 
defined  on  the  basis  of  priorities  established  by  each 
Government concerned. Thirdly, national, regional and 
international  actors  must  cooperate  on  the  basis  of  a 
common vision of purposes and priorities.  
While we recognize that, as a recently established 

body,  the  Commission  is  still  being  defined  and  its 
working methods developed, we are encouraged by its 
Organizational  Committee’s  decision  to  establish,  in 
close coordination with the Government of Burundi, an 
integrated  peacebuilding  strategy  with  the  support  of 
the  United  Nations  and  members  of  civil  society.  We 
are  also  pleased  that  a  similar  strategy  is  being 
developed with the Government of Sierra Leone. 

We believe that the Commission should redouble 
its  efforts  to  improve  its  approaches  and  working 
methods  during  its  second  session,  when  it  will  also 
have to address pending issues. Among those, we note 
the  need 
tracking  and  monitoring 
mechanisms  for  integrated  peacebuilding  strategies  in 
countries  under  its  consideration.  My  delegation  feels 
that,  without  such  mechanisms,  it  will  be  difficult  to 
assess  the  impact  of  the  Commission’s  work  on  the 
ground. Another  important  task  will  be  to  ensure  that 
national  Governments  are  able 
to  deliver  peace 
dividends  to  their  peoples  through  economic  recovery 
programmes.  
to  establish 
18 

07-53720 
the  Commission 



Mexico  also  considers  it  essential  that  socio-
economic  conditions  in  the  post-conflict  phase  be 
given priority in the context of peacebuilding efforts so 
that  the  proper  balance  can  be  struck  between  the 
demand for  reform in the  judicial and security sectors 
and in the sphere of the rule of law on the one hand and 
meeting the basic needs of the population on the other.  

Moreover,  in  order  to  promote  United  Nations 
system-wide  coherence, 
should 
strengthen  its  coordinating  role  and  its  relationships 
with  other  United  Nations  organs,  in  particular  the 
Economic and Social Council, as well as with regional 
organizations  and  entities  outside  the  United  Nations 
system. 

Establishing a lasting peace is a process in which 
the  Commission,  as  the  coordinating  body,  has  the 
challenge  of  promoting  a  common  vision  among  all 
concerned  actors,  with  a  view  to  overcoming  the 
enormous challenge of transforming a society emerging 
from painful conflict into one in which peace, security 
and development prevail. 

We  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on 
the operation and activities of the Peacebuilding Fund 
(A/62/138), which enables Member States to fulfil their 
mandate  to  provide  policy  guidance  on  the  use  of  the 
Fund.  My  delegation  understands  that  because  of  the 
recent implementation of the Fund — in January 2007 
for Burundi and in March 2007 for Sierra Leone — it 
is  premature  to  analyse  its  impact  on  peacebuilding 
initiatives  in  those  two  countries.  However,  we  are 
pleased  with  progress  in  both  Burundi  and  Sierra 
Leone, the latter being where the Fund helped support 
national  authorities  during  the  successful  electoral 
process  in  September.  National  ownership  of  a  peace 
process  and  the  Fund’s  catalytic  effect  in  encouraging 
the long-term commitment of donors are the two basic 
principles  defining  the  Fund  and  should  continue  to 
guide its operations.  

We  support  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office, 
and  we  call  for  the  streamlining  of  the  Office’s 
procedures,  on  the  basis  of  the  lessons  learned  in  the 
first nine months of the operation of the Fund, so as to 
further  optimize  the  use  of  resources  and  to  make 
access  more  flexible  in  order  to  address  the  most 
pressing  problems  of  peacebuilding  during  the  early 
stages  of  the  process.  The  Fund  can  take  successful 
experiences into account in considering future cases. 
A/62/PV.23
relies 
on 
Although 
the  Fund 

voluntary 
contributions,  it  is  important  that  it  receive,  on  a 
predictable  basis,  financial  resources  with  which  to 
carry  out  its  short-term  and  medium-term  activities. 
Without  adequate  resources,  the  Commission  will  not 
be  able  to  completely  fulfil  its  mandate.  Mexico 
supports  the  work  of  the  Commission  and  it  has 
recently  conveyed  its  decision  to  make  a  financial 
contribution to the Fund. 

Without  disregarding  the  challenges  inherent  in 
these  matters,  Mexico  is  confident  of  the  contribution 
that  the  Commission  can  make  to  the  work  of  the 
Organization.  For  this  reason,  it  is  important  that 
Member  States  closely  follow  its  work  and  ensure  its 
development in order to guarantee the greatest possible 
impact in meeting the goals that led to its creation.  
Mr.  Liu  Zhenmin  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

The  Chinese  delegation  wishes  to  thank  Ambassador 
Takasu,  Chairman  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission, 
for  presenting  to  the  sixty-second  session  of  the 
General Assembly the Commission’s report on its first 
session  (A/62/137).  Our  thanks  go  also  to  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon for his report on the operation of 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund  (A/62/138).  We  support  the 
conclusions  and  recommendations  contained  in  those 
reports. 

leaders  unanimously 
decided  to  establish  a  United  Nations  peacebuilding 
commission, bringing hope for peace to people trapped 
in  conflicts.  As  a  member  of  the  Commission,  the 
Chinese  delegation  is  pleased  to  see  that,  under  the 
leadership  of  Ambassador  Gaspar  Martins  of  Angola, 
Chairman  of  the  Commission  at  its  first  session,  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  achieved  fruitful  results  in 
its work over the past year in the following areas. First 
of  all, 
it  established  sound  provisional  rules  of 
procedure  and  guidelines  to  ensure  the  orderly  and 
consistent  conduct  of  its  work.  Secondly,  it  set  up 
flexible and  diverse formats for its meetings and built 
partnerships with all sides on an equal footing. Finally, 
it  encouraged  ownership  by  the  countries  concerned, 
winning  their  trust  and  establishing  good  working 
relationships with them. 
Two  years  ago,  world 


  Mr. İlkin (Turkey), Vice-President, took the Chair. 


Of  course,  as  a  newly  founded  body, 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  still  faces  a  host  of 
challenges,  including  how  to  enhance  its  value-added 
07-53720 

19 

its 
First, 
increase 
interaction  with 
A/62/PV.23 

role,  to  coordinate  with  other  United  Nations  organs 
and  to  increase  its  efficiency.  While  it  has  full 
confidence in the Peacebuilding Commission’s work in 
the  coming  year,  the  Chinese  delegation  wishes  to 
make a few suggestions on ways to improve it. 

the  Peacebuilding  Commission  should 
further define its role as an advisory body. The relevant 
provisions  of  the  relevant  General  Assembly  and 
Security  Council  resolutions  should  be  scrupulously 
implemented. The Peacebuilding Commission provides 
advice both to the General Assembly and the Security 
Council and to the countries concerned. Therefore, the 
Commission should marshal resources both within and 
outside 
the  system  and  should  make  concrete 
recommendations that are effective and to the point. 

Secondly,  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  should 
properly  define  its  relationships  with  other  United 
Nations  organs.  Within  the  United  Nations  system,  it 
should 
the  General 
Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and 
Social  Council.  It  should  also  make  full  use  of  the 
resources of United Nations funds and programmes on 
the ground to prevent duplication and waste. 

Thirdly,  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  should 
strike  a  balance  between  partnership  and  ownership. 
The  partnerships  established  by 
international 
community  through  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
with  countries  concerned  enable 
international 
community  to  provide  necessary  assistance  to  those 
countries.  But  a  partner  can  be  no  more  than  a 
participating  party: 
the  countries 
concerned  is  in  their  own  hands.  The  international 
community should not take everything over from them. 

Fourthly,  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  should 
give  consideration  to  the  special  needs  of  African 
countries. African hot-spot issues account for some two 
thirds  of  the  items  on  the  Security  Council’s  agenda, 
and  most  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  are 
in  Africa.  The  Peacebuilding  Commission  should 
continue  to  make  this  one  of  the  important  factors  in 
taking on new countries to be included in its agenda. 

I  would  also  like  to  mention,  in  particular,  a 
major  component  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission: 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund.  As  a  new 
financing 
mechanism,  the  Fund  is  of  a  great  significance  for 
launching  relevant  peacebuilding  programmes.  Its 
operations over the past year have demonstrated its key 
role as a catalyst. While by and large satisfied with the 
the  destiny  of 
the 
the 
thanking 
embodies 
the  President  of 
financing  and  functioning  of  the  Fund,  the  Chinese 
delegation  looks  forward  to  efforts  by  the  Secretary-
General to ensure that the Fund is more transparent and 
better  conforms  to  relevant  standards  and  norms.  The 
Chinese  Government  will  redeem  its  pledge  to  the 
Fund on time. 

Nothing in the world is more precious than peace, 
and  no  approach  is  better  than  cooperation.  The 
Peacebuilding  Commission 
everyone’s 
aspirations for peaceful reconstruction and our sincere 
expectations  of  win-win  results  through  cooperation. 
Let us join hands and contribute to a bright future for 
the Peacebuilding Commission. 
Ms.  Pierce  (United  Kingdom):  I  would  like  to 

begin  by 
the  General 
Assembly  for  organizing  this  important  debate.  It 
offers  a  very  useful  opportunity  to  take  stock  of  the 
work  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  of  the 
Peacebuilding Fund following their first anniversaries. 
It  also  allows  us  to  chart  the  challenges  that  we  still 
face. 

I  would  like  to  align  myself  with  the  statement 
made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Portugal  on 
behalf of the European Union. 

But  first,  I  would  like  to  offer  some  tributes  in 
recognition  of  the  enormous  energy  and  time  that 
members  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  have  put 
into the establishment of the Commission. Its first year 
was always going to be a challenge, as there had been 
no precedents set for its work. I would like to thank the 
previous  Chairmen  of  the  Organizational  Committee, 
Ambassadors  Gaspar  Martins  and  Oshima,  and  the 
Assistant Secretary-General for Peacebuilding Support 
and her team; and I would like to congratulate the new 
Chairman, Ambassador  Takasu,  on  his  appointment.  I 
would  also  like  to  express  my  country’s  thanks  to  the 
Netherlands  and  Norway 
the  achievements 
accomplished  so  far  in  the  country-specific  work  in 
Burundi  and  Sierra  Leone  and  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
authorities  of  those  two  countries  who  have  joined  us 
in many video conferences to talk about the issues that 
the  Commission  is  dealing  with.  Finally,  I  would  like 
to  thank  El  Salvador  for  taking  forward  the  work  on 
lessons  learned  and  Ghana  for  taking  on  the  role  of 
Vice-Chair. 
the  Peacebuilding 

the 
the 
Commission, 
Governments of Burundi and Sierra Leone, the United 
first  year  of 
thanks 
the  engagement  of 
for 
In 
to 
20 

07-53720 
bring 
in 
helping 
secondly, 
and 
substantive 
coherence 
consultation 
talk  about  how 
there  has  been  much 


Nations  teams  in  both  countries  and,  of  course,  their 
Permanent  Representatives,  we  have  seen  a  constant 
reminder  of  the  centrality  of  the  Commission’s  main 
focus:  its  country-level  work.  National  ownership  of 
the peacebuilding process is vital; so too is the need for 
broad 
among 
all 
stakeholders in shaping the peacebuilding agenda. 

The  progress  articulated  in  the  annual  reports 
before  us  demonstrates  the  achievements  made. These 
need  to  be  built  upon  if  we  are  to  ensure  that  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  delivers  on  its  ultimate 
goal and its ultimate test: helping to prevent countries 
from relapsing into conflict and helping them to build a 
solid  foundation  for  peace  and  stability.  Over  the  past 
year, 
the 
Commission  can  add  value. We  consider  that  where  it 
can  have  impact  lies  in  its  two  main  functions:  first, 
providing  a  forum  where  the  international  community 
can  help  address  political  barriers  to  peacebuilding; 
and 
and 
harmonization to the international community’s efforts 
in the countries under consideration. 

Setting  up  the  Joint  Verification  and  Monitoring 
Mechanism  in  Burundi  and  completing  the  Sierra 
Leone  Compact 
the  coming  months  will  be 
important  steps  in  defining  the  commitments  of  all 
parties. I think it is important that we have two slightly 
different  mechanisms  for  each  country,  with  the  main 
point  being  that  they  are  tailored  to  what  the  country 
on  the  agenda  needs.  Living  up  to  the  relevant 
responsibilities  —  whether  they  be  those  of  the 
Government,  of  political  parties  or  of  Commission 
members — will be the key test. But there is a need to 
ensure  that  that  does  not  become  just  a  mechanical 
process. The  Peacebuilding  Commission  needs  to  stay 
alive to the very difficult challenges faced by countries 
emerging from conflict. That is why my Government is 
greatly encouraged by the approach used in the recent 
conclusions  and  recommendations  of  the  Commission 
that  followed  the  report  of  the  Chair  of  the  country-
specific meeting on Burundi. 

and 
recommendations  demonstrate  the  importance  of  the 
advice  and  the  relationships  that  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  has  with  Governments, 
the  Security 
Council,  the  General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council,  the  international  financial  institutions 
and  other  partners.  Strengthening  those  relationships 
will  be  essential  for  improving  the  impact  of  the 
conclusions 
We 
believe 
that 
those 
A/62/PV.23
in 
Thirdly, 
Secondly, 
taking  on  new  countries, 
the  country-specific  work  of 
Commission’s work and for ensuring that it is practical 
in its approach. 

I see five issues that spring from that point. First, 
at  some  point  in  the  near  future,  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  will  need  to  define  more  clearly  how  it 
works  with  its  parent  bodies  and  with  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council.  Perhaps  that  will  become  clearer 
with time as practical precedents are established. 

the 
Peacebuilding Commission should not remain static. It 
is  important  that  further  countries  be  referred  to  the 
Commission’s  agenda  this  year. This  should  be  linked 
to  the  capacities  of  the  Commission  and  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office.  Both  need  to  define 
what their limits are. 

the 
Peacebuilding Commission needs to consider from the 
outset  what  its  niche  is  in  the  country  concerned.  It 
needs  to  take  stock  of  what  plans  and  programmes 
already exist and to identify critical gaps. In addressing 
these, the Commission needs to take stock of the broad 
range  of  skills,  experiences  and  resources  of  its 
members. 

Fourthly,  it  is  important  that  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission’s  relationship  with  the  countries  on  its 
agenda not be an excessive burden on them. It needs to 
be  clear  about  what  it  expects  of  a  country  and  vice 
versa.  We  see  that  building  a  solid  partnership  is  the 
key to success. 

Fifthly,  as  a  number  of  other  speakers  have 
mentioned,  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office  needs  to 
build on its work to date if it is to become the United 
Nations hub for peacebuilding. The Office should have 
strong links with all other parts of the  United Nations 
system working on peacebuilding, and it should be able 
to  signpost  United  Nations  country  teams  to  relevant 
skills and best practices. That will also further the work 
of  the  Commission  in  promoting  and  adopting  best 
practices. 

As  far  as  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  is  concerned, 
we welcome the establishment of the Advisory Group, 
and we look forward to receiving the paper that it has 
commissioned to produce strategic guidance on use of 
the  Fund.  It  will  need  to  provide  greater  clarity  about 
the structural relationship between the Commission and 
the  Fund  and  about  areas  where  strategically  greater 
ties  can  be  forged.  It  will  need  to  take  stock  of  the 
07-53720 

21 

the  United  Kingdom  believes 
A/62/PV.23 

various settings in which the Fund can be employed in 
order to ensure that it can add the most value possible. 

With  regard  to  sequencing  the  work  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund, 
that,  where 
countries  on  the  Commission’s  agenda  have  existing 
donor  mechanisms,  the  Commission’s  strategy  work 
needs  to  come  before  the  bulk  of  Fund  funding.  That 
will enable the Commission to give strategic guidance 
on  the  use  of  the  funds.  But  ultimately,  the  Fund  is 
likely  to  have  the  greatest  value  in  those  countries 
coming  out  of  conflict  where  there  are  no  established 
donor  mechanisms  or  where  opportunities  suddenly 
arise  for  Peacebuilding  Fund  resources  to  provide  a 
catalytic  role  in  promoting  peacebuilding.  In  that 
respect,  we  are  encouraged  by  the  recent  use  of  the 
emergency,  or  third,  window  of  the  Fund  for  Côte 
d’Ivoire and the Central African Republic. 

Finally, the United Kingdom’s overall assessment 
of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  Peacebuilding 
Fund  is,  like  that  of  many  of  our  colleagues,  broadly 
positive. In their second year, the Commission and the 
Fund  need  to  consolidate  their  work  to  date  and  to 
ensure  that  these  issues  are  taken  up  and  developed. 
We believe that it is incumbent upon all of us to invest 
our time, money and political capital to ensure that the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
the  Peacebuilding 
Fund reduce the risk of the recurrence of conflict. The 
United Kingdom is committed to building partnerships 
to that end. 
Mr.  Sen  (India):  Thank  you,  Mr.  İlkin,  for 

presiding over this meeting; I am very pleased that you 
are presiding over a meeting in which I am taking part. 
I would also like to thank the President of the General 
Assembly  for  scheduling  today’s  timely  discussion  on 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund.  

Let  me  begin  by  expressing  my  appreciation  to 
Japan for the work that it has already accomplished as 
Chair  of 
the 
Permanent Representative of Angola for his work over 
most  of  the  past  year  as  first  Chairman  of  the 
Commission, and to the Chairs of the country-specific 
configurations and the Chair of the Working Group on 
Lessons Learned.  

We  associate  ourselves  with  the  statement  made 
by  the  representative  of  Jamaica  on  behalf  of  the 
thank 
Non-Aligned  Movement 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission, 
(NAM).  We 
to 
of 
in 
on 
read 
the 
report 
the 
(A/62/137)  of 
the  Secretary-General 
Mr. Raymond Wolfe for his work as NAM coordinator 
in the Peacebuilding Commission. 

India is strongly committed to the objectives and 
work  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  and  has  also 
contributed to the resources of the Peacebuilding Fund. 
We  have 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  as  well  as  the  report 
(A/62/138) 
the 
Peacebuilding  Fund.  We  note  the  important  points 
made 
those  reports.  Indeed,  since  we  were 
associated  with  the  finalization  of  the  report  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  we  are  well  acquainted 
with  it.  These  reports  will  be  of  lasting  value  to  the 
international  community  and  to  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission as we chart our course in the area of peace 
consolidation in the year ahead. 

Without  dwelling  on  these  reports,  which  are 
public documents, I must point out that much has been 
the  case  of 
left  unsaid. 
the  Peacebuilding 
In 
Commission 
is  natural,  since  multilaterally 
that 
negotiated  reports 
lowest 
inevitably  highlight 
common  denominator.  Nevertheless,  it  encapsulates 
several  of  the  more  important  achievements  of  the 
group, which are not inconsiderable developments and 
are  worthy  of  praise.  However,  I  would  like  to  focus 
upon  some  elements  that  are  not  reflected,  but  are  of 
central  importance,  in  India’s  perspective,  for  the 
future work of the Peacebuilding Commission. 
First, we need to collectively exert greater efforts 

to  move  beyond  debating 
to 
implementing measures. Process issues distract us from 
the  real  purpose  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission, 
which is to assist countries on the agenda with focused 
and 
the  marshalling  of 
resources.  To  us,  it  seems  evident  that  we  can  only 
resolve this problem by confronting it squarely, and not 
by  bypassing  it  and  moving  on. Therefore,  while  it  is 
understandable that some see the empowerment of the 
country-specific  configurations  as  a  means  to  deliver 
concrete  outcomes,  that  is  not  a  durable  solution. The 
solution lies in making the Organizational Committee, 
which  is  the  steering  mechanism  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  work  better.  We  must 
therefore 
harmonize the deliberations of both the Organizational 
Committee  and  the  country-specific  configurations, 
and make both more result-oriented. 

Secondly,  while  providing  advice  is  both  logical 
and  natural  for  a  body  that  is  defined  as  an  advisory 
issues  of  process 
topical  advice 
through 
22 

07-53720 
in 
that 
that  context, 
the  discourse 
I  might  add, 
to  assist.  Sometimes 


body,  there  is  a  need  to  also  listen  to  those  whom  we 
the 
wish 
in 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  whether  within 
the 
the  country-specific 
Organizational  Committee  or 
configurations, does not suggest that this is the case. At 
one level, countries on the agenda of the Peacebuilding 
Commission  do  need  to  hear  the  full  gamut  of  views 
and  suggestions  made  with  the  best  of  intentions  by 
each  of  us.  Providing  good,  constructive  and  candid 
advice dispassionately is important, and therefore it is 
difficult. But that is not nearly as difficult as listening 
carefully to  what the various actors on the ground are 
saying. While their views may divert from our advice, 
meaningful  advice  must  involve  a  two-way  dialogue, 
not one-way transmission. In that connection, it would 
be helpful if the countries concerned could also tell us 
clearly  the  areas  in  which  their  need  for  assistance  is 
most  critical.  Such  inputs  should  form  the  basis  of 
more focused, action-oriented and practical discussions 
within the Peacebuilding Commission.  

the 
Peacebuilding Commission could certainly do better — 
at  least  we  could  certainly  be  more  creative  —  with 
regard  to  the  form  in  which  the  Commission  provides 
advice.  For  instance  it  would  have  a  better  impact  if 
the Peacebuilding Commission were to facilitate access 
by  targeted  countries  to  eminent  specialists  who  have 
the  expertise  to  provide  advice  in  key  areas  of 
peacebuilding. 

Thirdly,  while  it  is  important  to  focus  upon  the 
advisory  role  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  there 
is  occasionally  a  tendency  to  neglect  its  role  in 
focusing 
in  particular 
assisting  in  the  marshalling  of  resources.  Important 
though  it  may  be,  advice  alone  will  not  consolidate 
peace. The mobilization of resources is the key vehicle 
by  which  post-conflict  societies  can  begin  to  address 
critical issues in the area of peace consolidation. Thus 
far, this aspect has received inadequate attention in the 
Peacebuilding  Commission.  We 
to 
discussing creative solutions by which the Commission 
could  be  more  involved  with  the  central  aspect  of 
peace consolidation. 
In this context, I should like to draw attention to 

the 
its 
Peacebuilding 
operationalization  and  the  fact  that  it  has  begun  to 
disburse catalytic funding to Sierra Leone and Burundi, 
as  recommended  by  the  Organizational  Committee  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  and  also  to  other 
international  attention,  and 
Fund.  We  welcome 
forward 
look 
A/62/PV.23
if 
it 
to 
information 
relaying  of 
is  not  more 
the  credibility  of 
countries  in  need  of  emergency  assistance.  However, 
while  the  operation  of  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  is 
certainly  within  the  letter  of  the  resolution  that 
established  it,  we  are  not  fully  convinced  that  it  is 
operating  fully  within  the  spirit  of  that  resolution.  To 
be  candid,  far  more  transparency  is  needed  in  the 
operation  of  the  Peacebuilding  Fund:  much  more 
consultation  with  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
more  prompt 
the 
Commission regarding the utilization of funds. This is 
essential not only for purposes of information, but also 
for 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund. 
Ultimately,  since  the  Fund  is  based  on  contributions 
from  Member  States,  it  will  only  detract  from  its 
sustainability 
transparent  and 
consultative. 

My  fourth  point  relates  to  the  capacity  of  the 
Peacebuilding Commission and its support mechanism, 
the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office  (PBSO).  While  the 
PBSO  has  done  well  in  assisting  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  even  as  recruitment  for  the  PBSO  was 
under way, there is now a need for greater involvement 
on  the  part  of  the  larger  United  Nations  system  —  in 
New  York  and  on  the  ground  —  in  the  work  of  the 
Commission.  The  PBSO  alone  cannot  compensate  for 
the  entire  United  Nations  system.  Other  arms  of  the 
Secretariat, including the United Nations country team 
concerned,  must 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  on  developments  on  the 
ground in the target countries where the Commission is 
involved.  That 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  is  comprised  of  Member 
States 
that  may  not  always  have  diplomatic 
representation  on 
the  countries 
concerned.  We  all  know  that  access  to  good,  succinct 
and  relevant  information  from  the  ground  is  usually 
priceless.  That  is  nowhere  more  the  case  than  in  the 
Peacebuilding Commission. 

The  last,  although  certainly  not  the  least,  point 
relates  to  perspective.  We  must  keep  in  mind  that  the 
ultimate  goal  of  our  collective  efforts  is  to  enable 
countries  on  the  agenda  to  develop  the  capacity  to 
implement the relevant programmes and to consolidate 
peace independent of our direct involvement. That is to 
say,  irrespective  of  how  many  actors  we  may  wish  to 
listen  to  on  the  ground,  the  protagonist  can  only  be 
one,  the  Government  of  the  country  concerned.  The 
primary focus cannot but be to strengthen the capacity 
of  a  post-conflict  State  to  govern  effectively  and  to 
is  particularly  so  given 
the  ground 
information 
provide 
that 
to 
in 
07-53720 

23 

to 
the 
like 
I  would 
India’s  commitment 
A/62/PV.23 

govern  well.  If  it  does  so,  it  will  be  able  to  mobilize 
human and material resources to achieve development. 
It  is  development  that  is  the  most  enduring  guarantee 
of  any  long-term  peace-consolidation  strategy.  Only 
then will we have truly succeeded in our efforts. 
to  conclude  by  once  again 

underlining 
fullest 
participation  in  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  in 
continuing  to  work  to  make  that  body  not  only 
effective  but,  above  all,  relevant  to  the  challenges  for 
which it was created. 
Mr.  Lacroix  (France)  (spoke  in  French): At  the 

outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  for  having 
organized today’s especially timely debate. 
First of all, I should like to say that France fully 

associates itself with the statement delivered earlier by 
the  representative  of  Portugal  on  behalf  of 
the 
European Union. I shall therefore limit myself to a few 
brief comments.  

The  stakes  in  the  success  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  are  considerable,  and  are  commensurate 
with 
post-conflict 
stabilization.  Member  States  gathered  at  the  highest 
level  in  this  Hall  to  collectively  set  a  very  ambitious 
goal  for  the  Commission  —  one  well  beyond  the 
establishment  of  a  new  bureaucratic  body.  I  believe 
that it is important to keep that fact in mind and ensure 
that  we  together  honour  the  commitments  that  were 
made.  France  believes  that  to  be  the  purpose  of  this 
debate.  
the 

its  first  year  of  functioning, 
Peacebuilding  Commission  must  now  begin 
full 
operations.  Much  has  already  been  accomplished  in 
that regard. My delegation would like to pay tribute to 
Mr.  Gaspar  Martins,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Angola  and  the  Commission’s  previous  Chairperson. 
We  have  now  established  a  process  for  bringing 
together  all the actors in  a given  situation and putting 
in  place  a  strategy  to  pool  their  efforts.  In  that 
connection,  I  should  like  to  refer  to  the  work  done  to 
produce  the  Strategic  Framework  for  consolidating 
peace  in  Burundi,  which  focuses  on  a  number  of 
limited  priorities  and  commitments  tailored  to  the 
crucial  stakes 
the  current  stage  of 
peacebuilding  in  that  country.  This  document  was 
prepared in close cooperation with the Government of 
Burundi  and,  equally  important,  with  political  parties, 
involved  at 
challenges 
Following 
posed 
the 
by 
to 
the 
look 
forward 
civil  society  and,  more  generally,  with  all  other 
stakeholders on the ground.  

The  Peacebuilding  Commission  must  now  move 
to  an  operational  phase  and  guide  the  implementation 
of the Strategic Framework. In conjunction with locally 
established  mechanisms,  that  will  entail  providing 
support  for  the  necessary  efforts  and  initiatives  and 
following  up  progress  by  ensuring  that  deadlines  are 
met.  France  hopes  that  similar  efforts  will  soon  be 
undertaken  with  regard  to  Sierra  Leone.  In  that 
connection,  we 
return  of 
Ambassador Majoor from his visit to Freetown, where 
a  new,  democratically  elected  Government  has  just 
begun its work.  

The  issue  of  inscribing  new  countries  on  the 
agenda  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  has  now 
arisen.  In  accordance  with  its  role  in  that  regard,  the 
Security  Council  is  currently  seized  of  the  matter. 
France believes that this issue is inextricably linked to 
the ability of the Peacebuilding Commission to address 
the  situations  on  its  agenda  and  produce  tangible 
results  for  those  countries. With  that  aim  in  mind,  we 
are debating the issue openly and imaginatively.  

The need to produce results should also guide the 
Commission’s working methods. To be more efficient, 
the  Commission  should  take  full  advantage  of  new 
information  and  communications  technologies,  as  it 
has  begun 
frequent  use  of 
videoconferencing.  France  would  like  to  thank  the 
Secretariat  for  its  support  in  that  regard,  and  to 
encourage  it  to  continue.  In  that  connection,  the 
upcoming  consideration  of  the  Commission’s  Internet 
website  will  be  an  opportunity 
think  about 
establishing  a  genuine  platform  for  discussion  among 
all stakeholders.  

Along with the Peacebuilding Support Office, the 
Peacebuilding  Fund,  which  is  intended  to  play  a 
catalytic role, is an important tool in ensuring that the 
Commission 
to  concentrate  on  pressing 
priorities,  the  filling  of  gaps  and  producing  concrete 
results. France believes it  essential that  the operations 
of  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  be  fully  in  line  with  the 
work  of  the  Commission  in  its  various  configurations 
vis-à-vis the countries on its agenda and also its work 
in  other  areas.  Given 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission is a new tool, the Commission must fully 
adhere to the need for coherence and integration in the 
is  able 
through 
to  do 
that 
its 
to 
24 

07-53720 
is  especially 


efforts  of  the  entire  international  community,  which 
called for the establishment of the Commission. 

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
reiterate the need to remain true to the prevailing spirit 
at the time of the Commission’s establishment, a body 
whose basic goal is to bring actors together in the post-
conflict  process  so  as  to  ensure  better  synergy  of 
efforts,  fill  gaps  where  necessary,  avoid  duplication 
and promote the international community’s efforts in a 
given  situation.  That  requires  in  particular  the  close 
involvement of those who are able to provide expertise 
and  resources.  That 
the  case  with 
international  financial  institutions,  which  are  in  fact 
actors and should play their full role in that process. It 
also  requires  the  long-term  active  involvement  of  the 
countries  concerned  in  a  spirit  of  national  ownership. 
Countries must also have a clear understanding of what 
the  Commission  is  and  is  not.  The  Peacebuilding 
Commission  must  remain  focused  on  each  situation 
and  its  peacebuilding  priorities.  Nothing  would  affect 
the  success  of  the  Commission  more  than  dispersed 
effort. 

Lastly, I would like to say that my delegation has 
full 
trust 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission. We are certain that it will 
take  into  account  all  the  elements  I  have  just  referred 
to. More generally, we are confident that it will ensure 
the 
the 
achievement of tangible results, which is of course our 
common goal. 
Mr. Natalegawa (Indonesia): Let me first express 

our  gratitude  to  the  President  for  convening  this 
important joint debate on  the  report  (A/62/137)  of the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  report  of  the 
Peacebuilding Fund (A/62/138). We are thankful to the 
Secretary-General for the presentation of his report on 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund.  We  are  also  thankful  to  the 
Peacebuilding Commission for its first annual report. 

Indonesia  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
made by the representative of Jamaica on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  caucus  in  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission. 
The  rationales for  establishing the Peacebuilding 

Commission  and  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  were  to 
support 
the 
devastation of war, prevent a  relapse into conflict and 
address gaps in post-conflict peacebuilding efforts. 
in  Japan’s  new  chairmanship  of 
the  Commission  and 
strengthening  of 
recovering 
from 
fragile 
societies 
A/62/PV.23
in 
to 
the 
involved 
issue  of  development.  There 

Having  been  entrusted  with  the  responsibility  of 
being a member of the Peacebuilding Commission, we 
are  particularly  pleased  to  see  the  Commission  and 
Peacebuilding Fund come of age during their first year 
of  operation.  Having  been 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  during  its  first  year,  we 
would  like  to  offer  some  remarks  that  we  hope  will 
contribute  to  making  the  international  peacebuilding 
architecture more robust. 

First,  our  deliberations  in  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  have  rightly  emphasized  the  importance 
of  addressing  good  governance,  the  rule  of  law, 
security sector reform, the fight against corruption, and 
human  rights  for  all,  which  are 
the  necessary 
ingredients  for  the  establishment  of  a  pluralistic  and 
tolerant society. While those issues are of relevance in 
crafting  a  sound  peace  consolidation  strategy,  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  should  provide  equal 
attention 
is 
overwhelming  evidence  that  lasting  peace  cannot  be 
achieved in the absence of economic development and 
an improvement in the capacities of the State. 

It is not a coincidence that 9 out of 10 countries 
that  have  experienced  conflict  at  one  point  or  other 
since  1990  are  impoverished  and  have  the  lowest 
human  development  indicators.  Even  when  there  has 
been  a  formal  peace  agreement,  the  vicious  cycle  of 
poverty  and  instability  has  heightened  the  risk  of 
relapse into violence. In his report on the work of the 
Organization,  the  Secretary-General  states  that  “there 
can  be  no  development  without  peace  and  no  peace 
without development, always in the spirit of respect for 
human  rights  and 
the  fundamental  freedoms  of 
humankind” (A/62/1, para. 42). 

This  conviction  should  be  implemented  in  a 
concrete  manner  in  our  deliberations  to  draw  up 
peacebuilding strategies for countries on the agenda of 
the Peacebuilding Commission. 

Secondly,  it  is  very  well  understood  by  all 
Members of the United Nations that national ownership 
is  a  fundamental  principle  in  peacebuilding  processes. 
The Peacebuilding Commission needs to maintain this 
as  its  core  principle,  and  practise  it.  It  should  be 
willing  to  listen  attentively  and  to  pay  heed  to  the 
national  Governments  concerned.  We  also  need  to  go 
the extra mile to listen more carefully to what people in 
the  field  genuinely  need.  There  should  be  listening 
07-53720 

25 
if 
of 
they  are 
A/62/PV.23 

with an open mind, without superfluous preconceptions 
as to what may be needed in the countries concerned. 

We agree that the voices of civil society and other 
relevant  stakeholders  in  the  field  are  essential  to 
enhance  national  ownership.  Such  a  perspective  is 
consistent  with  the  fact  that,  as  a  matter  of  principle, 
the  voice  of  a  democratically  elected  Government  is 
the  prime  source  for  the  Peacebuilding  Commission’s 
consideration, as it is only an elected Government that 
can  be  held  accountable  by  the  people  through  the 
vote.  Partnership  and  synergy  between  Governments 
and civil society is key. 

Thirdly,  the  integrated  peacebuilding  strategies 
(IPS) proposed by the Commission will only contribute 
to  laying  the  foundations  for  sustainable  recovery  and 
the  consolidation  of  peace 
truly 
comprehensive and fully supported by the international 
community,  including  with  the  full  involvement  and 
support of the Bretton Woods institutions and the other 
relevant actors. 

Fourthly,  the  integrated  peacebuilding  strategies 
laid  out  by  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  are  only 
strategies and promises. Their progress will need to be 
monitored.  The 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission states that a monitoring mechanism in that 
regard will be developed. We would underline the fact 
that such a mechanism, as necessary as it is, should not 
be too complicated and place an unnecessary burden on 
Governments,  which  face  severe  capacity  constraints. 
It  must  also  be  evident  that  the  responsibilities  of  all 
sides  in  any  monitoring  tool  are  balanced  and  in 
keeping with  the  essence of the global partnership for 
development. 
Fifthly,  as  has  also  been  very  aptly  stated  in  the 

the  Peacebuilding 
conclusion  of 
Commission, 
to 
implement  peacebuilding  strategies  in  the  field  in  a 
concrete  manner.  Fine-tuning 
the 
peacebuilding  system  in  New  York  should  have  an 
impact  on  the  ground  that  is  felt  directly  by  the  local 
community.  Maximum  effect  will  be  achieved  if  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  focuses  on  being  practical 
and results-oriented. 
Moreover,  in  order  to  have  an  impact  on  the 

countries  concerned, 
to 
intensify  its  efforts  at  bringing  together  all  relevant 
actors to marshal resources. Apart from taking this into 
the 
account 
the  Commission  needs 
the  biggest  challenge 
configurations, 
report  of 
is  how 
country 
efforts 
report 
the 
in 
its 

and 
There 
is  also  a  need 
Recommendations 
line  —  on  profit 
for  coordination  by 
Organizational  Committee  of 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  can  explore  that  issue  as  a  specific 
subject.  In  that  context,  the  Committee  may  wish  to 
explore  engagement  with  non-traditional  partners  and 
the corporate sector, which has experienced the rise of 
numerous  organizations  interested  in  having  a  double 
bottom 
social-welfare 
investments. 
the 

Commission  are  another  crucial  aspect 
that  will 
enhance  cooperation  and  coherence  in  the  field  of 
international  post-conflict  issues,  thereby  enhancing 
synergies on the ground.  

to  perhaps  consider 
developing,  with  the  assistance  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Support  Office,  a  template  communications  strategy 
that  can  be  utilized  with  case-specific  adjustments  in 
different scenarios.  
The  ability  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  to 

garner international attention long after conflict stories 
slip from media headlines is intrinsic to its capacity for 
advocacy and resource mobilization. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  share  with  the 
General  Assembly  a  few  thoughts  on  how  Indonesia 
views  the  important  role  of  the Assembly  in  ensuring 
that the peacebuilding machinery of the United Nations 
functions  well  to  generate  maximum  output  in  the 
field. 

The  General  Assembly  needs  to  enhance  its 
interaction  with  the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  The 
Assembly  could  provide  recommendations 
the 
Commission  in  leading  efforts  to  consolidate  peace. 
The  General Assembly  has  a  role  in,  and  the  mandate 
for,  the  overall  policy  guidelines  in  peacebuilding-
related  matters,  as  the  Assembly  has  the  unique 
capacity 
issues  of  security  and 
development. 

The  Economic  and  Social  Council  can  also  play 
an  important  role,  with  its  capacity  for  advocacy  and 
the  technical  capabilities  of  its  various  commissions 
and  subsidiary  bodies.  There  must  be 
regular 
interaction between the Peacebuilding Commission and 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  where  the  relevant 
lessons learned and best practices can be shared. 

Another  contribution  that  the  General  Assembly 
could  make  would  be  to  assist  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  in  carrying  out  its  mandate  to  marshal 
to  address 
the 
to 
by 
26 

07-53720 
to  ensure 
to 
to 
Before 
the  cause  of 
Mr.  Cho  Hyun 
I  conclude,  allow  me 
the  United  Nations  and 
The Acting  President:  I  wish  the  representative 
in  his  new  and 


resources. Among  other  things,  the  General Assembly 
could  encourage  Member  States  to  contribute  to  the 
Peacebuilding Fund. The role of the Fund is critical in 
providing  quick  and  concrete  peace  dividends. At  the 
same  time,  the  General  Assembly  can  monitor  how 
resources from the Peacebuilding Fund are being used. 
There is also a need to speed up the process of making 
disbursements from the Fund, to see to it that projects 
are well coordinated with other mechanisms inside and 
outside 
that 
duplication is minimized. 
reiterate 

the 
Indonesia’s  commitment 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
the  Peacebuilding 
Fund. We will continue to engage with others towards 
our  aim  of  ensuring  that  both  bodies  produce  tangible 
results. 

of  Indonesia  continued  success 
important assignment. 
(Republic  of  Korea):  My 

delegation  would  first  like  to  join  others  in  thanking 
the members of the Peacebuilding Commission and the 
Secretary-General  for  their  tireless  efforts  to  put  the 
Commission  on  a  sound  footing  in  its  first  year.  We 
also appreciate the excellent work done by Ambassador 
Ismael Gaspar Martins of Angola, the first Chairperson 
of 
the  Commission.  Let  me  also  convey  my 
congratulations to Ambassador Takasu of Japan on his 
nomination as the Commission’s next Chairperson. 
My  delegation  notes  with  satisfaction  that  the 

Peacebuilding  Commission 
is  already  playing  a 
proactive  role  in  the  promotion  of  international  peace 
and security,  despite the fact that it was launched less 
than a year ago. Burundi and Sierra Leone, which were 
referred  to  the  Commission  for  its  consideration,  are 
cases in point. We are pleased that the Commission has 
been  cooperating  closely  with  those  two  countries  to 
draw up comprehensive plans to consolidate peace and 
reduce their risk of relapsing into conflict. 

These  early  outcomes  demonstrate  the  potential 
of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  Nevertheless,  there 
are  still  procedural  details  to  be  ironed  out.  We  hope 
that  this  process  will  be  completed  soon,  thereby 
allowing  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  to  focus  its 
attention more fully on its substantive work. 
A/62/PV.23
of 
the 
through 
that,  as 
coordination 

Peacebuilding  is  a  long-term  and  very  costly 
process. It requires a holistic and synergistic approach, 
including 
the 
peacebuilding  work  of  the  General  Assembly,  the 
Security  Council,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
and  such  other  actors  as 
international  financial 
institutions.  My  delegation  therefore  welcomes  the 
serious efforts that the Peacebuilding Commission has 
made to bring together those various actors, as well as 
civil society and regional organizations. We encourage 
the Commission to continue such efforts. 

Member  States  should  support  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund,  in  order  to  give  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
the financial resources necessary to carry out its work. 
In  this  regard,  my  delegation  is  pleased  to  note  from 
the report (A/62/138) of the Secretary-General that, as 
of  July  2007,  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  had  received 
pledges and contributions exceeding 90 per cent of the 
$250 million funding target. The Republic of Korea has 
contributed  $3  million.  We  hope 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  continues  to  demonstrate 
its  value,  Member  States  will  respond  by  contributing 
greater resources to the Fund. 

In  peacebuilding  efforts,  time  is  of  the  essence. 
My  delegation  is  concerned  that,  at  present,  several 
months  transpire  between  the  announcement  of  an 
allocation  to  a  country  and  the  first  disbursement. As 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund  was  conceived  as  a  way  to 
respond  rapidly  to  immediate  peacebuilding  needs, 
serious efforts should be made to significantly shorten 
the delay. 

In terms of the Peacebuilding Commission’s work 
in post-conflict societies, my delegation recognizes the 
concerns  of  many  Member  States  with  regard  to 
national  ownership. We  believe  that  sustainable  peace 
can  only  be  built  with  the  active  participation  of  the 
national  authorities  of  the  countries  involved.  Peace 
and  security  within  each  State  are  most  appropriately 
and  effectively  maintained  by  a  fully  functioning 
national  Government.  Peacebuilding  efforts  should 
therefore  serve  to  strengthen,  not  weaken,  national 
Governments. 

The reality, however, is that peacebuilding efforts 
are  most  often  needed  in  situations  where  national 
Governments have been severely undermined, or where 
their  very  legitimacy  has  been  brought  into  question. 
Even  in  extreme  cases  where  there  is  no  competent 
07-53720 

27 

role, 
law  and 
the  rule  of 
A/62/PV.23 

national authority, the international community still has 
a responsibility to support post-conflict peacebuilding. 

The  Republic  of  Korea  is  a  strong  supporter  of 
international  peacebuilding  efforts.  Indeed,  our  own 
history of recovery from conflict helps us to recognize 
the  tremendous  value  of  international  engagement. 
That  is  why  we  supported  the  establishment  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
the  Peacebuilding 
Fund.  We  have  also  participated  in  United  Nations 
activities 
in  Timor-Leste  and  other  post-conflict 
situations. Our commitment to the peacebuilding work 
of the United Nations remains firm. We look forward to 
seeing  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  take  on  an 
increasingly  proactive 
thereby  contributing 
significantly to United Nations efforts to ensure peace, 
stability,  development, 
the 
protection of human rights. 
The  Acting  President:  I  wish  the  Permanent 

Representative  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  continued 
success in his new and important assignment. 
Mr.  Løvald  (Norway):  The  establishment  of  the 

Peacebuilding  Commission  was  a  concrete  expression 
of 
to 
improve  and  expand 
the  area  of 
peacebuilding. The achievements of the  Peacebuilding 
Commission have already been substantial, despite the 
brief period of its existence. I shall limit my remarks to 
highlighting  a  few  of  the  issues  that  my  delegation 
believes we must pay attention to in the time to come. 
The full text of my statement will be circulated in the 
Hall.  

Relevance  on  the  ground  must  be  our  first 
peacebuilding requirement. As Jan Eliasson, one of the 
President’s predecessors, said at the inaugural meeting 
of the Peacebuilding Commission, it is in the country-
specific  settings  that  the  work  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission will ultimately be judged.  

To make a difference on the ground, it is essential 
to  rally  all  those  who  can  make  a  difference  in  our 
work.  That  includes  Member  States  of  the  United 
Nations,  institutional  donors  and  non-State  actors. 
Civil  society,  media,  the  private  sector  and  other 
stakeholders  play  an  important  part  in  consolidating 
peace  in  any  given  country.  We  need  to  find  ways  to 
further include these actors in our work. It is my strong 
hope  that,  in  its  second  year,  the  Commission  will 
spend  more  time  on  outreach  activities,  so  that  the 
even  broader 
peacebuilding 
international  community’s  commitment 
agenda  will  have 
its  efforts 
the 
in 
take 
level 
in  support  of 
this  opportunity 
important  element 
in 
encourage 
the  Commission  and 
is  an 
architecture.  We 
ownership  when  we  take  stock  of  where  we  are  one 
year from now. 

A  well-functioning  peacebuilding  architecture  is 
our second peacebuilding requirement. Let me, through 
the  President, 
to  commend 
Assistant  Secretary-General  McAskie  and  the  other 
members  of  Peacebuilding  Support  Office  for  their 
work 
the 
Peacebuilding  Fund.  The  role  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Support  Office  as  a  focal  point  and  coordinator  for 
peacebuilding within the United Nations system at the 
strategic 
the 
peacebuilding 
the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office,  working  in  cooperation 
with  other  parts  of  the  United  Nations  system,  to 
continue to clarify the role of the Office in this regard. 
It  is  also  imperative  that  the  Peacebuilding  Support 
Office be fully funded from the regular budget. 

It goes without saying that the new peacebuilding 
architecture  must  not  duplicate  what  already  exists. 
United  Nations  funds,  programmes  and  specialized 
agencies have, and will continue to have, well-defined 
responsibilities.  We  value  their  contributions  and  call 
for their continued support. 

Norway welcomes the Secretary-General’s report 
(A/62/138)  on  the  Peacebuilding  Fund. The  Fund  will 
not  live  up  to  its  expectations  unless  it  has  a  distinct 
catalytic  role  in  terms  of  short-term  gap-filling  and 
longer-term  resource  mobilization.  The  Peacebuilding 
Commission and the Secretary-General, along with the 
countries concerned, must consider how this aspect can 
be better addressed. 

Continued  attention  to  needs  in  Burundi  and 
Sierra Leone, while opening the door for others, is the 
third  requirement.  It  is  our view  that  peacebuilding  in 
Sierra Leone and Burundi is now more of a priority — 
nationally as well as internationally — than it was one 
year  ago.  Our  attention  on  these  two  counties  must 
remain  strong  and  focused  in  the  year  to  come. 
Simultaneously,  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  must 
open  the  door  to  other  countries.  However,  we  will 
have  to  realize  that  not  too  many  countries  can  be  on 
the agenda of the Peacebuilding Commission at a given 
time.  Moreover,  the  involvement  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  can  be  in  parallel  to  a  peacekeeping 
operation: it is not an issue of either-or but, instead, of 
complementarity.  This  is  something  for  the  Security 
Council to take into account. 
28 

07-53720 
to 
been 
that 
have 
time. 
honoured 
the  chairmanship  of 
to  Youssef  Mahmoud, 
involvement  with  Burundi. 



National  ownership  is  the  fourth  requirement.  In 
this  connection,  I  want  to  refer  to  the  Peacebuilding 
I  am 
Commission’s 
humbled 
and 
the  
Vice-Chairperson of the Commission in its first year. I 
would  like  to  thank  the  members  of  the  Commission 
for  entrusting  me  with 
the 
Commission’s work on Burundi for yet another year.  
It was a pleasure to work with the Government of 

Burundi  during 
It  was  particularly 
impressive that the Government worked so closely and 
effectively  with  the  Commission  to  conclude  the 
Strategic  Framework  for  Peacebuilding  in  Burundi  in 
June  of  this  year.  I  would  also  like  to  express  my 
gratitude 
Executive 
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General,  and  his  team 
in the United Nations Integrated Office in Burundi. We 
were  equally  pleased  with  the  consultative  process  in 
Burundi  during  the  development  of  the  Strategic 
Framework, as well as with the active participation of a 
variety of stakeholders.  

We  must  never  forget  that  Burundians  have 
ownership  over  the  consolidation  of  peace  in  their 
country. The Peacebuilding Commission is an advisory 
body. Its job is to provide support and advice, never to 
take over national efforts. 

last 
requirement  for  achieving  success  in  peacebuilding. 
Peacebuilding 
is  a  multifaceted  undertaking  and 
therefore has an impact on how we conduct our work. 
The Peacebuilding Commission has set a new standard 
in  the  areas  of  international  partnership  and  honest 
dialogue.  This  would  not  have  been  possible  without 
close  cooperation  with  the  Governments  and  United 
Nations missions in the countries on the Commission’s 
agenda,  or  without  the  collective  determination  of  all 
members  of  the  Commission  to  contribute  to  the 
consolidation of peace. It is not only a matter of doing 
things  better;  it  is  also  about  doing  things  differently. 
Peacebuilding 
traditional 
intergovernmental  way  of  doing  business.  Our 
challenges  on  the  ground  are  concrete.  As  we  have 
already done, we must value flexibility and pragmatism 
in our approach to peacebuilding. 

The  Peacebuilding  Commission  offers  us  new 
opportunities  to  support  peace  and  a  better  future  for 
people  in  post-conflict  countries.  Momentum  has  now 
in  working  methods 
is  a  challenge 
Flexibility 
is 
the 
to 
the 
A/62/PV.23
is 
the 
just 
in  our  capacity  as  a  member  of 
Luxembourg  fully  associates 
this  morning  by 
been  created,  to  which  we  must  all  contribute  if  we 
wish to maintain it. 
Mr.  Hoscheit  (Luxembourg)  (spoke  in  French): 

This  debate,  which  we  welcome, 
first 
opportunity since the debates held  at the beginning of 
February  in  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council  to  assess  the  work  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission since its establishment and the beginning 
of its functioning.  
itself  with 
the 

the  Permanent 
statement  made 
Representative  of  Portugal  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union.  We  would  like  to  make  a  few  additional 
comments 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission. 

As  Luxembourg’s  Minister  for  Cooperation  and 
Humanitarian Action said before the General Assembly 
in  February  (see  A/61/PV.86),  the  real  struggle  for 
peace begins when the fighting is over. In saying that, 
the  Minister  drew  attention  to  the  complex  and 
multidimensional  nature  of  the  peacebuilding  process, 
whose  scope  goes  far  beyond 
the  end  of 
confrontation. 

Breaking the cycle of violence by addressing the 
underlying  causes  of  conflict  in  the  long  term  and 
involving the principal national and international actors 
was the noble ambition that led the heads of State and 
Government of the entire world, in September 2005, to 
decide  to  establish  a  new  body:  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission.  Our  debate  today  is  an  opportunity  to 
determine  how  much  ground  has  been  covered  since 
then and to chart the next phase of the development of 
the ground-breaking Peacebuilding Commission. 

As  set  out  in  the  two  reports  before  us  today 
(A/62/137 and A/62/138), 2006 was essentially devoted 
to  the  establishment  and  initial  functioning  of  the 
Commission, 
the 
Peacebuilding Support Office — the latter headed with 
skill  and  dedication  by  Assistant  Secretary-General 
Carolyn  McAskie.  That  work  was  essential,  however 
tedious it might have seemed at times, for there was a 
need  to  devise  original  structures  and  ways  of  doing 
things that were in line with both the innovative nature 
of 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission and the demands for efficiency and speed 
that accompanied the birth of that new body. A genuine 
peacebuilding  architecture  has  thereby  gradually  been 
established. That eloquently attests  to  the  capacity  for 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund 
the  mandate  entrusted 
and 
to 
07-53720 

29 
its 
in 
the 
too, 
Since 
inception, 
A/62/PV.23 

innovation  and  modernization  that  the  United  Nations 
can  demonstrate  when  it  is  inspired  by  strong  and 
unanimous  political  determination  on  the  part  of 
Member States. 

Peacebuilding 
Commission  has  developed  a  relationship  of  dialogue 
and  openness  with  all  international  and  governmental 
actors  and  representatives  of  civil  society,  working 
together in a synergistic way to make it possible for the 
Commission to play its role fully and fulfil its new and 
complex mandate. The Peacebuilding Commission and 
the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office  have  thereby  found 
their  place 
the  United  Nations  system,  with 
peacebuilding  issues  being  increasingly  taken  into 
account by the Security Council, the General Assembly 
and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  in  the 
operational  activities  of  funds  and  programmes.  That 
development  must  be  consolidated  and  strengthened, 
as,  here 
the  concept  of  United  Nations  
system-wide coherence should not be a dead letter.  

In that context, I would also like to welcome the 
absolutely crucial  contribution of  representatives  from 
civil  society  and,  in  particular,  non-governmental 
organizations,  whose  efforts  are  essential  in  defining, 
implementing 
peacebuilding 
strategies. 

Lastly,  we  cannot  fail  to  emphasize  the  crucial 
role  that  can,  and  must,  be  played  by  international 
financial  organizations  and  regional  organizations.  I 
am  confident  that  appropriate  arrangements  will  soon 
be  identified  to  allow  the  European  Union  to  find  its 
proper  place  in  the  Commission’s  work  as  a  major 
international actor deeply involved in the management 
of  conflict  and  post-conflict  situations  throughout  the 
world. 

real  peacebuilding 
architecture  —  which,  as  needed,  will  have  to  be 
further developed and adapted according to operational 
needs  —  is  only  meaningful  in  terms  of  the  concrete 
implementation  of  its  mandate  vis-à-vis  very  specific 
post-crisis  situations.  That  is  why  there  is  a  need  to 
quickly  begin  interaction  with  the  first  two  countries 
on  the  Commission’s  agenda:  Burundi  and  Sierra 
Leone. 

Together, we have made remarkable progress. By 
formulating  integrated  peacebuilding  strategies  with 
those countries, we now have a much more precise and 
focused understanding of the numerous complex stakes 
The  establishment  of  a 
following 
and 
up 

to  evaluate 
indicators  making 
the  progress  made 
involved in peacebuilding, as well as of the significant 
challenges  facing  actors  involved  in  peacebuilding 
efforts  on  a  daily  basis.  By  adopting  a  pragmatic 
empirical approach that included respect and was based 
on 
the  principles  of  national  ownership  and 
partnership,  in  its  country-specific  configurations  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  has  made  progress 
in 
carrying  out  a  dialogue  with  governmental  authorities 
of  the  countries  concerned  and  other  interlocutors  on 
the  adoption  of  integrated  strategies.  In  what  amounts 
to  a  contract  of  trust  between  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  and  the  two  countries,  each  partner  must 
now  fully  assume  its  responsibilities  and  meet  its 
commitments  for  as  long  as  necessary  to  prevent  the 
recurrence of any sort of violent confrontation. 
In order to support and strengthen the process as 

it  moves  ahead,  we  must  put  in  place  follow-up  and 
monitoring  mechanisms  that  are  both  flexible  and 
effective. They should be based on a limited number of 
quantitative  and  qualitative 
it 
possible 
towards 
peacebuilding and, if necessary, to identify at an early 
stage  potential  negative  developments 
that  could 
jeopardize such progress. 

The joint use of the means at the disposal of the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  the  Peacebuilding  Fund 
and,  if  necessary,  the  international  community,  should 
make it possible to identify and remedy possible gaps. 
In that connection, we should more precisely define the 
respective  roles  of  the  Commission  and  the  Fund  in 
order to better sequence their respective efforts.  

the  Peacebuilding  Commission’s 
commitment  to  Burundi  and  Sierra  Leone  should 
continue  as  long  as  necessary,  it  seems  to  me  that  the 
time  has  come  to  expand  the  Commission’s  work  to 
include  other  States.  I  am  certain  that,  with  the  active 
the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office,  
support  of 
the  Commission  —  given 
integrated 
character — now has available to it the experience and 
tools  necessary  to  take  up  other  cases.  Of  course,  we 
must  also  provide  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office 
with  adequate  resources  to  carry  out  its  various  tasks 
under favourable conditions.  

Although  the  question  of  managing  conflict  and 
post-conflict  situations  has  been  a  traditional  part  of 
our foreign policy — both in our national capacity and 
as  part  of  the  European  Union  —  Luxembourg  has 
nevertheless  been  proud  to  be  associated  with  this 
its  unique 
Although 
30 

07-53720 


genuine adventure in peacebuilding since the beginning 
of  this  year.  It  is  therefore  with  conviction  and 
enthusiasm  that  my  country  has  been  involved  in  the 
various  efforts  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
has  made  contributions  to  the  Peacebuilding  Fund. 
Luxembourg  also  announced  a  contribution  of 
€1 million  at  the  development  partners’  round  table 
held at Bujumbura at the end of May 2007. 

Experience  in  the  course  of  the  first  year  of  the 
functioning  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the 
Peacebuilding  Fund  reinforces  our  belief  that  the 
peacebuilding  efforts  of  the  United  Nations,  including 
the  Commission’s  integrated  and  multidimensional 
approach,  address  a  genuine  need  and  provide  an 
appropriate,  tailored  and  innovative  response  to  the 
numerous challenges posed by peacebuilding. 
A/62/PV.23
the 
issues 
that 
today 
to  some  of 

Much more remains to be done, both in New York 
and  in  the  field.  I  wish  Ambassador  Takasu,  the  new 
Chairperson  of  the  Commission,  every  success.  He 
referred 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission will have to address in the 
coming  months.  I  firmly  believe  that  by  adopting  a 
pragmatic  approach  focused  on  producing  concrete 
results,  marshalling  positive 
inputs  from  various 
sources  and  avoiding 
traditional  United  Nations 
bureaucratic  tangles  and  bad  habits,  much  can  be 
achieved. That  is  Luxembourg’s  confident  hope  as  we 
begin the second year of existence of the Commission 
and the Fund. 
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. 

07-53720 

31 
