United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

5th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 25 September 2007, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

A/62/PV.5
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia)
today.  I  therefore  consider  it  my  obligation  to  use 
Sinhala,  a  living  language,  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 

Let  me  begin  by  quoting  the  immortal  words  of 
Sir  Isaac  Newton:  “We  build  too  many  walls  and  not 
enough  bridges”.  We  all  became  Members  of  an 
Organization  that  was  created  to  let  all  our  voices  be 
heard  and  to  avoid  an  approach  aimed  at  resolving 
problems through violence, revenge and blame. Yet we 
see a trend to find fault, to place countries in the dock 
and penalize those who do not fall into line. Instead of 
seeking  solutions  through  cooperation,  we  have  often 
created  suspicion  and  built  walls  between  ourselves 
through double standards. 

I  am  proud  to  inform  the Assembly  that,  despite 
the significant challenge posed by the ongoing conflict 
with  a  ruthless  terrorist  group  in  the  north  of  our 
country,  we  have  freed  the  Eastern  Province  from 
terrorism  and  restored  law  and  order  there.  My 
Government  has 
a  massive 
programme  of  rehabilitation  and  reconstruction  in  the 
east. We  propose  to  make  the  Eastern  Province  of  Sri 
Lanka  a  model  for  development  and  rehabilitation, 
essentially  through  our  own  effort  but  also  with  the 
assistance  of  all  donors. We  are  taking  steps  to  return 
the  usurped  rights  of 
the  people  by  conducting 
provincial  and  local  Government  elections  in  the  east 
early  next  year.  There  is  a  clear  opportunity  for  the 
international community to play a vital role in breaking 
the cycle of conflict by focusing on development. 
launched 
already 





  The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m. 

Address by Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksa, President of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address  by  the  President  of  the  Democratic  Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka. 

Mr.  Mahinda  Rajapaksa,  President  of 
the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mahinda  Rajapaksa, 
President  of  the  Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri 
Lanka, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Rajapaksa (spoke in Sinhala; English 

text provided by the delegation) I am pleased to be able 
to address the global community on the first day of the 
current session of the General Assembly of the United 
Nations. 

Please  accept  my  congratulations,  Sir,  on  your 
assumption  of  the  high  office  of  the  President  of  the 
sixty-second  session.  To  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed 
Al-Khalifa, I wish to convey Sri Lanka’s gratitude for 
her astute leadership of the sixty-first session. 

Sri  Lanka  can  boast  of  a  very  old  and  advanced 
civilization,  similar  to  Greek,  Roman  and  Nile  Valley 
civilizations.  One  of  the  important  characteristics  of 
our  civilization  is  the  use  of  living  languages  such  as 
Sinhala  and Tamil,  two  languages  used  by  many  even 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-51584 (E) 
*0751584* 
to 
achieve 
exceptional 
A/62/PV.5 


We  launched  military  operations  only  to  exert 
pressure on terrorists in order to convince them that it 
would  not  be  possible  for  them  to  obtain  a  military 
victory. Our goal remains a negotiated and honourable 
end to this unfortunate conflict. I must say that the All 
Party  Representative  Committee 
is  working 
successfully towards it. 

Sri  Lanka  was  one  of  the  first  developing 
countries  to  promote  universal  health  and  education, 
gender equality and social mobilization. We have been 
able 
socio-economic 
indicators — way ahead of those normally expected of 
a country in the lower-middle income range — and are 
on  the  way  to  achieving  or  surpassing  many  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals. It is a beautiful sight 
on our rural roads to see thousands of children in clean 
white uniforms heading for school. It is a fine example 
of our success in achieving education for all. 

Despite  25  years  of  brutal  terrorism,  we  have 
been able to continue with this social development. My 
Government  maintains  a  policy  of  openness  and 
cooperation  with  all 
rights 
mechanisms, and a number of high-level officials have 
visited  Sri  Lanka 
recently.  Sri  Lanka’s  ancient 
civilization  was  rooted  in  the  Buddhist  principles  of 
metta and ahimsa — metta being loving kindness to all 
living beings and ahimsa being a deep respect for life. 
Human  rights have been an essential part of our great 
cultural  tradition  for  millennia.  It  is  therefore  nothing 
new  for  us  to  protect  human  rights.  Women  in 
pre-colonial  Sri  Lanka  enjoyed 
that  are 
prescribed under the Convention on the Elimination of 
All  Forms  of  Discrimination  against  Women  — 
including rights of property ownership and inheritance 
rights.  It  was  certainly  no  accident  that  Sri  Lanka 
produced the first democratically elected woman Prime 
Minister in the world in 1960. 

Guided  by  the  principles  of  Buddhism,  we  have 
long respected the rights of our fellow human beings. It 
has  therefore  not  been  necessary  for  us  to  experience 
global  wars  or  the  deaths  of  millions  to  learn  to 
recognize  their  value.  My  country  has  no  record  of 
inflicting  misery  on  fellow  human  beings  for  the 
purpose of empire-building, for commercial advantage 
or for religious righteousness. Sri Lanka, as one of the 
founding  members  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
believes that human rights are too important to be used 
as a tool to victimize States for political advantage.  It 
to  facilitate 
is  essential 
international  human 
international  action 
rights 
compliance  with  human  rights  standards  be  fair  and 
even-handed.  Human  rights  have  to  be  protected  and 
advanced for their own sake, not for political gain. 

Even  as  we  are  gathered  here,  State  sovereignty, 
civil society and the rule of law are increasingly being 
threatened  by  terrorism  and  other  illegal  and  illicit 
activities  in  many  countries.  We  need  to  be  vigilant 
about  these  activities.  Although  the  United  Nations 
system  has  set  up  mechanisms  to  deal  with  many  of 
these  problems,  the  capacity  of  the  United  Nations  to 
address  these  challenges  effectively  has  been  brought 
into  question.  There  are  many  Member  States 
represented in the Assembly today that have first-hand 
experience  of  the  havoc  caused  by  brutish  terrorism, 
which  has  stretched  out  its  claws  to  many  corners  of 
the world to mar innocent lives. All terrorist attacks —
whether  in  New  York,  Mumbai,  Cairo,  London  or 
Colombo — are acts that threaten the democratic way 
of life, and must be condemned unreservedly. 

Terrorism anywhere is terrorism. There is nothing 
good  in  terrorism.  Sri  Lanka  has  taken  an  up-front 
position in the global community’s efforts to deal with 
terrorism. We have become party to 11 of the 13 United 
Nations conventions for the suppression of various acts 
of 
the  comprehensive 
convention on international terrorism — which, in our 
view,  remains  a  priority  —  is  a  hostage  to  endless 
discussion.  I  emphasize  that  we  must  conclude  those 
negotiations soon. 

In  whatever  continent  there  are  conflicts,  those 
will  affect  the  world  economy.  Peace  in  the  Middle 
East  would  have  a  great  impact  on  our  economy. 
Solutions sought for conflicts in various countries must 
be  indigenous.  Otherwise,  even  if  the  international 
community is appeased, people in the countries saddled 
with  conflicts  will  not  be  satisfied.  That  would  be  a 
blow  to  democracy. At  this  point,  we  must  focus  our 
attention  on  the  Palestinians  who  are  striving  for  an 
independent  State.  The  world  community  must  help 
them  to  manage  their  country  without  any  undue 
influence. 

We  strongly  support  the  strengthening  of  United 
Nations  mechanisms  for  countering  fund-raising  for 
illegal  and 
the 
Secretary-General  to  allocate  more  resources  to  this 
area, especially to enhance technical skills in countries 
that  do  not  have  such  skills.  Many  developing 
countries would benefit from such assistance. We need 
illicit  activities.  We  encourage 
terrorism.  We 
think 
that 
that 
2 

07-51584 
characterized  by 
We  have  rounded 


to have a better mechanism to provide solutions to the 
problems  confronting  us.  Support  from  all  Member 
States should be obtained for this purpose. 

The  United  Nations  has  a  mixed  record  of 
achievements.  As  resources  received  by  the  United 
Nations are limited, it has been only possible to deliver 
limited results. We need to focus on these as they often 
have  been 
countless,  poorly 
coordinated, ineffectively designed, ineptly staffed and 
overlapping  programmes,  with  unnecessary 
inter-
agency  competition.  The  United  Nations  must  always 
remember  that  its  primary  function  is  to  render 
assistance for the well-being of its Member States. 

the  Development  Decade 
declared  by  the  General  Assembly.  My  country  has 
declared  the  “Mahinda  Chintana”  10-year  vision  to 
usher  in  a  new  Sri  Lanka  in  line  with  those  goals. 
Through  that  we  are  committed  to  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  have  accorded 
priority to the areas liberated from terrorism, those that 
have  been  devastated  by  natural  disasters  and  rural 
areas lagging behind in development. However, it is a 
huge challenge for us to fill the gap created by the loss 
of human lives arising out of disasters. 
rural  development 

initiative  based  on  “Maga  Neguma”, 
road 
development  programme,  and  “Gama  Neguma”,  the 
rural 
a  national 
infrastructure  development  initiative.  The  “Mahinda 
Chintana”  10-year  development  vision 
includes 
continuous  qualitative  upgrading  of  education  and 
health  programmes  in  all  areas,  livelihood  initiatives 
for  low-income  groups,  and  broad  social  welfare 
programmes 
disadvantaged 
members  of  society,  aimed  specially  at  children  and 
women. We also implement programmes to protect our 
people  from  narcotic  drugs  and  diseases  transmitted 
through social contact. 

The  working  population,  as  well  as  low-income 
and poor groups in developing countries such as ours, 
face tough challenges due to escalating world oil prices 
and  increases  in  the  prices  of  essential  food  items. 
Similarly, we are severely affected by natural disasters 
and  uncertainties  in  the  world  financial  markets.  For 
those reasons, it has become a challenge to achieve the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  declared  by 
the 
Assembly. 
reawakening  programme 
implementing  a 
covering 
We  are 
poor 
and 
the 
and 
A/62/PV.5
to 

The  World  Bank,  established  for  economic 
development,  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF), 
which  was  set  up  for  financial  stability,  and  other 
regional  banks  established  at  the  same  time  as  this 
world  organization,  all  need 
implement  new 
programmes  to  assist  the  countries  affected  by  these 
challenges.  Priority  must  be  given 
to  providing 
resources for this purpose. 

I  believe  that  our  obligation  as  global  leaders  at 
these  sessions  of  the  General Assembly,  is  to  commit 
ourselves  to  programmes  that  will  eradicate  terrorism, 
establish 
development, 
establish  democracy  and  ensure  there  is  hope  for 
low-income  groups 
economic  development. 
Accordingly, I appeal to the global community to make 
the  sixty-second  session  the  beginning  of  a  new 
chapter, rather than just another session. 

The  President: On  behalf  of 
the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka  for  the 
statement he has just made.  

Mr.  Mahinda  Rajapaksa,  President  of 
the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.  
human-welfare-oriented 
for 


into 
Address by Mr. Duarte Frutos, President of the 
Republic of Paraguay 

address by the President of the Republic of Paraguay.  

The  President: The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
Mr.  Duarte  Frutos,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Paraguay,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.  
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nicanor  Duarte  Frutos, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Paraguay,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly.  
President Duarte Frutos (spoke in Spanish): The 

Government  of  Paraguay  comes  to  the  Assembly  to 
reaffirm 
the  world 
situation.  We  have  also  come  in  order  to  further 
strengthen the United Nations as a body fit to represent 
the 
the 
effectiveness of international law. 

For that reason, Sir, I express my support for your 
successful  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
interests  of  all  countries  and  ensure 
in  examining 
importance 
its 
07-51584 

3 
in  order 
to  overcome 
A/62/PV.5 

sixty-second  session.  It  is  urgent  for  us  to  contribute 
not  only  to  meeting  the  objectives  of  the  United 
Nations,  but  also  to  ensuring  that  the  principles 
governing  its  functioning  truly  find  expression.  The 
world  needs  a  better,  more  just  and  brotherly  world 
order now. 

From this lofty universal rostrum, we customarily 
speak with eloquent urgency, but the practice of States, 
in particular of the most powerful, has not always been 
one  of  cooperating 
the 
uncertainties that overshadow our future.  

In  recent  sessions  of  the  Assembly,  we  have 
focused  on  the  challenges  of  the  new  millennium,  but 
while  we  have  been  looking  far  ahead,  in  the  first 
decade  of  this  new  century  alone,  relations  among 
civilizations have clearly been marred by an absence of 
peace and harmony.  

It  has  not  mattered  that  more  than  half  of  the 
world’s  population  continues  to  live  in  poverty.  Of 
greater importance has been the senseless squandering 
of  money  on  weapons  and  the  terrible  effect  this  has 
had  on  the  world  economy.  Note  how  the  price  of  oil 
has rapidly increased and how countries, such as ours, 
which  do  not  produce  oil,  have  had  to  make  great 
sacrifices. How much money could have been  used to 
alleviate poverty! As long as capital is concentrated in 
one  area  and  poverty  continues  to  rise,  world  peace 
will be precarious.  

In Paraguay, in South America, we are calling for 
the  globalization  of  democracy  combined  with  social 
development. We are calling for the universalization of 
security based on  respect  for  human  rights and on the 
dignity of human life. 

to  build  a  regional 
community  and  a  global  union,  which  will  work 
together  to  eradicate  hunger  and  extreme  poverty,  and 
which  will  effectively  cooperate 
the 
participation  of  all  in  prosperity  by  providing  quality 
education  and  a  system  of  social  protection  without 
exclusion.  

In  Paraguay,  we  are  struggling  for  economic 
stability,  for  political  stability  and  for  social  peace. 
With these ideals, I have been working very hard at the 
head  of  the  Government  to  make  significant  changes 
and score important advances. We have sought radical 
change  beyond  what  is  needed  by  the  Paraguayan 
society.  The  achievements  we  have  attained  require 
this  way  we  hope 
to  promote 
In 
that  we  continue  the  progressive  policy  to  which  we 
committed ourselves when we assumed office. 

Since  we  took  office  in  2003,  following  a 
turbulent transition that was constantly undermined by 
violence and conspiracy, Paraguay has institutionalized 
political stability — not an easy task in an environment 
of political division and with a parliament that did not 
always  meet  its  responsibilities  in  governing  jointly. 
Nevertheless, political stability has been, and continues 
to  be,  one  of  the  defining  characteristics  of  our 
Government.  Through  great  perseverance,  we  have 
succeeded  in  permanently  institutionalizing  political 
stability. We did so because I understood that stability 
had  to  be  the  framework  for  achieving  economic 
development, which is so crucial to achieving our plans 
for  incremental  growth.  Having  achieved  economic 
stability,  we  began  a  process  of  growth  of  historic 
proportions.  After  20  years,  Paraguay  was  able  to 
overcome  stagnation.  Despite  the  terrible  drought  in 
the  country,  which  continues  to  this  day,  Paraguay 
experienced  an  average  annual  rate  of  economic 
growth of 4 per cent for the period 2003-2007. 

Moreover,  my  country  has  also  recorded  a 
budgetary  surplus.  We  have  also  markedly  improved 
our  tax  receipts  and  are  waging  a  difficult  battle  to 
control inflation. Through that policy, not only have we 
considerably  increased  our  financial  reserves,  which 
have  tripled,  but  for  the  first  time  in  its  history 
Paraguay  is  today  able  to  pay  its  foreign  debt  in  full 
and  still  continue  to  hold  international  reserves.  Our 
exports are at a historical high, having doubled during 
my term of office. Another relevant factor has been the 
sustained  growth  in  per  capita  production,  which  will 
rise from $915 to $1,800 by the end of my mandate, in 
2008.  

the  Government  has  been 
pursuing plans aimed at strengthening various areas of 
the economy, including the industrial, commercial and 
service sectors. We have encouraged the transformation 
of  the  country’s  economy  while  coordinating  and 
integrating  the  various  sectors  of  production  and 
facilitating 
and 
consumption of domestically produced goods. We have 
thereby  been  able  to  lower  the  rate  of  poverty  we 
inherited from previous Governments — which is now 
approaching 38 per cent, down from the 46 per cent at 
which it stood in 2003.  
More  generally, 
distribution, 
circulation 
the 
4 

07-51584 
to 
is  due 
to  overcome  poverty 



However,  the  poverty  and  marginalization  of 
millions of our fellow citizens continues to be the most 
obvious  threat  to  democracy  and  political  stability  in 
Paraguay as well as the region. Our belief that we will 
continue 
the 
Government’s  significant  investment  in  society.  Never 
before  have  so  many  houses  been  built  nor  more 
resources  devoted  to  the  most  vulnerable  members  of 
our society. Next year, we will earmark 50 per cent of 
the country’s budget for the fight to reduce poverty.  

As  a  multi-ethnic  country,  we  have  not  ignored 
the education of our indigenous citizens. We have built 
schools  and  established  special  programmes.  As  a 
bilingual  country,  we  have  both  ensured  Guaraní-
language  education  at  all  levels  and  worked  towards 
having it recognized as a third official language of the 
Common Market of the South (MERCOSUR). Prior to 
the establishment of present-day borders, Guaraní was 
also spoken in Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay and Bolivia. 

The  Government  over  which  I  preside  has 
ensured  unfettered  political  freedom,  as  well  as 
freedom  of  the  press,  association  and  expression. 
Unfortunately, 
taken 
advantage  of  the  freedom  of  the  press  in  order  to 
become  channels  for  truthful  information,  serious  and 
responsible  opinion  and  constructive  and  reasoned 
criticism  —  much  less  to  overcome  its  vestigial 
Manichaeism and instead to become a source of culture 
and daily provider of knowledge and ethical values. 

Political  parties  are  independent  and  represented 
in  the  parliament.  Those  not  in  parliament  exercise 
their rights freely as new political parties are formed.  

There  is  in  fact  pluralism  in  Paraguay,  although 
the absence of an adequate civic culture on the part of 
most  political  actors  has  kept  it  from  genuinely 
contributing  to  the  essential  consensus  needed  to 
defend  the  country’s  overall  interests  and  promoting 
equitable  development  within 
it.  Unfortunately, 
remnants  of  fascism  and  conservatism  continue  to 
hamper coexistence in an environment of diversity and 
difference,  while  also  conspiring  against  the  country’s 
progress. 
Nevertheless, our struggle for a participatory and 

inclusive  democracy  that  promotes  social  justice  has 
transformed  the  governing  party.  Today’s  governing 
party  is  promoting  an  advanced  philosophy  of  social 
change.  It  is  also  the  political  organization  generating 
renewal  and  social  mobilization  to  overcome  the  old 
the  media  have  not  always 
A/62/PV.5
party 
has 
therefore 
theological 
that  was  so  damaging 
to 
party-based  oligarchy 
Paraguay.  The 
assumed 
responsibility for transforming the system whereby the 
State  and  its  policies  were  subjugated  to  individual 
interests. Through its political independence, the party 
is  in  a  position  to  able  to  eliminate  illegitimate 
privileges  and  the  illicit  groups  that  control  the 
economy, finances and large land holdings.  

We  are  continuing  to  modernize  Paraguay  by 
linking  the  entire  country  with  roads,  exponentially 
expanding  its  economy  and  ensuring  that  all  citizens 
become  part  of  the  nation’s  social  capital  and  possess 
the  qualities  and  competitiveness  required  by  today’s 
societies.  Most  of  the  people  of  Paraguay  understand 
that  the  historic  steps  we  have  taken  in  that  direction 
must continue and become irreversible. Today, anarchy, 
demagoguery  and 
feudalism  pose  a 
regressive threat to peace, the secular State, the rule of 
law and the institutional order we are building. 

Paraguay  is  the  most  open  and  dynamic  country 
with  regard  to  the  regional  integration  agenda.  Our 
support  for  MERCOSUR  is  a  clear  reflection  of  our 
national  policy.  We  believe  in  MERCOSUR.  We 
believe  in  regional  integration.  We  believe  in  the 
possibility  of  Latin America  having  a  louder  voice  in 
the world in order to manage and humanize the process 
of globalization. 

My  Government  also  endorses  and  supports  the 
proposed union of South American nations, which will 
above  all  make  us  stronger  in  claiming  and  defending 
our 
in  an  environment  of  asymmetrical 
globalization  and  better  able  to  contribute  to  world 
peace  and  more  equitable  distribution  of  international 
trade and financing for development.  
The  international  mobilization  of  financial  and 

technological 
the 
stability and overall progress of countries. Speculative 
investments  flow  to  countries  and  regions  where  the 
work force is subjected to exploitation. Then comes the 
invasion;  and, 
through  unfair  competition,  our 
industries  are  damaged  and  shut  down.  At  the  same 
time,  our  raw  materials  are  undervalued. What  capital 
should  do  is  to  promote  industrialization,  or  at  least 
ensure that the terms of trade become fairer instead of 
being imposed unilaterally.  

Mr.  Ehouzou  (Benin),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
threatening 
resources 
is 
today 
rights 
07-51584 

5 
to 
end 
should 
reflect 
poverty, 
ignorance 
The  United  Nations 
A/62/PV.5 


We  have  to  change  this  trend.  The  international 
economic order should promote a more equitable world 
economy.  Through  solidarity,  cooperation  and  fair 
treatment, all countries of the world should be admitted 
into the club of development. In Latin America, and in 
Paraguay,  we  don’t  need  charity;  we  need  markets, 
transparency,  technology,  and  the  lifting  of  protective 
trade barriers.  

this 
philosophy.  For  this  reason,  its  reform  cannot  be 
delayed any longer. Its priority concerns should not be 
war, armed  conflict  or  even terrorism,  whether  real  or 
strategic.  On  the  contrary,  its  priorities  should  be 
programmes 
and 
unemployment.  We  must  educate  and  distribute  in 
order  to  build  a  culture  of  democratic  participation  in 
the wealth of humanity. 

Paraguay, like the other 30 landlocked developing 
countries,  continues  to  suffer  marginalization  and  a 
lack  of  proper  access  to  international  markets.  The 
absence of preferential treatment for us from the more 
developed economies has denied us a more competitive 
participation in trade, as well as, access to quotas and 
to higher tariffs. 

Paraguay  is  not  only  aware  of  the  serious 
consequences  of  climate  change;  it  also  suffers  from 
them.  Proof  of  this  is  the  catastrophe  our  country  is 
suffering  through  prolonged  drought  and  the  dreadful 
fires that have destroyed a major part of our territory. I 
take  this  opportunity  to  express  my  deepest  gratitude 
on  behalf  of  my  people  and  my  Government  to  the 
countries  that  have  come  to  our  aid  in  this  national 
emergency.  In  particular,  I  would  like  to  thank,  from 
this  rostrum,  my  friend  Luiz  Inácio  Lula  da  Silva, 
President  of  Brazil,  Nestor  Kirchner,  President  of 
Argentina,  my  friend  President  Chavez  of  Venezuela, 
and  the  other  heads  of  Government  and  multilateral 
organizations that have worked with us. 

Paraguay recognizes the importance of including 
gender issues in the agenda of the United Nations and 
the need for effective coordination among all agencies 
and organs in the United Nations system in addressing 
the  situation  of  women  in  the  world,  particularly  in 
developing  countries.  Increasingly  and  emphatically, 
we  reject  existing 
inequalities  between  men  and 
women  whether  they  be  political,  economic,  social  or 
cultural. Irrespective of the domestic actions we take to 
combat  discrimination,  we  believe  that  the  United 
should  be  given 
What  we  are  seeing,  however, 
Nations  is  the  most  appropriate  forum  for  designing 
programmes  in  support  of  national  policies  to  bring 
about true equality.  

The  Government  of  Paraguay  would  also  like  to 
take  this  opportunity  to  express  once  again  for  its 
support  for  the  request  for  admission  into  the  United 
Nations of the Republic of China, Taiwan, a nation that 
has continued to struggle for its freedom and wishes to 
be a member of the United Nations in accordance with 
Rules  59  and  60  of  the  Provisional  Rules  of  the 
Security  Council  and Article  4  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter. 

In conclusion, inequalities among our peoples are 
not part of the human condition. On the contrary, they 
are  the  result  of  iniquitous  relations  that  separate  us 
and draw us apart. That being the case, we need only to 
show determination in building a universal community 
marked  by  greater  equanimity  and  balance.  This 
determination 
expression  by 
governments  and  citizens  and  should  draw  on  the 
concerted efforts of States and civil society.  

the 
is 
countries that have most want more. Their humanism is 
disguised in hand-outs and philanthropy when what the 
world  needs  is  greater  solidarity  and  justice. We  need 
to  share  science  and  technology;  we  need  to  share 
markets. The pretence of cooperation to help countries 
achieve  balanced  development  is  not  only  denounced 
in fruitless rhetoric; it is also exposed in protectionism 
and in investment choices. 
As  long  as  this  bipolar  situation  continues  to 

prevail in the world, an organization such as the United 
Nations serves little purpose. Only when the powerful 
countries  stop  taking  advantage  of  the  less  powerful 
countries will the United Nations be able to have a true 
impact on the lives of people. 

This  alternative  is  the  process  that  we  are 
involved  in  today.  Many  Governments  representing 
countries  in  the  Third  World  have  begun  to  seek  our 
own  freedom.  We  are  drawing  a  new  map  on  the 
international scene.  

I am compelled to mention this historic challenge 
in  my  final  statement  to  the  General Assembly  of  the 
United Nations because on 15 August 2008, I will hand 
over power to the new Government in my country. But 
I  will  continue  to  fight  with  greater  fervour  to  help 
change  the  world.  I  am  committed  as  ever  to  the 
that 
6 

07-51584 


difficult struggle to build a new world order, to ensure 
equality,  social  justice  and  solidarity  for  all  countries, 
for  all  women  and  for  all  men.  I  will  fight  for  their 
emancipation and their progress. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Paraguay for the statement he has just made.  

Mr.  Nicanor  Duarte  Frutos,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Paraguay,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


to 
Address by Mr. Abdoulaye Wade, President of the 
Republic of Senegal 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Senegal. 

Mr. Abdoulaye Wade, President of the Republic of 
Senegal, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency, 
Mr. Abdoulaye  Wade,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Senegal, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Wade  (spoke  in  French):  Senegal 

welcomes Mr. Kerim’s election to the presidency of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-second  session.  We 
congratulate him and will support him as he carries out 
his important responsibilities. His predecessor, Sheikha 
Haya Rashed Al Khalifa of the Kingdom of Bahrain, a 
country  which  is  a  friend  to  Senegal,  deserves  our 
tribute 
outstanding 
contribution,  throughout  her  term  of  office,  to  the 
revitalization of the General Assembly.  

to 
acknowledge  my  brothers  and  sisters  in  the  diaspora, 
who this year commemorated the 200th anniversary of 
the  abolition  of  slavery.  That  shameful  and  repugnant 
trade constituted the worst of attacks on the dignity of 
the human person, as did its continuation, colonization. 
That  is  why  I  would  now  solemnly  warn  against 
horrendous  revisionist  arguments  that  attempt  in  vain 
to  falsify  history.  Colonialism  in  its  design  and 
exclusive 
logic  of  domination,  exploitation  and 
enslavement  cannot boast  of  any  civilizing mission or 
any  positive  fallout,  because  by  its  very  nature  it  is  a 
negation  of  the  human  condition.  We  must  remain 
take  a  moment 
I  also  would 
appreciation 
like 
and 
her 
for 
to 
A/62/PV.5
The 
held 
from 
high-level 
discussion  we 
forget  or  agree 
vigilant and mobilized. In Senegal we say yes, we will 
forgive,  but  we  will  not 
to 
manipulation. 

on 
24 September  on  the  serious  issue  of  climate  change 
confirms  once  again  the  terrible  threat  that  is  hanging 
over  our  planet.  I  therefore  welcome  the  initiative  of 
the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  to  put  this 
crucial issue at the very heart of our agenda. We have 
all seen the damage done. Mankind has not been wise. 
We  have,  with  greater  or  lesser  awareness,  destroyed 
this Earth which God has lent to us. We must beseech 
his forgiveness. 

Combating  climate  change  demands  innovative 
solutions,  which  must  take  into  account  the  special 
situation  of  countries  that  are  not  significant  polluters 
but  which  nevertheless  suffer 
the  serious 
consequences of this phenomenon of the modern age.  
Senegal  is  aware  of  its  responsibility  to  join  the 

struggle against pollution. Therefore, in exploiting our 
mineral resources, we take particular care to restore the 
ecosystem  and  to  use  non-polluting  practices  and 
technologies. We  have  also  prohibited  the  importation 
of used cars more than five years old and of household 
appliances that pollute. As we have already mentioned, 
we  do  not  want  Africa  to  be  a  dumping  ground  for 
outdated technology from Europe or elsewhere.  

We  are  also  gradually  establishing  a  policy  of 
combating coastal erosion. On the Atlantic coast, at the 
high-tide  line,  we  are  building  a  reinforced  concrete 
wall  on  the  granite  or  clayey  base  of  the  continental 
shelf, 2.5 to 3 metres deep by 40 centimetres thick, to 
slow the advance of the sea. Experts say that the wall 
will  stop  the  sea’s  advance  for  50  to  100  years.  We 
have  done  this  on  an  experimental  basis,  since  it  is 
very  expensive.  The  wall  costs  $2,000  per  metre.  We 
have constructed 2 kilometres as an example, to show 
that  it  is  possible,  because  we  consider  it  the  ultimate 
weapon.  

We are also launching a project for ports leading 
into  free  zones,  alternating  with  tourist  complexes, 
along the Atlantic coast; that is also a way of stopping 
the advance of the sea. Coastal erosion, from Morocco 
to  Mauritania  to  Senegal,  is  a  threat  which  the 
international community must take very seriously.  

In the Sahel region, we Africans are also planting 
what  we  call  the  great  green  wall,  7,000  kilometres 
07-51584 

7 
At 
initiative, 
Senegal’s 
A/62/PV.5 

long  by  150  kilometres  wide  from  Dakar  to  Djibouti. 
We have not waited; each of us in our own country has 
begun  to  create  the  “wall”.  The  European  Union  and 
France,  as  Mr.  Sarkozy  has  said,  are  ready  to  provide 
us with loans to help with the wall in order to stop the 
encroaching Sahel and the process of desertification.  

We  have  also  tried  to  take  advantage  of  the 
billions  of  tons  of  water  that,  each  year  during  the 
rainy season, fall on the Sahel and are absorbed by the 
earth or flow into the sea. In Senegal we have therefore 
built holding basins in the most low-lying areas, where 
runoff  water  accumulates.  We  have  built  250  of  these 
basins; we are walking the walk. The African countries 
meeting  in  Bamako  have  decided  to  implement  this 
programme,  from  Dakar  to  Djibouti,  to  create  such  a 
“wall” to stop the encroaching desert. 

non-oil-producing 
countries  have  now  established  an  association  that  we 
call  the  Green  OPEC,  with  the  aim  of  protecting  our 
interests.  We  call  on  the  international  community  to 
take  on  the  excess  costs  with  which  we  have  been 
burdened owing to increases in the price of oil. We also 
want  to  turn  Africa  towards  producing  biofuels.  For 
this reason, I welcome the launch, here in New York on 
2 March 2007, of the International Biofuels Forum. As 
President  of  the  African  Non-Petroleum  Producers 
Association, I solemnly request that all of the Forum’s 
initiatives and participants pursue our common goal of 
promoting alternative energy sources. 

As  we  pursue  economic  and  social  development 
in the South, African countries in particular continue to 
face  insurmountable  obstacles,  such  as  agricultural 
subsidies  in  developed  countries.  We  have  already 
talked about that subject enough. Paradoxically, at the 
same  time  that  our  countries  are  being  forced  to  open 
their  markets  in  the  name  of  free  trade,  developed 
countries are subsidizing their own products, so we are 
no longer able to export our products to the developed 
world. 

As  I  said  at  the  Group  of  Eight  summit  in 
Heiligendamm,  Germany,  Africa  is  not  poor.  It  has 
been impoverished by unjust trade practices and by the 
exploitation  of  its  resources,  which  are  not  bought  at 
their  true  price.  I  wish  to  add  that  trade  measures  are 
not in themselves enough to wipe out the injustice that 
has  been  done.  We  also  need  genuine  economic 
measures. 

If we want to fend off the advance of poverty, we 
must  be  creative.  But  first,  what  is  poverty?  It  is 
certainly not an income of less than a dollar a day, the 
definition advocated by the United Nations. Poverty, in 
my  view,  is  a  set  of  unmet  needs.  Poverty  is  a  leaky 
roof,  or  not  having  a  roof  over  one’s  head  at  all.  It  is 
poor-quality  food,  no  drinking  water,  no  clothing,  no 
health care, no education or training. Lastly, being poor 
is not having a  clean  environment. That is what  I  call 
the  cluster  of  needs,  which  is  an  entire  set  of  needs 
and, as we can see, not just a monetary assessment.  

What are we in Senegal doing? We have launched 
a programme to build housing, called the Jaxxay plan, 
under  the  slogan  of  “one  family,  one  roof”.  We  build 
nice,  affordable  homes.  For  less  than  $70  a  month, 
people  can  become  homeowners  in  Senegal.  The 
development  in  which  we  are  building  those  houses 
provides  health,  education  and  other  services.  That  is 
how we are trying to combat poverty. 

Allow  me  to  turn  to  the  digital  revolution.  We 
believe that Africa has a great opportunity, because the 
digital  revolution  is  happening  now.  The  Internet 
contains all the knowledge in the world. Africans must 
therefore have access to the Internet for their training, 
information  and  educational  needs  and 
their 
universities  and  schools.  For  that  reason,  as  Africa’s 
representative to the World Summit on the Information 
Society, 
International 
Telecommunication  Union 
in  2003,  I 
proposed a Global Digital Solidarity Fund to bridge the 
digital gap that separates us from the developed world. 
After many ups and downs, the Fund is now supported 
by  all  of 
the  United  Nations. 
Unfortunately,  the  majority  have  not  yet  formalized 
their acceptance of this Fund or have begun paying into 
it.  However,  all  countries  in  principle  are  members  of 
this Fund, which seeks to provide computers to Africa 
and  to  be  involved  in  various  programmes,  like 
healthcare telematics.  
In Geneva we launched what is called the Geneva 

Principle,  which  asks  countries  and  producers  of 
information 
to 
voluntarily donate one per cent of the amount of each 
transaction to the Digital Solidarity Fund.  

Let  us  now  discuss  the  Security  Council  and  the 
need  for Africa  to  have  a  seat  therein,  irrespective  of 
any  question  of  reform.  It  is  the  only  continent  which 
is not represented in the Security Council, even though 
the  Members  of 
communication 
in  Geneva 
technology 
and 
in 
organized 
by 
the 
8 

07-51584 
A/62/PV.5

Mr. Abdoulaye Wade, President of the Republic of 
Senegal, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.  




it  has  been  said  that  70  per  cent  of  the  Council’s 
business involves Africa. 

Today, Senegal is at peace — I shall not dwell on 
this — and we are trying to provide the materials and 
the personnel needed for Darfur. Senegal is increasing 
its contingent from 150 to 1,600 and is also providing 
all  the  police  for  the  operation  conducted  by  the 
African Union and the United Nations.  

The  Middle  East  situation  still  gives  serious 
concern and I wish to reconfirm Senegal’s unwavering 
support  for  the  just  cause  of  the  Palestinian  people  in 
their legitimate quest for a viable State. We support all 
efforts to that end.  

Remembering  the  last  two  wars,  we  must  really 
try  to  achieve  peace.  Peace  is  not  just  the  absence  of 
war  as  somebody  said  this  morning.  We  must  combat 
war in the minds of men, particularly young people.  

In  March  2008,  Senegal  will  have  the  honour  of 
hosting the eleventh Islamic Summit Conference. It is, 
therefore, my deepest hope that we will make progress 
towards  achieving  peace 
in  accordance  with  our 
religion  and  the  Qur’an.  I  have  already  proposed  an 
Islamic-Christian dialogue, which would be a first step 
towards dialogue among peoples. We believe that if the 
leaders  of  the  world  meet  together  and  make  a  real 
appeal for tolerance as a legacy from this generation to 
future  generations,  then  we  will  have  taken  a  step 
forwards  towards  understanding  among  the  various 
religions.  This 
the 
establishment of peace.  

that  Organization  of  Petroleum 
Exporting  Countries  (OPEC)  oligopoly  increases  the 
price  of  oil  as  it  wishes  by  manipulating  supply  —  I 
know this because I am an economist. I realize that it is 
the law of the market, but the rest of us suffer from it. I 
propose that whenever OPEC increases the price of oil, 
it voluntarily add 2 per cent, but not as a tax: 1 per cent 
to  combat  poverty  and  1  per  cent 
to  combat 
environmental degradation. Out of the $200 million of 
profits from Africa, this would be at least $40 million 
and  you  won’t  feel  it  more  than  you  do  just  now, 
because  a  barrel  which  cost  $29  in  December  2003 
now costs over $81. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Senegal for the statement 
he has just made. 
is  absolutely 
We  know 
essential 
to 
Address by Mr. Thabo Mbeki, President of the 
Republic of South Africa 

The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
South Africa.  

Mr.  Thabo  Mbeki,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
South  Africa,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.  
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Thabo Mbeki, President of 
the  Republic  of  South  Africa,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.  
President  Mbeki:  Let  me  begin  by  adding  my 

voice  to  the  many  salutations  directed  to  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon  on  being  elected  as  the  Secretary-General  of 
the  United  Nations.  I  wish  him  a  fruitful  tenure  of 
office,  trusting  that  through  his  work  the  poor  of  the 
world  will  have  good  reason 
their 
confidence  in  this  Organization  of  the  nations  of  the 
world. 

to  Her 
Excellency Ms. Haya Rashed Al Khalifa, for the good 
work she did as the President of the General Assembly 
at its sixty-first session. Equally, my congratulations go 
to Mr. Srgjan Kerim on his election as the President of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-second session. 

theme  of 
responding  to  climate  change,  at  this  session,  which 
marks  the  half-way  point  in  the  freely  agreed  period 
during  which  the  nations  of  the  world  committed 
themselves  to  work,  individually  and  collectively,  to 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 
Billions  of  the  people  of  the  world  know  as  a 

matter  of  fact 
the  consequences  of  climate 
change —  be  it  droughts,  floods  or  unpredictable  and 
extreme  weather  patterns  —  undermine  our  common 
efforts to achieve the MDGs. Today, we all understand 
that the costs of doing nothing about climate change far 
outweigh those of taking concrete measures to address 
this  challenge.  It  is  clear  that  delaying  action  on  this 
matter  of  climate  change  will  hit  poor  countries  and 
communities  hardest.  Yet  the  pace  of  climate  change 
Again,  I  reiterate 
We  meet  here 
today,  under 
the  many 
thanks 
that 
to 
increase 
the 
07-51584 

9 
in 
advance 
significant 
the  environment  and 
A/62/PV.5 

negotiations  is  out  of  step  with  the  urgency  indicated 
by science. 

I  would  therefore  urge  that  we  collectively  aim 
for 
a 
the  multilateral 
negotiations  when  our  negotiators  meet  in  Bali  in 
December this year. Together, we must ensure that we 
build  a  fair,  effective,  flexible  and  inclusive  climate 
regime  under 
the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol, 
and  we  must  agree  to  this  as  a  matter  of  urgency. 
Though  we  have  different 
responsibilities,  and 
developed countries clearly have an obligation to take 
the  lead,  we  all  have  a  common  duty  to  do  more  and 
act within our respective capabilities and in accordance 
with our national circumstances. 

The  World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development 
correctly  reaffirmed  sustainable  development  as  a 
central element of the global action against poverty and 
the  protection  of 
identified 
important  linkages  between  poverty,  the  environment 
and  the  use  of  natural  resources.  These  linkages  are 
real  to  billions  of  the  poor;  the  combination  of  their 
empty stomachs, their degraded environment and their 
exploited  natural  resources,  for  which  they  benefit 
nothing,  defines  hopelessness  and  a  heart-wrenching 
existence. 

Many  of  these  wretched  of  the  Earth  know  from 
their  bitter  experience  how  their  resource-rich  areas 
were transformed into arid, uninhabitable and desolate 
areas forcing migration to better-endowed regions, thus 
exacerbating  conflicts  and  the  struggle  for  scarce 
resources. 

Gathered here as representatives of the peoples of 
the  world,  we  know  very  well  that  climate  change, 
poverty and underdevelopment are not acts of God but 
human-made. 

Clearly,  the  starting  point  for  a  future  climate 
regime  must  be  equity.  A  core  balance  between 
sustainable  development  and  climate  imperatives  will 
have 
the  basis  of  any  agreement  on  a 
strengthened  climate  regime.  Any  deal  on  fair  use  of 
the ecological space will have to be balanced by a deal 
giving  all  countries  a  fair  chance  in  the  development 
space. 

Under  the  aegis  of  the  United  Nations,  but  also 
within  our  regional  bodies,  we  have  adopted  many 
programmes 
clear 
declarations, 
to  be 
and 
with 
change, 
the  Rio  Earth  Summit, 
targets  aimed  at  addressing 
climate 
poverty 
the 
implementation 
challenges 
and 
of 
underdevelopment. As  this  conclave  knows  very  well, 
the  many  lofty  agreements  include,  among  others, 
those  adopted  at 
the 
Copenhagen  Social  Summit,  the  Millennium  Summit, 
the World Summit on Sustainable Development and the 
Monterrey  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development. At all these summits and others, we have 
adopted  declarations  using  moving  and  solemn  words 
that express our profound understanding of the gravity 
of  the  challenges  facing  the  modern  world  and  have 
unequivocally  committed  ourselves  to  defeating  any 
and  all  of  the  miserable  and  dehumanizing  conditions 
facing large parts of humanity. 

of the Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2):  

Indeed,  this  collective  asserted,  in  paragraph  11 

“We  will  spare  no  effort  to  free  our  fellow 
men,  women  and  children  from  the  abject  and 
dehumanizing  conditions  of  extreme  poverty.  ... 
We  are  committed 
to 
development a reality for everyone and to freeing 
the entire human race from want.” 
to  making 
the  right 
Yet the poor, whose hopes have been raised many times 
as  we  have  made  declaration  after  declaration  against 
poverty and underdevelopment — and as we are doing 
now on climate change — can be forgiven for thinking 
that this important global leadership often sounds like 
an empty vessel.  
That  this  collective  is  able  to  express,  always 

the  dire  circumstances  characterizing 
eloquently, 
poverty  is  without  doubt.  However,  this  Organization, 
which should pride itself on visible actions and results 
in the fight against climate change and poverty, finds it 
difficult  to  demonstrate  decisive  progress  in  that 
regard.  The  reasons  for  that  are  not  hard  to  find. 
Although the concepts of freedom, justice and equality 
are  universal  and  fully  embraced  by  the  United 
Nations, 
itself 
transformed  and  designed  necessary  institutions  of 
governance  that  are  consistent  with  the  noble  ideals 
that drive modern democratic societies. 
Because  the  nations  of  the  world  are  defined  by 

the  dominant  and  the  dominated,  the  dominant  have 
always  become  the  decision-makers  in  the  important 
global  forums, 
this  seat  of  global 
governance.  Accordingly,  the  skewed  distribution  of 
economic,  military, 
world  power  —  political, 
this  global  Organization  has  not 
including  at 
10 

07-51584 
itself 
replicates 


technological  and  social  — 
in 
multilateral  institutions,  much  to  the  disadvantage  of 
the majority of the poor people of the world. 

Indeed,  even  as  we  agree  on  the  important 
programmes  that  should  bring  a  better  life  to  the 
billions  of  poor,  the  rich  and  the  powerful  have 
consistently  sought  to  ensure  that,  whatever  happens, 
the  existing  power  relations  are  not  altered  and 
therefore  that  the  status  quo  remains.  The  results  of 
that situation are that the United Nations can and does 
correctly  identify  problems  and  appropriate  solutions 
necessary for making the world a better place for all of 
humanity.  Naturally,  the  dominant  and  the  powerful 
very often respond positively to agreed programmes if 
these would advance their own narrow interests. 

At the same time, the poor will continue to strive 
for  improvement  of  their  wretched  conditions.  They 
therefore  see 
the  United  Nations  as  a  natural 
instrument  for  helping  to  accelerate  the  process  of 
change  for  the  better.  Hence,  they  correctly  see 
implementation  of  all  United  Nations  programmes  as 
being  central  to  the  efforts  relating  to  climate  change 
and 
and 
underdevelopment. 

Yet the  cold  reality is  that  it will be difficult for 
the  United  Nations,  in  its  present  form,  to  fully 
implement  its  own  decisions  and  therefore  to  help  the 
poor  to  swiftly  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  Indeed,  until  the  ideals  of  freedom, 
justice  and  equality  characterize  this  premier  world 
body  itself,  the  dominant  will  forever  dictate  to  the 
dominated, and the interests of the dominated — which 
are  those  of  the  majority  of  humanity  —  will  be 
deferred  in  perpetuity.  Thus,  noble  statements  will 
continue  to  be  uttered  on  all  matters  facing  the 
majority of the people of the world, such as the need to 
successfully  conclude  the  Doha  Development  Round, 
while  little  is  done  to  implement  the  many  critical 
agreements necessary to pull the poor out of the morass 
of poverty and underdevelopment. 

We in my own country are of the firm belief that 
we will achieve the MDGs. Having emerged from more 
than  three  centuries  of  colonialism  and  apartheid,  we 
inherited 
interlinked  economies,  which  we 
characterize  as  the  first  and  second  economies.  The 
two  economies  —  one  developed  and  globally 
connected  and  the  other  localized  and  informal  — 
display many features of a global system of apartheid. 
struggle 
two 
the 
against 
poverty 
A/62/PV.5
resource 
transfers 
As  South  Africans,  we  have  sought  to  strengthen  the 
first economy and to use it as a base for the transfer of 
resources  to  strengthen  and  modernize  the  second 
economy, and thus embark on the process of changing 
the lives of those who subsist in the second economy. 

Indeed, without the requisite resource transfers, it 
will not be possible to achieve the MDGs, because our 
second  economy  cannot  on  its  own  generate  the 
resources  needed  to  bring  a  better  life  to  millions  of 
poor South Africans. I mention this because, as we all 
accept, central to the global attainment of the MDGs is 
the  critical  matter  of  resource  transfers  from  the  rich 
countries  of  the  North  to  the  poor  countries  of  the 
South. 

Many developing countries — especially those of 
my  own  continent, Africa  —  do  not  have  the  material 
base  from  which  to  address  and  attain  the  MDGs  on 
their  own.  Accordingly,  there  is  an  urgent  need  for 
massive 
through  development 
assistance,  investment,  trade,  technology  transfers  and 
human resource development to these poor countries if 
we are to achieve the MDGs and successfully adapt to 
the devastating impacts of climate change. 
If we do not succeed in building a climate change 

regime 
that  balances  adaptation  and  mitigation, 
underpinned by the transfer of technology and financial 
resources,  we  will  place  an  unmanageable  burden  on 
future  generations.  In  that  regard,  given  Africa’s 
specific and dire challenges, we believe it is important 
to enter into a partnership with Africa using the African 
Union’s  programme  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD),  which 
the  Assembly  has 
adopted,  so  that  the  measures  that  the  continent  has 
undertaken, with limited resources, for the regeneration 
of  all  the  African  countries  can  be  strengthened  by 
support  from  the  international  community,  guided  by 
the programmes of the United Nations. 

As  history  teaches  us,  it  was  because  of  the 
massive  resource  transfers  in  the  aftermath  of  the 
Second World War that Western Europe recovered and 
was set on its development path. A similar intervention 
helped to put a number of Asian countries on their own 
development trajectory. The question we should ask is, 
why  is  there  an  absence  of  the  same  resolve  to  assist 
poor  nations  today?  The  global  village  to  which  we 
constantly refer should encourage us to expand human 
solidarity. Thus, we would build a durable bridge over 
the  river  dividing  our  common  global  village  and 
07-51584 

11 
rich 
Together, 
and  poor,  developed 
A/62/PV.5 

regrettably  ensuring  that  one  human  being  lives  a 
fulfilling  life  while  another  experiences  a  miserable 
existence. 

Representing  the  citizens  of  the  world,  we  have 
set  for  ourselves  programmes  requiring  that  all  of  us 
work  together  to  create  better  living  conditions  for 
humanity  and  ensure  that  we  achieve  that  which  is 
necessary for our mutual prosperity. 

and 
developing,  North  and  South,  we  can  and  must  truly 
hold  hands  and  address  the  challenges  of  climate 
change and sustainable development, work together to 
defeat  poverty  and  underdevelopment  and  ensure  that 
every  human  being  is  saved  from  the  indecencies  and 
humiliations  that  are  inseparable  from  poverty.  But  to 
do  that,  we  need  first  and  foremost  to  implement  the 
decisions  that  we  have  adopted  freely  in  this  eminent 
house  of  the  representatives  of  the  global  community. 
And so, let our actions speak louder than our words.  
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of South Africa for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Thabo  Mbeki,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
South  Africa,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 


into 
Address by Mr. Néstor Carlos Kirchner, President 
of the Argentine Republic 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Argentine Republic. 

Mr.  Néstor  Carlos  Kirchner,  President  of  the 
Argentine  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Néstor Carlos Kirchner, President of the Argentine 
Republic, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Kirchner  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Allow 

me 
at 
sincerest 
congratulations to Mr. Srgjan Kerim on his assumption 
of the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-
second 
the  new 
Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, and expresses its 
session.  Argentina  welcomes 
express  my 
the  outset 
to 
to 
them 
lies 
in 
to 
respect 
combat 
poverty 
resolving 
and  work 
support  for  his  efforts  at  the  head  of  the  United 
Nations.  

As  in  previous  years,  we  have  come  to  the 
General  Assembly  with  the  aim  of  revitalizing  this 
world  body  and  with  the  firm  belief  that  this  will 
ensure the effectiveness of international law in settling 
disputes,  thus  successfully  dealing  with  any  threats  to 
peace.  
The world is facing problems. The only hope we 

have  of 
for 
multilateralism,  support  for  local  customs,  observance 
of 
international  norms  and  conventions  by  all 
countries, and, of course, the full realization of human 
rights. 
For each individual country, and for the world as 

a  whole,  peace  will  be  possible  only  if  we  promote 
equality 
and 
marginalization.  The  world  cannot  and  must  not  be  a 
place where violations of human rights are everywhere. 
Peaceful  coexistence  is  strengthened  and  maintained 
through  true  solidarity  between  nations  based  upon  a 
concept  of  humanity  that  goes  beyond  the  purely 
military or the predominantly unilateral. 

Our international policy is based on the values of 
representative  democracy,  sovereignty  of  the  people, 
respect  for  fundamental  human  rights,  and  the  active 
upholding  of  international  peace  and  security.  Those 
principles  are  shared  by  the  vast  majority  of  the 
Argentine people. They help to focus the Government’s 
activities and are reflected in the decisions taken by the 
Argentine Republic at the international level.  

We  firmly  support  the  construction  of  more  just 
and  equitable  societies  that  distribute  more  equitably 
the  benefits  of  economic  growth.  We  know  that  each 
country  must  have  the  right  to  seek  out  its  own 
development model, without external pressure. 

The past few years have been very testing for us. 
Considerable efforts have been made to rescue a nation 
that  barely  five  years  ago  was  in  the  throes  of  an 
unprecedented social and economic crisis. At the time, 
many  people 
recovery  might  be 
impossible. But day by day, with a great deal of effort 
and  humility,  we  revived  production  in  a  country 
burdened  by  a  foreign  debt  that  threatened  our  future 
with its conditions and constraints. 
Argentina  —  a  developing  country  which  once 

demonstrated that it is truly possible to climb the social 
thought 
that 
12 

07-51584 
variables 
of 
in 
the 
it  can 
It  pursues  a 


ladder;  a  country  of  immigrants  where  workers  once 
succeeded  in  sending  their  children  to  university;  a 
country  once  without  illiteracy  and  having  almost 
banished  child  mortality  —  had  been  reduced  to  a 
country  of  workers  demoralized  by  unemployment, 
children  begging  in  the  streets  instead  of  going  to 
school,  and  the  elderly  living  off  miniscule  pensions 
and  becoming  dependent  on 
their  children  and 
grandchildren. 

Our country’s coffers had been emptied owing to 
the  rigid  application  of  the  rules  of  the  International 
Monetary  Fund  (IMF).  As  a  corollary,  there  was 
violence  in  the  streets,  and  Argentina  experienced  an 
institutional  crisis,  with  presidents  lasting  only  days. 
For  the  first  time, Argentina  sent  off  its  own  children 
into an unprecedented economic exile.  

Today  the Argentine  State  has  won  its  autonomy 
and 
administers 
itself 
its 
macroeconomy  as  best 
the  current 
international  environment. 
sound, 
disciplined  and  predictable  economic  policy  within  a 
stable and democratic framework.  
Our  capacity  for  revitalization  has  allowed  us, 

even without receiving funding, to begin cancelling our 
net debt with international organizations. We have even 
paid off in advance all of our debt with the IMF — an 
IMF  that  supported  and  promoted  Governments  that 
were  self-supporting,  adjusting  and  patching  up  their 
budgets,  but  at  the  cost  of  increasing  the  poverty  of 
their  people,  promoting  deindustrialization 
and 
irresponsibly plunging the country into debt.  

Faced  with  the  incredulous  criticism  of  the 
promoters of orthodox prescriptions, Argentina, thanks 
to  cautious  monetary  policies,  disciplined  public 
expenditures and a healthy budget surplus that enabled 
it  to  face  or  mitigate  potential  foreign  crises,  has 
reduced  the  debt  and  registered  an  annual  growth  rate 
of  9  per  cent  during  the  past  five  years. This  was  the 
strongest  uninterrupted  economic  expansion  of  any  in 
the past 100 years.  

Today we represent the empirical proof that there 
is  life  after  the  Fund  and  also  the  certitude  that  other 
paths  can  lead  to  development  and  integration.  We 
serve as a reminder of the unreliability of models that 
claim  to  be  universally  valid  and  the  revindication  of 
the  right  of  countries  to  choose  their  own  path, 
benefiting 
experience  while 
prioritizing  their  national  interests  and  circumstances 
from 
international 
07-51584 

A/62/PV.5
the 
above  any other interest.  Our case provides proof that 
the 
international  economic  architecture  must  be 
reformed,  in  particular  that  of  IMF.  The  Fund  is  an 
exponent of an old world order that is no longer valid. 
Our  case  demonstrates  the  need  for  change  in  the 
multilateral  financial  institutions  so  that  they  can 
cooperate in the development of the less-well-endowed 
nations  and  help  to  fight  poverty  and  generate  true 
options for progress. 

We  are  thinking,  not  of  economic  growth  as 
defined  by  economic  experts  or  historians,  but  of 
growth  that  has  a  strong  social  component  and  an 
emphasis on equity, where citizens are the focus of the 
results.  Whereas  one  fourth  of 
labour  force 
experienced  the  humiliation  of  being  unemployed, 
unemployment  has  been  reduced  to  7.8  per  cent  since 
we  have  taken  office. We  are  speaking,  not  about  just 
any  sort  of  work,  but  about  appropriate  and  decent 
work  of  the  kind  we  advocated  at  the  most  recent 
summit  meeting  of  the  Americas,  which  was  held  in 
our country.  

Thanks  to  a  productive  policy  that  generates 
added  value  and,  in  addition,  appeals  to  private 
enterprises 
to  show  social  responsibility,  we  are 
reindustrializing  Argentina.  The  economic  indicators 
posted  by  our  country 
today  would  have  been 
impossible  were  it  not  for  the  complementarity  of 
action between the State and the private sector. 

Our  sales  to  all  destinations  have  doubled  over 
the  past  four  years,  with  a  16  per  cent  annual  growth 
rate.  Investments  have  improved  substantially:  gross 
domestic fixed investment has increased for the past 17 
consecutive quarters; the ratio of investment to GDP is 
between 20 and 23 per cent — in stark contrast to the 
level  of  2002  when  it  was  hardly  more  than  11  per 
cent.  

When faced with that crisis almost five years ago, 
we  felt  compelled  to  maintain  essential  assistance 
policies  for  the  most  vulnerable  segments  of  our 
population. We do not regret those policies, and today 
we can state that the true solution to the serious social 
problems  affecting  our  country,  and  many  others 
around  the  world,  lies  in  providing  jobs,  health  care 
and education.  

In  the  area  of  health,  Argentina  has  launched  a 
national  policy  that  includes  prescriptions  for  generic 
drugs and the provision of essential medications free of 
It  also  strengthens  maternity  and  child 
charge. 
13 
the 
that 
tragic 
situation 
signalled 
A/62/PV.5 

programmes  and  everything  that  relates  to  primary 
health  care,  in  line  with  the  goals  of  equity  and 
protection.  This  has  enabled  us  to  compensate  in  part 
for  the  disastrous  state  of  the  public  health  sector  a 
short time ago.  

Of  course,  education  is  an  essential  element  for 
renewing  the  social  and  moral  fabric  of  the  nation, 
even though the time horizon for its effects to be felt is 
longer  than  those  of  other  public  policies.  In  order  to 
remedy 
the 
breakdown of society and the failure on the part of the 
State to protect those who were most vulnerable, a new 
law  on  national  education  was  passed.  It  will  again 
focus  on  ensuring  equality  of  opportunity  through 
guaranteed access to a quality education throughout the 
territory  that  is  linked  to  the  labour  market  and 
includes excellent training for teachers. Under the new 
law,  a  deadline  of  2010  has  been  set,  by  which  time 
6 per cent of the gross national product will be used to 
finance education. 

In  this  context  of  steady  recovery,  Argentina’s 
foreign  policy  is  being  strengthened  and  expanded, 
with  a  clear  and  decisive  commitment  to  the  national 
interest.  Regional  integration  is  a  priority.  Over  the 
past two decades, through the Common  Market of the 
South  (MERCOSUR),  Argentina  has  strengthened  its 
commercial  ties  with  the  countries  of  the  region.  But 
its  trade  relations  go  far  beyond  the  region.  In  that 
sense, multilateral negotiations within the World Trade 
Organization  are  of  particular  importance  because  the 
liberalization of our agricultural sector — in which our 
country  has  clear  competitive  advantages  —  depends 
on  them,  as  does  the  adequate  flexibility  we  need  to 
carry out our industrial policies.  

More  equitable  and  fairer  rules  in  international 
trade  are  of  great 
to  Argentina.  We 
therefore  participate  actively  in  multilateral  economic 
negotiations  with  the  firm  goal  of  achieving  equity  in 
the norms that govern world trade and of reversing the 
discrimination  erected  against  our  main  products 
through 
trade-distorting 
instruments imposed by the developed countries. 

Argentina  will  be  present  in  all  multilateral 
forums,  where  we  will  participate  to  ensure  more 
equitable  and  democratic  rules.  Multilateralism  is  the 
most effective instrument for winning the battle against 
hunger, 
environmental 
degradation.  
tariff  barriers  and  other 
importance 
exclusion 
poverty, 
and 

Everything  I  have  said  here  is  both  cause  and 
consequence  of  institutional  stability  and  respect  for 
the rule of law. The three pillars of the Argentine State 
are making decisions to combat impunity and preserve 
memory, truth, and justice. We have begun bringing to 
justice  those  guilty  of  serious  human  rights  violators. 
Those  who  imagined  themselves  having  escaped  with 
impunity  are  fiercely  resisting  justice  and,  in  an 
attempt  to  intimidate  witnesses,  have  caused  the 
disappearance  of  one  witness,  Julio  Lopez. They  have 
thereby sent a dark message to a society that is seeking 
the truth about the crimes against humanity which they 
committed, and that condemns such acts. 

Unconditional  respect  for  human  rights  is  our 
new  national  paradigm.  In  the  past,  we  were  known 
throughout  the  world  for  violations  of  those  rights; 
today,  as  we  strive  to  find  the  truth  and  to  punish  the 
guilty, we also seek to defend those rights worldwide.  

Argentina, the Mothers and Grandmothers of the 
Plaza  de  Mayo  in  the  monumental  dignity  of  their 
struggle,  and  the  Argentine  people  have  personally 
suffered under the inefficiency of a broken multilateral 
human rights system. Their sole comfort were the very 
precious 
individuals, 
organizations  and  countries.  While  people  were  being 
kidnapped,  tortured  and  killed  in  my  country,  the 
mechanisms  established  precisely  to  condemn  and 
prevent  such  horrors  remained  silent.  It  is  in  their 
memory,  so  that  this  will  never  happen  again,  that  we 
support the new Human Rights Council and hope that it 
will  live  up  to  the  expectations  of  the  international 
community. 
My  Government  has  endorsed  instruments  of 

great 
International 
Convention  for  the  Protection  of  All  Persons  from 
Enforced Disappearance, adopted by this Assembly on 
20  December  2006,  which  we  signed  in  Paris  on 
6 February. That instrument, along with the Convention 
on  the  Rights  of  Persons  with  Disabilities  and  the 
Optional  Protocol  of 
the 
Elimination  of  All  Forms  of  Discrimination  Against 
Women, gives continuity and concrete form to a policy 
that ascribes a central role to the promotion of human 
rights.  

focus  on 
environmental  protection,  but  we  know  that  there  will 
be  no  viable  solution  without  cooperation  among  all 
the countries of the world, the industrialized countries 
In  our  public  policy,  we  now 
the  Convention  on 
humanitarian 
importance, 
including 
gestures 
the 
of 
14 

07-51584 
the  nations  of 
the  urgent  need 
the  Quartet  have 
exportation  of  pollutants 


in particular, because the nature of the problem is of a 
global scale.  

The issue of climate change should be of concern 
to all Governments, because no corner of the planet is 
unaffected by changes that have been identified as due 
to  human  activity.  The  Secretary-General’s  convening 
of  yesterday’s  High-level  Meeting  was  a 
timely 
manifestation  of 
to  strengthen 
international  cooperation  as  an  effective  and  adequate 
response  to  protect  the  environment  and  prevent  the 
unacceptable 
the 
developing countries. 

One after the other, various diplomatic  efforts to 
halt  the  violence  in  the  Middle  East  once  and  for  all 
have failed, but we cannot merely throw up our hands. 
No  military  solution  will  lead  to  peace  and  the 
tranquillity  that  all  the  peoples  of  the  region  so 
desperately  call  for.  The  invasion  of  Iraq,  which  we 
rejected at the time it occurred, is the tragic and painful 
proof of the truth of our position. The Security Council 
and 
the  heavy 
responsibility  of  accompanying  and, 
if  possible, 
guiding a peace process that can succeed with courage 
and great perseverance. 

The  Argentine  Republic  continues,  year  after 
year,  tirelessly  to  condemn  the  serious  threat  of 
terrorism throughout the world. We believe that all acts 
of  terror  are  criminal  and  unjustifiable  and  that  no 
argument  can  justify  them.  Just  as  no  nation  of  the 
world  is  beyond  their  reach,  the  response  must  be  a 
joint  effort  of  all  nations,  and  especially 
this 
Organization,  to  stop  and  eliminate  this  scourge.  We 
cannot  tolerate  the  actions  of  those  responsible  for 
terrorism  or  of  those  who  defend,  finance  or  protect 
terrorists, be they individuals or countries. 

Argentina has twice suffered terrorist attacks. The 
Israeli  embassy  was  attacked  in  1992  and  the  AMIA 
headquarters  in  1994.  Some  102  members  of  our 
community,  some  of  whose  relatives  are  here  with  us 
today, lost their lives. Those victims, united by terror to 
those  of  this  city,  those  of  Madrid,  those  of  London, 
those of Bali, those of Istanbul and those of many other 
places,  impose  upon  us  the  moral  mandate  to  respect 
their  memories  and  to  commit  all  our  energies  to 
hunting  down, 
those 
responsible. 
Despite  the  difficulties  that  have  arisen  through 

the passage of time, given that those attacks took place 
and  prosecuting 
finding 
to 
A/62/PV.5
session  of 
the  November 
the  Executive  Committee  of 
13  and  15  years  ago,  respectively,  and  the  subsequent 
cover-ups, our interest and the justice system continue 
to  seek  the  truth,  and  we  keep  our  memory  of  the 
horror alive so that it will not recur. 

In  November  last  year,  the  Argentine  justice 
system  called  for  international  cooperation  in  the 
apprehension  of  nine  people  suspected  of  having 
initiated and planned the 18 July 1994 attack on AMIA, 
and 
INTERPOL 
unanimously  recommended  the  apprehension  of  six 
Iranian  citizens  and  one  Lebanese  involved  in  the 
affair.  We  call  here  for  that  recommendation  to  be 
ratified  during 
the 
INTERPOL General Assembly. 

In that context, we hope that the Islamic Republic 
of  Iran,  in  the  context  of  applicable  international  law, 
will  accept  and  respect  Argentina’s  legal  jurisdiction 
and  cooperate  effectively  with  Argentine  judges  to 
bring to justice those involved in these events. In that 
respect,  I  wish 
to  say  here,  at  United  Nations 
Headquarters and before all the countries of the world, 
that, unfortunately, the Islamic Republic of Iran has to 
date  failed  to  offer  the  required  cooperation  with  the 
Argentine justice system to resolve those issues.  

We  call  on  the  Secretary-General  and  on  all  the 
nations  of  the  world  to  persuade  the  Islamic  Republic 
of  Iran  to  allow  the  judicial  process  to  move  forward. 
We do so with the sole aim of clarifying the facts and 
bringing  those  responsible  to  justice.  Respect  for  the 
memory  of  our  102  victims  requires  justice  to  be 
carried out. We request the Islamic Republic of Iran to 
cooperate  in  the  implementation  of  the  norms  of 
international law to allow us to come to nothing more, 
but nothing less than the truth. 
Nations  big  and  small,  rich  and  poor,  all 

throughout  the  world  will  be  highly  vulnerable  if  we 
fail  to  grasp  that  action  against  terrorism  requires 
urgent  multilateral,  intelligent  and  sustained  action 
firmly  anchored  in  legitimacy,  respect  for  individual 
rights,  proportional 
for 
international public opinion. 

Efforts to counter the proliferation of weapons of 
mass destruction can count on the firm support and full 
participation of the Argentine Republic.  

My  country  is  known  for  the  active  role  it  plays 
in  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy.  Argentina 
develops,  consumes  and  exports  nuclear  energy  for 
response 
respect 
and 
07-51584 

15 
the 
to 
and 
large 
disproportionately 
A/62/PV.5 

peaceful  purposes  in  the  framework  of  the  strictest 
respect  for  the  norms  enshrined  in  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and 
the 
non-proliferation regime in its broadest sense.  

Efforts  to  prevent  proliferation  are  ethically  and 
legally correlated to progress on disarmament. Indeed, 
the  legal  instruments  on  which  the  prohibition  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  is  based  specifically  on 
the  firm  commitment  not  to  develop  new  weapons  of 
terror  and  destruction  in  the  understanding  that  those 
who  possess  such  weapons  will  proceed  to  their 
gradual and effective elimination.  

In  recent  years,  we  have  seen  disarmament 
commitments  permanently  eroded.  Nuclear  arsenals 
remain 
nuclear 
disarmament  agreements  are  in  stasis.  It  should  come 
as no surprise, then, that, given the situation, there are 
those  who  question 
legitimacy  of  pursuing 
unilateral advocacy for non-proliferation while solemn 
commitments in the area of disarmament are ignored. 

Conventional  weapons  are  responsible  for  the 
deaths  of  millions  of  people  around  the  world.  Our 
country  has  given  a  high  priority 
initiatives 
associated with the conclusion of an arms trade treaty. 
Domestically,  we  have  initiated  programmes  for  the 
voluntary  handover  of  firearms,  the  initial  results  of 
which have been encouraging.  

The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  still 
pending. We are hoping for a reform that will make this 
central 
democratically 
representative  and  dynamic.  It  will  not,  however, 
achieve  this  objective  by  creating  new  privileged 
categories.  We  trust  that  the  ongoing  process  of 
consultations will be successful so that the Council can 
be adapted to today’s world. 

Before  concluding  I  wish  to  raise  a  matter  of 
continuing  importance  to  the  Argentine  Republic:  the 
question of the Malvinas Islands, which include South 
Georgia,  South  Sandwich  and  the  maritime  areas 
surrounding  those  islands.  This  year,  174  years  will 
have passed since the British began to occupy this part 
of  Argentine  national  territory.  Ever  since  that  act  of 
force  in  1833,  my  country  has  protested  against  this 
illegal  occupation  and  has  demanded  that  the  full 
exercise of its sovereignty be restored. 

We  would  also  mention  that  2007  marks  the 
twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the  1982  conflict  in  the 
body  more 
responsible, 
in  1965,  when 
South  Atlantic,  a  conflict  unleashed  by  the  military 
dictatorship  without  the  backing  of  the  Argentine 
people, who had always endeavoured to find a peaceful 
solution to its legitimate sovereignty claim. 

The General Assembly has dealt with this matter 
on  many  occasions,  both  prior  to  and  since  1982. 
Starting 
the  Assembly  adopted 
resolution 2065 (XX), the Organization has recognized, 
year  after  year,  the  existence  of  a  sovereignty  dispute 
between Argentina and the United Kingdom relating to 
the  question  of  the  Malvinas  Islands.  It  urged  the  two 
Governments  to  negotiate,  as  soon  as  possible,  a 
peaceful, just and lasting solution to the dispute, taking 
into account the relevant resolutions of United Nations 
bodies  and  the  interests  of  the  people  of  the  islands. 
The  ongoing  and  unrenounceable  objective  of 
regaining  the  full  exercise  of  Argentine  sovereignty 
over  this  part  of  our  territory  and  the  permanent 
readiness of my country to resume negotiations aimed 
at finding a solution to the dispute have been reflected 
in our national Constitution. 

It  is  incomprehensible  to  us  that  the  United 
Kingdom should be unwilling to negotiate this matter, 
thereby  violating  the  provisions  of  General Assembly 
resolution 
similar 
resolutions. 

The  time  has  come  for  the  United  Kingdom  to 
shoulder  its  responsibility  and  put  an  end  to  an 
anachronism: the illegal occupation for clearly colonial 
purposes of territory belonging to another State. 
My  Government  vigorously  rejects  the  British 

claim  on 
the  establishment  of  maritime  areas 
surrounding  the  archipelagos.  In  particular,  it  rejects 
the recently divulged intention of the United Kingdom 
to make a submission to the Commission on the Limits 
of  the  Continental  Shelf  —  established  by  the  United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea — relative 
to  the  outer  limits  of  the  continental  shelf  of  these 
Argentine territories.  

In this, my last message to the General Assembly 
as  the  President  of  the  people  of Argentina,  I  wish  to 
reaffirm our profound conviction that it is only through 
democracy,  accompanied  by  freedom,  social  justice 
and peace, that man can realize his full potential. This 
Assembly  of  the  peoples  has  a  bounden  duty  to  help 
ensure that that will come to pass. 
numerous 
(XX) 
2065 
and 
16 

07-51584 



The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the Argentine  Republic  for  the  statement 
he has just made.  

Mr.  Néstor  Carlos  Kirchner,  President  of  the 
Argentine  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall.  
from 


to 
Address by Mr. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, President 
of the Islamic Republic of Iran 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Islamic Republic of Iran.  

Mr.  Mahmoud  Ahmadinejad,  President  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Mahmoud  Ahmadinejad,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.  
President Ahmadinejad (spoke in Farsi; English 

text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  am  pleased  and 
grateful  to  the Almighty  to  have  the  opportunity  once 
again to attend this important universal forum. 

In  the  present  tumultuous  world,  loud  outcries, 
threats  and  tensions  predominate.  The  big  Powers  are 
unable  to  solve  present  problems,  and  mistrust  in 
regional  and  international  arenas  is  on  the  rise.  The 
psychological  security  of  societies  is  targeted  by  an 
onslaught  of  political  and  propaganda  designs; 
disappointment  prevails  with  regard  to  the  efficacy  of 
the  policies 
international 
organizations in the establishment of durable peace and 
security,  and  the  protection  of  human  rights  is  being 
weakened. I plan to touch upon and explain the roots of 
and  solutions  to  these  predicaments  and  some  of  the 
principal challenges facing our world. I will also speak 
to you about the need to remedy the present situation, 
about  prospects  for  a  brighter  and  a  more  hopeful 
future and  about the appearance of the sublime,  about 
beauty,  compassion  and  generosity,  about  justice  and 
the  blossoming  of  all  God-given  human  talents  and 
about 
the 
realization  of  the  promise  of  God.  I  will  then  submit 
for  your  judgement  the  question  of  Iran’s  nuclear 
the  prominence  of  faith 
in  God  and 
actions  of 
and 
the 
A/62/PV.5
programme  as  a  yardstick  for  the  measurement  of 
honesty, efficacy, steadfastness and accomplishment. In 
the  closing  part  of  my  statement,  I  will  offer  my 
proposals. 

As you are all aware, mankind is currently facing 
important,  numerous  and  diverse  challenges.  I  will 
refer to some of them. 

First, organized attempts to destroy the institution 
of family and to weaken the status of women. Family is 
the  most  sacred  and  valuable  human  institution.  It  is 
the  centre  of  the  purest  mutual  love  and  affection 
between mothers, fathers and children, provides a safe 
environment  for  the  nurturing  of  human  generations 
and  serves  as  a  fertile  ground  for  the  blossoming  of 
talent  and  compassion.  This 
institution  has  been 
respected  in  all  times  by  all  peoples,  religions  and 
cultures. Today  we  are  witnessing  an  organized  attack 
by  the  enemies  and  plunderers  of  humanity,  who  are 
trying  to  destroy  this  noble  institution  by  promoting 
lewdness and violence and by crossing the boundaries 
of chastity and decency. 

the  manifestation  of  divine 
Womanhood,  as 
beauty and supreme kindness, affection and purity, has 
been heavily exploited in recent decades by the holders 
of power and the owners of media and wealth. In some 
societies,  womanhood  has  been  reduced  to  a  mere 
instrument  of  publicity,  and  all  the  boundaries  and 
protective  shields  of  chastity,  purity  and  beauty  have 
been  trampled.  That  is  a  colossal  betrayal  of  human 
society  and  of  future  generations,  and 
is  an 
irreparable  blow  to  the  pillar  of  social  coherence,  the 
family. 
I now turn to the issues of widespread violations 

of 
human 
occupation. 
Unfortunately,  human  rights  are  being  extensively 
violated  by  certain  Powers  —  especially  those  who 
pretend  to  be  their  exclusive  advocates.  Setting  up 
secret  prisons,  abducting  persons,  carrying  out  trials 
and  secret  punishments  without  any  regard  for  due 
process,  conducting  extensive  tapping  of  telephone 
conversations,  intercepting  private  mail  and  issuing 
frequent  summonses  to  appear  at  police  and  security 
centres  have  become  commonplace  and  prevalent. 
These  Powers  prosecute  scientists  and  historians  for 
stating their opinions on important global issues. 

They  use  various  pretexts  to  occupy  sovereign 
States  and  cause  insecurity  and  division,  and  then  use 
the  prevailing  situation  as  an  excuse  to  continue  their 
terrorism 
rights, 
and 
it 
07-51584 

17 
the 
The 
carry 
brutal  Zionists 
innocent  Palestinians  are  subjected 
A/62/PV.5 

occupation.  For  more  than  60  years,  Palestine,  as 
compensation  for  the  loss  that  it  incurred  during  the 
war  in  Europe,  has  been  under  the  occupation  of  the 
illegal  Zionist  regime.  The  Palestinian  people  have 
been  displaced,  are  under  heavy  military  pressure  or 
economic  siege  or  are  incarcerated  under  abhorrent 
conditions.  The  occupiers  are  protected  and  praised, 
while 
to 
political,  military  and  propaganda  onslaughts.  The 
people  of  Palestine  are  deprived  of  water,  electricity 
and medicine for the sin of asking for freedom, and the 
Government  that  was  freely  elected  by  the  people  is 
targeted.  Terrorists  are  being  organized  to  attack  the 
lives  and  property  of  people  with  the  blessings  of  the 
politicians and military officials of the great Powers. 
targeted 

assassinations of Palestinians in their homes and cities, 
and  terrorists  are  decorated  with  medals  of  peace  and 
receive  support  from  the  great  Powers.  On  the  other 
hand, they attract a number of Jews from various parts 
of  the  world  by  using  false  propaganda  and  by 
promising to provide them with welfare, jobs and food, 
and  then  settle  them  in  the  occupied  territories, 
exposing 
restrictions, 
psychological  pressures  and  constant  threats.  They 
prevent these people from returning to their homelands 
and,  by  coercion  and  propaganda,  incite  them  to 
malevolence 
indigenous  Palestinian 
people. 

the  pretext  of 
overthrowing  a  dictator  and  the  existence  of  weapons 
of  mass  destruction.  The  Iraqi  dictator,  who  had  been 
supported by the same occupiers, was disposed of, and 
no  weapons  of  mass  destruction  were  discovered,  but 
the  occupation  continues  under  different  pretexts.  No 
day passes by without people being killed, wounded or 
displaced,  and  the  occupiers  not  only  refuse  to  be 
accountable 
their  military 
adventure,  but  speak  in  a  report  of  a  new  market  for 
their armaments as a result of it. They even oppose the 
Constitution, 
the 
Government  established  by  the  vote  of  the  people, 
while  not  even  having  the  courage  to  declare  their 
defeat and to leave Iraq. 

Unfortunately,  we  are  witnessing  the  bitter  truth 
that  some  Powers  do  not  value  any  nation  or  human 
being  and  that  the  only  things  that  matter  to  them  are 
themselves  and  their  political  parties  and  groups.  In 
their  view,  human  rights  amount  to  profits  for  their 
Iraq  was  occupied  under 
the  National  Assembly 
for  and  ashamed  of 
harshest 
towards 
the 
them 
to 
the 
I 
subjected 
emulation, 
aggressions 
to  promote  blind 
shall  now  discuss 
companies and their friends. The rights and the dignity 
of  American  people  are  also  being  sacrificed  for  the 
selfish desires of those holding power. 

against 
indigenous cultures and national values. Culture is the 
manifestation  of  identity,  the  key  to  the  survival  of 
nations  and  the  foundation  for  their  interaction  with 
others. In an organized movement, indigenous cultures 
that are messengers of monotheism, love and fraternity 
are  being 
to  broad  and  destructive 
aggressions.  National  customs  and  values  are  being 
humiliated,  and  the  self-esteem  and  character  of 
nations  are  being  ridiculed  and  defamed. The  purpose 
is 
consumerism, 
scepticism  towards  God  and  human  values  and  the 
plundering of the peoples’ wealth by great Powers. 

With  regard  to  poverty,  illiteracy,  health-care 
issues  and  the  gap  between  the  rich  and  the  poor,  I 
should like to say that, while a major part of the natural 
environment in Asia, Africa and Latin America is being 
plundered by the political and economic domination of 
certain Powers, the situation of poverty and deprivation 
is alarming.  

Let  me  draw  the  attention  of  the  Assembly  to 
some  data  issued  by  the  United  Nations.  Every  day, 
nearly 800 million people go to bed hungry and about 
980  million  suffer  from  absolute  poverty,  having  less 
than  a  dollar  a  day  in  purchasing  power.  People  in 
31 countries — equivalent to 9 per cent of the world’s 
population  —  have  an  average  life  expectancy  of 
46 years,  which  is  32  years  fewer  than  the  average  in 
developed countries. The gap between the rich and the 
poor  in  some  parts  of  the  world  has  increased  by 
40 times. In many countries, the majority of the people 
are  deprived  of  access  to  education  and  schooling.  In 
developing  countries,  the  rate  of  maternal  mortality 
during pregnancy is 450 per 100,000; that figure is 7 in 
the  richer  nations.  The  infant  mortality  rate  is  59  per 
1,000 live births for the developing countries and 6 for 
the  richer  nations.  One  third  of  the  deaths  throughout 
the  world  —  or  50,000  deaths  daily  —  result  from 
poverty.  I  believe  that  those  data  clearly  demonstrate 
the  tragic  situation  dominating  economic  interactions 
in the world. 

Next, I shall take up the forsaking of noble values 
and the promotion of deception and lies. Some Powers 
sacrifice  all  human  values,  including  honesty,  purity 
and  trust,  for  the  advancement  of  their  goals.  They 
out 
and 
18 

07-51584 
standards 
others.  Having 


propagate  scepticism  and  deception  in  the  relations 
between  States  and  peoples.  They  lie  openly,  level 
baseless charges against others, act in contradiction to 
legal  norms  and  damage  the  atmosphere  of  trust  and 
friendship.  In  their  relations  with  others,  they  openly 
abandon  morality  and  noble  values,  forsaking  justice, 
respect  for  others,  love,  affection  and  honesty  for 
selfishness,  supremacy,  enmity  and  imposition.  They 
sacrifice  all  the  good  things  of  life,  including  the 
sublime, for their own greed. 

I  now  turn  to  violations  of  rules  of  international 
law  and  disrespect  for  commitments.  Some,  who 
themselves  have  drafted  international  law,  openly  and 
easily  violate  it  and  apply  discriminatory  policies  and 
double 
drafted 
disarmament  regulations,  they  daily  test  and  stockpile 
new  generations  of  lethal  weapons.  Having  helped  to 
frame  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  they  show 
disrespect  for  the  right  of  sovereign  nations  to  self-
determination  and  independence.  They  conveniently 
abrogate their formal treaties and do not yield to laws 
concerning protection of the environment. Most of the 
violations  of  international  obligations  are  committed 
by a few global Powers. 

I will now talk about an escalation of threats and 
the arms race. Some Powers, whenever their logic fails, 
simply use the language of threats. The huge arms race 
casts  its  menacing  shadow  over  the  entire  globe.  The 
nations of Europe were the victims of two world wars 
and  a  number  of  other  devastating  conflicts  and  were 
subjected to the consequences of the cold war for many 
decades. Today, Europeans are living under threat and 
their  interests,  security  and  lands  are  endangered 
because  of  the  arms  race  carried  on  by  certain  big 
Powers. 

A  bullying  Power  arrogates  to  itself  the  right  to 
set up a missile system, poisons the life of the peoples 
of  a  continent  and  lays  the  ground  for  an  arms  race. 
Some  rulers  who  superficially  appear  to  be  powerful 
actually believe that the tools they have at hand can be 
used  at  any 
for  any  purpose  and, 
consequently,  threaten  others  and  cast  the  shadow  of 
insecurity over nations and regions. 

International  organizations  and  mechanisms 
clearly  lack  the  capacity  to  overcome  problems  and 
challenges,  to  put  in  place  fair  and  just  relations  and 
peace,  fraternity  and  security.  There  is  hardly  a 
Government  or  nation 
these 
time  and 
really 
trusts 
to 
that 
A/62/PV.5
its 
integrity 
territorial 
to  secure 
rights  or  defend 
its 
and  national 
mechanisms 
independence, 
interests. 

There are many more challenges besides the ones 
I have enumerated. I know that I could have introduced 
more had I wanted to touch upon them, but I chose to 
confine  myself  to  the  ones  I  have  stated.  Now,  the 
important and decisive question concerns the roots and 
causes  of  these  challenges.  A  scientific  and  careful 
analysis  shows  that  two  fundamental  factors  account 
for  the  present  situation.  Without  a  doubt,  the  first 
factor is the relations arising from the consequences of 
the Second World War. The victors of the war drew the 
road  map  for  global  domination  and  formulated  their 
policies on the basis not of justice but of safeguarding 
the interests of the victors over the vanquished nations. 
Therefore, for 60 years now, mechanisms arising from 
this approach and related policies have been incapable 
of finding just solutions for global problems. Some big 
Powers  still  behave  like  the  victors  of  the  World  War 
and regard other States and nations, even those that had 
nothing  to  do  with  the  war,  as  the  vanquished.  They 
humiliate  other  nations  and  make  extortionate 
demands. Their condescending ways are reminiscent of 
medieval times and the old lord-serf relationship. They 
believe  that  they  should  have  more  rights  than  others 
and  that  they  are  not  accountable  to  any  international 
organization. 

Unfortunately,  among  all  the  ineffective  bodies, 
the United Nations Security Council ranks first; owing 
to  circumstances  in  which  some  Powers  with  an 
exclusive  and  special  right  to  the  veto  in  the  Security 
Council  act  as  prosecutor,  judge  and  executioner.  It  is 
natural that countries that have been subjected to those 
Powers’  infringements  of  their  rights  have  no  hope  of 
getting what they deserve from the Council. 

Regrettably,  humanity  has  witnessed  that  in  all 
long  wars  —  like  the  Korean  and Viet  Nam  wars,  the 
war of the Zionists against the Palestinians and against 
Lebanon, the war of Saddam against the people of Iran 
and  the  ethnic  wars  of  Europe  and  Africa  —  one 
Security  Council  member  was  one  of  the  belligerents 
or  supported  one  party,  usually  the  aggressor,  against 
the other, or the conflict itself. 

Let us take a look at Iraq. They first occupied the 
country  and  then  received  authorization  from  the 
Security  Council  —  the  same  Council  in  which  the 
same  occupiers  have  the  right  of  veto.  Whom  should 
07-51584 

19 
A/62/PV.5 

the  people  of  Iraq  complain  about,  and  where  should 
they take their complaints, in the hope of securing their 
rights? 

We  saw  in  Lebanon  that  some  Powers,  for  33 
long days, prevented the Security Council from taking 
any action against the Zionist regime with the hope of 
giving  it  time  to  achieve  victory.  Then,  when  they 
became  disappointed  at  seeing  their  hopes  unfulfilled, 
they decided to put an end to the hostilities by adopting 
a resolution. But the duty of the Security Council is to 
prevent the expansion of conflicts, to put ceasefires in 
place and to promote peace and security. To whom and 
to  what  organization  should  the  people  of  Lebanon 
complain? 

The  presence  of  some  monopolistic  Powers  has 
prevented  the  Security  Council  from  performing  its 
main  duty,  which  is  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security based on justice. The credibility of 
the  Council  has  been  tarnished,  and  its  efficacy  in 
defending the rights of United Nations Member States 
has  been  undermined.  Many  nations  have  lost  their 
confidence  in  the  Council.  Some  other  mechanisms, 
such  as  monetary  and  banking  ones,  are  in  the  same 
undesirable  situation  and  have  been  turned  into  tools 
that enable some Powers to impose their will on other 
nations.  It  is  evident  that  these  mechanisms  are  not 
to  current  needs,  solving 
capable  of  responding 
challenges  or  establishing 
sustainable 
relations. 

Again, there is no doubt that the second and more 
important  factor  is  that  some  big  Powers  disregard 
morals, divine values, the teachings of the prophets and 
the  will  of  the  Almighty.  They  allow  the  rule  of  the 
incompetent.  How  can  the  incompetent,  who  cannot 
even manage themselves and conduct their own affairs, 
govern humanity and arrange its affairs? Unfortunately, 
these  people  have  put  themselves  in  the  position  of 
God.  They  are  in  servitude  to  their  own  whims,  and 
they  desire  to  have  everything  for  themselves.  For 
them,  human  dignity  and  the  lives,  property  and 
territories  of  others  are  no  longer  respected.  For 
centuries, humanity has had a deep wound inflicted on 
its tired body by impious Powers. Today, the problems 
that people around the world face are mainly rooted in 
disregard for human values and ethics, as well as in the 
rule of the selfish and the incompetent. 

The  only  sustainable  approach  to  the  betterment 
of humankind is a return to the teachings of the divine 
fair  and 
20 

prophets,  monotheism,  respect  for  the  dignity  of 
humans  and  the  flow  of  love  and  affection  in  all 
relationships,  ties  and  regulations,  and  the  reform  of 
present structures on this basis. To fulfil this objective, 
I  invite  everybody  to  form  a  front  of  fraternity,  amity 
and  sustainable  peace,  based  on  monotheism  and 
justice,  under  the  name  of  the  Coalition  for  Peace,  to 
prevent  incursions  and  arrogance  and  to  promote  the 
culture of affection and justice. I hereby announce that, 
with  the  help  of  all  independent,  justice-seeking  and 
peace-loving nations, the Islamic Republic of Iran will 
be heading down this path. 

Monotheism,  justice  and  compassion  for humans 
should  predominate  in  all  the  pillars  of  the  United 
Nations,  and  this  Organization  should  be  a  forum  for 
justice,  where  every  member  should  enjoy  equal 
spiritual  and  legal  support.  The  General  Assembly, 
representing  the  international  community,  should  be 
considered  the  most  important  pillar  of  the  United 
Nations  and  should,  free  from  any  pressure  or  threats 
by  big  Powers,  take  the  required  measures  for  the 
reform of the other United Nations structures including 
especially the reform of the Security Council. It should 
define new structures based on justice and democracy, 
with  a  view 
to  present 
requirements  and  settling  existing  challenges,  thereby 
bringing about enduring stability and security.  
The  nuclear  issue  of  Iran  is  a  clear  example  of 

how  such  mechanisms  perform  and  of  the  prevailing 
thoughts behind them. Members are all aware that Iran 
is  a  member  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA) and has always observed its rules and 
regulations.  It  has  had  the  most  extensive  cooperation 
with that Agency in all areas. All our nuclear activities 
have been completely peaceful and transparent. 

According  to  the  Statute  of  the  IAEA,  every 
member has a number of rights and obligations. In fact, 
all members have to stay on a peaceful path and, under 
the  supervision  of  the  Agency,  assist  other  members, 
and  they  are  entitled  to  be  supported  by  the  Agency 
and  have  access  to  the  fuel  cycle  with  the  help  of  the 
Agency and its members. 

Thus  far,  Iran  has  fulfilled  all  of  its  obligations 
but  has  been  deprived  of  other  members’  technical 
assistance and, even at times, of the Agency’s support. 
For  about  five  years,  some  of  the  aforementioned 
Powers have, by exerting heavy pressure on the IAEA, 
attempted to prevent the Iranian nation from exercising 
to  becoming  responsive 
07-51584 


its rights. They have derailed Iran’s nuclear issue from 
its legal tracks, and have politicized the atmosphere to 
impose  their  wishes  through  taking  advantage  of  all 
their potential. 

The Government of Iran spared no effort to build 
confidence,  but  they  were  not  satisfied  with  anything 
short  of  the  complete  halt  of  all  activities,  even  those 
related  to  research  and  university  fields.  They  only 
sought  to  deprive  the  Iranian  people  of  all  their 
inalienable  rights,  even  to  the  extent  that  centres  not 
involved in the fuel cycle or not in need of supervision 
by the Agency were closed. 

After  three  years  of  negotiations  and  attempts  to 
build  confidence,  the  Iranian  nation  came  to  the  firm 
belief that the main concern of these Powers is not the 
possible deviation of Iran’s nuclear activities, but is to 
prevent its scientific progress under that pretext. If this 
trend continues, there will be no possibility for Iran to 
enjoy  its  rights,  not  even  in  the  next  20  years. 
Therefore, Iran decided to pursue the issue through its 
appropriate legal path, one that runs through the IAEA, 
and to disregard unlawful and political impositions by 
the arrogant Powers. 

In  the  past  two  years,  abusing  the  Security 
Council,  the  arrogant  Powers  have  repeatedly  accused 
Iran and have even made military threats and imposed 
illegal  sanctions  against  it.  However,  by  the  grace  of 
faith  in  God  and  national  unity,  Iran  has  moved 
forward  step  by  step,  and  now  our  country 
is 
recognized as one with the capacity for industrial-scale 
fuel cycle production for peaceful uses. Unfortunately, 
the Security Council, in dealing with this obvious legal 
issue,  was  influenced  by  some  bullying  Powers  and 
failed  to  uphold  justice  and  protect  the  rights  of  the 
Iranian people. 

Fortunately, the IAEA has recently tried to regain 
its legal role as supporter of the rights of its members 
while  supervising  nuclear  activities.  We  see  this  as  a 
correct  approach  adopted  by  the  Agency.  Previously, 
they  illegally  insisted  on  politicizing  the  Iranian 
nation’s  nuclear  case,  but  today,  because  of  the 
resistance of the Iranian nation, the issue is back with 
the  Agency,  and  I  officially  announce  that,  in  our 
opinion, the nuclear issue of Iran is now closed and has 
turned  into  an  ordinary  Agency  matter.  Today,  many 
important questions have been raised about the nuclear 
activities  of  certain  Powers  within  the  IAEA,  which 
should  be  dealt  with  properly.  Of  course,  Iran  has 
A/62/PV.5
its  obligations  under 
always been, and will be, prepared to have constructive 
talks with all parties. 

I would like to thank all the nations and countries 
that,  during  this  difficult  period,  defended  the  legal 
rights  of  my  nation  and  motherland.  I  also  want  to 
express  our  appreciation  to  the  members  of  the  
Non-Aligned  Movement,  our  friends  in  the  Security 
Council  and  in  the  IAEA  Board  of  Governors,  the 
committed and law-abiding experts of the Agency and 
its  Director  General  for  standing  by  the  law.  I  would 
also  like  to  announce  that,  unlike  the  monopolistic 
Powers,  the  Iranian  nation  is  ready  to  offer  to  other 
members  its  experiences  in  the  form  of  educational 
programmes,  based  on 
the 
Agency’s Statute and under Agency supervision. 

Now  I  would  like  to  address  those  who  have 
shown  hostility  towards  the  Iranian  nation  for  some 
five  years  and  who  have  offended  and  accused  my 
people,  who  have  contributed  to  the  history  and 
civilization  of  the  world.  I  advise  them  to  learn  from 
history and their recent actions. They badly mistreated 
the great Iranian nation, but they should be careful not 
to  inflict  the  same  on  other  members  of  international 
organizations,  and  not  to  sacrifice  the  dignity  of 
international  organizations  for 
their 
unlawful  wishes.  Today  the  nations  of  the  world  are 
wide  awake  and  resistant.  If  those  Powers  reform 
themselves, the whole world will be reformed. Nations 
are inherently good and can coexist peacefully. 

Those  Powers  should  endeavour  to  serve  their 
own  peoples;  others  do  not  need  them.  Is  it  not  high 
time  for  these  Powers  to  return  from  the  path  of 
arrogance and obedience to Satan to the path of faith in 
God?  Would  they  not  like  to  be  cleansed  of  their 
impurities,  submit  to  the  will  of  God  and  believe  in 
him? Faith in God means  believing in  honesty, purity, 
justice and compassion for others. They can be certain 
that they  will benefit from purity, honesty, justice  and 
loving and respecting human dignity. They can also be 
certain that such values are, more and more, considered 
appropriate,  valuable  and  beautiful  by  the  nations  of 
the world. 

This  is  the  invitation  of  all  the  divine  prophets 
from Adam to Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus Christ and 
Mohammed,  peace  be  upon  him.  If  they  accept  this 
invitation,  they  will  be  saved,  and  if  they  do  not,  the 
same  calamities  that  befell  the  people  of  the  distant 
past  will  befall  them  as  well.  According  to  the  holy 
the  sake  of 
07-51584 

21 
they  not 
A/62/PV.5 

Quran:  “One  who  does  not  answer  the  divine  call 
should  not  think  that  he  has  weakened  God  on  Earth; 
he  has  no  companion  but  God  and  he  is  clearly 
engulfed by darkness”. They have nothing of their own 
and  cannot  escape  from  the  dominion  of  the  rule  of 
God and his will. 

At  this  important  gathering,  I  have  to  remind 
them  of  the  following  words  of  the  Almighty,  which 
are mentioned in the Holy Quran:  

look  at 
“Do 
the  powers  and 
Governments  which  came  before  them?  If  the 
people  of 
the  past  had  actually  possessed 
something, they would have kept it and would not 
have let you possess it now. God destroyed them 
because  of  their  sins,  and  nobody  could  protect 
them against the will of God”. 

These  Powers  have  to  know  that  thoughts  and 
methods based on oppression and injustice are doomed 
to  failure.  Do  they  not  see  the  signs  of  vigilance  and 
resistance based on monotheism, philanthropy  and the 
justice-seeking  spirit  of  the  nations  of  the  world?  Do 
they  not  notice  that  we  are  nearing  the  sunset  of  the 
time of empires? I hope that this invitation will have a 
practical answer. 

Peoples and Governments are not obliged to obey 
the  injustice  of  certain  Powers. Those  Powers,  for  the 
reasons already mentioned, have lost the competence to 
lead  the  world.  I  officially  declare  that  the  age  of 
relations  arising  from  the  Second  World  War  and  of 
materialistic 
and 
domination  is  well  over  now.  Humanity  has  passed  a 
perilous  precipice  and  the  age  of  monotheism,  purity, 
affinity,  respect  for  others,  justice  and  true  peace-
loving has commenced. 

It  is  the  divine  promise  that  the  truth  will  be 
victorious  and  the  Earth  will  be  inherited  by  the 
righteous. Those who are free, believers and the people 
of the world should put their trust in God. Those who 
crave  lofty  values,  wherever  they  are,  should  try  to 
prepare  the  grounds  for  the  fulfilment  of  that  great 
divine  promise  by  serving  the  people  and  seeking 
justice. 

The era of darkness will end, prisoners will return 
home,  the  occupied  lands  will  be  freed,  Palestine  and 
Iraq  will  be  liberated  from  the  domination  of  the 
occupiers, and the peoples of America and Europe will 
be  free  of  the  pressures  exerted  by  the  Zionists. 
thought  based  on 
arrogance 
Tenderhearted  and  humanity-loving  Governments  will 
replace 
the  aggressive  and  domineering.  Human 
dignity will be regained. The pleasing aroma of justice 
will permeate the world and people will live together in 
a brotherly and affectionate manner. 

Striving  in  that  way  to  surrender  rule  to  the 
righteous  and  perfect  human,  the  promised  one,  is 
indeed  the  final  cure  for  the  wounds  of  humanity,  the 
solution of all problems, and the establishment of love, 
beauty,  justice  and  a  dignified  life  throughout  the 
world.  That  belief  and  endeavour  is  the  key  to  unity 
and  constructive  interaction  among  nations,  countries, 
the  people  of  the  world  and  all  true  justice-seekers. 
Without a doubt, the promised one who is the ultimate 
saviour,  along  with  Jesus  Christ  and  other  holy 
prophets,  will  come.  In  the  company  of  all  believers, 
justice-seekers  and  benefactors,  he  will  establish  a 
bright future and fill the world with justice and beauty. 
That  is  the  promise  of  God;  therefore  it  will  be 
fulfilled. Let us play a part in the fulfilment of all that 
glory and beauty. 

I  wish  for  a  bright  future  for  all  human  beings, 
the  dawn  of  the  liberation  of  and  freedom  for  all 
humans,  the  rule  of  love  and  affection  all  around  the 
world, as well as the elimination of oppression, hatred 
and  violence  —  a  wish  that  I  expect  to  be  fulfilled  in 
the near future. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Mahmoud  Ahmadinejad,  President  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, 
President of the Republic of Indonesia 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Indonesia. 

Mr. Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, President of the 
Republic  of  Indonesia,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Susilo  Bambang  Yudhoyono,  President  of  the 
to 
22 

07-51584 
eager 
are  very 


Republic of Indonesia, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly. 
President  Yudhoyono:  Let  me  begin  by  stating 

how  much  I  welcome  and  support  the  theme  of  this 
year’s  sixty-second  session  of  the  General  Assembly, 
which is “Responding to climate change”. 
I  stand  here  representing  the  good  people  of 

Indonesia,  who 
to  welcome 
representatives to the Bali conference in December this 
year.  When  they  come  to  our  country,  they  will  see  a 
great  nation  whose  multi-ethnic  and  multi-religious 
people  live  in  harmony  with  one  another  and  in 
harmony  with  mother  Earth,  the  way  they  have  for 
thousands of years. 
Indonesia  is  a  country  that  has  felt  and  suffered 

the effects of climate change. In recent years, we have 
been hit by a series of natural disasters in the form of 
floods,  drought,  forest  fires,  El  Niño,  tsunamis  and 
earthquakes. The issue of climate change has made us 
see interdependence in a completely new light. When it 
comes 
to  global  warming,  we  are  much  more 
interdependent than we thought in terms of the causes, 
symptoms and solutions. 
We  must  uphold  the  principle  of  common  and 

differentiated 
respective 
capabilities,  but  there  is  always  room  for  every 
country,  every  community  and  every  individual  to  be 
more flexible, more innovative and more inclusive. 

A  persistent  theme  in  our  discussions  on  climate 
change  yesterday  was  the  need  for  urgency,  which 
means the need for action and the need to think outside 
the box. I count myself as an optimist who sees today a 
larger  window  of  opportunity  to  strike  a  global 
consensus to tackle global warming. 

We  will  have  that  chance  in  Bali.  The  Bali 
conference  must  yield  a  new  road  map  on  climate 
change,  and  that  new  road  map  must  spell  out  what 
must be done by both the developed and the developing 
worlds  to  save  humankind  and  its  planet  from  the 
looming  tragedy  of  climate  change.  It  must  link  the 
solution  to 
the  problem  of  climate  change  with 
sustainable development — the conquest of poverty. It 
must  produce  an  outcome  and  timeline  that  will  be 
more  comprehensive  and  more  ambitious  in  achieving 
its  practical  objective  of  reducing  greenhouse  gas 
emissions. 
responsibilities 
and 
A/62/PV.5
in 
forest 
cooperation 
conservation 

We developing countries must protect our natural 
resources  while  using  them  wisely  for  development. 
Among the most valuable  of our natural resources  are 
our  forests.  From  them,  we  extract  economic  wealth; 
through them, we store an immense volume of carbon 
that would otherwise pollute the atmosphere. 

On  that  basis,  yesterday  Indonesia  took  the 
initiative  of  launching  a  special  leaders’  meeting  of 
tropical  rainforest  countries.  At  that  meeting,  we 
leaders  of  the  countries  having  custody  of  a  great 
portion  of  the  world’s  rainforests  decided  to  intensify 
our 
and 
reforestation. 

We  also  believe  that  countries  that  seek  to 
enhance  their  carbon  sinks  —  through  forestation, 
afforestation  and  avoided  deforestation  —  should  be 
given incentives and rewarded fairly for doing so. 

Throughout  our  deliberations  on  climate  change, 
let  us  always  keep  an  eye  on  the  requirements  of 
development. That means we must not lose sight of the 
imperative  to  conquer  poverty  as  a  basic  problem  of 
the human condition.  

In Indonesia we have a national dream, which is 
reflected  in  our  1945  Constitution.  We  dream  that  we 
and  our  future  generations  can  enjoy  the  blessings  of 
peace,  freedom,  justice  and  prosperity. And  we  dream 
of  seeing  to  it  that  the  same  blessings  are  enjoyed  by 
the rest of humankind. Poverty can kill that dream.  

That  is  why  the  new  Indonesia  of  today  is  fully 
dedicated to the fight against poverty. For that purpose, 
our  national  economic  policy  is  focused  on  the 
development of rural areas, where the vast majority of 
our  people  live  and  where  they  wage  a  daily  struggle 
against  the  ravages  of  poverty. That  is  why  we  are  so 
intent on making the national business climate friendly 
and attractive to foreign direct investment, so that jobs 
will be created for our millions of unemployed people. 
That is why we are so intent on eradicating the taint of 
corruption  from  our  society.  And  that  is  why  our 
foreign  policy  addresses 
truly 
functioning  global  partnership 
for  development, 
because only such a partnership can ultimately conquer 
the basic problem of poverty. 

Peace  in  the  Middle  East  is  crucial  to  long-term 
global  stability.  But  there  can  be  no  peace  in  the 
Middle  East  unless  there  is  justice,  especially  justice 
for the Palestinian people. A divided Palestinian nation 
the  need 
for  a 
07-51584 

23 
strive 
the 
the 
today,  namely, 
to  protect  and  enhance 
A/62/PV.5 

cannot secure justice. Hamas and Fatah must therefore 
engage  in  dialogue  and  reconcile  their  agendas.  The 
Arab  initiative  must  catalyse  political  change  in  the 
region. 

Indonesia  has  a  long  history  of  participating  in 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  that  dates 
back to the Suez conflict,  in 1956. We  are taking part 
in  the  operation  in  Lebanon  today. We  are  determined 
to  maintain  that  proud  tradition  of  involvement  in 
global  concerns.  That,  I  believe,  is  what  humankind 
needs  most 
involvement  of 
everyone. There must be a global partnership at work. 
Developed  and  developing  countries  must  work 
together  with  a  greater  sense  of  partnership  and  of 
urgency. 

Therefore, to solve the problem of climate change 
the  Bali  Conference  must  set  the  stage  for  a  genuine 
partnership  between  developed 
and  developing 
countries  and  all  other  stakeholders.  Developed 
countries  must  extend  support  while  developing 
countries 
their 
environment and its biodiversity. They must lighten the 
burden  of  developing  countries  in  carrying  out  that 
immense task — through incentives and the transfer of 
environmentally sound technology. 

While  developing  countries  are  in  hot  pursuit  of 
their  Millennium  Development  Goals,  the  developed 
world can greatly help ensure the success of the Doha 
Development Round. Developed countries must ensure 
sufficient  flows  of  financing  for  development  through 
foreign  direct  investment  and  official  development 
assistance.  They  must 
transfer  of 
technology for development. 

We  in  the  developing  world,  on  the  other  hand, 
must  prudently  manage  our  natural  and  human 
resources. We must practise good governance. We must 
fight corruption at all levels so that our resources will 
not be wasted. We must see to it that the human rights 
of our citizens are promoted and protected. 
No  partnership  works  without  teamwork,  and  no 

teamwork 
is  possible  without  constant  effective 
communication.  That  means  dialogue.  After  all, 
dialogue  is  the  best  way  to  exercise  soft  power. 
Dialogue and soft power can greatly advance the cause 
of  disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  Dialogue  and 
soft  power  have  helped  resolve  various  intra-State 
conflicts — including in Aceh, where two years ago we 
that 
reached 
settlement 
facilitate 
political 
a 
peaceful 
for  sustainable  development. 
permanently  ended  the  conflict.  Dialogue  and  soft 
power can also be a major instrument in addressing the 
root causes of terrorism.  

That  is  why  I  am  a  firm  advocate  of  dialogue 
among faiths, cultures and civilizations. I urge that the 
dialogue  in  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  be  fully 
integrated into the work of the United Nations. Sincere 
dialogue  can  lead  to  the  formation  of  an  effective 
global  partnership  on  climate  change,  which  is  also  a 
partnership 
look 
forward  to  such  a  dialogue  taking  place  at  the  Bali 
Conference  this  coming  December.  That  will  be  a 
vitally important dialogue, for it can set off a chain of 
events  that  will  lead  to  the  fulfilment  of  the  dream  of 
billions  for  a  safer,  better  life.  It  will  certainly  add 
sheen  to  the  national  dream  of  Indonesia  —  our 
common  dream  —  for  a  better  world  of  peace,  social 
justice and equitably shared prosperity. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Indonesia for the statement he has just made. 

Mr. Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, President of the 
Republic  of  Indonesia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
I 


Address by Mr. Martín Torrijos, President of the 
Republic of Panama 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Panama. 

Mr. Martín Torrijos, President of the Republic of 
Panama, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr. 
Martín Torrijos,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Panama, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Torrijos (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 

of my country, and on my own behalf, I would like to 
congratulate  Mr.  Kerim  on  his  election 
the 
presidency of the General Assembly at the sixty-second 
session.  I  should  also  like  to  commend  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon for his encouraging message this 
morning (see A/62/PV.4). 
to 
24 

07-51584 



The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  has  been  the 
subject of revisions almost from the moment it entered 
into force. Some of those changes were successful and 
timely.  However,  today  we  are  acting  too  slowly  in 
adapting  United  Nations  structures  to  the  realities  of 
the  twenty-first  century,  despite  the  fact  that  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  have  given  it  new 
vigour and almost a new raison d’être. Although there 
seems to be broad agreement to strengthen the General 
Assembly  and  to  make  the  Security  Council  more 
representative  and  transparent,  we  are  spending  too 
much time trying to decide how to do it. 

Panama has been very clear in its support for the 
aspirations  of  Brazil,  Japan  and  Germany  to  become 
permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council.  But  we 
have also deemed it appropriate to offer Member States 
alternatives  that  would  enable  us  to  make  progress  in 
this  debate.  We  urge  an  open  mind  so  that  we  can 
complete  this  debate  and  come  up  with  the  relevant 
changes quickly. 

Panama became a Security Council member with 
a  great  feeling  of  regional  solidarity  and  fiduciary 
responsibility vis-à-vis the international community on 
all matters relating to the maintenance of international 
peace  and security. We are  grateful  for the confidence 
that  the  General Assembly  placed  in  my  country,  and 
we are always ready to seek agreement between parties 
to a conflict and to help remove obstacles that stand in 
the way of peace and agreements. To that end, we have 
advance 
encouraged 
the 
democratic 
law, 
promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights  and 
humanitarian  assistance  to  refugees  and  displaced 
persons. 

No  conflict  in  the  world  has  been  given  greater 
attention  by  the  international  community  than  that  in 
the  Middle  East  region.  Although  agreements  have 
been  arrived  at  that  have  eased  tensions,  the  path 
towards  peace  has  always  been  elusive,  and  new 
obstacles arise all the time. The conflict between Israel 
and Palestine is at the very core of the problems in the 
region.  Panama  therefore  encourages  and  promotes 
negotiations  between 
towards 
creating a Palestinian State that can live in peace with 
the  State  of  Israel,  with  secure  borders  for  both.  This 
will require a cessation of attacks on Israel from Gaza, 
withdrawal from all the occupied territories in the West 
Bank  and  the  achievement  of  an  agreement  about  the 
status  of  Jerusalem  that  would  satisfy  the  parties 
and 
supported 
institutions  and 
to 
the  rule  of 
the  parties,  geared 
efforts 
A/62/PV.5
the 
entire 
and 
involved 
international 
directly 
community. 

On  the  situation  in  Lebanon,  it  is  important  for 
the  international  community  to  realize  that  a  lasting 
peace  in  the  region  requires  the  establishment  of  a 
government  of  unity  which  can  end  the  current 
political deadlock. If it is not resolved, this could lead 
to a return to civil war, which is something that we all 
thought was now over and done with. 

From  this  rostrum,  we  join  in  the  call  for  an 
immediate  reduction  in  tension  and  peaceful  solutions 
in all parts of the world where international peace and 
security are threatened. It is much less costly to invest 
our  efforts  in  avoiding  confrontation  than  to  stop  it 
once  it  has  begun.  Accordingly,  we  appeal  to  this 
Organization  to  reconsider  its  actions  vis-à-vis  the 
conflict  in  the  Middle  East  which,  far  from  being 
resolved, seems to be intensifying. 
Turning  to  the  dispute  between  Serbia  and  the 

today  we  can  be  cautiously 
Kosovar  Albanians, 
optimistic 
that,  after  several  months  of  Security 
Council  debate,  which  included  a  visit  to  the  region, 
the  parties  have  agreed  to  resume  dialogue.  Only  an 
agreement  between 
them  can  ensure  peace  and 
economic development in the region. 

renewal  and 
extension  of  the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations 
Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti.  We  recognize 
the 
progress made by the Haitian Government with support 
from  that  mission.  However,  there  are  many  matters 
that still require more efforts, and it is essential that the 
mandate not end before that country’s institutions have 
been strengthened. 

We  welcome  the  progress  made,  but  we  must 
condemn  the  violation  of  human  rights  in  Myanmar 
and  the  continued  detention  of  Nobel  Peace  Prize 
laureate  Aung  San  Suu  Kyi.  Although  every  conflict 
has 
that 
violations  of  the  human  rights  of  certain  groups,  a 
culture of impunity or the absence of strong institutions 
able  to  guarantee  the  human  rights  of  all  are  the 
common denominator of most conflicts. 

In Africa, there are examples of how institutional 
weakness and abuses of human rights become the main 
causes of conflict. On the initiative of the President of 
France,  the  Security  Council  is  meeting  this  very 
afternoon  to  analyse  all  the  problems  that  afflict  that 
its  own  particular  causes,  we  can  say 
Panama  strongly  supports 
the 
07-51584 

25 
for 
that 
solving 
disputes 
to  strengthen 
Responsibility 
the  concept  of 
this  Organization  enshrined 
A/62/PV.5 

continent  (see  S/PV.5749).  It  is  only  by  strengthening 
institutional  capacity  and  building  a  culture  of  justice 
that  it  will  be  possible  to  restore  to  those  peoples  the 
rights 
for  all 
inhabitants of the Earth. 

and 
preventing  conflict  lies  primarily  with  the  States 
parties to a dispute. However, achieving peace depends 
to  a  large  extent  on  our  commitment  to  the  collective 
security  architecture  that  we  have  built  here  in  the 
United  Nations.  Since  the  end  of  the  cold  war,  the 
United  Nations  has  responded  to  the  major  challenges 
to  international  peace  and  security  by  increasing  the 
number  and  the  quality  of  peacekeeping  operations  in 
cases where diplomacy has failed. To avoid a return to 
conflict  situations,  peacekeeping  operations  cannot  be 
confined  to  simply  separating  rival  forces.  It  is 
essential 
integrated 
missions  to  include  new  responsibilities  that  cover  a 
broader  range  of  activities. Achieving  a  lasting  peace 
means  more  than  simply  laying  down  one’s  weapons. 
One  must  set  off  on  the  path  towards  development; 
legal  and  political  institutions  must  be  rebuilt  and 
human rights must be respected. 

We cannot talk about lasting peace while we live 
under the threat of terrorism, whose definitive defeat is 
an ongoing challenge for the international community. 
Panama supports United Nations efforts to combat this 
scourge  in  an  integrated  manner,  such  as  the  adoption 
of 
the  United  Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism 
Strategy  (see  resolution  60/288).  And,  because  we 
attach high priority to the adoption of a comprehensive 
convention  on 
terrorism,  we  have 
shouldered  the  responsibility  of  chairing  the  Security 
Council’s Counter-Terrorism Committee. 

The adoption of the Convention on the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities (see resolution 61/106) was a 
major  milestone  on  the  path  towards  a  world  without 
exclusionism and reaffirmed the universality of human 
rights.  Specific  measures  have  been  defined 
to 
guarantee  full  participation.  Above  all,  we  have 
categorically  said 
that  discrimination  against  any 
person  on  the  basis  of  disability  is  a  violation  of  the 
inherent  dignity  and  worth  of  the  human  person.  I 
would  like  to  say  that  Panama  has  made  significant 
progress  in  this  area;  inclusive  education  is  a  State 
priority.  We  have  signed  the  Convention,  and  we  are 
committed to implementing it. 
international 
of 
and 
trade 
international 

Of particular importance to Panama is the recent 
adoption of a declaration on indigenous peoples for the 
Latin  American  region.  It  strengthens  respect  for 
cultural diversity, with emphasis on preserving cultural 
assets. 
The President returned to the Chair. 

A  year  ago,  I  told  the  General  Assembly  (see 

A/61/PV.12) that my country would hold a referendum 
to  decide  whether  to  undertake  the  work  of  widening 
the  Panama  Canal  so  that  larger  ships  could  transit 
between the two great oceans. As I believe is generally 
known, the people of Panama approved the project, and 
barely  three  weeks  ago  the  work  began.  It  will  be 
completed by the year 2014. 
Panama,  which  has  always  contributed  to  the 

development 
to 
understanding  among  nations,  is  especially  pleased  to 
reaffirm  that  unifying  mission  today,  as  well  as  its 
commitment to peace, development and full respect for 
human rights. 

I  should  like  to  conclude  my  statement  by 
referring to some words spoken from this same rostrum 
by a Panamanian more than 50 years  ago and that are 
still  just  as  true  today.  He  said  that  to  attempt  to 
preserve  peace  without  at  the  same  time  improving 
peoples’ 
task 
unfinished  and  inconclusive.  We  should  not  tire  of 
repeating  that  the  most  serious  threats  to  peace  and 
freedom are  rooted in human poverty, social injustice, 
ignorance  and  economic  backwardness;  and  that  the 
only  peace  worth  keeping  and  defending,  and  which 
can  be  lasting,  is  peace  with  honour,  justice  and 
freedom. 
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Panama for the statement he has just made. 

Mr. Martín Torrijos, President of the Republic of 
Panama,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
living  conditions 
leave 
from 
the 
is 
to 


Address by Mr. Hâmid Karzai, President of the 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  President  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Afghanistan. 
26 

07-51584 



Today,  efforts 
in  September  2002, 
Mr.  Hâmid  Karzai,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Afghanistan,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Hâmid Karzai, President of 
the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, and to invite him 
to address the General Assembly. 
President  Karzai:  Over  the  62  years  of  its 

existence,  the  General  Assembly  has  witnessed  many 
moments  of  historical  reckoning.  It  was  one  such 
moment, five years ago, when Afghanistan returned to 
the Assembly as a country emerging out of a long, dark 
era  of  war,  violence  and  terror. As  I  stood  before  the 
Assembly 
the  challenges  of 
restoring security to the lives of the Afghan people and 
of rebuilding Afghanistan into a stable and democratic 
country  seemed  all  but  insuperable.  The  fate  of  a 
nation swayed between the promise of a safer and more 
prosperous future, on the one hand, and the enormity of 
the tasks, on the other hand. 

in  support  of  stability  and 
reconstruction in Afghanistan are proceeding resolutely 
apace. The Afghan people continue to make the best of 
the new opportunities. Our economy is surging ahead. 
The  legitimacy  of  our  newly  founded  institutions  is 
gradually  taking  root.  Our  society  is  brimming  with 
freedom and activity. 
For  too  long,  Afghanistan  was  in  an  unenviable 

position 
terms  of  most  human  development 
indicators.  That  situation  is  no  longer  acceptable,  and 
is changing rapidly. Today more Afghans enjoy access 
to health and education than ever before in our history. 
We  have  very  fortunately  cut  our  child  mortality  rate, 
which  was  one  of  the  highest  in  the  world  just  two 
years  ago,  by  25  per  cent.  As  a  result,  over  85,000 
more children have a chance to live today. 
For  the  first  time  in  40  years, Afghanistan  is  set 

food 
once  again 
production. Already, the fruits of relative stability and 
increased  prosperity  in  Afghanistan  are  spilling  over 
the  borders  to  the  wider  region.  Having  enjoyed 
unprecedented  growth  in  our  regional  trade  over  the 
past  six  years,  we  are  now  moving  to  consolidate 
Afghanistan’s  role  in  the  economic  integration  of  the 
region.  Earlier  this  year,  we  assumed  membership  of 
the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation 
(SAARC).  The  significance  of  that  step  lies  in  the 
self-sufficient 
to  become 
in 
in 
A/62/PV.5
in 
potential  for  Afghanistan  to  connect  South  Asia  to 
Central  Asia  and  the  Middle  East  in  commerce  and 
interaction.  
Last month, President Rahmon of Tajikistan and I 

were 
the  United  States  Secretary  of 
joined  by 
Commerce  to  inaugurate  a  transit  bridge  financed  by 
the  United  States  that  connects  Afghanistan  with 
Tajikistan  and  beyond.  That  bridge,  alongside  many 
other  infrastructure  projects  we  have  completed,  is  to 
play  a  significant  role 
the  further  economic 
integration of the region. 

Make  no  mistake:  despite  our  achievements,  a 
safer and brighter future for Afghanistan still hinges on 
many  serious  challenges.  Poverty,  underdevelopment, 
climatic  hardships  and,  above  all,  the  menaces  of 
terrorism  and  narcotics,  are  challenges  of  global 
proportions  that  continue  to  be  shared  by Afghanistan 
as a member of the global village. 
To  the  extent  that  terrorism  remains  a  threat, 

world  citizens  will  never  be  safe.  Six  years  after 
Afghanistan’s  liberation  from  the  grip  of  international 
terrorists,  we  are  still  grappling  with  this  threat  on  a 
daily basis. Terrorists continue to kill innocent people, 
including those who have come from the outside world 
to  help.  The  past 
two  years  have  witnessed  a 
significant increase in terrorist attacks carried out with 
new and brutal tactics such as beheadings, kidnappings 
and the burning of schools and clinics. 

Terrorism can only be overcome if it is addressed 
appropriately  across  its  regional  and  international 
dimensions. We  are  monitoring  with  deep  concern  the 
continued  presence  of  a  terrorist  infrastructure  in  our 
region,  and  condemn,  in  equally  strong  terms,  the 
atrocities  that  terrorists  are  committing  in  places 
beyond our borders.  

regional 
cooperation  is  vital  to  a  successful  counterterrorism 
strategy,  we  proposed  the  holding  of  a  joint  jirga,  or 
council,  between  Afghanistan  and  Pakistan.  We  are 
initiative  has 
pleased  with  the  support  that  that 
received 
the 
international 
community.  The  first  joint  peace  council  between 
Afghanistan  and  Pakistan  was  held  in  Kabul  last 
month.  It  was  a  promising  step  in  harnessing  the 
unequivocal support of civil societies in both countries 
in our common fight against terrorism and extremism. 
We  expect  that  the  outcome  of  the  council  will 
translate into concrete action. 
Recognizing 
constructive 
from  our 
friends 
that 
in 
07-51584 

27 
to 
the 
that, 
Narcotics 
livelihoods 
the  part  of 
is  another  global  peril 
A/62/PV.5 


While we continue our struggle against terrorism, 
we will also focus on reconciliation with those that are 
not part of Al Qaida and other terrorist networks.  

I  also  note,  with  deep  concern,  the  particularly 
heinous use by terrorists of local populations as human 
shields,  resulting  in  the  loss  of  civilian  lives.  While 
condemning such deliberate targeting of civilians in the 
strongest possible terms, I would like to emphasize the 
need  for  maximum  caution  on 
the 
international  forces  operating  in  Afghanistan,  as  well 
as  for  increased  coordination  with Afghan  authorities, 
in order to avoid civilian casualties. 

like 
terrorism,  seriously undermines the stability and well-
being  of  our  societies.  In Afghanistan,  that  scourge  is 
the legacy of the decades of misfortunes that befell our 
country — from the widespread despair induced by war 
and oppression, to drought and climatic hardships. We 
are  working  with  our  international  partners  to  tackle 
the  menace.  We  will  prioritize 
the  provision  of 
alternative 
farmers  and  expedite 
implementation  of  other  strategies,  including  poppy 
eradication  and 
traffickers. 
However,  addressing  the  world’s  drug  challenge  must 
involve focus on the far greater dimensions of the drug 
trade that lie outside Afghanistan, such as fighting the 
international  drug  mafia,  ensuring  stricter  border 
control, and reducing demand in foreign markets. 

Climate  change  has  rightly  been  recognized  as  a 
serious  challenge  facing  the  entire  world.  No  country, 
developed  or  developing,  is  immune  to  its  impact. 
Yesterday’s  high-level  event  on  that  important  topic 
was  an  essential  step  forward  in  strengthening  the 
resolve of the international community to address that 
global 
the 
recommendations of the Chairman’s summary. 

We are also watching the situation in the Middle 
East  with  deep  concern.  In  particular,  we  remain 
concerned about the situation in Palestine and  call  for 
the  full  realization  of  the  rights  of  our  Palestinian 
to  an 
brothers  and  sisters, 
independent  State, 
its 
neighbours in peace and coexistence.  

The adoption of the  Iraq  Compact, sponsored  by 
the  United  Nations  and  the  international  community, 
was  an  achievement  marking  Iraq’s  new  partnership 
with the international community to consolidate peace 
and  promote  social  and  economic  development.  We, 
threat  with  unity.  We  fully  support 
living  side  by  side  with 
interdiction  of 
their  right 
including 
in 
to 
their 
Allow  me 
commitment 
thank  our  partners 
the Afghan people, wish our brothers and sisters in Iraq 
every  success  in  achieving  their  aspiration  of  a 
peaceful and prosperous Iraq. 

the 
international  community,  the  United  States,  Japan, 
members  of  NATO,  the  European  Union,  our  brothers 
in  the  Islamic  world,  our  neighbours,  China,  India, 
Australia  and  all  other  countries  for  supporting 
Afghanistan  during  these  years  of  challenge  to  our 
country. We appreciate the role that the United Nations 
and  the  Secretary-General  are  playing  in  coordinating 
the international community’s role in the development 
process  in  Afghanistan.  I  am  particularly  thankful  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  initiative,  two 
days ago, of calling a high-level international meeting 
on  Afghanistan,  at  which  our  partners  once  again 
reaffirmed 
to  Afghanistan’s 
rebuilding and reconstruction. 

Six  years  ago,  in  an  unprecedented  convergence 
of interests, the international community united behind 
Afghanistan,  facing  up  to  the  inescapable  reality  that 
the  world’s  security  had  come  to  depend  on  stability 
and  progress  in  Afghanistan.  Today,  many  of  the 
nations represented here can rightly take pride in what 
we  have  achieved  together.  I  thank  them  all  for  their 
commitment  and  for  the  steadfast  support  they  have 
provided  to  Afghanistan  over  the  past  six  years. 
Without  that  support,  the  progress  we  have  made  in 
Afghanistan would be simply unthinkable. 

the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Islamic 
Republic  of Afghanistan  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr.  Hâmid  Karzai,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Afghanistan,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 


The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
Address by Mr. Ivan Gašparovič, President of the 
Slovak Republic 

address by the President of the Slovak Republic. 

Mr.  Ivan  Gašparovič,  President  of  the  Slovak 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Ivan Gašparovič, President 
28 

07-51584 
(spoke 
President  Gašparovič
the  sixty-first  session  of 


of the Slovak Republic, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly. 

in  Slovakian; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  Allow  me, 
Sir,  to  congratulate  you  on  your  election  as  President 
of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-second  session.  I 
believe  that,  under  your  presidency,  this  Organization 
will make further progress in its reforms, enabling it to 
respond  promptly  to  the  challenges  faced  by  the 
international community. 
From  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  your 

predecessor,  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed Al-Khalifa,  for  her 
efforts  in  performing  the  challenging  tasks  on  the 
agenda  of 
the  General 
Assembly. 

The  Slovak  Republic  fully  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of  Portugal 
on behalf of the European Union. In addition, I wish to 
make a contribution to the general debate on behalf of 
the Slovak Republic. 

In  spite  of  notable  progress  in  some  areas,  the 
Slovak  Republic  is  not  satisfied  with  the  current  pace 
and  scope  of  the  United  Nations  reform  process.  We 
think  it  necessary  to  make  the  work  of  newly  created 
structures and institutions more dynamic and to prepare 
the  United  Nations  to  ensure  the  targeted  prevention 
and solution of concrete problems and conflicts. 

the 
Peacebuilding  Commission.  We  hope  that  it  will 
become  a  pivotal  tool  in  post-conflict  stabilization.  It 
should  give  the  international  community  a  vehicle  for 
solving 
the  scope  of  crisis 
management. 
Slovakia  also  encourages  efforts  towards  overall 

reform  in  the  system  of  human  rights  protection.  We 
have  welcomed  the  commencement  of  work  by  the 
Human  Rights  Council  and  recognize  its  primary 
responsibility  for  promoting  universal  respect  for  the 
protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. 
Within the ongoing process of institutional changes, we 
expect  the  Council  to  effectively  enforce  its  mandate 
pursuant  to  resolution  60/251.  The  Slovak  Republic 
endorses  the  concept  of  protecting  and  promoting 
human rights at the national and international levels. In 
that  context,  we  are  prepared  to  assume  our  share  of 
responsibility.  We  will  be  honoured  to  receive  the 
support of other United Nations Member States for the 
establishment  of 
that  extends 
appreciate 
issues 
We 
the 
A/62/PV.5
in 
candidacy of the Slovak Republic to the Human Rights 
Council  for  2008-2011  in  the  election  scheduled  for 
spring 2008. 

The  Slovak  Republic  appreciates  the  measures 
designed  to  reform  the  Secretariat.  We  support  the 
modernization of the Secretariat’s management system 
so  that  it  can  flexibly  respond  to  current  needs  and 
challenges,  and  the  strengthening  of  its  accountability 
for  the  implementation  of  its  tasks.  As  a  country 
participating 
several  United  Nations-led 
peacekeeping  missions,  we  have  also  expressed  our 
support  for  the  restructuring  of  the  Department  of 
Peacekeeping Operations. 

United  Nations  reform  cannot  be  complete 
without  also  reforming  the  structure  and  working 
methods  of  the  Security  Council.  Slovakia  has  been 
actively  engaged  in  this  reform  effort  during  the  term 
as  a  non-permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council. 
The  membership  of  that  United  Nations  body  should 
reflect the changed geopolitical reality. The number of 
both  permanent  and  non-permanent  Council  members 
should increase and the Global South countries should 
acquire  more  seats.  Germany  and  Japan  have  our 
explicit  support  in  their  ambition  to  become  new 
permanent members of the Council. As a small country, 
we also support those proposals for the non-permanent 
membership category that would restrict countries from 
so-called “flip-flopping” between categories.  

Nor may the General Assembly evade the reform 
effort.  It  is  necessary  to  strengthen  its  role  and 
authority by focusing the Assembly’s attention on real 
and acute problems of the current world. The Assembly 
should also create mechanisms that would allow for the 
monitoring  of  the  implementation  of  its  decisions  and 
at  the  same  time  provide  for  the  elimination  of 
outdated measures that overburden its work.  

the 
given 
representativeness  of  the  bodies  established  by  the 
General Assembly. Slovakia, as a member of the Group 
of Eastern European States, appreciates the election of 
Mr.  Srgjan  Kerim  as  President  of  the Assembly  at  its 
sixty-second  session.  At  the  same  time,  it  should  be 
emphasized  that  the  Eastern  European  Group  is  the 
most  dynamically  growing  regional  group  in  the 
General Assembly, yet its representation in managerial 
positions  in  the  Secretariat  and  in  United  Nations 
bodies does not reflect that situation. A prime example 
of the situation is the fact that this year not one of the 
Thought 
should 
also 
be 
to 
07-51584 

29 
and, 
to 
revitalize 
good 
governance 
A/62/PV.5 

Assembly’s Vice-Presidents is from the regional group 
of which the Slovak Republic is a member. 

Besides the efforts aimed at reforming the United 
Nations,  the  Slovak  Republic  wishes  to  pay  special 
attention  to  the  issue  of  security  sector  reform  during 
the  sixty-second  session.  We  believe  that  insufficient 
reform or lack of reform in the security sector is often 
a  source  or  catalyst  of  conflicts,  or  even  causes  post-
conflict  countries  to  lapse  back  to  a  conflict  state.  It 
should  also  be  borne  in  mind  that  a  well-governed 
security  sector  should,  above  all,  ensure  human 
security,  which  represents  the  foundation  for  the 
stability, 
ultimately, 
development of a country. 

We  are  expecting  a  comprehensive  report  by  the 
Secretary-General  on  security  sector  reform,  which 
should become the basis of a more in-depth discussion 
on  this  issue  within  the  United  Nations.  Therefore, 
Slovakia  has  decided  to  initiate  a  thematic  discussion 
on  security  sector  reform  during  the  sixty-second 
session. 
The  Slovak  Republic  also  expects  the  sixty-

the  discussion  on 
second  session 
disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass 
destruction.  Slovakia  has  had  an  opportunity 
to 
contribute  to  these  efforts  through  its  chairmanship  of 
the  Security  Council  Committee  established  pursuant 
to resolution 1540 (2004). In this context, in February 
2007  Slovakia  also  initiated  an  open  debate  in  the 
Security  Council  on  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of 
mass destruction. 

The  destructive  potential  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  increases  along  with  the  growing  threat  of 
international  terrorism.  We  therefore  also  wish  to  pay 
special  attention  to  this  threat  to  international  peace 
and  security.  The  United  Nations  Global  Counter-
Terrorism  Strategy  adopted  by  the  General  Assembly 
last year (resolution 60/288) provided for wide-ranging 
international cooperation in this field. 

The  Slovak  Republic  pays  due  attention  to  the 
economic  and  social  aspects  of  the  United  Nations, 
where we wish to engage even more actively. In 2003, 
we  submitted  our  candidacy  for  membership  in  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  for  the  years  2010  to 
2012. We will be pleased to receive support from other 
Member States for our candidacy. 
30 


As  a  new  development  aid  donor,  we  want  to 
facilitate  more  effective  cooperation  with  both 
beneficiary and donor countries, integrate the work of 
international  agencies  and  make  more  efficient  use  of 
the existing United Nations capacities in this area. We 
wish  to  pay  special  attention  to  the  development  of 
post-conflict  regions,  which  currently  receive 
the 
largest  portion  of  development  aid.  We  believe  that 
there will be room in the Economic and Social Council 
for  Slovakia  to  utilize  its  experience  in  the  field  of 
security  sector  reform  in  the  joint  work  with  other 
bodies of the United Nations system. 

Over the past two years, Slovakia has worked for 
the  first  time  as  a  member  of  the  Security  Council. 
When adopting our decisions on the sensitive problems 
of  the  modern  world,  we  took  into  consideration  the 
peculiarities  of  individual  cases,  yet  at  the  same  time, 
we sought to promote the value system of a member of 
the  European  and  trans-Atlantic  community.  Slovakia 
will continue to work within the United Nations in this 
same  spirit,  even  after  the  completion  of  its  current 
term  in  the  Security  Council.  We  also  wish  to  make 
good use of the experience we have gained in our work 
in other United Nations bodies. 

The Slovak Republic is frustrated that no solution 
to the Kosovo issue has yet been found. In our opinion, 
Kosovo  must  not  thwart  the  unification  of  European 
nations  nor  set  a  negative  precedent  in  terms  of 
international law. 

It  is  with  hope  that  we  view  the  adoption  of 
Security  Council  resolution  1769  (2007),  granting  a 
mandate  for  the  deployment  of  a  joint African  Union-
United Nations peacekeeping operation in Darfur. This 
unprecedented  decision  has  moved  the  cooperation 
between the United Nations and regional organizations 
to a new level. 

With  regard  to  the  Middle  East  issue,  Slovakia 
endorses a peaceful, fair and permanent solution to the 
Israeli-Palestinian  conflict.  The  talks  should  result  in 
the establishment of a viable Palestinian State that will 
coexist with Israel in an atmosphere of perpetual peace 
and  security.  In 
the 
resumption  of  dialogue  between  Israel  and  Palestine 
and the measures taken in this respect by the Quartet. 

It  has  been  seven  years  since  our  Millennium 
session, when we discussed our vision for the future of 
life  on  our  planet.  It  has  been  neither  seven  rich  nor 
seven  poor  years. The  United  Nations  has  made  some 
this  context,  we  appreciate 
07-51584 


progress. On the other hand, it has failed to cope with 
many  challenges. We  must  do  better  together  to  make 
the  future  score  fall  more  in  favour  of  the  United 
Nations. 

the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Slovak 
Republic for the statement he has just made.  

Mr.  Ivan  Gašparovič,  President  of  the  Slovak 
Republic,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
from 


Address by His Serene Highness Prince Albert II 
of Monaco 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will  hear  an  address  by  His  Serene  Highness  Prince 
Albert II of Monaco. 

His Serene Highness Prince Albert II of Monaco 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the United Nations His Serene Highness Prince Albert 
II  of  Monaco  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly. 
Prince  Albert  (spoke  in  French):  Allow  me,  at 

the  outset,  to  address  my  warmest  congratulations  to 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
second session. With that election, which honours your 
country, the Group of Eastern European States and the 
members  of 
this  Assembly  have  unanimously 
recognized,  Sir,  your  eminent  competence  and  your 
perfect  knowledge  of  the  Organization.  You  and  the 
other  members  of  the  Bureau  may  be  assured  of  the 
active cooperation of my delegation. 

You have chosen the theme of climate change for 
this sixty-second session. I would like to thank you for 
that initiative, which has been commended by all. 

Today,  I  would  like  to  share  my  observations  on 
this  issue  as  well  as  my  personal  commitment  in 
service  of  this  cause.  Very  early  on,  I  learned  to 
appreciate nature and to take the necessary measures to 
protect it. From my very earliest years, I was taught to 
share and to give back. Then I wanted to see and learn 
things  for  myself,  and  my  responsibility  today  is  to 
testify and to act. 
That is why, in June 2006, I decided to make my 

own contribution, as well as that of the Principality, by 
A/62/PV.5
to 
is 
and 
regarding 
accelerate 
to  engage 
creating  a  Foundation.  The  mission  of  the  Prince 
identify  priority  and 
Albert II  Foundation 
symbolic 
to 
projects 
their 
implementation  in  order  to  reach  concrete  results 
throughout  the  world  aimed  at  a  sustainable  and 
equitable management of natural resources. 

The  Foundation’s  activities  are  based  on  three 
strategic  principles.  The  first  is  to  act  alongside 
nations,  international  institutions  and  opinion  leaders 
in  order  to  enhance  consciousness  of  and  accelerate 
decisions for sustainable development. I am personally 
committed  to  leading  consciousness-raising  missions 
on the ground around the world. I will also stand with 
other  heads  of  States,  as  I  do  today,  and  take  part  in 
international  negotiation  meetings 
the 
environment. 

The  second  objective  of  my  Foundation  is  to 
promote initiatives, activities and corporate actions that 
combine  innovation  with  environmental  protection. 
The  Foundation  in  supporting  and  financing  about 
30 projects  as  of  this  year.  Through  its  activities,  the 
Foundation  also  wishes  to  attest  to  the  fact  that  it  is 
possible 
in  sustainable  practices  and 
behaviour  that  are  respectful  of  the  environment  and 
compatible  with 
and  human 
development. 

Lastly, its third objective is to create the broadest 
possible  public  understanding  of  the  environmental 
challenges and responsibilities involved in those issues 
via outreach activities. I commit myself to devoting the 
time  and  energy  necessary  to  the  success  of  those 
actions. 

All  the  programmes  adopted  by  the  Foundation 
comply  with  the  environmental  policy  of  my  country. 
Monaco has long been active in protecting the marine 
environment  and  in  developing  scientific  research  in 
marine  biology.  The  creation  a  century  ago  of  the 
the  Museum  of 
Oceanographic  Museum 
Prehistoric  Anthropology 
great-great-
grandfather Albert I, and the more recent creation of an 
underwater  reserve  by  my  father,  Prince  Rainier  III, 
bear witness to that policy. The RAMOGE Agreements 
for the  control of marine pollution and the Agreement 
on the Conservation of Cetaceans in the Black Sea, the 
Mediterranean  Sea  and  contiguous  Atlantic  Area 
reinforced that international engagement. That vocation 
is part of the history of my country. 
economic, 
social 
and 
by  my 
07-51584 

31 
A/62/PV.5 


This  year,  I  agreed  to  sponsor  an  ambitious 
international initiative launched by the United Nations 
Environment  Programme,  the  objective  of  which  is  to 
provide  for  the  planting  of  at  least  1  billion  trees 
throughout  the  world  in  2007.  Seven  months  after  the 
launch of the operation, that objective was achieved. It 
is an extraordinary sign of hope, and I must commend 
the dynamism of the Programme, whose actions within 
the United Nations are essential for the environment. 

The  time  for  action  is  today.  We  already  know 
that  the  future  of  humanity  is  at  stake.  This  is  a 
collective responsibility. To tackle this urgent matter, it 
is necessary to raise awareness, mobilize capacities and 
revolutionize our lifestyle. That is how we will forge a 
new relationship to nature. As Yves Coppens, a French 
scientist,  stresses:  “for  millennia,  climate  has  dictated 
man’s  behaviour;  today,  it  is  man  who  dictates  his 
behaviour on nature”. 

It  is  also  necessary  to  commit  ourselves  to 
promoting  a  new  ethic  —  that  of  the  right  to  the 
protection  of  the  environment.  What  better  place  is 
there  than  this  prestigious  institution  to  lead  the  way 
forward? That  new  ethical  dimension  can  be  achieved 
only  if  built  on  the  sincere  commitment  of  each 
individual. That is why Bill Clinton, in his recent book, 
calls  for  concrete  mobilization.  As  he  says  so  well, 
“each one of us can give something. There is so much 
to  do;  it  is  never  too  late  to  start”.  Like  President 
Clinton, I believe that generosity is at the heart of that 
mobilization. 

It  is  thus  imperative  to  transcend  our  own 
selfishness  and  inertia,  and  to  learn  to  develop  a 
harmonious 
relationship  between  humankind  and 
nature. Safeguarding our planet is the challenge of the 
twenty-first  century.  That  challenge  requires  courage, 
tenacity, commitment and generosity. Above all, let us 
act. Peter Frumhoff, one of the main contributors to the 
report  of  the  Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate 
Change,  declared, 
large-scale  study 
undertaken by the Union of Concerned Scientists, that 
“some  changes  are 
the  worst 
consequences  can  be  avoided  if  we  act  quickly”. That 
message  was  reiterated  over  and  over  again  yesterday 
during 
the  high-level  event  on  climate  change 
convened by the Secretary-General. 

The  European  Union  has  shown  the  way  by 
committing to a 50 per cent reduction of its greenhouse 
gases  by  2050.  Let  us  help  developing  countries  by 
inevitable,  but 
following  a 
finding  new  financial  resources;  let  us  quickly  update 
our  modes  of  production  and  consumption.  To  meet 
that challenge, we must work together to find solutions 
to  existing  problems.  Individual  announcements  or 
actions  will  never  solve  the  problem.  The  threat  is 
global. As the climatologist Edouard Bard has pointed 
out,  “global  warming  concerns  our  entire  ecosystem 
and the consequences of this phenomenon can be done 
only at the global level”. 

We  have  long  lived  in  a  world  fraught  with 
threats, but for the first time we are facing a planetary 
threat that threatens humankind itself. The evolution of 
human  mindsets  and  behaviour  will  inevitably  take 
time, but the planet cannot wait. Thus, without further 
delay,  we  must  adopt  a  culture  of  responsibility.  We 
must  meet  this  historic  challenge  so  that  we  may 
preserve planet Earth for our children. Let us make the 
choice of hope based on humanistic values, and let us 
not forget the power of courage when it is supported by 
the  will  to  place  humankind  at  the  core  of  our 
priorities. 

There  are  also  ethical  considerations  which 
inspire my country’s constant and resolute commitment 
in the fight against terrorism. In no circumstances can 
violence  ever  be  a  legitimate  means  to  pursue  any 
combat, whatever the cause may be. 

To consolidate its legal framework in compliance 
with  international  standards,  and  according  to  the 
recommendations  of  the  Financial  Action  Task  Force 
on  Money  Laundering  (FATF),  the  Principality  of 
Monaco took measures identical to the European Union 
directives  adopted  to  fight  money  laundering  and 
terrorism.  Without  waiting  for  the  new  report  of  the 
Select Committee of Experts on the Evaluation of Anti-
Money  Laundering  Measures, 
this  area,  my 
Government enacted new laws and regulations on these 
issues.  With  those  tireless  efforts,  Monaco  has  been 
publicly recognized for leading the way in this field. I 
will  maintain  the  required  vigilance  so  that  our 
legislative  framework  and  our  security  policy  will 
continue to guarantee the reputation of the Principality 
as  a  safe  State.  In  so  doing,  I  reiterate  my  unfaltering 
determination 
the  manifestations  of 
terrorism regardless of their forms. 

For my country, sustainable development and the 
fight  against  poverty  go  hand  in  hand,  in  that  we  are 
called  upon  to  identify  a  new  manner  of  growth  more 
respectful of the resources of our planet, which, while 
to  combat 
in 
32 

07-51584 


abundant, are not inexhaustible. That is the reason why 
I asked my Government to increase by 30 per cent for 
the  year  2008,  under  the  heading  of  international 
cooperation,  the  total  of  the  Principality’s  voluntary 
contributions  to  the  funds  and  programmes  of  the 
United Nations. This significant increase of funding for 
official  development  assistance  is  proof  my  country’s 
determination to eventually reach the target of devoting 
0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  income  to  official 
development  assistance.  A  great  deal  remains  to  be 
done  in  the  fields  of  education,  access  to  health  care, 
the  fight  against  pandemics  and  HIV/AIDS,  human 
crises  following  natural  disasters  or  conflicts  and, 
lastly, the fight against poverty. 

I  pay  particular  attention  to  the  Principality’s 
actions  through  multilateral  and  bilateral  assistance 
programmes, supplemented by the generous initiatives 
of  the  charitable  organizations  in  Monaco,  which  are 
also part of my country’s tradition. 

Children’s  welfare  has,  for  a  long  time,  been  a 
priority  commitment  for  the  Principality.  My  sister, 
Her  Royal  Highness  the  Princess  of  Hanover,  is 
actively  involved  with  this  issue  through  the  World 
Association 
(AMADE 
Mondiale).  In  December,  the  General  Assembly  will 
hold 
the 
implementation  of  the  Declaration  and  Plan  of Action 
entitled “A world fit for children” (resolution S-27/2), 
adopted  in  2002.  Considerable  progress  has  been 
achieved in five years, although there still are too many 
needs to be met. 

Monaco  has  also  joined  the  campaign  entitled 
“Unite for children. Unite against AIDS,” sponsored by 
UNICEF,  the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on 
HIV/AIDS 
the  World  Health 
Organization.  My  sister,  Princess  Stephanie,  Special 
Representative  of  UNAIDS,  has  committed  herself 
wholeheartedly  to  harnessing  the  energies  of  the 
Principality and beyond to advance in the fight against 
this scourge. 

Reform of the Security Council remains a current 
issue. I reaffirm my country’s support for a process of 
increasing the membership of this Council. In fact, the 
chances of maintaining international peace and security 
will  be  that  much  greater  if  the  representation  of  the 
international  community  in  the  Security  Council  were 
the most equitable possible. 
evaluate  progress 
of  Children’s 
(UNAIDS) 
a  debate 
Friends 
and 
to 
in 
A/62/PV.5

I also express the wish that the newly established 
Department  of  Field  Support,  working  alongside  the 
Department of Peacekeeping Operations, will facilitate 
the actions of United Nations personnel on the ground 
working  valiantly  to  safeguard  peace.  I  congratulate 
the Secretary-General on the efforts he has undertaken 
to these ends. 

My  country  became  a  Member  of  the  United 
Nations  14  years  ago.  Ever  since,  the  Principality  has 
increased  its  participation  on  the  international  scene. 
The  Principality  has  taken  pleasure  in  hosting  many 
international  meetings  and  high-level  conferences  in 
recent years.  

Accordingly,  I  am  delighted  that  in  February 
2008,  the  tenth  special  session  of  the  Governing 
Council  of  United  Nations  Environment  Programme 
and the Global Ministerial Environment Forum will be 
held  in  Monaco.  On  that  occasion,  I  will  proudly 
receive ministers of the environment of Member States 
to discuss topics similar to those we are tackling within 
the General Assembly framework and thus to continue 
the debate launched here. In so doing, my country will, 
I  hope,  contribute  once  again 
the 
fundamental  debates  of  our  time  and  will  reaffirm  its 
will to be at the heart of the genuine struggle. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  His  Serene 
Highness Prince Albert II of Monaco for the statement 
he has just made. 

  His  Serene  Highness  Prince Albert  II  of  Monaco 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 
its  part 
to 


Address by Mr. Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of 
the Republic of Estonia 

address by the President of the Republic of Estonia.  

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
  Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of 
Republic  of  Estonia,  was  escorted 
into 
General Assembly Hall.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves, 
President of the Republic of Estonia, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
President  Ilves:  I  shall  speak  today  on  four 

fundamental  topics:  climate  change,  cybersecurity, 
the 
the 
07-51584 

33 
that 
The 
resources 
and 
In 
accordance  with 
A/62/PV.5 

conflict resolution and cooperation among international 
organizations. 

the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, as well as 
the  Kyoto  Protocol, 
industrialized  countries  are 
obligated to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases. 
Estonia  has  already  achieved  the  basic  target  of  the 
Kyoto  Protocol:  our  emissions  of  greenhouse  gases 
have  been  cut  back  by  over  50  per  cent.  Fully 
subscribing  to  the  European  Union  statement  on  the 
post-2012 vision for international climate,  released by 
the  Portuguese  presidency,  we  hope 
the 
negotiations concerning a new global climate deal will 
reach  a  new  comprehensive  and  global  political 
agreement by as early as December 2009.  

Yes, we recognize that developing countries have 
special  needs  in  the  areas  of  sustainable  economic 
growth and eradication of poverty. But we also need to 
decouple  economic  growth  from  energy  consumption 
and  carbon  dioxide  emissions.  Investing  in  energy 
efficiency  will  have  a  huge  impact  on  our  future. 
Diversification of the energy supply and greater use of 
renewable energies are the way forward.  
for 

decarbonisation 
industrial 
nations.  Therefore,  we  need  to  continue  the  dialogue 
between 
and  developing  nations 
concerning 
the  adoption  of  a  “green”  economy, 
reducing carbon-fuel dependency and counterbalancing 
climate change caused by human activities. We need to 
promote  technology  transfer,  which  is  necessary  for 
developing  environment-friendly  energy  production. 
Estonia  believes  that  the  best  way  forward  is  to  tie 
development  assistance 
in  clean 
technologies. 

If in the past people were connected by sea lanes 
and trade routes, today we are ever more connected by 
the  Internet,  along  with  the  threats  that  loom  in 
cyberspace.  Cyberattacks  are  a  clear  example  of 
contemporary  asymmetrical  threats  to  security.  They 
make  it  possible,  with  limited  means  and  from  a 
distance, to paralyse a society.  
In  the  future,  cyberattacks  may,  in  the  hands  of 

criminals  or  terrorists  or  terrorist  States,  become  a 
considerably  more  widespread  and  dangerous  weapon 
than  they  are  at  present.  Cyberattacks  are  a  threat  not 
only  to  sophisticated  information  technology  systems, 
but also to communities as a whole. For example, they 
the 
come  primarily 
technology 
from 
to 
investment 
industrialized 
could  be  used  to  paralyse  a  city’s  emergency  medical 
services. The threats posed by cyberwarfare have often 
been  underestimated,  since,  fortunately,  they  have  not 
as  yet  resulted  in  the  loss  of  any  lives.  Also,  for 
security  reasons,  the  details  of  cyberattacks  are  often 
not publicized.  

In addition to taking concrete technical and legal 
measures  to  counter  cyberattacks,  Governments  must 
morally  define  cyberviolence  and  cybercrime,  which 
deserve to be generally condemned in the same way as 
terrorism  and  the  trafficking  in  human  beings  are 
condemned.  Fighting  against  cyberwarfare  is  in  the 
interests of us all. It requires both appropriate domestic 
measures and international efforts. 

In  April  and  May  of  this  year,  my  country, 
Estonia,  coped 
successfully  with  an  extensive 
cyberattack,  and  we  are  prepared  to  share  with  other 
countries the know-how that we have acquired. We call 
upon the international community to cooperate in legal 
matters  in  questions  concerning  cybersecurity.  But, 
since this whole subject is in a relatively new field, it is 
essential  to  establish  an  appropriate  legal  space. As  a 
first  step,  we  call  upon  all  countries  to  accede  to  the 
Convention  on  Cybercrime  of  the  Council  of  Europe. 
The  Convention 
is  also  open  for  accession  by  
non-members of the Council. 

truly 
international  framework  for  combating  these  vicious 
acts.  The  Global  Cybersecurity  Agenda  of 
the 
International  Telecommunications  Union,  launched  by 
the Secretary-General in May, is an important initiative 
for  building  international  cooperation  in  this  field. 
Estonia  also  agrees  with 
the 
specialists of the United Nations Institute for Training 
and  Research 
that  a  globally  negotiated  and 
comprehensive cyberspace law is essential and that the 
United  Nations  can  provide  the  neutral  and  legitimate 
forum necessary for that task. 

The  United  Nations  is  determined  to  resolve 
conflicts.  Understandably,  conflict  prevention  and 
resolution,  particularly  in Africa,  is  a  top  priority. We 
welcome  the  creation  of  a  United  Nations-African 
Union  peacekeeping  force  to  quell  the  violence  and 
instability plaguing the Darfur region of the Sudan. 

It is important to settle conflicts in other places as 
well,  such  as  Afghanistan.  We  need  to  increase  the 
presence  and  visibility  of  the  United  Nations  there, 
which  would  be  an  encouraging  sign  for  the  local 
We  should  move  ahead  and  create  a 
the  assessment  of 
34 

07-51584 
in 
the 
effort 
coordinating 
reconstruction 
the  neighbouring  region, 


population  and  would  also  send  a  signal  to  other 
international  aid  organizations  and  non-governmental 
organizations that they should increase their activities. 
The  United  Nations  should  also  assume  a  greater  role 
in 
in 
Afghanistan. 

I would like to highlight one conflict in Europe in 
which the United Nations has a significant role to play: 
the conflict in Abkhazia, Georgia. Along with the other 
“frozen”  conflicts 
it 
remains among the last unresolved conflicts in Europe. 
It  is  my  hope  that  the  Group  of  Friends  of  the 
Secretary-General  will  have  the  determination  to  find 
solutions that honour Georgia’s territorial integrity. We 
cannot  be  satisfied  with  the  current  situation.  It  is 
important  to  build  confidence  between  the  parties  and 
to resume the meetings between the representatives of 
Georgia’s Government and those of Abkhazia. There is 
no place for military provocations, internal or external.  

A  major  task  for  the  United  Nations  remains  the 
facilitation  of  the  return  of  refugees  to  Abkhazia, 
which,  unfortunately,  has  been  greatly  hampered. 
Progress  regarding  the  conflict  is  possible  if  all 
interested  parties  act  in  a  constructive  way.  We  must 
generate  the  political  will  necessary  to  resolve  the 
conflict.  In  that  context,  I  welcome  the  increased 
contribution of the European Union (EU). 

The  international  community  should  also  secure 
the  best  and  most  rational  use  of  available  resources, 
including  in  emergency  and  crisis  response  situations. 
For example, both the United Nations and the EU were 
involved  in  managing  the  response  to  the  Asian 
tsunami in 2004 and the Lebanese crisis in 2006. That 
once  again  brought  to  the  fore  the  necessity  of 
developing  common  needs  assessments  —  to  further 
discuss  the  roles  and  mandates  of  the  relevant  actors, 
such as the United Nations Office for the Coordination 
of  Humanitarian  Affairs,  the  European  Commission’s 
Directorate-General  for  Humanitarian  Aid  and  the 
Community Mechanism for Civil Protection of the EU. 

Poverty,  armed  conflicts  and  natural  disasters 
such as floods, tsunamis and forest fires are all causes 
of  another  global  problem  —  forced  migration,  which 
should also be tackled in a more concerted manner by 
the  whole  international  community.  Being  forced  to 
leave  one’s  home  is  always  a  tragedy.  I  know:  my 
family  was  forced  to  leave  my  country,  fleeing  brutal 
Soviet occupation forces. Trying to integrate into a new 
A/62/PV.5
society is always a significant challenge. Only through 
well-coordinated  common  efforts  can  we  ensure  that 
people  never  again  have  to  leave  their  homes  because 
they  have  no  other  option. Thus,  a  global  approach  to 
human  migration  should  remain  a  vital  issue  on  the 
United Nations agenda. 
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Estonia for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Estonia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  President: On  behalf  of 


into 
Address by His Excellency Mr. José Eduardo dos 
Santos, President of the Republic of Angola 

address by the President of the Republic of Angola.  

The  President: The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
Mr.  José  Eduardo  dos  Santos,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Angola,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  José  Eduardo  dos  Santos, 
President of the Republic of Angola, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
President  Dos  Santos  (spoke  in  Portuguese; 

English text provided by the delegation): At the outset, 
I  would  like  to  salute  the  international  community, 
legitimately  represented  here  today.  I  would  also  like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  personally  congratulate 
Mr. Ban  Ki-moon  on  his  election  to  the  post  of 
Secretary-General of our Organization. I am confident, 
Sir, 
leadership,  steadfastness  and 
commitment will assist us in our search for consensual 
solutions to the issues that affect humanity in order to 
make  the  world  an  increasingly  safer,  freer  and  fairer 
place. 
Today,  the  world  is  confronted  with  global 

warming,  a  consequence  of  the  atmospheric  pollution 
resulting  from  human  activity  on  Earth,  which  is 
causing  dramatic  and  dangerous  climate  change.  The 
world is also confronted with extremists who resort to 
terrorism and the use of religion for political ends; with 
growing  militarism  as  a  would-be 
to 
terrorism; and with the hoarding of capital, information 
and know-how, all of which widen the gap between the 
that  your  able 
response 
07-51584 

35 
A/62/PV.5 

rich  and  the  poor  and  generate  social  tensions  around 
the world. 

On the issue  of terrorism,  the model  of  an open, 
democratic  and  tolerant  civilization,  with  a  State  that 
serves  the  interests  of  all,  has  shown  that  parties  that 
alternate in political office in the post-cold-war period 
can  coexist  and  fight  for  their  principles  and  values 
through peaceful means. I believe that the same model 
can  be  successful  if  properly  adjusted  to  the  concrete 
realities of other regions. 
At the same time, we must continue to deepen our 

study  and  analysis  of  the  threat  of  terrorism  and  use 
peaceful  means  to  seek  an  ever-broader  consensus  on 
the collective responses needed to counter it.  
Islam  can  peacefully  coexist  in  societies  with 

other  religious  beliefs.  However,  it  is  necessary  to 
neutralize  fanaticism  and  prevent  the  Islamization  of 
the State, which is contrary to humanity’s modern legal 
concept of a secular State. 

In  our  opinion,  it  is  necessary  to  defend  cultural 
diversity  and  to  render  more  inclusive  and  fair  the 
process of political, economic and social development; 
to  support  and  stimulate, 
that  are 
predominantly  Islamic,  all  the  forces  and  movements 
that  defend  modern  life  and  the  separation  of  State 
from religion; and to support the values and privileges 
of 
in 
conventions,  charters  and  international  treaties.  This 
movement is immense, it continues to grow and it can 
be  more  effective  than  military  action,  which  in  our 
understanding should only constitute a last resort.  

Ecumenism  and  dialogue  among  cultures  are 
other  avenues  for  action  that  can  be  better  and  more 
frequently  used 
the  dominant 
religions and all the people of the world, based on the 
ideals of peace, solidarity and fraternity. 

The  fight  against  poverty  and  hunger  in  the 
world,  with  a  global  plan  monitored  by  the  United 
Nations  as  an  international  convention,  higher  and 
fairer 
for  commodities  or  natural 
resources  extracted  from  developing  countries  and 
technical  support  to  poor  States  would  contribute 
greatly to eliminating social inequalities and the social 
seedbed and support of those who prefer violence. 

In  this  regard,  the  globalization  of  the  economy 
must be regulated in order to mitigate the asymmetries 
between  the  centre  and  the  periphery  of  the  economic 
the  universal  culture 
that  are  enshrined 
remuneration 
in  countries 
to  bring 
together 
the 
to 
that 
We 
the 
Such 
regulation 
should 
further 
to  ensure 
initiative  of 
therefore  support 
the  protection  of 
that  each  person  has 
system  and 
necessary means for survival with dignity. 

address 
environmental  matters.  There  are  countries  that  have 
industrial  development  without 
experienced  rapid 
paying  due  attention 
the 
environment.  Other  countries  are  now  involved  in  an 
identical  endeavour,  thus  increasing  the  production  of 
carbon dioxide and worsening the greenhouse effect. It 
is  plain  that  a  new  meeting  of  all  world  leaders  is 
urgently  required  in  order  to  approve  and  begin  the 
execution of a global plan of environmental protection. 

the 
Secretary-General  to  that  end,  convinced  that  the 
countries that most pollute the atmosphere, such as the 
richest  countries,  should  contribute  more  resources  to 
its protection. 

Today, the Republic of Angola is in a position to 
engage  more  actively  in  this  collective  effort  of 
solidarity  for  humanity,  because  the  country  has  been 
at peace for a little more than five years and is moving 
towards  complete  normalization  of 
its  political, 
economic  and social life. Proof of that lies in the fact 
that  Angola  has  already  signed  all  the  international 
protocols  in  favour  of  environmental  protection,  such 
as  the  Kyoto  and  the  Montreal  Protocols,  while 
contributing  to  conflict  resolution  and  peace  in  its 
region and in the African continent as a whole. 

As  a  country  that  has  recently  chaired  the 
Peacebuilding Commission, we are pleased to learn of 
the  important  progress  achieved  in  consolidating  the 
peace  processes  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  Burundi,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Liberia  and  Serra 
Leone. 

However,  the  conflict  between  Ethiopia  and 
Eritrea  and  the  conflict  in  Darfur,  Sudan,  still  prevail, 
while the issue of Western Sahara’s self-determination 
remains  unresolved. 
the 
Organization  will  remain  engaged  in  the  search  for  a 
solution to these problems in the shortest time possible 
and  that  United  Nations  forces  will  be  urgently 
deployed in Darfur. 
The  Commission  of  the  Gulf  of  Guinea  is 

currently  headquartered 
the 
representatives  of  the  Zone  of  Peace  and  Cooperation 
of  the  South Atlantic  met  recently  at  the  initiative  of 
Angola.  Both  institutions  promote  peace,  security, 
in  Luanda,  where 
I  am  convinced 
36 

07-51584 
in 
the 


stability  and  multiform  cooperation  among 
their 
members,  in  consonance  with  the  principles  of  the 
United Nations Charter. 
I  must  highlight  the  decisive  role  that  regional 

and  subregional  organizations  can  play 
the 
prevention  and  resolution  of  conflicts.  At  the  same 
time, they can alert everyone to the need to strengthen 
the  mandates  and  the  financing  of  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations,  without  prejudice  to  post-
conflict  activities,  such  as  disarmament  and 
the 
resettlement of populations, among other actions. 

In  the  particular  case  of  Africa,  it  is  in  our 
interest  to  see  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  fully  achieved,  so  that  the  growth  rate  of  the 
entire  continent  can  be  aligned  with  that  of  the  world 
economy. The reduction of extreme poverty by 50 per 
cent by 2015, as foreseen by the United Nations, must 
be accompanied by a decisive fight against hunger and 
disease, 
including  HIV/AIDS  and  other  endemic 
scourges.  The  effectiveness  of  these  actions  depends, 
however,  on  complementary  achievements,  such  as 
fairer  trade  with  developed  countries,  greater  fluidity 
in 
transfer  of  capital,  official  development 
assistance and forgiveness of foreign debt. 

In  recent  years,  significant  progress  has  been 
made in the reform of the United Nations system. It is 
nevertheless important to continue to move forward in 
that  process,  especially  in  regard  to  the  Security 
Council,  with 
the 
authority and the effectiveness of the Organization and 
making  it  more  representative,  more  democratic  and 
more participatory in the areas of international security, 
development and human rights. 

In spite of criticism and some known failures, the 
United  Nations  remains  the  only  institution  at  the 
international  level  with  the  prestige  and  credibility  to 
resolve inter-State conflicts and crises that, due to their 
dimensions,  escape  the  control  of  the  authorities  of  a 
State or endanger its population. 
fight 
against 

and  biological 
conventional,  nuclear, 
weapons 
the 
peacekeeping and humanitarian operations of the Blue 
Helmets  in  many  regions,  have  contributed  to  greater 
world  security.  In  that  regard,  it  is  important  to 
strengthen the monitoring of the implementation of the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT),  so  as  to  move  towards  a  global  disarmament 
The  United  Nations-led 
chemical 
the  objective  of  strengthening 
landmines, 
addition 
and 
in 
to 
A/62/PV.5
process  and  discourage  a  new  arms  race.  It  is  also 
urgent  to  relaunch  the  Middle  East  peace  process  in  a 
committed and comprehensive manner, for the Middle 
East  remains  unstable  and  the  source  of  a  constant 
threat to world peace. 

A  recurring  theme  in  the  Assembly’s  agenda  is 
the  embargo  against  Cuba.  It  is  imperative  to  put  an 
end  once  and  for  all  to  the  economic,  trade  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America,  as  it  violates  the  principles  of  international 
law  and  Chapters  I  and  II  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter.  Angola  hopes  that  the  United  Nations  will 
state its view on this matter and remain faithful to the 
core of its Charter, according to which all actions must 
be the result of a debate and a collective decision, thus 
excluding unilateralism. 

The  challenges  that  lie  ahead  of  us  entail  a 
constructive dialogue among all the countries involved, 
especially among heads of State and Government, who 
will  have 
to  overcome  possible  differences  and 
impediments  and  will  have  to  find  middle  ground 
between 
the  desirable,  between 
boldness and realism. 

the 
promotion  of  dialogue  among  civilizations  and  the 
revitalization of the spirit of international solidarity, it 
will be possible to build a better world for all. A world 
of peace, based on justice and the rule of law, without 
weapons  of  war  and  without  dangerous  pollution  is  a 
safer  world.  Its  construction  depends  entirely  on  the 
political  will  of  all  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations,  especially  the  permanent  members  of  the 
Security Council. Let us all unite our forces for a better 
world for all. 
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Angola for the statement he has just made. 

The  President: On  behalf  of 
Mr.  José  Eduardo  Santo,  President  of 
Republic  of  Angola,  was  escorted 
from 
General Assembly Hall.
the  possible  and 
joint  action, 
We  believe 
through 
the 
the 
that 

07-51584 

37 


time 
I  sincerely 
A/62/PV.5 

Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 
Address by Mr. Romano Prodi, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Italy 

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Italy. 
the 

Mr.  Romano  Prodi,  Prime  Minister  of 
Republic of Italy, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President:
I  have  great  pleasure 

in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Romano  Prodi,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Italy,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Prodi  (Italy)  (spoke  in  Italian;  English  text 

provided  by  the  delegation):  I  wish  to  offer  you  my 
heartfelt  congratulations,  Sir,  on  your  election  to 
preside  over  this  sixty-second  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. Your experience in international affairs and 
your  first-hand  knowledge  of  the  Organization  make 
you particularly suitable for this important post. At the 
same 
thank  your  predecessor, 
Ms. Haya  Rashed  Al  Khalifa,  for  her  wise  and 
dedicated leadership of the Assembly. 

I want to begin my statement where I left off last 
year,  with  Italy’s  decision  to  defend  human  rights  in 
the  world  and  to  oppose  the  death  penalty.  In  recent 
months,  Italy  has  worked  very  hard  to  enable  the 
Assembly 
to  adopt  a  resolution  on  a  universal 
moratorium  on  the  death  penalty,  with  a  view  to  its 
complete  abolition.  It  has  been  a  source  of  great 
satisfaction  to  see  support  for  our  initiative  growing 
day by day in Europe and in every other region of the 
world. We have now reached a decisive moment. 
I  trust  that  we  shall  all  be  united  in  this  battle, 

which  is  supported  by  Nobel  laureates,  statesmen  and 
stateswomen, and free men and women throughout the 
world, and that the “growing trend in international law 
and national practice toward a phasing out of the death 
penalty”  —  to  quote  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
(Press  release  SG/SM/10839)  —  will  be  officially 
sanctioned by this General Assembly’s adoption of the 
draft  resolution  we  are  about  to  submit  together  with 
many countries from every regional group and from the 
European  Union.  If  genuine  politics  means  showing 
foresight, we shall perform a great political act through 
the  adoption  of 
It  will 
demonstrate  that  humankind  is  capable  of  making 
to  support 
We  must  continue 
progress  not  only  in  science,  but  also  in  the  field  of 
ethics. 

A  United  Nations  resolution  against  the  death 
penalty  will  prove  that  human  beings  are  better  today 
than  they  were  yesterday,  even  in  moral  terms.  An 
outcome  with  enormous  consequences,  heralding  a 
more  just  future,  and  a  society  that  has  at  last  freed 
itself  from the spiral of revenge, demonstrating  that it 
has heeded the ancient admonition: if you want peace, 
you must work for justice. 
Last year we welcomed the ceasefire in Lebanon 

and  the  launch  of  the  new  United  Nations  Interim 
Force  in  Lebanon  (UNIFIL),  which  has  been  under 
Italian  command  for  several  months  now.  Today, 
thanks in part to our common commitment, Lebanon is 
in  a  better  situation,  although  it  has  not  yet  solved  its 
problems,  as  the  brutal  attacks  of  recent  days  have 
unfortunately demonstrated. 
the  Lebanese 

reconciliation process and help the country to regain its 
unity through the election of a new President. We must 
do this without ignoring the root causes of the conflicts 
afflicting  the  Middle  East,  first  and  foremost  the 
Palestinian  question.  In  short,  we  must  continue  to 
mobilize support for reconciliation among peoples and 
within a single people. 
Restoring  peace  to  the  Middle  East  is  the  top 

priority of the international community, because if one 
day this region should find greater peace, freedom and 
prosperity,  we  shall  all  live  in  greater  peace,  freedom 
and prosperity. I am therefore delighted that the United 
States  has  promoted  a  new  international  meeting.  We 
are  ready  to  provide  our  input  and  we  are  already 
preparing  it,  knowing  that  the  more  countries  in  the 
region  that  are  behind  this  meeting,  the  greater  the 
possibility of success. 

Italy  will  continue  to  play  its  part  in  the  rest  of 
the  region  too,  beginning  with  dialogue.  For  it  is 
through  dialogue  that  the  most  difficult  issues  can  be 
resolved.  I  have  never  seen  a  lasting  solution  to  a 
problem when the solution was imposed from above or 
from outside. 

Today’s challenges, such as bringing peace to the 
Middle  East,  are  complex.  If  we  wish  to  overcome 
them we must rise to their dimensions. In other words, 
we  have  to  set  aside  all  partisan  interests  in  a  world 
that is increasingly shaped by global processes.  
that  draft 
resolution. 
38 

07-51584 
to  solving 
National  approaches 



This applies also to climate change, to which this 
session  is  most  appropriately  dedicated.  As  I  said 
yesterday  at  the  panel  convened  by  the  Secretary-
General,  Italy  considers  climate  change  a  priority 
issue.  We  are  among  the  European  supporters  of  a 
unilateral  20  per  cent  reduction  in  greenhouse  gas 
emissions  by  2020.  We  have  made 
similar 
commitments  on  energy  efficiency,  renewable  energy 
sources and biofuels. In Europe we have already made 
various  strategic  decisions,  but  it  is  obvious  that  any 
post-Kyoto agreement can only be achieved within the 
United  Nations,  because  when  speaking  about  global 
warming we are speaking about the pre-eminent global 
problem of our day.  

the  world’s 
problems  no  longer  exist.  The  era  of  making  and 
unmaking  national  borders  is  long  over.  It  is  only 
through  multilateralism,  by  marshalling  everyone’s 
energies, that we can hope to do good. 

Our  task  today  is  to  adapt  the  multilateral 
structures  at  our  disposal  to  a  changing  world  and  to 
think  of  new  forms  of  global  governance,  for  there  is 
no other way to manage global processes.  

The  challenge  facing  Europe  today  is  not  to 
become  resigned  to  the  world  as  it  is,  but  to  seek  to 
improve  it  based  on  the  values  in  which  Europe 
believes:  freedom,  democracy,  respect  for  others,  and 
respect  for  the  rules  of  peaceful  coexistence.  That  is 
why we are adapting our founding treaties. That is why 
we are building a common foreign and defence policy. 
That  is  why  we  have  invented  a  new  citizenship, 
European  citizenship,  to  which  we  are  entitled  by 
choosing  to  share  certain  values,  not  by  virtue  of 
kinship or nationality.  
The  European  dream  is  thus  the  child  of  the 

universal dream of the United Nations. In the past year 
the United Nations has continued to play a central role 
in  resolving 
international  disputes.  The  cases  of 
Lebanon and Darfur demonstrate that if Member States 
are willing to give the United Nations a strong central 
role, the Organization is today up to the task. We have 
to  ask  ourselves  what  the  United  Nations  needs  in 
order to fulfil its worldwide mission and to be equally 
effective in different crisis areas. 

First  and  foremost,  we  need  an  Organization 
capable  of  renewal  and  adaptation.  In  the  past  two 
years  the  revival  of  the  reform  process  produced  its 
first  positive  results.  One  essential  aspect  of  reform 
A/62/PV.5
The 
principles 
of 
and 
democracy 
relates  to  the  General  Assembly,  which  remains  the 
main  decision-making  organ  of  the  Organization.  I 
never  tire  of  repeating  that  we  have  to  restore  the 
General  Assembly’s  central  position,  and  exploit  its 
political  guidance  potential  and,  above  all, 
its 
universality. 

the 
representation  of  every  Member  State  underpin  the 
United Nations system. That is why we are opposed to 
any  concept  of  Security  Council  reform  that  would 
establish  new  permanent  members.  The  growing 
contribution  of  a  growing  number  of  countries  to  the 
Organization  should  not  be  wasted  by  introducing 
elitist and selective reforms. 

It  is  clear  that  reforming  the  Security  Council 
means addressing one of the fundamental pillars of the 
global security architecture. The Council’s central role 
and its nature as the paramount source of international 
legitimacy impel us to seek shared political solutions.  

Last  year,  in  this  very  Hall,  I  advocated  that 
negotiations be started to break the deadlock and help 
strengthen the Organization. I spoke of the need to start 
negotiations based not on imposing predefined models 
and  positions,  but  rather  on  the  search  for  solutions 
based on the widest possible consensus. 

I  am  therefore  delighted  that,  one  year  later,  the 
General  Assembly  has  decided  to  make  every  effort, 
through  intergovernmental  negotiations  among  others, 
to  reach  a  general  agreement  on  Security  Council 
reform that we all hope will open a new chapter with a 
view  to  an  agreed  solution,  a  solution  that  I  hope  can 
include  strengthening  the  presence  of  the  leading 
regional  stakeholders  in  the  Security  Council.  My 
country  is  ready  and  will  not  fail  to  demonstrate 
commitment and to contribute ideas in this new phase 
of the Security Council reform process.  

Reform is also intended to make the Organization 
more effective in the areas and on the issues where, by 
history  and  vocation,  it  can  provide  greater  added 
value: Africa and development issues. 

The  United  Nations  is  deeply  engaged  in Africa. 
Over  two  thirds  of  the  Blue  Helmets  are  deployed  in 
Africa on peacekeeping missions. Italy will pursue this 
goal  through  the  establishment  of  the  African  Peace 
Facility  fund,  which  will  complement  its  European 
counterpart  fund.  Darfur  and  Somalia  remain  two  of 
our central concerns. 
07-51584 

39 
The  President: On  behalf  of 
political imperative. It is above all a moral imperative 
for all of us. 

the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Italy for the statement just made. 

Mr.  Romano  Prodi,  Prime  Minister  of 
the 
Republic of Italy, was escorted from the rostrum. 


is 
That  brings  me 
to  development.  It 
the  United  Nations 
A/62/PV.5 


But  it  would  be  a  mistake  to  look  only  at  the 
negative side and forget the many encouraging signs of 
development  and  unity  coming  from  Africa.  I  am 
referring to the growth of the economy and to the hope 
that has arisen in many parts of the continent. 

In  Europe  we  are  now  preparing  for  the  second 
Africa-Europe  Summit.  I  hope  that  it  will  be  held 
successfully before the end of the year. Italy is working 
above  all  to  ensure  that  the  Summit  will  spark  a 
European policy for Africa that is worthy of the name. 

the 
responsibility  of 
to  keep 
development  at  the  top  of  the  international  agenda.  It 
will  take  more  than  lip  service  to  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  to  achieve  them.  We  all  have  to 
work for their attainment. I have already expressed my 
willingness  to  sit  at  a  table  next  year  for  a  progress 
report  on  the  implementation  of  the  commitments  we 
made seven years ago. 

We  can  no  longer  ignore  the  reality  around  us: 
one half of world trade and investment benefits 14 per 
cent of the world’s population; the 49 poorest countries 
in the world receive 0.5 per cent of the global product; 
and 90 per cent of the planet’s wealth lies in the hands 
of only 1 per cent of its inhabitants. Efforts are needed 
from  everyone,  particularly  those  who  have  more  to 
give. The  G-8  can  play  an  important  role  in  this  area. 
Here  and  now  I  pledge  to  make  this  issue  the 
centrepiece of the Italian presidency in 2009. 

The  principles  of  solidarity  and  cooperation 
underlying this Organization are as sound today as they 
were  62  years  ago.  The  spread  of  democratic  values 
and greater attention to the protection of human rights 
should  not  make  us  forget  that  these  principles  and 
values are still threatened and violated in far too many 
parts of the world. What is more, insecurity leads more 
and more people and countries to close themselves off. 

The  danger  is  that  this  sense  of  insecurity  can 
cause  societies  to  regress.  Even  the  most  free  and 
democratic  nations,  if  they  feel  they  are  under  threat, 
may  adopt  measures  that  will  undermine  peace  and 
with it, the civil and political rights of their citizens. 

In the face of such risks, the principles and values 
of  the  United  Nations  are  our  beacons  and  our  stars. 
They make it possible for us to navigate even by night 
and  in  rough  waters.  Staying  on  course  is  not  just  a 
to 
I  have  great  pleasure 
Address by Mrs. Angela Merkel, Chancellor of the 
Federal Republic of Germany 

The  President: The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  Chancellor  of  the  Federal  Republic  of 
Germany. 

Mrs.  Angela  Merkel,  Chancellor  of  the  Federal 
Republic  of  Germany,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum. 
The  President:

in 
welcoming  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Angela  Merkel, 
Chancellor  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany,  and 
inviting her to address the General Assembly. 
Mrs.  Merkel  (Germany)  (spoke  in  German; 

English text provided by the delegation): Please accept 
my congratulations, Mr. President, on your election as 
President  of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-second 
session. I wish you every success. 

We  are  currently  experiencing  a  period  of 
dramatic changes. Great opportunities are accompanied 
by  considerable  risks.  Global  structures  are  changing. 
States,  economies  and 
societies  are  becoming 
networked  as  never  before.  That  is  what  we  call 
globalization. 

The  good  thing  about  that  development  is  that 
prosperity is increasing, and more and more people are 
escaping 
that 
development  poses  is  that  not  everyone  has  their  fair 
share  of 
this  prosperity.  There  are  considerable 
imbalances. We  thus  need  a  global  awareness,  beyond 
national boundaries, of our joint responsibility in order 
to master the major challenges facing our world. 

Climate change is undoubtedly one of the central 
challenges  facing  humanity  today.  I  therefore  very 
much  welcome  your  decision,  Mr.  President,  to  make 
climate  change  the  focus  of  this  year’s  session  of  the 
General Assembly. Never before have the facts been so 
clear,  the  consensus  among  scientists  so  great  or  the 
need for action so indisputable. Each and every country 
from  poverty.  The  challenge 
that 
40 

07-51584 


is  affected  by  the  impact  of  climate  change.  No  one 
country  can  tackle  it  alone.  Not  to  take  action  would 
incur immense costs and cause new global conflicts. 

What does that mean for the way ahead? In quite 
concrete  terms,  it  means  that  any  contribution  from 
individual  States  or  groups  of  States  is  welcome. 
However,  I  would  like  to  add  most  emphatically  that 
such  contributions  can  only  complement  a  post-Kyoto 
agreement  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations. 
They can never replace it. 
This  session  of  the  General  Assembly  therefore 

has to set the course for the next vital step: the climate 
conference in Bali. Environment ministers will have to 
agree in Bali  on a clear road map so that negotiations 
can be successfully concluded by 2009. There are three 
key elements: a common understanding on the scale of 
emissions  reduction,  a  common  understanding  on  fair 
national contributions and a common understanding on 
the  instruments  we  should  use  both  to  protect  the 
climate and to foster economic growth. 

The  scope  of  the  need  for  action  is  becoming 
increasingly  clear.  We  must  at  least  halve  global 
emissions  by  the  middle  of  the  century.  For  this  we 
the  principle  of 
have  a  clear  guiding  principle: 
common 
differentiated 
responsibility. 
Industrialized  countries  must  embrace  ambitious 
absolute 
the  German 
presidency  the  European  Union  adopted  bold  targets 
for  2020.  All  industrialized  countries  will  have  to 
drastically reduce their per capita emissions. 
Emerging  economies  will  first  of  all  have  to 

decouple their economic growth from emissions. In the 
long  term,  per  capita  emissions  in  both  industrialized 
countries  and  emerging  economies  will  have 
to 
converge at a level compatible with our global climate 
protection target. 

Such  a  process  of  long-term  convergence  offers 
all countries scope to develop. It does not demand too 
much  of  anyone.  There  is  no  doubt  in  my  mind  that 
only  a  United  Nations  agreement  can  provide  the 
dependability this will require.  

Climate protection will therefore be a litmus test 
of 
the 
to  act 
effectively in the twenty-first century. For, on our own 
continent,  we  Europeans  know 
from  our  daily 
experience  that  —  although  any  individual  country  is 
international  community’s  ability 
targets.  During 
reduction 
but 
A/62/PV.5
First, 
strength 
and 
economic 
too small to make a real difference — together we can 
achieve much. 

In  the  light  of  our  experience,  I  believe  three 
principles  are  of  crucial  importance  to  our  common 
future. 
social 
responsibility  belong  together.  This  principle  applies 
both to how States treat their citizens and to how States 
treat each other. It emphasizes the right and freedom of 
each  individual  to  achieve  their  full  potential.  At  the 
same  time,  it  upholds  cohesion  and  solidarity,  while 
categorically rejecting isolationism and protectionism. 

That  is  why  we  are  seeking  a  balanced  and 
comprehensive  agreement  on  multilateral  trade.  In 
concrete  terms,  this  means  that  we  have  to  bring  the 
Doha Round to an early and successful conclusion. Too 
much time has been wasted. We have to seize the last 
chance  for  negotiations  this  autumn.  Our  aim  must  be 
transparent  financial  markets  and  effective  protection 
of intellectual property, as well as minimum legal and 
social standards. For I am convinced that there can be 
no fair competition without common ground rules. 

We can only achieve cohesion and solidarity in a 
global  development  partnership.  With  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  the  international  community  has 
laid  down  binding  quantifiable  targets  and  deadlines 
for  the  first  time.  Together  with  its  EU  partners, 
Germany  has  undertaken  to  reach  the  United  Nations 
0.7  per  cent  target  no  later  than  2015.  We  stand  by 
these pledges. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  that  genuine  partnership 
places all sides under an obligation — an obligation to 
step  up  the  fight  against  corruption,  to  aim  for  better 
governance  and  to  better  protect  human  rights.  We 
want  to  support Africa  in  particular.  There  have  been 
encouraging  developments  on 
the  continent  but 
unfortunately,  also,  serious  setbacks,  for  example  in 
Zimbabwe. 

the  world 
economy”  is,  therefore,  also  the  motto  guiding  this 
year’s German presidency of the Group of Eight (G-8). 

to 
strengthen  the  effectiveness  of  the  United  Nations.  In 
my  view,  there  is  absolutely  no  doubt  —  the  United 
Nations is the place where binding joint responses can 
be found to global challenges. But the United Nations 
is  in  need  of  reform.  This  is  true,  above  all,  of  the 
Security  Council.  In  many  crisis  situations  it  needs  to 
The  second  principle 
that  we  have 
“Growth  and 
responsibility 
in 
is 
07-51584 

41 
A/62/PV.5 

be  able  to  come  up  quickly  with  universally  binding 
proposals.  To  do  this,  it  must  have  international 
legitimacy.  However,  the  present  composition  of  the 
Security  Council  no  longer  reflects  the  world  today. 
There  is,  therefore,  no  alternative  to  adapting  it  to 
political realities. 

My country has over the past years been actively 
involved in this debate. Germany is prepared to assume 
more responsibility, and to take on a permanent seat on 
the  Security  Council. What  we  need  now  are  tangible 
results.  We  are  by  no  means  only  at  the  start  of  our 
endeavours.  The  United  Nations  reform  process  has 
already produced some results, such as the report of the 
High-level  Panel  on  United  Nations  system-wide 
coherence  and  the  establishment  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission. 

But  time  is  short. There  are  numerous  crises  we 
have  to  deal  with  right  now. And  notwithstanding  the 
many  differing  factors  that  have  led  to  these  crises, 
they  all  have  one  thing  in  common:  they  can  only  be 
solved  multilaterally. The  key  to  ending  them  is  unity 
of  purpose.  This  is  particularly  true  with  respect  to 
Iran.  Iran  has  continuously  worked  on  its  nuclear 
programme in clear contradiction of the demands of the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  and  the  United 
Nations. Nobody should be in the slightest doubt as to 
the  dangerous  nature  of  this  programme.  Iran  is 
ignoring Security Council resolutions. Iran is blatantly 
threatening Israel. 
Let us not fool ourselves. If Iran were to acquire 

the  nuclear  bomb, 
the  consequences  would  be 
disastrous,  first  and  foremost  for  the  existence  of 
Israel;  secondly,  for  the  entire  region;  and  ultimately 
for  all  of  us  in  Europe  and  the  world  who  attach  any 
importance  to  the  values  of  liberty,  democracy  and 
human  dignity.  That  is  why  we  have  to  prevent  Iran 
from acquiring nuclear arms. 

The  international  community  must  not  allow 
itself  to  be  divided  or  have  its  decisive  response  to 
Iran’s provocations undermined in any way. The world 
does  not  have  to  prove  to  Iran  that  Iran  is  building  a 
nuclear bomb. Iran has to convince the world that it is 
not striving towards such a bomb. 

Each  and  every  German  Chancellor  before  me 
has shouldered Germany’s special responsibility for the 
existence  of  Israel.  I,  too,  pledge  to  live  up  to  this 
responsibility  that  our  history  has  bequeathed  us.  It  is 
one  of  the  fundamental  principles  that  guides  my 
Israel’s 
security 
the  Palestinians 
In  other  words, 
country. 
is 
non-negotiable for me as German Chancellor. And that 
being the case, we have to do more than pay lip-service 
to it. Together with its partners, Germany will continue 
to  seek  a  diplomatic  solution.  With  this  aim  in  mind, 
Germany  will  —  if  Iran  does  not  come  around  — 
firmly advocate additional and harsher sanctions. 

Unity  of  purpose  is  also  the  key  in  the  fight 
against  international  terrorism,  and  especially  in  our 
efforts  aimed  at  security  and  stability  in Afghanistan. 
Unity  of  purpose  is  also  vital  for  ensuring  a  peaceful 
future  in  Kosovo,  where  NATO  and  the  European 
Union  play  a  particularly  active  role.  We  want  a 
solution under United Nations auspices. All parties are 
now called upon to show a willingness to compromise. 

We also strongly support the efforts of the Middle 
East  Quartet  for  peace  in  that  region.  Germany  is  a 
staunch  advocate  of  the  vision  of  two  States,  within 
secure  borders  and  in  peace,  for  the  Jewish  people  in 
Israel  and  for 
in  Palestine.  We 
welcome the fact that both parties are continuing their 
talks  with  great  vigour,  above  all  with  a  view  to  the 
Middle East conference scheduled for November. 

The  third  principle  is  that  we  have  to  strengthen 
our shared immutable values. In my opinion, one of the 
great  dangers  of  the  twenty-first  century  is  that  crises 
and conflicts could give rise to a clash of civilizations. 
This  must  not  happen.  For  this  reason,  I  plead  for 
tolerance  —  tolerance  as  properly  understood,  not 
“anything goes” masquerading as tolerance. Everybody 
must be able to follow his or her own path, but it must 
be  a  path  within  the  international  community,  not 
outside it. 

This  path  is  clearly  departed  from  wherever 
massive  human  rights  violations  are  committed,  as  in 
Darfur. A human tragedy is being played out there. Too 
much  time  has  already  been  squandered.  Now  is  the 
time  to  act.  The  crimes  perpetrated  there  must  not  go 
unpunished.  This  path  has  been  departed  from  in 
Myanmar,  where  human  rights  have  likewise  been 
disregarded for years. I urge the Government not to use 
force against the peaceful demonstrators and finally to 
make way for a democratic future for the country. This 
path is also departed from when political assassinations 
are  carried  out,  as  in  the  case  of  Rafik  Hariri  or  the 
recent cowardly attack just a few days ago in Lebanon. 
The  Hariri  tribunal  must  commence  its  work  with  all 
42 

07-51584 


possible  speed.  I  call  on  Syria  to  grant  Lebanon 
diplomatic recognition at long last. 

It  is  my  fundamental  conviction  that  we  must, 
time and again, muster the strength to assert our shared 
values of freedom and democracy. In order to do that, 
we need an unshakeable foundation.  
We  have  such  a  foundation:  the  Charter  of  the 

United Nations. It was  written when  Europe  and wide 
swathes  of  the  rest  of  the  world  lay  in  ruins.  At  the 
most basic level, it is a statement that, notwithstanding 
all the dark chapters and tortuous turns of our history, 
universal human rights do exist. In other words, what it 
all  comes  down  to  is  respecting  and  protecting  the 
dignity  of  each 
the 

individual  person.  That 
is 
A/62/PV.5
underlying reason why we assemble here each year and 
work together for the future of our peoples. 

Germany will do its utmost to advance that work. 
We  look  forward  to  fruitful  cooperation  with  all 
partners in the United Nations. 
the  General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Chancellor  of  the 
Federal Republic of Germany for the statement she has 
just made. 

The  President:  On  behalf  of 
Mrs.  Angela  Merkel,  Chancellor  of  the  Federal 
Republic  of  Germany,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
The meeting rose at 8.55 p.m. 


07-51584 

43 
