
A/62/PV.22
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

22nd plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 9 October 2007, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Mavroyiannis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Cyprus) 
that 
While  we 
agenda  of 
to  associate 
fully  support 
the  stature  of 
the  development 
instinctively  associate 
But  merely  highlighting 

the 
Organization  is  not  sufficient.  All  Member  countries 
must show through their actions that they recognize the 
primacy  of  the  United  Nations  in  solving  global 
challenges,  and 
its  organizational 
requirements and its aims. 

the  United 
Nations  with  world  peace  and  security,  we  would  do 
just  as  well 
it  with  development. 
Development  is,  to  a  large  extent,  a  prerequisite  for 
peace  and  security.  That 
is  why  we  must  not 
subordinate the development role of the United Nations 
to  any  other  it  has  to  play  on  the  world  stage.  That 
means 
the 
United Nations,  and  in  particular  the  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  must  be 
accorded priority and  carefully attended  to in order to 
win and keep the peace.  

This  being  2007,  we  are  at  the  halfway  point  of 
the  period  set  for  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs.  Yet 
the  results  have  been  less  than  spectacular  overall. 
Those who most desperately need to achieve the MDGs 
find themselves still unable to do so. In contrast to the 
bright  spots  of  Asia,  the  situation  remains  dire  in 
sub-Saharan Africa. There, several countries are not on 
track  to  achieving  a  single  MDG.  In  many  developing 
countries,  particularly  in  their  rural  regions,  people 
weather  the  vicissitudes  of  poverty  every  day.  Their 
plight  is  being  worsened  by  the  impact  of  climate 
change.  The  Secretary-General  does  not  mince  words 
on  this  matter:  “The  Millennium  Development  Goals 
and the other internationally agreed development goals 







  In the absence of the President, Mr. Mavroyiannis 
(Cyprus), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m. 
Agenda item 109 (continued) 
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/62/1) 
Mrs.  Asmady  (Indonesia):  Let  me  begin  by 

thanking  the  Secretary-General  for  his  first  report  on 
the work of the Organization (A/62/1). We very much 
value his overview of what was accomplished over the 
past  year  and  his  highlighting  of  the  various  factors 
that  need  to  be  addressed  in  the  future.  This  is  an 
extremely  important  report  for  my  delegation,  as 
Indonesia has always stood for a robust United Nations 
that plays a central role in international affairs. 

The  report  comes  at  a  critical  juncture  in  the 
history of the United Nations, not least because of the 
change  at  its  helm.  It  would  not  be  wrong  to  say  that 
the world is  going through a period of turbulence  and 
uncertainty.  Climate  change,  geopolitical  upheaval, 
uneven progress in the economic and social fields and 
large pockets of persistent poverty globally are some of 
the  crucial  challenges  confronting  peoples  of  the 
world.  We  will  tackle  these  issues  effectively  only  if 
the  international  community  reaffirms  its  commitment 
to the multilateral approach and if it does so from the 
most  credible  world  platform  available 
the 
community, the United Nations.  
to 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-53414 (E) 
*0753414* 

to 
said 
the  Parties 
A/62/PV.22 

cannot  be  achieved…  if  we  do  not  tackle  climate 
change” (A/62/1, para. 11). 

In  response  to  that,  Indonesian  President  Susilo 
Bambang  Yudhoyono  recently  echoed  that  sentiment 
while  addressing  the  General  Assembly.  On  global 
warming,  he 
that  “we  are  much  more 
interdependent than we thought in terms of the causes, 
symptoms and solutions” and that there was “the need 
for  urgency,  which  means  the  need  for  action  and  the 
need to think outside the box” (A/62/PV.5, p. 23). 
As  a  high-risk  nation  and  the  venue  for  the 

thirteenth  Conference  of 
the 
United Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change and the sixth session of the Conference of the 
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, Indonesia attaches great 
importance  to  this  issue.  We  expect  that  the  Bali 
Conference,  which  will  be  held  in  December,  will  set 
the stage for  the establishment of  a global partnership 
to  address  climate  change.  Out  of  it  should  emerge 
concrete  actions  and  rationalized  targets  to  reduce 
greenhouse  gas  emissions  after  the  Kyoto  Protocol 
expires, in 2012. 
Even  as  developing  countries  build  the  capacity 

to deal with climate change, they must not ignore other 
aspects  of  capacity-building  that  are  crucial  for  their 
development.  Enlightened  self-interest  must  cause 
them  to  practice  good  governance  and  respect  for  the 
rule  of  law  and  human  rights.  In  all  of  that,  national 
efforts  must  be  reinforced  by  international  support, 
especially 
the  donor  community.  Global 
partnerships are also required. 

The  success  of  global  partnerships  will  hinge  on 
the  necessary  political  will.  In  concrete  terms,  they 
must 
international 
commitments. Instead of decreasing, as it did last year, 
official development assistance should increase. So too 
should  foreign  direct  investment,  which  has  so  far 
shown  itself  partial  to  only  a  few  select  emerging 
economies.  

the  Doha 
Development  Round  to  live  up  to  the  expectations  of 
the  developing  world.  Distorting  subsidies,  limited 
market  access  and 
special  and 
differentiated treatment must be tackled urgently.  

In order to be able to make effective interventions 
to  resolve  those  matters,  the  United  Nations  must  be 
strengthened  through  comprehensive  reform.  It  must 
time  has  now  come 
fulfilment  of 
from 
the  need 
for 
lead 
to 
the 
The 
for 
that 
long  believed 
My  delegation  has 
become  the  fulcrum  to  realize  a  just  and  equitable 
world  order.  While  we  note  meaningful  progress  on 
some  fronts,  the  capacity  of  the  United  Nations  must 
be further enhanced to address the global challenges of 
the  twenty-first  century  that  lie  before  it.  The  reform 
process  must  impact  all  organs  of  the  Organization  in 
order  to  maintain  the  proper  balance  among  them  in 
accordance with the vision of the Charter. 

the 
General Assembly,  as  the  highest  deliberative  and 
decision-making  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  should 
embody  the  fullness  of  its  capability.  The  General 
Assembly must exercise the full authority granted to it 
under  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Security  Council  must  be  adapted  to  reflect  current 
geopolitical realities. 

In  that  context,  no  opportunity  should  be  lost  to 
move  forward  the  global  agenda  on  the  issues  of 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  As  highlighted  in 
the  report  of  the  Secretary-General,  “The  quest  for  a 
more  peaceful  and  secure  world  is  one  of  the  main 
pillars of the work of the Organization” (para. 42).  
The absence of consensus for action on those two 

challenges  should  be  a  cause  for  deep  concern  by  all. 
to  free 
An 
the 
Conference  on  Disarmament 
its  paralysis. 
Likewise,  the  restructuring  of  the  Secretariat  in  the 
disarmament field is very important. We are confident 
that  under  the  direct  supervision  of  the  Secretary-
General,  the  Office  for  Disarmament Affairs  could  be 
made more effective in achieving its mandate. 

Until  there  is  the  total  elimination  of  nuclear 
weapons,  Indonesia  remains  firmly  convinced  that  
non-nuclear-weapon States should be assured that such 
weapons  will  not  be  used  in  any  situation  of  conflict. 
While the Secretary-General has reflected on the three 
issues  to  be  negotiated  within  the  framework  of  the 
Conference  on  Disarmament,  the  issue  of  negative 
security  assurances  has  not  attracted  much  attention. 
That matter should not be overlooked. 

In  fighting  terrorism,  our  view  is  that  that 
international scourge is best tackled from the roots up. 
More  will  be  needed  than  the  United  Nations  Global 
Counter-Terrorism  Strategy,  which  was  adopted  last 
year as resolution 60/288, to decisively overcome that 
problem.  We  must  redouble  our  efforts  to  settle 
outstanding  issues  linked  to  the  draft  comprehensive 
important  first  step  should  be 
from 
2 

07-53414 


convention  on  international  terrorism,  which  is  long 
overdue. 

The  Secretary-General’s  report  also  shines  the 
spotlight on various conflicts in the world that deserve 
international attention. We welcome the greater use of 
the Office of the Secretary-General in the resolution of 
such  disputes.  We  expect  that  the  standing  team  of 
mediation  specialists  will  effectively  supplement  the 
work  of  the  Secretary-General  in  that  area.  We  hope 
that, with the involvement of all the parties concerned, 
further  action  will  be  taken  to  find  concrete  solutions 
to  festering  global  conflicts,  particularly  those  in  the 
Middle East and Africa. Certainly, the engagement and 
the costs required to defuse potential hostilities before 
war  actually  erupts  will  be  much  less  than  after  was 
occurs. 

In  the  face  of  protracted  conflicts,  we  find  there 
is  an  ever-increasing  demand  for  United  Nations 
peacekeepers.  That  surge  in  peacekeeping  demands  is 
unprecedented,  with  the  trend  likely  to  continue  for 
some  time.  In  terms  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping, 
Indonesia  has  a  proud  tradition  of  participation  going 
back to 1957. We will in fact be contributing a police 
unit  for  the  Hybrid  Operation  in  Darfur.  Last  year,  in 
response to the conflict in south Lebanon, we were one 
of  the  first  countries  that  offered  to  reinforce  the 
United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon. The capacity 
of  the  Department  of  Peacekeeping  Operations  in  the 
field  and  at  Headquarters  needs  to  be  enhanced,  with 
the  strongest  possible  support 
for  peacekeeping 
missions. 

In  handling  that  mandate,  we  are  convinced  that 
the agreed basic principles of peacekeeping — consent 
of the parties, impartiality and non-use of force except 
in  self-defence  and  in  the  defence  of  the  authorized 
mandate  —  are  essential  to  both  the  safety  and  the 
effectiveness of peacekeeping operations. 

As  a  member  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission, 
we  are  particularly  pleased  that  the  Commission 
quickly  came  of  age  during  the  first  year  of  its 
operation  by  considering  two  country  cases.  The  task 
before us is to translate the Commission’s commitment 
into tangible measures on the ground. 

In  the  sphere  of  the  promotion  of  basic  human 
rights,  we  are  pleased  to  learn  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council’s  establishment  of  the  Universal  Periodic 
Review  Mechanism. This  is  an  innovative  mechanism 
which  my  delegation  believes  will  contribute  to  the 
A/62/PV.22
promotion and protection of human rights on a basis of 
equality. It will serve to minimize the politicization of 
human  rights  and  the  use  of  double  standards  in 
evaluations, as we experience now. We look forward to 
the  early  operationalization  of  the  mechanism  as  it 
begins  its  work  next  year.  This  will  be  a  significant 
milestone for the sixtieth anniversary of the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights. 

However,  we  should  be  duly  cautious  when 
dealing with the report’s support for the concept of the 
responsibility  to  protect,  on  which  we  decided  during 
the  2005  Summit.  We  continue  to  believe  that,  in 
practice,  this  will  contravene  the  principle  of  the 
equality  of  States  in  international  relations. We  firmly 
believe no pretext should be created for interference in 
the internal affairs of sovereign States. 

In conclusion, Indonesia reiterates its full support 
for  and  willingness  to  cooperate  with  all  those  who 
endeavour 
to  promote  multilateralism.  We  view 
multilateralism  as  our  shield  against  injustice  and 
disrespect  in  international  relations  and  as  our  most 
valuable tool to build a better world. 
Mr.  Zinsou  (Benin)  (spoke  in  French):  Let  me 

express  my  delegation’s  great  appreciation  to  the 
Secretary-General  for  the  exhaustive  report  on  the 
work  of  the  Organization  during  the  first  year  of  his 
mandate (A/62/1). Whoever reads the report will attest 
that 
the 
peoples’  expectations  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Organization’s  major  responsibility 
in  multilateral 
cooperation  for  finding  appropriate  solutions  to  the 
many global challenges that humanity confronts. 

The Secretary-General is fully aware of the need 
to  produce  results  commensurate  with  the  problems 
that  need  to  be  resolved.  He  has  also  developed  an 
acute  sense  of  the  urgency  of  the  action  required.  My 
delegation would like to reiterate here our trust in him 
and in his entire team, and our firm support.  
An old African saying tells us that we should use 

the  end  of  the  old  rope  to  weave  the  new.  The 
Secretary-General can be proud of having been able to 
build  on  what  has  been  achieved  in  the  reforms 
launched in 2005 by the Member States convened here 
at the highest level by his predecessor, Mr. Kofi Annan, 
to whom my delegation would like to pay a resounding 
tribute. 
the  Secretary-General  understands  well 
07-53414 

3 

The  report  of 
The  Millennium  Villages  have  proven 
A/62/PV.22 


the  Secretary-General  clearly 
identifies  the  most  promising  areas  for  measurable 
results  and  focuses  our  attention  on  the  attainment  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs), 
particularly in Africa, where the forecasts are the most 
alarming vis-à-vis the established timelines.  

We  share  his  determination  to  move  forward. 
However long the road to attaining the goals in Africa 
may  seem,  we  can  get  there  if  we  resolutely  reject 
defeatism and identify the short cuts which can get us 
to our goals. It is fortunate that the United Nations has 
clearly  defined  its  own  role,  in  particular,  in  the 
dissemination  of  methods  and  procedures  that  have 
proven themselves elsewhere in similar situations, and 
in mobilizing the resources needed for their large-scale 
application in making strides against extreme poverty. 

their 
worth,  but  they  should  not  be  something  only  for  the 
happy  chosen  few.  The  Secretary-General  has  put  his 
finger  on  the  heart  of  the  problem  in  this  regard:  the 
need  to  mobilize  the  necessary  resources  to  extend 
them  to  the  two  score  countries  in  Africa  which  are 
ready to be a part of the initiative. 

the  Secretary-General,  my  delegation 
urgently  appeals  to  the  international  community  to 
make an increased effort of solidarity. We need to wake 
up dormant local capacities so that the underprivileged 
can  become  agents  in  the  sustainable  improvement  of 
their living conditions. 

In  the  same  spirit,  we  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  having  underscored  here  the  expected 
benefits of improved integration of African countries in 
international  trade  through  the  suppression  of  the 
from 
agricultural  subsidies  which  prevent 
exploiting 
the 
international market and thus from attaining prosperity. 
But  they  have  to  be  freed  from  fratricidal  conflicts, 
which  can  be  prevented  through  better  governance  of 
our societies, fairer distribution of national income and  
greater respect for different identities and minorities.  

We  need  also  to  take  account  of  an  inescapable 
reality,  climate  change,  which  poses  such  a  major 
challenge  for  Africa.  Unless  it  is  included  in  our 
planning for Africa, climate change can undermine the 
accomplishments  we  have  already  achieved  in  our 
work towards the MDGs. All aspects of the issue need 
to be looked at. Forecasting and prevention have to be 
the  key  words  here:  forecasting,  to  help  African 
their  comparative  advantages  on 
them 
Like 
at 
the 
limit 
their  effects  by  building 
countries  amass  the  vital  stocks  they  need  to  mitigate 
the impact of natural disasters; and prevention, at least 
to 
the  necessary 
infrastructure. 

In this regard, the Benin Government is planning 
to construct an embankment along the coast to protect 
it  from  ongoing  coastal  erosion,  which  is  swallowing 
up territory day after day. This obviously means a high 
level  of  investment  which  is  beyond  the  capacity  of 
resource  mobilization 
national 
level. 
Nonetheless, such resources are indispensable. 

Turning  to  issues  of  peace  and  security,  the 
efforts  under  way  on  the  African  continent,  with  the 
help  of  the  United  Nations,  are  certainly  laudable, 
because  strengthening  the  mechanisms  established  in 
Africa is of vital importance. I would like to echo the 
appeal to the Security Council issued several days ago 
by  the  Chairperson  of  the African  Union  Commission 
in favour of a creative re-reading of Chapter VIII of the 
United  Nations  Charter.  We  look  forward  to  the 
Secretary-General’s report on this question. 

In  the  view  of  my  delegation,  the  situation  is 
simple:  Africa  would  like  to  take  its  place  in  the 
collective  security  system  instituted  by  the  Charter.  It 
is  asking  for  that,  within  a  partnership  based  on  a 
balanced  allocation  of  roles.  We  are  counting  on  the 
Secretary-General  to  promote  this  partnership,  in  a 
spirit of faithfulness to the Charter and in the quest for 
efficiency  with  the  pragmatism  that  is  appropriate 
when  saving  human  lives.  We  are  happy  to  note  that 
these  criteria  have  indeed  prevailed  in  the  way  in 
which the issue of Darfur has been treated.  
Similarly,  we  welcome  the  efforts  deployed  by 

the  Secretary-General 
the 
capacities  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  area  of 
mediation, preventive diplomacy and restoring peace.  

In the course of these recent years, it has become 
obvious that the United Nations must review its policy 
in the area of response to complex crises. The necessity 
of rapid troop deployment means that forces have to be 
available and that they have to be well trained and well 
equipped  if  they  are  to  participate  effectively  in 
stabilization operations.  

that  developed  countries  are 
becoming  increasingly  involved  at  the  operational 
level,  as  in  the  deployment  of  the  European  Union  in 
Chad  and  the  Central African  Republic.  This  helps  to 
to  strengthen 
is  fortunate 
in  order 
It 
4 

07-53414 
the 
the 
that 
responsibility  of 
It  must  be  emphasized 


make up for weaknesses in the capacities of developing 
countries’  armies,  which,  until  recently,  shouldered 
most  of 
international 
community in Africa.  

When it comes to peacebuilding, we think that all 
countries that emerge from a conflict should be eligible 
for the interventions of the Peacebuilding Commission, 
which  should  come  up  with  a  true  Marshall  Plan  for 
such  countries.  The  strategic  frameworks  of  such 
interventions  should  aim  at  sustainable  financing, 
among  other  things,  by  creating  matching  funds  that 
multiply tenfold the impact of the contributions already 
mobilized. 
these 
contributions remain relatively modest. 

The adoption by consensus of the United Nations 
Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  was  a  true  turning 
point in mobilizing Member States against the scourge 
of  terrorism,  which  is  to  be  condemned  in  all  its 
manifestations. In this regard, my country participated 
actively  in  the  Vienna  symposium  in  May  2007  in 
order  to  promote  the  implementation  of  this  global 
strategy through an integrated approach.  
We are convinced that this approach will provide 

us  with  results  only  if  it  strengthens  the  capacity  of 
States  to  fulfil  their  sovereign  functions  from  the 
viewpoint  of  protecting  human  lives  and  goods  and 
exercising  effective  control  over  the  territory  under 
their  jurisdiction,  as  well  as  promoting  the  necessary 
stability  to  ensure  balanced  economic  and  social 
development.  
and 

non-proliferation,  the  Secretary-General  has  showed 
what  his  preferences  are,  and  we  have  followed  suit, 
counting  on  him  to  bring  those  States  that  are  key 
actors  in  this  area  to  show  consistency  in  their  efforts 
to  strengthen  international  peace  and  security.  No 
effort  should  be  spared  to  make  sure  that  the  logic  of 
peace prevails in their relations. We pay tribute to the 
Secretary-General for the positive signals that seem to 
be appearing in this area.  

All  of  humankind  stands  to  benefit  both  from 
specific  initiatives  to  reduce  the  level  of  military 
spending  and  from  the  implementation  of  the  United 
Nations Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and 
Eradicate  the  Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms  and  Light 
Weapons  in  All  Its Aspects,  whose  potential  to  cause 
harm is well known to us.  
disarmament 
respect 
With 
to 
A/62/PV.22
to 
justice  and, 
in  particular, 
institutions  of 

The  Secretary-General  rightly  underscores  the 
affirmation  of  the  responsibility  to  protect  as  a  new 
international  standard  compatible  with  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations, which the international community 
should stand ready to exercise in the service of human 
dignity,  just  as  it  has  deployed  efforts  to  establish  the 
authority  of 
international  criminal 
justice.  We  are  calling  for    more  frequent  recourse  to 
international 
the 
International  Criminal  Court.  The 
international 
community  must  take  full  advantage  of  the  deterrent 
capacity  of  the  Court  in  respect  of  crimes  within  the 
Court’s jurisdiction.  

It would be desirable that it also contribute, as a 
secondary effect, to the enhancement of the respect for 
human rights as a set of universal values that maintain 
their  applicability  everywhere.  In  this  regard,  cultural 
diversity, which is a positive good, being a framework 
for  the  expression  of  identities  that  represent  the 
richness of humanity, should not be used as a pretext to 
perpetuate  practices  that  belong  in  the  past  and  are 
deeply offensive to our collective conscience.  

My  delegation  firmly  supports  the  principle  of 
unity of action in emergency situations. This principle 
will be of value only if there is integrated coordination 
that takes advantage of synergies in the field in order to 
be  more  effective  in  protecting  victims  and  afflicted 
persons.  

We are confident that the clear-sightedness of the 
Secretary-General  will  guide  Member  States  in  the 
implementation of their reforms for greater coherence. 
We  thus  adhere  to  the  recommendations  of  the  High-
level  Panel  on  System-wide  Coherence  in  order  to 
strengthen  the  Organization’s  ability  to  act  in  the 
service of its mission. We have to redouble our efforts 
to  make  sure  that  the  institutional  reform  moves 
forward,  especially  the  expansion  of  the  Security 
Council in both categories  of members.  In accordance 
with the Ezulwini Consensus, my delegation is asking 
for 
two 
non-permanent  seats,  to  enable  the  architecture  of 
peace  and  security  on  the  continent  to  be  integrated 
harmoniously in the collective security architecture set 
up by the Charter.  
that  a 

is  an  enterprising 
revitalized  General  Assembly 
General  Assembly 
its 
responsibilities and prerogatives vis-à-vis other bodies 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation 
for  Africa  and 
two  permanent 
shoulders 
thinks 
seats 
that 
fully 
07-53414 

5 

Mr.  Belinga-Eboutou  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
A/62/PV.22 

and  is  supported  by  Secretariat  that    performs  at  the 
very top of its abilities. 
in 

French):  The  General  Assembly  is  concluding  this 
morning  the  review  of  the  first  annual  report  on  the 
work  of  the  Organization  that  the  Secretary-General, 
since his election, presented to us, in  accordance with 
Article 98 of the Charter. 

My  delegation  believes  that  it  is  a  solid  and 
informative report. It is excellent in two ways. First, it 
is  a  document  that  has  the  merit  of  emphasizing  the 
irreplaceable  role  of  the  United  Nations  for  humanity, 
as  it  seeks  suitable  responses  to  the  many  problems 
with which it is confronted, in particular, with regard to 
peace and security, development and human rights, and 
climate  change.  The  response  to  all  these  challenges 
cannot  be  undertaken  unilaterally  or  by  a  group  of 
States. The report is also excellent because it points to 
the ways and means to meet these challenges. For us, it 
will  serve  as  a  compass.  I  would  like  to  mention,  in 
particular, some of these challenges by which the value 
of  our  commitments  and  the  degree  of  our  political 
will, so often affirmed and reaffirmed, will be judged.  

First, there is the thorny question of attaining the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  The  fact, 
unfortunately,  is  that  most  developing  countries  may 
not  attain  them  by  2015  because  poverty  continues  to 
increase,  particularly  in  rural  areas.  Investments  for 
health and education are in significant decline. We are 
still awaiting the great increase in official development 
assistance  (ODA)  which  was  meant  to  support  the 
efforts of developing countries.  

The  situation  of  Africa  is  of  particular  concern. 
One  must  wonder  what  happened  to  the  solemn 
commitments undertaken by heads of State, both at the 
Millennium Summit and at the 2005 World Summit, to 
respond  to  Africa’s  special  needs.  Seven  years  away 
from 2015, we must once again urgently appeal to the 
international  community,  in  particular  to  the  donor 
countries, to keep the commitments they have made in 
various 
regarding  official 
international 
development assistance. 
In  this  respect,  we  have  been  assured  that  the 

Secretary-General  will  not  delay  in  strengthening  the 
Office  of  his  Special  Adviser  on  Africa.  That  Office 
provides  impetus  for  present  and  future  action  to 
respond to the special needs of Africa and consolidates 
all  the  various  initiatives  for  that  purpose.  We  will 
forums 
in 
follow-up 
to 
in  order 
return  to  that  question  later,  but  I  think  we  should 
emphasize  the  importance  of  this  Office.  This  post  of 
Adviser  is  in  line  with  the  dynamic  of  creating 
administrative  Secretariat  structures  and  their  budget 
lines 
to  support,  as  required,  specific 
programmes  of  activities  set  out  in  the  medium-term 
plan or the programme plan.  

In that respect we would like to recall again that 
at the September 2005 World Summit heads of State or 
Government, 
the  Millennium 
Declaration,  adopted  a  series  of  special  measures 
linked to the specific needs of Africa, which continues 
to  be  one  of  the  Organization’s  main  priorities.  We 
believe that we should continue to address this priority 
separately  at  a  very  high  level  in  accordance  with  the 
will  and  political  decisions  of  heads  of  State  at  the 
Millennium Summit and at the 2005 World Summit.  

As  an  operational  structure,  the  Office  of  the 
Special Adviser  to  the  Secretary-General  on Africa  is 
responsible for mobilizing public opinion in the world 
so  that  the  continent  will  remain  at  the  top  of  the 
international  agenda.  Furthermore,  the  Office  is,  in  a 
way, a coordinator and overall monitor. It assembles in 
an  annual  report  the  contributions  of  United  Nations 
bodies  regarding  the  implementation  of  the  New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), and it 
proposes the strategic direction of those reports. It also 
actively  follows  the  synergies  developed  in  the Tokyo 
International  Conference  on  African  Development 
(TICAD)  process, 
the  Forum  on  China-Africa 
Cooperation,  the  Group  of  Eight  (G-8)  and  more 
recently  with  countries  such  as  India,  the  Republic  of 
Korea and Brazil with a view to a partnership aimed at 
greater development of Africa.  

In other words, the Office has multiple functions, 
some  of  which  come  from  the  former  Office  of  the 
Special  Coordinator 
the  Least 
Developed  Countries,  the  previous  focal  point  in  the 
Office  of  the  Director-General  for  Development  and 
International  Economic  Cooperation  in  the  1980s. 
Others  still  are  new  and  constantly  evolving  without 
being  entirely  in  line  with  the  dynamic  of  the  least 
developed countries and other categories of developing 
countries, which are the object of completely different 
special global or regional programmes and processes.  
With all those responsibilities, we believe that the 

Office  should 
importance,  while 
maintaining  its  integrity  and  gaining  new  vitality 
for  Africa  and 
retain  all  due 
6 

07-53414 


through  strengthened  financial  and  human  resources, 
an  improved  programme  structure  and,  in  particular, 
the  appointment  of  a  new  Adviser  without  further 
delay.  That  is  the  recommendation  of  the  Committee 
for  Programme  and  Coordination  (CPC)  and  the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions (ACABQ) in their respective annual reports. 
It is also an urgent request of the African Group. 

We were reassured to hear the Secretary-General, 
as he started his mandate, affirm that he attached great 
priority to Africa in his agenda. We were also reassured 
to note that that priority figured in the decisions taken 
during  the  first  12  months  of  his  mandate.  We  are 
convinced  that  he  will  not  delay  in  following  up  the 
recommendations  of  CPC  and ACABQ  and,  as  I  said 
earlier,  the  insistent  request  of  the African  Group. We 
will return to this in due course when we consider the 
question  of  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and Africa, in particular NEPAD.  

The second challenge I wish to mention concerns 
climate  change.  In  that  respect,  we  wish  to  commend 
the  President’s  initiative  to  make  climate  change  an 
essential theme of our work. We welcome the fact that 
the  high-level  event  on  24  September  2007  reflected 
global  consensus  on  the  need  for  urgent  action  to 
preserve  planet  Earth. We  continue  to  believe  that  the 
Kyoto  Protocol  is  a  relevant  instrument  towards  a 
genuine reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and we 
hope  that  the  December  2007  Bali  Conference  will 
trigger  a  process  leading  to  a  post-2012  climate 
agreement.  

The  urgency  of  action  on  climate  change  is 
greater.  Global  warming  has  much  more  devastating 
effects  in  developing  countries,  because  they  are  less 
well  equipped  to  deal  with  it.  Thus,  millions  of  lives 
are  threatened  by  floods,  and  meagre  development 
efforts  are  laid  waste  by  the  encroachment  of  deserts. 
This  is  an  area  that  demands  concrete,  immediate  and 
concerted action by the international community.  

The  third  challenge  concerns  peace  and  security, 
which the report addresses at length. Here, we wish to 
commend  the  Organization’s  conflict  prevention  and 
peacebuilding activities. In that context, Africa intends 
to gradually increase its contributions to peacekeeping 
forces. That is why, in addition to the two institutions 
that  train  experienced  units,  in  Ghana  and  Mali,  my 
country,  with  the  support  of  donor  States,  has  been 
urged  to  establish  an  institution  to  train  international 
A/62/PV.22
is  up 
to  all  Member  States 
police  and  security  personnel  for  African  States 
wishing  to  contribute  to  United  Nations  or  African 
Union  peacekeeping 
forces.  We  will  have  an 
opportunity to learn a bit more about that at the donor 
conference  for  such  a  school,  to  be  held  at  United 
Nations  Headquarters  on  22  October  2007.  Naturally, 
we are counting on active participation by all Member 
States. 

My  country  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s 
bold  reforms  of  structures  responsible  for  peace  and 
security  issues.  Likewise,  we  welcome  the  United 
Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, which will 
be  an  important  instrument  in  the  fight  against  that 
phenomenon.  It 
to 
demonstrate  their  goodwill  so  that  the  long-awaited 
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism 
can be finalized.  

Strengthening  the  Organization  —  the  ultimate 
goal  of  the  reform  projects  under  discussion  —  is 
clearly necessary, because the challenges to be met are 
great  and  complex.  We  continue  to  believe  that 
strengthening  the  authority  of  the  General  Assembly 
must  be  among  the  essential  components  of  United 
Nations  reform.  Furthermore,  the  Security  Council 
needs to be changed in its structure and its functioning — 
changes 
take 
the  new 
configuration of the world. 

It  is  in  this  spirit  that  Africa  has  demonstrated 
cooperation,  understanding  and  transparency.  Indeed, 
we  have  issued  a  set  of  proposals  to  the  world, 
contained  in  what  has  come  to  be  called  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus,  which  was  published  as  a  working 
document  of  our  organization.  In  that  document,  our 
continent  suggests  increasing  the  number  of  seats  in 
both  membership  categories.  Our  continent  also 
suggests  allocating  two  permanent  seats  for  Africa, 
with  the  right  of  veto.  We  are  still  waiting  for  a 
positive response from other regions. In particular, we 
are  awaiting  such  a  response  because  we  believe  that 
Africa’s  proposals  and  suggestions  are  extremely 
appropriate.  In  fact,  ours  is  the  only  continent  not  to 
have a permanent seat on the Security Council.  

Not  long  ago,  we  inaugurated  a  new  tool  for 
promoting and protecting human rights throughout the 
world. As members may have guessed, it is the Human 
Rights  Council.  It  is  highly  desirable  to  avoid  the 
errors and equivocations observed in the functioning of 
the Commission on Human Rights. We are thinking in 
that  would 
into  account 
07-53414 

7 
to 
to 
fosters 
tolerance. 
Indeed, 
and 
(MDGs) 
In  addition 
its  necessary 
A/62/PV.22 

particular  of  the  politicization  and  selectivity  that 
ultimately discredited the former Commission.  

Referring to human rights leads me to touch once 
again upon the need to create a community that accepts 
its  diversity  and 
if 
civilizations  have  often  clashed  throughout  history, 
they  have  always  ultimately  agreed  to  organize  a 
dynamic of peaceful existence in order to ensure their 
survival. Either the world will be rich in its diversity of 
cultures and civilizations or it will cease to exist.  
the 

reform, 
effectiveness  of  our  Organization  also  depends  on  its 
cooperation  with  regional  organizations  to  maintain 
peace  and  security  and  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
sustainable 
development.  Here,  we  welcome  the  innovations  that 
the Secretary-General has proposed to that end. In the 
same  spirit,  Central  Africa  remains  very  intent  in  its 
request  for  a  permanent  presence  of  the  Secretariat  in 
our  subregion,  through  the  establishment  of  a  Central 
African office headed by an Under-Secretary-General.  

In conclusion, the delegation of Cameroon wishes 
once again to express its appreciation to the Secretary-
General  for his excellent report,  as well as its support 
for  his  plan  to  reform  the  Organization  and  his 
intention 
strengthen  constructive  cooperation 
between  the  General Assembly  and  the  Secretariat  so 
as  to  ensure  more  effective  functioning  of  the  United 
Nations.  

of the Observer State of the Holy See.  
Archbishop  Migliore  (Holy  See): At  the  outset, 

my delegation thanks the Secretary-General for his first 
comprehensive  report  (A/62/1).  We  look  forward  to 
working  with  him  and  with  the  membership  to  make 
the  United  Nations  ever  more  responsive  to  the  needs 
of all people. 

As  we  reach  the  halfway  point  in  the  process  of 
achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs), the time is ripe to take stock of our successes 
and  failures.  Still  today,  almost  10  million  children 
under  5  years  old  die  each  year,  mostly  from 
preventable causes. Too many mothers die in childbirth 
from  preventable  and  treatable  complications.  Last 
year,  2.9  million  people  died  of  HIV/AIDS-related 
causes,  and  half  of  the  developing  world  lacks  even 
basic sanitation. 
The Acting President: I now call on the observer 


The global community seems to have been losing 
focus  on  the  need  to  ensure  that  everyone  enjoys  the 
right  to  basic  health  care. Although  studies  show  that 
simple  medical  prevention  is  often  one  of  the  most 
cost-effective  and  successful  ways  of  improving  the 
health  and  stability  of  society,  primary  care  is  often 
neglected  or  replaced  by  more  selective,  and  even 
culturally divisive, methods of health care. Focusing on 
the whole range of basic health care will surely make a 
substantial contribution towards the achievement of the 
MDGs and a saner health policy. 

Such a sad landscape is made bleaker by the fact 
that, as children die and generations lack even the basic 
necessities  of  life,  we  have  continued  to  drift  towards 
mutual  and  global  destruction.  The  annual  military 
expenditures of well over one trillion dollars, the talent 
and  resources  devoted  to  types  of  technology  that 
destroy lives and our planet and the persistence of the 
misplaced  trust  in  the  law  of  force  rather  than  in  the 
force of law are just some examples of actions that are 
contrary  to  goodness  and  human  reason.  To  prevent 
that situation from worsening, the United Nations, with 
the  cooperation  of  all  Member  States,  must  renew  its 
commitment  to  the  preservation  of  life  at  every  level 
and in every corner of the world. 

It  is  nevertheless  encouraging  to  note  recent 
findings indicating some real progress in achieving the 
MDGs. It is only right to recognize the efforts of those 
countries that have contributed to the gains made. Now, 
greater attention must be paid to those States that still 
trail  the  rest  of  the  developing  world.  In  order  to 
encourage  both  public  and  private  investment  and  to 
create a favourable economic and social climate, peace 
and  security  and  the  rule  of  law  should  underpin 
reform efforts. 

The  United  Nations  is  increasingly  being  called 
upon to respond to multifarious challenges around the 
world.  To  meet 
for 
humanitarian  assistance,  the  United  Nations  should 
continue  to  work  to  promote  partnerships  with  civil 
society 
reactive 
humanitarian 
response.  Member  States  play  an 
important  role  in  addressing  humanitarian  crises.  Ву
giving  safe  and  unhindered  access  to  humanitarian 
workers,  they  not  only  fulfil  their  responsibility  to 
protect, but also help ensure that those who suffer from 
a humanitarian tragedy are not re-victimized. 
that  create  a  predictable  and 
ever-growing  need 
this 
8 

07-53414 
and 
that  Governments 
the  Organization  must  maintain 



During  the  last  few  years,  the  Organization  has 
dealt  with  issues  related  to  culture  and  religion  in  an 
increasing  number  of  resolutions,  meetings  and  side 
events.  That  aspect  is  unfortunately  omitted  in  the 
report. Most often, it is only when tensions and conflict 
emerge 
international 
organizations  call  on  religious  and  cultural  forces  to 
help establish dialogue between parties. Cooperating in 
programmes  against  incitement  to  hatred,  witnessing 
for  peace  and  against  violence  and  peacemaking 
through  faith-based  agencies  are  among  the  many 
things  religious  communities  and  their  leaders  can  do 
to end conflict and to build conditions for peace. 

My  delegation  commends  the  United  Nations 
commitment to addressing the many challenges facing 
development,  peace  and  security  and  human  rights.  In 
so  doing, 
its 
transparency and accountability to the decisions of the 
Member  States.  To  that  end,  modifications  to  the 
Millennium Development Goals, including the creation 
of  new  targets,  as  referred  to  in Annex  II,  need  to  be 
undertaken in an open manner rather than as a result of 
executive or administrative decisions. 

Finally,  it  is  our  earnest  desire  that  the  sixty-
second  session  of  the  General  Assembly  be  strongly 
marked by a renewed sense of commitment and action 
towards 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  but  also  to  completely  fulfilling 
the vision of hope of this institution. 

observer of Palestine. 
Mr.  Hijazi  (Palestine)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Allow 

me at the outset to express our thanks and appreciation 
to His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General 
of the United Nations, for his report on the work of the 
Organization  (A/62/1),  which  comes  at  a  time  when 
countries  of  the  world  look  to  the  United  Nations  for 
progressive  actions  in  facing  challenging  conditions, 
noting  that  the  United  Nations  is  the  best  universal 
instrument for collective efforts to face the challenges 
of our world. 

The  Palestinian  delegation  expresses  its  support 
for the ambitious plans to reform the Organization and 
to  strengthen  constructive  cooperation  between  the 
General Assembly and the Secretariat in the context of 
transparency, confidence. We seek a more vital role for 
the Organization in the field of disarmament and other 
spheres  and  note  the  central  role  played  by  the 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
achieving 
only 
not 
A/62/PV.22
in 
to 
and 
international  solution 
Secretary-General  in  conducting  the  Dialogue  among 
Civilizations 
the  High-level  Dialogue  on 
Interreligious  and  Intercultural  Understanding  and 
Cooperation  for  Peace,  and  his  continued  efforts  to 
improve the Organization. 

The  Palestinian  people  also  look  to  the  United 
Nations  to  help  them  end  their  tragedy  and  find  a 
comprehensive  and  lasting  solution  to  their  problem, 
which  is  as  old  as  the  Organization  and  which  is 
closely  related  to  it.  This  Organization,  as  a  peace 
organization,  has  assumed  the  major  responsible  role 
concerning  that  question  pending  its  comprehensive 
solution. 
The United Nations plays a major role in dealing 

with 
the  situation 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories,  including  East  Jerusalem.  United  Nations 
resolutions are the legal and fundamental references for 
solving  the  Palestinian  question  and  for  the  peace 
process in the Middle East. The United Nations is also 
a member of the Quartet, which is seeking to find a just 
and  comprehensive 
the 
Palestinian question. 
The United Nations organs and agencies, notably 

the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for 
Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), have a 
basic and important role in supporting and assisting the 
Palestinian  people  to  overcome  their  humanitarian 
plight.  The  United  Nations  has  adopted  many 
resolutions 
the 
inalienable rights of the Palestinian people and the duty 
to protect them. 

There is international consensus on the dangers to 
international  peace  and  security  as  a  result  of  the 
continued absence of a just and lasting solution to the 
Palestinian  question,  especially  to  the  stability  of  the 
Middle  East  region.  Continued  Israeli  occupation  of 
Palestinian  land,  which  has  now  lasted  more  than 
40 years,  the  refugee  problem,  which  has  lasted  more 
than  60  years,  continued  violation  of  the  inalienable 
rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  by  the  occupying 
Power  and  the  failure  of  the  international  community 
to  relieve  the  suffering  of  the  Palestinians,  are  true, 
moral and serious challenge to all of the principles and 
rules on which the Organization was founded. 

The  issues  dealt  with  in  the  report  include  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  climate  change, 
sustainable  development,  conflict  prevention,  peace 
and  peacekeeping,  human  rights,  the  rule  of  law  and 
and  decisions 
emphasize 
that 
07-53414 

9 
is 
territories, 
the  Palestinian  question 
A/62/PV.22 

humanitarian affairs, all of which are unavailable in the 
occupied  Palestinian 
including  East 
Jerusalem,  because  of  the  foreign  occupation  and  its 
illegal  practices.  Yet,  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General on the work of the Organization does not deal 
with  the  question  in  a  suitable  manner  within  the 
context  of  the  role  and  responsibilities  of  the  United 
Nations.  In  that  context,  we  wish  to  emphasize  the 
following.  

the  most 
First, 
longstanding  issue  without  a  solution  on  the  United 
Nations  agenda.  The  responsibility  of  the  United 
Nations  towards  this  question  is  ongoing  and,  until 
such  time  that  it  is  solved  in  all  its  aspects,  the 
credibility of this Organization will be jeopardized.  

Secondly,  the  Palestinian  question  is  of  special 
importance as regards human rights issues in the world, 
as  was  emphasized  by  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the 
situation  of  human  rights  in  Palestinian  territories 
occupied  since  1967,  Mr.  John  Dugard.  The  issue  of 
human  rights  in  Palestine  has  been  on  the  United 
Nations  agenda  for  60  years.  It  is  a  real  test  for  the 
United  Nations,  a  test  of  the  Organization’s  degree  of 
commitment to protecting human rights in Palestine. If 
the  United  Nations  and  the  international  community 
fail  to  put  an  end  to  the  violations  to  which  the 
Palestinian  people  are  subjected,  the  international 
movement  for  human  rights  —  which  is  considered  a 
major  accomplishment  of  humanity  during  the  past  
60 years — faces a grave danger. 

to 
emphasize  the  need  to  strengthen  the  role  of  the 
Organization 
protecting 
international 
the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention,  relative  to  the  protection  of  civilians 
during  times  of  war,  which  is  a  basic  principle 
underlying the responsibility to protect. 

importance  of 
strengthening  the  role  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
and respect for and implementation of its resolutions in 
accordance  with  General Assembly  resolution  60/251, 
which established the Council, and with the Charter. 
the  delegation  of  Palestine 

reiterates  its  thanks  and  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-
General for his valuable report. We wish to assure him 
of our support for his efforts to promote human rights, 
to  uphold  international  law,  to  bring  justice  and 
Fourthly,  we  emphasize 
this  context,  we  would 
in  maintaining 
law,  especially 
In  conclusion, 
Thirdly, 
in 
like 
and 
the 

freedom to all peoples of the world, especially to those 
who are still under occupation. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker on the debate on this agenda item. May I take 
it  that  the  Assembly  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
contained in document A/62/1? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  thus 

concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 
109. 


Agenda item 114  
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments 
  (h)  Appointment of members of the Joint 



Inspection Unit 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/62/174) 

The Acting President: As indicated in document 

A/62/174,  on  11  July  2007,  Inspector  Juan  Luis 
Larrabure  of  Peru  submitted  his  resignation  to  the 
Chairperson  of  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit,  effective 
30 September 2007. Inspector Larrabure was appointed 
by  the  General  Assembly  on  6  June  2003  for  a  five-
year  term  of  office  beginning  on  1  January  2004  and 
expiring  on  31  December  2008.  In  accordance  with 
article  4,  paragraph  5  of  the  statute  of  the  Joint 
Inspection Unit, the Chairperson notified the Secretary-
General  on  11  July  2007  of  the  vacancy  and  of  her 
decision to waive the requirement of six months notice 
stipulated in article 4, paragraph 3 of the statute. As a 
result  of 
the  resignation  of  Inspector  Juan-Luis 
Larrabure  of  Peru,  the  General  Assembly  is  required, 
during  the  sixty-second  session,  to  appoint  a  member 
to fill the vacancy in the Joint Inspection Unit.  

It  is  further  stated  in  the  note  of  the  Secretary-
General  that,  in  order  for  consultations  to  be  held  as 
stipulated  in  article  3,  and  to  align  the  term  of  office 
with  those  of  the  other  Inspectors,  the Assembly  may 
wish  to  consider  filling  the  vacancy  for  the  term  of 
office  beginning  on  1  January  2008  and  expiring  on 
31 December 2012.  

In this connection, may I take it that it is the wish 
of the General Assembly to fill this vacancy for a term 
of office beginning on 1 January 2008 and expiring on 
31 December 2012? 
10 

07-53414 


It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  As  also  indicated  in 

document  A/62/174,  in  accordance  with  article  3, 
paragraph 1 of the statute of the Joint Inspection Unit, 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  shall  consult 
with Member States to draw up a list of countries — in 
this case, one country — which would be requested to 
propose  a  candidate  for  appointment  to  the  Joint 
Inspection  Unit.  After  holding 
the  necessary 
consultations,  I  should  like  to  communicate  to  the 
Assembly the information received from the Chairman 
of  the  Group  of  Latin American  and  Caribbean  States 
that Peru has been endorsed to propose a candidate for 
the  vacancy  from  among  the  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean States.  
A/62/PV.22

In  accordance  with  article  3,  paragraph  1  of  the 
statute of Joint Inspection Unit, Peru will therefore be 
requested  to  submit  the  name  of  a  candidate  and  the 
curriculum  vitae  highlighting  the  candidate’s  relevant 
qualifications  for  the  task  ahead.  After  holding  the 
appropriate  consultations  described 
in  article  3, 
paragraph 2 or the statute of the Joint Inspection Unit, 
including  consultations  with  the  President  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and  with  the  Secretary-
General  in  his  capacity  as  Chairman  of  the  United 
Nations  System  Chief  Executives  Board 
for 
Coordination,  I  will  propose  a  qualified  candidate  to 
the  Assembly  for  appointment  to  the  Joint  Inspection 
Unit  for  a  period  beginning  on  1  January  2008  and 
expiring on 31 December 2012. 
this  stage  of  our 

consideration  of  sub-item  (h)  of  agenda  item  114.  I 
thank delegates for their cooperation. 
The meeting rose at 11.20 a.m. 


thus  concluded 
We  have 
07-53414 

11 
