United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

29th plenary meeting 
Friday, 19 October 2007, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

A/62/PV.29
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) 
to 
still 
With 
respect 
sustainable 
development 
security,  which 
to  peace,  security  and 
been  made  with  respect 
development in Africa. 

is 
fundamental to the maintenance of  peace and to long-
term  development,  we  support  the  recommendations 
contained in the report of the Secretary-General on the 
causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace 
and 
in  Africa.  The 
recommendations  stress  the  crucial  and  decisive  need 
to  allocate  additional  resources,  both  human  and 
financial, to support the resources and effectiveness of 
peacekeeping  operations  conducted  by  the  African 
Union in Darfur, Burundi, the Democratic Republic of 
the Congo and Côte d’Ivoire. 

In this connection, Algeria is pleased to note the 
establishment by the United Nations in 2006 of a cross-
cutting  programme  that  focuses  on  providing  full 
support  to  African  peacekeeping  operations,  and  we 
welcome  the  efforts  made  by  the  United  Nations  to 
reinforce  the  operational  capacities  of  the  African 
Peace and Security Council and its related institutions, 
such  as  the  Panel  of  the  Wise,  the  African  standby 
force and the Continental Early Warning System. 

Despite the positive trends, the report also draws 
our  attention  to  the  impact  of  complex  problems 
affecting  stability  in  Africa,  in  particular  infectious 
diseases,  such  as  HIV/AIDS,  the  effects  of  global 
warming and climate change, extremely high levels of 
unemployment  among  youth,  trafficking  in  persons, 
massive  population  shifts,  the  appearance  of  terrorist 
networks  and  growing  transnational  organized  crime. 






  In the absence of the President, Ms. Bethel 
  (Bahamas), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 






Agenda items 64 and 47 (continued) 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress 
in implementation and international support 
  (a)  New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and international 
support 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/62/203) 

  (b)  Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/62/204) 

2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/62/321) 


Mr. Yousfi  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  French):  I  would 
like to begin by thanking the Secretary-General for the 
reports  made  available  to  us  on  this  agenda  item  and 
for the very useful presentation of the reports. 

My delegation believes that the two reports of the 
Secretary-General  are  an  excellent  basis  for  our 
deliberations  on  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the  annual 
review  of  progress  and  support  by  the  international 
community  for 
the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  We 
are also pleased to note that considerable progress has 

implementation  of 
the 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-55407 (E) 
*0755407* 
countries 
are, 
unfortunately, 
The 
respect 
to 
reconstruction 
voiced  with 
significant 
initiatives 
and 
the  analysis  and 
implementation  of 
A/62/PV.29 

Against  this  background,  the  new  challenges  to  peace 
and security require a new  approach based on African 
capacities,  a  proper  understanding  of  the  problems, 
political  will  and  strategic  determination  to  restore 
ownership  of 
and  peacebuilding 
activities to Africa. 
With  respect  to  development-related  activities, 

the 
my  delegation  agrees  with 
concerns 
evaluating 
international  support  for  the  new  programme  for 
Africa’s  development.  The  assessment  the  Secretary-
General  gives  in  his  report  points  out  that  indeed, 
despite 
commitments 
undertaken  by  development  partners  following  the 
Millennium Summit, such as the Group of Eight (G-8) 
decision in Gleneagles on  debt alleviation and official 
development  assistance  (ODA),  as well  as the support 
graciously  provided  by  non-G-8  countries,  most 
African 
lagging 
significantly  in  implementing  most  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) by the year 2015. 

the  multilateral  and 
bilateral debt alleviation initiative, as well as progress 
made in other areas, such as effective liberalization of 
international trade, the final arrangements of the Doha 
Round  — 
in 
implementing  the  objectives  set  by  the  international 
community for development on the African continent. 

In order to do this, we believe it is important — 
indeed,  imperative  —  for  all  of  the  international 
community,  in  particular  developed  countries,  to  be 
more  closely  involved  and  honour  the  commitments 
that  they  undertook  at  the  Millennium  Summit  in  the 
year  2000,  as  well  as  those  of  the  International 
Conference  on  Financing 
in 
Monterrey  in  2002,  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable 
Development  in  Johannesburg  in  2002  and  the  2005 
World Summit. 

The  United  Nations  system  must  play  a 
significant  role  in  helping  support  African  efforts  to 
develop the continent. Such cooperation is essential in 
order  to  ensure  a  global  framework  for  cooperation, 
involving  solidarity  and  partnership  and  designed  to 
mobilize 
combat 
underdevelopment  and  poverty  and  to  reduce  the 
widening gap between North and South. 

Millennium  Development  Goals 
Algeria has spared no effort in implementing the 
its  national 
for  Development 
these  should  be 
important  stages 
the 
resources 
necessary 
to 

like 
development  policy  through  specific  actions  and  has 
also worked within the NEPAD framework to promote 
all  efforts  designed  to  ensure  development  of  the 
African continent. The consolidation of reforms at the 
domestic level via the enhancement of democracy and 
the  rule  of  law,  which  constitute  important  levers  for 
achieving  good  governance,  is  part  of  the  framework 
that  we  are  following  in  modernizing  our  State,  our 
economy and our society. 

It  is  in  this  spirit  that  Algeria  has  voluntarily 
submitted  itself  to  peer  review,  under  the  African 
mechanism  set  up  to  this  end.  This  initiative  is 
designed  for  African  countries  to  be  able  to  make 
specific  contributions  to  enshrining  good  governance 
in  each  African  country  and  on  the  continent  as  a 
whole.  A  report  was  submitted  to  heads  of  States 
members  of  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism  in 
Accra  in  June  2007;  the  report  was  noted  very 
positively by our Mechanism, which was very pleased 
to see Algeria’s considerable progress in the economic, 
social and good governance areas. 

to  note  with 
In  conclusion,  I  should 
satisfaction  the  growing  number  of  African  countries 
that  have  voluntarily  chosen  to  submit  themselves  to 
this  peer  review  mechanism,  which  is  indeed  a  clear 
success  in  the  NEPAD  initiative  in  promoting  a  real 
culture of good governance and peace on the continent. 

Mr.  Swe  (Myanmar):  May  I  first  of  all  take  this 
opportunity  to  express  my  delegation’s  deep  gratitude 
to the President of the General Assembly, the Chairman 
of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  the  Chair  of  the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and 
all  others  for  their  messages  of  condolence  on  the 
passing  away  of  His  Excellency  General  Soe  Win, 
Prime Minister of the Union of Myanmar. 

I wish also to extend our heartfelt condolences to 
the  Government  and  people  of  Pakistan  on  the  tragic 
incident  yesterday  that  resulted  in  the  loss  of  life  of 
over  120  people.  Terrorism 
form  or 
manifestation must be condemned. 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  and  the 

World  Health  Organization  for 
their  very  useful 
reports.  Myanmar  fully  associates  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Pakistan  on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  on  this  agenda 
item.  My  delegation  also  associates  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Singapore  on 
behalf of the member States of ASEAN. 
in  any 
in 
2 

07-55407 
that 
toll, 
economic 
and 
achieve 
sustainable 
the  human 
to  Africa 
to  malaria  —  a  situation 



The  statement  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly has highlighted the deadly impact of malaria 
on  the  world  community,  particularly  on  the  African 
continent.  Almost  a  million  people  have  perished  in 
Africa  owing 
is 
preventable,  provided  the  necessary  resources  are 
the 
forthcoming.  In  addition 
to 
economic  cost  of  malaria 
is  around 
$12 billion.  This  has  negatively  impacted  on  people’s 
health, as well as on the development prospects for the 
entire  African  continent.  The  status  quo  must  not  be 
allowed to continue. We strongly urge the international 
community 
to  provide  effective  assistance  and 
adequate  resources  to  advance  the African  Union  and 
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD) health strategy. 

NEPAD  is  a  mechanism  that  represents  the 
collective  desire  and  commitment  of  the  African 
countries to meet the challenges they face, so that they 
can 
social 
development.  More  importantly,  it  is  a  vision  that 
encourages  African  countries  to  take  charge  of  their 
own  destiny  by  fighting  poverty  and  promoting 
development.  Notwithstanding  the  determined  efforts 
taken  by  African  countries,  the  prognosis  for  the 
continent  achieving 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  by  2015  remains  bleak,  particularly  in 
the sub-Sahara region. 

The situation calls for action, not only on the part 
of  the  African  continent  but  also  by  the  international 
community.  Africa  has  demonstrated  its  commitment. 
The  international  community  must  do  its  part.  That 
would entail further buttressing the Global Partnership 
for  Development 
implementation 
of 
development commitments fully and expeditiously.  

We share the concern about the overall decline of 
Official  Development  Assistance  (ODA)  flows  to 
developing  countries,  including  Africa.  Commitments 
were  made  by  the  Group  of  Eight  at  Gleneagles  in 
2005  to  double  the  aid  to  Africa  by  2010.  Despite  a 
$2.3 billion increase in ODA for the period 2004-2006, 
there  is  still  a  shortfall  of  some  $3.5  billion,  if  the 
pledge  is  to  be  implemented  in  full.  Taking  into 
consideration  the  fresh  commitment  by  the  Group  of 
Eight at the Heiligendamm summit in 2007, we hope to 
see the fulfilment of these commitments in full and on 
time. 
and 
the 
A/62/PV.29
in 
leaders 
(NEPAD),  African 
towards  sustainable  development.  It 

Free  trade  is  an  engine  of  growth  that  can 
facilitate  the  development  roles  of  African  countries. 
To  take  full  advantage  of  the  benefits  of  free  trade, 
developing countries, particularly those in Africa, need 
a favourable international economic environment. That 
is  why  we  need  the  Doha  Round  to  be  brought  to  a 
successful  conclusion  as  soon  as  possible. To  do  that, 
we need, among other things, to resolve issues that are 
of  importance  to  developing  countries,  particularly 
issues  affecting  Africa,  such  as  agricultural  market 
access  and  greater  reduction 
trade  distorting 
agricultural  subsidies.  For  developing  countries,  it  is 
vital that they be in a position to participate effectively 
in  the  Doha  Round  negotiations.  In  this  regard,  my 
the  request  by  African 
delegation  fully  supports 
countries  for  assistance 
in  meeting  sanitary  and 
technical  standards,  and  the  costs  of  implementing 
other agreements of the World Trade Organization. 
By  adopting  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 

have 
Development 
reaffirmed  their  commitment  to  a  common  vision  of 
eradicating poverty in order to place their countries on 
the  path 
is 
incumbent  on  the  international  community  and  the 
United Nations to help Africa. We are pleased that the 
United Nations is doing its part and that it remains an 
important  pillar  of  international  support  for  Africa. 
While important steps towards providing support to the 
African  Union  and  NEPAD  have  been  taken  in  recent 
years  by  the  United  Nations,  it  must  seek  to  further 
strengthen cooperation. 
In  sum,  NEPAD  is  a  regional  initiative  in  which 

Africa  will  play  a  leading  role.  But  without  concerted 
international  support,  Africa  will 
remain  behind 
schedule  in  meeting  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  by  2015.  In  this  global  village,  we  must  work 
together and support African countries to achieve their 
worthy goals. 

Mr. Nsengimana (Rwanda): First of all, I want to 
present,  on  behalf  of  my  delegation  and  on  my  own 
behalf, our condolences to Myanmar and Pakistan. 

I would like express my delegation’s appreciation 
to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  to  the  World 
Health  Organization  for  their  respective  reports  under 
consideration today. 

Rwanda fully associates itself with the statements 
of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  the  Group  of  the 
07-55407 

3 
environment, 
technology 
(ICT), 

the 
in 
agriculture, 
information 
science 
A/62/PV.29 

African  States.  We  have  a  few  additional  points  to 
make. 

The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  is  a  vision  to  which  Rwanda  and  other 
African countries attach great importance. It is a vision 
that  offers 
the  promise  of  Africa’s  renewal  and 
development,  with  highest  priority  being  accorded  to 
the  eradication  of  poverty,  sustainable  growth  and 
development, integration into the global economy, and 
the  empowerment  of  women.  It  is  an  initiative  led, 
owned and managed by the African Union that calls for 
and  recognizes  the  serious  commitment  from  and  
the 
implementation  of  programmes  by  African 
Governments,  as  well  as  international  support  and 
partnership from development partner countries. 

We  welcome  the  policy  measures  and  actions 
taken  by  African  countries  and  organizations  in  the 
areas  of 
implementation  of  NEPAD 
health, 
infrastructure 
development, 
education, 
and 
the 
communication 
and 
technology, gender and peer review. Rwanda hosted the 
first  country  round  table  of  the  Comprehensive Africa 
Agriculture  Development  Programme  at  which  the 
Rwanda  Compact,  representing  a  mutual  commitment 
between  Rwanda,  the  Commission  of  the  African 
Union,  the  Common  Market  for  Eastern  and  Southern 
Africa  and  development  partners,  was  signed.  The 
round 
a 
comprehensive  study  to  define  national  targets  for  the 
Programme and to delineate national policy challenges 
and  support  from  ministries  of  finance  and  donors  at 
the country level. 

Rwanda  was  among  the  first  countries  to  accede 
to  and  complete  the  peer  review  process  under  the 
African  Peer  Review  Mechanism.  We  welcomed  the 
views  and  recommendations  of  the  peer  review  panel 
and  are  working  in  a  constructive  spirit  to  implement 
reforms that will benefit the country. 

Rwanda  is  also  proud  to  be  an  active  participant 
in  the  NEPAD  ICT  vision.  Rwanda  was  the  first 
country  to  officially  launch  an  e-schools  initiative 
under NEPAD in October 2006. We have also launched 
a “One Laptop per Child” programme to be completed 
by  2012,  a 
the  Rwanda 
Government  and  leaders  from  the  American  private 
sector.  Rwanda  is  also  part  of  a  12-country  initiative 
called the Kigali Protocol which aims to provide open 
the  undertaking  of 
joint 
initiative  between 
table 
facilitated 
access  and  affordable  prices  for  high  quality,  high-
speed and reliable electronic communications for end-
users. Additionally, we are also proud to be hosting the 
“Connect Africa”  summit  in  Kigali  at  the  end  of  this 
month. 

Rwanda welcomes the progress made so far in the 
implementation  of  international  commitments  on  debt 
relief. Rwanda is a beneficiary of the Heavily Indebted 
Poor  Countries  (HIPC)  Initiative,  which  has  freed 
resources  for  use  in  social  development  programmes. 
We  also  welcome  progress  on  trade  and  South-South 
cooperation. 

However, much more work still needs to be done 
in order for developing countries to fulfil their official 
development  assistance  (ODA)  commitments.  It  is 
disappointing that ODA declined in real terms in 2005 
and  stalled  in  2006.  There  is  concern  that  it  will 
decline even further in 2007.  
Thus,  the  commitments  of  the  Group  of  Eight 

countries in 2005 at Gleneagles to double aid to Africa 
by 2010 will become a challenge to fulfil. We therefore 
agree  with  the  Secretary-General’s  assessment  that 
there  is  need  for  new  aid  architecture  based  on  closer 
coordination, greater harmonization, less fragmentation 
and  better  allocation  of  aid,  as  well  as  a  genuine 
commitment to deliver on pledges.  
The  special  needs  of  Africa  are  of  such 

importance that they require the sustained attention of 
the  United  Nations.  Rwanda  therefore  supports  the 
convening  of  a  high-level  meeting  on  Africa’s 
development  needs  during  the  sixty-third  session.  We 
believe  that  this  meeting  will  help  focus  attention  on 
Africa’s  unique  challenges.  We  look  forward  to  the 
support of all Member States for that meeting.  

With  respect  to  United  Nations  support  for 
NEPAD,  it  is  critical  that  the  Office  of  the  Special 
Adviser on Africa, which oversees support for NEPAD, 
be  strengthened.  The  Office  is  of  great  importance  to 
Africa and plays a very important role in coordinating 
international  support.  The  Office  therefore  cannot 
continue  to  fulfil  the  important  mandate  the  General 
Assembly has assigned to it without a substantive head 
at  the  Under-Secretary-General  level.  We  therefore 
wish to reiterate the call of the African Group for that 
post  and  other  vacancies  in  the  Office  to  be  filled  as 
soon as possible.  
4 

07-55407 
and 
early  warning 
in  Africa”,  I  wish 



Regarding agenda item 64 (b) “Causes of conflict 
and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development 
to  acknowledge 
Africa’s  contributions  to  peace  and  security  in  the 
region.  The  African  Peace  and  Security  Architecture 
has  been  established,  comprising  the  African  Union 
(AU) Peace and Security Council, a Panel of the Wise, 
a continental early-warning system and the beginnings 
of  an  African  standby  force.  Those  elements  have 
already  played  a  very  constructive  role  in  promoting 
peace  and  security  in  the  region,  and  will  continue  to 
do  so.  Their  capacities  will  be  strengthened  by  the  
10-year  United  Nations  capacity-building  programme 
for  the  African  Union,  which  envisages,  inter  alia, 
in  all  phases  of  conflict 
enhanced  cooperation 
management, 
preventive  
diplomacy,  peacemaking,  peacekeeping,  post-conflict 
reconstruction, peacebuilding and human rights.  

Rwanda  is  proud  to  contribute  to  these  efforts, 
both  through  the AU  Peace  and  Security  Council  and 
through  troop  and  police  contributions  to  the AU  and 
the United Nations. We welcome the recommendations 
contained  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  item 
64 (b) 
their 
forward 
implementation,  especially 
terms  of  capacity-
building. 

Malaria imposes an unacceptable toll on the most 
vulnerable people, mostly in Africa, which accounts for 
90 per cent of malaria deaths. The disease compounds 
effects  of  poverty,  weakening  productive 
the 
their  economic 
populations  and 
productivity.  Yet 
is  preventable.  We 
welcome 
in 
supporting Africa in confronting this problem. Also, we 
must  commend  private  initiatives  like  that  of  the  Bill 
and  Melinda  Gates  Foundation,  whose  support  for  a 
malaria vaccine has begun to yield positive results. 

However,  the  World  Health  Organization  report 
acknowledges  that  there  is  still  a  chronic  lack  of 
funding 
prevention 
programmes, such as those promoting insecticidal nets 
and  indoor  residual  spraying.  There  is  also  a  lack  of 
funding for research. We must work together to address 
this  problem  so  that  malaria  ceases  to  be  such  a 
challenge to socio-economic development in Africa. 
Mr. Constantino (Angola): Allow me first to say 

that  my  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered by the representatives of Pakistan and Benin 
the  efforts  of  development  partners 
thereby  reducing 
the  disease 
(A/62/204)  and 
look 
in 
capacity 
support 
and 
to 
to 
A/62/PV.29
In 
its 
in 
for 
respective 
the  Decade 
commitments. 
to  Roll  Back  Malaria 
implementation  of  and 
the  New  Partnership 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China and the African 
Group respectively.  
We  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  Secretary-

the 
General  for  his  fifth  consolidated  report  on 
international 
progress 
support 
for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  (A/62/203),  as  well  as  for  the 
report  on 
in 
Developing Countries, Especially in Africa (A/62/321). 
NEPAD  represents  a  unique  opportunity  to  meet 

the  special  needs  of  Africa 
through  a  global 
partnership.  The  success  of  this  partnership  is  greatly 
dependant  upon  the  degree  to  which  each  stakeholder 
honours 
this 
connection, my delegation is pleased with the progress 
achieved  thus  far,  but  remains  convinced  that  our 
efforts  remain  insufficient  and  have  not  reached  the 
limits of our abilities. This is evidenced by the fact that 
Africa remains the sole continent not on track to meet 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

During the past year, African leaders, the NEPAD 
secretariat and development partners have engaged in a 
variety  of  forums  aimed  at  developing  national, 
subregional and regional projects in priority areas, such 
as  agriculture,  health,  education  and  infrastructure; 
many of these are awaiting funding. In that connection, 
my delegation is of the view that if we are to succeed 
in 
and 
sustainable  development  in  Africa,  through  which  we 
can  eradicate  poverty  and  hunger,  substantial  progress 
is required in the following areas. 
First, we have to recognize that the challenge for 

their  assistance 
development  partners 
frameworks 
and 
emergency 
assistance  to  predictable  quantitative  and  qualitative 
increases  in  development  assistance  in  the  social  and 
economic areas. Secondly, we must all do our share to 
greatly  improve  the  effectiveness  of  development 
assistance,  while  recognizing  that  that  cannot  be 
achieved without tackling the coordination of policies, 
measures and rules at all levels. Thirdly, we must all do 
more  to  honour  our  commitments.  Scaling  up  aid 
involves  the  provision  of  additional  adequate  and 
sustained  funding  to  meet  the  development  needs  of 
Africa.  Finally,  the  international  community  should 
support  reconstruction  efforts  aimed  at  economic 
competitiveness  and  capacity-building  in  the  African 
private sector. 
to  shift 
from  humanitarian 
economic  growth 
achieving 
sustained 
is 
07-55407 

5 

in 
that 
coordinated 
A/62/PV.29 


The  objectives  and  action  plans  enunciated  in 
NEPAD  are  consistent  with  internationally  agreed 
development goals, and a global partnership is required 
for  their  achievement.  My  delegation  is  of  the  view 
that  the  United  Nations  has  a  very  important  role  to 
play in that connection.  

Within the United Nations system and beyond, a 
key  function  of  the  unique  partnership  to  meet  the 
special  needs  of Africa  is  maintaining  the  integrity  of 
the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa. In addition 
to playing its advocacy role, the Office can monitor to 
ensure 
planning,  monitoring, 
implementation  and  evaluation  of  activities  is  being 
carried  out  by  the  entire  United  Nations  system,  as 
directed  by  heads  of  State 
the  Millennium 
Declaration (resolution 55/2), the 2005 World Summit 
Outcome  (resolution  60/1)  and  the  outcomes  of  the 
major United Nations conferences in the economic and 
social fields.  

In conclusion, my delegation looks forward to the 
urgent filling of all existing vacancies in the Office of 
the  Special Adviser  on Africa.  We  consider  that  to  be 
critical to the implementation of NEPAD.  
in 

French):  My  delegation  is  grateful  to  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  two  reports  —  one  on  the  New 
Partnership 
(NEPAD) 
(A/62/203) and the other relating to causes of conflict 
and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development 
in  Africa  (A/62/204)  —  submitted, 
respectively,  under  sub-items  (a)  and  (b)  of  agenda 
item 64.  Those  two  detailed  documents  are  full  of 
information  and  very  enlightening,  particularly  with 
regard  to  the  international  community’s  fulfilment  of 
its commitments vis-à-vis Africa. 

The  reports  also  shed  light  on  the  resolve  of 
African  countries  themselves  to  intervene  in  conflicts 
in  order  to  maintain  peace  and  —  to  borrow  the 
Secretary-General’s  excellent  phrase  —  to  achieve  a 
conflict-free  Africa.  In  fact,  at  the  continental  and 
subregional  levels,  they  have  developed  a  Peace  and 
Security  Architecture 
supported  by  mechanisms 
designed  to  predict,  prevent,  manage  and  resolve 
conflicts.  The  delegation  of  Cameroon  hopes  that  the 
peace  and  security  architecture  developed  by  the 
Economic Community of Central African States will be 
duly described in the next report, as the mechanisms of 
the  Economic  Community  of  West African  States  and 
Mr.  Belinga-Eboutou  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
for  Africa’s  Development 
invited 
community 
international 
is  convincing  because  he 
the  Southern African  Development  Community  are  in 
the current one.  

It  is  with  the  same  concern  to  strengthen  their 
security capacity that African countries are developing 
schools and centres for peacekeeping training. Thus, in 
addition  to  the  centres  in  Mali  and  Ghana,  there  will 
soon  be  an  international  school  in  Cameroon.  United 
Nations  Member  States  are 
to  hear  a 
presentation  about  the  school  on  Monday,  22  October 
2007, at 11 a.m. in Conference Room 3.  
We  also  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the 

quality of the statement that he made as we began our 
consideration of this item. It was a strong and detailed 
statement.  It  encouraged  us,  because  the  Secretary-
General confirmed that Africa and its special needs are 
the top priority for him. Africa is pleased to find in him 
an  advocate  who 
is 
convinced.  
These  two  reports  clearly  show  the  scope  and 

diversity  of  the  activities  carried  out  by  African 
countries 
to 
implement NEPAD, as well as recommendations aimed 
at  making Africa  a  conflict-free  zone  of  peace. While 
efforts on all sides have made commendable progress, 
the  situation  in Africa  remains  worrisome. The  results 
achieved  to  date  remain  far  from  commonly  accepted 
goals and objectives. In a moving plea, the Permanent 
Representative 
Excellency 
Mr. Jean-Marie  Ehouzou,  speaking  in  his  capacity  as 
Chairman of the Group of African States, described the 
situation  much  more  effectively  than  I  could.  I  thank 
him for his persuasive power and his eloquence in the 
service of Africa. 

In any case, the task before us is immense. So too 
is  the  resolve  that  we  must  demonstrate  if  we  really 
want  to  move  decisively  towards  the  results  that  we 
hope  to  achieve.  From  that  perspective,  the  United 
Nations has an essential role to play, as the Secretary-
General  recalled  here  yesterday  in  his  introductory 
statement (see A/62/PV.27). The peoples of the United 
Nations  who  are  in Africa  expect  the  Organization  to 
play  a  role  within  the  international  community  that 
encourages,  mobilizes  and  coordinates  contributions 
and  initiatives  to  supplement  the  efforts  of  African 
countries.  

The  Secretary-General  has  understood  that  well. 
Since  he  assumed  his  duties,  he  has  shown  that  he  is 
Benin, 
His 
and 
the 
of 
6 

07-55407 
greater 
institutional 
system-wide 
“Appropriate  and  adequate 


deeply involved in seeking solutions to African issues. 
In his report, he wrote: 


institutional 
arrangements within the United Nations will hold 
the key to the success of our efforts in support of 
Africa.  I  intend  to  revamp  these  efforts  by 
establishing 
coherence 
among  the  main  Secretariat  entities  dealing  with 
issues that concern Africa, as well as establishing 
stronger 
organizational 
arrangements  to  ensure  full  implementation  of 
activities  in  favour  of  Africa.  As  part  of  this 
approach I will seek to formulate strategic actions 
for  the  United  Nations  and  the  international 
community  in  support  of  achieving  sustainable 
development in a conflict-free Africa.” (A/62/204, 
para. 79) 

This brings me back to the need to strengthen the 
Office of the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General 
on Africa. As we said on 9 October from this rostrum, 
that Office, as an operational structure, has three roles. 
It  must  mobilize  public  opinion  and  resources, 
coordinate  the  various  initiatives  within  the  United 
Nations  system  for  implementing  NEPAD,  and  follow 
up  actively  on  the  various  contributions  made  by  the 
Tokyo 
on  African 
Development, the China-Africa Forum, the Group of 8, 
the  European  Union  and,  more  recently,  India,  the 
Republic  of  Korea  and  Brazil 
towards  a  more 
innovative North-South or South-South partnership for 
the development of Africa. 

The Office could be strengthened in the following 
manner,  although  this  is  not  an  exhaustive  list  of 
possible  measures.  The  first  would  be  preserving  the 
integrity  and  high  level  of  the  Office,  allowing  it  to 
operate  in  an  integrated  manner  and  at  an  appropriate 
level  of  representation  and  dialogue  with  its  various 
partners as it plays the strategic triple role I referred to 
earlier. 

The  second  measure  would  be  filling  all  the 
vacancies  in  the  Office,  and  particularly  the  post  of 
Special  Adviser.  If  that  post  remains  vacant,  it  will 
clearly  weaken 
and 
leadership 
implementation  of 
programmes.  In  their  reports  to  this  session,  the 
Committee  for  Programme  and  Coordination  and  the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions stress that point clearly. 
the  Office’s  management 
International 
and  hinder 
the 
Conference 
A/62/PV.29

The  third  measure  would  be  enhancing  the 
Office’s  capacity  to  play  its  triple  role.  In  that 
connection, we believe that it would be wise to create 
additional  posts  and  operational  resources,  as  the 
Secretary-General  proposes,  in  other  priority  areas, 
such as disarmament, the maintenance of peace, human 
rights  and,  in  the  near  future,  political  affairs.  That 
capacity  is  all  the  more  necessary  in  that  the  specific 
needs of Africa, as identified by the heads of State and 
Government  at  the  2000  Millennium  Summit  and  the 
2005  World  Summit,  must  be  duly  planned, 
programmed,  followed  up  and  assessed  in  a  strategic 
and concrete manner in the annual or multi-year work 
plans  of  the  United  Nations  system.  Moreover,  the 
various  processes  launched  by  Africa’s  partners  must 
also be followed up and exploited methodically. 

The fourth and last measure is clarifying the role 
of  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  vis-à-vis  other 
Secretariat entities. Such clarification would avoid any 
potential  duplication  and  other  confusion.  If  properly 
organized, the Office would work in synergy with other 
entities  of  the  system,  but  would  also  have  a  unique 
central  role  that  would  highlight  both  its  added  value 
and its own distinct nature. 

My delegation makes these proposals because we 
should  like  our  current  debate  to  lead  to  conclusions 
that  would  enable  the  Secretary-General  to  propose  a 
set  of  measures 
the  programmes, 
administrative  structure  and  budget  that  support  the 
United  Nations  work  for  enhanced  development  in 
Africa. Indeed, that is what the General Assembly has 
called  for  tirelessly  in  the  Second,  Third  and  Fifth 
Committees and other subsidiary bodies.  

It is seven years to the deadline of 2015. At that 
point,  we  will  assess  how  far  peoples  have  travelled 
towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals. 
The  reports  before  us,  unfortunately,  show  that Africa 
is  unlikely  to  meet  those  goals  if  its  development 
partners  do  not  live  up  to  all  of  their  commitments 
within the agreed time frame.  

the 
debate,  ending  today,  on  the  reports  on  Africa’s 
development. In our view, the backdrop to this debate 
is very meaningful because our meeting is taking place 
shortly  after  two  major  events.  The  first  was  the 
commemoration  by  men  of  good  will  throughout  the 
world  of  the  fortieth  anniversary  of  Pope  Paul  VI’s 
encyclical  Populorum  Progressio.  That  prophetic 
the  General  Assembly  began 
to  strengthen 
Yesterday, 
07-55407 

7 

A/62/PV.29 

encyclical on the progress of peoples is more relevant 
today  than  ever.  It  offered  a  new  approach  to  the 
expectations  of  the  poorest  peoples  and  countries 
among us. Today, more than ever before, development 
is indeed the new name of peace. If we seek peace, we 
should not prepare for war; we should fight poverty. If 
we  want  peace,  we  should  work  for  respect  for  all 
human  rights,  including  the  right  to  development  and 
the right to food.  

The  backdrop  to  the  debate  ending  today  is  also 
symbolic  because  our  deliberations  are  taking  place 
shortly  after  17  October,  when  we  marked  a  day  set 
aside  to  reject  poverty  throughout  the  world.  As 
members  know,  17  October  was  established  by  the 
General  Assembly  as  the  International  Day  for  the 
Eradication  of  Poverty.  On 
that  occasion,  Pope 
Benedict  XVI  called  upon  men  and  women  to  act  in 
three key areas: first, to work even harder to eliminate 
the  causes  of  poverty  and  its  tragic  consequences; 
secondly,  to  call  on  their  sense  of  dignity  to  find 
grounds for rejecting what is unacceptable and to find 
the strength to believe in a better future and the joy of 
helping one another; and thirdly, to fight side by side, 
in a generous spirit, against poverty.  

Let us heed that appeal as we conclude our debate 
on  development  and  peace  in Africa.  The  end  of  this 
debate  must  mean  the  beginning  of  an  effective  and 
complete  implementation  of  our  commitments.  The 
situation in Africa calls for greater creativity in finding 
solutions,  greater 
to  be 
undertaken  and  greater  generosity  in  implementing 
those actions. Africa is the continent of the future, and 
when  Africa  awakens,  it  will  remember  its  good 
Samaritans. 

of the Observer State of the Holy See.  
Monsignor Auza (Holy See): Resolutions 61/229 

and  61/230  and  the  reports  of  the  Secretary-General 
highlight many positive signs of the commitment of the 
peoples  and  Governments  of  Africa 
to  act  as 
protagonists in the promotion of peace and of their own 
economic  and  social  development.  They  also  express 
the  international  community’s  responsibilities  towards 
Africa. 

Figures showing accelerated economic growth in 
Africa as a whole during the past years are particularly 
encouraging. That  was  best  exemplified  by  last  year’s 
growth rate, which was the highest in the last 30 years. 
The Acting President: I now call on the observer 
the  actions 
resolve 
in 
its 
the 
It is therefore with pleasure that my delegation salutes 
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD) in its seventh year of existence. This Africa-
owned  and  Africa-led  vision  and  strategic  framework 
for  Africa’s  renewal  has  contributed  in  no  small 
measure  to  this  growth.  Moreover,  although  designed 
to  address  the  challenges  facing  the  continent  through 
closer  cooperation  among 
the  African  countries, 
NEPAD  also  opens  and  prepares  Africa  for  greater 
international  cooperation.  Indeed,  one  of  its  primary 
objectives is to halt the marginalization of Africa in the 
globalization  process  and  enhance 
full  and 
beneficial  integration  into  the  global  economy. Africa 
has  started  to  reap  the  fruit  of  this  wise  decision,  as 
seen in the aforementioned highest growth rate, which 
was  in  part  due  to  favourable  international  economic 
conditions. 

Nevertheless,  these  positive  signs  stand  in  stark 
contrast  with  situations  of  conflict  and  the  reality  of 
extreme forms of poverty, which are difficult to uproot. 
Africa still lags behind most other regions of the world. 
Thus  the  international  community’s  support  remains  a 
decisive  factor  in  assisting  Africa  in  responding  to 
daunting challenges and in consolidating recent gains. 

In  the  area  of  peace  and  security,  the  Holy  See 
wishes to renew its support for a global approach to the 
prevention,  management  and  resolution  of  conflicts  in 
Africa.  Efforts  in  those  areas  should  be  guided  by  the 
Peace  and  Security  Council  of  the  African  Union, 
assisted  by  the  Panel  of  the  Wise  and  the  African 
standby  force.  Initiatives  such  as  the  continental  early 
warning  system  and  the  regional  conflict  warning 
systems  deserve 
community’s 
generous  support,  so  that  the  continent’s  increasing 
assumption  of  its  share  of  responsibility  in  conflict 
prevention, 
post-conflict 
peacebuilding may be further consolidated. 

In  the  socio-economic  field,  there  is  no  need  to 
look  far  and  wide  for  ways  and  means  to  support 
Africa:  in  resolution  61/229,  paragraphs  19  to  25, 
several  are  enumerated.  To  address  the  challenges  of 
poverty  eradication  and  sustainable  development, 
Africa  would  need  a  comprehensive  solution  to  the 
unsustainable  debt  burdens  of  some  countries,  fairer 
access  to  world  markets  through  equitable  integration 
into 
timely 
disbursement by the developed countries of the agreed 
0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  product  as  official 
development  assistance,  better  harmonization  between 
trading  system, 
peacekeeping 
international 
international 
and 
the 
the 
8 

07-55407 
At 
transfer  of 
the  end  of 


international  support  and  NEPAD  priorities,  greater 
and  long-term  investments  in  Africa’s  public  and 
private  sector, 
technology  and  better 
educational and health systems, to cite a few. 

Africa’s  integration  into  the  international  trading 
system  should  help  it  build  its  capacity  to  compete 
without  reducing  its  ability  to  safeguard  its  citizens 
from 
the  undesirable  consequences  of  structural 
adjustments  and  trade  liberalization.  The  international 
community is called upon to assist African countries in 
developing policies that promote a culture of solidarity, 
so  that  their  economic  development  may  go  hand  in 
hand  with  integral  human  development.  On  the  other 
hand, good governance and institution-building efforts, 
the correct use of aid and anti-corruption measures are 
primary  responsibilities  of  the  recipient  countries  and 
are essential if international aid is to bear fruit. 
trade 

the  day,  any  new 
development —  particularly 
the  new  North-South 
regional  agreements  —  must  improve  on  what  is 
already in place and must avoid imposing conditions to 
the  detriment  of  Africans.  One  sector  that  is  vital  to 
Africa’s  capacity  to  both  ensure  its  food  security  and 
compete  in  the  global  economy  is  agriculture,  as  seen 
in  the  sensitive  issue  of  agricultural  subsidies  in 
developed  countries.  An  equitable  solution  to  the 
imbalances 
is 
urgently needed, as is an approach to the subsidies on 
exports  from  developed  countries  that  is  consistent 
with and satisfactory for African agriculture. 

Education  must  be  at  the  heart  of  NEPAD 
objectives and priorities, not only as a goal in itself but 
also  as  a  means  in  achieving  the  other  objectives. 
Strategic partnerships in education and skills formation 
between  institutions  in  Africa  and  in  the  developed 
world will no doubt accelerate progress in all sectors. 

the 
movement of skilled labour. Africa, in fact, is suffering 
from brain drain, as much of its educated, talented and 
skilled  human  capital  —  especially  in  the  health 
sector —  leave  the  continent  for  better  economic 
opportunities  in  rich  countries.  There  is  real  risk, 
therefore,  that  the  hard-earned  investments  in African 
higher education will yield fewer and fewer returns to 
Africa,  even  while  it  benefits  countries  where African 
skilled labour is being employed. 
Persistent  wars  in  Africa  and  their  deleterious 

effects  in  terms  of  the  displaced  and  refugees  and  of 
international  agricultural 
Those  partnerships 
should  extend 
trade 
in 
to 
A/62/PV.29
and 
families 
children,  many 
the heinous crimes of the recruitment of child soldiers 
and  violence  against  women,  should  remind  us  that 
peace  and  collective  security  are  inseparable  from 
human development. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General Assembly resolution 49/2 of 19 October 1994, 
I  now  call  on  the  observer  for  the  International 
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.  
Ms.  Johnson  (International  Federation  of  Red 

Cross and Red Crescent Societies): I am pleased to be 
able  to  speak  here  today  on  matters  of  particular 
relevance to the International Federation of Red Cross 
and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC).  

The  largest  humanitarian  needs  resulting  from 
poverty, health crises and disasters are in Africa, and it 
is with grave concern that we remind ourselves today, 
at  the  mid-point  to  2015,  that  most African  countries 
are  not  on  track  to  meet  most,  if  not  all,  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  People  are 
dying  of  AIDS  and  related  diseases,  leaving  behind 
destitute 
also 
HIV-positive.  Droughts,  floods,  locusts  and  conflicts 
cause or exacerbate food insecurity and vulnerability to 
disease.  Having  witnessed 
and 
unprecedented  flooding 
that  affected  one  million 
people  across  20  African  countries  over  the  past 
several  months,  we  are  all  the  more  concerned  about 
rising  humanitarian  needs  and  the  long-term  toll  they 
take on years of development gains. 

l9  October, 
3,000 children  will  die  of  malaria.  It  is  unacceptable 
that  14 African  children  will  die  during  the  few 
minutes it will take for me to make this statement here 
in 
the  more 
unacceptable given that those deaths can be prevented 
through  personal  protection,  mosquito  control  and 
early treatment. Today, malaria threatens 40 per cent of 
the  world’s  population,  and  we  expect  that  figure  to 
increase  as  climate  and  environmental  changes  take  it 
into new territories. 

The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  aims  to  eradicate  poverty  and  place African 
countries  on  a  path  of  sustainable  growth  and 
development, 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  in  health  and  education.  The 
International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Crescent  Societies  endorses  those  priorities  and  also 
in  Africa 
works 
the  General  Assembly. 
them.  Our  programmes 
including  meeting 
is  unacceptable 
towards 
is  all 
recent 
It 
that 
today, 
the 
It 
07-55407 

9 

A/62/PV.29 

account for 40 per cent of our funding appeal in 2006 
and 2007.  

The  positive  news  is  that,  by  working  in  strong 
global and local partnerships and by building the local 
capacities  of  national  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent 
Societies, we see progress being made in many African 
countries  by  Africans  themselves.  Indeed,  despite  the 
daunting  humanitarian  needs,  there  is  progress  in 
Africa,  and  we  have  registered  many  achievements. 
Today, I will highlight simply one. 
The report recently issued by the United Nations 

Children’s  Fund  on  malaria  and  children  shows  that  a 
rapid  improvement  in  the  supply  and  distribution  of 
mosquito nets between 2004 and 2006 has resulted in a 
tripling  of  coverage  ratios  in  16  countries.  Red  Cross 
and  Red  Crescent  Societies  have  contributed  to  those 
results  as partners of the  Roll Back Malaria initiative. 
Our  community-based  volunteers,  who  walk  the  last 
mile  and  visit  the  last  house  on  the  road,  have  helped 
turn  planned  campaigns  into  real  successes.  In  2006, 
the  International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Crescent  Societies  participated 
in  17  malaria 
campaigns  in  14  countries,  helping  to  distribute  some 
27  million  mosquito  nets.  By  the  end  of  this  year,  we 
anticipate  having  completed  13  new  campaigns  and 
delivered  28  million  nets.  Preparations  are  currently 
under  way 
the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Congo Brazzaville 
and Gambia. In 2008, we plan to continue at that pace 
and anticipate needing some 21 million more nets.  

We  believe  that  NEPAD  is  founded  on  two  key 
principles  that  are  necessary  to  achieving  results  in 
Africa.  The  first  is  anchoring  the  development  of 
Africa  in  its  own  resources  and  in  the  resourcefulness 
of  its  people.  The  International  Federation  of  Red 
Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies  recognizes  that  the 
lack of human resources for health is a cause of major 
health  delivery  gaps,  particularly  in  rural  areas  of 
sub-Saharan  African  countries.  We  see  that  as  an 
important  impediment  to  achieving  the  MDGs  and  as 
an area where we can contribute. 

As  auxiliaries  to  their  public  authorities,  Red 
Cross and Red Crescent Societies can help improve the 
quality  and  size  of  the  health  workforce  in  their 
countries,  while 
the  Government’s 
responsibility  in  that  area.  That  is  why  the  IFRC,  in 
the  World  Health  Organization 
cooperation  with 
(WHO) 
the  Southern  Africa  HIV/AIDS 
in  Madagascar,  Mali,  Gabon, 
recognizing 
and 
the 
humanitarian 
goals 
ideally  placed 
signed  between 
Information  Dissemination  Service,  has  developed  a 
generic  training  package  on  HIV/AIDS,  which  can  be 
used  to  train  community  volunteers  in  treatment 
literacy, mobilization, preparedness and adherence. 

The  key  to  success  is  partnership. As  auxiliaries 
to their public authorities, national Red Cross and Red 
to  help 
Crescent  Societies  are 
accomplish 
of 
their 
Governments  at  all 
levels.  As  community-based 
organizations,  they  can  help  link  development  at  the 
national  level  to  the  efforts  at  the  local  level  of 
everyday  people  working  to  improve  their  lives.  We 
believe  that  for  partnerships  to  be  real,  equitable  and 
transparent, they need to respond to the aspirations and 
expectations of vulnerable people and communities. 

National  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies 
welcome  partnerships  with  organizations  working 
towards similar goals. We believe that for partnerships 
to  be  effective,  they  need  to  be  built  on  solid 
organizational  capacity,  on  complementary  skills,  and 
on the maximization of resources. The memorandum of 
understanding 
International 
Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies 
and  the WHO’s  Regional  Office  for Africa  in  May  of 
this year is one example of such a partnership and is a 
milestone that should help better support the efforts of 
African  Governments  in  scaling  up  comprehensive 
HIV interventions at the community level.  
I  have  outlined  today  how  health  interventions, 

institutional 
and 
partnerships  at  national  and  local  levels  can  spur 
development in Africa. Those issues will be addressed 
at  the  upcoming  International  Conference  of  the  Red 
Cross  and  Red  Crescent  which,  under  the  theme 
“Together  for  humanity”,  will  draw  attention  to  the 
need  for  collective  and  collaborative  action  and 
partnerships  between  States,  the  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Crescent  global  network,  and  other  humanitarian 
actors, 
and 
International 
non-governmental  organizations.  The 
Conference  will  also  examine  the  unique  value  and 
specific  nature  of  the  role  of  national  societies  as 
auxiliaries to the public authorities in the humanitarian 
field. 

Let me close  by highlighting two areas  in which 
we  think  Governments  can  act  differently  and  more 
effectively to enable our work and shared goals. 
the  United  Nations 
capacity-building, 
and  human 
the 
such 
as 
10 

07-55407 



First,  they  can  better  partner  with  national  Red 
Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies.  We  call  on  donor 
and national Governments to meet the intentions stated 
in the Rabat Declaration on human development and on 
strengthening  health  systems  and  human  resources  for 
health, in cooperation with national Red Cross and Red 
Crescent Societies. 

Secondly,  there  is  the  question  of  funding  and 
resource  mobilization.  As  highlighted  in  the  many 
reports  that  fed  into  our  discussions  yesterday  and 
today, funding remains inadequate to effectively tackle 
the  challenges  of  malaria,  HIV  and  development  in 
Africa. We call on Governments to mobilize resources 
and funding to that end and to apply the principles and 
good  practice  of  humanitarian  donorship 
the 
efficient delivery of that assistance. 
in 
A/62/PV.29
too  well 

The  International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and 
Red Crescent Societies and our 53 national societies in 
Africa  know 
the  daily  difficulties  and 
tragedies  of  poor  families  and  communities  in Africa. 
But we also know — because our national societies are 
grounded in that reality — the tremendous strength and 
capacity that are in those same families and those same 
communities. We are convinced that, working in global 
and  local  partnerships,  we  can  achieve  our  goals,  and 
we pledge to do our part to do just that. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker in the debate on these items. The Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
items 64 and 47. 
The meeting rose at 4.20 p.m. 
07-55407 

11 
