United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

13th plenary meeting 
Monday, 1 October 2007, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

A/62/PV.13
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) 
Members.  The  resounding  war  of  words  must  not  be 
accepted with complacency. 

As  one  of  the  smallest  members  of  the  United 
Nations  family  of  nations,  Vanuatu  would  like  to 
reaffirm  its  commitment  to  building  global  peace  and 
security. We will also continue to participate in United 
Nations peacekeeping missions. 

May I  also take this opportunity to  acknowledge 
the anniversary of the abolition of the slave trade some 
200 years ago. My country also suffered tremendously 
from  those  horrendous  acts  executed  by  the  great 
champions  of  deception  and 
iniquity,  who  were 
responsible  for  enslaving  thousands  of  men,  women 
and children and shipping them to foreign shores under 
inhumane conditions using malicious torture. The days 
of blackbirding are long gone, but the bitter memories 
and injurious social consequences are entrenched in the 
history  of  my  country  and  people.  I  honour  all  the 
descendants  of  slaves  for  their  courage  and  their 
determination to live on. They deserve a special place 
in the countries in which their forefathers were forced 
to  live.  There  also  remains  a  huge  debt  owed  to  the 
countries  that  suffered  large  human  losses  from  those 
heinous crimes against humanity. We cannot exonerate 
the  past,  but  we  can  all  hope  for  a  just  and  better 
future.  All  countries  must  work  together  to  prevent 
other  insidious  contemporary  forms  of  slavery  that 
have established themselves in our societies. 

I  welcome  and  support  the  decision  to  make 
climate change the theme of this session of the General 
Assembly.  In  the  same  vein,  my  Government  highly 







  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 
Mr.  Wells  (Vanuatu):  I  bring  to  this  Assembly 
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate 
The President: I now call on His Excellency The 

Honourable  George Andre Wells, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of Vanuatu. 

warm greetings from the people of Vanuatu. 

Today is an important day in the histories of four 
of our Members of the United Nations family, and my 
Government  and  the  people  of  Vanuatu  congratulate 
the  people  of  Tuvalu,  Nigeria  and  Cyprus  on  their 
independence  anniversaries,  and  the  people  of  the 
People’s  Republic  of  China  on  the  anniversary  of  the 
founding of that great nation. 
in  extending  our 

felicitations to you, Sir. You take up your high position 
at  a  time  when  the  United  Nations  is  confronted  by 
some  enormous  challenges. The  uncertainty  shrouding 
the  horizon  will  severely  test  our  common  resolve  to 
address global problems.  

Mr.  Mavroyiannis  (Cyprus),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair. 

The escalating tension and animosity in the world 
today are an affront to the principles and values of the 
Organization  and  ultimately  challenge  international 
order.  What  the  world  needs  right  now  is  a  hand  of 
friendship to rebuild trust and faith among and between 
Let  me  also 
join  others 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-52299 (E) 
*0752299* 
A/62/PV.13 

commends  the  Secretary-General  for  convening  last 
week’s  high-level  meeting,  which  should  provide  an 
important  catalyst  for  the  conference  to  be  held  later 
this year in Bali. 

I  should  now  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
recognize  and  commend  the  work  done  under  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change to address the effects of climate change and to 
promote  mitigation  and  adaptation  strategies.  But  the 
point must be made that rapidly reducing the emission 
of  greenhouse  gases  by  all  major  emitters  must  be 
ensured within the next 10 to 15 years.  

We followed with great interest the recent debate 
about the criteria and rules that the United Nations uses 
to  decide  whether  a  country  should  or  should  not  be 
removed  from  its  list  of  least  developed  countries. 
Graduation is desirable and fair if, and only if, it is the 
culmination  of  a  process  of  structural  progress  over 
time  —  that  is  to  say,  progress  based  on  irreversible 
improvements in the structure of the economy or in the 
basic  indicators  of  development.  It  is  only  fair  and 
logical,  therefore,  that  the  criteria  used  as  a  basis  for 
identifying  a  country 
for  graduation  should  be 
structural criteria. 

The  United  Nations  currently  uses  three  criteria 
to  identify  cases  for  graduation. Admittedly,  only  two 
of  the  three  are  structural  in  nature.  One  relates  to 
human  capital  —  essentially  as  regards  health  and 
education  —  and  the  other  to  economic  vulnerability. 
The proponents of reform of the graduation rule rightly 
postulate  that  those  two  criteria  together  should  form 
the basis for identifying a country for graduation. The 
current  graduation  rule  allows  the  United  Nations  to 
declare a country ready for graduation even if only one 
of  those  two  paramount  thresholds  has  been  met.  We 
consider the current practice to be conceptually flawed 
and  fraught  with  serious  implications. We  believe  this 
anomaly can easily be remedied. 

My  Government  is  of  the  view  that  the  General 
Assembly  should  invite  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council to revisit the graduation rule in the light of the 
ongoing  debate,  and  that  the  experts  who  advise  the 
Council  should  be  mandated  to  explore  reform  of  the 
rule with a view to making human assets and economic 
vulnerability  paramount.  Such  a  reform  would  do 
justice to countries that have not achieved the implied 
structural  progress.  The  Government  of  Vanuatu  will 
do  its  utmost  to  cooperate  with  the  relevant  United 
Nations  bodies  and  other  like-minded  nations  and 
friends  in  forging  consensus  on  this  matter.  I  am 
convinced  that  such  consensus  implicitly  exists,  and 
needs only to be formalized. 

Experts  and  members  of  the  Committee  for 
Development  Policy  should  also  be  encouraged  to 
undertake  in-country  consultations  and  to  experience 
first-hand the development conditions of countries that 
are on the verge of graduation. We are talking about the 
livelihoods  of  peoples  who  may  be  seriously  affected 
by decisions that are made at the United Nations. 

We must continue to work together in shaping the 
architecture  of  the  United  Nations  so  that  it  is  more 
resourceful and relevant to our times and to the peoples 
whom we represent. 

I would like to commend the United Nations for 
increasing its presence in the Pacific region though its 
country-based  offices.  We  will  encourage  more 
decentralization of functions to regional offices, which 
are  better  suited  to  responding  to  the  needs  of 
Members.  

The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  is  of  grave 
concern  to  all  peace-loving  Members  of  the  United 
Nations. We earnestly pray and hope for an early end to 
the  conflict  and  to  the  suffering  of  all  innocent 
children,  women  and  men.  Both  Israel  and  Palestine 
have  the  right  to  live  in  peaceful  coexistence  as 
independent  and  sovereign  States.  The  international 
community  must  be  realistic  about  the  future.  Let  us 
allow justice, security and long-lasting peace to prevail 
for both the Israeli and Palestinian peoples. 
the 

adoption  of 
the  Rights  of 
Indigenous Peoples. It is our hope that the Declaration 
will provide a framework for addressing the grievances 
of 
remain  suppressed, 
alienated  and  disadvantaged  in  the  land  of  their 
forefathers. We can only hope that this instrument will 
provide  an  enabling  mechanism  to  allow  indigenous 
peoples the freedom to fully participate, without fear of 
reprisals,  in  the  affairs  and  development  of  their 
countries. The Declaration should also serve to restore 
dignity  to  those  who  have  remained  second-class 
citizens  in  the  land  of  their  fathers.  We  cannot  turn 
back  the  clock,  but  we  can  create  a  better  future  for 
them. 
My  Government  very  much  welcomes 
the  Declaration  on 
indigenous  peoples,  who 
2 

07-52299 
in 
for 
agencies 



The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  espouses  the 
principles  that  continue  to  guide  the  Organization’s 
efforts 
the  process  of  self-determination.  The 
Charter  calls  for  recognition  of,  and  respect  for,  the 
fundamental  and  inalienable  rights  of  people  and 
territories  still  under  colonial  rule  to  determine  their 
own  future.  We  cannot  champion  democracy  while 
turning  a  blind  eye  to  those  who  have  cried  out  for 
peace  and  freedom  for  many  years,  as  have  our 
brothers in West Papua. It is the moral responsibility of 
the  Organization  to  act  with  diligence  and  to  work 
towards promoting better conditions in larger freedom. 
Finally, I would like to acknowledge the support 

of  Vanuatu’s  major  development  partners  — 
in 
particular  Australia,  New  Zealand,  France,  Japan,  the 
People’s  Republic  of  China,  the  United  States  of 
America and the European Union. I would also like to 
express my Government’s gratitude to India, Thailand, 
Malaysia,  Singapore,  Indonesia,  Turkey  and  various 
their 
United  Nations 
ongoing 
contributions to the development of Vanuatu. 

In  conclusion,  the  world  we  live  in  today  can 
only  become  a  better  place  if  all  countries  —  big  and 
small,  powerful  and  weak  —  recognize,  understand, 
value and respect each other as equals. The pride of the 
human  person  is  the  essence  of  building  equality 
between all persons. Respect also means accepting the 
national  sovereignty  of  each  individual  country  and 
refraining from interfering in the internal affairs of any 
State. If we are to work towards building a future that 
will provide security, peace, hope and prosperity for all 
future  generations,  those  important  values  must  be 
upheld at all times. 

May  I  remind  the  Assembly  that  our  personal 
aims should not be paramount. We must work with all 
the  diligence  and  wisdom  that  God  the  Almighty  has 
given us to serve His people.  
The  Acting  President: I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency The  Honourable Archibald  Lesao  Lehohla, 
Deputy  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  of  Home Affairs 
and Public Safety of Lesotho. 
Mr. Lehohla (Lesotho): My delegation associates 

itself  with  the  compliments  extended  to  Mr.  Srgjan 
Kerim  on  his  election  to  preside  over  the  General 
Assembly  at  this  session  and  to  his  predecessor, 
Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa  of  Bahrain.  I  also 
wish 
to  welcome  His 
Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon and to assure him of my 
this  opportunity 
take 
to 
A/62/PV.13
that 
the 
to 
ourselves 
achieving 
that  consensus  was  essential 
country’s  unconditional  support  during  his  tenure  as 
Secretary-General of the United Nations. 

Lesotho  congratulates  the  presidency  on  having 
invited  Member  States  to  comment  on  the  theme 
“Responding  to  Climate  Change”  during  this  session. 
In  1992,  the  first  Earth  Summit,  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Environment  and  Development,  was 
held in Rio de Janeiro. It was at that conference that we 
committed 
sustainable 
development in the twenty-first century. We reaffirmed 
our  commitments  in  Johannesburg  at  the  2002  World 
Summit  on  Sustainable  Development.  It  would  seem 
that, for  far too long thereafter,  we  agreed to disagree 
until we were confronted by the glaring and compelling 
scientific  evidence 
link  between  global 
warming  and  human  activities  was  unequivocal.  We 
waited  for  the  adverse  effects  of  climate  change  to 
begin  to  be  felt  all  over  the  globe  before  we  could 
acknowledge 
for 
concerted action on climate change. 

Sadly, natural disasters have begun to strike. As is 
usually the case, it is the poorest nations and the most 
vulnerable countries that are being worst affected. My 
country 
these.  Unfavourable  climatic 
conditions that are attributable to climate change have 
led to severe drought, which has resulted in acute food 
shortages. 
that  crisis,  my 
Government has declared a state of emergency on food 
security. 

As  the  world  prepares  for  the  United  Nations 
climate  change  conference,  which  will  take  place  in 
Bali,  Indonesia,  in  December  2007,  we  need  to  be 
reminded  of  the  urgent  need  to  build  a  solid  and 
sustainable  consensus  on  a  global  response  to  climate 
change for the period following the expiry of the 1997 
Kyoto  Protocol  in  the  year  2012.  My  delegation  calls 
upon  the  international  community  to  endeavour  to 
reach  consensus  on,  among  other  things,  steps  that 
must be taken to reach the 60 to 80 per cent emission 
cuts  that  are  required  to  stabilize  the  atmosphere.  In 
that  regard,  the  industrialized  countries  must  assume 
the  major  responsibility,  because  scientific  evidence 
has  confirmed  that  it  is  the  greenhouse  gas  emissions 
from  those  countries  that  are  making  natural  disasters 
worse. The international community must also reaffirm 
its commitment to assisting the regions, such as Africa, 
that  are  the  most  vulnerable  to  climate  change.  In 
addition, my delegation calls upon developed countries 
is  one  of 
to  address 
In  order 
07-52299 

3 
instruments 
A/62/PV.13 

to  assist  developing  countries  in  strengthening  their 
capacity to adapt to climate change. 

Allow  us  further  to  share  our  thoughts  on  what 
we consider to be the role of the United Nations in the 
twenty-first  century.  Our  thoughts  cover  three  areas: 
democracy, conflicts and development.  
The  United  Nations  was  formed  against  the 

backdrop  of  colonialism,  particularly  on  the  African 
continent. As  colonial  rule  slowly  but  surely  ended,  it 
left  behind  a  legacy  of  undemocratic  Governments. 
African  countries  were  characterized  by  coups  d’état 
day  in,  day  out.  Very  few  African  countries  have  not 
had the “pleasure” of military rule. 
Faced  with  that  disturbing  reality,  some  regional 

to  deal  with 
organizations  adopted 
unconstitutional  changes  of  Government  by  carrying 
out  sanctions.  Here,  mention  should  be  made  of  the 
Organization  of  African  Unity;  its  successor,  the 
African  Union;  and  the  Commonwealth  group  of 
nations.  Significantly,  however,  our  Organization,  the 
United  Nations,  has  not  adopted  any  instrument  to 
carry  out  sanctions  against  defaulting  Member  States. 
That is what the United Nations must now do. 

Today, the overwhelming majority of the world’s 
countries adhere to the principles of democracy. Those 
countries  hold  periodic  elections.  However, 
the 
broadest common denominator of developing countries 
is the non-acceptance of election results; it has become 
a  tradition  for  losing  political  parties  to  dispute  them. 
Regrettably, that is done through unlawful means more 
often  than  not,  despite  the  fact  that  there  are  always 
lawful  mechanisms  for  challenging  election  results. 
This is one area in which we see a role for the United 
Nations,  as  the  universal  institution  with  the  capacity 
necessary 
in 
reversing these trends. 

Just as the United Nations plays a critical role in 
world  economic  development,  it  should  see  as  part  of 
its 
the  culture  of 
democracy 
the 
Organization  must  help  developing  countries  fight  the 
culture  of  impunity.  The  common  understanding  must 
be  a  simple  one:  “When  the  people  have  spoken, 
respect  their  voice”.  Victors  must  learn  to  accept 
victory  with  humility  and  magnanimity,  and  losers  to 
accept defeat with grace. In that way, the post-election 
period  can  be  devoted  to  development,  with  all  sides 
joining  hands  in  a  collective  national  effort.  We  must 
to  assist  requesting  Member  States 
role  aggressively 
inculcating 
in 
all  nations. 
In  particular, 
instrument  could  curtail 
hasten to acknowledge the role that the United Nations 
is  now  playing  in  democratization  processes,  but  we 
feel that it can do more. 

That  brings  us  to  the  second  area:  conflicts. 
Conflicts  always  feature  prominently  in  our  addresses 
before the Assembly. We must acknowledge that inter-
State conflicts are on the decline across the globe. The 
same, however, cannot be said about internal conflicts. 
It  cannot  be  denied  that  intra-State  conflicts  occur 
where  there  is  little  or  no  regard  for  democratic 
governance. If a country is not accustomed to holding 
elections  or  to  accepting  election  results,  conflicts 
arise. Other causes, which are also attributable to lack 
of  democratic  governance,  include  a  lack  of  judicious 
sharing  of  a  country’s  wealth,  rampant  poverty  and 
ethnic strife. 

In  all  such  conflicts,  small  arms  and  light 
weapons have become weapons of choice. We therefore 
still  consider  it  regrettable  that  in  the  year  2005, 
Member States were not able to adopt a legally binding 
international instrument on the marking and tracing of 
small arms and light weapons. We share the view that 
such  an 
the  production, 
transfer  and  civilian  possession  of  illicit  small  arms 
and light weapons. It is the urgent responsibility of the 
United Nations to facilitate the adoption of an effective 
international  instrument  for  curbing  the  illicit  trade  in 
conventional weapons, which would make it harder for 
such weapons to end up in the hands of criminals. We 
hope  that  the  arms  trade  treaty  that  is  being  proposed 
can be concluded expeditiously. 

We  must  recall  that  in  the  year  2005,  the 
Assembly  solemnly  proclaimed  that  the  role  of  the 
entire  international  community,  acting  through  the 
United  Nations,  was  to  protect  populations  from 
genocide,  war  crimes  and  other  crimes  against 
humanity. Unfortunately, that is not what is happening 
on  the  ground.  We  still  notice  inaction  on  the  part  of 
the  Security  Council,  or  its  reaction  coming  too  late. 
The harrowing experiences of Rwanda and now Darfur 
are living testimony to that. We attribute such inaction 
to the skewed composition and powers of the Council, 
especially  the  right  of  veto,  which  we  are  now 
convinced,  more 
is  extremely 
subjective  and  exercised  according  to  the  interests  of 
the  concerned  permanent  member.  That  has,  in  some 
instances,  caused  a  breaking  of  the  ranks  among  the 
big five. 
than  ever  before, 
4 

07-52299 


We  continue  to  witness  unilateral  economic  and 

financial  blockades  being 
imposed  against  other 
countries,  and  the  denial  to  peoples  of  their  right  to 
self-determination,  while  others  are  still  subject  to 
occupation. Cuba, Palestine and the Western Sahara are 
here cases in point. We submit that it must remain the 
role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century to 
proactively  preserve  international  peace  and  security. 
Our call is therefore that, where peace and security are 
threatened,  the  United  Nations,  through  the  Security 
Council, must act swiftly and decisively at all times. 

But  the  United  Nations  can  do  so  only  if  its 
structures  are  reformed  to  make  them  democratic  and 
representative. Our basic premise would continue to be 
that  the  United  Nations  in  the  twenty-first  century 
should  inculcate  democracy  not  only  in  Member 
countries, but also within itself. 

It  is  a  hard  fact  that  the  reform  of  the  United 
Nations will not be complete without the reform of the 
Security  Council.  Members  of  this  body  have  on 
several  occasions  reiterated  the  fact  that  the  Security 
Council in its current form does not reflect the realities 
of today’s world, and yet, for more than a decade now, 
the Assembly has remained stagnant on that issue. The 
presentation  per  se  of  various  positions  by  major 
stakeholders,  as  well  as  various  attempts  to  bridge 
major  differences  in  those  positions,  have  thus  far 
failed 
results.  Hence,  my 
delegation shares the view that it is now time to move 
forward  and  begin  intergovernmental  negotiations. 
However,  we  wish  to  underline  that,  while  the  reform 
of the Security Council is possible, all Member States 
need to garner the necessary political will to attain that 
goal. The credibility of the Council is at stake. 

Sustainable  world  peace  and  stability  create  the 
necessary  space 
the  development 
challenges of our countries and peoples. The world has 
acknowledged  that  the  HIV  and  AIDS  pandemic 
represents the top most challenge. The untold miseries 
brought  about  by  that  scourge  are  common  cause.  To 
the  extent  that  no  cure  is  available,  HIV/AIDS  will 
continue to be a threat to human existence. That threat, 
particularly  in  Africa,  is  compounded  by  worsening 
poverty  and  famine  levels  brought  about,  in  most 
cases, 
conditions, 
compliments — in large measure, of climate change. 

It is our view that, in a country enjoying political 
stability,  the  potential  for  all  sectors  of  that  nation  to 
unfavourable  weather 
to  deal  with 
to  produce 
tangible 
by 
A/62/PV.13
those 
challenges 
of 
immune 
is  greatly 
the  Organization.  For 
My  delegation  congratulates 
address 
enhanced. 
Moreover,  no  economic  development  can  take  place 
without democracy, peace and stability. Of course, the 
support  of  the  developed  countries  will  always  be 
called  for;  hence,  the  need  for  them  to  fulfil  their 
promise  on  official  development  assistance,  which 
plays such a critical role in the economic development 
of the developing countries. 

the  Secretary-
General, Mr.  Ban Ki-moon, on his  commitment to the 
strengthening 
this 
Organization to acquit itself successfully in the twenty-
first  century,  the  role  of  its  Secretary-General  must 
remain  sacrosanct.  He  must  remain 
to 
influence by the interests of any groups or Powers. He 
must be faithful to the interests of all in the service of 
our family of nations. Above all, he must help, through 
the  United  Nations,  to  create  a  world  at  peace  with 
itself. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Come  Zoumara, 
Minister  for  Foreign Affairs,  Regional  Integration  and 
la Francophonie of the Central African Republic. 
Mr. Zoumara (Central African Republic) (spoke 

in French): On behalf of the delegation of the Central 
African  Republic,  and  in  the  name  of  our  Head  of 
State,  President  of  the  Republic  François  Bozizé,  I 
extend  warm 
to 
Mr. Kerim  on  his  election  to  preside  over  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-second  session.  We  are  also 
gratified  to  assert  that  his  distinctive  skills  will 
guarantee the success of our work. 

I  also  wish  to  pay  a  warm  tribute  to  his 
predecessor,  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa  of  the 
Kingdom of Bahrain. Five decades after the presidency 
of Mrs. Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit of India, she wisely led 
the  work  of  the  sixty-first  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, to the great satisfaction of all. 
Finally,  on  behalf  of  President  of  the  Republic 

and  Head  of  State  François  Bozizé,  allow  me  to 
address  our  sincere  congratulations 
to  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his  dynamism  and  the 
efficiency  with  which  he  has  undertaken  his  work  in 
the  context  of  current  important  international  issues, 
including  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security, climate change, human rights, and combating 
drugs  and  terrorism  in  all  its  forms,  which  remain 
congratulations 
and  heartfelt 
07-52299 

5 
the  economic 
The  consequences 
A/62/PV.13 

pressing issues that no country in the world can address 
in isolation. 

The  conflicts  afflicting  the  innocent  civilian 
populations in the Middle East, the Great Lakes region 
and  the  Sudan,  a  neighbour  of  the  Central  African 
Republic,  with  their  hosts  of  refugees  and  displaced 
persons,  are  causes  of  grave  concern.  The  conflict  in 
Darfur  and  the  presence  of  rebels,  armed  groups  and 
road-blockers  cause  the  proliferation  and  unlawful 
circulation  of  small  arms  in  that  subregion,  thus 
provoking widespread and continuous insecurity.  

the  Central  African 
Republic  often  take  the  shape  of  recurrent  crises  that 
chronically  undermine 
fabric  and 
aggravate  the  poverty  of  our  people  by  creating 
hazardous and precarious living conditions. All of this 
leads to the breakdown of the social fabric, the loss of 
civic spirit and, ultimately, the failure of confidence in 
their institutions and, especially, in justice.  

We  applaud  the  adoption  of  Security  Council 
resolution 1778 (2007) on the deployment of the hybrid 
multidimensional  force  to  the  borders  of  the  Central 
African Republic, Chad and the Sudan. We should like 
to see it accompanied, however, by genuine support for 
the  reinforcement  of  institutional  capacities  in  the 
Central African Republic. In that regard, we thank and 
praise France for its courageous decision and effective 
participation in that peacekeeping force. 

During  the  fifteenth  session  of  the  Commission 
on  Sustainable  Development,  held  in  New  York  from 
30  April  to  11  May  2007,  whose  chosen  theme  was 
turning commitments into action and working together 
in  partnership,  participants  highlighted  the  correlation 
and  interdependence  among  the  four  areas  of  the 
thematic  cluster:  energy  for  sustainable  development, 
industrial  development,  air  pollution  and  climate 
change.  The  Commission’s  fifteenth  session  also 
demonstrated that much significant progress remains to 
be achieved: advances in those sectors are minimal and 
still 
international 
community  set  for  itself  in  Rio  in  1992  and  in 
Johannesburg in 2002. 
the 

environment in particular and sustainable development 
in  general,  a  partnership  endeavour,  supported  by 
sufficient  resources,  is  absolutely  essential  in  order  to 
allow developing countries, in particular in Africa, the 
Caribbean  and  the  South  Pacific,  to  implement  these 
these  challenges  of 
the  objectives 
from 
In  order 
to  meet 
for 
far 
the 
but 
bearing 
to  strengthening 
the  Central  African  Republic.  Indeed, 
commitments,  especially  since  those  regions,  and 
particularly  Africa,  while 
little 
responsibility  for  the  advent  of  this  phenomenon,  are 
more  vulnerable  to  the  risks  associated  with  climate 
change. 

By choosing climate change as a central topic of 
this General Assembly session and organizing the high-
level dialogue “The future in our hands: Addressing the 
leadership challenge of climate change”, the Assembly 
President  has  pinpointed 
the  growing  concern 
associated  with  global  warming  for  a  country  such  as 
ours, 
the 
problems associated with climate change now lie at the 
core  of  international  debates.  The  moment  has  thus 
arrived  to  transform  good  intentions  into  concrete 
actions. 

For  its  part,  the  Central African  Republic  hopes 
that  during  the  Bali  Climate  Change  Conference  this 
December  the  wealthy  countries  will  at  last  honour 
their  commitments  in  the  area  of  technology  transfer 
and  will  provide  assistance 
the 
national  and  regional  structures  required  for  effective 
action to combat climate change. I would like to pay a 
warm  tribute  to  the  Secretary-General  for  the  interest 
he has shown in these problems and for his initiative of 
appointing  three  special  envoys  in  the  area  of  climate 
change. 

Allow  me  to  present  the  specific  case  of  my 
country,  the  Central  African  Republic,  which  spans 
three  climatic  zones,  with  great  diversity 
its 
ecosystem, from dense humid forest in the south, to the 
pre-Sahelian area in the north.  

This central position at the crossroads of different 
African  ecosystems  —  from  the  Sudan-Sahelian  areas 
in  the  north  to  the  dense  humid  forest  in  the  south  — 
gives  it  great  ecological  potential.  It  has  many  assets: 
rich  and  fertile  soil,  mineral  and  forest  wealth, 
diversified fauna and varied agriculture, with the latter 
being the country’s economic base. 

The  Central  African  Republic  understands  the 
wealth  of  its  natural  resources,  but  also  the  threats 
involved.  That  is  why  we  have  built  environmental 
concerns  into  the  constitution  of  our  country,  notably 
in  its  preamble  and  its  article  9  where  the  collective 
consciousness is called upon to respect the principle of 
good environmental governance.  
in 
6 

07-52299 
is 
the 
Our 
largely 
economy 
dependent 
least  developed  countries,  where 



Despite  these  resources,  the  economic  reality  of 
the country shows that the Central African Republic is 
among 
the 
population  lives  on  less  than  a  dollar  a  day.  In  recent 
years, the rate of economic growth has fallen below the 
average predictions. Structurally, the country comes up 
against many obstacles in its development efforts. For 
instance, its  domestic market is tiny,  and it is isolated 
domestically  and  externally  because  of  its  distance 
from  maritime  ports.  The  economic  situation  may  be 
summed  up  as  follows:  lack  of  individual  income, 
limited  State  resources,  inequality  between  men  and 
women and the rate of illiteracy.  

on 
environmental  resources.  Aware  of  the  difficulties  it 
faces,  the  Government  has  opted  for  regional  and 
international  cooperation  by  participating  in  many 
initiatives concerning the environment and sustainable 
forestry  management,  such  as  the  Central  African 
Forest Commission, the Network of Protected Areas of 
Central Africa, the Sangha Tri-National Landscape and 
the Congo Basin Forest Partnership. 

Generally  speaking,  the  implementation  of  most 
of  these  initiatives  has  not  met  expectations:  the 
initiatives  were  ambitious,  but  the  capacities  for 
implementation  and 
the  financial  resources  were 
inadequate.  The  enterprises  exploiting  these  resources 
impose  binding  environmental  rules  on  us  while  the 
population does not reap any benefit.  

We  need  to  halt  and  eliminate  poverty  with  the 
participation  of  all.  Poverty  creates  injustice.  Here  I 
wish  to  cite  President  Sarkozy,  the  printed  text  of 
whose recent statement observed that justice meant the 
same  chances  for  success  for  each  poor  child  in  the 
world as for each rich one. In this very Hall, President 
Sarkozy said:  

“Justice means that a developing country on 
which  we  wish  to  impose  environmental  rules, 
even though its inhabitants have barely enough to 
eat,  can  be  helped  to  put  such  rules  in  place. 
Justice  means  that  we  cannot  tap  a  country’s 
resources without paying a fair price for them. 
“... 


“I solemnly appeal to the United Nations to 
concern itself with the issue of fairer distribution 
of  wealth  and  of  the  income  derived  from 
commodities and technology” (A/62/PV.4). 

A/62/PV.13
for 
to  reach 
their  assistance  and, 
the  decision  point  under 

The Central African Republic is ready to open its 
borders to developed nations and to public and private 
investors in order to increase its resources. The Central 
African Republic applauds the great nations — France, 
the United States, China, Japan, Germany, Britain and 
Russia and certain emerging countries of the South — 
for  their  willingness  to  cooperate  in  order  to  slow  the 
deterioration of the environment. 
We  thank  the  European  Union  and  the  African 

Development  Bank 
in 
particular,  the  International  Monetary  Fund  and  the 
World  Bank  for  having  allowed  the  Central  African 
Republic 
the 
enhanced  Highly  Indebted  Poor  Countries  Initiative. 
We  praise  the  actions  of  those  international  financial 
institutions, and we ask them to open a new chapter on 
the environment and the economies of poor countries. 

We  call  on  all  for  a  continuing  effort  to  reduce 
inequality between men and women, because in Africa, 
women  are  very  often  heads  of  families  in  the  most 
remote regions. They play a very important role. In that 
way,  the  support  of  the  international  community  in 
eliminating inequality will provide a solution in terms 
of sustainable development.  

We cannot achieve a healthy environment without 
wiping  out  illiteracy.  We  hope  that  the  developed 
countries  of  the  South  and  the  North  will  help  poor 
countries  to  create  the  right  conditions  in  terms  of 
informing  and  training  their  populations  in  order  to 
show them that they have an interest in preserving the 
environment. 
Our  country  is  rich.  It  wishes  to  exploit  the 

wealth  of 
its 
environment.  With  assistance,  we  can  hope  to  bring 
ourselves closer to the Millennium Development Goals 
by 2015.  

In  his  opening  statement,  the  President  stated, 
“Keep your mind level. If the mind is level, the whole 
world will be level” (A/62/PV.4). 

The  President  of  the  Central  African  Republic, 
Mr. François Bozizé, often teaches us about the mind — 
the spirit: 
its  subsoil 
to  protect 
in  order 

“Infinite  spirit  is  all. All  is  one. All  is  all. 
And all is the Universe. The Universe is calm. If 
we have understood this, let the world follow the 
example of the wise by avoiding the errors of the 
07-52299 

7 
A/62/PV.13 

of 
their 
perish 
because 
semi-wise  who 
foolishness”. 

I  would  like  to  hope  that  this  message  will  be 
favourably received by our partners, both bilateral and 
multilateral. 
The  Acting  President: I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Uganda. 
Mr. Kutesa (Uganda): Allow me at the outset to 

extend our congratulations to Mr. Kerim on his election 
to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-
second  session.  I  wish  to  thank  most  sincerely  his 
predecessor,  Her  Excellency  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed 
Khalifa  of  Bahrain,  for  the  able  manner  in  which  she 
handled  the  vital  business  of  the  sixty-first  session.  I 
also  wish  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  leadership  of  our 
Organization,  and  most  especially  for  his  untiring 
efforts in favour of conflict resolution and peace on the 
African continent and elsewhere. 

Sixty-two  years  ago,  the  founding  fathers  of  the 
United  Nations  came  together,  determined,  in  the 
words  of 
international 
machinery  for  the  promotion  of  the  economic  and 
social  advancement  of  all  peoples”.  The  Organization 
they  created  was  to  be  a  centre  for  harmonizing  the 
actions  of  nations  in  the  attainment  of  these  common 
goals. Today humankind is faced with a common threat 
in the form of climate change. The General Assembly’s 
choice  of  responding  to  climate  change  as  the  theme 
for this session is timely. It will help draw attention to 
the global challenge for which no single country has a 
solution.  It  is  only  through  concerted  and  sustained 
international  cooperation  that  action  to  combat  the 
effects and further escalation of climate change can be 
taken. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  climate  change  is  the 
biggest  danger  facing  humankind,  especially  the  poor. 
The threat of extreme conditions, including floods and 
drought,  is  a  major  concern.  It  has  many  implications 
for development, particularly for agrarian communities 
with  fewer  resources  to  cope  with  additional  stresses 
and  shocks  brought  about  by  this  phenomenon.  The 
increasing frequency and severity of prolonged drought 
threaten  water  supplies  to  millions  of  people  in  poor 
is 
countries, 
overwhelmingly 
and, 
therefore, vulnerable to climate variability and change. 
the  Charter,  “to  employ 
agriculture  which 
subsistence 
as  well 
rain-fed 
as 
and 
to 
approach, 
appropriate 
such  as  cholera, 
three-pronged 
access 

The  vulnerability  of  the  health  sector  has  also 
been  evident  as  frequent  floods  result  in  outbreaks  of 
waterborne  diseases, 
typhoid, 
dysentery and the increased incidence of malaria. 

Indeed, climate change today constitutes a danger 
to  human  security,  considering  the  effects  of  climate 
change  on  the  very  existence  of  some  small  island 
States and coastal cities, as well as the devastation by 
hurricanes and typhoons. 

Several  years  ago,  the  world  was  alerted  to  the 
danger  of  climate  change.  Under  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change,  a  number 
of  actions  were  agreed  upon.  We  all  agreed  to 
including 
undertake 
a 
development, 
technology, 
mitigation and adaptation. It is unfortunate that, so far, 
no  meaningful  actions  have  been  undertaken 
to 
implement these agreed interventions. 
My  delegation  believes  that  the  time  is  now  to 

implement  these  high-priority  activities.  We  should, 
however,  recognize  that  responding  to  climate  change 
will  require  political  leadership  at  all  levels,  starting 
from  the  centre  and  extending  to  the  grassroots. 
Increasing  collaborative  action  on  adaptation 
is 
urgently  needed,  so  that  vulnerable  countries  and 
communities  can cope with the unavoidable impact of 
climate  change.  Reforestation  efforts  and  control  of 
greenhouse  gas  emissions  are  urgent  actions  that  we 
can  undertake  together.  However,  reforestation  on  its 
own  will  not  produce  the  desired  results  without 
adequate  investment  in  renewable  energy  sources  as  a 
measure  against  the  massive  depletion  of  forests  for 
fuel. Developed countries should encourage companies 
to  invest  in  hydro-electric  power  generation  and  other 
clean energy sources in developing countries. For such 
projects 
to  be  undertaken,  measures  such  as  a 
successful 
International  Development 
Association replenishment is critical. We all must learn 
to  safeguard  and  use  available  resources  sparingly  for 
the sake of future generations. 

Uganda  considers  the  United  Nations  Climate 
Change Conference, to be held in Bali, Indonesia, this 
December, to be critical in the development of a long-
term response to climate change. It is an opportunity to 
begin concrete negotiations on a global strategy that is 
acceptable  to  all  and  implementable.  Prior  to  Bali, 
however,  this  Assembly  should  agree  on  guiding 
principles  that  can  help  bring  together  all  relevant 
fifteenth 
8 

07-52299 


aspects  of  the  problem.  The  industrialized  countries 
should  take  the  lead  in  cutting  emissions,  while 
developing countries will have to pursue low-emission 
development strategies and benefit from incentives for 
assistance  for  adaptation  and  for  limiting  emissions. 
We  must  commit  ourselves  to  an  approach  that 
balances  adaptation  and  mitigation,  underpinned  by 
adequate  financing  arrangements  and  investments  in 
new and innovative technologies. 

As Members of the United Nations, our countries 
share  a  vision  of  a  better  standard  of  life,  in  larger 
freedom, as enshrined in our Charter. We are, however, 
challenged by a persistence of poverty in many of our 
countries.  Recent  statistics  indicate  that,  worldwide, 
1.2  billion  people  live  on  one  dollar  a  day,  while 
2.8  billion  survive  on  less  than  two  dollars.  The  gap 
between the rich and the poor continues to widen, both 
within States and among States. 

The  World  Bank  reported  in  2003  that  average 
income  in  the  wealthiest  20  countries  is  37  times  that 
of  the  poorest  20,  which  is  twice  the  ratio  of  what  it 
was  in  1970.  Many  countries,  especially  those  in 
sub-Saharan Africa,  ended  the  last  decade  with  lower 
per capita incomes than at its beginning. Poverty is one 
of  the  biggest  threats  to  international  peace,  security 
and the environment. 

leaders 
expressed  their  determination  to  halve  world  poverty 
by the year 2015. The midpoint progress report on the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  that  was 
released  in  July  this  year  indicates  that  countries  in 
Africa  and  elsewhere  are  proving  that  large-scale 
progress  in  achieving  the  MDGs  is  possible  under 
conditions  of  adequate  financing,  much  of  which 
should flow from a strengthened global partnership for 
development. It is critical that the Monterrey targets be 
met. 

As  we  respond  to  climate  change,  the  fight 
against  poverty  remains  an  integral  part  of  the  effort. 
Unless we address poverty in developing countries, the 
poor  will  continue  to  destroy  the  environment  by 
cutting 
firewood  and  employing  poor 
agricultural practices. 

There are time-tested ways to bring people out of 
poverty.  Trade  liberalization  and  export-led  growth 
have  the  potential  to  lift  millions  out  of  poverty. 
However,  to  benefit  from  trade,  developing  countries 
must add value to their raw materials and sell them as 
the  Millennium  Summit,  world 
trees 
for 
At 
A/62/PV.13
finished  products,  taking  advantage  of  appropriate 
value  chains. That  will  not  only  increase  earnings  but 
create  jobs,  thus  ending  the  mass  migrations  to  the 
developed countries. They should develop their human 
resources through education and better health services. 
Education  is  a  critical  factor  in  transforming  society. 
An  educated  middle  class  with  adequate  income  to 
spend is critical for industrialization and the transition 
of  societies.  That  has  happened  in  some  countries  of 
South-East  Asia;  it  can  happen  elsewhere  in  the 
developing world. As a priority, agriculture needs to be 
commercialized. Related to that is the  urgent  need for 
regional integration so as to enlarge markets. 

Under heavy pressure, many developing countries 
have  removed  trade  barriers,  while  the  developed 
countries  have  not  reciprocated  in  such  key  areas  as 
agriculture  and  textiles,  where  the  former  have  a 
comparative  advantage.  Is  it  not  absurd  that  a  cow  in 
the European Union gets a daily subsidy of $2.2, while 
40 per cent of the world’s population lives on less than 
$2 a day? The World Bank estimates that protectionism 
by  the  developed  world  costs  developing  countries 
$100  billion  annually.  A  fair  system  will  require 
appropriate  measures  to  deal  with  the  unfair  trade 
privileges  of  developed  countries  that  hinder  market 
access.  It  is  vital  that  the  stalled  trade  talks  under  the 
Doha  Development  Round 
and 
successfully concluded. 

Peace  and  security  are  necessary  conditions  for 
sustainable  development.  The  rise  in  inter-  and  intra-
State  conflict  has  been  the  hallmark  of  the  post-cold-
war era. Internal conflicts have spilled over borders to 
create  regional  instability.  Internal  displacement  has 
taken  place,  and  equally  alarming  has  been 
the 
international refugee crisis that has resulted from such 
conflicts.  In  some  countries,  central  authority  has 
collapsed,  creating  havens  for  terrorists  and  drug 
traffickers,  with  the  attendant  threats  to  international 
peace  and  security.  No  meaningful  actions  against 
poverty and in favour of environmental protection can 
take place in that kind of atmosphere. 
The President returned to the Chair. 


Most of Africa is now peaceful, and democracy is 
being  consolidated 
the 
observance  of  human  rights  and  constitutionalism. 
However,  there  are  some  areas  that  require  urgent 
international attention. There is a need to ensure peace 
and  stability 
the 
through  regular  elections, 
in  accordance  with 
in  Darfur 
be 
resumed 
07-52299 

9 
the  Somali  people 
A/62/PV.13 

internationally  agreed 
framework  under  Security 
Council  resolution  1769  (2007).  Further  attention 
should  be  given  to  supporting  the  implementation  of 
the  Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement  between  the 
Government  of  the  Sudan  and  the  Sudan  People’s 
Liberation Movement in the South. 

In Somalia, the General Assembly should support 
an  all-inclusive  peace  and  reconciliation  process  and 
the Africa Union Military Observer Mission in Somalia 
(AMISOM)  with  the  necessary  resources  to  facilitate 
the  peacekeeping.  Uganda  has  honoured  its  pledge  of 
troops for peacekeeping; we call on other countries that 
made  similar  pledges  to  fulfil  them.  The  international 
effort in Somalia should focus on capacity-building to 
empower 
their  own 
problems.  We  also  call  on  the  Secretary-General  to 
finalize  plans  for  possible  deployment  of  a  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  force  to  replace  AMISOM,  as 
called for in Security Council resolution 1772 (2007). 

In  the  Great  Lakes  region,  various  efforts  are 
under way to improve peace and security and to create 
an atmosphere conducive to development. Through the 
Tripartite Plus One Commission, bringing together the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Rwanda,  Burundi 
and  Uganda,  we  have  agreed  on  a  framework  and 
actions  to  deal  with  negative  forces  that  pose  a  threat 
to peace and security in the region. In that regard, we 
refer to Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter and 
to  provisions  of  Security  Council  resolution  1756 
(2007).  The  Security  Council  should  reinforce  the 
mandate  and 
the  United  Nations 
Organization  Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  to  enable  it  effectively  to  work  with 
Congolese  armed  forces  to  totally  eradicate  the  threat 
of  negative  forces  operating  in  the  territory  of  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo. 

In  northern  Uganda,  we  are  holding  peace  talks 
with  the  Lord’s  Resistance  Army  (LRA).  Of  the  five 
agenda  items,  two  agreements  have  been  concluded 
and  signed.  Those  are  the  Cessation  of  Hostilities 
Agreement  and  an  agreement  on  comprehensive 
solutions.  However,  the  LRA  has  not  met  any  of  the 
terms  of  the  very  first  Agreement  on  Cessation  of 
Hostilities.  For  example,  it  is  stipulated  that  LRA 
forces  assemble  at  Ri-Kwangba  in  southern  Sudan; 
they have, however, not done so to date. They are still 
camped  in  Garamba  National  park  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo.  We  urge  the  international 
community  to  bring  adequate  pressure  to  bear  on  the 
to  solve 
the  means  of 
10 

the  International  Criminal  Court 
LRA  to  assemble  at  Ri-Kwangba  and  to  set  a  time 
frame for the talks. Talks cannot go on forever. As we 
inch 
towards  a  comprehensive  peace  agreement, 
international support and understanding are required to 
balance the need for durable peace and stability on the 
one hand, and the imperative for justice on the other. 

I  wish  to  assure  the  General  Assembly  that 
Uganda  is  fully  aware  of  its  obligations  under  the 
Rome  Statute  and  cannot  undermine  it.  We  cannot 
condone impunity. To that end, we are working closely 
with 
to  ensure 
accountability  under  the  complementarity  stipulations. 
Uganda  will  be  convening  a  Consultative  Group 
meeting  later  this  year  to  mobilize  resources  and 
coordinate  actions  for  the  post-conflict  reconciliation 
programme  in  northern  Uganda.  The  international 
community is invited to support that programme. 

When you chose “Responding to climate change” 
as  the  theme  for  this  session,  Sir,  I  believe  you 
intended to have this session consider and recommend 
ways of addressing that common threat. You believed, 
as indeed we do, that a world that pays no attention to 
that problem is fatally damaging the interests of future 
generations.  Addressing  climate  change  will  involve 
fighting  poverty,  ensuring  peace  and  security,  and 
investing  in  clean  energy,  especially  in  developing 
countries.  This  session  should  be  the  turning  point  at 
which we all come together and agree on ways to save 
our planet. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her 

Excellency  Mrs.  Kinga  Göncz,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Hungary. 
Mrs.  Göncz  (Hungary): Allow  me  first  of  all  to 

warmly  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as 
President  of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-second 
session. I am pleased to see you, a high-ranking official 
from  the  rather  underrepresented  Eastern  European 
Group,  assuming  that  prestigious  post  of  the  United 
Nations. In fulfilling your challenging tasks during this 
session,  you  may  be  assured  of  the  support  and 
cooperation of the delegation of Hungary. I would also 
like  to  pay  tribute  to  your  predecessor,  Sheikha  Haya 
Rashed Al-Khalifa. 

During  the  sixty-first  session,  Member  States 
worked  hard  to  come  to  agreement  on  the  proposals 
made at the 2005 Summit meeting, but we still need to 
do  more  to  ensure  that  the  United  Nations  system  is 
managed  coherently  and  effectively.  I  believe  that  the 
07-52299 


world  needs,  more 
than  ever  before,  effective 
multilateralism, which is still a key word for the future. 
We  should  make  progress  on  management  reform, 
mandate  review  and  disarmament,  and  define  further 
concrete steps towards a renewed Security Council. 

Hungary  would  have  preferred  for  the  issue  of 
Security  Council  reform  to  have  seen  more  progress 
during the sixty-first session of the General Assembly. 
The impasse was certainly not due to the lack of effort 
on the part of the President of the General Assembly or 
to a shortage of creative ideas. We believe that the best 
solution  would  still  be  a  balanced  increase  of  seats  to 
better  reflect  the  political  realities  of  today.  The 
enlargement process should be combined with tangible 
improvement of the Council’s working methods. 

We  welcome  the  adoption  of  the  new  resolution 
on the revitalization of the General Assembly. It is up 
to  each  Member  State  to  make  the  work  of  the 
Assembly meaningful and to ensure that the Assembly 
takes up issues of genuine concern and takes decisions 
that have a real impact on the political process. 

Let  me  now  turn  to  Geneva,  where  important 
reforms  have  taken  place  as  well.  The  Human  Rights 
Council  has  finally  started  its  work,  in  an  atmosphere 
of high expectations. The consensus over the universal 
periodic review mechanism sends a clear message that 
all  countries  will  have  their  human  rights  records 
examined at regular intervals. Thus, no country will be 
immune from international scrutiny. However, in order 
to make it truly meaningful, we have to build a credible 
and 
robust  mechanism.  Special  procedures  and 
contributions to the review from treaty bodies and non-
governmental  organizations  will  prove  to  be  essential 
in that regard. 
In  order  to  better  protect  human  rights  and 

fundamental 
special 
procedures  —  a  unique  web  of  protection  —  has 
continued to provide effective action for the benefit of 
victims  of  human  rights  abuses.  Special  rapporteurs 
and  independent  experts  have  continued  their  work, 
giving a voice to the voiceless, even at times when the 
Council was focusing mainly on the task of institution-
building. 

We  are  thoroughly  convinced  that  both  thematic 
and country-specific mandates  remain  valid, given the 
numerous  human  rights  violations  still  occurring  on  a 
daily  basis.  In  that  regard,  we  concur  with  the 
Secretary-General,  who  has  emphasized  the  need  to 
system  of 
freedoms, 
the 
A/62/PV.13
in 
towards 
achieving 
effective 
the  effective 
involvement  of  women 
consider  all  situations  of  possible  human  rights 
violations  on  an  equal  footing.  Not  having  a  special 
rapporteur  assigned  to  a  particular  country  does  not 
absolve  that  country  from  its  obligations  under  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  other 
human rights instruments. 

I  should  now  like  to  share  some  thoughts  about 
an  issue  dear  to  my  country. We  welcomed  with  great 
satisfaction  the  recent  decision  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  to  establish  a  forum  on  minority  issues.  I  am 
confident that the forum will provide a useful platform 
for  dialogue  and  exchange  of  views  between 
minorities,  Governments  and  other  stakeholders  on 
issues  related  to  national  or  ethnic,  linguistic  and 
religious minorities. 

Allow  me  to  place  special  emphasis  on  the 
empowerment of women. We firmly believe in the need 
for 
the 
decision-making processes at both the national and the 
international  levels.  In  that  regard,  Hungary  supports 
the  ongoing  debate  on  the  future  of  the  strengthened 
gender  equality  architecture.  We  welcome  the  steps 
taken 
gender 
mainstreaming  throughout  the  entire  United  Nations 
system. 

On 30 March, we witnessed the signing ceremony 
of  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  Persons  with 
Disabilities.  That  new  international  instrument  will 
improve  the  living  conditions  of  almost  650  million 
persons  with  disabilities  all  over  the  world,  ensuring 
equal  opportunities  for  them  in  all  aspects  of  life. As 
the second State party to ratify the Convention and its 
Optional  Protocol,  we  hope  that  they  will  enter  into 
force soon. 
Seven  years  ago,  our  Governments  made  a 

remarkable  promise  to  the  world  in  adopting  the 
Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2).  Although 
there has certainly been some progress in achieving its 
objectives, there will be regions of the world where the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) will not have 
been met by 2015 if we do not intensify our efforts. In 
the meantime, we must also emphasize the central role 
of  national  policies  and  development  strategies  in 
achieving the Goals. The sustainability of development 
depends heavily on national ownership and leadership. 
the  United  Nations  has  a 
At 
comparative 
technical 
assistance  in  the  preparation  and  implementation  of 
the  global 
advantage 
in 
providing 
level, 
07-52299 

11 
to 
in 
in 
the 
through 
improve 
International  Centre 
A/62/PV.13 

national  development  plans.  We  fully  support  the 
recommendations  of  the  High-level  Panel  on  United 
Nations  System-wide  Coherence 
the 
inter-agency  cooperation, 
operational  effectiveness, 
predictability and accountability of the United Nations 
system. 

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  represent 
the  global  commitment  to  fundamental  rights,  which 
must be guaranteed if we genuinely seek to strengthen 
our  democracies.  Democracy  should  also  mean 
creating 
the  conditions  for  sustainable  economic 
development  that  provides  people  with  access  — 
through decent jobs — to opportunities to achieve full 
personal development. 

We  are  particularly  pleased  that  Hungary  can 
share its transitional experiences, both as a member of 
the Advisory  Board  of  the  United  Nations  Democracy 
Fund  and 
for 
Democratic Transition, which is based in Budapest and 
which has a partnership agreement with the Democracy 
Fund. The  United  Nations  has  a  special  responsibility 
to address challenges related to institution-building and 
to  promote  democracy.  As  Amartya  Sen,  the  Nobel 
Prize  winning  economist  has  said,  countries  need  not 
be fit for democracy; they need to become fit through 
democracy. 

Hungary, as an emerging donor, is determined to 
meet 
the  obligations  set  out 
the  Millennium 
Declaration  and  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
We  are  ready  to  increase  our  official  development 
assistance and to carry out our efforts in line with the 
European  Consensus  on  development  and  the  Paris 
Declaration  on  Aid  Effectiveness.  However,  we  are 
convinced  that  scaling  up  the  volume  of  aid  in  itself 
will  not  necessarily  lead  to  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals. It is also important to 
for  better  complementarity, 
emphasize 
coordination 
development 
cooperation. 

Having  been  fully  integrated  into  the  European 
Union (EU) and NATO structures, we are committed to 
carrying  out  qualitative  change  in  the  outreach  of 
Hungarian foreign policy. We want to make our policy 
and our presence more visible in all parts of the world: 
an  active  development  cooperation  and  assistance 
policy  coupled  with  an  increased  presence  in  United 
Nations  bodies.  We  are  resolved  to  attach  special 
attention  to  creating  more  balance  in  the  geographical 
coherence 
the  need 
and 
the  beginning  of  a  new  era 
Let  me  now  focus  on  some  of  the  most  urgent 
scope  of  our  cooperation  policy  in  order  to  include 
African, Asian and Latin American countries. Stepping 
up  our  outreach  efforts  and  developing  not  only 
assistance activities but also economic ties with Africa 
will  mark 
in  our 
relationship with that continent. 

We are also ready to assume more responsibilities 
in various international forums. Our ambitions are best 
embodied  in  our  application  for  a  non-permanent  seat 
on the Security Council for the period 2012-2013. We 
view  our  potential  membership  as  an  opportunity  to 
engage 
in  constructive  cooperation  with  all  our 
partners in order to achieve our common objectives on 
the basis of shared interests and values. 

foreign policy issues of our day. 

Peace  and  stability  in  the  Balkan  region  is  of 
paramount importance to my country, and to Europe as 
a  whole.  While  the  question  of  the  future  status  of 
Kosovo has drawn international attention, we are aware 
that the issue of Kosovo is a challenge that needs to be 
primarily  tackled  by  Europe.  Nevertheless,  the  United 
Nations has played a pivotal role in the process to date. 
Our hope is that that will continue to be the case until a 
proper solution is found. 

There is no doubt that there is a significant role to 
be  played  by  the  EU  in  facilitating  a  satisfactory 
solution for Kosovo. One thing is certain among all the 
uncertainties:  the  status  quo  is  not  a  solution.  More 
region  needs  stability,  economic 
than  ever, 
development  and 
reconciliation.  The 
European  Union  has  invested  much  in  the  region  in 
terms  of  material,  political  and  military  assistance.  It 
has  also  offered  the  countries  of  the  region  prospects 
for joining the European Union. 

With  regard  to  Serbia,  we  are  convinced  that 
reinforcing the prospects for future membership of the 
EU may facilitate finding a solution to the question of 
Kosovo.  Hungary 
to  a 
successful  outcome  to  the  new  round  of  negotiations 
facilitated  by  the  EU-United  States-Russia  Troika, 
which the parties should approach in a constructive and 
frank  manner.  We  hope  that  the  encouraging  signs  of 
trust  and  a  constructive  approach  will  prevail  in  the 
course of the entire process, and that the parties will be 
able to come to an agreement endorsed by the Security 
Council. 
inter-ethnic 
therefore 
forward 
looks 
the 
12 

07-52299 
is 
firmly 
Hungary 
committed 



We are following with great attention the work of 
the  teams  set  up  recently  by  Israeli  Prime  Minister 
Ehud  Olmert  and  Palestinian  President  Mahmoud 
Abbas  to  negotiate  core  issues  related  to  a  permanent 
solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. We welcome 
the  initiative  of  the  President  of  the  United  States  to 
convene an international conference in November. 

to 
the 
reconstruction  of  Afghanistan.  As  a  State  member  of 
the  North Atlantic  alliance,  we  have  been  involved  in 
the  NATO-led  International  Security Assistance  Force 
since  2003.  On  1  October  2006,  we  took  over  the 
leadership  of  the  Provincial  Reconstruction  Team  in 
Baghlan  province.  I  am  proud  of  the  successful  work 
done  by  Hungary’s  military  contingent  and  by 
Hungarian  teams  of  aid  workers.  Moreover,  I  can 
confirm our future commitment in Afghanistan, which 
enjoys broad political consensus among  all the parties 
represented in the Hungarian parliament. Nevertheless, 
we  must  not  forget  that  the  primary  responsibility  for 
the  stabilization  and  development  of  Afghanistan  lies 
with the Afghan people themselves. We are concerned 
about the security situation and the attacks carried out 
by Taliban and anti-Government forces, and we firmly 
condemn  all  hostage-taking  actions.  Drug  production 
and  trafficking  continue  to  be  a  major  source  of 
instability,  and  we  note 
in  opium 
production  with  grave  concern.  We  encourage  the 
Afghan  Government,  working  in  close  cooperation 
with the international community and in particular with 
its  regional  partners,  to  take  effective  measures  to 
stabilize the whole region. 

The  stabilization  of  Iraq  is  one  of  the  major 
challenges  in  the  Middle  East.  We  appreciate  the 
results that have been achieved so far in the course of 
the country’s democratic transformation. However, the 
Iraqi political class needs to overcome the present state 
of  deep  division  and  start  to  walk  down  the  path  of 
reconciliation  and  cooperation  in  order  to  bring  peace 
and  stability  to  the  country.  As  a  precondition  for  a 
long-lasting settlement of the conflict, the international 
community  must  enable  Iraqi 
to  assume 
ownership and govern their country in an independent 
way. 

Hungary  is  very  concerned  about  the  acts  of 
violence  perpetrated  by  the  security  forces  of  the 
Burma/Myanmar  Government.  We  are  committed  to 
respecting  human  rights  and  democracy,  and  we 
therefore strongly condemn the brutal physical attacks 
increase 
leaders 
the 
A/62/PV.13
for 
Hungary  welcomes 
against peaceful demonstrators. I reiterate our previous 
call  on  the  Government  of  Burma/Myanmar  to  fully 
respect  human  rights  and  the  norms  of  democracy,  in 
particular  the  rights  to  peaceful  assembly  and  to  the 
free expression of opinions. 

Due  to  one  of  the  most  worrisome  conflicts  on 
the  African  continent  —  the  one  raging  in  Darfur  — 
the situation in the Sudan and nearby countries is still 
unpredictable  and  explosive.  Hungary  welcomes  the 
renewed momentum in the efforts to resolve the Darfur 
conflict,  in  particular  the  agreement  reached  on  the 
deployment  of 
the  African  Union-United  Nations 
hybrid  force  and  the  subsequent  adoption  of  Security 
Council  resolution  1769  (2007).  We  consider 
it 
essential  that  the  Hybrid  Operation  be  launched,  and 
that  troops  be  fully  deployed  in  the  full  number 
authorized,  as  soon  as  possible.  I  would  like  to 
commend  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  on  having 
made resolving the Darfur conflict a priority, as well as 
on  his  visit  to  the  Sudan.  It  is  in  that  context  that  I 
reaffirm  our  support 
the  peacebuilding  and 
peacekeeping efforts of the United Nations. 

the 
Peacebuilding Commission has started its work and has 
met  in  a  country-specific  format  to  consider  the  cases 
of  Burundi  and  Sierra  Leone.  We  look  forward  to  the 
first report on its work. We consider the Commission to 
be an important instrument to enhance the capabilities 
of  the  United  Nations  to  support  countries  emerging 
from conflict. 

We are fully  aware of the need to strengthen the 
capacity  of  the  United  Nations  to  mount  and  sustain 
complex 
peacekeeping 
operations. Hungary commends the efforts made by the 
Secretary-General 
that  purpose  and 
welcomes the General Assembly’s decision to establish 
the  Department  of  Field  Support.  My  country’s  track 
record  in  the  field  of  peacekeeping  demonstrates  that 
we  are  willing 
the  Security 
Council’s  decisions.  Hungarian  military  and  police 
personnel  are  present  in  many  of  the  peacekeeping 
missions  of  the  United  Nations,  namely,  in  Cyprus, 
Georgia, Kosovo, Lebanon and Western Sahara. 

My  recent  participation  at  the  fifty-first  General 
Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency 
(IAEA) and my talks with Director General Mohamed 
ElBaradei  reaffirmed  my  conviction  that  questions 
and  multidimensional 
to  actively  support 
to  achieve 
fact 
that 
the 
07-52299 

13 
to 
to 
steps 
necessary 
the  denuclearization  of 
the  North  Korean  nuclear 
A/62/PV.13 

relating  to  nuclear  safety  and  non-proliferation  should 
remain high on our agenda. 

Hungary  shares  the  concerns  of  the  international 
community over Iran’s nuclear programme. We deplore 
Iran’s  failure  to  take  the  steps  required  by  the  IAEA 
Board  of  Governors  and  by  Security  Council 
resolutions, 
re-establish 
international  confidence  in  the  peaceful  nature  of  its 
nuclear  programme.  We  welcomed  the  adoption  of 
Security  Council  resolutions  1737  (2006)  and  1747 
(2007),  and  we  fully  comply  with  the  obligations  set 
forth therein. We hope that Iran will soon realize that a 
diplomatic and negotiated solution is possible and that 
compliance has many benefits. 

Hungary  continues  to  support  the  process  aimed 
at  achieving 
the  Korean 
peninsula in a peaceful manner and welcomes the first 
promising results of the Six-Party Talks. Developments 
related 
issue  have 
underscored  the  importance  of  the  early  entry  into 
force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. 

Hungary  supports  all  multilateral,  regional  and 
bilateral  efforts  that  contribute  in  an  effective  manner 
to  our  common  goal  of  achieving  disarmament  and 
curbing  the  spread  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction. 
Such  efforts  must  also  aim  at  upholding  and 
strengthening  key  international  treaties  and  export 
control  regimes.  In  that  context,  one  of  the  most 
important  challenges  is  to  ensure  compliance  with  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons. 
Moreover,  Hungary  welcomes  the  entry  into  force  of 
the  International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of 
Acts of Nuclear Terrorism, which we ratified in April. 

An  urgent  issue  in  the  field  of  counter-terrorism 
is  the  full  and  earliest  possible  implementation  of  the 
United  Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy.  In 
that  regard,  the  main  responsibility  lies  with  Member 
States, which should all also actively participate in the 
upcoming implementation review. The conclusion of a 
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism 
remains another high priority for Hungary. 

Fifteen years after the United Nations Conference 
on Environment and Development, the Rio Summit, it 
is evident that, at the current pace, our efforts will not 
be  sufficient  to  halt  the  emerging  global  threats,  in 
particular that of climate change. The European Union 
has a clear position in that regard, and it has proposed 
to speed up the drafting of a new global compact. As a 
in 
law, 
to  upholding 
to  giving  priority 
member  of  the  EU,  Hungary  fully  agrees  with  the 
urgency  of  the  matter.  We  hope  that  the  ongoing 
deliberations  on  the  future  of  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change and of the 
Kyoto Protocol will lead to concrete results within two 
years. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome 
the efforts made by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to 
raise  awareness  about  climate  change 
the 
international community. 

On behalf of my country, I would like to reiterate 
Hungary’s  commitment 
the  rule  of 
international 
to  effective 
multilateralism, to spreading the culture of cooperation 
and  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes, 
and  to  making  every  effort  to  preserve  a  sustainable 
environment for future generations. 

In  conclusion,  Hungary  is  strongly  committed  to 
working  with  you,  Mr.  President,  during  the  sixty-
second session of the General Assembly to achieve the 
objectives set out in the 2005 World Summit Outcome. 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Mourad  Medelci,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Algeria. 
Mr. Medelci (Algeria) (spoke in French): I have 

the  particular  pleasure  of  conveying  to  you,  Sir,  my 
sincere  congratulations  on  your  election 
the 
presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-second 
session. This attests to the esteem and trust enjoyed by 
your  country.  Your  unanimous  election  to  your  high 
office  is  also  recognition  of  your  ability  and  your 
wealth  of  experience  as  a  talented  academic  and 
diplomat, which we believe will ensure success in the 
work  of  this  session.  I  assure  you  of  my  delegation’s 
support  and its full  readiness to  assist  you in  carrying 
out your lofty mission. 

I  should  also  like  to  thank  Her  Excellency 
Sheikha Haya Rashed Al-Khalifa for her commendable 
efforts  throughout  the  entirety  of  the  previous  session 
of the General Assembly. The measures she took are a 
further  step  towards  modernizing  the  United  Nations 
and improving its effectiveness. 

I would also like to express our sincere gratitude 
to  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  and  to  tell  him  how  pleased  we 
are to see him participating in the work of the General 
Assembly  as  Secretary-General.  By  unanimously 
electing  him 
the  Organization,  we  have 
demonstrated our confidence in his ability to continue 
lead 
to 
to 
14 

07-52299 
(MDGs); 


the work of reforming the United Nations begun by his 
predecessor with a view to making the Organization an 
effective  tool  in  achieving  the  noble  objectives  of 
promoting  peace  and  development  throughout  the 
world. We should continue to support him in realizing 
that enormous and ambitious undertaking. 

Gathered here at the General Assembly two years 
ago  for  the  World  Summit,  our  heads  of  State  or 
Government  took  historic  decisions  for  the  future  of 
the  United  Nations. Although  we  are  pleased  with  the 
progress made to date, there is still a long way to go in 
achieving all the goals set at the Summit. Efforts must 
still  be  made  to  find  the  most  appropriate  response  to 
the serious threat posed by climate change, which was 
the  subject  of  discussion  last  week;  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
a 
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism, 
which  has  still  not  been  agreed;  strengthening  United 
Nations  system-wide  coherence;  and  reforming  the 
Security  Council,  without  which  the  overall  reform 
process  will  remain  incomplete.  Algeria,  which  has 
always called for thorough and comprehensives reform 
of the Organization, continues to  believe that decisive 
commitment  and  the  widest  possible  endorsement  by 
Member  States  are  crucial  to  achieving  the  fruitful 
consensus  to  bring  about  a  positive  outcome  of  this 
ambitious reform effort. 
The world today faces new types of destabilizing 

factors 
jeopardize 
international peace and security. That is especially the 
case with regard to terrorism, which is by definition a 
threat  to  the  basic  right  to  life.  It  spares  no  region  of 
the  world  and  makes  no  distinction  as  to  race,  gender 
or  religion.  It  therefore  requires  resolute  international 
mobilization  and  a  collective  and  decisive  response 
based  on  solidarity  from  the  international  community. 
Only  in  that  way  can  we  ensure  the  effectiveness  and 
sustainability of the effort. 

My  country  has  long  suffered  from  heinous 
terrorism,  which  we  have  fought  on  our  own  and  for 
which we paid a great price due to the indifference of 
the international community in the 1990s. We therefore 
appreciate the daily growing awareness of the dangers 
posed by that phenomenon and of the need to prevent 
and  eradicate  it.  In  that  regard, Algeria  supported  the 
United  Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy, 
which  was  adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  in 
September  2006  as  resolution  60/288.  We  call  for  a 
it 
commitment  by  Member  States 
and  numerous 
implement 
threats 
that 
to 
A/62/PV.13
against 
convention 
immediately. We would like to point out, however, that 
the fight against terrorism should not be waged solely 
through  the  use  of  force  but  should  also  entail 
addressing  the  underlying  causes  of  the  phenomenon, 
in particular  by finding just and equitable solutions to 
conflicts, especially the conflict in the Middle East.  

In addition to expeditious measures to thwart this 
devastating phenomenon, it is also urgent to conclude a 
comprehensive 
international 
terrorism that includes a clear definition of the concept 
of  terrorism.  Such  a  convention  should  also  clearly 
de-link  terrorism  from  the  legitimate  struggle  of 
peoples  against  occupation.  It  should  also  not  equate 
terrorism  with  any  religion,  civilization  or  geographic 
region. 

In  a  world  torn  by  conflict  and  tormented  by 
extremism  and  intolerance  of  all  sorts,  it  is  essential 
today that we work to calm hearts and minds in order 
to  promote  a  productive  dialogue  among  cultures  and 
civilizations,  so  as 
to  dispel  misunderstanding, 
eliminate  prejudices  and  stereotypes  and  strengthen 
mutual  understanding.  With  patience,  determination 
and  solidarity,  we  should  dispel  all  theories  and 
associations that promote the dangerous discourse of a 
clash of civilizations. 

We have great hopes for the General Assembly’s 
forthcoming High-Level Dialogue on Interreligious and 
Intercultural Understanding and Cooperation for Peace. 
We  hope 
to  bring 
rationality  to  debates  surrounding  this  issue,  in  line 
with 
the  Alliance  of 
Civilization.  Algeria 
the  particular 
attention given to this issue, including the appointment 
of  Mr.  Jorge  Sampaio  as  High  Representative  for  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations.  We  will  spare  no  effort  to 
promote this approach, which is more crucial than ever, 
to  achieve  a  productive  dialogue  among  civilizations 
that  makes  it  possible  for  us  to  address  such  common 
challenges  as  underdevelopment,  ignorance,  poverty, 
racism and extremism.  

Despite  the  Organization’s  laudable  efforts,  the 
task of decolonization remains unfinished. I would like 
to  refer  in  particular  to  Western  Sahara,  which  is  the 
last case of decolonization in Africa. Its people are still 
deprived  the  right  to  self-determination  enshrined  in 
the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
the Security Council. The international community had 
harboured  genuine  hope  for  a 
lasting 
the  ambitious  efforts  of 
the  dialogue  will  serve 
is  pleased  at 
just  and 
that 
07-52299 

15 
Other 
tragedies  are 
taking  place 
resolution  1754 
the  Secretary-General  —  a  plan 
A/62/PV.13 

resolution of the conflict, especially in the wake of the 
Security  Council’s  unanimous  support  for  the  peace 
plan  proposed  by  Mr.  James  Baker,  former  Personal 
Envoy  of 
that 
resolution  1495  (2003)  rightly  referred  to  as  an 
“optimum political solution” (para. 1).  

We  are  resolutely  committed  to  the  search  for  a 
peaceful  solution  under  international  law.  Algeria 
welcomed  the  adoption  on  30  April  2007  of  Security 
Council 
(2007),  which  clearly 
emphasized the need to find a just and lasting political 
solution  which  will  provide  for  the  right  of  self-
determination of the Saharawi people. We hope that the 
negotiations that began in June and resumed in August 
at  New  York  will  continue,  in  order  to  allow  the  two 
parties  —  Morocco  and  the  Frente  POLISARIO  —  to 
reach  an  agreement  in  line  with  international  law  that 
makes  it  possible  for  the  people  of Western  Sahara  to 
decide their own fate freely and without constraints in 
a referendum on self-determination. 

in  Africa: 
fratricidal  wars,  pandemics  and  natural  disasters. This 
tragic  situation  only  serves  to  push  countries  with 
limited  resources  into  a  precarious  situation  that 
diminishes 
socio-economic 
development of any kind. 

Although,  from  its  inception  in  2004  the  Peace 
and  Security  Council  of  the  African  Union  (AU)  has 
been  providing  appropriate  African  solutions 
to 
conflicts  on  the  continent,  and  as  commendable  as 
those  have  been,  its  efforts  will  not  be  effective 
without 
firm  commitment  and  considerable 
sustained  assistance  of 
international 
community  —  such  as  the  tremendous  efforts  made 
recently  to  resolve  the  crisis  in  Darfur.  Effectively 
addressing  the  multidimensional  problems  involving 
peace, security and development faced by the continent 
today  also  requires  that  the  international  community 
support the New Partnership for Africa’s Development 
(NEPAD), which is a viable vehicle to address Africa’s 
socio-economic concerns. 
In  the  Middle  East,  which  is  another  especially 

unstable  part  of 
is 
deteriorating.  This  is  reflected  in  daily  violence  and 
recurring  crises.  If  we  are  not  vigilant,  that  situation 
threatens to undermine any hope of establishing lasting 
peace in the region. The international community must 
once again become more involved in order to establish 
the  entire 
the  world, 
the 
situation 
the 
the 
possibility 
of 
throughout 
a just and lasting peace in the Middle East that is based 
on  the  implementation  of  the  Road  Map  and  the Arab 
Peace  Initiative.  In  that  regard, Algeria  welcomes  the 
renewed  attention  being  given  to  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative,  as  reflected  in  President  Bush’s  proposal  to 
hold  an  international  peace  conference  this  fall.  The 
international  community  should  support  that  effort, 
which  has  rekindled  hope  for  a  comprehensive 
resolution of the Arab-Israeli conflict, in order to avert 
failure, which would have enormous consequences for 
international peace and security. 

The  situation  in  Iraq  also  continues  to  be  of 
concern. That  fraternal  country  is  experiencing  scenes 
of  deadly  violence  on  a  daily  basis.  Sectarian  and 
communal  violence  also  prevails 
the 
country, which undermine the values of citizenship and 
coexistence  among  the  children  of  a  single  people. 
Those  events  appeal  to  our  collective  conscience  and 
call  on  us  to  mobilize  assistance  to  that  country  by 
making  our  contribution  to  finding  a  solution  that 
preserves 
Iraq’s  national  unity,  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity. 

I  should  also  like  to  express  my  country’s 
concern  about  the  current  impasse  in  the  multilateral 
disarmament and non-proliferation process: the failure 
of  the  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the Treaty 
on  the  Non-proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT) 
held  in  May  2005  and  the  impasse  at  the  2005 World 
Summit on this issue. This is a matter that calls on us 
to  act,  for  it  is  of  crucial  importance  to  the  future  of 
humankind.  My  country  continues  to  believe  that 
complying with the NPT entails the comprehensive and 
equitable implementation of all its provisions, ensuring 
a  balance  between  the  rights  and  obligations  of  States 
parties.  The  three  fundamental  pillars  of  the  Treaty 
must be inseparable and complementary. Moreover, the 
goal of preventing nuclear proliferation should not be a 
pretext  for  preventing  developing  countries  from 
having  access  to  nuclear  technology  for  peaceful 
purposes. 

On  the  basis  of  that  deeply  held  belief,  on 
9 January  2007  Algeria  was  host  to  the  first  African 
high-level regional conference on the theme of nuclear 
energy’s  contribution 
sustainable 
development. The goal was to translate into action the 
common African concern to ensure that nuclear energy 
serves  to  promote  peace  and  sustainable  development 
on the continent.  
to  peace  and 
16 

07-52299 
it 
the 
took  up 
trade  —  should  be 



The issue of development has always been at the 
core of the international community’s concerns. In that 
regard, it is extremely important that it continue to be a 
very high priority for the Organization. In the light of 
the  September  2000  Millennium  Summit  and  the 
follow-up meetings held both under the auspices of the 
United Nations and outside the system, it is clear that 
the issue of development has become one of the major 
challenges  —  such  as  peace,  with  which 
is 
inextricably linked — that the international community 
must  address.  In  that  connection,  African  heads  of 
State,  who  launched  NEPAD,  and  the  leaders  of  the 
Group  of  Eight  (G8)  met  last  June  at  Heiligendamm, 
Germany,  and 
issue  of  peace  and 
development  in  Africa  as  part  of  the  agenda  of  that 
meeting.  My  country  welcomes  the  decision  taken  by 
the  G8  to  provide  $60  billion  in  assistance  to  combat 
AIDS,  malaria,  tuberculosis  and  other  pandemics  in 
Africa.  
Implementing  that  decision  —  and  the  progress 

made in other areas, such as in effectively liberalizing 
international 
important  steps 
towards  achieving  the  development  goals  set  by  the 
international community. To that end, we believe that it 
is  essential  that  the  entire  international  community  — 
and developed countries in particular — becomes more 
involved  and  honour  the  commitments  undertaken  at 
the  2000  Millennium  Summit,  the  2002  Monterrey 
International 
for 
Development,  the  2002  Johannesburg  World  Summit 
on  Sustainable  Development  and  the  2005  World 
Summit. 

In  that  regard,  we  are  pleased  to  note  that  there 
were  a  number  of  encouraging  signs  during  the  high-
level  dialogue  on  climate  change  held  at  the  United 
Nations  last  week. That  illustrates  that  there  is  now  a 
collective  awareness  of  the  reality  of  the  threat  to 
humankind  posed  by  climate  change  and  of 
its 
correlation  with  the  issue  of  development.  In  that 
connection,  I  would like to emphasize the central  role 
that should be played by the United Nations in carrying 
out negotiations in advance of the Conference of States 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change, which is to be held in Bali, so as to 
ensure  that  the  meeting  produces  a  global  regime  to 
replace  the  Kyoto  Protocol  upon  its  expiry,  in  2012. 
That  regime  should  include  an  emissions  reduction 
strategy  that  is  fair,  effective  and  equitable  and  based 
on 
the  principle  of  common  but  differentiated 
Conference 
Financing 
on 
A/62/PV.13
it 
In  essence, 
We  are  determined 
to  development  on 
the  distinct  honour  of  hosting 
responsibilities. 
is  a  matter  of 
safeguarding  the  interests  of  developing  countries, 
especially African countries, which pollute the least but 
are the most exposed to the effects of climate change. 

to  continue  our  active 
participation  in  the  international  effort  to  protect  the 
environment. Algeria has made its energy strategy part 
of  its  sustainable  development  policy  by  deciding  to 
promote renewable sources of energy.  
I  am  also  pleased  to  note  that,  on  5  June  2006, 

the 
Algeria  had 
festivities  for  World  Environment  Day.  In  addition, 
from  17  to  19  December  2006,  we  hosted  the  Joint 
International Conference on Desertification, which was 
held  to  mark  the  end  of  the  International  Year  of 
Deserts and Desertification, an issue which is linked to 
that of climate change. 

Algeria has embraced the Millennium Declaration 
and has spared no effort to take concrete steps through 
its national development policies. We are also working 
within the context of NEPAD to promote all efforts that 
will  contribute 
the  African 
continent.  

Consolidating domestic reforms by strengthening 
democracy and the rule of law as important elements of 
good  governance  stems  from  our  desire  to  modernize 
our country, economy and society. In that vein, Algeria 
has voluntarily agreed to peer review under the African 
evaluation  Mechanism  established  for  that  purpose. 
to 
That  undertaking 
contribute 
good 
governance  in  every  country  of  Africa,  and  in  the 
continent as a whole.  

A  report  was  presented  to  heads  of  States 
members  of  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism 
meeting  at  Accra  in  June  2007.  Among  other  things, 
the  report  underscored Algeria’s  great  socio-economic 
progress.  It  also  welcomed  the  steps  that  have  been 
taken  to  achieve  national  reconciliation,  which  were 
the  result  of  a  courageous  and  visionary  political 
decision  taken  by  President Abdelaziz  Bouteflika  that 
has  now  been  realized  through  a  popular  referendum 
that 
for 
reconciliation. 

In conclusion, allow me to point out that in 2005, 
when we commemorated the sixtieth anniversary of the 
founding of the United Nations, we charted a course to 
reaffirmed  a  very  broad-based  desire 
is  part  of  Africa’s  efforts 
strengthening 
concretely 
to 
07-52299 

17 
A/62/PV.13 

undertake genuine reorganization in the architecture of 
international  relations by  adapting the Organization to 
the world we live in today. Only an Organization that is 
effective,  just  and  credible  will  be  able  to  meet  the 
demands  brought  about  by  change  and  to  rise  to  the 
challenges produced by the turbulence of today’s world 
in order to ensure peace, security and development for 
future generations. That is Algeria’s firm conviction, as 
well as that of the entire international community. 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Aboubakr A. Al-Qirbi, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of Yemen. 
Mr. Al-Qirbi  (Yemen)  (spoke  in  Arabic): Allow 

me  at  the  outset,  Sir,  to  congratulate  you  on  your 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-second  session.  I  am  confident  that,  with  your 
wisdom  and  experience,  you  will  lead  our  work  to 
success.  I  wish  you  every  success.  I  also  wish  to 
commend  Her  Excellency  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  Al-
Khalifa,  from 
the  sisterly  Kingdom  of  Bahrain, 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first 
session, for all her constructive and concrete efforts to 
ensure 
the 
Assembly’s work. 

the  General 
Assembly coincides with the sixtieth anniversary of my 
country’s joining the United Nations, on 30 September 
1947.  The  Republic  of  Yemen  was  one  of  the  first 
countries to realize the importance of participating and 
interacting  in  an  international  forum  that  serves  noble 
human  objectives, 
this 
Organization  was  established.  We  also  became  aware 
of  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  safeguarding 
international  peace  and  security  and  in  promoting 
cooperation  among  Member  States  with  the  aim  of 
achieving prosperity for all societies. 
On  this  occasion,  I  cannot  fail  to  refer  to  the 

transformations 
the  Republic  of  Yemen  has 
undergone since its inception on 22 May 1990, be it in 
human 
or 
protection  of  human  rights.  However,  during  the  past 
two years in particular we have had significant success 
in  establishing  good  governance  and  enlisting  popular 
participation  in  local  council  elections,  and  we  have 
embarked  on  an  integrated  ambitious  programme  for 
economic,  political,  social,  judicial  and  administrative 
reform.  This  has  come  to  be  known  as  the  National 
Reform Agenda. 
the  success  and  positive 
development, 
sixty-second 
session  of 
democracy 
the 
reason 
for  which 
that 
freedoms, 
results  of 
The 
to  several 
Yemen  has  acceded 

The  presidential  and  local  elections  held  in 
September  2006,  the  transparency  and  fairness  of 
which  were  attested  to  by  all  international  observers, 
are evidence of the practice of democracy, freedom of 
expression,  peaceful  change  of  government,  political 
pluralism,  and  decentralization  in  the  management  of 
State  affairs.  Yemen  has  also  granted  local  councils 
broad authority. Several pieces of legislation to combat 
corruption  were  passed  by  the  Yemeni  Parliament, 
including 
the  establishment  of  a  Supreme  Anti-
Corruption  Commission. They  deal  with  procurement, 
tenders  and  bidding,  and  the  establishment  of  an 
independent  Commission,  financial  disclosure  for 
public  servants  and  basic  reform  in  the  judiciary. The 
Government now seeks to amend the laws that govern 
the press in order to remove all constraints. 

international 
agreements  relating  to  the  fight  against  corruption, 
including the initiative of international transparency in 
the mining and extraction industry sector. 

Today the world is witnessing political changes in 
Yemen:  freedom  of  expression  and  of  demonstration 
for  its  citizens,  accorded  to  them  by  the  constitution 
and by law. Even though some people have used these 
freedoms 
the 
Government  has  dealt  with  them  in  consonance  with 
the constitution and the law. 
I reiterate that my country abides by the approach 

that 
itself:  democracy,  political 
it  decreed 
pluralism, peaceful change of authority and recourse to 
the ballot box as the best and only way for change. It is 
worth recalling here that the Government of Yemen has 
declared its intention to amend the constitution so as to 
reduce  the  presidential  term  of  office  from  seven  to 
five  years  and  the  term  of  office  of  Parliament 
members  from  six  to  four  years.  It  also  intends  to 
amend  the  law  pertaining  to  local  administration,  so 
that  governors  would  be  elected  directly,  and  to  turn 
local  administration  into  local  government,  so  that 
more  decentralization  and  participation  in  governance 
can be realized. 

As it moves along this path, Yemen faces several 
challenges  in  the  areas  of  development,  poverty  and 
unemployment. These challenges compel Yemen to call 
on  other  States  and  on  international  organizations  to 
help  it  overcome  obstacles  and  to  increase  their 
development aid to Yemen, especially as the per capita 
to  cause  anarchy  and  violence, 
for 
18 

07-52299 


assistance  provided  to  the Yemeni  individual  does  not 
meet the internationally accepted standard. 

No  one  today  questions  the  existence  of  global 
warming, the results of climate change that the world is 
experiencing,  or  the  damage  that  is  being  inflicted  on 
the environment. Hence, it is only natural to stress that 
we  should  all  assume  our  common  responsibility  to 
contain  the  damage  caused  by  some  wrong-headed 
policies  and  practices,  given  that  the  devastating 
effects  of  such  policies  are  evident  to  each  and  every 
one  of  us.  Over  the  past  year  we  have  seen  floods, 
hurricanes and global warming in many regions of the 
world.  The  future  has  in  store  more  catastrophes  that 
may affect or wipe out millions of people, especially in 
the third world. Consequently, the poor would continue 
to pay for the luxuries of the rich. 

We  would  like  to  recall  all  the  agreements 
relative  to  the  environment  and  the  resolutions  that 
have  been  adopted  at  conferences  to  protect  it.  We 
should  therefore  seek  to  contain  the  climatic  changes 
that result in desertification and flooding. 

The  tense  situation  in  the  Palestinian  territories 
and the violence the Palestinian people are facing from 
the  Israelis  are  matters  that  run  contrary  to  the 
provisions of the United Nations Charter, international 
law, 
the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention.  While  the  Arabs  in  the  past  have  been 
criticized  for  not  providing  an  Arab  vision  to  put  an 
end  to  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict,  they  were  indeed 
surprised  that,  when  they  presented  their  own  Arab 
Peace Initiative, it was totally ignored by Israel and the 
international  community,  in  spite  of  all  the  elements 
that would secure a comprehensive and just solution to 
the conflict. Thus, it is our hope that the Arab follow-
up committee of the Arab initiative will have created a 
positive  atmosphere 
international 
conference  to  be  held  under  international  supervision 
to achieve peace in the Middle East. It is also our hope 
that the United States of America will keep its promise 
regarding the establishment of the Palestinian State on 
national soil, with Holy Jerusalem as its capital, based 
on  the  principles  of  total  sovereignty,  viability,  and 
return  of  refugees;  and  we  hope  that  the  solution  will 
be widened to include total Israeli withdrawal from the 
Golan  and  the  Sheba’a  farms.  We  emphasize  the 
importance  of  the  participation  of  all  the  parties 
concerned  in  the  international  conference  to  be  held 
soon. 
international 
agreements, 
leading 
to  an 
A/62/PV.13

On  this  occasion,  we  call  on  our  Palestinian 
brothers to return to dialogue, to unite their  positions, 
to abide by the Arab Peace Initiative, to reorganize the 
Palestinian  house  in  accordance  with  the  constitution 
and  Palestinian  legitimacy.  I  refer  here  to  the  recent 
Yemeni  initiative  to  bring  the  Palestinian  factions 
together  to  serve  the  unity  and  ambitions  of  the 
Palestinian people. 

The  Republic  of  Yemen  welcomes  Security 
Council  resolution  1770  (2007)  on  Iraq.  From  this 
rostrum it calls on the international community to stand 
with  the  elected  Iraqi  Government  to  extend  its 
authority, to put an end to sectarian violence, to control 
all the armed militias and to face the terrorist elements 
that  seek  to  spread  anarchy  and  undermine  legitimate 
resistance  and  efforts  at  national  reconciliation.  We 
emphasize  the  necessity  for  dialogue  among  all  the 
national  groups  in  Iraq  in  order  to  reach  a  common 
vision  that  could  restore  Iraq’s  security  and  stability 
and  its  pioneering  role  in  the  region. The  Republic  of 
Yemen  calls  on  everyone  to  stop  interfering  in  the 
internal  affairs  of  Iraq,  to  respect  its  unity  and  Arab 
character,  to  put  an  end  to  the  occupation  of  its  lands 
and to reject any plan to divide it. 

its 
Government’s acceptance of an expansion of the forces 
and  mandate  of  the  African  Union-United  Nations 
Hybrid  Operation  in  Darfur. We  support  the  efforts  of 
the  Sudanese  Government  to  restore  peace  in  that 
region  in  accordance  with  the  security  plan  presented 
by the Security Council, provided that the sovereignty, 
territorial integrity and unity of the Sudan will never be 
jeopardized under any pretext.  

The Republic of Yemen blesses the reconciliation 
agreement  signed  by  the  Somali  factions  in  the 
Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia,  which  came  about  as  a 
result of African, Arab and international efforts. Yemen 
calls  on  all  international  actors  to  provide  further 
assistance  and  support  to  the  Transitional  Federal 
Government in a manner that would enable it to rebuild 
Somalia.  We  emphasize  the  importance  of  providing 
enough  African  peacekeeping  forces  to  stabilize  and 
normalize the security situation in Somalia. That would 
hasten  the  withdrawal  of  Ethiopian  forces.  As  has 
always  been  the  case,  the  Republic  of  Yemen  will 
remain  a  partner 
reconciliation  process, 
supporting  all 
the  parties,  rejecting  any  foreign 
intervention  in  Somalia  and  emphasizing  the  need  for 
reconstruction in Somalia, with a view to enabling the 
the  Sudan,  we  welcome 
Regarding 
the 
in 
07-52299 

19 
emphasizes 
to  rebuild  State 
The  Republic  of  Yemen 
A/62/PV.13 

Transitional  Federal  Government 
institutions. 

The  Republic  of  Yemen  emphasizes  the  right  of 
countries  to  possess  nuclear  technology  for  peaceful 
purposes.  It  continues  to  support  a  special  General 
Assembly declaration of the Middle East as a zone free 
from  all  nuclear  weapons  and  other  weapons  of  mass 
destruction,  and  resolutions  demanding  that  Israel 
abide  by  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  in  order  to  guarantee  the 
stability  of  the  region  and  to  prevent  a  nuclear  arms 
race there. 

the 
importance  of  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs),  adopted  in  2000.  We  also  support  the 
objectives  set  out  in  the  Monterrey  Consensus.  My 
country is convinced that the mobilization of financial 
resources  for  development  and  the  effective  use  of 
those  resources  in  developing  countries  and  countries 
in  economic  transition,  are  two  crucial  areas  in  which 
true international partnership should be encouraged. It 
is worth mentioning that the responsibility of creating 
and  managing  development  programmes  is  first  and 
foremost the responsibility of national Governments, in 
needs 
accordance  with 
and 
specificities,  and 
international 
strategies stemming from the Millennium Development 
Goals. This should take place in partnership with donor 
countries  and 
in 
accordance  with  national  goals  and  programmes 
devoted to human development.  

The Republic of Yemen wants the human being to 
be  the  centre  and  goal  of  its  development  and  has 
placed  the  MDGs  high  among  the  priorities  of  its 
policies  and  its  five-year  development  plan  for  the 
period 2006-2010. It has strenuously sought to take the 
social,  economic  and  environmental  dimensions  of 
development  into  consideration.  It  has  also  involved 
civil  society  organizations 
these 
strategies.  In  addition,  my  country  is  working  with 
donor countries, international specialized agencies and 
other institutions to implement our third five-year plan, 
with the objective of alleviating poverty by supporting 
expanding 
small-scale 
technical 
education,  enabling  women,  providing 
investment 
services  and  opportunities  and  strengthening  good 
governance.  This  is  an  ambitious  plan  that  requires 
international  support  if  it  is  to  fully  achieve  its 
their 
priorities, 
in  keeping  with 
international  organizations,  and 
implementing 
in 
programmes, 
to 
objectives  of  bringing  about  a  qualitative  change  in 
human development in Yemen.  

There  have  been  difficulties,  however,  in  the 
implementation  of  this  ambitious  reform  programme, 
including frequent increases in the price of food stuffs, 
such as wheat flour, which has affected the standard of 
living  of  Yemeni  citizens,  placing  increasingly  heavy 
burdens on them. Accordingly, it is incumbent on rich 
States  to  consider  how  to  deal  with  inflation  in 
international  markets,  so  that  countries’  efforts  to 
implement 
their  reform  programmes  will  not  be 
jeopardized  and  so  that  those  countries  can  strike  a 
balance  between  the  costs  of  reform  on  the  one  hand 
and living standards, social peace and political stability 
on the other.  

In  conclusion,  allow  me  to  express  on  behalf  of 
the  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Yemen  our  deep 
thanks 
the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency  
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his sincere and strenuous efforts 
at the helm of the Organization. We are confident that 
he  is  capable  of  leading  it  with  a  view  to  bringing 
about justice and fulfilling the principles and values of 
the  United  Nations  to  which  we  all  aspire.  We  look 
forward  to  his  continued  leadership,  especially  in  the 
search  for  a  just  and  comprehensive  peace  in  the 
Middle East.  

The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency  
Mr. Pranab Mukherjee, Minister for External Affairs of 
India. 

Mr.  Mukherjee  (India):  Kindly  accept  my 
congratulations, Sir, on your election to the presidency 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-second  session. 
My delegation assures you of its full cooperation as we 
address  issues  identified  in  the  annual  report  of  the 
Secretary-General (A/62/1) and as we responsibly and 
creatively  move  forward  with  pending  reforms  of  the 
Organization. 
At the outset I would like to express India’s deep 

recent 
gratitude 
unanimous  adoption  by  the  General  Assembly  of 
resolution  61/271,  deciding  to  annually  observe  the 
International  Day  of  Non-Violence,  on  2  October,  the 
anniversary  of  the  birth  of  Mahatma  Gandhi.  I  also 
look forward to participation by Member States in the 
informal plenary meeting of the General Assembly and 
other functions being organized tomorrow at the United 
Nations 
the  first  International  Day  of 
Non-Violence. 
to  all  Member  States 
to  mark 
the 
for 
20 

07-52299 
are 
countries 
topic  for 
A  central 



this  year’s  debate  — 
responding  to  climate  change  —  is  both  timely  and 
relevant.  India’s  views  on  it  were  recently  set  forth  at 
the  high-level  event  on  climate  change,  which  took 
place  here  on  24  September.  Combined  with  the 
exchange  of  views  in  the  general  debate,  it  will  no 
doubt provide a useful backdrop to the meeting of the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change to be held later this year in Bali, Indonesia.  

The impact of climate change and environmental 
degradation  falls  disproportionately  upon  developing 
countries.  Developing 
the  most 
vulnerable  to  it,  and  also  lack  the  means  to  tackle  it. 
Measures to address climate change must be based on 
mitigation  and  adaptation  strategies  with  fair  burden-
sharing and measures to realize sustainable patterns of 
consumption  and  production.  The  process  of  burden-
sharing must also take into account where the primary 
responsibility  for  the  present  state  of  greenhouse  gas 
concentration in the atmosphere rests and not foreclose 
rapid  and  sustained  economic  development  for  the 
developing world, which, in any case, is an imperative 
for adaptation. 
Technology is the other key area that needs to be 

addressed. 
critical  clean 
technologies  be  made  available  and  affordable  to 
developing  countries.  The  intellectual  property  rights 
regime  must  balance  rewards  for  innovators  with  the 
common  good  of  humankind.  Concerted  international 
action  to  address  climate  change,  in  accordance  with 
the 
differentiated 
responsibilities  and  respective  capabilities,  as  well  as 
national  circumstances  and  social  and  economic 
conditions,  is  the  need  of  the  hour.  India,  for  which 
energy  security  is  a  national  imperative,  has  a  very 
small  individual  carbon  footprint,  with  per  capita 
carbon dioxide emissions at just about a quarter of the 
world’s  average.  Even  so,  we  are  determined  that,  as 
we pursue economic growth, our per capita greenhouse 
gas  emissions  will  not  increase  beyond  those  of  the 
industrial countries. 

Poverty  and  underdevelopment  are  amongst  the 
central  challenges  of  our  times.  The  overarching 
requirement  is  for  sustained  economic  growth  to 
eradicate  poverty  in  developing  countries.  However, 
economic  growth  must  also  be  measured  against  the 
template  of  social  inclusion.  Growth  alone  is  not 
enough  if  it  does  not  produce  benefits  that  are 
sufficiently  dispersed,  not  only  in  terms  of  increased 
important 
principle 
common 
that 
but 
of 
is 
It 
A/62/PV.13
I 
to 
affirm 
India’s 
resolve 
achieve 
to  achieve 
in  overseeing 
the  reform  of 
income and employment, but also for improved health, 
nutrition and education for all. 

the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  Government 
of  India  accords  the  highest  priority  to  inclusive 
growth,  including  the  political,  legal,  educational  and 
economic  empowerment  of  women,  effective  and 
affordable  public  health,  and  enhanced  access  to 
educational opportunities,  especially for all those who 
are disadvantaged. 

It is apparent that progress in the achievement of 
the internationally agreed development goals has been 
tardy. The international community, through the United 
Nations  system,  must  more  effectively  support  the 
efforts  of  developing  countries 
the 
development  goals.  A  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
international  financial  architecture  is  a  key  ingredient 
in  that  process.  The  United  Nations  must  play  an 
important  role 
the 
international financial architecture. That should include 
measures to ensure a greater voice for and participation 
by  developing  countries 
the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions.  The  process  of  reform  must  be  carried  to 
its  logical  conclusion  if  the  credibility  of  those 
institutions is to be enhanced. 

We must also address as a priority the regrettable 
inversion  of  global  resource  flows.  Today,  instead  of 
the  urgently  needed  inflow  of  resources  to  developing 
countries 
economic 
development  plans,  we  are  confronted  with  a  net 
outflow  from  them.  Official  development  assistance 
(ODA) showed a marked fall during 2006 and remains 
well below the target of 0.7 per cent of gross national 
product.  It  is  primarily  being  used  to  finance  debt 
relief.  That  this  is  happening  after  so  many  years  of 
liberalization 
our 
collective  failure.  Perhaps  we  should  be  considering 
mechanisms, such as an international debt commission, 
to redress the problem of developing country debt.  

least  developed  countries,  which  are 
particularly  hard  hit  by  rising  energy  costs,  find 
themselves 
in  an  even  more  difficult  situation. 
Enhanced and predictable resource flow to developing 
countries  remains  a  key  objective  of  the  global 
partnership for development. India will continue to do 
what  it  can  to  help  with  capacity-building  in  other 
developing  countries  and  to  assist  them  through  ODA 
their  national 
globalization 
to  buttress 
highlights 
The 
and 
in 
07-52299 

21 
based 
India’s 
commitment 
As  part  of 
A/62/PV.13 

within the limits of its capacity. By the end of the year, 
imports  from  least  developed  countries  into  India  will 
face a zero-tariff regime. 

Early and substantive progress at the Doha Round 
of  trade  negotiations,  based  on  the  primacy  of  the 
development  dimension,  is  another  imperative.  We 
must  return  to  the  negotiating  table  with  a  redoubled 
sense  of  urgency,  while  recognizing  that  adherence  to 
the  existing  mandate  remains  critical.  Nor  can  the 
interests  of  subsistence  farmers  be  ignored  or  equated 
with  those  of  other  sectors.  An  illogical  linkage 
between agriculture and non-agricultural market access 
will  only  complicate  the  development  impact  of  the 
Round.  The  overarching  principle  of  special  and 
differential treatment for developing countries remains 
a categorical imperative. 

the 
achievement of human rights for all, and as a member 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  we  remain  actively 
involved  in  developing  the  institutional  framework  of 
that  body,  including  the  universal  periodic  review 
mechanism, 
international 
cooperation  as  a  central  principle  in  the  Council’s 
methods  of  work.  India  will  work  towards  developing 
an 
the 
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights.  India  is 
honoured  to  be  one  of  the  first  signatories  of  the 
International  Convention  for  the  Protection  of  All 
Persons from Enforced Disappearance. Earlier today, I 
also had the honour of depositing India’s instrument of 
ratification  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities.  

As the largest democracy in the world, India has 
developed  a  system  of  local  self-government  with 
democratically  elected  institutions  of  representative 
Government at all levels — the village, the district, the 
State  and  the  nation.  The  effort  to  make  participatory 
democracy  more  meaningful  to  every  Indian  citizen 
underpins  what  is  perhaps  one  of  the  greatest  social 
experiments in the world today, namely, the transfer of 
decision-making  power  to  nearly  one  million  elected 
women  local  Government  representatives. As  a  result, 
women  are  not  merely  the  beneficiaries  of  change  in 
India, but are its instruments. 

As  the  world’s  largest  democracy,  it  was  also 
natural  for  India  to  support  the  establishment  of  the 
United  Nations  Democracy  Fund.  We  made  an  initial 
contribution  of  $10  million  to  the  Fund  and  remain 
international  normative 
framework 
effective 
on 
to 
for 
actively  and  constructively  involved  in  realizing  the 
objectives for which it was set up. As a small token of 
our  commitment  to  that  laudable  initiative,  I  have  the 
privilege of announcing a further pledge of $10 million 
to the United Nations Democracy Fund. 

The  international  system  cannot  be  reordered 
meaningfully  without  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
United  Nations.  If  the  Organization  is  to  remain  the 
cornerstone  of  the  international  architecture  in  this 
century,  it  cannot  remain  mired  in  the  realities  of  the 
1940s.  Despite  substantive  implementation  of  the 
United  Nations  reform  agenda  that  emerged  from  the 
2005  World  Summit  Outcome,  such  reform  will 
inevitably  remain  incomplete  without  comprehensive 
reform  and  expansion  of  the  Security  Council  and 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly.  Elements  and 
ideas on the reform of the Security Council have been 
discussed  for  well  over  a  decade  in  numerous  reports 
and  interminable  consultations.  It  is  now  time  for 
intergovernmental  negotiations  to  commence  in  order 
to  make 
the  Security  Council  more  democratic, 
representative and responsive.  

We,  together  with  partners  from  Africa,  Latin 
America and Asia, tabled a resolution on 11 September 
2007,  spelling  out  the  principles  on  which  reform 
ought  to  be  based  if  it  is  to  be  meaningful.  These 
principles  are  expansion 
in  both  permanent  and 
non-permanent  categories  of  membership;  greater 
representation 
and 
representation for developed countries that is reflective 
of  contemporary  world  realities;  and  comprehensive 
improvement  in  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council,  including  ensuring  greater  access  for  island 
and  small  States. We  welcome  recent  statements  from 
this podium by President Bush of the United States of 
America  and  other  world  leaders  on  the  need  for 
Security  Council  reform  in  both  the  permanent  and 
non-permanent  categories.  It  is  high  time  that  we 
collectively bring these ideas to implementation. 
Reform  of  the  United  Nations  would  also  be 

incomplete  without  revitalization  of 
the  General 
Assembly. The central goal of such revitalization must 
be  the  restoration  and  enhancement  of  the  role  and 
authority  of 
the  General  Assembly  as  originally 
envisaged in the Charter. 

developmental 
activities  for  the  developing  world,  India  sees  a 
corresponding  need  for  the  reform  of  United  Nations 
significance 
developing 
countries 
Given 
the 
for 
of 
22 

07-52299 
it 
India’s 
follows 
commitment 
long-standing 
their  direction  and  shape 


operational  activities  in  favour  of  development.  Since 
these  activities  are  aimed  at  supporting  the  work  of 
that  Members  must 
Member  States, 
determine 
through  an 
intergovernmental  process.  The  litmus  test  for  any 
reform  proposal  is  whether  it  improves  the  support 
extended  by  the  United  Nations  to  the  efforts  of 
programme  countries.  India  would  therefore  judge 
reform proposals by their impact on the ground, by the 
resultant  improvement  in  the  effectiveness  of  the 
system  and  by  the  impact  on  transaction  costs  for  the 
United Nations development system. 

Steps  to  achieve  the  complete  elimination  of 
nuclear weapons have also only made limited headway. 
Despite  some  progress,  the  world  remains  far  from 
achieving  the  objective  of  total  elimination  of  nuclear 
weapons. 
to 
universal,  non-discriminatory  and  comprehensive 
nuclear  disarmament  is  embodied  in  the  vision  of  late 
Prime  Minister  Rajiv  Gandhi  for  a  nuclear-free  and 
non-violent world. This vision was put forward nearly 
two decades ago. It remains undiminished today.  

Indeed, it is all the more relevant today, given the 
fact  that  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  can  address 
the 
for  new  and  
non-polluting  sources  of  energy  to  fuel  economic 
development.  We  will  be  bringing  proposals 
to 
Member  States  and  this  Organization  to  see  how  we 
can  refocus  on  general  and  complete  disarmament, 
particularly  nuclear  disarmament.  Disarmament  is  our 
agreed  goal,  and 
it  subsumes  arms  control  and 
non-proliferation. 

It  is  well  known  that  India  has  an  impeccable 
record  in  preventing  the  proliferation  of  sensitive 
technologies. That is in keeping with our commitment 
to being a responsible nuclear Power. India is ready to 
work  with  the  international  community  to  develop  a 
new  international  consensus  on  non-proliferation.  The 
international community needs to intensify the effort to 
address the very real threat posed by the link between 
the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
(WMDs)  and  related  materials  and  technologies  and 
the ability of non-State actors to acquire them. The risk 
posed  by  the  intersection  between  proliferation  and 
terrorism is real and serious. The central objective must 
be  to  ensure  that  our  solidarity  in  words  is  translated 
into action. 
inexorably  growing  demand 
A/62/PV.13
in 
lead  us 
the  year  ahead  will 
The  adoption  of  the  United  Nations  Global 

Counter-Terrorism  Strategy 
last  September  was  a 
noteworthy  development,  signalling  the  will  of  the 
international  community  to  combat  this  menace  in  a 
holistic  and  coordinated  manner.  Welcome  as  the 
Strategy is, there is much more that needs to be done to 
combat  the  menace  that  international  terrorism  has 
become.  India  is  convinced  that  without  the  early 
adoption  of  a  comprehensive  convention  against 
international  terrorism,  the  global  struggle  against 
terrorism  remains  incomplete  and  likely  to  succeed 
only  partially.  We  must  ensure  that  there  is  zero 
tolerance for all forms of terrorism. 
In conclusion, I would  express the hope that our 

deliberations 
to 
enlightened  action. With  maturity  and  resolve  we  will 
successfully overcome the many challenges before us. 

The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency  
Mr. Patteson Oti, Minister for Foreign Affairs, External 
Trade and Immigration of Solomon Islands. 

Mr.  Oti  (Solomon  Islands):  Mr.  President,  I  am 
privileged to stand before you today in the place of my 
Prime  Minister,  Mr.  Manasseh  Sogavare,  to  renew  the 
firm commitment of the Government and the people of 
Solomon  Islands  to  the  principles,  ideals  and  values 
that  gather  us 
their 
re-examination  and  reaffirmation.  The  privilege  of 
membership  in  the  United  Nations  allows  my  country 
to sit amongst Member States and stand up for, as well 
as  against,  decisions  on  issues  that  either  unite  or 
divide  us.  Belonging  to  this  Organization  for  almost 
half the time it has existed is a proud feat for a country 
that  is  barely  30  years  old.  The  experience  of  nearly 
three  decades  of  sovereign  statehood  has 
taught 
Solomon Islands many lessons that we  can share with 
the rest of the world. In particular, we are well placed 
to  highlight  the  fragility  of  our  independence  as  a 
nation of peoples whose survival is both threatened and 
the 
guaranteed 
international  community  as 
this 
Assembly. 

Mr.  President,  representing  my  Prime  Minister 
and  addressing  this Assembly  on  behalf  of  more  than 
the half a million people of Solomon Islands, I wish to 
begin by congratulating you on your recent election as 
President of the General Assembly at our sixty-second 
session. Both you and Secretary General Ban Ki-moon 
have  been  selected  by  fate  to  pledge  your  devotion  to 
interdependence  with 
in 
together  here  annually  for 
represented 
our 
by 
07-52299 

23 
to 
and  worldly 
this  Assembly 
possessions.  From 
A/62/PV.13 

duty in a cause challenged by humanity’s survival. We 
trust  you  to  do  what  is  right  to  attain  the  best  for  the 
rest of us. Your distinguished predecessors have paved 
pathways  for  the  progress  of  this  Organization  along 
many  routes  which  you  must  now  travel  to  fulfil  our 
Charter’s  promises  to  us  and  those  whom  we  are 
fortunate to represent. 

Mr.  Jallow  (Gambia),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
Much has happened in Solomon Islands since my 

in 
Prime  Minister’s  address 
September  last  year.  Turning  firstly  to  cataclysmic 
events, just six months ago, a series of earthquakes and 
tsunamis terrorized, devastated and swallowed up some 
of  our  islands,  their  inhabitants,  homes,  gardens, 
animals 
that 
catastrophe alone, we suffered the loss of more than 50 
lives and injury to countless more, the total destruction 
of  over  3,240  homes  and  severe  damage  to  another 
3,000  homes.  The  damage  bill  is  estimated  to  exceed 
$100  million.  Thanks  to  the  instantly  televised  news 
coverage  of  the  devastation,  the  entire  world  was 
shown graphic evidence of the sinking of some of our 
islands,  the  elevation  of  submerged  reefs  3  metres 
above  sea  level  and  the  submersion  of  many  coastal 
lands.  

Not  visible  at  the  time  were  the  immediate  and 
future effects of nature’s structural adjustments on the 
daily  livelihoods  of  Solomon  Islanders.  Traditional 
fishing  grounds  have  shifted.  Agricultural  activities 
have  had  to  be  relocated.  The  debris  is  slowly  being 
cleared.  The  water  supply  is  being  restored.  Roads, 
wharves  and  bridges  are  being  rebuilt  and  hospitals, 
clinics,  schools  and  houses  are  being  repaired  or 
reconstructed. Entire villages will need to be relocated 
and rebuilt. Life can no longer be the same for the vast 
majority  of  our  people  in  rural  areas,  who  depend  on 
fishing  and  subsistence  agriculture  for  their  daily 
survival. Any slight tremor or vibration causes them to 
flee  to  higher  ground  in  panic.  The  emotional  and 
psychological effects of nature’s non-negotiable terrors 
are  what  our  people  have  to  struggle  with  for  the  rest 
of their lives. 

the  April  earthquakes  and 
tsunamis and of their aftermath would not be complete 
if  I  did  not  acknowledge  and  place  on  record  the 
eternal  gratitude  of  Solomon  Islands  to  all  those 
Governments,  international  organizations  and  peoples 
My  snapshot  of 
phase 
of 
the 
disaster 
assistance 
through  national 
the  quantum  of 
relief  programme  and 
who  offered  sympathy,  prayers  and  a  helping  hand 
through the humanitarian relief that was dispatched to 
our  affected  areas.  Without 
the  assistance  and 
involvement  of  all  those  who  volunteered  their  time 
and resources and the generosity of those who donated 
emergency  relief  funds,  supplies  and  provisions,  my 
to 
Government  would  not  have  progressed 
the 
rehabilitation 
recovery 
programme  as  fast  as  we  have.  It  is  at  this  time  of 
suffering and need that we appreciate the true value of 
human compassion and sacrifice. 

With the increasing incidence of disasters all over 
the world, we must bolster the resources of the United 
Nations  humanitarian 
its 
capacity  to  respond  rapidly  and  effectively  to  such 
crises  to  alleviate  human  suffering.  As  much  as  we 
appreciate 
funds  pledged  by 
sympathetic individuals, institutions and nation-States, 
we  are  left  to  wonder  whether  the  filtering  of  donor 
financial 
charitable 
organizations  is  calculated  to  whittle  down  its  value 
through the consumption of largesse in its delivery and 
administration. Respecting the generosity and altruism 
of  those  who  give  and  the  desperation  of  those  who 
need  requires  that  we  enshrine  the  principles  of 
efficiency  and  effectiveness  to  guide  humanitarian 
relief  efforts  across  international  borders.  Human 
charity  and  human  suffering  are  done  a  disservice 
when 
for 
non-governmental  charitable  organizations. The  recent 
experience  of  Solomon  Islands  mirrors  what  many 
other  nations  have  undergone  and  underlines  the  need 
for  concerted  international  action  to  regulate  the 
collection and delivery of humanitarian aid. 

the  effects  of  environmental 
catastrophes rather than their causes takes us only half 
as  far  as  we  ought  to  go.  The  proceedings  of  last 
week’s  High-level  Event  on  Climate  Change  have 
emboldened  small  island  developing  States  to  rally 
together  to  demand  the  intensification  of  international 
efforts to curb global environmental recklessness.  

It  appears  that  the  fragility  of  States  such  as 
Solomon Islands has less to do with the quality of our 
governance  machinery  and  more  to  do  with  our 
ecological  vulnerability.  My  Government  wonders: 
what is so virtuous about  foreign  aid when billions of 
dollars  can  be  spent  on  improving  the  governance 
structures of an economy that derives its export income 
from  the  destruction  of  tropical  forests,  when  just  a 
Dealing  with 
disasters 
create 
“feeding 
frenzies” 
24 

07-52299 
Islands  by 
is  a  matter  of 


fraction of that expense is all that is needed to preserve 
our  forests  and  finance  our  annual  national  budgets? 
Solomon  Islands  believes  that  the  protection  of  our 
global  environment 
international 
responsibility  and  that  it  can  be  capably  addressed 
through  the  enunciation  of  principles  that  dictate 
reciprocal  undertakings  aimed  at 
the  continued 
granting and receipt of foreign aid. 
I now turn to the ongoing disputes concerning the 

future  occupation  of  Solomon 
the 
Australian-led visiting contingent. My Government has 
initiated a parliamentary review of the legislative basis 
for  the  continued  presence  of  the  occupying  police, 
military  and  civilian  personnel  from  our  neighbouring 
countries.  Credit  must,  however,  be  given  to  the 
visiting  forces  deployed  in  2003  to  restore  law  and 
order  in  Solomon  Islands  following  many  years  of 
ethnic  rivalry  and  violence.  The  policing  of  the  crisis 
for four years has contained it on the surface, without 
addressing 
the  underlying  socio-cultural  roots  of 
dissension.  My  Government  is  determined  to  delve 
deeper into the historical causes of the friction between 
our peoples and to do what is necessary to resolve the 
disputes that prevent their reconciliation.  
The  Commission  of  Inquiry  into  the  April  2006 

Civil  Unrest 
in  Honiara  —  capital  of  Solomon 
Islands — whose establishment was  announced  by the 
Prime  Minister  during  his  most  recent  address  to  the 
Assembly  (see A/61/PV.17),  finally  became  functional 
this  year  after  the  failure  of  externally  orchestrated 
manoeuvres  to  derail  it. The  Commission  of  Inquiry’s 
interim  reports  have  exposed  major  flaws  in  our 
national 
operations.  My  Government 
appreciates  the  support  of  and  the  financial  assistance 
pledged  by  Papua  New  Guinea 
the 
Commission of Inquiry. The Commission’s final report 
and  recommendations  should  be  available  in  the  next 
few months. 

Our  people’s  gratitude  to  Australia  and  New 
Zealand for financing the deployment of their nationals 
to police our crisis with the help of a small contingent 
of  personnel  from  neighbouring  Pacific  island  nations 
is  often  expressed  and  is  genuine.  However,  as  our 
fellow Pacific island States can readily appreciate, our 
sovereign right to determine the terms under which the 
Government  of  Solomon  Islands  will  permit  our 
continued occupation by the visiting contingent cannot 
be undermined by any Member of the United Nations.  
in  staffing 
security 
A/62/PV.13
the  fortunes 

The  long  neglect  of  our  internal  problem  by  the 
United  Nations,  followed  by  the  hasty  conclusion  of 
the regionally based multilateral agreement, which led 
to  the  dispatch  of  the  initial  visiting  contingent  of 
Australian,  New  Zealand  and  other  Pacific  island 
forces,  have  caused 
the  ongoing  controversies 
concerning  their  continued  existence  and  eventual 
return to the Organization’s doorstep. Viewed from the 
perspective  of  Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter,  the  nature 
of  the  arrangements  and  activities  embraced  by  the 
2003  agreement,  as  well  as  their  practical  application 
and  operation  since  that  time,  appear  to  transgress 
Article  52  of  the  Charter  as  a  result  of  apparent 
inconsistencies with Articles 1 and 2.  

However disguised and rationalized, intervention 
and  occupation  allow  assisting  nations  to  spend  and 
earn substantial revenue for their supporting businesses 
and  industries.  My  Government  is  too  nationalistic  to 
become  captive 
justify  our 
perpetual  retention  under  a  state  of  siege.  My  Prime 
Minister and my fellow ministers and parliamentarians 
remain  unmoved  by  Australian  resistance 
to  our 
attempts to reclaim our sovereignty and independence.  

In keeping with our obligations under Article 54, 
we  shall  keep  the  Security  Council  fully  informed  of 
the activities undertaken under the 2003 agreement and 
shall  seek  its  assistance  in  reducing  the  financial 
burdens  that  Australia  and  New  Zealand  needlessly 
bear under the current arrangements. 

As members of the Assembly know only too well, 
those  who  pay  the  piper  call  the  tune.  Our  experience 
with  the  Australian-designed  cooperative  intervention 
package  demonstrates  the  need  for  greater  United 
Nations 
leadership  of  future 
regional peacekeeping operations. 

The  impetus  for  Australia’s  involvement  in  our 
internal  unrest  was  a  dramatic  change  of  focus  and 
heart concerning the protection of its strategic interests 
in the Pacific region. The threat of terrorist penetration 
through  porous  frontiers 
is  sufficient  cause  for 
international 
sometimes 
paranoia.  Despite  global  condemnation  of  terrorism, 
the  struggle  for  consensus  on  an  acceptable  definition 
of 
the  progress  of  multilateral 
initiatives in the formulation of a comprehensive anti-
terrorism convention. 
Illustrative  of  the  potential  for  overreaction  to 

terrorism is the indignity that I, as Foreign Minister of 
terrorism  retards 
involvement 
insecurity 
anxiety, 
in 
the 
to 
that 
and 
07-52299 

25 
their  descendants  as 
to  be  more  difficult 
A/62/PV.13 

Solomon Islands, had to suffer when my multiple-entry 
visa to Australia was suddenly cancelled last year. The 
written explanation for that decision identified me as a 
risk to the health, safety or good order of the Australian 
community  under  Section  116  (1)  (e)  of  its  Migration 
Act. One would have to admit that that is an incredible 
justification 
for  excluding  democratically  elected 
leaders  of  neighbouring  countries  not  known  for 
breeding  terrorists.  Just  over  a  century  ago,  many  of 
our  ancestors  were  kidnapped  and  forcibly  taken  to 
work  as  labourers  in  a  country  that  is  now  quick  to 
regard 
terrorists.  Defining 
terrorism  has  proved 
than 
deploring it. 

Moving from the preoccupations of the past year 
to  our  perennial  protestations,  Solomon  Islands  is 
compelled  by  principle,  rather  than  pragmatism,  to 
ventilate  again  our  people’s  concerns  arising  from  the 
non-representation  of  the  Government  and  people  of 
Taiwan  in  this  Assembly.  Our  recent  attempts  to 
channel Taiwan’s application for admission through the 
established  gateways  was  resisted  —  without  any 
regard for the legitimate quest of 23 million Taiwanese 
people  for  self-determination  —  by  fellow  Member 
States  committed  to  upholding  a  peremptory  rule  of 
international  law  also  enshrined  in  Article  1  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations. Organized international 
hypocrisy is the only basis for explaining the indignity 
that the Taiwanese people must suffer at the hands of a 
powerful  constellation  of  States  interested  only  in  the 
protection  of 
investment  and  not  any 
humanitarian concerns. 

China’s  assertion  of  sovereignty  over  Taiwan 
must be the pretence that it invariably is, since most of 
its  major 
trading  partners  have  also  forged  and 
maintain  bilateral  relations  with  Taiwan,  which  are 
ultimately  predicated  on  politico-juridical  autonomy. 
Solomon Islanders have a native empathy for all people 
who are struggling to reclaim what is rightfully due to 
them  under  international  law.  Our  support  for  their 
struggle stems from our convictions about what is right 
and  just.  Our  sovereign  conscience  is  not  a  tradable 
commodity. Our rejection of regular approaches for the 
reconsideration of our existing allegiances to Taiwan is 
premised on  our preference, ideally, to  recognize both 
China  and  Taiwan  on  a  realistic  rather  than  an 
imaginary politico-juridical footing. 
This  Assembly  is  the  forum  in  which  mutual 

respect  and  goodwill  prevail  and  enable  us  to  implore 
trade  and 
China,  as  one  of  the  oldest  civilizations  of  our  world, 
to pledge its non-resort to force in settling the disputed 
question of its sovereignty over Taiwan. 

As  one  of  Taiwan’s  long-standing  diplomatic 
allies, and undeterred by the result recently engineered 
by international political pragmatism, Solomon Islands 
cannot  shirk  its  Charter  obligations  under  Article  35, 
paragraph 1, to bring to the attention of this Assembly 
the  situation  currently  prevailing  between  Taiwan  and 
China.  The  situation  is  clearly  of  a  nature  requiring 
investigation  by  the  Security  Council,  pursuant  to 
Article  34,  on  the  basis  that  it  “might  lead  to 
international  friction  or  give  rise  to  a  dispute”.  The 
Security Council is obliged to investigate the situation 
in  order  to  determine  whether  the  continuance  thereof 
is  likely  to  endanger  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security.  

Having now brought the situation to the attention 
of this Assembly, Solomon Islands expects that we will 
follow  the  stipulations  of  Article  11,  paragraph  2,  in 
discussing any questions relating to the maintenance of 
international  peace  and  security  and  making 
the 
necessary  recommendations  or  taking  the  requisite 
action  that  this  Assembly  is  empowered  to  make  and 
take  under  the  applicable  provisions  of  the  Charter. A 
full,  frank  and  fair  discussion  of  the  situation  is  the 
least the Assembly can undertake to affirm our faithful 
obedience to our Charter’s creed and satisfy ourselves 
as to the existence of grounds for our further proactive 
involvement. 

Led  by  Prime  Minister  Manasseh  Sogavare,  my 
Government  belongs  to  a  constituency  of  States  for 
whom  the  United  Nations  represents  the  promise  of 
hope  for  civilizations  condemned  by  circumstance  to 
eternal  misery.  The  effective  representation  of  our 
hope,  voice  and  vision  in  this  Organization  can  be 
achieved  only  by 
its  governance 
structures  to  reflect  the  changing  configurations  of 
geopolitical  power  and  influence.  Solomon  Islands 
therefore supports the proposal for the  enlargement  of 
the  Security  Council.  We  also  believe  that  India  and 
Japan  must  be  allocated  permanent  seats  on  the 
Council. 

The  attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  will  remain  elusive  for  many  nations  unless 
innovative 
and 
cancellation  are  devised  and  adopted  to  fast-track  the 
poor’s exit from poverty. We look forward to exploring 
the  reform  of 
conversion 
strategies 
for  debt 
26 

07-52299 
Solomon  Islands  has  reason 
to  register 


that  prospect  at  the  forthcoming  meeting  on  financing 
for development in Doha. 

its 
disappointment with the Division for Ocean Affairs and 
the  Law  of  the  Sea  for  its  tardy  action  in  releasing 
funds  that  are  payable  to  us  from  the  Trust  Fund  for 
Special  Aspects  of  the  Implementation  of  the  United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  to  defray 
the  costs  and  expenses  of  establishing  our  sovereign 
claims  to  continental  shelf  areas  registrable  under 
article  76  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law  of  the  Sea.  We  are  concerned  that  any  further 
delay  in  accessing  those  funds  might  affect  our 
registration  entitlements  due  to  non-compliance  with 
time restrictions. 

Time deprives me of the opportunity to chronicle 
many more grievances that we needlessly experience in 
securing  the  benefits  accorded  us  by  virtue  of  our 
membership  in  this  Organization.  The  appointment  of 
the  Deputy  Resident  Representative  of  the  United 
Nations  Development  Programme,  stationed  in  the 
Solomon  Islands,  is  a  welcome  sign  of  the  United 
Nations interest in my country’s problems and permits 
us  to  interact  more  closely  with  the  Organization  in 
prioritizing  the  remedial  action  we  need  to  undertake 
for the betterment of the lives of our population. With a 
visible  presence  in  our  midst  and  on  our  shores,  the 
United  Nations  will  no  longer  be  remote  from  the 
consciousness of the people it exists to serve. 
this 

opportunity 
to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  my  Prime  Minister’s  invitation  to  visit  our 
shores  during  his  tenure  in  office.  We  sincerely  hope 
His Excellency will honour the Government and people 
of  Solomon  Islands  by  becoming  the  first  Secretary-
General to venture to my country. 
The  Acting  President: I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Abdurrahman  Mohamed  Shalgham, 
Secretary  of  the  General  People’s  Committee  for 
Foreign  Liaison  and  International  Cooperation  of  the 
Socialist People’s Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. 
Mr.  Shalgham  (Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke 

in Arabic): At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
the  President  on  his  election  as  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-second  session.  I  am 
confident that, thanks to his experience and wisdom, he 
will  lead  the  work  of  this  forum  to  the  best  results.  I 
would also like to take this opportunity to express our 
Before  I  conclude,  allow  me 
to  extend 
to 
take 
A/62/PV.13
satisfaction  with  the  manner  in  which  Sheikha  Haya 
Rashed  Al-Khalifa  conducted  the  deliberations  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  previous  session  and  the 
efforts  she  made  for  United  Nations  reform  and,  with 
regard  to  several  controversial  issues,  to  arrive  at 
solutions  acceptable  to  all.  I  also  wish  to  express  our 
gratitude  for  the  efforts  exerted  by  His  Excellency 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, since his appointment as Secretary-
General,  to  implement  the  resolutions  of  the  United 
Nations and to achieve the purposes of the Charter. 

The  reform  of  the  United  Nations  has  been  the 
central  issue  in  our  deliberations  in  the  General 
Assembly  and  in  a  number  of  other  forums  over  the 
past two years. We were able to move forward towards 
achieving  our  goals  on  some  aspects  of  the  reform 
process.  However,  there  is  still  a  long  way  to  go, 
especially  in  the  absence  of  real  progress  towards 
reforming the Security Council and enhancing the role 
of the General Assembly. 

That  issue  has  been  the  subject  of  intensive 
consultations  in  which  many  ideas  were  put  forward, 
some  of  which  were  realistic  and  based  on  the 
principles  of  equal  sovereignty  for  all  nations  and 
equitable  geographical  representation.  Other  ideas, 
however,  involved  consolidating  the  control  of  the 
powerful States over the United Nations bodies and the 
concept  that  those  with  privileges  in  the  Security 
Council should maintain those privileges and reject any 
active  role  for  other  actors  in  that  respect.  That  latter 
attitude cannot lead to any true reform contributing to 
the realization of the purposes embodied in the Charter 
of the United Nations. 

A  realistic  assessment  of  progress  made  in  the 
process of United Nations reform, especially in light of 
the impasse in negotiations regarding Security Council 
reform,  leads  us  to  the  conviction  that  there  is  an 
urgent  need  for  a  new  world  summit  conference  that 
would push forward the reform process and bring to a 
conclusion the work that we began two years ago. 

In  order  to  achieve  this,  Libya  calls,  from  this 
podium, for a high-level summit meeting to be held at 
the United Nations in Geneva within the framework of 
the  sixty-third  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  in 
2008. Such a meeting would be devoted to the reform 
process of the United Nations and the expansion of the 
Security  Council.  Holding  such  an  important  meeting 
in  Geneva,  a  city  that  lies  at  the  centre  of  the  world, 
would provide the opportunity for all world leaders to 
07-52299 

27 
is 
formula 
the  only 
to  present  constructive  proposals  and 
A/62/PV.13 

attend, 
to 
participate  in  decision-making  regarding  this  thorny 
issue that concerns the entire world. 

True reform of the United Nations means putting 
decision-making  powers  in  the  hands  of  all  of  its 
Members,  that  is  to  say,  in  the  hands  of  the  General 
Assembly,  where  all  countries  have  equal  vote.  The 
Security Council would thus become an instrument for 
implementing  General  Assembly  resolutions  and  we 
would  overcome  the  obstacles  caused  by  the  veto, 
which puts international decision-making power in the 
hands  of  the  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council  and  greatly  encourages  selectivity  and  double 
standards in dealing with international problems. 

In our efforts to reform the Security Council, we 
must  consider  a  new 
for  permanent 
membership  in  which  membership  would  be  awarded 
to geographical groups and not to specific countries. In 
this regard, we demand that the African Union — since 
Africa 
continent  which  has  no 
representative  among  the  permanent  members  —  be 
granted permanent membership in the Security Council 
with  all  the  privileges  enjoyed  by  other  permanent 
members. 

While  we  encourage  the  current  negotiations 
regarding reform of the Security Council, we stress the 
fact  that  Libya  adheres  to  the  Common  African 
Position,  issued  at  the  fifth  African  Union  Summit, 
held  in  Sirte  on  4  and  5  July  2005. This  position  was 
confirmed  at  subsequent  African  Union  summit 
conferences.  It  calls  for  the  African  continent  to  be 
granted  five  non-permanent  seats  and  two  permanent 
seats  with  all  the  privileges  that  other  permanent 
members enjoy, including the right of veto. 
Libya seeks the support of all Member States for 

a seat on the Security Council so that it may continue 
to carry out its efforts to achieve the objectives of the 
United  Nations,  building  on  its  experience  of  non-
permanent  membership  in  1976  and  1977.  Libya  has 
therefore  submitted  its  candidature  for  non-permanent 
membership  for  the  coming  period  2008-2009.  This 
candidature enjoys the support of the African Union as 
expressed  in  its  resolution  EX.CL/DEC.  308  (IX) 
issued in Banjul on 29 June 2007, of the Organization 
of  the  Islamic  Conference  in  its  resolution  ORG  33/2 
issued  in  Baku  on  21  June  2006  and  of  the  Arab 
League in its resolution on 6 September 2006. 
to  work 
to 
in 
that  Libya 
is  highly  qualified 
regional  organizations 
for  development,  especially 

Libya’s  firm  commitment  to  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  its  notable 
contribution to international peace and security and its 
support 
in  Africa, 
demonstrate 
for 
membership in the Security Council. 

As a member of the Council, Libya would strive 
to  emphasize  the  central  role  played  by  the  United 
Nations  in  achieving  international  peace  and  security; 
to  strengthen  respect  for  international  law  and  the 
provisions  of  the  United  Nations  Charter;  to  enhance 
pluralism  in  international  relations  through  the  United 
Nations; to strengthen cooperation between the United 
Nations  and 
solving 
international problems; to contribute to United Nations 
reform; 
increase  cooperation  and 
coordination  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
other  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  particularly  the 
General  Assembly;  to  encourage  swift  and  effective 
international  cooperation  and  coordination  in  disaster 
management  and in the protection  of human rights;  to 
contribute  to  the  creation  of  permanent  solutions  to 
international  problems  based  on  justice,  equity,  and 
respect  for  the  principles  of  international  law  and  to 
encourage  further  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the African Union in the areas of conflict 
resolution,  consolidation  of  peace  and  support  for 
development in Africa. 

Libya  strongly  believes  in  the  objectives  of  the 
United  Nations  and  consistently  meets  its  obligations 
to the Organization. Among Member States, Libya was 
the  second-largest  African  contributor  to  the  United 
Nations  budget  and  to  the  budget  of  peacekeeping 
operations  in  the  biennium  2004-2006.  Furthermore, 
Libya provides a large share of voluntary contributions 
to serve the goals of the United Nations. 

Moreover, Libya is one of the countries that have 
most  often  resorted  to  the  mechanisms  of  the  United 
Nations  to  resolve  international  disagreements.  For 
example,  it  resorted  to  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  to  resolve  its  border  problems  with  Chad, 
Tunisia  and  Malta  and  has  accepted  and  implemented 
the rulings of the Court. 

Libya  has  been  a  key  mediator  in  the  resolution 
of  a  number  of  conflicts  and  disputes,  especially  in 
Africa,  and  has  dispatched  peacekeeping  forces  to  the 
Central  African  Republic,  monitored 
the  border 
between  Chad  and  the  Sudan  and  taken  part  in  the 
28 

07-52299 
launched 
in  2006, 


United  Nations  mission  in  Darfur.  Libya  has  also 
begun  to  nominate  personnel  from  the  Libyan  police 
force to serve in United Nations missions in a number 
of African places. 

Libya has established partnerships with a number 
of  countries,  in  the  field  of  development,  particularly 
in  Africa.  Additionally,  in  cooperation  with  the  Food 
and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations, 
Libya is implementing numerous projects that provide 
food in a number of African and Arab States. 
In  cooperation  with  Cuba  and  Nigeria,  Libya 

established the South-South Programme for health care 
in  Africa  and, 
the  Gaddafi 
Programme  for  African  women,  children  and  young 
people,  which  provides  health  care  and  educational 
services in Africa. 

Libya has provided humanitarian aid to numerous 
countries  in  order  to  alleviate  the  effects  of  disasters. 
Recipient  countries  have  included  Niger,  Chad,  the 
Sudan,  Somalia,  Palestine,  Indonesia,  Pakistan  and 
Mauritania.  Libya  has  also  provided  substantial  aid  to 
several African countries to combat desert locusts. 

In  the  field  of  disarmament,  Libya  believes  that 
comprehensive  and  complete  disarmament,  beginning 
with  the  elimination  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
(WMDs), 
the 
consolidation  of  international  peace  and  security.  For 
this  reason,  Libya  initiated  its  voluntary  abandonment 
of all programmes related to WMDs and their means of 
delivery. Libya hopes that all nations that possess such 
weapons  or  related  programmes  will  follow 
its 
exemplary behaviour. 

International  cooperation,  under  the  auspices  of 
the  United  Nations,  has  achieved  good  results  in  the 
fight against  terrorism. However, concentrating on the 
fight  against  this  phenomenon,  while  ignoring  its  root 
causes,  will  not  bring  terrorism  to  an  end.  Libya  was 
among the first countries that called for coordination of 
international  efforts  to  fight  global  terrorism.  Since 
1992,  Libya  has  called  for  a  special  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  to  study  this  phenomenon  and  to 
take the necessary measures to combat it by eradicating 
its root causes. 

We  believe  that  the  time  has  come  to  heed  this 
call and establish a precise definition of terrorism that 
would  protect  human  rights  and  halt  the  practice  of 
confusing terrorism with the legitimate right of people 
is  an  essential  prerequisite 
for 
A/62/PV.13
is 
respect 
the  worst 
Foreign  occupation 
to fight against foreign occupation and to exercise self-
determination and attain independence. 

Ending  terrorism  will  require  practical  measures 
to  eliminate  its  root  causes,  including  effective  action 
to promote human rights for all peoples, putting a stop 
to acts of aggression and the occupation of the land of 
others, fighting poverty and encouraging democracy. 

form  of 
terrorism,  because  occupation  forces  subject  entire 
peoples  to  measures  which  violate  the  most  basic 
principles  of  human  rights  and  commit  daily  crimes 
against  those  peoples  in  order  to  maintain  their 
occupation.  In  our  campaign  to  fight  terrorism,  it  is 
imperative that we coordinate our efforts to finally put 
an  end  to  foreign  occupation,  enable  peoples  to 
exercise  their  right  to  self-determination  and  prevent 
interference in internal affairs.  

We  urgently  need  to  implement  the  pledges  that 
we  adopted  in  the  Millennium  Declaration,  the  Doha 
Declaration  and  the  outcomes  of  the  Monterrey  and 
Johannesburg  conferences  so  that  we  can  make  ideal 
use  of  our  planet’s  resources,  end  conflict,  poverty, 
illiteracy  and  disease,  provide  all  people  with  safe 
drinking water, safeguard the environment and achieve 
sustainable development.  

It falls upon the shoulders of the United Nations, 
in  particular  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  to 
establish  international  partnerships  for  development 
which can achieve the Millennium Development Goals. 
Such  partnerships  should  facilitate  dialogue  between 
North  and  South  on 
for 
sovereignty,  equality  and  sharing  of  benefits,  and 
should  ensure  that  we  reach  the  agreed  goal  of 
devoting 0.7 per cent of the developed countries’ gross 
national  income  to  official  development  assistance 
(ODA) to developing countries. Such partnerships must 
likewise  ensure  the  appropriate  application  of  all 
multilateral  free  trade  principles  and  must  strengthen 
World  Trade  Organization  measures 
regarding 
preferential 
for  developing 
countries, 
including  making  it  easier  for  developing  countries  to 
join that organization.  
Countries  with  a  colonial  past  bear  the  largest 

share  of  responsibility  to  provide  aid  to  developing 
countries and to compensate them for the damage they 
suffered  during  the  colonial  era.  Similarly,  countries 
that  waged  war  on  the  territories  of  other  countries 
have a responsibility to remove the mines, unexploded 
the  basis  of 
treatment 
07-52299 

29 
in 
land 
land 
to  which 
A/62/PV.13 

ordnance  and  explosive  remnants  of  war  they  left  in 
those countries. They must provide the necessary maps, 
equipment  and  technical  know-how  to  reclaim  and 
rehabilitate  damaged 
those  developing 
countries.  

I  call  upon  all  Member  States  to  aid  the African 
Union in its efforts to ensure that all African countries 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals.  

The Palestinian people have lived in great misery 
for  more  than  half  a  century,  since  their  land  was 
seized.  More  than  half  of  them  were  displaced  to 
various parts of the world and those who remain have 
been  subjected 
to  a  bloody  and  vicious  Israeli 
occupation and to systematic violations of international 
humanitarian  law:  houses  are  demolished,  lands  are 
confiscated  and  Palestinian  agricultural 
is 
bulldozed. Under siege and denied food and medicine, 
inhabitants  are  expelled  and  unarmed  citizens  killed 
while the building of an apartheid wall continues. The 
oppression 
the  Palestinian  people  are 
subjected  and  the  failure  of  the  United  Nations  to 
protect them and to aid them in attaining their rights —
the  right  of  return,  the  right  to  self-determination  and 
the  right  to  establish  an  independent  State  on  all 
Palestinian 
the 
restoration  of  peace  and  security  in  the  region.  It  is 
time  to  address  the  issue  of  Palestine  more  seriously 
and to refrain from attempts to impose a fait accompli 
on  the  Palestinian  people,  depriving  them  of  their 
legitimate rights.  

The  tragedy  that  has  befallen  brotherly  Iraq  and 
that  has  resulted  in  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Iraqi 
deaths, injuries and refugees, requires an urgent United 
Nations  initiative  to  stop  the  bleeding,  resolve  the 
crisis, ensure the withdrawal of the occupation forces, 
restore Iraq’s stability and sovereignty, maintain Iraq’s 
territorial  integrity  and  empower  the  Iraqis  to  control 
their  own  resources  and  freely  decide  their  own 
destiny, while enabling all citizens to participate in the 
administration 
the 
marginalization  of  any  group  by  any  other  group,  so 
that peace, security and prosperity may prevail in that 
country.  

The  Acting  President: I  now  call  on  His 
Excellency Mr. Osman Mohammed Saleh, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Eritrea. 
Mr.  Saleh  (Eritrea):  Allow  me  to  extend  my 

congratulations to Mr. Srgjan Kerim on his election to 
land  —  are  factors 
country  without 
that  prevent 
their 
of 
the high office of President of the General Assembly at 
its sixty-second session. I would also like to recognize 
Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa  of  Bahrain  for  her 
distinguished  service  as  President  of  the Assembly  at 
its sixty-first session. 

Please allow me also to extend my appreciation to 
the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his strong 
commitment and unceasing efforts in addressing issues 
of peace and security in many parts of the world where 
many conflicts and tensions remain unresolved. I wish 
to assure him of my Government’s constructive support 
and its wholehearted commitment to peace and security 
in our region.  

This  session  of  the  General  Assembly  provides 
Member  States  with  the  opportunity  to  address  the 
challenges  and  threats  that  continue  to  preoccupy  us, 
including  the  lack  of  peace  and  security  and  the 
presence  of  extreme  poverty,  underdevelopment, 
environmental degradation and natural disasters.  

In  the  interest  of  brevity,  let  me  now  revert  to 
more  pressing  problems  closer  to  home.  For  the  past 
five years, it has, sadly, become almost a ritual for my 
Government 
the 
international  community,  and  especially  the  Security 
Council, to shoulder their fundamental responsibilities 
for the maintenance of peace and security in our part of 
the  world.  The  legal  principles  at  stake  and  the 
looming  threat  to  regional  peace  and  stability  have 
been  and  remain  stark  indeed.  The  hard  facts  are 
neither controversial nor ambiguous.  
the 

Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Algiers  Peace 
Agreement,  Ethiopia  continues  to  occupy  sovereign 
Eritrean  territories  through  military  force.  Ethiopia 
continues to reject the final and binding decision of the 
Eritrea-Ethiopia Boundary Commission (EEBC) and to 
obstruct the demarcation of the boundary, to which end 
the  international  community  has  deployed  the  United 
Nations  Mission  in  Eritrea  and  Ethiopia  (UNMEE)  at 
an  annual  running  cost  about  $200  million.  Ethiopia 
continues 
fundamental 
principles  of  international  law,  including  full  respect 
for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of a fellow 
United  Nations  Member  State, 
integrity  of 
international treaties and the norms of settling disputes 
through  binding  arbitration.  Those  are  the  indelible 
facts on the ground that have been and are spawning a 
In  flagrant  breach  of 
to  violate  with 
international 
to  urge, 
impunity 
rostrum, 
from 
law, 
this 
the 
30 

07-52299 
these 
years, 
Throughout 
the  gravity  of 


climate of permanent and escalating tension in our part 
of the world. 

the  Boundary 
Commission  has  filed  no  less  than  24  reports  to  the 
Security  Council  underlining 
the 
situation.  The  EEBC  has  no  independent  means  or 
powers of enforcement. The legal authority and powers 
of enforcement reside, squarely and explicitly, with the 
Security Council, which is the guarantor of the Algiers 
Peace Agreement. As such, the United Nations Security 
Council  should  long  have  taken  remedial  action,  both 
in  accordance  with  Article  14  of  the  Algiers  Peace 
Agreement as well as on the basis of Article 39 of the 
United  Nations  Charter.  But  that  has  not  happened  to 
date.  Ethiopia  has  managed  to  frustrate  the  EEBC 
decision and the demarcation of the boundary — which 
should have been completed by 2003 — because of the 
unwarranted positions of some United Nations Security 
Council  member  States,  and  especially  the  United 
States  of  America,  which  has  regrettably  chosen  to 
placate Ethiopia at the expense of international law and 
the interests of regional peace and security. 

It was against the backdrop of Ethiopia’s defiance 
and  violation  of  international  law  that  the  Boundary 
Commission convened a meeting of the parties in The 
Hague early last month. Ethiopia first sought to prevent 
the meeting from taking place by raising spurious legal 
objections  to  the  original  venue  —  New  York.  And 
when that bogus pretext was removed and the meeting 
was convened in The Hague, Ethiopia failed to respond 
to  the  five  conditions  that  the  Commission  had 
imposed  so  that  it  could  proceed  and  embark  on  the 
time-bound  schedule  of  operations  that  had  been 
worked  out  in  order  to  complete  pillar  emplacements 
along the 1000 kilometre border in the coming months. 
The  five  conditions  that  Ethiopia  was  requested  to 
fulfil were: first, to indicate its unqualified acceptance 
of  the  2002  Delimitation  Decision  without  requiring 
broader  ranging  negotiations  between  the  parties; 
secondly, to lift restrictions on the movement of EEBC 
personnel;  thirdly,  to  provide  security  assurances; 
fourthly, to meet  payment  arrears  and fifthly, to allow 
free access to pillar locations. 
At the Commission’s meeting, Eritrea committed 

itself once  again to cooperate with the  demarcation in 
all of the respects regarding which the Commission had 
expressed  concern.  Eritrea’s  commitments  were  made 
in  writing  and  verbally, 
both 
the 
Commission and other participants. 
front  of 
in 
A/62/PV.13
legitimate 
the  Commission’s 

Eritrea  asks  merely  that  Ethiopia  make  the  same 
commitment to support the demarcation in accordance 
with 
instructions. 
Ethiopia,  however,  made  it  clear  that  it  had  no 
intention  of  complying  with 
the  Commission’s 
demarcation  instructions  and  raised  tangential  issues, 
which my delegation has fully addressed in the full text 
of my statement.  

After the recent Boundary Commission meeting in 
early September in The Hague — which I mentioned — 
the text of a letter came to Eritrea’s attention. The letter 
had been circulated to the public and the media without 
communicating  it  to  the  Eritrean  Government  through 
appropriate  diplomatic  or  legal  channel.  In  the  letter 
the  Ethiopian  Foreign  Minister  indicated  Ethiopia’s 
intention  to  attempt  to  renounce  the  two  Algiers 
Agreements  in  accordance  with  which  the  Eritrea-
Ethiopia  border  war  of  1998-2000  was  brought  to  an 
end.  

The  substance  of  Ethiopia’s  letter  and  its  timing 
underscored the fact that the letter was intended simply 
as  another  effort  to  subvert  the  implementation  of  the 
final  and  binding  award  of 
the  Eritrea-Ethiopia 
Boundary  Commission. As  such,  that  effort  is  clearly 
unlawful  under  the Vienna  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
Treaties  and  other  principles  of  international  law,  as 
well  as  highly  detrimental  to  regional  peace  and 
security. 
support 

Ethiopia’s  effort 
to 
the 
Commission’s  award.  Even  if  Ethiopia’s  renunciation 
attempts  were  legally  effective  —  which  they  are  
not  —  Article  70  of  the  Convention  states  that  the 
boundary  established  under  the  Algiers  Agreement 
remains binding on both parties. 
The  Vienna  Convention  cannot  simply  be 

in  a 
interpreted 
boundary 
result 
retroactively. Indeed, Ethiopia seems to be planning to 
use  its  unlawful  attempt  to  renounce  the  Algiers 
Agreements  in  order  to  renew  hostilities.  The Algiers 
Agreements were designed to put an end once and for 
all to the two States’ conflicting claims to territory and 
thus  to  leave  the  two  States  free  to  rebuild  their 
relationship for the good of both of their peoples.  

In the five and one half years since the Boundary 
Commission’s delimitation decision, however, Ethiopia 
the 
has  repeatedly  obstructed 
The  Vienna  Convention  does  not 
force 
the  dissatisfied  party 
to 
to  permit 
arbitration 
implementation  of 
renounce 
to  deny 
legal 
the 
07-52299 

31 
is 
its 
restarted, 
in  breach  of 
illegal  occupation  of  Eritrean 
A/62/PV.13 

decision  and  threatened  to  walk  out  on  the  process 
altogether, if it was not given everything that it wanted. 
While tens of thousands of Eritreans indigenous to the 
Ethiopian-occupied regions wait in internally displaced 
persons  camps  for  the  chance  to  peacefully  enjoy  the 
benefits  of  the  final  and  binding  award,  Ethiopia  is 
moving  new  settlers  onto  their  land,  attempting  to 
make 
territory 
permanent.  That 
the  Algiers 
Agreements,  in  particular  the Agreement  on  Cessation 
of  Hostilities,  and  Chapter  VII  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter  should  have  been  invoked  to  end  Ethiopia’s 
flagrant violations with impunity of international law.  
Eritrea  sincerely  hopes  that  the  demarcation 

process  can  be 
in  accordance  with 
international  law  and  consistent  with  the  final  and 
binding  delimitation  award  of  13  April  2002.  This  is 
the central tenet of the Algiers Agreements and the key 
to  reinstating  regional  harmony.  It  is  important  for 
effective  action  to  be  taken  in  the  interest  of  legality 
and  the  maintenance  of  regional  peace  and  security. 
The  United  Nations  and  the  Security  Council  have 
unequivocal  legal  and  moral  responsibilities  to  ensure 
that this occurs without further delay and some Powers 
with major interests in the region need to reassess their 
policies  so  that  the  peoples  in  the  region  can  live  in 
peace and harmony. 
Ethiopia’s  invasion  of  Somalia  has  become  a 

serious concern in our region, and the Security Council 
and  members  of  the  international  community  must 
insist  on  the  unconditional  and  immediate  withdrawal 
of  all  Ethiopian  troops  from  Somalia  in  order  to  end 
the occupation. 

I  do  not  wish  to  conclude  my  statement  without 
briefly touching on the progress and the challenges that 
lie ahead in the peace process in the Sudan. The Sudan 
has  come  a  long  way  in  addressing  its  internal 
conflicts, both by concluding peace agreements and by 
engaging  in  the  implementation  process  of  the  terms 
and  conditions  of  the  peace  accords.  Eritrea  will 
continue  to  lend  its  support  to  the  peace  process  in 
Darfur  by  working  closely  with  all  concerned  parties 
and  countries,  including  the  United  Nations  and  the 
African  Union,  in  order  to  achieve  a  robust  peace 
package  that  will  bring  a  lasting  solution.  In  that 
regard,  Eritrea  looks  forward  to  the  Tripoli  meeting 
later this month. 
interest 
international  community’s 
The  Acting  President: I  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency Mr. Nyan Win, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Union of Myanmar. 

Mr. Win (Myanmar): At the outset, I would like 
to congratulate the President on his assumption of the 
high office of President of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-second  session.  I  would  also  like  to  convey 
Myanmar’s  appreciation 
to  his  predecessor,  Her 
Excellency  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  Al  Khalifa,  for  her 
able  stewardship  of  the  previous  session.  The  annual 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  reflects  the  significant 
work  done  in  the  past  year  by  the  United  Nations  in 
meeting  the  challenges  we  face.  We  congratulate 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his successful first 
year  in  office  and  welcome  his  timely  initiative  with 
regard to such pressing global issues as climate change. 
The High-level Event on Climate Change has reignited 
the 
in  climate 
change,  and  rightly  so.  Climate  change  remains  the 
most 
international 
community faces today. The adverse effects of climate 
change,  such  as  sea-level  rise,  hurricanes,  floods, 
drought  and  desertification,  particularly 
in  recent 
years, are a stark reminder of the negative impact that 
climate  change  has  on  the  long-term  economic  and 
social  development  of 
community, 
particularly the developing countries.  
To address the adverse impacts of climate change, 

we need concerted action at the national, regional and 
international levels. We need to be mindful that climate 
change is not merely an environmental issue, but also a 
sustainable  development 
an 
integrated and coordinated approach is required. For its 
part,  Myanmar  is  pursuing  a  national  environmental 
policy  based  on  the  sustainable  utilization  of  natural 
resources.  In  1991,  we  adopted  the  Myanmar Agenda 
21, which serves as an important guideline for both the 
public and private sectors. 
Myanmar  also  pursues  a  system  of  sustainable 

a 
forest  management.  We  have 
nationwide 
and 
reforestation. As a result, we have been able to retain a 
forest  cover  of  50  per  cent  in  the  country.  Myanmar 
was  among  the  12  nations  that  took  part  in  the  Asia 
Least-cost  Greenhouse  Gas  Abatement  Strategy  in 
cooperation  with  the  Asian  Development  Bank.  The 
inventory of greenhouse gas emissions taken under the 
Strategy confirms that Myanmar is more of a sink than 
a  source  of  carbon  dioxide  emissions.  The  baseline 
issue.  Accordingly, 
implemented 
afforestation 
the  global 
programme 
critical 
challenge 
that 
the 
of 
32 

07-52299 
at 
and 
various 
social  development 


projection  of  the  2020  national  greenhouse  inventory 
also shows that the forestry sector will continue to be a 
significant sink in Myanmar in the future. 

The economic activities undertaken by developed 
countries,  both  historically  and  currently,  are  mainly 
responsible for the emissions of greenhouse gases that 
affect  the  global  climate  system.  The  developing 
countries,  which  are  least  responsible  for  contributing 
to  climate  change,  face  the  greatest  risk  from  its 
adverse  impacts.  Addressing  the  challenge  of  climate 
change  requires  an  integrated  approach  to  economic 
growth, 
environmental 
protection.  Concerted  action  must  be  taken  within  the 
framework of the internationally agreed United Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  and  its 
Kyoto Protocol, based on the principle of common but 
differentiated responsibilities. It will require developed 
countries  to  provide  new  and  additional  financial 
resources  to  developing  countries  and  to  fulfil  the 
commitments  made 
international 
conferences. 

The  impact  of  climate  change  is  particularly  felt 
in  developing  countries  and  has  adversely  affected 
national development prospects. In order to effectively 
meet  the  challenge  of  climate  change,  we  would  also 
have to address poverty alleviation; then and only then 
would  the  developing  countries  be  able  to  achieve 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  It  is,  therefore, 
the  developed  countries,  whose 
incumbent  on 
development  process  rely  heavily  on 
the  natural 
resource  acquired  from  the  developing  countries,  to 
provide the necessary financial resource. 

Underdevelopment and mass deprivations lead to 
economic, political and social hardships in developing 
countries.  Development  provides  an  environment 
conducive to democracy. I would like to call upon the 
entire  international  community  to  work  together  for 
poverty alleviation. 

The  scourge  of  terrorism  knows  no  boundaries. 
Combating  terrorism  is  the  common  endeavour  of  the 
entire  international  community.  I  would  like  to  stress 
here  that  terrorism  in  any  form  or  manifestation  must 
be  rejected.  It  is  the  innocent  people  who  bear  the 
brunt  of 
terrorism 
effectively,  we  also  must  address  its  root  causes. 
Poverty, grievances and underlying political, economic 
and  social  conditions  provide  fertile  ground  for  the 
terrorist  activities.  To  combat 
A/62/PV.13
the 
full 
should 
to  effectively  address 
spread  of  terrorism.  These  root  causes  of  terrorism 
must be addressed. 

Friendly relations among nations should be based 
on  respect  for  the  principles  of  equal  rights  and  self-
determination.  Countries 
show  goodwill, 
practice  tolerance  and  live  together  in  peace  and 
harmony. Nations have various historical backgrounds, 
differing cultures, and different religions and customs. 
Nations  are  not  identical.  However,  respecting  those 
basic principles and practicing friendship and goodwill 
will effectively contribute to our common endeavour to 
combat terrorism. 

Today,  the  world  is  facing  diverse  problems  and 
daunting  challenges.  The  United  Nations,  which 
represents  the  world  community,  is  called  upon  to 
resolve them. Our Organization was formed in order to 
maintain  international  peace  and  security,  develop 
friendly 
relations  among  nations  and  promote 
cooperation  in  solving  international  problems  of  an 
economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character. In 
order 
range  of 
challenges, the reform of the United Nations, as called 
for by our leaders in the World Summit Outcome, must 
be successfully implemented. 

I  am  confident,  Mr.  President,  that  under  your 
able  leadership  we  will  make  significant  progress  in 
the  United  Nations  reform  process, 
into 
consideration  the  position  of  the  vast  majority  of  the 
membership. 

to  witness 
neocolonialism  rearing  its  ugly  head  in  recent  years. 
The  strategies  employed  are  obvious.  As  a  first  step, 
the  neocolonialists  conduct  media  campaigns  against 
the targeted country and spread disinformation that the 
country  concerned  is  committing  gross  human  rights 
violations. They portray these campaigns as a fight for 
democracy.  Secondly,  they  impose  sanctions,  which 
hinder  economic  development  and  cause  poverty 
among  the  people.  Here  I  would  like  to  stress  that 
economic sanctions are counterproductive and can only 
delay  the  path  to  democracy.  As  a  third  step,  they 
provide  political,  financial  and  other  material  support 
in  order  to  create  unrest  in  the  country.  Finally,  under 
the pretext that a country is undemocratic and unstable 
and  that  it  poses  a  threat  to  international  peace  and 
security, they intervene directly and invade the country. 
Current  events  clearly  show  that  such  a  course  of 
disturbed 
greatly 
taking 
We 
are 
07-52299 

33 
A/62/PV.13 

action  can  only  result  in  conflict  and  untold  suffering 
for the people of the country. 

My country is currently subjected to such courses 
of action. The international community should also be 
wary of those neocolonialist attempts. Here it must be 
stressed that the destiny of each and every country can 
only  be  determined  by  its  Government  and  its  own 
people. It cannot be imposed from outside. On our part, 
we  are  determined  to  proceed  resolutely  towards 
democracy along our chosen path. 
In the life of every nation, there are times when it 

must  face  challenging  situations  and  overcome  them. 
Myanmar  has  gone  through  such  a  challenge  recently. 
The situation would not have deteriorated, if the initial 
protest of a small group of activists against the rise in 
fuel  prices  had  not  been  exploited  by  political 
opportunists.  They  sought  to  turn  the  situation  into  a 
political  showdown,  aided  and  abetted  by  certain 
powerful  countries.  They  also  took  advantage  of 
protests  staged  initially  by  a  small  group  of  Buddhist 
clergy  demanding  an  apology  for  the  maltreatment  of 
monks  by  local  authorities.  The  security  personnel 
exercised the utmost restraint and did not intervene for 
nearly  a  month.  However,  when  the  mob  became 
unruly and provocative, they were compelled to declare 
a  curfew.  Subsequently,  when  protestors  ignored  their 
warnings,  they  had  to  take  action  to  restore  the 
situation. Normalcy has now returned to Myanmar. 

The  rule  of  law  is  a  fundamental  principle 
accepted by nations. Without it there can be neither the 
orderly  conduct  of  the  day-to-day  affairs  of  State  nor 
the  enjoyment  of  human  rights  and  democracy  by  the 
people. 

Myanmar  is  a  multi-ethnic  and  multireligious 
society. It is home to over 100 national races who have 
lived  together  in  weal  or  woe  over  the  centuries. 
National  unity  is  of  paramount  importance  to  us.  We 
have,  therefore,  been  striving  to  strengthen  the  fabric 
of  our  nation.  In  keeping  with  the  aspirations  of  the 
people for democratization, a seven-step road map was 
declared,  and  a  national  convention  was  held  to  lay 
down  the  principles  for  a  new  constitution. Work  was 
concluded  on  3  September  2007,  adopting  by 
consensus  the  fundamental  principles  for  the  new 
constitution.  Based  on 
these  principles,  a  draft 
constitution will be drawn up by legal experts. All the 
remaining steps will be implemented phase by phase. 

This process is applauded by the people. To date, 
people  in  11  townships  have  convened  rallies  in 
support  of  the  successful  conclusion  of  the  national 
convention.  Townships  all  over 
the  country  are 
expected to hold similar rallies. 

Recent events make clear that there are elements 
within and outside the country that wish to de-rail the 
ongoing process so that they can take advantage of the 
chaos that would follow. They have become more and 
more emboldened and have stepped up their campaign 
to confront the Government. 

The  Myanmar  Government  is  fully  aware  of  its 
responsibility  to  lead  the  nation  in  the  process  of 
transformation  to  a  disciplined  democracy.  We  have 
laid  out  a  road  map  and  will  work  conscientiously  to 
achieve  our  goals.  Significant  progress  has  already 
been made. The process can be successfully completed, 
sooner  rather  than  later,  if  no  obstacles  are  placed  in 
our  path.  In  this  regard,  the  international  community 
can  best  help  Myanmar  by 
showing  greater 
understanding.  They  can  begin  by  refraining  from 
measures which would result in adding fuel to the fire. 

One area where the international community can 
demonstrate  good 
to 
acknowledge  the  good  work  done  in  Myanmar  in 
combating the scourge of narcotic drugs. As a result of 
our efforts to rid our country of those drugs by the year 
2014,  the  production  of  opium  has  plummeted  to 
unprecedented levels. In the World Drug Report 2006, 
the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime reported 
that  in  2005  the  total  area  under  opium  poppy 
cultivation  showed  a  decrease  of  26  per  cent  when 
compared to that of 2004. The World Drug Report 2007 
confirms that in 2006 the total area under opium poppy 
cultivation  was 
approximately  21,500  hectares, 
representing  a  decrease  of  34  per  cent  compared  to 
2005.  Here,  I  would  like  to  stress  that  in  terms  of 
opium  production,  the  decline  is  88  per  cent  over  a 
span  of  eight  years,  declining  from  2,560  tons  to  an 
estimated 292 tons. 

Myanmar  regards  the  eradication  of  narcotic 
drugs  as  a  national  priority.  We  have  enhanced  our 
enforcement  capacity  and  have  been  providing 
alternative livelihoods to farmers to encourage them to 
end their dependence  on opium poppy cultivation. We 
are  also  taking  effective  measures  with  regard  to  the 
emerging 
threat  posed  by  methamphetamine-type 
stimulant  drugs.  Myanmar  neither  produces  nor 
faith  and  objectivity 
is 
34 

07-52299 
Cooperation  with 
the  United  Nations 
session.  My  delegation  expresses 


imports  the  precursor  chemicals  required  for  the 
production of those drugs. 

is  a 
cornerstone  of  Myanmar’s  foreign  policy.  It  is  in  this 
spirit that we continue to cooperate with the Secretary-
General with regard to his good offices role mandated 
by  the  General Assembly. We  have  agreed  to  the  visit 
of  his  Special  Adviser,  Under-Secretary-General 
Ibrahim Gambari, who is presently in my country. We 
will  continue  to  work  closely  and  cooperate  actively 
with the United Nations. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Her 

Excellency The  Honourable  Sahana  Pradhan,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Nepal. 
Mrs.  Pradhan  (Nepal):  I  congratulate  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Srgjan  Kerim  on  his  election  as 
President  of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-second 
session  and  pledge  Nepal’s  support  in  the  successful 
execution  of  his  duties.  I  would  also  like  to  place  on 
record  our  appreciation  of  the  leadership  of  Her 
Excellency Sheikha Haya Rashed Al-Khalifa during the 
sixty-first 
its 
appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, 
for his stewardship of the United Nations and wishes him 
a very successful tenure. 

The United Nations today remains the only truly 
global  Organization  to  seek  solutions  to  the  world’s 
most  pressing  issues.  The  increasing  importance  of 
multilateralism  has  made 
the  United  Nations 
indispensable.  The  principles  and  purposes  enshrined 
in the United Nations Charter should continue to guide 
us to address all the issues that confront us. Nepal has 
adopted  these  purposes  and  principles  as  the  basic 
tenets of its foreign policy. 

The General Assembly has before it an important 
agenda  that  seeks  to  deal  with  the  world’s  most 
pressing  issues  and  problems.  I  fully  agree  with  the 
priorities  that  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
has outlined for this session. 

The pledge of a road map for development in the 
form  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
remains to be fully achieved. As we approach the half-
way  point,  this  Assembly  should  review  the  progress 
made to devise ways and means for achieving the full 
and  effective  implementation  of  the  commitments 
made  in  the  Millennium  Declaration.  The  follow-up 
conference on Financing for Development to be held in 
A/62/PV.13
it  without 
to 
While  sea 
We 
commend 
the 
compromising 
Secretary-General 
Doha  in  2008  should  be  used  as  an  opportunity  to 
effectively  meet 
the  financing  gap  and  explore 
innovative ways of financing for development. 

for 
convening  a  high-level  meeting  on  climate  change.  I 
hope  that  the  momentum  generated  will  pave  the  way 
for an agreement on climate change with long-term and 
comprehensive  global  commitments  beyond  2012, 
starting the process in Bali later this year. 

Climate  change  is  linked  to  human  security, 
social  and  economic  development  and  environmental 
protection. Scientific studies point out that a solution to 
climate change is within human reach and that we can 
achieve 
economic 
development  and  human  progress,  if  we  start  to  act 
now. 

Climate  change  demands  a  coordinated  and 
comprehensive  global  response.  As  enshrined  in  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change,  the  principle  of  common  but  differentiated 
responsibilities  should  be  the  basis  for  addressing  the 
challenges  of  climate  change.  Mandatory  targets  for 
emissions reduction are necessary in order to stabilize 
the greenhouse gas concentration in the atmosphere at 
safe  levels.  Industrialized  countries  should  assume 
leadership and demonstrate the necessary political will 
in  adopting 
reduce 
emissions. 

the  Himalayan 
glaciers  are  retreating,  and  surrounding  areas  are 
witnessing an increasing intensity of disasters induced 
by  climate-change,  such  as  glacial  lake  outbursts, 
extreme 
floods  and  massive 
landslides. 
The President returned to the Chair. 


It  is  ironic  that  the  world’s  most  vulnerable 
countries,  such  as  least  developed  and  small  island 
countries,  get  the  worst  affects  of  climate  change 
although they are the least responsible for the same. In 
the  new  compact  in  climate  change,  there  should  be 
special  provisions  for  addressing  the  mitigation  and 
adaptation  needs  of  the  least  developed  countries 
(LDCs)  and  small  island  nations  to  address  their 
special vulnerabilities. 

Nepal  stands  firm  against  any  form  of  terrorism. 
We  have  been  implementing  the  provisions  of  various 
United Nations Security Council resolutions to combat 
long-term  commitments 
levels  are  rising, 
rainfalls, 
recurring 
07-52299 

35 
study  adopted 
last  year  can 
the  Organization  more 
A/62/PV.13 

international terrorism. Effective implementation of the 
provisions  of  the  United  Nations  global  counter-
terrorism 
foster 
international cooperation against terrorism. We call for 
an early conclusion of a comprehensive convention on 
international  terrorism. There  should  be  a  coordinated 
global  response,  including  through  the  mechanism  at 
the  United  Nations,  to  address  the  underlying  social, 
economic  and  political  causes  of  the  existence  and 
spread of global terrorism. 

Reform  of  the  United  Nations  has  constantly 
engaged  us. We  need  to  reflect  contemporary  realities 
for  making 
effective, 
representative, responsive and capable of handling the 
increasingly  complex  global  problems.  The  General 
Assembly  needs  to  be  further  strengthened  as  a  true 
decision-making body. We should develop an effective 
mechanism to implement its decisions. 

The reform of the United Nations should include 
reform  of  its  Security  Council.  We  support  extending 
membership  in  both  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories  to  reflect  the  realities  of  the  day.  We  feel 
that 
India,  Brazil,  Germany  and  Japan  deserve 
permanent  places  in  the  expanded  Council,  while 
Africa  should  also  be  fairly  represented.  We  also 
favour a tangible improvement in the working methods 
of the Council, and we welcome the agreement that the 
General  Assembly  should  start  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on 
issue  as  soon  as 
possible. 

the 
peacekeeping-related  departments  of 
the  United 
Nations  Secretariat,  including  the  creation  of  a  new 
Department of Field Support. In view of the increasing 
complexity  and  size  of  the  peacekeeping  operations, 
we  hope 
further  enhance 
effectiveness  of  peacekeeping  operations  and  ensure 
the safety and security of peacekeeping personnel. 

Nepal  has  continuously  participated  in  the  in 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  for  last  five 
decades. To this date, Nepal has sent more than 60,000 
troops to over 30 United Nations missions. At present, 
Nepal  is  the  fourth  largest  contributor  of  troops  and 
police  personnel 
to  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
missions.  Nepalese  Blue  Helmets  have  been 
commended  for  performing  extremely  well  in  all 
circumstances.  Many  have  sacrificed  their  invaluable 
lives to the cause of peace worldwide. 
these  changes  will 
Nepal  welcomes 
restructuring  of 
important 
this 
the 
that 
and 
Nepal 
stands 
for  general 

Peacekeeping  is  the  soul  of  the  United  Nations, 
its largest function and the most successful invention in 
the realm of international relations. This enterprise can 
succeed  only  with  meaningful  participation  of  troop-
contributing  countries  in  decision-making  processes 
and their increasing role in senior positions. 

complete 
and 
disarmament  of  all  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
including  biological,  chemical  and  nuclear  weapons 
under  effective  international  control  in  a  time-bound 
manner. 
We  are  concerned  by  the  lack  of  progress  in 

major  multilateral  negotiations 
in  disarmament, 
including  in  nuclear  disarmament,  and  in  control  of 
illegal  proliferation  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons. 
We  call  upon  Member  States,  especially  the  nuclear 
weapon States, to step up measures for disarmament to 
release  much-needed  dividends  for  development.  We 
hope 
the  newly  established  office  of  High 
Representative  for  Disarmament  Affairs  will  infuse 
dynamism into the process. 
We  look  forward  to  the  inauguration  of  the 

for  Peace  and 
United  Nations  Regional  Centre 
in 
Disarmament  for  Asia  and 
Kathmandu, 
in  accordance  with  resolution  61/94, 
adopted by the Assembly last year for relocation of this 
centre.  The  Government  of  Nepal  and  the  United 
Nations  Secretariat  have  already  signed  the  host 
country 
of 
understanding  to  this  effect.  Through  this  Centre, 
Nepal  is  committed  to  revitalizing  the  process  of 
regional  disarmament, 
the  Kathmandu 
process. 

The ideals of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) 
remain as valid today as they were when the Movement 
was  founded.  The  principled  position  of  the  NAM 
countries  should  guide  the Assembly’s  deliberations.  I 
wish to reiterate Nepal’s commitment to the principles 
of 
the 
principles of non-interference in internal affairs and the 
peaceful coexistence of States. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  has  become  highly 
relevant  in  advancing  the  interests  of  the  developing 
countries in the United Nations. The Assembly should 
continue  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  developing 
countries. We also need to advance meaningful South-
South  cooperation  to  complement  global  partnership 
and North-South cooperation. 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement, 
the  memorandum 
the  Pacific  soon 
agreement 
including 
including 
36 

07-52299 
like 
I  would 
including 
countries, 
the  attention  of 



We  call  for  concerted  efforts  to  address  the 
special  needs  and  difficulties  of  the  LDCs  and  the 
landlocked  developing 
the 
negative  impacts  and  marginalization  of  globalization. 
We  urge  the  developed  countries  to  meet  the  targeted 
official  development  assistance  to  the  LDCs,  give 
products  of 
the  LDCs  duty-free,  quota-free  and 
unhindered  market  access  and  extend  debt  relief 
measures 
to  cover  all  LDCs.  We  should  ensure 
effective implementation of the Brussels Programme of 
Action  for  LDCs  for  the  rest  of  decade,  based  on  the 
mid-term review held last year. 

the 
to  draw 
development  partners  to  addressing  the  special  needs 
of  the  LDCs  emerging  from  conflict  and  the  need  to 
support  them  financially  and  technically,  to  help  them 
achieve sustained peace and development and prevent a 
relapse into the conflict situation. 

The landlocked developing countries face special 
difficulties  in  the  transit  and  transport  of  goods  and 
services  to  and  from  the  sea.  The Almaty  Programme 
should  be  sincerely 
implemented  for  meaningful 
cooperation in transit, transport and trade facilitation in 
the  landlocked  developing  countries.  The  mid-term 
review process of the Programme, to be held in 2008, 
should  focus  on  fulfilling  gaps  in  implementation  of 
the agreed commitments. 

We  must  not  further  delay  the  World  Trade 
Organization trade negotiations for advancing the Doha 
Development  Agenda.  Those  negotiations  should  find 
ways  to  further  protect  the  interests  of  the  least 
developed and landlocked countries to make them able 
to  compete  in  global  markets.  In  particular,  the 
international  community must meet the  resources gap, 
operationalize  aid  for  trade  initiatives,  strengthen 
trading capacities and support trade adjustment costs in 
the LDCs and the landlocked developing countries.  

Nepal welcomes the proposal for United Nations 
system-wide  coherence  on  development,  environment 
and  humanitarian 
should 
strengthen the national and regional focus and country 
ownership of development programmes. 
We  support  effective  gender  architecture  in  the 

United  Nations  and  an  even  stronger  regional  and 
country  presence  of  the  United  Nations  on  gender 
issues.  Nepal  accords  high  priority  to  promotion  of 
women’s  right,  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment 
of  women.  A  parliamentary  declaration  adopted  on  
issues.  This  process 
A/62/PV.13
to 
in 
the 
to 
Nepal 
conflicts 
is  a  step 
is  committed 
the  world’s  major 
30  May  2006  has  provided  for  equal  property  and 
citizenship rights to women and for their representation 
in at least one third of the elected bodies, including in 
the Parliament. 

the  protection  and 
promotion  of  the  rights  of  children,  including  those 
affected by conflict. The peace agreement provides for 
immediate  release  of  children  if  found  recruited  as 
combatants  and  their  rehabilitation  and  integration 
back into their families. The Government is committed 
to  implementing  recommendations  of  the  Security 
Council  Working  Group  on  Children  and  Armed 
Conflict in Nepal. 
The  United  Nations  has  been  rather  slow  to 

respond 
and 
humanitarian crises, in places ranging from the Middle 
East to Darfur and Somalia. Although the agreement on 
the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in 
there  were  missed 
Darfur 
forward, 
opportunities 
long-standing 
addressing 
humanitarian crisis in that region. 

The  situations  in  Afghanistan  and  Iraq  demand 
more  proactive  United  Nations  engagement.  The 
Organization  should  continue  to  play  a  constructive 
role in helping those countries to achieve stabilization, 
national unity and reconciliation. 
We  support  the  democratic  aspirations  of  people 

all  over  the  world.  We  hope  that  a  solution  to 
Myanmar’s  internal  situation  will  be  found  by  the 
people  of  that  country  through  dialogue  and  the 
democratic process. 
Since 1990, Nepal has been sheltering more than 

100,000 
from  Bhutan  on  humanitarian 
grounds.  There  is  a  stalemate  in  this  long-standing 
crisis,  mainly  because  of  Bhutan’s  reluctance 
to 
implement the agreements already reached or to engage 
in  negotiations  with  a  view  to  finding  some  other 
acceptable  solution.  That  procrastination  has  caused 
refugees  to  run  out  of  patience.  The  true  solution  to 
this problem lies in giving refugees the opportunity to 
be  able  to  return  to  Bhutan  and  to  participate  in  the 
country’s  political  process  in  a  fully  democratic  way, 
taking  into  account  the  people’s  cultural  diversity  and 
human  rights.  However,  we  are  positively  considering 
the offers made by some countries to give refugees the 
voluntary  option  of  third-country  resettlement,  should 
they so choose it, as part of a provisional solution. That 
should not absolve Bhutan of its responsibility towards 
refugees 
07-52299 

37 
thus 
sincerely 
honouring 
is  engaged 
in  dialogue  with 
A/62/PV.13 

its  exiled  citizens,  which  is  a  problem  between  the 
refugees  and  the  Bhutanese  regime.  Nepal  appreciates 
the continued humanitarian assistance extended by the 
international  community,  the  Office  of  the  United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  and  other 
agencies for the care of refugees. 

Nepal  is  in  the  process  of  leaving  behind  its 
decade-long  internal  conflict  though  a  unique  and 
internally  driven  peace  process.  We  are  committed  to 
bringing  that  process  to  a  successful  conclusion.  The 
Government 
the 
Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) to ensure that the 
elections  to  the  Constituent  Assembly  are  held  on 
22  November, 
and 
implementing  the  commitments  set  out  in  the  peace 
agreements.  

It  was  through  dialogue  that  the  Government  of 
Nepal  recently  concluded  agreements  with  the  leaders 
of the Madhesi Janajati movement, enabling them to a 
have  stronger  voice  in  the  political  arena  and  broader 
representation in the Constituent Assembly. 

Despite  the  challenges  associated  with  the  peace 
process,  the  Government  is  determined  to  hold  the 
elections  to  the  Constituent  Assembly  on  time.  With 
the 
logistical 
competence, 
the  Election  Commission  has  made 
preparations for holding the elections as scheduled and 
in a free and fair manner. I would like to invite friendly 
countries and organizations to send observers to Nepal 
during the elections. 
The  people  of  Nepal  have  expressed  their  desire 

for 
socio-economic 
a 
transformation. They  have  spoken  out  in  favour  of  an 
inclusive, democratic and participatory restructuring of 
the  State.  I  have  every  confidence  that  the  peace 
process will reap numerous dividends for the Nepalese 
people  through  the  creation  of  a  new  Nepal.  In  that 
process,  we  expect  generous  assistance  from  our 
development  partners,  including  assistance  in  meeting 
Nepal’s reconstruction and development needs. 

On  behalf  of  the  people  and  the  Government  of 
Nepal,  I  wish  to  express  sincere  gratitude  to  the 
international  community  for  its  strong  support  and 
solidarity  during  our  struggle  for  democracy  and  our 
ongoing peace process. 

Last  year,  we  invited  the  United  Nations  to 
facilitate  the  peace  process  through  arms  monitoring 
technical, 
necessary 
peaceful 
legal 
and 
political 
and 
rights, 
in  assisting 
in  keeping  with 
from  politicization, 
and  through  technical  support  for  the  Constituent 
Assembly elections. We express our appreciation to the 
Secretary-General  for  his  personal  attention  and 
interest 
the  peace  process.  We  also 
commend  the  role  played  by  the  United  Nations 
Mission in Nepal in that process. 

The  Government  is  steadfast  in  protecting  and 
promoting  human 
its 
international  commitments.  We  welcome  the  adoption 
by the Human Rights Council of the universal periodic 
review  of  all  Member  States.  That  exercise  should  be 
free 
selectivity  and  double 
standards. 

There has been a remarkable improvement in the 
protection  of  human  rights  in  Nepal  since  the  start  of 
the  peace  process.  The  Government  has  extended  full 
cooperation  to  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner 
for Human Rights in Nepal. The recent appointment of 
members of the National Human Rights Commission of 
Nepal  is  expected  to  further  enhance  our  national 
capability to protect and promote human rights. 

The Government is determined to bring an end to 
the  environment  of  impunity  that  was  present  during 
the armed conflict. We hope that the establishment of a 
truth  and  reconciliation  commission,  as  stipulated  in 
the  peace  agreement,  will  also  help  us  to  put  our  past 
behind  us  and  to  prevent  a  recurrence  of  such  grave 
human rights violations.  

As a nation that has a diverse ethnic composition 
and that is home to various indigenous peoples, Nepal 
welcomes 
the  United  Nations 
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples by the 
General  Assembly 
the 
Declaration  will  serve  as  a  useful  reference  for 
indigenous issues throughout the world. 

In conclusion, the General Assembly has before it 
an  important  opportunity  to  address  the  most  pressing 
issues  of  our  times  —  issues  that  are  of  lasting 
significance.  We  should  strive  to  advance  agreements 
to  address  climate  change, 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  seek  new  resources 
for  development  financing,  break  the  impasse  in  the 
negotiations on trade and disarmament and reform the 
Security  Council.  We  should  also  seek  solutions  to 
unresolved conflicts and humanitarian crises. 

Today,  the  world’s  major  problems  demand  the 
leadership of the United Nations. We should rise to the 
this  year.  We  hope 
the  adoption  of 
follow  up  on 
that 
38 

07-52299 
like  at 
the  outset 


occasion  and  demonstrate  our ability to work together 
to solve urgent problems that confront us. Solutions to 
most global problems are within our reach if we act in 
unison,  guided  by  our  collective  wisdom  and  reason. 
Together,  we  can  make  progress  in  all  these  areas.  I 
pledge Nepal’s constructive participation in arriving at 
important  decisions  on  all  these  issues  here  at  the 
United Nations. 
The  President: Before  proceeding  further,  I 

would  like  to  remind  members  that,  as  announced  in 
today’s Journal, the informal meeting of the plenary to 
observe  the  first  International  Day  of  Non-Violence 
will be held tomorrow, 2 October, from 9.30 to 10 a.m. 
in this Hall. All are invited to attend. 

I  now  call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mohamed 
Benaissa, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation 
of Morocco. 
Mr.  Benaissa  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 

to  express  heartfelt 
should 
congratulations  to  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  present 
session,  as  well  as  my  best  wishes  for  every  success 
during your tenure. I also wish to thank Her Excellency 
Sheikha  Haya  Rashed Al-Khalifa  for  her  constructive 
and  tireless  efforts  during  her  remarkable  and  fruitful 
presidency at the previous session, which was a source 
of  pride  for  her  country,  Bahrain,  and  for 
the 
international community.  

As  this  is  the  first  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  under  our  newly  appointed  Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  I  should  like  to  reaffirm, 
on  behalf  of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  our  full 
confidence  in  and  support  for  his  tireless  efforts  and 
good  offices  aimed  at  enabling  the  United  Nations  to 
attain its lofty objectives and to fulfil the aspirations of 
all nations. It is our hope that, at the dawn of the third 
millennium, a more just and effective world system can 
emerge,  enabling  nations  to  achieve  collective  peace 
and sustainable development.  

Our  session  takes  place  at  the  eve  of  the 
celebration  by  the  United  Nations  of  the  sixtieth 
anniversary  of  two  important  historical  events  that 
have  marked  its  activities,  forged  its  identity  and 
proved its added value and its outstanding contribution 
to  strengthening  international  cooperation,  protecting 
human  dignity  and  consolidating  world  peace  and 
security.  These  events  are  the  General  Assembly’s 
adoption  in  1948  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
A/62/PV.13
the 
implement 
the  provisions  of 
Human  Rights  and  the  deployment  of  the  first  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operation  in  that  same  year.  In 
this context, it is appropriate to pause and take stock of 
what  has  been  done  in  these  two  vital  areas,  and  to 
outline  the  work  objectives  of  our  Organization  in 
order to develop and optimize our common assets in a 
complex international melieu.  

The Universal Declaration  of Human Rights laid 
the  foundations  of  international  consensus  regarding 
universal  values  and  subsequently  contributed 
to 
international efforts for the codification, protection and 
respect of basic cultural, social, economic and political 
rights.  To  this  end,  the  international  community  is 
invited,  through  the  United  Nations,  to  take  concrete 
measures 
this 
Declaration  and  give  effect  to  confirm  concretely  its 
political and legal values.  

In that connection, His Majesty King Mohammed 
VI stated in  a royal address on 9  December 1999 that 
among  the  appropriate  means  of  ensuring  respect  for 
human  rights  was  the  commitment  to  the  relevant 
international  covenants  and 
setting  up  of 
mechanisms  for  respecting  and  safeguarding  these 
rights.  He  added  that  those  legal  and  institutional 
instruments  were,  however,  insufficient  if  respect  for 
human  rights  was  not  part  of  standard  conduct  at  all 
levels, or if, in other words, it did not become a shared 
culture. 

The  Kingdom  of  Morocco  has  embarked,  under 
His  Majesty’s  enlightened  leadership,  on  a  thorough 
and  ambitious  process  of  political  openness,  human 
development and social modernization. In parallel, it is 
willing  to  participate  in  constructive  international 
efforts  aimed  at  establishing  world  consensus  on 
human  rights  concepts,  so 
longer 
constitute a source of conflict and confrontation but are 
rather a motive for cooperation and consultation. Those 
concepts  should  not  remain  mere  universal  values  but 
should  become  a  reality,  taking  into  consideration  the 
diversity and indivisibility of human rights.  

In this regard, the Kingdom of Morocco proposed 
last March, in the Human Rights Council, the adoption 
of a universal declaration on training and education in 
the culture of human rights, whose objective would be 
to consolidate and reinforce the values,  principles and 
concepts  of  human  rights  by  all  international  social 
components, so that they become a daily concern and a 
responsible practice. Morocco hopes that this proposal 
to 
that 
they  no 
07-52299 

39 
of 
engaged 
transitional 
in 
justice, 
reconstruction  or 
the  United  Nations,  embodying 
A/62/PV.13 

will be supported by all States, so that it may constitute 
a valuable contribution to the celebration of the sixtieth 
anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
rights.  
Peacekeeping operations are a key element of the 

activities  of 
the 
collective security principle that is one of the pillars of 
the United Nations Charter. Thanks to this mechanism, 
the  United  Nations  has  displayed  a  great  capacity  to 
adapt  to  change  and  has  been  able  to  participate  in  a 
direct  and  effective  manner  in  the  reinforcement  of 
international peace.  

The  importance  of  peacekeeping  operations  has 
increased with the evolution of the traditional concept 
and  the  accumulation  of  tasks,  which  are  no  longer 
limited  to  peacekeeping  per  se. These  tasks  have  also 
broadened  in  scope  to  encompass  assistance  to  States 
the 
undergoing 
implementation 
the 
consolidation of human rights, or good governance. 

In this respect, the Kingdom of Morocco has been 
a  pioneer  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  efforts, 
sending since 1960 more than 50,000 Blue Helmets to 
13  peacekeeping  operations  across  four  continents. 
Thanks  to  their  sacrifice  and  determination  to  uphold 
the principles of the United Nations, the Royal Armed 
Forces,  along  with  the  other  peacekeeping  troops, 
helped  the  United  Nations  to  win  the  Nobel  Peace 
prize.  

In  view  of  its  cumulative  experience  and  field 
expertise,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  believes  that  it  is 
high  time  to  examine  ways  and  means  of  reinforcing 
legal  basis  and  organizational  framework  of 
the 
peacekeeping 
into 
consideration  the  changes  undergone  by  this  United 
Nations  mechanism,  as  well  as 
for 
improvement  of  the  deployment  conditions  and  work 
arrangements of its personnel.  
Accordingly,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  proposes 

the  organization  next  year  of  a  high-level  meeting  to 
examine  this  issue  in  all  its  aspects,  with  a  view  to 
adopting recommendations for the development of new 
norms  and  work  arrangements  that  will  ensure  the 
success of peacekeeping operations.  
its  efforts,  Africa  still  faces  major 

security  challenges  and  significant  difficulties 
in 
improving  the  health  and  living  conditions  of  its 
operations,  while 
the  need 
Despite 
taking 
in 
of 
and 
Besides 
participating 
citizens. Given its deep-rooted African identity and its 
profound  historical,  human  and  cultural  ties  with 
African  States,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  has,  as 
directed  by  His  Majesty  the  King,  made  its  relations 
with  the  continent  one  of  the  priorities  of  its  foreign 
policy.  These  relations  are  based  on  the  principles  of 
mutual  respect,  active  solidarity,  fruitful  cooperation 
and constructive involvement in the regional initiatives 
and international strategies related to the continent. 

development 
programmes  aimed  at  effectively  revitalizing  South-
South cooperation and undertaking numerous solidarity 
activities  with  African  States  victims  of  natural 
disasters,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  hosted  the  first 
African  Conference  on  Human  Development,  held  in 
April  2007  in  Rabat  in  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations  Development  Programme.  The  Conference 
created  an  opportunity  to  establish  a  complementary 
strategy  to  meet  the  particular  needs  of  Africa  in  the 
context  of  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. 

In  this  regard,  the  Rabat  Declaration  on  human 
development 
the 
and 
recommendations  of 
the  Conference,  constitute  a 
framework of reference for the holding  next year of  a 
high-level  meeting  on  Africa  and  development,  as 
proposed by Morocco. Likewise, the conclusions of the 
Rabat Conference could contribute significantly to the 
work  of  the  World  Millennium  Development  Goals 
summit to be held next year in response to a proposal 
made by the United Kingdom Prime Minister.  

Morocco  expresses  the  hope  that  the  Secretary-
General’s next report on the causes of conflicts and the 
promotion  of  peace  and  sustainable  development  in 
Africa  will  contain  practical  recommendations  and  a 
clear  political  vision  aimed  at  the  reinforcement  of 
stability,  peace  and  security  on  the African  continent, 
the  consolidation  of  democracy  and  human  rights, 
respect  for  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of 
African States, and the peaceful settlement of disputes 
in 
good 
neighbourliness. 

The  Moroccan  Sahara  issue,  one  of  the  longest 
regional  disputes  in  Africa,  is  at  a  historical  turning 
point  as  a  result  of  the  launching  of  the  Manhassett 
negotiations  between  the  parties  to  the  dispute,  held 
under  United  Nations  auspices.  This  turning  point 
results  from  the  dynamic  created  by  the  Moroccan 
accordance  with 
principle 
action 
plan 
the 
of 
40 

07-52299 
resolution  1754 


autonomy  plan  for  Moroccan  Shara,  a  plan  which  has 
opened  promising  perspectives  for  overcoming  the 
stalemate on this issue at the United Nations. It offers 
the  fundamental  elements  necessary  for  a  realistic, 
applicable,  definitive  and  final  political  solution  to  a 
regional dispute that has hindered the development of a 
strong  and  homogeneous  Maghreb  that  interacts  with 
its geopolitical and geostrategic environment. 

The Moroccan autonomy plan, which since 2004 
has answered the calls by the Security Council for the 
need  to  find  a  political  solution  to  that  dispute,  is  in 
conformity  with  the  provisions  of  international  law.  It 
is the result of wide-ranging international consultations 
and in-depth deliberations involving inhabitants of the 
region through the Royal Advisory Council for Saharan 
Affairs. 
In the light of that positive dynamic, the Security 

Council  adopted 
(2007),  which 
represented a departure from former approaches in the 
treatment  of  the  issue,  since  it  called  for  negotiations 
while  taking  into  account  recent  developments,  in 
particular  the  Moroccan  plan  and  the  efforts  of  the 
Kingdom which the Security Council has recognized as 
serious and credible. 

The  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  which  took  part  in 
those negotiations in good faith and with an open and 
constructive  attitude,  reiterates  its  commitment  to 
advance the process in order to reach a final solution to 
the  dispute  within  the  framework  of  its  national 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  as  well  as  on  the 
basis of the autonomy plan, as the ultimate objective of 
the  negotiation  process  and  as  an  open,  flexible  and 
indivisible  offer.  The  solution  to  this  regional  dispute 
in  the  light  of  the  Moroccan  plan  would  lead  to  the 
creation  of  a  stable  regional  security  order,  based  on 
cooperation  between  the  States  of  the  region,  which 
would deal with the serious security challenges of the 
region,  including  terrorism,  human  trafficking  and 
other  clandestine  activities.  The 
impact  of  such 
activities  will  go  beyond  the  region  and  will  affect 
European,  Mediterranean  and  West  African  countries 
as well. 

The  difficult  circumstances  in  the  Middle  East 
require strengthened coordinated efforts in order to put 
an end to a lengthy and bitter conflict that has caused 
great  suffering  for  the  people  of  the  region  for  more 
than half a century. 
A/62/PV.13
in 
the  Middle  East  according 

The Kingdom of Morocco, which follows closely 
all  those  developments,  affirms  once  again  from  this 
rostrum  the  pressing  need  to  reactivate  the  peace 
process 
to  a 
comprehensive  approach  and  on 
the  basis  of 
agreements  signed  by  the  parties,  the  Road  Map  and 
the Arab Peace Initiative. That is a strategic choice and 
reflects the sincere will of the Arab States to search for 
a just and lasting peace in the Middle East — a peace 
that  guarantees  the  national  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people, including the right to establish an independent 
State,  with  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  as  its  capital,  and 
withdrawal from occupied Arab territories in Syria and 
Lebanon,  in  order  to  allow  the  States  and  peoples  of 
the region to live in peace and security. 
Morocco  is  optimistic  about  the  positive  results 

that  will  ensure  from  the  international  conference  on 
Middle  East  peace  to  be  held  in  the  United  States 
before the end of this year. Moreover, the Kingdom of 
Morocco,  which  chairs  the Al-Quds  Committee  in  the 
person  of  His  Majesty  King  Mohammed  VI,  insists 
once more on the need to respect the special status of 
Jerusalem  and  to  preserve  its  cultural  and  spiritual 
identity. In that respect, His Majesty King Mohammed 
VI has endeavoured to draw the attention of the United 
Nations  and  influential  actors  to  the  illegal,  invalid 
archaeological 
the  Al-Aqsa 
Mosque and to obtain their good offices so as to put an 
end to them. 

The  Kingdom  of  Morocco  follows  with  great 
concern  the  difficult  situation  in  the  brotherly  country 
of Iraq and calls upon the various sects and factions to 
allow  the  virtues  of  wisdom  and  clear-sightedness  to 
serious  dialogue  and  national 
prevail, 
reconciliation  with 
the 
sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq and in order 
to  put  an  end  to  the  cycle  of  violence  threatening  its 
stability, security and its unity. 

Finally,  I  wish  to  recall  that  the  world  is 
undergoing  considerable  changes  and  is  confronted 
with  numerous  serious  and  global  challenges,  such  as 
climate change, which is the main topic of this annual 
session.  All  these  challenges  call  for  multilateral 
institutions 
to  establish  effective 
multilateral cooperation and coordination among States 
to  promote  coherence  and  synergy  among  the  various 
national  and  regional  initiatives.  Hence  the  crucial 
importance of a stronger United Nations that enjoys the 
confidence  and  commitment  of  its  Member  States  and 
the  aim  of  preserving 
excavations 
around 
through 
that  are  able 
07-52299 

41 
that, 
The  President:  I  shall  now  call  on 
A/62/PV.13 

their  support  in  order  to  make  a  success  of  its  reform 
programme. The Organization also needs to strengthen 
its credibility in order to harmonize its agenda with our 
crucial  priorities  and  with  the  need  to  ensure  a  better 
future  for  humanity  within  the  framework  of  more 
balanced,  interdependent  and  tolerant  international 
relations. 
those 

representatives  who  wish  to  speak  in  exercise  of  the 
right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  members 
in 
accordance  with  General  Assembly  decision  34/401, 
statements in exercise of the right of reply are limited 
to  10  minutes  for  the  first  intervention  and  to  five 
minutes  for  the  second  intervention  and  should  be 
made by delegations from their seats. 
Mr.  Salsabili  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I  have 

heard  again  a  number  of  absurd  distortions  and 
baseless  allegations  against  my  country  by 
the 
representative  of  the  Zionist  regime,  a  regime  which 
has  based  its  policies,  practices  and  behaviour  on 
occupation,  State  terrorism,  violence  and  bloodshed.  I 
would like to place on record that my delegation rejects 
those  baseless  allegations  and  distortions  and  also 
stresses that this is yet another preposterous and indeed 
well-worn  practice  by  this  regime  to  distract  the 
international  community’s  attention  from  its  criminal 
policies  and  abhorrent  atrocities  in  Palestine  and 
elsewhere in the region. 

It  is  evident  that  no  amount  of  slander  or 
deception  or  a  smear  campaign  by  the  Zionist  regime 
can  cloud  the  obvious  fact  that  the  regime  poses  the 
sole  and  the  most  real,  serious  and  urgent  threat  that 
the  world  and  the  region  are  facing  today.  It  is 
therefore imperative for the international community to 
counter such a threat decisively. Moreover, that regime 
persists  in  its  systematic  and  intentional  defiance  of 
many  international  laws  and  norms  as  well  as  dozens 
of United Nations resolutions, as is known to all. 

In  that  context  it  suffices  to  refer  briefly  to  the 
abhorrent policies and practices of that regime as far as 
human  rights  and  weapons  of  mass  destruction  are 
concerned. The record of that regime on issues such as 
State terrorism and suppression of people living under 
its  brutal  occupation  is  well  known  and  needs  no 
elaboration. The appalling and notorious record of the 
Zionist regime’s violations of all human rights — first 
and foremost the right to life as the most basic human 
right  —  is  well  documented  by  many  international 
human  rights  bodies  and  organizations,  especially  the 
United  Nations  human  rights  machinery.  The  ill-
intended  and  futile  attempts  of  that  regime  to  raise 
allegations  against  others  regarding  human  rights 
situations is nothing but a ridiculous practice to distract 
the  attention  of  the  international  community  from  its 
shameful human rights record. 

On  the  question  of  the  defiance  of  international 
law,  particular  reference  should  also  be  made  to  its 
concealment  and  unabated  pursuance  of  nuclear 
arsenals  during  the  past  several  decades.  The  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Zionist  regime’s  acknowledgement  of 
the  unlawful  possession  of  nuclear  weapons  in  his 
interview  with  a  German 
television  channel  on 
11  December  2006  revealed  the  real  nature  of  that 
deceptive 
regime’s  clandestine  nuclear  activities, 
which  pose  a  serious  and  continuing 
to 
threat 
international as well as regional peace and security.  

It  is  undisputable  that  nuclear  weapons  in  the 
hands  of  a  regime  marked  with  a  long  catalogue  of 
various crimes, such as State terrorism, aggression and 
occupation,  present  a  real  threat  to  regional  and 
international  peace  and  security,  and  thus  require 
urgent  and  decisive  action  by 
international 
community.  Indeed,  that  regime  should  face  a  united 
front  and  must  be  kept  under  continuous  pressure  to 
relinquish its terrorist acts and its nuclear programme, 
and to place all its nuclear facilities under international 
monitoring.  
Mr.  Botora  (Ethiopia):  The  Foreign  Minister  of 

Eritrea,  in  his  statement  this  afternoon,  once  again 
levelled accusations against Ethiopia about the lack of 
progress in the implementation of the Eritrea-Ethiopia 
Boundary  Commission’s  delimitation  decision  for 
border  demarcation  and  in  the  peace  process.  It  is  no 
surprise  at  all  for  delegations  familiar  with  general 
debates  in  the  past  to  hear  such  baseless  accusations 
from  Eritrea. What  the  Foreign  Minister  said,  in  view 
of the actions taken by Eritrea  for quite some time, is 
nothing  but  an  insult  to  the  intelligence  of  the 
international community.  

the 
demilitarized  zone  known  as  the  Temporary  Security 
Zone — from which Ethiopia had willingly withdrawn 
its  troops  —  displacing  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
Forces  and  violating  the Algiers Agreements  of  2000. 
Not  only  does  Eritrea  continue 
the 
Agreements  and  defy  Security  Council  resolutions, 
Eritrea  moved 
to  violate 
the 
its  armed 
forces 
into 
42 

07-52299 


which  urged  it  to  withdraw  its  forces  and  create  the 
necessary  condition  for  demarcation  to  begin,  but,  on 
the  contrary,  it  has  increased  its  military  presence  in 
the  demilitarized  zone  by  adding  heavy  military 
equipment and military personnel, as confirmed by the 
recent  report  of  the  Secretary-General  to  the  Security 
Council dated 30 April 2007 (S/2007/250).  

As  a  result,  today  there  is  no  demilitarized  zone 
that  can  separate  the  two  armies  and  allow  the  border 
demarcation  process  to  begin.  Instead  of  complying 
with  the  Algiers  Agreements  and  Security  Council 
resolutions, Eritrea has reinforced its military presence 
in the demilitarized zone, thereby making it completely 
non-existent  and  further  strengthening  the  already 
severe 
freedom  of 
movement  and  monitoring  operations  of  the  United 
Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE).  

the 
in  view  of 
flagrant violations of the Algiers Agreements, has sent 
notification to Eritrea reminding it that unless its forces 
are withdrawn completely from the Temporary Security 
Zone,  allowing  UNMEE  to  carry  out  its  monitoring 
mandate,  Ethiopia  has  the  inherent  right  to  invoke  all 
peaceful and legal measures.  

Boundary 
Commission’s delimitation decision without condition. 
Ethiopia  remains  committed  to  the  objectives  and  the 
purpose  of  the  Algiers  Agreements.  Ethiopia  will 
continue to cooperate with all concerned parties with a 
view to bringing about sustainable peace and avoiding 
another crisis.  
My  Government, 
imposed  on 
restrictions 
therefore, 
accepted 
Ethiopia 
has 
the 
the 
A/62/PV.13
to 
than 
in  Somalia,  other 
international  community  and 

What  the  Foreign  Minister  said  with  regard  to 
Ethiopia’s  presence  in  Somalia  was  a  pure  fabrication 
devoid  of  an  iota  of  truth.  It  is  abundantly  obvious  to 
the 
the  General 
Assembly that Ethiopia is in Somalia upon the request 
of  the  legitimate  Transitional  Federal  Government  of 
Somalia  and  its  parliament.  Ethiopia  has  no  separate 
that  of 
agenda 
the 
Intergovernmental  Authority  on  Development, 
the 
African  Union  and  the  Security  Council,  which  is  to 
support  and  assist  the  legitimate  Transitional  Federal 
Government and the federal institutions in their efforts 
to  bring  about  stability  and  sustainable  peace  in  the 
country.  

It is Eritrea that is actively destabilizing Somalia 
by  training,  equipping,  financing  and  politically  and 
international 
diplomatically  supporting  well-known 
terrorists, 
the 
consolidated list of the Security Council. The Security 
Council  Monitoring  Group  on  Somalia,  in  its  recent 
report 
(S/2007/436,  enclosure), 
confirmed  that  Eritrea  is  a  conduit  for  arms  to  the 
terrorists  in  Somalia,  who  aim  to  destabilize  the 
country  and  the  region  as  a  whole.  It  is  therefore  the 
responsibility  of  the  international  community  to  take 
appropriate  action  against  Eritrea 
its 
destabilizing  acts  in  support  of  international  terrorists 
in Somalia and throughout our region.  


The meeting rose at 7.25 p.m. 
the  Council 
appearing 
including 
those 
stop 
to 
on 
to 
07-52299 

43 
