United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

19th plenary meeting 
Friday, 5 October 2007, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

A/62/PV.19
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia)
to 
and 
in  order 
took  shape 
launched  by 
namely,  Pakistan 
appeals 
the  heads  of  State  and 
Government  at  the  conclusion  of  the  2005  World 
Summit that stressed the importance of respect for and 
understanding  of  religious  and  cultural  diversity  and 
the value of dialogue on interreligious cooperation.  
I also wish to take the opportunity to express my 

the  principal  sponsors  of 
deep  appreciation 
resolution 
the 
61/221, 
Philippines, and to the other sponsors, for their tireless 
efforts.  Thanks  to  those  efforts  the  idea  of  convening 
this  important  dialogue  during  the  current  session  of 
the  Assembly 
to  promote 
understanding,  tolerance  and  friendship  among  people 
of different religions, cultures and languages. 

While  all  religions and cultures  share  a  common 
set  of  human  values,  manifestations  of  fanaticism  and 
religious  and  ethnic  conflicts  are  on  the  rise  and 
increasingly  constitute  a  threat  to  sound  relations 
between States. The State of Qatar was among the first 
countries  to  note  in  many  regional  and  international 
forums the importance of drawing attention at all levels 
to  the  need  to  strengthen  relations  among  peoples  of 
different religious and ethnic backgrounds. In fact, the 
State  of  Qatar 
international 
community  proposals  on  how  to  address  religious  and 
cultural clashes among nations. 

In  that  regard,  I  wish  to  recall  one  of  the 
important  proposals  made  by  His  Highness  Sheikh 
Hamad  bin  Khalifa Al-Thani,  the  Emir  of  the  State  of 
Qatar,  during  the  round  table  organized  by  the  United 
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization 
submitted 
the 
to 






In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Ms.  Ataeva 
(Turkmenistan), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m. 




High-level Dialogue on Interreligious and 
Intercultural Understanding and Cooperation 
for Peace 
Agenda item 49 (continued) 
Culture of peace 

  Reports of the Secretary-General (A/62/97 and 
A/62/337) 

The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 
the first speaker, I would like to remind members that 
there  are  still  34  speakers  remaining  on  the  list.  In 
order  for  us  to  exhaust  the  list  by  this  afternoon  I 
strongly appeal to speakers to make their statements as 
concise as possible. 

I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Nassir 
Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, chairman of the delegation of the 
State of Qatar. 
Mr. Al-Nasser  (Qatar)  (spoke  in Arabic): At  the 

outset, I would like to congratulate the President on his 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its sixty-second session and to wish him success in his 
mission. I also wish to welcome the convening of this 
important dialogue as it represents a reactivation of the 
purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the 
United  Nations  and  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights. The  dialogue  is  also  a  response  to  the 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-53011 (E) 
*0753011* 
interreligious 
A/62/PV.19 

at the margins of the Millennium Summit in September 
2000.  Those  proposals  addressed  ways  to  achieve  the 
goal of strengthening relations among human groups at 
three  levels.  The  first  level  consists  of  a  purely 
scientific  mechanism  that  includes  experts  in  history, 
politics  and  sociology  and  aims  to  expose  the  root 
causes  of  the  conflict  between  peoples  and  cultures. 
The  second  level  targets  opinion  leaders  in  various 
fields of the media with a view to discovering the best 
ways to shed light on the impact of misconceptions and 
bad  images  that  might  be  conveyed  by  media  outlets 
about different cultural groups. The third level includes 
political leaders and government leaders who belong to 
different  cultural  groups,  as  they  would  be  the  most 
capable of uprooting tensions and reducing chances of 
clash. 

In  the  context  of  promoting  dialogue  among 
Islam, Christianity and Judaism, the State of Qatar has 
not confined its role to launching initiatives; it has also 
begun  transforming  its  initiatives  and  appeals  on 
promoting 
and  mutual 
understanding  into  action.  The  State  of  Qatar  firmly 
believes  in  the  significance  of  giving  the  utmost 
importance  to  the  principle  of  interreligious  dialogue 
among  the  three  divine  religions  in  an  effort  to  find 
solid  ground 
to  build  a  world  of  peace  and 
understanding. 
That  deep  belief  has  been  the  driving  force  that 

pushed the wise leadership of the State of Qatar, in the 
person  of  His  Highness  Sheikh  Hamad  bin  Khalifa 
Al-Thani,  to  host  in  the  city  of  Doha  a  series  of 
international  interreligious  conferences  in  what  has 
become  an  annual  event  and  which  we  expect  will 
strengthen  dialogue  and  communication.  That  series 
began  with  the  first  Conference  on  Interreligious 
Dialogue,  which  was  held  in  Doha  in April  2003;  the 
latest  is  the  fifth  Conference,  which  was  held  in  May 
2007.  This  series  of  meetings  has  resulted  in  an 
important 
the  Doha 
International Centre for Interreligious Dialogue, which, 
in turn, set up an international advisory board to guide 
the  work  of  the  Centre  in  order  to  bring  the  three 
divine religions closer together. 
The  State  of  Qatar  believes  that  interreligious 

dialogue  will  have  a  positive  impact  on  the  dialogue 
among  peoples  and  civilizations.  That  is  the  reason 
why  our  country  has  responded  positively  to  the 
initiative of the former Secretary-General of the United 
Nations,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kofi Annan,  to  establish 
established 
initiative 
that 
dialogue 

the  Alliance  of  Civilizations.  The  State  of  Qatar 
contributed to the work of the High-level Group on the 
Alliance,  set  up  by  Mr.  Annan  in  2005,  through  the 
important  participation  of  Her  Highness  Sheikha 
Mozah  bint  Nasser  al-Missned,  the  wife  of  our  Emir. 
The Group included a host of eminent leaders from the 
five regional groups and was tasked with developing a 
set  of  initiatives  in  the  areas  of  education,  youth  and 
media in order to achieve the lofty goal of the Alliance: 
to  bring  peoples  and  cultures  closer  together  to  build 
peace and stability in a world weary of the scourge of 
war and religious and ideological conflict.  

The  State  of  Qatar  will  continue  its  support  for 
national,  regional  and  international  efforts  to  promote 
dialogue  and  understanding  among  religions,  cultures 
and peoples.  

I wish to conclude my statement by recalling the 
words spoken by His Highness the Emir of the State of 
Qatar at the opening session of the third Conference on 
Interreligious  Dialogue,  held  in  2005,  where  His 
Highness stressed that  

“pursuing  dialogue  [would]  win  new  adherents 
who  believe  that  dialogue  is  more  effective  than 
bickering, and that communicating is more useful 
than  keeping  one’s  distance.  Dialogue  has 
become  an  urgent  need  to  get  rid  of  the  burdens 
of  yesterday  and  recognize  the  mistakes  of 
today”. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Mona  Juul,  chairperson  of  the 
delegation of Norway.  
Mrs. Juul (Norway): Today, the issue of religious 

and cultural identity is receiving more attention and is 
more  central  to  global  relations  than  ever  before. 
Religion  and  culture  define  man  and  woman,  and 
influence  how  we  interact  and  relate  to  one  another. 
Our  right  to  freely  choose  our  religion  or  belief  is 
clearly  stated  in  the  International  Covenant  on  Civil 
and  Political  Rights.  Still,  the  coexistence  of  diverse 
religions  and  cultures  at  times  represents  a  challenge 
for societies and nations worldwide.  

Religious  and  cultural  identity  has  always  been 
used to define the different sides in conflict situations. 
In  recent  years  we  have  seen  how  religion  has  been 
used  to  promote  and  deepen  several  conflicts,  both 
violent and non-violent. In most cases, the conflicts are 
2 

07-53011 
leaders 
as  well 
can  make 
diversity.  They 


really power struggles over political issues rather than 
clashes based on religious differences.  

However,  religion  and  culture  can  play  quite  a 
different role. Religious and cultural leaders have stood 
up against wars and the use of violence. Religious and 
cultural 
as  non-governmental 
organizations  can  play  important  roles  in  enhancing 
tolerance  and  promoting  respect  for  religious  and 
cultural 
valuable 
contributions  to  peace  and  justice.  In  more  secular 
societies there is often a tendency to underestimate that 
potential.  It  is  therefore  encouraging  that  national 
Governments  and  the  United  Nations,  through  high-
level  meetings  such  as  this  one,  seek  to  involve  those 
communities  in  order  to  better  understand  and  deal 
with  the  role  of  religion  and  culture  in  national  and 
international  politics.  We  need  international  arenas 
such  as  this  forum,  where  religious,  cultural  and 
political leaders can meet and exchange views.  

Norway believes in the potential of interreligious 
and  intercultural  dialogue.  Through  dialogue  we  can 
enhance mutual understanding and respect for freedom 
of  religion  and  belief  and  for  cultural  diversity. 
Dialogue can have a considerable impact. It represents 
a  possibility  to  seize  the  middle  ground,  and  to 
challenge the dominance of the extremes.  

award, Sheikha Haya Rashed Al-Khalifa said,  
dialogue 

When  receiving  the  Path  to  Peace  Foundation 

among 
civilizations  and  religions  is  perhaps  the  most 
important political instrument that we can use to 
reach  out  across  borders  and  build  bridges  of 
peace and hope.”  
“Promoting 
true 
a 
For  the  same  reason,  Norway  is  initiating,  supporting 
and encouraging dialogue projects in several countries. 
Through those projects, we work closely with religious 
leaders in Norway and internationally.  

Moreover,  we  have  established  a  forum  in  our 
Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  where  religious  leaders, 
academics  and  diplomats  meet  to  discuss  important 
issues related to religion and foreign policy. It is a very 
valuable  arena 
religious 
communities,  the  non-governmental  organizations  and 
the research institutes alike.  

Although  dialogue  is  the  most  important  path  to 
greater  tolerance,  respect  for  diversity  and  common 
understanding,  dialogue  is  rarely  without  obstacles. 
the  Ministry, 
the 
for 
A/62/PV.19
respect 
to  balance 
Dialogue  may  also  challenge  decision-makers  and 
religious leaders. Respect, acceptance and appreciation 
of  cultures,  traditions  and  religions  must  be  mutual  in 
order  for  dialogue  to  take  place. Without  fundamental 
respect  for  differences  and  recognition  of  the  human 
dignity  of  the  other,  there  can  be  no  true  dialogue. 
Basically,  this  means  that  we  must  be  willing  to  both 
talk and listen. We must acknowledge that our dialogue 
partner  has  insights,  convictions,  values  and  abilities 
that could potentially make us reconsider our positions.  

Fundamental  respect  for  diversity  is  indeed  a 
prerequisite  for  dialogue.  And  of  course,  increased 
respect for differences may also be a result of dialogue. 
It is important to underline that respect for cultural and 
religious  diversity  should  not  be  misconstrued  as 
uncritical  acceptance  of  all  facets  of  religion  and 
culture. Both religious and cultural values can be used 
and  misused;  they  can  serve  both  good  and  bad 
purposes. There is often a need to identify elements in 
a dialogue process that could obstruct the promotion of 
tolerance,  understanding  and  universal  respect.  It  is 
necessary 
for  each  other’s 
viewpoints  with  an  open  and  sometimes  critical 
approach to issues relating to culture and religion. This 
is often challenging, and striking the right balance will 
continue to be essential in efforts for dialogue.  

Many  speak  as  if  there  is  an  ongoing  conflict 
between the so-called Muslim and Western worlds. We 
do  not  think  that  there  is  such  a  conflict;  nor  do  we 
think  that  those  are  the  right  names  for  them.  The 
discourse  has  been  polarized  and 
too  often 
dominated  by  extreme  elements.  This  approach, 
however,  prevents  us  from  engaging 
in  fruitful 
discussions,  making  it  more  difficult  to  find  middle 
ground.  Constructive  dialogues  must  necessarily 
involve  people  and  communities 
from  different 
segments of society.  

It is also important to keep in mind that dialogue 
takes  time.  It  takes  time  to  build  the  necessary 
knowledge,  trust  and  confidence  to  change  our  own 
perceptions  and  those  of  the  other  party.  The  time 
perspective is not always compatible with national and 
international  political  demands  for  quick  and  durable 
results. Thus, patience and commitment to dialogue are 
necessary.  

Although  dialogue  as  a  political  response  to 
threats  to  democracy,  peace  and  stability  creates 
dilemmas and challenges  for decision-makers, there is 
is 
07-53011 

3 

and 
cooperation 
among 
the 
(spoke 
(Guatemala) 
individuals  making  up 
A/62/PV.19 

a  definite  need  for  interreligious  and  intercultural 
dialogue 
the  world’s 
communities  if  we  are  to  transform  conflict,  build 
peace  and  ensure  respect  for  basic  human  rights.  It  is 
important that the United Nations, as the representative 
of  the  international  community,  continue  to  promote 
interreligious  and 
intercultural  dialogue  as  an 
important  political  mechanism  for  enhancing  mutual 
understanding  and  respect  for  freedom  of  religion  or 
belief and cultural diversity. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Jorge  Skinner-Klée,  Chairman  of  the 
delegation of Guatemala.  
Mr.  Skinner-Klée
in 

Spanish):  I  would  like  to  congratulate  those  who 
promoted  the  initiative  to  convene  this  High-level 
Dialogue, because the topics that we are discussing are 
undeniably  timely.  No  one  should  forget  the  valuable 
contribution of religions to civilizations and to the very 
identity  of 
those 
civilizations.  This  leads  us  to  recognize  the  need  to 
accept the obvious cultural diversity that characterizes 
the world of today, which is an inexhaustible source of 
collective  and  fertile  enrichment  for  contemporary 
societies.  

Promoting  tolerance  and  dialogue  within  each 
civilization  is  essential  to  generating  respect,  peaceful 
coexistence  and  cooperation  among  individuals  and 
among peoples, thus protecting the diversity of beliefs, 
cultures  and  languages.  All  Members  of  the  United 
Nations and of the human family accept the challenge 
of  fighting  for  peace  and  friendly  relations  between 
States,  which  in  turn  calls  for  promoting  respect  for 
fundamental freedoms, including the freedom of belief, 
the  essential  condition  of  which  is  tolerance.  At  the 
same  time,  tolerance  is  the  premise  of  respect  for  the 
rights of others; without respect, there is no possibility 
of harmony or concord. 

I  am  from  a  multi-ethnic,  multicultural  and 
multilingual country. Within that multicultural context, 
we  enjoy  a  freedom  of  worship  that  makes  our  social 
fabric  multifaceted.  We  have  Christians,  Jews  and 
Muslims  living  together,  alongside  a  very  extensive 
and  varied 
indigenous  community  whose  Mayan 
cosmological  vision  has  been  excluded,  debased  and 
oppressed  for  five  centuries.  It  is  being  reassessed, 
however,  in  the  context  of  contemporary  society, 
allowing  us  to  alleviate  social  tensions  and  inequities, 
improve mutual understanding and prevent racism and 
discrimination.  

In the context of the peace agreements that ended 
a 40-year fratricidal war, we have concluded one such 
agreement  on  the  identity  and  rights  of  indigenous 
peoples. The  agreements  were  achieved  through  years 
of dialogue and mutual understanding. In that respect, 
we also wish to acknowledge the virtue and fortitude of 
women over the centuries, which have allowed cultures 
to  survive  and  have  protected  and  transmitted  the 
goods  and  values  of  tangible  and  intangible  cultural 
heritage,  while  ensuring  the  education  of  successive 
generations. 

Guatemala  does  not  see  tolerance  as  a  means  of 
institutionalizing  inequalities  and  hierarchies,  or  of 
holding  people  back  and  perpetuating  their  exclusion 
and  discrimination,  thereby  trampling  the  intrinsic 
dignity  of  the  individual. We  encourage  tolerance  that 
promotes  genuine  dialogue,  opens  our  minds  to  the 
knowledge  of  others,  and  familiarizes  us  with  the 
values,  customs  and  religion  of  each  culture.  Such  a 
dialogue  is  an  active  learning  experience  and  leads  to 
mutual  understanding.  Such  dialogue 
is  possible 
between  individuals  and  nations  if  it  is  based  on 
equality, and between cultures and religions if based on 
honesty, equity and, most importantly, respect. 

We  firmly  believe  that  ignorance  leads  to  the 
worst  forms  of  intolerance.  In  a  globalized  and 
cosmopolitan  world,  migration,  for  instance  —  be  it 
motivated  by  economic  reasons  or  conflicts  —  has 
clearly  shown  the  need  for  us  to  learn  about  one 
another and to promote tolerance, universal values and 
mutual understanding in order to achieve peaceful and 
fruitful  coexistence,  with  the  equal  participation  of 
men and women. 

We  therefore  pay  tribute  to  this  Organization, 
which  has  provided  the  entire  human  family  with 
instruments  that  allow  us  to  promote  the  universal 
values set down in the provisions of the United Nations 
Charter,  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights, 
and  the  Universal  Declaration  on  Cultural  Diversity. 
The latter even goes so far as to assert that intercultural 
dialogue  is  “the  best  guarantee  of  peace”  and  an 
“imperative  indissociable  from  respect  for  the  dignity 
of the individual”.  

the 
UNESCO Culture of Peace programme and supports all 
initiatives, such as that promoted by Turkey and Spain, 
Guatemala  has  actively  participated 
in 
4 

07-53011 
its  disposal  authoritative 
the  Tripartite  Forum  on 


related  to  the Alliance  of  Civilizations,  as  well  as  the 
activities  of 
Interfaith 
Cooperation  for  Peace.  In  raising  cultural  diversity  to 
the  level  of  shared  heritage  of  humankind,  modern 
multicultural societies have taken a major step towards 
recognizing that this heritage is a living and renewable 
treasure and thus a process that guarantees the survival 
of our species. 

It  is  impossible  in  so  few  minutes  to  discuss 
formulas  that  will  resolve  the  long-standing  problems 
arising from exclusion, prejudice, racism, xenophobia, 
fanaticism  and 
intolerance.  We  are  encouraged, 
however,  by  the  fact  that  the  international  community 
has  at 
instruments 
that 
establish basic standards for human coexistence. 

Now  is  the  time  for  action  to  reduce  ignorance 
about  our  neighbours  and  to  attenuate  social  tensions 
with a view to strengthening international cohesion and 
solidarity. We need to end the clandestine trade behind 
armed  conflict  and  war,  and  truly  combat  poverty, 
hunger,  malnutrition  and 
racism  and 
intolerance  towards  immigrants  and  ethnic,  cultural 
and religious minorities; and prejudice and stereotypes 
based on religion or culture. Those are the real triggers 
of  conflict.  We  must  also  recognize  that  violence  is 
never the appropriate response to such problems.  


Mahatma Gandhi said: 
“I  reject  violence,  because  the  good  that  it 
appears to produce does not last long; in contrast, 
the badness that it produces is long-lasting.” 
ignorance; 
A  few  days  ago  before  this  Assembly,  we  celebrated 
the  anniversary  of  the  birth  of  the  universal  humanist 
Mahatma  Gandhi,  whose  legacy  of  non-violence  is  as 
relevant today as it has ever been. It is therefore fitting 
that we should celebrate the International Day of Non-
Violence. We are fully convinced that 365 days a year 
should  be  devoted  to  eliminating  violence  from  our 
lives  and  from  our  thinking,  since  if  we  are  unable  to 
form societies that engage in dialogue, grow in respect 
for 
achieve 
development,  and  learn  to  live  in  peace,  we  will  lose 
ground to conflict, war and injustice. 
Mr.  Sahel  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  am 

pleased at the outset to congratulate Mr. Kerim on his 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its  sixty-second  session,  and  we  are  hopeful  that  his 
work will be crowned with success. 
cooperate 
diversity, 
cultural 
to 
A/62/PV.19
to 
to 
of 
achieve 
cooperation 
Jorge  Sampaio 
the  Secretary-General 

I  wish  also  to  extend  my  warmest  thanks  to 
Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa,  who  organized 
several  meetings  on  the  topic  of  interreligious  and 
intercultural cooperation and understanding.  

Today’s  High-level  Dialogue  is  being  held  in 
circumstances marked by ongoing ethnic and doctrinal 
intolerance and violence; hence the importance of such 
initiatives as our meeting today to discuss the optimal 
avenues 
greater 
understanding and rapprochement among religions and 
cultures  and 
to  uproot  all  forms  of  hatred  and 
extremism.  

On  this  occasion,  we  highly  appreciate  the 
strenuous  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  to  consolidate 
the foundations of such dialogue. We also express our 
appreciation  for  the  final  report  of  the  High-level 
Group for the Alliance of Civilizations, which includes 
important  recommendations  to  activate  and  concretize 
the dialogue among cultures and religions. 
We  wish  also  to  express  our  gratitude  for  the 

as  High 
appointment  of  Mr. 
Representative  of 
for 
the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations  and  head  of  the  Group  of 
Friends  of  the  Alliance  so  that  he  can  endow  that 
initiative  with  mechanisms 
the 
recommendations  of  the  High-level  Group.  As  a 
member  of  the  Group,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  will 
spare  no  effort  to  contribute  to  the  success  of  its 
mission. The Kingdom of Morocco places the issue of 
dialogue  among  cultures  and  religions  at  the  level  of 
strategic  options.  We  believe  that  there  is  a  pressing 
need 
to  strengthen  openness,  which  will  ensure 
religious  and  cultural  coexistence  and  stability  and 
peace among States. 
Based on this firm conviction and the instructions 

of  His  Majesty  King  Mohammed  VI,  Morocco  has 
launched a number of bold and responsible initiatives. 
We recall here, for example, the first World Conference 
of  Imams  and  Rabbis,  held  in  Brussels  in  2005.  The 
second  such  conference  was  held  in  Seville  in  2006 
under the honorary chairmanship of His Majesty King 
Mohammed  VI  and  King  Juan  Carlos  of  Spain.  It 
focused  on  the  important  role  of  dialogue  among 
religions as an effective means to combat violence and 
marginalization,  and  on  the  main  role  of  men  of 
religion in establishing rapprochement among people. 
In  addition  to  supporting  such  initiatives  and 

attempting  to  foster  serious  dialogue  among  religions 
activate 
07-53011 

5 

lessons 
religious 
in  Khartoum, 
A/62/PV.19 

and  cultures,  Morocco  suggested,  at  the  most  recent 
Arab  summit 
the  drafting  of  an 
international charter that would specify rules requiring 
respect  when  referring  to  the  holy  sites  and  spiritual 
beliefs of all peoples. 

throughout 
Through  his 
Ramadan, His Majesty King Mohammed VI dealt with 
topics directly related to the spreading of tolerance and 
mutual  respect  within  Islam  and  between  Islam  and 
other  religions.  Morocco  is  of  the  view  that  the 
dialogue among religions and cultures is a main pillar 
in  the  relations  among  States  and  should  go  beyond 
circumstantial  requisites  and  should  be  part  of  a 
continuous process firmly based on respect for human 
rights,  particularly  the  rights  of  freedom,  dignity  and 
life  without  discrimination  among  races,  religions, 
cultures and nations. 

Achieving this requires conscious and continuous 
efforts  that  will  enable  us  to  go  beyond  self-interest 
and to enrich our common knowledge and experiences. 
Knowledge of the other and understanding the cultures 
of  others  are  the  only  means  to  overcome  hatred  and 
malice  and  will  enable  us  to  achieve  lasting  peace,  as 
well  as  enabling  each  member  of  the  international 
community to live in peace, tranquility and dignity. 

We believe that diversity of religious and cultural 
activities  and  meetings  on  the  international  level 
contribute  considerably  to  national  and  international 
awareness  of 
importance  of  dialogue  among 
religions and its central role in achieving peace. We are 
of  the  view  that  promoting  understanding  among 
religions and cultures in educational curricula will lead 
to  correcting  the  negative  images  of  the  other  and 
replacing  it  with  a  culture  of  tolerance  and  openness. 
Dialogue among religions and cultures is related to the 
need to defend such crucial issues as our aspiration to 
achieve  freedom,  dignity  and  development. Affirming 
our  spiritual  and  cultural  diversity  within 
the 
framework of dialogue does not cancel out cooperation 
and  commitment,  but  will  help  us  achieve  our  desired 
goals.  

Morocco,  in  conclusion,  emphasizes  the  need  to 
coordinate  all  initiatives  related  to  dialogue  among 
religions that are embraced by the United Nations so as 
to speed up follow-up work on the matter. Establishing 
a specialized  unit within the Secretariat to take care of 
this is a practical proposal that should be supported. 
the 
to 
is 
relevant 
increasingly 
the  outset,  express  gratitude 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Alisher  Vohidov,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of Uzbekistan. 
Mr.  Vohidov  (Uzbekistan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

Let  me,  at 
the 
organizers  and  initiators  of  this  event.  There  is  no 
doubt  that  we  particularly  need  to  note  the  great 
contribution  that  the  delegations  of  Pakistan  and  the 
Philippines  have  made  and  thank  them  for  the  efforts 
they have undertaken.  
Today’s realities clearly demonstrate the growing 

relevance of the further reinvigoration of international 
efforts  to  strengthen  intercultural  and  interreligious 
dialogue,  which,  today,  can  be  seen  as  one  of  the  key 
issues  on  the  international  agenda.  Promoting  such  a 
dialogue 
to  augmenting 
stability and development in today’s world. 

Given  this,  the  role  of  the  United  Nations,  more 
than  ever,  is  important  in  encouraging  tolerance, 
mutual  understanding  and  cultural  diversity.  We 
commend  the  importance  of  the  High-level  Dialogue 
currently  underway  in  promoting  intercultural  and 
interreligious  understanding  and  cooperation  for  the 
betterment of the world. 

Uzbekistan is a multi-ethnic State, where, side by 
side,  136  ethnic  groups  and  minorities  live  together. 
Such ethnic and cultural diversity is something we see 
as a national heritage, as a source of fruitful interaction 
and enrichment of those people of varying cultures and 
ethnic  groups  who  live  in  our  country. All  this  stems 
from  the  many  years  in  which  cultures  and  religions 
have interacted in Uzbekistan.  

The  territory  of  Uzbekistan,  today  and  for  many 
centuries, has served as a bridge linking East and West. 
Thanks  to  its  proximity  near  the  great  Silk  Road,  our 
ancient land became known as an important crossroads 
on  this  road  where  varying  civilizations  and  cultures 
interaction, 
interacted  with  each  other,  and 
accordingly,  became 
as 
invaluable 
contribution to the development of all humankind.  

In our ancient land, together with the holy sites of 
Islam,  we  carefully  preserve  unique  and  distinct 
monuments  of  Buddhist  culture  in  the  Surkhandarya 
valley, Jewish historical monuments in Samarkand and 
Bukhara, very early monuments of Zoroastrian culture 
in  Khorezm  and  pilgrimage  sites 
for  Muslims, 
Christians and Jews in Samarkand and Bukhara.  
this 
an 
famous 
6 

07-53011 
the 
the 
first 
days 
Since 



The traditions of tolerance, goodness and respect 
for other cultures and religions has formed the basis of 
the  national  policy  established  in  the  years  that  have 
followed  independence.  These  principles  have  been 
enshrined  in  the  Constitution  of  the  country,  which 
emphasizes that all of its citizens have equal rights and 
freedoms  and  are  equal  before  the  law,  without 
distinction  on  the  basis  of  gender,  race,  ethnicity, 
language, religion, social origins or social status. 

of  Uzbekistan’s 
independence,  the  President  of  Uzbekistan,  Islam 
Karimov,  has  defined 
issue  of  strengthening 
interreligious  and  intercultural  accord  as  one  of  the 
priorities  of  State  policy.  Because  of  this  approach, 
today’s Uzbek society is a worthy example of cultural 
pluralism and tolerance.  

On the initiative on the head of our State, the year 
1992  saw  the  establishment  of  the  Republican  Inter-
ethnic  Cultural  Centre,  which  provides  valuable 
assistance  of  all  kinds  to  the  activities  of  more  than 
140  cultural  centres  representing  the  various  ethnic 
groups living in Uzbekistan today. The Centre does its 
utmost  to  contribute  to  their  work  of  maintaining  and 
developing 
traditions,  customs  and 
languages 
group. 
Representatives  of  varying  ethnic  groups  living  in  the 
country  are  contributing  to  the  strengthening  of  the 
independence  of  our  State  and  constructing  a 
democratic  society.  They  are  given  every  opportunity 
to  develop  their  native  language,  culture,  theatre  and 
fine arts, folk art, customs and traditions. 

As delegates know, the intercultural dialogue has 
not  only  an  ethnic  but  also  a  religious  dimension.  In 
this regard, strengthening interreligious harmony has a 
key  role  to  play  in  our  common  efforts  to  ensure 
harmony among the varying cultures in developing the 
culture of the world. In this context, I would note that 
since  the  beginning  of  independence  in  Uzbekistan, 
religion has been seen as a factor for forming people’s 
spiritual  outlook  on  the  basis  of  the  principles  of 
morality  and  preserving  the  rich  spiritual  and  moral 
legacy of our people. Especially now, when humankind 
is  going  through  a  complex  process  of  development, 
religion has particular relevance in moral and spiritual 
terms,  bringing  together  diverse  peoples  in  their  joint 
efforts against evil and violence. 

At  present,  Uzbekistan  has  representatives  of 
16 religious faiths. There are more than 2,000 religious 
the  unique 
in 
inherent 
ethnic 
each 
A/62/PV.19
the  Koran 
to  provide 
them  assistance 
organizations  operating,  including  Muslim,  Christian, 
Jewish, Buddhist and others. To interact with religious 
organizations  and 
in 
carrying  out  their  activities,  and  to  jointly  work  out 
measures  to  promote  interreligious  and  inter-ethnic 
peace and harmony, the Government of Uzbekistan has 
established  a  council  on  affairs  of  faith  under  the 
Committee  for  Religious  Affairs  in  Uzbekistan.  This 
Council  includes  leaders  of  the  Board  of  Muslims  in 
Uzbekistan, Tashkent and Central Asia, the Diocese of 
the  Russian  Orthodox  Church,  representatives  of  the 
Roman  Catholic  Church,  the  Union  of  Churches  of 
Evangelical Christian Baptists, the Centre of Churches 
of  Christians  of  the  Full  Gospel,  the  Evangelical 
Lutheran  Church  and  the  religious  Jewish  Society  of 
Tashkent. 
In the years since Uzbekistan’s independence, the 

first 
translations  of 
into  Uzbek  were 
published, as was the Hadith Collection of Al-Bukhari, 
the  Bible,  the  16  books  of  the  Old  Testament  and  the 
entire  New  Testament,  the  history  of  the  apostles  and 
other  religious  literature.  In  late  2004,  the  Muslim 
leadership  of  Uzbekistan,  along  with  the  Republican 
Society  for  the  Blind,  published  the  Holy  Koran  in 
braille.  I  emphasize  that  Uzbekistan  became  the  third 
State in the world to carry out this noble undertaking. 

I  take  this  opportunity  to  note  that,  to  the  great 
credit of Uzbekistan with respect to Islamic culture and 
science  and  in  terms  of  protecting  monuments  and 
further  enriching  the  legacy  of  Islam,  the  Islamic 
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization 
declared Tashkent a world capital of Islamic culture for 
2007. The holding this year in Tashkent of international 
conferences  called  “Islam  and Tolerance:  the  example 
of  Uzbekistan”,  “Uzbekistan’s  contribution  to  the 
development  of  Islamic  civilization”,  is  yet  another 
salient example of the constant and extensive attention 
Uzbekistan  devotes  to  the  promotion  of  intercultural 
and interreligious cooperation. 
It  is  no  secret  that  today  in  different  corners  of 

the  world  there  are,  unfortunately,  trends  towards  a 
growth  of  intercultural  and  interreligious  intolerance. 
Such  trends  could  disrupt  the  process  of  promoting 
understanding  between  peoples  and  representatives  of 
different  faiths  and  could  set  serious  precedents  in 
terms  of  escalation  of  interreligious  confrontation  and 
extremist 
the 
consolidation  of  international  efforts  is  increasingly 
relevant,  as  is  a  joint  and  coordinated  response  to 
undertakings. 
regard, 
this 
In 
07-53011 

7 
and 
on 
and 
interreligious 
Interreligious 
A/62/PV.19 

pressing  challenges  in  the  area  of  intercultural  and 
interreligious dialogue. Effective new steps are needed 
to  preserve  an  atmosphere  of  tolerance  in  relations 
between  peoples,  religions  and  cultures,  based  on 
equality and mutual respect. 

For  its  part,  the  Republic  of  Uzbekistan  firmly 
condemns  any  manifestations  of  religious  or  ethnic 
intolerance, terrorism or extremism, as well as attempts 
to  use  religion  to  justify  them.  We  are  undertaking 
every  effort,  nationally,  regionally  and  globally,  to 
promote 
intercultural  mutual 
understanding and cooperation for the cause of peace. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Liu  Zhenmin,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of China. 
Mr.  Liu Zhenmin  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

China  supports  the  convening  of  this  High-level 
Dialogue 
Intercultural 
Understanding and Cooperation for Peace, initiated by 
the delegations of Pakistan and the Philippines, during 
the current session of the General Assembly. 

Religious  and  cultural  diversity  is  a  valuable 
asset  of  society  and  an  important  engine  for  human 
creativity 
ever-deepening 
globalization process has further narrowed the distance 
among  different  religions  and  cultures.  In  the  current 
world,  various  religions  and  cultures  present  us  with 
great  opportunities  to  learn  from  each  other,  but  they 
are  also  experiencing  unprecedented  conflict  among 
themselves. The evolution of human history has shown 
that difference is the motivation and starting point for 
dialogue;  equality  is  the  prerequisite  and  basis  for 
exchanges;  and  candid  and  pragmatic  dialogue  and 
exchange  can  help  drive  our  efforts  to  maintain  peace 
and promote development. 
The  Chinese  Government  has  always  upheld  the 

concept  of  harmony 
in  diversity.  We  encourage 
dialogue  on  the  basis  of  equality  and  are  opposed  to 
extremism and the imposition of one’s own beliefs and 
values  on  others,  as  well  as  discrimination,  prejudice 
and  xenophobia  based  on  religious,  ethnic  or  other 
grounds.  In  the  current  international  situation,  this 
dialogue  on 
and 
intercultural  understanding  and  cooperation  is  very 
relevant  and 
important.  Promoting  dialogue  and 
cooperation among religions and cultures is conducive 
to  enhancing  mutual  understanding  and  peaceful 
is 
coexistence  among  peoples  of 
the  world  and 
interreligious 
theme  of 
progress. 
The 
and 
the 

it 
is 
love 
openness 
then  possible 
development.  The 
is  most  precious; 
beneficial  to  the  global  diversity  and  the  common 
progress of humankind. 

The  evolution  and  development  of  Chinese 
civilization over the past 5,000 years have proven that 
religion  and  culture  can  play  a  positive  role  in 
harmonious 
and 
inclusiveness  of  the  Chinese  culture  have  enabled 
various  religions  and  cultures  to  flourish  in  China. 
From indigenous Taoism to imported Buddhism, Islam, 
Christianity and Catholicism, all major religions of the 
world  are  able  to  coexist  peacefully  and  to  grow 
steadily  in  China.  While  developing  themselves,  the 
five  religions  have  also  enriched  the  Chinese  culture. 
“Harmony 
should  be 
universal”  —  these  are  the  traditional  concepts  of 
Chinese culture. China believes that if various religions 
and  cultures  avoid  self-righteousness,  subjectivity  and 
prejudice  and  instead  practice  mutual  tolerance  and 
understanding, 
to 
avoid 
confrontation and conflict of a religious nature. 

The  Chinese  Government  respects  freedom  of 
religion  and  pursues  a  policy  of  independence  in 
running  religious  affairs.  According  to  incomplete 
statistics,  there  are  currently  more  than  100  million 
religious  believers  in  China,  about  85,000  religious 
sites, 300,000 clergy, more than 3,000 religious groups 
and 74 religious schools to train clergy. 

China  actively  supports  the  participation  of  its 
religious  community  in  international  cooperation  and 
exchanges, as a way to increase mutual  understanding 
and  promote  common  development.  Last  June,  the 
Chinese Government hosted in Nanjing the third Asia-
Europe  Meeting  Interfaith  Dialogue.  The  Nanjing 
Statement  on  Interfaith  Dialogue,  adopted  on  that 
occasion,  made  proposals  for 
the  promotion  of 
interfaith dialogue. The Statement has been distributed 
as  an  official  document  at  the  current  session  of  the 
General Assembly.  

In order to work towards the peaceful coexistence 
of  different  religions  and  cultures,  the  international 
community  should  base  its  action  on  the  following 
three approaches. 
First, we must adopt the approach of “harmony in 

diversity” 
affairs. 
“Harmony  in  diversity”  means  being  harmonious  but 
not  homogeneous,  different  but  not  confrontational. 
This  approach  will  help  us  not  only  to  maintain 
friendly  relations  with  our  neighbours  and  resolve 
international 
addressing 
in 
8 

07-53011 
and 
dialogue 
intercultural 
the  emergence  of  various 


conflicts,  but  also  to  facilitate  religious  and  cultural 
dialogue  as  part  of  our  common  effort  to  maintain 
peace and security.  

Secondly,  we  must  strengthen  education  and 
public  awareness.  Respect  for  different  religions  and 
cultures should be incorporated into text books. There 
should  be  cultural  exchanges  and  cooperation  in  the 
field  of  education,  and  efforts  should  be  made  to 
advocate  religious  and  cultural  equality,  tolerance, 
mutual respect and peaceful coexistence. 
Thirdly, we must enlist the aid of the media. The 

media  bear  a  special  responsibility  in  promoting 
tolerance,  peace,  fairness  and  harmony.  We  should 
encourage  the  media  to  play  a  positive  role  by 
disseminating peace values common to all cultures and 
religions  and  promoting  harmony,  understanding  and 
mutual respect.  
Actions  speak  louder  than  words.  Engaging  in 

and 
interreligious 
cooperation  has  become  a  necessity  universally 
recognized  by  the  international  community.  We  have 
seen 
initiatives  and 
mechanisms  within  the  framework  of  the  United 
Nations. We hope that these initiatives and mechanisms 
can complement each other and form a synergy so as to 
make  use  of  the  platform  offered  by  the  United 
Nations, where all ethnic groups, cultures and religions 
are 
of 
bridge 
communication  and  cooperation  with  a  view 
to 
promoting the common development of human society 
and building a harmonious world.  
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  Her 

Excellency  Ms.  Kirsti  Lintonen,  chairperson  of  the 
delegation of Finland.  
Ms. Lintonen (Finland): Finland fully associates 

itself  with 
the 
representative  of  Portugal  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union.  

As  noted  earlier  by  other  speakers  in  this  very 
interesting discussion, there have been many calls and 
cries 
for  dialogue  over  perceived  civilizational, 
cultural,  ethnic  and  religious  boundaries  in  recent 
years.  Religion  has  again  become  both  an  important 
source  of 
force.  This 
development  has  been  noted  globally,  as  globalization 
has  resulted  in  national  borders  losing  some  of  their 
earlier relevance in matters of culture and religion.  
the  statement  made  earlier  by 
identity  and  a  political 
represented, 
to 
construct 
a 
A/62/PV.19
the  challenges  we 
the  social  situation  of 

Since  religious  identity  is  increasingly  forming 
the  basis  for  political  action,  it  is  clear  that  religious 
discourse  and  religious  activities  are  fast  becoming 
important  arenas  for  negotiating  all  types  of  social 
issues.  Consequently,  debates  over  religion,  including 
public  conflicts  over  religious  themes,  often  reflect  a 
reality  outside  the  realm  of  religion.  For  example, 
many  of  the  recent  controversies  relating  to  religious 
issues involving people of immigrant origin cannot be 
understood  unless 
these 
populations is taken into account. 

Dialogue  focused  on  religion  is  always  useful, 
but it does not cure the illnesses of social reality, such 
as  unemployment, 
feelings  of  unworthiness  and 
marginalization.  Social  problems  can  be  changed  not 
through  discussion  but  through  deeds.  Exclusion  and 
repression never lead to sustainable solutions, reflected 
in  tolerance,  diversity  and  mutual  respect.  On  the 
contrary,  exclusion and repression push  those who are 
denied  a  voice  to  uncompromisingly  assert  a  distinct 
identity or to resort to violence. 
Against  this  background,  it  is  easier  to  see  that 

some  of 
in  building 
multicultural and multireligious societies are not due to 
differences  among  religions  as  such.  Instead,  they  are 
reflections  of  social  problems  that  give  rise  to  small 
groups that seek to build an ideological foundation and 
gain  support  for  their  political  cause.  We  must  not 
allow these extreme views to overshadow those of the 
majority and the mainstream.  

The  role  of  religious  communities  in  defusing 
conflicts  cannot  be  overemphasized. The  faithful  need 
to discuss  respect  for  religious beliefs  and freedom of 
expression within their own communities in addition to 
pursuing dialogue with other religious communities in 
order to develop a common understanding of religious 
tolerance.  The  situation  demands  self-reflection  and 
adaptation  to  changed  circumstances  from  everyone: 
citizens,  Governments  and  other  actors,  including 
religious organizations and the media. 

We  need  to  cross  the  threshold  of  suspicion  and 
distrust  through  mutual  respect  of  the  other  and  free 
ourselves  from  prejudices  in  order  to  recognize  the 
common  values  of  holiness,  humanity  and  peace 
present in all cultural and religious traditions.  

We  need  to  counter  the  misuse  of  religious 
identity  and  feelings  for  divisive  ethnic  and  political 
purposes.  Encounters  free  of  political  overtones  and 
face 
07-53011 

9 

international 
regional  and 
A/62/PV.19 

agendas between authentic representatives of religious 
communities  have  revealed  the  potential  for  spiritual 
discourse  in  overcoming  bitter  historical  and  political 
memories and prejudices.  
All  of  us  are  encouraged  by  the  multitude  of 

local, 
initiatives  and 
processes  that  promote  intercultural  and  interreligious 
dialogue  and  understanding.  However,  this  positive 
development makes coordination imperative.  
the  Alliance  of  Civilizations 

Since  2006, 
intercultural  and 
interreligious 
initiative  has  put 
dialogue  firmly  in  a  multilateral  context  and  on  the 
agenda  of  the  United  Nations.  The  Alliance  has  the 
great  advantage  of  bringing  together  many  threads 
emanating  from  other  initiatives  and  processes  in  this 
field.  We  would  like  to  stress  the  need  for  concrete 
measures  and  the  implementation  of  the  Action  Plan. 
All  of  us  need  to  step  up  our  efforts  in  the  areas  of 
education, youth, gender, migration and media.  

For Finland, the Alliance of Civilizations is a key 
forum  for  the  development  and  implementation  of 
measures  to  prevent  divisions  from  arising  among 
different 
and 
civilizations — a task that seems to be becoming more 
and  more  important  in  the  entire  world,  Europe 
included. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Mohammed Al-Allaf,  chairman  of 
the delegation of Jordan. 
Mr. Al-Allaf  (Jordan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Jordan 

welcomes  the  High-level  Dialogue  on  Interreligious 
and  Intercultural  Understanding  and  Cooperation  for 
Peace. We thank both Pakistan and the Philippines for 
this initiative, which constitutes a promising beginning 
and  foundation  for 
intellectual  contacts  between 
cultures and religions.  

international  community  has  reached  a 
crucial  turning  point:  either  we  must  resign  ourselves 
to the situation of tension in the world  and accept the 
consequences  of  conflict  and  dispute,  or  we  must 
appeal  to  reason  and  good  sense  by  laying  the 
foundations of a positive and constructive dialogue that 
enhances the common denominators of various cultures 
and 
the  service  of 
humankind.  
In  recent  years,  we  have  seen  a  reduction  in  the 

power  of  the  left  in  many  parts  of  the  world;  that  has 
religions,  placing 
populations, 
religions, 
them  at 
cultures 
The 
just 
The 
over 
tensions, 
conflicts, 
Currently, 
prestigious 
gone  hand  in  hand  with  a  proliferation  of  political 
trends that consider Islam to be an adversary. Islam is 
in  no  way  an  adversary.  The  political  trends  in  the 
media and cultures that mobilize to promote that view 
are  simply  desperate  and  unrealistic,  and  in  no  way 
reflect the tolerance that is advocated by monotheistic 
religions and world civilizations. We have the right to 
question  the  agendas  of  such  schools  of  thought  and 
their real hidden objectives.  

academic 
20 
institutions are organizing events that, although held at 
a  great  distance  from  one  another,  share  the  topic  of 
Islamic  fascism.  That  is  not  just  a  spontaneous, 
innocent,  non-political  and  non-ideological  approach; 
it  is  an  organized,  systematic  and  deliberate  approach 
seeking  to  establish  an  imaginary  link  between  Islam 
and  violence. We  would  therefore  wish  to  see  today’s 
High-level Dialogue on Interreligious and Intercultural 
Understanding  and  Cooperation  for  Peace  become  a 
historic  option  for  people  not 
to  enhance 
communication  and  understanding,  but  also  to  avoid 
the trap of tension, conflict and war. 

closed-mindedness, 
discrimination  and  prejudice  prevailing  in  today’s 
world lead us to believe that the dialogue that we wish 
to achieve at this stage must be based on the principles 
of  mutual  respect,  equality  and  the  rejection  of 
terrorism,  extremism,  racism  and  fanaticism  of  all 
kinds.  The  dialogue  we  seek  is  one  that  would 
reconcile  and  balance  deep-rooted 
traditions  and 
modernity.  Jordan  wishes  to  send  the  message  that 
dialogue and coexistence are the only options that will 
overcome 
the 
diversity  of  cultures  and  religions  so  that  we  can  all 
live  in  harmony  in  a  climate  of  peace,  security  and 
stability. 

The  Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan  believes  in 
the importance of reason and, through its Government, 
has  developed  a  message,  known  as  the  Amman 
Message,  of  dialogue  and  communication  at 
the 
national, 
levels.  The 
Message  reveals  the  true  face  of  Islam,  a  vector  of 
noble human values and principles; it seeks to absolve 
Islam  of  ignorant  and  biased  thinking  that  links  it  to 
terrorism and violence and accuses it of fanaticism and 
prejudice.  The  message  is  all  the  more  important  in 
providing  for  a  series  of  practical  agreed  measures 
between  clerics  from  Muslim  countries  and 
the 
spiritual  leaders  of  the  various  Muslim  sects  with 
tensions  arising  from 
regional  and 
international 
the  current 
10 

07-53011 
eliminating 
violence; 
and 
institute 
to  mobilize 
tensions  and 


respect  to  combating  extremist  thought  and  takfiri
thinking,  whereby  some  Muslims  charge  others  with 
unbelief; 
promoting 
tolerance  and  acceptance  of  others  by  clearly 
identifying  those  who  are  authorized  to  issue  Islamic 
fatwa. That will help to reduce political, religious and 
intellectual 
local  and 
international  public  opinion  on  the  tolerance  that  is  a 
feature  of  Islam,  contributing  to  the  understanding  of 
Islam as a partner and not as an adversary. 

Moreover,  the  Governments  of  Jordan  and  Spain 
have reached an agreement on the Amman statement of 
24  April  2006.  In  the  context  of  the  statement,  a 
working group comprised of prominent representatives 
of  civil  society  has  been  established  to  identify 
practical  means  to  promote  respect  and  understanding 
between the West and the Arab and Muslim worlds. In 
the  Euro-Mediterranean  context,  an 
for 
dialogue  among  cultures  has  been  established  to 
demonstrate 
that  dialogue  between  partners  has 
unlimited possibilities. 

Jordan believes that the United Nations is still the 
ideal  forum  for  discussing  these  issues.  The  United 
Nations  brings  us  together,  despite  our  differences. 
Jordan 
of 
Civilizations initiative and the upcoming convening of 
its first annual meeting in Madrid on 15 and 16 January 
2008.  The  meeting  will  be  a  great  opportunity  to 
exchange  opinions  and  views  among  civil  societies, 
academic circles and the private sector, and will enable 
the adoption of practical measures to promote dialogue 
among the members of the Alliance.  

In  conclusion,  modern  civilizations  have  found 
themselves  in  a  deplorable  isolation  from  the  world 
and  from  one  another.  The  world,  meanwhile,  has 
achieved  its  greatest  successes  through  cooperation 
exchange  and  communication  on  all 
fronts  — 
technological, scientific, and arts and literature. Let us 
therefore  work  together  to  check  this  destructive 
acceleration of conflict and build instead an edifice of 
hope and confidence in the future. 
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Henry  MacDonald,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of Suriname. 
Mr.  Macdonald  (Suriname):  I  commend  the 

initiative  of  organizing  this  High-level  Dialogue  on 
Interreligious  and  Intercultural  Understanding  and 
therefore  welcomes 
the  Alliance 
A/62/PV.19
In 
including 
multicultural, 
multilinguistic 
that  regard,  I  am  privileged 
Cooperation for Peace in order to advance the values of 
mutual understanding and tolerance. 

to  present 
Suriname  as  a  model  of  successful  interreligious  and 
intercultural  collaboration.  Let  me  start  by  informing 
the General Assembly that Surinamese society is multi-
ethnic, 
and 
multireligious. The  make-up  of  Suriname’s  population 
comprises approximately 10 main ethnic groups and at 
least as many mixed types originating from its colonial 
past.  We  have  an  ethnic  composition  that  is  very 
diverse,  consisting  of  descendants  from  all  corners  of 
the  world, 
the  native  Amerindians; 
Europeans; African  maroons  and  creoles; Asians  from 
India,  Java  and  China;  people  from  the  Middle-East, 
including  Lebanese,  Syrians  and  Jews;  and  other 
groups. In addition to the aforementioned, we practice 
different  types  of  religion:  Christianity,  Hinduism, 
Islam, Buddhism, Baha’i and shamanism. 

As  a  result,  different  languages  are  spoken  in 
Surinamese society, which also contributes to our rich 
and  colourful  culture,  expressed 
through  many 
different  folkloric  and  cultural  traditions,  such  as 
rituals  and  ceremonies,  arts  and  crafts,  music  and 
performance,  cultural  dances  and,  most  importantly,  a 
diversified  cuisine.  It  is  this  colourful  diversity  of 
cultures  and  cultural  expressions  and  the  harmonious 
relationships between groups which makes a profound 
impression on foreigners visiting the country. 

The  acceptance  of  and  appreciation  for  each 
individual  group  for  the  different  cultural  expressions 
of the others is extraordinary. What is noticeable is that 
all 
these  ethnic  groups  with  different  cultural 
backgrounds  and  traditions  coexist  and  cooperate 
peacefully  with  each  other.  This  is  reflected  in  the 
political representation in the Administration. Growing 
up in such a society teaches one to respect values and 
traditions  from  different  groups  existing  and  living 
together in harmony and peace. 
All  of  that  does  not  mean  that  everything  is 

perfect.  We  have  our  differences.  However, 
the 
constitution of Suriname guarantees that “no one shall 
be  discriminated  against  on  the  grounds  of  birth,  sex, 
race,  language,  religious  origin,  education,  political 
beliefs,  economic  position  or  any  other  status”,  and 
that “everyone has the right of freedom of religion and 
philosophy of life”. 
07-53011 

11 
the 
form  of 
Since  1989, 
Inter-Religious  Council 
A/62/PV.19 


The Government respects those rights in practice 
and seeks to protect them at all levels, and it does not 
tolerate  any 
their  abuse,  either  by 
Governmental  or  by  private  actors.  The  Government, 
consequently,  does  not  establish  requirements  for 
recognition  of  religious  faiths.  On 
the  contrary, 
Governmental policy and practice contribute to the free 
practice of religion. The amicable common relationship 
among  religious  groups  in  our  society  contributes  to 
religious  freedom.  Most  citizens,  particularly  those 
living  in  Paramaribo,  our  capital  district,  celebrate,  to 
varying degrees, the religious holidays of other groups.  

in 
Suriname  has  been  the  venue  for  consultation  and 
dialogue among the main religions in the country. The 
Council is composed of the principal representatives of 
those  religions.  Council  members  meet  at  least  twice 
each  month  to  discuss  planned  ecumenical  activities 
and  their  position  on  Governmental  policies  when 
necessary.  It  is  noteworthy  that,  in  the  past,  this 
institution  has  been  instrumental  in  bringing  about 
solutions to major national political impasses. 

On the regional level, the Inter-Religious Council 
in Suriname cooperates with its Caribbean counterparts 
with  the  aim  of  discussing  regional  and  global  issues. 
In  situations  of  cultural  and  religious  pluralism,  it  is 
increasingly  apparent  that  mutual  understanding  and 
respect for differences play a vital role in maintaining 
the  unity  necessary  for  genuine  progress  and  for 
ensuring 
interreligious  or 
inter-ethnic conflict does not haunt us. 

At the international level, peaceful coexistence of 
different  values  and  cultures  remains  a  challenge.  We 
therefore  continue  to  support  and  promote  dialogue 
among  civilizations  and  remain  convinced  that  a 
culture of peace and understanding can be significantly 
enhanced  through  this  kind  of  dialogue  in  order  to 
promote  mutual  understanding,  respect  and  tolerance 
among  religions,  cultures  and  peoples  all  over  the 
world.  Let  us  be  mindful  of  the  fact  that  dialogue 
among  civilizations,  cultures  and  religions 
is  an 
effective  remedy  to  prevent  conflicts  on  national, 
regional  and  international  levels.  We  are  therefore 
looking  forward  to  further  enhancing  the  aims  of 
interfaith dialogue when Cambodia hosts the next such 
dialogue in 2008. 
spectre  of 
that 
the 

fundamental 
to  emphasize 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Takahiro  Shinyo,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of Japan. 
Mr.  Shinyo  (Japan):  Last  year,  in  its  resolution 

61/221, the General Assembly said it was alarmed that 
serious  instances  of  intolerance  and  discrimination  on 
the  grounds  of  religion  or  belief,  including  acts  of 
violence, 
intimidation  and  coercion  motivated  by 
religious  intolerance,  were  on  the  increase  in  many 
parts  of  the  world  and  threatened  the  enjoyment  of 
freedoms.  The 
human 
rights  and 
Assembly  went  on 
the  need 
for 
strengthening  respect  for  diversity  of  culture  and 
religion  or  belief,  dialogue  and  understanding  as  the 
way  to  end  discrimination  and  violence  based  on 
religious and other differences. 

One year  earlier, in 2005, the Declaration issued 
at  the  conclusion  of  the  Bali  Interfaith  Dialogue,  held 
within  the  framework  of  the  Asia-Europe  Meeting 
(ASEM),  expressed  similar  concern,  and  we  therefore 
need to keep this statement in mind as well, especially 
the resolve of its signatories in the areas of education, 
culture, media, religion and society. 

I  believe  this  High-level  Dialogue  provides  us 
with an important opportunity to advance the goals of 
the  Bali  Declaration  and  General Assembly  resolution 
61/221, and I am pleased to be able to participate in it. 
It  is  the  view  of  Japan  that  interreligious  and 

intercultural 
to  mutual 
understanding,  and  that  it  not  only  resolves  existing 
conflicts  but  also  helps  to  prevent  new  conflicts  from 
arising. To enhance mutual understanding, education is 
clearly of critical importance. We simply must convey 
to  our  people  at  all  levels,  including  the  national  and 
regional  levels,  that  there  are  many  religions  and 
cultures  in  the  world  other  than  our  own  and  that 
tolerance  for  them  is  essential  if  we  are  to  secure  for 
people everywhere the enjoyment of human rights and 
fundamental freedoms. 

Also important for the promotion of interreligious 
and  intercultural  dialogue  are  the  activities  of  the 
private 
non-governmental 
organizations,  and  those  of  local  authorities.  All 
Member  States  should  likewise  heed  the  messages 
delivered  by  representatives  of  religious  groups  at  the 
Informal  Meeting  of  Leaders  on  Interfaith  Dialogue 
and  Cooperation  for  Peace  and  at  this  High-level 
contributes 
including 
dialogue 
sector, 
12 

07-53011 
to 
in 
the 
and 
other 
nationalities 
first  discussion 


Dialogue.  Greater  understanding  is  necessary  at  both 
the community and national levels. 

I  would  like  also  to  briefly  describe  the  steps 
Japan is taking in this area. Japan has made a positive 
commitment  to  the  dialogue  among  civilizations  that 
UNESCO  is  leading.  In  2001,  at  the  United  Nations 
University  in  Tokyo,  we  hosted  the  international 
seminar  on  education  and  the  protection  of  cultural 
heritage 
in  South-Eastern  Europe.  This  was  a 
discussion about how education can help make people 
understand 
cultures. 
Participants,  in  addition  to  South-Eastern  European 
countries themselves, included UNESCO, UNICEF and 
the Council of Europe. 

In  2005,  Japan  hosted  the  World  Civilization 
Forum 2005 in Tokyo. Japan was one of the co-chairs 
of  the  counter-terrorism  meeting  of  the  Regional 
Forum  of  the Association  of  Southeast Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN),  held  in  Singapore  in  May  2007,  and 
contributed 
there  on 
intercivilization  dialogue.  Last  July,  Japan  became  a 
member  of  the  Group  of  Friends  of  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations. Last May, the fifth ASEM Conference on 
Counter-Terrorism  was  held  in  Japan;  participants 
emphasized 
intercultural, 
interreligious  and  intercivilizational  dialogue  on  the 
fight against terrorism.  

To  date,  in  addition  to  the  World  Civilization 
Forum I mentioned earlier, we have hosted the Seminar 
for Intercivilizational Dialogue with the Islamic World 
five  times,  dispatched  an  exchange  and  dialogue 
mission  to  the  Middle  East  three  times,  and  invited 
people 
in 
Indonesia  to  visit  and  speak  with  people  in  Japan. 
Thus,  we  have  made  continuing  and  varied  efforts  to 
promote intercultural and intercivilizational dialogue. 

Before concluding, I would like to say just a few 
words  about  human  security,  which  is  what  a  society 
achieves  when  its  people  are  free  from  fear  and 
scarcity  and  are  able  to  live  their  lives  with  dignity. 
That is to say, it is the idea and goal of the protection 
and empowerment of each person. 
Japan believes that the idea of human security has 

much in common with the purpose of interreligious and 
intercultural  dialogue,  which  is  the  satisfaction  of 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms.  We  are 
therefore convinced that such dialogue can and should 
be advanced through the pursuit of human security. 
in  Islamic  boarding  schools 
to  engage 
the  need 
involved 
A/62/PV.19
poses 
significant 
that  must  encourage 
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  Her 

Excellency  Ms.  Claudia  Blum,  chairperson  of  the 
delegation of Colombia. 
Ms.  Blum  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation  welcomes  the  decision  of  the Assembly  to 
convene  the  first  formal  High-level  Dialogue  on 
Interreligious  and  Intercultural  Understanding  and 
Cooperation for Peace. In particular, we commend the 
Philippines  and  Pakistan  for  their  leadership  in  that 
initiative. 
Colombia,  as  a  multi-ethnic,  multilingual  and 

multicultural  nation,  assigns  great  significance  to 
culture,  diversity,  intercultural  peaceful  understanding 
and  intercultural  dialogue  in  the  advancement  of 
societies. 
Cultural  diversity  is  an  asset  and  a  fundamental 

value  of  humankind 
the 
formulation  of  effective  solutions  to  address  national, 
regional  and  global  challenges.  In  the  context  of 
globalization,  which  has  had  important  benefits  and 
challenges, 
simultaneously 
intercultural  dialogue  between  civilizations 
is  of 
increasing  relevance.  It  is  a  significant  objective  at  a 
time when stereotypes and inappropriate arguments are 
proliferating, 
between 
civilizations  with  respect  to  issues  relative  to  welfare, 
armed conflict, terrorism, human rights and migration, 
among  others.  Intercultural  dialogue  is  necessary  to 
promote  attitudes  that  counter  such  stereotypes  and  to 
contribute  to  the  creation  of  conditions  conducive  to 
peaceful coexistence. 

to  submit  some 
considerations on recommendable actions related to the 
subject before us today. 

At  the  national  level,  States  must  promote  and 
protect their  own cultural identity and  diversity, while 
encouraging social  respect  for  cultural diversity  at the 
international  level.  In  that  respect,  legislative  and 
political  actions  are 
to 
guarantee  and  promote  respect  for  cultural  rights,  to 
promote and preserve the local and world heritage, and 
to support artistic expression. 

Furthermore, greater importance must be attached 
to  legal  and  political  measures  taken  to  protect  and 
promote the rights of national ethnic, cultural, religious 
and 
is  also 
important to guarantee the rights of migrants, who are 
linguistic  groups  and  minorities.  It 
My  delegation  would 
recommended 
confrontation 
in  order 
inciting 
like 
07-53011 

13 
the 
right 
recognizes 
recognized 
A/62/PV.19 

subject  in  diverse  contexts  to  xenophobia  and  other 
discriminatory  practices  based  on  culture,  religion, 
language or nationality. 

Dialogue  must  be  promoted  not  only  among 
governmental  or  political  actors.  The  promotion  of 
messages  of  understanding  of  and  esteem  for  cultural 
diversity is also the responsibility of social, economic, 
academic  and  artistic  leaders,  representing  influential 
sectors  within  societies.  Changing  attitudes  begins  at 
the community and even at the family levels. 
Religion  is  an  integral  dimension  of  cultural 

that.  The 
diversity.  UNESCO  has 
Colombian  Constitution 
to 
freedom  of  religion  and  the  freedom  of  all,  either 
individually or in community, to practice their religion 
or  beliefs.  Furthermore,  our  Constitution  establishes 
equality  of  faiths  under  the  law.  Colombia  considers 
that  interreligious  dialogue  and  the  full  guarantee  of 
rights related to religion are also essential to counteract 
irrational  expressions  that  use  religion  as  a  way  of 
justifying confrontation. 
The mass media can also contribute to promoting 

is 
understanding 
appropriate for media from all regions of the world to 
establish,  on  a  voluntary  and  autonomous  basis, 
permanent spaces to analyse and deepen their function 
in the peaceful interaction of civilizations, taking every 
political, social and economic context into account. In 
any  case,  to  that  end  freedom  of  information  and 
expression  cannot  be  restricted  in  any  form  that 
transgresses  international  human  rights  instruments. 
Freedom of information and expression is an essential 
foundation of democratic systems and coexistence. 

Child  and  youth  education  is  another  essential 
aspect.  It  is  critical  to  create  the  capacity  for  analysis 
in  children  and  youth,  and 
their 
understanding  of  the  value  of  cultural  pluralism  and 
respect  for  differences.  Promoting  such  values  is  no 
threat  to  the  consolidation  of  national  culture.  On  the 
contrary,  awareness  of 
intrinsic  richness  of 
diversity  implies  greater  recognition  of  and  regard  for 
one’s  own  cultural  identity,  while  avoiding  belligerent 
attitudes. 

At the multilateral level, my delegation feels that 
a cooperative approach among nations must exist. Such 
an  approach should be based on  respect  for  a nation’s 
identity  and  for  existing  international  obligations,  and 
and 
ascribe 
and  peaceful 
to  promote 
coexistence. 
diversity 
cultural 
It 
the 
value 
to 
the 

the 
the 
Given 
recognizes 
irrational  obstacles 
implementation  of  actions 
particularities of human groups as a collective asset. It 
the  confrontation, 
must  promote  dialogue  over 
politicization  or 
to  cultural 
diversity that persist in certain spheres. 
to 

reality  of  a  world  exposed 
irresponsible  expressions  of  cultural  conflict, 
the 
United  Nations  can  deepen  the  analysis,  formulation 
and 
that  enable  such 
destructive trends to be prevented and reversed. In that 
respect,  Colombia 
role  of  such 
initiatives  as  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  and  such 
organizations  as  UNESCO.  It  is  important  for  actions 
to  be  coordinated  and  to  have  clear  focal  points  in 
order to avoid the dispersal of effort. 

With  such  an  approach,  the  United  Nations  can 
contribute to counteracting extreme positions that seek 
to  justify  violence  and  disrespect  among  individuals 
and peoples. Both in dialogue among States and in the 
work  of  entities  of  the  United  Nations  system,  a 
respectful, open and constructive view of the historical 
differences and cultural diversity of human societies is 
fundamental  for  the  achievement  of  consensus,  in  the 
certainty  that  such  diversity  is  not  an  obstacle  to  the 
full  accomplishment  of  this  Organization’s  principles 
and  purposes  and  of 
the  universal  values  of 
international peaceful coexistence, and with the vision 
that such diversity is one of the factors that drives the 
development of nations. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Sirodjidin Aslov,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of Tajikistan. 
Mr.  Aslov  (Tajikistan)  (spoke  in  Russian):  On 

behalf of my delegation, I would like to extend to the 
President  of 
the  General  Assembly  my  sincere 
appreciation  for  organizing  today’s  Dialogue.  The 
theme  of  this  Dialogue  is  an  urgent  issue  for  my 
country and for the entire region. 

Some nine years ago, when the Assembly decided 
to  proclaim  the  United  Nations  Year  of  Dialogue 
Among  Civilizations,  we  held  the  view  that  cultural 
and religious diversity was not a threat but an asset and 
a  major  driving  force  for  humankind’s  progress.  Such 
diversity  is  the  source  and  inspiration  for  dialogue 
based on mutual tolerance and respect. Since that time, 
numerous  events  have  been  held  with  the  aim  of 
fostering  mutual  understanding,  trust,  tolerance  and 
respect. 
14 

07-53011 
including 
Orthodoxy 
in 
strength, 
rather 
than  a  cause 
traditions  and  participate 
the  constitution.  Article  26  of 



Regrettably,  however,  we  have  to  note  that  what 
we witness in today’s world is a lack of tolerance and 
ever-increasing alienation. We are certain that once we 
fully  realize  that  cultural  and  religious  diversity  is  a 
source  of 
for 
disagreement,  our  dialogue  will  become  stable  and 
long-term.  We  believe  that  such  a  dialogue  will  take 
place  only  once  we  recognize  that  we  are  living  in  a 
world of diversity, but that we share common values. 

In  Tajikistan,  a  culture  of  tolerance  and  respect 
has  been  shaped  over  several  thousand  years  marked 
by  interaction  among  diverse  cultures  and  religions. 
Today, these values are codified in the principal law of 
our  country, 
the 
constitution,  in  particular,  states  that  each  citizen  has 
the  right  to  determine  his  or  her  religious  preference 
and  participate  in  religious  ceremonies.  In  Tajikistan 
today,  representatives  of  many  confessions  such  as 
Christianity  — 
and 
Lutheranism —  Islam,  Judaism,  Buddhism,  the  Baha’i 
faith,  Krishnaism  and  others  freely  observe  their 
religious 
religious 
ceremonies.  
Last  year,  Tajikistan,  together  with  other  States, 

sponsored  General  Assembly 
resolution  61/221. 
Tajikistan  is  a  party  to  the  Interfaith  Dialogue  and 
Cooperation 
initiative,  whose  second 
ministerial meeting was held in New York recently. In 
this connection, I would like to take this opportunity to 
reiterate  the  need  to  enhance  the  activities  of  the 
Secretariat  focal  point  appointed  in  accordance  with 
that General Assembly resolution. 

This  is  a  time  of  unified  efforts  and  common 
aspirations  to  address  the  major  challenges  facing 
humankind.  Mutually 
international 
cooperation is thus becoming an imperative if we are to 
reduce  and  prevent  new  global  threats  and  dangers, 
such  as  terrorism,  extremism,  illicit  drug  trafficking 
and  transnational  organized  crime.  Current  trends 
towards nationalism and extremism, as well as the risk 
of military  conflict,  require us to expand and promote 
intercultural and interfaith dialogue at the regional and 
international levels. 

No party to international relations should remain 
indifferent to such issues. For this reason, searching for 
new  modes  of  cooperation  and  integration  for  regions 
and countries, developing the dialogue of civilizations, 
safeguarding  peace,  establishing  an  environment  of 
advantageous 
for  Peace 
A/62/PV.19
and 
trust and renouncing ethnic and religious confrontation 
among  diverse  cultures  should  become  the  primary 
focus of our dialogue. 

Currently,  my  country  is  hosting  a  meeting  of 
leaders  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Independent  States, 
the  Eurasian  Economic  Community 
the 
Organization  of  the  Treaty  on  Collective  Security. 
Those organizations, in cooperation with the Shanghai 
Cooperation  Organization  and  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic  Conference,  are  not  only  considering  and 
implementing  a  variety  of  treaties  and  agreements  on 
economic,  social  and  security  issues  but  are  also 
devoting  special  attention  to  cooperation  in  culture, 
science,  education,  health  care  and  other  areas.  We 
believe that further development of cooperation among 
those  organizations  also  promotes  the  formation  of  a 
unified  social  and  cultural  realm,  which  can  sustain 
cultural  diversity  and  dialogue  among  cultures  and 
religions.  It  has  already  become  a 
tradition  for 
Tajikistan and friendly States to exchange culture days. 
By  organizing  such  events,  we  not  only  strengthen 
friendship  among  our  peoples  but  also 
foster 
intercultural and interfaith dialogue. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  highlight  that 
dialogue is also important for another goal that is vital 
to  humankind:  achieving  development.  Through  the 
exchange  of  experience  and  the  joint  search  for 
solutions,  we  will  be  able  to  deal  with  today’s  and 
tomorrow’s  social  and  economic  issues  of  common 
concern.  Here,  it  is  essential  to  ensure  continued 
dialogue  at  all  levels,  from  local  to  national,  regional 
and  international,  with  the  broad  participation  of 
women and young people. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Bashar  Ja’afari,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of the Syrian Arab Republic. 
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 

Arabic): I am pleased to address the General Assembly, 
this  important  international  forum,  to  discuss  a  highly 
important matter which for years has been the object of 
consideration  by  thinkers  worldwide:  the  culture  of 
peace  and 
interreligious  and 
intercultural  dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation 
for peace. 

On  10  and  11  May  2007,  at  the  initiative  of  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first 
session,  the Assembly  convened  an  informal  thematic 
debate  entitled  “Civilizations  and  the  challenge  for 
the  centrality  of 
07-53011 

15 

to 
the 
regard 
faced  by 
interreligious 
in  societies  and  will  narrow 
A/62/PV.19 

peace:  Obstacles  and  opportunities”.  That  debate  is 
relevant  to  the  matter  under  discussion  here  today.  It 
culminated  in  our  current  High-level  Dialogue  on 
Interreligious  and  Intercultural  Understanding  and 
Cooperation  for  Peace,  whose  aim  is  to  encourage 
tolerance,  international  understanding  and  respect  for 
two 
religions,  faiths  and  cultural  diversity.  The 
organizers  of 
this  High-level  Dialogue  — 
the 
delegations  of  Pakistan  and  the  Philippines  —  have 
painstakingly prepared this Dialogue by focusing it on 
the  challenges,  best  practices  and  strategies  for 
cooperation  among  religions  and  cultures  in  today’s 
world. Perhaps these matters accurately encapsulate the 
international 
issues  and  problems 
community  with 
and 
intercultural  understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace. 
Building  bridges  of  interreligious  and  intercultural 
understanding  and  cooperation  will  definitely  help  to 
support  peace  in  the  world,  disseminate  a  culture  of 
peace 
the  gap  of 
misunderstanding and ignorance among peoples. It will 
also  lighten  the  burden  of  prejudice  and  subjectivity 
born  of  intellectual  extremism  in  a  world  that  is  not 
free from ideological and political complexities. 

In that connection, it is important for enlightened 
people  worldwide  to  hasten  to  advance  interreligious 
and 
to 
intellectual exchange and respect for the identity of the 
other, and not to mix religion and politics.  

The  issue  of  demonizing  the  other  to  spawn 
divisiveness,  threats  or  conflict  must  be  addressed 
during the present Dialogue, which is being held under 
General  Assembly  auspices.  We  must  ensure  the 
transparency and objectivity and political neutrality of 
the  dialogue  and  thus  the  acceptability  of  its  results. 
We  believe  that  any  serious  dialogue  designed  to 
consolidate 
intercultural 
understanding and cooperation for peace should not be 
unilateral  or  limited  to  selectively  fostering  ties  of 
understanding  and  cooperation  between 
specific 
religions  or  cultures  at  the  expense  of  inclusive 
interreligious  and 
intercultural  understanding  and 
cooperation for peace. 
In  that  regard,  we  must  understand  that  the  lack 

of  understanding  among  human  beings  is  based  on 
misunderstanding of religions and cultures, and not on 
structural shortcomings in these lofty ethical concepts. 
Human  history  shows  that  consummate  and  elegant 
models  of  intercultural  understanding  and  cooperation 
intercultural  dialogue,  according  priority 
interreligious 
and 
as 
it 
to 
and 
such 
history, 
although 
globalization 
arose  during  ancient  times  when  intellectual  and 
military  clashes  were  rampant.  Yet  in  recent  decades, 
the  international  community  has  witnessed  violent 
clashes  and  a  lack  of  dialogue  and  understanding, 
while  at  the  same  time,  some  vaunt  intellectual 
phenomena 
the 
communications and information revolution. 
The  twentieth  century  was  the  most  violent  in 

human 
also  witnessed 
unprecedented  scientific  progress  and  advances  in 
human  communications.  During  the  twentieth  century, 
two world wars erupted and took the lives of millions 
of  human  beings.  The  same  century  saw  the  most 
violent  colonial  injustices  against  African,  Asian  and 
Latin American cultures that date back to the beginning 
of  time.  That  century  also  witnessed  the  first  use  of 
nuclear weapons by man against man.  

At  the  beginning  of  the  twenty-first  century  we 
are  witnessing  radical  forms  of  human  violence  in 
more  than  one  place  in  the  world,  as  if  there  were  a 
return in the thinking of political decision makers to a 
concept  of  human  relations  based  on  violent  clashes 
among many sovereign States. We had hoped that such 
reactionary thinking had ended once and for all.  

It  is  saddening  that  the  international  community 
is  forced  to  hold  a  dialogue  on  interreligious  and 
intercultural  understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace 
at  a 
information 
revolution: an age that presupposes that human beings 
are no longer ignorant of or indifferent to one another.  

Is  it  conceivable  that  such  a  significant  matter 
should not be on the agenda of hundreds of prestigious 
intellectual  and  religious  institutions  and  universities? 
Is  it  conceivable  that  in  the  twenty-first  century  we 
should still be seeking best practices and strategies for 
interreligious  and  intercultural  cooperation?  Is  that 
attributable  to  massive  human  ignorance  over  the 
centuries?  
requires  a 

comprehensive intellectual revolution against all forms 
of intellectual isolation and all preconceived ideas. The 
response 
rests  on  promoting  cultural  discourse, 
augmenting  contacts  and  communication,  bridging  the 
gap  of  misunderstanding  and  settling  international 
disputes 
remaining 
committed to the elimination of injustice and to putting 
an end to foreign occupation everywhere and  to using 
religion  politically  for  expansionist  and  settlement 
justly  and  equitably  while 
time  of  globalization  and 
these  challenges 
Responding 
the 
16 

07-53011 
I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Habib 


purposes, while ignoring the rights of others and their 
cultural and holy sites. 

In  conclusion,  my  country  supports  the  proposal 
submitted by the Philippines and Pakistan to establish a 
new  focal  point  in  the  United  Nations.  My  delegation 
concurs  with  the  November  2006  report  of  the  High-
level Group on the Alliance of Civilizations established 
by  the  Secretary-General,  and  the  important  political 
views it sets out, relating in particular to an end to the 
Israeli  occupation  of  the  Arab  territories  and  a  just 
settlement of the Palestinian question. 
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 

the next speaker, I would like to inform members that 
there  are  still  21  speakers  remaining  to  be  heard.  I 
would therefore again appeal to members to make their 
statements  as  concise  as  possible  by  summarizing  the 
statements and circulating the full texts. 

Mansour, chairman of the delegation of Tunisia. 
Mr. Mansour (Tunisia) (spoke in Arabic): At the 

outset,  let  me  say  how  proud  and  pleased  we  are  to 
take  part  in  today’s  meeting  on  a  theme  which  is  of 
great  importance  to  Tunisia,  given  that  the  rapid  and 
profound  changes  under  way  worldwide  have  led  to 
challenges that are difficult to ignore or disregard. The 
question  of  interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue 
clearly falls within that framework. 

I  would  be  remiss  if  I  did  not  express  our 
appreciation  and  gratitude  to  the  Government  of 
Pakistan  and  the  Government  of  the  Philippines  for 
having  taken  this  important  initiative  and  for  their 
efforts 
this  High-level  Dialogue  on 
Interreligious  and  Intercultural  Understanding  and 
Cooperation for Peace.  
Tunisia attaches great importance to the report of 

the 
Secretary-General 
and 
intercultural  dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation 
for  peace  (A/62/337)  and  the  report  of  the  Director-
General of UNESCO on the International Decade for a 
Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of 
the World,  2001-2010  (A/62/97).  Here,  my  delegation 
would 
its 
constructive  efforts  on  behalf  of  children.  We  are 
certain  too  that  UNESCO  will  play  a  valuable  role  in 
the  implementation  of  the  recommendations  in  those 
reports. 
that  organization 
interreligious 
to  organize 
thank 
like 
for 
on 
to 
A/62/PV.19
to  national  policies  and  measures 

Interreligious and intercultural dialogue is among 
the core themes in the recommendations set out in the 
2005  World  Summit  Outcome 
(resolution  60/1). 
Indeed,  heads  of  State  or  Government  underscored 
enhanced cultural relations among peoples and nations 
as  the  only  way  to  foster  understanding  and  harmony 
and 
to  counter  extremism.  That  approach  will 
guarantee  just  and  lasting  peace  among  all  peoples. 
Tunisia’s cultural policies are in total harmony with the 
World  Summit  recommendations.  In  that  context, 
Tunisia  is  eager  to  disseminate  the  values  of  peace, 
tolerance  and  dialogue  among 
the  peoples  and 
civilizations  with  which  our  country  has  interacted. 
Based  on  those  principles,  my  country  attaches  great 
importance 
to 
preserve  our  national  identity  to  ensure  understanding 
among peoples, openness to and positive and effective 
interaction  with  others.  That  approach  to  society  is 
founded  on  reconciling  our  genuine  interaction  with 
modernity  on  the  one  hand  with  preservation  and 
consolidation of our national identity on the other. One 
Tunisian  option  has  been  to  solidify  the  pillars  of  our 
national  culture,  which  are  firmly  based  on  Islam  and 
its values of tolerance. 

For that reason, the President of the Republic has 
established  a  university  chair  in  dialogue  among 
civilizations and religions, with a view to providing an 
intellectual  space  conducive  to  dialogue.  Furthermore, 
the  President  has 
International 
Islamic  Studies  and  has 
Presidential  Award  on 
undertaken  efforts 
such  as 
moderation,  tolerance,  solidarity  and  openness.  These 
initiatives  give  form  to  the  contribution  that  Tunisia 
can  make,  thanks  to  its  glorious  history,  to  enriching 
the  culture  of  humanism  and  spreading  universal 
values  and  principles  that  are  the  common  heritage  of 
all peoples, despite their uniqueness. 
Our  university  chair  in  dialogue  was  established 

to 
strengthen 
and 
development,  and  as  part  of  a  series  of  other  similar 
initiatives  including  the  1995  Carthage  Charter  on 
Tolerance 
the  Mediterranean,  which  calls  for 
interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue  for  tolerance 
and  human  rights. Another Tunisian  initiative  was  the 
establishment  of  the World  Solidarity  Fund  to  counter 
poverty, which the Assembly endorsed in its resolution 
57/265  of  20  December  2002,  thus  backing  our 
approach 
and 
marginalization as factors creating tension worldwide.  
foundations  of  peace 
to  promote  values 
instituted 
poverty 
against 
fight 
the 
the 
in 
to 
the 
07-53011 

17 

the 
together  with 
closed-mindedness, 
A/62/PV.19 


In  pursuance  of  the  General  Assembly’s  2001 
proclamation  of  the  Global  Agenda  for  Dialogue 
among  Civilizations  (resolution  56/6),  Tunisia  has 
hosted  a  seminar  on  dialogue  among  civilizations. 
There, my  Government reiterated its appeal to build  a 
new world free of hatred and antagonism and called for 
tolerance  and  dialogue.  Tunisia  has  also  hosted  a 
number of meetings and events for experts, such as the 
seminars  organized 
Islamic 
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization  on 
the  theme  “Human  civilizations  and  cultures:  from 
dialogue to alliance”. Tunisia has repeatedly reaffirmed 
that  dialogue  among  civilizations  is  one  of  the  core 
principles  that  can  curb  trends  towards  violence  and 
terrorism  and  that  can  lay  the  basis  for  dialogue  and 
cooperation for world peace, security and prosperity. 

Based  on  those  principles  and  conclusions,  my 
delegation  supports  all  initiatives  to  buttress  this 
interreligious and intercultural dialogue. We are certain 
that this dialogue is the best way to protect humankind 
and  its  common  values  from  the  dangers  posed  by 
intolerance, 
extremism, 
marginalization and terrorism. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His Excellency Mr. Jean-Daniel Vigny, chairman of the 
delegation of Switzerland. 
Mr.  Vigny  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  We 

thank  the  Philippines  and  Pakistan  for  having  worked 
to  convene  this  meeting.  We  would  also  like  to  thank 
the  Secretariat  and  the  representatives  of  civil  society 
for 
this  High-level 
Dialogue. 
As  a  meeting  point  of  diverse  cultures  and 

religions,  Switzerland  has  had 
learn  peaceful 
coexistence  within  the  confines  of  a  small  territory.  It 
had 
transcending  faiths, 
languages and economic interests. In the course of our 
history,  religions  have  on  occasion  clashed  violently. 
However, thanks to a shared determination to focus on 
what unites us on a practical level rather than on what 
separate us ideologically, we succeeded in ending these 
tensions a century and a half ago. 
Switzerland  has  integrated  this  lesson  of  history 

into its policy of promoting peace. Dialogue on values 
does  not  by  itself  build  trust;  indeed,  it  can  sometime 
even accentuate differences. To move forward together, 
therefore,  it  is  essential  to  focus  on  solving  specific 
problems  and  to  find  practical  solutions  with  the 
the  excellent  preparation  of 
to  forge  national  unity 
to 
it: 
is 
respect 
for 
freedom 
Ensuring 
important 
that  aim 
non-discrimination, 
therefore  reaffirms 
to  define  concrete  ways 
parties  concerned.  This  is  why,  in  the  context  of  its 
policy  of  promoting  peace,  Switzerland  supports 
projects 
for 
communities  or  groups  with  different  values  and 
concepts  to  live  together.  However,  Switzerland  does 
not  support  intercultural  or  interreligious  dialogues 
exclusively on abstract values or doctrinal truths. 

Consequently,  we  fully  support  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations  initiative,  which  takes  account  of  the 
political  dimension  of  interreligious  and  intercultural 
tensions  and  aims  to  find  practical  solutions  to  such 
disputes.  My  country 
its  full 
support  for  the  High  Representative  Jorge  Sampaio  in 
attaining the objectives of the Alliance of Civilizations. 

religious  and  cultural 
diversity is not only a simple question of political will. 
It  is  part  of  the  far  broader  question  of  the  proper 
functioning  of  the  rule  of  law  and  the  principles 
governing 
of 
expression, freedom of thought and freedom of religion 
or  belief.  It 
that  we  reaffirm  our 
commitment to those rights. We are concerned about an 
increasing risk of stereotyping religions and beliefs and 
a lack of understanding for the values and practices of 
other  religions  or  beliefs. We  are  alarmed  by  growing 
religious 
intolerance  and  discrimination  based  on 
religion or belief. Religious intolerance is a worldwide 
problem  and  is  not  limited  to  certain  religions  and 
beliefs.  Followers  of  all  religions  and  beliefs,  as  well 
as  non-believers,  are  victims  of  human 
rights 
violations. 

Freedom  of  religion  or  belief  is  a  multifaceted 
right. The many aspects of this fundamental human are 
guaranteed  by  various  international  legal  instruments. 
Discrimination  based  on  race,  colour,  sex,  language, 
religion,  political  or  other  opinion,  national  or  social 
origin,  property,  birth  or  other  status  falls  within  the 
scope of human rights legislation. In addition, it has to 
be stressed that the International Covenant on Civil and 
Political  Rights  forbids  any  form  of  incitement  to 
religious hatred. 

Switzerland  is  firmly  convinced  that  it  is  not 
religion as such which has to be protected, but the non-
discriminatory exercise — individually or as a member 
of a group — of all human rights, including the right to 
freedom of religion or belief. We are convinced that we 
can  successfully  combat  discrimination  if  we  agree  to 
approach  the  issue  under  the  umbrella  of  religious 
18 

07-53011 
that 
Switzerland 
is  convinced 
to  some  extent, 


discrimination rather than in the context of defamation 
of religion.  

The  concept  of  defamation  of  religions  is  not 
appropriate  in  a  human  rights  context,  since  it  is 
individuals,  both  believers  and  non-believers  alike, 
who  have  rights  —  and, 
the 
communities  to  which  they  belong  —  not  religions  or 
beliefs as such. As the Special Rapporteur on freedom 
of  religion  or  belief,  Asma  Jahangir,  outlined  in  a 
recent report, the lack of an objective definition of the 
term “defamation of religion” makes the whole concept 
open  to  abuse.  Due  to  the  wide  diversity  of  religions 
and  beliefs,  it  is  natural  that  genuine  differences  of 
opinion  exist.  Furthermore,  it  would  be  difficult  and 
potentially  dangerous  to  define  in  abstracto  what 
constitutes  defamation  of  religion  or  even  to  find  an 
impartial and independent body for adjudicating such a 
case. 

tolerance  and 
mutual respect are essential to overcome differences in 
perceptions,  concepts  and  ideas.  Once  again  it  is  only 
by  a  constructive  and  respectful  dialogue  that  we  will 
truly  overcome  our  divergences  in  opinion  in  order  to 
promote  mutual  understanding  and  surmount  these 
challenges successfully. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Ivan  Romero-Martínez,  chairman 
of the delegation of Honduras.  
Mr.  Romero-Martínez  (Honduras)  (spoke  in 

Spanish): My country, Honduras, very much welcomes 
the  opportunity 
this  High-level 
Dialogue 
Intercultural 
on 
Understanding  and  Cooperation  for  Peace.  We  are  of 
the view that this is one of the most pertinent subjects 
today  and  that  it  is  of  particular  importance  to 
humankind.  

Universal respect for human thinking is as sacred 
as  freedom  itself:  freedom  of  action,  freedom  of 
religion and political freedom. Thus, in participating in 
this  important  debate,  we  base  our  approach  on  the 
belief  that  one  of  the  unifying  forces  of  mankind  is 
freedom.  It  prepares  us  for  a  permanent  readiness  to 
interact  with  diversity  and  for  tolerance,  ongoing  and 
respectful  dialogue,  and  a  culture  of  peace  among 
individuals  with  diverse  outlooks  and  visions.  It 
prompts  us  to  create  a  culture  of  peace  and  not  a 
culture  of  war.  Therefore,  we  support  all 
the 
to  participate 
Interreligious 
in 
and 
A/62/PV.19
society 
and 
to  combat 
a  political 
that  help  us 
endeavours  in  which  this  Organization  and  its  bodies 
are engaged.  

We  support  the  reports  and  recommendations  of 
the  Secretary-General,  and  we  support  above  all  else 
the  efforts 
fanaticism, 
intolerance and violence. We believe in dialogue and in 
a  culture  of  peace.  Dialogue  between  religions  and 
cultures  is  a  categorical  imperative  in  our  view.  But 
there  can  be  no  dialogue  without  freedom;  and  there 
can be no  freedom without a  clear policy of tolerance 
and  respect  among  all  protagonists  in  a  world  that  is 
increasingly global.  

My  country,  Honduras,  consistently  respects  all 
religions  and  cultures.  Our  constitution  provides  that 
all Hondurans are equal before the law, and it declares 
punishable  any  discrimination  based  on  gender,  race, 
class  or  other  offence  against  human  dignity.  It  also 
guarantees the free exercise of all religions and beliefs, 
without  pre-eminence  for  any  of  them.  All  men  are 
born  free  and  equal  in  rights.  Our  Constitution  also 
seeks  to  enforce  and  perpetuate  a  rule  of  law  that 
guarantees 
encourages 
conditions  in  which  individuals  can  realize  their  full 
potential  as  human  beings  in  a  context  of  justice, 
freedom, 
peace, 
representative democracy and concern for the common 
good.  
We  are  pleased  to  note  that  the  Secretary-

report 
in 
General’s 
the  United  Nations  Population  Fund 
Honduras 
(UNFPA) 
Inter-Ecclesiastical 
Committee  on  HIV/AIDS  Prevention  which  brings 
together  leaders  and  representatives  of  the  Catholic, 
Evangelical,  Episcopalian  and  Adventist  Churches  as 
well  as  the  Ministry  of  Health  and  the  theological 
community.  The  Committee  meets  regularly  and 
organizes  forums  and  discussions  on  their  churches’ 
response to HIV  and AIDS. Thus  far,  it  has organized 
four 
on  HIV/AIDS 
prevention  throughout  the  country.  The  objective  of 
forums  is  to  encourage  a  common  religious  approach 
for  dealing  with 
infected  and  affected  by 
HIV/AIDS. This in our view is a living example of the 
alliance of religions.  

In  this  universal  forum,  it  daily  becomes  more 
imperative  for  us  to  unite  our  thoughts  and  our  hearts 
in  acts  of  tolerance  and  mutual  respect.  Freedom  of 
belief should also go hand in hand with the freedom to 
(A/62/337)  emphasizes 
inter-ecclesiastical 
established 
forums 
security, 
stability, 
pluralism, 
that 
an 
those 
07-53011 

19 
in 
this  very 
to  express 
its  appreciation 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
A/62/PV.19 

exercise  that  belief.  The  establishment  of  a  world  of 
peace  and  love  should  go  hand  in  hand  with  the 
genuine  political  will  to  achieve  this.  The  desire  to 
build an alliance of civilizations and to strengthen the 
dialogue  between  religions  and  cultures  is  within  the 
political  will  of  the  States  represented  here.  Let  us 
promote this; let us act in this fashion; and let us work, 
day  by  day,  to  translate  into  reality  all  the  words  and 
desires that are expressed here.  
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His Excellency Mr. Nguyen Tat Thanh, chairman of the 
delegation of Viet Nam. 
Mr.  Nguyen  Tat  Thanh  (Viet  Nam):  My 

delegation  wishes 
to 
Pakistan  and  the  Philippines  for  the  initiative  and 
leadership  culminating 
timely  and 
important meeting.  

report. 

Having  been  victimized  by  many  destructive 
wars,  the  Vietnamese  people  treasure  peace,  stability 
and development. We therefore fully support the efforts 
by countries, communities and people around the world 
to pursue these ends through dialogue and cooperation.  

interaction  keeps 
increasing between religions and cultures of all parts of 
the  world.  It  is  an  opportune  time  for  us  all  to  learn 
more  about  one  another,  not  only  about  our 
commonalities  or  shared  values,  but  also  about  our 
differences;  to  enhance  unity;  to  accept  and  benefit 
from diversity; and to live with a culture of peace, non-
violence, respect, understanding and tolerance. 

In  this  regard,  the  importance  of  education  and 
the  media  in  promoting  respect,  understanding  and 
tolerance must be emphasized. Concerted efforts in this 
respect  need  to  be  carried  out  at  the  global,  regional, 
national and local levels. 
We  commend  the  efforts  by  the  Alliance  of 

Civilizations, 
Interfaith 
Cooperation for Peace and the United Nations system, 
especially UNESCO and the United Nations Population 
Fund  (UNFPA),  as  mentioned  in  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General, in promoting and implementing this 
idea.  Viet  Nam  welcomes  the  designation  of  a  focal 
point 
to  coordinate  mutually 
reinforcing  activities  of  the  United  Nations  system  in 
that field.  
the  Tripartite  Forum  on 
today’s  global  village, 
the  Secretariat 
In 
in 


At the regional level, Vietnamese representatives 
of  different  faiths  and  religions  actively  participate  in 
the interfaith dialogue and exchange of experience and 
best practices within the framework of the Asia-Europe 
Meeting  and  in  the  Asia-Pacific  region  to  further 
strengthen  understanding  and  cooperation  across 
regions. 

Viet  Nam  is  a  multi-ethnic  and  multireligious 
country  with  54  nationalities  and  many  different 
religious  communities  composed  of  20  millions 
believers  living  side  by  side  in  harmony,  sharing  the 
spirit of fraternity, mutual respect and assistance, while 
respecting and cherishing each other’s unique identity. 
Vietnamese  of  different  nationalities,  religions  and 
cultures  joined  forces  in  the  struggle  for  national 
independence  in  the  past  and  are  now  side  by  side, 
shouldering the task of national construction. In war or 
in  peace,  the  strength  of  the  country  lies  in  both  the 
unity and the diversity of its people. 

Back at its first meeting in 1945, the provisional 
Government  of  Viet  Nam,  under  the  leadership  of 
President Ho Chi Minh, issued the motto “Freedom for 
religious  solidarity  between  believers  and  non-
believers”.  Our  1992  Constitution  reaffirms  that  spirit 
in concrete terms. Our national experience and policies 
in  that  connection  guide  our  activities  at  the  global 
level. 

Before  concluding,  I  wish  to  assure  the  General 
Assembly  that  Viet  Nam  will  continue  to  make  every 
effort,  together  with  countries  and  peoples  of  the 
world,  to  foster  understanding  and  cooperation  in  the 
name of peace and development for all. 
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Samuel  Outlule,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of Botswana. 
Mr.  Outlule  (Botswana):  The  delegation  of 

Botswana  welcomes  the  convening  of  this  High-level 
Dialogue 
Intercultural 
Understanding  and  Cooperation  for  Peace.  Several 
statements have already been made with a great deal of 
eloquence  and  conviction.  We  add  our  voice  to  this 
important  debate  because  peace  is  indivisible  and  the 
promotion of a culture of peace is both a national and a 
global imperative. 

In contributing to this debate, we are conscious of 
the fact that our deliberations are an important part of 
the  beginning  of  establishing  the  basis  for  mutual 
Interreligious 
and 
on 
20 

07-53011 


understanding. It is our expectation that the statements 
will be followed by introspection and the  readiness to 
make choices for tolerance. What matters in the end is 
not  what  we  are  able  to  say  about  the  peaceful  nature 
of our respective religions and cultures, but rather what 
we are prepared to do to ensure that our faiths are used 
as  instruments  for  the  realization  of  peace  and  good 
will  to  humankind.  We  must  do  so  by  empowering 
national  institutions  to  promote  a  culture  of  tolerance, 
compromise and accommodation. 

A  combination  of  religion  and  culture  has  been 
the  defining  attribute  of  societies  since  antiquity. 
Whilst  religion  is  a  personal  matter  concerning  the 
relationship  between  an  individual  and  God,  at  the 
same  time  it  binds  us  together  because  our  lives  as 
human  beings  are  interconnected.  Thus,  faith  and  a 
way  of  life  not  only  bind  people  together,  but  have 
over  the  years  been  instrumental  in  informing  and 
shaping  the  development  of  relations  between  peoples 
and States. 

This  High-level  Dialogue  may  be  taking  place  a 
little  too  late,  as  it  comes  at  a  time  when  intolerance 
and  hatred  spurred  by  religious  beliefs  and  a  clash  of 
cultures  are  growing  at  an  alarming  rate. And  yet  we 
cannot afford to despair or fail to act in the face of the 
challenges  confronting  us  and  developments  we 
witness. At the same time, we must avoid a reactionary 
response  by  acting  in  a  positive,  purposeful  and 
forward-looking manner. We must be fair and balanced 
in  the  search  for  solutions  to  global  problems.  In  that 
way,  we  can  avoid  the  politicization  of  religions  and 
cultural  beliefs  that  often  leads  to  extremism  and 
intolerance. 
In  the  search  for  solutions  to  contemporary 

challenges 
between 
civilizations, we do not have to reinvent the wheel. In 
the  fifth  century  B.C., 
the  Chinese  philosopher 
Confucius once said: 

“My  conduct  must  be  guided  by  the  golden  rule 
of  only  doing  and  saying  what  I  would  like  to 
have  done  or  said  to  me,  and  never  doing  or 
saying  anything  that  I  would  not  like  to  have 
done or said to me.” 
associated  with 
relations 
That  statement  demonstrates  that  the  desire  to  live  in 
peace  with  one  another  has  been  the  objective  of 
people from time immemorial. 
A/62/PV.19

There can be no doubt that the granite foundation 
of  interreligious  and  intercultural  understanding  and 
cooperation  for  peace  is  for  all  religions  to  encourage 
their  followers  to  be  kind,  tolerant,  merciful,  just  and 
honest with each other and other people. If religion or 
the  followers  of  any  faith  fail  to  abide  by  those 
teachings,  it  will  be  difficult  if  not  impossible  to 
promote mutual understanding, cooperation and peace. 

In  an  increasingly  borderless  world,  diverse 
societies,  individuals  and  communities  with  different 
cultures  and  religious  beliefs  are  called  upon  to  live 
together  in  harmony.  Individuals  and  communities  of 
different faiths and cultures living side by side have in 
them the inherent capacity to strengthen each other and 
to  solve  concrete  problems  confronting  them  here  on 
Earth.  The  world  will  be  a  better  place  if  we  can  all 
concentrate our actions on working together to improve 
the human condition here on Earth without necessarily 
abandoning  our  aspirations  for  the  next  order  of 
existence. 

The  challenge  we  face  is  to  strengthen  policies 
that  enhance  the  integration  and  participation  of  all 
citizens  on  the  basis  of  equality  and  respect.  It  would 
be  particularly  helpful  if  religion  did  not  assume  a 
name. In that respect, parents and societies could bring 
up children without passing value judgements on other 
faiths or dehumanizing descriptions about followers of 
other faiths, thus sowing the seeds of future intolerance 
and a sense of superiority. 
It  is  important  to  give  greater  attention  to 

education 
emphasize  broad 
knowledge  about  other  cultures  and  religions  and  the 
need  for  them  to  cohabit  in  peace  and  harmony.  It  is 
true  that,  historically,  education  and  knowledge  have 
forced religions to be more just, fair and tolerant. 

and 
interreligious 
intercultural dialogue is not the challenge or monopoly 
of  the  faithful  alone.  It  is  the  challenge  of  all  people 
and organizations of civil society who love humankind, 
respect  life,  and  value  harmony  and  the  diversity  of 
peoples  on  Earth.  We  should  not  forget  that,  through 
the  centuries,  religious  people  inspired  by  fanaticism, 
fundamentalism,  a  sense  of  superiority  and  the  selfish 
pursuit  of  personal  salvation  have  caused  wars  and 
human suffering. 

individuals,  non-
governmental organizations and States therefore have a 
major  contribution  to  make  in  promoting  international 
recognize 
Let  us 
training 
respect, 
secular 
In 
that 
and 
that 
that 
07-53011 

21 

freedom 
non-violence 
of  worship. 
non-discrimination, 
A/62/PV.19 

understanding and cooperation for peace. Interreligious 
and  intercultural  understanding  and  cooperation  must 
be  rooted  in  universal  values  of  respect  for  human 
rights, 
and 
democracy.  Those  are  values  of  collective  wisdom, 
conscience and progress of humankind, uniting peoples 
of all faiths and cultures. 

Africa is home to many religions and cultures. In 
Botswana,  we  are  a  society  of  many  cultures, 
languages  and  religious  practices,  but  as  is  the  case 
elsewhere  in  Africa,  we  have  embraced  several  other 
religious  beliefs  from  outside  the  continent  and  today 
those have become an integral part of the social fabric 
of  our  societies.  The  Constitution  of  Botswana 
guarantees 
Faith-based 
organizations  are  formally  recognized  as  key  players 
and  partners  with  Government  in  many  aspects  of  our 
national development effort. 

We  welcome  the  initiative  of  Spain  and  Turkey 
that  led  to  the  establishment  of  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations.  It  reflects  a  strong  belief  in  dialogue  as 
the  best  means  to  remove  misunderstanding,  tension 
and  conflicts,  and  an  effective  mechanism 
for 
and  peaceful 
achieving 
coexistence among peoples.  

Let me conclude by emphasizing that religion and 
culture  are  part  of  humanity  and  constitute  very 
important aspects of the modern world. They cannot be 
wished  away.  Our  societies  have  become  more 
interconnected 
of 
globalization,  migration  and  new  information  and 
communication technologies. 

In  this  modern  age,  we  must  therefore  strive  to 
make  a  culture  of  science  and  technology  whose 
priority  is  the  search  for  solutions  to  the  immediate 
problems  of  people  here  on  Earth.  That  will  make  it 
possible for religions and cultures to flourish. That will 
in turn enable us to celebrate our diversity and use it as 
a  platform  for  human  progress,  mutual  understanding 
and peace. 
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  Her 

Excellency  Ms.  Sanja  Štiglic,  chairperson  of  the 
delegation of Slovenia. 
Ms.  Štiglic  (Slovenia):  Allow  me  to  begin  by 

saying  that  Slovenia  aligns  itself  fully  with  the 
statement  delivered  yesterday  by  the  representative  of 
Portugal on behalf of the European Union. 
interdependent 
compromise, 
tolerance 
because 
and 
to 
and 
cultures 
contribute 

I am particularly honoured to address the General 
Assembly  on  this  occasion.  We  all  agree  that  the 
improvement of understanding and cooperation among 
people  of  different  religions  and  cultures  is  a  must  if 
we are to forge together a world in which we can live 
side  by  side  in  peace.  That  indubitable  common 
objective  is  a  simple  yet  resounding  example  of  the 
fact  that  we  as  human  beings  have  far  more  things  to 
bind us together than to keep us apart. 

We  all  know  that  the  globalized  world  of  today 
stands  at  an  important  crossroads.  Events  of  the  past 
few  years  have  aggravated  relations  between  different 
parts of the world to the point where we can no longer 
shy away from directing all our efforts to establishing 
an  active  dialogue  among  the  world’s  ethnicities, 
religions and cultures. We all have to join in that effort 
so  that  we  can,  together,  build  bridges  between  our 
different 
better 
understanding  between  our  civilizations  and  a  better 
future for us all. 

Let  me  note  at  this  point  that  the  need  for 
interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue  is  not  in  any 
way  limited  to  intercontinental  conversations  or  even 
to conversations among different countries. The reality 
of  a  multicultural  society  exists  within  our  countries 
themselves.  Those 
be 
acknowledged, but they should never divide us. Rather, 
they should be seen as an opportunity to find new ways 
to achieve mutual understanding and greater respect for 
each other. 

Given the growing number of different initiatives 
on intercultural and interfaith understanding — such as 
the Alliance of Civilizations, the Asia-Europe Meeting 
Interfaith  Dialogue,  the  Euromed  Barcelona  process, 
the  Council  of  Europe  white  paper  on  intercultural 
dialogue, and many others — we believe that there is a 
need  for  enhanced  coordination,  cooperation  and 
complementarity  among  them,  and  particularly  among 
those within the United Nations framework.  

to  contribute 
the 
interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue  by  promoting 
global  understanding,  overcoming  prejudices,  and 
representing  a  pillar  of  humanism  and  cooperation  in 
the Mediterranean. In that regard, I would like to focus 
on two particular elements that can, in our view, most 
effectively 
and 
cooperation. These, in our view, are human rights and 
diversity education. 
My  country  wishes 
to  dialogue,  peace 
differences, 
too,  must 
contribute 
to 
22 

07-53011 
from 
diverse 
religious 
and 
it 
its  seat 
civilization 
is 
its 
As  part  of 
intercultural  dialogue, 



Ariel and Will Durant wrote that education is the 
transmission  of  civilization.  We  believe  that  the  true 
transmission  of 
continuous 
enhancement, not by the mere emulation of established 
paradigms,  but  precisely  by  learning  new  things,  by 
trying  to  understand  foreign  concepts,  by  seeking  to 
empathize  with  the  values  of  others,  by  promoting 
solidarity  among  peoples,  and  by  building  a 
comprehensive  global  culture  of  human  rights  and 
mutual understanding. 

is 
the 
important to promote mobility, especially that of young 
people, for what better way is there to learn about the 
rest of the world than to travel to it? With the hope of 
bringing together young people from around the world 
so  that  they  may  learn  from  each  other,  my  country 
recently  presented  an  initiative  to  establish  a  Euro-
Mediterranean  university,  with 
in  Piran, 
Slovenia. It is our hope that the university will be able 
to contribute in some way to dialogue among youth and 
scholars 
cultural 
backgrounds in the Mediterranean basin. 

Allow me to take this opportunity also to mention 
another initiative that has special importance for us. In 
May  2006,  the  Slovenian  Government  established  the 
Centre  for  European  Perspective.  The  Centre  was 
established with the intent of developing new thinking 
aimed at addressing outstanding issues in the European 
Union  and  wider  Europe.  One  of  the  Centre’s  main 
objectives is also to work towards the establishment of 
tolerant  societies  by  implementing  projects  that  will 
create  and  maintain  conditions  for  a  successful 
dialogue  among  the  different  religious  and  cultural 
communities  within  Europe  and  beyond.  We  have 
organized  numerous  meetings  and  round  tables  with 
political  and  religious  leaders  alike  from  the  western 
Balkan region.  

We have also established this year a task force on 
intercultural  dialogue.  Members  of  the  task  force  are 
international and Slovenian experts of different profiles 
religious 
or  backgrounds, 
representatives, 
and 
institutions  and 
representatives  of  various  public 
organizations.  My 
that 
intercultural  dialogue  should  be  encouraged  and 
fostered, and we want to do something about it. It must 
be  stressed,  however,  that  a  crucial  precondition  for 
any such dialogue is freedom of expression of thought, 
such 
dignitaries, 
as  politicians, 
country 
truly  believes 
academics 
A/62/PV.19
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  His 
Juan  Antonio  Yáñez-Barnuevo, 
conscience,  religion  and  belief,  and  we  shall  continue 
to work in support of those important rights. 

For  the  coming  year,  the  Centre  for  European 
Perspective has planned two projects that are aimed at 
fostering  dialogue  between  cultures  in  Europe.  The 
first  project  will  concern  questions  of  secularism, 
political  radicalism  and  immigration  in  the  European 
Union;  the  second  will  try  to  answer  the  important 
question  of  how  to  make  people  of  different  religions 
and  cultural  backgrounds  who  come  to  Europe  feel  at 
home in the European Union. 

Allow me to conclude by stating that respect for 
human  dignity  and  diversity  is  the  cornerstone  of  any 
peaceful  and  prosperous  society.  Let  us  build,  then, 
upon  our  common  values  and  translate  them  into 
action. My country, for one, extends its hand to anyone 
who wishes to join us in bringing more understanding 
into this world. 

Excellency  Mr. 
chairman of the delegation of Spain. 
Mr. Yáñez-Barnuevo (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): 

Allow  me  to  begin  by  congratulating  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  and 
this 
initiative,  the  Philippines  and  Pakistan,  for  organizing 
this  High-level  Dialogue.  The  participation  of 
Government  representatives  and  prominent  active 
members  of  civil  society  provides  us  with  a  good 
opportunity to share ideas and opinions that will allow 
us  to  advance  along  the  road  of  understanding  among 
peoples  and  societies  belonging  to  different  cultures 
and religions for the good of peace and the progress of 
peoples. 

Spain is aware of the importance of the challenge 
posed  by  the  need  for  understanding  among  nations 
and peoples in today’s world, and is a firm defender of 
dialogue  and  cooperation  as  instruments  for  fighting 
intolerance  and  discrimination  based  on  cultural  or 
religious differences. 

We are convinced that the grave problems arising 
from the lack of mutual awareness, from intolerance in 
the  face  of  difference,  or  from  rejection  of  what  is 
foreign  require 
international 
community, especially in the framework of the United 
Nations.  This  Organization  has  offered  of  late  a  good 
example of commitment in that field by adopting in the 
General  Assembly,  after  many  years  of  negotiations, 
the  sponsors  of 
joint  action  by 
the 
07-53011 

23 
the 
the 

importance  which 
A/62/PV.19 

the  United  Nations  Declaration  on  the  Rights  of 
Indigenous Peoples. 

Spain is therefore very pleased with the progress 
made  with  initiatives  such  as  this,  in  which  we 
participate  with  conviction,  and  with  others,  such  as 
the  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  which  Spain 
is 
co-sponsoring with Turkey and which has already been 
consolidated  as  a  United  Nations  initiative,  as  was 
highlighted  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his  statement 
yesterday at the beginning of this Dialogue. 
We  believe  that  the  complementary  nature  of 

initiatives  with  similar  goals  is  a  clear  and  valuable 
sign  of 
international 
community attaches to the need to encourage tolerance, 
respect,  dialogue  and  cooperation 
in  promoting 
understanding  and  coexistence  among  civilizations, 
cultures  and  religions  in  a  globalized  world  such  as 
ours  today.  That  complementary  nature  must  find 
appropriate ways to avoid any unnecessary duplication 
and to combine valuable efforts to the same end.  

In  that  regard,  I  support  the  statement  made 
yesterday by the Minister of State of Portugal on behalf 
of  the  European  Union  with  respect  to  the  role  that 
could  be  played  by  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  in 
ensuring  such  coherence.  The  statement  read  out 
yesterday  on  behalf  of  the  High  Representative  of  the 
Secretary-General  for  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations, 
Mr. Jorge Sampaio, had a similar thrust. 

The  contribution  of  the Alliance  of  Civilizations 
to the common goal of understanding among religions 
and cultures, as well as to cooperation for peace, could 
be  synthesized  in  the  following  elements.  First,  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations  has  a  mandate 
is 
essentially  pragmatic,  focusing  on  joint  action  and  on 
obtaining  specific  results.  One  of  its  goals  is  to  move 
from the realm of ideas towards the practical, concrete 
and specific.  

With that spirit as guide, the implementation plan 
for  the  next  two  years,  as  presented  last  June  by 
Mr. Sampaio, the High Representative for the Alliance 
of  Civilizations,  contains  ideas,  projects  and  concrete 
programmes that are focused on action in four specific 
areas:  youth,  education,  migration  and  the  media. 
Those  areas  are 
to  be  where  major 
contributions  could  be  made  to  combat  the  lack  of 
dialogue  and  understanding  among  peoples  and 
societies that belong to different cultures and religions. 
The goal is to encourage mutual understanding, to end 
thought 
that 
tolerance 
in  order 
and  dialogue, 
preconceived  notions  about  the  other,  and  to  promote 
to  encourage 
exchange  and  coexistence 
respect, 
rejecting 
any 
amalgamation  of  religion  or  belief,  regardless  of 
denomination,  with  extremism  and  violence.  We  must 
do all that through education and with the cooperation 
of  the  media  as  we  specifically  address  collective 
groups  that  are  especially  vulnerable  in  those  matters, 
such as youth and migrants. 

Secondly, as noted by the High Representative, it 
is  necessary  for  decisions  on  this  issue  to  be  adopted 
with  a  global  focus.  At  the  same  time,  however,  the 
development  of  activities  at  the  local  level  is  critical, 
since  it  will  guarantee  their  true  implementation  and 
ensure  that  their  content  effectively  penetrates  the 
societies they address. The problems that arise  from  a 
lack  of  understanding  among  peoples  and  societies  of 
different religions or cultures germinate and develop at 
the local level, even when they rise to the global level. 
For  that  reason,  action  must  be  directed  mainly  at  the 
very heart of societies themselves.  

In that regard, we feel that another good point of 
departure  could  be  the  suggestion  made  by  High 
Representative  Sampaio  at 
the  recent  ministerial 
meeting  of  the  Group  of  Friends  of  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations that international organizations — be they 
universal  or  regional  —  develop  their  own  work 
programmes  for  cooperation  with  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations, in particular in the four thematic areas on 
which  the  initiative  focuses.  He  also  suggested  that 
States  develop  national  strategies  for  transcultural 
dialogue  pursuant  to  the  principles  of  the Alliance  of 
Civilizations. 

At the national level, Spain is already working on 
defining  its  own  national  plan  for  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations, a goal of which, among others, will be to 
address  the  national  and  international  aspects  of 
intercultural  and  interreligious  dialogue.  In  addition,  I 
take  this  opportunity  to  highlight  the  First  Annual 
Forum of the Alliance of Civilizations to take place in 
Spain on 15 and 16 January 2008. The Forum will seek 
to be a platform for reinforcing political support for the 
initiative and for obtaining concrete results in the area 
of  youth,  among  others.  It  will  be  a  good  occasion  to 
debate and share common progress that has been made, 
as  well  as  to  enrich  the Alliance  implementation  plan 
with new ideas. 
24 

07-53011 
in 
In 
the 
immediate  future,  and 
today.  The  Alliance  would 



We  hope  that  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  will 
become a reference framework for States, international 
organizations, representatives of civil society — whose 
task we deem to be of crucial importance — and other 
actors  in  the  sphere  of  intercultural  dialogue.  Special 
but  not  exclusive  consideration  should  be  given  to 
relations  between  the West  and  the  Islamic  world,  the 
need  for  which  has  been  stressed  during  our  debates 
yesterday  and 
thus 
constitute  a  useful  tool  for  crisis  prevention  and 
management in that respect. 

line  with 
proposals  contained  in  the  implementation  plan,  we 
believe  that  there  exists  a  high  degree  of  consensus 
concerning  initiatives  suggested  within  the  framework 
of  the  Alliance,  which  we  hope  will  soon  come  to 
fruition. Some include the creation of a rapid-response 
media  mechanism  in  times  of  crisis;  the  expansion  of 
intercultural  exchanges  among  young  people,  who 
should receive support from specific funds for projects 
that  promote  dialogue  and  tolerance;  and  the  use  of 
mechanisms  at  the  community,  regional  and  local 
levels  for  establishing  dialogue  and  preventing  and 
overcoming conflicts. 

Spain believes in a past, a present and, indeed, a 
future replete with diversity and cultural and religious 
pluralism.  We  are  convinced  that  such  diversity  and 
pluralism constitute one of our major assets, and their 
integration  represents  both  a  national  political  and  a 
foreign policy challenge. 

We are convinced that diversity can be integrated 
only  through  dialogue,  understanding,  respect  and 
tolerance.  For  that  reason,  we  will  muster  all  of  our 
energy,  pragmatically  but  on  a  principled  basis,  to 
promote  actions  that  are  addressed  at  reconciliation, 
mutual  knowledge  and  understanding  among  peoples 
and  societies  belonging  to  different  cultures  and 
religions,  since  we  know  that  this  task  represents  the 
greatest challenge of our time. 
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  Her 

Excellency  Ms.  Maria  Luiza  Ribeiro  Viotti, 
chairperson of the delegation of Brazil. 
Ms. Ribeiro Viotti (Brazil): Brazil welcomes the 

High-level Dialogue on Interreligious and Intercultural 
Understanding and Cooperation for Peace. I would like 
to  express  appreciation  to  the  delegations  of  the 
Philippines  and  Pakistan 
the 
initiative. 
spearheading 
for 
A/62/PV.19
that  breed 
to  understand 
recent  years.  The  need 

A high-level dialogue on such an important issue 
is well placed and timely. The sense of a widening gap 
and  lack  of  mutual  understanding  between  societies 
and  cultures  has  been  a  source  of  heightened  concern 
in 
that 
phenomenon and to advance dialogue and cooperation 
to  bridge  divides  and  overcome  the  threats  emanating 
from  them  is  being  increasingly  felt.  It  is  only  fitting 
that  the  dialogue  should  take  place  in  the  General 
Assembly. 

It  is  timely  to  highlight  the  importance  of 
dialogue  and  diplomacy  at  a  juncture  when  such 
powerful  instruments  could  be  used  to  their  fullest 
extent.  Such  a  dialogue  would  probably  show  that 
conflicts  usually  perceived  as  motivated  by  religious 
and  ethnic  differences  have  an  underlying  source  of 
inequality  and  exclusion 
radicalism, 
fanaticism  and  violence.  Today,  such  problems  mark 
relations  between  nations  and  within 
societies, 
regardless of their levels of development. 

Extremism  should  not  be  allowed  to  prosper. 
Violent  manifestations  of  extremism  cannot  be 
tolerated  or  justified  on  any  grounds.  However,  in 
order  to  address  such  threats,  one  has  to  take  into 
account the distressing environment that has often been 
exploited  and  exacerbated  by  extremists  in  many 
societies. In some cases, the reality of social exclusion 
and  inequality  is  compounded  by  the  persistence  of 
situations of domination and injustice that keep peoples 
and  nations  from  developing  the  basic  conditions  for 
building a dignified and sovereign future. 

As a multi-ethnic, multicultural society composed 
mainly  of  populations  from  indigenous,  European  and 
African  origins,  Brazil  values  the  diversity  of  the 
human  experience.  Immigrants  from  all  parts  of  the 
world  have  been  welcomed  to  our  country  and  have 
enriched  our 
contributions. 
Brazilians  take  pride  in  such  multifaceted  origins.  A 
constantly  evolving  and  mutually  reinforcing  process 
of  dialogue,  interaction  and  exchange  among  cultures 
has  permeated  our  social  manifestations.  Diversity, 
therefore,  is  an  essential  part  of  and  cornerstone  upon 
which our very identity is based. 

Brazilians  of  the  Christian,  Jewish  and  Muslim 
faiths live together in harmony and strive to make the 
country  more  socially  just  and  prosperous.  In  Brazil, 
we  have  been 
the  grave 
inequalities  that  have  accumulated  since  the  early 
resolutely  confronting 
culture  with 
their 
07-53011 

25 

A/62/PV.19 

stages  of  the  country’s  development.  Public  policies 
have  been  implemented  in  recent  years  to  reduce 
poverty  and  eliminate  hunger.  The  results  so  far  have 
been encouraging. 

Thus, from a Brazilian perspective, understanding 
and cooperation among different cultures and religions 
are not only possible, but also a goal to be pursued. At 
the United Nations, our best efforts must be devoted to 
understanding  the  roots  of  extremism  and  to  helping 
promote  an  environment  in  which  fanaticism  cannot 
thrive.  The  promotion  of  cross-cultural  and  interfaith 
dialogues such as today’s is most useful. 

Brazil  also  strongly  supports  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations, an initiative proposed by the President of 
the Spanish Government in 2005 and co-sponsored by 
the  Turkish  Prime  Minister.  Within  the  Group  of 
Friends, we will work with the High Representative of 
the Secretary-General for the Alliance of Civilizations, 
Mr.  Jorge  Sampaio,  former  President  of  Portugal,  to 
further  the  goals  of  promoting  understanding  and 
tolerance among different cultures and civilizations. 

Cultural  liberty  implies  being  able  to  choose 
one’s identity without losing respect for others or being 
excluded  from  other  choices  in  life.  People  want  the 
freedom  to  practice  their  own  religion,  to  speak  their 
own  language,  and  to  celebrate  their  own  ethnic  or 
religious heritage without fear of discrimination. 

States  face  a  challenge  in  responding  to  those 
demands.  If  well  managed,  they  will  bring  greater 
cultural  diversity  and  enrich  people’s  lives.  If  poorly 
managed,  they  could  result  in  xenophobia,  encourage 
conservative  agendas  and  block  the  diffusion  of  new 
ideas, knowledge and skills. 

Globalization  is  driving  increasing  interaction 
among  peoples  and  cultures.  That  calls  for  greater 
respect for diversity, as well as a stronger commitment 
to  universal  values  and  principles,  which  impart 
validity  to  that  approach.  It  is  worth  remembering  the 
consensus of the Vienna World Conference on Human 
Rights of 1993:  


“All human rights are universal, indivisible 
and interdependent and interrelated … While the 
significance 
regional 
particularities and various historical, cultural and 
religious  backgrounds  must  be  borne  in  mind,  it 
is the duty of States, regardless of their political, 
economic  and  cultural  systems,  to  promote  and 
national 
of 
and 
rights  and 
fundamental 
protect  all  human 
freedoms.” (A/CONF.157/23, part I, para. 5) 
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Adrian  Neritani,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of Albania. 
Mr.  Neritani  (Albania):  May  I  commend  the 

President of the General Assembly and the co-sponsors 
Philippines  and  Pakistan  on  this  important  and  timely 
initiative. Indeed, the way world affairs are headed, the 
question  of  interreligious  dialogue  and  culture  of 
compromise  and  cooperation  deserves  our  due 
attention and action. 

Dialogue has always been a key instrument in the 
process  of  building  peace  in  the  minds  of  men. 
Civilizations  are  inherently  intercultural;  they  have 
been  and  continue 
to  be  enriched  by  contacts, 
exchange,  dialogue  among  peoples  and  the  ability  to 
naturally change and adapt with the passing of time. In 
that  regard,  we  support  the  role  of  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations  and  other  initiatives  that  further  those 
ends. 

Albanians are traditionally tolerant and averse to 
any  form  of  extremism.  The  ordinary Albanian  grows 
up  in  an  atmosphere  in  which  religious  differentiation 
is  implied.  The  fact  that  an  Albanian  is  Muslim, 
Orthodox  or  Catholic  does  not  define  a  demarcation 
line  versus  the  other.  Those  and  other  elements  have 
shaped  our  innate  and  natural  tolerance.  Religious 
tolerance  among Albanians  is  not  a  quality  developed 
in  modern  times  or  shaped  through  education  and 
schooling.  It  is  a  tradition  that  originates  from  the 
depths of the centuries. The tolerance of three faiths is 
closely linked with the nation and its existence. It is at 
the  essence  and  goes  to  the  very  heart  of  our 
foundation,  learned  the  hard  way  through  life  and 
history. 

Tolerance among Albanians is not only religious, 
but also linguistic and ethnic. The coexistence of three 
religions in Albania is a peculiar tendency in a region 
where religion has often been connected to nationalism 
and  where  fratricidal  wars  have  been  fought  in  the 
name  of  belief.  The  ethnicization  of  religion  has 
proved  to  be  bad  and  dangerous. Wars  are  enemies  of 
religion, which they distort.  

During  the  past  decade  or  so,  the  Balkans 
experienced  those  miseries,  which,  combined  with 
nationalistic  policies,  were  transformed  into  human 
26 

07-53011 
Recognizing 
the  unique  case 


tragedies. We sincerely hope that the remnants of those 
policies and/or politicians or their proxies will come to 
an  end  sooner  rather  than  later  and  let  our  region 
naturally  prosper  and  develop,  as  it  deserves  to  do. 
Nationalistic  policies,  cultivated  in  many  cases  with  a 
great deal of fanaticism and even ethnic cleansing, are 
openly  opposed  to  that  trend.  The  willingness  to  use 
rhetoric  could  be  better  channelled  to  address  issues 
realistically. 

that  Albania 
represents  in  the  domain  of  interreligious  harmony, 
under  the  joint  auspices  of  the  Director-General  of 
UNESCO  and  the  Government  of Albania  a  Regional 
Summit on Interreligious and Interethnic Dialogue was 
held  in  Tirana,  the Albanian  capital,  a  few  years  ago. 
The  Summit  served  as  a  medium  for  sharing  national 
and  regional  experiences,  defining  a  framework  for 
cooperation,  and  identifying  concrete  initiatives  and 
programmes  to  the  benefit  of  prosperity,  development 
and,  above  all,  peace  in  the  region  at  large.  On  that 
occasion,  heads  of  State  and  Government  and  other 
participants  representing  all  countries  of  South-East 
Europe adopted the Tirana Summit Declaration, which 
for 
the  contribution  of 
interreligious  or  interfaith  dialogue  to  the  broader 
dialogue. 

East Europe committed themselves to  

In Tirana,  leaders  and  policymakers  from  South-
“the  education  of  a  new  European  generation  in 
the  spirit  of  inclusiveness,  instilling  a  feeling  of 
forgiveness 
promoting 
tolerance,  understanding  and  coexistence  rather 
than  conflict  and  violence,  reinforcing  civic 
education and observing human rights”.  
time  defined 
instead 
hatred, 
first 
the 
of 
They  also  situated  cultural  diversity  and  heritage  as 
vectors  of  identity  and  tools  for  reconciliation  by 
defining  cultural  heritage,  in  both  its  tangible  and 
intangible  forms,  as  indivisible  and  embodying  the 
symbolic values of cultural identities. A special appeal 
was  made 
and 
capitalize  on 
communication technologies and  

“their  innate  potential  to  advance  freedom  of 
expression,  which  is  the  cornerstone  of  any 
democratic  society  and  has  its  corollary  in  the 
freedom of the press”. 
information 
to 
Most  importantly,  the  Tirana  Declaration  emphasized 
that  
A/62/PV.19

“[a]ll  religious  leaders,  like  other  civil  society 
and  community  leaders,  have  the  potential  to 
exercise  a  moral  and  positive  influence  on  how 
people  in  society  understand  each  other  and 
interact”.  
there 
Today, 
recognition 
is  growing 
Reconciliation of freedom and equality in our countries 
and beyond is an effort worth making. 

that 
interreligious dialogue must be expanded to contribute 
proactively  to  social  cohesion,  stability  and  mutual 
understanding everywhere. Religious leaders are called 
on to reinforce among their congregations and faithful 
the  precepts  of  dialogue  among  civilizations,  cultures 
and  peoples,  in  particular  the  broadly  agreed  body  of 
commonly  shared  ethical  values.  As 
the  Tirana 
Declaration summarizes the matter at hand, “[r]eligion 
must  not  be  part  of  the  problem,  but  part  of  the 
solution”. 
Albania’s peaceful religious pluralism is of value 

to the country, the Balkans and beyond. It is a model of 
religious  coexistence.  Although  it  is  tied  to  ethnic 
homogeneity, its value has no national borderlines and 
it is biased towards the values of democratic societies. 
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency Mr. Akec Khoc, chairman of the delegation 
of Sudan. 
Mr.  Khoc  (Sudan):  I  am  greatly  honoured  to 

represent  the  Sudan,  my  country,  in  this  High-level 
Dialogue 
Intercultural 
Understanding and Cooperation for Peace, which is of 
great relevance to the Sudan.  

I  could  not  agree  more  with  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly when he stated at the 17th meeting: 
“We are reaffirming the values enshrined in the United 
Nations  Charter  …  and  taking  concrete  steps  to 
advance  those  values  around  the  world”.  That  need 
resounded  loudly  during  the  general  debate  and  from 
all corners of the globe. I wish to associate myself with 
earlier speakers in commending his leadership and the 
two  co-sponsors  of  this  meeting,  the  Philippines  and 
Pakistan. 
In the Sudan, Islam and Christianity have always 

coexisted  and  interacted.  However,  conflict  based  on 
control of economic resources, rather than on violence 
and  extremism,  has  infrequently  surfaced  in  those 
relationships.  Our 
relationship  with  neighbouring 
peoples,  cultures  and  religions  has  been  and  is  still 
Interreligious 
and 
on 
07-53011 

27 

requires 
the  creation  of 
remains  anchored 
tolerance,  cooperation  and 
A/62/PV.19 

founded  on  dialogue.  Given  the  facility  of  movement 
across  its  borders,  the  Sudan  is  a  land  of  diverse 
cultures and religions from which emerge our strength. 
The  fact  that  pluralism  cannot  remain  cohesive  unless 
it  seeks  and 
in  cooperation, 
harmonious dialogue and the culture of peace, stability 
and  security  cannot  be  overstressed.  Our  geographical 
location  in  the  Horn  of  Africa,  sharing  common 
borders  with  nine  nations  and  a  tenth  across  the  Red 
Sea, 
strong  dialogue 
mechanisms if we are to interact harmoniously with all 
those neighbours. 

There are over 300 cultural groups in the Sudan. 
Therefore, intercultural dialogue and cooperation have 
always  been  at  the  centre  of  our  relations.  However, 
the  changing  times  of  the  twenty-first  century  and 
cyber and other technologies dictate that such dialogue 
and cooperation be intensified and scaled up. We need 
and are exercising them today more than ever. 

The Interim National Constitution and other laws 
derived  therefrom  defend  and  promote  interreligious 
for 
dialogue, 
religious  and  cultural  diversity.  They 
stipulate 
citizenship based on a number of rights that sometimes 
collide with each other. Therefore, dialogue must justly 
remain  the  best  choice  for  resolving  those  and  other 
matters 
that  might 
interfere  with  our  pluralistic 
peaceful coexistence. 

The  conclusion  of  the  Comprehensive  Peace 
Agreement  between  the  South  and  the  North  of  the 
Sudan  in  January  2005  and  other  subsequent  peace 
accords added more flesh to the pluralistic dimension. 
For  example,  the  formation  of  an  almost  all-inclusive 
Government  of  National  Unity,  including  members 
professing  various  faiths  and  sects  within  the  same 
faiths, required long sessions of open-minded dialogue, 
cooperation and tolerance. 

At  a  time  of  globalization,  we  cannot  remain 
focused on national actions alone. We must coexist and 
interact with the greater family of nations and peoples 
worldwide.  We  call  on  all  stakeholders,  public  and 
private, national and international, to acknowledge the 
legitimate rights of all peoples to assert their religious 
and  cultural  identities  through  dialogue.  We  equally 
encourage  all  regional  institutions  to  energize  their 
interreligious and intercultural cooperation institutions 
where they exist or to create them where absent.  
respect 
at 
of 
the  High-level  Dialogue 
for  Peace,  and  on  behalf  of 

I  wish  to  end  by  reasserting  importance  of  the 
preamble  of  UNESCO’s  Constitution  —  “since  wars 
begin  in  the  minds  of  men,  it  is  in  the  minds  of  men 
that  the  defences  of  peace  must  be  constructed”  —  in 
fostering  peaceful  coexistence  in  the  spirit  of  the 
Alliance of Civilizations. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Alexei  Tulbure,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of Moldova. 
Mr.  Tulbure  (Moldova):  At  the  outset,  I  would 

like  to  underline  that  Moldova  fully  subscribes  to  the 
statement  made  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  by 
the representative of Portugal, but I would nevertheless 
add some additional remarks. 
It  gives  me  special  pleasure  to  address  the 

participants 
on 
Interreligious  and  Intercultural  Understanding  and 
Cooperation 
the 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Moldova  I  would  like 
to  commend  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly 
and  the  co-sponsors,  the  Philippines  and  Pakistan,  for 
conceiving and organizing this important event. 

During  our  debates,  many  delegations  have 
reflected on the dialogue among cultures and religious, 
emphasizing 
peaceful 
coexistence  of  nations  and  praising  the  value  of 
tolerance  and  mutual  understanding.  In  our  globalized 
world,  peoples,  religions  and  cultures  interact  and 
influence  one  another  at  a  level  inconceivable  by  our 
predecessors,  but  crucial  to  our  successors. Therefore, 
the  general  commitment  to  overcoming  old  divisions, 
oppositions and confrontations and to establishing and 
maintaining  a  genuine  dialogue  among  civilizations 
based  on  understanding,  tolerance  and  mutual  respect 
gives hope for the peoples of our global village. 

Moldova,  a  country  with  a  rich  and  deep-rooted 
history,  culture  and  traditions,  was  for  centuries  a 
nexus  for  the  interaction  of  different  peoples  and 
cultures,  being  located  on  a  historic  passageway 
between  Asia  and  Europe.  Representatives  of  diverse 
ethnic  groups,  speakers  of  many 
languages  and 
followers  of  different  religions  found  a  homeland  in 
Moldova.  The  population  of  our  multi-ethnic  country 
developed  a  unique  sense  of  tolerance  that  became  a 
characteristic of the Moldovan national mentality. 

those  historic  experiences,  and 
integrating the fundamental principles enshrined in the 
Building  on 
importance 
the 
the 
28 

07-53011 
living 
the  common  and 
their  ethnic,  cultural, 


Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  our  Constitution 
declares  Moldova 
indivisible 
motherland of all its citizens. The State recognizes and 
guarantees all its citizens the right to preserve, develop 
and  express 
linguistic  and 
religious identities.  

In  2004,  a  new  law  was  enacted,  adopting  the 
concept  of  Moldova’s  State  national  policy.  Tolerance 
and respect for the languages, cultures, and religions of 
all  ethnic  communities 
in  Moldova  were 
declared  an 
indispensable  condition  for  political 
sovereignty  and  civic  peace  in  our  country.  Moldova 
declared its determination to build a harmonious multi-
ethnic  society,  based  on  the  principles  of  ethnic  and 
linguistic liberalism and pluralism. 

Freedom  of  conscience  and  of  religious  worship 
is  guaranteed  under  the  supreme  law  of  the  country, 
which  stipulates  that  its  manifestations  should  be  in  a 
spirit  of  tolerance  and  mutual  respect.  In  their  mutual 
relationships,  religious  cults  are  forbidden  to  use, 
express or incite hatred or enmity. The law forbids and 
prosecutes  all  actions  aimed  at  ethnic,  racial  or 
religious hatred and incitement to discrimination. 

Recently, the Moldovan Parliament adopted a law 
on  religious  cults,  seeking  to  modernize  Moldovan 
legislation  and 
into  accordance  with 
international 
the  European 
Convention  and  Protocol  for  the  Protection  of  Human 
Rights  and  Fundamental  Freedoms.  In  referring  to  the 
Council  of  Europe,  let  me  underline  how  much  we 
value  and  look  forward  to  the  conclusion  of  the 
Council’s work on the comprehensive document known 
as the white paper on intercultural dialogue. The white 
paper  translates  the  concept  of  intercultural  dialogue 
by  identifying  five  tasks:  developing  the  democratic 
governance  of 
strengthening 
democratic  citizenship  and  participation;  learning  and 
teaching intercultural competences; creating spaces for 
intercultural  dialogue;  and  developing  intercultural 
dialogue  in  international  relations.  We  are  convinced 
that this is very important for all of us. 

In  its  recent  history,  the  Republic  of  Moldova 
underwent  a  bitter  experience  of  internal  conflict  that 
resulted  in  the  secession  and  isolation  of  a  part  of  its 
territory.  Politicians,  academic  representatives,  and 
researchers  from  different  countries  have  thoroughly 
examined the nature of the conflict and expressed their 
cultural  diversity; 
it 
including 
to  bring 
standards, 
A/62/PV.19
broad  concurrence  on  its  absence  of  religious,  ethnic 
and  cultural  roots.  Regrettably,  the  economic  and 
political  interests  of  some  unscrupulous  individuals 
and  groups  still  cause  the  separation  of  families, 
cultural  and  religious  communities  and  ethnic  groups, 
denying their basic human rights and hindering the free 
expression of identities and beliefs. 

Conflicts  all  around  the  world  divert  enormous 
resources and time from our societies and threaten our 
development.  Governments  and  societies  try  to  settle 
them, to overcome their legacies and to bridge the gaps 
between  communities,  peoples  and  individuals.  While 
so  many  different  experiences,  methods  and  strategies 
have  been  shared  from  this  rostrum  yesterday  and 
today,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  once  more  the 
importance of education in the promotion of tolerance, 
respect and mutual understanding.  
Education, in particular at school, has a key role 

in 
the  construction  of  pluralistic  and 
inclusive 
societies.  However,  laws  and  regulations  alone  are 
insufficient  for  providing  education  in  the  spirit  of 
peace  and  tolerance.  It  is  of  high  importance  to  train 
teachers and to develop textbooks and curriculums that 
include lessons of mutual understanding, tolerance, the 
protection  of  human  rights,  and  knowledge  of  and 
respect  for  foreign  cultures,  peoples  and  countries.  In 
that 
and 
the  United  Nations  Educational, 
programmes  of 
Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization, 
the  United 
Nations  Children’s  Fund,  and  other  international  and 
regional  organizations  aimed  at  promoting  peace, 
tolerance  and  cultural  diversity  through  dialogue  and 
education. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  that  my 
country,  Moldova,  strongly  supports  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations  initiative.  We  welcome  the  appointment 
of Jorge Sampaio, former President of Portugal, as the 
High  Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  for  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations,  and  express  our  conviction 
that, with the concrete involvement of Member States, 
we  will  advance  in  promoting  dialogue  and  mutual 
understanding among cultures and religions around the 
world. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Archbishop  Dominique  Mamberti, 
Secretary  for  Relations  with  States  of  the  Observer 
State of the Holy See. 
regard,  we 
commend 
activities 
the 
07-53011 

29 
religious 
A/62/PV.19 

Archbishop  Mamberti  (Holy  See):  In  an  effort, 

Madame, to meet your recommendation to be brief, my 
delegation  is  circulating  its  written  text,  and  I  shall 
read out an abridged version. 

There cannot be peace without understanding and 
cooperation  among 
religions.  There  cannot  be 
understanding  and  cooperation  among 
religions 
without 
liberty.  The  safeguarding  and 
promotion  of  religious  liberty  for  all  requires  both 
State action and religious responsibility. 
States  and  international  organizations  are  called 

on  to  adhere  to  and  enforce  the  principles  of  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  allied 
international  instruments,  such  as  the  Declaration  on 
the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of  Intolerance  and  of 
Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief. 

The full exercise of the right to religious freedom 
is  based  on  respect  for  human  reason  and  its  capacity 
to know the truth. It ensures openness to transcendence 
as  an  indispensable  guarantee  of  human  dignity.  It 
allows  all  religions  to  publicly  manifest  their  own 
identity,  free  from  any  pressure  to  hide  or  disguise  it. 
Religious  freedom  includes  the  right  to  disseminate 
one’s own faith and the right to change it. Respect for 
religious  liberty  would  unmask  the  attempts  of  some 
terrorists 
their  unjustifiable  actions  on 
religious grounds. 

If  violence  continues  to  arise  between  religious 
groups,  anti-incitement  programmes  in  civil  society 
should be supported, especially when they are initiated 
by  local  groups  belonging  to  cross-religious  alliances. 
Anti-incitement  activities  include  education  and  the 
mobilization of religious leaders and mass movements 
opposing  hate  speech  and  other  public  acts  calculated 
to spur sectarian violence. 

special 
protection  or  status  so  long  as  their  right  to  religious 
freedom 
they  are  not 
discriminated  against  on  religious  grounds.  In  fact, 
they  should  enjoy  the  same  civil  rights  as  the  general 
population and members of the majority religion — for 
example,  in  the  construction  or  repair  of  places  of 
worship. 

Fruitful  high-level  international  gatherings  of 
religious  leaders  aimed  at  praying  for  and  promoting 
peace  should  be  replicated  at  the  national  and  local 
levels. Indeed, prayer and good intentions are authentic 
Religious  minorities  do  not 
fully  guaranteed  and 
justify 
seek 
to 
is 

significant  contributions 
only if they are translated into practical gestures at all 
levels. If religions want to build peace, they must teach 
forgiveness.  In  fact,  there  can  be  no  peace  without 
justice, and there can be no justice without forgiveness. 
Religious  communities  can  also  make  a  positive 
contribution to peace by educating their own members 
about their teachings on peace and solidarity. 

By promoting interreligious programmes focused 
on  development  cooperation,  we  can  also  foster 
dialogue  and  make 
to 
peacemaking in societies afflicted by conflict, working 
with local groups in the areas of anti-incitement, peace 
and  non-violence  education,  conflict  transformation 
and negotiation. 

At a time when the so-called clash of civilizations 
is  gaining  currency  in  some  quarters,  religions  have  a 
special  role  to  play  in  blazing  new  paths  towards 
peace,  in  union  with  one  another  and  in  cooperation 
with States and international organizations. In order to 
empower  religions  to  fully  assume  that  role,  all  of  us 
must work together to ensure that religious freedom is 
recognized,  safeguarded  and  fostered  by  everyone 
everywhere. If this High-level Dialogue is to bear fruit, 
our message today must go beyond the confines of this 
Hall  to  reach  and  touch  each  and  every  person  and 
community of believers throughout the world. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General  Assembly 
(XXX),  of  
10  October  1975,  I  now  call  upon  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Ekmeleddin  Ihsanoglu,  Secretary-General  of  the 
Organization of the Islamic Conference. 
Mr.  Ihsanoglu  (Organization  of  the  Islamic 

Conference):  I will present an abridged  version of my 
statement.  The  full  text  will  be  made  available  to 
delegations.  

We have been listening with great attention to the 
general  and  rich  debate  that  started  yesterday  on  the 
subject 
intercultural 
understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace.  I  have  no 
intention of repeating what has been said by preceding 
speakers.  Rather,  I  would  like  to  say  that  there  is 
overwhelming agreement concerning the importance of 
interreligious  and 
in 
peacebuilding  and  ensuring  security  and  prosperity 
throughout the world. 

We in the Organization of the Islamic Conference 
(OIC)  fully  agree  with  that  conclusion.  We  have 
intercultural  understanding 
resolution  3369 
interreligious 
and 
of 
30 

07-53011 


expressed our thanks and gratitude to Pakistan and the 
Philippines, the two sponsors of this highly appreciated 
initiative.  Its  subject  matter  is  currently  of  great 
concern to the international community and constitutes 
one of the great challenges for humanity. 

It is for the same reason that we have welcomed 
the  idea  of  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  which  is 
gaining  momentum.  We  have  already  committed 
ourselves  to  working  diligently  to  ensure  its  success. 
Having  been  involved  for  nearly 10 years in the  issue 
of 
the  dialogue  among  civilizations,  and  having 
initiated the Dialogue among Civilizations in 1998, the 
OIC has succeeded in placing this issue on the agenda 
of the General Assembly. We were also gratified when 
the  Assembly  declared  2001  the  Year  of  Dialogue 
among  Civilizations  and,  to  that  end,  organized  many 
activities  and  programmes  around  the  world.  We  are 
now  very  satisfied  to  see  that  this  issue  has  begun  to 
occupy a prominent place among the major concerns of 
the  international  community  and  to  see  the  rich 
proliferation of interfaith dialogues. Today’s high-level 
meeting is another manifestation of that importance.  

Having  said  that,  we  cannot  but  admit  that 
progress in moving from the phase of debating to that 
of  concrete  action  continues  to  be  lacking.  Very  few 
programmes  or  projects  have  found  their  way  to 
implementation.  Even  fewer  attempts  have  been  made 
to  address  conflicts  on  the  basis  of  the  foundations  of 
faith.  That  is  why  we  firmly  believe  that  interfaith 
dialogue  and  understanding  should  not  remain  an 
empty slogan, without substance.  

We badly need practical and concrete measures to 
address this issue, upon which the fate of world peace 
and  security  depends.  It  is  from  that  perspective  that 
we  have  welcomed  the  new  agenda  of  the Alliance  of 
Civilizations, which is focused on addressing the issues 
of  youth,  education,  media  and  immigration  from  a 
practical standpoint. There is no doubt that those issues 
represent  a  serious  source  of  friction  in  international 
relations.  

In  the  same  way,  we  believe  that  there  is  no 
alternative  to  dialogue.  Dialogue  is  the  only  way  to 
achieve  understanding.  It  is  indispensable  in  building 
bridges  as  a  means  of  communication  between 
religions and cultures.  

It  seems  to  us  that  there  are  deficiencies  in 
conceiving  of  and  conducting  dialogue.  Some  among 
us  talk  of  dialogue  for  the  sake  of  dialogue  and  of 
A/62/PV.19
at 
increasing 
towards 
sensitivity 
nothing beyond that. Others speak of dialogue without 
having  any  political  will  to  reach  a  genuine  positive 
result.  Some  groups  do  not  see  the  need  to  practise 
dialogue  on  the  basis  of  equal  esteem  for  various 
traditions  and  cultures.  Others  claim  to  exclusively 
represent the truth or to be superior to others.  

On  the  basis  of  those  and  other  considerations, 
we  have  found  ourselves  unable  to  forge  ahead  as  we 
had  all  expected  to  do.  We  believe  that,  if  we  are  to 
remedy  these  shortcomings,  interfaith  dialogue  should 
be  aimed  not  at  reaching  doctrinal  agreements,  but 
rather 
and 
appreciation  of  others.  Dialogue  should  also  be 
founded  on  values  shared  by  all  in  the  contemporary 
world.  
Moreover,  the  goal  of  dialogue  should  be  an 

ethical  globalization 
in  which  each  civilization 
maintains its identity as a contributor to the creation of 
a spirit of shared humanity and respect for all.  

In  the  context  of  ethics,  we  in  the  OIC  have 
called  for  a  practical  measure  to  reduce  tension 
regarding  one  of  the  thorniest  issues  facing  the  world 
today  —  that  is,  ensuring  respect  for  all  religions  and 
beliefs.  We  have  suggested  that  an  agreement  with 
legal  provisions  be  discussed  and  adopted  to  prohibit 
the defamation of religions or their sacred symbols. In 
doing  so,  we  will  stem  the  proactive  attempts  that 
poison  relations  between  the  adherents  of  different 
religions under the guise of freedom of expression.  
At  a  time  when  many  are  hailing  the  spirit  of 

the 
interfaith 
acknowledgement  of  diversity,  many  Muslims  around 
the  world  are  experiencing  circumstances  that  are  far 
from  celebration  or  acknowledgement.  Wide-ranging 
hate  campaigns  and  speech  campaigns  are  sweeping 
across  large  areas  where  Islam  as  a  religion  is  being 
attacked  and  denigrated,  where  Muslims  are  facing 
injustice  and  discrimination.  Here  I  am  referring  to 
Islamophobia.  Western 
institutions  monitoring 
Islamophobia  in  Europe  are  unanimous  in  reporting 
that this phenomenon is on the rise and that a new form 
of  discrimination  has  emerged  based  on  the  hatred  of 
Islam. 

I  have  not  evoked  this  issue  as  a  complaint,  but 
rather to highlight the relevance and importance of our 
meeting  today. When  we  talk  about  Islamophobia,  we 
are  not  dealing  with  words  but  with  real  facts  on  the 
ground. I think everybody agrees that the current tense 
intercultural 
dialogue 
and 
and 
07-53011 

31 

A/62/PV.19 

relationship  between  the  Muslim  world  and  the  West, 
inspired  by  political,  cultural  and  religious  factors, 
constitutes  one  of  the  major  threats  to  peace  and 
security in the world. 

In order to address this highly disturbing issue on 
a  political  basis  as  well  as  on  a  practical  one,  I  have 
repeatedly  called  for  the  urgent  need  for  Islam  and 
Christianity  to  agree  on  an  historic  reconciliation  that 
would  bring  the  two  faiths  closer  together,  eliminate 
ancient  grudges  and  pave  the  way  for  a  promising 
future.  A  few  decades  ago,  we  saw  this  attempt  take 
place  successfully  between  Christianity  and  Judaism. 
In  this  age  of  globalization,  an  historic  reconciliation 
between  Islam  and  Christianity  would  be  an  event  of 
resounding  historic  proportion,  and  it  would  affect 
almost half of humanity. The two great religions of the 
world cannot afford to let their relationship be defined 
according  to  antiquated,  antagonistic  paradigms.  We 
are  confident  that  if  we  can  only  manage  to  clear  this 
major  obstacle,  the  entire  world  will  be  safer,  more 
peaceful and prosperous. 

Let us work together to promote peace and social 
cohesion.  Let  us  endeavour  to  foster  freedom  of 
religion  and  belief  in  order  to  overcome  extremism, 
stereotypes, prejudice, ignorance  and indifference. Let 
us be an instrument of God, of peace and of a limitless 
ocean of love and harmony. 

The  meeting  was  suspended  at  6.25  p.m.  on 
Friday, 5 October, and was resumed at 10 a.m. on 
Monday, 8 October. 
The  President: 
this  High-level  Dialogue 

I  call  on  Her  Excellency 
Ms. Ruchi  Ghanashyam,  chairperson  of  the  delegation 
of India.
Ms.  Ghanashyam  (India):  India  is  happy  to 

participate 
on 
Interreligious  and  Intercultural  Understanding.  As  a 
country  that  has  historically  been  a  confluence  of 
various  religions  and  cultures,  India  believes  that 
dialogues  of  this  kind  are  useful  in  furthering  the 
message  of  peace  and  harmony  to  which  we  are  all 
deeply committed. 

India  has  a  long  tradition  of  supporting  the 
plurality of beliefs and the individual’s right to follow 
his or her own creed. Freedom of thought and speech is 
ingrained  in  the  psyche  of  our  nation.  It  is  not 
surprising, therefore, that all the major religions of the 
world can be found in our country. Historically, people 
in 
persecuted  on  grounds  of  religion  in  other  lands 
flocked  to  India  and  found  safety  and  freedom  to 
follow  their  faith.  The  openness  of  our  society  is 
reflected  in  the  numbers  of  the  largest  minority  in 
India,  the  followers  of  Islam.  With  a  population  of 
close  to  150  million  Muslims,  India  has  the  world’s 
second  largest  Muslim  population.  Hindus,  Muslims, 
Christians,  Sikhs  and  others  have  held  the  highest 
positions in the country. 

The  tolerance  of  our  society  emanates  from  the 
belief  that  all  paths  lead  to  the  same  destination. 
Respect for all religions and cultures is not just a part 
of  our  inheritance  and  cultural  heritage,  but  was 
regarded  as  an  article  of  faith  by  the  leaders  of  our 
freedom struggle. It is this commitment that resulted in 
the  establishment  of  a  secular  and  democratic  India 
after  our  independence.  The  leaders  of  modern  India 
remain  firmly  committed  to  the  ideal  of  interreligious 
and intercultural harmony and coexistence. 

It  is  no  coincidence,  then,  that  the  General 
Assembly unanimously decided, through its resolution 
61/271,  to  observe  2  October,  the  day  on  which 
Mahatma Gandhi was born, as the International Day of 
Non-Violence. The first such Day was observed by the 
General Assembly through an informal plenary meeting 
last week. 

Interreligious and intercultural understanding can 
be  promoted 
through  encouraging  a  culture  of 
inclusiveness.  Democracy  and  the  opportunity  for  a 
democratic  dialogue  make  a  positive  contribution  to 
interreligious  and  intercultural  harmony.  Nations  that 
provide  equal  opportunity  to  their  citizens  and  where 
secularism, 
reign  are 
particularly  well  placed  to  promote  harmony  among 
their citizens. 

the 
Modern 
development  of  countries  and  societies.  The  skills 
acquired  by  citizens  through  modern  education  enable 
them to be gainfully engaged in the process of nation-
building.  Education  and  development  also  act  as 
barriers  against  extremism  and  fundamentalism.  India 
has  a  strong  tradition  of  scientific  education.  Modern 
India  has  made  great  strides  in  higher  education. This 
effort  needs  to  be  replicated  in  those  parts  of  South 
Asia where curricula continue to focus on antiquated or 
divisive  tendencies  and  where  large  sections  of  the 
education  system  remain  devoid  of  modern  systems 
and precepts, spawning extremism and fundamentalism. 
freedom  and  democracy 
education 
scientific 
helps 
32 

07-53011 
promote 
and 
interreligious 
spread  of  extremism, 



A  clear  message  that  this  Dialogue  should  send 
out  should  be  an  unambiguous  rejection  of  extremism 
and  violence.  Modern  societies  cannot  and  should  not 
tolerate  violence.  Support  by  State  machinery  for 
extremism,  either  deliberate  or  inadvertent,  to  serve 
internal or external interests, should be abandoned, and 
all  States  should  make  determined  efforts  to  prevent 
the 
fundamentalism  and 
terrorism. 

The Dialogue that is being held on this subject in 
the  General  Assembly  can  be  expected  to  contribute 
meaningfully and positively to the international efforts 
to 
intercultural 
understanding  only  if  it  proceeds  in  good  faith  and 
without politicization. Attempts to bring in the political 
agenda through the back door or to use it for short-term 
political  gains  undermine  the  credibility  of  the  effort 
itself. 

India  supports  all  sincere  efforts  to  promote 
interreligious  and  intercultural  understanding.  In  this 
context,  we  welcome  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Jorge 
the 
Sampaio, 
Secretary-General’s  High  Representative 
the 
Alliance of Civilizations. We have always been willing 
to share from our own experience of centuries of living 
in  peace  and  harmony  with  a  multiplicity  of  religions 
and communities.  
In  our  present  modern  world,  we  believe  that  a 

starting  point 
achieving 
interreligious and intercultural understanding would be 
for  States  to  enable  the  development  of  a  culture  of 
inclusiveness and tolerance within their own societies. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency Mr. Andreas Mavroyiannis, chairman of the 
delegation of Cyprus. 
Mr.  Mavroyiannis  (Cyprus):  Let  me  begin  by 

saying  that  Cyprus  fully  subscribes  to  the  statement 
made by the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and 
Cooperation  of  Portugal  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union.  We  welcome  this  High-level  Dialogue  on 
Interreligious  and  Intercultural  Understanding,  which 
we  consider  particularly  suited  to  the  United  Nations, 
with its global representativity. We do not view this as 
an academic exchange of positions; rather, we consider 
that our primary objective should be to relate the kind 
of outcome we are seeking through this Dialogue to the 
purposes and objectives of the United Nations. 
former  President  of  Portugal,  as 
for 
the  direction  of 
in 
A/62/PV.19

Cyprus is proud to have hosted, in July 2006, in 
cooperation  with  Malaysia,  the  second  Asia-Europe 
Meeting  Interfaith  Dialogue  forum,  which  dealt  with 
the  issue  of  interfaith  understanding  and  cooperation 
for  a  peaceful  world.  The  meeting  was  successful  in 
identifying ways in which people of different faiths can 
move  in  harmony  and  understanding  to  fruitful  and 
substantial  cooperation  through  a  solid  and  permanent 
dialogue. 

There has been, in recent years, a proliferation of 
initiatives  aiming  to  further  cultural  and  religious 
dialogue.  We  support  initiatives  that  contribute  to  the 
codification  of  collective  values  that  all  of  us  can 
easily relate to and of which we can claim ownership — 
without  any  one  culture  or  religion  submerging  any 
other  and without seeking  cultural homogeneity  at the 
expense  of  the  rich  and  diverse  global  heritage  that 
makes humankind so interesting.  

We  believe  that  it  is  only  through  such  dialogue 
that  we  can  identify  the  overlapping  areas  in  our 
respective  beliefs,  attitudes  and  habits.  Without 
compromising any elements in our cultures bearing no 
resemblance  to  those  of  others,  this  convergence  is 
what  will  allow  us  to  derive  what  is  universally 
applicable  and  to  use  it  for  the  common  benefit  of 
humankind. This involves universal objectives, such as 
the protection of human rights, but also the prevention 
of  cultural  misunderstandings  that  may  hinder  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  and 
other  tasks  central  to  the  mission  of  the  United 
Nations. 

All  of  that  is,  of  course,  subordinate  to  the 
unconditional  respect  we  all  have  towards  the  other 
and  the  absolute  right  of  the  other  to  hold  their  own 
views  and  convictions,  regardless  of  our  own  views 
and  convictions.  This  kind  of  respect  also  entails  the 
desire for knowledge of the other, the integration of an 
international  perspective  in  education  and  media,  the 
dissemination  of  accurate  information  about  cultures 
and  religions  and,  ultimately,  the  awareness  of  the 
complexity  and  historical  depth  of  notions  that  may 
initially appear to be incompatible with our own. 

Diversity  is  consubstantial  to  human  nature. The 
richness  of  human  civilization  is,  to  a  large  degree, 
indebted 
relationship  between 
religions and cultures and the interaction between them 
the 
in  various  stages  of 
promotion  of 
increase, 
this  dialogue,  we  can 
their  history.  Through 
the  dialectical 
to 
07-53011 

33 
to 
like 
the  world, 
interfaith  and 
A/62/PV.19 

throughout 
individual  and  collective 
freedom, enhance respect for human rights and achieve 
further economic, as well as political, development. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Mohammad  Khazaee,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran. 
Mr.  Khazaee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran): At  the 

outset,  Mr.  President,  since  this  is  the  first  time  I  am 
speaking  before  the  General  Assembly,  allow  me  to 
congratulate you on your election to lead this body and 
to  assure  you  of  my  delegation’s  full  support  and 
cooperation  with  you  and  your  Office  during  your 
presidency.  I  would  also 
thank  you  for 
convening this Dialogue at such a critical time. 
We have gathered here to deliberate the important 

issue  of 
intercultural  dialogue,  as 
embodied  in  General  Assembly  resolution  61/221,  of 
which  my  country  was  one  of  the  sponsors.  In  our 
view,  we  need  to  foster  the  idea  of  dialogue  among 
religions, cultures and civilizations. It was in that spirit 
that  we  held  a  Non-Aligned  Movement  Ministerial 
Meeting  on  Human  Rights  and  Cultural  Diversity  last 
month in Tehran. 

The  present  meetings  are  devoted  to  discussing 
two  lofty  causes:  interfaith  dialogue  and  cooperation 
for  peace.  I  concur  with  the  view  that  a  mistaken 
perception  of  religion,  resulting 
to 
acknowledge  its  vibrant  role  in  the  individual  and 
social life of humankind, constitutes a dark spot on our 
contemporary history. Without a doubt, human society 
needs  a  new  and  deeper  understanding  of  religion  in 
order 
to  remove  ambiguities  and  misperceptions 
created by ill-intended attempts to tarnish the image of 
divine  religions,  and  also  in  order  to  awaken  sleeping 
consciences.  Despite  strong  opposition,  religions  have 
not  remained  restricted  to  the  private  realm  and  have 
found their way out into the social and public domain. 

We also observe that interfaith understanding and 
dialogue have brought about harmony among different 
religions,  and  have  gradually  entered  a  new  phase, 
responding to the invitation for cooperation for peace. 
In our view, this trend demonstrates a historic leap for 
human  society  to  a  higher  stage  of  mental  maturity.  I 
very  much  hope  that  this  right  trend  results  in  paving 
the way for future-leaning  interaction  among all those 
who seek peace and believe in the prominent place of 
religion. 
in  a  failure 

to  support  all  efforts  undertaken 
tolerance  and  coexistence.  Attempts 

Peace,  solidarity  and  compassion  are  indeed  the 
principal teachings of Islam and other divine religions; 
Islam  promotes  and  attaches  great  importance  to 
dialogue, 
to 
attribute  hatred,  terrorism,  dogmatism  and  extremism 
to  Islam  and  its  lofty  teachings  are,  in  fact,  a 
despicable  ploy  to  taint  the  true  face  of  Islam  and  its 
divine  values.  Islam,  by  meaning  and  teaching,  is  a 
religion of peace, and its holy Prophet is the messenger 
of mercy, compassion and tolerance. 

I am delighted to state that in Iran all followers of 
the  divine  religions  have  lived  together  in  peace  and 
harmony  for  many  centuries.  In  accordance  with  our 
constitution,  and  based  on  Islamic  teachings  and 
values, all Christians, Jews and Zoroastrians are free to 
practice  their  religions.  The  constitution  of  Iran  has 
granted  the  representatives  of  these  religions  secured 
seats  in  the  Iranian  parliament.  These  representatives 
enjoy  the  same  rights  and  privileges  as  their  Muslim 
colleagues.  It  is  thus  the  principled  position  of  my 
Government 
to 
promote  dialogue  among 
religions,  cultures  and 
civilizations. In this regard, the President of the Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  held  a  dialogue  with  more  than  150 
representatives  and  scholars  of  Christian  and  Jewish 
faith on 26 September 2007 in a church in New York. 

By  the  same  token,  it  is  highly  satisfying  to  see 
that  many  international  and  regional  meetings  have 
been  held  to  discuss  the  underlying  issues  relating  to 
the importance of interfaith dialogue. As we see today, 
this important item has been included in the agenda of 
the  General Assembly.  Support  for  interfaith  dialogue 
and  cooperation  for  peace  by  the  United  Nations  and 
other international organizations, as well as by regional 
forums, 
time, 
recognition  by  the  international  community  of  the 
reality  that  views  emanating  from  interfaith  dialogue 
will  play  an  essential  role  in  ongoing  efforts  to  build 
peace burdens us with yet heavier responsibility. 
Common  efforts  undertaken  by  the  followers  of 

religions  to  spread  peace  seek  a  fundamental  goal, 
namely,  instilling  a  sense  of  responsibility  in  human 
society. A successful dialogue aimed at realizing peace 
depends on making the necessary arrangements to win 
people’s hearts and minds. In this collective effort, all 
segments  of  society,  including  the  media  and  national 
leaders, should be addressed and invited to take part in 
bringing  about  lofty  human  ideals  including  peace, 
is  a 
justice,  solidarity  and  spirituality.  Respect 
indeed  an  asset.  At 
the  same 
is 
34 

07-53011 
is  more 
to  share 
initiator  of 
those  made 
than  willing 


prerequisite  for  dialogue,  and  dialogue  can  be  held 
among  those  who  recognize  and  respect  each  other. 
Therefore,  ignorance  and  humiliation  are,  per  se, 
detrimental  to  dialogue.  Attempts  against  a  particular 
religion  or  culture,  especially 
in  a 
recognized manner, run counter to the very purposes of 
our  common  agreed  principles.  The  Islamic  Republic 
of  Iran,  as  an 
the  Dialogue  among 
Civilizations, 
its 
experience with other parties that engage in promoting 
similar  or  complementary  ideas  such  as  interfaith  and 
intercultural dialogue and cooperation for peace. 

At  the  present  time,  the  unilateral  approach  to 
international  issues  is  a  bitter  reality.  Clearly,  such  an 
approach  does  not  seek  peace;  nor  does  it  forgo  any 
acts  of  coercion  or  threats  to  achieve  its  monopolistic 
goals. It is prepared to trample on international law and 
abuse international organizations in order to achieve its 
goals. Therefore, a strong  presence of an international 
forum dedicated to cooperation for peace, on the basis 
of  religion,  is  an  appropriate  response  to  those  who 
seek  to  dominate.  We  earnestly  hope  that  the  idea  of 
cooperation for peace will lead to a coalition for peace, 
as  suggested  by  our  President  in  his  address  to  the 
General Assembly on 25 September (see A/62/PV.5). 

In  our  view,  the  exchange  of  opinions  aimed  at 
achieving  a  common  perspective  for  challenging  the 
hostile  approach  of  certain  Powers  should  figure 
prominently  among  our  priorities.  Fortunately,  the 
peace-seeking  approach  taken  by  many  States  as  well 
as by world public opinion has prepared the ground for 
realizing  this  priority.  I  believe  that,  despite  all  odds, 
we  can  surmount  the  obstacle  of  unilateralism  and 
continue our journey towards peace by relying on faith, 
determination,  patience  and  more  convergence  among 
us. 

In conclusion, I wish to emphasize the imperative 
of  using  the  capacity  of  all  existing  initiatives  for  the 
same  purpose  of  fostering  dialogue  among  religions, 
cultures and civilizations. Certain mechanisms need to 
be  designed  and  established  to  complement  all  the 
work  programmes  and  action  plans.  I  hope  that  our 
efforts  aimed  at  carrying  out  the  historic  mission  will 
be crowned with success. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Abderrahim  Ould  Hadrami,  chairman 
of the delegation of Mauritania.  
A/62/PV.19
Mr.  Ould  Hadrami  (Mauritania)  (spoke 
in 

Arabic): I wish to express, through you, Mr. President, 
the  thanks  of  my  delegation  to  the  Philippines  and  to 
Pakistan for the convening of this High-level Dialogue 
on  Interreligious  and  Intercultural  Understanding  and 
Cooperation for Peace. 

It  is  self-evident  that  the  world  has  become  a 
small,  but  expansive 
interdependent  village  with 
intertwined scientific, cultural and other interests. This 
reality  means  that  the  international  community  must 
act  as  one  united  family  and  cooperate  prudently  and 
wisely  and  make  use  of  the  religious,  scientific  and 
technological concepts by putting them to good use in 
the  service  of  humankind.  We  should  not,  under  any 
circumstances,  accept  that  situation  as  a  cause  for  a 
clash of civilizations and religions. 

The  Islamic  Republic  of  Mauritania  conforms 
strictly  to  its  Muslim  faith  and  calls  for  dialogue  and 
understanding among all humankind to avoid conflicts 
and  disputes,  as  was  stressed  by  His  Excellency 
Mr. Sidi  Mohamed  Ould  Cheikh  Abdellahi,  President 
of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, in his address to 
the General Assembly at its sixty-second session when 
said he said that  

“encouraging 
of 
understanding,  dialogue  and  complementarity 
between  civilizations  and  nations,  upholding  the 
rule  of  law  and  expanding  justice  and  equity  are 
the speediest way to ensure peace and security in 
the world  and eradicate hatred and confrontation 
between peoples”. (A/62/PV.6, p. 6)  

Islam  is  a  faith  of  peace  and  amity.  It  is 
regrettable  that  some  parties  describe  it  as  terroristic 
and  link  it  to  terrorism.  Those  who  understand  the 
religion  and  its  culture  know  that  the  first  greeting  in 
the  Islamic  world  is  “peace  be  upon  you”.  That 
behaviour  reflects  a  civilized  manner  of  living.  Islam 
has  never,  ever  called  for  extremism  or  for  the 
renunciation  of  others.  It  is  a  faith  of  harmony, 
brotherhood, amity and respect for others. 

The  blasphemous  cartoons  and  profanity  against 
the  Prophet  Muhammad  and  prompt  us  to  use  this 
dialogue  as  an  opportunity  to  show  respect  for  the 
cultures and faiths of other people and their sanctified 
heritage.  We  call  for  legislations  that  prohibits  such 
profanity and such portrayals. We urge Member States 
to  adopt  the  ideas  of  the  High-level  Dialogue  on 
Interreligious  and  Intercultural  Understanding  and 
values 
spirit 
and 
the 
07-53011 

35 

The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 
the 
A/62/PV.19 

Cooperation for Peace and to incorporate them into the 
curricula of schools and universities.  

The people of Mauritania believe in Islam, but we 
respect all other religions and creeds. We consider that 
peaceful  coexistence  among  religions  and  creeds  and 
cultures  would  promote  international  peace,  security 
and  cooperation.  Distinguished  Mauritanian  Muslim 
scholars  travel  around  the  globe  as  ambassadors  of 
amity  and  peace  to  promote  peaceful  coexistence 
among  nations;  they  participate  in  many  conferences 
and  meetings  on  dialogue  among  cultures  and 
religions,  in Asia,  Europe, Africa  and  the Americas  to 
promote  peace,  understanding  and  cooperation  among 
all nations, religions and cultures. 

Mr.  Martin  Belinga-Eboutou,  chairman  of 
delegation of Cameroon.  
in 

French):  By  resolution  61/221  of  20  December  2006, 
the General Assembly decided to hold in 2007 a high-
level  dialogue  on  cooperation  between  religions  and 
cultures.  As  a  sponsor  of  the  resolution,  Cameroon 
welcomes  this  debate,  which  comes  at  the  right  time. 
Our world continues to pay a heavy price for its lack of 
understanding  and  absence  of  dialogue.  Moreover,  in 
addition  to  economic  inequality,  the  world’s  peoples 
suffer  from  the  ill  effects  of  intolerance  and  the 
rejection of the other, which are the root causes of all 
the violence and the terror in the world. 

Intolerance and the rejection of the other are also 
at  the  root  of  all  of  the  fanaticism  and  religious 
fundamentalism  delivery  from  monotheistic  and  other 
religions  —  which,  however,  teach  the  love  of  one’s 
neighbour and love of humankind. Such brotherhood is 
described well by Khalil Gibran: 

Mr.  Belinga-Eboutou  (Cameroon)  (spoke 

“You are my brother and I love you. I love 
you worshipping in your church, kneeling in your 
temple,  and  praying  in  your  mosque.  You  and  I 
and  all  are  children  of  one  religion  ...  [the 
religion of the spirit]”. 
Truthfully, 

interreligious  and 
intercultural dialogue is not new. It is enshrined in the 
United Nations Charter. It is enshrined in the Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  It  is  enshrined  in  the 
Constitution  of  UNESCO.  The  idea  had  a  resurgence 
following 11 September 2001. That day, the world, in a 
state  of  shock,  found  itself  again  brutally  faced  with 
idea  of 
the 
the classic question of historical philosophy and that is: 
If we have come this far, then what will our future be, 
and what can we hope for? 

Journalists,  driven  by  the  need  for  commentary 
dusted  off  the  book  of  Professor  Samuel  Huntington, 
The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World 
Order. That book tells us that humanity has entered an 
era of conflicts of a new kind. Wars would no longer be 
ideological,  but  civilizational,  with  countries  pitted 
against  each  other  no  longer  because  of  economic  or 
political interests, but because they belong to opposing 
civilizations.  Different  civilizations,  cultures  and 
religions,  we  are  told,  cannot  agree  on  common 
principles.  Thus,  they  are  destined  by  nature  to  fight 
for  domination.  For  that  reason,  wars  of  civilizations 
and wars of culture are inevitable. They can break out 
within  a  State  between  communities  which  belong  to 
civilizations, religions and cultures that are claimed to 
be incompatible. They can also set States with different 
civilizational identities against each other. 

That theory drives a culture of the enemy, which 
is  also  a  culture  of  fear.  Huntington’s  book  very 
skilfully  transforms  the  fundamental  question  “What 
can we hope for?” into “Whom should we fear?”. The 
only  goal  of  such  fear  is  to  undermine  the  existence 
and  the  future  of  multireligious  and  multicultural 
societies:  we  should  distrust  all  of  those,  within  a 
society who do not belong to the same civilization and 
we will ultimately find that it is impossible to live with 
them. 

We,  the  peoples  of  the  United  Nations  —  who 
had just proclaimed 2000 the International Year for the 
Culture of Peace and 2001 the United Nations Year of 
Dialogue  among  Civilizations  —  had  to  stand  up 
against 
the 
globalization of the enemy. On 20 December 2002, by 
resolution  57/249,  the  General  Assembly  proclaimed 
21  May  the  World  Day  for  Cultural  Diversity  for 
Dialogue  and  Development.  In  2005,  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations 
the 
international  community  —  the  peoples  of  the  United 
Nations — responded to the clash of civilizations with 
the Alliance of Civilizations. 

Today  the  peoples  of  the  United  Nations  are 
holding this debate, which takes us to the heart of the 
matter: people must learn again to listen to each other, 
to accept each other, to accept each other’s diversity — 
in  short, 
their  mutual 
to  become  enriched  from 
fear  and  against 
that  culture  of 
launched.  So, 
initiative  was 
36 

07-53011 


differences.  The  same  goes  for  their  lives  and  their 
survival. 

The  peoples  of  the  world  have  a  great  need  to 
strengthen their ability to listen to each other; societies 
that  differ  culturally  and  religiously  but  are  equal  in 
dignity must listen to each other; the rich must listen to 
the  needs  and  desires  of  the  poor  for  a  life  of  greater 
fairness  and  dignity  and  for  a  more  equitable  division 
of the resources of the planet. There is a need to listen 
to  our  own  history  so  that  together,  by  understanding 
the  horrors  of  the  past,  we  will  be  able  to  say  “never 
again” and above all, to act accordingly. 

Here  is  a  complete  programme  —  a  programme 
that  will  lead  us  to  ownership  of  the  values  of  peace, 
tolerance and dialogue. Actions need to  be directed to 
that  end.  In  terms  of  education,  we  need  to  promote 
knowledge and respect for others and, in that spirit, to 
shape the young generations who will be the leaders of 
tomorrow’s world. In families, in churches, in mosques 
and in synagogues, we must become teachers of peace, 
human  rights  and  freedom  —  freedom  that  respects 
each and every human being. 
In  terms  of  information  and  communication,  we 

must  use  the  media  and  new  technologies  to  drive 
comprehension  and  dialogue  among  cultures  and 
religions,  to  build  a  culture  of  peace  and  solidarity 
among  people  and  to  build  a  society  of  ever  greater 
brotherhood  to  prepare  for  the  coming  of  what  Saint-
Exupéry called “La Terre des Hommes”. 

Lastly,  the  methods  and  tools  of  human  sciences 
must help to define actions aimed at promoting fruitful 
interreligious and intercultural exchanges.  

Those  actions  are  essential,  fundamental  and 
vital.  The  idea  of  a  culture  of  peace  based  on 
understanding 
cultures 
germinates and grows in each individual conscience. It 
is a fragile seed, but in the heart of the man or woman 
of  peace  that  value  will  find  fertile  ground  for 
germination; a tiny seedling, it can find the air it needs 
in order to grow in the breath of the man or woman of 
peace;  a  delicate  flower,  it  will  find  the  warmth 
necessary to flourish in the hands of the man or woman 
of  peace.  Once  it  is  accepted  by  the  individual,  the 
culture of peace will extend within States and between 
States. May we, as Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has 
urged,  have  the  strength  to  progress  towards  real 
tolerance  and  non-violence  at  all  levels,  from  the 
individual to the State.  
religions 
between 
and 
A/62/PV.19
My  country’s  vision  of 

Such tolerance and non-violence, whose value we 
recognize, are daily practices in Cameroon — a multi-
ethnic  nation,  but  a  single  nation;  a  multicultural 
nation, but a single nation; a multireligious nation, but 
a single nation. 

From  the  mosaic  of  its  peoples  and  cultures  and 
the mosaic of the religions practised there, we work to 
consolidate it. E pluribus unum. Yes — from the many, 
from our great diversity, we shape and derive our unity. 
Cameroon — which rejects all fanaticism and religious 
dogmatism,  represents  the  land  of  syncretism  —  a 
message  of  coexistence,  an  ecumenical  promise  of 
peace. 

the  dialogue  of 
civilizations is that, in the  burning desert of religious, 
ethnic  or  cultural  passions,  all  men  and  women  will 
gather  around  one  point,  the  oasis  of  peace,  so  that 
together,  and  by  talking  with  each  other,  they  can 
build,  stone  upon  stone,  stone  by  stone,  stone  after 
stone,  the  wellhead  from  which  understanding  and 
harmony will bubble up. 

Peace  is  built  every  day.  It  is  the  work  of  each 
moment  and  all  moments.  Through  constant  dialogue 
and  through  respecting  and  accepting  our  differences, 
we  should  all  ensure  that  no  sandstorm  of  passions 
buries  that  edifice  which  has  been  so  laboriously 
constructed. 

We  have  a  moral  and  political  challenge  to  take 
up:  to  resist  any  culture  of  fear  and  any  globalization 
of the enemy; we must combat hasty identification. We 
know  with  certainty  that  civilizations  and  cultures  are 
compatible  because 
they  are  not  monolithic  or 
homogeneous standing in opposition to each other like 
blocks  of  identity.  For,  their  identity  is  made  up  of 
what  they  have  brought  to  one  another,  of  what  they 
have  always  exchanged,  even  if  it  was  sometimes 
painful. 

We need to know that the future of civilizations, 
of cultures and religions is not to be found in a closed, 
fixed  identity.  That  future  lies  in  the  pursuit  of  those 
exchanges,  in  maintaining  that  uninterrupted  dialogue 
which seeks nothing other than the unity of humanity, 
open  civilizations,  open  religions,  open  cultures.  We 
are immortal. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Desalegn  Alemu,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of Ethiopia. 
07-53011 

37 
on 
and 
Interreligious 
for  organizing 
A/62/PV.19 

Mr.  Alemu  (Ethiopia):  Allow  me,  Sir,  to  join 

other  delegates  in  congratulating  you  as  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-second  session. 
Allow  me  also  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
this  High-level 
Secretary-General 
Dialogue 
Intercultural 
Understanding  and  Cooperation  for  Peace,  under 
agenda item 49 “Culture of Peace”. 

The promotion of a culture of peace has become 
the number-one priority of the United Nations and the 
world  at  large.  Peace  no  longer  means  the  absence  of 
war, but rather its promotion and strengthening through 
dialogue  and  cooperation,  with  the  participation  of  a 
variety  of  actors  at  different  levels  of  society.  Let  us 
recall  that  in  1998,  the  United  Nations  declared  the 
years 2001-2010 the International Decade for a Culture 
of  Peace  and  Non-Violence  for  the  Children  of  the 
World  and,  in  1999,  adopted  the  Declaration  and 
Programme  of  Action  on 
the  Culture  of  Peace 
(resolution 53/243). 
The  world  is  realizing  now  that  there  can  be  no 

sustainable  development  without 
lasting  peace. 
Interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue  is  thus  all  the 
more  critically  essential. 
the 
responsibility of each and every one of us to make the 
world a better place for the next generation by building 
a  culture  of  peace  through  accommodation  of  all 
interests and of all groups within every society and in 
the world at large. 

Ethiopia  is  an  ethnically  diverse  country  where 
more than 80 nations and nationalities live in peace and 
harmony  under  the  aegis  and  solid  guarantees  of  the 
federal  constitution  which  ensures 
their  absolute 
equality and their fundamental rights. It is a country in 
which  the  two  major  world  religions,  Christianity  and 
Islam,  embrace  and  accommodate  each  other  as  a 
unique,  or  rare,  example  of  interreligious  cooperation 
and understanding. 

In  fact,  Ethiopia  is  known  historically  to  have 
offered safe haven and shelter to Muslims from across 
the  Middle  East  when  they  were  persecuted  in  those 
early  times  when  our  country  was  said  to  have  been 
part  of  Christendom.  Indeed,  not  only  do  Christians 
and  Muslims  live  in  peace  and  harmony  as  distinct 
groups  in  Ethiopia,  but  also  they  intermarry,  cohabit 
and  dine  together  as  a  matter  of  common  practice 
throughout  most  of  the  country.  The  ongoing  national 
efforts to build a new Ethiopia in which every citizen is 
therefore, 
It 
is, 

proud of being an Ethiopian — not only by the respect 
he  receives  for  his  specific  identity,  culture  and 
language, but also by the share of what he receives in 
terms  of  the  real  economic  and  social  wealth  of  the 
country — are already bearing promising fruit. 

The  fast  economic  and  social  development  now 
being  witnessed  in  my  country  is  the  result  of  a 
constitutional regime and policy trends that encourage 
and  ensure  equality  among  all  people,  particularly 
among  nations  and  nationalities,  religions  and  beliefs. 
That  is  also  in  perfect  harmony  with  the  sacrosanct 
principle  of  peaceful  coexistence  with  and  mutual 
understanding among peoples of all other nations, near 
and  far,  which  Ethiopia  respects,  and  with  which,  for 
its  part,  Ethiopia  works  hard  to  foster  meaningful 
cooperation, as enshrined in its federal constitution and 
in  the  foreign  affairs  and  national  security  policies  in 
place now.  

It  is  within  the  context  of  the  promotion  of  a 
culture of peace that the people and the Government of 
Ethiopia decided to celebrate the Ethiopian Millennium 
with the whole world. Accordingly, it is to be recalled 
that  by  resolution  61/270,  under  the  agenda  item  on  a 
culture of peace, the General Assembly recognized the 
year from 12 September 2007 to 11 September 2008 as 
the year commemorating the Ethiopian Millennium and 
recognized 
its  celebration  as  a  unique  African 
occasion.  We  believe  that  this  event  is  a  unique 
opportunity  to  create  an  enabling  environment  for  our 
country  to  start  its  Millennium  with  the  aim  of 
advancing  socio-economic  and  political  progress. 
Furthermore, this event is also aimed at contributing to 
the advancement of world peace and culture.  

It  is  within  the  context  of  this  new  Ethiopian 
Millennium  that  the  people  and  the  Government  of 
Ethiopia are determined to make every effort to enable 
the  country  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  in  cooperation  with  their  regional  and 
international counterparts, and to make poverty a thing 
of  the  past.  An  event  that  coincided  with  World 
Environment  Day  marked  the  launch  of  a  national 
project  designed 
the  new  Ethiopian 
Millennium: Two Trees for 2000. Through that project, 
every Ethiopian is planting two indigenous trees in an 
attempt 
forest 
to 
resources.  

The  Ethiopian  Millennium  event  will  continue 
until  15  months  from  now,  during  which  time  several 
the  nation’s  degraded 
to  bolster 
restore 
38 

07-53011 


projects will be implemented. All projects are designed 
to  renew  the  commitment  of  the  Ethiopian  people  in 
the fight against poverty and backwardness, to build up 
democratic  culture  and  the  culture  of  peace,  and  to 
promote the good image of the country.  

Conflict,  violence  and  war  remain  the  major 
challenges  to  building  a  peaceful  and  prosperous 
world.  Accordingly,  the  process  of  attaining  durable 
peace  remains  without  any  doubt  a  daunting  task  that 
requires  a  very  strong  commitment  and  the  full 
participation of everyone. It is the number-one priority 
and an indispensable goal, in order to create a peaceful 
world  for  our  children  and  future  generations,  and  to 
achieve  the  various  development  objectives  that  have 
been agreed upon. The power is in our hands to make 
the world a better place. That is why this forum — the 
High-level Dialogue on Interreligious and Intercultural 
Understanding and Cooperation for Peace — under the 
agenda  item  entitled  “Culture  of  peace”,  is  crucially 
important for us all. 
The  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  Ms.  Elena 

Molaroni, chairperson of the observer delegation of the 
Council of Europe. 
Ms.  Molaroni  (Council  of  Europe):  In  our 

capacity as Chair of the thematic group responsible for 
preparing  the  Council  of  Europe  annual  exchanges  on 
the  religious  dimension  of  intercultural  dialogue,  we 
would like to deliver the following statement on behalf 
of the Council of Europe. 

The promotion of intercultural dialogue is one of 
the key missions of the Council of Europe, along with 
fostering democracy, human rights and the rule of law. 
Our  organization  is  therefore  firmly  committed  to 
supporting  the  initiatives  taken  by  the  United  Nations 
and its subsidiary organs and welcomes the holding of 
this  High-level  Dialogue  on 
Interreligious  and 
Intercultural Understanding and Cooperation for Peace. 

Societies  worldwide  have  to  meet  the  challenges 
of  growing  cultural  diversity  rooted  in  history  and 
enhanced by the effects of globalization. In Europe, the 
tasks  of  securing  peace,  social  cohesion,  democracy 
and  respect  for  cultural  diversity  have  been  major 
policy  issues  since  the  Second  World  War.  They  are 
now  priorities  shared  by  all  47  States  members  of  the 
Council of Europe. 

Europe  is  guided  by  a  political  philosophy  of 
inclusion  and  complementarity,  full  protection  of  the 
A/62/PV.19
tools 
for  mastering 
human  rights  of  everyone,  effective  democracy  and 
good  governance  at  all  levels.  We  are  determined  to 
build  cohesive  societies  by  ensuring  fair  access  to 
social  rights,  by  fighting  exclusion  and  by  protecting 
vulnerable  social  groups. We  are  taking  resolute  steps 
to  adapt  our  societies  to  increasing  cultural  diversity 
particularly  in  their  social,  educational,  health  and 
cultural dimensions, because intercultural dialogue will 
not  succeed  if  we  do  not  address  the  origins  of 
discrimination and marginalization. 

We  are  resolved  to  ensure  that  our  diversity 
becomes  a  source  of  mutual  enrichment  instead  of 
conflict.  We  are  convinced  that  intercultural  dialogue 
together  with  pluralism  and 
and  understanding, 
tolerance,  are  essential 
the 
challenge  —  tools  that  public  authorities  at  all  levels, 
civil society, religious communities, the media, private 
enterprise and individuals must learn to use well. 


Mahatma Gandhi once said,  

“I do not want my house to be walled in on 
all  sides  and  my  windows  to  be  stuffed.  I  want 
the cultures of all the lands to be blown about my 
house  as  freely  as  possible.  But  I  refuse  to  be 
blown off my feet by any.” 
A  similarly  firm  approach  to  cultural  diversity 

and  dialogue  also  characterizes 
the  attitude  and 
policies  of  the  Governments  of  our  member  States. 
They  share  the  conviction  that  reconciling  cultural 
diversity  and  social  cohesion  can  succeed  only  if  we 
create  social  trust  and  base  our  policy  on  common 
values,  particularly  universal  human 
rights  and 
fundamental freedoms. 

The robust European consensus on those values is 
demonstrated  by  the  accumulated  and  increasingly 
focused  instruments  of  the  Council  of  Europe  in  this 
sphere, including the European Convention on Human 
Rights  and  the  European  Court  of  Human  Rights,  as 
well  as  a  long  list  of  other  European  conventions  and 
recommendations.  In  a  few  weeks  from  now,  the 
Council  of  Europe  will  publish  a  white  paper  on 
intercultural  dialogue,  which  will  set  out  in  detail  the 
conceptual  basis  and  perspectives  of  our  policy  and 
which  we  will  be  glad  to  share  and  discuss  with  the 
international community. 

Part  of  Europe’s  rich  cultural  heritage  is  a  range 
of  religious,  as  well  as  secular,  conceptions  of  the 
purpose  of  life.  Islam,  Judaism  and  all  other  faiths 
07-53011 

39 

the 
themselves 
can  make 
responsibility 
A/62/PV.19 

represented  on  our  continent,  along  with  the  various 
denominations  of  Christianity,  are  important  parts  of 
Europe’s  past,  presence  and  future.  The  Council  of 
Europe  regards  freedom  of  thought,  conscience  and 
religion  as  one  of  the  foundations  of  democratic 
society. 

Quite frequently, public opinion regards differing 
religious  identities  as  the  real  source  and  trigger  of 
cultural  conflict  in  modern  societies. That  view  is  not 
shared  by  the  Council  of  Europe.  However,  religious 
communities 
substantial 
contributions  to  intercultural  dialogue  and  peace;  they 
share 
for  promoting  mutual 
knowledge and understanding. The Council of Europe, 
like  other  public  authorities,  must  remain  neutral  in 
cultural and religious matters. But since our April 2007 
meeting  in  San  Marino,  we  have  been  encouraging 
religious  communities  to  engage  in  dialogue  and 
promote  human  rights,  democracy  and  the  rule  of  law 
and shall continue to do so in the future. 

The Council of Europe is part of a growing group 
of  international  institutions  committed  to  intercultural 
dialogue. We  are in  close contact with the Alliance of 
Civilizations  initiative  and  the  High  Representative  of 
the Secretary-General for the Alliance. We are proud to 
have a partnership with UNESCO, with which we have 
agreed  to  set  up  the  Faro  Open  Platform,  an  inter-
institutional  framework  for  cooperation  in  the  area  of 
intercultural  dialogue.  With  a  number  of  other 
institutions — including for instance, the Arab League 
Educational,  Cultural  and  Scientific  Organization 
(ALECSO) — we jointly promote practical projects in 
the areas of education, culture, heritage and youth. We 
are  ready  to  contribute  substantially  to  the  European 
Year of Intercultural Dialogue 2008, proclaimed by the 
European Union. 

Those opportunities for cooperation allow us, we 
hope,  to  help  advance  the  worldwide  discussion  on 
intercultural  dialogue  and  understanding  and  on  the 
role  of  religious  and  other  belief  communities  for 
peace,  human  rights,  democracy  and  the  rule  of  law. 
We  are  ready  to  deepen  our  involvement  in  that  area 
and  to  strengthen  our  practical  action,  and  we  look 
forward to cooperation with many of those present here 
today. 
The  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  Mrs.  Fiamma 

Arditi  di  Castelvetere  Manzo,  chairperson  of  the 
on 
and 
contributes 
Interreligious 
globalizing  world 
observer delegation of the Sovereign Military Order of 
Malta. 
Mrs.  Arditi  di  Castelvetere  Manzo  (Sovereign 

Military  Order  of  Malta):  The  Sovereign  Military 
Hospitaller Order of St. John of Jerusalem, of Rhodes 
and of Malta is honoured to take part in this High-level 
Dialogue 
Intercultural 
Understanding  and  Cooperation  for  Peace  and  would 
like  to  express  its  gratitude  to  the  delegations  of 
Pakistan  and  the  Philippines  for  promoting  this  very 
special event.  

General  Assembly  resolution  61/221  recognizes 
that,  respect  for  religious  and  cultural  diversity  in  an 
increasingly 
to 
international cooperation, promotes enhanced dialogue 
among religions, cultures and civilizations and helps to 
create  an  environment  conducive  to  the  exchange  of 
human experience. 
My  colleagues  are  as  aware  as  I  am  that  in  a 

world  where  more  and  more  people  of  different 
religious  and  cultural  backgrounds  are  living  together 
it is crucial that social policies encourage religious and 
cultural  interaction  in  a  free,  respectful  environment. 
Today,  true  coexistence  between  social  groups  is  only 
possible if everyone shares fundamental ethical criteria 
and is aware that peace begins from within ourselves. 
Our  world  still  suffers  from  war  and  armed 

conflict  and 
is  continually  wounded  by  major 
injustices.  The  third  informal  thematic  debate  on 
“Civilizations  and  the  challenge  for  peace:  Obstacles 
and opportunities”, held here in early May 2007, was a 
useful forum for the Order to examine, among experts, 
how  religious  differences  often  worsen  the  effects  of 
and are used to justify conflicts. Cultural and religious 
interactions will not survive if we do not respect every 
single human being. The right to life and to be safe and 
the dignity of the human person are basic ethical values 
that must be universally recognized. 
It is precisely that awareness that gives the Order 

of  Malta  confidence  to  hold  its  Christian  origin  and 
ethos  firmly  and  positively,  while  reaching  out  in 
service and in membership to people of other religious, 
cultural  and  ethnic  identities.  As  underlined  by  our 
Grand  Master  in  his  address  to  the  diplomatic  corps 
last  January,  members  of  the  Order  experience  their 
faith  not  as  an 
instrument  of  evangelization  or 
proselytism  but  as  a  way  of  living  in  the  service  of 
others, of the poor and the sick, in an authentic spirit of 
40 

07-53011 
the 
A 


humanity  that  recognizes  the  presence  of  God  in  the 
person  who  suffers,  regardless  of  race,  origin  or 
religion. 

A  prudent  and  sincere  dialogue  among  different 
cultures,  civilizations  and  peoples  can  be  carried  out 
only  in  a  space  where  the  fundamental  rights  of  men 
and women are respected. It is appropriate to recall, in 
the light of the teachings of the second Vatican Council 
the  two  basic  reasons  for  the  struggle  by  the  Catholic 
Church, in close alliance with other Christian churches, 
for  the  promotion  of  human  rights,  and  particularly 
religious freedom. These are the dignity of the human 
being  and  the  necessary  interpersonal  solidarity  based 
on our universal fraternity. 

It is noteworthy that the international community 
has  continuously  shown  interest  over  the  decades  in 
protecting  human  rights  and  fundamental  liberties, 
including  respect  for  freedom  of  conscience  and  of 
religion,  in  major  documents  such  as:  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights; 
International 
Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights  and 
the 
Helsinki  Final  Act  of  the  Conference  on  European 
Security and Cooperation. 

interreligious  and 
intercultural  problems  which  needs  to  be  addressed  is 
the  social  gap  between  the  rich  and  the  poor.  In  that 
area, Governments and religious groups must recognize 
that development, peace and security and human rights 
are interlinked. The world’s agenda is also the agenda 
of  the  world’s  religions.  It  is  in  that  spirit  that  the 
Catholic Church emphasizes education and agrees with 
other  faiths  on  promoting  the  integral  development  of 
man and the development of the whole man, according 
to  the  famous  statement  by  Pope  Paul  VI  in  the 
encyclical Populorum Progressio. 

religious  and  cultural 
interactions will not bear fruit without a free, respectful 
and  mindful  environment  and  without  the  awareness 
that  religion  is  a  choice  that  improves  the  quality  of 
our  lives,  not  a  weapon  against  our  brothers.  We 
welcome the fact that the United Nations has long been 
involved in the question of the elimination of all forms 
of  intolerance  and  discrimination  based  on  religion  or 
belief.  Far  from  being  the  opiate  of  the  people, 
authentic  religion  places  human  objectives  in  true 
perspective  and  stimulates  dialogue  and  respect  for 
basic  ethical  values 
to 
coexistence among peoples. 
significant  cause  of 
indispensable 
We  all  know 
that 
that  are 
07-53011 

A/62/PV.19

If the objectives of the dialogue are to be attained 
there  must  first  be  a  renewal  of  attitudes  and  far-
reaching  social  change.  That  will  require  public  and 
private  organizations  to  gradually  align  themselves 
with  the  strengthening  and  betterment  of  human 
qualities and for the protection of human rights. Those 
organizations  must  dedicate  themselves  to  be  at  the 
service  of  the  dignity  and  the  well-being  of  men, 
women and children through safeguarding basic human 
rights  under  every  political  and  social  system  in  spite 
of the considerable effort involved. 

It is that sentiment that led the General Assembly 
to  emphasize  in  resolution  61/221  the  need  for  all 
levels  of  society,  including  the  private  sector  and  the 
media,  to  become  agents  for  change.  That  document 
encourages  efforts  to  strengthen  freedom,  justice, 
democracy,  solidarity,  cooperation,  pluralism,  respect 
for diversity of culture and religion or belief, dialogue 
and understanding, which are key ingredients for social 
cohesion and peace. On our side we must all be aware 
that there is no path to peace. Peace is the path. 

To  help  individuals  to  carry  out  more  carefully 
their  obligations  towards  themselves  and  towards  the 
various  groups  to  which  they  belong,  they  must  be 
carefully  educated  to  a  higher  degree  of  culture 
through  the  employment  of  the  immense  resources 
available 
the  Order  of  Malta 
commends UNESCO for its efforts in fostering the use 
of  information  and  communication  technologies,  such 
as  community  radio,  newspapers  and  the  Internet,  in 
communities and schools to promote a culture of peace 
and peace education on issues related to non-violence, 
mutual understanding and respect. For the more deeply 
we  come  to  understand  the  ways  of  thinking  of  those 
who  think  and  act  differently  from  us  in  social, 
political and religious matters, the more easily we will 
be able to enter into dialogue with them.  

Above  all,  we  must  undertake  the  training  of 
young people from all social backgrounds if we are to 
produce  the  kind  of  men  and  women  so  urgently 
needed today: men and women who not only are highly 
cultured but have an open heart and an open mind. 
The  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Michael 

Schulz,  chairman  of  the  observer  delegation  of  the 
International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Crescent Societies. 
Mr.  Schulz  (International  Federation  of  Red 

Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies):  Mr.  President,  the 
today.  Therefore, 
41 
A/62/PV.19 

International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Crescent  Societies  (IFRC)  welcomes  your  initiative  to 
convene  this  high-level  dialogue.  We  have  taken  an 
active part in previous debates on issues relating to the 
culture of peace, the broadening of understanding, and 
building  respect  for  diversity.  In  our  view,  there  is  a 
real and clear need for this debate and for action at the 
national and local levels. 

The  Fundamental  Principles  of  the  International 
Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Movement,  which  guide 
the  action  of  our  staff  and  millions  of  volunteers 
throughout  the  world,  clearly  set  out  the  impartiality, 
neutrality and humanity of our approach. They also set 
out the universality of our movement, across countries 
and communities. 

The priorities come from the most basic of human 
needs.  Vulnerability  is  the  key  and  we  do  not  accept 
that  legal  definitions  should  ever  be  allowed  to  be 
impediments to meeting those needs. The IFRC and its 
worldwide network of 186 Red Cross and Red Crescent 
Societies  make  no  distinction  based  on  religious  or 
other  differences.  We,  together  with  our  colleagues  at 
the International Committee of the Red Cross invest a 
great  deal  of  energy 
the  Red 
Cross/Red  Crescent  Fundamental  Principles. 
In 
particular,  we  underline  how 
the  principle  of 
impartiality ensures that our work is based entirely on 
people’s  needs  and  not  on  religious  affiliation,  ethnic 
groupings, class or other distinctions. 

We  are  well  aware  that  in  recent  years  there  has 
been  a  sharp  growth  in  rhetoric  —  and  in  some  cases 
action  —  based  on  fundamentalist  beliefs.  In  some 
communities  we  have  also  seen  misunderstandings 
about  the  nature  of  our  humanitarian  work  and  our 
motives.  Concerned  by  those  dangerous  trends,  the 
IFRC  recently  hosted  a  specialist  think  tank  bringing 
together 
in 
different  parts  of 
International 
Committee  of  the  Red  Cross,  as  well  as  several  high-
level experts in religious dialogue. 
The  think  tank  sought  to  analyse  the  impact  of 

changing 
in  social  and 
political  contexts  and  the  implications  for  impartial 
humanitarian organizations such as our own. The think 
tank  also  sought  to  consider  how  the  Red  Cross  and 
Red  Crescent  Movement  can,  in  today’s  environment, 
better reach its goal of alleviating human suffering and 
ensuring respect for diversity and non-discrimination. 
representatives  of  national  societies 
religious  manifestations 
in  disseminating 
the  world, 
the 

that  are  committed 

In consideration of time constraints, allow me to 
just share four key points. First, organizations and their 
programmes have to be inclusive and representative of 
all  members  of  the  community.  It  is  essential  that  all 
organizations 
to  objectives 
surrounding interreligious and intercultural dialogue be 
themselves  composed  of  the  different  groups  whose 
dialogue they are fostering. In many communities Red 
Cross and Red Crescent volunteers and youth activities 
provide  the  forum  for  people  from  different  walks  of 
life or from different religious or cultural backgrounds 
to  come  together  to  deliver  assistance  and  services  to 
those who need help.  

As for the second key point, dialogue needs to be 
accompanied  by  action.  We  speak  a  lot  —  as  we  are 
doing  again  today  at  the  United  Nations  —  about 
dialogue.  And  dialogue  is  clearly  important.  Our 
experience is, however, much more action-oriented. We 
know,  for  example,  that  to  be  effective,  a  health 
programme  must  take  into  consideration  attitudes  that 
enable the whole community to participate and benefit. 
Sometimes  the  attitudes  which  have  to  be  addressed 
derive from religious traditions, and in those situations 
it becomes imperative to work closely with community 
and 
to  addressing 
leaders  committed 
vulnerabilities without discrimination.  
We  also  know  that  dialogue  can  enable  our 

that 
action.  Our  experience  shows,  for  example, 
addressing  HIV 
in  some  communities  must  be 
accompanied  by  a  dialogue  with  religious  leaders  and 
institutions  which  can  help  reach  out  to  the  whole 
community at risk. 

Thirdly, there is a need for high-level engagement 
with Governments, including local government, which 
we believe have a central role to play. By working with 
committed  community-based  partners,  including  Red 
Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies,  Governments  can 
better engage local communities and initiate a process 
that  brings  together  key  actors  capable  of  building 
mutual  respect.  Partnership  is  essential. We  know  that 
we need to establish stronger links to religious leaders. 
We also know that we must undertake a dialogue with 
influential  local  personalities,  including  the  media,  to 
emphasize  the  value  of  working  together  in  harmony 
for mutual benefit. 

The  fourth  and  the  last  key  point  I  will  make  is 
that  existing  guidelines  are  adequate.  We  see  no  need 
for  new 
rules.  There  are  already  many  useful 
religious 
42 

07-53011 
and 
on 
that 
in  Disaster  Relief  sets 


instruments  in  place  to  guide  humanitarian  action  in 
this  regard.  But  we  acknowledge 
improved 
implementation of already agreed guidelines would be 
a  valuable  action  in  itself.  In  our  case,  the  Code  of 
Conduct  for  the  International  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Non-governmental 
Crescent  Movement 
Organizations 
important 
standards  in  this  area.  We  are  convinced  that  it  is  a 
commendable tool for Governments as well. 

We will remain closely connected to this debate. 
We believe that the Red Cross and Red Crescent and its 
fundamental  principles  offer  a  way  ahead  for  other 
concerned  organizations,  and  we  would  like  to  work 
with the Assembly to that end. An early opportunity to 
assess  the  way  that  partnerships  can  be  built  in  this 
area  will  be  the  thirtieth  International  Conference  of 
the Red Cross and Red Crescent, which will be held in 
Geneva from 26 to 29 November 2007.  

We  were  pleased  to  note  the  Secretary-General’s 
recent  appointment  of  former  Portuguese  President 
Sampaio as his High Representative for the Alliance of 
Civilizations. We look forward to working closely with 
him and all others on these issues, as well as with the 
Special  Rapporteur 
dialogue 
appointed  by  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights.  

the  continued 
commitment  of  the  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  in 
tackling these crucial issues together. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Yahya  Mahmassani,  chairman  of  the 
observer delegation of the League of Arab States. 
Mr. Mahmassani (League of Arab States) (spoke 

in  Arabic):  Promoting  interreligious  and  intercultural 
dialogue  for  peace  and  strengthening  the  principles  of 
justice and dignity among all nations and peoples in a 
world  where  there  is  more  dialogue,  interaction  and 
understanding 
and  where 
technological progress is moving at an accelerated pace 
requires removing barriers  between human beings  and 
making  good  use  of  globalization  in  order  to  build 
bridges  between  religions  and  civilizations  for  the 
benefit  of  present  and  future  generations.  Our  efforts 
to  promote  understanding  and  cooperation 
today 
the 
among  all 
participation  of  all  Governments  and 
regional 
organizations.  In  addition,  the  private  sector  and  civil 
society  institutions  must  also  have  a  central  role  in 
The  Assembly  can  count  on 
religions  and  cultures 
interreligious 
peoples 
require 
among 
all 
A/62/PV.19
interreligious 
promoting  interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue 
based  on  the  initiatives  undertaken  by  important 
forums  of  the United Nations system — including the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations  initiative,  which  aims  at 
closing  the  gap  between  cultures  and  religions  and  at 
addressing  the  world’s  current  religious  and  cultural 
polarization. That initiative has the support of the Arab 
League, which has great hopes for the implementation 
of  the Alliance’s  plan  of  action.  That  plan  includes  a 
number  of  important  activities  that  will  contribute  to 
bringing cultures closer together. 

Promoting  dialogue  on 
and 
intercultural  understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace 
also requires that we recognize and strengthen cultural 
diversity  at  the  national  and  international  levels  in 
order  to  ensure  the  right  of  peoples  and  societies  to 
self-determination  and  to  the  preservation  of  cultural 
and religious identity on the basis of tolerance, respect 
for diversity and intercultural dialogue. 

In  addition,  genuine  partnership  between  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  organizations  requires 
dialogue among world cultures and civilizations in the 
context of a comprehensive strategy that gives a central 
role  to  cultures  and  religions  in  order  to  maintain 
contacts  and  dialogue  among  peoples.  This  must  be 
done on the basis of mutual respect and understanding 
and  the  promotion  of  international  peace  and  security. 
In  the  modern  age,  the  imperative  of  dialogue  with 
others is more urgent than ever. This requires engaging 
in  dialogue  under  very 
international 
conditions  that,  more  than  ever,  call  for  dialogue 
among  nations  to  establish  new  international  relations 
that  give  priority  to  the  principles  of  peace,  mutual 
respect  and  the  right  to  be  different.  It  also  requires 
confronting the doctrines of coercion and dominance.  
We live in a time when we cannot ignore the need 

issue  of 
to  give 
interreligious 
on 
understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace,  given  the 
problems  afflicting  the  modern  world  that  cast  long 
shadows  over 
international  peace,  security  and 
stability. Given the importance of this issue, it must be 
kept  on  the  international  agenda  and  sufficient  time 
must  be  devoted  to  it,  in  order  that  all  points  of  view 
may be expressed. In order to ensure that the dialogue 
is  genuine,  effective  and  positive  and  has  the  support 
of the entire world, it must be based on the principles 
of  equality  and  the  acceptance  of  others  —  with  all 
their  cultural  specificities  and  attributes  —  while 
to 
intercultural 
the  greatest  priority 
the 
dialogue 
complex 
and 
07-53011 

43 

A/62/PV.19 

respecting their values and eliminating stereotypes and 
rejecting  the  dominance  of  one  culture  over  another. 
The  Alliance  of  Civilizations  is  in  fact  an  alliance 
among all humankind intended to build a better future 
for all in which there is understanding among cultures 
and religions and where everyone has an opportunity to 
live  a  life  of  dignity  free  from  attempts  to  exploit 
religion to widen the gap among religions and cultures 
in order to achieve political aims and interests. 

the High-level Dialogue. 
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 


and 
like 
respect 
cooperation 
The  President:  I  would 
the  debate.  We  must  now  go 
Statement by the President 
to  begin  by 

congratulating  all  participants  on 
the  stimulating 
discussions that we have had over the past two days. In 
particular,  I  would  like  to  thank  our  panellists  and 
representatives  from  civil  society,  non-governmental 
organizations,  faith  groups  and  the  private  sector  for 
enriching 
forth 
collectively  and  strive  to  build  a  new  culture  of 
international  relations  based  on  human  rights  and 
security,  mutual 
for 
international 
law.  The  High-Level  Dialogue  on 
Interreligious  and  Intercultural  Understanding  and 
Cooperation  for  Peace  is  an  important  avenue  to 
achieve that goal. 

We  have  already  taken  an  important  step  in  that 
direction by adopting the Declaration on the Rights of 
Indigenous  Peoples  (resolution  61/295).  In  doing  so, 
we  have  recognized  the  inherent  value  of  human 
diversity. The spirit of cooperation and mutual respect 
that  was  displayed  during  the  High-level  Dialogue  is 
something  that  the  General Assembly  can  continually 
strive to exemplify. As we witnessed during the debate, 
sincere  dialogue  is  an  extraordinary  tool  to  promote 
inclusiveness.  During  this  session  and  beyond,  we 
should  demonstrate  our  sincere  willingness  to  tolerate 
all  views,  to  search  for  common  ground  and  to  avoid 
using platforms such as this for political purposes. 

Globalization  has  brought  us  all  closer  together 
and  has  made  us  aware  of  religious  and  cultural 
diversity.  It  has  also  exposed  the  differences  between 
us.  One  consequence  of  this  has  been  to  “exoticize” 
difference.  Another  has  been 
the  exploitation  of 
religion 
for  political  ends,  often  with  violent 
consequences.  As  one  participant  noted,  “Unless 
this 
also 
linked 
the  rise  and 
the  full  and 
Many  also  called  for 
religions are part of the solutions, they will continue to 
be part of the problem”. 

Without  exception,  all  speakers  recognized  that 
interfaith  and  intercultural  understanding  forms  the 
bedrock  of  our  social  well-being,  stability  and 
prosperity.  Diversity  is  an  inherent  part  of  human 
civilization.  Programmes 
to  establish  uniformity 
around  a  particular  ideology,  religious  or  otherwise, 
have  all  failed.  During  the  debate  we  heard  many 
examples  of  different  religious  communities  that  have 
lived in harmony over the centuries. 
Many  also  noted  that  intolerance,  disrespect  and 

extremism  were  on 
to 
unresolved international conflicts, social and economic 
injustice. In this regard, a number of participants called 
on  the  international  community  to  do  more  to  find 
sustainable  solutions  to  conflicts  in  the  Middle  East, 
Darfur, Iraq and Kosovo, noting that lasting peace can 
be  achieved  by  promoting  better  intercultural  and 
interfaith understanding. 

timely 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
and  the  strengthening  of  human  rights  institutions. 
Extremists  and  terrorists  who  further  their  political 
interests  by  misinterpreting  religion  were  denounced 
by all. As well as spreading violence, those groups and 
individuals 
and 
misunderstanding.  Similarly,  several  delegations  also 
noted  the  conflation  of  ethnic  identity  and  national 
identity  or  citizenship  as  a  tool  used  to  spread 
instability for political ends. 

role  of  mass  media  was 
acknowledged  as  an  essential  element  in  promoting 
greater  interreligious  and  intercultural  understanding. 
In this regard, many noted that there was an important 
balance  to  be  struck  between  freedom  of  expression 
and  the  responsibility  of  the  media  to  respect  cultural 
and religious sensitivities. 
A  number  of  delegations  have  put  concrete 

proposals on the table to address these and other issues. 
I  do  not  have  the  time  to  do  justice  to  all  these 
recommendations  now.  However,  they  are  recorded  in 
participants’  written 
statements,  which  will  be 
available on the United Nations website. 

I was honoured to open the interactive hearing of 
the  General  Assembly,  which  allowed  for  an  open 
discussion  with  distinguished  representatives  of  civil 
The  prominent 
ignorance 
spread 
44 

07-53011 
and 
education, 
as  well 
as 
for 
from 
including 
teacher 
training 


society, 
non-governmental 
organizations,  academia,  foundations  and  the  private 
sector. I would again like to thank and acknowledge all 
those who participated in the hearing, in particular for 
drawing our attention to practical measures to advance 
interreligious  and 
intercultural  understanding  and 
cooperation.  The  focus  on  programmes  for  youth, 
media 
innovative 
partnerships  with  the  United  Nations,  coincided  with 
many  of  the  views  expressed  by  Member  States. 
Recommendations  such  as  adapting  school  curricula 
and 
to  emphasize  multicultural 
knowledge  and  awareness  were  stressed,  as  well  as 
increasing  opportunities 
international  student 
exchange programmes. Another important message, as 
we  approach  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, is to promote respectful 
and 
for  minority 
communities. 
I  was  particularly  interested  to  note  the  various 

concrete  experiences  of  successful  dialogues  on  the 
ground that involved parties, with credibility and trust 
at  the  grass  roots.  Some  of  these  were  made  possible 
through effective collaboration with the private sector. 
Systematically  collecting  and  disseminating  these  best 
practices  would  further  our  efforts  and  enhance 
coordination.  I  was  encouraged  by  the  significant 
participation  of Member States in yesterday’s hearing, 
and  welcome  the  interest  of  the  General Assembly  in 
continuing 
interaction  with  civil 
society on this issue and others. 
inclusive  dialogue,  especially 
that  meaningful 
A/62/PV.19

It  is  clear  that  there  is  much  more  that  unites  us 
than  divides  us. As  the  chairman  of  the  delegation  of 
Pakistan  noted,  the  Holy  Koran  says  that  ethnic 
diversity  is  only  for  the  sake  of  identity.  No  matter 
what  religion,  creed  or  culture,  the  human  family 
shares  a  common  yearning  for  peace,  prosperity  and 
happiness. Open and sustained dialogue and respect for 
freedom  of  expression  and 
religious  belief  are 
fundamental  to  our  endeavour  to  promote  a  culture  of 
peace.  

Religion is, and should be, a source of inspiration 
to achieve these goals. No religion has a superior claim 
to  truth.  We  all  need  to  acknowledge  and  respect  the 
pluralism of views and beliefs that exist. These values 
are  enshrined  in  the  founding  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and,  if  fully  implemented,  would  establish  a 
new  culture  of  international  relations  based  on  peace, 
tolerance and mutual respect. 

While  the  United  Nations  is  an  excellent  forum 
for  dialogue,  we  must  not  stop  here.  If  we  want  to 
promote  this  dialogue,  we  should  go  back  and  spread 
the  message  in  our  communities  and  neighbourhoods 
throughout the world. We should all become examples 
of  tolerance  and  mutual  understanding  in  our  daily 
lives. 

embody the change that we want to see in the world. 
The General Assembly has thus concluded High-

level  dialogue  on  Interreligious  and  Intercultural 
Understanding  and  Cooperation  for  Peace,  and  this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 49. 
The meeting rose at 11.35 a.m. 




If  we  want  the  world  to  change,  we  must  first 
07-53011 

45 
