United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

47th plenary meeting 
Monday, 12 November 2007, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

A/62/PV.47
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) 




The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m. 
The President: I wish to inform members of the 

reason  for  the  delay  in  convening  today’s  plenary 
meeting.  I  have  been  advised  by  United  Nations 
Security  and  Safety  Service  that  during  its  routine 
sweep  of  the  General  Assembly  Hall,  the  canine 
handlers noticed an ash-like substance in the Hall. The 
United  Nations  hazmat  team  collected  the  substance 
and cleansed the area. The team has since declared the 
substance to be not dangerous. 



Note by the Secretary-General (A/62/300) 
The  President: As  members  are  aware, 
Agenda item 111 
Notification by the Secretary-General under 
Article 12, paragraph 2, of the Charter of the  
United Nations 


in 
accordance  with 
the  provisions  of  Article  12, 
paragraph 2,  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
with the consent of the Security Council, the Secretary-
General is mandated to notify the General Assembly of 
matters  relative  to  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security  that  are  being  dealt  with  by  the 
Security  Council  and  of  matters  with  which  the 
Council has ceased to deal. 

document before it on this item? 

May I take it that the Assembly takes note of the 
It was so decided. 

The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
agenda item 111? 

It was so decided. 




strengthening 
relations  between 
Agenda items 9 and 122 
Report of the Security Council (A/62/2) 
Question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and 
related matters 

The President: Today the Assembly will consider 
the  item  entitled  “Report  of  the  Security  Council”.  I 
hope that our consideration of the item will contribute 
to 
the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  so  that  together 
both  bodies  can  better  promote 
the  values  and 
principles of the United Nations. 

We  will  also  consider  the  agenda  item  entitled 
“Question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters”.  In  the  14  years  since  this  matter  has  been 
under  discussion  in  the  Open-ended  Working  Group, 
we  have  realized  the  complexity,  sensitivity  and 
growing relevance of Security Council reform. 
leaders 

the  2005  World  Summit,  world 
recognized  the  importance  of  making  progress  on 
Security  Council  reform  an  essential  element  of  the 
overall  efforts  to  reform  the  United  Nations.  They 
committed  to  support  early  reform  of  the  Council  in 
order  to  make  it  more  representative,  efficient  and 
At 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-59318 (E) 
*0759318* 
those  goals,  world 
A/62/PV.47 

transparent and to further enhance its effectiveness and 
the legitimacy of its decisions. 

leaders  also 
supported efforts to adapt  the working  methods of the 
Security  Council,  by  increasing  the  involvement  of 
States which are not members of the Council. 
In  her  speech  to  the  General  Assembly  on  

11  December  2006 
(see  A/61/PV.72),  President  
Al-Khalifa  urged  the  membership  to  take  a  fresh  and 
open-minded approach to the issue of Security Council 
reform.  Progress  has  been  achieved  and  I  would 
encourage the membership to continue in that spirit. As 
a  result  of  the  comprehensive  consultation  processes 
that have been conducted during the sixty-first session, 
we now have a clear understanding of the positions and 
views  of  all  Member  States,  as  well  as  the  valuable 
reports of the facilitators. 

Taking into account the progress achieved so far, 
the membership agreed to consider the issue during the 
sixty-second  session  so  that  further  concrete  results 
may be achieved, including through intergovernmental 
negotiations.  Through  these  efforts  Member  States 
have  reached  a  new  stage  that  offers  the  prospect  of 
achieving  the  goal  of  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
Security Council. 

I wish to assure you of my determination to work 
with  all  of  you  in  an  open  and  transparent  manner  to 
establish  the  most  appropriate  process,  based  on  the 
views of the entire membership. Since the beginning of 
the  sixty-second  session 
informal 
consultations with all interested parties. Member States 
have articulated their preparedness, taking into account 
the progress achieved, to use the current momentum to 
move  forward.  Based  on  those  consultations,  our 
objective should be to develop a framework in order to 
begin  intergovernmental  negotiations  by  identifying 
and  reaching  agreement  on  the  various  negotiable 
elements.  In  that  respect,  we  should  be  guided  by  the 
report  of  the  Working  Group  (A/61/47),  which  the 
Assembly  adopted  on  17  September  2007,  and  the 
positions and proposals of Member States. 

Member  States  should  have  primary  ownership 
and responsibility over such a process. I therefore look 
forward  to  hearing  your  substantive  proposals  and 
views  on  how  to  embark  on  the  next  stage  in  this 
important  process  so  that  we  can  achieve  concrete 
results during the sixty-second session. 
I  have  held 


We  must  bear  in  mind  that  Security  Council 
reform  is  an  integral  part  of  strengthening  the  United 
Nations.  I  would  therefore  encourage  all  Member 
States  to  remain  actively  engaged  and  committed  to 
addressing  this  issue.  As  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  I  only  have  one  request:  that  we  work 
together in good faith with a view to achieving tangible 
results with the broadest possible agreement during this 
session. And  as  the  ancients  would  say,  “Hic  Rhodus, 
hic salta”: in essence, actions speak louder than words. 

I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  President  of  the 
Security  Council,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Marty 
Natalegawa,  to  introduce  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council. 
Mr.  Natalegawa  (Indonesia):  On  behalf  of  all 

members  of  the  Security  Council,  I  would  like  to 
congratulate  you  on  your  election  as  President  of  the 
sixty-second  session  of  the  General Assembly. We  are 
hopeful  that  under  your  able  stewardship,  we  will  be 
able  to  enlarge  the  cooperation  between  the  Security 
Council and the General Assembly. 

In  my  capacity  as  President  of  the  Security 
Council for the month of November, it is my honour to 
introduce  the  annual  report  of  the  Council  to  the 
General  Assembly,  document  A/62/2.  This  report 
covers the period 1 August 2006 to 31 July 2007. 
The annual report demonstrates a diverse agenda 

for 
is  vast  and 
the  Council.  The  programme 
encompasses all major regions of the globe as well as a 
wide  array  of  cross-cutting  thematic  issues,  including 
the strengthening of international law, cooperation with 
regional  organizations  in  peace  and  security  and  the 
protection  of  civilians  in  armed  conflict,  to  mention 
just  a  few  of  the  issues  involved. The  Council  has  on 
its  programme  of  work  all  major  aspects  of  the 
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security, 
including armed conflicts, threats to peace and security 
posed  by  terrorist  acts,  as  well  as  issues  dealing  with 
peacekeeping  operations  by  the  United  Nations  and 
related actors, and post-conflict peacebuilding. It is an 
ambitious  but  important  agenda,  one  which  we  hope 
will be strengthened by collaboration with our partners, 
including the General Assembly. 

During the reporting period, the Council held 224 
formal meetings, 184 of which were public, as well as 
22  meetings  with  troop-contributing  countries.  There 
were  192  consultations  of  the  whole,  and  the  Council 
adopted 71 resolutions and 52 presidential statements. 
07-59318 
To  further 
2 

the  Council, 
(AU)  and 
Developments 
in  Africa  were 
the  African  Union 
On  6  February  2007, 



extensively 
discussed throughout the year. The issue of Darfur was 
highlighted.  There  were  close  consultations  on  that 
issue  between 
the  United  Nations 
Secretariat, 
the 
Government of the Sudan. Six resolutions were passed, 
including resolution 1769 (2007), which authorized the 
establishment  of  a  United  Nations-African  Union 
Hybrid Operation in Darfur. The Council received two 
briefings  by  International  Criminal  Court  Prosecutor 
Moreno-Ocampo on the situation in Darfur. 

the  Secretary-General 
briefed  the  Council  about  his  meetings  at  the  AU 
summit in Addis Ababa with leaders of several African 
countries.  The  Secretary-General  said  it  was  essential 
to support peacekeeping in Darfur and the agreements 
reached in Addis Ababa and Abuja. An agreement was 
reached  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  AU  to 
revive the peace process by conducting a joint mission 
in  the  Sudan  with  special  envoys  Jan  Eliasson  and 
Salim Ahmed Salim. On 30 April, the Council adopted 
resolution 1755 (2007), which extended the mandate of 
the  United  Nations  Mission 
the  Sudan  until 
31 October 2007. 

On Côte d’Ivoire, the Council convened a number 
of meetings and agreed on several measures, including 
the  adoption  of  resolutions  1708  (2006)  and  1761 
(2007),  which  extended  the  mandate  of  the  group  of 
experts  monitoring  the  implementation  of  sanctions 
related to Côte d’Ivoire; resolution 1721 (2006), aimed 
at  implementing  fully  the  peace  process  in  Côte 
d’Ivoire and organizing free, fair, open and transparent 
elections  in  that  country;  and  resolution  1765  (2007), 
which  renewed  the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations 
Operation in Côte d’Ivoire. 

The  Council  welcomed  positive  developments  in 
peacebuilding in Sierra Leone, while stressing the need 
to  address 
the  conflict,  and 
guaranteed  the  conduct  of  free,  fair  and  democratic 
elections  in  the  country.  The  Council  also  welcomed 
the  progress  achieved  by  the  Special  Court  for  Sierra 
Leone  and  reiterated 
that  body. 
Furthermore,  through  resolution  1734  (2006),  the 
Council  extended  the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations 
Integrated Office in Sierra Leone. 

The sanctions regime concerning Liberia was also 
evaluated  and  the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations 
Mission in Liberia was extended twice, by resolutions 
the  root  causes  of 
in 
its  support  for 
A/62/PV.47
the 
1712 (2006) and 1753 (2007). Through resolution 1760 
(2007), adopted on 20 June, the Council requested the 
Secretary-General  to  establish,  within  one  month,  a 
three-member  panel  of  experts  to  conduct  a  follow-up 
assessment mission to Liberia and neighbouring States 
to  investigate  the  implementation  of  the  measures 
outlined in resolution 1521 (2003). 
A  possible  coup  attempt  in  Burundi  at  the 

beginning  of 
reporting  period  prompted  a 
presidential  press  statement  on  the  matter.  In  October 
2006,  a  United  Nations 
integrated  office  was 
established  there,  following  the  expiry  of  the  United 
Nations operation. In June 2007, the Council welcomed 
talks  between  the  President  of  Burundi  and  the  leader 
of  the  Forces  nationales  de  libération  —  Palipehutu-
FNL — and the agreement reached by the parties. 

The  mandate  of  the  United  Nations  Mission  in 
Eritrea/Ethiopia  (UNMEE)  was  extended,  with  some 
troop  withdrawals.  On  17  October  2006  the  Council 
called  on  Eritrea  to  withdraw  its  troops  from  the 
Temporary Security Zone and lift restrictions imposed 
on UNMEE. The Council  also called on the parties  to 
show maximum restraint and on Ethiopia to implement 
fully 
the  Boundary  Commission’s  decision.  By 
resolution  1767  (2007),  adopted  on  30  July,  the 
Council  extended 
the  mandate  of  UNMEE  until 
31 January 2008. 

During this period, Somalia remained in turmoil. 
Among  the  issues  on  the  table  were  the  status  of  the 
peace  talks,  the  military  build-up  and  its  regional 
implications  and 
the  humanitarian  situation.  Last 
February, the Council authorized the African Union to 
establish a mission in Somalia and urged the Secretary-
General to send a team to determine the feasibility of a 
United  Nations  peace-keeping  operation.  The  Council 
stressed  the  need  for  a  broad  and  inclusive  political 
process and appealed to the international community to 
assist the AU with financial and logistical support. 

Instability  in  Chad  and  its  borders  with  the 
Central African  Republic  and  the  Sudan  prompted  the 
mandate for a possible multidimensional force in Chad. 
The  humanitarian  situation  in  the  country  was  also  a 
concern.  A  visit  by  the  Under-Secretary-General  for 
Humanitarian  Affairs 
Emergency  Relief 
Coordinator  reported  that  there  was  a  deteriorating 
situation in the humanitarian dimension and that there 
was  a  pressing  need  for  political  solutions.  In  July 
2007,  the  idea  of  sending  a  European  force  to  protect 
and 
07-59318 

3 

A/62/PV.47 

refugees in eastern Chad and the north-eastern Central 
African Republic was also considered by the Council. 

After going through precarious times with respect 
to  political,  security  and  economic  conditions  in  late 
2006, most Council members expressed support for the 
ongoing mandate of the United Nations Peacebuilding 
Support  Office  in  Guinea-Bissau.  There  were  also 
concerns  about  ongoing  political  and  social  tensions 
between  the  National  Assembly  and  the  Government, 
and  the  Council  urged  the  parties  to  resolve  their 
differences  through  dialogue  and  strict  respect  for  the 
constitutional  framework.  Last  July,  Council  members 
welcomed  the  formation  of  a  new  Government  and  a 
stability pact that it hoped would set the foundation for 
genuine reconciliation. 

On  9  August  2006,  the  Council  held  an  open 
debate  on  peace  consolidation  in  West  Africa,  urging 
the  Economic  Community  of  West African  States  and 
the  West  African  States  to  curb  illicit  cross-border 
activities.  It  reiterated  the  importance  of  solidarity 
among  African  leaders  for  peace  and  security  in  the 
region as well as for addressing cross-border issues. 
several  presidential 

statements  on  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Congo:  in 
August  2006,  regarding  the  elections;  in  September, 
regarding the clash in Kinshasa; in November, looking 
forward  to  the  installation  of  a  democratically  elected 
Government;  in April  2007,  regarding  the  violence  in 
Kinshasa;  and  in  July,  expressing  concern  at  the 
deteriorating  security  situation  in  the  east  of  the 
country.  Through  resolution  1756  (2007),  the  Council 
extended the mandate of the United Nations Mission in 
the Democratic Republic of Congo until 31 December 
2007. 
In line with its extensive considerations of issues 

in  Africa,  the  Council  conducted  a  mission  to  Africa 
from  14  to  21  June  2007.  The  mission  visited  several 
African  capitals,  including  Addis  Ababa,  Abidjan, 
Accra, Khartoum and Kinshasa, and met with officials 
from  the  African  Union  and  the  countries  visited. 
Council  members  emphasized  the  importance  of  an 
exchange  of  views  with  the African  Union  Peace  and 
Security  Council,  and  it  was  decided  that  the  two 
bodies  should  meet  yearly. The  Council  also  explored 
how the United Nations, on a case-by-case basis, could 
assist  the  AU,  particularly  when  the  AU  was  acting 
under a Security Council mandate. 
The  Council 
adopted 
The  situation 
in 
In  December, 
the  Middle  East  and 

the 
Palestinian  question  continued  to  be  considered  on  a 
monthly  basis.  There  were  seven  open  debates  on  the 
situation, two of which were at the ministerial level. In 
November  2006,  a  draft  resolution  was  introduced  by 
Qatar but not adopted, owing to the negative vote of a 
permanent  member. 
there  was  a 
comprehensive  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the 
situation in the Middle East and the peace process over 
the past 10 years. 

The question of Lebanon was also discussed. On 
11  August  2006,  the  Council  unanimously  adopted 
resolution 1701 (2006), which, inter alia, renewed and 
enhanced  the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations  Interim 
Force  in  Lebanon  (UNIFIL).  The  implementation  of 
resolution  1701  (2006)  was  followed  closely,  as  were 
the  implementation  of  resolution  1559  (2004)  and  the 
work  of  the  International  Independent  Investigation 
Commission and the Special Tribunal for Lebanon. By 
resolution  1748  (2007),  the  Council  extended  the 
mandate  of  the  Commission,  and,  by  resolution  1757 
(2007), the Council established the Special Tribunal for 
Lebanon.  In  a  presidential  statement  issued  in  June 
2007  (S/PRST/2007/21),  the  Council  condemned  the 
terrorist attack against UNIFIL peacekeepers. 

Iraq remained under the Council’s  consideration. 
In August 2006, the United Nations Assistance Mission 
in  Iraq  (UNAMI),  whose  goal  is  to  assist  Iraq  in 
constitutional development, in reforming the legal and 
judicial  system,  in  promoting  human  rights  and  in 
responding  to  humanitarian  challenges,  was  extended 
by  resolution  1700  (2006).  The 
resolution  also 
underlines the importance of cooperation between Iraq 
and 
the 
significance of the International Compact with Iraq. In 
November 2006, the mandate of the multinational force 
in  Iraq  was  also  extended,  by  resolution  1723  (2006), 
and  the  Council  reaffirmed  the  hope  that  Iraqi  forces 
would soon be able to assume full responsibility for the 
peace and security of their country. In March 2007, the 
Council issued a statement by the President to the press 
expressing  support  for  the  United  Nations  and  its 
Secretary-General 
inclusive  and 
effective  process  of  national  reconciliation.  In  June 
2007,  the  Council  adopted  resolution  1762  (2007), 
terminating 
the  United  Nations 
Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission. 
From 11 to 16 November 2006, the Council sent a 

mission  to  Afghanistan.  After  debate  on  the  mission 
its  neighbouring  countries,  as  well  as 
in  promoting  an 
the  mandate  of 
4 

07-59318 
to  Asia, 
report 
With  regard 
the  Secretary-General 


report,  which  described  its  achievements  and  the 
challenges  it  encountered,  the  Council  unanimously 
extended the mandate of the United Nations Assistance 
Mission  in Afghanistan  (UNAMA)  until  March  2008. 
The  International  Security Assistance  Force  (ISAF)  in 
Afghanistan  was  also  extended,  until  October  2007. 
Council  members  voiced  their  concern  about  the 
security  situation,  including  civilian  casualties,  and 
about increased violence and terrorist activities carried 
out  by  the  Taliban,  Al-Qaida  and  other  extremist 
groups. 

the  Security  Council 
extended the mandate of the United Nations Integrated 
Mission in Timor-Leste through resolution 1745 (2007) 
and  supported  the  electoral  process.  The  results  of 
presidential  elections  in  Timor-Leste  were  announced 
in May and August 2007, and the Council called upon 
the  Government  to  confront  the  challenges  facing  the 
country.  It  is  hoped  that  the  election  will  have  a 
unifying impact on the people of Timor-Leste and that 
the  way  for  peace.  The  Personal 
it  will  pave 
Representative  of 
in  Nepal 
presented  a  report  on 
the  Comprehensive  Peace 
Agreement  signed  on  21  November  2006  by  the 
the  Communist  Party 
Government  of  Nepal  and 
(Maoist).  The 
requested  United  Nations 
assistance in implementing the agreement. The Council 
expressed  support  for  a  technical  assessment  team  to 
be  sent  by  the  Secretary-General.  Pursuant  to  that,  a 
United Nations Mission was established in Nepal, and 
the  Council  reaffirmed  its  support  for  the  peace 
process,  calling  for 
transparent 
elections. 

The Council had several meetings on the situation 
in  Myanmar  during  the  reporting  period.  In  January 
2007,  a  draft  resolution  was  introduced  by  the  United 
States  of  America  but  not  adopted,  owing  to  the 
negative vote of two permanent members. 

In  Europe,  the  Kosovo  issue,  particularly  the 
future-status process, was among the high priorities on 
the Council’s agenda. The Council regularly considered 
Interim 
the 
Administration  Mission 
discussed 
proposals  for  Kosovo’s  future-status  settlement,  made 
by  the  Special  Envoy  of  the  Secretary-General;  and 
dispatched  its  mission.  From  25  to  28 April  2007,  the 
mission visited Brussels, Belgrade, Priština and Vienna 
and  held  a  dialogue  on  the  issue  with  the  European 
Union,  NATO,  Belgrade,  representatives  from  Priština 
the  United  Nations 
timely,  fair  and 
activities  of 
in  Kosovo; 
A/62/PV.47
On 
the 
issue  of 
and the Special Envoy. However, after much effort on a 
draft  resolution,  the  Council  was  not  able  to  reach  an 
agreement, and work on the draft was suspended. 

The  Council  held  several  consultations  on 
Georgia  during  the  reporting  period.  The  mandate  of 
the  United  Nations  Observer  Mission  in  Georgia  was 
extended,  and  the  Council  called  for  the  parties  to 
comply with the ceasefire and to refrain from violence, 
as  well  as  to  finalize  agreements  on  the  non-use  of 
violence  and  the  return  of  refugees  and  displaced 
persons. 

Among  the  thematic  issues  taken  up  by  the 
Council  during  the  year  were  threats  to  peace  and 
security  caused  by  terrorist  acts;  non-proliferation, 
particularly in North Korea and Iran; civilians in armed 
conflict; women, peace and security; and post-conflict 
peacebuilding. Attention  was  also  given  to  the  role  of 
regional organizations, including the African Union, as 
well as to genocide prevention, security sector reform, 
climate  change  and  security,  natural  resources  and 
conflict, small arms, and the International Tribunals for 
the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda. 
in 

September  2006  the  Council  was  briefed,  at  a  public 
meeting,  by  the  Chairmen  of  three  subsidiary  bodies: 
the Committee established pursuant to resolution 1267 
(1999)  concerning  Al-Qaida  and  the  Taliban  and 
associated 
the  Counter-
Terrorism  Committee, 
to 
pursuant 
resolution 1373 (2001); and the Committee established 
pursuant  to  resolution  1540  (2004),  on  the  non-
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  to  non-
State actors, particularly terrorists. Similar briefings by 
the Chairmen of those Committees were given in May 
2007.  In  December  2006,  the  Council  adopted  a 
presidential  statement  on  the  review  of  the  Counter-
Terrorism  Executive  Directorate  (S/PRST/2006/56). 
The Council also adopted several press and presidential 
statements  condemning  the  terrorist  attack  in  Iran 
(SC/8957)  and  the  bombing  of  the  Delhi-Lahore 
“Friendship  Express”  train  in  India  (SC/8961),  in 
February  2007; 
in  Algiers 
(S/PRST/2007/10)  and  a  bomb  attack  in  Baghdad 
(S/PRST/2007/11),  in  April  2007;  and  other  terrorist 
attacks in Yemen (S/PRST/2007/26), in July 2007. 

With  respect  to  non-proliferation,  the  Council 
adopted resolution 1737 (2006) on 23 December 2006. 
It  imposed  sanctions  on  Iran  for  non-compliance  with 
individuals  and  entities; 
established 
two  suicide  attacks 
international 
terrorism, 
07-59318 

5 

in 
post-conflict 
by  women 
A/62/PV.47 

the  demands  set  out 
in  resolution  1696  (2006). 
Resolution  1747  (2007)  expanded  those  sanctions  in 
response  to  continuing  non-compliance  by  Iran.  On  
14 October 2006, the Council adopted resolution 1718 
(2006), imposing sanctions on the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea. 

Attention  was  also  accorded  by  the  Council  to 
such  issues  as  the  protection  of  civilians  and  children 
in  armed  conflict  situations  and  women,  peace  and 
security.  In  March  2007,  the  Council  agreed  on  a 
presidential  statement  (S/PRST/2007/5)  conveying  the 
view  that  it  is  essential  to  promote  full  and  equal 
participation 
and 
peacebuilding efforts. 

The  Security  Council’s  cooperation  with  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  moved 
forward.  On  
31  January  2007,  the  Council  held  an  open  debate  on 
post-conflict peacebuilding, focusing on practical steps 
that  could  be  taken  to  improve  peacebuilding  across 
the work of the United Nations and on the importance 
of partnerships between the principal organs and those 
contributing  to  peacebuilding.  Linkages  between  the 
Peacebuilding Commission and the principal organs of 
the United Nations were sought. 

On  8  January  2007,  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-
moon participated in a formal debate of the Council on 
threats to international peace and security. The meeting 
emphasized  that  the  current  global  challenges  and 
threats  demanded  a  resolute  and  coherent  response 
based  on  the  collective  security  system  of  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations.  The  Council  requested  regular 
reporting on regions of potential armed conflict as well 
as a greater focus on peacekeeping in attaining the set 
objectives of  missions, and stressed the  importance  of 
peacebuilding. 
The  Council  also  examined  the  importance  of 

international  peace  and 
regional  organizations 
security.  On  20  September  2006, 
there  was  a 
ministerial  open  debate  on  the  topic.  A  presidential 
statement 
subregional 
organizations  to  engage  in  closer  cooperation  and  to 
promote 
conflict  prevention,  peacebuilding  and 
peacekeeping. In a separate session on 28 March 2007, 
the  Council  convened  an  open  debate  on  similar 
themes,  focusing  on  Africa.  As  reflected  by  a 
presidential  statement  agreed  upon  at  the  meeting 
the 
(S/PRST/2007/7), 
important 
the 
the  Council 
regional  organizations 
recognized 
in 
called  on 
role  of 
regional 
and 
to 
to  closer  cooperation  across 
prevention, management and resolution of conflicts, in 
accordance  with  Chapter  VIII  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter.  The  Security  Council’s  relationship  with  the 
African  Union  Peace  and  Security  Council  was  taken 
forward  during  the  Council’s  mission  to Addis Ababa 
in  June  2007,  during  which  a  joint  statement  was 
agreed between the two Councils, committing the two 
bodies 
the  conflict 
spectrum. 

The  Council  held  an  open  debate  on  security 
sector reform on 20 February 2007 to discuss possible 
United  Nations  approaches  aimed  at  fostering  the 
creation  of  effective,  accountable  and  sustainable 
security  institutions  that  operate  within  the  fabric  of 
the  rule  of  law  and  respect  for  human  rights.  In  its 
presidential  statement  (S/PRST/2007/3),  the  Council 
stressed that  reforming the security sector was critical 
in  post-conflict  environments  to  consolidating  peace 
and stability, reducing poverty, establishing the rule of 
law  and  good  governance,  extending  legitimate  State 
authority and preventing  countries from relapsing into 
conflict. 

On  25  June  2007,  the  Council  held  an  open 
debate  on  natural  resources  and  conflict.  In  the 
presidential statement that was adopted after the debate 
(S/PRST/2007/22), the Council recognized the role that 
natural  resources  can  play  in  armed  conflict  and  post-
conflict  situations  by  contributing  to  the  outbreak, 
escalation  or 
conflict. 
Furthermore,  the Council stressed the  crucial role that 
natural resources can play in contributing to long-term 
economic growth and sustainable development. 

On  28  August  2007,  the  Council  held  an  open 
debate  on  the  role  of  the  Security  Council  in  the 
maintenance  of  peace  and  security  in  Africa.  In  the 
presidential statement that was adopted after the debate 
(S/PRST/2007/31),  the  Council  noted  the  need  to 
provide  coherence  and  enhanced  coordination,  both  in 
terms  of  policy  and  operationalization,  among  all 
stakeholders 
prevention, 
to 
highlighting 
strengthen 
resolving 
conflicts. The  Council  also  welcomed  the  intention  of 
the Ad Hoc Working Group on Conflict Prevention and 
Resolution  in  Africa  to  hold  a  seminar  expected  to 
contribute  to  the  elaboration  of  an  effective  global 
conflict-prevention strategy. 
the  determination  of 
its 
in  preventing  and 
continuation  of 
the  Council 
involved 
conflict 
armed 
role 
in 
6 

07-59318 
in 
the  discharge  of 



As  a  final  point,  the  Council  recognized  the 
importance  of  effective  working  methods.  The 
presidential  note  (S/2006/507)  remained  a  practical 
reference in the work of the Council during the period 
of  coverage,  especially  in  its  efforts  to  enhance 
effectiveness  and  transparency.  The  participation  of 
non-Council  members  had  been  accommodated  in 
various  open  debates  throughout  the  year.  Council 
members also continued to pay attention to the issue of 
Security  Council  mandate  review  within  the  relevant 
ad hoc committee. 

On  behalf  of  all  Council  members,  I  extend  my 
thanks  to  Members  of  the  General  Assembly  for  the 
opportunity to present to Members the activities of the 
Council over the past year. I would also like to express 
my appreciation, on behalf of the Council, for the work 
of the Secretary-General and Secretariat staff for their 
invaluable  support  of  the  Council’s  activities  and  for 
their  professionalism 
their 
responsibilities  so  that  the  Council  can  undertake  its 
important work. 
Mr. Wenaweser (Liechtenstein): Thank you very 

much, Mr. President, for organizing this debate. I also 
thank the current President of the Security Council for 
introducing the Council’s report (A/62/2) this morning. 
The  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council,  in  its 

very  first  sentence, 
the 
workload  of  the  Council,  which  confirms  the  trend  of 
recent  years.  The  Council  is  thus  playing  the  central 
role foreseen for it under the Charter. At the same time, 
of  course,  the  permanent  pressure  under  which  the 
Council  operates  may  at  times  be  to  the  detriment  of 
the  depth  and  quality  of  its  discussions  and  the 
decision-making  process.  Under  these  circumstances, 
the Council must be particularly cautious in taking on 
new issues, especially issues that do not relate to clear 
and direct threats to international peace and security. 

also  poses 
particular  challenges  in  the  area  of  working  methods, 
in particular the question of whether adjustments to the 
way  the  Council  goes  about  its  business  can  create 
more  space  and  time  for  the  necessary  deliberations. 
While it is up to the members of the Council to make 
those  adjustments,  inter  alia,  by  taking  up  ideas 
brought  to  their  attention  from  the  outside,  they  are 
certainly  in  the  direct  interest  of  the  membership  as  a 
whole,  on  whose  behalf  the  Council  carries  out  its 
work. We must not lose sight of the goal, agreed upon 
ever-increasing  workload 
indicates  an 
increase 
The 
in 
A/62/PV.47
its 
as 
the 
of 
the 
in  some 
S/2006/507, 
internal  deliberations  are 
in  the  World  Summit  Outcome  Document,  of  making 
the  Council  more  efficient  and  transparent,  further 
enhancing  its  effectiveness  and  the  legitimacy  and 
implementation 
decisions.  The  more 
overwhelming 
for 
Council members, the smaller the likelihood of regular 
and  substantive  interaction  with  the  rest  of  Member 
States. Efficiency and transparency can thus very easily 
be  combined  and  are, 
respects,  even 
complementary. 

Like  others,  we  were  very  interested  in  the 
measures  in  the  area  of  working  methods  that  the 
Council  adopted  in  July  2006.  They  are  contained  in 
document 
Permanent 
Representative of Indonesia just mentioned. The extent 
to  which  —  and  the  regularity  with  which  —  these 
measures  are  applied  are,  however,  unclear  to  us.  It 
would  appear  that  their  application  depends  for  the 
most  part  on  the  respective  presidency  of  the  month 
and  that  it  does  not  therefore  do  enough  to  create  a 
more lasting  relationship between the Council and the 
rest of the Member States. 

This debate usually gives rise to complaints about 
the  nature  of  the  report  of  the  Council,  the  most 
popular  criticism  being  the  lack  of  analysis  in  the 
annual  report.  Repeating  this  same  criticism  each  and 
every  time  the  annual  report  is  discussed  holds  little 
appeal  for  us.  It  is  of  course,  to  some  extent,  also 
understandable  why  it  would  be  difficult  for  the 
Council  to  produce  the  report  in  a  manner  that  is 
significantly  different  from  what  can  at  this  time  be 
called its traditional format. 

The  discussions  about  format,  however,  hide  a 
larger point. On the one hand, the work of the Council 
takes  up  much  of  our  attention  in  private  discussions 
and  makes  for  a  very  large  portion  of  the  coverage  in 
the media. But at the same time, there is never an open 
the 
and  perhaps  even 
performance  of 
larger 
membership.  Again,  the  agreement  arrived  at  by  the 
World  Summit  to  enhance  the  accountability  of  the 
Council 
the 
transparency of its work has not been put into practice. 
On  balance,  it  seems  to  us  that  the  Council  has  been 
busier  than  ever  over  the  past  12  months  and  perhaps 
also more inaccessible than ever. 

methods  of 
As  a  member  of  the  “S-5”  group,  the  working 
the  Council  are  of  ever-increasing 
interactive  discussion  on 
to  Member  States  and 
the  Council  among 
to 
increase 
the 
07-59318 

7 
A/62/PV.47 

importance 
to  us.  We  must  distinguish  between 
practical  measures  such  as  the  format  of  meetings, 
speaking  time,  announcement  of  meetings  and  so  on, 
and measures that open up the substantive work of the 
Council  to  the  rest  of  the  Member  States.  While 
measures  of  the  first  kind  are  very  important,  it  is  of 
course  the  latter  ones  that  make  a  real  difference  in 
shaping  the  Council’s  relationship  with  the  rest  of  the 
membership.  In  particular,  when  it  comes  to  its 
thematic work and to the work of its subsidiary organs, 
the  Council  can  and  should  significantly  benefit  from 
the input of States that are not at a given time serving 
on  the  Council  but  play  an  important  role  in  the 
process of implementing its decisions. 

It  is  therefore  essential  that  adjustments  and 
changes  are  made  to  the  working  methods  on  an 
ongoing  basis.  The  Council  itself  indeed  must  make 
those  changes,  but  substantive  input  and  inspiration 
must  also  come  from  outside,  and  this  is  where  the 
Assembly  must  play  an  important  role.  Such  changes 
are  a  reflection  of  the  changing  nature  of  the  work  of 
the  Council.  They  are  thus  unrelated  to  a  possible 
enlargement  of  the  Council.  While  they  make  up  an 
important  part  of  the  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
Council that has been elusive for such a long time, the 
improvements  on  working  methods  must  proceed 
independently  from  progress  on  enlargement  and, 
hopefully,  contribute 
to  creating  momentum  on 
enlargement as well. 

few 
developments  in  the  area  of  enlargement. Two  reports 
were  produced  under 
leadership  of  your 
predecessor,  Mr.  President,  that  tried  to  show  a 
possible  new  path  to  achieving  enlargement  of  the 
Council.  The  intermediary  approach,  as  it  is  usually 
called, is to our mind a compromise between the well-
known  positions  reflected  in  texts  that  were  presented 
before the 2005 World Summit. It should, however, not 
be  understood  as  a  less-than-ideal  solution  that  we 
would set about to change or further refine as soon as it 
was  adopted.  Rather,  such  an  intermediary  approach 
should  only  be  considered  if  it  finds  the  largest 
possible  political  support,  which  has  been  elusive  for 
all the other proposed solutions presented in the past. 

Changing  the  composition  of  the  Council  in  the 
framework of a mandatory review, which we all expect 
will  take  place  under  any  proposed  solution,  will  not 
necessarily  prove 
the 
enlargement efforts we have been engaged in for some 
The  past  year  has  brought  quite  a 
less  difficult 
the 
to  be 
than 

15 years now. We therefore need a sustainable political 
solution  and  clear  indications  thereon  from  all  the 
major  stakeholders.  If  and  when  those  conditions  are 
met, we will  be ready,  as the membership as a whole, 
to  engage  in  the  negotiating  process  that  most  States 
are now calling for. We wish to express our full support 
to you, Mr. President, in your difficult task of steering 
these discussions and encourage you to play a creative 
and active role in this process. 
Mr.  Heller  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation  wishes  to  thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for 
having  convened  this  meeting,  and  to  thank  the 
President of the Security Council, the representative of 
Indonesia,  for  his  presentation  of  the  report  (A/62/2) 
today. 

The delegation of Mexico wishes to indicate that 
although  it  recognizes  the  efforts  made  to  facilitate 
consultations  on  the  content  of  the  Security  Council 
report,  that  document  does  not,  unfortunately,  include 
substantive  information  on  its  actions  on  the  various 
items under examination during the period from August 
2006 to July 2007. 
We  believe  that  the  presentation  of  the  report 

must  not  be  a  mere  step,  but  the  means  by  which  the 
Council  collaborates  with  the  General  Assembly,  in 
which  all  Member  State  are  represented,  and  that  the 
Council  should  report  in  a  detailed  manner  on  the 
fulfilment  of  its  responsibility  in  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  Mexico  insists  once 
again  that  the  capacities  of  the  Council  and  of  the 
Assembly  with 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security  are  concurrent,  as 
clearly stated by the International Court of Justice in its 
advisory  opinion  on  the  legal  consequences  of  the 
construction  of  a  wall  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory,  transmitted  to  the  Assembly  by  document 
A/ES-10/273 of 13 July 2004. 

While  the  report  includes  a  section  on  the 
recommendation for the appointment of the Secretary-
General, it does not in  any way include  details on the 
changes  in  the  election  dynamic  that  took  place  in 
2006.  Given  that  the  Security  Council  held  meetings 
with  different  candidates  before  adopting  a  final 
decision,  my  delegation  would  have  expected  some 
indication in the report of the Council’s opinion on that 
recent  experience  and  its  relevance  to  such  occasions 
in the future. 
regard 
to 
8 

07-59318 



It  is  also  interesting  to  note  that  in  the  report’s 
index, there is a section on matters that were brought to 
the attention of the Security Council but not examined 
in Council meetings during this period. In that respect, 
it would be desirable to know the reasons for which the 
Council  did  not  consider  those  items  that  Member 
States  or  other  entities  brought  to  its  attention.  That 
would certainly increase transparency in the Council’s 
activities  and  enhance  Member  States’  confidence  in 
bringing  issues  of  specific  interest  to  them  to  the 
attention of the Council. 

The  report  of  the  Security  Council  continues  to 
present the same deficiencies observed by almost every 
delegation for a number of years now. That is why we 
continue to ask ourselves if the General Assembly truly 
needs  a  report  consisting  of  a  compilation  of  Council 
data  and  documents  published  during  the  previous 
period. 

Certainly,  that  issue  leads  us  to  the  issue  of  the 
working  methods  of  the  Council,  which  has  also  not 
been  solved  owing  to  the  polarized  positions  on  the 
matter.  A  few  Member  States  consider  the  Security 
Council  not 
the  General 
Assembly;  hence  the  nature  of  the  report  presented  to 
us.  But  for  the  vast  majority  of  Member  States,  that 
position is not acceptable. We therefore wish for better 
working  methods  for  the  Council  in  order  to  achieve, 
among  other  things,  an  analytical  report  that  will 
contribute  to  evaluating  the  actions  of  the  Council.  If 
delegations here in the Assembly consider these reports 
to be of little use, how much more should the members 
of  the  Council  ask  themselves  what  interest  such 
documents  serve,  beyond 
this 
Organization? 

It  is  not  a  coincidence  that  every  year,  on  the 
occasion  of  the  presentation  of  the  report,  we  also 
debate  the  issue  of  Security  Council  reform.  The 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly,  at  its  sixty-first 
session,  undertook  a  remarkable  effort  to  achieve 
progress in that area. Thanks to that initiative, we were 
presented  with  a  new  approach, 
the  so-called 
transitional or intermediary approach, oriented towards 
finding  a  compromise  solution.  The  debate  over  the 
extent  and  limitations  of  that  approach  has  already 
taken  place  and  was  very  intense,  benefiting  from 
much  participation.  My  delegation’s  position  was 
presented in the statement we made on 19 July 2007. 
to  be  accountable 
the  confines  of 
to 
A/62/PV.47
clearly 
supported 
Several  delegations 

the 
approach,  in  a  spirit  of  realistic  compromise,  which 
opened  the  possibility  of  ending  the  stalemate  on  the 
matter,  14  years  after  the  establishment  of  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group  on  the  Question  of  Equitable 
Representation  on  and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of 
the Security Council and Other Matters Related to the 
Security  Council.  That  was  precisely  what  all  of  the 
facilitators involved in the process called for. However, 
there  were  also  voices,  and  we  should  acknowledge 
them,  that  rejected  such  an  approach.  In  the  final 
balance, the elements of consensus that remain are few 
but  substantive:  the  status  quo  is  unacceptable  and 
many  members,  including  Mexico,  are  willing  to 
negotiate. 
However,  the  delegation  of  Mexico  considers 

that, in any case, intergovernmental negotiations aimed 
at reaching the widest possible agreement for Security 
Council reform should occur in a transparent and open 
way,  within  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  which 
already exists for that purpose, and should be based on 
the proposals by the facilitators from the presidency of 
the sixty-first session of the General Assembly. 

In  that  context,  we  believe  that  the  appointment 
of  new  facilitators  or  the  establishment  of  any  other 
kind  of  mechanism  would  not  contribute  to  the 
intergovernmental negotiating process that we intend to 
start as soon as the Working Group’s work resumes. 

In  that  respect,  we  wish  to  indicate  that  Mexico 
considers  it  essential  that,  in  a  spirit  of  collaboration 
among  all  Member  States,  we  avoid  searching  for  or 
proposing unexpected options with urgent deadlines on 
the  margins  of  the  existing  process,  in  order  to 
continue  the  negotiations  on  this  issue  of  particular 
interest to the international community. 
We must be fully aware that, in order to launch an 

intergovernmental  negotiation, 
should  be 
agreement  on  at  least  three  basic  principles:  first,  the 
inclusion of all known options; secondly, the exclusion 
of any element that aims at prejudging the final result 
of  the  process;  and  thirdly,  the  reaffirmation  of  the 
requisite  consensus  or  the  widest  possible  agreement, 
that  is,  clearly  above  two-thirds  of  Member  States. 
Those  basic  principles  must  be  carefully  observed, 
since, otherwise, we risk creating a dangerous division 
in this Organization. 
That is why Mexico has insisted on a gradual and 

cautious  reform.  The  enlargement  of  the  Security 
there 
07-59318 

9 

to 
regard 
the  maintenance  of 
Thirdly,  accountability  with 
A/62/PV.47 

Council is, in our view, viable in the short term if it is 
founded on the following criteria. 

First,  the  expansion  should  only  include  the 
category  of  new  non-permanent  members,  whose 
precise  number  and  duration  of  mandate  would  be 
determined  within  the  framework  of  the  negotiations, 
in  order  to  achieve  a  new  configuration  that  is 
representative of the contemporary world. 
Secondly,  the  introduction  of  the  re-election 

principle 
for  all  non-permanent  members  would 
guarantee a more frequent and continuous presence of 
those  States  with  a  greater  readiness  to  play  an  active 
role on the most relevant items of the agenda, starting 
with 
international  peace  and 
security. 

the 
performance  of  every  non-permanent  member  that 
aspires to re-election would be guaranteed in a process 
with the characteristics we have outlined. 

Fourthly  and  finally,  the  regulation  of  the  use  of 
the  veto  and  the  review  of  the  Council’s  working 
methods  should  be,  in  our  view,  a  counterpart  to  the 
actions  that  the  five  permanent  members  of  the 
Security Council should be willing to undertake in the 
context of such a reform. 

The  process  of  United  Nations  reform  is  under 
way.  However,  if  we  do  not  have  concrete  results  on 
the  Security  Council,  reform  will  remain  incomplete. 
Mexico is convinced that the will of States is the key to 
this  decisive  moment  in  this  new  stage  of  Security 
Council reform. 

full 
commitment  to  participating  in  the  consultations  that 
the presidency deems necessary, and to collaborate, in 
a constructive and active spirit, in the elaboration of a 
process  of  negotiation  that  will  be  acceptable  for  all 
Member States and will allow us to make progress on 
this fundamental issue on our agenda. 
Mr.  Hoang  Chi  Trung  (Viet  Nam):  First  of  all, 

my  delegation  would  like  to  thank  His  Excellency 
Ambassador  R.M.  Marty  M.  Natalegawa,  President  of 
the Security Council for November, for his informative 
presentation  on  the  work  of  the  Council  over  the  12 
months  of 
the  reporting  period.  We  also  highly 
appreciate  the  efforts  to  move  forward  the  Council’s 
reform process by the President of the Assembly at its 
sixty-first  session,  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Haya  Rashed 
My  delegation  wishes 
renew 
its 
to 
the 
My 
delegation  welcomes 
Al-Khalifa,  and  her  facilitators  in  the  Open-ended 
Working  Group  on 
the  Question  of  Equitable 
Representation  on  and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of 
the Security Council and Other Matters Related to the 
Security Council. 

Allow  me  to  avail  myself  of  this  opportunity  to 
thank  all  Member  States  for  the  valued  support  given 
to  my  country  during  the  elections  of  non-permanent 
Council  members  held  on  16  October  2007 
(A/62/PV.26).  Viet  Nam,  elected  to  serve  on  the 
Council  for  the  next  two  years,  is  fully  committed  to 
making  proactive  and  positive  contributions  to  the 
work of the Council in the maintenance of international 
peace and security. 

continuing 
discussion  of  the  Council’s  work  as  a  way  to  enhance 
dialogue and cooperation between the Council and the 
General Assembly as well as other organs of the United 
Nations system. Aware that the Council held 184 open 
meetings,  out  of  224  formal  meetings,  during  the 
reporting  period,  we  are  pleased  to  underscore  the 
attempts by Council members to enhance transparency 
and  accountability  in  the  Council’s  work  and  their 
efforts to provide greater opportunities for all Member 
States to better understand the work of the Council and 
to  engage  with  the  issues  of  common  interest  and 
concerns  on  the  Council’s  agenda.  It  is  our  hope  that 
more concerted efforts will be made to that effect. 

The  statistics  provided  in  the  Council’s  report 
show  a  growing  trend  in  its  activities,  both  in  scope 
and  dimension.  They  also  remind  us  that  conflict  and 
tensions are still prevalent in many regions around the 
world, a fact that requires the international community 
to  show  further  determination  and  provide  more 
resources 
to  satisfactory 
resolutions.  We  are  particularly  concerned  with  the 
cycle  of  escalating  violence  and  the  elusive  peace 
process  in  the  Middle  East  and  the  fragile  peace 
in  some  African  countries,  while  non-
processes 
traditional 
the 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  continue 
to  pose  serious  threats  to  international  peace  and 
security. 

In that context, we welcome the intensive efforts 
made  by  the  Council  and  the  Secretary-General  in  his 
good offices capacity to promote a peaceful solution to 
the  crisis 
to  foster  stability  and 
peacebuilding  in  Burundi,  Somalia,  Afghanistan  and 
in  Darfur  and 
those  conflicts 
terrorism  and 
such  as 
to  bring 
threats 
10 

07-59318 


Iraq. In addition, the recent encouraging developments 
on the Korean peninsula, in particular the inter-Korean 
summit meetings and the positive outcomes of the Six-
Party  Talks  on  the  nuclear  issue,  are  significant  and 
welcome steps that promise to consolidate stability and 
peace on the Korean peninsula and beyond. 

Much,  however,  remains  to  be  done  by  the 
Council  to  advance  the  major  objectives  of  conflict 
prevention,  peacemaking  and  peacebuilding  in  the 
world. In the face of various emerging challenges, the 
Council must revitalize itself to discharge its duties in 
a more adequate and effective manner. It goes without 
saying  that  the  Council  needs  to  be  reformed  in  a 
substantial and timely manner. 

Turning to the question of reforming the Security 
Council,  my  delegation  wishes  to  reiterate  that  such 
reform is crucial to the United Nations reform process. 
Making  the  Council  more  representative  and  its  work 
more  democratic,  effective  and  transparent,  especially 
with  regard  to  decision-making,  is  vital  for  adapting 
the United Nations to the realities of the current world. 
A modern Security Council should be enlarged in both 
permanent  and  non-permanent  categories,  where 
developing  countries  in  particular  will  have  more 
representatives to voice their views and concerns in the 
maintenance of international peace and security. 

On the other hand, the use of the veto should be 
limited 
the  Council’s  working  methods 
substantially  improved,  in  order  to  make  the  Council 
more  accessible  and  transparent  to  all  Member  States. 
Pending  any  decisions  to  be  adopted  on  the  reform  of 
its membership, the Council should further improve its 
own  working  procedures  and  expand  its  interaction 
with  other  United  Nations  organs.  Public  meetings, 
briefings  and  press  conferences  should  continue  to  be 
expanded  in  order  to  provide  a  timely  and  greater 
source  of  information  on  the  activities  of  the  Council 
to all Member States. 
In  that  regard,  we  commend  the  efforts  of  the 

the  Question  of 
Open-ended  Working  Group  on 
Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase 
the 
Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters 
Related  to  the  Security  Council  in  carrying  out 
intensive consultations over the past year which have, 
in our view, generated concrete ideas and proposals to 
move  the  reform  process  of  the  Security  Council 
forward.  Accordingly,  we  welcome  its  report  and 
support  the  decision  to  continue  considering  the  topic 
and 
in 
A/62/PV.47
at the present session of the General Assembly so that 
further  concrete  results  may  be  achieved,  including 
through intergovernmental negotiations. 

We share the view that the reform process of the 
Security Council now stands at a defining stage where 
all  Member  States  should  utilize 
the  momentum 
initiated by the recent efforts to move ahead. It is high 
time that we commit ourselves to genuine negotiations. 
My  delegation  is  willing  to  participate  in  discussions 
and  consultations  with  other  Members  in  an  open, 
inclusive  and  constructive  manner  on  the  issues  at 
hand.  It  is  our  conviction  that  under  your  excellent 
leadership  and  wise  guidance,  Mr.  President,  the 
reform  process  will  move  much  further  ahead  and  we 
will  arrive  at  a  fruitful  outcome  that  garners  the 
support  of  the  widest  majority  of  the  membership  of 
the United Nations. 
Mr.  Almansoor  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

First of all, I wish to congratulate you, Sir, on the wise 
manner  in  which  you  have  been  conducting  our  open 
discussions.  I  wish  to  thank  His  Excellency  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Indonesia,  Ambassador 
Marty  Natalegawa,  the  President  of  the  Security 
Council  this  month,  for  having  introduced  the  annual 
report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/62/2),  pursuant  to 
Article 15 of the United Nations Charter. 

Bahrain  likewise  welcomes  the  joint  debate  on 
agenda item 9 on the report of the Security Council and 
on  agenda  item  122  on  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related  matters.  Those  two 
items are interconnected and are the subject of special 
attention on the part of Member States. 

the  Security  Council 
comprehensively  covers  the  work  of  the  Council,  the 
number  of  meetings  it  holds,  and  questions  it  has 
discussed at its previous session. However, we feel that 
the report would be more useful if it contained a more 
analytical evaluation of the work done by the Council 
during  the  reporting  period.  It  could  also  have  been  a 
general  reference  tool  for  Member  States.  In  view  of 
the  importance  of  the  item  on  the  agenda  of  the 
Assembly, Member States should have enough time at 
their  disposal  to  consider  the  report  in  an  in-depth 
manner in order to be able to examine it carefully and 
thoroughly, and in order to have a real and transparent 
idea  of  the  discussions  of  the  Council  that  are  of 
greatest interest to the entire international community. 
The  annual  report  of 
07-59318 

11 
the 
for 
reaffirm 
the 
responsibility 
A/62/PV.47 


The Security Council should take full account of 
the provisions of the Charter and of General Assembly 
resolutions relating to the mandates of United Nations 
organs. Article  24  of  the  Charter  entrusts  the  Council 
with 
the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. However, that Article 
does not  authorize the Council to take up matters that 
fall  within  the  competence  and  prerogatives  of  the 
General  Assembly  and 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council.  That  impingement  on  the  mandates  of  other 
United  Nations  organs  is  a  clear  violation  of  their 
powers and could complicate and even cause confusion 
in  the  implementation  of  the  Charter. This  prompts  us 
to 
importance  of  cooperation  and 
coordination  among  the  main  United  Nations  bodies, 
which is a sine qua non for meeting the various serious 
challenges that we all encounter. 

We  would  not  be  wrong  to  encourage  here  the 
presidents  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security 
Council and the Economic and Social Council to meet 
periodically  to  discuss  their  respective  agendas.  That 
could only reinforce coordination among them so as to 
avoid any interference by a given body in the functions 
and mandates of the other bodies. 
Clearly  the  question  of  equitable  representation 

on 
the  Security  Council  and  an 
its 
membership is extremely important to Member States. 
That  item  was  included  on  the Assembly’s  agenda  for 
the first time at its thirty-fourth session, in 1979. At the 
time, the discussion led to the Assembly’s adoption of 
resolution  48/26  on  3  December  1993,  which 
established  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  the 
Question  of  Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase 
in  the  Membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  Other 
Related Matters to the Security Council. 

Since 1994, the Working Group has been working 
to reach agreement on various aspects of that question. 
However, efforts to date have been inconclusive. While 
it is true that when the leaders of the world adopted the 
Outcome  Document  of  the  2005  World  Summit,  they 
renewed  their  faith  in  the  United  Nations  and  once 
again expressed their commitment to the purposes and 
principles  of  the  Charter,  they  also  reaffirmed  their 
commitment  to  support  an  accelerated  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  to  make  it  more  representative, 
efficient,  effective  and  transparent  and  to  increase  the 
implementation  of 
should 
encourage  Member  States  to  show  more  openness  in 
resolutions.  That 
increase 
in 

their attitude in order to achieve the progress hoped for 
in that area. 

We  wish  to  reiterate  here  that  the  Security 
Council reform process must be multidimensional. We 
need to reach agreement on a number of principles. 

First,  there  should  be  an  increase  in  the  number 
of permanent and non-permanent members pursuant to 
the principle of equitable geographic representation, so 
as  to  enable  developing  countries  and  least  developed 
countries to be represented in the Council on an equal 
basis  with 
the  developed  countries.  The  current 
imbalance  needs to be remedied; it does not serve the 
interest  of  all  Member  States.  Furthermore,  a 
permanent seat should be given to the Arab States to be 
occupied  on  an  alternating  basis  and  in  coordination 
with the League of Arab States. 

Secondly,  constraints  should  be  imposed  on  the 
use  of  the  veto  power;  it  should  only  be  used  on  a 
restricted basis pursuant to Chapter VII of the Charter. 
Limits must be imposed that would invalidate the veto 
when there is a positive vote by a majority of member 
States  of  the  Security  Council  and  by  a  two-thirds 
majority  vote  of  the  membership  of  the  General 
Assembly.  Thirdly,  sanctions  should  not  be  imposed 
until all peaceful means to resolve conflicts have been 
exhausted, as stipulated in Chapters VI and VIII of the 
Charter. Recourse to Chapter VII should be a last resort 
after  all  other  peaceful  methods  of  resolution  have 
been exhausted and after in-depth discussions of short- 
and long-term ways not to impose sanctions have been 
carried  out.  In  any  event,  sanctions  should  not  be 
imposed  as  a  means  to  punish  civilians  or  used  as  an 
act  of  vengeance  against 
them.  The  purpose  of 
sanctions  must  be  clearly  defined  and  a  specific 
timeline for their application established. 

Fourthly, the working methods and procedures of 
the  Council  must  be  reformed.  The  principles  of 
transparency  and  openness  should  be 
into 
account  in  the  work  of  the  Council  to  foster  a  greater 
participation  on  the  part  of  non-members  of  the 
Council,  in  particular  countries  directly  concerned  by 
matters  discussed  in  the  Council,  in  keeping  with 
Article 31 of the Charter. 

Furthermore,  the  number  of  closed  or  informal 
consultations should be limited and the number of open 
and  inclusive  debates  increased,  in  order  to  enhance 
transparency  in  the  Council’s  work  while  not  limiting 
taken 
its 
12 

07-59318 
Security  Council 
should 
informational  briefings 


participation by United Nations Member States in open 
debates. 

The 
organize 
comprehensive 
to  keep 
Member States abreast of its activities. While it is true 
that  the  Charter  has  given  the  Council  the  task  of 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security  and  has 
asked  it  to  act  on  behalf  of  Member  States,  the 
Council’s  agenda  should  still  be  an  objective  and 
non-selective reflection of the needs and interests of all 
Member  States.  Expansion  of  the  Council  should 
guarantee  a  greater  representation  of  developing 
countries  and  of  small  countries  and  the  decision-
making process should be truly democratic. 

It is high time for the Council to acquire official 
rules of procedure, since its existing rules of procedure 
are  still  provisional  and  are  more  than  50  years  old. 
That  issue  has  repeatedly  hampered  the  work  of  the 
Council and has impelled it to take inappropriate steps 
during these times, which  are beset by  challenges and 
crises. The lack of a finalized set of procedural rules is 
a  serious  shortcoming  and  should  not  be  disregarded. 
Agreeing on such rules should be one of the Council’s 
top priorities. 

In conclusion, we hope that a consensual formula 
can  be  agreed  upon  in  order  to  narrow  differences  of 
views. A common denominator needs to be found that 
is  applicable  and  acceptable  to  all,  guaranteeing  a 
meaningful  reform  of  the  Security  Council  so  that  all 
Member  States  —  small  and 
large  —  can  be 
represented there and so that everyone can feel that the 
Security  Council  is  really  acting  on  their  behalf.  This 
would  be  in  keeping  with  the  Charter  and  reflect  and 
safeguard the interests and rights of all Member States, 
protecting  them  against  disasters,  crises  and  wars  and 
guaranteeing respect for their independence. 
Mr.  Baum  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

would like to thank the Security Council for its annual 
report (A/62/2) and  for its introduction  to the General 
Assembly.  Like  many  other  delegations,  Switzerland 
last  year  expressed  regret  that  the  report  was  not 
sufficiently  analytical,  which  limited  its  value-added 
for  Member  States  as  a  whole. This year  we note that 
the 
report,  as  usual,  contains  a  comprehensive 
overview  of  the  Council’s  meetings,  activities  and 
decisions. 
improvements.  The 

We 
information is placed within a more analytical context. 
also  note 
some 
A/62/PV.47
the 
We  are  obviously  aware  of 
However,  we  continue  to  believe  that  the  document 
could  better  reflect  the  challenges  confronting  the 
Council as well as the assessments and analyses carried 
out  during 
reporting  period.  The  Council’s 
decisions  on  sanctions  or  peacekeeping  put  an  ever-
increasing  burden  on  Member  States.  That  clearly 
requires  more  accountability.  Only  if  the  Council  is 
better  able  to  explain  itself  will  national  parliaments 
continue  to  pick  up  the  check  for  the  Council’s 
decisions. 

the  difficulties 
involved  in  producing  a  report  which  goes  beyond 
mere  enumeration  of  the  Council’s  activities  and 
meetings.  Nonetheless,  we  encourage  the  Council  to 
keep striving for a report that responds to the needs of 
Member  States.  That  also  applies  to  the  subsidiary 
bodies of the Council whose work is hardly reflected in 
the report. 

Reform  of  the  United  Nations  and  therefore 
reform of the Security Council continues to be of very 
great  importance.  The  initiatives  taken  by  the  former 
President  of  the  General Assembly  and  the  reports  of 
the two groups of facilitators that followed express the 
need for progress on Security Council reform. 

Switzerland  is  convinced  that  Member  States 
should  build  upon  the  momentum  created  in  the 
informal  consultations  in  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group  on  Security  Council  Reform.  We  consider  that 
the  two  reports  submitted  by  the  facilitators  are  a 
valuable basis for discussion. 
issue  of 

time  has  come 
enlargement of the Security Council new impetus. The 
debate  of  19  July  in  the  Open-ended  Working  Group 
confirmed that none of the models presented so far will 
succeed  in  gaining  the  support  needed  to  bring  about 
Security Council reform. An intermediary approach, as 
outlined by the facilitators, could reconcile the various 
positions on enlargement, provided that Member States 
show the flexibility that many of us are calling for. 

Switzerland  welcomes  the  call  contained  in  the 
latest report of the Open-ended Working Group to start 
intergovernmental  negotiations  during 
the  current 
session  of  the  General Assembly.  For  that  to  happen, 
we believe that the report of the facilitators should be 
transformed  into  a  document  that  can  serve  as  a  basis 
for negotiation. That could be done by  mandating one 
or  more  of  the  facilitators  in  New  York  or  by 
appointing  a  special  envoy  who  would  conduct 
to  give 
The 
the 
07-59318 

13 

A/62/PV.47 

consultations at the highest level in national capitals, as 
suggested  by  the  Foreign  Minister  of  Belgium  at  this 
year’s general debate. 

Whatever  option  is  chosen  by  you,  Sir,  we 
encourage  you  to  launch  a  process  that  results  in  the 
submission of a document for negotiation. 
On  18  October  2007,  Security  Council  Report

issued  a  special  paper  on  the  Council’s  working 
methods,  containing  an  impressive  compilation  of 
efforts  undertaken  since  1993  to  reform  the  Council’s 
working methods. It thus attests well to the importance 
that  Member  States  continue  to  give  to  the  issue. 
Switzerland  acknowledges  that  progress  has  been 
made,  but  we  remain  convinced  that  more  can  and 
should  be  done.  We  believe  that  further  improvement 
of the working methods of the Council would not only 
make it more transparent and increase the involvement 
of  Member  States  in  the  work  of  the  Council,  but 
would  also  serve  the  interests  of  the  Council  itself  by 
conferring greater legitimacy on its decisions. 

The  concrete  proposals  of  the  “S-5”  group  — 
Costa  Rica,  Jordan,  Liechtenstein,  Singapore  and 
Switzerland  —  are  well  known.  Therefore,  I  will  just 
recall  one  —  the  development  of  equitable  and  clear 
procedures 
in 
particular  with  regard  to  listing  and  delisting.  In  that 
context,  we  consider 
recommendations 
submitted at the end of 2006 by the Informal Working 
Group  of  the  Security  Council  on  General  Issues  of 
Sanctions, provide an excellent basis for strengthening 
existing 
regimes.  Switzerland  would 
therefore welcome the renewed efforts of that working 
group in order to ensure the follow-up of that important 
work. 
We are well aware of the fact that the work of the 

Council  has  considerably  increased  over  the  past  15 
years. An improvement of its working methods should 
therefore go hand in hand with efforts made to enhance 
its efficiency. We also believe that the Security Council 
Affairs  Division  should  be  provided  with  enough 
resources  to  give  to  the  Council  and  its  subsidiary 
organs the assistance they expect. 
Progress on improving the working methods will 

not eliminate the need to enlarge the Security Council. 
Member  States  must  address  the  need  confronting  the 
Council  that  it  better  reflect  today’s  geopolitical 
realities and the need for an enhanced representation of 
developing countries. In other words, enlargement and 
the  current  sanctions  regimes, 
sanctions 
that 
in 
the 
Reform  of 
the  current 
to  overcome 
improvement of the working methods should ideally go 
hand in hand, which means that the difficulties caused 
by  expansion  should  not  hamper  the  improvement  of 
the  working  methods  that  a  large  number  of  Member 
States want to see. 

Reform  of  the  working  methods  is  a  dynamic 
ongoing  process  that  will  become  more  urgent  and 
more crucial if we are not able to progress on the issue 
of enlargement. 

the  Security  Council  remains  a 
pressing  issue  on  the  United  Nations  reform  agenda. 
Switzerland  is  convinced  that  it  is  not  an  impossible 
mission,  but  declarations  of  intent  are  no  longer 
sufficient.  Member  States  should  let  action  follow 
words. Greater flexibility on all sides is required if we 
want 
impasse.  Working 
towards intergovernmental negotiations could pave the 
way forward. Switzerland remains committed to reform 
of 
the  Security  Council  and  will  constructively 
contribute to such a process. 
Mr.  Al-Jabri  (Saudi  Arabia)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

Since  this  is  the  first  time  I  have  taken  the  floor  to 
speak  on  behalf  of  Saudi  Arabia,  I  am  pleased  to 
convey  to  you,  Sir,  sincere  congratulations  on  your 
assumption  of  the  presidency  of  the  sixty-second 
session of the General Assembly. We are sure that you 
will conduct our work successfully. 

I also wish to express our thanks and appreciation 
to your predecessor, Her Excellency Ms. Haya Rashed 
Al-Khalifa,  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its sixty-first session, which she conducted so ably. We 
thank  her,  in  particular  for  her  efforts  to  discuss  the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  the  Security 
Council,  which  is  a  subject  of  crucial  importance,  in 
order  to  enable  the  international  community  to  adapt 
the Council to changes of the twenty-first century and 
to  enhance  its  role  in  the  area  of  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  especially  within  the 
context  of 
the  new  circumstances,  dangers  and 
challenges  that  are  occurring  worldwide.  We  would 
also  like  to  thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for 
his tireless efforts working with the General Assembly 
and  the  Security  Council  for  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. 

The  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  supports  the 
principle  of  the  expansion  of  the  Security  Council  in 
the  categories  of  both  permanent  and  non-permanent 
seats,  to  provide  for  a  democratic  and  equitable 
14 

07-59318 


geographical representation in the Council. We believe 
that  Member  States  have  a  professional  and  moral 
responsibility  to  show  the  sincere  political  will  to 
implement  the  2005 World  Summit  Outcome,  adopted 
by  Heads  of  State  and  Government,  without 
discrimination  and  disregarding  narrow  national 
interests. 

Specific  progress  towards  reform  of  the  United 
Nations to adapt it to the threats and challenges of our 
contemporary  world  has  been  made.  However,  reform 
of  the  Security  Council  through  its  expansion  in  both 
membership  categories  has  only  seen  little  progress, 
except  for  the  nomination  of  two  facilitators,  the 
holding  of  meetings  and  informal  consultations,  the 
adoption of reports without any specific results. All of 
this  reflects  a  sincere  desire  to  reform  that  important 
principal  organ  which  is  the  beating  heart  of  the 
Organization  as  well  as  the  organ  responsible  for  the 
maintenance of international peace and security. 

The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia reaffirms the need 
to  intensify  its  efforts  as  a  whole  to  reform  the 
structure  of  the  Security  Council  in  order  to  make  it 
representative,  more  effective  and  more 
more 
transparent  and 
its  effectiveness  and 
increase 
the 
its  decisions  for 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  The 
point is to turn it into a body that is capable of dealing 
with crises before they happen, not just after the event 
has occurred, so that mankind can be spared the crises 
it is facing. 

The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia also expresses the 
hope that the veto will be used to help the weak and to 
help  them  assert  their  rights,  not  to  substitute  for 
justice  and  encourage 
tyranny  and 
despotism.  

The  unjustified  manner  in  which  the  veto  is 
currently  being  used  is  a  challenge  for  all  of  us  and 
calls  for  our  attention.  The  misuse  of  the  veto  has 
resulted  in  the  continuation  of  the  chronic  problem  of 
the  Middle  East,  which  has  lasted  for  more  than  60 
years.  Resolutions  of  the  Security  Council  and  the 
General  Assembly  have  been  adopted  but  not 
implemented  because  of  this  unjustified  use  of  the 
veto,  which  has  prevented  the  establishment  of  a  just 
and lasting peace in the Middle East. 

the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  has 
participated  in  all  consultations  at  various  levels  both 
within and outside the United Nations. We have stated 
to  enhance 
legitimacy  of 
the  path  of 
Finally, 
the 
A/62/PV.47
for 
Indonesia, 
to  highlight 
the  excellent  work 
our  positions  and  have  listened  to  the  statements  of 
other  Member  States,  which  have  contained  many 
positive  and  constructive  ideas.  But  those  statements 
will remain merely theoretical unless they are put into 
practice.  This  leads  us  to  the  conviction  that  the 
members  of  the  Security  Council  —  particularly  the 
permanent membership — must play an important role 
in  addressing  this  issue  in  a  rational  manner,  because 
the  Council  cannot  ignore  the  changes  that  have 
occurred  in  the  world  since  the  establishment  of  the 
Organization.  Those  changes  require  that  all  of  us 
agree to make radical changes in the Security Council 
in accordance with a geopolitical formula. 
Mr. Malmierca Díaz (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 

thank  Ambassador  Marty  M.  Natalegawa, 
We 
the 
Permanent  Representative  of 
presentation of the report of the Security Council to the 
General  Assembly  (A/62/2),  which  covers  the  period 
from  16  August  2006  to  31  July  2007.  I  take  this 
opportunity 
that 
Indonesia is doing as a Council member. 

The report of the Security Council was issued as 
an official document just a few days ago. The fact that 
the  report  was  presented  so  late  prevents  the  General 
Assembly  from  being  able  to  consider  it  in  depth. We 
hope that such a situation does not recur in the future. 
This  is  a  very  important  item  on  the  Assembly’s 
agenda,  and  all  of  us,  as  Member  States,  need  a 
reasonable  period  of  time  to  prepare  to  participate  in 
this debate. 

This  year,  the  format  and  approach  of  the  report 
are  very  similar  to  those  of  previous  years.  Clearly, 
much  more  needs  to  be  done  regarding  the  report’s 
contents.  
In  carrying  out  its  duties,  the  Council  acts  on 

behalf  of  all  Member  States.  In  that  connection,  Cuba 
stresses  the  Council’s  responsibility  to  be  accountable 
to  the  General  Assembly,  in  accordance  with  the 
Charter. 

Cuba calls once again on the Security Council to 
submit  a  more  comprehensive  and  analytical  annual 
report  to  the  General  Assembly.  The  report  should 
assess  the  work  of  the  Council,  including  the  cases  in 
which the Council has failed to act as well as the views 
expressed  by  its  members  during  the  consideration  of 
the items on its agenda. 
07-59318 

15 

that 
A/62/PV.47 


We  also  reiterate  our  appeal  to  the  Security 
Council, in keeping with paragraph 1 of Article 15 and 
paragraph  3  of  Article  24  of  the  Charter,  to  submit 
special  reports  to  the  Assembly  for  its  consideration. 
Furthermore,  the  Presidents  of  the  Security  Council 
must  ensure 
their  monthly  assessments  are 
comprehensive  and  analytical  and  that  they  are  issued 
in a timely manner. 

Mindful  of  the  need  to  maintain  the  balance 
among  the  functions  and  powers  of  the  principal 
United  Nations  organs,  Cuba  opposes  the  tendency  to 
seek  to  equate  reform  of  the  Organization  with  the 
granting  of  greater  power  to  the  Security  Council. 
Once again, we emphasize the need to fully respect the 
functions  and  powers  of  the  principal  organs,  in 
particular of the General Assembly, and to maintain the 
balance among them pursuant to the Charter, as well as 
the  need  for  Member  States  to  put  an  end  to  any 
attempt  to  transfer  items  on  the Assembly’s  agenda  to 
that of the Council. 

The  Security  Council  must  abide  strictly  by  the 
provisions of the Charter and by all resolutions of the 
General  Assembly, 
chief  deliberative, 
policymaking  and  representative  organ  of  the  United 
Nations. 

We call attention to the danger of interference by 
the  Security  Council  in  matters  that  clearly  fall  under 
the  functions  and  powers  of  other  principal  United 
Nations  organs  and  their  subsidiary  bodies.  Close 
cooperation  and  coordination  among  all  principal 
organs is essential if the United Nations is to be able to 
remain  relevant  and  face  existing,  new  and  future 
dangers and challenges. 

Cuba  remains  particularly  concerned  about  the 
Security  Council’s  establishment  of  norms  and 
definitions that go beyond its areas of competence. We 
reiterate  that,  under  Article  13  of  the  Charter,  the 
General  Assembly  has  primary  responsibility  for  the 
progressive  development  of  international  law  and  its 
codification. We also stress that the Security Council’s 
decision  to  initiate  formal  or  informal  debates  on  the 
situation in any Member State or any matter that does 
not  constitute  a  threat  to  international  peace  and 
security is contrary to Article 24 of the Charter. 

In  that  context,  Cuba  urges  the  Presidents  of  the 
General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
and the Security Council to hold regular debates and to 
coordinate  among  themselves  regarding  the  agendas 
as 
the 
its 
international  peace  and  security, 
and  work  programmes  of  those  principal  organs. That 
will ensure increasing coherence  and complementarity 
among them  so that they are mutually reinforcing  and 
respect one another’s mandates. 

We  urge  the  Security  Council  to  take  fully  into 
account  the  General  Assembly’s  recommendations  in 
the  area  of 
in 
accordance  with  paragraph  2  of  Article  11  of  the 
Charter.  We  are  opposed  to  any  attempt  to  transfer 
items  from  the  agenda  of  the  Assembly  or  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  to  that  of  the  Security 
Council,  and  to  encroachment  by  the  Council  on  the 
functions and powers of the Assembly. 

We  need  to  make  progress  on  Security  Council 
reform  as  an  integral  part  of  the  current  process  of 
United  Nations  reform.  It  is  unacceptable  to  maintain 
the  status  quo.  Cuba  supports  the  General Assembly’s 
decision  to  continue  its  consideration  of  the  issue  of 
Council  reform  at  its  sixty-second  session  so  as  to 
achieve  concrete  results  through  intergovernmental 
negotiations. 
Expansion  of  the  Council’s  membership  should 

lack  of  representation  of  developing 
address 
countries. At  the  same  time,  Council  reform  must  not 
be  limited  to  the  membership  issue;  it  must  also 
address  substantive  issues  related  to  the  Council’s 
agenda,  its  working  methods  and  its  decision-making 
process. 

Transparency,  openness  and  consistency  are  key 
principles that the Security Council must observe in all 
its  activities,  approaches  and  procedures.  Regrettably, 
the  Council  has  failed  to  follow  those  important 
principles  on  many  occasions.  These  cases  include, 
inter  alia,  its  reluctance  to  hold  open  debates  on  a 
number  of  very  important  issues  and  its  restriction  of 
participation in some open debates. 

The Council must comply with the provisions of 
Article  31  of  the  Charter,  which  permit  any  country 
that is a non-Council member to participate in debates 
on matters that affect it. Closed meetings and informal 
consultations must be kept to a minimum and should be 
the exception, not the rule.  

Cuba’s  position  is  that  the  process  of  Security 
Council  reform,  which  should  be  carried  out  in  a 
comprehensive, 
transparent  and  balanced  manner, 
should  include  the  following  objectives.  We  must 
ensure that the Council’s agenda reflects the needs and 
16 

07-59318 
increase 
the  number  of 


interests  of  both  developing  and  developed  countries, 
in  an  objective,  rational,  non-selective  and  non-
arbitrary  manner.  We  must  ensure  that  expanding  the 
Council  will  help  to  make  it  a  more  democratic, 
representative,  responsible  and  effective  organ.  We 
must  ensure  that  the  Council’s  rules  of  procedure, 
which  have  remained  provisional  for  50  years,  are 
formalized to enhance their transparency. And we must 
democratize  the  Council’s  decision-making  process, 
including by limiting the use of the veto with a view to 
its eventual elimination. In that context, the concept of 
voluntary  self-restraint  is  insufficient  and  cannot  be 
considered an option. 
Cuba  emphasizes  the  need  to  take  the  following 

measures.  We  must 
the 
Council’s public meetings and ensure that they provide 
real  opportunities  to  take  account  of  the  opinions  and 
contributions of the greatest possible number of United 
Nations  Members,  particularly  non-Council  members 
whose affairs are being considered by the Council. 

The Council should allow briefings by the special 
envoys or representatives of the Secretary-General and 
the  Secretariat  to  take  place  in  public  meetings,  apart 
from  exceptional  circumstances,  and  further  enhance 
its 
troop-
contributing  countries,  including  through  sustained, 
regular  and  timely  interaction.  It  should  also  ensure 
that  its  subsidiary  organs  function  in  a  manner  that 
would  provide  adequate  and  timely  information  on 
their  activities 
the  general  United  Nations 
membership. 

I  would  like  to  conclude  by  extending  our  best 
wishes for success to the incoming new members of the 
Security  Council:  Costa  Rica,  Croatia,  Burkina  Faso, 
the  Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya  and  Vietnam.  They  can 
always  count  on  Cuba’s  willingness 
to  engage 
constructively 
in  consultations  and  negotiations 
towards reforming the Council as an effective forum in 
the maintenance of international peace and security. 
Mr.  Al-Murad  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 

should like to extend my thanks and appreciation to the 
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  month  of 
November, the Permanent Representative of Indonesia, 
Mr.  Marty  Natalegawa,  for  his  presentation  of  the 
Council’s report to the General Assembly (A/62/2). In 
the report, the President of the Council affirms that the 
year has seen a marked increase in the size and scope 
of  the  Council’s  activities.  In  that  regard,  we  also 
the  Secretariat  and 
relationship  with 
to 
A/62/PV.47
We 
also 
the 
to 
the 
in  order 
to  make 
the  newly 
congratulate 
associate  ourselves  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative  of  Cuba  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement. 

elected 
non-permanent members of the Council — the Libyan 
Arab Jamahiriya, Burkina Faso, Viet Nam, Croatia and 
Costa Rica — for two-year terms beginning in 2008. 

The  item  currently  under  discussion  by  the 
General  Assembly  is  undoubtedly  one  of  the  most 
important items on its agenda, and last year’s intensive 
deliberations  on  the  subject  of  expanding  the  Security 
Council  attest  to  that.  Furthermore,  the  support  of  the 
heads of State and Government for the prompt reform 
of  the  Security  Council,  expressed  in  the  2005  World 
Summit Outcome Document, is a fundamental element 
of  the  comprehensive  effort  to  reform  the  United 
Nations 
the  Council  more 
representative,  more  efficient  and  more  transparent. 
That  will  consolidate  the  Council’s  effectiveness  and 
the implementation of its resolutions, and is yet further 
proof  of  the  importance  that  States  Members  of  the 
Organization  attach 
issue  of  equitable 
representation in the Security Council and the means to 
improve its methods of work. 

The  discussions  of  the  Working  Group  over  the 
past  five  years  have  highlighted  the  urgent  need  to 
restructure  the  Security  Council’s  apparatus  and  to 
increase 
its  procedures  and 
methods  of  work.  However,  despite  the  agreement  in 
principle  by  Member  States  on  the  concept  of  making 
necessary changes and reform, the Working Group has 
not reached agreement on the substance of the changes 
that should be made, despite the fact that 14 years have 
already elapsed. 
Nevertheless,  we  cannot  overlook  the  progress 

made  in  the  discussions  of  the  Working  Group  with 
respect  to  the  procedures  and  the  methods  of  work  of 
the  Council.  There  is  almost  general  agreement  on 
many of the measures and proposals sought, and there 
are even some procedures and methods of work that the 
Council itself has already begun to apply. 

We cannot but commend that improvement in the 
procedures  and  methods  of  work  of  the  Council,  and 
express  appreciation  to  Council  members  who  were 
conscientious  in  periodically  informing  the  rest  of  the 
membership on developments in the Security Council’s 
implementation of the concept of transparency. We also 
commend the initiative of the President of the General 
transparency  of 
07-59318 

17 

last  year  on 
in  August  of 
A/62/PV.47 

Assembly  at  its  sixty-first  session,  Sheikha  Haya 
Rashed  Al-Khalifa,  to  prompt  discussions  by  the 
Working  Group 
the 
comprehensive reform of the Security Council. 

The position of the State of Kuwait vis-à-vis the 
issue  of  Security  Council  reform  proceeds  from  the 
following  principles.  First,  Kuwait  strongly  supports 
the activation and reform of all United Nations bodies, 
including the Security Council, in order to enable them 
to  perform  the  main  task  entrusted  to  them  by  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  —  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. 

Second,  any  change  in  the  composition  of  the 
membership of the Security Council must not affect its 
efficiency  and  effectiveness  in  taking  decisions  to 
confront  international  threats  and  dangers.  Any  such 
change  must  contribute  to  enhancing  the  legitimacy 
and credibility of the Council’s decisions. 
Third,  with  regard  to  reforming  and  improving 

the  procedures  and  working  methods  of  the  Council 
and  to  promoting  its  relations  with  other  United 
Nations bodies, such as the General Assembly and the 
Economic and Social Council, we support all proposals 
seeking  to  make  the  Council’s  work  more  transparent 
and  clear,  and  to  facilitate  the  flow  of  information  to 
and  from  the  Member  States  of  the  United  Nations. 
Kuwait  recognizes  the  need  for  full  respect  for  the 
functions  and  powers  of  the  principal  organs,  in 
particular  the  General  Assembly,  and  to  define  the 
Council’s  role 
in  discussing 
threaten 
international peace and security. 

Fourth, we affirm the importance of codifying the 
measures  taken  by  the  Security  Council  in  order  to 
improve  its  working  methods  without  waiting  for  a 
consensus to be reached on the other issues, such as the 
size  and  composition  of  the  Council  and  its  decision-
making  process,  especially  since  the  codification  of 
such  measures  will  not  necessarily  entail  any 
amendment  of  the  Charter. We  also  note  that  the  time 
has  come  for  the  Council  to  adopt  permanent  rules  of 
procedure. 

Fifth,  Kuwait  supports  the  maintenance  of  the 
mechanism  to  elect  non-permanent  members  of  the 
Council, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 23 
of  the  Charter.  That  will  improve  opportunities  for 
small States, of which we are one, to become members 
of the Council and contribute to its work. 
issues 
that 
to 
the 
forward 
to  push 
functions,  pursuant 

Sixth,  as  to  the  right  of  veto,  we  note  the 
importance  of  limiting  and  regulating  the  scope  of  its 
use,  inter  alia,  by  restricting  its  application  to  issues 
that fall under Chapter VII of the Charter. 

Finally,  if  an  agreement  on  the  increase  of 
non-permanent seats of the Council should be reached, 
the  distribution  of  those  seats  among  the  regional 
groups  must  take  into  consideration  the  substantive 
increase in the number of States in the Asian Group. 

In conclusion, we hope that an agreement can be 
reached  on  a  consensual  text  satisfactory  to  all  sides 
that  can  guarantee  the  performance  of  the  Council  of 
its 
the  Charter,  without 
impediment. 
Mr. Abdelaziz (Egypt): Allow me at the outset to 

associate myself with the statement to be delivered by 
the  Ambassador  of  Angola  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group, and to express my deep appreciation to Sheikha 
Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa,  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-first  session,  for  her  concerted 
efforts 
issue  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  reform  of  the  Security  Council, 
particularly  since  that  important  issue  constitutes  an 
integral part of the comprehensive reform of the United 
Nations.  

I would also like to commend the five facilitators 
and  the  Ambassadors  of  Chile  and  Liechtenstein  for 
their extensive efforts and valuable reports, which were 
crowned  by  the  adoption  of  the  report  of  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group  containing  its  draft  decision 
adopted  by  consensus.  The  delegation  of  Egypt  looks 
forward to continued efforts on your part, Sir, to steer 
the  open-ended  working  group  towards  our  common 
aspiration for a successful  resumption of deliberations 
during 
the  General 
Assembly. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  the  sixty-first  session 
resulted  in  increasing  momentum  in  dealing  with  the 
enlargement  and  reform  of  the  Security  Council  in  a 
manner  that  raised  the  expectations  of  many  on  the 
prospect  of  reaching  an  agreement  on  a  clear  vision 
that  would  garner  the  widest  possible  support  of 
Member  States.  However,  the  positive  nature  of  our 
deliberations  on  the  aforementioned  issue,  partly  in 
light  of  the  reports  of  the  facilitators  and  their 
stipulation  of  a  set  of  alternatives,  coincided  with  the 
arduous  attempts  by  some  parties  throughout  the  past 
session  to  push  the  African  continent  to  change  its 
the  sixty-second  session  of 
18 

07-59318 
in 


unambiguous  position,  enshrined 
the  Ezulwini 
Consensus  and  confirmed  by  subsequent  African 
summits,  beginning  with  the  Sert  summit,  rather  than 
seek  a  consensus  on  the  substantive  issues  under 
consideration. 

In  the  aftermath  of  the  submission  of  the  two 
reports of the facilitators and the two ambassadors, and 
the subsequent exhaustive deliberations that took place 
on  them,  some  voices  were  raised,  emphasizing  the 
need  to  send  a  message  to  the  last African  summit  in 
Accra,  to  convince  African  leaders  to  amend  the 
African  position  and  to  allow  a  greater  degree  of 
flexibility in dealing with some aspects of the Ezulwini 
Consensus,  especially  the  right  of  veto.  The  African 
leaders,  however,  decisively  rejected  those  attempts 
and  insisted  on  upholding  the  full  implementation  of 
the  Ezulwini  Consensus,  with  all  its  elements.  The 
Consensus  has  represented  and  will  continue 
to 
represent  the  just  demands  capable  of  rectifying  the 
historic injustice against Africa caused by the denial of 
its  legitimate  right  to  permanent  membership  and  the 
subsequent inability of any of its States members of the 
Security  Council  to  exercise  the  right  of  veto,  despite 
the  continent’s  numerical  preponderance  and 
the 
complexity  of  interests  it  seeks  to  defend  in  the 
Security Council. 

In  light  of  the  failure  of  the  attempts  of  those 
seeking  to  amend  the  common African  position  at  the 
Accra summit, new alliances began to emerge between 
parties  advancing  only  their  national  interests.  They 
viewed  draft  resolution  A/61/L.69  as  a  means  to 
circumvent  the  demands  stipulated  in  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus,  especially  its  insistence  that  the  right  of 
veto be extended to the new permanent members as the 
most  important  African  demand  insofar  as  what  it 
represents  with  respect  to increasing  the  ability  of  the 
African continent to influence the work and resolutions 
of the Security Council. The African States were once 
again able to keep their position intact and to reinstate 
the  right  of  veto  in  the  focus  of  discussions  in  the 
Open-ended Working Group in the next phase, side by 
side with the other elements enshrined in the Ezulwini 
Consensus, until Africa gets its equitable right to a just 
representation that would allow it to influence Security 
Council dynamics. 

The events that unfolded during the discussion of 
the  report  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  in  the 
sixty-first session necessitate an evaluation of what has 
been  achieved  so  far,  within  a  correct  and  substantive 
A/62/PV.47
the 
to 
the 
test 
that 
through 
all 
the  mention  of 
the  five  facilitators  and 
framework, in order to agree on a collective means by 
which  we  can  achieve  our  common  objectives  of 
enlarging  and  reforming  the  Security  Council  at  the 
earliest  possible  date,  based  on  the  widest  possible 
agreement commensurate  with the important  nature  of 
that issue. The intermediate arrangements proposed by 
the  report  of 
two 
ambassadors introduced a number of alternatives under 
each  of  the  five  categories  for  discussion,  allowing 
each  party  with  a  vested  interest  in  the  process  to 
envision  the  model  that  best  suits  its  objective  and 
materializes its aspirations in the enlargement process. 
It  is  time,  therefore,  to  put  those  different 

alternatives 
available 
mechanisms,  as  well  as  the  diplomatic  and  political 
tools  and  capabilities  at  our  disposal, 
including 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  as  stipulated  in  the 
decision  adopted  last  year.  Since  our  presence  here  is 
not  in  a  personal  capacity,  but  rather  as  permanent 
representatives  of  our  Governments,  we  would  like  to 
stress 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  as  one  of  the  options  for  moving  the 
process forward is merely an acknowledgement by the 
General  Assembly  of  an  already  existing  mechanism. 
Hence,  our  agreement  or  lack  of  agreement  over  any 
issue is to be understood within the framework of such 
negotiations,  carried  out  in  either  a  principal  or  a 
subsidiary organ of the United Nations. 

If  such  intergovernmental  negotiations  are  to 
begin  on  that  very  important  issue,  they  should  be 
based on a clear vision put forward by a State or group 
of  States,  and  only  when  that  State  or  group  of  States 
has the inherent conviction that the vision it advocates 
can attain a very wide degree of support, exceeding the 
required two-thirds majority stipulated by the Charter. 
Such  a  proposed  vision  should  be  negotiated  and 
evaluated by all members of the General Assembly, but 
until one or a group of States can come up with such a 
vision,  which  we  have  been  actively  seeking  to 
formulate for the past 14 years, it is Egypt’s view that 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  should  lead 
more  consultations  —  and  I  repeat  consultations  and 
not negotiations — within the framework of the Open-
ended  Working  Group  to  narrow  the  difference  in 
positions  between  the  conflicting  interests  of  all 
stakeholders.  Such  consultations  could  be  undertaken 
with  the  aim  of  reducing  the  number  of  alternatives 
stipulated  under  every  category  of  the  facilitators’ 
reports with a view to creating a positive environment 
07-59318 

19 
appropriate 
democratic 
A/62/PV.47 

that could lead to the eventual introduction of a vision 
that could work as a basis for negotiations based on a 
proposal or proposals from Member States. 

This approach differs fundamentally from that of 
the draft resolution sent by one of the aspiring nations 
only to the African countries at the end of last week — 
and  we  all  know  why  it  was  sent  only  to  African 
countries — in a new attempt to overcome the African 
position  set  out  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus.  The  draft 
resolution  endeavours  once  again,  unfortunately,  to 
terminate  the  role  of  the  Open-ended Working  Group, 
the  most 
framework 
incorporating  all  Member  States,  and  to  replace  it  by 
calling upon the President of the General Assembly to 
initiate  intergovernmental  negotiations  in  the  same 
manner  that  was  rejected  by  Member  States  in  draft 
resolution  A/61/L.69,  submitted  at 
the  sixty-first 
session.  

Despite  our  great  confidence  in  the  wisdom  and 
integrity  of  the  President  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its sixty-second session and in his ability to lead us to 
success,  the  President’s  neutrality,  transparency  and 
objectivity in dealing with that sensitive issue and the 
fact that the President does not represent a Government 
require  that  we  keep  his  high  office  away  from  this 
intergovernmental  negotiating  process.  We  should 
rather  seek  to  enhance  the  President’s  ability  to 
conduct consultations, and not negotiations, within the 
framework  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  and  in 
the same successful manner followed by the President 
of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-first  session,  and 
even more successfully. 
of 

agreement 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
the 
alternatives  for  considering  the  subject  matter  in  the 
coming phase should not be interpreted in any way as a 
renunciation  of  the African  position  as  defined  in  the 
Ezulwini Consensus or as agreeing to limit our ability 
to  address  the  question  through  intergovernmental 
negotiations, distinct from other diplomatic means and 
capabilities.  It  is  merely  derived  from  the  desire  to 
explore all ways and means to guarantee the emergence 
of new creative options that might acquire the desired 
wide support. But to achieve that, we should not limit 
our discussions to interim arrangements, particularly as 
the  report  of  the  facilitators  itself  opens  the  way  for 
each State or group of States to maintain their original 
positions,  if  they  believe  that  this  is  the  ideal  way  to 
international  objectives.  Accordingly, 
achieve 
inclusion 
as  one  of 
Our 
on 
the 
the 
20 


positions of all stakeholders, described by the report of 
the  facilitators  as  “maximalist”,  will  continue  to 
constitute  their  formal  positions,  while,  at  the  same 
time, not affecting their ability to exert extra efforts to 
reach  a  compromise  that  meets  the  widest  possible 
support. 

In this context, I would like to stress once again 
that Egypt will not abandon the lofty interests of Africa 
in  order  to  achieve  narrow  national  goals.  Our  vision 
for  permanent  membership  is  clear.  It  is  based  on  the 
conviction  that  a  permanent  member  without  a  veto 
right  is  merely  a  non-permanent  member  in  the 
Security  Council  for  an  extended  term  —  or  forever. 
We believe that permanent membership without a veto 
will not change the balance or structure of power in the 
Security Council and will not accomplish the objective 
of  protecting  and  defending  African  interests  in  the 
Council.  Our  perspective  is  based  on  the  fact  that 
Africa  legitimately  deserves  to  have  no  less  than  two 
permanent  seats  and  two  additional  non-permanent 
seats.  Furthermore,  we  do  not  believe  that  the  veto 
issue  should  be  considered  within  reform  of  the 
working  methods,  which  should  concentrate  only  on 
promoting  the  transparency  and  accountability  of  the 
Security  Council  when  it  addresses  the  interests  of 
Member States. 

As  Member  States,  we  have  to  strive  to  surpass 
our  national  interests  and  have  a  more  realistic  vision 
concerning our regional and international interests. It is 
time  to  abandon  the  narrow  coalitions  of  those  who 
seek  to  impose  particular  views  so  as  to  achieve  their 
national interests. We should aim for global coalitions 
to  achieve  the  international  goal  of  creating  a  more 
democratic  Security  Council,  a  Council  that  better 
represents the general membership of the Organization. 
Consequently, we are looking forward to consultations 
under  the  auspices  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly,  in  his  capacity  as  the  Chair  of  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group,  and 
to  any  subsequent 
negotiations,  discussions  or  consultations  that  might 
take  place  between  Member  States  on  any  new 
substantive vision — submitted by a State or group of 
Member States with the aim of achieving the interests 
of  all  of  us.  We  look  for  a  collective  understanding 
between the G4, the Uniting for Consensus group, the 
African Group, and all others who have interests — the 
small  States  and 
islands  States,  developing  and 
developed  countries  and  States  representing  different 
cultures  and  civilizations.  All  these  represent  the 
07-59318 
Egypt 
is  confident 
the  Security  Council  on 
that  could  enhance 
the  Council  — 


the 
elements  of  diversity 
representative  character  of 
thus 
achieving  good  governance  at  the  international  level, 
side by side with good governance at the national level. 
that  we  will  reach  an 

expansion  of 
solid 
foundations,  built  on  solidifying  the  principles  of 
justice  and  equality  in  rights  and  obligations,  which 
would, in turn, allow the Security Council to become a 
platform  for  democracy  and  transparency  that  would 
deal  with  matters  involving  Member  States  with  due 
respect and dignity. 
While  expressing  our  sincere  appreciation  to 

Mr. Natalegawa, 
the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Indonesia,  for  presenting  the  annual  report  of  the 
Security Council to the General Assembly, we note that 
the  report  includes  only  brief  references  to  the  cases 
considered by the Council within the past year. African 
issues continued to be at the forefront of the Council’s 
agenda. The report mentioned briefly the developments 
that have taken place in the countries concerned within 
the  year.  Moreover,  the  report  continues  to  follow  the 
same trend of previous years, which we have criticized 
several  times.  It  includes  only  an  enumeration  of  the 
meetings  and  the  documents  of  the  Council.  This 
approach lacks adequate scrutiny and evaluation of the 
deliberations  of  the  Council,  the  positions  of  its 
members and the motives behind its resolutions and the 
presidential  and  press  statements 
the 
Council.  

Furthermore,  the  Council,  despite  our  continued 
express  concern,  continues 
the 
competence  of  the  General Assembly,  a  matter  which 
has  an  impact  on  the  sensitive  balance  between  the 
main  organs  of  the  Organization.  Also,  the  failure  of 
the  Security  Council  to  act  on  some  issues  relating  to 
the  maintenance  of  peace  and  security  such  as 
genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and the 
cessation  of  hostilities  between  belligerent  parties 
constitute  further  sources  of  serious  concern  for  us. 
This  was  very  clearly  addressed 
the  Havana 
Declaration  by  the  heads  of  State  and  Government  of 
the Non-Aligned Movement, which called for a greater 
role  of  the  General  Assembly  in  addressing  those 
issues when the Council fails to address them, owing to 
a lack of unanimity among its permanent membership.  

All  of  this  confirms  the  necessity  of  expediting 
the  process  of  reforming  the  working  methods  of  the 
issued  by 
in 
to 
interfere 
in 
A/62/PV.47
Security  Council  and  of  rapidly  agreeing  on  the 
enlargement  of 
its  permanent  and  non-permanent 
membership.  This  alone  can  conclude  the  process  of 
reforming  the  United  Nations,  as  we  continue  to 
believe  that  United  Nations  reform  is  not  complete 
without  the  reform  and  expansion  of  the  Security 
Council. 

Mr. Voto-Bernales (Peru) (spoke In Spanish): As 
reflected  in  the  report  today  before  the  General 
Assembly, 
the  Security  Council  experienced  an 
increase  in  the  volume  and  scope  of  the  questions  on 
its  agenda  between  1 August  2006  and  31  July  2007. 
This debate allows us to pause and reflect in the same 
constructive spirit in which Peru has been participating 
in work of that body for more than 22 months. 

A  large  part  of  the  heavy  agenda  of  the  Security 
Council  consists  of  intrastate  conflicts,  which,  for  the 
most  part,  take  place  in  States  marginalized  from 
progress,  with  weak 
institutions  and  precarious 
development indicators. In order to prevent these types 
of  conflicts  from  multiplying  and  to  prevent  countries 
from  relapsing  into  such  situations,  we  continue  to 
believe  that  the  Council  should  address  both  the 
military  aspects  and  those  of  institutional  rebuilding, 
which  it  has  prioritized,  as  well  as  give  attention  to 
other  structural  factors,  such  as  poverty,  social 
exclusion,  environmental  degradation  or  transnational 
crime.  

While it is not our purpose to examine these cases 
in  detail,  we  do  need  to  recognize  that  the  progress 
made  in  Liberia,  Sierra  Leone  or  in  Haiti  require 
substantive  action 
factors 
involved,  so  that  these  cases  can  become  successful 
experiences,  as  we  all  wish.  Activities  in  this  regard 
will,  of  course,  be  consistent  with  the  understanding 
agreed  in  the  Outcome  Document  of  the  2005  World 
Summit  (A/RES/60/1)  that  development,  peace  and 
security and human rights are interlinked and mutually 
reinforcing. 

We should also recall that, faced with the danger 
of  more  genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and 
crimes against humanity, we have the responsibility to 
protect populations  from  these scourges. This  requires 
us — the Member States of the United Nations and of 
the Security Council in particular, to remain vigilant in 
order to effectively protect these populations, when the 
State  called  upon  to  do  so  cannot  —  or  will  not  — 
fulfil its obligations. The  International  Criminal Court 
to  address 
structural 
07-59318 

21 
law  and 
to 
international 
A/62/PV.47 

is likewise a guarantee that those responsible for such 
atrocities  do  not  remain  unpunished.  For  this  reason, 
we  appeal  to  all  countries  to  accede  to  the  Rome 
Statute.  

At  the  same  time,  inter-State  conflicts  that  are 
still  not  resolved,  such  as  the  question  of  Palestine  or 
demarcation between Eritrea and Ethiopia, continue to 
deserve special attention. The indefinite persistence of 
these  and  other  such  situations  is  highly  injurious  to 
the  key  objectives  of  the  Security  Council  in  that 
renewed  efforts  are  required  to  achieve  peace  in  the 
framework  of 
fulfil 
commitments  of  mutual  respect.  To  this  end,  it  is 
essential  for  the  parties  to  have  the  will  to  resolve 
them. 

As  to  elements  that  still  await  more  effective 
action from the Security Council, Peru would reiterate 
its view that the United Nations needs to have available 
the  strategic  reserve  force  which  would  enable  Blue 
Helmets  to  be  deployed  with  the  necessary  urgency. 
Some of the situations considered in the present report 
of  the  Council,  for  example,  could  have  been  handled 
with great diligence had such a reserve force existed.  

strengthen 
disarmament and non-proliferation regimes of nuclear, 
chemical  and  biological  weapons  and  related  systems. 
Peru  supports  the  actions  of  the  Security  Council 
aimed  at  avoiding  proliferation  among  State  and 
non-State actors and at the same time believes that the 
multilateral system should redouble its efforts with this 
purpose  in  mind  and  make  progress  on  the  collective 
commitments  entered  into.  We  need  the  development 
of  cooperative  security  to  buttress  the  structures  of 
peace  and  security  and  to  avoid  arms  races  globally, 
regionally and subregionally. 

Terrorism  has  grown  into  a  scourge  of  universal 
scope  that  needs  to  be  condemned  and  combated 
without  concessions.  In  whatever  guise  or  shape, 
whatever  may  be 
is 
unacceptable. In this fight, the multilateral system has 
given itself 13 international conventions, in addition to 
regional  agreements  and  a  global  counter-terrorism 
strategy.  In  this  regard,  resolute  action  on  the  part  of 
the  Security  Council  is  vital  to  facing  this  threat. The 
commitment of every State should be unequivocal. We 
must cooperate to ensure that States have available the 
operative  capabilities,  above  all,  of  intelligence  and 
police  capacity,  as  key  parts  in  this  struggle,  while  at 
its  motivation, 
Equally  acute 
the  need 
terrorism 
is 
to 

trade 
in  small  arms  and 
the  same  time  preserving  unlimited  respect  for  human 
rights.  

Likewise,  there  are  other  factors  which  require 
the  Council’s  continued  attention  since  they  influence 
conflicts, such as the action of irregular armed groups, 
illegal 
light  weapons, 
smuggling  of  natural  resources,  drug  trafficking  and 
other  ways 
in  which  organized  crime  weakens 
institutions,  undermines  social  stability,  jeopardizes 
democracy and threatens security. 
At the same time, Peru believes that it essential to 

recognize, in particular, the role of the environment in 
the  preservation  of  international  security.  Climate, 
water  and  forests  are  very  distinct  elements  for  which 
we  need 
to  build  strategies  and  specific  and 
differentiated actions if we are to avoid a worsening in 
the  depredation  of  resources,  deforestation,  pollution, 
and sudden changes in climate and radiation, inter alia, 
that  have  an  impact  on  the  subsistence  of  certain 
populations  and  on  the  quality  of  life,  present  and 
future, of the whole planet. 

On  these  factors  it  is  not  the  purview  of  the 
Security  Council  to  play  a  normative  role,  nor  is  it 
within its jurisdiction to negotiate and adopt universal 
commitments  that  need  to  be  adopted  in  other  forums 
and mechanisms. But it is necessary for these factors to 
be duly considered — in their security dimension — in 
specific cases on the agenda of the Council. 
Likewise,  we  are  convinced  that  the  wide  range 

and 
threats 
their 
of 
the  assistance  of  other 
interrelationship  demand 
multilateral  agencies  and  regional  organizations  and 
the  active  participation  of  the  private  sector  and  civil 
society, within their respective responsibilities, in order 
to  tackle  them.  This  approach  will  make  the  work  of 
the  Security  Council  more  consistently  effective  and 
will  situate  its  work  in  a  perspective  of  cooperation 
with the multilateral system in the event of a possible 
conflict.  

Before concluding, I would like to make the point 
that  as  far  as  Peru  is  concerned  it  is  particularly 
gratifying to coordinate in the Council the work on the 
mandate of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in 
Haiti.  While  part  of  this  work,  such  as  the  recent 
adoption of resolution 1780 (2007), will be reflected in 
next  year’s  report,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  our 
recognition  to  the  delegation  of  Haiti,  the  Group  of 
Friends, the States that make up the 2x9 mechanism of 
to  peace 
security 
and 
22 

07-59318 
and 
the 
peace 
respect 
countries 


troop-contributing 
remaining 
members of the Security Council, together with whom 
it  has  been  possible  to  achieve  an  agreement  to 
continue supporting the process to restore security and 
rebuild  the  institutions  of  this  fraternal  country  of  the 
Caribbean. 

Peru, as a non-permanent member of the Security 
Council,  discharges  its  responsibility  and  complies 
with the approaches guiding its foreign policy. On the 
basis  of  its  own  economic  and  social  realities,  its 
regional  outreach  and  its  profound  commitment  to 
multilateralism, Peru will continue from this Assembly 
to  constructively  build 
and  other  bodies  helping 
international 
and 
security, 
for 
international  law,  and  the  promotion  of  economic  and 
social  development,  as  well  as 
the  defence  and 
fostering of human rights, democracy and freedoms in 
the world.  
Mr. Argüello (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): We 

wish  to  thank  you,  Sir,  first  of  all,  for  convening  this 
debate  on  agenda  items  9  and  122.  The  role  of  the 
Security Council in buttressing international peace and 
security  is  clearly  key.  We  welcome  the  report  of  the 
Council (A/62/2) and thank the Indonesian presidency 
for  introducing  it.  Our  country  was  a  member  of  the 
Council for part of the period covered by the report and 
we were witnesses and protagonists in the efforts of the 
Security Council in carrying out its mandate under the 
Charter. 

We  are  following  with  concern  the  most  grave 
incidents  affecting  international  peace  and  security 
and,  in  particular,  we  would  like  to  draw  attention  to 
the  situation 
the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  We  do  hope  that 
the  upcoming  Annapolis  conference  will  make  real 
progress  aimed  at  achieving  a  just  and  legitimate 
solution  to  the  conflict  in  the  Middle  East  within 
international 
the  various 
resolutions  of  the  Security  Council.  We  are  aware  of 
the  gravity  of  situations  that  place  restrictions  on 
freedoms  and  that  violate  human  rights  in  many 
countries.  

As  regards  the  question  of  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council,  we  believe  that  we  always  need  to 
keep this issue as a priority on our agenda. Every day 
that  passes  without  reform  makes  that  body  more 
illegitimate  and  more  anachronistic  —  illegitimate 
because  it  fails  to  represent  a  membership  of  192 
law,  as  established  by 
in  Somalia  and 
in  Darfur, 
in 
A/62/PV.47
We  have 
looked  at 
the  proposals  of 
Members,  and  anachronistic  because  it  manifests  an 
historical reality that goes back 60 years.  

the 
facilitators  of  the  sixty-first  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  in  the  report  of  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on 
and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of  the  Security 
Council  and  Other  Matters  related  to  the  Security 
Council (A/61/47). The ways and means suggested are, 
in our opinion, the only ones that offer reasonableness 
and the potential to make progress and to emerge from 
the impasse that has been in place for some years. They 
include  formulas  for  intermediate  expansion  that  will 
not leave everyone satisfied for now, but which present 
a  possible  way  out,  creating  a  testing  ground,  getting 
us out of inertia and the status quo. 

The intermediary approach, which might last 10, 
15 or 20 years, would make it possible to increase the 
membership  and  the  participation  of  all  categories  of 
countries  and  would,  in  particular,  ensure  effective 
access  by  small  States  to  the  Security  Council.  I  wish 
to  mention 
the  importance  of  both  rotation  and 
increasing  the  regional  factor,  as  much  in  terms  of 
election  methods  — 
the  accountability 
involved  in  re-election  —  as  in  terms  of  coordinating 
positions.  We  must  advance  at  the  regional  level, 
increasing  confidence  and  cooperation  without  being 
divided  by  hegemonies  or  power  politics.  An 
intermediary  way also provides an opportunity  for the 
five permanent members to heed the voices of the great 
majority, which wants to improve the working methods 
of  the  Council,  controlled  today  by  a  small  group  of 
countries. 

This year, in the Open-ended Working Group, we 
noted that only a catastrophe such as the Second World 
War  could  create  a  system  of  privileges  such  as  that 
held by the permanent five. Today’s world, fortunately, 
does not present a similar justifying scenario at a time 
when  armed  conflicts  and  social  conflicts  persist  and 
there  is  a  sustainability  crisis  to  a  degree  previously 
unknown in history. I believe that the next stage should 
see  us  ending  our  speech-making  and  unilateral 
actions.  In  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  we  must 
focus  on  procedures,  formats  and  modalities  that 
support  negotiation.  This  stage,  which  may  also  be 
called pre-negotiation, should be tackled creatively and 
with  the  greatest  possible  political  agreement.  That  is 
the pathway to compromise. 
including 
07-59318 

23 

A/62/PV.47 

Mr. Dapkiunas (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): The 

Belarus  delegation  would  like  to  thank  the  Security 
Council for the report on its work (A/62/2). The work 
of  the  Council  is  given  priority  attention  by  the 
delegation of virtually each Member State. 

Belarus  closely  follows  the  reactions  of  the 
Council  to  threats  to  international  peace  and  security. 
In that context, it may be unnecessary for the Council, 
when  preparing  its  annual  report,  to  enumerate  the 
activities  it  has  undertaken.  United  Nations  Member 
States  expect  to  receive  an  analytical  —  rather  than 
informational  —  document  that  contains  in-depth 
analysis of situations in various hot spots of the world 
and  of  the  international  situation  as  a  whole.  We 
understand that the preparation of that kind of outcome 
document could cause some difficulties because of the 
need  to  reach  agreement  between  delegations  and 
member States of the Council. We would suggest as  a 
first  stage,  therefore,  that  more  attention  be  given  to 
the  analytical  component  when  preparing  the  monthly 
reports of delegations presiding over the Council for a 
given month. 

Once  again  we  are  discussing  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council.  Such  reform  should  make  it  more 
representative,  more  effective  and  more  transparent. 
The  Open-ended  Working  Group 
is  doing  some 
important,  meticulous  work  to  make  real  progress  in 
defining 
the 
membership  of  the  Council.  We  support  its  activities 
and  are  prepared  to  continue  to  lend  the  Open-ended 
Working Group every possible assistance. 

Today  it  is  clear  that,  since  the  Council  was 
created,  as  a  parallel system for organizing the world, 
the  United  Nations  itself  has  changed.  Enhancing  the 
effectiveness and the authority of the Security Council 
should  be  accomplished  in  a  manner  that  reflects 
contemporary  geopolitical  realities.  We  are  therefore 
speaking of broader political participation by States in 
the decision-making of the Council. The reform of the 
Security  Council  should 
in 
important  areas  such  as 
its 
membership  and  improving  its  methods  of  work. 
However, we believe that the Council should remain a 
compact  and  effective  organ  that  is  able  to  react  in  a 
timely  and  effective  manner  to  threats  to  international 
peace and security.  

The reform of the Council should not be confined 
merely to an arithmetical increase in composition. The 
take  place  primarily 
the  expansion  of 
expanding 
formulas 
concrete 
for 
in 
regions  are  underrepresented 
regional  group.  We  also  believe 
point  of  the  reform  is  for  the  expansion  to  make  the 
Council  more  authoritative  and  more  representative. 
Accordingly,  we  continue  to  support  the  idea  of  the 
Council  adopting  decisions  if  they  are  supported  by 
two-thirds  of  those  voting.  It  would  be  a  correct  step 
politically  and logically. Having that kind of a system 
in  place  for  decision-making  in  the  Security  Council 
would  be  in  keeping  with  the  rules  adopted  by  the 
General  Assembly  with  regard  to  the  adoption  of 
important  decisions  concerning  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. 

Belarus  continues  to  favour  the  granting  of  an 
additional  seat  in  the  category  of  non-permanent 
member  in  a  new  expanded  Council  to  the  Eastern 
European 
that 
countries  representing  the  African,  Asian  and  Latin 
American 
the 
Council’s current  composition. Belarus is in favour of 
giving  them  an  additional  seat  in  that  body  in  the 
permanent member category. 

The  founding  fathers  of  the  United  Nations 
placed  the  primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security  upon  the  Security 
Council.  The  Council  was  conceived  as  an  organ  that 
could take decisive steps to prevent and remove threats 
to international peace and security. It was created, not 
just  to  be  representative  but  to  be  a  responsible  organ 
with  the  capacity  to  take  decisive,  appropriate  action 
for the maintenance of international peace and security. 
Individual  cases  of  the  Council’s  inability  to  take 
timely  and  effective  steps  on  questions  relating  to  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  show 
that it is precisely the reform of the Council that would 
allow 
its  basic  functions  more 
effectively, as the guarantor of peace and security.  

Attempts made by some members of the Council 
to unjustifiably expand the agenda by adding items that 
do  not 
the 
effectiveness  of  its  work  and  often  undermine  the 
authority  of  the  Security  Council.  Accordingly,  we 
think 
the  balance  of 
responsibility  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
General  Assembly.  Belarus  believes  that  the  Security 
Council  should  improve  its  working  methods.  That 
area of Council reform should be discussed within any 
reform  package.  Even  if  agreement  is  not  reached  on 
other areas of reform of the Council, efforts to improve 
the working methods of the Council must absolutely be 
made. 
its  competence 
to  carry  out 
fall  within 
to  restore 
reduce 
it 
it 
is 
important 
24 

07-59318 



In a new reformed Council, a crucial issue to be 
considered is the broader involvement of States that are 
non-members  of  the  Council  in  its  work.  In  our  view, 
that would enhance the accountability of the Council to 
all  Member  States  of  the  United  Nations  and  would 
make its work more transparent. Member States should 
have direct access to Council meetings, in particular in 
cases when their interests are directly affected or where 
agenda 
that  have  a  direct 
items  are  discussed 
relationship to those countries.  

The  ongoing  and  often  emotional  debates  about 
expanding  the  Council  have  shown  that  there  are 
advocates  and  opponents  of  various  plans  for  Council 
reform.  The  presence  of  those  different  views  among 
Member States on that issue is something that Belarus 
sees as a natural phenomenon. It is a normal feature of 
an  on-going  negotiating  process.  In  our  view  it  is 
important to reach the broadest possible unity of views 
through  consultation  and  dialogue.  However, 
the 
reform  process  should  not  be  discontinued  because  of 
difficulties  and  because  of  a  lack  of  conformity  in 
approach.  The  reform  of  the  Council  will  move 
forward and will work to the extent that Member States 
show  enough  political  will,  are  sufficiently  aware  of 
their responsibility and have enough energy, resources 
and  attention  to  advance  and  carry  out  that  important 
cause. 
Mr.  Mansour  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  First 

of  all  allow  me  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  the  way 
you  are  conducting  the  debate.  My  delegation  also 
wishes  to  thank  the  Ambassador  of  Indonesia,  the 
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  this  month,  for 
having  submitted  the  report  of  the  Security  Council 
today (A/62/2) to the General Assembly pursuant to the 
relevant provisions of the United Nations Charter. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  make  the  following 
comments  on  the  two  items  on  the  agenda  of  today’s 
plenary  meeting,  namely,  “Report  of  the  Security 
Council” and “Question of equitable representation on 
and increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and related matters”. 

I  need  hardly  recall  that  the  General Assembly’s 
consideration of the item on the report of the Security 
Council is the only opportunity for States Members of 
the United Nations, in particular for those of us that are 
not  members  of  the  Security  Council,  to  consider  in 
depth  the  activities  of  that  organ  and  to  identify 
A/62/PV.47
the  Security  Council 
measures  that  should  be  taken  to  make  the  required 
improvements to its working methods.  

My delegation is pleased to see that, in terms  of 
format, the Security Council’s report for this reporting 
period  (A/62/2),  contains  an  analytical  introduction  in 
addition  to  the  normal  statistics.  However,  efforts 
should  continue  to  further  improve  the  quality  of  the 
report  which  clearly  remains  a  compilation  of  the 
decisions  and  resolutions  that  were  adopted  and  a 
rather factual description of the Council’s work.  
We  are  far  from  what  was  recommended  by 

Member  States  to  have  an  annual  analytical  report. 
Accordingly,  it  should  be  noted  that  the  General 
Assembly  has  asked 
to 
periodically  submit  to  it  special  thematic  reports  on 
questions of international interest. To date, no report of 
that kind has been submitted. 

Turning to the functioning of the Council, we are 
pleased  to  note  that  during  the  reporting  period  the 
Security Council held a large number of open meetings 
during  which  a  greater  number  of  States  participated. 
We  note  also  a  definite  increase  in  public  briefings, 
which  have  given  non-members  of  the  Council  the 
possibility  of  being  briefed,  albeit  partially,  about 
developments concerning some of the matters of which 
the  Council  is  seized.  Having  said  that,  we  are 
convinced  that  much  remains  to  be  done  to  make  the 
functioning  of  the  Council  more  transparent,  which 
would  guarantee  access 
to  all 
delegations,  in  particular,  delegations  that  have  items 
on the Council’s agenda. 

Likewise,  I  would  like  to  come  back  to  the 
question  of  the  proliferation  of  public  meetings  on 
matters  that  fall  more  within  the  mandates  of  other 
United  Nations  organs  such  as  the  General  Assembly 
and the Economic and Social Council. In this regard, it 
remains  useful  to  strengthen  the  regular  consultation 
mechanisms between the Presidents of United Nations 
organs  in  order  to  remedy  any  encroachment  or 
interference. 

On  questions  of  substance,  the  report  of  the 
Security Council shows that that organ  has acted  with 
determination to address a number of conflicts around 
the  world,  and  in  particular  on  the African  continent. 
That  enhances  the  Council’s  authority  and  role  in  the 
maintenance of international peace and security.  
to 
information 
07-59318 

25 

the 
for 
to 
With 
regard 
including  my  colleague, 
A/62/PV.47 


But  the  efforts  of  the  Council  fall  short  of 
expectations  in  the  Middle  East.  Frustration  at  the 
Council’s repeated failure to become more involved in 
settling  the  question  of  Palestine  and  to  shoulder  its 
responsibilities in that area poses a serious threat to the 
region and to the authority of the Council itself. 

the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security Council, allow me, Mr. President, first of 
all,  to  pay  high  tribute  to  your  predecessor,  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first 
session,  Ms.  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa,  and  to  her 
former 
facilitators, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Tunisia, 
their 
outstanding  contribution  to  the  item  under  discussion 
today. 

The  conclusions  and  recommendations  that  they 
submitted  to  Member  States  last  spring  allowed  the 
process  of  consultation  to  be  relaunched,  in  particular 
by means of proposing a new approach to unfreeze the 
status quo and to resolve the dilemma of expanding the 
Security Council, which has persisted for more than 15 
years. My delegation welcomes the agreement reached 
by  Member  States  in  early  September,  within  the 
framework  of  the  report  of  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on 
and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of  the  Security 
Council  and  Other  Matters  related  to  the  Security 
Council  (A/61/47),  whereby  we  decided  to  continue 
consideration  of  the  question  of  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council  

“so that further concrete results may be achieved, 
including  through  intergovernmental  negotiations, 
building  on  the  progress  achieved  so  far,  ...  as 
well  as  the  positions  of  and  proposals  made  by 
Member States”. (see A/61/47, para. 21) 
Looking  forward  to  the  implementation  of  that 

understanding 
this  year,  under  your  guidance, 
Mr. President,  allow  me  to  make  the  following  point. 
My country believes that the purpose of any reform of 
the  Security  Council 
to  strengthen  equitable 
representation  in  that  body,  bolster  its  credibility  and 
enhance  its  effectiveness.  The  Security  Council  must 
reflect  the  political  and  economic  realities  of  today’s 
world. It should be given the legitimacy it needs to act 
on  behalf  of  the  international  community  in  carrying 
out its mandate under the Charter. 
is 

These  objectives  will  be  unattainable  without 
expansion,  in  particular  for  the  benefit  of  developing 
countries. The  size  of  the  restructured  Council  should 
reflect  all  of  the  sensitivities  of  the  international 
community.  In  this  context,  Tunisia  continues  to 
strongly  support  the  position  of  the African  Union  as 
reflected  in  the  African  consensus  on  reform  of  the 
Security Council, which to date remains unchanged. 

In  our  view  there  must  be  an  immediate  remedy 
of the long-standing injustice which has denied Africa 
a permanent presence in the Security Council. There is 
hardly any need to  recall that this  unjust situation has 
been  going  on  since  the  establishment  of  the  United 
Nations.  We  would  support  any  formula  that  would 
give  developing  countries  in  general,  and  Africa  in 
particular, the role due them on the Security Council. 

Finally, the question of the periodic review of the 
Security  Council,  once  it  has  been  expanded  and 
reformed, 
reform 
programme.  This  consideration  will  help  to  build 
confidence that will allow  us to make the adjustments 
that  might  be  necessary  in  the  future,  but  still  more 
important, it represents a mechanism through which we 
would  be  able  to  assess  the  contribution  of  the  new 
members to enhancing the effectiveness of the Council. 

In  conclusion,  we  believe  that,  in  order  to 
continue  to  enjoy  the  trust  of  Member  States  and  of 
world  public  opinion,  the  Security  Council  should 
demonstrate that it is in a position to effectively tackle 
the  most  difficult  questions,  including  by  becoming 
more  representative  of  the  international  community  as 
a whole and of the realities of today’s world. It is time 
to  embark  on  that  path  in  a  determined  and  serious 
manner.  
is  an  essential 
factor  of 
the 


Organization of work 
The  President:  I  should  like  now  to  consult 

Member States regarding an extension for the work of 
the  Sixth  Committee.  Members  will  recall  that,  at  its 
second  plenary  meeting,  on  21  September  2007,  the 
General Assembly approved the recommendation of the 
General  Committee  that  the  Sixth  Committee  would 
complete  its  work  by  Thursday,  15  November  2007. 
However, I have been informed by the Chairman of the 
Sixth Committee that the Committee has not been able 
to finish its work by Thursday, 15 November, and will 
need  an  additional  meeting  on  19  November  2007, 
depending  on  the  availability  of  Conference  Services. 
26 

07-59318 


May  I  therefore  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly 
agrees  to  extend  the  work  of  the  Sixth  Committee  for 
one additional meeting? 
It was so decided. 

The  President:  I  wish  finally  to  inform  the 

General  Assembly 
items 
scheduled  for  Thursday  morning,  15  November  2007, 
the  Assembly  will  take  up  the  reports  of  the  Fifth 
Committee 
documents  A/62/528, 
A/62/529, A/62/530, A/62/531, A/62/532 and A/62/533 
on  sub-item  (a),  “Appointment  of  members  of  the 
in  addition 
contained 
that 
the 
in 
to 
A/62/PV.47
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions”; sub-item (b), “Appointment of members of 
the  Committee  on  Contributions”;  sub-item 
(c), 
“Confirmation  of  the  appointment  of  members  of  the 
Investments  Committee”;  sub-item  (d),  “Appointment 
of  a  member  of  the  Board  of Auditors”;  sub-item  (e), 
“Appointment  of  members  of  the  United  Nations 
Administrative 
(f), 
“Appointment  of  members  of  the  Independent  Audit 
Advisory  Committee”, 
114, 
respectively. 
The meeting rose at 1 p.m. 
Tribunal”, 
sub-item 
agenda 
item 
and 
of 
07-59318 

27 
