United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

44th plenary meeting 
Monday, 5 November 2007, 10 a.m. 
New York 






A/62/PV.44
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia)
to 
the  Council 
Mr.  Wenaweser 
the  recommendations  of 
item  65,  “Report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council”,  be 
allocated to the Third Committee. 
(Liechtenstein):  Resolution 

60/251  created 
the  Human  Rights  Council  as  a 
subsidiary  body  of  the  General  Assembly.  Last  year, 
this Assembly  decided  to  allocate  this  agenda  item  to 
both  the  plenary  and  the  Third  Committee,  with  the 
understanding that the Third Committee would take up 
all 
the 
Assembly. That  decision  was  taken  in  full  compliance 
with  resolution  60/251,  as  the Assembly  stated  in  the 
decision  itself.  There  is  no  reason  of  substance  for 
changing  this  arrangement,  and  we  believe  that  the 
General Committee consequently should have made the 
same recommendation to the Assembly this year.  

the 
to 
recommendation on which we are about to act were not 
limited to the allocation of the item or the relationship 
between the Council and the General Assembly. Rather, 
they  evolved  around  one  part  of  the  report  that  is  of 
particular 
the  package  on 
institution-building.  While  we  believe  that  these  are 
separate issues, we certainly understand that things can 
be brought together in that way for the sake of political 
expediency. We would, however, expect that all aspects 
of  such  a  negotiating  package,  as  it  were,  would  be 
solved together, and we note that, at this point, this is 
not the case. While we are about to make a decision on 
allocation,  we  do  not  have  full  clarity  at  this  time  on 
the circumstances under which the institution-building 
package will be adopted. 
importance,  namely, 
discussions 
leading 
The 
up 
President:  Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The meeting was called to order at 10:15 a.m. 






Agenda item 7 (continued) 
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items 

  Third report of the General Committee 
(A/62/250/Add.2) 
The  President:  I  should  first  like  to  draw  the 

attention  of  representatives  to  the  third  report  of  the 
General  Committee, 
document 
A/62/250/Add.2. 
contained 
in 


that  agenda 
item  10,  “Report  of 
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  approves  that 

In  the  first  paragraph  of  the  report,  the  General 
Committee  decided  to  recommend  to  the  General 
Assembly 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission”,  be  allocated  to  the  Fifth 
Committee as well, for the sole purpose of considering 
the  question  of  financing  field  missions  of 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission. 

recommendation? 
It was so decided. 


The  President:  The  Chairman  of  the  Fifth 
Committee will be informed of the decision just taken 
by the General Assembly. 

In  paragraph  2  of  the  same  report,  the  General 
Committee  decided  to  recommend  to  the  General 
Assembly  that,  for  its  sixty-second  session,  agenda 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-58078 (E) 
*0758078* 
in 
to 

this 
being 
overlooked 
this  sixty-second  session  only 
A/62/PV.44 


The decision on the allocation of this agenda item 
may  appear  to  be  merely  a  bureaucratic  exercise. 
However, behind the technical question of whether the 
Third  Committee  or  the  plenary  considers  the  agenda 
item looms the larger question of the political standing 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council. We  hope  that  the  issue 
of  allocation  will  be  taken  up  next  year  in  full 
transparency and discussed in the manner it deserves. 
Ms.  Banks  (New  Zealand):  Thank  you,  Mr. 

President,  for  giving  me  the  floor  to  comment  on  the 
allocation  of  agenda  item  65,  “Report  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council”.  There  are  important  principles  that 
risk 
apparently 
straightforward proposal just put before us, namely, to 
have the report of the Human Rights Council allocated 
in 
the  Third 
Committee.  

Just 18 months ago, we agreed as Member States 
to establish the Human Rights Council as a subsidiary 
organ of the General Assembly. We did so in a spirit of 
optimism,  hoping  that  the  new  body  would  have  a 
higher  standing  and,  once  established,  would  prove 
more  effective  than  the  Commission  in  its  service  of 
promoting  human  rights.  Last  year,  we  decided  to 
consider  the  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  in 
both  the  plenary  and  the  Third  Committee,  and  this 
decision  was  recorded  in  Addendum  2  to  document 
A/61/252. 

Over the past months, there have been a series of 
complicated negotiations carried out informally, which 
have  resulted,  in  the  end,  in  this  proposal  for  the 
Human  Rights  Council  report  to  be  presented,  at  this 
session,  only  in  the  Third  Committee.  We  consider  it 
unfortunate that because of the different dimensions of 
the  discussion,  there  has  come  to  be  some  confusion 
between 
readily 
acknowledge, of a smooth adoption of the institutional 
package and the longer-term question of the allocation 
of the agenda item. 

New  Zealand’s  strong  preference  would  have 
been to have had the Human Rights Council report first 
presented to the plenary. The approach taken last year 
of  bringing  the  report  to  the  plenary  and  then  to  the 
Third Committee would have served as well again this 
year.  

While it is for each General Assembly to decided 
a  course  on  the  allocation  of  items,  we  take  this 
opportunity to register that the allocation of item 65 at 
importance,  which  we 
the 
the  Council, 
importance  of 
the  Members  of 
the sixty-third session must be carefully considered and 
a  positive  decision  must  be  taken.  Given  the  evolving 
role  and 
it  will  be 
appropriate  that  the  report  be  considered  first  in 
plenary  and,  if  the  substance  of  the  report  requires  it, 
also in the Third Committee. 
Mr.  Maurer  (Switzerland):  I  would  like  to 

support  what  my  colleagues  from  New  Zealand  and 
Liechtenstein have just said and take the opportunity to 
clarify Switzerland’s view on the issue.  
Our position is and has been, since the creation of 

the  Human  Rights  Council,  that  its  annual  report 
should  be  considered  in  plenary.  Given  the  very 
different opinions on this issue, the General Committee 
last year made a recommendation that, in our view, was 
a valid compromise and a fair reflection of the different 
positions  among 
the  General 
Assembly. 
Switzerland  does  not  see  any  reason  why  last 

year’s solution of double allocation had to be modified 
this year. There is nothing with regard to the efficiency 
or  the  practicality  of  last  year’s  arrangement  that,  in 
our view, justifies a change of practice.  

We  are  aware  that  a  political  agreement  was 
reached  between  certain  groups  and  members  of  the 
General Assembly regarding the allocation to the Third 
Committee  for  this  year.  Let  me  just  restate  that 
Switzerland was not part of those negotiations; nor is it 
part  of  the  agreement  reached.  It  is  our  understanding 
that 
this  year’s  decision  would  not  constitute  a 
precedent for future sessions of the General Assembly.  
To  that  end,  Switzerland  will  continue  to  defend 

the  position 
item  should  be  allocated 
exclusively or at least partially to plenary in the future. 
It is our understanding that keeping the option open, to 
give human rights a more prominent role in the United 
Nations  system,  was  part  of  the  delicate  political 
balance  that  led  to  the  adoption  of  resolution  60/251. 
The allocation of the agenda item was subsequently an 
important  step  in  concretizing  this  balance  of  views. 
We  are  concerned  today  that  many  who  consider 
themselves advocates of human rights are, in our view, 
insufficiently  defending 
institutions  we  have 
created  and  the  underpinning  compromise  that  allows 
them to function. 
that 
the 
the 
2 

07-58078 
by 
the 
representatives 


Mr. Heller (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): I would 

like  to  state  very  briefly  that  the  Mexican  delegation 
agrees entirely with the statements made by those who 
preceded  me.  We  think  that,  in  order  to  honour  the 
issue  of  human  rights  and  the  creation  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  it  would  have  been  appropriate  to 
present  the  report  of  the  Council  to  the  plenary 
Assembly  for  subsequent  consideration  by  the  Third 
Committee.  I  think  this  is  the  wrong  way  to  start  the 
first  months  and  years  of  the  Council’s  existence, 
because  in  the  end  it  is  the  consideration  of  human 
rights that will suffer.  
At  the  same  time,  I  agree  entirely  with  the 

statements  made 
of 
Liechtenstein,  New  Zealand  and  Switzerland  on  the 
need  for  transparency  in  decision-making  on  these 
issues.  
Mr.  Abdelaziz  (Egypt):  As  a  member  of  the 

General Committee, I fully support the proposal made 
by the President, which was reached through informal 
consultations  in  the  General  Committee  and  was 
adopted  by  consensus,  on  how  to  deal  with  this 
particular item.  

I  felt  obliged  to  take  the  floor  to  compare  what 
has  happened  this  time  and  what  happened  last  year. 
Last  year,  we  allocated  this  item  both  to  the  plenary 
General  Assembly  and 
the  Third  Committee, 
because the Human Rights Council had not yet finished 
its first year, and we thought it appropriate to allow the 
Council to come up, this year, with a full-range report 
after  completing  a  year  and  seven  months  of  its 
existence.  

My  assessment  and  that  of  the  delegation  of 
Egypt  is  that  the  allocation  to  the  Third  Committee 
worked  well.  We  adopted  the  Convention  for  the 
Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance 
and  the  Declaration  on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous 
Peoples,  both  of  which  were  considered  in  the  Third 
Committee,  and  they  did  not  overshadow  any  of  the 
viability of the Human Rights Council.  

My  delegation  fully  supports  the  Human  Rights 
Council; we are members of the Council at its current 
stage.  We  also  support  the  institutional  package.  But 
we  do  not  see  any  relationship  between  the  allocation 
of  the  item  and  support  for  the  institutional  package. 
Anyone  who  would  like  to  reopen  the  subject  of  the 
package can reopen it, either in the General Assembly 
or in the Third Committee. That is why we continue to 
to 
A/62/PV.44
support  the  position  taken  by  the African  Group,  that 
this item should go to the Third Committee. 
The  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the  General 

Assembly approves the recommendation of the General 
Committee?  
It was so decided. 

The  President:  The  Chairman  of  the  Third 

Committee will be informed of the decision just taken 
by the General Assembly. 





Agenda item 12 
Support by the United Nations system of the efforts 
of Governments to promote and consolidate new or 
restored democracies 

  Reports of the Secretary-General (A/62/296 and 
A/62/302) 
  Draft resolution (A/62/L.9) 

The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 

representative  of  Qatar  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/62/L.9. 
Ms. Al-Thani (Qatar): I have the honour to speak 

under agenda item 12, entitled “Support by the United 
Nations  system  of  the  efforts  of  Governments  to 
promote and consolidate new or restored democracies”. 
I  also  have  the  honour  to  inform  the Assembly  of  the 
successful  outcomes  and  substantive  follow-up  to  the 
Sixth  International  Conference  of  New  or  Restored 
Democracies,  held  in  Doha,  the  State  of  Qatar,  from 
29  October  to  1  November  2006.  I  would  like  to 
express  our  profound  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon, 
the  Under-Secretary-
General for Political Affairs, Mr. Lynn Pascoe, and the 
Administrator  of  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme, Mr. Kemal Dervis, for their support to the 
New or Restored Democracies Movement. 

in 
Qatar,  had  two  main  objectives:  to  enhance  the 
linkages between democracy, peace and social progress 
in  the  global  development  agenda;  and  to  initiate 
systematic  implementation  and  follow-up  steps  to 
consolidate  the  achievements  and  recommendations 
emanating  from  the  previous  important  International 
Conferences of New or Restored Democracies. A major 
outcome of the Sixth International Conference was the 
formulation  of  the  Doha  Declaration.  It  addressed  the 
concern  of  New  or  Restored  Democracies  Movement 
The  Sixth  International  Conference,  held 
07-58078 

3 

is 
of 
the 
chairmanship 
composed  of 
implementation 
eight  members: 
A/62/PV.44 

member States to establish follow-up steps to enhance 
the efficiency and effectiveness of the Movement.  

In that regard, the Doha Declaration requested the 
Chair  of  the  Sixth  Conference,  for  a  period  of  three 
years,  to  take  the  necessary  measures  to  ensure  the 
systematic 
Conference 
recommendations.  In  that  connection,  the  Chair  is 
assisted  by  an  international  Advisory  Board  on  the 
means  to  follow  up  on  Conference  recommendations, 
which 
five 
governmental  representatives,  from  Egypt,  Uruguay, 
Iceland,  Mongolia  and  Romania,  nominated  on  the 
basis  of  geographical  representation,  in  accordance 
with  United  Nations  practice;  and  representatives  of 
the United Nations, the Inter-Parliamentary Union and 
the International Civil Society Forum for Democracy. 

The State of Qatar, in its capacity as Chair of the 
Sixth  Conference,  held  two Advisory  Board  meetings 
under 
of  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Mohamed  Bin  Abdullah  Al-Rumaihi,  Assistant 
Foreign Minister  for Follow-up Affairs  of the State of 
Qatar,  on  26 April  2007  and  28  September  2007. The 
two  meetings  achieved  significant  results  within  a 
framework  of  consultation  and  cooperation.  A  draft 
Conference  programme  of  work  for  2007-2009  has 
been  formulated.  It  aims  at  facilitating  the  systematic 
implementation  of  Conference 
recommendations. 
Achievable measurable activities were envisaged, such 
as  the  preparation  of  an  electronic  newsletter  for  the 
Sixth  Conference;  development  of  a  Conference 
databank;  designation  of  an  International  Day  of 
Democracy;  holding  of  the  annual  Conference  high-
level  meeting  during  the  sixty-second  session  of  the 
General Assembly;  and  planning  activities  and  expert 
group  meetings  aimed  at  enhancing  the  identity  and 
significance of the Movement. 

The  International  Conferences  have  played  a 
prominent role in the promotion of the democratization 
process.  The  Governments,  parliamentarians  and  civil 
society organizations of the Movement are determined 
to establish it as a source of inspiration and as a forum 
for exchanging experiences and good practices. 

The  State  of  Qatar,  as  the  Chair  of  the  Sixth 
Conference  until  2009,  pledges  its  commitment  to 
ensure  not  only  the  systematic  implementation  of 
the 
Conference 
enhancement  of 
this 
international  cooperation.  In 
recommendations 
also 
but 
like 
I  should 
that,  since 
to  announce 
three  objectives:  first, 
connection, the Chairman of the Sixth Conference will 
chair the high-level meeting in New York next month. 

I  have  the  honour  to  present  draft  resolution 
A/62/L.9,  entitled  “Support  by  the  United  Nations 
system  of  the  efforts  of  Governments  to  promote  and 
consolidate  new  or  restored  democracies”.  Three 
informal  consultations  were  recently  held.  The  draft 
resolution  has 
to  present 
information  on  the  outcomes  and  concrete  results  of 
the  follow-up  to  the  Sixth  International  Conference, 
with particular focus on the systematic implementation 
of Conference resolutions, in accordance with the Doha 
Declaration; secondly, to observe the International Day 
of Democracy on 15 September each year; and thirdly, 
to underline the close  cooperation between the United 
Nations and Governments in this regard as well as the 
cooperation  between  parliamentarians,  civil  society 
and  Governments.  The  State  of  Qatar  would  like  to 
convey  its  gratitude  to  all  Member  States  that  have 
supported this draft resolution. We look forward to its 
adoption by consensus. 

the 
introduction  of  the  draft  resolution,  the  following 
countries have joined as sponsors: Argentina, Armenia, 
Austria,  Bahrain,  Belgium,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Brazil, Cambodia, Costa Rica, Cyprus, the Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  El  Salvador,  Estonia,  Finland, 
Greece,  Guatemala,  Haiti,  Hungary,  Iraq,  Ireland, 
Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Moldova, 
Morocco,  the  Netherlands,  Portugal,  the  Republic  of 
Korea, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, 
the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland and Yemen. 
Mr.  Godinho  (Portugal):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak on behalf of the European Union with regard to 
agenda  item  12.  The  candidate  countries  Turkey, 
Croatia  and 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia, 
the  European  Free  Trade  Association 
country  Iceland,  the  countries  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidates Albania, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Montenegro  and  Serbia,  as 
well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  Armenia 
and Georgia align themselves with this declaration. 

Democracy  and  human  rights  are  interdependent 
and mutually reinforcing. Indeed, democracy — which 
we  consider  to  be  a  universal  value  —  development 
fundamental 
and 
freedoms 
and  mutually 
interdependent 
for  human 
rights  and 
respect 
the 
are 
all 
4 

07-58078 
In 
that 
sense, 
the 
for 
the 
top  priorities 
to  promote  democracy.  It 
The  European  Union  welcomed 


reinforcing. 
the  protection  and 
advancement  of  democracy  and  the  rule  of  law  are 
among 
international 
community.  The  European  Union  is  firmly  committed 
to  the  worldwide  implementation  and  promotion  of 
democratic principles. 

the  Sixth 
International  Conference  on  New  and  Restored 
Democracies,  held  in  Doha  from  29  October  to 
1  November  2006,  on  the  theme  of  building  capacity 
for  democracy,  peace  and  social  progress,  and  its 
outcome, the Doha Declaration. We also welcomed the 
historic  adoption  of  a  tripartite  joint  statement  in  a 
common  effort 
the 
European Union’s understanding that it is fundamental 
and necessary to have joint action for the promotion of 
democracy.  In  that  regard,  we  welcomed  the  tripartite 
structure  of  the  Sixth  International  Conference,  with 
parliamentarian  and  civil  society  forums  held  parallel 
to the governmental country meeting. 

We welcome the decisions to improve the follow-
up mechanisms between each International Conference 
on  New  or  Restored  Democracies,  addressing  the 
concern of member States to establish follow-up steps 
to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the New 
or  Restored  Democracies  Movement  and  ensure 
systematic 
the  Conference’s 
recommendations.  We  would  like  to  emphasize  our 
appreciation  for  the  recognition  that  there  was  a  need 
to  establish  an  international  Advisory  Board  and  a 
nucleus  secretariat  to  assist  the  current  Chair  of  the 
Sixth International Conference. 

We  also  welcome  the  programme  of  work  for 
2007-2009, approved by the Advisory Board at its first 
meeting, on 26 April in Doha, particularly the decision 
to  promote  the  global  exchange  of  information  and 
experiences  by  establishing  and  maintaining  a 
comprehensive international databank on democracy. 

We believe that further exchanges of information 
between the Movement and other main actors, such as 
the  Community  of  Democracies,  the  International 
Institute  for  Democracy  and  Electoral Assistance,  and 
the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union,  can  only  be  beneficial 
for  the  promotion  of  democracy  worldwide,  as  each 
organization  has  lessons  learned  and  best  practices  to 
share. 
the  efforts 
undertaken  by  the  Chairs  of  the  Conference  and  the 
Community  of  Democracies 
two 
regard,  we  welcome 
implementation  of 
to  bring 
In 
that 
is 
the 
A/62/PV.44
to 
Institute’s 
movements  closer  together,  and  we  welcome  the 
International 
intention 
strengthen 
cooperation with the United Nations. 

The  importance  of  the  support  given  by  the 
United  Nations  mechanisms  to  the  promotion  of  new 
and restored democracies is striking, be it through the 
United  Nations  Democracy  Fund,  the  United  Nations 
Development Programme (UNDP), the Department for 
Political  Affairs,  the  Department  of  Peacekeeping 
Operations,  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  the  Peacebuilding 
Support  Office,  or  the  good  offices  of  the  Secretary-
General.  One  of  the  areas  in  which  the  work  done  by 
the  United  Nations  mechanisms  is  more  evident  is  in 
peacekeeping  operations  and  peacebuilding  activities, 
as  peace  and  security  also  depend  on  the  spread  and 
consolidation  of  democracy,  and  a  well-coordinated 
policy  within  the  United  Nations  framework  can  help 
to  achieve  peaceful  solutions  to  the  conflicts  that  are 
threatening stability in different areas of the world. 

It is also fundamental to promote conditions that 
will enable democracy to take root where it has never 
existed before and to support democratic institutions in 
countries in transition or that have recently moved to a 
democratic system. 

We  also  regard  it  as  utterly  indispensable  that 
men  and  women  be  given  equal  participation  in 
political  life  and  decision-making;  the  inclusion  of 
everyone is a prerequisite for genuine democracy. 

The  European  Union  considers  that  regional 
cooperation  is  essential  for  promoting  democracy  and 
human rights in every area of the world. In that sense, 
the  European  Union  itself  can  serve  as  a  successful 
example  of  such  cooperation,  as  democracy  and 
fundamental  freedoms  are  the  main  pillars  of  the 
European Union. 
The  European  Union  is  committed  to  promoting 

democratization 
cooperation 
programmes  in  several  areas,  such  as  the  rule  of  law, 
the  effective  participation  of  people  in  the  democratic 
process,  the  role  of  civil  society  and  the  development 
of a stable human rights culture. The European Union 
has  increasingly  been  offering  its  assistance  and 
cooperation in electoral processes in third countries.  

We consider democratic values and human rights 
as  essential  elements  of  our  development  cooperation 
agreements, as clearly seen in the Cotonou Agreement 
through 
own 
its 
07-58078 

5 

concrete 
A/62/PV.44 

we have with several countries in Africa, the Caribbean 
and  the  Pacific. That  provides  the  basis  for  structured 
exchanges  on  democracy  and  human  rights  with  third 
countries,  backed  up  by 
cooperation 
programmes  and  with  a  view  to  facilitating  concrete 
progress on the ground. 

Just  as  we  value  regional  cooperation,  we  also 
attach  the  utmost  importance  to  the  efforts  of  the 
international  community  to  devise  and  implement 
assistance and educational programmes for democracy. 
The  European  Union  considers  the  United  Nations  to 
be the most appropriate international framework within 
which to work to enhance and promote democracy and 
human rights throughout the world. 

Allow  me  to  reiterate  that  we  do  not  seek  to 
impose  any  particular  model  of  democracy.  We 
recognize  the  unique  political,  social  and  cultural 
background of each country, and we therefore consider 
that  civil  society  has  an  essential  role  to  play  in 
ensuring respect for democratic principles. 

The  European  Union  would  like  to  conclude  by 
thanking  Qatar  for  hosting  the  Sixth  International 
Conference  in  2006  and  for  all  the  efforts  it  has 
undertaken  to  ensure  effective  implementation  of  the 
Conference’s recommendations. 
Mr. Chabar (Morocco) (spoke in French): At the 

to  address,  on  behalf  of  my 
outset,  allow  me 
delegation, my sincere thanks to the Secretary-General 
for  the  two  reports  presented  under  agenda  item  12 
(A/62/296  and A/62/302),  which  give  us  an  overview 
of  the  activities  and  initiatives  undertaken  by  the 
United  Nations  system  to  support  the  efforts  of 
Governments  to  promote  and  consolidate  new  or 
restored democracies.  

I  also  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the 
delegation  of  Qatar  for  the  leadership  and  flexibility 
they have shown during the entire process of preparing 
draft  resolution A/62/L.9.  My  delegation  is  pleased  to 
be among the sponsors of the draft resolution; we agree 
entirely with its provisions and hope it will be adopted 
by  consensus.  The  text  before  us  today  reaffirms  the 
commitment  of  Member  States  to  strengthening  the 
important role played by the United Nations system in 
supporting  efforts  aimed  at 
the  consolidation  of 
democracy and the promotion of human rights.  

The  consideration  of  this  agenda  item  gives  my 
country’s delegation an opportunity to briefly highlight 
that  celebrates  differences,  which  are 
certain elements of the concept of democracy to which 
Morocco adheres and the principles and foundations of 
its  action  in  the  area  of  promoting  and  consolidating 
democracy  at  the  national,  regional  and  international 
levels.  My  country’s  view  of  democracy  is  based  on 
four main pillars.  

The  first  is  diversity.  While  it  is  true  that 
democracy  is  one  of  the  universal  values  that  we  all 
share,  it  is  equally  true  that  there  is  no  single  path 
leading  towards  democracy,  and  that  every  country, 
through  its  creativity,  the  ingenuity  of  its  people  and 
the  wealth  of  its  heritage,  can  find  its  own  path  in 
undertaking  its  own  democratization  process.  The 
universalization  of  democracy  will  thus  only  have 
meaning  in  diversity,  pluralism  and  devotion  to  the 
values  that  all  peoples  share  above  and  beyond  their 
differences.  Support,  cooperation  and  exchanges  for 
mutual  enrichment 
that  promote  and  consolidate 
democracy  can  only  take  place  in  a  climate  of  mutual 
respect 
in 
themselves  recognized  values  and  legitimate  rights. 
From that point of view, the United Nations, because of 
its  universal  and  multilateral  dimension  and 
in 
accordance with the principles and values upon which 
its  work  is  based,  is  the  most  suitable  framework  in 
which  to  effectively  and  appropriately  help  Member 
States  engaged 
in  a  process  of  promoting  and 
consolidating democracy.  

is  peace  and  security. 
The  second  pillar 
Democratic  transition  is  a  long  and  complex  process 
that  requires  a  climate  of  internal  and  external  peace 
and  stability.  Lasting  democracy  can  be  established 
only  in  a  regional  and  international  context  that 
guarantees 
the  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity of States. In that respect, the role of 
the  United  Nations  is  crucial,  because  of  its  primary 
responsibility  to  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security.  

Nationally,  democracy  can  be  viable  only  within 
the rule of law, in a State that guarantees the security of 
its  citizens  and  their  property  and  that  —  with  full 
respect  for  the  law,  which  represents  the  free  and 
sovereign will of the people — fights those who might 
use  individual  and  collective  rights  and  freedoms  to 
divert  and 
international 
community  should  show  vigilance  and  firmness  in 
combating extremism — in all forms — and terrorism, 
a scourge which today seems to spare no region of the 
world.  
stifle  democracy.  The 
for 
full 
respect 
6 

07-58078 
to 
The 
fight  all 
third  pillar 



is  development.  Political 
democracy, which itself cannot be reduced to the mere 
holding of elections, however important and necessary 
that might be, will remain fragile and lack credibility if 
it 
is  not  accompanied  by  economic  and  social 
development  that  is  visible  to  the  people.  In  that 
respect,  genuine  democracy  can  occur  only  if  it  is 
accompanied  by  significant  progress  in  reforms  on 
good  governance,  which  should  be  based  on  efficient 
administration, equitable justice and a solidarity-based 
economy  that  generates  wealth,  opportunity  and  well-
being for all.  

The  proper  functioning  of  democracy  requires, 
furthermore,  the  upholding  of  public  morality  through 
efforts 
forms  of  corruption  and 
embezzlement  and  the  obligation  to  be  accountable  to 
oversight institutions that are credible and effective. In 
that  respect,  the  responsibility  of  the  international 
community and international development actors lies in 
helping  developing  countries  in  their  various  reform 
efforts.  

That  responsibility  is  too  broad  and  noble  to  be 
reduced  to  mere  national,  regional  or  international 
programmes  and  initiatives  that  refer  specifically  to 
democracy.  It  must  be  reflected  in  more  holistic 
support for all actions that could have an effect on the 
lives  of  populations.  Need  we  emphasize,  to  illustrate 
that  concept,  that  any  initiative  to  increase  official 
development  assistance  and  deal  equitably  with  debt 
strengthens  democracy?  Any  measure  aimed  at  the 
establishment  of  an  international  trade  system  that 
would be more open to developing countries’ products 
constitutes  an  additional  reinforcement  of  democratic 
structures.  Any  initiative  aimed  at  preserving  the 
environment  and  mitigating  the  effects  of  climate 
change also serves the cause of democracy. 

The fourth pillar is respect for human rights. The 
consolidation  of  democracy  depends  on  anchoring  a 
culture of human rights in the minds of populations and 
in the political, economic and social institutions of the 
State  and  in  enabling  that  culture  to  take  root  there. 
The goal is to make human beings active actors in  all 
democratic  processes,  as  well  as 
their  ultimate 
beneficiaries.  In  that  respect,  a  nation  that  aspires  to 
democracy should keep in mind the imperative need to 
promote the status of women. Women should, without 
discrimination or exclusion, be granted the same access 
as  men  to  opportunities  to  participate  in  public  life  at 
the national, regional and international levels.  
A/62/PV.44
important  actors 
their 
transparency, 
the  propriety  of 
in 
insofar  as 
implementing 
they  assume 
In  September  2007,  Morocco  organized, 
Political parties, trade unions and civil society are 

the 
inarguably 
democratic  project 
the 
responsibility  of  enlivening  public  life  and  encourage 
the emergence of elites capable of managing the affairs 
of  the  people.  At  the  same  time,  the  media  are  an 
essential  part  of  democratic  structures.  However,  their 
contribution should not be limited to merely providing 
information,  which  is  of  course  important,  but  should 
also  include  awareness-raising  campaigns  and  the 
promotion of democratic values.  

In  summary,  my  country  aspires  to  democracy 
with  a  human  face.  Such  democracy  can  be  lastingly 
established only in a world that is reconciled, peaceful, 
prosperous, tolerant and united.  
in 

accordance  with 
established  democratic  norms, 
legislative elections that were praised around the world 
for 
their 
organization  and  the  credibility  of  their  outcome. 
Those  elections  led,  in  conformity  with  constitutional 
provisions  previously  agreed  upon  by  Moroccan 
citizens,  to  the  formation  of  a  Government  supported 
by  a  parliamentary  majority  and  with  a  constructive 
opposition prepared to play its full role in providing a 
counterweight  to  and  a  critical  review  of  Government 
action. The democratic project through which that was 
accomplished is based on an original model of dynamic 
benchmarks.  That  model  has  as  its  basis  the  rich 
national  identity  of  Morocco  —  which  in  turn  is 
derived  from  the  authentic  and  tolerant  values  of 
Islam  —  and  is  inspired  by  a  diverse  multitude  of 
international  experiences  in  democratic  participation 
and  the  promotion  of  human  rights.  That  model  of  a 
constitutional,  democratic  and  citizens’  monarchy  is 
both 
international 
commitments,  which  Morocco 
voluntarily 
subscribed 
the  promotion  of 
to 
democracy  and  respect  for  human  rights,  and  in 
harmonious  and  continuous 
the 
universal  values  to  which  my  country  adheres  and 
contributes.  

In order to establish this democratic  and modern 
society,  Morocco,  led  by  the  reformist  vision  of  its 
young  sovereign,  His  Majesty  King  Mohammed  VI, 
and in perfect harmony with the legitimate aspirations 
of 
its  citizens,  opted  for  a  comprehensive  and 
multidimensional  approach  based  on  the  triptych  of 
reform, participation and proximity. Morocco has thus 
in  perfect  convergence  with 
has 
to  with  regard 
interaction  with 
07-58078 

7 

intends 
Among 
includes 
formulating 
that  Morocco 
A/62/PV.44 

started  the  new  millennium  with  a  vast  range  of 
reforms  covering  human  rights,  the  status  of  women, 
the  economic  and  financial  environment, 
justice, 
delineation of the religious area, public administration, 
and  codes  of  public  freedom,  work,  investment,  the 
press and political parties, to mention a few.  

those  wide-ranging  and  multifaceted 
reforms, my delegation wishes to mention in particular 
two initiatives that embody the spirit and philosophy of 
the  democratic  project 
to 
achieve.  

The  first  is  the  equity  and  reconciliation  entity, 
which is a project in transitional justice that aims, with 
determination  and  without  the  least  hesitation  or 
complacency,  to  establish  the  truth  concerning  the 
abuses and violations of human rights committed in the 
past  as  well  as  to  compensate  the  victims.  Its  mission 
also 
recommendations  and 
proposals to guarantee a permanent end to the abusive 
practices  of  the  past.  The  originality  of  this  initiative 
lies,  inter  alia,  in  the  fact  that  it  was  the  result  of 
domestic  will  arising  from  the  vitality  of  Moroccan 
civil society, the consent and effective involvement of 
public  authorities  and  the  broad  participation  of  the 
people  of  Morocco,  who  have  followed,  through  the 
media,  the  testimony  of  victims  of  past  human  rights 
violations.  

The  second  initiative  is  a  national  initiative  for 
human  development,  which  constitutes  a  strategic 
framework 
the 
consolidation  of  the  results  achieved  thus  far  in  terms 
of  democratic  progress.  It  is  intended  to  reduce  the 
social  deficits  afflicting  poor  urban  neighbourhoods 
and  the  most  impoverished  rural  communities  and  to 
provide them with stable incomes and jobs, as well as 
to  help  the  most  vulnerable  and  those  with  specific 
needs. 

The success of any project in society depends on 
the  commitment  and  involvement  of  citizens  in  all  its 
stages,  from 
its 
implementation 
Participatory 
democracy cannot be reduced to simply fulfilling one’s 
duty  to  vote,  however  important  that  might  be;  it 
should  be  manifested  by  a  permanent  commitment  by 
citizens  in  all  areas  of  reforms  and  modernization.  In 
the pursuit of that objective, Morocco has committed to 
developing a forum for full participation that does not 
exclude any of its citizens. A perfect illustration of that 
its  conception  and  planning 
development 
evaluation. 
for 
social 
and 
and 
to 
in  women’s  access 
is  the  use  of  positive  measures  and  actions  to  bridge 
the  gaps 
to  decision-making 
positions in political, economic and social areas.  

The  concept  of  proximity  too  constitutes  an 
integral  part  of  Morocco’s  democratic  project  and  is 
increasingly  becoming  a  citizen’s  right.  As  a  result, 
territorial concerns are occupying an ever larger place 
in  public  policies,  which  must  take  into  account  the 
the  economic,  social  and  human 
potential  and 
specificities  of 
local  communities.  Therefore, 
the 
development  of  proximity  governance  based  on 
regionalization,  decentralization  and  administrative 
deconcentration  is  an  integral  part  of  the  localized 
democratic structure envisaged for Morocco. The goal 
is  to  ensure  that  those  models  of  complementary 
organization  are  an  engine  for  national  development 
while taking into account territorial dynamics. 

The  path  to  genuine  democracy  is  strewn  with 
pitfalls  and  constraints.  Certainly,  it  leads  to  progress 
and  advances,  but  also  includes  imperfections  and 
disappointments. But that is the fate of those who have 
opted  with  determination  to  ensure  change  and  have 
rejected resignation, defeatism and despair. Taking that 
reality  into  account,  my  country  believes  that  its 
ambition to achieve a democratic and modern society is 
only  exceeded  by  its  determination  tenaciously  and 
humbly 
the  voluntarist  and  modulated 
reforms that it is committed to undertaking, relying on 
its  own  citizens  and  on  the  confidence  of  its  bilateral 
and multilateral partners. 
Ms.  Ochir  (Mongolia):  At  the  outset,  I  would 

like, on behalf of my Government, to congratulate the 
the  State  of  Qatar  on  having 
Government  of 
successfully 
International 
Conference  of  New  or  Restored  Democracies  on  the 
main  theme  of  “Building  capacity  for  democracy, 
peace and social progress” in Doha from 29 October to 
1 November last year. 

The  Conference  was  a  resounding  success,  with 
participants  from  145  countries,  69  parliaments  and 
140 civil society organizations. It marked an important 
step in the progressive development of the global new 
or 
the 
significance of the Doha Conference as the first global 
event  on  democracy  promotion  to  take  place  in  the 
Middle East region cannot be underestimated. Its main 
theme,  with  a  focus  on  the  fundamental  issues  of 
peace,  democracy  and  social  progress,  addressed  the 
restored  democracies  process.  Moreover, 
the  Sixth 
to  pursue 
convened 
8 

07-58078 
to 
line  with 
introduced  at 
the  process  of 
the  recommendations  of 


universally shared aspirations of the world’s people. At 
the  same  time,  it  also  succeeded  in  reflecting  the 
specific  concerns  and  aspirations  of  the  people  of  the 
host region of the Middle East. 
It is gratifying to note that the tripartite structure 

of 
the  Conference,  first 
the  Fifth 
Conference,  which  was  held  in  my  own  country,  was 
fully  utilized  and  developed  further  in  Doha.  The 
adoption  for  the  first  time  of  a  joint  statement  by  all 
three  components  of  the  Conference  —  Governments, 
parliaments  and  civil  society  —  reaffirming  their 
common  commitment 
further 
democratization  and  the  importance  of  promoting 
democracy  as  a  shared  responsibility  was  a  truly 
pioneering initiative to be sustained in the future. 

The  true  merit  of  convening  global  conferences 
with their resultant outcome documents lies in practical 
actions designed to implement what we have all agreed 
upon and adopted at those gatherings. It is with that in 
mind  that  Mongolia  undertook  a  number  of  initiatives 
in 
the  Fifth 
Conference, which it hosted in 2003. 
The  substantive  follow-up  process  in  Mongolia 

the  development  of  nationally  owned 
included 
democratic 
to  measure 
democratic performance and democratization progress, 
and  the  country  information  note,  another  assessment 
tool that provides a quantitative evaluation framework 
for  new  or  restored  democracies.  Furthermore,  based 
on 
the 
information  notes,  a  draft  national  plan  of  action  to 
consolidate  democracy  in  Mongolia  was  developed. 
The  plan  of  action  defined  the  most  urgent  tasks 
the 
Mongolia  needs 
challenges 
that 
respect, we look forward to the planned meeting of the 
expert  group  on  the  development  of  national  plans  on 
democracy,  as  agreed  last  April  at  Doha  at  the  Sixth 
Conference Advisory Board meeting, to share and learn 
from the experiences of others. 
Mongolia  has  made  an  intellectual  commitment 

indicators 
tailor 
to 
specifically 
national 
policymakers.  Our  approach  was  to  have  two  sets  of 
indicators:  core  indicators  concerned  with  universal 
attributes  of  democracy,  and  therefore  relevant  in  all 
democratic societies; and satellite indicators reflecting, 
among  other  things,  the  specifics  of  the  country,  its 
in  addressing 
its  democratic  governance.  In 
its  democratic  governance 
of 
the  findings  of  both 
indicators  and 
to  undertake 
to 
the 
requirements 
governance 
indicators 
the 
to 
A/62/PV.44
nomadic  civilization,  its  geopolitical  situation,  the 
specifics  of  its  constitutional  arrangement,  the  spatial 
distribution  of  the  population,  social  profiles  of  our 
urban  and  rural  population  and  gender  and  education 
aspects. 

The backbone of that exercise has been the state 
of  democracy  assessment  methodology  developed  by 
the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral 
Assistance  (International  IDEA).  In  that  connection,  I 
wish  to  extend  our  deep  gratitude  both  to  the  United 
Nations  Development  Programme  and  International 
IDEA  for  their  commitment  to,  and  support  of,  our 
follow-up  activities.  My  delegation  would  also  like  to 
strongly endorse the recommendation by the Secretary-
General 
that  future  Conference  hosts  could  use 
International IDEA as a continuous resource, given its 
extensive  knowledge  base.  Mongolia  also  wishes  to 
welcome  International  IDEA’s  plans  to  enhance  its 
strategic outreach and programmatic relations with the 
United  Nations  so  as  to  increase  both  the  policy 
relevance  and  the  impact  of  the  work  of  International 
IDEA  on  democracy-building.  The  opening 
in 
New York of the office of the Permanent Observer for 
International  IDEA  to  the  United  Nations  was  an 
important step in that direction. 

Mongolia’s  follow-up  experiences  were  shared 
with  other  countries  and  democracy  experts  at  the 
follow-up to the Fifth International Conference of New 
or  Restored  Democracies,  held  in  Ulaanbaatar  in  June 
2006.  Furthermore,  our  delegation 
the  Doha 
Conference,  which  was  headed  by  the  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs, Mr. Nyamaa Enkhbold, also shared its 
follow-up  experience  with 
the  participants  and 
presented  a  report  on  Mongolia’s  activities  in  its 
capacity as Chair of the Fifth Conference. We trust that 
our  follow-up  will  be  further  sustained,  and  hopefully 
institutionalized,  in  the  light  of  the  new  initiative  to 
link  Mongolia’s  achievement  of 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) with progress in the area 
of  democracy,  as  the  parliament  of  Mongolia  has 
proclaimed  human 
rights,  democracy  and  zero-
tolerance for corruption, as its ninth “MDG”.  
We are fully aware of the complexity of the task 

identifying 
to  be 
of 
developed for measuring progress on our MDG 9. That 
challenging and pioneering work is being supported by 
the  United  Nations  Democracy  Fund.  So  far,  it  is 
envisioned  that  the  methodology  and  results  of  the 
be 
democratic 
the  quantifiable 
governance 
indicators 
indicators 
will 
to 
07-58078 

9 
to 
the 
Within 
implement 
framework  of  working 
A/62/PV.44 

mainstreamed  into  the  targets  of  our  MDG  9.  In  that 
respect, we note with great interest the development of 
human rights indicators initiated by the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Human Rights to focus on the 
translation  of  universal  human  rights  standards  into 
operational  and  contextually  relevant  indicators  that 
can  promote  the  monitoring  of  the  implementation  of 
those rights at the country level. 

towards 
meeting  MDG  9,  the  Mongolian  parliament  passed  a 
new  law  against  corruption,  thereby  establishing  a 
legal  environment  to  remove  the  shackles  that  that 
phenomenon places on development. In addition, a new 
anti-corruption  body  was  recently  set  up  to  deal  with 
raising public awareness, the prevention and detection 
of corruption, the investigation of corruption cases and 
the  auditing  of  financial  and  income  statements  of 
public  officials.  Mongolia  also  joined  the  United 
is 
Nations  Convention  against  Corruption  and 
endeavouring 
its  provisions  at 
the 
national level. 

We  welcome  the  emphasis  placed  by  Qatar,  as 
current  Chair  of  the  International  Conference  of  New 
or  Restored  Democracies,  on  ensuring  systematic 
follow-up  on,  and  implementation  of,  the  decisions  of 
the Sixth Conference. The productive outcomes of the 
two meetings of the Advisory Board of the Conference, 
of which my country is honoured to be a member, have 
proven the usefulness of that mechanism. I would like 
specifically  to  highlight  the  importance  of  developing 
and  maintaining  the  new  democracy  databank  to 
facilitate  the  exchange  of  experiences  and  expertise 
among  States  with  regard  to  their  democratization 
efforts. 

An important principle underlying our movement 
is  that,  while  democracy  cannot  be  imported  from 
abroad,  it  has  to  be  encouraged  and  supported  by  the 
international  community 
through  cooperation  and 
assistance.  As  seen  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
(A/62/296)  on  the  agenda  item  before  us,  the  United 
Nations  system  has  been  undertaking  multifaceted 
activities  in  support  of  democracy  around  the  globe. 
My  delegation  is  also  heartened  by  the  personal 
commitment of the Secretary-General to the promotion 
of  democracy  as  one  of  the  priorities  of  his  term  in 
office. 

I  agree  with 
the  suggestion  made  by 

My  delegation  wishes  to  welcome  in  particular 
the  information  provided  in  the  report  on  the  work  of 
major intergovernmental movements and organizations 
in  the  area  of  promoting  democracy  and  on  how  the 
United  Nations  system  has  worked,  and  could  work 
further,  with  them  in  a  mutually  supportive  way.  It 
would  be  advisable  to  have  a  study  on  inter-agency 
coordination  and  coherence  of  efforts  to  promote 
democracy  undertaken  by  the  United  Nations  system. 
In  our  view,  such  a  study  should  provide  concrete 
proposals  and  recommendations  on  streamlining  and 
lending more coherence to actions by different United 
Nations stakeholders in the promotion of democracy. 

the 
Secretary-General  that  the  United  Nations  system 
should  provide  technical  support  in  the  establishment 
of  the  democracy  databank  and  its  website.  In  that 
regard,  I  should  like  to  go  even  further  and  propose 
that  a  comprehensive  United  Nations  Web  portal  — 
perhaps with the address democracy.un.org — could be 
set  up,  incorporating  data  on  activities  related  to  the 
promotion  of  democracy  undertaken  by  the  United 
Nations  system,  as  well  as  the  relevant  work  done 
within  the  framework  of  the  International  Conference 
of  New  or  Restored  Democracies  and  the  Community 
of Democracies. 

Mongolia has long worked proactively in order to 
bring  closer  together  the  Community  of  Democracies 
and  the  International  Conference  of  New  or  Restored 
Democracies 
intergovernmental 
movements  sharing  the  same  goal  of  promoting  and 
consolidating  democracy.  A  few  years  ago,  my 
delegation developed a non-paper on possible ways to 
bring the two movements closer together, and shared it 
among  their  membership.  As  a  member  of  both  the 
Advisory Board of the Conference  and the Convening 
Group  of  the  Community  of  Democracies,  Mongolia 
stands  ready  to  continue  such  efforts  in  cooperation 
with other interested members. 
In  conclusion,  may  I  reiterate  my  delegation’s 

strong support for the draft resolution entitled “Support 
by  the  United  Nations  system  of  the  efforts  of 
Governments  to  promote  and  consolidate  new  or 
restored democracies”, which is contained in document 
A/62/L.9, and to appeal to the wider membership of the 
United  Nations  to  make  concerted  efforts  in  its  
follow-up. 
global 
two 
as 
10 

07-58078 


Mr.  Heller  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Government  of  Mexico  welcomes  the  introduction  of 
draft  resolution  A/62/L.9,  entitled  “Support  by  the 
United Nations system of the efforts of Governments to 
promote and consolidate new or restored democracies”, 
including  the  proposal  to  designate  an  International 
Day of Democracy.  

Mexico  is  also  pleased  to  welcome  the  report  of 
the  Secretary-General  entitled  “Support  by  the  United 
Nations  system  of  the  efforts  of  Governments  to 
promote and consolidate new or restored democracies” 
(A/62/296), which accurately reflects the work done by 
the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral 
Assistance  (IDEA)  to  promote  democracy  throughout 
the world. In that regard, we welcome and support the 
Secretary-General’s  recommendation  with  regard  to 
cooperation  between  IDEA  and 
the  International 
Conference  of  New  or  Restored  Democracies,  the 
Community of Democracies and the United Nations.  

As  a  member  State  of  IDEA,  Mexico  has 
committed itself to develop a broad range of activities 
to promote democracy at the national and international 
levels.  My  Government’s  cooperation  with  IDEA  has 
resulted  in  Project  Mexico,  which  was  launched  in 
2005 to implement and follow-up, among other things, 
a  series  of  activities,  conferences,  seminars  and 
publications 
increase  dialogue  and 
education about democracy, as well as to promote and 
strengthen it.  

In that regard, I should like to refer to the visit to 
Mexico made last October by the Secretary-General of 
IDEA,  during  which  he  met  with  Mexico’s  President 
and  with  officials  of  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs, 
the  Governance  Secretariat,  the  Electoral  Court  of  the 
Judicial  Branch  and  the  Federal  Electoral  Institute  of 
Mexico.  On  that  same  occasion,  the  IDEA  Secretary-
General also paid a visit to the Legal Research Institute 
of the National Autonomous University of Mexico and 
met  with  members  of  the  Chamber  of  Senators.  His 
visit  was  a  reflection  of  how  Mexico  and  IDEA  are 
resolutely working together.  
IDEA  makes  a  contribution  to  the  international 

community  by  providing  access 
its  extensive 
knowledge  base,  consisting  of  specialized  capacity-
building  tools  and  networks  of  experts  in  electoral 
processes,  political  parties,  constitution  drafting, 
gender  and  democracy,  and  democracy  assessment 
intended 
to 
to 
A/62/PV.44
IDEA 
to 
the  United  Nations, 
methodology based on local conditions and democratic 
dialogue. 

We  are  confident  that,  thanks  to  the  recent 
opening  in  New  York  of  the  office  of  the  Permanent 
Observer  of 
the 
organization  will  enhance  its  strategic  outreach  and 
programmatic relations with the United Nations and be 
able  to  liaise  with  Member  States  in  carrying  out  its 
work in the consolidation of democracy. 
Mr. Gehlot (India) (spoke in Hindi; English text 

provided  by  the  delegation):  We  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  reports  submitted  under  agenda 
item 12,  entitled  “Support  by  the  United  Nations 
system  of  the  efforts  of  Governments  to  promote  and 
consolidate  new  or  restored  democracies”  (A/62/296 
and A/62/302). 

The  United  Nations  has  long  supported  nascent 
democracies  in  the  conduct  of  elections  and  promoted 
transparent  and  accountable  governance.  It  has  also 
assisted countries emerging from conflict and political 
upheaval to build democratic institutions. We welcome 
the increasing role of the United Nations in facilitating 
international  cooperation  within  the  framework  of  the 
follow-up to the fifth International Conference of New 
or  Restored  Democracies,  particularly  in  providing 
democracy assistance or advice. 
India is honoured to be a regular participant at the 

International  Conferences  of  New  or  Restored 
Democracies.  It  is  important  to  share  experiences  on 
democratization  and  to  identify  means  by  which  to 
promote  pluralistic  and  participatory  democracy.  We 
note  with  satisfaction 
the 
International  Conferences  of  New  or  Restored 
Democracies has grown from 13 countries, at the first 
conference,  in  Manila  in  1988,  to  142  countries,  at 
Doha, in 2006. 

Democracy is a powerful ideal, but its successful 
exercise requires strong and enduring institutions, laws 
and procedures and the development of a parliamentary 
culture, whose essence is the accountability of those in 
authority  to  the  ordinary  citizens  of  the  country.  An 
independent  and  impartial  judiciary,  a  free  press, 
professional 
establishments, 
constitutionally  empowered  institutions  to  safeguard 
the rights of all sections of society and an independent 
electoral  mechanism  are  some  of  the  more  important 
elements of democracy. 
that  participation 
and  military 
civil 
in 
07-58078 

11 
is  rooted 
in 
the 
Indian  experience 
shows 
that 
the  establishment  of 
that  are  necessary 
to  underpin 
India  has  been  sharing 
India’s  democratic  heritage 
A/62/PV.44 

its 

cultural  ethos  of 
tolerance,  respect  for  different 
viewpoints and a ready embrace of diversity. India has 
demonstrated  that  stable  long-term  growth  can  be 
successfully  realized  alongside  a  thriving  democracy. 
Indeed, 
the 
implementation of  proactive development policies  and 
economic  reforms,  when  coupled  with  a 
liberal 
democratic polity, leads to overall stability and growth 
and significant poverty reduction. 

its  rich  experience, 
institutional  capabilities  and  training  infrastructure 
with  nations  that  have  sought  its  assistance.  In  the 
same  spirit,  India  has  also  been  supportive  of  United 
Nations  efforts  to  build  the  institutional  and  human 
capabilities 
the 
successful  exercise  of  democracy.  As  the  world’s 
largest  democracy,  it  was  also  natural  for  India  to 
support 
the  United  Nations 
Democracy  Fund.  We  made  an  initial  contribution  of 
$10  million  to  the  Fund,  and  remain  actively  and 
constructively involved in achieving the objectives for 
which it was set up. India recently announced a further 
pledge  of  $10  million  to  the  Democracy  Fund.  It  also 
stands  ready  to  share  its  experiences  and  to  cooperate 
with  other  countries  under 
the 
Democracy Fund, including in areas such as institution 
building, 
leadership 
development. 

We  have  noted  the  Secretary-General’s  concrete 
recommendations  on  how  to  improve  cooperation  and 
coordination  between  the  United  Nations  and  other 
relevant  movements  and  organizations  concerned  with 
the  promotion  of  democracy.  Apart 
the 
International  Conference  of  New  or  Restored 
Democracies,  the  United  Nations  is  expanding  its 
interaction  with  other  intergovernmental  organizations 
including  
working 
the 
and 
the  
Inter-Parliamentary  Union.  The  suggestion  that  the 
United Nations could assist in creating mechanisms for 
coordination  and  cooperation  among  these  global 
democracy  movements  needs 
carefully 
considered.  Perhaps  United  Nations  efforts  should 
instead  focus  on  institution-  and  capacity-building 
among interested Member States. 

Our collective efforts should focus on improving 
the capacity of Member States so that they can embrace 
the  rule  of  law  and  democracy.  The  aim  should  be  to 
democracy 
field, 
of  Democracies 
in 
the 
Community 
the  auspices  of 
awareness 
creation 
and 
from 
to  be 

continue  to  strengthen  democracy  where  it  is  new  or 
restored,  and  to  encourage  its  restoration  where  the 
transition  to  democracy  has  been  derailed.  As  the 
world’s  largest  democracy,  India  is  ready  to  join  the 
efforts of Member States to strengthen the activities of 
the  United  Nations  to  uphold  and  cherish  democratic 
values. 
Mr. Malmierca Diaz (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 

One of the important tenets that we all agreed upon in 
the World Conference on Human Rights held in Vienna 
in 1993 was that  

  “Democracy is based on the freely expressed will 
of  the  people  to  determine  their  own  political, 
economic,  social  and  cultural  systems  and  their 
full participation in all aspects of their lives.”  
We  are  very  pleased  that  this  principle  received  great 
recognition again in the Doha Declaration, adopted by 
the Sixth Conference of New or Restored Democracies. 

However, it is a matter of concern that there is an 
increasing attempt at the international level to establish 
a  single  pattern  of  democracy  and  governance,  based 
on  unjust  canons  of  the  so-called  liberal  democracy 
and  completely  disregarding  the  particularities  and 
realities of each country and society. It is clear that the 
most  powerful  countries  continue  to  promote  along 
with  that  model  a  new  instrument  to  dominate  the 
peoples  and  subjugate  their  identities. Today,  just  like 
in  the  darkest  times  in  human  history,  they  purport  to 
condemn and punish all those who will not bow to the 
new dogma. 

In  demanding  priority  compliance  with  those 
tenets,  which  are  basically  restricted  to  the  sphere  of 
civil and political rights, the concept that democracy is 
first  and  foremost  government  of  the  people,  by  the 
people  and  for  the  people  has  been  pushed  into  the 
background.  The  intent  is  to  dodge  the  fact  that 
democracy  is  real  and  daily  participation  in  the 
exercise of power and decision-making in the political, 
economic, social and cultural spheres. 

There  cannot  be  democracy  without  freedom, 
without  popular  participation,  without  social  justice, 
without  individual  and  collective  well-being,  without 
human  solidarity.  Sovereignty  is  vested  in  the  people, 
independence 
and  without  national 
is  no 
sovereignty.  Nor 
is 
there  democracy  without 
development.  Democracy  cannot  be  restricted  to  the 
there 
12 

07-58078 
illiterates, 
to  help  more 


exercise of civil and political rights to the detriment of 
economic and social rights. 

A  genuine  democracy  should  not  institutionalize 
the defence of the wealthiest and most privileged to the 
detriment of those who are most in need. In this regard, 
it  is  worth  emphasizing  that  the  countries  that  most 
advocate the concepts of political freedoms and rights 
do  nothing,  or  very  little,  to  prevent  the  death  from 
starvation and curable diseases of millions of people in 
the  Third  World,  to  educate  115  million  school-age 
children  who  do  not  go  to  school  and  more  than 
800 million  adult 
than 
1.1 billion  people  escape  extreme  poverty  and  to 
shelter the millions left forsaken. 

The so-called liberal bourgeois democracy, which 
would seem to have worked with serious limitations in 
the  Western  countries,  has  proved  ineffective  in  other 
contexts.  
It  is  also  worth  pointing  out  that  throughout  the 

world, even in well-developed societies, there are quite 
a  few  cases  where  political  parties  abound  and  yet 
there  is  no  democracy  and  no  popular  participation, 
where 
and  
non-participation  in  socio-political  life  is  the  rule, 
bringing about Governments without the support of the 
majority  and  the  people’s  real  consensus.  In  that 
authoritarianism,  vote-buying, 
model,  patronage, 
electoral 
and 
favouritism, among other ills, have spread. 

Within  the  industrialized  and  wealthy  world, 
there  are  many  citizens  who  question  the  model  of 
liberal  democracy  that  some  attempt  to  impose.  They 
feel  they  have  no  real  participation  in  the  decision-
making processes, they feel manipulated by campaigns 
and the media, that the model is elitist and that political 
parties  and  politicians  lack  prestige  and  do  not  keep 
their electoral promises. 

We are also concerned at the growing limitations 
being imposed on the exercise of the most fundamental 
civil and political rights in a large group of First World 
countries  under 
the  fight  against 
terrorism.  Legal  provisions  have  even  been  enacted 
authorizing  long-term  detention  without  access  to 
lawyers  and  without  charges,  substitution  of 
the 
extradition procedures by transfer of citizens from one 
country  to  another  with  simple  arrest  guarantees, 
extrajudicial  executions,  assassination  of 
foreign 
the  pretext  of 
embezzlement 
the  main 
corruption, 
abstention 
fraud, 
is 
voter 
A/62/PV.44
for 
this 
important 
issue.  To 
the  hypothesis  of 
citizens  and  concealed  actions  in  other  countries, 
breaching laws and borders.  

Today  it  is  impossible  to  provide  convincing 
arguments 
the  universal 
superiority  of  the  liberal  bourgeois  democracy,  yet 
there continues to be a determination to impose it. 
In contrast to that homogenizing trend is the work 

of  the  movement  of  the  so-called  new  or  restored 
democracies,  whose  main  success  is  its  increasingly 
inclusive  character,  which  marks  a  very  important 
difference  to  other  processes  of  doubtful  origin  and 
clearly 
selective  and  excluding  character.  That 
movement  does  not  recognize  as  valid  the  dogma  that 
others are trying to impose and considers that there is 
not only one vision of democracy. On the contrary, to a 
large extent it has been a meeting place for discussion 
and  reflection  on 
this 
recognition  of  the  freedom  of  all  countries  to  choose 
their own path to democracy is added its call to address 
economic and social development for the advancement 
of democracy. That movement can be an opportunity to 
exchange  views  and  support  many  peoples’  efforts  to 
consolidate  their  democratic  systems  if  it  follows  the 
path  of  guaranteeing  broad  participation  and  plurality 
of opinions  and if it preserves, as it has endorsed, the 
unrestricted  respect  of  the  principles  enshrined  in  the 
Charter of the United Nations. 

Therefore  we  congratulate  the  Government  of 
Qatar  for  organizing  the  Sixth  Conference  of  New  or 
Restored  Democracies  and  for  its  effort  to  ensure  the 
broadest  participation.  Qatar  was  able  to  organize  a 
plural,  inclusive  and  participative  meeting.  The  proof 
of this is the unprecedented participation of more than 
145  States.  It  contrasts  with  other  forums  and 
movements 
participation 
requirements and that have very narrow viewpoints on 
democracy,  basically  prioritizing  a  liberal-bourgeois 
angle  with  a  clearly  selective  and  manipulative 
approach. The so-called Community of Democracies is 
the best example of this. 

Cuba  believes  that  the  paradigms  of  selectivity, 
manipulation  and  politicization  seeking  to  establish 
that  group  of  democracies  clash  with  the  guidelines 
established  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
have a clear goal of exclusion. We are thus concerned 
at the recommendations of the report of the Secretary-
General  in  document  A/62/296  calling  for  a  better 
relationship  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
promote 
limited 
that 
07-58078 

13 

the 
A/62/PV.44 

Community  of  Democracies  and  complementary 
activity  between  this  movement  and  the  New  or 
Restored Democracies Movement. 

Exclusion,  selectivity  and 
imposition  of 
single approaches to democracy contradict not only the 
spirit  and  the  letter  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  but  also  the  definitions  set  out  in  other 
important  documents  of  the  Organization,  including 
those  adopted  at  the  World  Conference  on  Human 
Rights,  held  in Vienna.  If  we  really  seek  to  assist  the 
efforts of many peoples to consolidate their democratic 
systems,  there  is  no  more  urgent  and  important  task 
than to democratize international relations. 

Cuba believes that the very essence of democracy 
is the power of the people, which includes the exercise 
of  power  and  decision-making  both  in  the  political 
arena  and  in  the  economic,  social  and  cultural  areas. 
Cuba takes pride in its deeply popular and participatory 
democracy — a system in which there are no electoral 
parties  as  political  intermediaries,  the  people  exercise 
power,  and  individual  and  collective  well-being  and 
human  solidarity  are  fundamental.  In  my  country, 
political institutionization was established on the basis 
of  the  broadest  possible  popular  participation  and 
control. Our own experience is the result of our history. 

In  Cuba,  all  citizens  16  and  older  have  the  right 
to vote and thus to elect and be elected. Candidates are 
nominated directly  by the  voters in public assemblies, 
rather  than  through  political  parties.  There  are  no 
and 
discriminatory,  million-dollar, 
manipulated  electoral  campaigns.  There 
total 
honesty and transparency in elections, including in the 
public tallying of votes, with possible participation by 
national  and  foreign  media,  diplomats,  tourists  and 
whoever else wishes to do so. All those elected must be 
elected by a majority. Voting is free, equal and secret. 
All representative organs of the power of the State are 
elected  and  renewable.  All  those  elected  are  held 
accountable for their actions and can be recalled at any 
time.  Deputies  and  delegates  are  not  paid  a  salary. 
Historically,  no  fewer  than  95  per  cent  of  voters  have 
participated in elections.  

We  need  a  more  democratic  and  tolerant  world. 
Why does a small group of rich and powerful countries 
want  to  impose  an  increasingly  less  democratic  and 
less  pluralistic  world?  Why  not  struggle  for  more 
tolerance, not only within countries, but in the relations 
among them? Why not accept the existence of diverse 
defamatory 
is 
the  right 
its 
ideals, 
such  as 
to 
in  achieving 
that  all  peoples  have 
models of civil and political order? By what right does 
one try to proclaim a single model of democracy, when 
we  proclaim 
to  
self-determination  and  to  freely  choose  their  political 
status?  Democracy  has  its  limitations,  problems  and 
challenges  in  one  form  or  another,  both  in  the  North 
and in the South. 
Mr.  Bista  (Nepal):  Democracy,  the  rule  of  law 

and human rights are among the founding ideals of the 
United  Nations.  Democracy  greatly  helps  the  United 
Nations 
the 
establishment  of  international  peace  and  security.  The 
universalization  of  democracy  would  also  release 
resources  being  used  for  current  endeavours  aimed  at 
peace  and  security  for  much-needed  socio-economic 
development around the world. 

We  attach  great  importance  to  the  role  of  the 
United  Nations  system  in  assisting  new  and  restored 
democracies.  We  welcome  the  establishment  of  the 
United  Nations  Democracy  Fund 
strengthen 
democracy.  The  Fund  should  provide  additional 
technical  and  financial  assistance  to  countries  in 
democratic transition. 

and  Doha 
We  welcome 
Declarations  and  their  respective  plans  of  action,  and 
we  stress  their  effective  implementation.  Promoting 
and  protecting  democracy  are  shared  responsibilities. 
Therefore, the development of the tripartite mechanism 
comprising Governments, parliaments and civil society 
during  the  Sixth  International  Conference  of  New  or 
Restored Democracies is a welcome development. 

Something special is at stake in the consolidation 
of new and restored democracies. An investment in the 
strengthening of democracy in such countries is like an 
investment  in  peace  and  prosperity  throughout  the 
world.  Therefore,  we  urge  partner  countries 
to 
generously  support  new  and  restored  democracies  in 
strengthening 
and 
processes. 

The  people  of  Nepal  have  had  to  fight  for 
democracy time and again, most recently in April 2006, 
since  Nepal’s  earlier  experiences  with  democracy,  in 
the 1950s and the 1990s, were short-lived. The people 
of  Nepal  achieved  democracy  despite  the  odds  of  a 
violent  conflict  and  an  absolute  monarchy.  That 
peaceful movement led to the return of democracy and 
the  beginning  of  the  end  of  a  decade-long  conflict. 
With the signing of a comprehensive peace agreement 
their  democratic 
the  Ulaanbaatar 
institutions 
14 

07-58078 
through  an 


in  November  2006,  the  erstwhile  rebels  joined  an 
interim  parliament  created 
interim 
constitution,  which  upholds  democratic  norms,  values 
and  principles  and  guarantees  civil 
liberties  and 
fundamental freedoms. 
Although  the  postponement  of  the  elections  for 

the  Constituent  Assembly  was  disappointing 
to 
everyone,  the  parties  are  currently  engaged  in  serious 
dialogue, including through recent deliberations in the 
parliament,  to  resolve  all  political  differences  with  a 
view  to  fixing  dates  for  those  elections  as  soon  as 
possible.  We  are  confident  that  all  differences  will  be 
resolved 
through  dialogue,  accommodation  and 
understanding  and  that  democracy  —  which  we  in 
Nepal  call  Lokatantra  —  will  continue  to  prosper  in 
Nepal. 

Mr.  Kariyawasam  (Sri  Lanka),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair. 
Thus  far  we  have  been  able  to  resolve  all 

differences in the resolution of conflict and in making 
the transition to democracy in Nepal, through peaceful 
dialogue and democratic principles. It has been through 
dialogue that the interests of traditionally marginalized 
groups,  such  as  the  Madhesis  and  various  ethnic  and 
indigenous  peoples,  have  been  accommodated  with  a 
view  to  their  meaningful  participation  in  the  political 
process. 

We  appreciate  the  role  of  the  United  Nations 
Mission  in  Nepal  in  assisting  Nepal’s  peace  process, 
especially by monitoring weapons and armed personnel 
and  by  assisting  with  the  elections,  as  requested  by 
Nepal.  We  offer  our  sincere  thanks  to  Nepal’s  friends 
in  the  international  community  for  their  exemplary 
spirit of goodwill and cooperation in helping Nepal to 
achieve peace and consolidate democracy. I would like 
to  urge  continued  support  through  the  provision  of 
technical  and  financial  assistance  for  socio-economic 
development and reconstruction, which will be equally 
important in sustaining Nepal’s hard-won democracy. 

In  conclusion,  I  pledge  Nepal’s  commitment  to 
work  with  new  and  restored  democracies,  the  United 
Nations 
in 
strengthening  and  consolidating  democracy  in  Nepal 
and elsewhere. As a country that paid a very high price 
for the restoration of democracy, Nepal is committed to 
protect, promote and institutionalize democracy and its 
ideals. 
system  and  our  partner  countries 
At 
A/62/PV.44
for 
for 
fruitful 
the  observer 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General  Assembly  resolution  57/32  of  19  November 
2002, 
I  now  call  on 
the  
Inter- Parliamentary Union. 
Mrs.  Filip  (Inter-Parliamentary  Union):  It  gives 

me great pleasure to address the General Assembly on 
the  occasion  of  this  debate  on  support  by  the  United 
Nations  system  for  the  efforts  of  Governments  to 
promote and consolidate new or restored democracies. 

At  the  outset,  I  wish  to  commend  the  efforts  of 
the State of Qatar to ensure systematic follow-up to the 
recommendations  made  at 
the  Sixth  International 
Conference  of  New  or  Restored  Democracies.  As  the 
Assembly  is  aware,  the  tripartite  format  of  that 
Conference, like the previous one held in Mongolia in 
2003,  allowed 
interaction  between 
Governments,  parliaments  and  civil  society,  with  a 
view  to  an  integrated  and  all-encompassing  approach 
to democracy promotion worldwide.  

the  Conference,  members  of  parliaments 
undertook to work for a more effective contribution of 
their  parliaments  to  democracy  around  the  world. The 
Inter-Parliamentary  Union  (IPU)  is  pleased  to  be  part 
of that process. We remain committed to following up 
on  the  Doha  Declaration,  including  its  parliamentary 
component.  We  will  continue  to  mobilize  the  global 
parliamentary  community  in  support  of  democracy  at 
both the national and international levels. 

As we embark on this debate, let me also express 
the  IPU’s  support  for  the  draft  resolution  (A/62/L.9) 
that  is  before  the  General  Assembly  today.  We  are 
pleased  to  note  the  important  place  it  gives  to 
parliaments as key instruments of democracy. It is also 
gratifying  to  see  that  it  calls  for  the  institution  of  an 
International  Day  of  Democracy.  Let  me  assure  the 
Assembly that, in turn, the IPU will be calling upon its 
member  parliaments  to  celebrate  the  Day  accordingly. 
Indeed, we are convinced that such a Day will help to 
forge  a  global  alliance  in  favour  of  the  guiding 
principles of democracy and provide added momentum 
for democracy-related activities. 

Let me now offer a few thoughts that I hope will 
not only enrich the debate but will also help us, notably 
within  the  United  Nations  system,  to  devise  strategies 
whereby we can deliver more effectively in the field of 
democracy.  
07-58078 

15 

A/62/PV.44 


In that regard, I would like to stress the necessary 
linkage  between  peace  and  democracy.  The  United 
Nations,  as  the  foremost  international  body  dedicated 
to  the  promotion  of  peace,  has  an  interest  in  pursuing 
and  realizing  the  goals  of  democracy  as  a  means  of 
establishing a durable basis for peace.  

When we talk of peace, we are also looking at the 
prevention of conflict. The IPU would like to see more 
consistent  efforts  being  deployed  in  the  area  of  
post-conflict  institution  building.  Peace  can  only  be 
fully  realized  when  State  institutions  are  properly 
empowered  and  resourced  to  contribute  to  the  rule  of 
law  and  good  governance.  We  are  particularly 
heartened  by  ongoing  work  deployed  by  the  new 
Peacebuilding  Commission  in  support  of  post-conflict 
societies 
in  Burundi,  Sierra  Leone  and  Liberia. 
Needless  to  say,  we  look  forward  to  the  expansion  of 
those efforts to other areas affected by conflict. 

I  also  wish  to  emphasize  the  link  between 
democracy,  poverty  eradication  and  social  justice. 
Democracy  in  itself  would  be  worthless  if  it  did  not 
lead to the betterment of the lives of people for whom 
it  is  meant.  Conversely,  it  is  hard  for  the  poor  to 
become  active  politically  when 
they  have  more 
pressing  concerns  to  attend  to.  Freedom  from  want 
should 
enhance 
democracy.  That  includes  devising  policies  that  are 
intended to improve on the well-being of all in society 
and enhanced efforts toward achieving the Millennium 
Development Goals, for which the IPU is increasingly 
mobilizing support in the parliamentary community. 
As  we  reflect  on  how  to  foster  democracy 

worldwide, 
regions  where 
democracy is still fragile, we should acknowledge and 
address  some  of  the  fundamental  challenges  facing 
democracy  today. We  know  some  of  the  downsides  of 
globalization.  We  are  aware  of  the  emergence  of 
terrorism  as  a  major  scourge  and  threat.  We  are 
conversant  with  the  effects  of  rampant  corruption  on 
democratic processes in many countries. And we know 
all too well the reasons why only 17 per cent of women 
worldwide  occupy  elected  office.  Those  are  all 
obstacles that we need to overcome as we seek to build 
robust democracies. 

public 
disillusionment  with  democracy  —  as  evidenced, 
among other things, by low turnout in elections around 
the  world  and  the  continuing  decline  in  public  regard 
therefore  underpin 
Furthermore,  we 
are  witnessing 
especially 
efforts 
those 
in 
to 
stronger 
effective 
and  more 
for  governing  institutions.  It  seems  to  us  that  the 
United  Nations  should  devote  more  efforts  in  the 
coming years to analysing that phenomenon and trying 
to  reverse  the  trend.  More  effort  needs  to  go  into 
building 
public 
institutions,  notably  those  that  are  responsible  for 
organizing  elections 
in  new  democracies.  The 
credibility of those institutions rests on their ability to 
organize elections whose outcomes are above reproach 
and accepted by all.  

Going  beyond  the  representational  aspects  of 
democracy,  the  international  community  must  also 
work  harder  to  build  the  capacities  of  people  to 
participate in the political process between elections. 

As the world organization of parliaments, the IPU 
will continue to work with parliaments, with a view to 
rendering  them  more  representative,  more  transparent, 
more accessible, more accountable and more effective. 
The IPU will also continue to defend the rights of those 
many  members  of  parliaments  around  the  world  who 
are prevented from doing the job they were elected to 
do,  freely,  safely  and  effectively. And  we  will  seek  to 
promote  parliaments  as  prime  movers  of  national 
reconciliation in post-conflict societies. 

The  IPU  will  therefore  continue  its  efforts  to 
build capacity within parliaments, promote the political 
participation  of  women,  defend  and  promote  human 
rights  and  also  contribute 
setting  of 
internationally  accepted  standards  in  the  field  of 
democracy.  In  building  strong  institutions,  we  should 
seek  to  harness  the  enormous  potential  offered  by  the 
new  information  and  communications  technologies  to 
streamline  processes,  but  also  to  improve  on  service 
delivery. 
Let  me  conclude  by  drawing  the  Assembly’s 

attention  to  the  Universal  Declaration  on  Democracy, 
which was adopted by consensus on the occasion of the 
ninety-eighth session of the General Conference of the 
Inter-Parliamentary  Union,  held  in  Cairo,  Egypt,  in 
September 1997, and whose tenth anniversary the IPU 
celebrated  very  recently.  We  believe 
is 
meaningful  that  the  International  Day  of  Democracy 
has been chosen to coincide with the anniversary of the 
Universal Declaration on Democracy. The precepts and 
principles  enshrined 
important  political 
document are as valid today as ever before. We invite 
the  United  Nations  and  its  Member  States  to  more 
that 
that 
the 
in 
to 
it 
16 

07-58078 
for 
the 
Institute 
(International 
Mr.  Tommasoli


systematically integrate those core principles into their 
efforts to strengthen democracy. 

In  conclusion,  the  IPU  is  committed  to  working 
closely with the United Nations to promote a culture of 
democracy worldwide. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

resolution  58/83,  of  9  December  2003,  I  now  call  on 
Institute 
the  observer 
for 
International 
Democracy  and  Electoral  Assistance 
to  make  a 
statement. 
for 

Democracy  and  Electoral Assistance):  I  would  like  to 
thank  the  General Assembly  very  much  for  giving  me 
this  opportunity  to  address  it  today  during  this  debate 
on  a  matter  that  is  very  close  to  the  mandate  of  the 
International  Institute  for  Democracy  and  Electoral 
Assistance  (International  IDEA).  I  also  wish  to  thank 
the  Government  of  Qatar,  the  host  of  the  Sixth 
International  Conference  of  New  or  Restored 
Democracies, for its continued commitment to the new 
or  restored  democracies  process  and  its  invaluable 
contribution to the success of the Doha Conference and 
its follow-up.  

International  IDEA  welcomes  the  establishment 
of  the  Conference’s  international  Advisory  Board,  at 
whose meetings we have had the honour to participate 
as an observer. We believe that its programme of work 
for  the  period  2007  to  2009  will  help  to  ensure 
continuity between Conferences. 

We  think  that  the  new  or  restored  democracies 
process  will  further  enhance  its  effectiveness  by 
addressing two issues, the first being the need to move 
beyond  conferences  and 
to  actual 
democracy-building  efforts  on  the  ground.  In  that 
respect,  we  welcome  Mongolia’s  example,  which  sets 
the  best  practice  for  those  countries  interested  in 
engaging  in  self-assessment  of  the  state  of  their 
democracies.  

The second issue is the need for the International 
Conference  of  New  or  Restored  Democracies  process 
to  make  better  use  of  concrete  experience-sharing, 
including  from  a  South-South  perspective,  on  the 
challenges  and  successes  of  democratic 
reform 
processes.  International  IDEA  will  be  pleased  to 
provide  inputs  through  more  operational  and  targeted 
ways of organizing future Conferences, in line with the 
them 
link 
to 
A/62/PV.44
Ulaanbaatar  Declaration  and  Plan  of  Action  and  the 
Doha Declaration and Plan of Action. 

International IDEA welcomes the conclusions and 
recommendations made by the Secretary-General in his 
report (A/62/296) on support by the United System of 
the efforts of Governments to promote and consolidate 
new or restored democracies, including on the need to 
facilitate  greater  coordination  in  the  relationships 
between  the  International  Conference  of  New  or 
Restored  Democracies  and 
the  Community  of 
Democracies.  More  broadly,  if  we  set  the  new  and 
restored democracies process within the context of the 
current  democracy-building  landscape,  we  have  to 
consider the role of the United Nations. Democracy is 
strongly  linked  to  the  three  pillars  of  the  United 
Nations  mandate  —  peace  and  security,  human  rights, 
and  development.  Democracy  as  a  process  of 
expanding political choice plays a critical role in both 
achieving  each  of  these  goals  and  reinforcing  their 
interlinkages.  There  is  an  increasing  awareness  that 
some  fundamental  objectives  of  United  Nations  work 
cannot  be  achieved  without  addressing  the  issue  of 
democracy. 

We stress the need for the United Nations to take 
leadership, based on its convening power, in regaining 
multilateral 
democracy-building 
assistance.  At  least  three  dimensions  are  critically 
important  in  this  perspective. The  first  is  the  capacity 
to take account of the fundamentally political nature of 
those  processes  addressed  through  various  United 
Nations  mechanisms  and 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  United  Nations 
Democracy  Fund.  This  requires  careful  consideration 
of  the  widening  range  of  actors  and  stakeholders 
engaged 
the 
traditional  actors,  such  as 
involvement  of  more 
legislatures, civil society and the media, other types of 
actors, for example, political parties, play a critical role 
in 
post-conflict 
situations. Additionally, the work on and with political 
parties  has  actually  emerged  as  one  of  the  most 
challenging areas in the democracy-building arena over 
the last years. 
The second dimension is greater consistency and 

integration across the board, which would enhance the 
effectiveness  and  impact  of  the  expanded  volume  of 
initiatives  carried  out  in  different  democracy-building 
sectors  and  thematic  areas  by  the  United  Nations 
system. This would lead to supporting policies that are 
in  democracy-building.  Alongside 
democratization, 
credibility 
including 
such  as 
funds, 
for 
in 
07-58078 

17 

of 
the 
establishment 
A/62/PV.44 

long  term  and  comprehensive  and  which  respond  to  a 
home-grown demand. 

The  last  dimension  is  a  coherent  and  non-
prescriptive  approach  to  democracy-building  based  on 
the  consideration  of  its  links  to  the  three  pillars  of 
United  Nations  action  and  informed  by  the  wealth  of 
recent  experiences in  a large number of countries, not 
least in the global South. This approach could promote 
more  diversified  views  on  democracy  and  how  to 
develop and sustain it. 
the 

We  welcome 
International  Day  of  Democracy  and  we  stand 
committed  to  working  with  the  United  Nations  and 
other  partners,  within  the  framework  of  our  regional 
and country programmes, to plan for this day so that its 
celebration  can  effectively  contribute 
to  building 
democracy on the ground. 

In  conclusion,  we  confirm  International  IDEA’s 
availability in further expanding and consolidating the 
strategic partnership with the United Nations, based on 
its observer status at the General Assembly. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  in  the  debate  on  this  item.  I  should  like  to 
inform  members  that  in  order  to  allow  time  for  the 
review of the programme, budget implications of draft 
resolution A/62/L.9, action on the text will be taken at 
a later date, to be announced.  

stage of its consideration of agenda item 12.  
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 





Agenda item 19 
The situation in Afghanistan  
Report of the Secretary-General (A/62/345)  
Draft resolution (A/62/L.7)  

The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Germany,  who  will 
introduce draft resolution A/62/L.7. 
Mr.  Matussek  (Germany):  I  have  the  honour  to 

introduce  today  draft  resolution  4/62/L.7,  on  the 
situation  in  Afghanistan.  This  draft  resolution  is  the 
result  of  several  weeks  of  consultations 
the 
Assembly  and  I  would  like  to  thank  all  delegations 
involved  for 
input,  patience  and  spirit  of 
cooperation.  This  draft  resolution  also  reflects  the 
support  of  the  General  Assembly  for  the  Afghanistan 
their 
in 
for 
laid 
UNAMA  has 
Compact. The large number of sponsors demonstrates, 
once again, the broad support of the Assembly on this 
issue.  

Allow me to share a few thoughts with Members. 
The  United  Nations  has  played  the  key  role  in 
coordinating  efforts 
institution-building  and 
reconstruction within the framework of the Afghanistan 
Compact  and  must  continue  to  do  so.  In  March  2007, 
the  Security  Council  reinforced  certain  dimensions  of 
the  engagement  of  the  United  Nations  Assistance 
Mission  in  Afghanistan’s  (UNAMA),  including  new 
responsibilities,  such  as  the  promotion  of  a  more 
coherent  international  engagement,  monitoring  of  the 
protection  of  civilians  and  developing  synergies  with 
the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF).  

the  groundwork  for 
the 
integrated  civil-military  approach  within  Afghanistan. 
In  addition,  it  has  managed  to  complete  its  expansion 
throughout Afghanistan  in  spite  of  security  risks.  The 
number  of  field  offices  —  17  by  now  —  has  doubled 
within  less 
than  a  year.  We  therefore  commend 
UNAMA, led by Tom Koenigs, for its outstanding and 
dedicated work under often difficult circumstances. We 
all need to support UNAMA and to provide it with the 
necessary resources for its future work. 

We  certainly  continue  to  face  serious  challenges 
in Afghanistan. The security situation has become more 
difficult since 2006, especially – but not only – in the 
southern  and  eastern  parts  of  the  country.  Poppy 
cultivation  has  again  increased  —  this  year  by  17  per 
cent  —  despite  the  immense  efforts  and  resources  the 
international  community  is  investing  to  support  the 
Afghan  Government  in  the  fight  against  the  narcotics 
industry.  This  increase  is  linked  to  the  insurgency  in 
the south and east of Afghanistan. 

We  have  not  yet  reached  a  level  of  governance 
that  permits  delivering  efficient  services  to  citizens 
throughout  the  country.  We  therefore  welcome  the 
measures taken by the Afghan Government to improve 
governance  at  all  levels  and  to  fight  corruption 
wherever it occurs. We strongly encourage our Afghan 
friends 
its  efforts.  Afghan 
ownership is a key issue in this regard. 

Having  said  this,  we  should  also  recognize  the 
great  achievements  of  the  past  months:  6.5  million 
children  —  among  them  2  million  girls  —  are  again 
receiving  school  education.  A  great  part  of 
the 
infrastructure  has  been  rebuilt.  The  economy  as  a 
to  vigorously  support 
18 

07-58078 


whole  and  foreign  trade,  especially,  is  growing.  We 
note  that  regional  economic  cooperation,  as  well  as 
regional political initiatives, are moving well ahead. 
Germany  welcomes  all  initiatives  that  aim  at 

reinforcing 
regional  cooperation  and  calls  upon 
regional  and  international  partners  to  make  these 
initiatives  a  success.  We  welcome  the  fact  that  the 
Afghanistan-Pakistan  peace  jirga  held  in  August  in 
Kabul  has  turned  out  to  be  an  important  confidence-
building  measure  between  the  two  countries  and  the 
communities on either side of the border. 

The  Afghanistan  Compact  also  provides  the 
foundation  for  Germany’s  engagement.  In  September 
2007, the German Government updated and adjusted its 
policy  guidelines  with  regard  to  Afghanistan.  On 
October 12, 2007, the German Parliament approved the 
extension  of  the  mandate.  On  12  October  2007,  the 
German  Parliament  approved  the  extension  of  the 
mandate  of  our  military  contingent  to  the  ISAF  for 
another year, with a ceiling of 3,500 soldiers. Germany 
has  been  among  the  main  contributors  to  Afghan 
security  and  reconstruction  since  2001,  with  3,200  of 
our  soldiers  serving  in  Afghanistan  and  more  than 
$700 million  in  civilian  aid  already  disbursed.  This 
year,  we  increased  our  yearly  commitment  to  more 
than  $130  million.  Another  increase,  to  more  than 
$160 million,  is  foreseen  for  2008,  with  a  growing 
share  disbursed 
the  Afghan  budget.  We 
acknowledge  the  growing  capacity  of  the  Afghan 
authorities  to  effectively  implement  reconstruction 
projects. 

Besides  the  civilian  reconstruction  process,  a 
major priority for Germany is the strengthening of the 
Afghan  national  security  forces.  The  National  Police 
and the National Army have made significant progress 
and  are  bearing  a  growing  share  of  responsibility, 
together  with  the  international  forces,  in  establishing 
security and combating the terrorist threat. 

But they still lack resources, equipment, training, 
and mentoring, and are not yet, to quote the benchmark 
of the Afghanistan Compact, “able to meet the security 
needs of the country effectively”. Therefore, Germany, 
as  a  key  partner  in  police  reform,  has  promoted  a 
European  police  mission,  EUPOL,  which  started  on 
15 June  2007  and  will  reach  full  operational  capacity 
by  early  next  year.  Building  upon  what  we  have 
already  achieved  nationally  with  the  support  of  many 
partners,  EUPOL  will  substantially 
the 
increase 
through 
A/62/PV.44
In 
With 
regard 
to 
addition,  we 
level  in  Berlin 
coordination  within 
the  political  calendar, 
number  of  trainers  and  mentors  for  the  police  and 
cover most Afghan provinces, thereby making a crucial 
difference to  achieving  a strong and effective national 
police. We  ask  all  partners  to  continue  to  support  this 
effort  wholeheartedly. 
shall 
substantially  increase  our  national  contribution  to  the 
training of the Afghan National Army. 

During  Germany’s  presidency  of  the  Group  of 
Eight  (G8)  this  year,  we  launched  a  G8  initiative  to 
foster  dialogue  and  cooperation  between  Afghanistan 
and  Pakistan,  which  will  be  continued.  We  hosted  a 
meeting  of  the  Joint  Coordination  and  Monitoring 
Board  at  the  senior  political 
to 
strengthen 
the  Afghanistan 
Compact framework at a political level. 

the 
presidential  and  parliamentary  elections  in  2009  and 
2010  will  present  opportunities  as  well  as  challenges 
for Afghanistan.  Germany  is  committed  to  supporting 
Afghanistan in preparing the conditions for an electoral 
system  that  is  both  effective  and  viable.  The  work  of 
the  Independent  Election  Commission  will  be  very 
important.  The  German  Government  will  continue  to 
assist Afghanistan and, to name only one concrete area 
of action, intends to provide assistance for the training 
of election officers. 

Experience shows that reconstruction after a civil 
war is not a matter of quick fixes. This is even more so 
in  Afghanistan,  where  two  decades  of  a  devastating 
war, civil war and the Taliban regime left no effective 
State structures to build upon. Real reconstruction is a 
long-haul  effort.  And 
long-term 
commitment  from the Afghan Government and people 
and  the  international  community.  The  United  Nations 
successfully  took  on  a  key  role  at  the  Petersburg 
Conference in 2001, and it will continue to coordinate 
international  commitment  on  the  ground.  Germany  is 
committed  to  supporting  the  United  Nations  and  to 
helping for as long as it will take to reach our common 
goal  of  a  stable,  peaceful,  prosperous  and  democratic 
Afghanistan.  German Federal Chancellor Merkel, who 
visited  Afghanistan  this  past  weekend,  reiterated  this 
commitment. 
Mr.  Tanin  (Afghanistan):  It  is  a  great  pleasure 

for  me  to  address  this  Assembly,  as  we  gather  to 
consider  the  annual  draft  resolution  of  the  General 
Assembly on the situation in Afghanistan. 
it 
requires  a 
07-58078 

19 

in  various  areas, 
A/62/PV.44 

Today’s  meeting,  following  the  high-level  meeting  on 
23  September  co-chaired  by  President  Karzai  and 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and 
the  Security 
Council meeting on 15 October, is a clear indication of 
the  ongoing  commitment  and  support  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  international  community  to  ensure 
Afghanistan’s  successful 
transition  from  war  and 
conflict to peace and stability. 

We  are  pleased  that Afghanistan  continues  to  be 
on  the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly.  Today’s 
gathering  reaffirms  that  Afghanistan  remains  among 
the  top  priorities  of  the  United  Nations.  It  also 
indicates  unwavering  international  support  for  efforts 
to  consolidate  the  gains  of  the  past  six  years  towards 
the  goal  of  a  stable,  moderate  and  prosperous 
Afghanistan. 
As  we  speak,  Afghanistan  continues  to  make 

substantial  progress 
including 
institution-building,  economic  growth,  education, 
health, road-building and rural development. 

In the area of security, we have increased the size 
and strength of our National Army and National Police, 
enabling  our  security  forces  to  play  a  more  effective 
role 
in  various  parts  of 
Afghanistan.  The  Afghan  National  Army,  which  will 
stand  at  47,000  strong  by  the  end  of  the  year,  is  on 
track  to  meet  the  target  strength  of  72,000  by  2009. 
Additional  progress  is  evident  in  the  disbanding  of 
illegal armed groups throughout the country. 

Steady progress continues in improving the socio-
economic conditions of our people. At least 85 per cent 
of the population has access to basic health service. We 
have  built  4,000  hospitals  and  clinics  throughout  the 
country.  Increased  access  to  health  centres  has  saved 
the  lives  of  89,000  children  and  reduced  maternal 
mortality  by  40,000  this  year.  More  than  six  million 
students  are  attending  schools  and  universities,  of 
which  girls  comprise  36  per  cent.  The  National 
Solidarity Programme, as the largest effort to empower 
and  develop  rural  areas,  has  brought  development 
projects  to  over  18,000  communities  throughout  the 
country, touching the lives of 13 million villagers. 
Afghanistan  has  taken  important  steps  towards 

regaining  its  historic  role  as  a  facilitator  of  regional 
economic  cooperation.  This  comes  after  years  of 
economic  isolation,  resulting  from  years  of  armed 
conflict  and 
foreign  occupation.  Among  other 
infrastructure projects completed, our national highway 
in  combat  operations 
of 
economic 
rights 
than 
to 
continues 
Afghanistan’s 
inclusion 
in 
The  Afghan 
system  —  stretching  6,000  kilometres  —  will  lead  to 
increased trade with our neighbours. 

the  South  Asian 
Association  for  Regional  Cooperation  (SAARC)  in 
May of this year was a milestone development for our 
integration  into  regional  markets.  Most  recently,  we 
hosted  the  seventeenth  annual  meeting  of  the  Council 
of  Ministers 
the  Economic  Cooperation 
Organization  in  the  historic  city  of  Herat  with  the 
purpose  of  maximizing  Afghanistan’s  potential  to 
promote trade and development in the region. 

The  consolidation  of  our  democratic  institutions 
has enabled our citizens to enjoy more social, political 
and 
ever  before.  The 
unprecedented  number  of  women  represented  in  our 
National  Assembly,  and  the  presence  of  tens  of 
political  parties  and  numerous  media  outlets  is  clear 
testimony  to  this  assessment.  Hundreds  of  varied 
periodicals, television and radio stations throughout the 
country are making Afghanistan one of the most liberal 
environments for independent media in the region. 
Independent  Human  Rights 

important 
Commission 
measures  to  protect  and  promote  human  rights  for  all 
citizens.  In  this  regard,  I  am  pleased  to  state  that, 
among other initiatives, progress continues towards the 
implementation  of 
the  Action  Plan  on  Peace, 
Reconciliation and Justice. 

Despite  remarkable  achievements,  we  have  not 
lost sight of the numerous challenges. Terrorism, illicit 
drugs,  weak  State  institutions,  poverty  and  socio-
economic  hardship,  as  well  as  problems  associated 
with  the  situation  in  the  region,  are  among  our  main 
challenges.  These  are 
threats  with 
domestic, regional and international dimensions. 

Terrorism  remains  the  primary  threat  to  security 
and  efforts  to  consolidate  peace  and  stability  in 
Afghanistan. This year, there has been a rise in violent 
terrorist  activities  by  the  Taliban  and  Al-Qaida  in 
Afghanistan  and  the  region.  Terrorists  are  spreading 
fear  and  intimidation  both  inside  and  outside  of 
Afghanistan.  They  rely  on  heinous  and  brutal  acts 
aimed  at  undermining  the  security  of  our  people  and 
deterring 
international 
community  to  Afghanistan.  That  is  why  they  have 
increased  terrorist  attacks  in  the  form  of  abductions, 
intimidation, suicide bombings and use of sophisticated 
explosive  devices,  targeting  and  terrorizing  a  wide 
the  commitment  of 
interdependent 
undertake 
the 
20 

07-58078 
in 
for 
the 
the 
international 
sanctions 
Sustained  success 


spectrum  of  society, 
including  children  attending 
school,  religious  clerics,  international  aid  workers, 
journalists  and  Afghan  and 
international  security 
forces. 

Substantial  progress  continues  towards  defeating 
terrorism  and  extremism.  Recent  military  operations 
have  weakened  the  command  and  control  structure  of 
terrorist  networks  by  capturing  or  eliminating  an 
increasing  number  of  high-  and  middle-level  Taliban 
commanders  who  were  responsible  for  organizing  and 
carrying  out  numerous  suicide  bombings  in  various 
provinces.  Our  counter-terrorism  efforts  also  include 
strengthening 
regime 
against terrorists. 

the  military  campaign 
against terrorists is dependent on the level of technical 
and  logistical  assistance  to  bolster  the  capacity  of  our 
security institutions. A strong and professional national 
army  and  police  are  a  precondition  for  long-term 
stability  and  security  in  Afghanistan.  We  call  for 
increased  efforts  to  accelerate  the  training  of  our 
security forces so that they can become self-reliant and 
assume  an  independent  role  in  addressing  the  security 
needs of our people. 
Military means alone are not the sole solution to 

integrated 
Afghanistan’s 
strategy 
is 
military,  political  and  development 
sustainable 
necessary 
and 
improvement  of  security 
in  Afghanistan.  As  a 
complement to military action, we continue to increase 
efforts  for  political  outreach  to  non-terrorist  Taliban, 
those  who  are  willing  to  renounce  violence  and  abide 
by the provisions of Afghanistan’s constitution. 

infrastructure 
projects, particularly in areas threatened by the Taliban 
and extremists, will have a direct impact on improving 
security. Therefore, we believe that every effort should 
be made to maintain and win the support of people by 
creating  employment  opportunities  and  ensuring  basic 
services  throughout  the  country.  Without  adequate 
development, employment opportunities and improved 
socio-economic  conditions  throughout  the  country,  we 
will run the risk of ordinary citizens falling hostage to 
extremist groups. 

defeating 
the 
stability 
cooperation  between  Afghanistan 
cooperation 
for 
terrorism  and  extremism  affecting 
region.  Close 
and  Pakistan 
Regional 
the 
in  Afghanistan  and 
Implementing  development  and 
security  problems.  An 
indispensable 
substantial 
is 
A/62/PV.44
continues  on  a  bilateral  and  multilateral  basis  to 
eliminate  this  scourge,  jointly  and  resolutely.  Just  last 
week,  we  convened  the  first  meeting  of  the  jirga 
commission, as a follow-up to the peace jirga, held in 
Kabul  in  August.  The  second  meeting  of  the  peace 
jirgah will be held in Pakistan early next year. It is of 
utmost importance that the collaborative atmosphere in 
relations  between  Afghanistan  and  Pakistan  continue. 
We are following recent developments in Pakistan with 
concern, as security, stability and normalcy in Pakistan 
are critical for security and stability in the region. 

For us, regional cooperation is the most effective 
strategy to address the challenges not only of terrorism 
and 
illicit  drugs,  but  also  of  underdevelopment, 
organized crime and natural disasters. It will also help 
in  translating  the  region’s  rich  resources  and  potential 
into  development  and  prosperity.  There  are  many 
opportunities  for  regional  cooperation  in  the  areas  of 
trade,  energy,  transportation,  culture  and  education, 
water  management  and  joint  investment  projects.  The 
opportunity must be seized. 

Narcotics  pose  a  threat  to  the  stability  and  well-
being  of  our  societies.  For  our  part,  we  have 
accelerated  efforts  to  rid  Afghanistan  of  this  menace. 
Apart from those areas where the Taliban and Al-Qaida 
pose a threat to security, approximately 26,000 hectares 
of  land  have  been  cleared  of  poppy  cultivation, 
amounting to 13 poppy-free provinces. Moreover, there 
has  been  a  substantial  decrease  of  cultivation  in 
12 other  provinces.  With  enhanced  law  enforcement, 
we  have  apprehended  85  traffickers  at  the  Kabul 
international  airport,  and  1,016  cases  of  trafficking 
have  been  submitted  to  the  Office  of  the  Attorney 
General  so  far  this  year.  Other  measures  include 
facilitating 
international 
traffickers  in  foreign  countries,  with  the  support  of 
INTERPOL. 

Nevertheless,  in  order  to  achieve  long-term  and 
sustainable  success  in  combating  narcotics,  we  must 
take into account the network character of illicit drugs, 
entailing 
and 
consumers.  In  combating  narcotics,  our  strategy  must 
address  all  the  components.  Active  participation  of 
transit and consuming countries, on the basis of shared 
responsibility,  is  critical  to  enabling  us  to  contain  the 
menace  of  illicit  drugs.  What  remain  essential  in  this 
strategy 
farmers  with  an 
alternative  source  of  livelihood.  In  this  regard,  we 
count  on  the  sustained  support  of  the  international 
the  arrest  of  numerous 
is  providing  Afghan 
producers, 
traffickers 
farmers, 
07-58078 

21 

in 
revised  public  administration 
A/62/PV.44 

community  to  implement  our  national  drug  control 
strategy. 

Afghanistan has taken numerous steps to enhance 
good  governance  and  the  rule  of  law.  We  have 
launched  reform  strategies  in  various  institutions, 
including  the  Supreme  Court,  the  Attorney  General’s 
Office  and  the  Ministries  of  Interior  and  Justice,  to 
enhance  efficacy  and  professionalism  in  our  civil 
service. To this end, our Civil Service Commission has 
finalized  a 
reform 
framework and implementation programme to ensure a 
merit-based appointment mechanism for civil servants. 
As  part  of  the  effort  to  ensure  accountability  in  our 
institutions,  we  have  arrested  or  detained  numerous 
senior  and  mid-level  officials  engaged 
illegal 
activities.  These  measures  occurred  together  with  the 
National  Assembly’s  approval  of  the  United  Nations 
Convention  against Corruption in August and ongoing 
preparations  to  present  our  national  justice  sector 
strategy. In this context, we express our appreciation to 
the  Government  of  Italy  for  co-hosting,  along  with 
Afghanistan  and  the  United  Nations,  an  international 
Conference on the Rule of Law in Afghanistan, which 
took place in Rome in July. 

in  promoting  good 
governance  and the rule of law is interlinked with the 
consolidation of a powerful and independent judiciary, 
effective  State  institutions,  a  functioning  civil  society 
and an environment conducive to the economic, social 
and cultural development of all citizens. 

More  than  20  years  of  conflict  resulted  in  dire 
socio-economic  conditions  that  forced  millions  of  our 
citizens  to  migrate  abroad.  We  are  grateful  to  all  the 
countries,  particularly  Pakistan  and  Iran,  which  have 
hosted millions of our compatriots during some of the 
most  difficult  times  in  our  nation’s  history.  While 
expressing  our  earnest  desire  to  have  all  our  citizens 
back  home,  we  call 
international 
assistance  to  create  a  feasible  environment  for  their 
voluntary,  gradual,  safe  and  dignified  return  and 
reintegration. 

The  Afghanistan  Compact  remains  the  most 
viable framework to address our remaining challenges. 
Within  the  framework  of  the  Joint  Coordination  and 
Monitoring  Board  (JCMB),  we  periodically  evaluate 
our  progress  towards  achieving  the  vision  of  the 
Afghanistan  Compact  with  our  international  partners. 
While  expressing  appreciation  for  the  support  of  the 
However,  our 
for  sustained 
success 
in 
the  able 
the  region  and 
leadership  of  Tom  Koenigs, 
international  community  for  the  Afghan  process,  we 
would  like  to  stress  the  need  to  ensure  greater 
efficiency 
the  mobilization,  coordination  and 
utilization  of  assistance  to  implement  our  national 
development strategy. 

Afghanistan continues to struggle with the legacy 
of  three  decades  of  conflict  and  with  emerging  new 
challenges.  Thus,  it  will  not  be  able  to  deal  with  its 
multitude of problems on its own. It will need the long-
sustained  and  adequate  support  of  the  international 
community for many years to come. The presence and 
commitment  of  the  international  community  is  an 
existential  issue  for  Afghanistan.  The  international 
community  should  acknowledge  the  importance  of  its 
continuing  commitment  to  peace  and  security  in 
Afghanistan, 
the  world.  Neither 
complacency nor exaggerated pessimism will help our 
efforts to achieve a peaceful and stable Afghanistan. 

The role of the United Nations in Afghanistan is 
of  crucial  importance  for  achieving  lasting  peace  and 
stability  in Afghanistan.  We  commend  the  role  of  the 
United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan, 
under 
in 
promoting  enhanced 
international  engagement  and 
coordination between the international community and 
Afghanistan  to  achieve  the  vision  of  the  Afghanistan 
Compact. 
We  are  also  grateful  for  the  personal  dedication 

to 
commitment  of 
and 
Afghanistan.  His  visit 
July,  his 
participation  in  the  international  Rome  Conference  on 
Rule of Law in Afghanistan in July, and his initiative to 
convene  the  high-level  meeting  on  the  margins  of  the 
sixty-second session of the General Assembly are very 
much  welcomed  by 
Islamic  Republic  of 
Afghanistan. 

We  are  also  thankful  to  all  countries  that  have 
committed  troops  to  serve  alongside  forces  of  our 
National Army  and  Police  to  provide  security  for  our 
people.  We  pay  particular  tribute  to  the  families  of 
those  who  have  made  the  ultimate  sacrifice  for  the 
cause of peace in Afghanistan. 
In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  express  my 

delegation’s  appreciation  to  our  colleagues  at  the 
German Mission for their tireless efforts in leading the 
consultations  on  the  draft  resolution  before  us  today. 
Special  thanks  go  out  to  Mrs.  Maeder-Metcalf  of  the 
German  Mission  in  that  regard.  We  also  extend  our 
the  Secretary-General 
to  Kabul 
the 
in 
22 

07-58078 
the  countries  of 


gratitude to all Member States that have sponsored this 
year’s draft resolution. 
Mr.  Lobo  de  Mesquita  (Portugal):  I  have  the 

honour to speak on behalf of the European Union. The 
candidate  countries  Turkey  and  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia, 
the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates  Albania,  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina, 
Montenegro  and  Serbia,  the  European  Free  Trade 
Association  country  Iceland,  as  well  as  Ukraine, 
Moldova  and  Armenia,  align  themselves  with  this 
declaration.  

This  year  we  continue  to  consider  a  single  draft 
resolution  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan,  and  we 
highly  commend  the  delegation  of  Germany  for  its 
work on draft resolution A/62/L.7. 

The  European  Union  welcomes  the  central  role 
played  by  the  United  Nations  in  promoting  peace  and 
stability  in  Afghanistan  by  leading  the  efforts  of  the 
international  community.  In  that  context,  we  welcome 
the  adoption  of  Security  Council  resolution  1776 
(2007) on 19 September, renewing the mandate of the 
International  Security  Assistance  Force,  and  Council 
resolution  1746  (2007)  on  23  March,  which  extended 
the mandate of the United Nations Assistance Mission 
in Afghanistan (UNAMA). 
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 

collectively  accounted  for  about  30  per  cent  of  the 
$12.5  billion  in  grants  pledged  by  the  international 
community  for  Afghan  reconstruction  at  international 
conferences in Tokyo in 2002 and in Berlin in 2004. At 
the  London  Conference 
the  European 
Community  and  its  member  States  pledged  a  further 
$2.4 billion 
reconstruction 
to 
Afghanistan over the coming years. 

EU  member  States  are  key  contributors  to  the 
United  Nations-mandated  and  NATO-led  International 
Security  Assistance  Force  (ISAF),  accounting  for 
around half of the military forces deployed within that 
framework.  European  Union  member  States  are  also 
commanding 
civil-military 
provincial reconstruction teams throughout the country. 
Separately, several member States are also contributing 
to  the  United  States-led  Operation  Enduring  Freedom 
coalition,  which  conducts  counter-insurgency  and 
counter-terrorism operations in Afghanistan. 
contributing 
assistance 
in  2006, 
for 
or 
to 
A/62/PV.44
sharper 
focus  on 

We  also  fully  support  UNAMA’s  role  in  finding 
and  implementing  political  and  regional  solutions  to 
the  challenges  facing  Afghanistan.  Therefore,  we 
welcome  the  reinforcement  made  by  resolution  1746 
(2007),  which  expanded  UNAMA’s  presence  in  the 
provinces  through  regional  and  provincial  offices.  We 
note  that  UNAMA’s  increased  field  presence  has 
enabled  engagement  with  provincial  reconstruction 
teams,  thus  ensuring  that  provincial  reconstruction 
teams  achieve  a  common  understanding  and  approach 
to  the Afghanistan  National  Development  Strategy,  in 
cooperation with the Afghan Government.  
In that regard, we underscore the urgent need for 

an 
integrated  political  and  military  strategy 
that 
complements the Strategy and also encompasses wider 
issues  and  provides  a 
the 
achievements  of  national  reconciliation  and  regional 
stability.  As  the  high-level  meeting  on  Afghanistan 
held in New York on 23 September highlighted, a need 
remains for increased coordination of the efforts of the 
international community. 

We encourage UNAMA to continue its expansion, 
security  conditions  permitting.  We  must  take  this 
opportunity to commend UNAMA, under the excellent 
leadership  of  Tom  Koenig,  for  its  outstanding  work, 
performed  under  sometimes  difficult  conditions.  We 
will continue to support that important United Nations 
mission  in  ensuring  better  coordination  among  the 
various actors involved. 
The European Union expresses its concern about 

the 
intensifying 
general 
deterioration  of  security  conditions  over  the  past 
months.  Taliban  and  insurgent  groups  continue  to 
prevent  full  security  in  a  significant  and  growing 
number  of  areas,  while  rates  of 
insurgent  and 
terrorism-related violence have further increased since 
2006  and  criminal  and  drug  gangs  continue  to  grow. 
Illegal  armed  groups  remain  a  deep  threat  to  the 
stabilization  of  Afghanistan.  As  pointed  out  by  the 
conference  on  this  matter  held  in  Tokyo  on  21  June, 
their  disbandment  remains  crucial.  Meanwhile,  by 
taking  advantage  of  some  security  gaps  and  the 
weakness  of  local  administration,  criminal  gangs  and 
drug  smugglers  have  continued  to  operate  on  an  ever 
larger  scale,  thus  creating  more  instability  throughout 
the country. 
insurgency 
and 
the 
07-58078 

23 
We  would  ask 
that 
rights  and  operates  within 
A/62/PV.44 


On 15 June 2007, the European Union launched a 
European Security and Defence Policy (ESDP) mission 
to Afghanistan in the field of policing with linkages to 
the wider rule of law. The mission will enhance current 
efforts in the area of police reform, working towards an 
Afghan  police  force  with  local  ownership,  one  which 
respects  human 
the 
framework of the rule of law.  

The  European  Union  police  mission  is  set  in  the 
wider  context  of  the  international  community’s  efforts 
to  support  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  in  taking 
responsibility for strengthening the rule of law and, in 
particular,  in  improving  its  civil  police  and  law 
enforcement  capacity.  The  mission  will  work  towards 
elaborating a joint overall strategy of the international 
community  in  police  reform.  The  EU  police  mission 
will  deploy  almost  100  police  officers  and  other 
experts from EU member States and Third States at the 
central,  regional  and  provincial  levels  and  plans  to  be 
fully operational in March 2008.  

the  Government  of 
Afghanistan  engage  with  the  Special  Rapporteur  on 
torture  and  other  cruel, 
inhuman  or  degrading 
treatment  or  punishment  and  the  Working  Group  on 
Arbitrary  Detention  as  part  of  its  continuing  and 
cooperative approach to combat arbitrary detention and 
ill-treatment.  

Efforts  in  the  security  sector  must  be  backed  up 
by hard work to curtail growing widespread corruption. 
The  European  Union  would  like  to  welcome  the 
endorsement  last  August  by  the  Wolesi  Jirga  of  the 
United  Nations  Convention  against  Corruption,  which 
includes the building of a  professional  and adequately 
paid  civil  service  and  a  transparent  system  for  the 
appointment  of  senior  officials  to  prevent  corruption 
from  becoming  more  deeply  embedded  in  the  public 
sector.  Corruption 
the 
effectiveness  of 
it  also  breeds 
mistrust  by  citizens  of  the  fragile  Afghan  institutions 
that have been patiently built over the past few years. 

We  must  also  reaffirm  the  crucial  importance  of 
the reform of the justice sector and the implementation 
of the rule of law for the reconstruction of Afghanistan, 
recognizing that without justice and the rule of law no 
sustainable 
economic 
development and human rights can be achieved, as was 
concluded in the Rome Conference on the Rule of Law 
in Afghanistan that took place on 2 and 3 July 2007. In 
international  aid; 
stabilization, 
security 
not 
only 
undermines 

threat 
in  2007  poses  a  grave 
this context, the European Commission has launched a 
programme  for  justice  reform  which  will  aim  to 
professionalize  the  judicial  and  public  prosecution 
services through forms of pay, grading and recruitment, 
as  well  as  the  establishment  of  a  code  of  ethics.  The 
programme will also seek to assist in development of a 
national legal aid system and to improve citizen access 
to  justice.  This  justice  reform  programme  dovetails 
with the European Security and Defence Policy police 
mission,  EUPOL  Afghanistan.  The  European 
Commission is a key contributor to the Law and Order 
Trust  Fund  managed  by 
the  United  Nations 
Development Programme (UNDP).  

We  are deeply concerned  about the expansion of 
opium  poppy  cultivation  by  17  per  cent  and  potential 
opium production by 34 per cent, which now represents 
93  per  cent  of  the  worldwide  total  production  of 
increase  of  opium 
opium.  The  unprecedented 
production 
to 
in  Afghanistan. 
reconstruction  and  nation-building 
Initiatives  at  the  regional  level,  first  as  the  trilateral 
agreement  between  Afghanistan,  Iran  and  Pakistan, 
reached  in  June  2007,  which  committed  the  countries 
to  carry  out  more  joint  border  operations  and  to 
increase  information  sharing,  must  be  reinforced  and 
encouraged.  Actions  taken  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  the  Paris  Pact  of  2003  must  also  be 
developed in order to tackle these problems.  

The  European  Union  is  also  concerned  with  the 
human  rights  situation  in  Afghanistan.  Several  recent 
events  have  raised  particular  concerns  within  the 
international  community.  The  recent  execution  of 
15 Afghan nationals is a serious setback for the human 
rights  situation  in  Afghanistan.  The  European  Union 
has  strongly  urged  the  Government  of Afghanistan  to 
consider  establishing  a  moratorium  on  the  death 
penalty. Nonetheless, since 2001, there has been some 
progress,  albeit  from  a  low  basis,  for  example  the 
increase  in  the  number  of  people  with  access  to  basic 
health  care  from  19  per  cent  in  2002  to  89  per  cent 
today.  

However,  serious  challenges  remain,  including 
further  strengthening  women’s  participation  in  and 
contributions  to national peace and reconstruction and 
addressing  inadequacies  in  the  number  of  formal 
schools  and  qualified 
teachers,  especially  female 
teachers.  Although  the  number  of  children  in  school 
has  risen  from  an  estimated  1  million  to  5.4  million 
today,  of  whom  nearly  a  third  are  girls,  there  are  still 
24 

07-58078 
addition 
to 
its 
leading 
to 
against 
violence 
role 
in 
children, 
left  outside 


2 million  children 
the  formal  school 
system,  1.3  million  of  them  being  girls.  As  the 
Secretary-General noted in his most recent report to the 
General Assembly and the Security Council, reports of 
attacks on schools and threats to teachers and students 
are worrying.  

The  European  Union  notes  with  great  concern 
that  violence  against  women  and  children  and 
discriminatory 
traditional  practices  continue.  We 
encourage the Government of Afghanistan to do all that 
it  can  to  investigate  and  prosecute  cases  of  self-
immolation, 
forced 
marriages  and  honour-related  killings.  We  encourage 
President Karzai to present to his Cabinet the National 
Action  Plan  for 
the  Women  of  Afghanistan  for 
endorsement  and  implementation,  completed  by  the 
Government  pursuant  to  the  benchmarks  set  by  the 
Compact  and  the  Afghanistan  National  Development 
Strategy. 

In 
the 
reconstruction  effort,  the  European  Union  is  a  major 
source  of  humanitarian  assistance 
the  people 
affected by the Afghan crisis, both in Afghanistan and 
in  neighbouring  Pakistan  and  Iran.  European  Union 
member  States  and  the  European  Community  are  also 
actively  involved  in  the  provision  of  emergency  and 
relief  assistance.  Total  European  Union  contributions 
for  2002-2006  amounted 
to  €627.5  million.  The 
European  Union  also  expresses  its  concern  about  the 
recent  attacks  against  the  Afghanistan  Independent 
Human  Rights  Commission  and  its  Chairman  by  a 
significant number of members of parliament. We urge 
the  Afghan  authorities  to  ensure  the  security  of  the 
members  of  this  Commission  and  provide  necessary 
conditions  for 
their  mission.  The 
European  Union  also  stresses  that  the  national  peace 
and reconciliation process must be conducted in a way 
that  is  fully  compatible  with  the  need  to  fight  against 
impunity and ensure justice for past crimes and serious 
violations of human rights. 

important 
steps  have  been  made  towards  the  reconstruction  and 
stabilization  of  Afghanistan.  At  a  regional  level,  the 
European  Union  acknowledges  with  satisfaction  the 
collaborative  atmosphere  that  has  begun  to  prevail  in 
Afghan-Pakistani 
terrorism  was 
recognized  as  a  shared  challenge.  Therefore,  we 
welcome the peace jirga that took place in Kabul with 
the  participation  of  Presidents  Karzai  and  Musharraf 
Those  challenges  notwithstanding, 
relations, 
them 
to  fulfil 
as 
A/62/PV.44
last August, as well as the joint declaration that issued 
from  that  event.  The  European  Union  welcomes  this 
declaration  and  encourages  both  countries  to  further 
develop  their  dialogue  and  cooperation,  especially  on 
security  issues  and  the  fight  against  terrorism.  The 
European  Union  will  further  support  the  enhancement 
of  Afghan-Pakistani  relations,  including  within  the 
framework of the Group of Eight-Afghanistan-Pakistan 
initiative. 

The European Union also welcomes the adoption 
of the Media Law by both houses of parliament. As the 
Special  Representative  of 
the  Secretary-General 
recently noted, the independence of Afghan media now 
seems to be largely protected. 

Finally,  we  would  draw  the  urgent  attention  of 
both 
the  Afghan  Government  and 
the  National 
Assembly  to  the  Electoral  Law,  in  order  to  ensure  its 
adoption  by  the  end  of  2007,  owing  to  its  importance 
for  the  preparation  of  the  presidential  elections  that 
will take place in 2009. We hope that, building on the 
success  of  the  last  elections,  which  represented  a 
significant  achievement  for Afghanistan,  we  will  take 
another  step  on  the  road  to  stability,  security  and 
prosperity for the Afghan people. 

Let  me  conclude  this  statement  by  stressing  that 
the  European  Union  remains  committed  to  the  long-
term  reconstruction  of  Afghanistan.  We  continue  to 
support  the Afghanistan  Compact,  which  we  consider 
the  principal  framework  for  future  reconstruction  and 
stabilization  of 
the  country  until  2010.  While 
acknowledging  the  central  role  played  by  the  Joint 
Coordination and Monitoring Board in facilitating and 
monitoring  the  implementation  of  the  Afghanistan 
Compact,  we  welcome  further  efforts  to  provide 
appropriate  high-level  political  guidance  and  promote 
more coherent international engagement. Therefore, the 
European  Union  pledges  to  work  with  the  Afghan 
Government  and  international  partners  within  that 
framework 
secure  and 
democratic Afghanistan. 
Mr. Jeenbaev (Kyrgyzstan) (spoke in Russian): I 

have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  States 
members 
Security  Treaty 
Organization  (CSTO):  Armenia,  Belarus,  Kazakhstan, 
Kyrgyzstan,  the  Russian  Federation,  Tajikistan  and 
Uzbekistan.  
The  adoption  by  consensus  of  the  Afghanistan 

Compact  at  the  London  Conference  demonstrated  the 
to  build  a  prosperous, 
the  Collective 
of 
07-58078 

25 
in 
in 

the 
that,  under  United  Nations 
A/62/PV.44 

international  community’s  firm  resolve  to  continue  to 
provide  broad  assistance  in  the  post-conflict  recovery 
of Afghanistan. Our commitment to the reconstruction 
process  in  Afghanistan  was  also  reaffirmed  at  the 
recent high-level meeting at the United Nations. In the 
post-Bonn  stage,  it  continues  to  be  important  that  the 
central  coordinating  role  in  international  efforts  in 
Afghanistan  should  be  played  by  the  United  Nations. 
We  must  fully  carry  out  all  the  tasks  set  out  in  the 
Compact.  The  key 
issues  of  security,  combating 
narcotics,  governance  and  respect  for  human  rights 
must be resolved within the established  deadlines. We 
believe 
auspices, 
comprehensive  monitoring  and  coordination  of  the 
implementation  of  the  Compact  will  continue.  An 
essential  factor 
long-term  stabilization  of 
Afghanistan  is  participation  by  all  sectors  of  society 
and  political  and  religious  forces  in  the  establishment 
of a sovereign and effective Afghan Government. 
As  a  result  of  the  recent  situation,  we  are 

seriously  concerned  about  the  resumption  of  terrorist 
activity  by  the Taliban  and Al-Qaida.  Once  again,  the 
extremists  are  undermining  security  throughout  the 
country. This year, as members are aware, the level of 
violence  has  exceeded  the  level  for  2006  and  the 
number  of  criminal  armed  groups  and  drug-dealing 
is  undermining 
bands  continues 
confidence 
recovery.  Concrete 
measures are needed to prevent further deterioration of 
the security situation in the country. 

Therefore,  we  must  continue  to  isolate  extremist 
leaders,  first  and  foremost  those  on  the  sanctions  list 
created by the Security Council Committee established 
pursuant  to  resolution  1267  (1999),  while  allowing 
rank-and-file  members  of  the  Taliban  who  have  not 
committed  war  crimes  to  participate  fully  in  peaceful 
life.  That  is  the  approach  that  the  United  Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  should  follow  in 
carrying out its mandate. We disagree with the idea that 
it is possible to stabilize the situation in the country by 
making  peace  with  supposedly  repentant  members  of 
the  Taliban.  Experience  shows  that  that  would  only 
help  to  strengthen  the  position  of  extremists  and 
increase their subversive activities.  

The  problem  of  illegal  drug  trafficking  is  one  of 
the  complex  barriers  preventing  the  achievement  of 
stability  and  security  for  the  people  of  Afghanistan. 
The  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime 
(UNODC)  reported  a  17  per  cent  increase  in  the  land 
to  grow.  That 
the  country’s 
traffickers  do  not 
devoted  to  opium  poppy  cultivation  and  a  possible  34 
per  cent  increase  in  opium  production. Thus  the  2007 
opium  harvest  in  Afghanistan  exceeded  8,000  tons,  a 
significant  portion  of  which  transits  through  CSTO 
States.  In  addition,  nearly  all  of  that  opium  is  being 
processed into heroin on Afghan territory, showing that 
the  drug 
lack  precursors  and 
equipment  with  which  to  supply  the  underground 
laboratories.  We  are  extremely  concerned  that  poppy 
cultivation  and  the  production  and  illegal  trade  in 
opium,  which  are  important  sources  of  funds  for  the 
Taliban and Al-Qaida, are continuing. 

As  we  can  see  from  UNODC  research,  illegal 
drug trafficking seriously threatens not only the people 
of Afghanistan, but also the international community as 
a  whole.  We  must  actively  combat  that  scourge  not 
only in the countries neighbouring Afghanistan through 
the  creation  of  anti-drug  programmes  and  financial 
security,  but  also  in  belts  that  should  be  set  up  under 
United Nations coordination and with the participation 
of  neighbouring  countries.  We  believe  that  the  CSTO 
and  NATO  should  undertake  joint  practical  measures, 
with the participation of Afghan and Pakistani security 
forces, to combat terrorism and drug trafficking.  

For instance, those forces could participate in the 
regularly  conducted  CSTO  Kamal  operation,  which 
seeks  to  create  an  anti-drug  belt  around Afghanistan’s 
borders.  During  the  past  few  years,  that  operation  has 
created  mechanisms  for  combating  narco-business  on 
the  northern  route  of  the  drug  trade  from Afghanistan 
to  Europe.  As  a  result  of  measures  undertaken  by 
CSTO member States, as well as by the observer States 
of Azerbaijan, Iran, China and Pakistan, dozens of tons 
of  narcotic  drugs  have  been  confiscated  by 
the 
competent authorities. We note with satisfaction that in 
September  2007,  for 
time,  Afghanistan 
participated in the Kamal operation. 

Further  measures  must  be  taken  to  increase  the 
military capacity of Afghanistan’s armed forces, so that 
they  can 
the  country’s 
security  in  the  future.  We  must  provide  the  Afghan 
National Army with modern weapons, including planes 
and  armour,  and  enhance  professional  training  of 
military  personnel.  CSTO  member  States  are  prepared 
to  establish  military  cooperation  with Afghanistan  for 
that purpose, even on a bilateral basis. 

long-term  commitment 
The  States  members  of  the  CSTO  have  made  a 
recovery 
independently  guarantee 
to  Afghanistan’s 
the  first 
26 

07-58078 


through  regional  cooperation  in  key  areas,  including 
security,  economic  recovery  and  the  fight  against 
illegal  drug  trafficking.  We  believe  that  an  important 
factor in the promotion of a comprehensive settlement 
is  multilateral  cooperation  between  Afghanistan  and 
the other States in the region. Any programme to assist 
Afghanistan  should bear in mind its  regional partners, 
which could serve as sources of the goods and services 
ordered  by  donor  Governments  and 
international 
organizations.  

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  express  my  gratitude  to 
the delegation of Germany for coordinating the efforts 
to prepare the draft resolution on Afghanistan. We are 
prepared to support that document. 
Mr. Aslov (Tajikistan) (spoke in Russian): I have 

the honour to speak on behalf of the States members of 
the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization  (SCO):  the 
Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China,  the  Kyrgyz  Republic,  the  Russian  Federation, 
the  Republic  of  Tajikistan  and 
the  Republic  of 
Uzbekistan.  Those  States  maintain  friendly  relations 
with their close neighbour Afghanistan.  
Afghanistan  is  a  very  important  partner  in  the 

region and has great potential. Transportation routes to 
South  Asia  cross  its  territory.  The  situation  in  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Afghanistan  significantly  affects 
stability and security in the region, where the presence 
of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization is becoming 
increasingly visible. The situation in that country today 
is 
the 
Organization’s current agenda. 

We appreciate the progress made in Afghanistan, 
primarily  in  the  field  of  statehood  development,  with 
the  comprehensive 
international 
community,  during  the  time  since  the  fall  of  the 
Taliban.  The  Constitution  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Afghanistan  has  been  adopted,  presidential  and 
parliamentary 
the 
Government and judicial bodies have been established, 
and 
the  country’s 
economy  are  being  revived.  In  addition,  independent 
mass  media  and  human  rights  organizations  are 
operating in Afghanistan. 

At the same time, we must note that the stability 
of  Afghanistan  is  the  key  to  addressing  some  of  the 
most  serious  regional 
to  SCO  members, 
including  the  threat  posed  by  narcotics,  the  spread  of 
religious extremism and terrorism. 
therefore  one  of  main  priorities  on 
the  Afghan  armed  forces  and 
support  of 
elections 
threats 
held, 
the 
have 
been 
A/62/PV.44
in 
the 
We  share 
the  belief 

Regrettably,  the  situation  in  the  country  remains 
extremely  tense.  That  is  primarily  due  to  the  increase 
in  the  subversive  activities  of  the  Taliban  movement 
and  Al-Qaida,  as  well  as  unresolved  key  socio-
economic problems. The fact that extremists are much 
more  often  turning  to  hostage-taking  to  achieve  their 
political  goals  is  of  particular  concern.  In  the  face  of 
the  increasing  threat  posed  by  implacable  extremists, 
strict  compliance  with  the  Security  Council  sanctions 
regime,  including  by  the  Government  of Afghanistan, 
is particularly essential.  

importance  of 
implementing the programme of national reconciliation 
in  order  to  achieve  long-term  stabilization  of  the 
situation in the country. At the same time, that process 
should  not  run  counter  to  the  Security  Council’s 
decisions and the goal of totally eliminating the threat 
of  terrorism  emanating  from  the  territory  of  the 
country. Serious concerns have been raised with regard 
to  the  participation  in  public  bodies  of  persons  on  the 
sanctions  list  of  the  Security  Council  Committee 
established pursuant to resolution 1267 (1999). 

The  developing  military  and  political  situation 
requires  an  update  of  actions  on  the  part  of  both  the 
Government  of  Afghanistan  and 
international 
presences.  It  is  urgently  necessary  to  adopt  further 
measures  to  build  up  and  appropriately  equip Afghan 
armed forces that will independently be able to ensure 
the security of the citizens of the country. There is also 
a  need  for  additional  efforts 
to  promote  socio-
economic rehabilitation. 

We are convinced that victory over the extremists 
is impossible without effective interaction between  all 
healthy  forces  of Afghan  society.  The  achievement  of 
that goal is central to success in the military stand-off 
involving illegal military groups, as well as success in 
efforts  to  eradicate  such  appalling  socio-economic 
phenomena  as  corruption  and  the  drug  industry.  That 
interaction is also linked to the fate of virtually all the 
reforms under way and, ultimately, to the well-being of 
the people themselves. 

It  is  clear  that  the  subversive  activities  of 
extremists  and  terrorists  are  fuelled  by  significant 
financial  resources,  the  majority  of  which  continue  to 
come  from  drug  trafficking. The  enormous  rise  in  the 
illicit  production  of  drugs  is  indeed  alarming,  as  the 
funds  generated  as  a  result  of  their  sale  are  also 
channelled to the purchasing of arms and armaments. It 
the 
07-58078 

27 
defences 
that 
the 
around  Afghanistan 
A/62/PV.44 

is  necessary  to  substantially  expand  anti-drug  efforts, 
not only in the territory of Afghanistan but around it as 
well,  through  a  complex  system  of  anti-narcotics  and 
financial  security  belts  under  the  coordination  of  the 
United  Nations  and  with 
involvement  of 
neighbouring countries.  

There  is  also  a  need  to  make  better  use  of  the 
capabilities of regional organizations that have proven 
their effectiveness in this area, including the Shanghai 
Cooperation Organization. SCO member States support 
the  idea  put  forward  by  Tajikistan  and  Russia  on  the 
establishment  of  anti-narcotics  security  belts  around 
Afghanistan.  To  that  end,  the  President  of  Russia  has 
proposed  an  initiative  to  enhance  anti-narcotics  and 
antiterrorism 
by 
establishing  financial  security  zones,  with  financial 
intelligence being provided by SCO member States. We 
believe 
those  measures  will  considerably 
undermine the financial base for terrorist activity. 

The recent SCO summit meeting held in Bishkek 
reaffirmed  the  extensive  potential  of  the  organization 
to implement stabilization programmes in Afghanistan, 
including  their  counter-terrorism  and  anti-narcotics 
aspects. SCO member States are capable of promoting 
substantial 
initiatives.  That  was 
confirmed  by  the  decision  adopted  by  the  SCO 
following  a  Russian  proposal  to  convene  a  regional 
conference  on  Afghanistan  under  the  auspices  of  the 
organization. 
We  attach  great  importance  to  establishing  a 

peaceful, 
in 
Afghanistan, free from terrorism and narcotics. In that 
connection, we believe that the early completion of the 
country’s  post-war  rehabilitation  should  be  based  on 
the  key  principles  of  the  Bonn  Conference  and  the 
Afghanistan  Compact, including the basic principle  of 
developing good-neighbourly relations with contiguous 
States. 

Maintaining  the  ethnic  balance  in  the  system  of 
State authority bodies and Government continues to be 
important  to  strengthening  the  fundamentals  of  the 
international peace in Afghanistan. Afghans themselves 
should seek possible compromises in this area, without 
external pressures. 

to 
overcome  the  problems  of Afghanistan. At  the  current 
stage,  it  is  necessary  to  focus  on  the  revival  of  the 
almost  completely  destroyed  Afghan  economy,  under 
independent  and  self-sufficient  State 
Military  measures  alone  are 
peacekeeping 
insufficient 

the  auspices  of 
the  United  Nations.  The  Joint 
Coordination  and  Monitoring  Board  is  playing  a 
particularly positive role in that regard. 

SCO  member  States  are  actively  participating  in 
the  implementation  of  a  number  of  projects  to  restore 
the  energy,  transportation  and  social  infrastructure  of 
Afghanistan.  The  Republic  of  Kazakhstan  has 
announced  the  launching  of  its  special  programme  for 
Afghanistan,  which  includes  investing  in  the  Afghan 
economy  and  the  implementation  of  humanitarian 
projects. 

Achieving  stability  in Afghanistan  will  facilitate 
its integration into the  region and  allow SCO member 
States  to  fully  utilize  the  organization’s  potential  in 
assisting with the socio-economic rehabilitation of the 
Afghan  State.  We  expect  that  the  joint  efforts  of  the 
international  community  and  the  Afghan  Government 
will make it possible to implement the comprehensive 
programme for Afghanistan’s rehabilitation. 

We express our support for the draft resolution on 
Afghanistan  (A/62/L.7),  which  has  been  sponsored  by 
a large number of members. We hope that its adoption 
by consensus will provide momentum to the efforts of 
the international community in Afghanistan. 
Mr.  Khalilzad  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United  States  is  pleased  to  join  the  other  Member 
States 
this  draft  resolution 
(A/62/L.7)  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan.  The  draft 
resolution  details  the  progress  that  the Afghan  people 
and  the  international  community  have  made  since  the 
liberation  of Afghanistan  from  the  oppressive  Taliban 
regime  and  its  terrorist  allies.  We  join  others  in 
recognizing  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General,  his 
Special Representative, the staff of the United Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  and  all  the  forces 
participating  in  the  International  Security  Assistance 
Force and Operation Enduring Freedom. 

The  success  of  Afghanistan  is  vitally  important, 
not only for the long-suffering Afghan people, but also 
for  the  world.  Today,  most  of  the  world’s  security 
problems  emanate  from  the  broader  Middle  East,  just 
as Europe and East Asia were the principal sources of 
instability 
century.  Extremist 
ideologies, militant transnational groups, deep internal 
tensions  in  key  countries  and  intractable  regional 
conflicts, including efforts at regional hegemony — all 
these and other factors combine to produce an unstable 
the 
and  dangerous  dynamic 
that  have  sponsored 
that  harm  not  only 
twentieth 
the 
in 
28 

07-58078 


countries  of  the  region,  but  also  project  insecurity 
around the world.  

Afghanistan  under  the  Taliban  exemplifies  that 
phenomenon. The regime persecuted and oppressed the 
people.  Its  internal  war  involved  regional  Powers  in  a 
deadly  geopolitical  competition.  It  also  harboured  an 
array  of  terrorist  organizations  that  actively  targeted 
countries around the world. The toppling of the Taliban 
regime was an important first step. However, reshaping 
the  dysfunctional  politics  of  the  broader  Middle  East 
will continue to be the defining challenge of our time. 

Afghanistan’s  success  is  essential  to  making 
progress  towards  a  functional  broader  Middle  East. A 
great  deal  of  progress  has  been  made  in  Afghanistan 
including  the  adoption  of  a  progressive  constitution, 
free  and  fair  national  elections  for  president  and 
parliament,  a  broadly  inclusive  national  Government, 
the  disarmament  of  formal  militias,  the  establishment 
of  a  free  press,  progress  in  building  key  institutions, 
such  as  a  national  army,  and  a  rapidly  growing 
economy.  All  of  this  has  been  made  possible  by  the 
work of the Afghan people and their leaders, as well as 
the  contributions  and  assistance  of  the  friends  of 
Afghanistan in the international community  
However, Afghanistan  still  has  a  long  way  to  go 

in  completing 
to  a  prosperous 
democratic State. The United States remains committed 
to  supporting 
the 
continued involvement of the international community.  

Foremost  among  the  challenges  are  the  security 
threats  posed  by  the  Taliban  and  Al-Qaida  forces 
wishing  to  re-impose  their  tyranny  on  the  Afghan 
people.  Their 
just  Afghan  and 
international security forces, but also innocent Afghan 
citizens and Afghan institutions, such as schools, which 
are  being  built  to  serve  the  people  of  Afghanistan. 
Members  of  the  Taliban  should  lay  down  their  arms 
and participate in the accountability and reconciliation 
process.  

is 
undermined  by  the  availability  of  external  sanctuaries 
and  support  for  the  Taliban  and  Al-Qaida.  Those 
sanctuaries  should  be  eliminated  and  be  replaced  by 
increased  regional  cooperation  against  extremists  and 
terrorists.  

Thirdly,  insufficient  progress  has  been  made  in 
terms  of  State-building.  There  are  great  successes, 
transition,  and  welcomes 
Secondly,  Afghanistan’s 
internal  situation 
targets  are  not 
this 
this 
transition 
A/62/PV.44
security 
the  Afghan  National  Army  and 
particularly 
the 
National Solidarity Programme, but the National Police 
and  some  of  the  other  ministries  that  deliver  services 
require  much  effort.  Moreover,  some  areas 
in 
Afghanistan  lack  good  governance  at  the  provincial 
and  local  levels. Where  officials  are  weak,  ineffective 
or abusive, the good will and support  of the people is 
put at risk. Afghanistan cannot succeed if the people do 
not actively support their Government.  

Fourthly, the  rising production of opium poppies 
risks the creation of a narco-State and the supplanting 
of  the  legal  economy  by  criminal  elements.  We  urge 
the Afghan Government to take the necessary stops to 
deal with those challenges.  

The United States reaffirms its commitment to its 
partnership  with  the  Afghan  people.  As  demonstrated 
on  11  September  2001,  American 
is 
inextricably  linked  with  Afghanistan’s  security.  The 
United  States  will  continue  to  help  the Afghan  people 
and their leaders as long as it takes for Afghanistan to 
succeed.  We  call  on  the  international  community  to 
continue to join in this commitment to Afghanistan, in 
particular  in  implementing  the  Afghanistan  Compact 
and,  for  those  with  forces  in  Afghanistan,  though 
contributions  to  the  International  Security  Assistance 
Force mission. 
Mr.  Akram  (Pakistan):  This  debate  is  a  timely 

opportunity  for  the  international  community  to  review 
the  situation 
its 
contribution  to  the  realization  of  our  agreed  objective 
of  seeking  peace,  stability  and  development  in  that 
country.  

Pakistan has a vital stake in the success of those 
efforts. It has suffered directly and more than any other 
country  from  the  consequences  of  the  decades  of 
conflict and human tragedy in Afghanistan, which have 
impacted  our  social  and  economic  fabric,  disturbed 
peace and tranquillity on our border regions and given 
rise to the common threat of extremism and terrorism. 
Pakistan’s  commitment 
in 
Afghanistan  derives  from  our  common  vision  —  a 
vision of common strategic and economic interests, as 
well  as  the  bonds  of  geography,  history,  faith  and 
culture, which link the destinies of our two nations.  

Peace and stability in the region are also essential 
in  order  to  enable  Afghanistan  and  Pakistan  to  serve 
eventually  as  the  hub  for  the  shortest  and  most 
economical corridors for trade in raw materials, goods 
to  peace  and  stability 
in  Afghanistan  and 
to  enhance 
07-58078 

29 
The 
between 
through 
the 
Pakistan 
including 
cooperation 
responsibility. 
the  entire  spectrum.  There 
A/62/PV.44 

and  energy  between  Central Asia  and  South  and West 
Asia and beyond. Pakistan will host the third Regional 
Economic  Cooperation  Conference  on  Afghanistan 
early next year.  
and 

Afghanistan  spans 
is 
dialogue  and  regular  exchange  of  visits  at  the  highest 
level.  Bilateral  trade  is  now  $1.5  billion.  Despite  our 
own  financial  constraints,  Pakistan  is  participating 
significantly  in  Afghanistan’s  economic  development 
and 
reconstruction.  Our  $300  million  assistance 
package  for  Afghanistan  is  the  largest  cooperation 
programme that Pakistan has with any country.  
We  are  also  engaged  in  security-in-intelligence 

cooperation, 
tripartite 
commission,  which  includes  the  United  States  and 
NATO  forces.  Much  of  the  success  in  the  campaign 
against  terrorism  has  been  achieved  with  our  support 
and cooperation. We have made enormous sacrifices — 
more than any other country in this struggle — in order 
to  interdict  illegal  cross-border  movement,  which  is  a 
joint 
established 
1,000 border  posts  and  deployed  over  100,000  troops 
on our side of the border with Afghanistan.  

latest 
the  reasons  for 
developments in Pakistan was the need to deal with the 
threat of terrorism and extremism. This should not be a 
matter  of  concern,  especially  to  our  brothers  in 
Afghanistan.  On  the  contrary,  it  will  enhance  our 
ability to ensure security on our frontier and contribute 
to regional security.  

One of the major outstanding challenges that we 
face  is  related  to Afghan  refugees.  Pakistan  continues 
to host more than 2 million Afghan refugees. We have 
now  agreed  on  the  repatriation  of  all Afghan  refugees 
living in Pakistan within the framework of the tripartite 
agreement  of  2  August  2007.  Additionally,  Pakistan, 
Afghanistan 
the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  have  also  reached  an 
agreement  to  expedite  closure  of  four Afghan  refugee 
camps close to the border because of security concerns. 
Voluntary, safe and orderly return of refugees and their 
reintegration  will  contribute 
the  stability  of 
Afghanistan  and  the  region.  We  expect  the  United 
Nations  and  the  international  community  to  assist  in 
this objective with all necessary resources. 

Afghanistan  require  a  correspondingly 
The  complex  and  interconnected  challenges  in 
integrated, 
Indeed,  one  of 
Pakistan 
has 
and 
to 

to 
are 
essential 
coherent and coordinated response. Though relying on 
international  support,  such  a  response  must  have 
strong,  national  ownership,  which  is  indispensable  to 
effectively tackling the multitude of problems, most of 
which  are 
internal  problems  within  Afghanistan. 
Extension  of  Government  authority  and  indigenous 
capacity-building 
increasingly 
assuming  responsibility,  while  progressively  reducing 
reliance  on  foreign  partners.  A  successful  strategy  in 
Afghanistan  must  be  based  on  a  comprehensive 
approach  that  addresses  the  political,  security  and 
developmental  aspects  in  parallel.  Political  dialogue 
and  reconciliation  have  to  be  an  essential  part  of  this 
strategy.  Such  a  strategy  would  have  to  build  peace 
painstakingly,  district  by  district,  region  by  region, 
since circumstances in each area differ. 

Security  is,  of  course,  is  the  major  challenge 
throughout  Afghanistan.  The  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  notes  that  at  least  78  districts  of Afghanistan 
are currently rated as “extremely risky.” On top of this, 
there are large parts of Afghanistan that are ungoverned 
spaces or under parallel power structures, controlled by 
insurgents.  These  are  the  sanctuaries  that  need  to  be 
eliminated  before  seeking  to  externalize Afghanistan’s 
problems.   

terrorist  activity, 
insecurity  and  violence  are  caused  by  several  other 
factors,  including  factional  fighting,  criminal  activity, 
illegal  armed  groups,  warlords  and  drug  barons.  A 
strong nexus has developed between the drug trade and 
terrorist  activity.  An  objective  analysis  and  proper 
understanding  of  this  complex  security  matrix  is 
required in order to formulate an effective response.  

The call for violence and conflict emanates from 
terrorist  groups  —  foreign  militants  such  as Al-Qaida 
and militant Taliban, who are not prepared to reconcile 
and give up the path of violence. These elements must 
be  directly  confronted.  However,  the  military  strategy 
must  seek  to  avoid  civilian  casualties  and  should  be 
conducted  in  a  manner  so  as  not  to  exacerbate  the 
alienation  and  grievances  of  the  population.  While 
terrorists have to be defeated, the extremists need to be 
convinced and converted.  

the  Afghan  social 
phenomenon. Most of them can be won over. President 
Karzai’s  offer  of  dialogue  and  reconciliation  to  the 
Taliban is therefore welcomed. Despite its rejection by 
some  Taliban  leaders,  we  believe  that  his  is  the  right 
The  Taliban  are  part  of 
insurgent  and 
Apart  from 
the 
30 

07-58078 
to  win 
strategy, 
including 
the  common  people, 
the  hearts  and  minds  of 


approach  and  should  be  pursued.  The  report  of  the 
Secretary-General also calls for a more comprehensive 
counter-insurgency 
political 
outreach to the affected groups. Pakistan is assisting in 
such peace and reconciliation efforts through the joint 
jirga  process.  A  smaller  15  member  jirga  has  been, 
among other things, mandated to expedite the ongoing 
dialogue  for  peace  and  reconciliation.  This  smaller 
jirga is meeting now in Islamabad.  
We also need to pay attention to the concerns and 

aspirations  of 
the  common 
population of Afghanistan, which, in certain areas and 
for diverse reasons, has sympathy for the viewpoint of 
the Taliban and is thus susceptible to extremism. While 
isolating Al-Qaida terrorists and die-hard militants, it is 
important 
the 
population.  Good  governance  and  rule  of  law  are 
required to counter the problems of neglect, exclusion 
and  interference,  which  are  common  causes  of  their 
grievances.  Hearts  and  minds  cannot  be  won,  when 
there is neither security nor any tangible improvement 
in the lives of the ordinary people. 

Despite  improvement  in  several  economic  and 
social  indicators,  the  pace  of  economic  development 
and  reconstruction  in  Afghanistan,  especially  in  the 
south,  remain  slow  and  uneven.  The  problem  is  more 
severe  in  areas  where  insecurity  abounds,  thus  further 
alienating those local populations. Besides the need to 
ensure  the  fulfilment  of  all  existing  commitments,  we 
must  drastically  increase  the  resources  available  for 
economic  recovery  and  reconstruction.  It  is  also 
important  to  develop  and  utilize  local  and  national 
capacities  for  development  and  reconstruction.  This 
would  significantly  reduce  costs  and  ensure  that  most 
of  the  funding  for  aid  is  spent  for  the  purposes 
intended.  

This year’s second successive increase on record 
in poppy cultivation in Afghanistan is perhaps the most 
disturbing development and represents a grave danger, 
considering 
the  drug 
problem. The failed drug strategy is quickly converting 
Afghanistan into a virtual drug economy. Drug money 
is 
insurgent  activity.  A 
comprehensive and balanced counter-narcotics strategy 
is required, along with greater resources. This strategy 
should  focus  on  providing  gainful  and  sustainable 
livelihoods  in  the  rural  areas  and  break  the  link  

the  cross-cutting  nature  of 
terrorist  and 
financing 
A/62/PV.44
the 
like 
to 
thank 
that 
efforts 
We  would 
counter-narcotics 
is,  corruption.  The  report  of 
between drug money and the financing of terrorist and 
insurgent activity — and criminality — in Afghanistan.  
It  is  also  vital  to  address  the  other  cross-cutting 

problem, 
the 
Secretary-General  and 
the  draft  resolution  under 
consideration note the effects of corruption on security, 
good  governance, 
and 
economic  development.  In  this  context,  it  is  also 
important to build the capacity of the Afghan national 
security  institutions.  Properly  equipped,  trained,  paid 
and ethnically-balanced professional forces would also 
help  to  reduce  reliance  on  foreign  forces  for  security, 
counter-insurgency and law and order.  

the  delegation  of 
Germany for  coordinating the formulation of the draft 
resolution  on  Afghanistan.  We  believe 
text 
addresses  all  the  relevant  issues  in  a  comprehensive 
and balanced manner. Pakistan has, therefore, joined in 
co-sponsoring  this  resolution,  which  we  hope  will  be 
adopted by consensus. 

No doubt the challenges faced by Afghanistan are 
immense. The  road  to  durable  peace  and  development 
is difficult, but the objective is achievable. Afghanistan 
is  fortunate  to  enjoy  the  continuing  support  of  the 
international  community.  From 
the  neighbouring 
countries to the international partners, including NATO 
the  International  Security  Assistance  Force  and  the 
United  Nations:  all  have  an  important  stake  in  the 
success  of  Afghanistan.  Their  commitment  and 
engagement will be required for the long run. For there 
can be no short cut to success in Afghanistan. What is 
needed  at  this  stage  is  to  combine  our  resources  and 
coordinate  our  policies  and  approaches 
into  a 
comprehensive  and  winning  strategy  in  Afghanistan. 
Pakistan  will  continue  to  pay  its  leading  role  in  this 
collective endeavour. 
The  Acting  President:  Before  concluding,  I 

would  like  to  inform  members  that,  at  the  request  of 
the  sponsors  and  as 
the  Journal, 
consideration  of  agenda  item  16,  “Protracted  conflicts 
in 
for 
international  peace,  security  and  development”,  and 
agenda 
the  occupied 
territories  of  Azerbaijan”,  have  been  postponed  to  a 
later date, to be announced.  
The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m. 

item  20,  “The  situation 
the  GUAM  area  and 
implications 
reflected 
their 
in 
in 
07-58078 

31 
