United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

50th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 13 November 2007, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

A/62/PV.50
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia)
report  of 
Implementation  of 
architecture  of  the  African  Union  into  the  system  of 
collective security established by the Charter.  

the  Ten-Year  Capacity-
Building Programme to strengthen the capacities of the 
African Union will help the efforts to bring long-term 
stability to the continent. We urge the Security Council 
to continue to promote the Programme and to improve 
coordination of its activities in Africa with the African 
Union  Peace  and  Security  Council.  We  hope  that  the 
forthcoming 
the  Secretary-General  on 
relations  between  the  United  Nations  and  the African 
Union  will  contain  concrete  recommendations  on 
improving the structure of cooperation.  

We  welcome  the  Security  Council’s  efforts  to 
strengthen  its  actions  to  prevent  the  outbreak  of  new 
crises threatening international peace and security. The 
Council should establish an institutional framework to 
make  its  efforts  more  systematic  and  effective,  as  is 
currently  the  case  with  regard  to  preventing  the 
resurgence  of  conflict  by  promoting  peacebuilding  in 
the  framework  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
established in December 2005.  

We  welcome  the  practice  of  Security  Council 
visits  to  the  countries  on  its  agenda,  in  particular  to 
African countries as well as to the headquarters of the 
African  Union.  This  makes  it  possible  to  intensify 
consultations  with  the  parties  involved,  particularly 
with  the  Peace  and  Security  Council  of  the  African 
Union, as well as to harmonize options and approaches 
to  joint  solutions  in  order  to  overcome  the  problems 
identified.  






The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.  

to 
Agenda items 9 and 122 (continued)  
Report of the Security Council (A/62/2)  
Question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and 
related matters  
Mr.  Ehouzou  (Benin)  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf of my delegation, Mr. President, I thank you for 
convening  this  meeting  to  consider  the  report  of  the 
Security  Council  (A/62/2).  I  am  grateful 
the 
President of the Council for presenting it. I also thank 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  notification  pursuant  to 
paragraph  2  of  Article  12  of  the  Charter  (A/62/300). 
My  delegation  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Angola  on 
behalf of the Group of African States.  

Reading  the  report  makes  us  aware  of  the  many 
challenges  that  the  Council  faced  during  the  period 
under  review.  Outstanding  progress  has  been  made  in 
managing  such 
the  Council’s 
commitment  and  firmness.  Nevertheless,  a  great  deal 
remains  to  be  done  in  order  to  restrain  the  serious 
threats to international peace and security.  

In  the  area  of  peacekeeping,  Africa  continues  to 
take  up  a  considerable  proportion  of  the  Council’s 
agenda.  We  welcome 
that  has  been 
established  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
African  Union,  which  has  enabled  the  two  bodies  to 
cooperate and gradually integrate the peace and security 
the  synergy 
issues, 
thanks 
to 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-59704 (E) 
*0759704* 

is  essential 
fugitives,  which 
The  Council  should  also  ensure 
A/62/PV.50 


In this connection, the decision to deploy a hybrid 
mission  to  Darfur  marks  a  significant  evolution  in 
cooperation  and  a  better  division  of  labour.  We  also 
welcome  the  efforts  to  improve  the  prospects  of  a 
lasting  peace  in  West  Africa.  The  Council’s  report 
emphasizes  that,  in  spite  of  the  grave  concerns  caused 
by  the  proliferation  of  light  weapons,  the  situation 
appears more promising than it has been for some years.  

The considerable efforts to promote international 
justice and combat impunity for crimes connected with 
massive  violations  of  human  rights  and  international 
humanitarian  law  must  be  continued.  The  Council 
should  consolidate  the  achievements  made  in  this 
regard,  so  that  the  implementation  of  completion 
strategies does not call into question the possibility of 
to 
prosecuting 
the 
preservation of peace in the countries concerned.  

the 
that 
jurisprudence  of  the  international  criminal  tribunals  is 
accessible  to  those  countries  at  all  times. The African 
Union  must  also  be  considered  as  a  possible 
destination  for  the  records  of  the  proceedings  of  the 
tribunals  operating  in  Africa.  In  this  respect,  there 
should  be  cooperation  with  the  African  Court  on 
Human and Peoples’ Rights.  

It  is  noteworthy  that  the  Security  Council  has 
conducted  a  fruitful  dialogue  with  Member  States  on 
general  issues  pertaining  to  international  peace  and 
security,  especially 
thematic 
debates. The views expressed by States in that dialogue 
should  be  taken  into  account  so  that  this  extremely 
valuable exercise of thematic debates may give rise to 
a  constant  momentum,  strengthening  the  effectiveness 
of the Council’s action.  
The  fact  remains  that  the  Security  Council  in  its 

current configuration has inconsistencies that affect its 
capacity  for  action.  We  hope  that  steps  will  be  taken 
during the current session to carry out the long awaited 
reform of the Council. My delegation looks forward to 
this  reform,  which  should  affect  the  two  categories  of 
seats  on  the  Council  and  its  working  methods.  Our 
views  are  well  known  on  the  bold  steps  needed  to 
enhance  the  Council’s  representativity,  and  thus  its 
legitimacy and authority.  

In  general,  we  should  take  advantage  of  the 
significant  progress  achieved  during  the  course  of  the 
sixty-first  session,  which  should  serve  as  the  basis  for 
through  public  and 
to 
and 
two 
seats 
permanent 
determining  the  parameters  of  the  Council’s  new 
configuration  so  that  it  can  respond  to  the  new 
geopolitical  realities  of  the  21st  century.  This  new 
configuration should take into consideration the need to 
correct  the  historic  injustice  done  to  Africa  by  its 
exclusion  from  the  permanent  seats  on  the  Security 
Council. We  repeat  the legitimate  claim  of  the African 
continent 
five 
non-permanent seats to provide equitable representation 
of all of its subregions, in accordance with the Ezulwini 
Consensus  and  the  2005  Syrte  Declaration.  Reform 
must  ensure  an  equitable  representation  of  developing 
countries,  as  well  as  a  geographical  distribution  of 
seats,  taking  into  account  the  numeric  weight  of  each 
region within the Organization.  
In  the  same  vein,  we  should  firmly  commit  to 

reform  of  the  Council’s  working  methods  to  clearly 
take into account and express the sovereign equality of 
Member  States  and  other  cardinal  principles  of  the 
Charter. The  consideration that  the  Council  has  begun 
on  this  matter  deserves  to  be  pursued,  taking  into 
account  Member  States’  specific  proposals,  and  in 
particular 
those  of 
the  “S-5”  group,  which  my 
delegation supports.  

session, 
end 
Mr. President,  under  the  visionary  leadership  of  your 
predecessor,  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  Al  Khalifa  —  to 
whom  I  pay  tribute  —  the  General  Assembly  gave  a 
clear  mandate  on  the  next  stage  of  Security  Council 
reform. As you so well emphasized in your statement at 
the beginning of the current session, we must have the 
courage to begin the next phase, which should lead to 
concrete results. The next phase of which you spoke is 
intergovernmental  negotiations  to  provide  the  United 
Nations  and 
international  community  with  a 
Security  Council  that  is  more  representative  in  its 
composition,  more  transparent,  more  inclusive  in  its 
working  methods,  and  thus  more  effective  in  dealing 
with threats to international peace and security.  
We  count  on  you,  Mr.  President,  to  conduct  the 

negotiations, and encourage you to appoint one or two 
coordinators to help you in that very delicate exercise. 
Before  the  end  of  this  session  we  should  —  working 
modestly,  calmly  and  with  determination  —  reach 
agreement  on  the  substance  of  a  bold  reform  meeting 
the  expectations  of  the  international  community  and 
the  peoples  of  the  United  Nations,  especially  in  the 
twenty-first century.  
sixty-first 
At 
the 
of 
the 
the 
2 

07-59704 
The 
last  session  of 


Mr.  De  Palacio  España  (Spain):  The  Spanish 

delegation  appreciates  the  opportunity  of  this  joint 
debate  to  express  its  views  about  Security  Council 
reform in all its aspects.  

the  General  Assembly 
witnessed  unusual  and  particularly  fruitful  activity 
concerning consideration of equitable representation on 
the  Security  Council,  increase  in  its  membership  and 
other issues relating to the Security Council.  

To  a  large  extent,  that  activity  was  due  to  the 
leadership  of  the  former  President  of  the  General 
Assembly and, through her mandate, to the work done 
by  the  group  of  five  facilitators  —  the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Cyprus,  Croatia,  Chile, 
the 
Netherlands  and  Tunisia  —  as  well  as  the  work  done 
later,  under  a  new  presidential  mandate,  by 
the 
Permanent Representatives of Chile and Liechtenstein, 
building on the work of the former group.  
If  one  had  to  single  out  one  proposal  that 

embodied the spirit of the conclusions reached in those 
reports, the most significant would undoubtedly be the 
proposal  that  the  General  Assembly  should  choose  a 
formula for Security Council reform that could win the 
greatest possible political acceptance among Members, 
and  in  any  case  a  level  well  above  the  majority 
stipulated by the Charter.  
As a result of our work at the end of the previous 

session,  the  Assembly  decided  to  continue,  at  the 
current session, to examine the question now before us, 
in  order  to  achieve  further  concrete  steps,  including 
through  intergovernmental  negotiations,  building  on 
the progress made so far. In a striking step forward, it 
also  urged  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  to  exert 
efforts  to  achieve  general  agreement  among  Member 
States  in  the  consideration  of  all  topics  related  to  this 
question.  This  decision  was  ratified  by  the  General 
Assembly in plenary session. 

the  other 
delegations that form the Uniting for Consensus group, 
considers  that  the  new  phase  of  negotiation  to  be 
started  under  your  leadership,  Mr.  President,  should 
use 
the  Open-ended 
Working  Group.  We  can  all  be  represented  there  and 
make  known  our  positions  in  a  fair  and  open  fashion, 
building  on  the  results  achieved  so  far,  particularly  in 
the  previous  session.  We  can  do  so  with  a  view  to 
reaching general agreement, ruling out alternatives that 
would  promote  voting  on  exclusive  and  partisan 
the  framework  provided  by 
My  delegation, 
together  with 
A/62/PV.50
to 
subject 
revision,  known  as 
in  order 
to  secure 
positions reflective of interests that we believe are not 
the general interests of the Assembly.  

The dialogue begun in recent months, resulting in 
the  recommendation  of  the  Working  Group  and  the 
Assembly  decision  that  I  referred  to  previously,  is  the 
only way in  which to resolve the question of Security 
Council reform in a manner that can pave the way for 
genuine  negotiations,  with  an  in-depth  exploration  of 
formulas  that  will  make  it  possible  to  reach  general 
agreement,  as  regards  both  the  composition  of  the 
Security  Council  and  the  reform  of  its  working 
methods.  We  believe  that  the  two  aspects  should  be 
considered jointly, with a view to finding a solution.  

My  delegation  believes  that  the  two  reports 
resulting  from  the  work  at  the  last  session  should  be 
considered together as a useful tool in order to begin a 
negotiating process, as noted in the letter of the former 
the  General  Assembly  of  26  June. 
President  of 
Together  with  a 
significant  number  of  other 
delegations,  we  have  been  supporting  the  proposed 
approach  that  we  should  first  seek  a  provisional 
the 
agreement, 
“intermediary  approach”, 
the 
broadest possible support for reform and thus increase 
the  probability  of  being 
implemented  and  being 
effective.  

At  the  current  session,  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group should undertake consultations for the necessary 
drawing up of the framework, format and modalities of 
negotiations,  in  order  to  better  prepare  for  a  proper 
negotiating phase. Without wishing to set artificial and 
unrealistic  deadlines,  we  hope  that  that  phase  will 
begin soon.  

Mr.  President,  my  delegation  has  complete 
confidence in your capacity and determination to push 
forward the work of preparing this negotiating ground. 
The  preparation  should  be  carried  out  in  transparent 
and  open  consultations  with  the  relevant  groups, 
already  known,  without  intermediaries,  since  the  task 
of  defining  the  alternatives  and  proposals  has  already 
been done and is well known.  

We believe that this is not the moment to present 
unilateral  initiatives.  Instead,  we  should  work  together 
under  the  same  leadership,  without  prejudice  to  our 
respective  positions,  with  the  shared  objective  of 
achieving viable reform. We therefore consider that it is 
not  appropriate  for  us  to  give  you  a  new  mandate, 
beyond  the  one  that  you  already  have,  Mr.  President, 
07-59704 

3 

A/62/PV.50 

much  less  fix  terms  of  reference,  however  general,  in 
order to begin the work that we must now all undertake, 
since that would be neither necessary nor desirable.  

Mr. President, you may rely on the support of my 
delegation  in  initiating  the  measures  you  consider 
necessary within the framework that we have indicated. 
My  delegation  —  together  with,  I  am  sure,  all  the 
delegations working together for consensus — is fully 
committed  to  the  ultimate  goal  of  continuing  to  work 
honestly  and  seriously,  with  an  open  mind,  for  a 
negotiated proposal that will lead to general agreement 
on Security Council reform.  
Mr. Aisi (Papua New Guinea): At the outset, we 

thank  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Indonesia  for 
introducing the report on the activities  of the Security 
Council for the period 1 August 2006 to 31 July 2007 
(A/62/2).  
The  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  document 

reflected,  amongst  many  other 
(resolution  60/1) 
important  issues,  the  resolve  of  world  leaders  to 
support  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  That 
reform is considered an essential element of the overall 
reform efforts of the United Nations. Additionally, and 
indeed  critically,  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
would  make  it  more  broadly  representative,  efficient 
and 
its 
effectiveness  and  legitimacy  in  the  implementation  of 
its decisions globally.  

We commend you, Mr. President, for your strong 
leadership in translating the resolve of world leaders in 
your five stated priorities of climate change, financing 
for  development,  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
countering 
importantly, 
renewing the management, effectiveness and coherence 
of  this  Organization,  which  includes  Security  Council 
reform.  

to  facilitate  a  fair,  effective  and 
transparent  process,  an  intergovernmental  negotiating 
process  must  be  initiated  immediately.  Such  a  process 
could  be  determined 
through  an  objective  and 
transparent  method,  such  as  a  questionnaire  or  straw 
poll, to arrive at a set of elements that could command 
the widest support, so that they can serve as the basis 
for such intergovernmental negotiations.  

In  this  regard,  we  propose  that  the  following 
elements  be  included:  first,  expansion  in  both  the 
permanent  and  non-permanent  categories;  secondly, 
transparent,  and  would 
further  enhance 
terrorism,  and, 
lastly  and 
In  order 
transition 
economies, 
greater  representation  for  the  developing  countries, 
including  better  access  for  island  and  small  States; 
thirdly,  representation  for  the  developed  countries  and 
those  with 
reflective  of 
contemporary  world  realities;  fourthly,  comprehensive 
improvement  in  the  Council’s  working  methods  — 
here  we  acknowledge  the  work  of  the  S-5  group; 
fifthly,  equitable  geographical  distribution; 
lastly, 
provision for review.  
We  also  believe  that  there  must  be  a  review 

mechanism  on  a  periodical  basis  so 
that  you, 
Mr. President, and future Presidents of the Assembly can 
inform Member States of progress in achieving concrete 
results on the comprehensive reform of the Council.  

Sixty  years  after  the  founding  of  the  United 
Nations, the Security Council no longer reflects current 
political realities. Despite a nearly fourfold increase in 
the  membership  of  the  United  Nations  since  the 
Organization was established, the size and composition 
of  the  Security  Council,  particularly  its  permanent 
membership, has remained intact.  

Any  reform  process  must  advance  the  core 
interests  of  the  vast  majority  of  Member  States.  Any 
expansion of the Security Council needs to be in both 
the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories,  with 
representation  given  in  both  categories  to  developing 
countries  from  Africa,  Asia,  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean.  

To  conclude,  the  discussions  on  this  issue  have 
continued  unabated  for  over  a  decade.  Unless  there  is 
an  intergovernmental  process,  the  discussions  will 
remain just that.  

forward to your strong leadership in this instance.  
Mr.  Soborun  (Mauritius):  Mr.  President,  I  join 

colleagues  in  thanking  you  for  convening  this  timely 
meeting  on  agenda  item  9,  report  of  the  Security 
Council,  and  agenda  item  122,  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security Council and related matters.  
I  start  by  associating  myself  with  the  statement 

Permanent 
made 
Representative  of  Angola,  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group.  I  also  commend  Mr.  Marty  Natalegawa, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Indonesia,  for  his  very 
succinct and lucid presentation of the annual report of 
the Security Council.  
Mr.  President,  we  support  you,  and  we  look 
by  Mr.  Gaspar  Martins, 
4 

07-59704 
the  Council, 
With regard to the report, I shall limit myself to a 



few comments.  

My delegation believes that by simply presenting 
its  activities  in  chronological  order  the  Council  does 
not  fully  live  up  to  its  mandate.  It  would  be  more 
helpful if the following steps were taken.  
The  report  could  be  more  analytical,  giving  an 

assessment  of  the  actions  and  decisions  taken.  The 
Council could hold an open session to discuss its report 
in depth, so as to enlighten Member States on its actions 
and  its  decision-making  process,  as  most  decisions  are 
thrashed  out  and  finalized  in  closed  consultations.  The 
Council  could  submit  to  the  Assembly  a  quarterly  or 
semi-annual  report,  or  a  special  report,  so  that  the 
Assembly could hold periodic meetings on the Council’s 
activities  during  the  course  of  the  year.  That  would  no 
doubt  enhance  the  transparency,  accountability  and 
effectiveness of the Council.  
There  could  also  be  periodic  interaction  and 

coordination  between 
the  General 
Assembly and the Economic and Social Council, with a 
view 
to  enhancing  coherence  and  avoiding  any 
encroachment on each other’s mandates.  

Notwithstanding  the  points  I  have  just  made,  I 
commend  the  Council  for  its  efforts  in  striving  for 
peace  and  security,  particularly  in  the  countries  in 
conflict situations in Africa.  

I  approach  agenda  item  122  from  the  following 
angles:  the  ongoing  consultations  in  the  Open-ended 
Working  Group;  the  report  of  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  the  sixty-first  session;  and  the 
report of the facilitators.  

The  15-year-old  ongoing  consultations  on  the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council,  involving  Member 
States  at  the  level  of  Heads  of  State  and  Government, 
Ministers 
permanent 
representatives,  among  others,  have  generated  many 
ideas and proposals, each as important as the others — 
so much so that we now find ourselves in the situation 
of  having  difficulty  in  choosing  the  best  course  of 
action.  
However,  on  the  basis  of  consultations  held  so 

far,  my  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  the  optimum 
ground  has  been  covered  that  could  provide  the 
necessary 
intergovernmental 
negotiations.  Those  elements  may  be  summed  up  as 
follows:  there  can  be  no  meaningful  reform  of  the 
of  Foreign  Affairs 
elements 
start 
and 
to 
A/62/PV.50
and 
the 
small 
including 
including 
reports  of 
intergovernmental 
Council without an expansion of the membership in the 
category  of  both  permanent  and  non-permanent 
members;  greater  representation  of  the  developing 
countries, 
island  States; 
comprehensive  improvement  in  the  Council’s  working 
methods; and a review of the use of the veto.  

The  President  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first 
session issued a report (A/61/47) on the reform of the 
Security  Council, 
the 
facilitators. In her concluding remarks at the end of the 
sixty-first  session,  the  President  stated,  inter  alia,  that 
she hoped Member States  would “have  the courage to 
begin  discussions  on  meaningful  intergovernmental 
negotiations”  (A/61/PV.109,  p.  16).  Her  report,  read 
together with the Millennium Declaration and the 2005 
World  Summit  Outcome  Document  on  reform  of  the 
Security  Council,  underscores  the  following  as  points 
of  prime  importance:  status  quo  no  longer  acceptable; 
support for  early  reform of the Security Council; start 
of  meaningful 
negotiations; 
achievement  of  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Council 
in all its aspects; and a more representative, legitimate 
and effective Security Council.  

Based  on  consultations  that  the  facilitators  held, 
particularly  those  about  the  status  quo  not  being  an 
option and the fact that flexibility is required to move 
the  reform  process  ahead,  they  proposed  what  is 
described  as  an  intermediary  or  transitional  approach. 
However, 
the 
parameters of the intermediary approach have yet to be 
defined appropriately and accurately.  

The difficulty of a clear definition is mainly due 
to  the  complexity  of  the  topic  under  consideration. 
That  is  also  why  the  facilitators’  reports  contain  all 
along  such  vague  and  inconclusive  terms  as  “a  large 
number of States”, “a group of States”, “overwhelming 
majority”  and  “a  significant  number”  to  describe 
certain proposals and positions. Obviously, these terms 
do not convey a clear picture of the accurate numbers 
involved.  Transparency,  objectivity  and  accountability 
of reporting on a subject of such great importance and 
magnitude  are  essential  to  enlist  the  confidence  of 
Member States.  

The  intermediary  approach,  as  proposed  by  the 
facilitators,  is  not  very  different  from  the  transitional 
approach  that  has  existed  since  1965,  when  the 
Security  Council  was  expanded  by  an  additional  five 
non-permanent seats. It is certainly not my delegation’s 
facilitators  acknowledge 
that 
the 
07-59704 

5 

A/62/PV.50 

intention  to  repeat  the  same  sort  of  exercise  in  the 
present changed geopolitical realities of the world.  

Furthermore, the intermediary approach proposes 
a  mandate  review  at  a  predetermined  date  to  review 
and  assess  the  inadequacy  of  this  arrangement.  As 
other  speakers  have  pointed  out,  in  the  absence  of  a 
clear  time  frame  and  an  accurately  defined  mandate, 
the  mandate  review  itself  may  be  doomed  to  failure, 
with  the  end  result  being  that  we  may  run  the  risk  of 
postponing  the  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security 
Council for decades.  

The  intermediary  approach  in  its  present  form 
contains  the  seeds  of  further  perpetuating  the  historic 
injustice done to Africa. It further eludes the legitimate 
aspirations  of  the  Common  African  Position,  which 
calls  for  at  least  two  permanent  seats  as  early  as 
possible.  Ambassador  Wang  Guangya,  Permanent 
Representative of the People’s Republic of China, was 
perfectly right when he said yesterday that  

“Any  formula  on  Security  Council  reform  that 
does  not  address  the  concerns  of  Africa  can 
hardly  win  endorsement  of  the  entire  United 
Nations  membership  and  will  not  have 
the 
backing of China”. (A/62/PV.48)  

We  have  observed  in  the  past  10  years  that  the 
use of the veto in the Security Council has diminished 
significantly.  For  example,  we  have  noted  that  the 
United  States  has  used  it  12  times,  the  Russian 
Federation  twice  and  the  People’s  Republic  of  China 
three times. The United Kingdom and France have not 
used it during that period. Indeed, the veto has become 
an anachronism in an era in which the Berlin wall fell 
down  almost  two  decades  ago,  democracy  is  taking 
firm root almost everywhere in the world, from Africa 
to Asia, the Latin American and Caribbean region and 
Eastern  Europe,  and  also  at  a  time  when  we  are 
witnessing wide-scale globalization.  

Ambassador  Mahiga,  Permanent  Representative 
of the United Republic of Tanzania, in his statement to 
the  Working  Group  on  3  May  as  Chairman  of  the 
African  Group  for  the  month  of  May  2007,  clearly 
described the African position on the veto:  

“Africa is opposed in principle to the veto but it 
is  of  the  view  that  so  long  it  exists,  and  as  a 
matter  of  common  justice,  it  should  be  made 
available 
the 
Security  Council.  Alternatively,  it  should  be 
to  all  permanent  members  of 
too.  That 
is  why  Mauritius 
addressed  in  a  manner  to  make  it  progressively 
circumscribed,  rendered  irrelevant  and  thereafter 
removed altogether.”  

We  salute  the  legitimate  aspirations  of  those 
regional  groups  and  individual  Member  States  that 
have  had  the  courage  to  rise  to  the  challenge  and  say 
that  they  are  ready  to  serve  as  permanent  members 
should  a  chance  be  given  to  them  to  contribute  to  the 
maintenance of international peace and security and to 
serve humankind.  
We are among those who believe that by making 

our  neighbours  and  friends  stronger  we  become 
stronger, 
remains 
committed  to  the  Common  African  Position,  which 
calls  for  two  permanent  seats,  with  all  the  privileges, 
and  five  non-permanent  seats,  as  spelt  out  in  the 
Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration.  

We  continue  to  support  the  idea  of  a  Member 
State  from  Latin America  and  the  Caribbean  having  a 
permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council.  We  also 
continue to say that a permanent seat for India is long 
overdue,  not  only  because 
time-tested 
democracy,  the  largest  in  the  world,  established  just 
after  the  founding  of  the  United  Nations,  but  also 
because it has proved to the world that, despite being a 
multiracial and multicultural society, and a developing 
country,  it  can  provide  stability,  peace  and  security  to 
more  than  one  seventh  of  the  world’s  population 
without  any  assistance  or 
the 
international community.  
Mauritius  was  one  of  the  sponsors  of  draft 

resolution  A/61/L.69,  along  with  India,  Brazil,  South 
Africa, Nigeria, Benin, Burundi, Rwanda, Cape Verde, 
Jamaica, Barbados, Papa New Guinea and the Solomon 
Islands,  to  name  but  a  few.  Mauritius  sponsored  it  in 
full  awareness  of  its  content  and  implications,  and  in 
conformity with the Common African Position.  

As of now, when we refer to a permanent seat on 
the  Security  Council,  we  mean  a  permanent  seat  with 
all  its  privileges.  Indeed,  the  draft  resolution  was 
successful in breaking the usual stalemate of the Open-
ended  Working  Group  by  including  the  element  of 
intergovernmental negotiations in the Group’s report to 
the Assembly  at  its  sixty-first  session. As  a  matter  of 
fact, it was a wake-up call with regard to adherence to 
the 
to 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  It 
lowest  common  denominator  with  regard 
intervention  from 
it 
is  a 
6 

07-59704 
the 
initiated 
resolve  of 
I  conclude  on 
(A/61/47)  and  with 
that  could  determine 


demonstrated  that  it  was  not  a  matter  of  business  as 
usual.  

the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  other  related  matters  with  a 
view  that  is  in  keeping  with  the  recommendations  of 
the President of the General Assembly at its sixty-first 
session,  with  paragraph  26  of  the  second  facilitators’ 
report 
the 
Millennium Declaration and the Outcome Document of 
the  2005  World  Summit  of  Heads  of  State  and 
Government.  My  delegation  believes  that  it  is  high 
intergovernmental  negotiations, 
time  we 
without  any  further  delay.  In 
this  respect,  my 
delegation  proposes  that  we  adopt  an  objective  and 
transparent  mechanism 
the 
elements  that  enjoy  the  widest  possible  support  in 
order to start intergovernmental negotiations.  

In conclusion, Mr. President, I assure  you of my 
delegation’s total support for an equitable, meaningful, 
comprehensive,  transparent,  legitimate  and  effective 
Security Council.  
Mr. Motoc (Romania): Thank you, Mr. President, 

for  organizing  this  debate.  My  delegation  is  among 
those that believe that it should — and, indeed, will — 
be the last of this general nature. The feeling of déjà vu 
is  already  too  strong.  The  only  assured  plus  of 
repeating this debate over and over is that it may leave 
us with the illusion of staying young.  

It  is  decades  since  the  last  enlargement  of  the 
Security  Council.  Soon  it  will  be  decades  since  we 
started  open-ended  discussions  on  how  we  can  set 
about  the  next.  Let  us  agree  that  politically  it  is  not 
healthy  to  have  a  subject  matter  open  indefinitely  for 
revision and reform.  

I  refrain  from  saying  “It  is  now  or  never”, 
although  the  tune  plays  in  many  minds  each  time  we 
touch this topic. It is, nevertheless, clear that either we 
start serious enlargement negotiations now or it would 
be  better  to  call  it  quits,  live  with  the  Council  as  it  is 
and go about our business.  

If we decide to go for it, we shall find that plenty 
of substantive preparatory work has already been done. 
We  are  overwhelmingly  of  the  view  that  we  need  an 
enlarged  Council  so  that  it  is  more  representative  and 
more reflective of today’s political realities.  
A/62/PV.50
My 
this 
is 
for  an 
to  view 
framework 
We  have  a 
take  from  all 

intermediary 
enlargement that commands broad support, for under the 
present circumstances it is logical to expand the Council 
in  both  categories  of  membership.  There  are  several 
draft  resolutions  on  the  topic.  We  also  have  a  fresh 
resolution  from  last  September  warranting  negotiations 
on the Council’s reform during this session.  

that  now  you, 
Mr. President,  have  a  historic  opportunity  to  set  the 
negotiating  process  in  motion  and  see  to  it  that  it 
delivers  the  enlargement  of  the  Security  Council. You 
know that on this goal you can count on several times 
more friends among the delegations than on any other 
conceivable  issue.  Please  register  the  unconditional 
readiness of my delegation in that regard.  

A  sufficiently  representative  enlargement  might 
significantly increase ownership of the United Nations 
for countries and nations around the world. Conversely, 
lack of reform here would badly hurt the Organization, 
for  it  would  have  stayed  the  same  for  40  years,  as  if 
there  had  been  no  such  things  as  the  end  of  the  cold 
war or the dawning of the globalization era. At a time 
when even the climate seems to be changing, one could 
choose 
institutional 
stability,  yet  most  would  see  it  as,  rather,  a  recipe  for 
assured institutional diminution.  

Failure  to  reform  the  Council  would  also  mean 
that we had not been able to get our act together and do 
our job here in New York. Granted, decision-making on 
such a delicate political question cannot be confined to 
New  York.  Our  job  here,  however,  is  to  provide  our 
leaders with proposals that can inform their policy- and 
decision-making. They actually formally asked us to do 
precisely that back in 2005.  
Let me now sketch briefly the parameters around 

which  the  Romanian  delegation  would  develop  its 
position for the start of intergovernmental negotiations.  

To  be  qualitatively  meaningful  and  politically 
sustainable,  enlargement  should  encompass  both 
permanent and non-permanent membership categories. 
If the intermediary formula is pursued to achieve such 
comprehensive  enlargement,  access  to  mandates  other 
than those currently featuring in the Charter should be 
granted on democratic electoral requirements. While it 
might not be possible to foretell the precise outcome of 
the intermediary process, the process should be subject 
to  clear  review  provisions,  so  that  nations  can  ensure 
through  the  democratic  means  already  available  in 
that  as  remarkable 
07-59704 

7 
The 
should 
from 
enlargement 
the  Organization. 
A/62/PV.50 

national  settings  that  only  those  qualified  take  up 
special obligations in the future enlarged Council.  

the 
consolidate 
confidence of all Member  States that they receive fair 
treatment 
Equitable 
geographical consideration is a primary requirement in 
that  regard.  Each  Member  State  would  have  to  see  its 
chances  of  serving  on  the  enlarged  Council  increased. 
When  embarking  on  the  enlargement,  however,  we 
should remain realistic, and in particular accept that no 
formula,  no  matter  how  elaborate,  no  matter  how 
sophisticated,  will  achieve  the  absolute  redress  of 
inherited imbalances.  

The  delegation  of  Romania  believes  that  the 
present Security Council carries out its responsibilities 
under  the  Charter  in  an  effective,  decisive  and  at  the 
same  time,  depending  on  the  circumstances,  self-
restrained  manner.  Its  enlargement  should  therefore 
preserve those distinctive features. Size-wise, it should 
be  possible  to  achieve  that  aim  by  extrapolating  the 
magnitude  of  the  previous  enlargement  to  present-day 
expectations.  
For the next enlargement to fly, it is of paramount 

importance that no one should be excluded, and that no 
arrangements  should  be  construed  by  some  at  the 
expense  of  others.  We  have  already  wasted  precious 
time by overlooking the resilient nature of the present 
regional configuration of the United Nations.  

As we will, hopefully, start working on effecting 
a  twenty-first  century  enlargement  of  the  Security 
Council,  let  us  forget  that  it  is  possible  to  treat  the 
Eastern  Europeans  like  the  Cinderella  of  the  United 
Nations  —  although  that  should  probably  be  a  reason 
for optimism, in fact, since in the fairy tale Cinderella 
eventually  had  her  day  under  the  moon.  What  the 
Eastern  European  Group  wants  is  to  emerge  from 
enlargement  with  at 
least  one  additional  elected 
mandate.  
it,  while,  with  a 

remarkable  display  of  modesty,  no  Eastern  European 
State  has  so  far  claimed  new  permanent  status,  the 
aforementioned position means that all options, starting 
from one additional elected seat, are open.  

Let us hope that we will be able to recall this day 
as the day when we decisively relaunched the Security 
Council enlargement process.  
As  my  delegation  sees 

in 
increase 
representation  on  and 
Mr. Sen (India): We thank you, Mr. President, for 

convening this joint debate on agenda item 9, report of 
the Security Council, and agenda item 122, question of 
equitable 
the 
membership of the Security Council and related matters.  

I  begin  where  the  Chair  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  ended,  by  congratulating  Burkina  Faso, 
Costa  Rica,  Croatia,  the  Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya  and 
Viet Nam on being elected non-permanent members of 
the  Security  Council.  I  also  express  our  appreciation 
for  the  introduction  of  the  Council’s  report  by  the 
Permanent Representative of Indonesia.  

Before I come to the report itself, let me say that 
we  have  just  heard  about  a  fairy  tale  and  Cinderella. 
There  are  some  fairy  tales  that  do  not  have  any  end, 
and  this  is  one  of  them. Yesterday,  I  think,  I  was  told 
by  someone  that  it  was  Veterans  Day.  If  it  was,  then 
indeed  it  was  an  auspicious  occasion  to  begin  this 
debate,  because  we  have  so  many  veterans  of  these 
debates, and we will continue to have many veterans in 
the  years  to  come  if  we  go  on  in  the  present  manner. 
Ultimately, words buffalo past us. 
A  very  interesting  book  has  just  been  published 

by  one  of  our  former  colleagues,  John  Bolton  of  the 
United States, called Surrender Is Not an Option. In it 
he  writes  that  if  he  had  been  paid  by  the  hour,  as  a 
lawyer  in  one  of  the  United  States  legal  firms  is,  he 
would  have  left  the  United  Nations  a  very  rich  man. 
His  bête  noire,  the  man  he  really  disliked,  Lord 
Malloch-Brown, said in his Holmes Memorial Lecture 
on  7  June  that  there  is  one  organization  where  one 
subject  is  discussed  more  often  than  sex  —  and  that 
subject  is  Security  Council  reform.  If  Mr.  Bolton  and 
Lord  Malloch-Brown  agree,  then  quite  clearly  all  this 
torrent  of  words  has  not  got  us  very  far.  We  have 
reached  a  point  where  we  are  no  nearer  to  Security 
Council reform. Indeed, unless we move from words to 
action, this is likely to remain the case.  

I  return  to  the  report.  When  it  was  being 
introduced,  several  issues  were  mentioned.  I  refer  to 
one of them, not with any kind of pejorative purpose or 
to refer to any individual Member State, but simply to 
raise some of the structural problems that the Security 
Council faces today. I am speaking of the setting up of 
special tribunals.  

We all know that, while the Security Council can 
set  up  subsidiary  bodies,  it  cannot  really  give  them 
legal powers. The reason is very simple and clear; it is 
8 

07-59704 


to be found in the old Roman principle of nemo dat qui 
non habet, which means that one cannot give what one 
does not have. So certain legal infirmities have crept in.  

This becomes even simpler and clearer  when we 
come  to  another  issue  that  was  mentioned:  thematic 
debates,  such  as  those  on  natural  resources  and 
conflict. As  we  know,  the  subject  of  natural  resources 
is  one  that  the  General Assembly  really  ought  to  deal 
with.  This  is  the  old  principle  of  encroachment.  In 
other  words,  in  spite  of  the  balance  in  the  Charter, 
there is an encroachment that non-permanent members 
have not been able to prevent.  

Across the board, both those who support the G-4 
and  those  who  support  Uniting  for  Consensus  have 
criticized  several  other  aspects  of 
the  Security 
Council’s functioning. One example is that the reports 
are  not  analytical.  I  think  that  one  of  the  members  of 
Uniting  for  Consensus  said  yesterday  that  the  reports 
lack  any  substantial  detail  or  information,  and  that,  in 
fact,  they  have  the  same  deficiencies  year  after  year. 
Indeed, this is true.  

Since the non-permanent members have not been 
able to set that right, it was a little illogical then to say 
that  the  Security  Council  should  be  expanded  only  in 
the  non-permanent  category.  Here  I  must  say  that  we 
are  very  appreciative  of  the  good  work  done  by 
Singapore, which went beyond the field of possibilities 
in  2002  and  put  a  lot  of  analytical  content  into  the 
reports. But it proved to be an Indian summer, a flash 
in the pan. Soon the report went back to the good old 
days  —  or  the  bad  old  days. Therefore,  it  was  a  very 
short-lived achievement.  

Similarly,  we  appreciate  the  work  that  was  done 
quite  a  few  years  ago  by,  for  instance,  Argentina  and 
New  Zealand,  on 
troop-contributing 
countries,  but  that  again  proved  to  be  equally  short-
lived. We have resolution 1353 (2001), but even this has 
been  rarely  observed  —  and  then  only  in  the  breach. 
That  is  because  when  the  troop-contributing  countries 
actually get together with the Security Council, the basic 
draft  resolution  is  already  set,  the  issues  are  already 
resolved  —  or  at  least  decided  upon,  because  they  are 
not really resolved. Therefore, there is very little that the 
troop-contributing countries can contribute.  
And why go to that resolution? It was not even a 

partial 
that  was  a 
failure —  of  Article  44  of  the  Charter,  which  is  very 
clear.  It  states  that  those  that  put  their  troops  at  the 
implementation  —  and  even 
involving 
the 
A/62/PV.50
That  is  the  situation  regarding  some  of  these 
disposal of the Security Council have to take part in the 
decision-making:  mind  you,  not  discussions,  not 
debates,  but  decisions,  which  even  would  imply  the 
right to vote. But this has not happened. Therefore, the 
Charter is unable to, in any manner, decide the working 
methods  or  what  the  Security  Council  does.  The 
Charter,  the  supreme  constitution  of  this  body,  cannot 
be  any  kind  of  check  on  the  Security  Council,  any 
more than the General Assembly can.  

Therefore,  we  have  a  situation  in  which  the 
Security Council demands obedience, under Article 25, 
and  levies  troops,  which  are  contributed  by  troop-
contributing  countries  without  any  say  on  their  use, 
their politics and their mandate. It will be remembered 
that  demanding  obedience  and  levying  troops  from 
others  was  a  characteristic  of  the  old  feudal  and 
colonial  systems.  Those, 
in  some  manner,  still 
continue,  which  is  why  the  Security  Council  can  feed 
where  it  has  not  furrowed  and  be  warm  where  it  has 
not woven.  

matters, and I thought it was useful to mention them.  
The representative of one Member State used the 

word “inaccessible”; he said that the Security Council 
was  becoming  more  and  more  inaccessible. And  he  is 
quite  right.  It  is.  But  it  is  not  simply  a  matter  of  the 
General Assembly’s telling the members of the Council 
to  make  themselves  more  accessible,  as  the  “S-5”  are 
trying  to  do.  This  is  quite  clear  in  the  Charter  itself: 
Articles 31 and 32 are very clear that a Member State 
whose  interests  are  affected  has  to  speak  in  the 
Security Council.  

Article 31 does say that the Security Council has 
the  discretion  to  decide  whether  the  interests  of  that 
Member State are affected. But once it is clear that its 
interests  are  affected  —  this  is  very  important  —  the 
Security Council has absolutely no discretion to prevent 
it  from  speaking.  This  is  the  clear,  legal  meaning  of 
Article 31, and yet the Charter cannot be implemented.  

As we all know, the non-permanent members, both 
pre-1965 and post-1965, those that are elected, have not 
been  able,  and  are  not  able,  in  any  way  to  restore  the 
balance of the Charter, to ensure that Articles 31, 32, 44 
and so many others are actually implemented.  

Now, the same representative who referred to the 
inaccessibility of the Security Council also said, again 
very  correctly,  that  the  General  Assembly  had  to 
07-59704 

9 

the 
leading 
One  of 
A/62/PV.50 

provide inspiration for reform of the working methods. 
But  the  point  is  this:  the  General Assembly  has  been 
doing its best to do that, and has been doing it since the 
famous resolution 267 (III) of 14 April 1949, and yet to 
no effect over all these years.  

The  S-5  draft  resolution  does  not  even  go  as  far 
as  resolution  267  (III).  The  draft  resolution  simply 
invites the Security Council to do certain things. What 
if the Council rejects the invitation repeatedly, as it has 
been doing for more than half a century? Quite clearly, 
the  non-permanent  members  have  not  been  able  to 
carry forward any improvement in working methods.  

lights  of  Uniting  for 
Consensus  also  mentioned  the  problems,  the  double 
standards,  the  non-analytical  reports,  the  closed-door 
sessions,  the  lack  of  coordination  with  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  and  the  General Assembly,  and  so 
on.  To  our  mind,  that  criticism  is  unfair.  Members  of 
the Assembly may ask why I am indulging in paradox. 
It is unfair because he is saying, on the one hand, “This 
is  what  is  wrong  with  the  Security  Council”,  and,  on 
the other hand, that the solution is more non-permanent 
members, or more non-permanent members who could 
be  re-elected,  precisely  those  members  that  have  not 
been able to check all of this.  
In  other  words,  that  representative  is  simply 

expressing, 
“great 
dissatisfaction”.  But  he  is  quite  satisfied  to  live  with 
that  dissatisfaction.  He  is  quite  satisfied  with  the 
euphonious sound of what the representative of another 
Member  State  said,  about  continuously  criticizing  the 
Security  Council,  year  after  year,  making  the  same 
criticism,  quite  satisfied  with  the  annual  ritual  of  this 
debate, in which one has one’s say and goes home.  
On  the  other  hand,  there  are  those  who  argue  in 

favour of a new principle of trying out something new, 
of  electing  members  within  the  group  of  permanent 
members  who  would  then  be  held  accountable  for 
restoring  and  maintaining  the  Charter  balance,  for 
preventing  encroachment,  and  for  improving  working 
methods,  and  who  would  be  held  accountable  through 
repeated  review  mechanisms.  The  criticism  made  by 
those  who  criticize  the  Security  Council  from  that 
position  is  surely  at  least  to  that  extent  fair,  because 
they are proposing a way forward, a way out.  

The same leading light of Uniting for Consensus 
said  that  there  should  be  representation,  but  no 
representation  among  the  permanent  members;  that 
own  words, 
use 
his 
to 
does 
leaving 
democracy  mean 
Similarly,  another  member  of  Uniting 
there  should  be  checks  and  balances,  but  nothing  to 
check  or  balance  the  permanent  members;  that  there 
should  be  democracy.  Here  I  was  reminded  of 
Lycurgus,  the  great  lawgiver  of  the  Spartans,  who, 
when  somebody  asked  him  “Why  do  you  not  set  up  a 
democracy?”, responded “Why do you not first set up a 
democracy  in  your  own  home?”  Because  democracy, 
like charity, really begins at home.  

But, even if we take this principle of democracy, 
another  member  of  Uniting  for  Consensus  said  that 
democracy  did  not  mean  leaving  the  winner  in  all 
perpetuity.  However,  he  forgot  address  himself  to  this 
question: 
the 
untrammelled power of a few also for all perpetuity, or 
should something be done about it?  

for 
Consensus  said  that  there  must  be  continual  elections 
and  that,  since  non-permanent  members  are  elected, 
that  was  the  only  way  of  ensuring  accountability. The 
point is, I would be the first to agree, that elections are 
a  necessary  condition.  But  surely  they  are  not  an 
assumed  condition  of  accountability.  Are  the  non-
permanent members accountable? And if so, to whom? 
Do  even  the  regional  groups,  which  can  put  forward 
clean  slates,  always  find  the  non-permanent  members 
accountable? Does the Non-Aligned Movement find all 
its  members  accountable?  Therefore,  accountability  is 
something much more than simply elections.  

Elections  are necessary, of  course. That is why I 
am saying that those who are elected to be among the 
permanent  members  have  to  be  subjected  to  repeated 
reviews  through  a  self-sustaining  review  mechanism. 
They also have to be subjected, possibly through some 
amendments  to  Chapter  II,  to  the  right  of  recall,  the 
oldest democratic principle.  

But  we  cannot  simply  say  “Let  us  go  on  with 
some kind of short-term interim model — short-term in 
terms of the number of years that a member serves — 
or 
non-permanent 
membership”, and expect to change the state of affairs 
in  any  manner  whatsoever.  That  is  the  entire  crux  of 
the  issue,  which  does  not  mean  that  we  are  not 
prepared to look at all models.  

One  member  of  Uniting  for  Consensus  said  that 
we  should  not  mention  anything  that  would  prejudge 
the  final  outcome,  and  then  went  on  to  contradict 
himself by saying that we should have expansion only 
in the non-permanent category. We are not doing that; 
expansion 
purely 
the 
of 
10 

07-59704 


we are saying “Let us see how we can take elements of 
every  model  that  has  so  far  been  presented  and  see 
how,  on  this  basis,  we  can  negotiate”.  I  shall  come  to 
this subsequently to explain in further detail what this 
would really imply. 

The thing is this: we have a situation in which the 
Security Council truly has become not very satisfactory 
in what it does. It has reached a point at which certain 
reform of the Council becomes very necessary in itself. 
There  used  to  be  in  the  Council  a  time  when  the 
content  went  beyond  the  phrase,  but  today  the  phrase 
goes  beyond  the  content.  There  was  a  time  when  its 
reach was beyond its grasp, but today its grasp is more 
than  its  reach.  There  was  a  time  when  the  substance 
was  more  than  style;  today,  the  style  is  more  than 
substance.  

I  referred  earlier  to  Mr.  John  Bolton.  His  book, 
Surrender  Is  Not  an  Option,  has  a  very  interesting 
statement on  page 255: “the Security Council actually 
does not do most of its jobs well”. Those are his words. 
On page 355 he says that the Security Council actually 
massages the problems but does not resolve them. That 
is  not  my  phrase.  The  greatest  critic  of  the  General 
Assembly  and 
the  proponent  of 
untrammelled  power  of  the  Security  Council,  actually 
says that the Council only massages problems and does 
not resolve them.  

The  only  time  that  the  General  Assembly  really 
was  able  to  provide  some  working  method  was  in  its 
famous resolution 11 (I) of 24 January 1946, in which 
it  laid  out  a  procedure  for  the  process  to  select  the 
Secretary-General.  Bolton’s  book  is  very  interesting, 
because it has a whole chapter on the selection process. 
It makes it clear that that General Assembly resolution 
has been only partially observed, because the selection 
process 
almost 
conspiratorial.  It  leaves  aside  all  the  non-permanent 
members,  and  even  reduces 
the  say  of  several 
permanent members.  

The  picture  that  Bolton  paints  —  in  a  long 
chapter  —  of  the  process  to  select  the  Secretary-
General  shows  that  the  functioning  of  the  Security 
Council on this vital issue has been totally dismal and 
dysfunctional. This is the irony, the real paradox of our 
time,  because  this  picture  validates  the  unsuccessful 
attempt by the General Assembly to have a greater say 
and oversight in this selection process. The real irony, 
the  real  paradox,  is  that  the  greatest  critic  of  General 
its  oversight, 
describes 
really 
that 
he 
is 
A/62/PV.50
Let me say here that one permanent representative 
Assembly  oversight  and  its  role  provides  its  strongest 
proof;  he  becomes,  by  implication,  the  strongest 
supporter of General Assembly oversight and a General 
Assembly  role  in  the  process.  In  short,  unless  some 
radical  steps  are  taken,  I  do  not  see  how  this  process 
can be carried to a successful conclusion.  

Now let me come to the details of what we would 
propose.  I  refer  first  to  draft  resolution A/61/L.69,  on 
which  so  many  comments  have  been  made.  It  was 
precisely  because  of  the  opposition  of  a  tiny  minority 
of countries, as a result of which the mandate given to 
you initially, Mr. President, was supposed to be without 
any  reference  to  intergovernmental  negotiations,  that 
the draft resolution became necessary. Its achievement 
was  quite  simple:  it  enabled  the  mandate  to  be  very 
clear  on  intergovernmental  negotiations,  which  would 
be  concrete,  result-oriented  and  based  on  the  progress 
made at the sixty-first session and on the positions and 
proposals of all countries.  

made two points on which we are in full agreement.  

One  point  was  that  any  solution  that  does  not 
address Africa’s concerns is not worth the candle. That 
is correct, because, as the Bible also says, the first shall 
be  last,  and  the  last  shall  be  first.  So  those  who  have 
borne more than their share of the burdens and sorrows 
of  the  world  should  have  a  place  of  dignity  in  the 
Security Council.  

permanent 
second 
representative  made  was  that  he  is  prepared  for  the 
launch  of  intergovernmental  negotiations,  and  that 
therefore we need to agree on the content on which we 
are to negotiate. The representative of another Member 
State, a former facilitator, said that we have now come 
to a bridge, and that therefore the practical point is how 
we  are  to  cross  it,  because,  if  we  do  not  arrive  at  a 
practical  solution,  it  will  become  like  the  bridge  too 
far. We need to see how to proceed.  
In that regard, permanent members and members 

from  several  other  regions  have  supported  permanent 
membership  for  G-4,  including  India,  and  we  express 
our appreciation to them. But there has been a general 
view that the way to arrive at an optimal solution with 
the  widest  possible  support  is  by  launching  concrete 
intergovernmental negotiations. The question is how to 
do it. And here, instead of speaking on behalf of some 
African  countries  and  small  States,  I  think  it  is  much 
more  advisable  to  listen  to  what  the  representatives 
point 
The 
that 
that 
07-59704 

11 

there  be 
crucial. 
legitimation  can 
is 
A/62/PV.50 

actually  said.  Many  of  them  —  from Africa,  from  the 
small States and the small island developing States — 
made it very clear.  

We  have  a  blizzard  of  variables.  Therefore,  on 
what basis do we start intergovernmental negotiations? 
The  representatives  to  whom  I  have  referred  made  it 
very  clear  that,  through  an  objective,  transparent 
process and  method, we have to find out what are the 
elements — or, at any rate, if I may add, the elements 
grouped  in  the  different  packages  —  that  actually 
command  wide  support,  because  only  on  the  basis  of 
that 
intergovernmental 
negotiations.  This 
Intergovernmental 
negotiations  have  to  be  on  a  basis  that  has  a  certain 
legitimacy, and there is no other legitimacy.  

Some  mentioned  a  questionnaire  or  straw  poll, 
and  I  am  sure  there  could  be  other  ways  of  doing  it. 
But  there  has  to  be  an  objective  and  transparent 
process.  I  think  this  is  perfectly  reasonable.  It  is 
without  prejudice  to  the  positions  of  any  Member 
State. It does exactly what the mandate says — that is, 
that on the basis of the progress achieved, which is the 
facilitators’  reports,  on  the  basis  of  the  positions  and 
proposals  of  all  States,  we  have  to  arrive  at  certain 
elements,  or  a  package,  on  which  we  can  then 
negotiate. And this has to be done through an objective, 
transparent method.  

The  question  is  this:  in  this  case,  how  are  we  to 
give a certain impetus or stimulus to the process? With 
that  in  view,  we  thought  that  we  could  consult  with 
Africa  about  something  on  these  lines  to  begin  with. 
The reason for this is that some African countries had 
requested  of  us  earlier  that  they  would  like  to  be 
consulted before we proceeded further on that.  
Another  former  facilitator  also  spoke  and  said 

that we needed a “text” — and I am quoting his word 
exactly  —  on  which  to  negotiate.  He  also  referred  to 
the multiple identities of one of the Member States. He 
forgot one identity, which is that of the inquisitor. What 
we  have  is  a  Member  State  that  says  clearly  and 
categorically  that  we  must  move  forward  at  present 
only  on  consultations  — 
there  should  be  no 
negotiations  at  all.  That  representative  spoke  very 
forcefully. Actually, he reminded me a little of Colonel 
Pickering in the Broadway musical My Fair Lady, who 
said,  “I’d  rather  have  a  new  edition  of  the  Spanish 
inquisition”. This was really an inquisitorial approach, 
in which he excoriated a number of his colleagues for 
the  Uniting 
the  African  Union, 
actually  co-sponsoring  draft  resolution  A/61/L.69, 
saying  that  that  was  circumventing  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus. And then, of course, he went on to actually 
mention  —  approvingly  and  certainly  without 
comment —  the  interim  model,  which  circumvents 
both  permanent  membership  and  the  veto,  without 
saying  that  this  circumvents  the  Ezulwini  Consensus. 
He  was,  in  a  sense,  really  circumventing  his  own 
circumvention. 

The point is this: we do not wish to be drawn into 
a  debate  about  whether  he  had  proprietary  rights  on 
Africa,  because  that  is  for  the  African  Group  to 
determine. What we are interested in here is whether he 
had even less proprietary rights on logic. He then went 
on  to  actually  say  that  there  should  be  more  than  a 
two-thirds majority, on which the Ezulwini Consensus 
is  entirely  silent.  Thereafter,  he  said  that  we  —  the 
G4 group, 
for 
Consensus group and the so-called small five group — 
should  all 
reach  what  he  called  a  collective 
understanding,  but  without,  obviously,  touching  the 
Ezulwini  Consensus  — 
totally 
attached — and without negotiations — to which he is 
totally opposed — possibly though a mystical meeting 
of minds.  

He also went on — I mean, it was really a welter 
of  contradictions  —  to  say  that,  as  I  said  earlier,  we 
had  been  asked  by  the African  States  for  consultation 
beforehand. Here, he reminded me really of Nagaina in 
the  short  story  Rikki-Tikki-Tavi,  in  Kipling’s  Jungle 
Book,  where  Nagaina  said,  “If  you  move,  I  strike.  If 
you  don’t  move,  I  strike”.  That  means  that  if  you  do 
not  consult  us  beforehand,  that  is  bad,  but,  if  you 
consult us beforehand, that is also bad. 

The  representative  of  that  Member  State  also 
spoke of civilizational representation and values. Such 
matters are very important. We have the highest respect 
for  all civilizations, including the one he comes from. 
But,  one  of  the  elements  in  that  civilization,  if  we 
remember,  was  actually  the  art  of  embalming  corpses 
for  the  long  term,  which  are  now  called  mummies.  I 
hope 
that 
civilizational element, namely, that we should embalm 
and mummify Security Council reform for a long time 
to come. I do not think that would be acceptable to us, 
for  the  simple  reason  that  the  United  Nations  has 
sometimes  been  unfavourably  compared  to  the  Tower 
of  Babel.  The  fact  that  it  has  many  languages  and 
views is a source of its strength: it is strengthening and 
that  he  does  not  want 
to  which  he 
is 
to  propose 
12 

07-59704 
actually  move 


it is life-giving. But, on the other hand, the language of 
the mandate you, Mr. President, have is very clear: we 
must  have 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  not 
consultations.  Therefore,  if  it  becomes  a  Tower  of 
Babel,  in  the  sense  that  language  itself  becomes 
babble,  then  we  will  find  ourselves  in  a  very  difficult 
situation.  

I therefore think that it is very important that we 
realize the difference between friction and obstruction. 
Friction is a positive thing. The warmth of debate is as 
much a part of hospitality as the warmth of the fire. We 
know  from  classical  physics  that  friction  is  important 
for  optimal  forward  movement.  The  ship  requires  the 
friction  of  the  water  as  it  moves  forward.  The  train 
requires the friction of its sliding wheels on the rails as 
it  moves  forward.  This  is  elementary  in  classical 
physics. But if, on the other hand, you replace friction 
with  total  obstruction,  then what  we  will  have  will  be 
the  ship  and  the  train  simply  rotting  and  rusting,  and 
we will not get anywhere at all. 
I  therefore  think  this  is  a  very  important  thing: 

that  we 
negotiations. 
Psychologically,  I  can,  of  course,  understand  that  for 
many  the  prospect  of  negotiations  is  a  daunting 
prospect.  It  is  daunting  because  it  means  navigating 
through  multiple  tensions.  But  inaction  is  politically 
unacceptable and morally suspect. 

I am sure that I have taken a lot of time. I think I 
should  now  conclude.  But,  really,  the  point  is  that  we 
look forward to your starting a process, Mr. President. 
We  have  given  many  suggestions.  Many  Member 
States  —  especially  small  States,  which  are  in  the 
majority,  and  small  island  States  —  have  spoken  very 
clearly. We need really to move forward on this issue. 
We need to move forward. And for that, for any period 
of change, an increased charge of energy is required. I 
am confident that the Assembly and the United Nations 
will  have  precisely  that  increased  charge  of  energy, 
which  will  enable  us  to  move  forward  on  Security 
Council reform. 
The  President:  I  thank Ambassador  Sen,  whose 

intervention  has  proved  that,  even  if  he  can  be 
extremely long, he is not boring. 
Mr. Muñoz (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): Just a few 

hours  ago,  I  returned  from  Antarctica  and  Chile’s 
Patagonian  glaciers,  where  I  accompanied  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  his  delegation.  However, 
despite the fact that I returned barely some hours ago, I 
on 
to 
A/62/PV.50
did  not  want  to  miss  this  important  debate  —  leaving 
behind the cold of Antarctica for the heat of the debate 
on the reform of the Security Council, as Ambassador 
Sen  has  referred  to  it  with  his  customary  warmth.  I 
shall not refer to Bolton as much as he has. I hope that 
Ambassador  Sen  will  soon  refer  to  my  book  on  Iraq 
and the Security Council, which will be published in a 
few months, as often as he has referred to Bolton’s.  

Turning  to  the  issue  that  the  President  has 
convened  us  to  debate,  I  would  like  to  begin  by 
thanking  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Indonesia 
for  introducing  to  the  General  Assembly  the  report 
(A/62/2) of the Security Council covering the period 1 
August 2006 to 31 July 2007. I also wish to thank the 
Chinese delegation for writing the introductory chapter 
to the report. 

Several  of  my  colleagues  here  know  that  Chile 
has  been  a  consistent  promoter  of  a  comprehensive 
reform  of  the  United  Nations  that,  in  reaffirming  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter,  serves  to 
increase  the  Organization’s  credibility  and  legitimacy. 
We  have  already  taken  significant  steps  towards  that 
end,  but  they  are  not  enough.  The  challenge  of 
reforming  the  Security  Council  is  key  to  the  overall 
process  of  United  Nations  reform.  This  was  stated  by 
heads  of  State  or  Government  in  the  2005  World 
Summit Outcome Document (resolution 60/1). 

Indeed,  the  current  composition  of  the  Security 
Council  does  not  correspond  to  the  international 
realities  of  the  twenty-first  century.  Clearly,  the  organ 
responsible  for  safeguarding  international  peace  and 
security should be more representative and democratic. 
It should envision an expansion in its membership that 
would favour developing countries, including those of 
Latin America  and  the  Caribbean,  and  it  should  adopt 
more transparent and participatory working methods. 

During  the  sixty-first  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  the  discussions  on  Security  Council  reform 
gained  fresh  momentum.  Thanks  to  the  confidence 
vested in the work of a group of facilitators, in which I 
was  honoured  to  take  part,  and  the  flexibility  of 
delegations, there was progress concerning the idea of 
exploring an alternative approach that does not involve 
abandonment of anyone’s ideal positions or proposals. 

Indeed, the consultations and discussions covered 
by  the  report  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group 
(A/61/47),  adopted  by  consensus  by  all  its  member 
is  not 
States,  demonstrated 
the  status  quo 
that 
07-59704 

13 
to 
regain 
practical, 
constructive, 
A/62/PV.50 

acceptable.  For  this  reason,  a  compromise  solution 
would  be  a  viable  way  to  end  stagnation  and  to  move 
forward  on  the  vital  enlargement  and  reform  of  the 
Council. 

Chile believes it is time to embark on an effective 
process  of  intergovernmental  negotiations  and  thus  to 
test, in practice, the flexibility expressed by the whole 
membership  and  the  viability  of  the  recommendations 
contained in paragraphs d and e of decision 61/561. A 
new series of consultations would be unproductive and 
would  distance  us  from  the  objective  of  reform. 
Without 
results-oriented 
negotiations, there will be no reform, and we will then 
face the dilemma of acting to achieve consensus or of 
waiting  perhaps  decades 
the  current 
momentum of openness and goodwill demonstrated by 
a  considerable  majority  of  Member  States  during  the 
previous session. 

Mr. Hannesson (Iceland), Vice-President, took the 
Chair. 

That  is  the  debate,  and  that  is  the  dilemma  we 
need  to  face  in  the  coming  weeks  and  months.  Chile 
will always be available to make its contribution to the 
building  of  a  consensus  required  for  comprehensive 
and  successful  reform  of  the  Organization,  and  of  the 
Security Council in particular. Chile aims, in particular, 
at  an  effort  of  compromise  and  agreement.  That  has 
always  been  our  policy  when  faced  with  complex 
issues  that  can  divide  us.  The  President  of  the 
Assembly can rely on our support. 
Mr. Davide (Philippines): Allow me to begin by 

thanking  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
convening 
this  very 
important  issue  and  welcoming  his  giving  priority  to 
Security Council reform as one of the key items during 
his  stewardship  of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-
second session. I thank Ambassador Marty Natalegawa 
of  Indonesia  for  introducing  the  annual  report  of  the 
Security  Council  (A/62/2),  and  I  congratulate  the 
Indonesian  presidency  of  the  Council,  which  is  in  the 
midst of a successful Council leadership this month. 

I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  pay 
tribute  to  the  efforts  of  Her  Excellency  Sheikha  Haya 
Rashed  Al-Khalifa, 
the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-first session, and her facilitators, 
the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Chile, 
namely 
Croatia,  Cyprus,  Liechtenstein,  Tunisia  and 
the 
Netherlands,  for  their  selfless  and  tireless  efforts  to 
these  plenary  meetings  on 
the  President  of 

move the process of Security Council reform to where 
we are now. My delegation hopes that the letter and the 
spirit of the open and transparent consultations on this 
matter  conducted  during  the  previous  session  will 
continue, with renewed vigour, to pervade this session. 

In  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council,  my 
delegation  takes  note  of  the  ongoing  efforts  by  the 
Security  Council’s 
Informal  Working  Group  on 
Documentation and Other Procedural Questions to find 
ways  of  improving  the  report.  We  still  feel  that  the 
strictly  factual  annual  report  needs  more  substance, 
such  as  analytical  content,  which  non-members  find 
more  valuable  since  official  records  are  available  to 
document  events  in  the  Council.  We  are  hopeful  that 
the Working Group, currently chaired by Slovakia, will 
be  up  to  the  task  and  will  come  up  with  future 
refinements along the lines just mentioned. 

My  delegation,  just  like  those  of  other  Member 
States,  firmly  believes  that  reform  of  the  United 
Nations  is  in  order  and  that  such  reform  must  be 
pursued now if the United Nations is to remain faithful 
to  what  its  founding  fathers  wished  it  to  be.  Such 
reform  would  not  be  complete  without  Security 
Council  reform.  We  reiterate  our  strong  belief  that 
Security  Council  reform  is  critically  and  urgently 
needed  and 
it  have  become 
irresistible. We must not forget that in the 2005 World 
Summit Outcome, our heads of State and Government 
made  it  clear  that  they  “support  early  reform  of  the 
Security Council — an essential element of the overall 
effort  to  reform  the  United  Nations”  (resolution  60/1, 
para.  153).  In  that  regard,  my  delegation  takes  this 
opportunity today to highlight the following points. 

First,  we  must  build  on  the  progress  achieved 
thus  far,  particularly  at  the  sixty-first  session,  by 
seriously considering the various proposals at hand and 
working  doubly  hard  to  achieve  concrete  positive 
results, 
intergovernmental 
negotiations, at this session. We should take advantage 
of  the  momentum.  We  should  endeavour  to  reach 
agreement  on  reform  issues  where  we  can,  without 
further delay, and later take up issues where we cannot. 
In  short,  reform  proposals  which  can  be  adopted  now 
must be approved now. 

Secondly,  an  area  where  possible  agreement  can 
be  reached  without  much  debate  is  on  the  working 
methods  of  the  Security  Council.  My  delegation 
believes  that  improvement  of  working  methods  is 
that  demands 
including 
through 
for 
14 

07-59704 
the 
included 
Thirdly,  on 
in  whatever 
the  enlargement  of 


essential  and  is  an  integral  part  of  Security  Council 
reform. The issue of access, particularly relating to the 
provisions  on,  or  regarding  due  process  for,  States 
under Security Council review, as well as issues related 
to  consultations,  transparency  and  coordination  or 
cooperation  with  other  organs  of  the  United  Nations, 
should  be 
intermediary 
arrangements may be  agreed upon. Pragmatic  changes 
in  working  methods  are  the  best  hope  at  the  moment 
for  meaningful  change  in  the  Security  Council.  We 
must,  forthwith  and  without  any  further  delay,  use 
every  opportunity  to  accomplish  as  soon  as  possible 
reform  on  working  methods.  It  bears  stressing  that, 
pursuant  to  Article  24  of  the  Charter,  the  Security 
Council  acts  on  behalf  of  all  Member  States.  Hence, 
due  process,  accountability  and  transparency  demand 
that 
its  working  methods  serve  and  fulfil  such 
elements. 
issue  of  enlargement,  my 

the 
delegation  fully  supports 
Security  Council  in  both  categories  of  membership, 
based  on  equitable  geographic  distribution  reflecting 
the  geopolitical  realities  of  today. The  United  Nations 
must truly be the world’s model for a fully functioning 
participatory democracy. It would be a contradiction in 
principle and in practice and a travesty of justice if the 
membership  of  the  Security  Council,  one  of  the 
principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations  given  the 
important  task  of  maintaining  peace  and  security,  did 
not  reflect  the  prevailing  context  of  its  existence.  We 
hope  that,  at  the  very  least,  general  agreement  among 
Member  States  can  be  achieved  on  this  issue  during 
this session. 

the  General 
Assembly —  through  political  will  and  determined, 
sustained and unceasing effort — can come up with an 
outcome  based  on  this  practical  approach  before  the 
end  of  the  sixty-second  session.  We  look  forward  to 
intensive  discussion,  consultation  and  negotiations  on 
these  very  important  issues  during  the  sixty-second 
session.  My  delegation  assures  the  President  of  an 
equally 
unceasing 
contribution in that regard. 
Mr.  Bródi  (Hungary): Allow  me,  first  of  all,  to 

thank the President for convening these meetings for a 
joint  debate  on  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council  to  the  General Assembly  (A/62/2)  and  on  the 
issue of Security Council reform. I also wish to thank 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Indonesia,  President 
determined, 
sustained 
My 
delegation 
prays 
that 
and 
A/62/PV.50
in 
interaction  between 
the  dialogue  among 
of the Security Council for the month of November, for 
his  presentation  of  the  Security  Council’s  report 
yesterday morning. 
We  believe  that  the  report  is  an  important 

instrument 
the  general 
membership  on  the  work  of  the  Security  Council.  It 
strikingly  reflects  the  huge  workload  of  the  Council 
and  the  wide  scope  of  the  issues  it  has  to  tackle  in 
discharging  its  mandate. A  number  of  Member  States, 
however, have expressed the view that the report could 
be  improved  and  made  more  relevant.  In  the  view  of 
our  delegation,  that  illustrates  the  need  to  find  other 
complementary  means  of 
the 
General Assembly and the Security Council. 

Comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
constitutes  one  of  the  most  important  elements  of  the 
overall  reform  of  the  United  Nations. Without  it  there 
cannot  be  meaningful  reform  of  the  Organization.  On 
that point, I guess, Member States are overwhelmingly 
agreed. 

During  the  sixty-first  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  many  creative  and  useful  proposals  and 
ideas emerged with regard to Security Council reform, 
but  substantive  progress  once  again  proved  to  be 
elusive.  The  consultations  and  deliberations  in  the 
the  Question  of 
Open-ended  Working  Group  on 
Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase 
the 
Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters 
related to the Security Council, which have been going 
on  for  more  than  a  decade,  have  resulted  in  a  clear 
picture with regard to the positions of Member States. 
In  our  view,  a  mere  continuation  of  those  discussions 
in the same format would be a waste of resources and 
time. We must take the process a step further. 
The time has come to start structured and results-

oriented intergovernmental negotiations on the basis of 
a flexible and creative mandate that takes into account 
all the views expressed by Member States. The efforts 
of  the  former  President  of  the  General Assembly  and 
the reports that resulted from her initiatives should be 
followed  up  during  the  current  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  Member  States  should  try  to  come  to  an 
agreement on an effective framework for negotiations. 
We  have  no  doubt  that  an  agreement  on  such  a 
framework  will  require  creativity,  flexibility  and 
political will on the part of Member States. 
We  agree  with  the  President  of  the  General 

Assembly that in identifying the negotiables we ought 
in 
07-59704 

15 

A/62/PV.50 

to  be  guided  by  the  latest  report  of  the  Open-ended 
Working  Group  (A/61/47).  We  also  agree  that  that 
process is the primary responsibility of Member States. 

In  sum,  Hungary  believes  that  comprehensive 
intergovernmental  negotiations  that  tackle  both  the 
issue of expansion and the improvement of the working 
methods  of  the  Security  Council  and  are  based  on  a 
transparent  and  flexible  mandate  defined  by 
the 
General  Assembly  offer  the  best  way  forward  at  this 
stage.  We  are  sure  that,  under  the  guidance  and 
leadership  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly, 
the sixty-second session will produce a breakthrough in 
finding an acceptable way forward on Security Council 
reform. We pledge our support to that effort. 
Mr.  Cheok  (Singapore):  Allow  me  to  thank  the 

Permanent  Representative  of  Indonesia  for  introducing 
the report of the Security Council (A/62/2). I also wish 
to express my gratitude to the Permanent Representative 
of India for his kind words about Singapore. 

It was difficult to prepare for this debate, because 
we have been discussing this issue for so long. I think 
that  many  of  us  have  even  found  ourselves  repeating 
similar statements over the past two years. I think that 
it is time to try to break out of this cycle of repetition. I 
am  not  saying  that  the  discussions  over  the  past  few 
years have been wasted. Ideas and opinions have been 
raised and debated. The positions of the African Union, 
the  Group  of  Four,  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group 
and the so-called small five group are well known. Her 
Excellency  Ms.  Haya  Rashed Al-Khalifa,  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  at 
its  sixty-first  session, 
encouraged  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  the 
Question  of  Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase 
in  the  Membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  Other 
Matters  Related  to  the  Security  Council  to  play  an 
active  role  in  exploring  options.  The  five-facilitator 
and then the two-facilitator processes helped shed light 
on 
resolution 
A/61/L.69/Rev.1. 

Obviously,  there  remains  a  divergence  in  views. 
No  position  has  managed  to  garner  consensus  so  far. 
But  I  think  that  what  we  have  established  is  that  the 
status quo is unacceptable for most. In the last days of 
her  presidency,  Ms.  Haya  Rashed Al-Khalifa  presided 
over  the  unanimous  call  for  the  General Assembly  to 
consider  how  concrete  results  may  be  achieved, 
including  through  intergovernmental  negotiations. The 
objective is clear, but the way to achieve it is not. Our 
as  did  draft 
complexities, 
the 
challenge,  therefore,  is  to  find  an  acceptable  way 
forward. 

I  am  not  advocating  a  specific  course  of  action; 
nor  am  I  championing  any  particular  outcome.  I  am 
merely trying to assess the situation dispassionately. It 
appears to us that there are two main ways of moving 
the  process  forward.  One  option  is  for  a  group  of 
countries,  of  whatever  persuasion,  to  put  forth  a  draft 
resolution  for  consideration  and  negotiation.  That 
would  set  the  parameters  for  discussion  and  allow 
members  to  calibrate  their  approach  and  express  their 
concerns  or  support  accordingly.  With  a  concrete 
proposal, we would have the beginnings of a complex 
negotiation. 

Given  the  issue,  however,  there  may  be  strong 
resistance to any proposal coming from just one set of 
countries. Perhaps divisiveness could be lessened if the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  assumed  a  direct 
role  in  seeking  a  solution  acceptable  to  the  broader 
membership.  I  recognize  that  that  is  putting  a  huge 
responsibility on the shoulders of the President. But the 
reality  is  that  the  facilitators  processes  have  led  to  a 
number  of  views  and  opinions.  Taken  individually, 
those ideas run the gamut. 

Are  there  other  impartial  players  here  who  can 
bring  those  ideas  together  in  a  coherent  whole  that  is 
broadly  acceptable  to  most?  Most  delegations,  mine 
included,  have  already  taken  positions  in  this  debate. 
On the other hand, a process on expansion, and perhaps 
on working methods, that is driven by the President of 
the  General  Assembly  may  have 
requisite 
impartiality. 

I  stress  that  I  am  not  advocating  a  particular 
approach. Obviously, Singapore is a small country with 
no  aspirations  for  permanent  membership.  I  do, 
however, champion the interests of small States. Small 
States have little opportunity to serve regularly on the 
Security  Council.  Some  may  never  even  serve  at  all. 
Therefore,  reviewing  and  improving  the  Council’s 
working  methods 
important.  In  short, 
to  move  ahead, 
regardless  of  how  we  decide 
discussions 
to 
accommodating the interests of the larger countries and 
the  middle  Powers.  The  views  and  interests  of  small 
States,  which  make  up  the  majority  of  the  United 
Nations,  should  also  be  taken  into  account.  The  best 
way to do that is to make sure that any discussions or 
negotiations are open, transparent and inclusive. 
simply  be  geared 
should  not 
is  equally 
the 
16 

07-59704 
of 
the  path  of 
responsibility: 
the  maintenance 
the  Organization’s  ability 


Mr.  Kryzhanivskyi  (Ukraine):  I  would  like  to 

express our gratitude to Ambassador Marty Natalegawa 
of Indonesia, President of the Security Council for the 
month of November, for his presentation of the annual 
report (A/62/2) of the Security Council to the General 
Assembly.  

During  the  period  under  review  the  international 
community has continued to face numerous challenges 
that  directly  relate  to  the  Security  Council’s  main 
sphere 
of 
international peace and security. 
The credibility of the United Nations will always 

be  measured  by 
to 
adequately  respond  to  threats  in  any  region  of  the 
world. No organization is better equipped to deal with 
those  issues.  The  United  Nations  should  lead  global 
efforts  to  address  global  challenges,  which  demand 
global  solutions.  At  the  same  time,  we  need  to  take 
further  steps  down 
reforming  and 
improving  the  mechanisms  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
order  to  make  the  Organization  more  efficient,  more 
effective and more relevant in the twenty-first century.  

We  hope  that  the  process  of  Security  Council 
reform,  which  is  the  key  element  in  the  process  of 
renewing  the  United  Nations,  will  be  expedited  and 
that  it  will  eventually  yield  tangible  results.  Making 
that  body  more  representative  and  balanced,  and  its 
work  more  effective  and  transparent,  especially  with 
regard  to  decision-making,  is  vital  in  adapting  the 
United  Nations  to  the  global  realities  of  the  twenty-
first century.  

With  regard  to  the  specific  aspects  of  Security 
Council  reform,  Ukraine’s  position  is  based  on  the 
following  principles.  First,  Security  Council  reform 
should  be  implemented  in  strict  compliance  with  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  Secondly,  the  enlargement  of  the  Security 
Council  is  to  be  carried  out  in  both  categories,  the 
permanent  and 
the  non-permanent.  We  support 
increased  representation  in  that  body  for  developing 
countries  from  Africa,  Asia,  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean. Thirdly, as the composition of the Group of 
Eastern  European  States  has  more  than  doubled  over 
the  past  decade, 
it  should  have  an  additional 
non-permanent  seat.  Fourthly, 
the 
Security  Council  should  result  in  the  improvement  of 
its  working  methods.  Those  countries  that  contribute 
most  to  the  Organization  —  militarily,  diplomatically 
the  reform  of 
A/62/PV.50
in 
to 
the 
support 
launch  of 
the  President’s 
and  financially  —  should  be  more  involved  in  the 
decision-making  process  of  the  Council.  Fifthly,  the 
use of veto by the permanent members of the Security 
Council has to be limited. 

We  recognize  the  significant  progress  made  by 
the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  the  Question  of 
Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase 
the 
Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters 
Related 
the  Security  Council  during  previous 
sessions  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  welcome  its 
decision  to  continue  to  work  during  the  sixty-second 
session.  We  also 
an 
intergovernmental negotiating process on the reform of 
the Security Council. 
Mr.  Løvald  (Norway):  Let  me  first  express 

Norway’s  appreciation  for 
timely 
initiative  to  hold  this  debate  now.  We  believe  it  is 
important  to  build on the  progress made over the  past 
year on the question of equitable representation on and 
increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council. 
The  two  reports  by  the  facilitators  of  the  President’s 
predecessor  (see A/61/47)  have  offered  valuable  ideas 
as  to  the  way  forward  and  have  generated  important 
momentum. Now is the time to take advantage of that 
momentum  and  bring 
the  discussion  on  reform 
forward. 

We have made our position clear during previous 
consultations, and it remains the same. Norway’s main 
priorities  are  to  ensure  that  the  Council  operates 
coherently  and  efficiently  and  that  the  composition  of 
the  Council  reflects  the  current  configuration  of  the 
membership  of  the  United  Nations.  Consequently,  we 
support  expansion  in  both  categories.  We  would, 
however,  welcome  any  constructive  proposals  that 
could break the current deadlock. At this stage I would 
therefore like to make the following points. 

First,  if  we  are  to  succeed  in  completing  the 
reform  process  initiated  by  our  political  leaders  at  the 
2005 World Summit, we need to look for a process that 
can move us ahead. While we the Member States need 
to show flexibility and seek compromise, it is also our 
view  that  in  order  to  succeed  we  need  to  establish  a 
process that commands the broadest possible support in 
order to ensure a legitimate and credible outcome. 

Secondly, we need concrete proposals in order to 
maintain  focus  and  move  the  discussions  forward.  In 
that  respect,  we  are  open  to  discussions  that  do  not 
prejudge any final arrangements. 
07-59704 

17 

at 
the 
same 
regions,  without 
A/62/PV.50 


Thirdly,  it  is  our  view  that  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  should  guide  this  transparent  and 
inclusive  process,  ensuring  the  active  participation  of 
all Member States in an intergovernmental process. 

The  overarching  objective  for  Norway  is  to  find 
solutions  that  will  secure  the  continued  legitimacy  of 
the Council and provide broader representation for the 
various 
time 
compromising the efficiency of the Council. Norway is 
open to discuss all proposals that aim at achieving that. 
Reform  is  timely  and  necessary,  and  we  appeal  to  all 
Member  States  to  show  flexibility  and  to  be  open-
minded. 
Mrs.  Silkalna  (Latvia):  Allow  me  to  begin  by 

thanking  the  President  of  the  Security  Council  for 
introducing 
the  Council’s  annual  report  (A/62/2). 
While  it  lacks  analytical  content  that  might  have 
stimulated  more  substantive  debate  on  this  item,  the 
report is useful as a reference document. 

With regard to the next agenda item, we thank the 
President  of  the  General Assembly  for  convening  this 
debate on an integral aspect of United Nations reform. 
As  the  position  of  my  delegation  on  the  substance  of 
Security Council reform has been outlined in previous 
debates, I will limit myself to brief remarks on process. 

Consideration  of  Security  Council  reform  has 
taken place for well over a decade. We are all aware of 
the complexity and sensitivity of the issue and the need 
for  a  steady  approach.  At  the  same  time,  the  lack  of 
concrete  results  in  this  aspect  of  reform  has  had  a 
corrosive effect on other ongoing processes within the 
United Nations.  
We therefore note with appreciation the  progress 

achieved  during 
the  sixty-first  session  whereby 
Member States were widely consulted on the question 
of  Security  Council  reform.  The  resulting  report 
adopted  by  the  Open-ended Working  Group  (A/61/47) 
reveals  the  extent  of  support  for  renewed  efforts 
towards  Security  Council  reform  and  gives  us  a  solid 
basis  for  carrying  forward  during  this  session.  In  our 
view,  the  stage  has  been  reached  where  the  General 
Assembly can and should begin preparations within the 
current session for intergovernmental negotiations.  
the 

in 
leadership  and  wisdom  of 
the 
the  President  of 
Assembly to identify the most suitable format for such 
preparations.  We  pledge  our  support  to  him  in  this 
My  delegation  has 
full  confidence 
to 
the  Permanent  Representative 
endeavour  so  that  momentum  for  Security  Council 
reform is maintained. 
Mr.  Palouš  (Czech  Republic): At  the  outset,  let 

me join the previous speakers in thanking Ambassador 
Natalegawa, 
of 
Indonesia,  for  presenting  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council  (A/62/2) 
the  General  Assembly.  This 
document  is  a  testament  to  the  increasing  challenges 
that  the  Security  Council,  the  key  body  of  the  United 
Nations system, is facing.  
Recent  reports  of  the  Security  Council  show 

clearly  that  the  number  of  issues  on  its  agenda 
continues to grow and that the burden on the shoulders 
of  its  members,  both  permanent  and  non-permanent, 
gets  heavier  and  heavier. Those  issues  relate  to  major 
regional  conflicts  and  cross-cutting  challenges  to  our 
common security, including the fight against terrorism 
and  against 
the  proliferation  of  arms  of  mass 
destruction. Therefore, it is in the interest of all United 
Nations  Member  States  that  the  Security  Council  be 
able  to  act  in  an  open,  transparent,  effective  and,  last 
but not least, a more democratic manner.  
As  many  speakers  before  me  have  already 

underlined,  the  Security  Council  has  the  primary 
responsibility  to  maintain  international  peace  and 
security, as stipulated in the Charter. At the same time, 
the  work  of  the  Council  would  not  be  successful 
without  the  support  of  the  broader  membership.  The 
real commitment of all Member States and their active 
involvement is in this respect crucial for the successful 
fulfilment  of  the  role  of  the  Council.  The  conclusion 
could not be clearer: a reform of the Security Council 
is already overdue and is essential.  

The  question  of  the  involvement  of  Member 
States  is  first  of  all  directly  related  to  the  question  of 
the  improvement  of  the  Security  Council’s  working 
methods.  In  other  words,  achieving  the  goal  of  the 
effective  functioning  of  the  Council  is  not  possible 
unless 
appropriately 
addressed. 
Over  the  past  14  years,  the  Czech  Republic  has 

repeatedly  expressed 
the  current 
challenges  we  are  confronting  can  be  properly 
addressed  only  through  structural  reforms  of  the 
Security  Council.  These  reforms  should  in  our  view 
encompass  all  well-known  elements:  the  expansion  of 
membership  in  both  categories,  better  representation 
and regional equitability.  
important 
its  view 
subject 
that 
this 
is 
18 

07-59704 



All these issues have been debated in detail, and 
many useful ideas and concepts have been put forward. 
The  Czech  Republic  has  taken  an  active  part  in  these 
debates  and  shares  fully  the  conviction  expressed  by 
the  overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States  that  the 
status quo is not an option. 

With that conviction in mind, the Czech Republic 
has been among the sponsors of the so-called Group of 
Four proposal from July 2005. Without being stubborn 
or  dogmatic,  we  continue  to  believe  that  the  main 
elements  of  this  proposal  constitute  a  sound  basis  for 
our  future  deliberations.  At  the  same  time,  I  wish  to 
underline  our  readiness  to  exercise  the  necessary 
flexibility in order to find common ground to serve as a 
new  point  of  departure  in  formulating  compromises 
acceptable to all. 

We  are  strongly  convinced  that  during  the  sixty-
first  session  of  the  General  Assembly  we  achieved 
some  important  progress  thanks  to  the  dedication  and 
energy  of  the  President’s  predecessor,  Ambassador 
Haya Rashed Al-Khalifa, as well as the work done by 
two groups of facilitators. Some innovative ideas were 
introduced in order to bridge differences between well-
known positions and to move the discussions forward, 
inter  alia,  the  concept  of  an  intermediate  approach. 
That  concept  in  our  opinion  might  open  a  new  path 
towards a possible solution while avoiding an impasse 
of repetitive and unproductive discussions.  

Let me underline the position of my country: we 
have to do our utmost to build on the momentum that 
was  created  during  the Assembly’s  sixty-first  session. 
It  is  encouraging  that  the  vast  majority  of  the  United 
Nations membership, as has been demonstrated in this 
debate  during  the  last  two  days,  is  ready  to  engage  in 
this endeavour.  

The  Czech  Republic  is  ready  to  consider  all 
concrete proposals enabling us to finally get the reform 
process  off  the  ground  and  to  start  intergovernmental 
negotiations during the Assembly’s current session. Let 
me conclude by assuring the Assembly President of our 
full  support  in  this  challenging  task  of  steering  the 
discussions in the coming weeks and months. 
Mrs. Intelmann (Estonia): May I first join others 

in  thanking Ambassador  Marty  Natalegawa,  President 
of  the  Security  Council,  for  his  presentation  on  the 
work  of  the  Council.  My  delegation  also  appreciates 
the  efforts  made  by  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed Al-Khalifa, 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first 
A/62/PV.50
including 
through 
reform  needs 
the 
We  welcome 
the  report  of 
session,  and  her  facilitators.  We  would  like  to  thank 
them  all  for  their  important  contributions  towards 
moving Security Council reform forward.  

the  Open-ended 
Working  Group,  and  we  support  the  decision  to 
continue  considering  Security  Council  reform  at  the 
present session so that further concrete results may be 
achieved, 
intergovernmental 
negotiations.  We  feel  that,  given  the  comprehensive 
analysis  of  the  situation  carried  out  by  the  facilitators 
during  the  last  session,  the  current  session  should  not 
repeat  this  work  and  instead  bring  the  process  to  a 
qualitatively new level.  

Security Council reform remains a pressing issue 
in  the  overall  United  Nations  reform  process.  The 
Council’s  reform  must  contribute  to  adding  more 
legitimacy  and  credibility  to  its  decisions  and  should 
not hamper its capability and effectiveness in adapting 
to the challenges of the twenty-first century. However, 
any 
largest  possible  political 
acceptance;  greater  flexibility  on  all  sides  is  urgently 
needed if we want to overcome the current stalemate.  
Enlarged  membership  and  equitable  geographic 

representation  should  be  the  fundamental  principles 
guiding 
category  of 
non-permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council.  As 
has  been  stated  on  many  occasions,  members  of  the 
Group  of  Eastern  European  States  consider  that  any 
increase  in  the  non-permanent  membership  of  the 
enhanced 
Security  Council 
representation  of 
the 
allocation of at least one additional non-permanent seat 
to the Group. Allow me to also recall that, since 1991, 
the Group has more than doubled its membership. 

membership 
categories. 

We  also  support  the  reform  of  the  working 
methods, and we are convinced that the expansion and 
the  reform  of  working  methods  should  not  be  seen  as 
inseparable.  Indeed,  efforts  to  improve  the  working 
methods  should  continue,  irrespective  of  progress  in 
other areas. 
to  participate 

actively 
intergovernmental 
processes,  including  negotiations,  in  a  very  flexible 
manner.  Given  the  fact  that  the  reform  process  has 
Estonia  favours  an  increase  of  Security  Council 
permanent 
My  delegation  remains  ready 
enlargement  of 
should 
that  particular  Group  by 
ensure 
an 
non-permanent 
in 
the 
results-oriented 
in 
and 
the 
the 
07-59704 

19 

to 
take  part 
in 
the  Permanent  Representative  of 
A/62/PV.50 

lasted for far over 10 years, it is important to create a 
new political momentum for possible negotiations. For 
that,  high-level  political 
involvement  would  be 
necessary from the very outset. The negotiations — if 
started  —  must  be  transparent  and  give  all  Member 
States  equal  opportunities 
the 
deliberations,  building  on  the  progress  achieved  and 
the positions of and proposals made by Member States. 
It is our conviction that under the able leadership of the 
present  session,  the  reform  process  will  move  ahead 
and we will arrive at a successful outcome. The status 
quo  is  unacceptable,  and  we should  make  all  attempts 
to move forward. 
Mr.  Urbina  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

would  like  to  begin  by  welcoming  the  convening  of 
this  meeting  to  consider  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council and the question of equitable representation on 
it and increase in its membership. We are also grateful 
to 
Indonesia, 
Mr. Natalegawa,  President  of  the  Council,  for  having 
presented the Council’s report to the Assembly. 

Costa  Rica  agrees  with  the  President  of  the 
Assembly  that  this  should  be  an  opportunity  to 
reinforce  the  relationship  between  the  Assembly  and 
the Security Council. But that has not proved to be the 
case. Once again, we are taking part in a meeting that, 
for the vast majority of delegations, is merely another 
opportunity to point out the deficiencies of a document 
that is not the report that we would wish to receive and 
that,  in  general,  lacks  the  information  that  Member 
States would like to discuss. In spite of the fact that the 
very broad majority of States, year after year, demands 
a report that would be in full accordance with the spirit 
of  the  Charter,  in  an  ever-repeating  rite  we  hear  the 
same  voices  from  the  Council  reassuring  us  that, 
contrary  to  our  repeated  demand,  the  report  includes 
everything that it should include.  

On  earlier  occasions,  Costa  Rica  has  made  the 
point  that  the  report  should  be  a  tool  enabling  the 
Assembly to learn about, evaluate and discuss the work 
of the Security Council. As was rightly pointed out by 
the Permanent Representative of Mexico, the functions 
the  Council  are 
of 
concurrent 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  That  was  confirmed 
by the International Court of Justice in July 2004.  

Assembly  and 
The  practice  of  healthy  interaction  between  the 
from 
the  Security  Council, 
the  area  of 
the  Assembly  and 
those  of 
far 
in 
weakening the Council, would strengthen it in the eyes 
of  the  international  community  and  the  world  public 
opinion.  The  Council,  and  the  United  Nations  as  a 
whole, would thus gain greater legitimacy.  

In  making  these  comments  and  demands,  Costa 
Rica  is  not  naive.  We  recognize  the  limitations  and 
difficulties that prevail when one is trying to report in 
detail  on  the  work  of  the  Council,  even  above  and 
beyond  the  difficulty  of  finding  agreement  in  a 
collegial  body  on  the  content  of  a  report  that  covers 
that  body’s  work.  But  those  limitations  should  not 
prevent  States  that  are  not  represented  on  the  Council 
from  having  access  to  the  necessary  information  in 
order  to  learn  about  and  understand  the  decision-
making process in a body that, in the last analysis, acts 
on  behalf  of  the  Members  of  this  Organization, 
according to  the provisions of article 24, paragraph  1, 
of the Charter. 

Costa  Rica,  as  a  newly  elected  member  of  the 
Security Council, and any other State that will serve in 
that  body,  would  be  better  prepared  and  could  make 
better  contribution  to  the  efficiency  of  the  Council,  if 
we were annually apprised of its work in a clearer and 
more focused form.  

Allow me to take this opportunity to express our 
thanks for the generous support received by Costa Rica 
in its election to the Security Council. I would also like 
to congratulate Burkina Faso, Croatia, the Libyan Arab 
Jamahiriya and Viet Nam, also elected to serve on the 
Council in 2008 and 2009. Costa Rica has undertaken 
to  represent  States  that  will  not  be  taking  part  in  the 
deliberations and decisions of the Council. We will not 
forget  that  we  are  only  temporarily  non-permanent 
members  of  the  Council  and  that  we  will  always  be 
permanent Members of the Assembly. 
During  the  previous  session,  in  the  Open-ended 

Working  Group  on 
the  Question  of  Equitable 
Representation  on  and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of 
the Security Council and Other Matters Related to the 
Security  Council,  we  achieved  important  progress, 
partly thanks to the work of the former President of the 
Assembly  and  the  distinguished  facilitators  that  she 
appointed.  

The  position  of  Costa  Rica  on  this  process  is 
clear.  Security  Council  reform  should  be  a  means  of 
achieving 
and 
legitimacy  for  an  organ  that  acts  on  behalf  of  all 
Member States, and must never be an end in itself or a 
transparency 
efficiency, 
greater 
20 

07-59704 
to  repeat 


means  to  gratify  the  particular  interests  or  aspirations 
of  any  one  Member  State.  We  hardly  feel  that  it  is 
necessary 
the  details  of  our  position 
concerning Council reform, which are widely known in 
this Hall.  

We  would  like  to  say,  however,  that  we  are  firm 
in upholding the proposals that we have made through 
the “Small 5” group and that we believe that reform of 
the  working  methods  is  the  measure  that  will  provide 
the  greatest  benefit  to  the  largest  possible  number  of 
States  represented  in  this  Hall.  I  would  add  that  the 
position  of  refusing  to  advance  the  reform  of  the 
working  methods  if  there  is  no  progress  in  the 
expansion  of  the  Council  is  a  trap  that  benefits  just  a 
few  and  denies  the  vast  majority  of  States  their  rights 
and opportunities.  

When  it  comes  to  the  expansion  of  the  Council, 
Costa Rica still harbours the hope that the membership 
ultimately will decide to support the enlargement of the 
Council  by  means  of  an  increase  in  the  number  of 
non-permanent members. This, without question, is the 
most  constructive  solution  for  the  great  majority  of 
States  and  the  only  one  capable  in  the  short  term  of 
achieving  the  broadest  possible  agreement  among 
members of this Organization. 

It has been two years since Costa Rica prepared a 
document, which has been circulated as official, under 
the  title  of  the  “cascade  effect”.  In  this  document 
(A/59/856),  we  demonstrated 
incontestable 
fashion that permanent member status is the source of 
many  privileges  in  this  Organization;  and  today,  as 
then, we remain convinced that it is not in the interests 
of the vast majority of the Assembly to extend to just a 
few  the  privileges  that  are  already  enjoyed  by  the 
victors of the Second World War. 

Having  said  this,  I  would  like  to  express  our 
particular  concern  about  the  situation  in  Africa.  For 
reasons  known  to  us  all,  when  we  adopted  the  San 
Francisco  Charter,  the  States  present  accepted  an 
exception  to  the  principle  of  sovereign  equality  of 
States,  assigning  special  privileges  to  five  Member 
States.  On  that  occasion,  practically  the  whole  of 
Africa was excluded; only four African countries took 
part  in  that  decision.  Costa  Rica  believes  that  this 
historical injustice must be given special consideration 
in  any  model  of  Security  Council  reform,  the  primary 
objective  being 
to  restore  equitable  geographical 
representation. 
in  an 
A/62/PV.50

Perhaps  in  this  phase  of  the  process,  where  we 
stand now, it might be advisable to review options that 
promote  approaches  which,  like  the  African  model, 
would  transcend  the  shortsightedness  of  individual 
interests and re-establish the primacy of the concept of 
collective  interests,  which  are  the  foundation  of  this 
Organization. 

Costa  Rica  has  never  been  timid  in  this  matter. 
We participate actively, with the conviction that it is in 
our  best  interests  and  that  of  our  peoples  to  have  a 
dynamic, effective Organization that matches up to the 
challenges of the twenty-first century. We view the role 
of the presidency as one of facilitator of our debates, as 
well as the proponent of our consensuses. If we really 
wish to start a negotiating process that  will ultimately 
enable  us  to  have  consensus-based  reform  of  the 
Security  Council,  we  must  travel  together  along  the 
avenues  of  dialogue  in  order  to  make  progress  in  the 
quest for solutions reflecting our common interests and 
not solely the national aspirations of just a few. 

The  perfect  is  the  enemy  of  the  good.  Our 
common  objective  is  a  more  legitimate,  democratic, 
representative  and  efficient  Security  Council,  capable 
of responding effectively to the challenges and threats 
to  international  peace  and  security.  This  can  only  be 
achieved 
into  a  pattern  of 
confrontation or resort to force or the obsessive pursuit 
of  national  aspirations  that,  without  question,  will 
never be realized. 

Costa Rica would appeal for us all to be idealistic 
in our aims and pragmatic in seeking the path that will 
lead us to our goals. Right now we offer our assistance, 
with  a  view  to  supporting  actively  any  initiative 
directed to those ends. 
Mr. Penjo (Bhutan): I will be very brief, as many 

of the issues of interest to my delegation have already 
been raised by previous speakers. 

I am grateful for the opportunity to participate in 
the  joint  debate  on  agenda  items  9  and  22.  My 
delegation  would  like  to  convey  its  appreciation  to 
Ambassador  Natalegawa 
current 
President  of  the  Security  Council,  for  his  presentation 
of  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  to  the 
General Assembly. 

The issue of Security Council reform has been on 
our  agenda  for  nearly  a  decade  and  a  half.  We  have 
deliberated at great length on why the Security Council 
if  we  avoid  falling 
Indonesia, 
of 
07-59704 

21 

through 
including 
A/62/PV.50 

needs to be reformed, and various ideas and proposals 
have been presented in that regard, including those on 
improving the working methods. The sixty-first session 
of  the  General Assembly,  under  the  leadership  of  Her 
Excellency  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa,  generated  good 
momentum  and  adopted  an  important  decision  on 
17 September  2007.  By  decision  61/561,  the  issue  of 
Security Council reform is to be considered during the 
present session, so that further concrete results may be 
achieved, 
intergovernmental 
negotiations,  building  on  the  progress  achieved  so  far 
and  on  the  positions  and  proposals  made  by  Member 
States. My delegation welcomed the decision since, in 
our  view,  intergovernmental  negotiations  are  the  only 
way  forward  to  address  this  sensitive  and  complex 
issue.  Without  such  a  process,  the  concrete  ideas  and 
proposals  made  over  the  years  will  remain  just  empty 
words. 

My delegation would like to request the President 
of the General Assembly to initiate, without delay, the 
process  of  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  also 
request  that  he  determine,  through  an  objective  and 
transparent  method,  the  elements  that  command  the 
widest  support,  so  that  they  can  serve  as  the  basis  for 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  Only  through  this 
process,  we  believe,  can  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  be  achieved  and  its  legitimacy  and 
credibility  enhanced.  In  this  context,  my  delegation 
would  like  to  reiterate  its  position  that  the  Council 
the  permanent  and 
should  be  expanded 
for  greater 
non-permanent  categories  and  allow 
representation  by  developing  countries, 
including 
better access for small States. We also reiterate our call 
for a comprehensive overhaul of the Council’s working 
methods  in  order  to  make  it  more  transparent  and 
inclusive. 
Mr.  Burian  (Slovakia):  Mr.  President,  we  thank 

you for your timely initiative in convening this meeting 
to address the annual Security Council report together 
with the wider issue of a comprehensive reform of the 
Council.  We  are  convinced  that  under  your  able 
leadership we will be able to achieve tangible progress 
on  this  issue  during  this  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  building  on  the  positive  results  achieved 
during  the  previous  session.  You  can  count  on  my 
delegation’s full support and active participation in that 
important endeavour. 
the  Security  Council  reform,  my 

delegation  continues  to  believe  that  both  its  parts  are 
Regarding 
in  both 
to 
are 
hearing 
looking 
forward 
equally important, namely, first, adequate change in the 
composition  of  the  Council  to  better  reflect  the 
geopolitical realities of today’s world and, secondly, a 
meaningful  reform  of  the  Council’s  working  methods. 
Both of these aspects should be aimed at ensuring the 
Council’s 
legitimacy,  authority,  effectiveness  and 
representativeness. Like other delegations, we are also 
of the view that one part of the comprehensive reform 
should not be held hostage to the other. We should do 
our  best  to  achieve  maximal  results  on  each  of  these 
two tracks. 

During the sixty-first session, my delegation very 
much welcomed and supported the work of and reports 
by  the  facilitators.  We  believe  that  the  concept  of  the 
intermediate or transitional approach, with a mandatory 
review to take place at a predetermined date, could be a 
meaningful  way  forward.  What  we  need  now  is  an 
intergovernmental  process  of  negotiations  that  would 
lead to a possible road map out of the current impasse. 
We 
your 
recommendations,  Mr.  President,  on  how  this  process 
could be taken forward. 

On the issue of increasing the Security Council’s 
relevance,  authority  and  effectiveness,  I  would  like  to 
highlight  at  least  one  crucial  aspect  that  we  feel  very 
strongly  about.  I  refer  here  to  conflict  prevention  and 
preventive diplomacy. We believe that in order for the 
Council to play a significantly more relevant and active 
role  with  respect  to  the  current  threats  and  challenges 
to international peace and security, it must improve its 
performance in the area of conflict prevention. It is no 
longer enough just to react to emerging situations and 
ongoing  conflicts  or  to  come  up  with  post-conflict 
remedies,  such  as  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations.  In  this  context,  we  sincerely  welcome  the 
recent initiative of the Secretary-General to reform the 
United Nations Department of Political Affairs in order 
to  strengthen  its  preventive  diplomacy  and  mediation 
functions. 
Along  the  same  lines,  I  would  like  to  highlight 

the  importance  of  constant  interaction  and  dialogue 
among the various parts of the United Nations system, 
in  particular  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security 
Council and the Economic and Social Council. I do not 
mean  only  regular,  largely  formal  meetings  of  their 
respective  presidents.  We  need  to  strive  to  achieve 
substantial  and  meaningful  cooperation  among  the 
main United Nations bodies in areas of mutual interest 
so  as  to  ensure  complementarity  and  synergy  in  their 
22 

07-59704 
for 
report 
to 
the  current  President  of 


actions.  We  strongly  believe  that,  instead  of  blaming 
the  Security  Council  for  taking  up  certain  thematic 
issues, the other bodies should also be actively engaged 
in  addressing  those  issues  within  the  competencies 
entrusted to them by the Charter of the United Nations.  

Finally,  I  would  like  to  convey  my  delegation’s 
appreciation  to  Ambassador  Marty  Natalegawa  of 
Indonesia, 
the  Security 
Council,  for  his  comprehensive  introduction  of  the 
Council’s  annual  report  to  the  General  Assembly.  We 
are  pleased  to  note  that  this  year’s  annual  report 
follows  an  approach  aimed  at  improving  the  report, 
both in format and in substance, an effort that we have 
ourselves  been  very  actively  involved  in.  In  this 
context, we also wish, once again, to thank the Chinese 
delegation 
its  hard  work  and  constructive 
leadership  in  preparing  the  introduction  to  this  year’s 
annual report. 

As we have recently said in the formal meeting of 
the Security Council before the adoption of this year’s 
annual  report,  Slovakia  strongly  believes  that  the 
annual  Security  Council 
the  General 
Assembly  is  a  very  important  document.  It  should  by 
no means be just a routine exercise of administrative or 
statistical  nature.  We  believe  there  is  a  need  —  and 
also room — to go further in our efforts in this regard 
and to concentrate more on the substance of the report 
and  on  key  political  messages  about  the  important 
work of the Security Council. This year, we have taken 
an  important  step  in  the  right  direction.  We  hope  that 
we will continue in a similar fashion in the future, too. 

The  issue  of  the  annual  report  has  been  among 
the  issues  discussed  in  detail  this  year  in  the  Security 
Council  Informal  Working  Group  on  Documentation 
and  Other  Procedural  Questions,  which  Slovakia  has 
been  chairing  this  year.  Also,  our  efforts  in  the 
Working  Group  have  been  concentrated  on  full 
implementation  of  the  Note  by  the  President  of  the 
Security Council of 19 July 2006 (S/2006/507), which 
was  prepared 
the  able  Japanese 
chairmanship of the Working Group. Although this job 
is  far  from  done,  we  are  encouraged  by  the  level  of 
tangible  progress 
the 
presidential  note  that  has  been  achieved  this  year, 
including  numerous  practical  documentation  and 
procedural  issues.  We  are  committed  to  even  further 
intensifying our efforts in this area with a clear goal in 
mind, namely, making the Security Council more open, 
more  transparent  and  more  effective,  as  well  as 
implementation  of 
last  year  under 
in 
the 
A/62/PV.50
enhancing  the  continuous  interactions  and  dialogue 
between  the  Security  Council  and  the  United  Nations 
Member States. 
Mr.  Romero-Martínez  (Honduras)  (spoke  in 

Spanish):  My  delegation,  Honduras, 
as  other 
delegations  have  done,  expresses 
thanks 
to 
its 
Ambassador Natalegawa, Permanent Representative of 
Indonesia,  for  his  introduction  of  the  report  of  the 
Security  Council  covering  the  period  from  1  August 
2006 to 31 July 2007. We have on other occasions had 
an  opportunity  to  state  that  our  country  supports  any 
attempted  change  that  will  update  the  work  of  the 
Council.  It  is  our  position  that  all  United  Nations 
bodies  have 
to  be  more  democratic  and  more 
participatory and should be designed to reflect a reality 
that  is  now  rather  distant  from  the  arrangements  that 
were  conceived  in  their  time  as  being  appropriate  and 
innovative.  

Honduras,  which is one of  the original signatory 
countries  of  the  Charter,  attaches  great  importance  to 
Security  Council  reform.  For  this  reason,  we  have 
shared and sympathized with some positions that seek 
to  incorporate  geographical  representation  for  Latin 
America and the Caribbean, as well as Africa and other 
countries,  which  we  believe  would  make  the  body 
entrusted  with  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security more balanced. 

In  this  regard,  we  believe  that  the  Open-ended 
Working Group that functioned during the last session 
did  excellent  work  that  should  serve  as  guidance  for 
the  new  tasks  ahead  of  us.  We  recognize  the  great 
contribution  of  the  facilitators  and  we  share  their 
worries  and  hopes.  Their  inputs  have  enriched  our 
work. So, as more than one delegation has said before, 
the  mechanics  of  their  discussion  and  analysis  should 
remain valid in the upcoming discussions that we shall 
have on this question. 

We believe that adequate coordination between the 
Security Council, the Economic and Social Council and 
the  General  Assembly  is  indispensable  and  vital.  It  is 
important to maintain the balance between the functions 
and  powers  of  the  main  bodies  of  the  United  Nations. 
There  should  be  proper  collaboration  and  coordination 
that  includes  interrelationship  and  interdependence. We 
believe  that  all  Member  States  agree  with  the  issue  of 
Security  Council  reform  and  have  invested  many  years 
working  on  that  issue.  We  must  make  progress  and 
address  reform  in  greater  depth.  The  current  world 
07-59704 

23 

A/62/PV.50 

situation  demands  that  of  us,  and  reality  has  imposed 
new criteria and values upon us.  

All  of  us  wish  to  see  an  organization  that  will 
keep  pace  with  the  rhythm  of  the  times  in  which  we 
live,  an  organization  that  over  the  years  refines  its 
actions  in  promoting  the  legitimate  causes  of  our 
peoples.  We  all  wish  to  see  a  Security  Council  that 
reflects  the  modern  world  and  that  will  incorporate 
important recommendations to strengthen its work. We 
appreciate  the  work  done  and  are  sure  there  is  full 
agreement on the need for reform. So let us accomplish 
that task on behalf of our nations and our peoples and 
in harmony  with the Charter in order to reaffirm  faith 
in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth 
of human beings, in the equal rights of men and women 
and of nations large and small. 
Mrs. Dibaco (Ethiopia): My delegation wishes at 

the  outset  to  associate  itself  with  the  statement  made 
by  Angola  on  behalf  of  the  African  Group.  My 
delegation  would  also  like  to  express  its  sincere 
appreciation  to  the  President  of  the  Security  Council 
for 
the  month  of  November,  Ambassador  Marty 
Natalegawa of Indonesia, for presenting to the General 
Assembly the annual report of the Security Council. 

The  report  of  the  Security  Council,  as  contained 
in document A/62/2, is comprehensive and enables the 
Assembly to have a full picture of the activities carried 
out  by  the  Council  from  August  to  July  of  this  year. 
The  statistics  provided  in  the  Council’s  report  show  a 
growing trend in its activities. In that regard, the report 
is  informative  and  beneficial,  although  it  would  be 
more desirable to include  an analysis of  the Council’s 
activities. We hope that in the future the report will be 
more  analytical  and  will  better  reflect  the  issues  dealt 
with  by  the  Council  in  a  substantive  manner. We  also 
hope  that  the  report  will  be  available  in  advance,  so 
that the Assembly will have ample time to examine the 
issues  and  make  meaningful  contributions.  Likewise, 
we  expect  that  the  format  of  the  report  will  be 
addressed  by  taking  into  consideration  the  views 
expressed during the present debate. 

The  issue  of  Security  Council  enlargement  and 
the principle  of equitable representation  are of critical 
importance to the overall reform of the United Nations. 
This  overriding  fact  necessitates  that  the  issue  should 
be  accorded  the  necessary  attention  and  importance  it 
deserves. 
firmly 
believe 

As it is well known, during the sixty-first session 
of  the  General  Assembly,  there  were,  on  and  off, 
attempts to provide momentum to the issue and keep it 
alive through formal and informal consultations among 
Member  States  and  stakeholders.  In  that  respect,  my 
delegation  appreciates  the  efforts  of  the Ambassadors 
of  Chile,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  Liechtenstein,  Netherlands 
and  Tunisia  for  conducting  continuous  consultative 
meetings  to  exchange  views  on  how  to  proceed  with 
the  reform  process  and  make  progress.  Their  reports 
have  also  been  useful  for  building  on  what  has  been 
achieved  and  for  continuing  the  consultations  from 
where  they  left  off.  We  expect  the  President  of  the 
current session to devote the necessary attention to the 
consultations  by  issuing  appropriate  guidance  and 
direction,  so  that  the  issue  will  maintain  momentum 
until  solutions  that  are  acceptable  to  all  stakeholders 
are found. 

Ethiopia  firmly  believes  that  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  is  vital  to  its  capacity  to  act  and  its 
ability  to  deliver  results.  In  that  regard,  improvement 
in  the  working  methods  of  the  Council  is  equally 
important.  We 
that,  whatever 
consultations  are  intended  to  be  conducted  in  the 
future,  should  be  on  the  basis  of  transparency  and 
inclusiveness. The interests of the various stakeholders 
in  the  issues  should  also  be  taken  fully  into  account 
and  deserve  equal  consideration.  We  hope  that  the 
Open-ended  Working  Group  and  others  involved  in 
facilitation  tasks  will  give  due  recognition  to  that 
aspect of the consultation process and act accordingly. 

In  conclusion,  we  wish  once  again  to  stress  the 
need for the reform of the Council to be accorded high 
priority  during  the  current  session.  Ethiopia,  as  in  the 
past,  will  continue  to  closely  follow  the  issue  and 
engage in consultations aimed at making progress and 
achieving tangible results through consensus. 
Mr. Verbeke (Belgium) (spoke in French): Please 

allow  me  to  make  a  few  procedural  remarks.  Some 
have described the Security Council as one of the most 
conservative  institutions  in  the  world,  referring  to  its 
working  methods,  its  procedures  and,  above  all,  its 
membership.  Others  have  called  the  Security  Council 
one of the most effective organs of the United Nations. 

As  a  non-permanent  member  of  the  Security 
Council,  Belgium  observes  each  day  that  there  is  a 
grain of truth in both assertions. It follows — and this 
is  my  first  comment  —  that  any  Security  Council 
24 

07-59704 
still 
there 


reform  will  have  to  take  into  account  two  basic 
elements — the Council must adapt while ensuring that 
its  effectiveness  is  maintained.  In  that  connection, 
improvement in the working methods of the Council is 
certainly  an  important  objective.  Initial  progress  has 
already  been  achieved,  but 
remain 
considerable challenges, especially regarding access to 
the  Council  by  non-member  countries,  in  particular 
those  countries  directly  concerned  by  Council 
decisions.  Other  speakers  before  me  have  already 
raised that point, so I will not dwell on it. 

Improving  working  methods,  however  important 
that  may  be,  is  not  enough.  As  several  colleagues 
emphasized  yesterday  and  today,  a  further-reaching 
reform  is  necessary,  more  than  ever.  Dragging  our 
heels on the issue would be tantamount to maintaining 
the status quo, which is not an option. The composition 
of  the  Security  Council  must  better  reflect  the  current 
geopolitical  reality.  Increased  representation  would 
help  to  give  the  Council  greater  legitimacy.  That 
position  seems  to  be  shared  by  all.  The  question  is, 
how to achieve it and how to break the deadlock. 

During  the  sixty-first  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  as  is  illustrated  in  the  latest  report  of  the 
Open-ended Working Group, the key parameters for any 
Security  Council  reform  were  clearly  identified  and  I 
wish to commend President Al Khalifa and the five and 
then two facilitators for the outstanding work they have 
done  in  that  regard.  My  delegation  believes  that,  with 
the work done in recent months, the political leeway and 
the legal requirements are sufficiently well-known.  

It is now time to go on to the next phase: a phase 
of  genuine  intergovernmental  negotiations  within  the 
General Assembly  itself,  the  natural  venue  for  such  a 
process.  The  modalities  for  those  intergovernmental 
negotiations should be defined as soon as possible.  

For  Belgium,  as  was  stated  by  our  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs to the General Assembly on 1 October 
(see  A/62/PV.12),  it  is  clear  that  in  due  course, 
consultations  at  the  highest  level  —  at  the  level  of 
heads  of  State  or  Government,  in  capitals  —  will  be 
inevitable  if  we  wish  to  attain  tangible  results.  My 
delegation  believes  that  such  consultations  should  be 
conducted by a single individual who would enjoy our 
full confidence: a high-level special envoy.  
A/62/PV.50
On 
the  ownership, 

For Belgium, that does not mean outsourcing the 
debate  from  New  York  to  various  capitals,  but  rather 
ensuring 
the  active  and  direct 
involvement of our heads of State and Government in a 
debate, the strategic issues of which are known to all. 
In  that  way  the  special  envoy  would  be  acting  as  a 
catalyst  who,  supported  by  direct  contributions  from 
capitals at the highest level, would be in a position to 
unjam, facilitate, promote and speed up the process of 
intergovernmental negotiation.  

the  basis  of  contact  and  consultations 
conducted  directly  with  capitals,  the  special  envoy 
should  be  in  a  position  to  submit  to  us a  consolidated 
proposal 
the  broadest  possible 
support. That proposal would constitute the basis for a 
new  round  of  intergovernmental  negotiations  within 
the General Assembly. It  is for the General Assembly, 
and  to  the  General  Assembly  alone,  to  take  the  final 
decision, which should take place before the end of its 
sixty-second session.  

The debate on the reform of the Security Council 
has  already  taken  up  a  great  deal  of  time  and  energy. 
Only an innovative procedural approach can break the 
deadlock  in  which  we  currently  find  ourselves  on  this 
issue. Belgium is prepared to play its role. 
that  would  enjoy 
the 
first 
to 


and 
that  as 
item  48, 
“Integrated 
Organization of Work 
The  Acting  President:  I  would  like  to  inform 

members 
item  on  Thursday, 
15 November,  the  General  Assembly  will  take  up 
agenda 
coordinated 
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of 
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  in 
the economic and social and related fields”, and agenda 
item  116,  “Follow-up 
the 
Millennium Summit”, for the purpose of taking action 
on  draft  resolution  A/62/L.11,  entitled  “Overview  of 
United  Nations  activities  relating  to  climate  change”. 
Also,  I  would  like  to  inform  members  that  the 
consideration  of  agenda  item  50,  “The  role  of  the 
United  Nations  in  promoting  a  new  global  human 
order”,  which  is  scheduled  as  the  fourth  item  for 
Thursday  morning,  15  November,  has  been  postponed 
to Monday morning, 26 November. 
The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m. 
the  outcome  of 
07-59704 

25 
