United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

52nd plenary meeting 
Thursday, 15 November 2007, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

A/62/PV.52
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) 
Republic of Venezuela and Zimbabwe. Therefore, those 
25 States are not eligible in this election. 

I  should  now  like  to  inform  members  that  the 
following States have been nominated by the Economic 
and  Social  Council:  the  three African  States  for  three 
vacancies  are  Kenya,  the  Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya  and 
Niger;  the  three  Asian  States  for  three  vacancies  are 
Bangladesh, China and the Republic of Korea; and the 
one  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  State  for  one 
vacancy is Jamaica. 

In  accordance  with  rule  92  of  the  rules  of 
procedure, all elections should be held by secret ballot 
and  there  shall  be  no  nominations.  However,  I  should 
like  to  recall  paragraph  16  of  General  Assembly 
decision  34/401,  whereby  the  practice  of  dispensing 
with the secret ballot for elections to subsidiary organs 
when  the  number  of  candidates  corresponds  to  the 
number  of  seats  to  be  filled  should  become  standard, 
unless  a  delegation  specifically  requests  a  vote  on  a 
given election. 

In the absence of such a request, may I take it that 
the Assembly decides to proceed to the election on the 
basis of dispensing with the secret ballot? 
It was so decided. 

The President: The number of States nominated 

from  among  the  African  States,  the  Asian  States  and 
the Latin American and Caribbean States is equal to the 
number of seats to be filled in each of those groups. 

May I therefore take it that the Assembly wishes 
to declare those States nominated by the Economic and 






The meeting was called to order at 10:15 a.m. 

Agenda item 113 
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and 
other elections 


  (a)  Election of seven members of the Committee for 
Programme and Coordination 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/62/77) 

The  President: Pursuant  to  General  Assembly 

decision  42/450  of  17  December  1987  and  upon 
nomination  by  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  the 
Assembly  elects  the  members  of  the  Committee  for 
Programme and Coordination. 

The  Assembly  has  before  it  document  A/62/77, 
which  contains  the  nominations  by  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  to  fill  the  vacancies  in  the  Committee 
that  will  occur  as  a  result  of  the  expiration,  on  
31  December  2007,  of  the  terms  of  office  of Algeria, 
China, Ghana, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya and the Republic 
of  Korea.  Those  States  are  eligible  for  immediate 
re-election. 

I  should  like  to  remind  members  that,  after  
1  January  2008,  the  following  States  will  still  be 
members  of 
the  Committee:  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Belarus,  Benin,  Brazil,  Bulgaria,  the  Central  African 
Republic,  the  Comoros,  Cuba,  France,  Haiti,  India, 
Indonesia,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  Israel,  Italy, 
Pakistan,  Portugal,  the  Russian  Federation,  Senegal, 
South  Africa,  Switzerland,  Uruguay,  the  Bolivarian 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-60012 (E) 
*0760012* 

the  Niger  and 
A/62/PV.52 

Social  Council  from  among  the  African  States,  the 
Asian  States  and  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States,  namely,  Bangladesh,  China,  Jamaica,  Kenya, 
the  Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya, 
the 
Republic of Korea, elected members of the Committee 
for Programme and Coordination for a three-year term 
of office beginning on 1 January 2008? 
It was so decided. 

The President: I congratulate the States that have 

just  been  elected  members  of  the  Committee  for 
Programme and Coordination. 

Members will recall that from previous sessions, 
and  as  indicated  in  document  A/62/77,  there  remain 
two  vacancies  in  the  Group  of  Western  European  and 
other  States  for  members  whose  term  of  office  would 
begin on the date of election. One term will expire on 
31  December  2008  and  the  other  on  31  December 
2009.  The  General  Assembly  will  be  in  a  position  to 
act  on  those  vacancies  upon  the  nomination  by  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  of  two  Member  States 
from that region. 

We  have 
consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 113. 

Mr. İlkin (Turkey), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
this  stage  of  our 
thus  concluded 

  (b)  Election of twenty-nine members of the 

Governing Council of the United Nations 
Environment Programme 
The  Acting  President:  Pursuant 

to  General 
Assembly  resolution  2997  (XXVII)  of  15  December 
1972  and  Assembly  decision  43/406  of  24  October 
1988,  the  Assembly  will  proceed  to  the  election  of 
29 members  of  the  Governing  Council  of  the  United 
Nations  Environment  Programme,  to  replace  those 
members whose term of office expires on 31 December 
2007. 
The  29  outgoing  members  are  the  Bahamas, 

Faso, 
Bangladesh,  Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Burkina 
Cameroon, Cape Verde, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ghana, 
Hungary,  India,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  Israel, 
Kazakhstan,  Kyrgyzstan,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Morocco, 
Netherlands,  Poland,  Saudi Arabia,  Senegal,  Somalia, 
Sweden, Turkey, Tuvalu, the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland  and  the  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania.  Those  States  are  also  eligible  for 
immediate re-election. 
2 


I  should  like  to  remind  members  that,  after 
1 January  2008  the  following  States  will  still  be 
members  of  the  Governing  Council:  Algeria,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Australia,  Austria, 
Belgium,  Botswana,  Burundi,  Canada,  Chile,  China, 
the  Czech  Republic,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  France,  Germany,  Haiti,  Indonesia,  Japan, 
Kenya, Pakistan, the Republic of Korea, Romania, the 
Russian  Federation,  South  Africa,  Thailand,  Uganda, 
the United States of America  and Uruguay. Therefore, 
those 29 States are not eligible in this election. 

As members know, in accordance with rule 92 of 
the  rules  of  procedure,  all  elections  shall  be  held  by 
secret  ballot  and  there  shall  be  no  nominations. 
However,  I  should  like  to  recall  paragraph  16  of 
General  Assembly  decision  34/401,  whereby 
the 
practice  of  dispensing  with  the  secret  ballot  for 
elections  to  subsidiary  organs  when  the  number  of 
candidates  corresponds  to  the  number  of  seats  to  be 
filled  should  become  standard,  unless  a  delegation 
specifically requests a vote on a given election. 

In the absence of such a request, may I take it that 
the Assembly decides to proceed to the election on that 
basis? 
It was so decided. 

The Acting President: Regarding candidatures, I 

have  been  informed  by  the  Chairmen  of  the  regional 
groups that for the eight seats from the African States, 
the  eight  endorsed  candidates  are  Benin,  the  Congo, 
Guinea,  Mali,  Mauritius,  the  Niger,  Somalia  and 
Tunisia. 

For  the  seven  seats  from  the  Asian  States,  the 
seven endorsed candidates are Bangladesh, Fiji, India, 
the Islamic Republic of Iran, Kazakhstan, Saudi Arabia 
and Tuvalu. 

For  the  three  seats  from  the  Eastern  European 
States,  the  three  endorsed  candidates  are  Belarus, 
Croatia and Hungary. 

For  the  five  seats  from  the  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  States,  the  five  endorsed  candidates  are  the 
Bahamas, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba and Mexico. 

For the six seats from the Western European and 
other  States,  the  six  endorsed  candidates  are  Finland, 
Israel, Italy, Monaco, the Netherlands and Spain. 
Since  the  number  of  candidates  endorsed  by  the 

African States, the Asian States, the Eastern European 
07-60012 
of 


States,  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  and 
the Western  European  and  other  States  corresponds  to 
the  number  of  seats  to  be  filled  in  each  region,  may  I 
take it that the General Assembly decides to elect those 
candidates as members of the Governing Council of the 
United  Nations  Environment  Programme  for  a  four-
year term of office beginning on 1 January 2008? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  The  following  29  States 

have  thus  been  elected  members  of  the  Governing 
Council 
the  United  Nations  Environment 
Programme for a four-year term of office beginning on 
1  January  2008:  the  Bahamas,  Bangladesh,  Belarus, 
Benin,  Colombia,  the  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia, 
Cuba,  Fiji,  Finland,  Guinea,  Hungary,  India, 
the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  Israel,  Italy,  Kazakhstan, 
Mali, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, the Netherlands, the 
Niger,  Saudi  Arabia,  Somalia,  Spain,  Tunisia  and 
Tuvalu. 

I  congratulate  the  States  that  have  been  elected 
members  of  the  Governing  Council  of  the  United 
Nations Environment Programme. 

May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  if  the  General 
Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-item (b) 
of agenda item 113?  

It was so decided. 

Agenda item 114 
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments 
  (g)  Appointment of members of the Committee 


on Conferences 
Note by the Secretary-General (A/62/107) 

The Acting President: As indicated in document 

A/62/107,  since  the  terms  of  office  of Austria,  China, 
Egypt, Jamaica, Kenya, Nepal and the United States of 
America  will  expire  on  31  December  2007,  it  will  be 
necessary for the President of the General Assembly to 
appoint,  during  the  current  session,  seven  members  in 
order  to  fill  the  resulting  vacancies.  Those  members 
will  serve  for  a  period  of  three  years,  beginning  on 
1 January 2008. 

After  consultations  with  the  Chairmen  of  the 
groups  of  African  States,  Asian  States  and  Western 
European and other States, the President has appointed 
A/62/PV.52
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  takes  note  of 
Austria,  China,  Japan,  Kenya,  Tunisia  and  the  United 
States  of  America  as  members  of  the  Committee  on 
Conferences  for  a  period  of  three  years,  beginning  on 
1 January 2008. 

those appointments? 
It was so decided. 

The Acting  President:  Regarding  the  remaining 

vacant  seat  from  among  the  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  States,  the  President  will  continue  to  hold 
consultations with that regional group. 

consideration of sub-item (g) of agenda item 114. 
this  stage  of  our 
thus  concluded 
We  have 


Agenda item 114 (continued)
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments 
  (a)  Appointment of members of the Advisory 


Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions 
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/62/528) 

The  Acting  President:  The  Fifth  Committee 

recommends  in  paragraph  6  of  its  report  that  the 
General  Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as 
members of the Advisory Committee on Administrative 
and Budgetary Questions for a three-year term of office 
beginning on 1 January 2008: Mr. Jorge Flores Callejas 
of  Honduras;  Mr. 
Imtiaz  Hussain  of  Pakistan; 
Ms. Misako  Kaji  of  Japan;  Mr.  Jerry  Kramer  of 
Canada;  Mr.  Peter  Maddens  of  Belgium;  Mr.  Nagesh 
Singh of India. 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to  appoint  those  persons  as  members  of  the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
for a three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 
2008? 


It was so decided. 
  (b)  Appointment of members of the Committee 

on Contributions 
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/62/529) 

The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  4  of  the 

report,  the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the 
General  Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as 
07-60012 

3 




A/62/PV.52 

members  of  the  Committee  on  Contributions  for  a 
three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2008: 
Mr. Joseph Acakpo-Satchivi of Benin; Mr. Abdelmalek 
Bouheddou  of  Algeria;  Mr.  Gordon  Eckersley  of 
Australia; Mr. Bernardo Greiver del Hoyo of Uruguay; 
Mr.  Luis  Mariano  Hermosillo  Sosa  of  Mexico;  and 
Mr. Eduardo  Manuel  da  Fonseca  Fernandes  Ramos  of 
Portugal.  

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to appoint those persons as members of the Committee 
on  Contributions  for  a  three-year  term  of  office 
beginning on 1 January 2008? 


It was so decided. 
  (c)  Confirmation of the appointment of members 
of the Investments Committee 
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/62/530) 

The  Acting  President:  The  Fifth  Committee 

recommends  in  paragraph  5  of  its  report  that  the 
General  Assembly  confirm  the  appointment  by  the 
Secretary-General  of  Mr.  Achim  Kassow  of  Germany 
and  the  reappointment  of  Mr. William  McDonough  of 
the United States of America and Ms. Hélène Ploix of 
France as members of the Investments Committee for a 
three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2008. 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to  confirm  the  appointments  by  the  Secretary-General 
of  Mr.  Achim  Kassow  of  Germany  and 
the 
reappointment  of  Mr.  William  McDonough  of  the 
United  States  of  America  and  Ms.  Hélène  Ploix  of 
France as members of the Investments Committee for a 
three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2008? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  6  of  the 

same report, the Fifth Committee also recommends that 
the  General  Assembly  reappoint  Mr.  Ivan  Pictet  of 
Switzerland  as  an  ad  hoc  member  of  the  Investments 
Committee for a one-year term beginning on 1 January 
2008. 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to  confirm  the  reappointment  of  Mr.  Ivan  Pictet  of 
Switzerland  as  an  ad  hoc  member  of  the  Investments 
Committee for a one-year term beginning on 1 January 
2008? 

It was so decided. 
  (d)  Appointment of a member of the Board 
of Auditors 
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/62/531) 

The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  4  of  its 

report,  the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the 
General Assembly  appoint  the Auditor-General  of  the 
General  Audit  Office  of  China  as  a  member  of  the 
Board  of  Auditors  for  a  six-year  term  of  office 
beginning on 1 July 2008. 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to  appoint  the  Auditor-General  of  the  General  Audit 
Office of China as a member of the Board of Auditors 
for a six-year term of office beginning on 1 July 2008? 


It was so decided. 
  (e)  Appointment of members of the United Nations 
and 
Administrative Tribunal 
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/62/532) 

The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  4  of  its 

report,  the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the 
General  Assembly  appoint  Mr.  Agustin  Gordillo  of 
Argentina 
reappoint  Mr.  Dayendra  Sena 
Wijewardane  of  Sri  Lanka  as  members  of  the  United 
Nations Administrative Tribunal for a four-year term of 
office beginning on 1 January 2008.  

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to  appoint  Mr.  Agustin  Gordillo  of  Argentina  and  to 
reappoint  Mr.  Dayendra  Sena  Wijewardane  of  Sri 
Lanka 
the  United  Nations 
Administrative Tribunal  for  a  four-year  term  of  office 
beginning on 1 January 2008? 


It was so decided. 
as  members 
  (f)  Appointment of members of the Independent 
Audit Advisory Committee 
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/62/533) 

The  Acting  President:  The  Fifth  Committee 

recommends,  in  paragraph  8  of  its  report,  that  the 
General  Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as 
members  of 
Independent  Audit  Advisory 
Committee  for  a  three-year  term  of  office  beginning 
1 January  2008:  Mr.  Vadim  Dubinkin  of  the  Russian 
Federation,  Mr.  Vijayendra  Nath  Kaul  of  India  and 
Mr. Adrian Patrick Strachan of Jamaica.  
the 
of 

4 

07-60012 
those  persons  as  members  of 


May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 

to  appoint 
the 
Independent  Audit  Advisory  Committee  for  a  three-
year term of office beginning on 1 January 2008? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  9  of  the 

same report, the Fifth Committee also recommends, in 
accordance with paragraph 7 of the annex to resolution 
61/275  of  29  June  2007,  that  the  General  Assembly 
appoint  the  following  persons  as  members  of  the 
Independent Audit Advisory Committee for a four-year 
term of office beginning on 1 January 2008: Mr. John 
Muwanga of Uganda and Mr. David M. Walker of the 
United States of America. 
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 

to  appoint 
the 
Independent Audit Advisory Committee for a four-year 
term of office beginning on 1 January 2008? 
It was so decided. 

The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 

wish  of 
its 
consideration  of  sub-items  (a)  to  (f)  of  agenda  item 
114? 

those  persons  as  members  of 
the  General  Assembly 
It was so decided. 
to  conclude 


Programme of work and organization of the session 

The  Acting  President: I  would  like  to  inform 
members  that,  in  order  to  allow  time  for  further 
consultations  on  draft 
the 
resolution  A/62/L.11, 
A/62/PV.52
consideration  of  agenda  item  48,  “Integrated  and 
coordinated  implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the 
outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and 
summits  in  the  economic,  social  and  related  fields”, 
and agenda item 116, “Follow-up to the outcome of the 
Millennium  Summit”,  scheduled  as  the  first  item  this 
morning,  will  be  postponed  to  Monday,  19  November 
2007. 
Mr. İlkin (Turkey), Vice-President, in the Chair. 

The  Acting  President:  I  would  now  like  to 

consult  members  regarding  an  extension  for  the  work 
of the Special Political and Decolonization Committee 
(Fourth Committee). Members will recall that at its 2nd 
plenary  meeting,  on  21  September  2007,  the  General 
Assembly  approved 
the 
General  Committee  that  the  Special  Political  and 
Decolonization  Committee  (Fourth  Committee)  would 
complete its work by Thursday, 15 November 2007. 
However, the President has been informed by the 

Chairman  of  the  Special  Political  and  Decolonization 
Committee  that  the  Committee  will  not  be  able  to 
complete  its  work  by  today,  Thursday,  15  November 
and would need an additional meeting on 20 November 
2007,  depending  on  the  availability  of  conference 
services. 

May I therefore take it that the General Assembly 
agrees  to  extend  the  work  of  the  Special  Political  and 
Decolonization Committee for one additional meeting? 

The meeting rose at 10.45 a.m. 
recommendation  of 
It was so decided. 
the 
07-60012 

5 
