
A/62/PV.57
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

57th plenary meeting 
Monday, 26 November 2007, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) 





In the absence of the President, Mr. Hannesson 
(Iceland), Vice-President, took the Chair.  


that 
the  purpose  of 
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.  
Agenda item 121 (continued) 
Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly  

Mr.  Romero-Martínez  (Honduras)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  Like  other  delegations,  my  delegation  takes 
note  of  the  importance  that  has  been  granted  to  this 
issue. For that reason, we welcome the fact that at the 
previous session the President of the General Assembly 
included the item on the agenda and that this year the 
President, with his usual intelligence is also granting it 
due priority and interest.  

the 
Honduras  believes 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  be  to  reassert 
the central role of the General Assembly pursuant to its 
Charter mandate as the principal deliberative organ for 
the  adoption  of  actions  and  universal  policies  for  the 
benefit of humanity.  

We agree with other delegations about the lack of 
a  report  setting  out  in  a  logical  manner  the  progress 
attained  or  indicating  a  clear  direction  for  Member 
States.  But  we  also  wish  to  underscore  that  we  have 
made some progress. Honduras greatly appreciates the 
work 
the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Senegal  and  San  Marino.  We  are 
certain  that  they  will  continue  their  work  in  other 
specific areas, and we look forward to the endeavours 
of  their  successors,  the  representatives  of  Poland  and 
Paraguay. 

the  Facilitators  — 
of 
Mandate 
rationalize 
review  could  also 

Honduras  believes  that  mandate  review  is  an 
important  goal.  The  rationalization  and  unification  of 
items and the adoption of coherent policies will make it 
possible,  above  all,  to  provide  a  united  and  universal 
response  that  will  benefit  both  our  Organization  and 
our  peoples,  who  sometimes  see  us  as  representing 
their  hopes,  and  as  possessing  solutions  to  their  most 
urgent problems.  

the 
resources  that  are  currently  scattered  throughout  the 
Organization.  We  also  believe  it  is  necessary  to 
prioritize and refine our programme of work as well as 
to restructure and re-programme the Main Committees 
and improve their working methods. 

In  the  past,  we  have  said  that  the  revitalization 
process  must  respond  to  the  need  to  restore  a  proper 
balance  of  powers  and  functions  among  the  General 
Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and 
Social  Council.  In  our  view,  it  would  be  fitting  to 
establish, 
coordination 
mechanism  in  order  to  ensure  proper  communication 
with  a  broad  spirit  of  interdependence  and  a  strong 
desire  to  cooperate.  The  proliferation  of  resolutions 
and the lack, sometimes, of an adequate mechanism to 
ensure compliance are disturbing. 

As  a  founding  country  and  one  of  the  original 
signatories  of  the  Charter,  Honduras  will  continue  to 
participate  in  all  debates  and  negotiations  designed  to 
strengthen our Organization. 
As we have often stated in this forum, Honduras 

aspires  to  a  strong,  united  Organization  that  is  solidly 
informally, 
perhaps 
a 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-61667 (E) 
*0761667* 

A/62/PV.57 

committed  to  the  issues  of  the  day,  that  will  listen  to 
the  sometimes  painful  cries  of  humankind,  and  that 
will  glimpse  with  satisfaction  the  everlasting  smiles 
and  eternal  dreams  of  millions  of  human  beings  who 
yearn  for  a  world  of  greater  solidarity  and  sensitivity 
and that is filled with peace, justice and equality —  a 
world of equality for all, a world that does not exclude 
anyone. 
Ms. Blum (Colombia) (spoke in Spanish): Allow 

me first to highlight the leadership of the President of 
the General Assembly and the able manner in which he 
is leading our work on the matter under consideration. 
Likewise,  I  would  like  to  express  my  delegation’s 
recognition  to  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  San 
Marino  and  Senegal  for  their  work  as  Facilitators  for 
the  revitalization  of  the  General Assembly  during  the 
previous  session. Their  contributions  are  an  important 
starting  point  to  continue  the  consideration  of  the 
matter  at  this  session.  Furthermore,  my  delegation 
associates  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative of Algeria on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement. 

The  General  Assembly  was  established  as  the 
sole universal organ of the Organization, with a broad 
mandate  that  includes,  inter  alia,  economic,  social, 
political,  and  cooperation  issues  as  well  as  those 
relative  to  disarmament  and  the  maintenance  of  peace 
and  security.  The  General Assembly  has  the  authority 
to discuss any matter in accordance with the Charter of 
the  United  Nations 
the 
recommendations it considers appropriate. 
As  a  founding  Member  of  the  United  Nations, 

Colombia 
the 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  as  the  chief 
deliberative,  policymaking  and  representative  organ 
and  considers  that  this  process  is  essential  to  the 
reform and strengthening of the Organization. 

The  process  of  revitalization  has  been  long  and 
slow.  Nevertheless,  significant  progress  has  been 
achieved,  such  as 
the  dialogue 
between  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
Member  States,  the  rationalization  of  the  work  of  the 
Main  Committees  and  the  convening  of  thematic 
debates, which have made a positive contribution to the 
work of this body. 

In  that  regard,  we  believe  that  greater  progress 
can  still  be  achieved  in  these  areas  through  new 
thematic debates and more structured interactive work 
improvement 
importance 
formulate 
attaches 
great 
to 
and 
to 
in 
focus  on 
the  reports  and  recommendations  of 
between  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
Member States, which could begin a month in advance 
of the start of each session. It is necessary to continue 
the  rationalization  of  the  agenda  of  the Assembly  and 
the  reduction  in  the  number  of  items,  so  that  small 
delegations  —  the  majority  of  delegations  represented 
here  —  can  fully  carry  out  their  responsibilities  and 
cover issues of national interest. 

Options  for  turning  General  Assembly  debates 
into  real  exchanges  of  ideas,  with  interaction  among 
Member  States  and  with  the  opportunity  to  offer 
positive  and  constructive  comments  on  the  statements 
made,  should  be  explored.  There  are  also  several 
matters  on  which  the Assembly’s  resolutions  could  be 
shorter and more action-oriented. To that end, the Main 
Committees  could  improve  the  organization  of  their 
work in order to have more focused discussions. 

It is also important for the Committees to make a 
greater  effort  to  add  value  to  their  deliberations  and 
resolutions  in  order  to  minimize  the  use  of  repetitive 
language  negotiated  at  previous  sessions.  In  that 
respect, 
the 
Secretary-General  can  play  an  important  role.  They 
should 
in 
formulating  new  action-oriented  suggestions.  The 
recommendations in those reports should be examined 
in  the  light  of  their  contribution  to  General Assembly 
revitalization. 

is  also 
required between the revitalization and mandate review 
processes,  as  both  are  concerned  with  the  General 
Assembly agenda. In this regard, it is necessary to have 
clarity on the scope of those two processes in order to 
avoid duplication and achieve better results. 
Colombia  is  concerned  with  the  imbalance  that 

exists  in  the  relationships  between  the  main  bodies  of 
the  Organization  and  stresses  the  need  to  restore  the 
balance  stipulated  in  the  United  Nations  Charter.  The 
General  Assembly  should  have  a  more  active  role  in 
the  consideration  of  issues  related  to  peace  and 
security,  in  accordance  with  functions  assigned  to  it. 
Likewise, 
its 
competence  by  other  bodies  should  be  avoided.  The 
consideration  of  issues  such  as  human  rights  and 
humanitarian  law belong exclusively and solely to the 
General Assembly. 
The debate on Security Council reform that took 

place in this Hall two weeks ago made it clear that the 
Furthermore,  adequate  coordination 
recent  developments  and 
the  encroachment  on 
items  within 
2 

07-61667 
The 
the  Presidents  of 


relationship and communication between that body and 
the  General  Assembly  must  improve.  The  holding  of 
periodic  meetings  between 
the 
General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
and the Security Council, as well as the presentation of 
analytical  reports  by  the  Council  to  the Assembly  are 
some of the ways to reach that goal. It is also necessary 
to  have  more  frequent  presentations  and  briefings  by 
the Secretary-General to the General Assembly. 

implementation  of  General  Assembly 
resolutions  is  another  area  where  greater  efforts  are 
required. A greater commitment by States to implement 
the resolutions adopted by this body is necessary. The 
presentation  of  a  report  by  the  Secretary-General  on 
the status of implementation would be useful. 

In  the  specific  area  of  the  implementation  of 
resolutions  on  revitalization,  we  regret  not  being  able 
to refer to the report of the Secretary-General, as it was 
not  published  in  time  to  be  considered  in  our  debate 
today.  

The  revitalization  process  should  also  include 
greater  participation  of  the  General  Assembly  in  the 
election  of  its  President  and  of  the  Secretary-General. 
In the election of the latter, different alternatives could 
be  examined.  Candidates  could  be  presented  a  year 
before  the  election  and  Member  States  could  express 
their  preference  by  casting  a  ballot,  which  could  be 
open or secret. 

My  delegation  supports  the  establishment  of  an 
ad-hoc working group to continue the consideration of 
the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly.  It  is 
important  that  during  this  session  tangible  results  are 
achieved  and  that  these  are  later  reflected  in  a 
resolution 
to 
advance the process. 
Colombia  maintains  its  commitment  to  continue 

contributing 
the  General 
Assembly in order to strengthen its role and authority. 
My delegation will continue to support efforts to allow 
this body to fully carry out its functions as provided in 
the Charter of the United Nations. This is the only way 
that  we  can  meet  the  goals  of  greater  democracy, 
representation  and  effectiveness  in  the  work  of  our 
Organization. 

express 
to 
Ambassadors  of  Paraguay  and  Poland  for 
To  conclude,  allow  me  to  congratulate  and  to 
the 
their 
the  support  of  my  delegation 
includes  substantive  elements 
the  revitalization  of 
that 
to 
A/62/PV.57
appointment  as  facilitators  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group on the revitalization of the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Bodini  (San  Marino):  First  of  all,  I  want  to 

thank  the  President  and  all  of  the  colleagues  who  so 
kindly mentioned Ambassador Badji and me in today’s 
speeches.  I  wish  at  the  same  time  to  congratulate  the 
Permanent Representatives of Poland and Paraguay on 
their  appointment  as  new  Co-Chairs  for  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly. 
Once again, I wish to mention the importance of 

the  reform  of  the  General Assembly  in  all  its  aspects. 
After  spending  much 
time  —  hours  —  with 
Ambassador  Badji  and  many  Members,  I  strongly 
believe  that  we  are  ready  for  a  true  reform  of  the 
General Assembly. Not only do we have to improve our 
working methods and the election and selection of the 
the 
President  of 
Secretary-General, 
our 
relationship  with  other  organs  of  the  United  Nations 
must be improved and made more direct. 

We must ensure that this Hall is the centre of our 
focus,  in  all  of  our  speeches  on  existing  issues.  We 
must make sure that the General Assembly is at centre 
stage  in  our  planning  as  we  programme  our  responses 
and activities in this evolving world. 
I take this opportunity again to thank all Member 

States for their support during the time Paul Badji and I 
spent  as  facilitators.  I  hope  from  the  bottom  of  my 
heart  that  this  year  will  be  the  right  year  for  a  strong 
reform of the Assembly. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  in  the  debate  on  the  issue. The Assembly  has 
thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  the 
item on its agenda. 
the  General  Assembly  and  of 
importantly, 
but,  more 

Agenda items 48 (continued), 116, 117 and 123 
Integrated and coordinated implementation of and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United 
Nations conferences and summits in the economic, 
social and related fields 


  Draft resolution (A/62/L.15) 
  Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium 
Summit 
  United Nations reform: measures and proposals 






07-61667 

3 


I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
A/62/PV.57 

  Strengthening of the United Nations system  

The Acting President: In connection with agenda 

item  48,  members  will  recall  that  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  contained  in  document A/62/89  has 
already  been  discussed,  at  the  39th  plenary  meeting, 
held on 30 October 2007.  

Kyrgyzstan to introduce draft resolution A/62/L.15. 
Mr.  Jeenbaev  (Kyrgyzstan):  On  behalf  of  more 

than 80 sponsors, I would like to introduce, under item 
48  of  the  agenda  of  the  sixty-second  session  of  the 
General Assembly, entitled “Integrated and coordinated 
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of 
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  in 
the  economic,  social  and 
fields”,  draft 
resolution  A/62/L.15,  entitled  “World  Day  of  Social 
Justice”. 

Both  the  World  Summit  and  the  twenty-fourth 
special session of the General Assembly were devoted 
to the issues of maintaining global social development 
and 
social 
well-being  of  all  peoples.  Achieving  those  goals  has 
been  declared  a  priority  for  the  twenty-first  century. 
The  Declaration  on  Social  Progress  and  Development 
proclaimed that  
importance  of 
recognizing 
related 
the 
the 

“Social  progress  and  development  shall  be 
founded  on  respect  for  the  dignity  and  value  of 
the human person and shall ensure the promotion 
of  human  rights  and  social  justice”.  (resolution 
2542 (XXIV), article 2). 

Today,  the  Copenhagen  Declaration  on  Social 
Development and its Programme of Action, as well as 
the  Millennium  Declaration,  which  encourages  global 
dialogue on social development, form a basis for social 
justice at both the national and the international levels. 
Accordingly,  there  is  today  consensus  on  the  need  to 
pursue  development,  and  the  obligations  to  eradicate 
poverty and establish socially stable and safe societies 
have been set out. 

We should note that, during the second half of the 
last century and the beginning of the third millennium, 
humankind  has  paid  steadfast  attention  to  ensuring 
social rights and the setting of social policy. However, 
we  must  acknowledge  that  continued  social  inequality 
in various parts of the world continues to be the basic 
obstacle to further development of the human potential; 
For 
that 
in 
the 
reason, 
to  reflect 
the  gradual 
inequality  also  fails 
the  world  community 
that 
development of that potential. 

is 
increasingly  aware  of  the  fact  that  social  policy  is  a 
problem  of  vital  importance  that  can  be  solved  only 
through concerted efforts. The responsibility for social 
development  therefore  lies  with  countries  themselves. 
It  cannot  be  successfully  achieved  without 
the 
collective  efforts  of 
international  community. 
Strengthening  international  cooperation  is  of  great 
importance  for  the  realization  of  a  socially  focused 
strategy,  as  well  as  for  subsequent  actions  and 
initiatives. 

We  are  convinced  that  the  General  Assembly’s 
adoption  of  this  draft  resolution  will  lead  to  even 
greater  attention  by  the  international  community  to 
achieving the goals and resolving the problems set out 
in  the  Millennium  Declaration  and  the  Copenhagen 
Declaration and its Programme of Action. Its adoption 
would  also  be  a  demonstration  of  support  for  the 
principles  of  solidarity  and  tolerance  and  for  the 
interests  of  all  population  groups  on  all  continents  in 
establishing a world policy of social justice. 

On  behalf  of  the  Government  of  the  Kyrgyz 
Republic, I would like to express our deep appreciation 
to  all  Member  States  that  have  co-sponsored  and 
actively  supported  this  draft  resolution.  I  hope,  and 
firmly  believe,  that  the  General  Assembly  will  adopt 
this document by consensus. 
Mr.  Lemos  Godinho  (Portugal):  I  speak  on 

behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU).  The  candidate 
countries  Turkey  and  Croatia,  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia, 
the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates  Albania,  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina, 
Montenegro  and  Serbia,  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the 
Republic  of  Moldova  and  Armenia,  align  themselves 
with this statement. 
In  September  2005,  heads  of  States  and 

Government  gathered  at  the  World  Summit  to  assess 
the  implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  the  major 
United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  and  the 
progress  made 
the  Millennium 
Declaration.  They  also  sought 
to  find  additional 
momentum  for  the  achievement  of  internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  including  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). 
the  countries  of 
implementing 
4 

07-61667 
the  adoption  of 



The  EU  is  pleased  that,  in  the  years  since  that 
meeting,  there  have  been  achievements  in  the  reform 
process  of  the  United  Nations  launched  by  the  World 
Summit  Outcome.  In  that  regard,  we  would  like  to 
refer  to  the  progress  made  in  the  work  of  the 
Peacebuilding Commission, the Human Rights Council 
and  the  Ad  Hoc  Committee  on  Mandate  Review,  as 
well  as  the  progress  made  thus  far  in  the  areas  of 
management  reform, 
the  United 
Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  and  the 
reform of the Economic and Social Council. 

The European Union also wishes to commend the 
organization of key events and thematic debates during 
the  sixty-second  session  of  the  General  Assembly  on 
such  matters  as  climate  change  and  financing  for 
development,  as  well  as  the  forthcoming  specific 
meeting  on  development  and  the  high-level  plenary 
meeting devoted to the follow-up to the outcome of the 
special  session  on  children.  Coupled  with  other 
informal  meetings  on  equally  relevant  matters,  those 
events  will  contribute  to  the  revitalization  of  both  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Organization  as  a  whole, 
and  to  the  follow-up  of  the  outcomes  of  the  major 
United  Nations  conferences  and  summits 
the 
economic, social and related fields. 

number of specific issues. 

With regard to the Economic and Social Council, 
the  Union  is  committed  to  a  strengthened  Council  as 
the  central  mechanism  for  system-wide  coordination 
and  the  integrated  and  coordinated  implementation  of 
the  outcomes  of,  and  follow-up  to,  the  major  United 
Nations conferences in the economic, social and related 
fields.  The  adoption  of  resolution  61/16,  on  the 
strengthening of the Economic and Social Council, the 
subsequent  organization  of  the  Annual  Ministerial 
Review (AMR) and the launching of the Development 
Cooperation  Forum  (DCF)  constitute  concrete  steps 
towards  strengthening  the  Council.  As  part  of  that 
strengthening,  the  European  Union  also  looks  forward 
to  the  discussions  to  be  held  on  the  adaptation  of  the 
work  of  the  Council  —  including  its  organization  of 
work,  agenda  and  current  methods  —  as  per  Council 
decision 2006/206. 
The  EU  is  also  pleased  with  the  adoption  of  the 

multi-year  programme  of  work 
the  Annual 
Ministerial Review. We look forward to the discussions 
on 
the  2008  AMR,  namely, 
Allow  me  to  draw  the Assembly’s  attention  to  a 
theme  of 
the 
for 
in 
A/62/PV.57
the 
As 
for 
the 
that 
development, 
is  convinced 
The  European  Union 
“Implementing  the  internationally  agreed  goals  and 
commitments in regard to sustainable development”, as 
well as to future discussions on global public health in 
2009. 
The  AMR  not  only  adds  value  to  the  fulfilment 

and 
implementation  of 
the  MDGs  and  other 
internationally agreed development goals, but is also a 
crucial  mechanism  to  emphasize  the  Council’s  role  as 
the  policy  coordination  body  of  the  United  Nations 
system 
for  economic,  social  and  environmental 
matters.  

the 
involvement  of  all  relevant  development  actors  in  the 
DCF process provides a unique opportunity to gather a 
wide  range  of  inputs  for  a  deepened  dialogue  and 
understanding  on 
international  development 
cooperation  agenda.  With  regard  to  the  agenda  of  the 
DCF,  the  European  Union  considers  it  important  that 
the  Forum  also  addresses 
issues  such  as  aid 
architecture  and  the  implementation  of  the  Paris 
Declaration on Aid Effectiveness. 

2005  Summit 
emphasized  that  it  must  be  based  on  a  truly  global 
partnership.  The  European  Union  would  like  to  take 
this  opportunity  to  reaffirm  its  strong  commitment  to 
the  MDGs  and  its  continued  support  for  developing 
countries  in  the  implementation  of  their  national 
development strategies through actions on aid volume, 
innovative  finance 
aid  effectiveness,  debt  relief, 
mechanisms, 
international 
institutions.  Actions  to  reach  those  goals  at  all  levels 
should  be  undertaken  in  an  integrated  way  that 
promotes  efficiencies  and  reduces  duplication  and 
unnecessary competition. 
On  that  foundation  of  partnership,  the  EU  has 

taken effective measures to meet its commitments as a 
donor. It has collectively surpassed the 2006 target for 
official development assistance (ODA) of 0.39 per cent 
of gross national income (GNI), which was set in 2005 
before  the  World  Summit  Outcome.  Furthermore,  the 
EU  has  set  new  ambitious  targets  for  2010  and  2015, 
including  new 
is  currently 
providing 57 per cent of global ODA, and is committed 
to reaching the target of 0.7 per cent of GNI in ODA by 
2015.  We  will  continue  to  make  efforts  to  meet  and 
exceed  our  timetables  and  invite  other  countries  to 
follow suit. 
levels  for  Africa.  It 
the  relevant 
trade  and 
07-61667 

5 
and 
security 
economic 
in  history 
the  magnitude  of 
it  call  for  unprecedented 
Climate  change  poses  one  of 
A/62/PV.57 

the  greatest 

challenges 
for  humankind.  Scientific 
evidence  judiciously  compiled  by  the  Nobel  Peace 
Prize-winning  Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate 
Change  (IPCC)  confirms  and  intensifies  previous 
warnings  about 
the  challenge. 
Climate change is already altering the face of the Earth 
and  will  increasingly  become  a  contributing  factor  to 
environmental, 
threats, 
endangering  also  the  attainment  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  that  the  international  community 
has placed at the core of its development efforts. 
The  scale  of  the  challenge  and  the  urgency  of 

addressing 
international 
cooperation involving all countries in a global effort to 
halt climate change, based on the principle of common 
but  differentiated  responsibilities  and  the  respective 
capabilities  of  countries  and  with  the  United  Nations 
system  at  the  centre  of  that  endeavor.  In  addition  to 
mitigating  the  effects  of  climate  change,  adaptation  is 
crucial.  Developing  countries,  especially  the  most 
vulnerable  ones,  face  new  important  challenges  in 
adapting  to  climate  change,  which  also  hampers  their 
achievement of the MDGs. The United Nations system 
has a key role to play in that respect.  

The  European  Union  therefore  welcomes  last 
week’s  consensus  adoption  of  resolution  62/8,  on 
overview  of  United  Nations  activities  relating  to 
climate  change,  and  underlines  the  importance  of  the 
United Nations system addressing the issue of climate 
change  in  a  comprehensive  and  coordinated  manner. 
Furthermore, 
this 
opportunity to thank the Secretary-General for briefing 
the  wider  membership  about  his  recent  trip  to  South 
America  and  Antarctica  and  for  commenting  on  the 
latest report of the IPCC, once again sharing with all of 
us  his  views  and  concerns  on  climate  change.  In  that 
to  congratulate 
same  spirit, 
Assembly  President  Kerim  for  his  dynamism 
in 
promoting discussion on climate change. 

The  European  Union  has  had  a  leading  role  in 
this  area  and  is  firmly  committed  to  continue  to  work 
towards growing international consensus on the need to 
take further and stronger actions to tackle the negative 
effects of climate change. Next month’s United Nations 
Climate  Change  Conference  in  Bali  will  be  a  crucial 
moment  to  transform  into  deeds  the  international 
political momentum galvanized by the high-level event 
convened  by  the  Secretary-General  on  24  September 
the  EU  would 
the  EU  would 
like 
to 
take 

including 
rights  — 
2007, as well as to advance current negotiations with a 
view  to  agreeing  a  new  multilateral,  comprehensive, 
coherent  and  effective  post-2012  regime  by  2009.  To 
that end, the thirteenth Conference of the Parties to the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change,  in  Bali,  must  establish  a  clear  road  map 
towards the fifteenth Conference, which is to be held in 
Copenhagen in 2009. 

The European Union would like to draw attention 
to  the  fact  that  HIV/AIDS  remains  a  global  scourge 
that must be combated at all levels through the scaling 
up of prevention, treatment, in particular antiretroviral 
therapy,  care  and  support.  In  that  connection,  the 
development and implementation of inclusive country-
led  strategies  based  on  the  “Three  Ones”  principle  is 
key.  Special  attention  must  therefore  be  paid  to 
combating  stigma  and  discrimination  and  protecting 
human 
those  of  vulnerable 
groups —  as  well  as  sexual  and  reproductive  health 
and  rights,  in  particular  those  of  women  and  young 
people, in accordance with the Programme of Action of 
the 
International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development.  In  that  respect,  the  European  Union 
looks  forward  to  engaging  in  discussion  on  the 
modalities  for  the  General Assembly’s  comprehensive 
review on HIV/AIDS that will take place in 2008. 

As for peace and security — another major topic 
of  the  2005  World  Summit  —  the  European  Union 
encourages further progress on issues such as security 
sector 
reform;  disarmament,  demobilization  and 
reintegration; the role of natural resources in conflicts; 
the  rule  of  law;  electoral  practices;  peacebuilding; 
democratic governance; the protection of civilians and 
return  of  refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons; 
humanitarian  assistance  and  development.  In  that 
respect,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  the  unquestionable 
interconnection between development and security. 

in 
rights, 
complementarity to the action of the General Assembly 
and  its  Third  Committee,  the  European  Union  hopes 
that  all  conditions  are  now  in  place  for  efficient  and 
credible  implementation  of  the  Council’s  mandate,  as 
foreseen in Assembly resolution 60/251. In that regard, 
the  EU  would  like  to  see  an  improved  and  stronger 
system  of  special  procedures  emanating  from  the 
review  of  individual  mandates  that  just  started  during 
the sixth session of the Human Rights Council. 
Finally,  with 
to  human 
regard 
like 
6 

07-61667 
to 
the  commemoration  of 



The  European  Union  remains  committed  to  the 
principles  and  fundamental  rights  set  out  in  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  and  looks 
forward 
its  sixtieth 
anniversary, in 2008. It is our belief that we should do 
so  by  implementing  and  mainstreaming  human  rights 
in the work of the Organization, including at the field 
level, and by counting on  and supporting the valuable 
work of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and 
her Office. 

In  conclusion,  the  European  Union  is  fully 
committed  to  fulfilling  the  principles  contained  in  the 
World Summit Outcome, whereby development, peace 
and  security  and  human  rights  are  interlinked  and 
mutually reinforcing. 
Mrs.  Chabau  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation  associates  itself  with  the  statement  to  be 
made on this subject by the representative of Pakistan 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. We would also 
like to make some comments on this issue, which is of 
particular importance for developing countries. 
We are virtually halfway to the target set for the 

the 
achievement  of 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  However, 
the achievement of the Goals is each day further from 
becoming  a  reality.  In  accordance  with  the  MDGs,  by 
2015  we  should  have  reduced  the  number  of  people 
living  in  extreme  poverty  in  developing  countries  by 
half.  However,  while  1.276  billion  people  were  living 
in extreme poverty in 1990, that number has grown to 
2.5 billion today.  

By 2015, we should reduce the under-5 mortality 
rate  by  two  thirds.  However,  10.1  million  children 
continue to die before their fifth birthday, mainly as a 
result of preventable causes. Obviously, we will not be 
able to achieve that goal.  

We  set  out  to  halt  HIV/AIDS  and  to  begin  to 
reduce its spread  by 2015.  Nevertheless, last year, the 
number  of  people  who  died  as  a  result  of  that  disease 
rose to 2.9 million.  

We  established  the  goal  of  achieving  universal 
primary  education  by  2015.  However,  115  million 
children  lack  access  to  primary  education.  At  the 
current  pace,  when  will  we  be  able  to  announce  the 
achievement of that goal? 
We  were  supposed  to  guarantee  environmental 

sustainability  by  2015.  However,  the  important  goals 
the  modest  objectives  of 
A/62/PV.57
that 
trend 
is 
far 
from 
lack  of 
continues 
truly  being 
that  we  agreed  upon  at  Johannesburg  in  order  to 
achieve true sustainable development are still far from 
becoming  realities.  The  threat  of  accelerated  global 
climate  change  is  growing,  together  with  that  of 
environmental  degradation.  Today,  the  situation  is 
much  more  serious,  the  dangers  are  greater  and  we 
have much less time left. 
The so-called development agenda for the poorest 

nations 
implemented. 
Developing  countries  continue  to  suffer  from  the 
scourge  of  poverty,  a 
resources  and 
marginalization.  Their  severe  economic  problems 
continue to grow, together with armed conflicts, natural 
disasters and the spread of diseases. 

While  1  per  cent  of  the  world’s  richest  people 
control  40  per  cent  of  its  wealth,  the  poorest  50  per 
cent  of  population  has  barely  1  per  cent.  Inequalities 
continue to grow among and within countries. The rich 
continue  to  become  richer  and  the  poor  to  become 
poorer.  Unfortunately, 
to 
characterize the current state of international relations, 
to  the  detriment  of  the  full  enjoyment  of  the  right  to 
development,  which  remains  a  pipe  dream  for  the 
world’s poor nations.  

Lasting  solutions  to  the  issues  addressed  in  the 
Monterrey  Consensus  —  such  as  official  development 
assistance 
foreign 
investment  and  international  trade  —  also  remain 
illusory. Despite the promises made, ODA continues to 
decrease and remains significantly below 0.7 per cent. 
In 2006, it accounted for only 0.3 per cent of the gross 
national product of developed countries. 

The  external  debt  of  developing  countries 
continues to increase. Last year, it reached a staggering 
$2.851 trillion.  

Developing countries continue to participate to a 
very small degree in international trade compared with 
industrialized  countries.  Developing  countries,  which 
have  nearly  four  fifths  of  the  world’s  population,  take 
part  in  only  one  third  of  international  trade.  Their 
marginalization 
is 
increasing,  which  is  reinforcing  the  net  transfer  of 
financial  resources  from  the  South  to  the  North  and 
consolidating  the  unequal  distribution  of  costs  and 
benefits resulting from that process. 

Paradoxically,  each  year,  more  than  $1  trillion 
continues  to  be  invested  in  military  spending  and 
(ODA),  external  debt,  direct 
international  market 
in 
the 
07-61667 

7 

A/62/PV.57 

additional  billions  of  dollars  in  advertising.  With 
scarcely  10  per  cent  of  the  total  resources  currently 
used  for  military  spending,  we  could  achieve  the 
MDGs.  Regrettably,  the  industrialized  world  seems  to 
have  overlooked  all  of  this  and  continues  to  lack  the 
political  will  to  take  historic  decisions  that  would 
correct  the  structural  inequalities  of  the  international 
economic system, which is completely unsustainable. 

Today, it is more necessary than ever before that 
developed countries honour the commitments that they 
have  made  at  the  major  United  Nations  conferences 
and summits in the economic, social and related fields. 
Those commitments cannot remain dead letters or mere 
political  slogans  aimed  at  diluting  responsibilities  or 
delaying their fulfilment. 

It is time that the entire international community 
give  responsible  and  in-depth  consideration  to  the 
situation  that  developing  countries  continue  to  endure 
as  a  result  of  the  unjust  and  unequal  world  economic 
order, which has proved to be unsustainable. Resolving 
the problems that developing countries continue to face 
and  preserving  nature  and  the  human  race  itself  are 
issues that concern the entire international community, 
without distinctions between rich and poor.  

The objectives have been identified. However, if 
we  are  to  be  able  to  attain  them,  it  is  vital  that 
developed 
the  necessary 
political  will  and  meet  their  commitments  —  an  issue 
that  undoubtedly  remains  the  key  challenge  to  be 
overcome.  Only  then  we  will  be  able  to  guarantee  a 
true and just global partnership for development. 
Mr.  Edrees  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Egypt 

attaches  special  importance  to  the  integrated  and 
coordinated  implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the 
outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and 
summits  in  the  economic,  social  and  related  fields, 
which have made major contributions to the agenda for 
action  on 
international  development  based  on 
partnership, respect and solidarity. 

the  sixty-second  session 
witnessed  a  series  of  high-level  meetings  on  the 
implementation of those decisions. First was the high-
level event on climate change, and it was followed by 
Financing 
the  High-level  Dialogue 
for 
the  Follow-up 
Development, 
International 
Financing 
for 
Development  to  Review  the  Implementation  of  the 
Monterrey Consensus, to be held in Doha in the second 
in  preparation 
Conference 
countries  demonstrate 
The  beginning  of 
on 
for 
on 
related 
fields  have  yet 
half  of  2008.  At  the  same  time,  negotiations  are 
ongoing  in  various  Committees  —  particularly  the 
Second  and  Third  Committees  —  on  draft  resolutions 
related to various issues in this sphere. 

Despite  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  in  the 
area  of  development,  many  decisions  adopted  at  the 
major conferences and summits in the economic, social 
and 
to  be  sufficiently 
implemented.  We  are  closely  following  efforts  to 
review  those  decisions,  including  in  the  following 
areas.  
First, developed countries are still not honouring 

their  commitments 
to  provide  sufficient  financial 
resources  to  United  Nations  operational  activities  in 
the  area  of  development.  Such  activities  have  seen  an 
ever-sharper  decline in financing from the programme 
budget  through  voluntary  contributions.  This  means 
that  developed  countries  are  linking  financing  to  their 
political agendas. That in turn affects the neutrality of 
the  United  Nations  and  contradicts  relevant  General 
Assembly  resolutions  affirming 
the  principles  of 
national  ownership  and  sovereignty  and  rejecting 
double standards and conditionalities. 

Secondly, there is a growing tendency to separate 
environmental  issues,  in  particular  climate  change, 
from 
that 
context, we should be cautious of going too far, as the 
implications  of  those  attempts  will  be  reflected  in  the 
long-term  by  widening  the  gap  between  the  rich  and 
the  poor,  and  at  the  same  time  will  not  achieve  the 
target  of  sustainable  development.  However,  that  does 
not  affect  our  full  support  for  efforts  to  deal  with  the 
challenges  raised  by  climate  change.  The  developing 
countries, especially the African States, are the lowest 
emitters, yet they are the most affected by the impact. 
Thus, efforts by the General Assembly — supported by 
the  Secretary-General  —  must  focus  on  reaching  a 
substantive  and  balanced  agreement  to  address  the 
issue,  while  taking  into  account  information  provided 
by international experts on the current situation and its 
causes. The needs of developing countries must also be 
taken  into  account,  including  how  to  enhance  their 
capabilities to adapt to the threats emanating from this 
phenomenon  by  providing 
technology 
transfer  and  capacity-building.  Commitments  between 
developing  and  developed  countries  must  be  balanced 
according to the principle of common but differentiated 
responsibilities, burdens and obligations. 
issues  of  sustainable  development.  In 
financing, 
8 

07-61667 
A/62/PV.57
In 
level.  That  situation  contributes 



Mechanisms  for  the  implementation,  follow-up 
and  coordination  of  these  decisions  exist  within  the 
General  Assembly  and 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  but  the  political  will  to  achieve  them  is  still 
missing. On the contrary, we are of the view that some 
seek  to  impose  those  commitments  on  developing 
countries  only,  as  they  are  the  recipients  of  assistance 
and in order to prevent implementation of the decisions 
by the developed countries. 

While developed countries choose to ignore their 
own  human  rights  situations,  they  intentionally  focus 
on  the  same  situations  in  developing  countries,  while 
calling  for  enforcement  of  the  rule  of  law,  democracy 
and  political,  economic  and  social  reform  at  the 
national  level,  while  also  ignoring  efforts  to  exert 
parallel  efforts  in  international  relations,  which  has 
resulted  in  the  absence  of  good  governance  at  the 
international 
to 
mistrust  and  division  among  the  general  membership 
and creates new international situations that go beyond 
the  scope  of  normal  international  relations  and  the 
agreed procedures for international law. It also leads to 
double  standards  in  the  consideration  of  issues  of 
disarmament  and  nuclear  non-proliferation, 
thus 
threatening 
and 
system 
international peace and security. 

In the economic and social fields, and despite the 
end of an era of summits and conferences that extended 
over  the  past  ten  years  and  resulted  in  consensus 
decisions, it is necessary to strengthen the ability of the 
United  Nations  to  analyse,  monitor  and  follow  up 
international and regional developments, by reforming 
the  Department  of  Economic  and  Social  Affairs  and 
providing it with financial resources — as was the case 
with 
in 
accordance  with  the  proposed  reform  plan  of  the 
Secretary-General.  

While  expressing  our  willingness  to  consider 
proposals to support United Nations efforts in the field 
of preventive diplomacy, we affirm the need to address 
the 
transparency  and  consultation  with 
Member  States.  The  Department  of  Economic  and 
Social Affairs will also have to share the same support 
requested  by  the  Department  of  Political  Affairs,  in 
accordance  with  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome, 
which established a link between security, development 
and human rights. 
the  Department  of  Political  Affairs  — 
non-proliferation 
issue  of 
the 
available 
resources.  That 
that  context,  coordinated  and 

This  leads  us  to  the  implementation  of  the 
outcomes  of  summits  related  to  the  status  of  women 
and  their  empowerment.  It  has  become  clear  that  we 
have lost our way in arguing over the establishment of 
new structures and entities without focusing on the true 
developmental  needs  of  women  and  on  giving 
equitable  consideration  to  their  needs  —  as  compared 
to  those  of  men  —  in  the  fields  of  education,  health 
care and others, respect for their basic human rights in 
their  countries  of  immigration,  their  rights  under 
occupation and their rights as indigenous inhabitants. It 
is  also  necessary  to  pay  attention  to  the  status  of  the 
child at the international  level by  prohibiting violence 
against children and ensuring their rights in education, 
health care and economic development. 
integrated 

follow-up  to  outcomes  of  the  major  United  Nations 
conferences and summits calls for improvement in the 
performance of the Organization and an increase in the 
efficiency of its services in order to make the best use 
of 
follow-up  would 
encourage us to avoid issuing new mandates that could 
contradict the current mandates of existing bodies and 
to  avoid  reviewing  mandates  related  to  sensitive 
political issues that have special importance to specific 
countries.  We  also  need  to  avoid  any  attempts  to  link 
the  budget  with  reform,  which  will  lead  us  to  repeat 
past confrontations among the general membership and 
deepen the feelings of mistrust — and now is the time 
to put an end to those feelings. 

In  this  context,  it  is  essential  to  maintain  the 
credibility  of  the  General  Assembly  in  dealing  with 
international  challenges  through  faithful  and  effective 
implementation  of  its  resolutions,  and  by  respecting 
what has been previously agreed on, including the Rio 
and  Johannesburg  Principles,  because  focusing  on 
media  coverage  and  convening  meetings  at  different 
levels must be met by coordinated and effective action 
for  implementation,  otherwise,  poor  implementation 
will  further  erode  the  credibility  of  international 
collective work in the economic and social fields. The 
resulting  weak 
international 
collective  security  system  could  lead  to  limiting  the 
role of United Nations instead of strengthening it, and I 
do not believe that  anyone present in this Hall wishes 
to do that. 
Mr.  Yaroshevich  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

My  delegation’s  statement  is  on  agenda  item  117 
reform:  measures  and 
entitled,  “United  Nations 
credibility  of 
the 
07-61667 

9 

in 
the  report  of 
in 
A/62/PV.57 

proposals”.  The  Belarusian  delegation  welcomes  the 
management  and  organizational  measures  adopted  to 
implement reform of the Secretariat and of the United 
Nations  system  overall.  In  2006  Member  States 
received 
the  Secretary-General  on 
investing 
the  United  Nations  for  a  stronger 
Organization  worldwide. The  reactions  from  delegates 
led  to  the  majority  adoption  of  resolution  60/260,  and 
Secretariat reform took a constructive turn. 

We  emphasize  the  need  to  continue  efforts  to 
broaden opportunities for the participation of suppliers 
from  developing  countries  and  States  with  transitional 
economies, in United Nations procurement. Reform of 
the procurement system must be aimed at establishing 
a transparent and balanced mechanism for procurement 
activity and the establishment of truly equal conditions 
for all Member States and economic actors. 
The  Belarusian  delegation  notes  the  progress 

achieved 
implementing  a  global  project  on 
information  technology  in  the  use  at  Headquarters  in 
New  York,  Vienna,  Geneva  and  Nairobi  of  the  best 
practices  and 
the 
interest of Member States. We believe it is valuable to 
continue efforts to make appropriate use of technology 
in all six official languages of the United Nations. We 
also  believe  it  is  advisable  to  continue  efforts  to 
resolve staffing issues in the United Nations Office in 
Nairobi. It is necessary to adopt urgent measures to fill 
vacancies  in  the  language  services  of  the  office.  The 
United  Nations  office  on  the  African  continent  must 
operate  effectively,  in  particular  bearing  in  mind  the 
very important agenda of the Organization in Africa. 

I wish to take this opportunity to note the absence 
of  significant  progress  in  the  equitable  representation 
of  regional  groups  among  United  Nations  Secretariat 
staff  and  management.  Here,  there  are  still  serious 
divides. One has the feeling that the Western European 
and  Others  Group  remains  the  main  supplier  of 
Secretariat  staff,  in  particular  for  United  Nations 
Headquarters.  The  most  underrepresented  region  in 
Secretariat management  has been and remains Eastern 
Europe.  None  of  the  efforts  made  by  the  Group  of 
Eastern European States to broaden their representation 
have been greeted with responsive practical actions to 
correct  the  situation.  It  is  a  very  strange  situation, 
bearing  in  mind  the  high  qualifications  of  specialists 
from our region. 
technological  achievements 
in 
and  humanitarian 

With  regard  to  system-wide  reform,  we  would 
like to say a few words about institution building as it 
pertains to the Human Rights Council and the work to 
improve the system-wide coherence of United Nations 
efforts  in  the  areas  of  promoting  development,  the 
environment 
assistance.  The 
delegation of Belarus welcomes the beginning and first 
positive  results  of  the  work  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  which  the  General Assembly  established.  On 
16  November,  the  Third  Committee  adopted  a  draft 
Human  Rights  Council 
(A/C.3/62/L.32,  as 
institution-building  and  a  set  of 
amended)  on 
guidelines regarding mandate-holders in the context of 
special procedures.  

The Committee also supported Council decisions 
regarding  country-specific  universal  periodic  reviews. 
In that connection, we have great expectations for our 
ability to eliminate politicization and double standards 
in  evaluating  the  human  rights  situations  of  Member 
States. Belarus would like to express its support for the 
decision regarding institution-building as it pertains to 
the  Human  Rights  Council,  especially  as  regards  the 
establishment  of  a  mechanism  for  universal  periodic 
review and the streamlining of special procedures.  

As a central element of reform in the system-wide 
coherence  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  areas  of 
development, 
the  environment  and  humanitarian 
assistance, we believe that there is  a need to maintain 
the key role of national Governments in the setting of 
priorities  for  the  operational  work  of  the  United 
Nations in a given country. United Nations bodies can 
provide assistance in developing national development 
priorities, but they cannot impose them. In the work of 
reform, we need to rely on the intergovernmental status 
the  principle  of 
of 
multilateralism 
issues.  What 
is 
unacceptable is the concept of a single country, United 
Nations 
agency 
determining the budget. We cannot support the idea of 
merging  the  operational  activities  of  all  bodies  into  a 
single United Nations agency. The adoption of such an 
approach  would  result  in  a  diminished  informed  and 
speedy  reaction  by  a  single  agency  to  the  needs  of 
recipient countries. 

the 
is 
dissatisfaction  of  several  delegations  with  the  quality 
of  the  United  Nations  interactions  with  the  Bretton 
Woods  institutions  and  bilateral  donors.  That  has  a 
the  United  Nations  and 
addressing 
representative, 
programme 
concerned 
about 
Belarus 
also 
text 
in 
or 
10 

07-61667 
to 
in 
including 
(Nepal):  Nepal 
Mr.  Ale  Magar


negative  impact  on  the  predictability  and  stability  of 
financial flows allocated for development.  

In  conclusion,  the  delegation  of  Belarus  would 
like to take this opportunity to reaffirm its willingness 
to  participate  very  actively  in  the  work  to  develop 
effective ways to reform the United Nations. 
highly 

appreciates  the  importance  that  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  has  given 
the  effective 
implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  the  major  United 
Nations  conferences  and  summits, 
the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). 

In the early years of this decade, the international 
community has made concrete commitments at various 
summits  and  conferences  to  advance  socio-economic 
development  in  the  world.  In  2000,  the  Millennium 
Declaration  gave  us  the  MDGs.  In  2001,  the  Brussels 
Programme of Action was agreed for the world’s least 
developed countries. The World Summit on Sustainable 
Development, held in 2002, produced the Johannesburg 
Plan of Implementation on sustainable development. In 
the same year, the international community agreed the 
Monterrey  Consensus  on  Financing  for  Development. 
In  2003, 
the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action  for 
landlocked  developing  countries  was  developed. 
Significantly,  those  summits  and  conferences  showed 
us 
form  of  agreed 
commitments,  goals  and  programmes.  They  also 
identified major principles, including the principles of 
global  partnership  and  national  ownership  in  the  area 
of socio-economic development. 
At  the  half-way  mark  to  the  target  date  for 

meeting 
the  report  card  on 
achieving  them  shows  mixed  progress.  While  some 
countries  have  partially  made  significant  strides  in 
achieving  the  MDGs,  many  others,  particularly  least 
developed  countries,  are  still 
in 
achieving them. Unless we accelerate our efforts now, 
the  achievement  of 
targeted 
framework will be a distant reality. We must therefore 
build on the  achievements made thus  far and strive to 
speed up their implementation in the days to come. 

Nepal  attaches  great  significance  to  the  role  of 
the United Nations system in the implementation of the 
outcomes  of  the  major  summits  and  conferences  to 
achieve  socio-economic  development.  We  support 
greater  engagement  by  the  Economic  and  Social 
those  commitments, 
lagging  behind 
those  Goals 
the  way 
forward 
the 
in 
the 
A/62/PV.57
in 
strengthening  country  programmes 
Council  in  advancing  the  socio-economic  agenda.  We 
support  system-wide  coherence  and  emphasize  the 
need  for  inter-agency  coordination  in  the  United 
Nations  system  for  the  successful  implementation  of 
the development outcomes. We encourage the regional 
commissions  and  the  specialized  agencies,  funds  and 
programmes  of  the  United  Nations  to  enhance  their 
roles 
for 
development. 

The  Bretton  Woods  institutions  and  the  World 
Trade  Organization  can  be  expected  to  play  more 
effective roles to implement the outcomes of the major 
summits  and  conferences  in  the  social,  economic  and 
related fields. There is a need to further expand the role 
of  those  institutions  and  to  reorient  their  actions  in 
advancing socio-economic development in the world’s 
poorer  countries.  In  particular,  their  monitoring  and 
follow-up  mechanisms  should  be  strengthened  by 
improving  indicators  and  developing  a  results-based 
matrix in the implementation of the outcomes of major 
summits and conferences. 
The year 2008 will be a defining moment for the 

development  agenda.  We  will  be  reviewing 
the 
progress made in the implementation of the MDGs and 
the  outcome  of  the  2002  International  Conference  on 
Financing  for  Development.  In  addition,  the  General 
Assembly will be undertaking a mid-term review of the 
Almaty  Programme  of  Action 
landlocked 
developing countries. At the twelfth Conference of the 
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, 
to  be  held  in  Accra,  we  will  also  be  addressing  the 
challenges  to  development  posed  by  globalization. 
Nepal  attaches  vital  importance  to  those  events  and 
stresses  that  they  provide  renewed  opportunities  to 
further  accelerate  the  implementation  of  our  agreed 
goals and commitments in the area of development. 
the 

internationally 
goals, 
commitments and programmes into its national policies 
and  programmes.  We  have  already  incorporated  many 
of  them  into  our  national  development  plan.  Our 
interim plan focuses on commitments to people-centred 
development,  with  a  strong  emphasis  on  good 
governance  and  poverty  reduction.  We  hope  that  our 
development partners will provide an enhanced level of 
support  to  help  us  achieve  our  planned  goals  and 
targets. 
committed 
agreed 
development 
integrate 
Nepal 
for 
to 
is 
07-61667 

11 

peace 
to 
the 
accord 
between 
framework 
for  Nepal’s 
comprehensive 
through  elections 
A/62/PV.57 


The peace process in Nepal has made significant 
strides since the historic signing, in November 2006, of 
a 
the 
Government  of  Nepal  and  the  Communist  Party  of 
Nepal  (Maoist).  We  are  striving  to  establish  a  new 
Nepal  that  is  committed  to  the  fundamental  values  of 
democracy,  social  justice  and  people’s  progressive 
discourse.  

The  decade-long  conflict  came  to  an  end  with 
tangible  achievements,  such  as  empowerment  of  the 
masses  and  acceptance  of  a  more  inclusive  and 
democratic 
various 
marginalized  groups,  including  women,  indigenous 
peoples,  Madhesis,  Dalits  and  people  in  the  backward 
areas.  We  are  now  entering  the  phase  of  restructuring 
the  State 
the  Constituent 
Assembly,  in  which  the  elected  representatives  of  the 
people  will  write 
their  own  constitution.  Those 
developments  are  vital  in  creating  an  atmosphere 
conducive  to  paving  way  for  better  implementation  of 
internationally  agreed  goals  and  commitments  in  the 
area of socio-economic development. 

international  community 
cannot  afford  to  be  an  apathetic  spectator  while 
millions of people in the world continue to languish in 
crippling  poverty  and  exclusion.  It  has  a  special 
responsibility to lift them out of that morass. 

Relegating poverty to history is possible, and it is 
within  human  reach  if  we  act  in  concert. This  solemn 
pledge 
renewed 
international political will, the significant scaling up of 
resources,  sustained  policies  and  programmes  and 
committed national leadership. Together, we can make 
it  happen.  This  is  the  lesson  we  have  learned  from 
these summits and conferences. 

Along  with  all  members  of  my  delegation,  I 
personally  feel  greatly  honoured  and  privileged  to  be 
attending  the  sixty-second  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  although  the  journey  here  was  a  really 
difficult  one.  I  was  denied  a  United  States  visa  about 
seven  months  ago,  in  spite  of  having  been  privileged 
enough  to  receive  a  written  invitation  from  Under-
Secretary-General Lynn Pascoe to join a team working 
to establish the United Nations office to study electoral 
systems and functions. I think that the point of such an 
action  and  tendency  on  the  part  of  the  ruling  class  of 
the  United  States  is  definitely  not  obvious  to  people 
around  the  world,  who  have  great  respect  for  them. 
achieved  without 
In  conclusion, 
cannot 
be 
the 
goals, 
including 
framework 
This  is  what  has  made  people  around  the  world  think 
about  locating  United  Nations  Headquarters  in  a 
location that is easily accessible to all. 
Ms.  Al-Ghanim  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 

the  outset,  I  would  like  to  express,  on  behalf  of  the 
State  of  Kuwait,  our  deep  appreciation  for  all  the 
efforts made by the Secretary-General in his leadership 
of  the  Organization,  efforts  that  are  reflected  in  the 
various reports he has submitted for discussion during 
the  current  session.  These  reports  contain,  inter  alia, 
his  calls  for  the  importance  of  implementing  the 
provisions  of  the  Millennium  Declaration  and  not 
allowing  it  to  conclude  as  a  mere  memory  in  the 
history of the Organization, thus affirming his concern 
to carry out his mandate fully. 

Economic  and  social  development  is  at  the  core 
of  the  goals  and  activities  that  the  United  Nations 
internationally  agreed 
carries  out.  Achieving 
development 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs), should remain within the 
comprehensive 
of  United  Nations 
development  activities. There  is  also  need  for  the  full 
implementation of the commitments agreed upon in all 
major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  in  the 
economic,  social  and  related  fields,  as  well  as  for 
strengthening 
for 
development,  based  on  the  recognition  of  national 
leadership and ownership of the development strategies 
of States. 

Despite the fact that two years have elapsed since 
the  2005  World  Summit,  and  seven  years  since  the 
Millennium Summit, the challenges and dangers facing 
international  peace  and  security,  such  as  poverty, 
hunger,  the  spread  of  such  dangerous  and  infectious 
diseases as AIDS and malaria, and the deterioration of 
the  environment,  are  still  present  and  threatening  us. 
The  first  Follow-up  International  Conference  on 
Financing  of  Development,  scheduled  to  be  held  in 
Doha during the second half of 2008, provides a great 
opportunity  to  assess  progress  made  in  achieving  the 
MDGs. 

The  State  of  Kuwait  has  made  good  progress  in 
translating  the  commitments  and  resolutions  of  the 
2005 World Summit into tangible results, and has also 
achieved  the  MDGs,  particularly  in  the  fields  of 
education,  health  and  advancing  the  role  of  women  in 
society.  It  has  devised  policies  capable  of  uplifting 
society  and  realizing  more  social  and  economic 
international 
partnership 
the 
12 

07-61667 
since 
gaining 
financial 
adequate 
solidarity, 
to  support 
them  with 


progress,  as  well  as  raising  the  standard  of  living  per 
capita. 

Given  our  absolute  belief  in  human  values  and 
international 
our 
independence, we have adopted a generous programme 
of  assistance  to  developing  countries.  In  1961,  the 
Kuwait  Fund  for  Arab  Economic  Development  was 
established  making  it  the  second  oldest  development 
fund  in  the  world,  after  the  International  Monetary 
Fund.  The  Kuwait  Fund  has  financed  hundreds  of 
infrastructure projects in over 100 countries, valued at 
more than $12 billion, thereby exceeding by more than 
double the percentage of gross national product (GNP) 
slated  for  development  assistance  and  agreed  upon 
internationally. 
In  this  respect,  it  is  incumbent  upon  developed 

countries 
the  economic  structures  of 
developing ones and to adhere to their commitments by 
supplying 
and 
technological  assistance  in  order  to  reach  the  level  of 
0.07  per  cent  of  their  GNP  as  official  development 
assistance.  This  aid  should  be  provided  within  the 
framework of supporting the national strategies that the 
developing countries themselves have adopted. 

Not  only  is  it  regrettable  to  see  poverty,  hunger 
and  disease  persist  in  developing  countries,  but  it  is 
also  painful 
the  world’s 
population  live  on  less  than  $2  a  day.  This  requires  a 
serious look at the impediments to development in the 
developing  countries  and  a  real  review  of  these 
impediments. Here, the State of Kuwait calls upon the 
World  Trade  Organization  (WTO)  and  the  Bretton 
Woods  institutions  to  reduce  restrictions  imposed  on 
the  exports  of  developing  countries  and  to  put  forth  a 
more  just  and  equitable  international  trade  system  for 
the poor countries and the least developed ones, as well 
as to expand their participation in the decision-making 
process  of  the  WTO  and  take  into  consideration  the 
concerns of the poor and least developed countries. 

We reiterate our commitment to the efforts being 
exerted  to  reduce  the  impact  of  the  challenges  facing 
our  world  today,  particularly  those  dealing  with  the 
environment. The State of Kuwait follows with utmost 
concern  the  phenomenon  of  climate  change.  Despite 
confirmation 
the 
by 
Intergovernmental 
on  Climate  Change 
concerning  the  difficulty  of  relying  on  one  strategy 
alone  to  mitigate  the  impact  of  this  phenomenon,  we 
to  see  more 
all 
Panel 
than  half 
the 
reports 
of 
A/62/PV.57
in 
Hopefully, 
the  upcoming  meeting 
see that the focus is still centred on reducing the use of 
fossil  fuel.  Other  factors  resulting  from  human 
behaviour  which  pollute  the  air  and  cause  a  more 
severe pattern of climate change are ignored, including 
deforestation,  urban  expansion  at  the  expense  of 
agriculture  land  and  the  effects  of  nuclear  energy. 
These  are  the  main  causes  for  the  accumulation  of 
greenhouse  gasses 
the  atmosphere  and  global 
warming.  

in  Bali, 
Indonesia,  of  States  parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  and  the 
Kyoto  Protocol  will  provide  an  opportunity  to  deal 
with  this  subject  in  detail.  In  this  context,  we  would 
like  to  mention  that  the  State  of  Kuwait  recently 
donated  $150  million  at  the  presidential  meeting  in 
Riyadh of OPEC countries on the subject of energy and 
climate research. 

The  State  of  Kuwait  will  remain  true  to  its 
promise to provide all the support and aid it can to its 
friends  among  the  countries  of  the  developing  world. 
This  results  from  our  strong  belief  in  the  principle  of 
sharing,  with  a  view 
to  achieving  sustainable 
development and a more prosperous and stable life for 
all peoples of the world. 

midpoint  for  efforts 
Development Goals (MDGs). 

While  speaking  about  the  achievement  of  these 
Goals,  we  note  success  in  eliminating  poverty  and 
hunger  in  many  countries.  However,  we  need  to 
coordinate multilateral action to achieve the MDGs for 
the  creation  of  an  enabling  international  economic 
environment to support developing countries’ efforts to 
achieve sustained economic growth and development. 

Kazakhstan  is  committed  to  its  obligations  to 
reach  the  MDGs  and  is  constantly  implementing  its 
long-term 
as 
“Kazakhstan  2030”. Our main objective  in the area of 
economic policy is to ensure that Kazakhstan joins the 
ranks of the most competitive economies. To this end, 
we  are  implementing  an  industrial  and  innovative 
programme 
increase 
production  of  value-added  goods  and  services  and  lay 
the foundation for a high-technology service economy. 

It  is  widely  acknowledged  that,  in  order  to 
achieve the MDGs, additional efforts have to be made 
Ms. Aitimova (Kazakhstan): This year marks the 
the  Millennium 
the  economy, 
to  diversify 
development 
to  achieve 
strategy, 
known 
07-61667 

13 

Kazakhstan  believes 
A/62/PV.57 

to  assure  that  countries  with  special  needs  will  make 
the  progress  necessary  under  all  MDG  targets.  The 
challenges  and  constraints  of  landlocked  developing 
countries are enormous. It is recognized that high trade 
transaction costs, influenced by a lack of access to the 
sea  and  remoteness  from  major  markets,  represent  the 
main  cause  of  marginalization  of  the  landlocked 
developing countries. That is why it is  very important 
to  ensure  the  implementation  of  the  decisions  and 
recommendations  of  major  international  conferences 
on  trade  and  development  in  order  for  small  and 
vulnerable  economies  to  finally  get  a  chance  to  enjoy 
the  benefits  and  advantages  promised  at 
those 
conferences.  

that  social  development 
issues  should  continue  to  be  among  the  priority  items 
in  the  agendas  of  the  principal  bodies  of  the  United 
Nations.  Social  development,  the  well-being  of  the 
population,  poverty  elimination,  education  and  decent 
job  creation  are  key  elements  for  preserving  global 
collective security and peace.  
I would therefore like to commend the delegation 

of 
the  Kyrgyz  Republic  for 
the  draft 
resolution  entitled  “World  Day  of  Social  Justice” 
(A/62/L.15),  which  was  introduced  today;  Kazakhstan 
will  be  a  sponsor.  We  believe 
the  annual 
celebration of the World Day of Social Justice will give 
an  opportunity  to  societies  and  communities  at  all 
levels to draw attention once again to the importance of 
social  development  and  the  achievement  of  social 
justice around the world.  

The  delegation  of  Kazakhstan  would  like  to 
commend the Secretary-General for his commitment to 
the  creation  of  a  more  transparent  and  accountable 
Secretariat,  with  the  highest  levels  of  efficiency, 
competence  and  integrity.  We  believe  that  adequate 
institutional  follow-up  to  the  recommendations  of  the 
General Assembly and United Nations oversight bodies 
will transform in a positive manner the human resource 
base  of  the  Organization,  enhance  its  managerial 
decision-making  tools  and  allow  for  better  financial 
control,  in  addition  to  more  accurate  and  timely 
management  reporting.  The  highest  standards  of 
efficiency,  competence,  and  integrity  should  have  the 
paramount  consideration  in  the  employment  of  the 
staff,  and  due  regard  should  also  be  given  to  the 
principle  of  equitable  geographical  distribution,  in 
accordance with Article 101 of the Charter.  
initiating 
that 
for 
from 
of 
has 
is 
interested 
in 
the  observer 
these 
In  order 
in  such  countries 

Our  delegation  welcomes  the  measures  being 
undertaken  by  the  Secretariat  to  improve  the  United 
Nations procurement system. As a new emerging donor 
country,  Kazakhstan 
improving 
procurement opportunities for vendors from developing 
countries  and  countries  with  economies  in  transition, 
and  in  diversifying  the  sources  of  goods  and  services. 
Over  the  last  decades  the  competitiveness  of  the 
countries 
economies 
increased 
to  promote  procurement 
considerably. 
activities 
the  United  Nations 
Procurement  Service  should  periodically  update  its 
field  procurement  system,  pay  increased  attention  to 
the  organization  of  seminars  and  training  courses  for 
local contractors and distribute information in the mass 
media in local languages. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General  Assembly  resolution  57/32  of  19  November 
2002, 
I  now  call  on 
the 
Inter-Parliamentary Union.  
Mrs.  Filip  (Inter-Parliamentary  Union):  I  am 

pleased to address the General Assembly on the agenda 
item  on  the  strengthening  of  the  United  Nations 
system. As  we  have  done  during  previous  sessions  of 
the  General  Assembly,  I  would  like  to  refer  to  this 
theme 
the  developing 
parliamentary  dimension  to  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations, and the benefits that it entails.  

I  would  recall  that  we  are  referring  here  to  a 
dimension  that  needs  to  be  forged  by  parliaments  and 
their members, and which has to be firmly rooted in the 
activities  that  parliaments  carry  out  at  the  national 
level  at  home.  It  includes  action  by  parliaments  to 
contribute  to  and  monitor  international  negotiations 
and  debates  at  the  United  Nations,  and  to  ensure 
national  compliance  with  international  norms  and  the 
rule  of  law.  It  also  involves  scrutinizing  the  activities 
of  the  United  Nations  and  providing  input  into  their 
deliberations.  

As  we 
the 
Inter-Parliamentary  Union  (IPU)  is  convinced  that 
members  of  parliament  can  play  an  extremely 
important role in building national political support for 
international action. In the IPU’s view, which is shared 
by  many  United  Nations  Member  States,  the  United 
Nations  stands  to  gain  considerably  by  making  sure 
that  parliaments  and  their  members  have  a  full  and 
the  perspective  of 
previously, 
have 
stressed 
14 

07-61667 


undistorted  understanding  of  major  processes  and 
activities under way at the United Nations.  

It was with this understanding that, one year ago, 
the  General  Assembly  adopted  consensus  resolution 
61/6 on “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union”.  Since  then,  we  have 
been  focusing  on  the  effective  implementation  of  this 
bold and forward-looking resolution.  

As  a  general  recommendation,  the  resolution 
encourages the United Nations and the IPU to continue 
to  cooperate  closely  in  various  fields,  in  particular 
peace  and  security,  economic  and  social  development, 
international law, human rights, democracy and gender 
issues,  bearing  in  mind  the  significant  benefits  of 
cooperation  between  the  two  organizations,  to  which 
the  report  of  the  United  Nations  Secretary-General 
attests.  

It is precisely because of the importance that the 
IPU  attaches  to  this  growing  cooperation  that  we  are 
devoting time and resources in order to ensure careful 
consideration  and  political  guidance  of  this  process. 
One  of  the  measures  that  the  IPU  has  already  taken, 
therefore,  has  been  the  establishment  of  a  dedicated 
parliamentary committee on United Nations affairs, in 
which  all  parliaments  can  participate  and  bring  their 
contribution  to  the  development  of  this  parliamentary 
dimension  to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations,  and 
monitor its implementation.  
Allow  me  to  recall  briefly  some  of  the  IPU’s 

activities  over 
support  of 
strengthening  the  United  Nations  system,  and  in 
particular  by  following  up  on  and  implementing  the 
provisions  of  General Assembly  resolution  61/6. As  a 
first point, the resolution encouraged the IPU to further 
strengthen  its  contribution  to  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly,  including  its  revitalization,  as  envisaged  in 
the 
relevant  2006  and  2007  General  Assembly 
resolutions,  and  in  relation  to  the  newly  established 
United  Nations  bodies  such  as  the  Human  Rights 
Council and the Peacebuilding Commission.  

the  General 
Assembly,  the  IPU  has  had  the  opportunity  to  consult 
and engage with United Nations Member States on this 
very important topic. In light of the relevant experience 
residing  within  national  parliaments  in  the  area  of 
modernizing  and  revitalizing  legislative  bodies,  we 
have  shared  with  the  General  Assembly  a  series  of 
ideas,  proposals  and  good  practices  and  look  forward 
the  revitalization  of 
this  past  year 
Regarding 
in 
A/62/PV.57
for 
sustainable 
peace 
As 
rights 
components 
recommended 
to finding the most adequate ways to further contribute 
to this process.  

Moreover,  last  month  in  Geneva,  the  IPU’s  new 
parliamentary  Committee  on  United  Nations  Affairs 
heard  from  and  engaged  in  a  discussion  with  the 
President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  and  will  be 
seeking  to  define  modalities  whereby  parliaments  can 
best  act  in  support  of  the  Council,  particularly  in  the 
context  of  the  universal  periodic  review  process. This 
will ensure accurate reporting on the implementation of 
international  human 
instruments  and  help 
those  areas  where  additional  efforts  are 
identify 
required.  

In  respect  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  the 
IPU  has  been  closely  following  deliberations  and 
action  as  they  concern  Burundi  and  Sierra  Leone,  and 
has  been  working  with  parliaments  and  authorities  in 
both  countries,  with  a  view 
to  building  strong 
international  support  for  the  new  legislative  bodies  as 
key 
and 
development.  

by  General  Assembly 
resolution 61/6, the IPU is also assuming a more active 
role  in  support  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council, 
particularly in the implementation of the new functions 
devolved to the Council by the 2005 World Summit. In 
this  regard,  the  IPU  has  taken  the  lead  in  shaping  a 
parliamentary  dimension  to  the  new  Development 
Cooperation  Forum  (DCF)  and,  after  voicing 
its 
commitment on the occasion of the launch of the DCF 
earlier this year, is now actively preparing for the first 
substantive session of the Forum next year. 

Development  cooperation  will  gradually  be 
mainstreamed  into  the  IPU’s  own  regular  programme 
of  work.  At  the  same,  the  IPU  will  be  convening  a 
representative  group  of  members  of  parliament  from 
both  developed  and  developing  countries,  well  versed 
in  development  cooperation  issues,  to  participate  in 
and contribute to the first DCF stakeholders forum next 
spring,  thus  providing  direct  input  to  the  DCF.  As  a 
member  of  the  DCF  advisory  board,  the  IPU  will  be 
consulting  closely  with  the  United  Nations  on  the 
agenda and expected outcome of this meeting.  
In  paragraph  6  of  resolution  61/6,  the  General 

Assembly  welcomed 
agreement 
concluded  between  the  United  Nations  Democracy 
Fund  and  the  IPU  and  looked  forward  to  growing 
the  partnership 
07-61667 

15 

in 
to 
as 
so 
ensure 
involvement 
A/62/PV.57 

cooperation  in  the  realm  of  democracy  and  good 
governance.  

Indeed,  with  United  Nations  Development 
Account  funding,  the  IPU  is  currently  implementing 
two  projects:  one  is  designed  to  enhance  the  capacity 
of  parliaments  in  Africa  to  enact  and  revise  national 
legislation 
compliance  with 
international  human  rights  standards;  the  other  is  in 
support  of  women  parliamentarians  in  Burundi,  which 
includes initiatives aimed at bringing women members 
of parliament from all political parties to work together 
for the promotion of women’s rights in Burundi. 

In  a  much  broader  context,  the  IPU  and  the 
United Nations Development Programme signed a new 
memorandum  of  understanding  last  week  designed  to 
expand  their  cooperation  in  support  of  democratic 
governance  around  the  world  in  key  areas  such  as 
national  budget  processes,  action  by  parliaments  in 
advancing 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  poverty  reduction  strategies  and  greater 
parliamentarian 
development 
cooperation. 
Last but not least, and as we had the opportunity 

to say very recently in this Hall (see A/62/PV.44), the 
IPU is proud to be part of a joint effort to promote an 
international  day  of  democracy  on  a  date  which  has 
been  chosen  to  coincide  with  the  anniversary  of  the 
Universal Declaration on Democracy. The precepts and 
principles  enshrined 
important  political 
document,  endorsed  10  years  ago  by  national 
parliaments  from  around  the  globe,  are  as  valid  today 
as  ever  before.  We  look  forward  to  working  closely 
with the United Nations with a view to systematically 
integrating  these  core  values  into  efforts  to  strengthen 
democracy worldwide. 

A further recommendation of resolution 61/6 calls 
for  the  development  of  the  annual  parliamentary 
hearing  at  the  United  Nations  and  other  specialized 
parliamentary  meetings  at  the  United  Nations  as  joint 
United Nations-IPU events. Last week the IPU and the 
United Nations, through the Office of the President of 
the  General  Assembly,  joined  forces  in  convening  a 
very successful parliamentary hearing on the theme of 
reinforcing  the  rule  of  law  in  international  relations. 
The  meeting  attracted  great  interest  from  the  national 
parliaments, which were well-represented. It also drew 
in  many  representatives  from  permanent  missions,  as 
well  as  senior  United  Nations  officials  and  academia, 
that 
in 
in 
strategies 
elaboration 
system-wide 
the 
implementing 
strengthening 
regime  and 
for  a  substantive,  interactive  and  politically  charged 
debate.  

This  joint  event  succeeded  in  raising  awareness 
among politicians around issues that are, or should be, 
high  on  the  agenda  of  the  United  Nations,  such  as 
meeting  commitments  in  the  area  of  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation, 
international 
criminal 
justice 
the 
international  global  counter-terrorism  strategy.  The 
hearing  resulted  in  a  number  of  recommendations  for 
the United Nations, as well as proposals for action by 
parliaments  in  support  of  United  Nations  efforts.  The 
results  of  the  hearing  will  be  circulated  shortly  as  an 
official document of the General Assembly. 

Finally,  General  Assembly  resolution  61/6  calls 
for  closer  involvement,  as  appropriate,  of  the  IPU  in 
the 
for 
consideration  by  the  United  Nations  system  and  the 
United  Nations  system  Chief  Executive  Board  for 
Coordination, with a view to ensuring greater and more 
coherent  support  by  parliaments  to  the  work  for  the 
United Nations. 
We have yet to determine the best ways to make 

this  recommendation  operational.  However, 
is 
evident to us that there are a number of areas that can 
allow 
and  mutually  beneficial 
exchanges,  such  as  delivering  on  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  mobilizing  political  action  in 
combating  climate  change  and  institutional  gender 
mainstreaming, to name a few. 
The IPU remains committed to further developing 

a  strategic  partnership  with  the  United  Nations.  In  so 
doing,  we  are  guided  by  the  considerations  and 
proposals  set  forward  in  the  IPU  policy  paper  on  the 
nature  of  the  relationship  between  the  United  Nations 
and 
for 
consideration in the IPU Committee on United Nations 
Affairs  and  endorsed  by  IPU  member  parliaments  on 
the occasion of the IPU’s 117th Assembly, held in early 
October.  This  document  has  been  submitted  to  the 
United  Nations  and  should  soon  be  circulated  in  the 
General  Assembly  as  our  further  contribution  to  this 
agenda item. 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

take  a  decision  on  draft  resolution A/62/L.15,  entitled 
“World  Day  of  Social  Justice”.  Before  proceeding  to 
take  action  on  the  draft  resolution,  I  would  like  to 
announce  that  since  its  introduction,  the  following 
the  world  of  parliaments, 
for  meaningful 
submitted 
it 
16 

07-61667 




May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 


countries  have  become  sponsors  of  draft  resolution 
A/62/L.15:  Brazil,  Cyprus,  Montenegro,  Oman,  the 
Philippines and Thailand.  

the draft resolution? 

Draft 
(resolution 62/10). 
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 

has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
agenda items 48, 116, 117 and 123. 

resolution  A/62/L.15  was 
adopted
Agenda item 13  
The role of diamonds in fuelling conflict 

  Letter from the head of the delegation of the 
European Commission transmitting a report on 
the progress made towards the implementation 
of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme 
(A/62/543 and Add. 1) 
  Draft resolution (A/62/L.16) 

The Acting President: I have received a request 

from  the  observer  for  the  European  Community  to  be 
the  first  speaker  in  the  debate  on  this  item.  Members 
will  recall  that  the  European  Community  is  Chair  of 
the Kimberley Process for 2007.  
May  I  take  it  that  the  General Assembly  agrees, 

without setting a precedent, to hear the observer for the 
European Community, Chair of the Kimberley Process, 
as the first speaker in the debate on this item? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General  Assembly 
(XXIX)  of 
11 October  1974,  and  the  decision  just  taken,  I  now 
call on the observer of the European Community. 
Mr. Kovanda (European Community): It is a real 

honour 
the 
Assembly  today,  present  a  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Kimberley  Process  and  introduce  the  content  of  draft 
resolution A/62/L.16.  

Since  the  Kimberley  Process  began,  in  the  late 
1990s, to better coordinate the international response to 
the phenomenon of conflict diamonds, we have seen a 
dramatic turn-around in the security situation in several 
diamond-producing  countries,  notably,  Angola,  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  Congo,  Liberia  and  Sierra 
resolution  3208 
this  opportunity 
to  address 
to  have 
A/62/PV.57
is 
relating 
Leone.  Implementation  of  the  Kimberley  Process  has 
both contributed to and benefited from this progress in 
the  real  world.  The  only  current  case  of  conflict 
diamonds  is  that  of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  with  trade  in  its 
diamonds being prohibited by Kimberley Process rules 
and the Security Council embargo.  

More rough diamonds than ever before are being 
handled  in  accordance  with  Kimberley  Process  rules. 
An estimated 100,000 to 250,000 carats per annum are 
produced in Côte d’Ivoire, compared to the worldwide 
annual  production  of  176  million  carats.  Virtually  all 
diamond producing and trading centres now implement 
the scheme. This year has seen significant seizures and 
to  conflict  diamonds  and 
prosecutions 
smuggling.  The  Kimberley  Process 
therefore 
protecting  the  legitimate  diamond  industry,  which 
plays  a  significant  part  in  the  economies  of  many 
countries,  thereby  giving  many  people  a  chance  for  a 
better life. 

I would like to highlight two examples from this 
year  of  successful  partnership  in  support  of  the 
Kimberley  Process,  namely,  the  cases  of  Ghana  and 
Liberia. 

Last  year,  in  Gaborone,  the  Kimberley  Process 
agreed  a  balanced  package  with  Ghana,  which  was 
facing criticism regarding its national implementation. 
I am now pleased to report considerable improvement. 
Ghana  is  implementing  a  plan  of  action  to  control  its 
informal  sector,  with 
the  support  of  additional 
monitoring  and  technical  assistance  provided  by  the 
European  Community,  South Africa,  the  United  States 
and a team led by a past Chairperson of the Kimberley 
Process  to  assess  progress.  The  diamond  industry, 
represented by the World Diamond Council, has helped 
to  monitor  exports.  United  Nations  experts  on  Côte 
d’Ivoire  sanctions  have  welcomed  “the  cooperation  of 
the  Kimberley  Process  and  its  efforts  to  encourage 
participating  States  to  introduce  further  improvements 
in  their  internal  control  systems”.  (A/62/543,  annex, 
para. 8)  
They also recognized Ghana’s “remarkable efforts that 
have  enhanced  the  credibility  of  its  internal  control 
system and its diamond import/export regime” (Ibid.). 

This year in Brussels, it was agreed to move to a 
system  of  risk-based  monitoring  of  exports.  Ghana 
continues  to  work  on  registering  informal  miners  and 
estimating  production  levels,  with  the  support  of  the 
07-61667 

17 

A/62/PV.57 

United  States,  the  European  Community  and  World 
Diamond Council. 

Another  good  example  of  Kimberley  Process 
partnership in action is the case of Liberia. Kimberley 
Process  participants  and  observers  —  including  the 
United States, the United Arab Emirates, South Africa, 
Canada, Sierra Leone and the World Diamond Council, 
as  well  as  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Liberia 
(UNMIL)  and 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  —  have  all  worked  closely  with  the 
Government  of  Liberia  to  advise,  train  and  equip  the 
Government  Diamond  Office  and  its  officials.  In 
March,  the  Kimberley  Process  sent  its  third  expert 
mission  to  Liberia,  in  close  cooperation  with  the 
United  Nations  sanctions  panel  and  supported  by 
UNMIL,  and  found  that  Liberia  did  meet  Kimberley 
Process requirements. Those findings were reported to 
the  Security  Council,  which,  by  its  resolution  1753 
(2007)  of  27  April  2007,  decided  to  lift  the  diamond 
embargo.  Liberia  was  admitted  to  the  Kimberley 
Process on 4 May 2007. Several friends of Liberia are 
working  with  its  Government  to  support  Kimberley 
Process implementation.  

Again, much remains to be done, but we believe 
this is a real milestone, laying the necessary foundation 
for  diamonds  to  contribute  to  prosperity,  rather  than 
conflict, in West Africa. 

Those  two  success  stories  continue  the  positive 
history  of  the  Kimberley  Process.  Participants  and 
observers  have  worked  hard  during  the  past  year  to 
strengthen the Kimberley Process, and have succeeded 
in  tackling  some  of  the  outstanding  challenges  and  in 
advancing  standards,  particularly  with  respect 
to 
trading and manufacturing centres.  
Let  me  say  a  word  on  participation  in  the 

Kimberley  Process,  the  continued  interest  in  which 
clearly  demonstrates  its  strength  and  credibility.  The 
scheme  has 
remained  open,  on  a  global  and 
non-discriminatory  basis,  to  all  countries  and  regional 
economic integration organizations willing and able to 
fulfil  its  requirements.  In  addition  to  Liberia,  we 
welcomed Turkey  and  the  Republic  of  the  Congo  this 
year.  We  have  worked  with  applicant  countries  to 
ensure  that  they  are  fully  prepared  to  assume  the 
responsibilities  of  Kimberley  Process  participation. 
Burkina  Faso,  Cameroon,  Egypt,  Mali,  Mexico  and 
Tunisia  attended  the  Brussels  Plenary  and  affirmed 
their  intention  to  join;  while  Bahrain,  Cape  Verde, 
lead 
Gabon,  Swaziland  and  Zambia  have  all  expressed  an 
interest in future participation. 

Civil society’s involvement has been successfully 
broadened, with a record number of non-governmental 
organizations attending the Plenary meeting, including 
many  from  producer  countries.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that 
this  will 
to  greater  cooperation  between 
Governments  and  civil  society  at  the  national  level  as 
well. 

We  have  made  good  progress  on  monitoring.  In 
the  past  four  years,  over  50  on-the-ground  inspection 
visits  have  been  carried  out  to  Kimberley  Process 
participants  and  applicants,  each  staffed  entirely  by 
volunteers,  in  a  remarkable  case  of  burden-sharing. 
Although  the  system  of  peer  review  is  voluntary,  in 
practice  virtually  all  participants  have  demonstrated 
their  openness  to  scrutiny  and  their  willingness  to 
improve.  The  second  round  of  review  visits  has  now 
been launched, with one such visit carried out already 
and a number under preparation. 

At  the  beginning  of  this  year,  the  Kimberley 
Process  publicly  released  its  production  and  trade 
statistics for the first time, to increase transparency and 
allow  others  to  analyse  the  data.  Statistics  form  an 
integral  part  of  monitoring,  and  statistical  analyses 
were  prepared  for  all  peer  review  visits  over  the  past 
year.  The  Kimberley  Process  analysed  the  2006  data, 
identifying a number of human errors, procedures to be 
corrected  and  issues  for  further  work. All  participants 
submitted  the  required  statistical  reports  for  2005  and 
2006,  supported  by  continuing  training  opportunities 
made available by the Canadian Government. 

We  have  also  seen  this  past  year  increasing 
amounts of technical assistance and training in support 
of  Kimberley  Process  implementation,  as  well  as  a 
willingness  to  identify  where  there  are  needs.  Some 
countries 
their 
contributions  to  the  Kimberley  Process  by  service  in 
working  groups,  training  or  by  providing  financing. 
That 
the  spirit  of 
cooperation  among  the  three  segments  that  constitute 
the Kimberley Process. 
On  the  technical  side,  there  has  been  continuing 

work to identify profiles of diamond production so that 
anomalies can be picked up. We expect further efforts 
over  the  medium  term  to  place  diamond  identification 
techniques on a sound scientific basis. 
is  a  wonderful 
volunteered 
testimony 
to 
have 
to 
increase 
18 

07-61667 
it 
Process 
proportion 
of  worldwide 
recommendations 


Artisanal alluvial diamond mining accounts for a 

diamond 
significant 
production,  but  controlling 
involves  particular 
challenges,  which  are  the  focus  of  the  working  group 
of artisanal alluvial producers. That group has analysed 
the  situation  in  each  country  with  regard  to  artisanal 
alluvial production, assessing their controls in the light 
of  Kimberley 
and 
considering  progress,  obstacles  encountered  and 
remaining  challenges.  It  plans  to  develop  further 
efforts  on  capacity  building,  traceability  and  tackling 
illicit cross-border trade. 

With  the  Brussels  Initiative  on  diamonds  from 
Côte d’Ivoire, we believe there is a real possibility for 
the  Kimberley  Process  to  support  a  truly  regional 
approach  to  diamonds  in  West  Africa.  In  South 
America  we  also  see  promising  signs  of  regional 
collaboration  to  address  the  challenges  of  controlling 
diamond production there.  

A review of the Kimberley Process completed in 
November 2006 concluded that it had been effective in 
curbing  the  illicit  trade  in  conflict  diamonds.  But  it 
also  noted  that  reforms  were  needed  to  adapt  to  new 
challenges  and  increasing  demands.  Many  of  those 
recommendations  have  been  carried  out,  putting  the 
Kimberley  Process  on  a  more  solid  footing:  a 
compilation  of  rules  and  procedures,  a  new  and  more 
transparent website and the formalization of two of its 
working bodies. 

the  Kimberley  Process 
preserves  its  flexibility  to  respond  pragmatically  and 
appropriately  to  the  different  challenges  it  faces, 
through  diplomatic  messages,  technical  assistance, 
training and geological industry or statistical expertise. 
The  Kimberley  Process,  as  an  innovative  model  of 
burden-sharing,  has  fostered  a  sense  of  ownership  by 
participants  and  observers,  many  of  whom  have 
devoted  considerable 
strengthening 
implementation.  Both  human  and  financial  resources 
have  been  deployed  by  a  great  many  participants, 
through 
assistance, 
participation  in  working  groups  and  in  peer  review 
teams. 

The draft resolution before the Assembly today is 
not  a  short  one.  Indeed,  it  has  grown  to  six  pages, 
which  is  a  testament  to  the  many  areas  of  activity  in 
which the Assembly has been engaged in the past year 
and  those  which  are  planned  for  next  year.  I  wish  to 
the  provision  of 
resources 
At 
the  same 
time, 
to 
technical 
A/62/PV.57
draw  the  Assembly’s  attention  to  a  technical  change 
which  will  be  introduced  in  the  final  text.  The  word 
“participants” will have a capital “P”.  

But  thanks  to  the  hard  work  of  government, 
industry  and  civil  society  representatives  around  the 
world, the Kimberley Process remains one of the most 
successful and inspirational examples of how to break 
the 
link  between  natural  resources  and  conflict. 
Although  the  availability  of  conflict  diamonds  is 
currently  much  reduced,  the  Kimberley  Process  is  a 
vital tool of conflict prevention and deterrence. 

We  wish  India,  as  the  Chair  for  2008,  and 
Namibia, as Vice-Chair, every success. We assure them 
of  our  support,  as  we  express  our  gratitude  for  the 
support  of  the  past  chairs  of  the  Kimberley  Process, 
who  have  all  demonstrated  great  leadership  —  South 
Africa, Canada, the Russian Federation and Botswana. 

I  must  also  express  my  sincere  gratitude  to  all 
those who have participated in this work over the past 
year, particularly the chairs of the working groups and 
committees,  but  also  to  all  those  in  government, 
industry  and  civil  society  who  have  shown  so  much 
dedication in working together. 

It  remains  for  me,  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Community,  to  express  my  heartfelt  thanks  to  the 
United  Nations,  which  has  been  a  constant  source  of 
inspiration, support, expertise and encouragement to do 
better.  We  have  worked  closely  with  the  sanctions 
committees  and  their  experts  in  the  cases  of  Côte 
d’Ivoire and Liberia, and look forward to ever broader 
and  deeper  cooperation  with  all  the  relevant  parts  of 
the United Nations system. 
Mr.  Outlule  (Botswana):  The  delegation  of 

Botswana  extends  its  sincere  appreciation  to  the 
delegation  of  the  European  Community  in  the  person 
of  Mr.  Karel  Kovanda,  Chair  of  the  2007  Kimberley 
Process, 
informative,  clear, 
comprehensive — in a word, excellent — report under 
agenda  item  13,  as  well  as  for  introducing  draft 
resolution A/62/L.16, as orally corrected. 

the  European  Community  for 
providing  sterling  leadership  during  its  tenure.  In  this 
connection,  we  welcome  with  great  appreciation  the 
substantial  progress  achieved  in  consolidating  and 
strengthening  the  Kimberley  Process,  as  called  for  by 
the recommendations of the Kimberley Process Three-
introducing  an 
We  commend 
for 
07-61667 

19 
support 
resolute 
continuing 
the  effectiveness  of 
international  community 
A/62/PV.57 

Year  Review  and  the  Gaborone  Kimberley  Process 
annual meeting held in 2006. 

The  Kimberley  Process  is  critically  important  to 
the  attainment  of  the  universal  objective  of  breaking 
the  link  between  the  illicit  transaction  of  rough 
diamonds and armed conflict. It is a clear testimony of 
the  phenomenal  impact  which  the  individual  and 
combined  efforts  of  Governments,  industry  and  civil 
society can have on matters of international peace and 
security. In this respect, the Kimberley Process has and 
deserves  our 
and 
unwavering commitment. 
We salute Member States for playing their part by 

actively  participating  and  complying  with 
the 
requirements  of  the  Kimberley  Process  Certification 
Scheme. That is imperative for both the credibility and 
success of the Kimberley Process. The widest possible 
participation  of 
is 
essential  for 
the  Kimberley 
Process. We therefore welcome the Member States that 
joined 
the  Kimberley  Process  during  2007  and 
encourage others in a position to join to do so. 
that  for  most 

developing  countries  natural  resources  should  be  a 
blessing  rather  than  a  curse.  Natural  resources  are  a 
common heritage of the people and should be a source 
of hope for a better life and a better future. 

In  Botswana  and  in  many  other  countries  in  our 
African  region,  we  have  begun  translating  this  hope 
into  reality  by  ensuring  that  all  mineral  rights  are 
vested in the State. Over the years, the Government of 
Botswana  consistently  used  and  continues  to  use  the 
revenue from minerals, especially diamonds, to provide 
education, 
and 
telecommunications for the benefit of all citizens — in 
a word, development. 

We  recognize  that  there  have  been  outbreaks  of 
conflict  in  some  parts  of  the  developing  world, 
particularly  in  Africa,  in  which  a  diamond,  a  natural 
resource of great beauty, was illicitly used to finance or 
fuel conflict, the so-called conflict diamonds. 

These so-called conflict diamonds continue to be 
a  matter  of  serious  concern  to  Botswana  and  the 
international  community  as a  whole.  However,  we  are 
pleased  that  as  a  result  of  the  strong  support  by  the 
international  community  and  initiatives  such  as  the 
to  reiterate 
the  fact 
housing, 
I  wish 
health, 
roads 
the 

of 
for 
system 
recognized 
requirements 
transformed 
tracking 
Kimberley  Process,  significant  strides  continue  to  be 
made to halt and prevent the illicit diamond trade. 

Today,  we,  the  diamond  producers,  exporters, 
importers and consumers, have committed ourselves to 
upholding the highest standards set for diamond trade, 
not only to safeguard against illicit diamonds entering 
legitimate  trade,  but  also  to  ensure  that  never  again 
will  diamonds  be  a  source  of  such  human  destruction 
and suffering as was the case in a number of countries 
not too long ago. 
The Kimberley Process Certification Scheme has 

into  a  credible  and 
been  effectively 
globally 
rough 
diamonds,  enabling  the  diamond  industry  to  regain 
legitimacy  as  well  as  to  promote  greater  transparency 
in  the  diamond  trade.  We  applaud  all  Member  States 
that have provided leadership in the  fight to eliminate 
the  illicit  transaction  of  rough  diamonds  by  extending 
technical support to other countries to fully implement 
the 
the  Kimberley  Process 
Certification Scheme. 
It  is  heartening  to  note  that  even  though  a  large 

from 
majority  of  diamonds  have  always  been 
legitimate  sources,  today  more  than  ever  before, 
diamonds  have  become  a  source  of  funding  for  social 
progression  and  economic  development 
in  more 
countries, including some countries in Africa that were 
affected by conflict. 

We  are  pleased  that  Liberia,  a  country  that  has 
emerged from one of the most brutal conflicts, is now 
counted  among 
the  basic 
minimum  requirements  of  the  Kimberley  Process.  We 
are  optimistic  that  with  the  continued  support  of  the 
international  community,  Liberia  will  progress  on  a 
steadfast  path 
to  full  post-conflict  recovery  and 
sustainable  economic  development.  In  the  not-too-
distant  future,  resources,  including  diamonds,  will 
undoubtedly contribute immensely to this process. 
Commendable  progress  has  also  been  made  in 

other  countries,  such  as  Sierra  Leone  and  Côte 
d’Ivoire.  To  this  end,  my  delegation  is  particularly 
pleased  that  diamond  resources  are  now  increasingly 
being  channelled 
towards  funding  critical  socio-
economic  benefits  such  as  education,  health  facilities, 
combating  HIV/AIDS,  providing  clean  water,  roads, 
electricity 
developmental 
challenges that developing countries confront. 
the  countries  meeting 
numerous 
other 
and 
20 

07-61667 
fully 
supports 
draft 
Botswana 
leadership,  prudent  management 



Botswana  and  a  number  of  other  countries  can 
indeed attest to the good that diamonds can do. For the 
past four decades diamonds have been our lifeline and 
not only do they continue today to be the mainstay of 
our  economy,  but  they  promise  to  do  so  in  the 
foreseeable future. A combination of good governance, 
visionary 
and 
diamonds  catapulted  Botswana  from  being  a  least 
developed country to its current middle income status. 
And  the  proceeds  from  diamonds  remain  the  critical 
revenue  base  for  causing  all  our  social  and  economic 
indicators  to  advance.  It  is  for  that  reason  that 
Botswana  will  always  go  the  extra  mile  to  protect  the 
integrity  of  diamonds  and  their  continued  appeal  to 
consumers. 
resolution 

A/61/L.16,  as  orally  corrected.  The  draft  resolution 
reaffirms  the  unique  relationship  between  the  United 
Nations  system  and 
the  Kimberley  Process  and 
reiterates the validity of continued cooperation. It calls 
for  the  full  implementation  of  other  related  Security 
Council  measures  and  General  Assembly  resolutions. 
That  will  help  bring  better  coordination  and  sharper 
focus 
the 
Kimberley Process and that of the United Nations in its 
endeavour to maintain international peace and security. 

The provisions of the draft resolution endorse the 
decisions  of  the  Brussels  Plenary  that  highlight  the 
achievements  of 
the 
challenges  ahead.  It  sets  out  a  road  map  on  how  to 
address those challenges and to build on best practices. 
That forms the basis of the mandate for the 2008 Chair 
of the Kimberley Process. 

this 
opportunity  to  assure  both  the  incoming  Chair  of  the 
Kimberley  Process, 
the  Vice-Chair, 
Namibia,  of  our  continued  goodwill,  support  and 
cooperation in the coming years. 

We  encourage  all  Member  States  to  support  the 
adoption  of  draft  resolution  A/62/L.16,  as  orally 
corrected,  which 
unwavering 
commitment  to  breaking  the  link  between  the  illicit 
transaction of rough diamonds and armed conflict, as a 
contribution 
the  prevention  and  settlement  of 
conflicts. 

In  conclusion,  Botswana  attaches  the  utmost 
importance  to  this  matter  because  it  is  crucial  to  our 
ability to reassure consumers, as we begin this season 
the  Kimberley  Process  and 
of  Botswana 
India,  and 
to 
the 
linkage  between 
the  work  of 
The 
delegation 
takes 
embodies 
our 
to 
07-61667 

A/62/PV.57
of  goodwill  and  giving,  that  they  can  buy,  give  and 
wear diamonds with equanimity, in the full knowledge 
that  they  have  been  certified  conflict-free  by  the 
Kimberley  Process  and  that  in  buying  such  diamonds 
they  are  contributing  to  the  development  of  many 
developing  countries, 
including  my  own  country, 
Botswana. 
Mr.  Rodger  Young  (United  States  of  America): 

The  United  States  is  pleased  to  be  a  sponsor  of  the 
draft resolution A/62/L.16, on the role of diamonds in 
fuelling conflict. 

The  international  community  has  much  to  be 
proud of when it comes to the efforts of the Kimberley 
Process.  It  is  a  tribute  to  the  Kimberley  Process  that 
conflict  diamonds 
today  make  up  only  a  small 
percentage  of  the  world’s  diamond  market.  With  the 
Kimberley  Process,  the  international  community  now 
has  the  tools  to  head  off  future  conflict  and  promote 
stability  and  security  in  diamond-rich  regions  of  the 
world. 

The  unique  manner  in  which  Governments,  the 
diamond  industry  and  civil  society  have  worked 
together  in  the  Kimberley  Process  to  monitor  and 
control  the  rough  diamond  trade  should  stand  as  a 
model  as  we  confront  other  sources  of  conflict.  This 
multi-stakeholder  effort  demonstrates  what  can  be 
accomplished  when  Governments  join  forces  with  the 
private sector and non-governmental organizations. 

We  take  this  opportunity  salute  our  European 
Community  colleagues  who  have  led  the  Kimberley 
Process  in  2007  to  encourage  the  major  diamond 
trading  and  manufacturing  centres 
to  strengthen 
internal  controls  over  the  diamond  markets.  European 
leadership  also  positioned  the  Kimberley  Process  to 
address  the  ongoing  problem  of  diamond  smuggling 
from Côte d’Ivoire through neighbouring West African 
countries.  We  are  confident  that  those  initiatives, 
launched  under  the  European  leadership,  will  remain 
the hallmark of Kimberley Process efforts in the years 
ahead. 

We  were  also  particularly  pleased,  in  2007,  to 
welcome  Liberia  as  a  participant  in  the  Kimberley 
Process.  The  Liberian  Government  moved  quickly  in 
the  past  year  to  capitalize  on  international  support. 
Liberia set up a credible diamond monitoring system to 
enable  the  lifting  of  Security  Council  sanctions  on  its 
diamond  exports  and  to  participate  in  the  Kimberley 
Process. We appreciate the long way Liberia has come, 
21 

strengthen 
A/62/PV.57 

from  an  era  when  diamonds  financed  brutal  atrocities 
to the point today, when diamonds are a positive force 
and  are  playing  a  positive  role  in  the  country’s 
economic reconstruction. 

The  United  States  also  welcomes  the  efforts  of 
donor countries to provide technical assistance to help 
Kimberley  Process  participants 
their 
internal controls. We believe that one of the best means 
of supporting stability and preventing renewed conflict 
in  diamond-producing  areas  is  to  foster  Kimberley 
Process  controls  at  the  same  time  that  we  support 
development opportunities for mining communities. 

We look forward to working closely with India as 
it  assumes  the  Chair  and  with  Namibia  as  it  assumes 
the  vice-chairmanship  of  the  Kimberley  Process  in 
2008. 
Mr.  Malhotra  (India):  I  am  grateful  for  this 

opportunity  to  address  the  General  Assembly  on 
agenda  item  13,  “The  role  of  diamonds  in  fuelling 
conflict”. 
Many developing countries are vitally  dependent 

on 
their  natural 
their 
development  goals.  Yet,  ironically,  those  very  natural 
resources have served to cause and prolong conflict in 
several  countries  as  a  result  of  the  misuse  of  wealth 
generated from such resources. Diamonds in particular 
have  played  a  significant  role  in  that  regard.  In 
addition  to  financing  devastating  armed  conflicts,  the 
illicit trade in rough diamonds also impacts negatively 
on the legitimate international trade in diamonds. It is 
therefore crucial to end the trade in illicit diamonds. 

The  issue  of  natural  resources  fuelling  conflict 
should not be seen solely through the narrow prism of 
peace and security. Instead, efforts to address the issue 
must  be  made  through  the  perspective  of  an  overall 
development  agenda.  Moreover,  such  efforts  need  to 
focus  not  only  on  the  supply  side,  but  on  all  parts  of 
the  supply  chain,  including  processing,  trading  and 
purchase by the consumer.  

In  that  regard,  the  Kimberley  Process  is  an 
innovative  and  useful  mechanism.  It  approaches  the 
problem not merely at the level of extraction, but also 
from  the  standpoint  of  processing  and  trading.  Its 
Certification Scheme has been particularly effective in 
validating  and  regulating  the  production  of  rough 
diamonds  and 
the 
sovereignty  of  States  in  the  Process  and  is  driven  by 
for  achieving 
fully  affirms 
resources 
trade. 
their 
It 
are 
reflected 
in 
the 
including 
community, 
implementation  of 
trade  statistics.  We  welcome 
to 
the  Republic  of  Congo 
voluntary efforts by its participants. In addition, it has 
an  inclusive  approach  that  extends  to  the  entire 
international 
producing, 
exporting  and  importing  countries,  as  well  as  the 
diamond  industry  and  civil  society.  For  those  reasons, 
major  diamond  trading  and  processing  countries  such 
as India have engaged constructively and actively with 
the Process and support its full implementation. 

We welcome the decisions taken at the Plenary of 
the  Kimberley  Process  held  in  Brussels  earlier  this 
month,  which 
the  Brussels 
communiqué.  In  particular,  we  support  the  need  for 
strong government oversight of rough diamond trading 
and manufacturing, with greater internal control. 

We would also like to convey our appreciation to 
the  European  Commission,  as  Chair  of  the  Kimberley 
Process  during  2007,  for  its  efforts  during  the  year 
towards  strengthening 
the 
Process and its initiative in the publication of diamond 
production  and 
the 
re-admission  of 
the 
Kimberley  Process  and  the  joining  by  Liberia  and 
Turkey as new participants.  

We  would  like  to  congratulate  Ghana  on  its 
efforts  in  the  implementation  of  Kimberley  Process. 
We  support  continuing  peer  review  visits,  and  would 
also like to thank the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela 
for  its  invitation  for  a  visit  next  year.  We  also  look 
forward to the implementation of the Brussels initiative 
on diamonds from Côte d’Ivoire.  
As  Chair  of  the  Kimberley  Process  for  2008, 

India  will 
the  Kimberley  Process 
mechanism  by  building  on  previous  traditions  and 
conventions, and will strive to implement the decisions 
taken  during  the  Brussels  Plenary  through  the  active 
engagement of the Kimberley Process working groups 
and  committees. 
to  extend 
assistance  to  Kimberley  Process  members  to  build 
effective 
the  production, 
processing and trade of rough diamonds. This is crucial 
for  ensuring  growth  of  the  legitimate  diamond  trade 
and  protection  of  the  livelihoods  of  so  many  people 
around  the  globe.  We  look  forward  to  receiving  the 
support  and  cooperation  of  all  participants  of  the 
Kimberley  Process,  civil 
industry 
representatives.  

Kimberley  Processes  play  an 
In  conclusion,  while  mechanisms 
important 
India  will  continue 
controls  on 
society  and 
strengthen 
like 
role 
the 
in 
internal 
22 

07-61667 
to 
involve 
Mr.  Mbuende  (Namibia):  My  delegation 


breaking  the  link  between  illicit  transactions  in  rough 
diamonds and armed conflict, a lasting solution would 
have 
the  effective  and  consensual 
exploitation of natural resources in a way that benefits 
society as a whole. 
is 

pleased 
to  sponsor  and  support  draft  resolution 
A/62/L.16, on the role of diamonds in fuelling conflict. 
In taking up this draft resolution, the General Assembly 
once again recognizes the  reality that trade in conflict 
diamonds  remains  a  crucial  factor  in  prolonging 
conflicts  in  many  parts  of  the  world.  Most  important, 
by  breaking  the  link  between  the  legitimate  diamond 
trade  and  conflict  diamonds,  the  General Assembly  is 
making  a  clear  statement  that  clean  diamonds  can 
contribute to prosperity and development in many parts 
of the world. We hope that similar efforts will be made 
so that other natural resources such as oil, timber, gold, 
copper, water and land do not fuel conflicts, and that, if 
they do, the General Assembly will rise to the occasion 
and take appropriate action.  

For Africa, diamonds are one of the major natural 
resources with which the continent is endowed. About 
65  per  cent  of  the  world’s  diamonds,  worth  over 
$8 billion,  are  sourced  from  Africa  every  year.  In 
Southern  Africa,  the  diamond  industry  employs  more 
than 38,000 people; at the global level about 10 million 
people are either directly or indirectly supported by the 
diamond industry.  

From  its  own  experience,  Namibia  owes  its 
advances in development to the exploitation of mineral 
resources,  especially  diamonds,  which  account  for 
about 70 per cent of all our export earnings, 12 per cent 
of  our  gross  domestic  product  and  8  per  cent  of 
Government 
revenue.  Last  year  alone,  Namibia 
produced diamonds worth approximately $700 million. 
For our people, every Namibian diamond purchased on 
the world market thus represents food on the table, the 
provision  of  essential  social  services  such  as  health 
care,  and  the  construction  of  more  schools,  hospitals 
and roads to connect our rural communities.  

It is against this background that Namibia wishes 
to  reiterate  its  full  commitment  to  the  Kimberley 
Process.  We  believe 
the  Kimberley  Process 
Certification  Scheme  guarantees 
in 
marketing  our  diamonds.  It  also  provides  a  valuable 
platform  for  cooperation  among  diamond-producing 
countries.  
transparency 
that 
A/62/PV.57
through 
including 

Through the multilateral efforts of the Kimberley 
Process  we  have  made  remarkable  progress  in  a 
relatively  short  period  of  time  to  control  the  flows  of 
conflict  diamonds, 
increased 
Government  oversight  of  the  industry.  We  encourage 
donors  to  continue  helping  the  diamond-producing 
countries  of  the  Kimberley  Process,  which  need  to 
build  and  strengthen  their  capacity  to  implement 
controls  and  monitor  the  diamond  trade  from  mine  to 
export.  

As  a  diamond-producing  country,  Namibia  has 
put  in  place  a  robust  and  comprehensive  regulatory 
regime in order to protect the integrity of its diamond 
industry from conflict diamonds. In addition, a number 
of  Government  agencies,  including  the  Diamonds 
Inspectorate  in  the  Ministry  of  Mines  and  Energy  and 
the  Protected  Resources  Unit  of  the  Namibia  police, 
have been established and are specifically charged with 
protecting  our  diamonds  from  smuggling  and  other 
illicit activities. In this way, Namibia is contributing to 
international  efforts  aimed  at  curbing  the  flow  of 
conflict  diamonds  and  at  ensuring  international  peace 
and security.  

My  delegation  wishes  to  thank  the  European 
Commission  for  the  leadership  it  has  provided  to  the 
Kimberley  Process 
to 
congratulate India on assuming the chairmanship of the 
Kimberley  Process  for  2008.  As  Vice-Chair,  Namibia 
looks forward to a year of continued close cooperation. 
Ms.  Hulan  (Canada):  My  delegation  welcomes 

this opportunity to share views on the important issue 
of  the  role  of  diamonds  in  fuelling  conflict.  Canada 
remains  a  strong  supporter  the  Kimberley  Process, 
which  after  just  four  years  of  operation  has  increased 
accountability,  transparency  and  effective  Government 
regulation of the trade in rough diamonds. In doing so, 
it  has  had  remarkable  success  in  breaking  the  link 
between the global diamond trade and armed conflict.  

Allow me to begin by extending my delegation’s 
sincere 
the  European  Commission  for 
coordinating the resolution before us today, and for its 
successful  tenure  as  Chair  of  the  Kimberley  Process 
over 
important 
improvements to the Process have been made under the 
Commission’s  stewardship,  including  implementation 
of  many  of  the  recommendations  of  the  three-year 
review,  the  near  completion  of  a  first  round  of  peer 
review  visits  and 
the  Brussels 
the  past  year.  A  number  of 
this  year.  We  also  wish 
the  adoption  of 
thanks 
to 
07-61667 

23 

Among 
the  commitment 
the  achievements  of 
A/62/PV.57 

Declaration  on  internal  controls  and  the  Brussels 
initiative on diamonds from Côte d’Ivoire. I would also 
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  welcome  the  Republic 
of  Congo,  Liberia  and  Turkey  into  the  Kimberley 
Process. 

Finally,  my  delegation  extends  a  warm  welcome 
to India as incoming Kimberley Process Chair, and our 
congratulations  go  to  Namibia  on  its  selection  as 
Vice-Chair for 2008. We look forward to working with 
both  delegations  to  further  strengthen  the  Kimberley 
Process Certification Scheme in the coming year.  

the  past  year, 
perhaps  none  has  been  more  important  than  the 
impressive  progress  Ghana  has  made  in  improving  its 
system  of  internal  controls  over  rough  diamonds. 
Canada  commends  the  constructive  and  transparent 
manner  in  which  Ghana  has  engaged  the  Kimberley 
Process,  and  we  welcome 
the 
Government  has  shown  to  completing  reform  of  its 
internal  controls.  We  recognize  that,  in  doing  so, 
Ghana is not only bringing itself into compliance with 
the Kimberley Process, but is also making an important 
contribution to ensuring that illicit diamonds from Côte 
d’Ivoire do not enter the legitimate global trade.  

Equally, Canada welcomes Liberia’s participation 
in  the  Kimberley  Process  and  commends  Liberia’s 
efforts to establish a rigorous set of import and export 
controls for rough diamonds. Following the removal of 
the United Nations diamond sanctions that had been in 
place  for  six  years,  Liberia’s  first  official  diamond 
exports  were  made  in  September  2007.  Liberia’s 
progress  is  testament  not  only  to  the  Government’s 
commitment,  but  also 
the  Kimberley  Process 
participants and observers who have assisted Liberia’s 
efforts to eliminate its conflict diamond trade. We offer 
our  encouragement to Liberia as it continues to refine 
its system of controls over rough diamonds.  

Canada  also  welcomes  the  emerging  regional 
cooperation aimed at stemming the illicit cross-border 
movement of rough diamonds in West Africa and South 
America.  Regional  harmonization  and  cooperation  is 
one of the most promising means of strengthening the 
international  community’s  capacity  to  monitor  and 
control the movement of rough diamonds, particularly 
where  porous  borders  make  doing  so  a  challenge.  We 
encourage 
regional 
cooperation in other parts of the world as well. 
participants 
strengthen 
to 
to 
this  regard  has  been 

One  of  the  unique  features  of  the  Kimberley 
Process,  and  indeed  one  of  the  key  contributors  to  its 
success, has  been the innovation  and flexibility that  it 
has  shown  through  rigorous  self-examination  and 
improvement  during  its  first  four  years.  This  practice 
and  the  spirit  that  guides  it  must  be  maintained  if  the 
Process  is  to  be  successful  in  identifying  and  closing 
the gaps that remain in its system of control over rough 
diamonds. 

In particular, the Process will need to be steadfast 
in  taking  timely  and  effective  action  to  address 
emerging crises. One of its most important innovations 
in 
the  development  of  a 
comprehensive  and  credible  system  of  peer  review  to 
monitor  the  implementation  of  Kimberley  Process 
standards and practices in participant countries. In this 
spirit,  we  encourage  the  Process  and  its  members  to 
examine  the  possibility  of  further  developing  its 
capacity to expose and address new cases of trading in 
conflict diamonds that emerge in the future. 

In this regard, Canada recognizes the crucial role 
that  nongovernmental  organization  observers  — 
particularly that of Global Witness and Partnership for 
Africa  Canada  —  play  in  the  monitoring,  and  the 
important  contributions  that  those  organizations  have 
made  to  the  credibility  and  accountability  of  the 
Process. We  are  very  pleased  that  the  number  of  civil 
society  organizations  participating  in  the  Kimberley 
Process  is  expanding.  Canada  urges  all  participants  to 
these 
continue  working 
organizations,  and 
important 
contribution in support of our shared objectives. 
is  making  a  major 

contribution 
link  between  rough 
diamonds  and  armed  conflict.  It  stands  as  a  testament 
to  what  can  be  achieved  through  the  innovative  and 
systematic  collaboration  of  Governments,  the  United 
Nations, the private sector and civil society. However, 
here 
the  United  Nations,  we  have  for  years 
approached  the  larger  issue  of  natural  resources  and 
conflict  on  an  ad  hoc,  case  by  case,  resource  by 
resource basis. Canada strongly encourages the United 
Nations to consider a more comprehensive approach to 
its  work  in  this  area.  By  examining  the  intersection 
between  the  exploitation  of  natural  resources  and  the 
persistence, and in some cases intensification, of armed 
conflicts,  we  believe  the international  community will 
be better placed to find durable solutions to these types 
of conflicts. 
The  Kimberley  Process 
the 
constructively  with 
to  breaking 
recognize 
their 
in 
to 
24 

07-61667 
to 
further  develop 


Mr.  Maksimychev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 

in  Russian):  Our  delegation  feels  that  the  Kimberley 
Process  has  functioned  well  and  has,  to  date,  made 
substantial  progress  in  achieving  its  basic  purposes, 
including  discharging  tasks  set  for  it  by  decisions  of 
the Security Council and other United Nations bodies. 
That progress has helped significantly to strengthen its 
authority.  We  would  like  to  commend  our  colleagues 
from the European Union for successfully chairing the 
Process this year, in particular, for holding the plenary 
meeting of the Kimberley Process in Brussels from 5 to 
8  November  of  this  year  and  for  preparing  the  draft 
resolution  on  conflict  diamonds  for  the  sixty-second 
session of the General Assembly. 

Today,  the  Kimberley  Process  is  a  very  complex 
body, implementing a whole host of functions that are 
sensitive  for  its  participants.  Based  on  this  fact,  we 
believe  it  essential  to  increase  the  efforts  of  the 
international  community 
the 
mechanisms  of  the  Kimberley  Process  and  its  legal 
basis.  

It  is  obvious  that  growth  in  the  effectiveness  of 
the  Kimberley  Process  directly  depends  on  ensuring 
the  universality  of  its  membership  and  agreement  on 
the  actions  of  all  its  working  bodies.  In  view  of  the 
significance  of  the  diamond  business  and  its  specific 
features,  it  is  important  to  broaden  the  circle  of 
participants and observers to the Kimberley Process. In 
this  regard,  we  welcome  the  decisions  of  Liberia, 
Turkey  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  to 
become full-fledged participants.  
The  draft  resolution  that  we  are  to  adopt  today 

reflects 
the  substantive  progress  and  momentum 
achieved under the Kimberley Process in 2007. At the 
same time, we are convinced that much still remains to 
be  done  to  increase  effectiveness  in  implementing  the 
mandates  of  the  Kimberley  Process,  in  particular,  in 
revitalizing  work  to  carry  out  decisions  to  review  one 
of its main foundations, namely, the Kimberley Process 
Certification Scheme. We consequently support efforts 
to implement recommendations of the plenary sessions 
in  Gaborone  and  Brussels,  which  are  aimed  at 
strengthening  control  measures  in  trading,  polishing 
and manufacturing centres.  

the 
Kimberley  Process  Certification  Scheme  is  a  very 
important instrument of the Process. We believe that in 
planning and carrying out review visits it is especially 
The  peer  review  mechanism  known  as 
A/62/PV.57
the  minimum 
requirements  of 
vital  to  focus  efforts  on  countries  with  problems  in 
implementing 
the 
Certification  Scheme  as  well  as  on  those  requiring 
technical assistance.  

For  our  part,  Russia,  in  its  State  agencies  and  in 
the  diamond  sector  and  civil  society,  is  prepared  to 
continue to do its utmost within the United Nations, the 
Kimberley  Process,  other  international  organizations 
and  forums,  as  well  as  on  a  bilateral  basis,  to  prevent 
the  use  of  rough  diamonds  to  fuel  international 
conflicts.  

In accordance with the decision of the plenary in 
Gaborone  in  2006,  Russia  was  appointed  the  Chair  of 
the  Kimberley  Process  committee  on  rules  and 
procedures. All of our efforts in the past year have been 
aimed  at  developing  new  and  improved  operational 
rules and procedures, with the understanding that they 
need  to  be  aimed  at  resolving  timely  committee  items 
and  should  be  transparent  and  comprehensible,  not 
only  to  participants  to  the  Process,  but  to  the  broader 
public.  

Like others who have spoken on this agenda item, 
we  would  also  like  to  wish  India  as  the  new  Chair  of 
the  Kimberley  Process  and  Namibia  as  the  new 
Vice-chair success in their posts for the coming year.  

In  conclusion,  it  is  obvious  that,  for  technical 
reasons,  Russia  is  not  listed  among  the  sponsors  of 
draft resolution A/62/L.16. We would like to state that 
we have now joined the sponsors and we would ask for 
that to be reflected in the official record. 
Mr.  Kemp  (Australia):  Australia  is  a  strong 

supporter  of  the  Kimberley  Process.  After  just  four 
the  Kimberley  Process  has 
years  of  operation, 
increased 
effective 
government regulation of the trade in rough diamonds. 
As  such,  it  has  had  a  remarkable  success  in  breaking 
the  link  between  this  trade  and  armed  conflict,  and  is 
evidence  of  what  can  be  achieved 
the 
collective efforts of Governments, the United Nations, 
the private sector and civil society. 

Australia  wishes  to  fully  align  itself  with  the 
statement  delivered  earlier  by  the  representative  of 
Canada.  Australia  also  wishes 
the 
resolution on this item. 
to 

congratulate  the  European  Community  on  a  job  well 
done during its chairmanship of the Kimberley Process 
Mr.  Antonio  (Angola):  Allow  me  first 
to  co-sponsor 
through 
transparency 
and 
facilitated 
07-61667 

25 
industry 
throughout 
transparency 
through 
the  world. 
flow  of  diamonds 
the  Process,  greater 
the  consultations  on 
A/62/PV.57 

this  year. That  has  resulted  in  a  gradual  consolidation 
of 
the 
publication of more complete series of production and 
trade statistics, and better overall information about the 
diamond 
I  also 
commend the chairmanship for the presentation of the 
annual  report  and  the  European  Commission  for  its 
leadership  during 
the  draft 
resolution  now  before  the  Assembly  (A/62/L.16), 
which  my  country  fully  supports.  I  wish  a  very 
successful  mandate  to  India  as  forthcoming  Chair  and 
to Namibia as forthcoming Vice-Chair. 

Since  its  creation,  the  Kimberley  Process  has 
made  a  valuable  contribution  to  peace  and  stability, 
especially in Africa. Indeed, the rules introduced by the 
tightened  control  over  both 
Process  have 
the 
the 
production  and 
in 
international  market.  The  establishment  of 
the 
Kimberley  Process  Certification  Scheme  for  raw 
diamonds, which went into effect in January 2003, and 
the  commitment  of  the  Scheme’s  members  to  its 
implementation, as well as the sanctions adopted by the 
Security Council,  relating  primarily to several African 
countries, were decisive factors contributing to the end 
of conflicts, including in my country, Angola, where a 
war  was  being  waged  over  and  funded  by  so-called 
blood  diamonds.  The  five-year  peace  in Angola  is,  in 
the 
effect,  a  good 
Kimberley  Process  and, 
the 
Certification Scheme. 

African  countries  account  for  approximately 
65 per  cent  of  the  global  production  of  diamonds, 
which amounts to an estimated $8.4 billion a year. The 
economies of some African countries are based on the 
production  of  and  the  trade  in  diamonds;  in  others, 
diamonds are a key contributor to the well-being of the 
population  and  the  development  of  infrastructure. 
Therefore,  the  need  to  protect  and  properly  manage 
such 
cannot  be 
underestimated. 

Now  that  the  Kimberley  Process  Certification 
Scheme is legally valid in more than 45 countries, that 
instrument needs to be supported by an internal control 
system  in  each  country.  Such  a  system  must  be 
developed  in  order  to  give  real  meaning  to  each 
certificate  issued  by  the  relevant  national  authority. 
Therefore,  there  is  a  strong  case  for  building  the 
capacity  of  regulatory  and  enforcement  authorities, 
the  success  of 
in  particular,  of 
a  valuable  mineral 
indication  of 

to 
In 
order 
improve 
constantly 
particularly  in  Africa,  which  is  home  to  the  main 
producing countries. 

In that connection, Angola, one of the pioneers in 
launching  the  Kimberley  Process,  has  created  the 
Diamond  Inspection  and  Safety  Corps,  a  specialized 
force  responsible  for  the  safety  of Angolan  diamonds. 
In  particular,  it  is  responsible  for  ensuring  their  safe 
transportation  to  Luanda  from  mining  project  sites  or 
buying  centres  in  the  interior.  The  force  also  controls 
security at sorting facilities in Luanda and is present at 
every  stage  as  diamond  parcels  are  opened,  sorted, 
valued and repackaged for export. 

the 
implementation of the Kimberley Process Certification 
Scheme and to update the country’s mining industry so 
that  it  is  in  line  with  the  dynamic  of  the  world 
economy,  two  multisectoral  ministerial  commissions 
have been established in Angola by presidential decree. 
They  are  tasked  primarily  with  reviewing  existing 
national mining legislation and, in particular, ensuring 
the protection of national diamond resources.  

Those  measures  have  been  instrumental  in  the 
progress made by the Angolan diamond sector over the 
past  five  years  of  peace.  Production  nearly  doubled, 
from  5  million  carats  in  2002  to  almost  9.5  million 
carats  in  2006.  Gross  income  from  diamond  sales 
nearly  doubled  as  well,  from  $638  million  in  2002  to 
$1.2  billion 
the  same  period, 
Government 
from 
$45 million to $165 million. 
At the international level, the Republic of Angola 

played a pivotal role in the establishment, in Luanda in 
November  2006,  of  the  African  Diamond  Producing 
Countries Association, whose objective is to coordinate 
policies  and  strategies  for  the  sustained  and  durable 
development of the African diamond industry. 

As  rightly  stated  in  paragraph  13  of  the  draft 
resolution before the Assembly, Angola is Chair of the 
Working Group of the  Kimberley Process of Artisanal 
Alluvial Producers, which was established at a plenary 
meeting of the Process held in Gaborone, Botswana, in 
November  2006,  as  a  result  of  successive  decisions 
taken  at  previous  plenary  meetings  held  in  Gatineau, 
Canada,  and  Moscow,  Russia,  in  2004  and  2005, 
respectively.  As  members  are  aware,  the  Working 
Group’s mission is to ensure the implementation of the 
recommendations  set  out  in  the  Moscow  Declaration 
with regard to improving internal control over artisanal 
in  2006.  During 
increased 
revenue 
threefold, 
the 
resource 
26 

07-61667 
it 
in 
and 
bilateral, 
subregional 
for  certain  African  countries, 


and  small-scale  exploration  for  alluvial  diamonds  and 
promoting the exchange of good practices. 

In Angola,  artisanal  exploration  for  diamonds  is 
legally  allowed  only 
specific  areas  where 
mechanized  mining  is  not  commercially  viable.  A 
license  is  mandatory  and  must  be  obtained  before 
artisanal mining activity is allowed. Artisanal diamond 
miners — who in Angola are known as garimpeiros — 
must be 18 or older, must possess a valid identification 
document  and  must  have  been  a  resident  for  at  least 
10 years in the country or adjacent area where mining 
activity is to be undertaken. 
Given  the  strategic  importance  of  diamonds, 

particularly 
is 
important  that  particular  attention  be  accorded  to  this 
area  by  the  Governments  of  both  their  producers  and 
their main importers. The  fight against illicit diamond 
trafficking  and  fraud  should  therefore  be  an  ongoing 
commitment on the part of all involved. In the context 
of  combating  the  illicit  cross-border  trafficking  of 
diamonds, 
regional 
cooperation through economic clusters should continue 
to  be  the  focus  of  consultations  among  interested 
parties  with  a  view  to  reducing  or  eradicating  that 
crime. 

Judging  by  the  progress  made  thus  far  by  the 
Kimberley Process, we can attain the objectives set by 
the  Assembly  when  it  added  this  item  to  its  agenda. 
That would make an important contribution to breaking 
the  link  between  illicit  transaction  of  rough  diamonds 
and  armed  conflicts  —  a  goal  that  we  can  achieve 
through sustained efforts and concerted action. 

speaker in the debate on this item.  

Before  we  proceed  further,  I  should  like  to 
consult  the  Assembly  with  a  view  to  proceeding 
immediately to consider the draft  resolution contained 
in  document  A/62/L.16.  In  that  connection,  since  the 
draft resolution was circulated only today, it would be 
necessary to waive the relevant provision of rule 78 of 
the  rules  of  procedure.  The  relevant  provision  of  rule 
78 reads as follows: 

The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

“As  a  general  rule,  no  proposal  shall  be 
discussed or put to the vote at any meeting of the 
General Assembly  unless  copies  of  it  have  been 
circulated to all delegations not later than the day 
preceding the meeting”. 
A/62/PV.57
Unless  I  hear  any  objections,  I  shall  take  it  that  the 
Assembly agrees with the proposal. 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

take  a  decision  on  draft  resolution A/62/L.16,  entitled 
“The role of diamonds in fuelling conflict: breaking the 
link  between  the  illicit  transaction  of  rough  diamonds 
and armed conflict as a contribution to prevention and 
settlement of conflicts”, as orally corrected.  

Before  proceeding  to  take  action  on  the  draft 
resolution,  I  should  like  to  announce  that,  since  the 
introduction  of  the  draft  resolution,  the  following 
countries  have  joined  the  sponsors  of  A/62/L.16: 
Angola,  Australia,  Austria,  Croatia,  Hungary, 
Luxembourg,  Moldova,  Montenegro, 
Russian 
Federation, Serbia, Singapore and the former Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia. 

I  would  also  like  to  inform  members  that  Japan 
has  withdrawn  from  sponsorship  of  draft  resolution 
A/62/L.16.  

draft resolution A/62/L.16, as orally corrected? 

May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
Draft  resolution  A/62/L.16,  as  orally  corrected, 
was adopted (resolution 62/11). 
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
its 
the  General  Assembly 
to  conclude 

wish  of 
consideration of the agenda item?

It was so decided.  




Agenda item 76 (continued)
Report of the International Criminal Court  
  Draft resolution A/62/L.13 

The Acting  President:  Members  will  recall  that 

the Assembly held its debate on this agenda item at its 
42nd and 43rd plenary meetings, on 1 November 2007. 
In  connection  with  this  item,  the  Assembly  now  has 
before 
issued  as  document 
A/62/L.13. 

Netherlands to introduce draft resolution A/62/L.13. 
Mr. Majoor (Netherlands): I have the honour this 

afternoon  to  introduce  under  the  agenda  item  entitled, 
“Report  of  the  International  Criminal  Court”  draft 
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
it  a  draft  resolution 
07-61667 

27 

the 
entitled, 
“Report  of 
A/62/PV.57 

resolution  A/62/L.13 
International Criminal Court”.  

In addition to the nearly 100 countries mentioned 
in  document  A/62/L.13,  the  following  countries  have 
indicated  their  wish  to  be  included  as  sponsors  of  the 
draft  resolution:  Afghanistan,  Chad,  Chile,  Guinea, 
Haiti,  Madagascar,  Montenegro  and  Saint  Kitts  and 
Nevis. This brings the total number of sponsors for this 
draft resolution to 107. 

On 1 November, the President of the International 
Criminal Court presented the third annual report of the 
International  Criminal  Court  to  this  body.  We  had  a 
very  constructive  and  in-depth  debate  then,  and  I  do 
not want to repeat that discussion here today. Allow me 
though to highlight a few elements. 

The  establishment  of  the  Court  was  the  most 
significant development in recent years in our long and 
ongoing  struggle  to  eradicate  impunity.  In  the  few 
years that it has been operational, the Court has, as was 
stated  by  the  United  Nations  Secretary-General  in  his 
statement  marking  the  fifth  anniversary  of  the  Court, 
established  itself  as  the  centrepiece  of  a  system  of 
international criminal justice. 
In  that  regard,  we  will  continue  to  strive  for 

universal  adherence 
the 
International  Criminal  Court.  We  are  therefore  very 
pleased  to  welcome  the  countries  that  have  recently 
become  a  party  to  the  Rome  Statute  and  it  is  our 
sincere hope that others will join soon. 

The International Criminal Court’s annual report, 
as  well  as  the  debate  in  the  General Assembly  a  few 
weeks  ago,  underlined 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  plays  in  our  common 
multilateral  system  that  aims  to  end  impunity  and  to 
establish  the  rule  of  law,  to  promote  and  encourage 
respect  for  human  rights  and  to  restore  and  maintain 
international  peace  and  security.  It 
is  our  firm 
conviction that sustainable peace cannot be achieved, if 
perpetrators of the most serious crimes are not brought 
to  justice.  Peace  and  justice  are  thus  complementary 
requirements. 

The President of the International Criminal Court 
in his address to the General Assembly stressed the fact 
that  cooperation  between  the  Court  and  the  United 
Nations  and  cooperation  by  States  and  international 
and  regional  organizations  are  fundamental  to  an 
effectively  and  efficiently 
functioning  Court  — 
the  Rome  Statute  of 
to 
the 
important 
role 
the  provision  of  evidence, 
especially  in  relation  to  the  arrest  and  surrender  of 
accused  persons, 
the 
relocation  of  witnesses  and 
the  enforcement  of 
sentences. We are pleased that the  United Nations has 
again  assisted  the  Court  over  the  last  year  in  its 
endeavours through implementation of the Relationship 
Agreement.  We  also  welcome  the  assistance  provided 
so  far  by  not  only  by  States  parties  but  also  by 
non-States  parties,  and  I  call  on  all  States  to  continue 
to support the Court’s efforts. The continued support of 
civil society deserves to be mentioned as well. 

The draft resolution before us today serves three 
main  objectives:  first,  to  provide  political  support  for 
the International Criminal Court as an organization, for 
its  mandate  and  its  aims,  as  well  as  for  the  work  it 
carries  out;  secondly,  to  underline  the  importance  of 
the  relationship  between  the  International  Criminal 
Court  and  the  United  Nations,  upon  which  the  two 
organizations  continue  to  build,  on  the  basis  of  the 
Relationship Agreement and lastly, it serves to remind 
States  and  international  and  regional  organizations  of 
the  need  to  cooperate  with  the  International  Criminal 
Court as it carries out its tasks. 

The  Netherlands  hopes  that  this  draft  resolution 
will  be  adopted  by  consensus  and  that  it  will  lead  to 
even  greater  support  for  the  International  Criminal 
Court  in  its  fight  against  impunity  and  its  attempts  to 
hold those accused of very serious crimes accountable 
for their actions. 
The Acting  President: We  shall  now  proceed  to 

consider  draft  resolution A/62/L.13.  Before  giving  the 
floor  to  the  speaker  in  explanation  of  vote  before  the 
vote,  may  I  remind  delegations  that  explanations  of 
vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.  

United States of America. 
Mr.  Wolff  (United  States  of  America):  The 

concerns  of  the  United  States  about  the  Rome  Statute 
and  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  are  well 
known.  They  include  the  ICC’s  claimed  authority  to 
assert  jurisdiction  over  nationals  not  parties  to  the 
Rome  Statute,  including  United  States  nationals,  and 
the 
the  ICC’s 
Prosecutor,  who  may 
initiate  cases  without  first 
seeking approval of the Security Council. 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
lack  of  adequate  oversight  over 
28 

07-61667 



Accordingly, the United States disassociates itself 
from the consensus on this draft resolution. In spite of 
its concerns, the United States made a genuine effort to 
work  with  the  draft  resolution’s  sponsors  to  find 
common  ground.  Over  the  past  three  years,  we  have 
stated  clearly,  consistently  and  repeatedly,  that  we 
respect  the  rights  of  other  States  to  become  parties  to 
the  Rome  Statute,  and  we  have  asked  in  return  that 
other  States  respect  our  decision  and  right  not  to 
become  a  party.  Our  efforts  to  find  common  ground 
reflect  our  belief  that  while  parties  and  non-parties  to 
the  Rome  Statute  have  different  views  about  the  ICC, 
they  should  nonetheless  be  able  to  work  together  in  a 
spirit  of  mutual  respect  and  cooperation  to  advance 
their common interests in promoting accountability for 
genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity.  

We  are  disappointed  and  surprised  to  find  again 
this  year  that  the  sponsors  of  this  draft  resolution  do 
not  appear  prepared  to  move  forward  in  this  spirit. 
Again this year, the sponsors have declined to include 
language  in  the  draft  resolution  that  expresses  respect 
for,  or  even  recognition  of,  the  decisions  of  some 
States not to become parties to the Rome Statute. The 
sponsors of the draft resolution apparently view such a 
basic  expression  of  respect  as  inconsistent  with  their 
aspiration of universal membership for the ICC, as if it 
is,  in  fact,  somehow  illegitimate  for  a  State  to  choose 
not  to  become  party  to  the  Rome  Statute.  By  their 
actions, they have made clear that the pragmatic modus 
vivendi that we have been seeking to promote is simply 
not working.  
As a historical matter, we find some irony in this 

current  emphasis  on  universality.  During  the  Rome 
Conference  the  United  States  worked  tirelessly  to 
convince delegations of the wisdom of an approach to 
the ICC that would have permitted more States to join 
the  Court.  This  appeal  was  rejected  in  favour  of  a 
narrower  approach  embraced  by  a  smaller  group  of 
like-minded States.  
As a practical matter, we find this position to be 

counterproductive.  The  ICC  is  unlikely  ever  to  attain 
universal  membership.  Yet  the  same  ICC  supporters 
who  refuse  to  express  respect  for  the  decisions  of 
non-parties  unabashedly  seek  assistance  for  the  ICC 
from  non-parties,  and  seek  support  of  non-parties  for 
assistance to the ICC by the United Nations and other 
international organizations. They seem to think that the 
relationship  with  non-parties  can  be  a  one-way 
A/62/PV.57
Such  an  unbalanced  approach 
those  States  who  have 
proposition,  in  which  ICC  parties  only  take  and  give 
nothing in return.  

is  untenable. 
Meaningful  assistance  from  non-parties  is  far  less 
likely  to  be  forthcoming,  and  cooperative  efforts  to 
advance  the  fight  against  impunity  are  made  far  more 
difficult,  so  long  as  ICC  supporters  continue  to 
disrespect  the  positions  of  non-parties.  We  will  get 
further together by agreeing to disagree about the ICC 
and cooperating on matters of common interest than we 
will through the continuation of efforts by ICC parties 
to  convert 
legally  and 
legitimately exercised their right not to join.  

We  also  note  with  concern  the  statement  in  the 
draft resolution encouraging States parties to the Rome 
Statute  to  take  the  interests,  needs  for  assistance  and 
mandate of the ICC into account when relevant matters 
are  being  discussed  in  the  United  Nations.  To  the 
extent  that  by  this  statement  the  General  Assembly 
seeks to encourage a particular group of Member States 
to  influence  the  deliberations  or  decisions  of  other 
organs  of  the  United  Nations,  we  consider  it  an 
inappropriate interference in the work of those organs.  

the 
suggestion  that,  as  a  matter  of  general  principle,  it  is 
the responsibility of the United Nations to facilitate the 
work  of  the  ICC.  In  this  regard,  we  note  the  claim  of 
the President of the ICC that the so-called enforcement 
pillar  of  the  Rome  Statute,  which  includes  the  arrest 
and surrender of suspects and the protection of victims 
and  witnesses,  has  been  reserved  to  States  and,  by 
extension, international organizations. This seems to us 
to  misperceive  the  relationship  between  the  ICC  and 
the United Nations.  
It is, of course, true that in some cases the work 

of the ICC and the work of the United Nations may be 
complementary. We note in this regard the decision of 
the Security Council to refer to the ICC the situation in 
Darfur.  But  this  will  not  necessarily  be  true  in  every 
case.  It  is  for  the  Security  Council  to  decide  whether 
there  are  circumstances  in  which  assisting  the  ICC  in 
enforcing  its  decisions  will  advance  the  Council’s 
efforts  to  address  threats  to  international  peace  and 
security. In such cases, the relevant question is whether 
assisting  the  ICC  will  advance  the  Security  Council’s 
mandate and interests, not whether such assistance will 
advance  the  ICC’s  mandate  and  interests.  Particularly 
where  assistance  sought  by  the  ICC  may  involve 
More  generally,  we  are  concerned  by 
07-61667 

29 

A/62/PV.57 

difficult and dangerous tasks that ICC States parties are 
unwilling  or  unable  to  carry  out  on  their  own,  there 
will be reasons to question whether the Council should 
agree  that  the  United  Nations  should  shoulder  such 
burdens.  

We  welcome  the  addition  of  language  in  this 
year’s  draft  resolution  that  requests  the  Secretary-
General to report on assistance the United Nations has 
provided to the ICC and, in particular, on the expenses 
incurred  in  connection  with  such  assistance  and  the 
reimbursements received for such expenses. This report 
will  provide  overdue  and  much  needed  transparency 
with  respect  to  such  assistance. We  expect  that  it  will 
include 
the  ICC 
provided  by  United  Nations  peacekeeping  and  other 
field  missions  as  well  as  assistance  provided  by  the 
United Nations Secretariat in New York and elsewhere 
in  the  United  Nations  system,  and  will  address  the 
nature,  extent  and  costs  of  such  assistance,  as  well  as 
the reimbursements received by the United Nations.  

We  note  in  this  regard  that  General  Assembly 
resolution  58/318  provides  that  all  expenses  incurred 
by 
in  connection  with  such 
assistance shall be paid in full to the Organization. This 
decision  underscores  the  importance  of  respecting  the 
separate  status  of  the  two  organizations.  We  look 
forward to receiving the Secretary-General’s report and 
information  about  assistance 
the  United  Nations 
to 
to 
review 
to  promoting 
for  Management 
it  carefully.  Accordingly, 
intend 
in 
conjunction with this draft resolution, we are writing to 
the  Under-Secretary-General 
to 
underscore  our  interest  in  a  thorough  review  of  these 
issues.  

We regret that this draft resolution has become a 
source  of  divisiveness  rather  than  an  opportunity  to 
build  bridges  between  parties  and  non-parties  to  the 
ICC.  We  remain  sincere  in  our  desire  to  develop  a 
cooperative  approach 
international 
criminal  justice,  and  in  our  hope  that  ICC  supporters 
will join us in such efforts. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  only 

speaker  in  explanation  of  position  before  action  is 
taken on the draft resolution.  

The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/62/L.13.  May  I  take  it  that  the Assembly 
decides to adopt draft resolution A/62/L.13? 
resolution  A/62/L.13  was 

Draft 
(resolution 62/12). 
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
its 
the  General  Assembly 
adopted
to  conclude 

wish  of 
consideration of agenda item 76? 


It was so decided.  
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
30 

07-61667 
