United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

53rd plenary meeting 
Monday, 19 November 2007, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

A/62/PV.53
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia)




The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 

Cyclone in Bangladesh 

The President: Before proceeding to the items on 
our agenda, I should like, on behalf of all the members 
of  the  General  Assembly,  to  extend  our  deepest 
sympathies  to  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
Bangladesh  for  the  tragic  loss  of  life  and  material 
damage that have resulted from the recent cyclone. 

May I also express the hope that the international 
community  will  show 
its  solidarity  and  respond 
promptly and generously to any requests for their help. 





Agenda items 48 and 116 (continued) 
Integrated and coordinated implementation of 
and follow-up to the outcomes of the major  
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields 
Follow up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit 


the 
Assembly’s 
resolution 
A/62/L.11/Rev.1,  in  particular  that  it  has  also  been 
issued 
under 
“Sustainable 
development”. 

Members  will  recall  that,  at  the  second  plenary 
meeting on 21 September 2007, this item was allocated 
to the Second Committee for its consideration. If there  
  Draft resolution (A/62/L.11/Rev.1) 
The  President:
like 
draft 
I  would 
attention 
to  call 
agenda 
item 
54, 
to 
is no objection, the General Assembly will take action 
on draft resolution A/62/L.11/Rev.1 also under agenda 
item 54. 
It was so decided.  

The  President: The  Assembly  will  now  take  a 

decision  on  draft  resolution  A/62/L.11/Rev.1,  entitled 
“Overview  of  United  Nations  activities  relating  to 
climate change”. 

draft resolution A/62/L.11/Rev.1? 

Draft  resolution  A/62/L.11/Rev.1  was  adopted 
(resolution 62/8). 
The  President: The  General  Assembly  has  thus 

concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  agenda 
items 48 and 116. 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 

Agenda items 71 and 72 
Strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian 
and disaster relief assistance of the United Nations, 
including special economic assistance 

  Report of the Secretary-General (A/62/324  
and Corr.1) 

  (a)  Strengthening of the coordination of emergency 
humanitarian assistance of the United Nations 
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/62/72, 
A/62/83, A/62/87 and A/62/323) 







This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-60309 (E) 
*0760309* 
A/62/PV.53 

  (b)  Special economic assistance to individual 

Assembly and be considered in plenary in the future as 
part of the humanitarian cluster, with a special focus on 
economic assistance. 

In  a  statement,  delivered  earlier  this  year,  the 
President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko, stressed that 
the Chernobyl issue affected the whole country, and he 
insisted  that  the  polluted  zone  should  be  developed, 
calling it 
to 
response 
the  aftermath  of 
“not only the area of tragedy but also the land of 
vast  opportunities  ...  . This  territory  must  not  be 
forgotten.  We  want  to  see  this  land  alive  and 
revived”. 

The  draft  resolution  before  us  today  (A/62/L.12) 
is  a  platform  for  further  action  to  optimize  the 
international 
the 
Chernobyl  disaster.  This  document,  based  on  the 
Secretary-General’s  biennial  report,  takes  stock  of  the 
progress made so far and seeks to map out further the 
plans  for  immediate  assistance.  It  recognizes  the 
importance  of  strengthening  international  cooperation 
on Chernobyl. 

It  is  essential  to  emphasize  that  Member  States 
welcome  efforts  of  the  international  community  to 
complete construction of the shelter facility and related 
nuclear  safety  projects  at  Chernobyl,  in  accordance 
with international standards, to transform the site into a 
stable and environmentally safe state. 

We  pay  special  attention  to  the  proposal  by  the 
UNDP “to coordinate the drafting of a United Nations 
action plan for Chernobyl recovery to 2016” in order to 
implement  the  Decade  of  Recovery  and  Sustainable 
Development  of  the  Affected  Regions,  the  aim  of 
which 
resources,  avoid 
duplication  of  effort  and  build  on  recognized  agency 
mandates and competencies. 

While cordially thanking all delegations for their 
support  in  bringing  this  draft  resolution  to  consensus, 
we kindly request that delegations consider sponsoring 
it as well. 

We  appreciate  the  contributions  made  by  all 
Member States and organizations of the United Nations 
system,  as  well  as  representatives  of  civil  society,  the 
private  sector  and  the  donor  community,  towards  the 
development  of  cooperation  to  mitigate  and  minimize 
the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. 
to  maximize 
limited 
is 




countries or regions 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/62/310) 

  (c)  Assistance to the Palestinian people 

  (d)  Strengthening of international cooperation and 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/62/82) 





coordination of efforts to study, mitigate and 
minimize the consequences of the Chernobyl 
disaster 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/62/467) 
  Draft resolution (A/62/L.12) 


Assistance to survivors of the 1994 genocide in 
Rwanda, particularly orphans, widows and victims of 
sexual violence 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/62/310) 

The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 

representative  of  Ukraine  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/62/L.12 
Mr.  Sergeyev  (Ukraine):  At  the  outset,  I  would 

like  to  thank  the  Secretariat  for  the  report  submitted 
under  agenda  item  71(d),  entitled  “Strengthening  of 
international cooperation and coordination of efforts to 
study,  mitigate  and  minimize  the  consequences  of  the 
Chernobyl disaster”. 

United  Nations  humanitarian  and  disaster  relief 
assistance  has  been  acquiring  growing  importance  in 
the  light  of  an  increasing  number  of  humanitarian 
threats and challenges. We proceed from the necessity 
to ensure comprehensive and coordinated responses to 
humanitarian situations. It is important to preserve the 
fundamental  principles  of  humanitarian  assistance  — 
namely,  neutrality,  humanity,  impartiality,  respect  for 
sovereignty and the territorial integrity of States. 

Ukraine attaches utmost importance to the role of 
the  United  Nations,  particularly  that  of  the  United 
Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP),  in  the 
strengthening of international cooperation in mitigating 
and  minimizing  the  consequences  of  the  Chernobyl 
disaster. It is essential to ensure that the United Nations 
strategy  for  Chernobyl  is  implemented  in  an  effective 
and  timely  manner.  Ukraine  strongly  believes  that, 
given  the  scope  and  magnitude  of  the  Chernobyl 
catastrophe and its severe long-term consequences, this 
issue  should  remain  on  the  agenda  of  the  General 
2 

07-60309 
of 
the 
remains 
sympathy 
expressed 
The  European  Union  wishes 
The  Government  of  Ukraine 



fully 
committed  to  cooperating  with  the  other  two  affected 
States,  as  well  as  with  all  international  partners,  to 
mitigate the legacy of the Chernobyl tragedy. 

Since  the  Chernobyl  disaster  has  affected  many 
parts  of  the  world,  it  is  important  that  we  continue  to 
study its consequences in order to enable humankind to 
never forget the bitter lessons of the past. 
Mr. Godinho (Portugal): First of all, I join in the 

expression 
you, 
Mr. President,  in  respect  of  the  recent  tragic  calamity 
in Bangladesh. 

I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
European Union (EU). The candidate countries Turkey, 
Croatia  and 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia,  the  countries  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidates  Albania 
and  Serbia,  as  well  as  the  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Armenia  and  Georgia,  align  themselves  with  this 
declaration. 
the 

Secretary-General 
for 
consideration  under  this  agenda  item.  The  EU  would 
also like to express its solidarity with all those affected 
by humanitarian emergencies in the last year. We wish 
to  pay  tribute  to  the  courageous  humanitarian  field 
workers who risk their lives to bring assistance to those 
in need. 

Events  this  year,  the  most  recent  being  the 
humanitarian  and  security  crisis  in  the  Sudan,  and  in 
the Darfur region in particular, as well as the crises in 
Chad  and  the  Central  African  Republic,  have  again 
highlighted  the  importance  of  an  immediate  and 
coherent response by the humanitarian community as a 
whole,  as  well  as  the  need  for  enhanced  cooperation 
and collaboration with national and local governments. 

neutrality, 
impartiality and independence remain the cornerstones 
for  the  provision  of  humanitarian  assistance,  as  does 
the  need 
international 
humanitarian  law,  human  rights  law  and  refugee  law. 
Through  its  future  consensus  on  humanitarian  aid, 
which we expect to be endorsed by the end of the year, 
the EU reaffirms that its humanitarian action should be 
needs-based and respect these humanitarian principles. 
We also reiterate our commitment to continued support 
for  the  central  and  overall  coordinating  role  of  the 
thank 
reports  submitted 
principles 
humanity, 
respect 
ensure 
The 
for 
the 
to 
for 
by 
to 
of 
A/62/PV.53
to 
integration  of 
a  gender  perspective 
violence.  Effective  measures 
United  Nations  in  promoting  a  coherent  international 
response to humanitarian crises. 

The issue of access is central to all humanitarian 
work.  The  lack  of  access  and  the  obstruction  of  aid, 
including  bureaucratic  obstacles,  continue  to  raise 
concern.  We  all  have  a  collective  responsibility  to 
guarantee  that  people  in  need  receive  assistance.  The 
European  Union  wishes 
strongly  urge  all 
Governments  and  parties  to  conflict  to  ensure  rapid, 
safe and unhindered access for humanitarian assistance 
and  protection  of  affected  populations.  We  also 
condemn  attacks  against  humanitarian  personnel  and 
once again call for the need to hold accountable those 
responsible  for  perpetrating  illegal  acts.  Bringing 
perpetrators to justice is vital, and stronger action must 
be taken to end impunity. 

The  European  Union  calls  for  an  immediate  end 
to  violence  against  civilians,  including  sexual  and 
gender-based 
for 
prevention, as well as for protection of and support to 
victims of gender-based violence, must be put in place 
by Member States. In addition, we strongly encourage 
the 
into 
humanitarian operations. 

Regarding  refugees  and  displacement,  the  EU 
notes  with  great  concern  that  the  number  of  refugees 
around  the  world  has  increased  this  year  to  almost 
10 million.  Furthermore,  the  number  of  internally 
displaced  persons  (IDPs)  continues  to  grow  at  an 
alarming rate, totalling almost 24 million worldwide at 
the  moment.  We  believe 
that  protection  of  and 
assistance 
should  be  comprehensively 
strengthened. The EU, therefore, welcomes the role of 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Refugees  as  a  cluster  —  lead  in  this  regard  and 
looks  forward  to  further  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations on this issue. 

The  EU  is  committed  to  the  advancement  of  a 
humanitarian  reform  agenda  for  the  promotion  of  a 
more  predictable  and  effective  humanitarian  response. 
The  Union  strongly  supports  the  cluster  approach  and 
hopes to see further progress in the rollout of clusters, 
both  at  the  global  and  field  levels,  particularly  in 
ongoing  emergencies.  The  cluster  system  can  help 
bridge gaps in sectoral capacity, avoid duplication and 
improve  response  capacity  through  the  pooling  of 
efforts  and  resources.  In  this  context,  and  while 
acknowledging 
for 
is  always 
room 
there 
IDPs 
that 
to 
07-60309 

3 
to 
the 
strengthen 
Recognizing 
the  country 
the  benefits  of 
A/62/PV.53 

improvement, we are pleased with the initial feedback 
from the field and call for a joint effort to inform local, 
national  and  regional  authorities  about  the  operations 
and  benefits  of  the  cluster  approach.  We  also  call  on 
States to respond to the final appeal for building global 
humanitarian  response  capacity  launched  in  April  of 
this year. 

On  a  separate  point,  the  humanitarian/resident 
coordinator system is key to a successfully coordinated 
humanitarian  response  at 
level.  The 
European  Union  welcomes  recent  initiatives  which 
seek 
humanitarian/resident 
coordinator  system  such  as  the  establishment  of  a 
humanitarian  coordinator  pool,  as  well  as  better 
recruitment and training practices. 

the  effective 
engagement and coordination of relevant humanitarian 
actors,  the  European  Union  continues  to  support  and 
further  encourage  the  establishment  of  partnerships 
with  local  actors  and  non-governmental  organizations, 
as  well  as  with  the  International  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Crescent  Movement.  While  fully  taking  into  account 
the specificity of actors and their diversity, we consider 
that  the  interaction  and  close  involvement  of  NGOs, 
for 
effect, 
non-governmental and community-based organizations 
are in many cases the first to respond in crises and play 
a key role in humanitarian response. 

The  European  Union  believes  that  the  roles  and 
responsibilities of actors in the United Nations system 
working with the transition from relief to development 
should  be  strengthened,  both 
in  natural  disaster 
situations  and  complex  emergencies.  In  that  context, 
we  believe  that  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  can 
make  an  important  contribution  to  a  coordinated 
response  by  the  United  Nations  to  States  emerging 
from conflict, as we have seen in the cases of Burundi 
and  Sierra  Leone.  The  European  Union  remains 
committed  to  the  work  of  the  Commission  and  looks 
forward to further work in defining areas of the added-
value it can provide. 

On  funding,  the  EU  welcomes  the  upgraded 
Central  Emergency  Response  Fund  which  has  played 
an  important  role  in  enabling  quicker  and  more 
effective  responses  to  humanitarian  emergencies.  We 
are  pleased 
that  over  75  countries  have 
contributed  to  the  Fund.  The  European  Union,  for  its 
part, remains committed to the stipulated target of $500 
example, 
to  see 
is 
very 
important. 
In 

crises 
Indicators  of 
million  by  2008.  Regarding 
the  United  Nations 
Consolidated Appeal Process — further efforts must be 
made  in  order  to  provide  more  inclusive  and  better 
coordinated needs assessments. 

and  needs 
emerging 
assessments  should  be  prepared  in  cooperation  with 
other  humanitarian  actors  and  should  be  reliable, 
accurate  and  timely.  The  European  Union  encourages 
further  improved  priority  setting,  including  in  the 
consolidated  Appeal 
Process.  United  Nations 
humanitarian  agencies  should  also  develop  common 
mechanisms  for  compiling  and  reporting  more  robust 
data  on  humanitarian  needs,  on  assistance  and  on  the 
performance  of  humanitarian  organizations  in  meeting 
demonstrated  needs  through  the  use  of  standards  and 
indicators. Without accurate data and properly assessed 
needs, humanitarian actors will be at risk of not being 
able  to  provide  the  most  suitable  and  best  equipped 
response to crises. 

In  recent  years,  natural  disasters  have  caused 
more  victims  and  devastation  than  man-made  crises. 
Just as an example, this year has seen 13 flash appeals 
for natural disasters, which is three more than the last 
annual record. According to some statistics, the number 
of  people  threatened  by  natural  disasters  increased  by 
three  times  over  the  last  30  years,  and  the  number  of 
people affected by natural disasters has doubled every 
10  years.  In  that  respect,  we  take  note  of  the  recent 
launch  in  Geneva  of  the  Global  Humanitarian  Forum 
and  the  intention.  in  the  initial  phase  of  its  work,  to 
focus  efforts  on  the  humanitarian  impact  of  climate 
change. 

Events  this  year,  especially  in Africa,  have  once 
again brought to our attention the potential devastating 
effects  of  natural  disasters  and  highlighted 
the 
importance  of  an  urgent  and  coherent  response  by  the 
humanitarian community as a whole. For these reasons 
and  others, 
the  European  Union  attaches  great 
importance  to  developing  and  sustaining  disaster  risk 
reduction,  preparedness  and  response  capacity  at  all 
levels.  Lessons  learned  have  shown  us  that,  in  the 
aftermath  of  a  disaster,  more  lives  are  saved  when 
response teams can deploy immediately, particularly at 
the local and national levels. 
To  that  end,  the  European  Union  urges  States  to 

implement 
the  Hyogo 
Framework  for  Action,  as  well  as  to  incorporate 
disaster reduction efforts into sustainable development 
the  priorities  set  out 
in 
4 

07-60309 


and  poverty 
reduction  strategies.  Early  warning 
mechanisms must also be improved and expanded as a 
matter  of  priority.  States  must  invest  more  in  disaster 
preparedness and risk reduction. 

As  stated  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General, 
the  impact  of  heavy  flooding  in  Mozambique  in  2007 
was  significantly  less  than  in  2001  thanks  partly  to 
improved community preparedness, the introduction of 
an  early  warning  system  and  improved  national  and 
international coordination, including through the use of 
military assets. 

Allow  me  to  take  special  note  of  the  positive 
references  made  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
(A/62/310) to the progress achieved in Rwanda, taking 
into account the special needs of orphans, widows and 
victims  of  sexual  abuse  from  the  Rwandan  genocide. 
We  also  wish  to  underline  the  importance  of  a  well-
supported solid transition from relief to development. 
Finally,  and  on  the  issue  of  the  Chernobyl 

disaster, the European Union is pleased to note that the 
Secretary-General’s report (A/62/467) makes reference 
to  the  many  efforts  and  improvements  that  have  been 
achieved in the past couple of years. As such, we feel 
that  the  issue  of  Chernobyl  and  the  relevant  draft 
resolution  (A/62/L.12)  would  be  more  appropriately 
pursued  in  the  development  sphere  as  opposed  to  the 
humanitarian cluster where it is currently placed. 

The  European  Union  fully  accepts  the  need  to 
make  the  international  humanitarian  response  system 
more  predictable  and  effective.  We  also  encourage 
further  efforts  to  adhere  to  the  principles  and  best 
practices  of  good  humanitarian  donorship.  The 
European Union will continue to play its part, not only 
in responding to emergencies as they occur but also in 
strengthening  the  international  community’s  capacity 
to respond. 

In  that  regard,  we  would  like  to  thank  the 
Emergency  Relief  Coordinator  and  the  Office  for  the 
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs for their efforts. 
The  past  year  has  posed  many  challenges  to  the 
humanitarian  community.  We  have  a  duty  to  continue 
our  collective  efforts  to  improve  the  effectiveness  of 
humanitarian  response,  always  to  the  benefit  of  the 
people in need. 
Mr.  Tsalko  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  On 

behalf of the Republic of Belarus, I have the honour of 
thanking the Secretary-General and the United Nations 
A/62/PV.53
taken  and 
reflects 
the  activities  of 
the 
the  polluted 
territory, 
the  actions 
through 
for  the  report  prepared  for  our  consideration,  entitled 
“Optimizing  the  international  effort  to  study,  mitigate 
and  minimize  the  consequences  of  the  Chernobyl 
disaster”  (A/62/467).  The  information  in  the  report 
fully 
international 
community  on  Chernobyl  problems,  as  well  as  the 
coordinating  role  of  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme. 
The  report  enables  us  to  evaluate  the  various 

the  activities 
elements  of 
undertaken 
international  cooperation  on 
Chernobyl  and  the  great  number  of  events  that  have 
taken place in that sphere over the past two years. Most 
importantly,  the  report  describes  the  development  by 
Belarus  of  a  new  stage  of  cooperation  on  Chernobyl. 
The basic elements of that stage include not emergency 
humanitarian  assistance  but  rather  comprehensive 
rehabilitation  of 
including 
restoring socio-economic activity and meeting the need 
to  establish  safe  living  conditions  for  individuals  and 
to develop of the regions affected. 

The  information  in  the  report  on  the  joint 
programmes  carried  out  by  the  Republic  of  Belarus, 
agencies  of 
system,  other 
international  organizations  and  foreign  countries  very 
convincingly 
timeliness 
and 
effectiveness of the transition to development.  
the 

to 
assess 
implementation 
initiative 
environmental  and  security  problems 
in  Eastern 
Europe,  which  includes  an  international  cooperation 
project  to  study  the  environmental  effects  of  radiation 
from the accident by taking advantage of the potentials 
of  the  Polesie  State  Radiology  Preserve  and  to  revive 
the  International  Chernobyl  Research  and  Information 
Network. 

The  Republic  of  Belarus  is  very  grateful  for  the 
holding,  on  28  April  2006,  of  a  special  General 
Assembly meeting devoted to the twentieth anniversary 
of 
further 
illustration of the international community’s resolve to 
mitigate the consequences of the catastrophe. 
Belarus notes with satisfaction that there has been 

steady  improvement  in  living  conditions  in  the  region 
affected  by  the  catastrophe.  Nevertheless,  20  per  cent 
of  the  area  contaminated  by  radioactivity  is  home  to 
more  than  1.3  million  persons  —  among  whom  the 
thyroid 
incidence  of 
the  Chernobyl  disaster.  That  was  a 
illness 
is  rising,  especially 
the  United  Nations 
Belarus  welcomes 
the  beginning  of 
illustrates 
the 
of 
the 
07-60309 

5 
affected 
areas 
constitutes 
cropland 
removed 
science  and 
A/62/PV.53 

problems. The Chernobyl catastrophe has had an effect 
on  all  human  activity,  including  in  the  areas  of 
production,  culture, 
the  economy. 
Agriculture  has  been  especially  affected,  with  2,640 
square  kilometers  of 
from 
production.  There  were  123  sites  producing  minerals 
and other raw materials in the contaminated area. More 
than  2  million  cubic  metres  of  timber  production  has 
been lost. The demographic situation in the Chernobyl 
region  has  been  severely  damaged.  These  and  other 
problems add a heavy burden to our economy. 
The  environmental  and  economic  rehabilitation 

of 
our 
the  most 
Government’s  main  concern.  More  than  1  million 
hectares  of  agricultural  land  require  constant  attention 
in order to ensure clean foodstuffs that meet norms. We 
are  also  working  to  improve  specialized  medical 
assistance  for  those  affected  by  the  disaster.  Another 
priority in our socio-economic policy is gas supply. We 
must also work to supply the affected population with 
adequate  drinking  water  and  to  restore  contaminated 
settled areas, where we have to build schools, hospitals 
and preschools. We also have to improve the legislative 
basis 
the 
Chernobyl  disaster,  so  as  to  ensure  targeted  financial 
support  by  the  Government  and  the  establishment  of 
favourable economic conditions for the development of 
the affected areas. 
A  planned  and  systematic  approach  must  be 

developed 
those  problems.  We  have 
therefore developed a national programme to overcome 
the  consequences  of  the  Chernobyl  disaster  to  cover 
the  period  2006-2010.  In  that  regard,  the  national 
budget  will  include  a  line  item  of  $1.6  billion.  The 
national Government is now spending about $1 million 
daily to that effort.  

The  Republic  of  Belarus  takes  note  of  the  fact 
that  the  provisions  of  draft  resolution  A/62/L.12  to 
strengthen 
the 
coordination of efforts to study, mitigate and minimize 
the  effects  of  the  Chernobyl  disaster  reflect  the 
consistent, systematic and constructive approach of the 
to  activities  aimed  at 
international  community 
overcoming 
the  Chernobyl 
catastrophe.  We  welcome  the  appeal  by  the  General 
Assembly  to  the  Secretary-General  and  the  United 
Nations  Coordinator  of  International  Cooperation  on 
Chernobyl  for  continued  efforts 
the 
coordination of international efforts in this area. 
the  consequences  of 
the  consequences  of 
for  minimizing 
international 
to  address 
cooperation 
and 
to  enhance 

is 
that 
inevitable  when 

Our  country  is  especially  pleased  about  the 
positive  reaction  and  support  of  the  international 
community for the proposal of Belarus to designate the 
third decade after Chernobyl as the decade of recovery 
and  sustainable  development  of  the  affected  regions 
and we welcome UNDP’s initiative to coordinate work 
on  drafting  a  plan  for  the  decade.  That  initiative  was 
proposed by Belarus to ensure planned cooperation on 
the  problem  of  Chernobyl  among  the  Governments  of 
the  three  most  affected  countries,  scientific  groups, 
international organizations and foreign countries. Joint 
preparation  and  implementation  of  the  plan  for  the 
decade will enable us to avoid duplication of effort and 
expenditure 
so  many 
participants  are  working 
to  study,  mitigate  and 
minimize the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. 

In  addition  to  the  decade  initiative,  the  meeting 
held on the occasion of the twentieth anniversary of the 
Chernobyl  disaster  also  featured  an  appeal  by  the 
General  Assembly  for  Belarus  to  join  the  United 
Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic 
Radiation.  Unfortunately,  this  matter  has  not  been 
decided  yet.  Given  the  amount  of  experience  and 
scientific information that Belarus has accumulated on 
the issue of atomic radiation as a result of Chernobyl, 
we  believe  that  the  participation  of  our  experts  in  the 
Scientific  Committee  would  be  of  great  use  to  the 
entire international community. 

The  Republic  of  Belarus  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity today to thank all its international partners 
for 
in 
overcoming  the  effects  of  the  Chernobyl  disaster.  We 
express  the  hope  that  our  joint  efforts  will  serve  to 
minimize the negative consequences of the disaster on 
the lives and health of those in the most affected areas. 
It  is  also  very  important  to  prevent  the  possibility  of 
similar  accidents  in  the  future  and  to  ensure  the 
environmental safety of the planet as a whole. 
Mr.  Sallam  (Saudi  Arabia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 

have  the  pleasure  of  thanking  the  President  and  the 
other members of the Bureau for guiding our work. We 
are  also  grateful  to  the  Secretary-General  for  the 
reports  he  has  provided  on  the  item  under  discussion 
on the strengthening of the coordination of emergency 
assistance of the United Nations.  

Human  and  property  losses  caused  by  natural 
disasters  and  conflicts  in  recent  years,  in  a  number  of 
developing  and  developed  countries  alike,  and  the 
their  support  for  our  country’s  activities 
6 

07-60309 
of 
the 
its 
the 
and 
provision 
including 
the  need 
appreciates 
efforts  of 
strengthening 
to  emphasize 
We  would 
the 
like 
recommendations  emanating 


international  response  and  solidarity  that  followed  to 
help  affected  States  has  led  us  to  believe,  without  a 
shadow  of  a  doubt,  in  the  importance  of  international 
solidarity  and  cooperation  in  order  to  cope  with  such 
catastrophes,  mitigate  their  destructive  effects  and 
assist  victims  to  return  to  normal  lives  as  soon  as 
possible.  The  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  therefore 
reaffirms  the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
coordinating 
emergency 
humanitarian  and  relief  assistance  in  the  long  term. 
Saudi  Arabia 
the 
Organization  and  all  those  who  work  in  the  area  of 
humanitarian assistance.  
to 

implement 
from 
international  conferences  dealing  with  this  issue. That 
should be done through a comprehensive approach that 
addresses  all  stages  —  beginning  with  early  warning 
and 
assistance, 
reconstruction and development. It should also include 
measures  to  help  poorer  States  to  strengthen  their 
national capacities and cope with natural disasters and 
the repercussions of war. 
its 

humanitarian 
responsibilities  vis-à-vis  victims  of 
catastrophes  and  epidemics,  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi 
Arabia has always contributed to United Nations funds 
and  programmes  entrusted  with  this  mandate.  Saudi 
Arabia has also made additional contributions as needs 
arose.  Direct  contributions  have  been  given  to  the 
victims  of  disasters 
in  coordination  with  many 
specialized international organizations. The Saudi Red 
Crescent Society had distributed in timely fashion over 
the  past  three  years  $361  million  for  assistance  in 
providing  humanitarian  services.  The  Society  has 
acquired  distinct  experience  in  this  area,  and  we  are 
very proud of it. 

The  humanitarian  aid  provided  by  Saudi  Arabia 
has  not  only  been  limited  to  bilateral  and  direct 
channels and means but has been extended to regional 
and  international  efforts  through  competent  funds  and 
international  development  institutions.  This  aid  has 
totalled  about  $24  billion.  Saudi  Arabia  has  also 
contributed to international efforts to eradicate poverty 
and  hunger, 
financial 
assistance,  through  various  Saudi  Arabian  funds  and 
regional  and  international  organizations  in  the  context 
of  bilateral  agreements  with  developing  countries. All 
of  this  is  out  of  our  firm  conviction  that  this  kind  of 
including  economic  and 
to  discharge 
Based  on 
concern 
A/62/PV.53
and 
rebuild 
support 
cooperation 
infrastructure 
Eighty-seven  developing  countries 
emergency  and  development  assistance,  which 
is 
beneficial to all humanity, is indispensable to peaceful 
coexistence 
constructive 
and 
therefore  provided 
solidarity.  Saudi  Arabia  has 
favourable  development  assistance  in  cash  and  kind, 
through bilateral channels, totalling over $83.7 billion, 
which  is  about  four  per  cent  of  our  gross  national 
product.  This  is  the  highest  percentage  of  aid  in  the 
entire world. 

from  all 
continents have benefited from our assistance. This aid 
has  strengthened 
long-term  economic  and  social 
development,  helped 
and 
provided 
for  education,  health,  water, 
agriculture,  well-drilling,  dam-building  and  other  key 
sectors.  In  terms  of  debt  alleviation,  Saudi Arabia  has 
cancelled  more  than  $6  billion  worth  of  debt  for  the 
poorest developing countries. 

Addressing  with  a  serious  and  realistic  attitude 
the  sense  of  frustration  and  despair  of  citizens  of  the 
poorer  countries  because  of  poverty,  hunger,  disease, 
illiteracy  and  indebtedness,  requires  us  to  deepen  the 
principles  of  humanitarianism,  equality,  justice  and 
sustainable  development  in  their  health,  educational, 
economic  and  social  dimensions.  This 
to 
strengthen  international  peace,  stability  and  security. 
This  calls  for  a  genuine  partnership  and  mutual 
development pact between the North and the South.  

their  dire  need  for  official 
development assistance, the indebtedness of the poorest 
and  medium-income 
also  be 
addressed. Foreign direct investment and the transfer of 
technology to developing countries must be carried out 
in  a  serious  fashion  in  order  to  liberate  international 
trade and ensure international economic growth. 
To  guarantee  the  provision  of  oil,  Saudi  Arabia 

has 
increased 
its  production  capacity  which,  as 
everyone knows, is a very expensive endeavour. Saudi 
Arabia has also hosted a forum on energy in Riyadh — 
a  context  for  negotiation  and  cooperation  between 
producers  and  consumers  in  order  to  stabilize  oil 
markets, since oil is an important strategic product that 
is  crucial  to  international  economic  stability.  Saudi 
Arabia,  in  this  context,  is  participating,  as  a  signatory 
of international instruments to protect the environment, 
in every international effort to protect the environment, 
positively,  within 
common 
international action, including the Kyoto Protocol. 
In  addition 
principles 
countries 
should 
is  all 
the 
of 
to 
07-60309 

7 
undermining 
Ms.  Smith
development, 
(Australia):  The 
A/62/PV.53 


Saudi Arabia is working to ensure that the world 
takes the required measures to protect the environment, 
on  the  one  hand,  while  protecting  global  economic 
growth on the other. We believe that the continuing to 
development  of  technology  and  energy  is  the  key  to 
coping  with  environmental  problems,  in  particular 
climate change. The international community must take 
the  necessary  measures  to  confront  this  problem,  in 
keeping with common, but differentiated responsibility, 
between developed and developing countries, as set out 
in the Convention on Climate Change. 
international 

community  is  faced  today  with  a  formidable  level  of 
disasters  and  emergencies,  both  in  scale  and  number. 
These  humanitarian  emergencies  wreak  havoc  on 
nations and communities, threatening economic growth 
and 
the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. It 
is  our  duty  to  seek  to  prevent  and  respond  to 
humanitarian  crises.  It  is  also  our  responsibility  to 
ensure accountability for the impact of  our assistance. 
At the same time we are facing new challenges, such as 
climate change, that continue to add complexity to the 
planning and delivery of humanitarian action. 
Australia  strongly  supports  the  key  role  of  the 

and 
United  Nations 
coordination  of 
international  humanitarian  action, 
especially the role of the United Nations Office for the 
Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  (OCHA).  We 
on 
welcome 
strengthening 
emergency 
humanitarian  assistance  of  the  United  Nations  and  on 
the  Central  Emergency  Response  Fund  (CERF),  both 
of  which 
informing  our  discussions  and 
negotiations at this General Assembly. 

We  have,  on  a  number  of  occasions,  commented 
positively  on  the  humanitarian  reform  agenda  and  the 
steps 
system,  under  OCHA’s 
leadership,  have  taken  to  improve  the  coordination, 
capacity,  funding  and  partnerships 
that  underpin 
effective humanitarian action. But we consider it is no 
longer  correct 
the  cluster  approach, 
strengthening  of  humanitarian  coordinators,  and 
mechanisms  such  as  CERF  as  new  approaches  or 
reforms. These are all now integral and fundamental to 
humanitarian  action  and  how 
the  humanitarian 
community operates. Lessons are still to be learned and 
efforts  to  improve  humanitarian  response  even  further 
must  continue.  To  that  end,  we  look  forward  to  the 
Secretary-General’s 
the  humanitarian 
to  point 
to 
coordination 
in 
providing 
leadership 
the 
the 
are 
including 
reports 
of 

be 
cannot 
response 
communities 
strong  and  clear 
lives  cannot  be  saved.  This 
independent  review  of  CERF  and  external  review  of 
the cluster approach. 

All of us who are engaged in humanitarian action 
must strive to ensure that what we do is as effective as 
possible and is based on needs. This requires resources, 
people  with  the  right  skills  in  the  right  places  at  the 
right  time,  strong  and  effective  coordination  of  effort, 
appropriate 
tools,  proper  accountability  and  risk 
management,  and 
leadership. 
Supporting  this  must  be  the  objective  of  the  General 
Assembly as well as the Economic and Social Council. 
The best response system in the world is useless 

if 
affected 
reached. 
Fundamental to saving lives in any emergency is rapid, 
safe and unhindered access by humanitarian personnel 
and  to  goods  and  services  to  people  in  need.  Without 
access, 
is  simply 
irrefutable.  The  safety  of  humanitarian  personnel  in 
emergency 
is  also  critical.  Too  many 
humanitarian workers’ lives are lost in the line of duty 
each year. We pay tribute to those who have died while 
seeking  to  protect  the  lives  of  others.  We  urge  more 
practical  measures,  such  as  encouraging  recipient 
States  to  work  closely  with  organizations  delivering 
humanitarian  aid,  to  facilitate  access  and  to  protect 
humanitarian personnel. 

Another  critical  humanitarian  issue  that  requires 
our  urgent  attention  is  the  protection  of  civilians. 
Australia  calls  on  all  Member  States  and  other  actors, 
especially  in  armed  conflicts,  to  prevent  violence 
committed  against  civilian  populations  and 
to 
effectively  respond  if  and  when  such  acts  occur. 
Australia  is  particularly  concerned  that  gender-based 
violence, especially sexual violence, continues to occur 
at  alarming  levels  in  emergency  situations.  Such 
violence  must  be  prevented  and  stopped  wherever  it 
occurs  or  has  the  potential  to  occur.  Perpetrators  of 
such  violence  must  be  apprehended  and  brought  to 
account, and the survivors must be given the care and 
support that they need and deserve. 

Our  doctors  tell  us  that  prevention  is  always 
better  and  easier  than  cure.  This  fact  is  as  true  in  the 
humanitarian  field  as  it  is  in  health  care.  Australia 
considers  disaster  risk  reduction,  which 
includes 
prevention,  mitigation  and  preparedness  for  natural 
disasters, as an important priority for humanitarian and 
development  assistance.  In  this  regard,  we  commend 
the Hyogo Framework for Action and its programme of 
8 

07-60309 
to 
and 
the 
the 
into 
among 
reduction 
strategies 
implement 
effectiveness 
efficiency 
I  said  previously, 
facing 


work.  Implementation  of  the  Hyogo  Framework  helps 
build  the  resilience  of  nations  and  communities  to 
disasters  and  advocates  for  the  integration  of  disaster 
risk 
legislation  and  development 
planning.  Building  on  Hyogo,  we  welcome 
the 
inaugural  meeting  of  the  Global  Platform  for  Disaster 
Risk  Reduction  in  June  of  this  year.  This  forum 
provided support for the dissemination of disaster risk 
the  promotion  of 
reduction  best  practices  and 
partnerships 
States, 
non-governmental 
organizations and the private sector for developing and 
supporting 
the  Hyogo 
Framework  for Action.  We  encourage  further  work  in 
this critical area. 

Australia  is  a  strong  supporter  of  humanitarian 
action  and  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  therein.  We 
are active in supporting prevention, risk reduction and 
emergency  response,  and  will  continue  to  work  to 
of 
improve 
humanitarian  action.  As 
the 
humanitarian  challenges 
international 
community  are  formidable.  This  reality  makes  our 
efforts to strengthen our ability to respond all the more 
critical.  We  look  forward  to  working  with  the  United 
Nations,  especially  OCHA,  and  all  Member  States,  as 
we continue to do so. 
Mr. Al-Ajran (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): Today 

we  are  discussing  an  important  item  on  the  agenda  of 
the  General  Assembly,  namely,  “Strengthening  of  the 
coordination  of  humanitarian  and  disaster 
relief 
assistance  of  the  United  Nations,  including  special 
economic assistance”.  

During  the  last  year,  the  United  Nations,  through 
its  various  specialized  agencies,  programmes  and 
offices, has played an outstanding role in facilitating the 
transport and delivery of urgent humanitarian assistance. 
We share the deep concern expressed by the Secretary-
General’s report (A/62/87) regarding the increase in the 
number and intensity of natural disasters compared with 
previous  years,  where  the  damages  caused  by  these 
disasters  have  led to  a  direct  effect on the lives of 143 
million  people  and  economic 
surpassing 
$34 billion. We pay our condolences to the Government 
and the people of Bangladesh over the latest disaster, the 
hurricane  that  struck  Bangladesh,  caused  thousands  of 
deaths and resulted in millions of refugees.  

appreciation 
My  country  wishes  to  convey  its  gratitude  and 
those  providing  humanitarian 
to  all 
losses 
A/62/PV.53
to  ensure 
the  States  or 
the  safety  of 
assistance for all their sacrifices. It also expresses deep 
concern over their targeting and threats aimed at them 
in zones of natural disasters and conflict. We call upon 
all countries that host humanitarian workers to exert all 
necessary  efforts 
these 
international  staff,  and  also  commend  the  proposal  of 
the  Secretary-General  to  set  forth  preventive  plans, 
exchange  information  and  conduct  risk  assessments, 
since such an approach will guarantee the safety of the 
United Nations staff in the field. 

The State of Kuwait is at the forefront of nations 
providing relief assistance to those ravaged by natural 
disasters.  This  assistance  is  presented  in  a  direct 
bilateral  manner  with 
the  regions 
devastated,  out  of  its  firm  belief  in  the  necessity  of  a 
quick  response.  During  the  last  three  years,  Kuwait 
provided  financial  assistance  as  follows:  $250,000  to 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to assist it 
in confronting the effects of the flooding of September 
2007; $500,000 to assist those affected by the typhoon 
Yamin, which hit the Sindh and Balochistan regions of 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan 
in  July  2007; 
$2 million to assist Somalia in combating the effects of 
the flooding of July 2007; $500 million to assist in the 
relief  of  those  affected  by  hurricane  Katrina  in  the 
United  States;  $100  million  to  those  affected  by  the 
earthquake  in  South  Asia;  $100  million  to  the  States 
affected by the Asian tsunami disaster; and $300,000 to 
some Caribbean States affected by hurricane Wilma in 
November 2005. 

is  full  and 
complete;  no  amount  is  discounted  for  transport, 
handling and management. In this regard, I also wish to 
mention  that  my  country  has  also  contributed  the 
amount  of  $200,000  to  the  Central  Emergency  Relief 
Fund. Since its establishment, the Fund has responded 
promptly  to  urgent  appeals  in  emergency  situations 
and, while we commend its performance, we call upon 
all  States  Member  of  the  United  Nations  to  increase 
their contributions to the Fund in order  to achieve the 
desired declared goal of $500 million by 2008. 

international 
cooperation in implementing the commitments made to 
the 
is  our 
responsibility.  Here,  I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
rapid  intervention  operations  by  the  United  Nations, 
non-governmental  organizations  and  the  temporary 
international mechanism, which have spent some $800 
million  on  food,  budgetary  and  monetary  support  in 
suffering  Palestinian  people; 
that  Kuwait  provides 
importance  of 
We  affirm 
The  aid 
that 
the 
07-60309 

9 
A/62/PV.53 

emergencies. I would also like to highlight the fact that 
my  country  continues  to  extend  assistance  to  the 
Palestinians,  both  directly  through  the  Palestinian 
Authority  or  through  the  United  Nations  Relief  and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East. 
Our  shared  international  cooperation  cannot  solve  the 
problems  of  the  Palestinian  people,  and  the  assistance 
is not the ultimate desire of the Palestinians, as long as 
Israel  continues  its  inhumane  practices  against  the 
Palestinian  people  in  undermining  all  efforts  made  in 
that  respect  and  refuses  to  transfer  the  Palestinian 
taxation levies it has collected, except for one transfer 
that took place in 2007. These practices have added to 
the worsening of the situation of the Palestinians. 

We affirm the importance of cooperating with the 
Secretary-General’s proposal to devise plans of disaster 
readiness  at  all  levels,  update  existing  plans,  and 
enhance regular training for disasters of the magnitude 
of Category 5 hurricane Hugo, which struck in 2005. In 
this regard, we call upon Member States to strengthen 
their roles and make early warning systems among the 
priorities  of  their  national,  regional  and  international 
plans for disaster management. 

Finally, I wish to indicate that the State of Kuwait 
will continue to provide bilateral assistance through the 
United  Nations  specialized  agencies 
to 
confront  disasters  and  help  rebuild  through  the  efforts 
of  some  national  development  institutes,  such  as  the 
Kuwait  Fund  for  Arab  Economic  Development  and 
other  Kuwaiti 
and 
associations.  We  look  forward  to  a  world  where 
everyone lives in security, stability and prosperity. 
Mr.  Hannesson  (Iceland):  First,  I  would  like  to 

thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the  reports  provided 
for this important session of the General Assembly. On 
behalf  of  the  Government  of  Iceland,  I  would  like  to 
offer  our  sincerest  condolences  to  the  countries  that 
have  experienced  humanitarian  emergencies.  At  this 
very  moment,  our  thoughts  are  with  the  people  of 
Bangladesh.  I  express  our  deepest  sympathy  to  and 
solidarity with the families of the victims and all those 
affected. 

The  international  community  learned  important 
lessons  in  the  aftermath  of  the  devastating  tsunami  in 
the  Indian  Ocean  in  2004.  But  we  also  learned  that 
reform  of  the  humanitarian  response  was  urgently 
impact 
needed.  We 
evaluation, 
effective 
that  available  funds, 
assessment 
learned 
needs 
organizations 
charitable 
in  order 
and 

coordination of actions of the many important actors in 
humanitarian  assistance  are  crucial  elements  for 
achieving the best results.  

We welcome the improvements that have already 
been  made  in  humanitarian  response,  in  which  the 
United  Nations  has  a 
leadership  role.  We  also 
emphasize the need to continue on that path.  

We  thank  the  Secretary-General  and  the  Joint 
Inspection  Unit  for  the  recommendations  made  for 
reform,  which  provides  a  good  basis  for  our  work.  I 
wish to underline that gender mainstreaming should be 
considered  as  a  cross-cutting  issue  from  the  earliest 
stages of any reform. 

Governments  have  an  important  role  to  play  in 
ensuring  availability  of  funds.  We  all  know  that 
extensive  delays  in  getting  humanitarian  assistance  to 
those  in  need  can  prove  to  be  disastrous.  For  that 
reason, predictable, fast and sound funding in the wake 
of humanitarian disasters is of the essence.  

The  establishment  of  the  Central  Emergency 
Response  Fund  has  been  very  successful.  It  can 
provide  a  reliable  source  of  financing  that  helps 
agencies on the ground to deal with problems quickly. 
It  is  likely  that  the  need  for  funds  will  increase,  and 
Governments  have  to  intensify  their  efforts.  We  look 
forward  to  the  pledging  conference  to  be  held  in 
December. 

Non-governmental  organizations  (NGOs)  play  a 
significant part in humanitarian and development work. 
The  Government  of  Iceland  has,  therefore,  decided  to 
double 
to 
humanitarian  and  relief  operations  through  Icelandic 
NGOs and the Red Cross. The private sector is also an 
important  player  in  building  up  economic  growth. We 
plan  to  explore  further  innovative  ways  of  working 
with  the  private  sector  in  developing  countries.  The 
Government  seeks 
the  energies  and 
efficiencies of NGOs and the private sector, strengthen 
the  pioneering  work  that  they  are  doing  and  raise 
public awareness of the situation in the poorest parts of 
the world. 

I  would  like  to  turn  briefly  to  the  issue  of 
assistance  to  the  Palestinian  people.  I  thank  the 
Secretary-General for his report (A/62/82) on the issue, 
which  provides  a  good  overview  of  the  situation  and 
underlines 
indeed 
increased, assistance. The report highlights the role of 
for  continued,  and 
in  2008  allocated 
its  contributions 
to  harness 
the  need 
10 

07-60309 


women.  We  all  know  that  there  are  strong  links 
between women’s empowerment and poverty reduction 
in  general,  as  has  been  said  so  often.  In  cases  of 
humanitarian  crisis,  women  and  children  are  not  only 
the  principal  victims;  women  and  girls  are  also 
particularly  vulnerable  to  various  forms  of  abuse.  We 
therefore  welcome  the  intensified  emphasis  in  the 
report  on  protection  of  women,  children  and  other 
vulnerable groups in crises. 

In our debates within this institution we should be 
careful  not  to  lose  sight  of  the  purpose  of  our  work. 
What  are  the  reasons  behind  the  effort?  As  the  Vice-
President  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
responsible  for  the  humanitarian  affairs  segment  this 
year  in  Geneva,  I  have  been  fortunate  to  have  an 
opportunity to work closely with very efficient experts 
on the issue, both representatives from Member States 
as  well  as  from  the  Office  for  the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian Affairs  and  other  humanitarian  actors.  I 
was  impressed  to  learn  how  they  focus  more  on  the 
why and less on the how — for example, which version 
of  a  text  to  use. They  realize  that  we  are  here  to  help 
people  in  need  and  that  we  are  here  to  save  lives  and 
help  people  to  survive  disasters,  and  that  the  means 
should not become the end. If we all continue to do our 
work in this positive spirit, we will make a difference. 
Mr.  Baum  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

would like to thank the Secretariat for the documents it 
has prepared for our discussions.  

My  delegation  would  like  to  reiterate  here  its 
support  for  a  clear  division  of  labour  between  the 
debates  of  the  General  Assembly  and  those  of  the 
humanitarian  segment  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council. 
Preserving the ambit for humanitarian action is a 

prerequisite  for  humanitarian  assistance.  However, 
today  we  are  seeing  a  shrinking  of  that  space.  Local 
and 
impartial 
humanitarian  organizations  have  paid  a  heavy  toll  in 
human life this year. Similarly, speedy, comprehensive 
and unimpeded access to people affected by disaster or 
conflict remains inadequate and unsatisfactory in many 
respects.  

A  humanitarian  environment  is  not  a  given  and 
has to be negotiated and secured through a joint effort 
on  the  part  of  all  stakeholders  involved,  especially  in 
complex  emergency  situations.  International  law  — 
and  above  all  the  Geneva  Conventions  and  their 
international  staff  of  neutral  and 
A/62/PV.53
the 
arena 
for  humanitarian 
additional  protocols  —  as  well  as  the  Convention  on 
the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel 
and  its  Optional  Protocol,  include  essential  norms 
regulating 
action. 
Unfortunately, those obligations are too often ignored. 

Switzerland  encourages  the  Emergency  Relief 
Coordinator to support efforts to preserve the space for 
humanitarian  action  by  actively  facilitating  access  to 
affected  areas 
for  operational  organizations.  We 
strongly  urge  all  States  and  parties  to  armed  conflicts 
to  honour  their  obligations,  authorize  speedy  and 
unimpeded  passage  of  all 
relief  consignments, 
equipment  and  personnel,  protect  civilian  populations 
and  ensure  the  safety  of  humanitarian  personnel.  We 
also  underscore  the  unique  nature  of  United  Nations 
humanitarian  assistance,  which  should  continue  to  be 
independent, neutral and impartial. 

The  reform  of  the  United  Nations  humanitarian 
system, which began two years ago, has produced some 
encouraging  results.  However,  efforts  to  sustainably 
bolster  the  capacity  and  effectiveness  of  the  United 
Nations system on the ground in all types of emergency 
and  under  whatever  administrative  structure  — 
whether that of a resident or humanitarian coordinator 
or,  in  the  case  of  integrated  missions,  a  special 
representative  of  the  Secretary-General  —  must  be 
redoubled.  We  also  want  this  process  put  in  a  wider 
context.  The  strengthening  of  the  coordination  of 
United  Nations  emergency  aid 
that 
precedes this reform, and that will remain at the centre 
of our concerns in the future. 
is 

comprised  of  several  components 
that  are  both 
independent  of  and  complementary  to  United  Nations 
agencies  —  such  as  local  and  international  non-
governmental  organizations  and  the  members  of  the 
International  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Movement. 
In that regard, we are pleased that the organizers of the 
thirtieth International Conference of the Red Cross and 
Red Crescent, which will be held in Geneva from 26 to 
30 November, have chosen “Together for humanity” as 
the theme for that important meeting.  

Although  the  reforms  of  the  United  Nations 
humanitarian  system  initiated  two  years  ago  provide 
clear  guidance  for  improving  operational  aspects  of 
humanitarian coordination, there is much less clarity as 
regards 
the  normative  evolution  of  humanitarian 
policies and principles since the adoption of resolution 
international  humanitarian 
is  a  subject 
The 
system 
07-60309 

11 

of 
the 
national 
financial 
impact  of 
strengthening 
A/62/PV.53 

46/182.  An  analytical  evaluation  of  the  normative 
framework for humanitarian coordination may help us 
to  identify  priority  areas  to  focus  on,  including  as 
regards  future  resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly. 
Such prioritization will make it possible to improve the 
relevance  and 
resolutions  addressing 
humanitarian issues. 
In  a  world  of  ever-changing  vulnerabilities  and 

risks, 
disaster-
preparedness  capacities  deserves  particular  attention. 
In keeping with the commitments set out in the Hyogo 
Framework  for  Action  2005-2015,  all  participants  in 
the  International  Strategy  for  Disaster  Reduction  — 
including  Governments,  regional  organizations,  the 
Secretariat and the agencies of the United Nations, the 
International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement, the 
international 
institutions,  non-governmental 
organizations and the private sector — must act swiftly 
and together to help to attain the objective of reducing 
for the long term the losses caused by disasters. 
Mr.  Voto-Bernales  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

should like to thank the Secretary-General in particular 
for  the  report  submitted  in  document  A/62/87,  which 
will be very useful in our discussions.  

At the outset, I wish to indicate that Peru firmly 
supports  United  Nations  efforts  to  strengthen  the 
coordination  of  humanitarian  assistance  and  disaster 
relief.  Such  efforts  should  be  based  on,  inter  alia,  the 
following  pillars:  observance  of  the  principles  of 
humanity,  neutrality  and  impartiality  in  providing 
humanitarian assistance; adherence to international law 
in  the  work  of  humanitarian  personnel  and  United 
Nations and associated personnel; and protection when 
any  act  or  failure  to  act  hinders  or  prevents  the 
performance of their humanitarian functions. 

In  that  connection,  I  should  like  to  highlight  a 
number  of  strategic  guidelines  that  my  delegation 
considers 
take  a 
comprehensive and systematic approach. Secondly, we 
must promote a culture of timely and unrestricted early 
warning.  Thirdly,  we  must  improve  rapid-response 
capacities,  recognizing  the  key  advantages  of  local 
actors, who are closest to disasters. Fourthly, we need 
preventive  measures, 
including  public  education 
activities,  as  well  as  preparation,  mitigation  and 
recovery  efforts  and  programmes  aimed  at,  inter  alia, 
rehabilitation,  reconstruction,  restoring  authority  and 
the rule of law, developing sustainable ways to make a 
fundamental.  First,  we  must 
its 
the 
including 
institutions  — 
and  unplanned  urbanization 
organizations  — 
financial 
living  and  establishing  conditions 
that  promote 
development.  Fifthly,  we  must  promote  North-South 
and  South-South  cooperation,  participation  by  experts 
and the transfer of practical technology and knowledge. 
Sixthly,  we  must  define  the  respective  roles  of  States, 
relevant  organs,  other 
the  Organization  and 
the 
international 
international 
regional 
organizations,  local  Governments,  communities,  the 
military,  experts,  non-governmental  organizations,  the 
business  community and the media,  among other  civil 
society actors. We must also improve their capacities. 
We  agree  with  the  report’s  diagnosis  of  the 

current  world  situation.  Indeed, 
increasingly 
devastating  effects  of  disasters  are  due  to  a  real 
increase  in  the  number  of  natural  events  and  to  the 
increased exposure and vulnerability of populations to 
the  destructive  effects  of  disasters.  Climate  change, 
swift 
and  greater 
population  density,  inter  alia,  are  contributing  to  that 
trend.  In  that  connection,  if  we  are  to  break  the  new 
vicious  circle  of  constant  human  and  material  losses, 
environmental  and  social  degradation  and  increasing 
vulnerability, we believe it essential, as indicated in the 
report, that the international community work towards 
a  disaster  management  approach  that  addresses  the 
interconnectedness of threats and vulnerabilities. 
In  part  III  of  the  report,  on  enhancing  the 

effectiveness  of  needs-based  humanitarian  assistance, 
it is indicated in section D, on broadening humanitarian 
partnerships, that private companies have continued to 
emerge as important relief partners. Our country, Peru, 
can  attest  to  that.  As  a  result  of  the  earthquake  that 
occurred  on  15 August  of  this  year,  we  witnessed  the 
broad  and  generous  mobilization  of 
the  entire 
population,  but  particularly  of  private  companies, 
which  played  a  key  role  in  providing  materials,  food 
and  assistance  in  the  first  moments  of  the  emergency. 
In  that  regard,  we  agree  with  the  report,  which  points 
out  that  as  the  private  sector  becomes  an  increasingly 
important  partner,  efforts  must  be  made  to  adapt  the 
United  Nations  regulatory  environment  to  facilitate 
public-private partnerships.  
Finally,  we  wish  to  express  our  agreement  with 

each of the points set out in the conclusions contained 
in 
particularly 
regarding  the  need  to  organize  regional  responses  to 
disasters. Accordingly,  we  should  like  to  highlight  the 
project  Support  for  Disaster  Prevention  in  the Andean 
the  Secretary-General’s 
report, 
12 

07-60309 
in 
the  countries  of 
the  United  Nations  system  for 


Community,  which  is  the  outcome  of  a  financial 
agreement signed in 2003  by the European Union  and 
the  General  Secretariat  of  the Andean  Community.  Its 
overall objective is to help reduce the vulnerability of 
persons and property exposed to the dangers and risks 
to  promote  sustainable 
of  natural  disasters  and 
development 
the  Andean 
Community.  It  is  included  in  the  regional  disaster 
prevention  and  management  policies  reflected  in  the 
Andean  disaster  prevention  and  management  strategy 
and the corresponding strategic plan for 2005-2010. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  express  once  again  the 
gratitude  of  the  Government  of  Peru  to  the  Resident 
Coordinator  of 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  in  Lima  and,  through  him,  to  all  relevant 
agencies  of 
the 
invaluable  assistance  provided  in  so  many  ways  when 
the  earthquake  struck  the  southern  part  of  my  country 
on 15 August. 
Mrs.  Thakur  (India):  I  come  from  the  land  of 

Gautam  Buddha,  Swami  Vivekananda  and  Mahatma 
Gandhi, all of whom stood for the essential oneness of 
all  human  beings,  which  is  the  ethical  basis  for  the 
United  Nations  and  its  humanitarian  assistance.  I  am 
therefore pleased to participate in this debate today. 

We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the  reports 
that  have  been  prepared  for  the  discussions  on  this 
agenda item. We note the factual nature of the reports, 
which  identify  some  areas  for  improvement.  We 
request the Secretary-General to enhance the analytical 
content of future reports. 

All countries are vulnerable to disasters. Nations 
can, and indeed must, cooperate to find collective and 
cooperative  solutions  to  the  challenges  that  disasters 
represent.  It  is  therefore  heartening  that,  in  recent 
years, Member States have come together to promote a 
more 
fair  and  needs-based 
humanitarian assistance system. 
India welcomes the Central Emergency Response 

Fund 
collaborative 
instrument that supports developing countries in times 
of  need.  India  demonstrated  its  support  for  CERF  by 
pledging a contribution of $2 million to the Fund at its 
launch in New York last year; those funds have already 
been  disbursed.  Our  contribution  was  a  sign  of 
solidarity with international efforts aimed at addressing 
the  needs  of  developing  countries  for  emergency 
humanitarian  assistance.  It  reflected  our  conviction 
responsive,  prompt, 
a  non-political 
(CERF) 
as 
A/62/PV.53
and 
them  evenly  across  emergencies.  It 
towards  achieving 
report  provides  details  of 
that,  through  this  reform  measure,  the  United  Nations 
would  be  better  able  to  assist  developing  countries  in 
the  aftermath  of  a  disaster  by  making  resources 
available  in  a  timely  and  predictable  manner,  and  by 
allocating 
is 
through  the  Fund’s  performance  and  even-handed 
approach to requests for assistance that it will continue 
to attract the  support of Member States  and donors. It 
is  therefore  extremely  important  that  CERF  retain  a 
high degree of performance and credibility. 

The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  CERF 
(A/62/72)  states  that  the  Fund  has  promoted  early 
action  and  response  to  reduce  loss  of  life,  and  that 
its 
progress  has  been  made 
objectives.  The 
the 
expenditures  from  CERF.  It  would  also  be  useful  to 
know,  in  tabular  form,  the  details  of  all  requests 
received  for  funding, 
the  proportion  of  funding 
provided  in  each  case  and  the  criteria  used  for  the 
allocations.  We  look  forward  to  such  detailed  and 
analytical  information  in  the  forthcoming  independent 
review that will examine the functioning of CERF over 
its first two years. 

In  handling  disasters,  it  is  important  to  have 
coherent national strategies and national capabilities to 
handle 
disaster 
management.  The  development  of  necessary  national 
capabilities  must  be  the  starting  point  of  a  disaster 
management  strategy.  India  has  a  forward-looking 
approach  to  disaster  management  and  mitigation.  We 
have  constituted  a  National  Disaster  Management 
Authority,  chaired  by  the  Prime  Minister  and  state-
level  disaster  management  authorities.  The  Authority 
has  come  forward  with  a  new  approach  to  disaster 
management  that  is  based  on  moving  away  from  a 
relief-centric,  post-event  approach  in  favour  of  a 
holistic, integrated preventive approach. The focus will 
be on disaster prevention, preparedness and mitigation. 
Improved  coordination  among  various  agencies  of  the 
Government is a first step in the new approach. Greater 
awareness  within  civil  society  about  prevention, 
mitigation and preparedness is the next important step, 
bearing 
information  and 
uncoordinated responses hamper relief efforts. 

While there is no substitute for effective national 
efforts,  a  national  response  alone  can  sometimes  be 
inadequate. There is a need for more bilateral, regional 
and international cooperation to deal with disasters and 
to  make  effective  use  of  our  capabilities.  Greater 
prevention 
in  mind 
lack  of 
disaster 
both 
that 
07-60309 

13 

India 
through 
in  earthquake-prone  areas. 
A/62/PV.53 

cooperation  in  relief  and  rehabilitation,  in  disaster 
preparedness  and  in  setting  up  and  maintaining  early 
warning systems should be a part of the overall  effort 
to  deal  with  disasters.  Through  CERF,  we  have 
established a more reliable mechanism for saving lives 
after  a  disaster  and  addressing 
the  needs  of 
underfunded emergencies. However, greater efforts are 
required  for  disaster  prevention,  risk  reduction  and 
early warning so as to reduce the number of lives lost 
to disasters.  

Disaster  risk  reduction  should  be  based  on 
proactive and pre-emptive action. Small investments in 
improving  the  safety  of  houses,  for  example,  can 
reduce  the  risk  of  damage  to  life  and  property  arising 
from  earthquakes.  Valuable  lives  and  property  can  be 
saved 
the  use  of  appropriate  housing 
technologies 
is 
developing  affordable  technologies  of  this  kind.  The 
international  community  should  address  the  need  for 
information-sharing  in  such  technologies  that  would 
help prevent disasters. This approach would be a useful 
way of addressing the challenge of risk reduction. 

Another intervention relates to low-cost insurance 
against  risk.  The  penetration  of  insurance  in  most 
developing  countries  is  still  very  limited.  There  is  a 
need  for  a  proactive  approach  in  insuring  the  risk-
prone regions through an approach that can spread the 
costs  and  ensure  the  financial  sustainability  of  risk 
insurance mechanisms. 

There  is  also  a  far  greater  need  for  focus  on 
recovery  and  development  after  a  disaster.  A  strong 
recovery  effort  that  builds  back  better  and  pays  due 
attention  to  disaster  prevention  builds  resilience  to 
future  disasters.  India  contributes  to  the  efforts  of  the 
Group of 77 to highlight this issue by coordinating an 
annual draft resolution on international cooperation on 
humanitarian assistance in the field of natural disasters, 
from  relief  to  development.  We  hope  that  greater 
attention  will  be  paid  to  post-disaster  recovery,  which 
strains  the  capacities  of  most  developing  countries  in 
the post-relief period. 

We take note of the report’s assessment regarding 
improving the delivery of United Nations humanitarian 
assistance,  including  through  the  improvement  of 
United  Nations  coordination  activities  at  the  field 
level.  The  report  highlights  the  cluster  leadership 
approach as an effort in this direction. We believe that 
there  is  a  need  for  an  evaluation  of  this  approach  to 
its 
that 
including 
impact  on 
it  entails  and 
All  humanitarian  personnel, 
assess 
improving  delivery  of 
humanitarian assistance, particularly its timeliness, the 
additional  expenditure 
the 
perspective  of  the  receiving  countries  where  this 
approach  has  been  implemented  so  far. This  approach 
should  be  implemented  at  the  country  level  with  the 
consent  and  under  the  leadership  of  the  national 
Government of the affected State. 

India  believes  that  humanitarian  assistance  must 
be  provided  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of 
humanity,  neutrality  and  impartiality,  as  contained  in 
the guiding principles for the provision of humanitarian 
assistance contained in the annex to resolution 46/182. 
We  recall  that  the  guiding  principles  require  that  the 
sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and  national  unity  of 
States  be  fully  respected  and 
that  humanitarian 
assistance be provided with the consent of the affected 
country and, in principle, on the basis of an appeal by 
the affected country.  

those 
under the auspices of the United Nations, must observe 
the  national  laws  of  the  countries  where  they  are  and 
must remain sensitive to the customs and traditions of 
the  host  State.  They  must  function  in  a  transparent 
manner and carry out their assistance-related activities 
through  close  consultation  and  coordination  with  the 
affected  Government.  That 
for 
the 
credibility of international humanitarian assistance. 

In accordance with Indian culture and philosophy, 
we respect all nations and religions. We believe that the 
world  is  one  family.  So,  before  I  conclude,  please 
allow  me  to  wish  everyone  —  all  of  my  family 
members  sitting  here  —  the  very  best  for  the  coming 
festival season from me and from my country, India. 
Mr.  Savostianov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  Russia  attaches  great  importance  to  the 
development  of  the  humanitarian  discourse  in  the 
United  Nations.  We  call  for  its  further  strengthening 
and  enhancement,  and  for  the  preservation  of  the 
non-politicized  nature  of  the  endeavour.  We  support 
efforts  aimed  at  establishing  an  optimal  division  of 
labour  and  effective  working  relationships  among  the 
intergovernmental  United  Nations  bodies  involved  in 
this process.  

We  believe  that  the  General  Assembly  should 
focus  on  defining  the  parameters  of  the  strategic 
coordination of United Nations humanitarian activities, 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  on  developing  the 
is  essential 
14 

07-60309 
assistance 
(A/62/87), 
requests,  paying  particular  attention 


practical  aspects  of  General  Assembly  decisions  and 
the  Secretariat  on  implementing  the  requests  of  the 
General  Assembly  and 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council.  The  United  Nations  Emergency  Relief 
Coordinator  should  continue  to  react  promptly  to  the 
the  Economic  and  Social 
General  Assembly  and 
Council 
to 
providing  these  bodies  with  objective  information  on 
the humanitarian situation around the world.  

In this connection, we take note that, in his recent 
report  on  strengthening  of  the  coordination  of  United 
Nations  humanitarian 
the 
Secretary-General  rightly  emphasized  the  importance 
of  intensified  international  cooperation  in  the  field  of 
national preparedness for natural disasters, with a view 
to  improving  response  and  recovery  capacities  in  the 
context  of  achieving  the  agreed  goals  of  the  Hyogo 
Framework  for  Action  in  the  field  of  disaster  risk 
reduction.  

There  is  today  a  growing  demand  for  disaster 
preparedness  and  early  warning  mechanisms.  We 
therefore  support  measures  aimed  at  strengthening 
contingency  planning  and  preparing  for  disasters.  We 
believe 
to  strengthen  national  early 
warning,  damage  assessment  and  mitigation  systems, 
and  to  develop  international  cooperation  to  build  up 
national  capacities 
these  areas.  We  support 
international efforts to promote a global early warning 
system for natural hazards of all types.  

In  our  view,  a  promising  area  for  cooperation  is 
in  the  formulation  of  measures  for  adaptation  to 
climate change. We are carefully studying proposals in 
this  area,  and  we  reaffirm  our  readiness  to  participate 
actively in the formulation of agreed approaches in this 
field.  

The Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian 
Affairs is making great efforts to improve humanitarian 
response 
technological 
catastrophes  and  complex  humanitarian  emergencies. 
On  the  whole,  we  welcome  its  work.  Not  everything 
here, however, is clear and transparent. For example, in 
the  case  of  non-governmental  organizations  (NGOs) 
working  in  close  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations 
and  in  partnership  with  the  United  Nations,  including 
in the area of security, and at the same time claiming to 
be  independent,  it  is  not  clear  to  whom  they  are 
responsible  and accountable.  Independence  should not 
mean lack of accountability.  
it  necessary 
disasters, 
natural 
to 
in 
A/62/PV.53
that 
We  believe 

the  United  Nations-NGO 
partnership  agreements  can  and  should  provide  for 
mechanisms  of  NGO  accountability  to  the  United 
Nations.  This  is  fully  consistent  with  the  task  of 
ensuring coherence and coordination in the work of all 
organizations involved in humanitarian assistance with 
the  leading  role  played  by  the  United  Nations.  In  the 
absence  of  accountability,  it  is  difficult  to  ensure 
responsibility; that could lead to a situation in which a 
humanitarian  mandate  authorized  by  a 
recipient 
Government,  on  the  basis  of  which  a  given  NGO 
operates in the country, becomes a formal cover-up for 
activities  inconsistent  with  that  mandate.  Moreover, 
this  would  undermine  the  concept  of  humanitarianism 
as the willingness of the strong to help the weak.  
We  look  forward  to  the  Secretariat’s  assessment 

of the implementation of the so-called cluster approach 
in  pilot  countries,  with  an  emphasis  on  the  United 
Nations  family’s  interaction  with  non-governmental 
humanitarian organizations in the field.  

The  establishment  of  the  Central  Emergency 
Response  Fund  has  proven  to  be  among  the  most 
significant  results  of  our  common  efforts  to  improve 
the humanitarian response machinery. We welcome the 
Fund’s  activities  during  the  first  18  months  of  its 
existence in its improved format. We anticipate that the 
independent  review  of  the  Fund’s  activities  will  be 
issued  next  year.  In  that  review,  particular  attention 
should  be  paid  to  the  criteria  for  allocation  of  the 
Fund’s resources. I would also like to underline that it 
would be useful for the review to reflect the principles 
of  interaction  between  the  Fund  and  other  United 
Nations 
the 
Peacebuilding  Fund,  through  which  money  is  being 
channelled to the recipient countries. From our point of 
view, it is essential to avoid duplication of efforts and 
to  maintain 
the 
allocation of funds.  
The  importance  of  the  compromise  reflected  in 

fundamental 
cannot  be 
the 
overestimated. The guiding principles for the provision 
of  United  Nations  humanitarian  assistance  that  are 
enshrined  in  it  are  essential  for  any  activities  in  this 
field,  so  as  to  maintain  their  credibility  for  all 
countries.  

Today,  the  representative  of  Ukraine  introduced 
for  action  by  the  General Assembly  a  draft  resolution 
(A/62/L.12)  on 
international 
financial  mechanisms, 
the  strengthening  of 
resolution  46/182 
the  criteria  for 
in  particular 
transparency 
in 
07-60309 

15 

remains 
relevant,  as 
this  problem 
the  consequences  of 
to  continue  devoting 
A/62/PV.53 

cooperation  and  coordination  of  efforts  to  study, 
mitigate  and  minimize 
the 
Chernobyl  disaster.  More  than  20  years  after  the 
tragedy 
its 
consequences continue to seriously affect the health of 
people  and  the  environment,  and  to  hamper  the 
sustained  socio-economic  development  of  the  affected 
territories of Belarus, Russia and Ukraine.  

The  Russian  Government’s  policy  on  Chernobyl 
is  focused  on  continuous  assessment  of  the  radiation 
impact  on  current  programmes  for  comprehensive 
rehabilitation  of  these  territories,  to  which  Russia  has 
allocated  more  than  $10  billion  over  the  years.  The 
adoption  of  the  draft  resolution  by  consensus  will 
demonstrate  the  international  community’s  solidarity 
with  the  work  of  the  affected  countries  and  its 
willingness 
the  necessary 
international attention to the Chernobyl problem. 

Mrs. Ataeva (Turkmenistan), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.  
Traditionally,  we  acknowledge 

special 
catalytic  and  coordinating  role  of  the  United  Nations 
on  this  issue,  in  particular  that  of  the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme  (UNDP).  We  are  grateful  to 
the UNDP leadership for the high level of cooperation 
that  has  been  achieved  in  the  implementation  of  our 
common objectives, with a view to improving the lives 
of people in the affected territories.  
Mr.  Amil  (Pakistan):  It  is  my  privilege  to 

participate 
joint  debate  on 
strengthening  of  the  coordination  of  humanitarian  and 
disaster  relief  assistance  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  various  reports 
under this agenda item.  

Given the multidimensional aspects, I would like 
to  focus  on  issues  of  disaster  preparedness  and  risk 
reduction in the context of challenges posed by natural 
disasters. 
It is said that those who prepare in advance suffer 

less 
in 
in  emergencies.  The  scale  of  damage 
emergencies is inversely proportional to the preventive 
measures  taken  to  deal  with  them.  It  takes  time  to 
build, but seconds to destroy. It should therefore be our 
joint commitment to strengthen capacity at all levels to 
reduce the impact of disasters. 
As  indicated  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-

General  (A/62/323),  the  number  and  scale  of  natural 
important 
this 
the 
in 
their 
are 
reduce 
accentuated 
impact  and 
implemented, 
Vulnerabilities 
disasters, particularly in the developing countries over 
the past decade, are on an alarming increase. While we 
cannot  control  the  overpowering  strength  of  natural 
disasters,  we  can 
the 
devastation  they  cause.  For  that,  we  need  to  have  in 
place  an  efficient  emergency  response  system  capable 
of  handling  large-scale  disasters  and  mitigating  their 
negative impact. I would also like to draw attention to 
humanitarian  issues  that  used  to  be  discussed  during 
every General Assembly session. 

in  most 
developing  countries.  The  poverty-disaster  interface 
has the potential for immense suffering and loss. In the 
long  term,  disasters  have  an  adverse  impact  on  the 
economic  and  social  development  of  the  vulnerable, 
especially  the  poor.  Natural  disasters  severely  impede 
progress  towards  development  goals  including  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  1994 Yokohama 
Strategy,  the  2002  World  Summit  on  Sustainable 
Development,  and  the  Hyogo  Framework  for  Action 
2005-2015,  provide  frameworks  for  swift,  systematic 
and well-coordinated responses to disasters by building 
the resilience of nations and communities to disasters. 
If  effectively 
internationally 
agreed  frameworks  could  substantially  reduce  loss  of 
life  and  the  impact  on  the  social,  economic  and 
environmental assets of communities. 
the 

Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF). We remain 
committed  to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations,  and, 
accordingly,  we  will  continue  to  contribute  to  the 
CERF. 

I would also like to share our national experience 
in  responding  to  a  natural  disaster  of  monumental 
proportion.  The  earthquake  that  struck  Pakistan  on  
8 October 2005 wiped out in a matter of seconds what 
had taken many generations to build. That was a wake-
up  call  for  all  of  us.  The  world  witnessed,  minute  by 
minute, the devastation caused by the earthquake. The 
loss 
and 
infrastructure  was  unprecedented  for  us.  The  entire 
Pakistani  nation  came 
the 
suffering of the victims. The magnitude of the disaster 
was  such  that  without  international  support  we  would 
have  seen  more  pain  and  suffering.  We  acknowledge 
the outpouring of sympathy and assistance provided to 
the  earthquake  victims.  The  United  Nations  system 
played  an  important  role  in  the  coordination  and 
mobilizing of resources. 
the  establishment  of 
Pakistan  welcomes 
bread-earners, 
to  alleviate 
livelihoods 
together 
those 
of 
lives, 
16 

07-60309 
included 



On  behalf  of  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
Pakistan, I would like to thank each and every one who 
helped us in the aftermath of the earthquake. 

I  would  now  like  to  focus  on  some  aspects  that 
reinforced our belief in disaster preparedness. We were 
confronted with a situation where we had to go beyond 
the  conventional  disaster  management  model  of 
response, relief and recovery to a more holistic model. 
That  model 
the  processes  of  hazard 
identification and mitigation, community preparedness, 
integrated response efforts and recovery that had to be 
undertaken  contiguously  within  a  risk-management 
context to address issues of vulnerability. 

First,  we  promulgated  the  National  Disaster 
Management  Ordinance 
in  December  2006  and 
subsequently 
established 
the  National  Disaster 
Management  Commission  and  Authority.  The  Prime 
Minister  of  Pakistan  heads  the  National  Disaster 
Management  Commission,  and  its  members  include 
senior representatives from all provinces, leaders of the 
opposition  in  the  upper  and  lower  houses  of  the 
Parliament  and  representatives  of  the  armed  forces, 
civil society and non-governmental organizations. 

Secondly,  the  National  Disaster  Risk  Reduction 
Framework was approved by our Disaster Management 
Commission  in  March  this  year.  We  are  working 
towards  the  implementation  of  priorities  identified  in 
the  National  Disaster  Risk  Management  Framework. 
That 
and  provincial 
coordination structures, capabilities and resources into 
a  unified,  all-discipline  and  all-hazards  approach  to 
domestic  disaster  management.  For  the  first  time,  a 
complete  spectrum  of  disaster 
risk  management 
activities  is  brought  together  to  include  prevention  of, 
preparedness for and response to disasters. The system 
will  cover  all  sectors  as  well  as  all  administrative 
levels of the Government. 

phase, we have learned the following lessons. 

First,  the  integration  of  disaster  risk  reduction 
into all sectoral and national development policies and 
practices is necessary for achieving sustainable social, 
economic and environmental development. Secondly, it 
is  important  to  develop  and  strengthen  institutions, 
mechanisms and capacities at all levels, in particular at 
the community level, that can systematically contribute 
to building resilience against natural disasters. In most 
local  resources 
disasters,  provincial,  district  and 
From  our  experience 
the  post-earthquake 
aligning 
requires 
federal 
in 
A/62/PV.53
it 
in 
the  world’s  preparedness 
normally  provide  the  first  line  of  emergency  response 
and management support. 

Thirdly,  the  communities  play  the  role  of  first 
responders  in  any  disaster  management  and  disaster 
risk  reduction.  Community-based  approaches  offer 
viable  solutions  for  managing  and  reducing  risks  and 
ensuring  sustainable  development.  Fourthly, 
is 
important to build on people’s local knowledge, coping 
mechanisms  and  cultural  practices.  We  are  convinced 
that  top-down  disaster  reduction  interventions  alone 
are  not  sufficient.  Fifthly,  there  is  a  need  for  the 
systematic  incorporation  of  risk  reduction  approaches 
into  the  design  and  implementation  of  emergency 
preparedness,  response  and  recovery  programmes  in 
the reconstruction of the affected areas. 

Pakistan  welcomes  all  efforts  to  strengthen  the 
work of humanitarian agencies and the United Nations 
in  meeting  the  challenges  of  natural  disasters.  In  that 
regard, we consider that the draft “Declaration relating 
to  basic  tenets  of  humanitarian  action  in  emergency 
situations”,  contained 
in  document  A/60/627  of 
5 January 2006, is an important contribution to support 
progress 
to  meet 
emergency situations. 

of Palestine. 
Mr.  Mansour  (Palestine):  Before  I  deliver  my 

written  statement,  I  just  want  to  convey  on  behalf  of 
the  Palestinian  people  and  our  leadership  our  deepest 
condolences  and  to  express  solidarity  with  the  people 
and  Government  of  Bangladesh  following  the  tragedy 
that  has  befallen 
the 
Government and people of Bangladesh will be able to 
survive  this  tragedy  and  to  move  on  with  their  own 
plans and agenda. 

I  stand  before  you  today  to  address  a  most  vital 
basis  for  continued  Palestinian  steadfastness  towards 
their  future  independence  and  statehood:  international 
assistance.  For  decades,  international  aid  has  helped 
ease  the  suffering  and  hardships  endured  by  an  entire 
people, more than half of whom have lived as refugees 
for  nearly  60  years  now  and  the  remainder  of  whom 
have  been  living  for  more  than  40  years  under  the 
subjugation  of 
foreign  military 
occupation. The assistance that has been provided over 
the years in the various fields, both through the United 
Nations  and  as  direct  assistance  to  the  Palestinian 
people, has helped to alleviate the hardship of scores of 
The Acting President: I now call on the observer 
them.  We  are  sure 
an  oppressive 
that 
07-60309 

17 
to 
track, 
to  go  off 
that  assistance 
A/62/PV.53 

Palestinians  and  Palestinian  families.  For  countless 
others,  it  has  been  the  only  source  of  survival  and 
sustenance  throughout  endless  periods  of  instability, 
crisis and uncertainty. 

While  the  Palestinian  people  and  its  leadership 
are  deeply  grateful  for  that  invaluable  assistance,  we 
believe  it  is  imperative  to  ask  ourselves  the  following 
questions  as  we  convene  to  discuss  this  issue  today. 
How much have we helped that assistance to reach its 
full  potential,  and  how  much  sabotage  has 
the 
international  community  endured 
its  sustained 
assistance  efforts?  How  many  more  internationally 
funded projects and efforts are we willing to allow the 
occupying  Power  to  undermine  and  decimate  as  it 
continues pursuing its illegal policies and practices and 
continues deepening the humanitarian crisis, inevitably 
forcing 
from 
development  and  State-building  to  relief  and  crisis 
management?  How  much  longer  is  the  international 
community  willing  to  pay  for  the  illegal  acts  of  the 
occupying  Power  by  relieving  the  consequences  of 
those acts instead of bringing them to an end? 

Numbers  do  not  lie,  and  the  latest  figures 
regarding  the  humanitarian  and  economic  situation  in 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
including  East 
Jerusalem, are astounding and tragic. In fact, all recent 
reports  have  documented 
the  enormous  burden 
international agencies are enduring in trying to address 
the  continuously  emerging  needs  of  the  Palestinian 
civilian  population  and  to  alleviate  the  crisis.  At  the 
same  time,  all  infrastructure  projects,  industries  and 
employment-generation  projects  have  come 
to  a 
grinding  halt  because  of  the  repressive  and  unlawful 
measures imposed by the occupying Power, which have 
turned  the  Palestinian  people  from  a  people  seeking 
development towards the birth of their future State to a 
population sinking into abject poverty and struggling to 
put food on the table and barely survive. 

The  latest  report  by  the  Economic  and  Social 
Commission  for  Western  Asia  on  the  economic  and 
social  repercussions  of  the  Israeli  occupation  on  the 
living  conditions  of  the  Palestinian  people  in  the 
occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and 
of  the Arab  population  in  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan, 
sums up the bleak situation as follows:  
territory, 

to 
in 
living 
in  poverty 
Israel’s  measures 
Palestinian  access 
to  health  and  education 
services,  employment,  markets  and  social  and 
religious networks.” (A/62/75, summary)  

The closures, movement restrictions and the wall, 
among  other  unlawful  Israeli  measures,  have  battered 
the  economy,  destroyed  thousands  of  livelihoods  and 
made  thousands  of  families  destitute.  In  that  regard, 
according  to  the  International  Labour  Organization, 
7 out  of  10  Palestinian  households,  comprising 
2.4 million  people,  are 
the 
occupied  Palestinian  territory.  A  report  of  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and  Development 
(UNCTAD)  also  addresses  the  extent  of  economic 
devastation  caused  by 
the 
Palestinian  economy,  concluding  that  the  Palestinian 
economy has been reduced to a size smaller than it was 
a decade ago due to Israeli restrictions on movement of 
Palestinian  persons  and  goods.  At  the  same  time,  the 
trade deficit has reached unprecedented proportions of 
73  per  cent  of  the  gross  domestic  product  (GDP),  30 
per  cent  higher  than  its  30-year  average.  The  World 
Bank monitoring report of  September 2007 also noted 
that,  in  2006  alone,  Palestinian  GDP  contracted  by 
nearly 8.8 per cent, and by a further 4.2 per cent in the 
first quarter of 2007. 

The  picture  is  of  course  most  bleak  in  the  Gaza 
Strip,  where  Israel’s  crippling  siege  has  managed  to 
bring  the  entire  territory  to  the  verge  of  collapse  — 
socially,  economically,  medically  and  in  all  other 
aspects  of  life.  This  most  brutal  form  of  collective 
punishment by the occupying Power of the Palestinian 
civilian  population,  which  undoubtedly  amounts  to  a 
war  crime,  has  thus  far  been  unaffected  and  unshaken 
by  international  expressions  of  concern  and  calls  for 
cessation. Instead, Israel continues to tighten the noose 
around Gaza and its population, choking life, hope and 
the  prospects  of  a  dignified  future  out  of  that  part  of 
the Palestinian territory, using illegal pretexts to cover 
up its abhorrent crimes. In reference to Israel’s closures 
and siege of Gaza, Mr. John Dugard, the Human Rights 
Council’s Special Rapporteur on the situation of human 
rights  in  the  Palestinian  territories  occupied  since 
1967,  has  stated  that  “it  is  a  controlled  strangulation 
that  seriously  violates  norms  of  human  rights  law  and 
humanitarian  law”.  Indeed, the International Covenant 
on  Economic,  Social  and  Cultural  Rights,  as  well  as 
countless  other  relevant  instruments  and  provisions  of 
international  law,  are  being  gravely  violated  by  the 
occupying Power. 

“The  Israeli  closure  system  remains  a 
primary cause of poverty and humanitarian crisis 
in the occupied Palestinian territory, and restricts 
18 

07-60309 
tens  of  millions  of  dollars 



For months now, Israel has closed down all six of 
Gaza’s crossings, significantly restricting and reducing 
the amount and quality of goods allowed into Gaza and 
ending  the  prospect  of  export  from  Gaza  at  the  same 
time. The effects have been devastating. Gaza’s export 
agriculture sector is facing the most serious threat to its 
that  policy. 
existence  as  we  speak  because  of 
Additionally, 
in 
internationally  funded  projects,  including  construction 
projects  —  such  as  projects  worth  $160  million  in 
necessary  construction  funded  by  the  United  Nations 
Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the 
Near  East,  UNDP  and  other  agencies  —  have  been 
suspended.  Additionally,  a  shocking  90  per  cent  of 
Gaza’s  industries  have  shut  down  their  operations, 
adding  tens  of  thousands  more  Palestinians  to  the  list 
of unemployed and needy. The siege has raised prices, 
sent 
forced 
international  aid  organizations  and  donors  to  divert 
their  attention  to  providing  Palestinians  in  Gaza  with 
their most basic needs, namely, food and medicine. 

The  World  Bank  has  noted  that  the  “pace  of 
capital  flight  has  reached  an  all-time  high  in  the  last 
two  years,  with  almost  no  foreign  direct  investment” 
because  of  Israel’s  punishing  policy  of  closure  and 
siege on the occupied Palestinian territory. 

UNCTAD also notes a downward economic spiral 
in  the  West  Bank  and  Gaza,  warning  that  this  has 
reinforced 
de-development. 
Meanwhile, the report of the Secretary-General on this 
matter, which is contained in document A/62/82, while 
seriously lacking in terms of political context, does not 
address  this  situation  in  the  context  of  the  occupation 
that exists. Nevertheless, the report states in paragraph 
73 that  
standards  plummeting 
the  momentum 
living 
and 
of 
to 
improve 
initiatives 
“The  effects  of  these  closures  could  not  be 
reversed  with  increased  humanitarian  assistance. 
the 
Development 
Palestinian  economy  were  expected 
to  have 
limited  impact  in  an  environment  where  intense 
access restrictions prevailed.” 

Therefore,  despite  a  marked  increase  in  aid 
levels,  socioeconomic  indicators  have  continued  to 
show significant decline. UNCTAD’s report concludes 
that  the  Palestinian  economy  has  lost  $8.4  billion  in 
potential income in five years, which is twice the size 
of the Palestinian economy today. That should alarm us 
all;  for  such  potential  income,  combined  with  the 
07-60309 

A/62/PV.53
by 
or 
incurred 
destroyed 
losses 
sabotaged 
internationally  funded  projects  and  efforts,  shows  the 
grave  trap  that  Palestinian  development  efforts  and 
international assistance have actually fallen into. 

The alarming situation I have just described is not 
the  whole  picture.  For  over  a  year  now,  Israel,  the 
occupying Power, has not only tightened its punishing 
siege  but  continues  to  illegally  withhold  hundreds  of 
millions  of  dollars  in  Palestinian  tax  revenues,  further 
curtailing the Palestinian Authority’s ability to function 
normally  and serve the Palestinian public. Despite the 
disbursement  of  some  of  the  withheld  Palestinian  tax 
revenues,  Israel  continues  to  withhold  a  significant 
amount,  cynically  using  it  as  a  political  bargaining 
chip. 
Furthermore, the punishing sanctions imposed by 

the  Palestinian 
international  community  on 
the 
Authority,  combined  with  earlier  disruptions 
in 
assistance, have made a bad economic situation almost 
catastrophic. The suspension of direct international aid 
to  the  Palestinian  Authority  in  early  2006  —  which 
resulted in limiting assistance to basically humanitarian 
needs — and the bypassing of the existing mechanisms 
for  coordinating  aid  with  the  Palestinian  Authority 
have  had  lasting  negative  consequences.  As  a  result, 
although 
temporary 
mechanisms  has  increased,  that  cannot  alleviate  the 
long-term  ramifications  of  Israel’s  siege  and  closure. 
Moreover, it is necessary to recall here the assessment 
by  the  World  Bank  that  the  Palestinian  Authority 
achievements  in  transparency  and  accountability  have 
been undermined by donor mechanisms to sidestep the 
Palestinian Authority. 

Perhaps  the  devastating  results  and  implications 
of  these  sanctions  were  most  aptly  described  by  the 
Special Rapporteur, Mr. John Dugard, who said in his 
report, 
international 
through 
aid 
“In  effect,  the  Palestinian  people  have  been 
subjected  to  economic  sanctions  —  the  first  time 
an  occupied  people  have  been  so  treated.  This  is 
difficult  to  understand.  Israel  is  in  violation  of 
major  Security  Council  and  General  Assembly 
resolutions  dealing  with  unlawful 
territorial 
change and the violation of human rights and has 
failed  to  implement  the  2004  advisory  opinion  of 
the International Court of Justice, yet it escapes the 
imposition  of  sanctions.  Instead,  the  Palestinian 
people, rather than the Palestinian Authority, have 
19 
A/62/PV.53 


been subjected to possibly the most rigorous form 
of  international  sanctions  imposed  in  modern 
times”. (A/HRC/4/17, para. 54) 
Moreover, 
the  Commissioner-General  of 

the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees  in  the  Near  East  (UNRWA),  Ms.  Karen 
Koning  AbuZayd,  in  a  speech  on  22  May  2007,  also 
said that  
the  decision 
to 
mechanism 
international 
the  widespread 
in  recent  history, 
organizations,  which 
“There  is  a  staggering  irony  in  the  contrast 
between  the  universal  commitment  to  poverty 
eradication  and 
impose  on 
Palestinians  one  of  the  most  severe  sanctions 
thereby  virtually 
regimes 
guaranteeing 
incidence  of 
extreme poverty”. 

The Secretary-General’s report highlights that the 
rapid  interventions  by  the  United  Nations  system, 
and 
temporary 
non-governmental 
together 
disbursed upwards of $800 million in emergency food, 
cash  and  budget  support,  alleviated  what  could  have 
been  a  much  worse  situation.  However,  recent  reports 
by  UNRWA,  the  World  Food  Programme  (WFP)  and 
other  agencies  also  note  that  despite  this  increase, 
incomes have dropped while extreme poverty and food 
insecurity have substantially increased.  
In  fact,  approximately  two  thirds  of  the  children 

in  Gaza  now  suffer  from  anaemia,  that  is,  iron 
deficiency.  Let  me  repeat  that:  approximately  two 
thirds of children in Gaza today suffer from anaemia as 
a  result  of  this  situation,  and,  51  per  cent  of  the 
population in Gaza is food insecure. UNRWA and WFP 
are  providing  food  assistance  to  1.1  million  people  in 
Gaza, out of a population of 1.4 million. Mr. John Jing, 
UNRWA’s  Director  of  Operations 
in  Gaza,  has 
described one of the consequences of this bleak reality 
by  saying  that  the  200,000  schoolchildren  attending 
UNRWA-run  schools  come  to  school  “hungry  and 
unable to concentrate”. 

International  sanctions  may  now  have  been 
partially  lifted,  but  the  long-term  economic  damage 
arising  out  of  the  situation  I  have  just  described 
remains.  Hence,  our  responsibilities  are  tremendous 
and 
lie  ahead  are  almost 
overwhelming.  But  failure  is  not  an  option,  and  we 
continue to rely on international action to support us in 
addressing  this  critical  issue,  somehow  reversing  the 
the  challenges 
that 
strengthen 
institutions.  We 
downward economic trend and meeting the continuing 
needs of the Palestinian people in the meantime. 

We  wish  to  recall  that  in  the  meeting  of  the Ad 
Hoc  Liaison  Committee  (AHLC)  held  in  London  in 
2005, donors established new aid coordination bodies. 
However,  the  effectiveness  of  those  structures  was 
undermined  by  the  aid  boycott.  Going  forward,  those 
aid coordination bodies must be revitalized, especially 
with  the  presence  of  the  new  Quartet  representative, 
Mr. Tony Blair, and his leveraging of those structures, 
which  could 
them  considerably.  We 
welcome the results of the AHLC meeting held in New 
York  on  24  September  2007  and  chaired  by  Norway, 
which  confirmed  the  commitment  of  the  international 
community  to  support  the  Palestinian  Authority  in 
building  strong  and  viable 
look 
forward  to  the  meeting  to  be  held  in  this  regard  in 
December in Paris. 

As  the  Palestinian  Authority  continues  to  find 
itself facing a large deficit, significant debt and failing 
revenues, which hinder its ability to plan for the fiscal 
year  ahead  or  to  take  charge  of  its  planned  economic 
and other reform plans as a result of the situation I just 
described,  we  attach  high  hopes  and  expectations  for 
the upcoming donor conference in Paris. In this regard, 
we look forward to seeing a tangible translation of the 
AHLC’s  confirmation  of  the  Palestinian  Authority’s 
Reform and Development Plan 2008-2010, which must 
be  regarded  as  a  key  test  of  true  international  support 
of  and  commitment  to  Palestinian-driven  institution-
building,  recovery  and  growth.  We  hope  that  the 
December  conference  will  change  the  fragmented 
nature of aid flowing into the West Bank and Gaza so 
far — aid which has largely remained based on short-
term  political  positions  rather  than  a  collective,  long-
term  view  based  on  broader  economic  fundamentals, 
which is what the Palestinian economic recovery needs 
most. 

The  international  community  should  not  allow 
Israel  to  continue  to  defy  its  obligations  as  an 
occupying  Power  through  the  illegal  policies  and 
practices  that  have  led  to  the  state  of  economic 
regression  Palestine  now  faces.  It  is  incumbent  upon 
the 
the 
occupying  Power  does  not  continue  attacking 
internationally  funded  projects  and  aid  workers  with 
these  repeated  attacks  have  clearly 
impunity,  as 
derailed 
frustrated 
assistance efforts. 
the  development  process  and 
international  community 
to  ensure 
that 
20 

07-60309 
the 
Indeed, 
international 



community  must 
exercise  its  moral  and  legal  authority  by  compelling 
the occupying Power to cease its violations and end its 
choking  siege  of  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory, 
including East Jerusalem, which plunges Palestine into 
hopelessness  and  deprivation.  The  cause  of  the  utter 
destitution  Palestinians  now  suffer  is  known  to  all 
parties concerned — it is the continued Israeli military 
occupation.  Thus,  and  as  numerous 
international 
organizations  agree,  full  economic  recovery  and 
rehabilitation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory, 
which  are  the  goals  driving  international  assistance, 
will only be possible when this occupation ends. 
Mr. Al-Jarman (United Arab Emirates) (spoke in 

Arabic):  At  the  outset,  on  behalf  of  the  United  Arab 
Emirates  and  its  Government,  I  would  like  to  extend 
sincere condolences to the Government and the people 
of Bangladesh over the severe loss of life and property 
caused by the cyclone that struck that country recently. 
We hope that international assistance will be extended 
to  Bangladesh  to  lessen  the  impact  of  this  natural 
disaster  and  to  help  the  affected  people  there  as  a 
matter  of  urgency.  My  country  will  assume  its  role  in 
that effort. 
The reports of the Secretary-General on the items 

before  us 
for 
humanitarian activities from the United Nations and its 
partners,  the  relevant  non-governmental  organizations 
in the humanitarian field, in coming years. This is due 
to  the  increase  in  the  number  and  severity  of  natural 
disasters, especially in developing countries, as a result 
of 
and 
environmental  degradation.  Their  disastrous  impact  is 
compounded by poverty, armed conflict, the spread of 
serious  diseases  and  the  growing  number  of  displaced 
persons in many parts of the world. The result will be 
additional  assistance  responsibilities  for  the  United 
Nations  and  its  relevant  entities,  and  a  need  for  more 
human and financial resources. 
its 

humanitarian  activities  and 
in 
mobilizing  and  coordinating  international  efforts  to 
provide  humanitarian  and  relief  emergency  assistance 
to  millions  in  affected  areas,  and  in  easing  the  impact 
of  disasters  caused  by  natural  phenomena,  wars  and 
armed  conflicts,  and  we  urge  all  Member  States  to 
strengthen  their  cooperation  with  the  Organization, 
especially  by  fulfilling  their  financial  commitments  to 
for 
its  essential  role 
the  United  Nations 
increasing  demand 
We  commend 
forecast  an 
population 
change, 
climate 
growth 
A/62/PV.53
relief 
respect 
assistance, 
international 
reconstruction 
conferences  with 
the  agencies  and  to  other  entities  responsible  for 
humanitarian assistance. 

We also urge Member States to build partnerships 
with  the  United  Nations  to  strengthen  the  necessary 
humanitarian  arrangements  at  the  national,  regional 
and  international  levels.  In  this  context,  we  reiterate 
the  importance  of  implementing  the  recommendations 
of 
to 
formulating national and international strategies to deal 
with  disasters  in  all  their  stages,  including  early 
warning, 
and 
development. 

Developing  countries  should  be  responsible  for 
the  implementation  of  these  strategies  at  the  local 
level,  and  developed  countries  should  meet  their 
commitments by taking all necessary measures to assist 
developing  countries  in  building  national  capacity  to 
deal  with  natural  disasters  and  the  repercussions  of 
war. 

We  further  stress  that,  in  time  of  war  or  natural 
disaster  Governments  and  relevant  authorities  must 
provide  United  Nations  humanitarian  agencies  and 
their  partners  with  access 
in  need  of 
assistance.  Measures  must  also  be  taken  to  ensure  the 
safety and security of humanitarian workers. 
in 
the 

time  of 
importance  of 
disaster and in the effectiveness of global partnerships 
in achieving the best results in emergencies assistance, 
and  we  attach  great  importance  to  fulfilling  all  our 
financial commitments to United Nations humanitarian 
assistance  and  development  bodies.  For  next  year,  the 
Emirates  has  pledged  to  donate  $1,538,000  to  such 
bodies. 

To  participate  effectively  in  the  coordination  of 
international  relief  assistance  efforts,  we  established 
the  Dubai  International  Humanitarian  City,  one  of  the 
largest  international  centres  providing  facilities  and 
integrated  logistical  services  to  national,  regional  and 
international  humanitarian  organizations  and  agencies. 
In  2006,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  joined  the  donor 
countries  group,  as  well  as  the  Donor  Support  Group, 
which comprises the world’s most active humanitarian 
donor countries and which serves as an advisory body 
to  the  United  Nations  Office  for  the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian Affairs. 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  believes 
in 
international  solidarity 
those 
to 
07-60309 

21 
affected 
countries,  both 
to 
A/62/PV.53 


The  United  Arab  Emirates  is  one  of  the  major 
contributing countries in the field of humanitarian and 
emergency  relief  assistance  as  well  as  long-term 
assistance in many parts of the world. The Government 
and a group of charitable organizations in our country, 
such  as  the  United  Arab  Emirates  Red  Crescent 
Authority, the Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahayan Charitable 
and  Humanitarian  Foundation,  the  Mohammed  bin 
Rashid  Foundation  for  Charitable  and  Humanitarian 
Works, the Al-Maktoum Foundation and others, extend 
humanitarian  assistance  through  financial  and  in  kind 
donations 
through 
cooperation  with  United  Nations  agencies,  funds  and 
programmes  and  through  direct  bilateral  arrangements 
with those countries.  
At  the  same  time,  the  United  Arab  Emirates 

works with such countries to build national capacity to 
deal  with  natural  disasters  through  financing  and 
otherwise  supporting  programmes,  research  and  other 
efforts  aimed  at  enhancing  their  capacity  to  predict 
disasters  and  mitigate  their  impact  and  to  strengthen 
national  infrastructure,  in  order  to  allow  them  to 
respond to future disasters. 

During the last three years alone, the contribution 
of  the  Emirates  amounted  to  $1  billion,  allocated  to 
supporting  and  enhancing  the  international  efforts  to 
assist  victims  of  tsunamis,  earthquakes  and  hurricanes 
in  various  parts  of  the  world.  Those  efforts  were  in 
addition to generous donations to the reconstruction of 
countries and regions affected by armed conflict, such 
as Afghanistan, Iraq, Lebanon, Darfur and Bosnia and 
Herzegovina. 

The  United  Arab  Emirates  attaches  great 
importance to support and assistance for the Palestinian 
people  and  their  Government  during  the  humanitarian 
crisis caused by the cruel, aggressive policies imposed 
on  them  by  the  Israeli  occupying  forces.  Direct 
assistance  by 
the 
Palestinians  over  the  past  five  years  has  amounted  to 
more than $1 billion, in addition to other humanitarian 
assistance  extended  through  United  Nations  agencies, 
in order to meet immediate needs, and to rebuild towns 
destroyed by the continued Israeli assault.  

In  this  regard,  the  Emirates  has  doubled  its 
contribution  to  the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works 
Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East 
(UNRWA)  for  2008.  Up  to  last  August,  it  had  also 
contributed  $80  million  to  help  support  the  budget  of 
the  United  Arab  Emirates 
22 


the  Palestinian  Authority.  Meanwhile,  the  value  of 
relief and humanitarian projects carried out in Palestine 
by  the  United Arab  Emirates  Red  Crescent Authority, 
has exceeded $122 million, in addition to other in-kind 
assistance. 

The United Arab Emirates is deeply concerned at 
the  humanitarian  conditions  of  the  Palestinian  people 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories,  which  are 
deteriorating as a result of continuing Israeli attacks on 
people,  property  and 
infrastructure.  We  are  also 
concerned  at  the  policy  of  closures  and  blockades 
imposed  on  the  Palestinian  people  by  the  Israeli 
occupying  forces  and  at  the  denial  of  access  to 
humanitarian  assistance.  This  poses  the  threat  of  a 
serious humanitarian catastrophe. 

We  laud  the  role  played  by  the  United  Nations 
and  its  relevant  entities  in  assisting  the  Palestinian 
people,  but  at  the  same  time  we  reaffirm  the  need  to 
compel  Israel,  the  occupying  State,  to  end  its  attacks 
immediately, to lift its blockade of the Palestinians and 
to  comply  with  legal  international  resolutions  and  the 
provisions of international humanitarian law, as well as 
to  resume  peace  negotiations  on  the  basis  of  relevant 
international resolutions and the Arab Peace Initiative. 
We  further  urge  donor  countries  to  increase  their 
assistance to the Palestinian people and Government so 
as to alleviate their suffering until the end of the Israeli 
occupation  of  their  territory  and  the  establishment  of 
an 
independent  state  of  Palestine,  with  Al-Quds 
Al-Sharif as its capital. 

Until  then,  we  continue  to  reaffirm  our  support 
for  the  ongoing  mandate  of  UNRWA  to  provide 
services  for  refugees  throughout  its  area  of  operation. 
In  our  view,  it  is  necessary  to  continue  financial 
support for the regular and emergency activities of the 
Agency  so  that  it  can  fulfil  its  commitments  to 
Palestinian refugees. 
Mr. McNee (Canada): At the outset, the Canadian 

Government  and  the  Canadian  people  wish  to  extend 
our deepest condolences to the families of the victims 
of the recent cyclone in Bangladesh. 
Beyond  simple  goodwill,  humanitarian  action 

the  acute  needs  of  crisis-affected 
responds 
populations  and  can  restore  dignity  and  hope  to 
people’s  lives.  This  is  not  without  challenge  or  risk. 
Canada  attaches  great  importance  to  the  efforts  of  the 
United Nations to provide leadership and coordination 
within  the  humanitarian  system.  To  that  end,  Canada 
to 
07-60309 
to 
the 
efficiency 
effectiveness, 
the  Emergency  Relief  Coordinator, 


welcomes  the  progress  achieved  over  the  past  year  to 
strengthen 
and 
coordination of humanitarian action. 

However,  the  international  community  can  ill 
afford  complacency.  We  need  to  look  no  further  than 
the  Darfur  region  of  the  Sudan,  Chad,  Sri  Lanka  or 
Afghanistan to measure the toll that conflicts, old and 
new,  continue  to  take  on  civilian  populations.  In 
Afghanistan, to take but one example, we are reminded 
that, without security, there can be no reconstruction or 
democratic  development,  and  that  the  provision  of 
humanitarian assistance can be challenging. 

Achieving  real  results  in  the  face  of  conflict  is 
not  easy.  Moreover,  humanitarian  action  cannot  be 
considered  a  substitute  for  political  solutions.  In 
addition, the hundreds of thousands of people affected 
by  natural  disasters  over  the  past  year  remind  the 
international  community  of  the  importance  of  making 
strategic investments in disaster risk reduction in order 
to minimize vulnerability to natural disasters. 
Canada  supports  the  ongoing  efforts  of  Sir  John 

Holmes, 
to 
strengthen  international  humanitarian  response.  The 
Canadian  Government  also  agrees  with  him  that  these 
efforts  should  no  longer  be  termed  “reform”  of 
humanitarian  response.  Better  coordination,  more 
flexible financing mechanisms and strong humanitarian 
coordinators  in  the  field  should  simply  be  viewed  as 
the  best  way  to  conduct  international  humanitarian 
action. 
The rollout of the cluster coordination system, for 

example,  has  proven  the  system  to  be  an  innovative 
inter-agency 
approach 
other 
cooperation, 
humanitarian  organizations.  Canada  welcomes 
the 
findings  of  the  recently  released  cluster  evaluation. 
Where  it  has  been  implemented,  the  cluster  approach 
has  helped  to  improve  the  identification  of  gaps  in 
response  capacity,  contributed  to  better  information-
sharing,  defined  centres  of  accountability  and  enabled 
more effective advocacy. 

These  are  important  successes,  but  challenges 
remain. We now need to buttress the capacity of cluster 
leads  to  ensure  they  can  effectively  and  consistently 
play  a  guidance  role.  We  must  address  constructively 
those  clusters  where  performance  has  lagged  behind. 
Accountability on the part of cluster leads is important 
to  ensure  that  enhanced  coordination  efforts  bring 
cooperation  with 
promoting 
including 
to 
stronger 
A/62/PV.53
coordinators 
results to those requiring assistance. In this context, the 
cluster approach rollout should continue. 

Effective  coordination  relies  on  having  the  right 
people  with  the  right  mix  of  skills  and  experience 
available to provide clear leadership. Here, the role of 
humanitarian 
remains  vital.  Their 
professional  experience,  training  and  skill  sets  should 
enable  them  to  provide  invaluable  leadership  for  the 
overall humanitarian presence. Canada urges the Office 
for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) 
to  continue  to  focus  on  strengthening  the  role  and 
capacity  of  humanitarian  coordinators.  This  will 
require  greater  attention  in  order  to  ensure  real  and 
lasting  progress,  but  it  remains  central  to  ensuring 
effective international humanitarian action. 

Canada  also  supports  ongoing  efforts  to  enhance 
the  flexibility  of  humanitarian  funding  mechanisms. 
The  Central  Emergency  Response  Fund  (CERF)  is  an 
important  example  of  this  commitment.  We  are  very 
pleased  that  CERF  continues  to  demonstrate  its  value 
as  a  bridge  for  providing  timely  financing  for  rapid-
onset and under-funded emergencies. Over one-third of 
Member States — developing and developed countries 
alike  —  have  already  contributed  to  CERF.  Canada 
urges  Member  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to 
consider  contributing  to  this  important  Fund,  while 
maintaining  the  level  of  their  commitments  to  other 
humanitarian financing tools. 

Humanitarian funding mechanisms such as CERF 
must  be  guided  by  coherent  and  reliable  evidence-
based  needs  assessments  and  analysis.  This  is  at  the 
heart  of  good  humanitarian  donorship.  Here,  OCHA 
has  a  critical  role  to  play  in  order  to  ensure  that  the 
quality  of  needs  assessments  is  consistent,  while 
timely,  since  donors 
respond 
appropriately. United Nations humanitarian actors must 
work  closely 
that  efforts  are 
complementary and mutually reinforcing. 
(spoke in French) 

There  are  some  cases,  however,  where  troops 
possess a unique capacity for action that can be put to 
use  in  responding  to  serious  natural  disasters.  In  this 
regard,  OCHA  has  a  key  role  to  play  in  ensuring  that 
assets  are  deployed  based  on  assessed  needs,  rather 
than  being  supply-driven,  and  that  such  assets  are 
utilized  in  a  manner  that  respects  the  principles  of 
humanity, neutrality and impartiality. Our goal must be 
to provide the right assets at the right time, in order to 
to  ensure 
rely  on 
together 
them 
to 
07-60309 

23 

A/62/PV.53 

address  genuine  needs  and  gaps  in  humanitarian 
response. 

More  than  ever,  the  commitment  of  Member 
States to strengthening humanitarian responses in crisis 
contexts  must  include  a  renewed  commitment  to 
ensuring  the  safety  and  security  of  humanitarian 
workers.  Attacks  against  United  Nations  and  other 
humanitarian  workers  increased  dramatically  during 
the  past  10  years,  and  they  often  occur  with  complete 
impunity. Once again, Canada urges all Member States 
which  have  not  done  so  to  sign  or  ratify  the  1994 
Convention  on  Safety  of  United  Nations  and 
Associated Personnel.  

Finally,  I  would  like  to  express  our  gratitude  to 
Sir  John  Holmes  for  the  diligence  with  which  he  is 
discharging  his  responsibilities  as  Emergency  Relief 
Coordinator.  

In  conclusion,  we  as  Member  States  must 
together continue to elaborate and improve on the tools 
and  strategies  needed  to  help  guide  international 
humanitarian  action. We  must  also  be  in  a  position  to 
monitor  and  evaluate  humanitarian  access  and  request 
that States report on their actions when such access has 
been  hindered  or  denied.  To  this  end,  we  must  all 
continue to be vigilant. The success of our efforts will 
ultimately be judged on our ability to protect and help 
the most vulnerable populations. 
Mrs.  Juul  (Norway):  Let  me  first  of  all  express 

my  Government’s  deep  sympathy  for  and  solidarity 
with the Government and people of Bangladesh at this 
very difficult hour.  
Norway is a strong supporter of the humanitarian 

work  of 
the 
Organization’s  reform  agenda  and  the  efforts  made  to 
strengthen  the  humanitarian  support  system. A  lot  has 
been done but, there are still challenges that need to be 
addressed. I intend to highlight some important issues 
in this regard.  

Norway is deeply concerned about the sexual and 
gender based violence that each year destroys the lives 
of  thousands  of  women  and  girls,  as  well  as  men  and 
boys. The continued use of sexual violence as a method 
of  warfare  is  appalling.  Few  perpetrators  of  these 
abhorrent acts are brought to justice. There must be an 
end  to  the  impunity  for  these  severe  crimes.  As 
guardians  of  international  humanitarian  and  human 
the  United  Nations.  We  support 
to 
operations, 
as 
such  populations 
rights  law  it  is  our  collective  responsibility  to  ensure 
that such acts do not go unpunished.  

The  response  from  the  international  community 
must  be  intensified,  including  by  the  United  Nations, 
which  should  take  the  lead  in  establishing  more 
effective preventive and protective measures to address 
sexual and gender-based violence.  

The  Secretary-General’s  recommendations  for 
action  against  sexual  violence,  contained  in  his  report 
to the Security Council on the protection of civilians in 
armed conflict (S/2007/643) are important steps in this 
regard  and  in  the  formation  of  the  United  Nations 
Action  against  Sexual  Violence 
in  Conflict.  The 
international  community  has  shown  its  revulsion  of 
sexual  violence,  including  by  the  adoption  of  various 
United Nations resolutions. There is an urgent need for 
the full implementation of these resolutions.  

Access  is  another  major  challenge.  Access  for 
humanitarian  actors  to  populations  in  need  and  the 
related  ability  of 
receive 
humanitarian  assistance  is  the  prerequisite  for  all 
humanitarian 
under 
international  humanitarian  law.  The  host  Government 
has 
to  ensure  rapid,  safe  and 
unhindered  access  and  to  fully  cooperate  with  the 
United  Nations  and  other  humanitarian  actors.  The 
arbitrary  denial  of  such  access  is  an  unacceptable 
practice that places the lives of millions in danger and 
unnecessarily prolongs their suffering. 

Protection is key in this regard. Norway supports 
the  recommendation  of  the  Secretary-General  in  his 
report  to  the  Security  Council  on  the  protection  of 
civilians in armed conflict, and we are looking forward 
to the debate in the Council tomorrow.  
We  need  to  be  better  prepared  to  respond  to 

humanitarian  emergencies 
than  we  currently  are. 
Prevention needs to be placed higher on the agenda of 
the  United  Nations.  It  is  widely  acknowledged  that 
climate  change  causes  environmental  degradation, 
floods,  droughts,  hurricanes,  involuntary  migration, 
increased  urbanization  and  an  explosion  in  slum-
dwelling.  We  are  also  faced  with  prolonged  armed 
conflicts  that  increasingly  affect  already  vulnerable 
States and populations.  

Prevention  efforts  will  save  more  lives  and  cost 
less, but, the  world community seems more willing to 
pay  for  the  damages  than  to  invest  in  the  cost  for 
the  responsibility 
set 
forth 
24 

07-60309 
of 
the 
the 
efforts 


preventive measures. What should be done to mitigate 
the  effects  of  humanitarian  disasters  in  this  changing 
world?  
First, there is a need for a global spokesperson. In 

this 
the  commitment 
regard  Norway  welcomes 
demonstrated  by  the  Emergency  Relief  Coordinator  in 
increasing  awareness  of  the  importance  of  better 
preventive  measures.  These 
should  be 
intensified.  
Secondly,  we  need  to  strengthen  our  resolve  in 

international  humanitarian  response 
reforming 
system,  including  more  responsive  and  appropriate 
funding  mechanism,  such  as  the  Central  Emergency 
Response Fund, and the establishment of humanitarian 
response funds in disaster-prone countries. Adequately 
funding  is  key,  however,  and  we  urge  more  Member 
States  and  other  donors  to  contribute  to  these  funds. 
There  is  furthermore  a  need  for  better  coordination 
both  among  the  various  United  Nations  agencies  and 
between 
the  United  Nations  agencies  and  other 
humanitarian  actors. There  is  a  need  to  strengthen  the 
functions 
humanitarian 
coordinators. To this end, Norway is a strong supporter 
of 
increasingly  will 
contribute  to  better  coordination  and  prioritization  in 
relation 
and 
furthermore  will  serve  as  an  early-warning  system  for 
emerging disasters.  

Finally,  there  is  still  a  need  for  enhanced  efforts 
in capacity development for humanitarian personnel, as 
well  as  a  need  to  establish  better  roster  systems  with 
pools  of  experts  from  all  humanitarian  fields  that  are 
immediately  operational  and  ready  for  deployment. 
Only in this way will we be ready and prepared to deal 
with  the  humanitarian  consequences  when  disaster 
strikes. 
Mr.  Hussein  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 

outset,  I  would  like  to  convey  my  appreciation  to  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  reports.  They  help  facilitate 
our  discussion  on  strengthening  the  coordination  of 
emergency  humanitarian  assistance  of 
the  United 
Nations,  a  subject  to  which  Egypt  attaches  great 
importance and attention. The reality reflected in these 
reports 
international 
community  about  present  and  future  challenges, 
meaning that it should work effectively to tackle those 
concerns, as last year witnessed continued increases in 
the number of disasters and their victims.  
the  cluster  approach,  which 
the  concern  of 
humanitarian 
existing 
resident 
needs, 
raises 
and 
the 
to 
A/62/PV.53
to 
entities 
increase 
such  as 
the  achievement  of 

We  are  concerned  about  the  statistics  which 
indicate  that  the  number  of  climate-related  or  hydro-
meteorological  hazard  events, 
floods, 
hurricanes  and  droughts,  had  increased  dramatically, 
particularly  in  Africa,  over  the  last  20  years.  That 
prevailing  pattern  of 
in  frequency  and 
intensity  of  disasters  and  in  their  strength,  destructive 
impact and consequences is a major source of concern. 
The  economic  impact  of  disasters  associated  with 
natural  hazards  has  been  recognized  as  a  key  factor 
challenging 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

Despite the progress made in some long-standing 
emergencies, according to the improvement of political 
circumstances  in  these  conflicts  and  the  reduction  of 
violence,  the  same  period  continues  to  witness  an 
increased  degeneration  of  those  conflicts,  the  use  of 
many forms of violence and the steady rate of increase 
of  natural  hazards  such  as  earthquakes,  hurricanes, 
cyclones,  storms  and  floods.  Such  hazards  affirm  the 
need  to  focus  on  strengthening  the  capacity  of  the 
relevant  United  Nations 
provide 
humanitarian  assistance  to  confront  the  results  of 
emergency cases on the lives and livelihood of millions 
of people. 
Other  conflicts  continue  to  rage  throughout  the 

world,  contributing 
the 
humanitarian  situation  caused  when  approximately 
4 million  people  were  forced  to  flee  their  homes  in 
2006.  This  requires 
the  provision  of  additional 
humanitarian  assistance  to  meet  their  needs.  I  should 
like to emphasis the situation in sisterly Iraq, where, as 
indicated in the Secretary-General’s report, the civilian 
death  toll  now  averages  more  than  100  per  day.  An 
estimated  8  million  civilians,  including  internally 
displaced  persons  and 
to  neighbouring 
countries,  are 
in  urgent  need  of  humanitarian 
assistance.  Moreover,  the  deteriorating  situation  in 
Somalia  requires  greater  efforts  by  the  international 
community 
humanitarian 
assistance, given the difficult conditions in the country 
and  the  international  disregard  of  its  need  for  peace 
and stability. 
Therefore, Egypt emphasizes the urgent need for 

institutional  capacity-building  in  developing  countries 
so they can effectively and successfully manage natural 
disasters. That means first strengthening the capacities 
of countries in the areas of predictability, preparedness 
and  early  warning  and  helping  them  to  eliminate  the 
the  deterioration  of 
necessary 
refugees 
provide 
to 
to 
07-60309 

25 
specific 
under 

to  promote 
the  many 
the 
A/62/PV.53 

effects  of  the  disaster,  to  rebuild  and  to  return 
effectively to the path of sustainable development. 

Despite 
international  documents 
emphasizing 
importance  of  building  disaster 
response  capacities, these  remain limited because of  a 
lack  of  resources  and  funding,  due  mainly  to  the 
increasing number of natural disasters and their strong 
effects  as  a  result  of  climate  change  and  our  feeble 
capacity to deal with it. Greater United Nations efforts 
are  required  to  coordinate  the  efforts  of  international 
bodies  and 
international  multilateral 
cooperation to respond to these changes. 

Therefore, we affirm the importance of the role of 
donors  and  the  relevant  humanitarian  organizations, 
working  together  with  Member  States,  in  investing  in 
strategies  aimed  at  preparedness  and  swift  recovery 
and  in  reducing  the  dangers  posed  by  emergency 
humanitarian situations. We also agree that the regional 
dimension  is  important  in  responding  to  crises  that 
require cross-border responses. 
In  that  regard,  humanitarian  actors  must  fulfil 

their 
and 
international humanitarian law when they interact with 
the  citizens  —  particularly  women  and  children  —  of 
the  affected  countries 
they  operate.  In 
addition,  they  must  not  become  involved  in  activities 
such as sexual exploitation and child trafficking, which 
violate  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter, 
national laws and international humanitarian law. They 
must  be  committed  to  the  rules  set  out  in  resolution 
46/182,  which  provides  for 
the  role  of  relevant 
non-governmental  organizations  and  civil  society  in 
activities  carried  out 
in  countries  affected  by 
humanitarian disasters.  
Eager  to  participate  in  international  efforts  to 

cope  with  the  effects  of  humanitarian  disasters  and  to 
deliver  emergency  humanitarian  relief,  Egypt  was 
among  the  founders  of  the  Central  Emergency  Relief 
Fund (CERF), providing it with financial and technical 
support  through  an  Egyptian  expert’s  participation  in 
the Fund’s Advisory Group. In that regard, we support 
efforts to maximize the Fund’s effectiveness and help it 
achieve  the  goals  set  out  by  the  General Assembly,  in 
areas  where 
insufficient  funding  has  been  made 
available.  We  also  welcome  the  role  of  the  World 
Bank’s  Global  Facility  for  Disaster  Reduction  and 
Recovery,  which  was  launched  in  September  2006  to 
enhance  the  disaster-preparedness  of  States  that  are 
obligations 
in  which 
national 
the 
to 
most  vulnerable  to  disasters. To  date,  $30  million  has 
been contributed to the Facility. 

I  should  like  to  express  our  condolences  to  the 
people  and  the  Government  of  Bangladesh  on  the 
losses resulting from the most recent cyclone to strike 
their country, which caused loss of life and damage to 
property.  In  that  connection,  we  call  on  the  United 
Nations  to  urgently  provide,  through  CERF  or  any 
other relevant initiative, all the assistance necessary to 
help  that  sisterly  country  recover  from  the  effects  of 
this painful disaster. 
importance  of 

Recent  events  highlight 
according  particular  attention 
the  Secretary-
General’s report on assistance to the Palestinian people 
(A/62/82). The  tragic  realities  faced  by  the  Palestinian 
people  —  including  the  destruction  of  infrastructure, 
the  cutting  off  of  electricity  and  water,  the  chopping 
down  and  uprooting  of  trees  and  the  destruction  of 
farmland — have worsened their humanitarian situation 
and  caused  a  human  tragedy.  That  requires  greater 
efforts by the international community, particularly the 
United Nations, to intervene to stop those policies and 
practices  and  to  provide  the  assistance  necessary  to 
alleviate the suffering of the Palestinian people.  

The  continued  closure  operations,  the  financial 
crisis  and  the  withholding  of  Palestinian  tax  revenues 
by  Israel  have  had  an  immediate  impact  in  terms  of 
declining  income,  increasing  poverty,  lack  of  food 
security  and  reduced  capacity  to  respond  to  natural 
disasters 
territories. 
Therefore,  we  call  on  the  international  community  to 
provide  greater  financial  support  in  order  to  prevent 
further  deterioration  of  the  quality  of  life  within  the 
occupied  Palestine  territories  and  a  further  decline  of 
the  Palestinian  economy,  and  to  meet  the  increasing 
economic,  social,  and  humanitarian  needs  of  the 
Palestinian  people.  Continued  international  efforts  to 
that end should be accompanied by efforts to establish 
a  viable  independent  Palestinian  State  with  Jerusalem 
as its capital. 

The role of the United Nations Relief and Works 
Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East  must 
also  be  supported  so  it  can  play  its  role  in  the 
Palestinian 
the 
Agreement  on  Movement  and  Access,  enabling  the 
Palestinian  people  to  interact  freely  with  the  outside 
world, to gain access to humanitarian assistance and to 
lift restrictions on delivery of such assistance. 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
Israel  must 
territories. 
respect 
in 
26 

07-60309 


Mr.  Liu  Zhenmin  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

The Chinese delegation wishes to thank the Secretary-
General  for  the  reports  submitted  under  these  agenda 
items.  I  should  like  to  make  a  few  comments  on  the 
theme. 

Over the past year, frequent natural disasters have 
caused  enormous  human  and  economic  losses  to  the 
Governments and peoples of the countries affected. In 
2006,  the  world  endured  427  such  disasters,  which 
caused  the  loss  of  23,000  lives,  disrupted  the  daily 
lives  of  143  million  people  and  resulted  in  economic 
damage  amounting  to  nearly  $20  billion.  Since  the 
beginning  of  this  year,  the  United  Nations  system  has 
launched  as  many  as  15  humanitarian  flash  appeals, 
breaking  the  record  for  the  same  period  in  previous 
years.  United  Nations  humanitarian  relief  work  now 
faces increasingly daunting challenges. 

Since  emergency  disaster  relief  efforts  began  in 
2004  in  response  to  the  Indian  Ocean  tsunami,  the 
leading and coordinating role of the United Nations in 
international  humanitarian  assistance  activities  has 
gained  increasing  attention.  With  broad  and  in-depth 
participation  in  international  humanitarian  assistance 
efforts  by  more  and  more  countries,  international 
organizations, the private sector and non-governmental 
organizations, 
further  enhance 
coordination  and  make  full  and  effective  use  of 
resources  to  maximize  the  benefits  has  become  a  new 
and arduous task confronting the United Nations. 

The  Chinese  delegation  believes  that  there  are 
two  main  aspects  to  enhancing  coordination. The  first 
is  coordination  within  the  United  Nations  system. 
Many  United  Nations  departments  and  agencies 
involved  in  humanitarian  assistance  activities  have 
different  competences,  spheres  of  operation,  areas  of 
focus  and  comparative  advantages.  They  complement 
one  another,  but  they  also  have  a  certain  degree  of 
overlap. Therefore,  it  is  necessary  to  strengthen  inter-
agency  coordination,  to  improve  the  overall  planning 
of  humanitarian  activities,  to  clarify  the  division  of 
labour and to enhance the efficiency of operations and 
the cost-effectiveness of the use of resources.  

The  second  aspect  is  the  coordination  of  relief 
activities  provided  by 
international 
community. The United Nations plays an irreplaceable 
role  in  that  respect.  We  welcome  the  building  of 
partnerships  between  the  United  Nations  and  relevant 
countries, 
and 
finding  ways 
international 
institutions 
entire 
the 
to 
A/62/PV.53
the 
its 
In  relief  activities, 
the  Government  of 
transition  from  relief 
When  providing  humanitarian  assistance 
non-governmental  organizations,  with  a  view 
to 
achieving  better  information-sharing  and  broadening 
areas of cooperation. 

the 
affected  country  bears  primary  responsibility  for 
organizing,  initiating,  coordinating  and  implementing 
external relief assistance. It should also play a leading 
role as emergency humanitarian assistance is received, 
as  well  as  during 
to 
development.  
to 

affected  countries,  the  United  Nations  should  always 
adhere  to  the  principles  of  humanity,  neutrality  and 
impartiality. It should respect the sovereignty of those 
countries,  enhance  communication  and  collaboration 
with  their  Governments,  fully  utilize  their  existing 
relief  mechanisms  and  be  guided  by  the  needs  of  the 
affected  Governments  and  peoples  in  organizing  and 
coordinating international humanitarian assistance. 

In recent years, the Office for the Coordination of 
Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) has worked tirelessly to 
assess  disaster  situations,  appeal  for  donations  and 
organize  and  coordinate  emergency  humanitarian 
assistance  worldwide.  The  Chinese 
delegation 
expresses  its  appreciation  to  the  Office  and  supports 
the  further  strengthening  of 
in 
coordinating 
international  humanitarian  assistance 
activities.  It  is  our  hope  that  OCHA  will  continue  to 
cooperate  actively  with  the  Governments  of  affected 
countries  and  provide  the  necessary  guidance  and 
assistance to humanitarian actors at all levels. 

Since  its  launch  in  March  2006,  the  Central 
Emergency  Response  Fund  (CERF)  has  provided 
timely  and  effective  relief  assistance  in  a  number  of 
major natural disasters and emergencies, thus playing a 
positive  role  in  improving  resource  allocation  and 
utilization  and  in  helping  some  previously  neglected 
countries and regions hit by disasters to gain access to 
humanitarian  assistance.  The  Chinese  delegation  calls 
upon all Governments, those of developed countries in 
particular, to contribute generously to the Fund in order 
to reach the target of mobilizing $500 million for 2008. 

Greater  international  and  regional  cooperation  is 
one  of  the  effective  means  to  help  disaster-prone 
countries 
their  capacity  for  disaster 
preparedness,  reduction  and  response.  The  United 
Nations  should  attach  importance  to  facilitating  such 
cooperation;  it  should  offer  technical  and  financial 
leading  role 
to  upgrade 
07-60309 

27 
to  emergencies,  so  as 
to  ensure 
A/62/PV.53 

assistance  to  highly  disaster-prone  countries  to  help 
them gradually to establish early warning systems and 
to  enhance  their  capacity  to  prepare  for,  mitigate  and 
respond 
that 
humanitarian relief helps to address both the symptoms 
and the root causes of natural disasters. 

China,  a  developing  country,  is  no  stranger  to 
natural  disasters.  We  know  first-hand  what  suffering 
and  economic  losses  natural  disasters  bring  to  the 
affected  peoples  and  countries.  My  country  is  hit  by 
various kinds of natural disasters every year, so it is the 
perennial task of government at all levels to prepare for 
and  mitigate  disasters  and  to  provide  emergency 
disaster  relief,  which  has  entailed  huge  economic 
burdens for the Government.  

great 
importance  to  international  cooperation  in  the  field  of 
humanitarian  assistance. It  has actively  participated in 
The  Chinese  Government 
attaches 

international  humanitarian  relief  activities  in  response 
to requests by affected countries and to appeals by the 
international  community.  This  year, 
the  Chinese 
Government has provided timely bilateral humanitarian 
assistance, within its capacity, both in cash and in kind, 
to  many  affected  countries,  among  them  Pakistan,  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Madagascar, 
the Sudan and Greece, to name just a few.  

Those  examples  fully  demonstrate  the  sympathy, 
support and concern of the Government and the people 
of  China  for  affected  Governments  and  peoples.  My 
Government  will  continue,  as  always,  to  support  the 
efforts  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  international 
community in disaster prevention, mitigation and relief 
and stands ready to help affected countries to overcome 
disasters and rebuild their homes. 
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. 

28 

07-60309 
