President: Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 

A/62/PV.56
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia)
it 
to  global  problems, 
the  United  Nations.  It  also  recognized  our  role  in 
setting  standards  and  codifying  international  law.  We 
should strive to live up to this mandate in our everyday 
work.  To  promote  more  effective  multilateralism,  to 
find  global  solutions 
is 
incumbent  upon  all  of  us  to  bolster  the  authority  and 
the international standing of this Assembly. 

At the opening of the general debate, two months 
ago,  I  suggested  that  the  General Assembly  should  be 
more of a dialogue, not a monologue; more focused on 
substantive  results;  more  engaging  and  insightful;  and 
exemplify this through greater cooperation and mutual 
respect.  I  would  like  to  thank  all  Member  States  for 
delivering  on  these  suggestions  through  your  active 
contribution and proposals.  

Member  States  are  the  driving  force  of  our 
success and I encourage members to take the initiative. 
It  is  first  and  foremost  by  systematically  tackling  the 
challenges  that  we  face  together  and  achieving  results 
that the General Assembly makes itself stronger, more 
effective  and  more  relevant  to  the  lives  of  the  global 
public.  

In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to  thank  Kyrgyzstan 
for  bringing  forward  a  draft  resolution  on  social 
justice, which has been sponsored by over 80 Member 
States.  Additionally,  I  note  the  cooperative  way  the 
Czech  Republic 
the  Dominican  Republic 
approached elections to the Security Council. I call on 
all Member States to continue to work together in this 
manner, enthusiastically and in cooperation, as we have 
also  done  on  mandate  review,  so  that  we  can  make 
and 
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

56th plenary meeting 
Monday, 26 November 2007, 10 a.m. 
New York 










Organization of work 

The President: Before taking up the items on our 
agenda for today, I would like to inform members that 
consideration  of  agenda  item  50,  “The  role  of  the 
United  Nations  in  promoting  a  new  global  human 
order”,  which  was  scheduled  for  today,  26  November, 
has been postponed to a later date to be announced.  

Also,  I  would  like  to  inform  members  that  the 
reports  of  the  First  Committee  will  be  considered  on 
Wednesday afternoon, 5 December. 



Agenda item 121 
Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly  

The President: Today we will consider a subject 
of  great  importance  to  us  all,  the  agenda  item  on  the 
“Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly”. 
Under  this  title,  our  efforts  to  impart  new  vigour  into 
this  great  institution  have  been  ongoing  for  over 
16 years.  We  now  need  to  ask  ourselves  what  our 
ultimate  objective 
the 
authority  and  the  efficiency  of  the  Assembly?  Our 
leaders  have  called  for  a  stronger  United  Nations. 
Could  we  not  instead  call  this  exercise:  “The  role  of 
the  General  Assembly  in  strengthening  the  United 
Nations system”?  
The  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  Document 

reaffirmed  our 
chief 
deliberative, policymaking and representative organ of 
is.  How  can  we  enhance 
central  position 
the 
as 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-61162 (E) 
*0761162* 
As 
the 
request 
to  brief 
the  Assembly  on 
the  Charter  stipulates, 
A/62/PV.56 

progress  on  other  important  issues,  such  as  climate 
change, 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  and 
Security Council and management reform. 

This  means  that  on  system-wide  coherence,  for 
example, the practical success of the pilot countries, at 
the  country  level,  should  sway  the  opinion  of  the 
Assembly  in  New  York,  rather  than  the  other  way 
around.  To  give  all  Member  States  the  opportunity  to 
demonstrate our renewed leadership on priority issues, 
I shall, inter alia, convene debates on counter-terrorism 
in December, on climate change in February 2008 and 
on management reform in April. 

relationship 
between  the  General  Assembly  and  other  principal 
organs  must  be  complementary,  not  competitive.  We 
must  continue  to  develop  our  relationship  in  an  open, 
transparent  and  cooperative  manner  to  strengthen  the 
Organization and better accomplish our common goals. 
In  this  regard,  I  maintain  regular  contact  with  the 
Secretary-General on substantive issues and supported 
his 
recent 
developments.  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General for his support and cooperation.  

I  have  also  met  periodically  with  the  Presidents 
of  the  Security  Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  as  well  as  with  the  chairs  of  the  Main 
Committees  to  enhance  cooperation  and  spread  best 
practices.  Additionally, 
the 
Assembly’s  interaction  with  civil  society  and  the 
private  sector  and  our  cooperation  with  parliaments, 
particularly through the Inter-Parliamentary Union. 

Our  outreach  with  these  and  other  important 
constituencies,  including  the  media,  must  continue  to 
be  developed.  Our  message  must  be  consistent, 
compelling  and relevant to everyday life  and we must 
resist 
institutional 
giving 
introspection.  

The  effectiveness  of  the  presidency,  and  his  or 
her office, has an important impact on the quality and 
organization  of  the  General Assembly’s  work.  This  is 
contingent  not  only  on  his  or  her  political  and 
diplomatic  skills,  but  also  on 
the  support  and 
cooperation of Member States and the Secretariat. 

Commensurate  with  the  role  envisaged  of  the 
presidency in the Charter, the budget of the presidency, 
including his or her office, should be financed entirely 
from  the  regular  budget,  rather  than  from  the  current 
perception 
promoted 
have 
I 
the 
of 

enhance 
and 
the  presidency 
budget  would 
In  Assembly  resolution  61/292,  Member  States 
makeshift arrangements. In addition, and in proportion 
to  the  growing  responsibilities  of  the  presidency,  the 
Office of the President should be appropriately staffed 
and  properly 
situated  within  United  Nations 
Headquarters.  That  would  ensure  that  each  elected 
President  —  whether  from  a  developed  or  developing 
country, no matter how large or small — has an equal 
opportunity  to  deliver  results.  An  entirely  United 
the 
Nations-funded 
independence  of 
increase 
transparency and accountability to Member States.  

decided: 

“to  establish,  at  its  sixty-second  session,  an  ad 
hoc  working  group  on  the  revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly, open to all Member States, to 
evaluate  and  assess  the  status  of  implementation 
of relevant resolutions, to identify ways to further 
enhance  the  role,  authority,  effectiveness  and 
efficiency of the Assembly, inter alia, by building 
on  previous  resolutions,  and  to  submit  a  report 
thereon to the Assembly.” 
I believe that it is particularly important that the 

that  existing 
Working  Group  focus  on  ensuring 
resolutions  are  fully 
implemented.  It  could  also 
consider  other  practical  steps  to  improve  our  working 
methods,  such  as  finalizing  a  repository  of  best 
practices  for  the  General Assembly  and  its  subsidiary 
bodies and periodically updating the rules of procedure 
to include recent Assembly decisions. 
The Working  Group  will  begin  to  consider  these 

and  other  issues  shortly.  Today,  I  am  very  pleased  to 
announce  that  His  Excellency  Ambassador  Towpik, 
Permanent 
and 
His Excellency  Ambassador  Loizaga,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Paraguay,  have  agreed  to  act  as 
Co-Chairs  of  the  Working  Group.  I  would  like  to  ask 
all  Member  States  to  extend  your  fullest  cooperation 
and  support  to  the  Co-Chairs  and  invite  members  to 
bring  forward  constructive  proposals  and  practical 
suggestions.  
Mr.  Lemos  Godinho  (Portugal):  I  have  the 

honour to speak on behalf of the European Union. The 
candidate  countries  Turkey,  Croatia  and  the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  the  countries  of  the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates  Albania,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  and 
Montenegro,  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic  of 
Representative 
Poland, 
of 
2 

07-61162 
to 
to 
The  European  Union  wishes 
issues  of  particular  relevance 


Moldova  and  Georgia,  align  themselves  with  this 
statement.  

thank  you, 
Mr. President,  for  convening  this  meeting  and  for 
providing the membership with an opportunity to look 
ahead 
to  our  discussion  of  General  Assembly 
revitalization during the sixty-second session. 

But  before  doing  so,  we  would  also  like  to 
express  our  appreciation  for  the  efforts  undertaken 
during the sixty-first session by the former President of 
the  General  Assembly,  Her  Excellency  Sheikha  Haya 
Rashed  Al-Khalifa,  aimed  at  revitalizing  the  General 
Assembly,  and  specifically  the  convening  of  thematic 
debates  on 
the 
membership.  

We  are  grateful  as  well  to  the  co-facilitators, 
Ambassador  Daniele  Bodini  of  San  Marino  and 
Ambassador Paul Badji of Senegal, for their hard work 
and widespread consultations, which have drawn active 
participation from the European Union (EU).  

The  EU  supports  efforts  aimed  at  strengthening 
the General Assembly’s role and authority, in line with 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the  principles  and 
objectives  outlined 
the  2005  World  Summit 
Outcome  document  and  the  measures  adopted  in 
several relevant General Assembly resolutions.  

At  this  stage  we  believe  that  efforts  at  the 
practical level are paramount to ensure an overhaul of 
the General Assembly’s performance.  
the  General 

Assembly revitalizes itself, first and foremost, when it 
takes up issues of genuine concern to our peoples and 
to  the  international  community  as  a  whole.  It  is  our 
collective  duty  to  engage  in  meaningful  initiatives,  to 
live up to the expectations of our peoples and to make 
the work of the General Assembly ever more relevant.  

Furthermore,  it  is  the  responsibility  of  each  and 
every member State to apply in its daily business what 
has  already  been  agreed  by  all  and  considered  useful 
and necessary to revitalize this body. We recall that the 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  has  been  an 
ongoing process over several years and that numerous 
resolutions  have  already  been  adopted  in  the  past. 
What  was  agreed  at  that  time  should  be  implemented, 
as  was  acknowledged  by  this  Assembly  when  it 
adopted resolution 61/292.  
in 
The  EU  strongly  believes 
that 
A/62/PV.56
that  promoting 
We  believe,  however, 

Implementation  will  also  be  at  the  core  of  the 
proceedings  of  the  ad  hoc  working  group  to  be 
established at this session, as foreseen in the resolution 
I  mentioned  earlier.  The  mandate  given  to  the  ad  hoc 
working group is, inter alia, “to evaluate and assess the 
status  of 
implementation  of  relevant  resolutions” 
(resolution 61/292, para. 2).  

Not all the EU’s well-known views and positions 
on  General Assembly  revitalization  are  fully  reflected 
in  those  resolutions.  On  many  occasions  we  would 
have  liked  to  see  the  General  Assembly  adopt  bolder 
and  more  ambitious  decisions 
that  reflected  our 
positions better.  
the 

implementation  and 
the  consolidation  of  existing 
resolutions  and  decisions  will  bring  real  added  value 
and  will  impact  significantly  on  the  way  the  General 
Assembly, and the United Nations as a whole, conducts 
its work.  

At  the  end  of  the  current  session  we  may  well 
come to the conclusion that some of the shortcomings 
we  recognize  in  the  way  that  the  General  Assembly 
carries  out  its  work  and  in  the  way  that  the  major 
United  Nations  bodies  relate  to  each  other  can  be 
addressed  by  means  of  effective  implementation  of 
existing resolutions and decisions. To this end we look 
forward  to  the  timely  submission  of  a  comprehensive 
report  by  the  Secretary-General,  as  envisaged  in 
paragraph  1  of  resolution  61/292,  so  that  that  report 
can  constitute  a  valuable  basis  for  an  informed  and 
action-oriented  discussion  in  the  framework  of  the 
ad hoc working group.  

We look forward to working with the persons you 
have  appointed  to  conduct  our  work  in  the  current 
session, under your overall leadership.  

The  EU  undertakes  to  engage,  in  a  constructive 
and pragmatic manner, in the proceedings of the ad hoc 
working  group  with  a  view  to  contributing  to  a 
successful  outcome  of  our  collective  efforts  aimed  at 
further revitalizing the General Assembly. 

speak  on  behalf  of 
(NAM).  

First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  express  NAM’s 
appreciation  for  the  hard  work  done  by  Ambassador 
Badji  of  Senegal  and  Ambassador  Bodini  of  San 
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria):  I  have  the  honour  to 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
07-61162 

3 

In  adopting 
the  sixty-first 
resolution  61/292 
the  co-facilitators  during 
A/62/PV.56 

Marino, 
session.  

the  General 
Assembly decided to assess during the current session 
the  extent  to  which  all  its  previous  resolutions  and 
decisions related to the revitalization of the work of the 
General Assembly have been implemented.  

At  the  outset  of  this  debate,  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  would  like  to  recall  the  validity  and 
relevance of its principles and positions regarding this 
matter.  

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  reiterates  that  the 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly, 
which must be guided by the principles of democracy, 
transparency  and  accountability  and  must  be  achieved 
through  consultations,  is  a  critical  component  of  the 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  Its 
objectives should continue to be to strengthen the role 
and  position  of  the  General  Assembly  as  the  chief 
deliberative, policymaking and representative organ of 
the United Nations.  

The NAM also emphasizes that the improvement 
of  the Assembly’s  procedural  and  working  methods  is 
only 
substantive 
improvements  aimed  at  restoring  and  enhancing  the 
role  and  authority  of  the  General Assembly,  including 
in the maintenance of international peace and security 
as stipulated in Articles 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 35 of the 
Charter.  

The  NAM,  while  expressing  its  readiness  to 
continue  to  support  all  ongoing  efforts  to  strengthen 
the central role and  authority of the Assembly, wishes 
to underline that it will continue to oppose any reform 
proposal that  seeks to contradict this objective. It will 
also  continue  to  oppose  any  approach  that  seeks  to  or 
could 
the 
achievements of the General Assembly, diminishing its 
current role and functioning or raising questions about 
its relevance and credibility.  
its 

concern 
rounds  of 
consultations, recurrent proposals were made, aimed at 
undermining  the  central  role  of  the  Assembly  and  its 
authority,  including  in  relation  to  its  prerogatives 
regarding administrative and budgetary questions. It is 
the  hope  of  the  NAM  that  any  forthcoming  proposals 
aimed at upgrading the revitalization of the work of the 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  expresses 
in  undermining  or  minimizing 
towards  more 
the  previous 
that  during 
result 
a 
first 
step 
in 
the 
the 
With 
respect 
to  assessing 
resolutions  on 
Assembly will be made in a spirit which excludes any 
such challenges. 

status  of 
implementation  of  all  prior 
the 
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly, in 
particular landmark resolutions 58/126, 58/316, 59/313 
and  60/286,  the  NAM  is  deeply  disappointed  that,  at 
this  stage  of  the  sixty-second  session,  the  report 
requested  by  the  General Assembly  in  paragraph  1  of 
its  resolution  61/292  in  continuation  of  the  reporting 
requirements  established  by  resolutions  59/313  and 
60/286 has not been made available to the membership, 
thus  depriving  participants 
forthcoming 
consultations  of  the  necessary  political  guidance  that 
was  expected  to  emanate  from  the  Assembly  on  the 
occasion of this debate. Nonetheless, the NAM wishes 
at  this  stage  to  make  the  following  comments  on  a 
number of aspects. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  notes  with  growing 
concern  the  continuous  attempts  on  the  part  of  the 
Security  Council  to  encroach  upon  other  principal 
organs  of  the  United  Nations  and  their  subsidiary 
bodies with respect to issues that clearly fall within the 
functions  and  powers  of  those  latter  structures.  That 
was,  again,  the  case  recently  when  the  Security 
Council  held  a  thematic  debate  on  the  effects  of 
climate  change  (see  S/PV.5663),  thus  departing  not 
only  from  the  provisions  of  the  Charter  but  also  from 
to 
the  agreement  reached  among  Member  States 
increase  coordination  and  cooperation  among 
the 
principal  organs  as  well  as  complementarity  in  their 
work programmes. 

The  NAM  underscores,  once  again,  the  need  for 
full  respect  for  the  functions  and  powers  of  the 
principal  organs,  in  particular  the  General  Assembly, 
and  for  maintaining  the  balance  among  them  in 
accordance with the Charter. In this respect, the NAM 
welcomes the proposals of the President of the General 
Assembly  to  convene  a  panel  discussion  on  climate 
change  and  an  informal  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly  on 
the  Global 
Counter-Terrorism  Strategy,  and  we  look  forward  to 
making  a  substantive  contribution  at  those  events. 
Further,  the  NAM  remains  particularly  concerned 
about  the  exercise  of  the  Security  Council  setting 
norms  and  establishing  definitions  in  areas  beyond  its 
competence. 
implementation  of 
the 
4 

07-61162 
as 
such 



The  NAM  expresses  its  satisfaction  that  the 
General  Assembly  has  played  a  central  role,  both 
during  the  preparatory  process  of  the  2005  World 
Summit  and  during  the  follow-up  phase;  this  has 
allowed  the  Assembly  to  reassert  its  prerogatives.  It 
also  expresses  its  satisfaction  at  the  progress  made  in 
implementing  previous  decisions, 
the 
improvement of transitional arrangements between the 
outgoing  and  incoming  Presidents  of  the  General 
Assembly  and at the level of the bureaux of the Main 
Committees,  the  reinforcement  of  the  Office  of  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  its  increased 
media exposure, the valuable contribution made by the 
Main Committees in improving their methods of work, 
in  particular  by  improving  the  interactive  nature  of 
their debates, and in many other areas. 

However,  NAM  members  remain  convinced  that 
genuine  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly  cannot  afford  to  avoid  addressing  the  main 
issue:  the  lack  of  implementation  of  all  General 
Assembly  resolutions  and  the  underlying  cause  for 
that,  namely,  the  lack  of  adequate  resources  made 
available to that end. 

In this regard, the NAM is encouraged by the fact 
that Member States have been able to reach a common 
understanding on how to reinvigorate the discussion on 
mandates  review,  with  a  view  to  rationalizing  the 
reallocation  of  freed  resources.  It  is  the  hope  of  the 
NAM that the issue of providing adequate resources for 
the  implementation  of  the  decisions  of  the  General 
Assembly will be addressed in a similar spirit. 
Finally, the NAM looks forward to the convening 

of 
the 
the  Open-ended  Working  Group 
Revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly,  as  called  for 
by  resolution  61/292,  and  expresses  its  readiness  to 
participate  in  the  Group’s  work  in  order  to  arrive  at  a 
the  status  of 
detailed  and 
implementation  of  all  previous  decisions  and, 
if 
deemed  necessary,  to  work  towards  the  adoption  of  a 
new resolution aimed at further improvements. 

Before  I  conclude,  allow  me  to  congratulate  the 
Permanent Representatives of Poland and Paraguay for 
their  appointments  as  co-Chairs  of  the  Open-ended 
Working  Group  for  the  sixty-second  session.  I  thank 
them for agreeing to assume this heavy task. 
Mr. Ali  (Malaysia):  My  delegation  is  pleased  to 

participate  in  this  debate  on  agenda  item  121,  on  the 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly. 
fair  assessment  of 
on 
A/62/PV.56
the 
issue  of 
the  United  Nations, 
We  have  been  discussing 
Malaysia  wishes  to  associate  itself  with  the  statement 
just made by the representative of Algeria on behalf of 
the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM). 

I  would  like  to  recall  paragraph  30  of  the 
Millennium Declaration, whereby our heads of State or 
Government resolved to restore the central position of 
the  General  Assembly  as 
the  chief  deliberative, 
policymaking  and  representative  organ  of  the  United 
Nations,  and  to  enable  it  to  play  that  role  effectively. 
That  call  was  reaffirmed  by  our  heads  of  State  or 
Government  during  the  2005  World  Summit,  where 
they  reaffirmed  the  central  position  of  the  General 
Assembly  as  the  chief  deliberative,  policymaking  and 
representative  organ  of  the United  Nations,  as  well  as 
the  role  of  the  Assembly  in  the  process  of  standard-
setting  and  the  codification  of  international  law. They 
also  called  for  strengthening  the  relationship  between 
the General Assembly and the other principal organs to 
ensure better coordination on topical issues that require 
coordinated  action  by 
in 
accordance with their respective mandates.  

the 
revitalization of the General Assembly since 1991, and 
we  have  made  some  progress  over  the  years.  It  is 
important that this process continue as it is part of the 
ongoing  process  of  United  Nations  reform.  As  the 
General Assembly  is  the  most  representative  organ  of 
the  United  Nations,  we  must  dedicate  ourselves  to 
finding  consensus  on  measures 
the 
Assembly so that it can fulfil its mandate in accordance 
with the Charter. We must build upon the work done at 
previous 
the 
implementation  of  their  resolutions.  We  look  to  your 
leadership in this process, Mr. President. 

In  this  regard,  we  share  the  sentiments  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement about the absence of the status 
report  that  has  been  requested  since  the  fifty-ninth 
session  on 
implementation  of  all  resolutions 
regarding  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly. 
This  call  was  most  recently  reiterated  in  resolution 
61/292. The status report would be an important input 
for our discussions, as it would allow us to take stock 
of  what  has  been  implemented  and  how  to  move 
forward.  In  the  absence  of  such  a  report,  we  will  be 
unable 
to 
revitalize the General Assembly. We call for the timely 
issuance  of  the  status  report  to  enable  Member  States 
to study it and prepare for the Ad Hoc Working Group 
that has just been established.  
take  effective  steps  and  measures 
to  revitalize 
the  key 
sessions; 
to 
success 
is 
the 
to 
07-61162 

5 

lead 
to 
like 
Any 
should 
Efforts 
to  hear 
to  enable 
Improving 
reform  process 
We  would  also 
A/62/PV.56 


from  you, 
Mr. President,  concerning  your  proposals  on  the  work 
plan  for  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group.  It  is  important 
that  the  discussions  on  this  item,  like  those  on  other 
agenda  items,  be  held  in  an  open,  transparent  and 
inclusive manner. 

the 
strengthening  of  the  central  role  of  the  General 
Assembly,  as  well  as  restoring  and  enhancing  its  role, 
including in the maintenance of international peace and 
security,  as  provided  for  in  the  Charter.  That  entails 
strengthening  its  relationship  and  coordination  with 
other  organs.  That  has  been  adequately  addressed  in 
previous  resolutions,  which  have  stressed  the  need  to 
fully  respect  and  maintain  the  balance  among  the 
principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations  within  their 
respective purviews and mandates under the Charter. 

to 
the  General  Assembly 
perform its functions as set out in the Charter must not 
be  limited  to  procedural  measures  pertaining  to  its 
working  methods. 
the  Assembly’s 
procedures and working methods is only a step towards 
further  substantive  improvements  in  and  revitalization 
of the Assembly, as stipulated in resolution 55/285. 

If the General Assembly is to maintain its central 
position  as  the  chief  deliberative  and  representative 
organ  of  the  United  Nations,  it  must  be  cognizant  of 
the  current  developments  and  take  steps  to  address 
them.  We  welcome  the  initiative  to  have  thematic 
debates,  panel  discussions  and  high-level  segments 
with  a  view  to  producing  concrete,  practical  and 
action-oriented  results.  We  welcome  the  identification 
of  the  themes  for  the  present  session.  In  that  regard, 
Mr.  President,  we  are  pleased  that  you  organized  the 
high-level  event  on  climate  change  in  September  and 
have  identified  the  continued  consideration  of  the 
agenda  item  on  climate  change  as  a  matter  of  priority 
for the General Assembly. 

that  my 
delegation  will  work  constructively  with  you, 
Mr. President, in launching the process of consultations 
among  Member  States  in  the Ad  Hoc  Working  Group 
concerning  the  status  report  on  the  implementation  of 
General Assembly resolutions. 
Mr. Mansour (Tunisia) (spoke in French): At the 

outset,  on  behalf  of  my  delegation,  I  wish 
to 
congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  on  the  manner  in 
which  you  are  conducting  this  debate,  which  is 
In  conclusion,  I  wish 
to  reiterate 
the 
the 
that 
issue  of 
to  debate 
should  be  pursued  with 
particularly important to Member States. I also wish to 
congratulate  the  representatives  of  Senegal  and  San 
Marino  on  their  considerable  efforts  during  the  sixty-
issue  of 
first  session  as  facilitators  on 
the 
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly. 

My delegation associates itself with the statement 
made by the representative of Algeria on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  concerning  the  agenda  item 
before  the  Assembly  today.  We  wish  to  make  the 
following additional comments. 
With  regard  to  strengthening  the  role  and  the 

authority  of  the  General  Assembly,  this  year,  once 
again,  we  continue 
the 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly. 
Again, we must emphasize that this is a rather sensitive 
process 
resolve, 
seriousness  and  commitment  by  all  Member  States.  It 
was in that spirit that our heads of State or Government 
reaffirmed,  at  the  September  2005 World  Summit,  the 
Assembly’s  central  role  as  the  chief  deliberative, 
policymaking  and  representative  organ  of  the  United 
Nations.  
My  delegation  believes  that  strengthening  the 

role  and  the  authority  of  the  General  Assembly 
involves,  inter  alia,  including  in  its  agenda  obvious 
issues  that  are  of  particular  importance,  both  to  the 
Organization  and  to  the  international  community  at 
large.  It  also  involves  holding  major  thematic  debates 
so that Member States can come to agreement on major 
substantive  and  timely  issues.  In  that  context,  we 
welcome the quality of the thematic debates held at the 
previous  session  —  a  practice  that,  we  are  convinced, 
will continue under your presidency, Sir. 

Furthermore,  we  believe  that  strengthening  the 
role  and  the  authority  of  the  General  Assembly  also 
requires  that  we  recognize  its  role  regarding  the 
international  peace  and  security. 
maintenance  of 
Indeed,  while 
that 
Article 24 of the Charter entrusts the Security Council 
with  primary 
that 
responsibility  is  not  exclusive. The  General Assembly 
should  thus  give  greater  consideration  to  issues  of 
international peace and security, in accordance with the 
relevant  articles  of 
the  historic 
the  Charter  and 
resolution 377 (V), “Uniting for Peace”. 

The issue of the relationship between the General 
Assembly  and  other  principal  organs  of  the  United 
Nations should be the object of in-depth consideration. 
is  generally  acknowledged 
responsibility 
this  area, 
in 
it 
6 

07-61162 


Such  consideration  should  be  carried  out  in  plenary 
meetings  and  within  the  framework  of  an  approach 
based on cooperation, maintaining balance and respect 
for the Charter roles of each organ.  

In that spirit, while we appreciate the cooperation 
between  the  presidency  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council and that of the General Assembly, we believe 
that greater coordination between the two organs would 
be useful, particularly in the choice of thematic debate 
subjects — a choice that must respect the old and new 
mandates  recognized  for  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council. 

The issue of the reports that the Security Council 
must  submit  to  the  General  Assembly  under  the 
relevant Charter articles continues to be a focus of our 
attention. Indeed, despite repeated appeals by Member 
States, the Council continues to present annual reports 
of a factual nature. The Council should also be able to 
present  to  the  Assembly  analytical  reports,  including 
on specialized subjects. 

On another note, I wish to revisit the issue of the 
implementation  of  General  Assembly  resolutions.  It 
must  be  noted  that  respect  on  the  part  of  all  Member 
States  for  the  resolutions  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly would greatly contribute to the strengthening 
of  the  Assembly’s  authority.  My  delegation  supports 
the  various  ideas  put  forward  in  that  regard,  aimed  at 
identifying 
the 
implementation of resolutions. 

the 
working  methods  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  are 
pleased that a number of measures related to improving 
the  Assembly’s  working  methods 
been 
implemented — particularly the Main Committees’ use 
in recent years of interactive debates, round tables and 
question-and-answer  sessions.  Those  practices  have 
made  it  possible  to  enrich  the  deliberations  and  the 
decision-making  process  of  the  Main  Committees. 
However, these efforts still fall short of Member States’ 
expectations.  

Likewise, my delegation recognizes the merits of 
the recommendations made by the Secretary-General in 
his  report  on  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly 
issued in October 2006 (A/61/483), calling on Member 
States  to  draft  more  concise,  targeted  and  concrete 
resolutions  and  decisions  and  to  limit  the  length  of 
statements  in  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Main 
Committees.  However,  we  believe  that  that  in  no  way 
Our  second  subject  concerns 
that  are  hindering 
improving 
factors 
have 
the 
A/62/PV.56
taking 
selecting 
recalled,  differ 
from  Committee 
affects  the  sovereign  rights  of  Member  States  with 
regard 
to 
the  floor  and  submitting  draft 
resolutions. 

At  another  level,  we  believe  that  several  of  the 
measures  proposed  during  debates  on  improving  the 
General Assembly’s  working  methods  —  measures  on 
which  no  decision  has  yet  been  made  —  should  be 
reconsidered.  That  applies  to,  inter  alia,  the  proposal 
aimed  at  organizing  the  work  of  the Assembly’s  Main 
Committees in two substantive periods per session and 
harmonizing  the  Committees’  best  practices,  which,  it 
should  be 
to 
Committee.  

My  third  category  of  comments  concerns  the 
General  Assembly’s  role  in  selecting  the  Secretary-
General.  The  issue  of  selecting  the  Secretary-General 
has been debated over the past two years in the Open-
ended Working Group, but no concrete measures have 
been  decided  upon.  We  continue  to  believe  that, 
together,  we  should  consider  how  Article  97  of  the 
Charter  should  be  interpreted  in  terms  of  greater 
involvement  by  Member  States,  through  the  General 
Assembly, 
the  Secretary-General. 
Preferably, that should be done before the next election 
in that regard. 

Finally, I wish to express my delegation’s support 
for  the  mandate  adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  in 
August to establish,  at the  sixty-second  session,  an ad 
hoc working group on the revitalization of the General 
Assembly to  

“evaluate and assess the status of implementation 
of relevant resolutions, to identify ways to further 
enhance  the  role,  authority,  effectiveness  and 
efficiency  of  the  Assembly,  ...  and  to  submit  a 
report  thereon  to  the  Assembly.”  (resolution 
61/292, para. 2) 

Mr. President, my delegation is very pleased with 
the establishment of the Working Group that you have 
just announced, and we congratulate the Co-Chairs, the 
Ambassadors  of  Poland  and  Paraguay,  pledging  to 
them the full support of the Tunisian delegation. 

We  hope  that,  in  the  context  of  this  Working 
Group,  the  Member  States  will  look  into  ideas  and 
innovations that could return the General Assembly to 
its central place in the United Nations system. It is time 
to 
and  with 
determination. 
this  path 
seriously 
in 
commit 
to 
07-61162 

7 

A/62/PV.56 

Mr. Malmierca Díaz (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 

My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  by 
Algeria  on  behalf  of  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned 
Countries. I would like to simply add a few comments 
on this item.  

Cuba  would  like  to  indicate  its  concern  over  the 
absence of a report on the revitalization of the General 
Assembly,  which  makes  it  difficult  for  the  Member 
States  to  carry  out  an  in-depth  consideration  of  this 
important question. We reiterate our request for such a 
report  to  be  published  by  the  Secretariat  as  soon  as 
possible  so  as  to  facilitate  a  debate  of  the  quality  that 
the importance of this issue requires. 

The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  is  a 
decisive element for true reform of the United Nations. 
We  cannot  talk  about  an  Organization  with  more 
democratic  and  effective  actions, 
the  General 
Assembly  does  not  fully  exercise  the  power  that  the 
Charter confers on it. That process should reaffirm the 
central  role  of  the  General  Assembly  as  the  chief 
deliberative, policymaking and representative organ of 
the  United  Nations,  as  recognized  by  the  Charter  and 
the Millennium Declaration. 
It  is  important  that  when  this  process  concludes, 

the  Assembly 
its  characteristics  of 
independence  and  of  an  organ  for  comprehensive 
debate,  where  the  freedom  of  its  Member  States  to 
address the issues of interest to them is not restricted or 
limited. 

We  underscore  the  need  to  achieve  an  adequate 
balance  among  the  principal  organs  of  the  United 
Nations,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter,  and  for  the 
Member  States  of  the  Organization  to  end  attempts  to 
transfer General Assembly agenda items to the Security 
Council. 

The  Security  Council  must  strictly  abide  by  the 
Charter’s provisions, as well as by all resolutions of the 
General  Assembly,  as  the  main  organ  of  the  United 
Nations,  and  it  must  stop  interfering  in  the  questions 
that are clearly fall within the functions and powers of 
other  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations  and  their 
subsidiary bodies. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  express  its  concern 
at  the  establishment  of  rules  and  definitions  by  the 
Security  Council 
competence, 
disregarding that, in accordance with Article 13 of the 
Charter, 
the  primary 
the  General  Assembly  has 
strengthens 
exceed 
that 
if 
its 
that 
this  also  happens  with 
the  progressive  development  of 
responsibility  for 
international law and its codification. 

In  order  to  avoid  those  irregularities,  which  are 
setting  precedents  within  the  United  Nations  system, 
the Presidents of the General Assembly, the Economic 
and Social Council and the Security Council must carry 
out  regular  debates  and  coordinate  among  themselves 
with  regard  to  the  agenda  and  working  plan  of  the 
respective  principal  organs  they  represent  in  order  to 
make  them  increasingly  coherent  and  complementary. 
This  should  be  carried  out  in  a  manner  mutually 
reinforcing  and  respectful  of  the  mandates  of  each 
organ,  avoiding  duplication  of  effort  and  interference 
in the functions assigned to each. 

The failure to implement the numerous Assembly 
resolutions  must  be  eliminated.  The 
resolutions 
constitute an important body of norms, but they remain 
inert  because  their  non-compliance  is  related  to  the 
lack of political will on the part of the States that have 
political, military or economic power. It seems natural, 
then, 
the  numerous 
resolutions  referring  to  the  reform  of  the  United 
Nations and to the very revitalization of the Assembly, 
such as resolutions 58/126, 58/316 and 60/286, whose 
level of implementation is limited. 

Cuba  reiterates  that  the  revitalization  of  the 
Assembly  must  not  be  merely  a  bureaucratic  process 
exposed  to  the  interests  and  whims  of  a  few  rich  and 
powerful countries who try to impose unilateralism and 
use multilateralism only when it suits their interests. At 
the same time, we further hope that, as a result of such 
a  process,  the  interaction  between  the  Secretariat  and 
the  General  Assembly  will  strengthen,  so  that  the 
former  can  answer  more  effectively  to  the  mandates 
that the Member States determine. 

I conclude my statement by reiterating that in this 
complex  yet  necessary  process  of  revitalizing  the 
Assembly, the Cuban delegation’s full willingness and 
constructive participation can be depended on. 
to 

participate  in  the  debate  on  the  revitalization  of  the 
work  of  the  General  Assembly  and  to  associate 
ourselves  with 
the  Non-Aligned 
Movement as expressed by the delegation of Algeria. 

The  General  Assembly  is  the  chief  deliberative, 
policymaking  and  representative  organ  of  the  United 
Nations.  Its  revitalization  should  restore  it  to  its 
Mr.  Malhotra  (India):  We  are  pleased 
the  position  of 
8 

07-61162 
to 
However, 
the  work  and  agenda  of 


position of primacy, as per the Charter. It must ensure 
that the Assembly addresses itself to the developmental 
problems  confronting  the  overwhelming  majority  of 
United  Nations  Member  States.  A  revitalized  General 
Assembly  must  also  set  the  global  agenda,  especially 
on economic and financial issues. 
Over  the  last  few  years,  Member  States  have 

rationalize  and 
agreed  on  certain  measures 
streamline 
the  General 
Assembly  and  to  improve  its  working  methods  and 
those  of  its  Main  Committees.  Those  efforts  have 
sought  to  give  a  sharper  focus  to  its  work. They  have 
also  led  to  addressing  the  needs  of  the  Office  of  the 
President of the General Assembly, including during a 
period of transition. Efforts to trim the heavy burden of 
papers  submitted  to  the  Assembly  have  reduced  the 
volume  of  such  documentation.  Such  procedural 
changes mark a useful beginning.  

the  General  Assembly  cannot  be 
revitalized  via  better  coordination  or  streamlining  of 
procedures alone. Central to revitalization is a focus on 
substantive measures aimed at restoring and enhancing 
the  Assembly’s  role  and  authority  to  the  position 
originally envisaged in the Charter. 

The  General Assembly  can  hardly  be  revitalized 
while  its  role,  prerogatives  and  authority  are  being 
undermined  by  encroachment  on  its  agenda  by  the 
Security  Council.  The  balance  between  the  principal 
organs of the United Nations envisaged in the Charter 
must  be  maintained  and  respected.  Of  special  concern 
is the encroachment by the Security Council on issues 
that 
the  Assembly’s 
competence,  such  as  the  process  of  standard-setting 
and  codification  of  international  law. Also  of  concern 
is  the  holding  of  thematic  debates  in  the  Security 
Council  on  issues  that  frequently  fall  within  the 
purview of the General Assembly or the Economic and 
Social Council.  

Resolution  60/286  reiterated  that  in  addition  to 
the  Security  Council  making  its  annual  report  more 
analytical,  it  should  submit  special  reports  to  the 
General  Assembly.  It  is  also  important  to  fulfil  this 
provision  while  the  Council  considers  ways  to  further 
improve  the  quality  of  its  reports  to  the Assembly. At 
the same time, we should guard against an over-zealous 
attitude that may lead to the General Assembly, in turn, 
intruding 
that  are  primarily 
the  core 
competence of other United Nations bodies. 
fall  within 
traditionally 
into  areas 
A/62/PV.56
It 
to 
important 
implement 
is  equally 
to  enhancing 

the 
provisions  of  previous  Assembly  resolutions  on  the 
matter.  It  may  be  recalled  that  a  substantive  area  that 
resolution 60/286 attempted to revitalize is the role of 
the Assembly in the selection of the Secretary-General. 
It  sought  to  put  in  place  a  more  inclusive  and 
transparent  procedure  for  the  appointment  of  the 
Secretary-General,  consistent  with  Article  97  of  the 
Charter.  Furthermore,  resolution  59/313  requested  the 
President  of  the  Assembly  to  propose  interactive 
debates  on  current  issues  on  the  agenda  of  the 
Assembly,  in  consultation  with  Member  States.  A 
procedure for ascertaining the views of Member States 
in deciding the themes for such thematic debates would 
help identify issues of current interest to Members and 
avoid  duplication  of  discussions  elsewhere  in  the 
United Nations. 

In a dynamic and changing world, it is important 
to  focus  on  the  more  substantive  aspects  of Assembly 
revitalization and to do so on an ongoing basis. In that 
context, we look forward to the setting up of the open-
ended  working  group,  in  line  with  resolution  61/292, 
with  a  view 
role,  authority, 
effectiveness  and  efficiency  of  the  Assembly  through 
an 
resolutions  and 
consideration of creative new proposals. 

In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  congratulate  the 
Permanent Representatives of Paraguay and Poland and 
wish  them  every  success  in  the  important  work  as  the 
co-chairs of the open-ended working group. 
Mr.  Abdelaziz  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

General  Assembly  is  debating  today  one  of  the  most 
important  items  on  its  agenda.  That  item  acquires  its 
importance from the nature of the role and authority of 
the Assembly, the chief deliberative and policymaking 
body  and 
the 
Organization,  not  only  because  it  comprises  all  the 
Member States, but also owing to its responsibility for 
supervising the balance of authority and obligations of 
the  main  and  subsidiary  organs,  following  up  on  the 
implementation  of  their  mandates  and  taking  the 
necessary measures to fulfil them, if deemed necessary. 

With those considerations in mind, heads of State 
and  Government  underscored,  in  the  2005  World 
Summit Outcome, the necessity of adhering, within the 
context of United Nations reform, to the purposes and 
the  principles  of  the  Charter  and  reaffirmed  that  the 
credibility of the United Nations and an increase in its 
the  most  democratic  organ  of 
implementation  of  previous 
the 
07-61162 

9 

like, 
I  would 
A/62/PV.56 

capacity  to  meet  its  responsibilities  is  increasingly 
linked  to  the  ability  of  the  Assembly  to  exercise  its 
institutional  responsibilities.  Despite  the  resolutions 
adopted  by  the  Assembly  in  previous  years,  which 
included  only  some  of  the  important  steps  needed  to 
revitalize its role, many crucial reforms are still needed 
in that regard. Such reforms are becoming increasingly 
controversial  and  require  the  sincere  political  will  of 
Member  States  to  enhance  good  governance  at  the 
international level. 

Egypt  associates  itself  with  the  statement  made 
by  the  representative  of  Algeria  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement. 
that 
in 
connection, to stress a number of important points. 

First,  revitalization  of  the  role  of  the  Assembly 
should  be  based  on  monitoring 
the  effective 
implementation  of Assembly resolutions  on  this  issue, 
while continuing to negotiate additional steps aiming at 
promoting further effectiveness of the Assembly. Those 
endeavours  will  not  be  successful  if  we  limit  our 
actions to rationalizing the agenda and mandates of the 
Assembly  and  its  subsidiary  committees,  and  to  the 
reports submitted to them. Rather, the Assembly should 
be  revitalized  through  a  clear  plan  that  starts  with 
identifying 
the  concrete 
obligations  they  stipulate  and  ends  with  their  full  and 
effective implementation. 

Secondly,  despite  the  success  of  the  election  of 
the  eighth  Secretary-General  of  the  Organization  and 
his  appointment  by  the  Assembly  by  consensus  upon 
the  recommendation  of  the  Security  Council,  the 
deliberations on the responsibility and authority of the 
Assembly  vis-à-vis  the  Council’s  role  highlighted  the 
fact  that  we  must  continue  our  search  for  ways  and 
means  to  increase  the  role  of  the  Assembly  in  that 
process.  That  should  be  accomplished  in  accordance 
with  the  provisions  of  the  Charter  and  resolutions 
51/241 and 60/286. A transparent mechanism should be 
established  that  allows  the  Assembly  to  evaluate 
candidates for the position and submit their names for 
consideration by the Council. It should also oversee the 
criteria  that  govern  the  Council’s  recommendations  to 
the  Assembly,  without  prejudice  to,  on  one  hand,  the 
role  of  the  Council  in  making  recommendations  and, 
on  the  other  hand,  the  authority  of  the  Assembly  in 
approving  such  recommendations  and  appointing  the 
recommended  candidate  or  suggesting  alternative 
candidates to the Council. 
resolutions  and 
these 
in 
to  undertake 
its  obligations 
the  Charter  between 
its  permanent  members 
to  financing  United  Nations  missions 

Thirdly,  it  is  important  to  enhance  the  principal 
role  of  the  Assembly  in  areas  related  to  international 
peace and security, in accordance with Articles 10, 11, 
12,  14  and  35  of  the  Charter. That  role  should  not  be 
limited 
in 
situations  of  conflict  or  war,  but  should  rather  play  a 
real  and  concrete  preventive  role  and  contribute  to 
efforts  aimed  at  achieving  the  settlement  of  current 
disputes. 
Fourthly, it is imperative to respect the distinction 

stipulated 
the  roles  and 
functions  of  the  principal  organs  of  the  Organization. 
We  must  also  strengthen  the  prerogatives  of  the 
Assembly  in  overseeing  the  way  the  Security  Council 
fulfils  its  main  responsibilities  in  prioritizing  the 
interests  of  the  general  membership  of  the  United 
Nations over the national interests of its Members. 

Fifthly,  we  must  promote  the  capacity  of  the 
Assembly to address cases where the Security Council 
fails 
to  maintain 
international  peace  and  security,  owing  to  a  lack  of 
unanimity  among 
that 
negatively  affects  the  possibilities  for  settling  those 
conflicts, and leads to the prolonging of those conflicts 
and  to  the  suffering  of  people.  This  increases  our 
conviction that an expansion of the membership of the 
Council is necessary in order to include new permanent 
members  with  the  same  rights  and  privileges  as  the 
current members, including the veto. That would strike 
a  much-needed  balance  between  the  international 
Powers in the Council. 

In expressing their concern over the magnitude of 
this situation, the heads of State and Government of the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  requested,  at  their  summit 
meeting  in  Havana,  the  permanent  representatives  of 
the  members  of  the  Movement  to  submit  a  draft 
resolution  to  the  Assembly  aimed  at  restoring  its 
authority  in  undertaking  the  actions  needed  to  deal 
effectively with cases in which international peace and 
security  are  endangered  but  the  Council  has  failed  to 
address,  owing  to  the  misuse  of  the  veto  power, 
particularly  in  cases  of  genocide,  crimes  against 
humanity,  war  crimes  and  the  cessation  of  hostilities 
between  belligerent  parties.  Members  of 
the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  will  draft  that  resolution  as 
soon as possible. 

Sixthly, in the same context, we must enhance the 
capacity of the Assembly to uphold the principles that 
10 

07-61162 
to 
and 
countries 
developed 
implement 
to  ensure 
the  means 
follow-up  on 
and 
in  order 


govern the assessment of Member States’ contributions 
to  the  Organization’s  budget,  the  most  important  of 
which  is  the  capacity  to  pay,  and  to  ensure  that  the 
principles  of  justice  and  equality  embodied  in  the 
principle  of  “one  country,  one  vote”  will  continue  to 
govern our decision-making. That indicates the need to 
restore  balance  and  confidence-building  between 
developing 
the 
Secretariat, 
the  mandates 
established by Assembly resolutions  and to ensure the 
financial resources necessary in that regard. 

In order to achieve the aspirations of the general 
membership with regard to the revitalization of the role 
and authority of the Assembly, the ad hoc open-ended 
working  group  should  be  looking  at  the  proposals  of 
Member States that seek to lay down a framework for 
the  implementation  of  previous  resolutions  on  this 
important issue. At the same time, they should discuss 
the  status  of  implementation  of  Assembly  resolutions 
and 
their 
implementation,  including  through  a  comprehensive 
mechanism ensuring the commitment of Member States 
to implementing those resolutions, and even, if needed, 
by  amending  the  Charter  to  achieve  those  aims.  In 
addition,  they  must  exert  a  sincere  parallel  effort  in 
reviewing mandates in order to decrease the burden on 
the Assembly by avoiding redundancy and duplication. 
That will ultimately revitalize the role of the Assembly 
by  increasing  the  obligatory  nature  of  its  resolutions 
and decreasing redundancy. This also represents a more 
integrated approach to all aspects of the reform of the 
United Nations. 
Mr.  Gallardo  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

challenges of globalization call for governance even in 
the 
international  sphere,  and  we  should  not  be 
surprised that since 1991 Member States have decided 
to act within the United Nations to eliminate the threats 
and paralysis that were caused by the bipolarity of the 
cold  war.  Since  1991,  we  have  gone  through  different 
phases in this attempt. Today, we are more fragmented, 
and  no  country  alone  can  manage  globalization.  The 
power  of  each  of  the  nations  represented  here  has  its 
limits. 
Today, the United Nations is, more than ever, the 

general  reference  for  the  international  agenda  and  its 
priorities. It is our responsibility as States to guide the 
Organization  with  efficiency,  clarity,  vision  and  a 
strategic  approach,  in  order  to  help  to  resolve  the 
problems  of  peace  and  security,  development  and  the 
A/62/PV.56
law  and 
international 
implementation  of 
the  United  Nations:  all  of 
environment,  human  rights,  the  right  to  humanitarian 
assistance, 
the  coherence 
problems  of  the  United  Nations,  its  mandates,  its 
Secretariat  and  its  other  bodies.  This  is  an  enormous 
task that lies in the hands of 192 delegations. 

We acknowledge the leadership of the Presidents 
of the General Assembly. They must guide our debates 
at every session, with a short agenda of priorities. But 
in  the  final  analysis,  it  is  we,  the  Member  States 
concerned, that must own this process. There can be no 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  without  the 
political will to work together, to achieve goals in areas 
that  interest  all  parties  and,  in  that  way,  to  contribute 
constructively  to  the  adoption  of  significant  decisions 
by the General Assembly. 

Our discussions on how to tackle climate change; 
on  how  to  make  progress  in  attaining  the  Millennium 
Development Goals and the goals of the partnership for 
development; how to be more creative and show more 
solidarity  in  financing  for  development;  how  to  move 
forward  with 
the  Global 
Counter-Terrorism  Strategy;  and  how  to  continue  the 
reform  of 
these  are 
substantive and central questions in the Organization’s 
endeavour  to  maintain  its  political  relevance  and  its 
added value. 

In  recent  years,  we  have  seen  the  General 
Assembly  competing  with  other  organs  and  feeling 
threatened  by 
their  activities  and 
functions. Sometimes, we have to put ourselves in the 
shoes  of  our  partners  and  ensure  that  the  General 
Assembly  promotes  new  debates,  such  as  thematic 
debates in the areas of the maintenance of international 
it  adopts  a  more 
peace  and  security,  and 
cooperative  approach  with 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and  even  the  Security 
Council. 

We  must  concern  ourselves  with  our  working 
methods. Making the General Assembly more effective 
could  mean 
length  of  debates  and 
organizing  a  better  system  of  specialized  bodies 
reporting  to  the  General  Assembly.  We  have  to  ask 
ourselves  if  our  working  methods  and  our  practices 
have  made  it  less  interesting  to  follow  our  debates, 
which  some  people  perceive  as  monologues. We  have 
to ask ourselves if we cannot organize more interactive 
meeting formats. 
the  Secretariat, 
the  growth 
limiting 
that 
the 
the 
in 
07-61162 

11 

in  order 
lines:  first, 
to  prevent  giving 
A/62/PV.56 


Does  the  negotiation  of  certain  resolutions  only 
among  interested  delegations  or  through  consultation 
systems  involving  restricted  ad  hoc  groups,  even 
though necessary, make us less transparent? Should we 
not  have  other  documents  besides  resolutions  that 
transmit  our  decisions  or  reflect  public  opinion  in  our 
debates?  How  many  of  the  11  most  recent  resolutions 
adopted on the revitalization of the General Assembly 
are annexed to the General Assembly’s rules for ease of 
reference?  How  can  we  establish  a  standing  mandate 
review  process 
the 
impression  of  a  body  that  does  not  follow  up  on  its 
decisions in timely manner? 

Those are, very briefly, some of the ideas that my 
delegation believes it is important to raise. We have to 
continue  to  stress  that  we  must  better  organize  our 
work. That is the utility of the Working Group that we 
have set up. In this Working Group and in its mandate 
my  delegation  sees  the  possibility  of  working  along 
three  main 
the  strategic  function  of 
prioritizing  our  work;  secondly,  the  development  of  a 
cooperative  approach  with  other  bodies  of  the  United 
Nations system; and, finally, generating and evaluating 
ideas  on  how  to  make  our  working  methods  more 
systematic,  how  to  disseminate  them  and  how  to 
improve them. 

Peru  knows  that,  with  the  United  Nations,  the 
expectations are always greater than the possibilities. If 
we  are  to  enhance  its  effectiveness,  we  must  put  our 
political will into play and organize ourselves better. 

In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  welcome  the 
appointment  of  the  representatives  of  Paraguay  and 
Poland to facilitate the work of the Working Group. We 
wish both of them every success. 
Mr.  Badji  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  My 

delegation  concurs  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative of Algeria on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement  on  agenda  item  121.  We  are  pleased  to 
participate  in  this  debate  on  the  revitalization  of  the 
General  Assembly,  which  is  one  of  the  fundamental 
aspects of United Nations reform. 

Mr.  President,  like  your  illustrious  predecessors, 
such  as  Ms.  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa,  whose 
commitment I hail, you are showing your will to work 
with  Member  States  in  strengthening  the  principal 
deliberative  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  You  can 
count  on  the  complete  availability  of  the  Senegalese 
delegation, which will spare no effort to support you in 
in  your 
that  you  proposed 
the  United  Nations  system”  — 
this  process.  The  reformulation  of  the  title  of  this 
process, 
introductory 
remarks  —  “The  role  of  the  General  Assembly  in 
strengthening 
is 
acceptable to my delegation. 

The vitality of the General Assembly, as with any 
other  body  or  organization,  is  measured  against  the 
yardstick  of  its  results,  compared  with  its  objectives 
and  the  wherewithal  it  has  to  discharge  its  mission. 
Thus, the issues of revitalization themselves constitute 
a  questioning  of  the  effectiveness  of  the  methods  of 
action  of  the  General Assembly,  the  efficiency  of  the 
actions  it  mandates  and  the  relevance  of  its  working 
methods. Therefore, the exercise that brings us together 
is  an  invitation  to  introspection  without  complacency 
for  all  Member  States  in  order  both  to  identify  the 
weaknesses  and  the  failings  of  the  General Assembly 
and to determine each actor’s share of responsibility, in 
order to identify appropriate solutions. 

In  this  regard,  the  Senegalese  delegation  joins 
previous speakers in expressing its concern at the delay 
in the issuance of the Secretary-General’s report on the 
implementation  of  resolutions  having  to  do  with 
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly, as 
requested in resolution 61/292 dated 2 August 2007. 

of 
resolutions, my delegation is of the view that that is the 
major  barometer  of  the  effectiveness  of  our  work.  In 
this area, it is vital that we — Member States and the 
Secretariat — make coordinated efforts, if we want to 
prevent  the  General Assembly  from  becoming,  as  one 
of our colleagues has ironically defined it, “a body that 
adopts resolutions that no one takes into account”. That 
although 
definition, 
is 
sufficiently 
instructive  concerning  our  method  of 
action,  for  let  us  acknowledge  along  with  its  author 
that the percentage of resolutions that are implemented, 
including 
remains 
ludicrous. 

Moreover, the case of resolutions 58/126, 58/316, 
59/313  and  60/286  —  all  three  having  to  do  with 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  —  are  all 
eloquent  proof  of  that.  Similar  situations  that  have  a 
negative impact on the image of the General Assembly 
involve  Member  States  as  well  as  the  Secretariat  and 
merit  our  particular  attention,  with  a  view  to  possibly 
establishing 
a  mechanism 
the 
implementation of resolutions. 
those  adopted  by  consensus, 
implementation 
to  monitor 
somewhat 
exaggerated, 
With 
respect 
to 
the 
12 

07-61162 



However,  beyond  looking  for  specific  solutions 
for  implementing  the  results  of  our  deliberations,  we 
need to do more in-depth thinking on our possibilities 
for  streamlining  resolutions  and  the  agenda  of  the 
General  Assembly 
in  a  constructive  spirit  while 
respecting  the  rights  of  all  Member  States  under  the 
rules of procedure. Within that framework, the Bureau 
of  the  Assembly,  whose  role  should  be  strengthened, 
could,  following  consultations  with  Member  States, 
make  recommendations  to  the  Secretary-General  in 
developing  the  agenda  to  adapt  it  to  the  challenges  of 
the day. 
In  order  to  attract  attention  and  to  be  worthy  of 

its  responsibilities, 
the  General  Assembly  should 
consider  more  often  topical  matters  that  mobilize 
international  public  opinion  so  that  it  can  make 
recommendations  for  action  to  the  Secretary-General 
and other bodies, funds and programmes of the United 
Nations, or to Member States, or at least to express its 
opinion.  It  would  also  be  desirable  to  strengthen 
certain positive initiatives, in particular the holding of 
thematic  debates  and  informational  meetings  with  the 
Secretary-General,  which 
the 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly.  It  is  only 
through  that  perspective  that  the  General  Assembly 
will  have  more  visibility  and  enjoy  better  media 
coverage,  notwithstanding 
the 
Secretariat should make in this area. 

Additionally, a dynamic and proactive Assembly, 
fully playing the role given to it by the United Nations 
Charter,  could  contribute  to  creating  conditions  for 
more  balanced  and  effective  cooperation  among  the 
principal organs of the Organization. Along those same 
lines,  we  should  consider  improving  our  working 
methods  to  ensure  that  Assembly  meetings  will  not 
take place in a half-empty room, as is often the case. 

On  that  subject,  it  would  be  appropriate  for  the 
President  of  the Assembly  to  suggest  at  the  beginning 
of  each  meeting,  as  is  authorized  by  the  rules  of 
procedure,  a  time  limit  for  delegations  to  speak  in 
order to allow all Member States to express themselves 
within a reasonable amount of time. 

During  the Assembly’s  sixty-first  session,  it  was 
my  privilege  —  along  with  my  colleague  and  friend, 
Ambassador Daniele Bodini, Permanent Representative 
of  San  Marino  —  to  be  chosen  by  the  President  to 
conduct  consultations  with  Member  States  on  the 
revitalization of the General Assembly. After more than 
contribute 
efforts 
that 
the 
to 
A/62/PV.56
that 
transparent  and 
to  conduct  open, 
My  delegation  hopes 
80  meetings  with  Permanent  Representatives  of 
Member States, six interactive debates and a number of 
informal meetings, we produced a report that, I believe, 
could be a good basis for the work of our present and 
future  deliberations  on  this  deliberative  body,  whose 
membership 
includes  all  United  Nations  Member 
States. 

the  open-ended 
Working  Group  will  be  rapidly  established  and  allow 
us 
inclusive 
discussions  in  the  well-understood  interests  of  all 
nations  and  all  peoples  represented  here.  To  our 
colleagues,  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Poland 
and  Paraguay,  who  were  appointed  by  the  current 
Assembly President to co-chair the Working Group, we 
convey  our  fervent  hopes  for  complete  success  in  the 
discharge of their exalted mission. 
Mr.  Álvarez  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 

wish  to  offer  Uruguay’s  gratitude  for  the  excellent 
efforts by the Presidents of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-first  and  sixty-second  sessions  and  also  to  the 
co-facilitators,  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  San 
Marino  and  Senegal.  We  wish  to  congratulate  the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Paraguay  and  Poland, 
who will conduct the work of the open-ended Working 
Group for the sixty-second session. 

The  General Assembly  has  a  central  role  to  play 
as 
the  Organization’s 
deliberative, 
policymaking  and  representative  organ.  Yet,  recent 
years have produced a marked perception of decline in 
the Assembly’s  prestige. Among  the  diagnosed  causes 
for  that  perception  are  the  endless  and  outdated 
agendas, the production of mandates for the Secretariat 
lack  adequate 
that  are  sometimes  vague  or  that 
financing,  and 
the 
consensus  rule  in  the  Assembly’s  decision-making, 
which  has  meant  that  those  decisions  reflect  the 
minimum  common  denominator  of  different  existing 
opinions  —  which  in  some  cases  are  contradictory  — 
and  reflect  as  well  generalities  that  are  remote  from 
any commitment or action by the Assembly. 
With  respect  to  the  revitalization  of  the  General 

Assembly, 
in  our  opinion,  a  confused 
perception.  The  problem  does  not  lie  so  much  in 
Assembly reform as in the Assembly’s fully exercising 
its powers derived from the Charter, in particular those 
related to peace and security. For example, the General 
Assembly  cannot  make  recommendations  in  the  areas 
the  excessive  application  of 
principal 
there 
is, 
07-61162 

13 
topical 
interest, 
the 

in 
the 
and  most 
thematic  debates 
The main thrusts of a revitalization of the General 
A/62/PV.56 

related  to Article  12  of  the  Charter  or  on  those  items 
under  consideration  by  and  on  the  agenda  of  the 
Security  Council.  However,  it  can  debate  those  items, 
the most important aspects on the international agenda, 
and  in  some  cases  it  can  reaffirm  a  decision  of  the 
Security  Council,  legitimizing  the  decision  of  that 
principle organ. 

Assembly must include the following points. 

On the rationalization of its work, this must take 
place mainly through reducing the number of items on 
the agenda, beginning with those that everyone knows 
have  lost  validity  and  interest.  The  General Assembly 
must  approach  in  a  focused  manner  the  items  of 
greatest 
including 
international  migration,  global  health,  human  rights, 
humanitarian  emergencies  and 
fight  against 
terrorism.  An  example  of  such  rationalization  can  be 
found 
that  have  been 
developing  during  the  two  most  recent  Assembly 
presidencies. The specific interests of States regarding 
an  eventual  elimination  of  items  from  the  agenda 
would be given ample consideration in rules 13, 14 and 
15 of the Assembly’s rules of procedure. 

The  operation  of  the  Assembly’s  committees 
should be redefined, structuring their work in a manner 
that  would  permit  results-based  analysis  and  improve 
the  criteria  for  assigning  mandates  to  the  Secretariat. 
These issues must be studied not from a formalistic or 
bureaucratic  point  of  view,  but  rather  from  one  in 
which decisions are based on specific requirements for 
the implementation of the mandates, attempting, at the 
same  time,  to  acquire  funds  for  the  mandates  that  are 
related to the substantive agenda items. We must study 
the  structure  and  operation  of  the  committees,  as  well 
as oversight mechanisms for their work and results. 

And  the  last  point,  which  we  feel  is  very 
important, is the implementation of the decisions of the 
heads  of  State  or  Government  contained  in  the  2005 
Outcome Document on the expansion and deepening of 
the  relations  of  the  United  Nations  General Assembly 
with  non-governmental  organizations.  This  is  with 
respect  to  the  main  items  that  we  believe  should  be 
considered in a reform. 

But, furthermore, we support what was decided in 
resolution  61/292  —  that  is,  to  assess  and  reconsider 
the  state  of  implementation  of  the  most  relevant 
resolutions in order to identify paths that would make 
it  possible  to  have  a  more  authoritative,  efficient  and 
effective  General  Assembly,  one  that  would  build  on 
past achievements. 

Uruguay  maintains  its  negotiating  position  for 
overcoming  the  current  situation,  namely,  prioritizing 
the  effective  implementation  of  the  mass  of  already 
approved  resolutions,  as  well  as  making  progress  on 
those that  are still pending. We would be in favour of 
measures  that  aim  to  eliminate  bureaucratic  obstacles 
and  the  duplication  of  effort,  as  well  as  of  measures 
that  call  for  a  rational  use  of  resources.  This  would 
help to achieve action that is more in line with current 
needs of the Organization and its Members. 
Mrs. Aitimova (Kazakhstan): At the 2005 World 

Summit,  Member  States  reaffirmed  their  commitment 
to  strengthening  the  United  Nations  with  a  view  to 
enhancing  its  authority  and  efficiency,  as  well  as  its 
capacity  to  effectively  address  the  full  range  of 
challenges of our time. 

In  this  regard,  the  delegation  of  Kazakhstan 
commends the Secretary-General for his determination 
to breathe new life and inject renewed confidence into 
a  strengthened  United  Nations 
is  effective, 
efficient,  coherent  and  accountable.  In  our  view,  the 
reform  of  the  United  Nations  should  be  geared,  first 
and  foremost,  to  the  consolidation  of  the  international 
community in pursuit of the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs). 

We  should  focus  our  efforts  on  enhancing  the 
effectiveness  of  our  Organization. As  members  of  the 
community of nations, we should work to improve the 
image of the United Nations as the bastion of peoples’ 
hopes and aspirations. 

Recently,  I  had  the  chance  to  meet  with  some 
students from a college here in the United States. When 
I presented myself as the Permanent Representative of 
Kazakhstan to the United Nations, many young people 
wanted 
to  know  more  about  our  activities  and 
responsibilities, about our current and future positions. 
This  means  that  the  new  generation  would  like  to  see 
us more effective and more responsible. 

that  a  United  Nations 
General  Assembly  playing  a  greater  role  and  with 
improved  status  will  promote  genuine  democracy  in 
international  relations.  The  General  Assembly  should 
have  a  central  position  as  the  chief  deliberative, 
Kazakhstan  believes 
that 
14 

07-61162 
the 
the 
like 
facing 
challenges 
to  commend 
We  would  also 


policymaking  and  representative  organ  of  the  United 
Nations. 

Kazakhstan notes certain progress in the efforts to 
improve 
the  Assembly’s  efficiency  and  working 
methods.  Yet  we  believe  that  this  process  should  not 
replace  reforms  that  are  aimed,  first  and  foremost,  at 
strengthening the Assembly’s authority. The delegation 
of Kazakhstan commends the President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-first  session,  Her  Excellency 
Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa,  for  her  efforts  to 
increase the visibility of the Assembly and for holding 
four informal thematic debates on partnerships towards 
achieving  the  MDGs:  taking  stock,  moving  forward; 
gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of  women; 
civilizations and the challenge for peace: obstacles and 
opportunities;  and  climate  change  as  a  global 
challenge —  all  which  offered  the  Members  States 
excellent  opportunities  to  debate  some  of  the  most 
pressing 
international 
community. 
two 

facilitators  Ambassador  Badji, 
the  Permanent 
Representative of Senegal, and Ambassador Bodini, the 
Permanent  Representative  of  San  Marino,  for  their 
tireless  efforts  in  leading  consultations  on  this  issue. 
We also note resolution 61/292 on revitalizing the role 
and 
and 
strengthening its performance. 

As the reports of the two facilitators indicates, all 
Member  States  have  a  strong  desire  to  revitalize  the 
General Assembly and to strengthen its efficiency. We 
believe  that  it  is  very  important  to  continue  our  work 
and to implement all General Assembly resolutions on 
its revitalization. 
Kazakhstan  expresses  its  strong  support  for  the 

suggestion  of  more  dialogue  and  less  monologue,  as 
well  as  the  idea  to  convene  debates  on  important 
themes  such  as  climate  change,  the  MDGs,  counter-
terrorism,  management 
reform,  Security  Council 
reform and others. The idea of establishing the practice 
of regular, informal briefings by the Secretary-General 
in  the  General  Assembly  is  also  a  practice  that  can 
bring us closer to solving important problems. 

We  hope  that  a  new,  updated  report  of  the 
Secretary-General on the implementation of resolutions 
on  revitalization  will  provide  a  solid  basis  for  our 
further  deliberations  on 
issue. 
Furthermore,  we  call  on  the  President  of  the  General 
the  General  Assembly 
authority  of 
important 
this 
A/62/PV.56
is 
this 
document 
to  establish, 
in  accordance  with 
Assembly 
the 
resolution  61/292,  the  ad  hoc  working  group  on  the 
revitalization of the General Assembly. 

We sincerely hope that under this Presidency we 
will  be  able  to  make  solid  progress  on  this  important 
issue and we stand ready to support you, Mr. President, 
in your endeavours in this regard. 
Mr. Dapkiunas (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): For 

our  delegation,  the  question  on  revitalizing  the  work 
the General Assembly is of high priority. This issue is 
also important for the Non-Aligned Movement, whose 
statement Belarus supports. 

During  the  previous  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  we  adopted  a  resolution  on  strengthening 
the  Assembly’s  role  and  authority.  Unlike  previous 
resolutions, 
procedural. 
Unfortunately,  during  the  negotiating  process  on  the 
draft  resolution,  a  number  of  clear  and  substantive 
proposals — which could have strengthened the central 
role of the General Assembly in developing significant 
decisions on issues on the international agenda — were 
blocked.  We  are  convinced  that  a  draft  resolution  on 
revitalizing  the  work  of  the  Assembly  with  greater 
practical  content  would  meet,  to  a  greater  extent,  the 
interests of Member States. 

We  believe  that  the  consultation  process  and 
revitalizing the work of the Assembly must be put back 
on  a  constructive  track.  The  delegation  of  Belarus  is 
concerned  about  the  delay  in  the  issuance  by  the 
Secretary-General,  for  the  consideration  of  Member 
States,  of  updated  data 
the 
implementation  of  resolutions  on  the  revitalization  of 
the work  of the Assembly. This data  was called for in 
resolution  61/292  and  our  delegation  had  expected  it 
ahead  of  time,  before  today’s  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly. 

A  key  element  of  resolution  61/292  is  the 
establishment, at the sixty-second session, of a working 
group  to  analyse  the  implementation  of  Assembly 
decisions,  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly 
and  the  making  the  relevant  recommendations.  We 
intend to actively participate in the work of that group. 
Our  own  independent,  preliminary  analysis  of  the 
status of the implementation of decisions regarding the 
revitalization  of 
the  Assembly  has 
identified a number of important provisions that are not 
being fully implemented or are not being implemented 
the  work  of 
report  on 
to  his 
07-61162 

15 

A/62/PV.56 

at  all.  It  is  our  intent  to  share  these  conclusions  with 
the group. 

Moreover, we hope that a survey of the extent of 
implementation  of  resolutions  on  the  revitalization  of 
the  work  of  the  Assembly  will  proceed  expeditiously 
and be used  above all to  develop new  proposals to  be 
enshrined  in  the  new  resolution  with  a  view  to  their 
subsequent  effective  implementation.  We  also  believe 
that  repetitive  language  should  be  used  sparingly  and 
with clear justification of its relevance by the author. 
In selecting a format for the negotiation process, 

we believe that we must take into account the positives 
and  negatives  of  negotiating  methods  used  in  prior 
sessions,  in  particular  the  sixty-first  session.  The 
Belarus  delegation  calls  for  transparent  consultations 
and  for  the  opportunity  to  be  made  available  to  all 
interested  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to 
participate in all phases. 
In  our  view,  a  starting  point  and  basis  for  the 

forthcoming  work  on  a  resolution  could  be 
the 
following  provisions,  which  were  approved  in  prior 
consultations and which, in our view, enjoy significant 
support from a large number of delegations. 

First, we need to enhance the role of the General 
Assembly  in  resolving  issues  relating  to  international 
peace  and  security, 
in  particular  by  broadening 
opportunities  for  United  Nations  Member  States  to 
convene  special  emergency  sessions  of  the  General 
Assembly.  The  Security  Council  should  adopt  the 
practice  of  preparing  periodic  analytical  reports  on 
topical 
for 
consideration  by  the  General  Assembly.  A  big  step 
forward would be the strengthening of the principle of 
equitable  regional  rotation  in  the  selection  of  the 
Secretary-General. 
and 
transparent  rule  of  regional  rotation  would  help  to 
enhance  the  atmosphere  of  trust  between  Member 
States  and  allay 
that, 
unfortunately,  is  sometimes  inherent  in  the  process  of 
electing the head of the Secretariat. 

The  Secretariat  must  increase  the  level  of  media 
coverage  of  the  General  Assembly’s  activities  and 
strike  the  right  balance  in  publicizing  the  work  of  the 
United  Nations  principal  organs.  This  year,  thanks  to 
the Presidents of the General Assembly at its sixty-first 
sessions,  we  have  had  very 
and 
interesting  debates  on 
the 
international agenda. Many substantive statements and 
international  agenda 
the  unnecessary 
sixty-second 
Introducing 
issues  on 
issues  on 
tension 
topical 
the 
a 
cogent 
the 
introduction  by 
proposals  have  been  made  from  this  rostrum  that 
should  become,  via  the  leading  media  outlets,  part  of 
the heritage of broader world public opinion. 

We  believe  that  we  also  need  to  rationalize  the 
work of the Main Committees of the General Assembly 
by  reducing  the  time  for  the  consideration  of  issues 
inscribed  on  a  number  of  agenda  items.  Introducing 
such  an  element  of  discipline  would  lead  to  the  more 
effective use both of delegations’ working time and of 
the resources devoted to conference servicing. 
A  further  step  towards  the  more  effective  use  of 

time  could  be 
the  General 
Assembly  of  an  opportunity  for  interested  States  to 
make  brief  oral  statements,  supplemented  by  the 
distribution in the Hall of longer written statements on 
various  issues.  The  verbatim  and  summary  records 
would,  of  course,  include  the  full  versions  of  each 
statement. In our opinion, that would ultimately help to 
reflect  the  positions  of  States  on  agenda  items,  while 
reducing the resources used by conference services. 

Our delegation is convinced that the President of 
the  General  Assembly  should  be  provided  with  the 
same  protocol  services  as 
the  Secretary-General, 
including  when  the  President  visits  United  Nations 
Member States. That would allow us, not in words but 
in deeds, to demonstrate the lofty and unique status of 
the  General Assembly.  It  is  also  important  to  enhance 
the role of the Assembly’s Vice-Presidents in its work 
by 
in 
coordinating  consultations  on  the  most  important  and 
complex issues on the agenda. 

Finally, we feel that we should revert to an issue 
that was actively discussed among the regional groups 
at the last session. In  our view, the General Assembly 
must restore fair regional representation in the General 
Committee.  A  practical  model  for  a  decision  on  that 
topic  could  be  developed  in  consultations  on  the 
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Mohamed  (Yemen)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  I 
should  like  to  extend  our  thanks  and  gratitude  to  you, 
Sir,  for  your  leadership  of  this  important  meeting.  I 
also 
the  General 
Assembly,  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa,  for  her 
efforts in the revitalization of the work of the General 
Assembly.  I  wish  her  success 
in  all  her  future 
endeavours. 
the  former  President  of 
participation 
increasing 
practical 
thank 
their 
16 

07-61162 
further  welcome 



I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
two facilitators, the Permanent Representatives of San 
Marino  and  Senegal,  for  their  excellent  efforts  in 
guiding  the  consultations  of  the  sixty-first  session  of 
the  General  Assembly,  which  were  occasionally  very 
complex.  We 
the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Poland  and  Uruguay,  who  will 
conduct  the  consultations  on  this  difficult  task  at  the 
current session. 

My  delegation  also  supports  the  statement  made 
by  the  Permanent  Representative  of Algeria  on  behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

Yemen  has  followed  with  great  interest  the 
question of the revitalization of the General Assembly 
over the past few sessions. Today, we are debating the 
item because of the General Assembly’s pivotal role as 
the  main  deliberative  body  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
which  all  Member  States  are  represented  on  an  equal 
footing  and  policies  are  developed  and  debates 
convened. 

The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  is 
aimed  at  strengthening  its  authority  and  role  and 
enabling 
responsibilities  and 
competences  in  accordance  with  the  Charter.  It  would 
also limit the encroachment by the Security Council on 
the  General  Assembly’s  purview.  We  feel  that  the 
Council’s  gradual  encroachment  on  the  Assembly’s 
competencies  has  generated  increasing  tension  and 
disharmony  between 
two  organs  and  will 
eventually lead to paralysis of the Assembly, which in 
turn  would  prevent  it  from  playing  its  role  and 
discharging its responsibilities and mandates according 
to the Charter. 
We  therefore  feel  that  the  revitalization  of  the 

the 
General  Assembly  must  be  a  priority 
comprehensive  reform  process,  allowing  it  to  succeed 
in  its  role.  It  would  also  require  us  to  eliminate 
redundancy, duplication and the discussion of the same 
item in more than one body of the United Nations, and 
would  permit  the  Assembly  to  focus  on  issues  to  the 
tangible benefit of all the peoples of the world. 

importance  of 
establishing  an  ad  hoc  working  group,  pursuant  to 
paragraph 2 of resolution 61/292, on the revitalization 
of the General Assembly, open to all Member States, to 
evaluate  and  assess  the  status  of  implementation  of 
relevant  resolutions, 
to  further 
enhance the role, authority, effectiveness and efficiency 
My  delegation 
identify  ways 
to  assume 
stresses 
the 
it 
its 
in 
the 
to 
A/62/PV.56
to  play 
the  status  of 
important  role 
the  Secretary-General  on 
of the Assembly. We also call for an accelerated report 
of 
the 
implementation  of  the  resolutions  of  the  General 
Assembly  in  the  aforementioned  resolution.  Such 
reports  should  be  issued  early  enough  to  allow  us 
sufficient time to discuss them in the Main Committees 
or in plenary. 

We are concerned that the work of the Council is 
being stymied by the excessive use of the right of veto, 
which  prevents  the  Council  from  assuming  its  main 
role  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security.  We  therefore  feel  that  the  General Assembly 
has  an 
in  strengthening 
international  peace  and  security  when  the  Security 
Council  fails  to  do  so,  particularly  given  the  fact  that 
all Member States are represented without exception in 
this  organ  and  that  no  select  few  are  endowed  with 
additional privileges. 

We  should  therefore  acknowledge  the  focal  role 
of  the  General  Assembly  in  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security, since such a role is not 
the exclusive purview of the Security Council. This is a 
matter  for  all  Member  States,  and  it  should  not  be 
reserved  for  a  select  few  where  differences  among 
them,  when  they  occur,  often  obstruct  the  passing  of 
appropriate  resolutions.  Yemen  realizes  the  important 
role  of 
in  selecting  and 
appointing  the  Secretary-General,  and  we  support  the 
Assembly’s  efforts  in  this  respect.  We  stress  that  the 
selection  of  the  Secretary-General  must  be  done  in  a 
more  transparent  and  inclusive  manner  and  must 
involve  all  Member  States  in  accordance  with  the 
Charter. 
The  strengthening  of  the  Office  of  the  President 

of 
the  General  Assembly  means 
that  we  are 
strengthening  the  authority  of  the  General  Assembly. 
The Assembly  President  will  not  be  able  to  undertake 
his  role  as  facilitator  if  we  fail  to  allow  the  Office  to 
have  sufficient  and  qualified  human  resources.  We 
welcome  the  periodic  meetings  with  the  Presidents  of 
the  Security  Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council, and we call for those meetings to continue so 
that  more  coordination 
the 
programmes of all three bodies. That would encourage 
their cooperation to become complementary, improving 
the performance and increasing the credibility and the 
role of the Organization. 
the  General  Assembly 
is  achieved  among 
07-61162 

17 

Mr.  Wolff
(United  States  of  America): 
A/62/PV.56 


I 
appreciate  the  opportunity  to  speak  on  this  important 
issue today, although I note the sparse attendance in the 
Hall,  which  I  hope  does  not  reflect  either  a  lack  of 
interest  or  any  sense  of  futility  regarding  this  subject 
matter. 

the 
At 
conclusions  drawn  by  the  Secretary-General’s  High-
level  Panel  on  Threats,  Challenges  and  Change.  The 
Panel noted that the General Assembly’s capacity 

“is often squandered on debates about minutiae or 
thematic topics outpaced by real-world events. Its 
inability to reach closure on issues undermines its 
relevance. An unwieldy and static agenda leads to 
repetitive debates”. (A/59/565, para. 241) 
the  outset,  I  would 
to  recall 
like 
and 
of 
few 
insightful, 
resolutions  whose 
and  Badji.  However, 
Unfortunately, in our view, these obvious shortcomings 
are  now  threatening  to  undermine  the  very  process  of 
Assembly  reform;  indeed,  the  agenda  item  under 
consideration  is  at  risk  of  falling  victim  to  the  very 
same deficiencies it seeks to rectify. 
Prior  debates  on  General Assembly  reform  have 

produced  valuable 
if  modest, 
recommendations,  including  those  put  forward  by  the 
the  sixty-first  session,  Ambassadors 
Co-Chairs  at 
Bodini 
those 
recommendations  have  been  able  to  alter  significantly 
the prevailing “business as usual” mind-set. In the past 
few  weeks  alone,  we  have  witnessed  the  passage  of 
many 
texts  have  not  been 
significantly  revised  in  decades,  contributing  to  an 
increased  perception  of  the  Assembly’s  irrelevance. 
This  dangerous  slide  towards  irrelevance  is  displayed, 
for instance, in the stark contrast between the static and 
unbalanced resolutions on the situation in Palestine and 
the reinvigorated effort to achieve tangible progress on 
the  ground.  Some  of  the  most  vocal  proponents  of 
these  outdated  resolutions  are  the  same  countries 
involved  in  the  very  effort  underway  this  week  to 
launch a process at Annapolis that we hope will lead to 
a permanent Israeli-Palestinian peace. 

We have also recently witnessed renewed interest 
in the reform of other United Nations organs, including 
the Security  Council. As  President Kerim noted in  his 
concluding 
(see 
A/62/PV.51),  one  of  the  seven  pillars  of  Security 
Council  reform  is  the  necessity  of  reforming  the 
greater  United  Nations  system.  Clearly,  meaningful 
reform  of  the  United  Nations  system  must  include 
14  November 
statement 
on 
meaningful reform of the General Assembly, including 
in  areas  such  as  the  financing  of  and  decision-making 
by the Organization. 

The  convening  of  the  current  session’s  ad  hoc 
working  group  represents  a  new  opportunity  for 
Member  States  to  reinvigorate  their  efforts  and  take 
ownership of the General Assembly’s effectiveness and 
credibility.  The  onus  of  restoring  the  public’s  trust  in 
the Assembly’s  ability  to  respond  to  real-world  issues 
falls on our collective shoulders. 
How do we accomplish this task? First, we must 

be  guided  by  the  mandate  of  the  working  group  as 
established  in  resolution  61/292  —  that  is,  we  must 
evaluate  and  assess  the  status  of  implementation  of 
relevant resolutions on revitalization and identify ways 
to further enhance the role, authority, effectiveness and 
efficiency  of  the  Assembly.  Those  two  proposals  are 
not mutually exclusive. In fact, we believe that the best 
way  to  enhance  the  role,  authority,  effectiveness  and 
efficiency  of  the  Assembly  is  by  implementing  these 
relevant resolutions. 

In  this  regard  I  would  like  to  highlight  several 
recommendations contained in the relevant resolutions 
that  seek  to  reform  the  General  Assembly’s  working 
methods. 

the 
Assembly’s programme of work by focusing its efforts 
on  addressing  contemporary  challenges.  We  must 
discard  the  outdated  debates  recycled  year  after  year, 
which are no longer reflective of current realities. 

Greater  cooperation  among  the  principal  organs, 
as well as between the General Assembly and its Main 
Committees,  will  enhance  their  ability  to  carry  out 
their competencies, as mandated in the Charter. Greater 
cooperation  will  also  help  streamline  agendas  and 
reduce  wasteful  overlap  and 
inter-organ  power 
struggles. 

Member States should exercise discipline in their 
submission  of  draft  resolutions  in  the  Assembly. 
Adopting  resolutions  on  outdated  or  obscure  topics 
this  body,  while 
diminishes 
selectively 
language 
previous 
resolutions weakens their standing. 

These  recommendations,  and  numerous  others 
contained  in  resolutions  from  past  sessions,  provide 
ample  material  for  initiating  lasting  reform.  In  the 
sixty-second  session,  the  working  group  must  take 
the  credibility  of 
recalling 
is  a  clear  need 
rationalize 
There 
from 
to 
18 

07-61162 
the  status  of 
implementation  of 
the  revitalization  of 


stock  of 
these 
proposals, identifying improvements made and areas in 
which tangible results remain elusive. The constructive 
and  painstakingly  negotiated  proposals  contained  in 
previous  resolutions  have  already  established  the  path 
to revitalization. Now it is our collective responsibility 
to follow that path to its logical conclusion: a dynamic 
and  responsive  General  Assembly  that  is  capable  of 
forging  consensus  on  issues  of  greatest  contemporary 
importance. 

My  delegation  looks  forward  to  working  closely 
with  you,  Mr.  President,  and  with  our  counterparts 
from other delegations to capitalize on this opportunity 
to achieve concrete reform. 
Mr. Tarragô  (Brazil):  It  is  not  an  overstatement 

to  characterize 
the  General 
Assembly  as  one  of  the  key  systemic  issues  requiring 
attentive  consideration  and  action.  Restoring 
the 
vitality of the Assembly demands the strengthening of 
the  authority  and  the  role  of  the  chief  deliberative, 
policymaking  and  representative  organ  of  the  United 
Nations.  It  also  means  organizing  and  conducting  its 
work  in  a  manner  consistent  with  its  proper,  central 
place  in  the  debate  of  and  the  search  for  solutions  to 
the pressing problems of today’s international agenda. 

The path towards those goals has been a long one, 
but  there  has  been  progress.  The  conceptual  basis  of 
the  revitalization  was  clearly  laid  out  in  a  set  of 
resolutions  adopted  in  the  latest  sessions  of  the 
Assembly. Additionally,  as  indicated  in  the  Secretary-
General’s report of October 2006 (A/61/483), concrete 
measures  have  been  taken  in  areas  such  as,  for 
example,  the  role  of  the  President  and  the  working 
methods of this organ. 
It  is  now  time  to  implement  decisions  already 

agreed  upon.  One  example  in  the  critical  area  of  the 
role  and  authority  of  the  General Assembly  comes  to 
mind. As recalled in the past, this Assembly is clearly 
empowered 
the 
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security, 
without  prejudice  to  the  prerogatives  of  the  Security 
Council.  One  possible  vehicle  for  this  could  be  the 
thematic  debates  we  initiated  precisely  as  a  result  of 
our  efforts  to  revitalize  the  Assembly.  We  believe  it 
would  be  fitting  for  the  President  of  every  session  to 
suggest  an  increased  number  of  topics  related  to 
international peace and security to be discussed by the 
membership.  This  exercise  would  strengthen 
the 
to  discuss 
issues  pertaining 
to 
A/62/PV.56
Another 
important  aspect  of  our  efforts 
indispensable  dialogue  between  the  Security  Council 
and those on whose behalf it acts. The Council would 
benefit  from  valuable  input  offered  by  delegations, 
while the Assembly would enhance the participation of 
Member  States  in  better-informed  decisions  that  may 
affect direct legitimate interests. 

to 
revitalize  the  Assembly  regards  the  selection  of  the 
Secretary-General.  The  discussions  held  in  the  sixty-
first  session  were  quite  useful.  We  see  as  significant 
the  relevant  paragraphs  of  resolution  60/286.  Full 
compliance  with  the  decisions  therein  will  allow  the 
General  Assembly  to  become  more  involved  in  such 
selection.  When  the  right  time  comes,  it  will  be 
especially important that the selection of the Secretary-
General  be  as  inclusive  and  transparent  as  possible. 
The  Organization  will  also  benefit  from  serious 
consideration of the invitation extended to the Security 
Council to update the Assembly on steps it takes in this 
regard. 

Behind  these  concrete  measures  lies  the  crucial 
notion  of  checks  and  balances  among  the  principal 
United  Nations  organs.  We  believe  that  the  United 
Nations will be strengthened if we manage to set up a 
relationship  that  is  truly  complementary  and  mutually 
reinforcing,  with  proper  balance  among  its  organs,  in 
accordance  with  the  Charter.  Clearly,  the  optimum 
functioning  of  the  system  as  envisaged  in  the  Charter 
would  be  facilitated  by  meaningful  reform  of  the 
Security  Council.  A  more 
and 
transparent  Council  would  support  a  vital  and  active 
General  Assembly,  just  as  a  revitalized  Assembly 
would invigorate its trust in an effective and responsive 
Council. 

These  are some key perspectives that Brazil will 
take with it to the Ad Hoc Working Group established 
by resolution 61/292. We believe that the Group has a 
contribution  to  make  at  this  juncture  of  our  work.  Its 
main tasks will be to help us implement what has been 
decided and to pursue consideration of ways to further 
improve the work of the General Assembly. 

We  are  interested  in  moving  expeditiously.  We 
were reassured by your letter of 8 November and your 
commitment,  Sir,  to  appointing  chairs  of  the  Working 
Group,  which  you  have  done.  We  must  now  resume 
focused work on this key systemic issue, sooner rather 
than later. 
representative 
07-61162 

19 
A/62/PV.56 


On this occasion, I would like to congratulate the 
Permanent Representatives of Paraguay and Poland on 
their  designation  to  conduct  consultations  in  the 
Ad Hoc  Working  Group.  My  delegation  is  ready  to 
cooperate  with  you,  Mr.  President,  and  with  the 
Co-Chairs  in  the  Working  Group  on  moving  forward 
this important item on our agenda. 
Mr.  Hermida  Castillo  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in 

Spanish): My delegation considers this item one of the 
most  important  on  the  agenda  of  the  sixty-second 
session of the General Assembly, since we are referring 
to 
the  principal  deliberative  policymaking  and 
democratic organ of the United Nations. Revitalization 
is an integral part of the  comprehensive reform of the 
Organization,  with  the  objective  of  making  it  more 
effective  and  efficient.  It  is  a  dynamic  process,  in 
accordance  with  the  parameters  established  in  the 
Charter,  in  the  2005  Outcome  Document  and  in  the 
Millennium Summit. 

In  order  to  maintain  harmony  and  the  balance 
established  in  the  Charter,  we  have  to  uphold  the 
functions  and  powers  that  the  Charter  gives  to  the 
principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  mainly  to  the 
General  Assembly.  To  have  effective  multilateralism, 
and  in  order  to  maintain  the  Assembly’s  role  as  the 
main  forum  for  debate  and  the  resolution  of  global 
problems,  we  have 
to 
jurisdictions 
established for every organ. 

therefore,  should  not 
encroach on the functions of other organs establishing 
standards,  legislative  texts  and  even  definitions  — 
questions  that  directly  concern  the  functions  and 
powers of the General Assembly and of the Economic 
and  Social  Council.  For  the  smooth  operation  of  the 
Assembly,  the  United  Nations  has  to  have  sufficient 
resources  to  comply  with  and  to  implement  the 
programmes  and  activities  that  have  been  entrusted  to 
it  through  the  mandates  established  by  the  resolutions 
adopted. 

We  are  in  agreement  with  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly and support him with action on the 
five points he has identified as global priorities of our 
time  — 
for 
development, 
the  Global 
Counter-Terrorism Strategy, the follow-up to measures 
to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and 
internal  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  However,  we 
should  add  to  these  five  points  the  role  played  by  the 
is,  climate  change, 
the 
The  Security  Council, 
implementation  of 
that 
financing 

General Assembly  in  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security, especially in those cases where the 
Security  Council  does  not  deal  with  situations  that 
involve crimes against humanity, war crimes, genocide 
or  ceasefires.  This  means  that  the  Assembly  should 
adopt the corresponding measures to resolve the matter 
when  the  Council  does  not  comply  with  its  primary 
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security, as was recommended by the heads 
of State and Government at the Havana Summit of the 
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries. 

In  order  to  work  well,  we  must  have  the 
necessary  tools,  in  the  same  way  that  delegations,  in 
order 
to  have  an  adequate,  deep,  extensive  or 
comprehensive debate, must rely on the documentation 
published  by  the  Secretariat.  However,  by  last  Friday 
evening  we  still  had  not  seen  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General. Last year this report was published 
on 2 October. We believe that this situation should not 
recur.  

Other  issues  that  we  have  seen  in  this  session 
involve  lack  of  wisdom  regarding  the  number  of 
meetings  that  are  assigned  to  certain  items  in  plenary. 
We have seen in the Journal on many occasions that for 
a  specific  item  —  for  example,  Security  Council 
reform  —  only  one  or  two  meetings  are  scheduled, 
when  four  or  five  are  needed.  We  believe  that  this 
could  be  easily  resolved  if  we  simply  considered  the 
number  of  meetings  that  the  item  warranted  at  a 
previous  session  or,  if  it  is  a  new  item,  the  interest 
shown  in  it  by  delegations  in  informal  meetings  or  in 
the  cooperation  by  delegations  in  the  drafting  of 
reports of the Secretary-General. 

In the subsidiary bodies of the General Assembly 
and in the functional commissions, five or six meetings 
are  sometimes  scheduled  at  the  same  time,  making  it 
impossible  for  small  or  medium-sized  delegations  to 
take part in all of the meetings for staff reasons. 

In the Sixth Committee, there was an overlapping 
of  meetings  with  consultations  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
and  Sustainable  Fisheries.  This  runs  counter  to  the 
written  provision 
in  operative  paragraph  133  of 
resolution  61/222,  in  which  the  General  Assembly 
decided “to ensure that the consultations are scheduled 
in  such  a  way  as  to  avoid  overlap  with  the  period 
during which the Sixth Committee is meeting”. 

resolved  by 
In  spite  of  these  small  snags  that  can  be  easily 
the  process  of 
the  Secretariat, 
respect 
the 
20 

07-61162 
its 
to  support 
the  growing 
strengthen 


revitalization  has  also  had 
successes  and 
achievements  with,  for  example,  the  establishment  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  with  the  programming  of  interactive  debates 
and items that are chosen for the debates and with the 
selection of new dates on which the General Assembly 
elects  its  President, Vice-Presidents  and  the  Chairmen 
of the Main Committees. We have thereby strengthened 
the  coordination  and  preparation  of  work  between  the 
Main  Committees  and  the  plenary,  as  well  as  the  role 
of the Bureau. 

We  are  convinced  that,  with  the  efforts  of  all 
States  and  the  necessary  political  will,  the  process  of 
revitalizing  the  General  Assembly  could  achieve  the 
results  desired  and 
the  process  of 
democratizing and reforming the United Nations itself 
that humankind awaits. 
Mr.  Nguyen  Tat  Thanh  (Viet  Nam):  On  behalf 

of  the  Vietnamese  delegation,  I  wish  to  express  our 
high appreciation to Ambassador Badji of Senegal and 
Ambassador  Bodini  of  San  Marino  for  their  dedicated 
efforts to the revitalization of the General Assembly. 
the 

statement made earlier by the representative of Algeria 
on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

For  the  past  16  years,  in  order  to  enable  the 
United  Nations  to  better  address  global  issues  and 
contemporary  transnational  threats,  Member  States 
have  acknowledged 
importance  of 
revitalizing  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
have contributed a fair amount of resources to that end. 
Many  initiatives  and  ideas  have  been  introduced  and 
commendable efforts have  been made.  Difficult issues 
have been highlighted and brought into better focus. It 
is clear to us all, however, that the result that we want 
to achieve is still far ahead. 
The  World  Summit  Outcome  Document,  while 

reaffirming 
the  General 
Assembly  as  the  chief  deliberative  and  policymaking 
and  most  representative  organ  of  the  United  Nations, 
calls  for  strengthening  the  relationship  between  the 
General Assembly and the other principal organs of the 
Organization  to  ensure  better  coordination  on  topical 
issues  that  require  collective  action  by  the  United 
Nations, in accordance with their respective mandates. 

Resolution  60/286  underlines  the  pivotal  role  of 
the General Assembly on global matters of concern to 
My  delegation  also  wants 
the  central  position  of 
A/62/PV.56
the international community, and at the same time sets 
out  wide-ranging  proposals  to  improve  the  role  and 
authority  of  the  General  Assembly  and  its  working 
methods. 

Most recently, Member States have been engaged 
in  interactive  debates  and  concerted  consultations  on 
the  contemporary  work  of  the  General Assembly,  and 
adopted  by  consensus  resolution  61/292,  which  again 
underscored  the  commitments  to  the  revitalization 
agenda. In that connection, we are fully convinced that 
the  upcoming  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the 
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly will 
lead us further ahead in that ongoing process. We also 
look  forward,  Sir,  to  your  leadership  and  guidance.  In 
the  meantime,  my  delegation  wishes  to  share  the 
following points. 
Considering that the revitalization of the General 

Assembly  constitutes  one  of 
the  most  essential 
elements  of  the  comprehensive  reform  process  of  the 
United  Nations  and  should  therefore  be  accorded 
continued  priority,  my  delegation  notes  with 
satisfaction  that  many  measures  have  been  taken  by 
Member  States  and  the  Secretariat  to  implement 
relevant provisions of resolutions. Initial improvements 
have  been  made  and  should  be  extended  on  such 
critical  fronts  as  periodic  meetings  between 
the 
Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security 
Council and the Economic and Social Council, and the 
holding  of  thematic  debates  during  the  Assembly’s 
main sessions. 

On  another  note,  we  share  the  views  of  many 
Member  States  that  much  remains  to  be  done  to 
enhance 
its 
presidency and its working methods; the selection and 
election  process  of  the  Secretary-General;  as  well  as 
the effective implementation of the resolutions adopted 
by  the  General  Assembly.  Close  cooperation  and 
coordination  between the  General Assembly and other 
principal  organs  of 
the  United  Nations,  other 
international  institutions  and  civil  society,  as  well  as 
among the Main Committees and subsidiary bodies of 
the  General Assembly,  should  be  further  consolidated 
in  compliance  with  their  respective  functions  and 
powers,  thereby  maximizing  efficiency  and  avoiding 
duplication. 

It  is  also  a  continued  priority  to  rationalize  and 
streamline  the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
review  its  mandates,  taking  into  full  account  the  core 
the  General  Assembly, 
the  role  of 
07-61162 

21 

to  move 
to  discharge 
and  practical  ways 
A/62/PV.56 

interests  and  concerns  of  the  larger  membership, 
especially  the  developing  countries,  in  the  fields  of 
international  peace  and  security,  development  and 
human  rights.  Equally  important,  due  attention  should 
be  paid  to  the  consolidation  of  reports  with  a  view  to 
ensuring overall quality and reducing heavy burdens on 
Member States, in particular those represented by small 
delegations. 

The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  will 
be  strengthened  only  when  the  general  membership 
displays  the  political  will  and  determination  to  enable 
the  General  Assembly 
its  role  and 
responsibility  as  envisaged  in  the  Charter.  Our  efforts 
in  that  exercise  must  be  guided  by  the  principles  of 
democracy,  transparency  and  accountability.  In  that 
connection,  my  delegation  believes  that  a  working 
group on the revitalization of the General Assembly, as 
called  for  in  resolution  61/292,  should  be  established 
without  delay,  and  that  Member  States  should  engage 
in  in-depth  discussions  with  an  eye  to  identifying  the 
appropriate 
the 
revitalization process to fruition. 

Finally,  may  I  assure  you,  Sir,  of  Viet  Nam’s 
continued efforts to work with you and Member States 
in that important endeavour. 
Mr. Takasu  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  express  my 

appreciation to you, Sir, for convening today’s meeting 
to discuss one of the most important agenda items, the 
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly. 

The  General Assembly,  as  the  principal  organ  of 
the United Nations represented by every Member State 
equally, is mandated to take up any question or matter 
within  the  scope  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  The 
General  Assembly  plays  a  central  role  in  making 
decisions on and implementing United Nations reform. 
Under  General  Assembly 
resolutions,  we  have 
established  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the 
Human Rights Council, and have discussed such other 
important reform issues as Security Council reform and 
management reform. 

and 
strengthening of the General Assembly as a vital issue 
that  is  geared  to  strengthening  the  functioning  of  the 
United  Nations  itself.  I  wish  to  discuss  four  points 
today that I think require priority attention. 

First, I would like to encourage Member States to 
actively  discuss  in  the  General  Assembly  the  most 
We  must  perceive 
revitalization 
the 
reform, 
and 
in  order 
negotiations 
intergovernmental 
the  good  discussion  at 
relevant and pressing issues of the day. In that respect, 
Japan extends its full  cooperation  and support to your 
initiatives,  Sir,  to  hold  major  thematic  debates  and 
panel  discussions 
to  establish  broad 
international  understanding  of  current  substantive 
issues  of  importance  to  Member  States  and  to  raise 
political  attention  and  momentum.  In  that  respect,  we 
commend 
the  High-level 
Dialogue  on  Financing  for  Development  held 
in 
October, under your guidance. The debate on the report 
of  the  Security  Council  and  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  was  also  conducted 
in  a 
constructive  spirit  from  12  to  14  November,  with  the 
participation  of  a  large  number  of  Member  States.  It 
has  contributed  to  raising  political  momentum  for  the 
forthcoming 
on 
Security Council reform, under your leadership, and to 
producing concrete results during the current session. It 
will be another busy year for the General Assembly in 
2008.  Japan  is  fully  committed  to  rendering  its  full 
support to the Panel’s discussion on climate change to 
be  held  in  February,  as  well  as  the  meetings  on 
management 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  We  are 
prepared  to  actively  participate  in  these  meetings. 
However, thematic debates must be prepared carefully 
and  well  in  advance,  if  they  are  to  be  useful  and  to 
achieve their intended objectives. 

Secondly, Member States and the United Nations 
Secretariat must do their utmost to improve the work of 
the  General  Assembly  and  its  decisions  in  order  to 
make 
constructive. 
Rationalizing  the  General  Assembly’s  agenda  and 
streamlining  resolutions  will  help  it  to  focus  its  work 
more  on  priority  issues  and  to  ensure  that  messages 
from  the  Assembly  are  action-oriented.  Reducing  the 
volume  of  documents  submitted  to  the  Assembly  and 
combining  some  individual  reports  would  help  the 
Assembly  to  work  more  efficiently  and  effectively. 
These  recommendations  have  been  repeated  many 
times in past General Assembly resolutions, but, so far, 
there  is  no  marked  improvement.  The  Secretariat 
should  make  concerted  efforts  to  reduce  the  volume 
and cost of documentation. 

Thirdly, in order to improve coordination among 
the principal organs of the United Nations, consultation 
among  the  leaders  of  those  bodies  —  namely,  the 
Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly,  of  the  Security 
counter-terrorism 
them  more 
effective 
and 
22 

07-61162 
issues  of 
consideration  of 
the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly 


Council,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the 
Secretary-General himself, should be strengthened. We 
acknowledge  the  special  efforts  that  the  Secretary-
General is making in this regard. We fully support the 
practice  that  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  initiated 
to  provide  timely  briefings  to  the  General  Assembly 
and  to  submit  reports  to  it,  if  necessary,  on  specific 
issues.  We  also  welcome  the  holding  of  regular 
meetings between the President of the Security Council 
to 
and 
encourage 
current 
international  concern  by  the Assembly.  Close  working 
relations  among 
the  principal  organs  should  be 
encouraged as a regular and continuous process. 

My  fourth  point  is  on  the  implementation  of  the 
decision itself. I would like to stress the importance of 
the implementation of what has already been agreed by 
the General Assembly. Meaningful revitalization of the 
General  Assembly  is  possible  through  the  timely  and 
effective implementation of the decisions and measures 
adopted. 
Implementation  of  General  Assembly 
resolutions is critical to enhancing its credibility. At the 
same  time,  messages  and  requests  by  the  General 
Assembly  must  be  clear  and  precise  for  effective 
implementation.  Mandates  emerging  from  resolutions 
by the General Assembly  should not be out-of-date or 
duplicated,  nor  should  they  contradict  each  other. 
Mandates  should  be  revised  regularly  and  streamlined 
to meet current requirements. Therefore, it is important 
that  Member  States  agree  to  give  fresh  impetus  to  a 
committee 
the 
co-chairmanship  of  Ambassador  Kaire  Munionganda 
Mbuende  of  Namibia  and  Ambassador  Rosemary 
Banks  of  New  Zealand. An  ad  hoc  working  group  on 
the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  is  also 
important in  order to evaluate and  assess the status of 
the implementation of relevant resolutions. 

Japan looks forward to constructive discussion on 
this  important  agenda  and  to  the  achievement  of 
concrete results in the revitalization of the work of the 
General Assembly. 
Mr.  Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  Mr.  President, 

the topic under  consideration today must be a  priority 
issue  for  any  President  of  the  General  Assembly. 
Strengthening the body over which you preside is both 
an obvious goal and a political necessity. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  the  Assembly  has,  for  a 
while  now,  not  been  playing  the  role  foreseen  for  it 
on  mandate 
review 
under 
A/62/PV.56
thus  of 
under the United Nations Charter. This is a worrisome 
development, because a one-sided focus on the work of 
the  Security  Council  is  politically  unhealthy  and  a 
threat to the institutional balance of this Organization. 

We  continue  to  see  limited  value  in  the  now 
almost traditional exercise of negotiating some sort of 
comprehensive  resolution  on  how  to  revitalize  the 
General  Assembly.  The  recent  past,  in  particular,  has 
made it quite clear that these efforts may produce some 
small  political  sparks  and  can  also  result  in  the 
consensual adoption of decisions and resolutions. They 
do not, however, bring about real political change. This 
is, in fact, not surprising. Why would a paradigm shift 
be created through an exercise that is, by and large, an 
expression  of  business-as-usual  and 
the 
political culture it is intended to change? Furthermore, 
the  ad  hoc  committees  and  working  groups  mandated 
with the work on revitalization tend to produce texts of 
uncanny similarity and often lead to a repetition of the 
well-known  statement  that  the  problem  of  revitalizing 
the  General  Assembly  is  one  of  implementation  or, 
more concretely, the lack thereof. 

We  do,  of  course,  welcome  the  appointment  this 
morning  of  our  two  colleagues  from  Poland  and 
Paraguay,  and  we  thank  them  for  their  willingness  to 
take on this difficult task. Our suggestion would be that 
they should focus their work on perhaps just one aspect 
of revitalizing the General Assembly. 

One key lesson from the past, to our mind, is the 
importance  of  leadership.  This  Assembly  has  been  a 
politically  more  relevant  body  when  headed  by 
somebody who was willing to lead its activities and to 
give real guidance to the membership, on the basis, of 
course,  of 
the 
importance  of  the  position  of  the  President  of  the 
Assembly,  it  is  quite  remarkable  that  we  do  not  pay 
more  attention  to  the  process  of  nominating  and 
selecting our Presidents. It is clear, Mr. President, that 
not all of your predecessors knew this Organization as 
well  as  you  do.  In  some  instances,  a  newly  elected 
President,  after  taking  the  helm  of  the Assembly,  was 
quite  surprised  to  find  out  what  the  position  actually 
entailed. The presidency is not a protocol function; it is 
a position of leadership and political responsibility. We 
would,  therefore,  welcome  consultations,  under  your 
overall  guidance,  conducted  by  the  two  co-Chairs,  on 
how  to  improve  the  mechanisms  through  which  the 
Assembly nominates and appoints its Presidents. There 
are  a  number  of  proposals  from  the  past  that  we  can 
consultations.  Given 
extensive 
07-61162 

23 

through 
also 
A/62/PV.56 

build  on,  relating  to  measures  such  as  informal 
meetings  with  persons  who  have  an  interest  in  the 
position, 
regional  groups  or  otherwise, 
compilation of briefing material, and other means that 
can be drawn upon. If a concrete product on this issue 
was to be the only outcome under this item, we would 
consider it to be a good result. 

In addition, of course, we wish to see a dynamic 
session  of  the  Assembly  under  your  leadership.  We 
encourage  you  in  particular  to  focus  on  the  priority 
issues that you have outlined and to make frequent use 
of  the  format  of  informal  plenary  sessions.  Such 
meetings  might  be  even  more  useful  and  yield  even 
more concrete results, if you present the members with 
a  list  of  topics  and  questions  that  you  wish  them  to 
address  in  connection  with  a  particular  issue. We  also 
welcome  briefings  offered  by  the  Secretary-General, 
such  as  the  one  given  last  week. We  concur  that  such 
briefings should be held on specific opportunities, but 
we do not believe that these should arise exclusively in 
connection  with  travel  activities.  Also,  we  would 
welcome briefings that are more focused and limited to 
a  small  number  of  topics,  perhaps  even  a  single  one. 
We 
similar 
opportunities  with  other  high  officials  of 
the 
Secretariat, such as Under-Secretaries-General. Under-
Secretaries-General, in particular, often complain about 
the lack of opportunity to engage with the membership, 
and informal plenary meetings are one obvious remedy. 
Mr. Pokhrel (Nepal): On behalf of the delegation 

of  Nepal,  I  appreciate  the  opportunity  to  discuss  this 
important  agenda  item,  on  the  revitalization  of  the 
work  of  the  General  Assembly.  In  this  regard,  we 
commend  your  opening  statement,  Mr.  President,  and 
pledge  Nepal’s  support  in  your  endeavours  in  this 
regard.  My  delegation  associates 
the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Algeria  on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.  

We  appreciate  the  call  of  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  for  a  stronger  United  Nations  for  a  better 
world.  We  cannot  envisage  a  stronger  United  Nations 
without  a  strong  and  effective  General  Assembly. 
Therefore,  the  revitalization  of  the  General Assembly 
is  an  important  and  unfinished  item  on  the  agenda  of 
United Nations reform. 

highest 
representative body of the United Nations. Its universal 
membership  makes 
authoritative 
The  General  Assembly 
encourage  you 
to  organize 
itself  with 
it 
the  most 
is 
the 
strengthening 
policymaking  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  a 
matter  of  utmost  priority  for  the  membership  of  the 
United  Nations  that  the  General  Assembly  strengthen 
its  deliberative, 
legislative  and  decision-making 
functions.  Unless  we  strengthen  these  aspects,  the 
General Assembly cannot be revitalized.  

At the 2005 World Summit, world leaders called 
for 
revitalizing  and 
the  General 
Assembly;  it  is  sad,  however,  that  we  have  not  been 
able  to  move  forward  in  the  revitalization  of  the 
General  Assembly.  Today,  its  functions  are  being 
encroached upon by other organs of the United Nations 
and  taken  over  by  bodies  outside  the  Organization. 
Particularly  worrisome  is  the  increasing  role  of  the 
Security  Council  in  adopting  resolutions  of  legislative 
nature,  which  would  have  otherwise 
required 
consideration by the General Assembly.  

Revitalization of the Assembly can be achieved if 
we  bring  important  subjects  under  its  consideration. 
For  example,  the  recent  high-level  event  on  climate 
change  convened  by  the  Secretary-General  showed 
how  much  the  Assembly  can  do  to  focus  upon  the 
world’s  most  pressing  issues.  More  such  thematic 
debates on topical issues should be regularly convened 
in the Assembly.  

Nepal  supports  the  strengthening  of  the  role  of 
the  Office  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
and a more regular and institutionalized mechanism for 
consultations  between  the  President  and  the  heads  of 
other  organs  of  the  United  Nations.  The  President’s 
Office should be backed with more resources.  

We  emphasize  that  we  should  strengthen  the 
mechanism  for  implementing  the  decisions  of  the 
General  Assembly.  Similarly,  we  should  be  able  to 
dispense with repetitive and obsolete mandates.  

We welcome the continuation of the debate under 
this  agenda  item  with  the  appointment  of  facilitators. 
Nepal  pledges  to  work  with  other  Member  States  to 
strengthen this important organ of the United Nations. 
Mr.  Amil  (Pakistan):  The  Pakistan  delegation 

would like to thank you,  Mr. President, for convening 
this  debate  on  General  Assembly  revitalization.  We 
would like to align ourselves with the statement made 
by  the  representative  of  Algeria  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM)  in  his  capacity  as 
coordinator  of  the  NAM  working  group.  Let  me  take 
this  opportunity 
the  representatives  of 
thank 
to 
24 

07-61162 
We 
also 
look 
forward 


San Marino and Senegal for their hard work during the 
sixty-first  session.  We  welcome  your  appointment  of 
the new co-Chairs, the representatives of Paraguay and 
Poland, who will help guide our future work.  

constructively 
participating  in  the  deliberations  on  this  important 
issue at this, the sixty-second session. The result of our 
deliberations  should  accommodate  the  interests  and 
concerns  of  all  United  Nations  Member  States.  We 
believe  that  the  issue  of  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly  is  a  political  and  not  a  procedural  issue. 
Where  divisions  persist,  our  collective  efforts  should 
be for consensus-building.  

Pakistan  remains  concerned  that  the  role  and 
effectiveness  of  the  General  Assembly,  as  clearly 
spelled  out  in  the  Charter,  has  been  considerably  and 
continually  eroded.  Furthermore,  we  continue  to  urge 
full implementation of the previous General Assembly 
resolutions on revitalization. For our work to yield real 
results,  our  consultations  should  be  conducted  in  a 
manner that is open and transparent, treating the issues 
in a holistic manner.  
Our  work  at  the  sixty-first  session  resulted  in 

resolution 61/292, which was procedural in nature and 
which served a two-fold purpose: to request an update 
report  from  the  Secretary-General  on  the  status  of 
implementation  of  resolution  60/286,  and  to  establish 
an  open-ended  working  group  at  the  sixty-second 
session. Unfortunately, the requested report has not yet 
been  made  available  to  Member  States.  Nor  has  the 
Secretariat 
its  release.  Our 
consideration  of  the  report  will  therefore  have  to  take 
place  at  a  later  stage,  in  the  framework  of  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group.  We  would  like  to  here  restate 
our  desire  to  see  a  substantive  report  from  the 
Secretary-General  that  is  analytical  in  nature  and  that 
addresses why there has been a lack of implementation 
on the revitalization of the General Assembly.  

The  General  Assembly  is  the  chief  deliberative, 
policymaking  and  representative  organ  of  the  United 
Nations  and  must  be  enabled  to  play  its  central  role 
and 
effectively. 
interdependent  world,  multilateralism 
just 
desirable but also necessary. Against such a backdrop, 
the United Nations has a historic opportunity to play a 
lead role in world affairs, but it is seemingly failing to 
do  so  due  to  a  lack  of  agreed  vision  among  Member 
States. 
increasingly  globalized 
is  not 
indicated  a  date  for 
an 
to 
In 
A/62/PV.56
of 
agendas, 
curtailment 

Revitalization  of  the  Assembly  should  therefore 
not be treated merely as a  procedural issue relating to 
rationalization 
of 
documentation  and  improvement  of  working  methods. 
True revitalization of the General Assembly can occur 
only  once  the  general  membership  shows  the  political 
determination  to  enable  the Assembly  to  discharge  its 
prescribed  role  and  responsibility  as  envisaged  by  the 
Charter of the United Nations. Equally important is to 
arrest and reverse the erosion of the role and authority 
of  the  General  Assembly,  essentially  by  the  Security 
Council and to a certain extent by the Secretariat.  

For  our  delegation,  the  crux  of  revitalization  is 
strengthening the authority and the role of the General 
Assembly. Prerequisites for achieving such an outcome 
necessitate,  first,  full  respect  for  the  Assembly’s 
Charter  role  and  functions;  secondly,  an  end  to  the 
encroachment by the Security Council on issues within 
the  Assembly’s  purview;  thirdly,  a  renewed  political 
commitment  by  all  Member  States  to  implement  the 
Assembly’s  decisions  on  a  non-selective  and  non-
discriminatory  basis;  and  finally,  the  provision  of 
adequate financial resources to implement all mandated 
activities.  

Some  further  ideas  for  consideration  include  the 
following.  First,  the  General  Assembly  should  be 
accorded  a  greater  review  and  residuary  role  in  peace 
and  security,  for  example  by  reinvigorating  historical 
procedures,  such  as  “Uniting  for  Peace”  (resolution 
377  (v)),  and  addressing  “ignored”  issues  relating  to 
complex  crises,  including  through  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council,  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
other functional commissions.  

Secondly,  a  General  Assembly  monitoring  and 
implementation  mechanism  could  be  established  to 
review  and  advise  on  the  implementation  of  various 
decisions  and 
the 
Assembly. This mechanism could be linked also to the 
mandate review exercise. 

the General Assembly by the Secretary-General. 

Fourthly, the  General Assembly should  carry  out 
closer  examination  of  the  deliberations  and  decisions 
of the Security Council. 

Assembly’s 
Fifthly,  it  is  clear,  we  believe,  that  the  General 
financial  and  administrative 
Thirdly,  we  would  welcome  regular  briefings  to 
recommendations  adopted  by 
role 
in 
07-61162 

25 

that 
continue 
those  of 
to  recommend 
A/62/PV.56 

management  and  oversight  over  all  United  Nations 
decisions and expenditures has to be bolstered. 

We recognize that a key reason for the erosion of 
the  Assembly’s  credibility  and  effectiveness  is  the 
non-implementation  of  its  resolutions  and  decisions. 
We  have  in  the  past  suggested  the  establishment  of 
some  form  of  mechanisms  that  can  monitor  the 
implementation of these resolutions. We would like to 
urge the membership to further explore this idea. 

Last  but  not  least,  Pakistan  supports  efforts  to 
strengthen  the  Office  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly.  We  continue 
the 
Secretary-General brief the President at least, perhaps, 
bi-monthly  on  all  activities  in  the  United  Nations, 
particularly 
the  Security  Council.  The 
President  should  also  be  authorized  to  request  special 
briefings on any situation or issue by the Presidents of 
the  Security  Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  and  also  by 
the  Secretary-General.  We 
recommend  greater  coordination  in  this  area.  In  these 
endeavours,  Pakistan  will 
to  work 
constructively  so  that  the  General  Assembly’s  role  as 
the  principal  deliberative,  policymaking  and  most 
representative organ of the United Nations is restored. 
Mr. Sow (Guinea) (spoke in French): An in-depth 

consideration of the ways and means to strengthen the 
role,  authority,  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of  the 
General  Assembly  is  a  central  concern  of  States 
Members  of  our  Organization.  My  delegation  would 
like  to  express  to  you,  Mr.  President,  our  deepest 
appreciation for having given this item a due place on 
the agenda. 

We  would  like  to  associate  ourselves  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Algeria  on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

I  would  like  at  the  outset  to  commend  the 
Working  Group  and,  in  particular,  the  two  Facilitators 
for 
the  sixty-first  session,  Ambassador  Badji  of 
Senegal and Ambassador Bodini of San Marino, for the 
productive  and  tireless  efforts  they  made  following 
March  2007  in  conducting  consultations,  which  led  in 
August to the consensus adoption of resolution 61/292 
on revitalizing the General Assembly. 

In spite of the sensitive and complex nature of the 
subject,  progress  has  been  made,  and  my  delegation 
welcomes  it  with  interest.  We  cannot  fail  to  welcome 
the  increasingly  central  role  the  General  Assembly  is 
is 
climate 
the 
active 
of 
decisions 
Likewise, 
stemming 
terrorism, 
playing in the United Nations reform process and in the 
implementation 
from 
conferences  and  summits  of  heads  of  State  or 
Government.  The  result 
the  strengthening  of 
cooperation  and  of  balance  between  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  other  principal  organs,  the  Security 
Council,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the 
Secretariat,  on  the  basis  of  the  mandates  that  the 
Charter confers to each of them. 

The  holding  of  major  thematic  debates  promotes 
interaction  and  agreement  among  Member  States  on 
major or urgent questions of substance or of topicality, 
dealing  with  a  wide  range  of  areas, 
including 
prevention  and  management  of  crises,  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals, 
change, 
dialogue among cultures and religions, and others. 

of 
involvement 
non-governmental  organizations,  civil  society  and  the 
private  sector  in  the  process  of  exchanging  ideas 
strengthens  the  General  Assembly  as  a  universal 
representative  body  and  the  principal  deliberative 
organ  of  our  Organization.  My  delegation  is  also 
pleased  to  note  the  strengthening  of  cooperation 
between  the  General  Assembly  and  national  and 
regional  parliaments, 
the 
Inter-Parliamentary Union. 

These  positive  and  encouraging  aspects  in  the 
process  of  revitalizing  the  General  Assembly  should 
not hide the obstacles and challenges that remain to be 
overcome  so  that  progress  will  be  irreversible.  In  this 
effort, we should maintain a better balance between the 
action of the General Assembly and that of the Security 
Council,  shielding  the  former  from  being  trampled  by 
the  latter.  Once  again,  we  should  call  on  the  Security 
Council  to  keep  the  General  Assembly  updated  and 
better informed on measures it adopts and periodically 
to  present  reports  to  the  General  Assembly  for  its 
consideration, under Articles 15 and 24 of the Charter, 
on  specialized  subjects  relating  to  topical  issues  of 
concern to the international community. 
The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  also 

requires 
its 
President, as well as the enrichment and consolidation 
of  its  institutional  memory.  The Assembly  must,  inter 
alia, make available financial and human resources for 
carrying  out  its  most  pressing  programmes  and  action 
items. 
the  strengthening  of 
the  Office  of 
in  particular 
through 
26 

07-61162 
to 
and 
contemplated 
the  main  adviser 



With  respect  to  the  improvement  of  the  working 
methods  of  the  General  Assembly,  my  delegation 
would  hope  for  steady  continued  work  on  reviewing 
and streamlining the agendas of the General Assembly 
and  its  Main  Committees.  The  time  has  come  for  the 
General  Committee,  as 
the 
Assembly, to be reactivated so that it can make concise 
recommendations on the Assembly’s working methods, 
in accordance with resolution 58/316. 
All  follow-up  measures  and  reform  proposals 

should  be 
adopted  openly, 
transparently  and  in  a  results-oriented  way,  based  on 
the Organization’s priority themes and objectives. 

In concluding, I would like to emphasize that the 
implementation of General Assembly resolutions is one 
of the keys to revitalization. Therefore, I appeal to the 
Secretariat  to  continue,  for  that  purpose,  to  provide 
useful  information  on  the  status  of  implementation  of 
resolutions adopted in this area, including by updating 
its  excellent  report  (A/61/483)  in  conformity  with  the 
spirit of resolution 61/292 of 2 August 2007. 

I  welcome  the  choice  of  our  colleagues  from 
Poland and Paraguay as Facilitators of the Open-ended 
Working  Group  on  revitalization  of 
the  General 
Assembly,  and  I  assure  them  of  our  delegation’s 
cooperation. 
Mr.  Natalegawa  (Indonesia):  Mr.  President,  we 

thank you for convening this debate on the orientation 
of the entity that best represents the aspirations of the 
global  community  of  nations.  We  also  express  our 
gratitude  to  the  Permanent Representatives  of  Senegal 
and San Marino for their important work as Facilitators 
on  revitalizing  the  role  and  authority  of  the  General 
Assembly. 

My delegation supports efforts at revitalizing the 
General  Assembly’s  role  and  authority.  It  associates 
itself with the statement made by the representative of 
Algeria on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

Efforts  at  revitalizing  the  General  Assembly 
should  aim  at  strengthening  its  role  as  the  principal 
deliberative, policymaking and representative organ of 
the United Nations. While we appreciate the efforts to 
empower 
its 
efficiency, the Assembly can be considered revitalized  
the  General  Assembly  and 
increase 
A/62/PV.56
recently 
between 
relations 
synergies.  The 
responsibilities.  A 
only  when  certain  fundamental  factors  are  properly 
addressed.  The  implementation  of  General  Assembly 
resolutions  is  one  obvious  necessity.  Strong  efforts 
need  to  be  made  in  that  direction.  Certainly,  there  is 
need  for  the  full  implementation  of  all  previous 
General Assembly resolutions on revitalization as soon 
as possible. 
Revitalization  also  entails  the  realignment  of  the 

complementary 
the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  in  a  spirit  of 
partnership  and  in  full  respect  of  the  two  organs’ 
Charter-mandated 
revitalized 
General  Assembly  is  also  one  that  demonstrates  a 
capacity  to  address  important  international  issues 
proactively.  The  holding  of  thematic  debates  is  a 
welcome  development.  It  is  also  one  that  enhances 
substantive  dialogue  and  cooperation  with 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  in  the  interest  of 
promoting 
established 
Peacebuilding Commission and Human Rights Council 
need support and guidance from a revitalized Assembly 
in the fulfilment of their challenging tasks.  

Political  will  is  of  the  essence,  and  Member 
States  have  to  demonstrate  it  tangibly  by  bringing 
about  a  strong  General  Assembly.  Indonesia  supports 
and  urges  the  implementation  of  previous  General 
Assembly  resolutions  on  revitalization.  We  share  the 
concern  of  other  delegations  that  the  role  of  the 
Assembly has diminished over the years and that it has 
to  be  restored  in  line  with  its  Charter  mandate.  My 
delegation  would  support  a  new  substantive  and 
comprehensive resolution to that effect. 

Moving  forward,  we  believe  that  the  Assembly 
should  adopt  more  streamlined  and  action-oriented 
resolutions. We  should  plan  and  organize  our  work  in 
the  various  committees  efficiently,  including  focused 
discussions.  Repetition  and  overlapping  of  mandates 
should  be  avoided.  However,  rationalization  of  the 
work  should  not  be  forgotten  at  the  expense  of 
substantive matters. 

undertaking 
revitalization of the General Assembly. 
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
Indonesia reiterates its cooperation and support in 
and  meaningful 
comprehensive 
a 
07-61162 

27 
