United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-second session 

40th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 31 October 2007, 10.17 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Kerim  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

A/62/PV.40
Official Records
(The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) 
accord  in  history.  The  modern  Olympic  movement, 
which  came  into  being  in  1894,  has  inherited  the 
traditions  of  the  ancient  Olympic  games.  At  its  very 
heart  lies  the  pledge  to  safeguard  world  peace  and 
promote  the  common  development  of  mankind,  while 
at the same time upholding the Olympic spirit: swifter, 
higher, stronger. 

The  United  Nations  and  the  Olympic  Movement 
are  natural  allies. The  Olympic  ideal  accords  with  the 
United  Nations  purpose  of  promoting  peace.  Since 
1993, 
the  General  Assembly  has  adopted  seven 
resolutions  on  the  Olympic  Truce,  urging  all  Member 
States  to  observe  the  Truce.  The  United  Nations 
Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  adopted  in 
2000,  also  urged  Member  States  to  observe  the 
Olympic Truce and to support the promotion of peace 
and  human  understanding 
the 
Olympic ideal. 

All  of  that  amply  demonstrates  that  the  United 
Nations and its Member States attach great importance 
to  the  role  played  by  sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal  in 
promoting  world  peace  and  that  they  hope  to  create  a 
favourable  atmosphere  and  conditions  for  the  success 
of the Olympic Games. 

In  line  with  past  practice,  China,  as  the  host 
country  for  the  Games  of  the  XXIX  Olympiad,  has 
proposed  the  draft  resolution  entitled  “Building  a 
peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the 
Olympic  ideal”  (A/62/L.2).  The  draft  resolution  not 
only  captures  the  quintessential  elements  of  previous 
resolutions,  but  also  features  the  three  main  concepts 
through  sport  and 





The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.  

Agenda item 45 
Sport for peace and development 
  (a)  Sport for peace and development 



  Report of the Secretary-General (A/62/325 
and Corr.1) 


  (b)  Building a peaceful and better world through 
I give the  floor to the representative of  China to 
sport and the Olympic ideal 
  Draft resolution A/62/L.2 


The President: I would like to say that I assume 
that the Olympic spirit will prevail today, as Pierre de 
Coubertin  would  have  liked,  and  that  attendance  by 
Member States will be more impressive. 

introduce draft resolution A/61/L.2. 
Mr.  Liu  Qi  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  As 

President of the Beijing Organizing Committee for the 
Games  of  the  29th  Olympiad,  and  on  behalf  of  the 
Chinese  delegation,  I  have 
to 
introduce  draft  resolution A/62/L.2,  entitled  “Building 
a  peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the 
Olympic ideal”. 

The  Olympic  Truce,  a  time-honoured  tradition, 
has its roots in the Olympic truce treaty among Greek 
city-states participating in the ancient Olympic games, 
which  had  a  history  of  more  than  1,000  years.  The 
treaty  was  thus  observed  longer  than  any  other  peace 
the  great  honour 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
07-57301 (E) 
*0757301* 

of 
role  of 
sport 
internationally 
the 
of 
during 
important 
the  Games 
A/62/PV.40 

that  are  at  the  core  of  the  Beijing  Olympic  Games, 
namely,  the  Green  Olympics,  the  High-tech  Olympics 
and the People’s Olympics, and their vision to achieve 
a harmonious development of society. It recognizes the 
in 
increasingly 
the 
implementation 
agreed 
development  goals  and  reaffirms  the  commitments 
undertaken  in  this  regard  by  the  heads  of  State  and 
Government  gathered  at  the  2005 World  Summit. The 
draft  resolution  urges  Member  States  to  observe  the 
Olympic  Truce 
the 
XXIX Olympiad in Beijing, which will take place from 
8  to  24  August  2008,  and  the  subsequent  Paralympic 
Games  in  Beijing,  which  will  take  place  from  6  to 
17 September 2008. 
The draft resolution also welcomes efforts of the 

International  Olympic  Committee  and  the  National 
Olympic Committees of United Nations Member States 
to  undertake  concrete  actions 
to  promote  and 
strengthen a culture of peace and harmony based on the 
spirit of the Olympic Truce and calls upon all Member 
States  to  continue  to  use  sport  as  an  instrument  to 
promote peace, dialogue and reconciliation. 
China  has  received  constructive  comments  and 

the 
suggestions 
consultations  on 
the  draft  resolution.  The  draft 
resolution is sponsored by 183 countries. On behalf of 
the  Chinese  Government  and  the  Beijing  Organizing 
Committee  for  the  Games  of  the  XXIX  Olympiad,  I 
would  like  to  convey  my  thanks  to  all  countries  for 
their  support  for  the  draft  resolution.  It  is  my  sincere 
hope  that  the  General  Assembly  will  adopt  the  draft 
resolution  by  consensus.  The  adoption  of  the  draft 
resolution  will  help  enhance  appreciation  and 
understanding  by  all  peoples  of  the  Olympic  ideal  of 
peace and will contribute to world peace. 

The  Olympic  Truce  is  not  only  the  ideal  of  the 
Olympic movement but also the common aspiration of 
all  peace-loving  peoples  around  the  world. The  theme 
of  the  Games  of  the  XXIX  Olympiad  —  “One  world, 
one  dream”  —  and  its  core  concepts  of  the  Green 
Olympics,  the  High-tech  Olympics  and  the  People’s 
Olympics give full expression to the common desire of 
the Chinese people and peoples of the entire world for 
peace,  progress,  friendly  relations  and  harmonious 
development.  To  that  end,  the  Beijing  Organizing 
Committee  has  launched  various  activities  to  promote 
the  Olympic  Truce,  enhance  understanding  of  the 
from  many  delegations  during 
2 

Olympic Truce in China and throughout the world and 
increase the influence of the Olympic ideal of peace. 

We have organized a series of events to promote 
the concept of peace, including the campaign to solicit 
songs  for  the  Olympic  Games;  the  “Fuwa  —  the 
Olympic  mascots  —  bring  good  luck  to  the  world” 
campaign;  and  an  Olympic  sculpture  exhibition.  We 
have  named  the  Olympic  torch  relay  the  Journey  of 
Harmony,  a  name  that  captures  the  vision  of  peace, 
harmony  and  cooperation.  We  have  distributed 
Olympic readers and wall charts to schools designated 
Olympic Education Model Schools, and have launched 
the  Heart-to-Heart  Partnership  Programme  and  a 
Beijing  Olympic  Youth  Camp.  These  educational 
programmes are sowing the seeds of peace, friendship 
and  progress  among  the  public,  in  particular  among 
young  people.  During 
the  Beijing  Olympic  and 
Paralympic Games, a wall for peace and friendship will 
be  erected  at  the  Olympic  and  Paralympic  villages  to 
collect signatures from athletes and other people and to 
appeal  for  observance  of  the  Olympic  Truce  and  the 
promotion of world peace. 

The International Olympic Committee (IOC) and 
its  President,  Mr.  Jacques  Rogge,  have  been  working 
tirelessly to promote the Olympic ideal of peace. I take 
this  opportunity  to  express  our  deep  appreciation  for 
their  commitment.  Thanks  to  the  concerted  efforts  of 
the  IOC  and  the  parties  concerned,  the  International 
Olympic  Truce  Foundation  and 
the  International 
Olympic  Truce  Centre  have  been  established, 
contributing  to  the  promotion  of  the  Olympic  ideal  of 
peace worldwide. 

We also thank Mr. Adolf Ogi, Special Adviser to 
the  Secretary-General  on  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace,  for  his  hard  work,  and  we  will  continue  to 
support the work of his Office. 

Peace  and  development  are  two  major  themes  in 
today’s  world.  Unfortunately,  regional  conflicts  and 
local turbulence still occur, making our quest for world 
peace  more  of  an  uphill  journey. The  Olympic  Games 
may not change the world overnight, but we have every 
reason  to  expect  that  the  Olympic  Truce,  an  ancient 
Olympic tradition, will continue to inspire the world in 
striving for lasting peace and common prosperity.  

I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  call  on  all 
Member States to adhere to the purposes and principles 
of  the  United  Nations,  to  observe  the  Olympic  Truce 
and to promote world peace. In 282 days, the Olympic 
07-57301 
the 
last  year 
regulations  on 
foreign  media, 
formulated 
in  accordance  with  plans  for 


Flame  —  burning  bright  for  solidarity,  friendship  and 
peace — will be lit in the main stadium of the Beijing 
Olympic  Games.  That  is  of  great  significance  both  to 
the  Olympic  Movement  and  to  China,  an  ancient 
civilization  with  a 
time-honoured  history.  The 
international  community  looks  forward  to  the  success 
of  the  Beijing  Olympic  Games. At  present,  all  of  the 
preparatory work is taking  place as scheduled. All the 
venues will be complete by the end of the year, except 
for the National Stadium, which will be ready in early 
2008 
the  opening 
ceremony. 

The  Beijing  Olympic  competition  schedule  has 
been finalized. To facilitate the coverage of the Games 
the  Chinese 
by 
Government 
reporting 
activities  in  China  by  foreign  journalists  during  the 
Beijing Olympic Games and the preparatory period. In 
addition,  various  programmes  are  already  up  and 
running,  including  preparations  for  the  opening  and 
closing ceremonies, the torch relay outside the Chinese 
mainland,  media  and  communications,  Olympic 
education and culture, and volunteer training. 

I  am  convinced  that,  with  the  support  of  all 
United  Nations  Member  States  and  their  peoples,  the 
games  of  the  twenty-ninth  Olympiad  will  surely  be  a 
complete success. 
The President: I would like to warmly welcome 

Mr.  Jacques  Rogge,  President  of  the  International 
Olympic  Committee  to  the  General  Assembly,  and 
the  Beijing  Organizing 
Mr. Liu  Qi,  President  of 
Committee  for 
the  Twenty-Ninth 
Olympiad.  
Today,  the  General Assembly  will  hold  a  debate 

for  peace  and 
under  agenda 
development”,  and  consider  draft  resolution  A/62/L.2 
regarding the contribution that the Olympics can make 
to that overarching goal.  
In  2005,  world  leaders  committed  to  promoting 

the  role  of  sport  in  creating  peace,  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
and 
improving public health. The convening power of sport 
is unsurpassed, even by the United Nations. While the 
United  Nations  has  192  Member  States, 
the 
Association  of  National  Olympic  Committees  has  205 
members.  As  the  President  of  the  Beijing  Organizing 
Committee, Mr. Liu Qi, rightly pointed out, the United 
Nations and the Olympic Movement are natural allies. 
item  49,  “Sport 
the  Games  of 
(MDGs) 
A/62/PV.40
to 
in 
is 
between 
fastest 
times  or 
longest 
life  and 
the  opportunity 
countries.  That 

Sport  helps  to  break  down  social,  religious  and 
ethnic  barriers  by  promoting  tolerance  and  mutual 
understanding. Sport can change lives for the better by 
building  self-esteem, 
leadership  skills,  community 
spirit and bridges across ethnic and communal divides. 
When  teams  and  individuals  come  together  to  share 
their  common  passion  for  sport,  everyday  differences 
are set aside. Rivalries remain, but they are fought over 
jumps.  Sporting 
goals, 
spectacles  provide 
transcend 
everyday differences for the crowds that come to enjoy 
them.  
Sport  has  also  sometimes  played  a  decisive  role 

re-establishing  good 
in  diplomatic 
relationships 
the 
embodiment of the ancient Greek concept of ekecheria, 
or  “Olympic Truce”. The  General Assembly  considers 
this  concept  to  be  an  important  part  of  promoting 
international understanding and maintaining peace. The 
fact  that  there  are  over  180  sponsors  of  the  draft 
resolution  on  building  a  peaceful  and  better  world 
through  sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal  is  a  testament  to 
the  universal  nature  of  sport  and  its  importance  in 
human society.  

to 
I  would 
congratulate  China  on  the  honour  of  holding  the 
twenty-ninth  Olympic  Games  in  Beijing  in  2008.  The 
main  themes  of  the  Games  —  “Green  Olympics”, 
“High-tech Olympics” and “People’s Olympics” — are 
strongly supported by this house. I recently visited the 
Olympic  sites  in  Beijing  and  noticed  with  great 
pleasure  the  enthusiasm  and  pride  on  the  faces  of  the 
Chinese people who are constructing them.  

social 
development.  It  improves  health  and  personal  growth, 
in  particular  for  young  people,  and  provides  real 
alternatives to violence and crime. The United Nations 
works 
International  Olympic 
Committee  to  develop  strategic  partnerships  with  the 
international  sport  community  to  promote  education, 
health,  HIV/AIDS  prevention,  gender 
equality, 
environmental protection, peace and reconciliation.  

The  Secretary-General’s  report,  entitled  “Sport 
for  development  and  peace:  progress  and  prospects” 
(A/62/325),  sets  out  many  concrete  examples  of 
initiatives  that  Member  States,  United  Nations  funds, 
programmes 
non-governmental 
organizations and the private sector have undertaken to 
to  economic  and 
Sport  contributes 
this  opportunity 
closely  with 
agencies, 
like 
to 
take 
and 
the 
07-57301 

3 

A/62/PV.40 

promote the agenda to implement the three-year Action 
Plan  nationally  and  internationally.  I  would  like  to 
commend  those  Member  States  that  have  reported 
taking  concrete  steps  to  enhance  national  policies  and 
strategies  that  advance  sport  for  development  and 
peace,  including  by  addressing  gender  equality  and 
women’s empowerment.  

I would also like to note the work undertaken by 
the  Department  of  Peacekeeping  Operations  in  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  Liberia  to  use 
sport to bring previously warring factions together; by 
the  United  Nations  Population  Fund,  working  with 
national  Governments  and  sports  associations  to  use 
sport as a vehicle to promote life skills and responsible 
sexual  behaviour  to  prevent  HIV/AIDS;  and  by  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  to  mobilize 
resources  to  achieve  the  MDGs  in  Africa,  Asia  and 
Latin America  by  organizing  football  matches  against 
poverty,  and  in  Burundi,  Rwanda,  Sri  Lanka  and 
Indonesia,  where  sport  has  been  integrated  into  post-
conflict and humanitarian programmes.  

However,  the  Secretary-General  recommends  a 
more  systematic  follow-up  by  all  Member  States  and 
United Nations bodies to more effectively use sport as 
a  tool  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
and greater recognition of its value to promote healthy 
lives and peace. 

If  we  are  going  to  build  a  world  of  greater 
tolerance, mutual understanding and peace, sport must 
continue  to  be  used  to  channel  energies  away  from 
aggression  and  self-destruction  and  into  learning  and 
self-respect.  That 
the 
Olympic spirit and ideal.  
Mrs. Moutawakel (Morocco) (spoke in French): 

It  is  an  honour  and  a  privilege  for  me  to  address  the 
Assembly  in  my  capacity  as  Minister  for  Youth  and 
Sport  of  the  Government  of  His  Majesty  the  King  of 
Morocco, and as an Olympic champion and member of 
the International Olympic Committee (IOC). 

Ever  since  the  establishment  of  ekecheria,  or 
“Olympic  Truce”,  in  ancient  Greece,  the  permanent 
immunity  of 
the  Olympia  sanctuary  has  been 
recognized. Athletes, artists and their families, as well 
as ordinary pilgrims, were able to travel safely in order 
to  participate  in  and  attend  the  Olympic  Games  and 
then  return  home.  As  the  opening  of  the  Games 
approached,  the  sacred  Truce  was  advocated  and 
the  essence  of 
indeed, 
is, 
in  1894  at 
the  IOC,  founded 
announced  by  people  travelling  from  one  citadel  to 
another to transmit the message.  

It  is  on  the  basis  of  that  ancient  international 
agreement that the IOC took the initiative of  ensuring 
respect for the Olympic Truce, with the support of the 
General  Assembly,  in  a  world  where  armed  conflicts 
are  constantly  increasing.  Thus,  at  its  forty-eighth 
session, the  General Assembly adopted on 25 October 
1993 a resolution on respect for the Olympic Truce, of 
which  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  was  a  co-sponsor. At 
that  session  —  a  historic  one  for  the  Olympic 
Movement  —  another 
resolution  was  adopted 
proclaiming  1994  as  the  International  Year  for  Sport 
and  the  Olympic  Ideal,  commemorating  the  centenary 
of 
the  Sorbonne 
University  in  Paris  by  the  French  pedagogue  Baron 
Pierre de Coubertin. 

It  seems  clear  to  me  that  the  basic  principles  of 
the  Olympic  Charter  are  very  closely  linked  to  the 
objectives of the United Nations. The effort to educate 
and protect young people so that they can help build a 
better and peaceful world is a noble objective that the 
Kingdom  of  Morocco  has  always  supported  by 
sponsoring United Nations resolutions in that area. The 
social  and  universal  dimension  of  sport  has  been 
frequently 
by  His  Majesty  King 
Mohammed VI, as evidenced by the special importance 
that the Government of Morocco attaches to making all 
sports available to everyone throughout the country for 
the well-being of young people and the population as a 
whole. 

Sport  is  an  instrument  that  can  usefully  serve  to 
promote peace, dialogue, reconciliation, solidarity and 
the search for diplomatic and peaceful solutions. Sport 
also  involves  competition  and  an  effort  to  surpass  not 
only  an  adversary,  but  oneself  as  well.  It  represents  a 
civilized  approach  involving  civilized  behaviour  in 
strict respect for rules.  

have 
successfully  cooperated  with  the  Olympic  Movement 
in  the  humanitarian  sphere  by  popularizing  measures 
through 
spokesmanship  of  world-renowned 
athletes.  The  United  Nations  has  also  worked  to 
promote sport for the building of peace. The substantial 
contribution  of  sport  to  the  implementation  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  has  not  only  been 
highlighted,  but  is  stressed  in  resolution  55/2  of 
Many  United  Nations 
institutions 
stressed 
the 
4 

07-57301 


8 September 2000, entitled United Nations Millennium 
Declaration. 

Sport  is  a  human  right.  The  Charter  of  Physical 
Education  and  Sport,  adopted  by  UNESCO  in  1978, 
stipulates  that  all  human  beings  have  the  fundamental 
right  to  physical  education  and  sport.  Similarly,  the 
Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  recognizes  the 
right of the child to rest and leisure, to engage in play 
and recreational activities appropriate to the age of the 
child.  
The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms 

of  Discrimination  against  Women  also  stresses  the 
importance  of  access  to  sport.  Women  have  the  right 
and  the  capacity  to  be  involved  at  all  levels  of  social 
life.  It  is  therefore  our  duty  to  expand  the  role  of 
women  in  society  and  to  make  it  easier  for  them  to 
assume  positions  of  responsibility.  I  am  pleased  and 
proud to note that there are seven women ministers in 
the  current  Government  of  Morocco  under 
the 
leadership of Prime Minister Abbas El Fassi.  

We  are  also  all  concerned  about  protecting  the 
environment.  Although  significant  progress  has  been 
made  since  the  1992  Rio  Earth  Summit,  the  IOC  was 
the  first  body  to  ensure  that  its  Earth  Covenant  was 
signed  by  all  national  Olympic  committees  and 
international 
the  1992  Barcelona 
Olympic  Games.  The  main  issue,  however,  is  that, 
when they engage in sport, human beings want to do so 
in  an  unpolluted  environment,  thus  helping  to  protect 
the  natural  world  that  fills  us  with  joy  and  gives  us 
food  and  drink.  To  be  sure,  the  Olympic  Games  and 
sport  cannot  make  the  world  better  definitively,  but 
sport  requires  sharing,  gives  men  and  women  the 
opportunity  to  get  in  good  physical  shape,  and  helps 
children 
the  meaning  of  victory, 
excellence and team spirit.  

I  ran  for  the  pleasure  of  sport.  That  opened  so 
many  horizons  for  me  and  helped  me  to  deal  with 
numerous  social  pressures.  I  consider  myself  today  to 
be  an  ambassador  of  sport  and  of  my  country,  duty-
bound  to  share  the  experience  that  I  earned  so  dearly, 
as  well  as  the  true  value  of  sport  in  comforting  all 
those  who  suffer  under  prejudice  and  unequal 
opportunities.  
Volunteers  are  the  most  important  resource  that 

sport  enjoys 
therefore 
necessary to promote the work of volunteers who serve 
communities in a spirit of solidarity. However, we need 
its  development.  It 
federations  at 
to  understand 
in 
is 
A/62/PV.40
through 
and  peace. 
to  combat  such  scourges  as  drugs,  doping  and 
HIV/AIDS in order to protect the health and well-being 
of  our  young  people.  Violence  and  racism  in  the 
context  of  sport  have  also  become  an  issue  of  serious 
concern,  and  we  must  therefore  stress  a  policy  of 
preventive education to ensure that they do not spread, 
particularly among young people.  

In August 2005, the Kingdom of Morocco hosted 
the Second Pan-African Youth Leadership Summit and 
identified  its  priority  objective  as  mobilizing  young 
people 
sport  and  encouraging  actions 
undertaken  by  private  and  public  partners  to  raise 
young  Moroccans’  awareness  of  the  benefits  of  sport, 
education,  health,  development 
In 
application  of  the  principle  of  sport  for  all  and  in 
keeping  with  General  Assembly  resolution  61/10, 
entitled  “Sport  as  a  means  to  promote  education, 
health,  development  and  peace”,  Morocco  has 
undertaken a series of activities to ensure that sport is 
understood  as  the  right  of  all  individuals,  without 
distinction of race or social class. 

The  sport  policy  adopted  by  the  Kingdom  of 
Morocco  has  allowed  us  to  promote  activities  for 
young people in rural and exurban environments and to 
prioritize the participation of girls and women in sport. 
Our policy has had the positive impact of significantly 
raising  the  number  of  members  of  national  sport 
federations.  In  2006,  it  helped  over  292,000  young 
people  by  instituting  a  national  sport  programme 
involving 
awareness-raising 
activities for various sports, as well as inter-communal 
tournaments.  Moreover,  Morocco’s  resolve  to  ensure 
the  participation  of  disabled  people  in  sport  has  made 
sport  a  tool  of  social  integration  for  that  sector  of  the 
population  by  encouraging  the  disabled  to  participate 
in various international sporting events. 

initiative 
launched  by  His  Majesty  King  Mohammed  VI  on 
18 May 2005 attaches particular importance to sport in 
the implementation of development projects throughout 
the country. It recognizes that participation is critical to 
the  success  of  sporting  activities  designed  to  benefit 
the  youth  of  Morocco.  Indeed,  the  projects  that  have 
been  undertaken  in  the  context  of  that  initiative  have 
created  a  true  socio-cultural  dynamic  in  the  less 
prosperous  rural  and  urban  districts 
the 
organization  of  events  and  the  construction  of  sports 
facilities.  In  2006,  over  70,000  people,  including 
26,000  women,  participated  in  sporting  events,  and 
The  national  human  development 
through 
schools 
sports 
and 
07-57301 

5 
take 
in 
the 
I  also 
the  Olympic  Games  and 
this  pleasant  opportunity 
A/62/PV.40 

21 sports  facilities  were  constructed,  while  13  others 
are in the process of completion. 

I was privileged and honoured to participate as an 
athlete 
through  my 
responsibilities  in  the  international  Olympic  family  to 
contribute,  on  behalf  of  my  country, 
the 
implementation of the Olympic ideal that is dear to all 
of us and should guide our steps as we seek to build a 
world  of  peace,  development  and  well-being  for  all. 
My presence here in the General Assembly is, in fact, 
but 
simple  continuation  of  my  country’s 
commitment  to  implementing  the  aims  and  principles 
of  the  United  Nations  and  to  promoting  and  applying 
the Olympic ideal. 

In  that  regard,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  express 
my  country’s  support  for  draft  resolution  A/62/L.2, 
entitled “Building a peaceful and better world through 
sport and the Olympic ideal”. As a sponsor of the draft 
resolution,  Morocco  seeks  to  demonstrate  its  tireless 
support for the principles and ideals contained therein.  

to 
congratulate  the  people  and  Government  of  China, 
which  are  preparing  to  host  the  summer  Olympics  in 
August  2008.  My  delegation  is  convinced  that  the 
games  to  be  held  in  that  great  country,  with  its 
millennial  civilization,  will  be  an  opportunity  once 
again  to  reaffirm  our  devotion  to  Olympic  values  and 
will  certainly  make  a  significant  contribution 
to 
renewing the Olympic ideal. 
The Kingdom of Morocco is convinced that sport 

the 
is  a  preparation 
development of the individual and the enhancement of 
the 
sustainable 
development,  community  and  country.  Better  yet, 
sport,  which  propagates  such  humanist  values  as 
tolerance  and  understanding  among  peoples,  is  an 
indispensable element and enduring school of life that 
we  must  continue  to  cultivate  to  ensure  peace  and 
solidarity in the international arena. 
the 

representative  of  the  Republic  of  Korea,  who  will 
speak on behalf of the Asian States. 
in 

Chinese): On behalf of the Asian States, the delegation 
of the Republic of Korea is speaking in support of the 
draft resolution entitled “Building a peaceful and better 
world  through  sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal”.  We  are 
(Republic  of  Korea) 
The  President: 
that  guarantees 
individual’s 
Ms.  Park
(spoke 
ability 
I  give 
the 
floor 
to 
for 
life 
to 
serve 

to 
to 
the 
floor 
I  give 
convinced that the August 2008 Olympic Games to be 
held  in  Beijing  under  the  themes  “Green  Olympics”, 
“High-tech  Olympics”  and  “People’s  Olympics”  will 
be crowned with success. 

As a country of Asia, which has twice hosted the 
Olympic  Games,  the  Republic  of  Korea  expects  the 
Beijing  Games  —  the  third  to  be  held  on  our 
continent —  will  contribute 
to  world  peace  and 
conciliation,  as  well  as 
regional  peace  and 
to 
reconciliation. We also hope that Members will respect 
the  Olympic  Truce  and  support  the  initiative  of  sport 
for human development. 
The  President: 
the 

representative of Peru, who will speak on behalf of the 
Latin American and Caribbean States. 
Mr.  Voto-Bernales  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Next year, Beijing will host the twenty-ninth Olympic 
Games  from  8  to  24  August  and  the  2008  Beijing 
Paralympic  Games  from  6  to  17  September.  Those 
events will focus the world’s attention on thousands of 
athletes  who  will  do  their  best  in  the  practice  of  a 
number  of  activities  within  the  35  Olympic  sporting 
disciplines. 

The impressive mobilization of resources, efforts 
and  dreams  that  are  part  of  the  Olympic  Games  also 
offers  another  opportunity  to  recall  the  Olympic  ideal 
and  to  use  sport  as  a  means  to  promote  peace  and 
understanding  among  human  beings.  The  embodiment 
of  that  ideal  involves  the  athletes,  their  trainers,  the 
judges, the sports authorities and the many others who 
will gather in Beijing next year. However, it is also an 
opportunity  to  promote  the  ideal  of  peace  through  the 
observance  of  the  Olympic  Truce.  We  hope  that  the 
Truce  will  be  observed  around  the  world,  and  that,  at 
the very least, the clash of arms and the tragedy of war 
will  be  suspended  during  the  celebration  of  the 
Olympic  Games.  The  Olympic  Truce  also  must  be  an 
occasion  to  open  a  space  for  dialogue,  peace  and 
reconciliation  where  conflicts  and  violence  are 
entrenched. 

The  practice  of  sport  is  also  an  opportunity  to 
promote  the  development  of  human  beings.  It  is 
therefore  necessary  to  recall  the  important  role  that 
sport  should  play 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  agreed  in  2000,  as 
well as the commitments assumed in that regard by our 
heads  of  State  and  Government  at  the  2005  Summit. 
The  United  Nations  must  continue  supporting  such 
implementation  of 
the 
in 
6 

07-57301 
the 
floor 
sport 
I  give 
The  President: 


initiatives  in  order  to  put  the  incentives  and  potential 
resulting from the practice of sport within reach of all 
human beings. 

Taking  such  considerations  into  account,  and  on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  Latin American  and  Caribbean 
States,  I  am  pleased  to  express  the  support  of  our 
region  for  the  draft  resolution  submitted  by  the 
delegation of China under the title “Building a peaceful 
and better world through sport and the Olympic ideal”, 
as  well  as  our  commitment  to  helping  ensure  that  the 
Olympic  ideal  is  the  best  legacy  of  the  Olympic  and 
Paralympics Games that Beijing will host in 2008. 
the 
to 

representative  of  Benin,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of 
the African States. 
Mr.  Ehouzou  (Benin)  (spoke  in  French):  The 

African  Group  thanks  you,  Sir,  for  convening  this 
plenary  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
importance  of  promoting 
for  peace  and 
development.  We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
comprehensive report on the item under consideration.  

We  welcome  the  presence  here  today  of  the 
President of the International Olympic Committee, the 
President of the Beijing Organizing Committee for the 
Games 
and 
Mrs. Moutawakel,  whose  name  is  well  known  among 
young  Africans  because  of  the  extraordinary  feats  of 
prowess she has accomplished, thereby earning special 
renown for African women and African sports. 

The  report  offers  a  thorough  overview  of  the 
various  aspects  and  issues  involved.  It  identifies  in  a 
very  explicit  and 
the  progress 
achieved  during  the  first  year  of  the  three-year  road 
map  for  the  implementation  of  the  United  Nations 
Action Plan to strengthen the contribution of sports to 
peace and development. 

In  describing  activities  carried  out  at  various 
levels,  the  report  helps  us  to  appreciate  the  extent  to 
which  sport  has  been  instrumental  in  fostering  peace 
and development. We commend the fact that the report 
encompasses  all  actors  and  stakeholders,  with  due 
regard  for  the  dynamic  of  their  mobilization,  and 
accounts for the policies and strategies applied. 

Mr.  Jallow  (Gambia),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
the  Twenty-Ninth  Olympiad, 
informative  way 
of 
A/62/PV.40
in 
launched 
initiatives 
integration  efforts 
We  welcome  with  genuine  satisfaction 

The  report  attests  to  the  flourishing  in  many 
countries of the invaluable potential of  sport  as a tool 
for  strengthening  international  peace  and  security  and 
understanding among the people of the United Nations. 
The  activities  carried  out  have  given  true  meaning  to 
the  spirit  of  the  Olympic  Truce.  We  welcome  the 
peacebuilding 
countries 
emerging  from  conflict,  and  especially  the  assistance 
provided to them in restoring their full participation in 
the world Olympic Movement and international events. 
Similarly,  the  report  shows  that  sport  has  been  a 
powerful  lever  in  the  pursuit  of  the  internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  especially  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  and  the  high  value  assigned  to 
social 
targeting 
the  various 
categories of people with special needs.  

the 
manifold  partnerships  and  initiatives  that  have  paved 
the  way  for  a  worldwide  mobilization  involving  not 
only Member States, but also the United Nations funds, 
programmes  and  specialized  agencies,  as  well  as 
governmental and non-governmental organizations and 
sports  organizations.  We  particularly  commend  the 
United  Nations  Office  of  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace,  and  especially  the  Special  Adviser,  for  their 
endeavours  to  ensure  the  necessary  support  for  the 
most 
the  process  of 
implementing the Action Plan. It is worth highlighting 
in this debate the fact that the Office displayed a high 
degree of commitment by organizing the Global Youth 
Leadership  Summit  in  2006,  an  outstanding  initiative 
for which it deserves full recognition.  

the  Special  Advisor  for  his 
endeavours to help establish close cooperation between 
the  African  Union  and  the  European  Union,  with  the 
full  involvement  of  African  institutions,  devoted  to 
promoting  the  development  of  sporting  activities  in 
African countries.  

As regards the draft resolution entitled “Building 
a  peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the 
Olympic  ideal”  and  the  issues  it  addresses,  we  should 
like  to  place  on  record  the  adherence  of  the  African 
Group, which shares the concerns motivating it and the 
solicitations it contains.  

In  less  than  a  year,  the  twenty-ninth  Olympic 
Games  will  take  place  in  China.  We  welcome  the 
resolve  of  the  Government  and  people  of  China  to 
perpetuate  that  global  sporting  event,  which  will  take 
important  events  staged 
We  commend 
in 
07-57301 

7 
the 

to 
It 
is 
in 
including 
fulfilment  of 
its  contribution 
encounters,  mutual 
the 
A/62/PV.40 

place in the spirit that was born with the first games in 
ancient times. The modern Olympic Games represent a 
meeting  of  young  people  for  peace  in  2008  in  full 
compliance with international standards, because sport 
promotes the building of a better world and encourages 
development, 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  congratulate 
China  for  having  earnestly  assumed  the  task  of 
organizing the Olympic Games to be held in Beijing, in 
accordance  with  international  norms  under  the  motto 
“One  World,  One  Dream”,  as  well  for  its  joint 
endeavours  in  the  social  field  at  the  local,  national, 
regional and global levels.  

the 
Africa  will  make 
observance of the Olympic Truce called for in the draft 
resolution.  No  other  continent  needs  more  than Africa 
to  harness  the  positive  energy  generated  by  sport  for 
understanding 
such 
and 
reconciliation. 
interest  of  African 
Governments  and  peoples  to  take  advantage  of  that 
opportunity to enhance awareness of the need to foster 
the  culture  of  peace  within  and  among  the  countries 
through  the  promotion  of  dialogue  by  maximizing  the 
impetus  anticipated  from  active  participation  in  the 
forthcoming Beijing Olympiads.  
Mr. Maurer (Switzerland) (spoke in French): My 

delegation has taken note with great satisfaction of the 
Secretary-General’s 
for 
development  and  peace:  progress  and  prospects”, 
which he has submitted to the General Assembly at its 
sixty-second session to review the steps taken over the 
past  year  to  implement  the  three-year  Action  Plan 
included in last year’s report of the Secretary-General.  

The  Secretary-General’s  report  recalls  yet  again 
the source of the enthusiasm for sport for development 
and  peace.  Sport  is  an  effective  and  efficient  tool  for 
meeting  so  many  of  humanity’s  challenges.  As 
reported,  many  Member  States,  as  well  as  United 
Nations  funds,  programmes  and  specialized  agencies, 
have  benefited  over  the  past  year  from  sport  in 
successfully addressing such pressing issues as racism, 
the  plight  of  street  children,  gender 
inequality, 
traumatized youth and obesity all around the world. It 
is  all  the  more  encouraging  as  a  clear  sign  that  the 
International Year for Sport and Physical Education in 
2005  and  previous  General  Assembly  resolutions  are 
having a lasting effect. Sport is no longer seen merely 
as  a  desirable  asset;  it  is  now  recognized  as  a  cost-
effective  tool  for  advancing  human  development.  The 
entitled 
report 
“Sport 
in 
Finally, 
represents 
fact that this shift has been achieved within only a few 
years is remarkable in and of itself.  

Switzerland is therefore pleased by the Secretary-
General’s decision to renew the mandate of his Special 
Adviser  on  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace.  The 
current  Special  Adviser  and  his  support  team  have 
again this year delivered a convincing performance and 
Switzerland  thanks  them  for  their  fruitful  efforts. 
However,  we  agree  with  the  recent  statement  of  the 
Secretary-General that their work is not finished.  
The  Special  Adviser  must  remain  the  global 

advocate  to  lead  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations 
system to promote sport as a tool for development and 
peace.  Moreover,  as  reflected 
the  Secretary-
General’s  report,  the  Special  Adviser  is  in  a  unique 
position  to  facilitate  partnerships  across  all  sectors  of 
society. The United Nations needs a Special Adviser to 
pursue that useful and important task.  
the 

the  Special  Adviser 
Secretary-General  and  the  United  Nations  system  at 
various  global  sporting  events,  such  as  the  2008 
Olympic  Games  in  Beijing.  That  allows  him  not  only 
to  promote  sport  for  peace  and  development,  but  also 
directly  to  address  people  around  the  globe  on  behalf 
of the United Nations.  

Since  its  inception,  Switzerland  has  been  one  of 
the  main  supporters  of  the  Office  of  the  Special 
Adviser.  In  addition,  together  with  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Tunisia  to  the  United  Nations,  we 
chair  the  Group  of  Friends  of  Sport  for  Development 
and  Peace,  composed  of  28  permanent  representatives 
to the United Nations.  

To  date,  the  status  of  the  Office  of  the  Special 
Adviser has been provisional and somewhat uncertain. 
Given the Secretary-General’s recent decision to renew 
the  Special Adviser’s  mandate,  Switzerland,  on  behalf 
of  the  Group  of  Friends,  has  been  collaborating  with 
the  Office  of  the  Special Adviser  and  the  Secretariat, 
along  with  all  other  interested  Members,  to  identify 
feasible  options  for  a  more  stable  arrangement.  We 
therefore welcome the Secretariat’s plans to establish a 
trust  fund  on  sport  for  development  and  peace  within 
the  secretariat  in  Geneva,  with  a  point  of  contact  in 
New York.  

The  formal  establishment  of  an  Office  of  the 
Special  Adviser  would  be  a  strong  signal  that  the 
United  Nations  intends  to  continue  promoting  the  use 
8 

07-57301 
that 
team  adequately 
the  Special  Adviser’s 
the  General  Assembly  will  have 


of  sport  as  a  tool  for  advancing  development  and 
peace.  Moreover,  we  hope  that  the  new  arrangement 
will  ease  the  way  for  more  Member  States  to  provide 
financial  support  for  the  activities  of  the  Special 
Adviser. There is urgent need for such support and we 
call  on  them  all  to  provide  additional  resources  to 
enable 
to 
support  the  core  functions  of  the  Special  Adviser. 
Switzerland  is  prepared  to  continue  to  do  so. We  also 
hope 
the 
opportunity at this session to decide on a resolution on 
sport  for  peace  and  development.  Such  a  resolution 
could  welcome  a  more  stable  structure,  confirm  its 
strategic  orientation  and  ask  the  Secretary-General  to 
report  back  on  this  issue  at  the  sixty-third  session  of 
the General Assembly.  
My  delegation  takes  this  opportunity  to  express 

its  full  support  for 
the  draft  resolution  entitled 
“Building  a  peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport 
and  the  Olympic  ideal”.  We  are  convinced  that  such 
initiatives can have concrete results and ensure that the 
Games are conducted in peace.  
Mr.  Pataki  (United  States  of  America):  Today, 

the Assembly  has  the  honour  of  invoking  the  spirit  of 
the Olympic Truce. For several Olympiads, the United 
Nations has advocated the Olympic Truce with a view 
to  protecting,  as  far  as  possible,  the  interests  of  the 
athletes and sport in general, and to contributing to the 
quest for peaceful and diplomatic solutions to conflicts.  

It is a distinct privilege to welcome as witnesses 
to our work this morning members of the International 
Olympic  Committee  (IOC),  led  by  IOC  President 
Jacques  Rogge  and 
senior  American 
members  Ms.  Anita  DeFrantz  and  Mr.  James  Easton. 
Further,  it  is  with  delight  that  the  United  States 
delegation  notes  the  presence  of  the  United  States 
Olympic  Committee,  led  by  its  Chief  of  International 
Relations,  Mr.  Robert  Fasulo.  The  distinguished 
service of those leaders and countless other volunteers 
has  indeed  built  a  better  and  more  peaceful  world 
through  sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal.  Let  me  just  add 
that it is an honour for me, as a former Governor of the 
state of New York, which is proud to have twice hosted 
the  winter  Olympics, 
this 
delegation.  

The  practice  of  heralding  an  Olympic  Truce 
during  the  games  to  enable  the  safe  passage  and 
participation  of  attendees  through  areas  of  conflict  is 
including 
A/62/PV.40
today’s  draft 
the  sponsors  of 
truce-like  atmosphere 
among  the  oldest  of  accords,  dating  from  776  BC. 
History reveals that the Olympic Truce has transcended 
differences whenever people meet people on the fields 
of fair play.  

As  has  been  the  case  on  eight  occasions  in  this 
Hall  since  1993,  the  United  States  is  honoured  to  be 
among 
resolution 
proclaiming  the  Olympic  Truce,  entitled  “Building  a 
better  and  more  peaceful  world  through  sport  and  the 
Olympic ideal”.  
But it is not so much that the Assembly proclaims 

the Truce  as  that  its  action  today  essentially  validates 
the  natural, 
that  prevails 
throughout  the  world  community  whenever  countries 
meet  on  Olympic  fields.  In  that  sense,  the  Olympic 
Truce  was  revived  not  by  this  Assembly  in  1993; 
rather,  it  was  revived  upon  the  convening  of  the 
modern  Olympic  Games  themselves  in  1896.  As  in 
ancient times, the Olympic Truce’s central purpose has 
been to enable the safe passage and participation of all 
concerned  with  the  Games.  Indeed,  it  has  contributed 
to that end through the centuries during war and peace.  

Historical  interpretations  differ  slightly.  Did  the 
ancient  games  come  before  the  Truce  among  warring 
States,  or  was  the  ancient  Truce  necessary  for  the 
passage and participation of those who were otherwise 
enemies to meet at ancient Olympia? What is certain is 
that  the  Olympic  Truce,  attributed  to  the  Oracle  at 
Delphi, is at the pinnacle of the principles and purposes 
of Olympism.  
To  understand  better  the  heritage  of  the  Truce, 

Olympic  historians  are  now  identifying  more  closely 
the  wording  of  the  ancient  Truce.  They  know  that  it 
was  inscribed  on  a  discus  solemnly  displayed  in  the 
Temple  of  Hera  adjacent  to  the  ancient  stadium  at 
Olympia.  

The  world  witnessed  extraordinary  human 
achievement  in  the  shadow  of  that  temple,  not  only 
centuries  ago,  but  in  recent  months.  Superhuman 
efforts  contained  by  mere  metres  the  rampaging  fires 
that  nearly  engulfed  the  ancient  sites  of  Olympia. 
Brave  firefighters  preserved  the  sites  from  which  the 
heralds  were  sent  forth  to  call  for  the  safe  passage  of 
all  the  Games. The  ferocious  fire  threatened  the  heart 
of  the  Olympic  Movement;  the  fire  was  overcome. 
Having  been  tamed,  now  it  will  ignite  the  Olympic 
torch  on  its  way  from  the  ancient  fields  to  modern 
Beijing.  
to  rise 
in  honour  of 
07-57301 

9 
the  goals 
and 
ideals  of 
Intergovernmentally, 
A/62/PV.40 


Today’s  draft  resolution  exhorts  the  world  to 
overcome similar threats — geopolitical threats — and 
to  similarly  tame  them  so  as  to  ignite  humankind  to 
pursue 
international 
understanding, security and prosperity, as envisioned in 
the United Nations Charter.  

Today,  Member  States  adopt  the  Olympic  Truce 
at  the  United  Nations.  Next  August,  competitors  will 
swear  the  athletes’  oath  of  fair  play  at  the  opening 
ceremonies.  Let  those  solemn  practices  inspire  all 
others to make their own truces with conflicts in their 
lives that keep them from pursuing their own goals and 
ideals.  Bringing  the  Olympic  Truce  closer  to  home 
takes  us  from  being  spectators  of  excellence  to  being 
actual  participants.  Let  today’s  draft  resolution  be 
implemented at all levels: intergovernmental, national, 
community, household and personal.  

the  Olympic  Truce  will 
continue  to  enliven  various  forms  of  United  Nations 
collaborations  in  the  field  to  promote  peace  through 
sport.  Nationally,  the  Olympic Truce  might  be  further 
interpreted to suggest a time-out from societal unrest as 
each  country  supports 
its  Olympic  competitors. 
Communities and households can draw  heavily on the 
example  of  Olympic  accomplishment,  and  so  inspired 
might  commit  to  excellence  in  everyday  pursuits. 
Individual witnesses to the Games can see fair play at 
work,  and  so  moved  might  commit 
to  fighting 
temptations  that  otherwise  would  keep  them  from 
realizing their goals and ideals.  

So  today,  our  consideration  here  reminds  the 
world to prepare for the forthcoming Games in spirit as 
well as in body. Sport is not an end in itself, but rather 
a  means  to  educate  the  youth  of  the  world  for  the 
harmonious development of mankind.  

To  promote  the  Olympic  Truce  into  concrete 
action,  the  IOC  established  the  International  Olympic 
Truce  Foundation,  which  is  based  in  Athens.  Its 
programmes  lead  to  global  support  and  observance  of 
the  Olympic  Truce  and  to  the  steady  shaping  of  a 
culture of peace. To promote dialogue, the Foundation 
conducts  the  prestigious  International  Forum  on  Sport 
for Peace and the Olympic Truce that meets biennially 
in Olympia.  
the 

Olympic  Truce 
the 
members  of  the  Olympic  family,  international  and 
non-governmental 
national 
in  favour  of 
requires  partnerships  among 
organizations 
Promoting  such 
initiatives 
and 

Mr.  Briz  Gutiérrez  (Guatemala)  (spoke 
organizations  that  contribute  to  the  cause  of  peace. 
Above all, the Truce and its initiatives are those of the 
people of the world for the people of the world.  

The  United  States  delegation  recognizes  and 
supports  opportunities  such  as  today’s  draft  resolution 
for building a peaceful and better world through sport 
and the Olympic ideal.  
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  inform 

members that, immediately following the adjournment 
of  this  meeting,  there  will  be  an  informal  segment  to 
hear  a  statement  by  the  President  of  the  International 
Olympic Committee.  
in 

Spanish): Allow me to begin by thanking the Secretary-
General  for  the  report  that  forms  the  basis  of  today’s 
debate, as contained in document A/62/325 and entitled 
“Sport  for  development  and  peace:  progress  and 
prospects”.  

We  also  welcome  the  efforts  of  Mr.  Adolf  Ogi, 
Special Adviser  to  the  Secretary-General  on  Sport  for 
Development  and  Peace,  and  his  contribution  to  the 
dissemination  of  messages  regarding  the  value  of 
sports for development.  

My  delegation  fully  associates  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Peru  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  States  regarding  draft  resolution  A/62/L.2, 
entitled “Building a peaceful and better world through 
sport and the Olympic ideal”. I should like to take this 
opportunity  to  make  some  specific  comments  on  the 
broader  subject  of  sport  for  peace  and  development. 
The  Government  of 
the  Republic  of  Guatemala 
attaches  great  importance  to  that  subject,  because 
physical  activity  for  health  as  well  as  sport  and 
recreation in all their forms are considered a right of all 
Guatemalans.  

Since the signing of the Agreement on a Firm and 
Lasting  Peace  in  1996,  the  Ministry  of  Culture  and 
Sports  has  made  every  effort  to  contribute  to  its 
implementation.  That  institution  has  aimed  all  of  its 
programmes  and  activities  at  building  a  culture  of 
peace  based  on  the  attitudes  and  values  developed  by 
Guatemalan 
of  Guatemalan 
multiculturalism,  the  Ministry  seeks  to  strengthen 
peaceful coexistence through socio-cultural exchanges, 
respect  for  differences,  appreciation  of  creativity, 
social  organization  and  links  between  human  beings 
society.  Mindful 
10 

07-57301 


and  between  them  and  nature  —  all  in  a  context  of 
long-term  activities  to  promote  peace  and  sustainable 
human development.  

Recently,  the  Ministry  of  Culture  and  Sports, 
together  with  the  Presidency  of  the  Republic  of 
Guatemala,  has  implemented  a  programme  to  bring 
recreation 
to  detention  centres.  The  programme 
consists  of  promoting  sport  as  a  means  of  social 
integration,  rehabilitation  and  equal  opportunity.  In 
addition, a social reintegration programme is aimed at 
individuals  and  groups  considered  socially  at  risk: 
prisoners, members of street groups, child workers and 
refugees,  including  handicapped  members  of  such 
groups.  

Among  the  activities  carried  out  with  these 
groups,  we  should  mention  schools  for  chess,  training 
and  recreation,  aimed  at  juvenile  delinquents;  sport 
events  for  street  children,  workers  and  shantytown 
residents;  national  barrier-free  games  and  a  chess 
school  for  the  blind.  There  are  also  other  initiatives 
that  involve  recreational  sports  training  schools,  such 
as  the  “Peace  Bowl”  rural  soccer  championship  and 
sports coaching for disabled persons, and programmes 
to  exchange  war  toys  for  educational  toys,  supported 
by volunteers from civil society.  

Furthermore,  specific  programmes  have  been 
developed for children, young people and older adults. 
The children’s programme provides children with sport 
and  recreation  opportunities  through  various  activities 
enabling  them  to  use  free  time  in  a  healthful  way.  It 
encourages  children  to  participate  in  sports  such  as 
athletics, basketball and soccer, and it seeks to promote 
moral  and  social  values  through  physical  activities. 
The  main  objective  of  the  youth  programme  is  to 
promote  productive  activity  by  young  people  through 
sports  and  to  identify,  support  and  strengthen  youth 
leaders  who  can  promote  sports  in  their  communities. 
The  programme  for  older  adults,  aimed  at  those  aged 
50  and  above,  seeks  to  improve  their  quality  of  life 
through physical, recreational and cultural activities. It 
is  worth  noting  that  75  per  cent  of  those  participating 
in this programme are women.  

My  delegation  welcomed  the  entry  into  force  of 
the  International  Convention  against  Doping  in  Sport 
on  1  February  2007  and  wishes  to  report  that  it  is 
already  under  consideration  by  the  Congress  of  the 
Republic  for  approval.  Likewise,  Guatemala  was  also 
pleased  to  have  successfully  hosted  the  119th  session 
A/62/PV.40
to 
improve  sports 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  reaffirms 
of the International Olympic Committee in July. We are 
grateful  for  the  support  of  all  those  who  participated, 
and we hope to see them in our country once again.  
Furthermore,  I  wish  to  stress  the  need  for 

to  fully 
incorporate  sport  and 
continued  efforts 
into  development  programmes. 
physical  education 
Appropriate  assistance  should  also  be  given 
to 
developing countries in order to mobilize the resources 
necessary 
infrastructures  and 
facilities,  which  benefit  the  health  and  wholesome 
development of children and young people.  

I  also  wish  to  commend  the  work  carried  out  in 
collaboration  with  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
missions  and  with  the  support  of  the  International 
Olympic  Committee.  We  are  confident  that  such 
initiatives  and  programmes  will  also  be  implemented 
with the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti 
to benefit the Haitian people.  
the 

importance of implementing strategies that incorporate 
sport  more  effectively  into  various  health,  education, 
development  and  peace  programmes  at  the  local, 
national, regional and global levels. In that connection, 
we  welcome  the  initiative  of  the  Regional  Bureau  for 
Latin America and the Caribbean of the United Nations 
Development  Programme,  in  collaboration  with  the 
United  Nations  New  York  Office  of  Sport  for 
Development  and  Peace.  The  initiative  is  aimed  at 
implementing  a  programme  in  Central America  to  use 
sport  as  an  instrument  for  the  inclusion  of  young 
people and the promotion of peace.  
Mr.  Muñoz  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  am 

speaking on behalf of Chile to express our support for 
draft resolution A/62/L.2, entitled “Building a peaceful 
and better world through sport and the Olympic ideal”, 
just introduced by Mr. Liu Qi, President of the Beijing 
Organizing Committee for the Olympic Games. We are 
convinced 
is  an  effective  vehicle  for 
promoting not only peace and development, but also an 
environment  of  tolerance,  dialogue  and  respect  — 
which are so necessary in today’s world — in the spirit 
of the Olympic Truce.  
I should like to recall that the link between sport 

and  peace  is  not  just  theoretical.  In  the  case  of  Haiti 
and the United Nations Mission in that country, it has 
hosted soccer teams from Brazil and Chile, impressing 
on tens of thousands of Haitians the idea of solidarity 
that  sport 
07-57301 

11 

the 
impact 
through 
expansion 
A/62/PV.40 

and  peace  through  sport.  We  should  have  more  such 
occasions.  

On behalf of Chile, I should also like to say that 
we  received  with  great  interest  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General entitled “Sport for development and 
peace: progress and prospects” (A/62/325 and Corr.1), 
which describes the first year of implementation of the 
Action Plan, which we adopted some time ago. We are 
optimistic  about  the  Plan,  because  we  consider  it  an 
excellent road map that will enable us not only to guide 
the  efforts  of  Governments,  civil 
society  and 
multilateral  organizations,  but  also  to  have  a  very 
positive 
and 
strengthening  of  plans  and  programmes  being 
implemented in all of our countries.  
One problem that we find particularly worrisome 

derives  from 
the  relationship  between  sport  and 
physical  health.  According  to  international  studies, 
people who do not engage in physical exercise form a 
high-risk  group  with  significantly  higher  mortality 
rates than people who exercise sufficiently.  

For that reason, this draft resolution presented by 
China,  as  well  as  others  that  will  be  presented  soon, 
should  contribute  to  the  implementation  of  public 
policies  to  promote  sport  and  physical  education, 
derived  from  the  creation  of  a  worldwide  culture  of 
sport  and  physical  education.  This  programme  should 
bring  together  young  people,  adults  and  seniors; 
handicapped  athletes;  men  and  women;  inhabitants  of 
developed  and  developing  countries  —  everyone 
should  come  together  to  improve  their  quality  of  life 
and contribute to a less violent, healthier, more tolerant 
world — all within the Olympic ideal.  

Of  course,  promoting  sporting  activities  and 
physical  education  is  the  sovereign  responsibility  of 
each  country.  But  at  the  multilateral  level  there  is  a 
need  for  a  permanent,  sufficiently  representative 
structure to allow us to cooperate with national efforts. 
In  principle,  we  are  pleased  that  the  Office  of  the 
Secretary-General’s  Special  Adviser 
on  Sport, 
Development  and  Peace  was  established  in  Geneva, 
with  a 
the 
Department of Economic and Social Affairs. However, 
we  need  such  a  structure  to  be  established  in  a 
permanent  way  with  sufficient  financial  resources  to 
suitably  carry  out  its  mandate.  That  financing  should 
be  stable  and  predictable  and  should  preferably  come 
from the regular budget or from the donors community.  
in  New  York,  under 
liaison  office 
the 
agreed 
implementation 
development 
international  organizations  such  as 
internationale  de 

In  a  different  but  related  context,  we  would  like 
to  congratulate  the  Special  Adviser  to  the  Secretary-
General  on  Sport 
for  Development  and  Peace, 
Mr. Adolph  Ogi,  whose  Office,  together  with  other 
bodies, has taken a number of actions to promote sport 
and  physical  education;  the  New  York  Office  has 
joined in these efforts in an outstanding way.  

Finally,  we  believe  it  necessary  to  establish 
strategic  alliances  among  the  United  Nations,  the 
private  sector  and  civil  society  in  order  to  mobilize 
resources  and  create  national  capacities.  Here, 
foundations,  non-governmental  organizations  and 
sports  federations  have  a  central  role  to  play.  At  the 
same  time,  the  United  Nations  should  strengthen  its 
ties  with 
the 
football  association 
Fédération 
(FIFA) and the International Olympic Committee.  

As we promote sport, peace and development, we 
are 
the 
facilitating 
internationally 
objectives, 
including those of the Millennium Development Goals, 
as my colleague from Benin has stated on behalf of the 
African  Group. As  a  member  of  the  Group  of  Friends 
of Sport for Development and Peace, Chile is satisfied 
with  the  work  the  Group  has  done  thus  far,  and  will 
continue to work actively with other delegations as we 
try to achieve the goals we have set for ourselves.  
the  Secretary-

General  for  his  report  on  “Sport  for  peace  and 
development:  progress  and  prospects”  (A/62/325  and 
Corr.1). We note the well-organized structure and good 
presentation  of 
the  report,  which 
provides  an  overview  of  activities  undertaken  on 
various  fronts  by  Member  States,  the  United  Nations 
system  and  other 
It  also  makes 
recommendations  for  further  action  based  on  lessons 
learned.  

the  Secretary-
General to highlight the useful role that sport can play 
in  consolidating  peace  and  furthering  development. 
Sport  is  an  easy  and  relatively  inexpensive  way  of 
engaging  the  energies  of  youth  in  a  positive  and 
constructive  manner. 
spirit  of 
sportsmanship  that  generates  tolerance  of  spirit  and 
action  and  respect  for  the  opponent.  It  also  inculcates 
discipline  through  the  observance  of  the  rules  of  the 
game.  It  develops  camaraderie  and  good  fellowship 
Mr.  Naik  (India):  We 
India  supports 
the  efforts  of 
stakeholders. 
teaches 
information 
in 
It 
the 
of 
thank 
12 

07-57301 
to 
of 
The 
sport 
contribution 
format  provides  a  good  vehicle 


that  enhances  the  ability  of  communities  to  coexist 
peacefully.  

furthering 
development  is  also  recognized. A  healthy  mind  lives 
in  a  healthy  body.  Sport  provides  physical  activity, 
enhances  oxygen  intake  and  improves  stamina.  It 
brings  people  together  for  a  common  purpose.  Its 
enjoyable 
for 
propagating  difficult  social  messages.  Sport  improves 
productivity and fosters social harmony and discipline. 
Indeed,  sport  can  play  a  subtle,  positive  and 
constructive role in development and peace.  

India  believes  that  activities  related  to  sport  and 
physical  education  are  a  necessary  component  of 
human resource development. India has a long tradition 
of  sport  and  physical  education.  Ancient  Indian 
scriptures and literature describe the important place in 
princely  education  of  such  sports  as  archery,  weight-
lifting  and  wrestling. A  mastery  over  such  sports  was 
considered as important as the knowledge of scriptures. 
Education  in  modern  India  is  trying  to  continue  and 
build  upon  this  heritage  and  respect  for  sport  and 
physical education.  

In  view  of  the  key  role  of  sport  and  games  in 
national  life,  the  Government  of  India  has  taken  a 
number  of  initiatives  to  improve  the  standard  of  sport 
in  the  country.  There  is  wide  recognition  of  the  need 
for broad-basing sport and for the provision of modern 
sport infrastructure. The Government has made efforts 
towards upgrading the skills of the coaching fraternity, 
the creation of sport infrastructure and the construction 
of  an  adequate  sport-science  backup.  Efforts  are  also 
being  made  to  encourage  national  sport  federations  to 
make their operations more effective and focused.  
The  involvement  of  society  at  large,  particularly 

business  and  industry,  is  adding  to  the  efforts  of  the 
Government.  To  encourage  sport  and  sportspersons,  a 
number  of  prestigious  awards  are  bestowed 
to 
recognize  their  achievements.  Several  schemes  have 
been  put  in  place  to  propagate  sport  and  to  provide 
incentives 
include 
schemes  such  as  the  Sports  Fund  for  Pension  for 
Meritorious Sportspersons, as well as the Promotion of 
Sports and Games in Schools programme.  

While  the  welfare  of  young  sportspersons  is 
covered  by  the  Sport  Scholarship  Scheme,  a  National 
Welfare  Fund  has  been  established  to  assist  retired 
sportspersons.  A  National  Sports  Development  Fund 
for  sporting  activities.  These 
A/62/PV.40
there 
has been set up to mobilize resources. The Ministry of 
Youth  Affairs  and  Sports  in  the  Government  of  India 
represents sport at the national level. The Government 
has  also  established  the  Sport  Authority  of  India  to 
pursue  the  twin  objectives  of  broad-basing  sport  and 
nurturing  talent  in  children  through  the  provision  of 
necessary 
infrastructure,  equipment,  coaching  and 
other  facilities.  These  include  a  Sports  Medicine 
Centre and Dope Control Centre.  

We agree with the Secretary-General on the need 
to enhance the use of sport to help reverse disease and 
obesity,  especially  among  young  people.  The  report 
mentions  the  role  of  sport  in  reversing  the  spread  of 
HIV/AIDS.  While  sport  may  have  only  a  limited  role 
in this regard, the promotion of sport can play a more 
critical role in reversing the growing trend of juvenile 
diabetes in urban areas. Regular practice of a sport can 
also help lower anxiety and high blood pressure caused 
by  the  pressures  of  modern  living  among  the  younger 
generation of today.  
We note from the report of the Secretary-General 

that  despite  uneven  progress, 
is  evidence 
indicating  a  better  integration  of  sport  across  all 
geographical  regions.  However,  the  report  points  out 
that  the  lack  of  adequate  resources,  facilities  and 
trained  personnel  continues  to  be  a  key  constraint  in 
many  countries.  Developing  countries  have  to  deal 
with  enormous  challenges  with  limited  resources. 
These  challenges are even  more daunting for the least 
developed countries.  

The  complexion  of  sport  has  undergone  a 
transformation  in  the  modern  world.  The  pursuit  of 
sport  today  requires  the  availability  of  modern  and 
highly  sophisticated  equipment, 
infrastructure  and 
training.  The  ready  availability  of  and  easy  access  to 
such  facilities 
the 
international  sporting  arena  towards  the  developed 
world.  There  is,  thus,  a  solemn  need  for  international 
cooperation  and  assistance 
the 
development  of  sport  infrastructure  in  developing 
countries.  

In  this  context,  we  agree  with  the  Secretary-
General’s recommendation to make sport and physical 
education  more  accessible  to  larger  segments  of  the 
world’s  population,  especially  to  those  who  lack  the 
opportunity and facilities. We also agree with the need 
to  promote  investment  in  the  expansion  of  sports 
infrastructure 
through 
the  developed  world 
for  encouraging 
including 
facilities, 
tilts 
in 
and 
07-57301 

13 
than 
resources, 
sports 
sciences  and 
include  advocacy 
the  Secretary-General 
A/62/PV.40 

enhanced 
sports 
medicine  programmes,  particularly  in  the  developing 
world.  We  support  the  Secretary-General’s  call  for 
greater  efforts  for  promotion  of  sports  and  physical 
education.  That  could 
through 
participation in sports and non-sporting events. We are 
convinced, however, that sporting activities themselves 
are the best advocacy tool for the promotion of sports. 
We hope therefore that the United Nations system will 
focus  its  efforts  on  promoting  sports  through  sports 
themselves,  rather 
through  conferences  and 
meetings.  

Sport  is  an  inalienable  part  of  the  educational 
process  and  a  factor  for  promoting  peace,  friendship, 
cooperation  and  understanding  among  peoples.  We 
agree  with 
that  sport  and 
physical  education  are  not  luxuries  in  society,  and 
much  less  so  in  the  developing  world.  We  must 
therefore  invigorate  our  efforts  for  the  promotion  of 
sports for development and peace.  
Mr.  Mavroyiannis  (Cyprus):  Cyprus  has  had 

strong  links  with  the  Olympic  concept  in  modern  as 
well  as  ancient  times  —  as  matter  of  fact,  since  the 
inception of the Olympic Games in 776 B.C. — and I 
wish to make a few remarks.  

At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  the 
Chinese  delegation  for  tabling  resolution  A/62/L.2, 
entitled “Building a peaceful and better world through 
sport and the Olympic ideal” and wish the Government 
of the People’s Republic of China, the host of the 2008 
Summer  Olympic  Games,  every  success 
that 
endeavour.  I  wish  also  to  express  appreciation  for  the 
presence  here 
the 
International Olympic Committee, Mr. Jacques Rogge, 
as  well  as  other  distinguished  representatives  of  the 
Olympic  movement,  within 
framework  of 
promoting  the  Games  and  the  preservation  of  the 
Olympic ideals, including fair play.  

Sport,  especially  in  the  context  of  the  Olympic 
Games,  whether  as  an  historical  or  contemporary 
concept,  is  a  momentous  and  perpetually  relevant 
element  in  all  facets  of  human  life  and  no  less  in  our 
work here at the United Nations.  

Sport  is  an  integral  part  of  human  development 
and  well-being,  both  individual  and  collective.  Its 
contribution  to  development,  capacity-building,  unity 
and bringing people closer together has been evidenced 
on  many  occasions.  Often  unnoticed,  however,  is  the 
the  President  of 
in 
today  of 
the 

power of creating a culture of sport as an effective tool 
for ethos-building among the youth of all our countries.  

Also, the focus of our discussion today is how the 
concept of sport, and the virtues it entails, relates to the 
core human instincts of peace and security. Let us take 
the tradition of the Olympic Truce as an example. The 
cessation  of  all  hostilities  before,  during  and  after  the 
Olympic Games in antiquity is a practice recalled  and 
revered  as  much  today  as  it  was  then.  So  why  are  we 
then  unable  today  to  cease  hostilities  on  any  grounds, 
including  through  the  pursuit  of  sport,  whose  purpose 
is to remind us that humankind was created for pursuits 
more noble than conflict?  

If  the  ancients,  with  their  limited  means  of 
disseminating knowledge and information, were able to 
observe such a truce, despite the immense difficulties, 
why can we not, with all the means we have to ensure 
collective  ethos  and  civilization  and  to  protect  human 
life  as our most valued possession,  achieve  at least  as 
much  by  establishing  a  corresponding  contemporary 
practice? The task of ensuring safe passage for athletes 
to  reach  the  Games  through  the  Olympic Truce  might 
be less pertinent now than in the past. But the biggest 
contribution  of  that  tradition  has  never  been  one  of 
practical arrangements.  

The creation of a peaceful environment, with the 
hope  that  this  would  have  implications  more  lasting 
than the duration of the Games themselves, was always 
consubstantial to the Olympic ideal. More importantly, 
inherent  in  the  tradition  of  the  Olympic  Truce,  there 
have always been three key messages: first, the futility 
of  war,  the  denunciation  of  violence  and  subjugation, 
and  the  superiority  of  pursuits  that  bring  people 
together;  secondly,  the  quest  for  freedom,  shared 
values, and the intrinsically noble character of fairness 
and  synergy;  and,  thirdly,  the  recognition  of  their 
contribution  to  the  prosperity  of  all  and  to  the  further 
development of culture and civilization.  

However, we should recognize that the content of 
the  draft  resolution  before  us,  to  which  we  lend  our 
support  as  we  traditionally  have  done,  has  never  been 
fully  implemented  in  all  its  elements,  despite  its 
biannual  adoption  and  unanimous  support.  We  hope 
that its letter and spirit will gradually be embedded in 
international  human  custom  and  that  its  observance 
will be one of those instances when history will repeat 
itself.  
14 

07-57301 


Mr.  Noghès  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French): A  few 

months from now, the People’s Republic of China will 
be  hosting  the  twenty-ninth  Olympic  Games  followed 
by 
the  Paralympic  Games.  The  Olympics  are 
traditionally  the  most  widely  followed  sporting  event 
throughout  the  world  and  that  is  because  they  inspire 
all  peoples  in  all  their  diversity  to  come  together  in 
their admiration for athletes who are doing their best in 
peaceful competition.  

As was the case for the athletes who met at each 
Olympic  Games  since  the  forty-eighth  session,  the 
General  Assembly  has  revived  the  ancient  Greek 
tradition  of  the  Olympic  Truce  to  recall  the  extent  to 
which the  Olympic ideal can  and must  be  an  example 
for promoting peace and understanding among peoples. 
Monaco  continues 
to  co-sponsor  with  pride  and 
conviction  the  draft  resolution  entitled  “Building  a 
peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the 
Olympic ideal” (A/62/L.2).  

Sport  brings  together  positive  energies,  when 
practiced  with  respect  for  effort  and  work,  without 
cheating  nor 
the  use  of  stimulants  or  doping 
substances.  In  hosting  his  counterpart  Ministers  of 
Sports  on  the  occasion  of  the  twelfth  Games  of  the 
Small  States  of  Europe,  our  Minister  of  Sports, 
Mr. Paul  Masseron,  Government  Advisor  for 
the 
Ministry of the Interior, stated that  

“doping cannot be accepted, neither in high-level 
sports  where  it  jeopardizes  competition  nor  in 
individual  competition  where  it  destroys  the 
whole educational thrust of sport, because doping 
is  no  longer  today  a  question  of  level,  age  or 
discipline”.  
Since  2003,  the  Principality  of  Monaco  has  had 

in 
an  antidoping  committee 
implementing  antidoping  policies  in  keeping  with  the 
objectives  of  the  International  Convention  against 
Doping  in  Sport.  Over  150  tests  will  be  conducted  in 
the Principality this year. His Serene Highness, Prince 
Albert  II,  former  Olympic  athlete  and  member  of  the 
International  Olympic  Committee,  has  been  paying 
particular  attention  to  ethics  in  sports.  We  therefore 
welcome  the  entry  into  force  of  the  International 
Convention against Doping in Sport in February 2007.  

With  their  breadth,  the  Olympic  Games  are  a 
showcase  for  36  different  sports.  The  sense  of 
brotherhood  in  sport  is  within  everyone’s  grasp.  From 
refugee  camps  to  street  children,  from  schools  to 
involved 
that 
is 
A/62/PV.40
in 
the 
terms  of 
report  of 
business firms, sports promote the development of the 
human being. 

A  recognition  of  the  humanist  aspect  of  sport 
underlay  the  signing  of  an  agreement  between  our 
Government  and  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  (UNDP)  on  27  June  2007,  setting  up  an 
innovative  programme  on  humanistic  sport  for  the 
development  of  urban  youth.  Drawing  on 
the 
educational  values  of  humanist  sport,  the  project  is 
designed to contribute to the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  It  aims  to  reintegrate  young  people  in 
difficulty  in  disadvantaged  areas.  Cape  Town,  South 
Africa,  was  chosen  for  this  partnership  with  UNDP. 
The  establishment  of  a  football  training  centre  for 
young people is also being studied, along with literacy 
and professional training courses. 

Members know Prince Albert II’s commitment to 
the protection of the environment. The host of the next 
Games  is  the  city  of  Beijing,  and  we  congratulate 
Beijing  on  its  efforts  at  “greening”  the  Games,  as 
reflected 
the  United  Nations 
Development Programme. Indeed, this is a phenomenal 
task 
transport  management,  water 
purification,  waste  recycling  and  energy  efficiency. 
New  urban  centres,  with  a 
forested  park  of 
580 hectares, the use of solar energy — all of these are 
indispensable investments. 

Last June, the Principality of Monaco hosted the 
twelfth  Games  of  the  Small  States  of  Europe.  Prince 
Albert  II  wanted  to  ensure  that  this  event  was 
ecologically 
a 
declaration  was  adopted  by  the  heads  of  State  or 
Government  of 
the 
Republic  of  Cyprus,  the  Republic  of  Iceland,  the 
Principality  of  Liechtenstein,  the  Grand  Duchy  of 
Luxembourg,  the  Republic  of  San  Marino  and  the 
Principality of Monaco. The declaration recognized the 
important potential of sport as a vehicle for values and 
a  factor  in  the  creation  of  a  true  ethic  of  sustainable 
development.  Secondly,  it  recognized  that  the  sport 
must  be  in  harmony  with  the  environment.  Thirdly,  it 
stated  that  the  Games  of  the  Small  States  of  Europe 
must  respect  the  environment,  and  called  in  particular 
for  carbon-neutral  Games  in  order  to  minimize  their 
environmental  impact.  The  organizing  country  would 
commit 
to  compensate  for  greenhouse  gas 
emissions and any other negative impact relating to the 
Games or their preparation, through such initiatives to 
protect  the  environment  as  it  deems  most  appropriate. 
the  Principality  of  Andorra, 
effective.  Following 
the 
event, 
in 
itself 
07-57301 

15 
in 
leading 
A/62/PV.40 

Finally,  the  signatories  stated  the  intention  to  develop 
in  their  respective  countries  environmental  awareness 
based  on  a  spirit  of  solidarity  and 
to 
environmentally friendly behaviour. At the initiative of 
the  Prince  Albert  II  Foundation,  it  was  decided  to 
measure  the  greenhouse  gas  impact  of  the  Games  and 
to reduce it by all means possible. Monaco will offset 
this, including by planting trees. 
Mr.  Rogachev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  Sport,  peace  and  development  are  closely 
interconnected.  The  absence  of  war  is  a  precondition 
for sporting competition. Sporting competition is not a 
struggle  between  enemies,  but  rather  a  competition 
among  partners 
their  common  aspiration  for 
development. In this period of globalization, when the 
world is facing new challenges and threats and when it 
is  necessary  to  have  a  dialogue  between  civilizations, 
we  are  convinced  that  international  cooperation  in  the 
area of sport can play an important role in overcoming 
national and religious  enmity and in bringing together 
the world community. 

The  role  of  sport  as  an  ambassador  of  peace  is 
particularly  significant  when  linked  to  the  noble 
traditions  of  the  Olympic  Truce.  It  is  necessary  to 
inculcate in future generations a spirit of the culture of 
peace,  non-violence  and  tolerance,  showing  that  the 
Olympic ideal is not out of date and is still significant. 

In  this  connection,  Russia  has  sponsored  and 
fully  supports  draft  resolution A/62/L.2  on  building  a 
peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the 
Olympic  ideal,  and  we  call  on  all  to  observe  this 
Olympic Truce.  

The  flame  of  the  Olympic  torch  should  light  the 
way,  leading  humankind  into  the  third  millennium:  a 
beacon indicating a world without enmity and violence. 
Next  year,  this  flame  of  peace  will  illuminate  the 
ancient  city  of  Beijing,  the  host  of  the  2008  summer 
Olympic  Games.  We  sincerely  wish  our  Chinese 
colleagues  every  success  in  organizing  this  global 
event. 

Seven years from now, the Olympic baton will be 
passed to the Russian city of Sochi, which will host the 
Winter  Olympic  and  Paralympic  Games.  We  are 
convinced that the Olympics to be held in our country 
will  provide  a  significant  impetus  to  the  Olympic 
Movement  and  strengthen  the  values  of  a  healthy 
lifestyle. At present, Sochi is building the most modern 
sporting  facilities  and  is  working  at  full  steam  to 

level,  may  help  countries  achieve 
improve its infrastructure so as to ensure the success of 
this major event. 

Russia  highly  values  the  activities  of  the  United 
Nations in enhancing international cooperation in sport 
and  confirming  the  ideals  of  the  sporting  movement 
throughout  the  world. We  welcome  the  joint  initiative 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  International  Olympic 
Committee (IOC) to promote the inclusion of sport and 
physical  education  in  programmes  in  the  fields  of 
education, health, environmental protection, combating 
hunger and improving the status of women. 
We believe that support for sport, including at the 

political 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). We welcome 
the report of the Secretary-General on sport (A/62/325 
and  Corr.1).  A  very  important  role  here  falls  to 
Mr. Adolf  Ogi,  Special  Adviser  to  the  Secretary-
General  on  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace. We  are 
ready  to  continue  our  fruitful  cooperation  with  the 
Special Adviser, and we support the ongoing activities 
of the New York-based United Nations Office of Sport 
for  Development  and  Peace,  headed  by  Mr.  Djibril 
Diallo. 

Sport  is  a  universal  language,  thanks  to  which 
competitors  come  from  many  countries,  cultures  and 
faiths. We can thus talk about the significant potential 
of sport for diplomacy as a way of ensuring a channel 
to  promote  a  culture  of  peace  and  dialogue  among 
civilizations. Pierre de Coubertin said that sport was an 
ambassador of peace and a reliable bridge of friendship 
and  mutual  understanding  between  peoples.  We  must 
make full use of its potential. 
Mrs. Aitimova (Kazakhstan) (spoke in Russian): 

First  of  all,  my  delegation  would  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  report  entitled  “Sport  for 
development  and  peace:  progress  and  prospects” 
(A/62/325  and  Corr.1). 
It  gives  us  an  overall 
assessment of the progress achieved over the past year 
on  the  national,  regional  and  international  levels  in 
implementing  strategies  and  programmes  on  sport  for 
development and peace. 

As noted in the report, sport has great potential in 
making  a  substantive  contribution  to  enhancing  peace 
and achieving development goals, as formulated in the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  The 
increasing  role  of  sport  in  achieving  international 
agreement  in  the  field  of  development,  including  the 
16 

07-57301 
in 
(IOC),  Mr.  Rogge, 


MDG  targets,  was  reaffirmed  by  heads  of  State  or 
Government at the 2005 World Summit. 

In  this  context,  we  certainly  value  the  measures 
undertaken  by  the  Secretary-General  in  implementing 
the  Action  Plan  intended  to  expand  and  strengthen 
United  Nations  partnerships  with  Governments,  sport-
related  organizations  and 
the  private  sector.  The 
participation today by the President of the International 
Olympic  Committee 
the 
consideration  of  this  particular  item,  underscores  the 
fact  that  this  Organization  of  ours  and  all  of  its 
structures  are  actively  working  with 
this  most 
prestigious sporting organization on a global level.  

The delegation of Kazakhstan welcomes the entry 
into  force  on  1  February  2007  of  the  International 
Convention  against  Doping  in  Sport.  We  believe  that 
the  Convention  will  make  a  very 
significant 
contribution  to  preventing  the  use  of  doping  in  sport, 
and will do a lot to eradicate it. In this connection, we 
would  like  to  note  that  an  anti-doping  laboratory  for 
sports has begun operation, and in 2007 in Kazakhstan 
it was given full laboratory status from the World Anti-
Doping Agency.  
Kazakhstan welcomes the activities of the Special 

Adviser 
for 
Development  and  Peace  and  notes  the  importance  of 
sport in achieving the goals of development and peace.  

We  would  also  like  to  note  with  satisfaction  a 
global summit of young leaders held last year in New 
York  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations,  which 
made possible a discussion on the important questions 
of  propagating  sport  and  mobilizing  future  youth 
leaders.  

As we know, sport and physical education are an 
important  way  of  teaching  tolerance  and  a  culture  of 
peace,  and  also  of  bringing  people  closer  together.  In 
this  connection, 
the  delegation  of  Kazakhstan 
welcomes  the  activities  of  the  Office  of  the  Special 
Adviser  and  the  Information  Centres  of  the  United 
Nations  aimed  at  propagating  the  idea  of  sport  as  an 
instrument  for  development  and  peace,  and  also  the 
measures  undertaken  to  enhance  the  role  of  sport  in 
building peace.  

On behalf of our delegation, I would like to thank 
the delegation of China for its draft resolution on peace 
and  building  a  better  life  on  the  planet  through  sport, 
and the implementation of Olympic sporting ideals. In 
the  Secretary-General  on  Sport 
to 
A/62/PV.40
ideal” 
the  Olympic 
Kazakhstan  has  been 
this connection, Kazakhstan is one of the Members of 
the  United  Nations  that  co-sponsored  this  resolution 
“Building  a  peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport 
and 
(A/62/L.2).  Of  course, 
Kazakhstan will be most pleased to be participating in 
the  twenty-ninth  Olympic  Games  in  a  neighbouring 
country,  and  we  have  already  been  taking  all  of  the 
necessary  steps  to  ensure  that  we  have  as  many  spots 
as  possible  for  our  participants  in  these  Olympic 
Games.  We  certainly  hope  that  we  will  win  a  good 
number of medals as well.  

taking  comprehensive 
measures to make use of sport to the benefit of peace. 
In December 2006 a Presidential decree confirmed our 
State’s  programme  to  develop  physical  education  and 
sport in Kazakhstan for the years 2007 thru 2011. The 
programme  calls  for  a  set  of  measures  aimed  at 
ensuring  participation  in  physical  education  and  sport 
is  as  broad  as  possible,  in  particular  among  young 
people.  This  is  important  for  improving  their  health, 
ensuring  that  we  have  many  skilled  athletes  and  for 
bringing our sportsmen up to the international level.  

We  are  working  to  bring  disabled  persons  into 
sports  as  well.  A  club  of  disabled  sportsmen  is 
operative in every region. In the south of Kazakhstan, 
we held our second Paralympic Games, with over 500 
sports  participants  from  all  regions  of  the  country. 
Considerable work has been done to develop boarding 
schools for children gifted in sports, regional Olympic-
level  training  centres  and  Republican  Schools  for 
sports  excellence. We  would  like  to  note  that  just  this 
year,  the  Republic  organized  and  held  over  10,000 
events on healthy-lifestyles, involving the participation 
of over 1.5 million people.  

In  2011,  Kazakhstan  will  be  the  host  of  the 
seventh Asian Winter Games, and active work is being 
done  in  our  country  today  for  holding  this  very 
important  event. The  appropriate  Ministry  has  already 
engaged  in  negotiations  with  leading  international 
architects.  We  have  called  for  bids  for  building 
facilities near Almaty, and we are designating areas for 
these  sports  facilities.  The  overall  expenditure  will 
reach $1 billion.  

Thus,  my  delegation  believes  that  we  must 
maintain the  dynamism set by the United Nations  and 
continue that educational path in implementing broader 
measures as well. This is something that we can do to 
enhance  the  cooperation  and  coordination  between 
07-57301 

17 

A/62/PV.40 

Member  States  in  order  to  come  up  with  a  general 
vision  for  the  development  of  sport  to  benefit  peace 
throughout the world.  
Mr.  Mourikis  (Greece):  It  is  a  great  honour  for 

me to take the floor on agenda item 45 (b) in order to 
express  my  country’s  wholehearted  support  for  draft 
resolution A/62/L.2.  

Four  years  ago,  Greece  presented  a  similar 
resolution  as  it  was  preparing  for  the  2004  Athens 
Olympics.  This  year,  it  is  China’s  turn  to  keep  the 
tradition  and  table  a  resolution  urging  Member  States 
to observe, within the framework of the Charter of the 
United Nations, the Olympic Truce during the twenty-
ninth  Olympic  Games  and  Paralympic  Games  to  be 
held  in  Beijing.  The  wide  support  extended  to  this 
year’s resolution stresses the international community’s 
recognition  for  the  principles  it  embodies  and  our 
common  goal:  to  celebrate  the  Games  in  peace, 
harmony and friendship. We wish China every success 
in organizing the Olympic Games.  

In bringing the idea of the Olympic Truce to the 
forefront, we encourage the notion that it is possible to 
create lasting peace from a pause in hostilities. That is, 
in fact, how the Olympic Games were conceived in the 
first  place.  In  antiquity,  the  implementation  of  the 
Olympic Truce entailed a cessation of all hostilities in 
order  to  allow  the  athletes  and  spectators  to  travel  to 
and  from  Olympia  to  attend  this  sacred  celebration  of 
human achievement.  

In  today’s  world  the  message  could  not  be  more 
relevant.  We  strive  for  dialogue  among  civilizations 
and  cooperation  among  the  rich  and  the  poor,  yet 
everyday  we  witness  our  shortcomings.  The  Olympic 
Truce  could  be  a  constructive  new  approach  to  help 
resolve  conflicts.  The  Olympic 
the 
universal  language  of  peace,  in  which  all  peoples  can 
communicate and share in its values.  

The  United  Nations  and  the  Olympic  movement 
are  natural  allies.  They  share  the  same  goals  and 
observe  the  same  principles.  They  are  useful  tools  in 
the hands of the international community. It is up to us, 
the  Member  States,  to  seize  the  opportunity  presented 
by  this  resolution  and  to  observe  the  Truce  for  the 
benefit of our peoples. We express our appreciation and 
support to the International Olympic Committee for its 
tireless efforts to promote the Olympic Ideal and build 
bridges of understanding and cooperation.  
ideal  speaks 
Indeed, 

Let me stress once again that by adopting, today, 
the  resolution  entitled  “Building  a  peaceful  and  better 
world through sport and the Olympic ideal” we take a 
positive  stance  towards  life  and  reality,  without  any 
illusions.  We  simply  state  the  obvious:  that  if  we  can 
have  peace  in  the  world  for  just  16  days,  then  maybe 
we can have it for much longer. 

Before concluding, may I thank former Governor 
Pataki for his reference to the recent fires at the ancient 
sites  of  Olympia. 
the  world  witnessed 
extraordinary human achievement, and I can assure the 
Assembly  that  Olympic  torch  will  ignite  again  in 
Olympia before embarking on its long trip to Beijing.  
Mr.  Khalfallah  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

should  like  to  start  by  congratulating  the  Secretary-
General  on  his  report  entitled  “Sport  for  development 
and  peace:  progress  and  prospects”  (A/62/235  and 
Corr.1),  the  title  of  which,  by  itself,  carries  hope  and 
great significance for the future of sport as an activity 
that the United Nations is comprehensively supporting. 

Tunisia would also like to express its gratitude to 
Mr.  Adolf  Ogi,  Special  Adviser  to  the  Secretary-
General  on  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace,  for  all 
his efforts and for his activities to ensure the success of 
programmes to promote sport throughout the world and 
for the benefit of all.  
Tunisia fully endorses the statement made by the 

Permanent  Representative  of  Benin  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of African States and reaffirms its determination 
to  continue  its  work  to  make  sport  an  activity  that 
brings  peoples  together  and  a  factor  for  world  peace 
and 
two  essential  goals  of  our 
Organization.  

Solidarity among peoples at the beginning of the 
twenty-first  century  is  not  a  mere  option;  it  is  a 
necessity  that,  we  are  convinced,  sport  is  capable  of 
bringing to fruition. We support Mr. Ogi’s activities to 
promote,  in  the  words  of  the  Secretary-General’s 
report,  “a  common  road  map  and  coherent  framework 
for action to build global partnerships around sport and 
physical education” (A/62/325, para. 72).  

Indeed,  our  President,  Mr.  Zine  El  Abidine  Ben 
Ali,  decided  to  dedicate  an  entire  year  to  physical 
education, in accordance with the Assembly’s launch of 
the International Year of Sport and Physical Education 
2005  (see  resolution  59/10),  during  which  the  world 
celebrated  sport  through  a  broad  range  of  diverse  and 
stability  — 
18 

07-57301 


uniformly important activities, thereby highlighting the 
importance  unanimously  attach  to  sport  and  to  the 
universal  nature  of  this  activity.  Our  duty  is  now  to 
press on in this respect and to confirm that this was the 
correct choice, to which increasing resources are being 
allocated by everyone.  

It is beyond dispute that sport today is of growing 
interest to the international community. This is seen in 
the  vast  number  of  sporting  events,  discussion  forums 
and activities to popularize sports that have given rise 
to  an  international  awareness  that  favours  the  role  of 
sport as a fundamental support for the achievement of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Sport  is  also  a 
symbol  of  cooperation  and  of  healthy,  constructive 
friendship. 

By sponsoring draft  resolution A/62/L.2, entitled 
“Building  a  peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport 
and  the  Olympic  ideal”,  Tunisia  expresses  once  again 
its  full  commitment  to  the  Olympic  ideal.  We  remain 
convinced  that  the  forthcoming  Olympic  Games  in 
Beijing will be a complete success and a sporting and 
moral victory for all participants. 
Tunisia  is  very  pleased  to  note  the  Secretariat 

proposal  regarding  a  fund  for  sport  for  development 
and  peace  and  hopes  that,  once  it  is  finalized,  all  the 
arrangements  will 
effective 
implementation  of 
the  objectives  we  have  set. 
Moreover,  we  are  convinced 
formal 
establishment of the Office of the Special Adviser will 
help to promote the activities undertaken in the sphere 
of  sport  for  development  and  peace  and  will  prove  to 
be a most valuable asset for the United Nations, which 
will  thus  have  a  tool  to  bring  people  together  in  a 
world  that  thirsts  for  dialogue,  mutual  understanding 
and tolerance.  

the 
International Olympic Committee, the President of the 
Beijing  Organizing  Committee  for  the  Games  of  the 
XXIX Olympiad and the Special Adviser for Sport for 
Development  and  Peace  shows 
the  scope  and 
importance  that  sport  has  acquired  and  the  need  to 
ensure that this activity is supported by all. 
Mr.  Carmon  (Israel):  Allow  me  to  congratulate 

Mr.  Kerim  on  his  leadership  of  the  Assembly  and  to 
thank him for convening this important joint debate. 

Israel  is  proud  to  lend  its  support  to  draft 
resolution A/62/L.2,  entitled  “Building  a  peaceful  and 
The  presence  here  of 
the  President  of 
allow 
that 
the 
the 
for 
A/62/PV.40
to 
sport 
in 
implement 
road  map 
the  promotion  of 
better  world  through  sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal”. 
Similarly,  we  welcome  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General,  entitled  “Sport  for  development  and  peace: 
progress  and  prospects”  (A/62/325  and  Corr.1),  which 
summarizes the steps taken during the first year of the 
three-year 
for 
development and peace programmes. 

Sport  offers  a  common  language  that  speaks  of 
international  friendship  and  harmony  and  that  can 
bridge  the  global  seams  of  friction.  The  spirit  of 
healthy competition provides a channel through which 
people  of  different  religious,  cultural,  racial  and 
political  backgrounds  can  interact  and  enhance  their 
respect for one another. 

Within  the  context  of  the  United  Nations,  as  the 
Secretary-General’s  report  shows,  sport  contributes  to 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and 
peace,  by  raising  awareness  and  promoting  values  of 
cooperation and mutual understanding. No doubt, using 
sport as a universal focal point for interaction will bear 
fruit 
education,  health, 
development and peace. 
In our region, we have tried to harness the spirit 

of sport to forge relationships and build bridges across 
the dark waters of conflict. We hope that these types of 
competitions  will  continue  to  develop  and  expand  in 
the  future.  Israel  has  a  visibly  active  network  of 
organizations 
for  peace  and 
development days and that bring children — Jews and 
Arabs,  Israelis  and  Palestinians  —  together  under  the 
umbrella  of  sport.  A  number  of  sport  for  peace 
programmes  and  festivals  occur  regularly;  notable 
among  them  are  those  sponsored  by  the  Peres  Center 
for  Peace,  founded  by  our  current  President,  Shimon 
Peres.  These  sport  and  competition  days  emphasize 
teamwork 
fostering 
commonalities and sharing. 

Similarly, the legendary story of Sons of Sakhnin 
United,  a  multi-ethnic  Israeli  soccer  team  comprising 
Jews,  Arabs  and  others,  and  its  quest  to  win  the 
Premier League in Israel, continues to inspire hope and 
confidence in the capacity for sport and competition to 
inculcate respect and mutual understanding. This year, 
the prominence and power of this Cinderella story was 
brought  to  wide  attention  with  the  release  of  a 
documentary film on the subject and its appearance in 
internationally recognized film festivals. 
that  sponsor  sport 
cooperation, 
alongside 
and 
07-57301 

19 

A/62/PV.40 


Sons of Sakhnin United embodies the message of 
sport  as  a  medium  for  peace  and  understanding  in 
another modality as well. The team plays in a stadium 
widely known around the country as the Doha Stadium, 
which  was  built  with  public  funds  largely  from  the 
State  of  Israel  and 
the  Qatar  National  Olympic 
Committee. This joint venture between Israel and Qatar 
is  a  sign  of  the  quest  for  peaceful  and  neighbourly 
relations within our region and the willingness to cross 
boundaries  to  achieve  peace  and  harmony  through 
sport. The Sons of Sakhnin United team, as we speak, 
holds the third position in Israel’s top soccer league. 

Unfortunately, not  all sporting events  are carried 
out  with  the  same  positivity.  Although  it  is  a  painful 
part of our history, it is also worth remembering what 
happened at the 1972 Olympic Games in Munich, when 
gunmen  from  the  terrorist  group  Black  September, 
disguised  as  athletes,  broke  into  the  Olympic  Village 
and killed 11 Israeli athletes, coaches and referees. The 
reverberations  of  that  abhorrent  and  monstrous  act  of 
terrorism are felt in Israel — and around the world, for 
that matter — to this very day. 

In  that  regard,  we  hope  that  the  upcoming 
summer  Olympic  Games,  to  be  held  in  Beijing  next 
year, will adhere to the values of sport as an ideal way 
to  stimulate  body,  mind  and  spirit,  and  in  turn 
overcome  barriers  of  language,  politics  and  religion. 
The  abuse  of  sport  and  international  competition  for 
political  purposes  is  an  affront  to  the  very  ethos  and 
virtues of the Olympic tradition. 

On  the  other  hand,  we  know  that  sport  can  be 
utilized for great good. Just two weeks ago, the Israeli 
delegation  to  the  2007  Special  Olympics,  held  in 
Shanghai, 
the  games  with 
tremendous  pride  and  in  high  spirits.  The  Special 
Olympics  prove  to  the  world  that  determination,  will 
and 
in  one’s  abilities  can  overcome  any 
limitation,  regardless  of  the  challenge.  The  resilience 
and commitment of those athletes should inspire us to 
utilize  sport  as  an  expression  of  the  boundlessness  of 
the human potential. 
While  sport  has  the  power  to  bring  people 

together, 
it  alone  cannot  foster  enduring  peace. 
Supporting  factors  —  such  as  an  interest  in  peace 
among  different  groups,  media  involvement,  strong 
participation  by  civil  society  and  dedication  by  sport 
organizations  —  are  needed  if  sport  is  to  be  an 
effective vehicle of peace. Israel strongly believes that 
returned  home 
from 
faith 
for 
to 
in  which 
to 
to 
to 
Mr.  Seakamela
today’s  debate  on 
(South  Africa):  We 
the  Secretary-General 
to  continue  promoting 
the  Secretary-General  on  Sport 
to  be  true. We  call  on  the  nations  of  the  world  to  use 
the opportunities provided by sport to foster peace and 
development,  and 
those 
supporting factors to ensure the widest possible appeal. 
Israel pledges itself to fully support such endeavours. 
thank 

Mr. Srgjan  Kerim,  President  of  the  General Assembly, 
for  organizing 
the  Secretary-
General’s  report  on  sport  for  peace  and  development 
(A/62/325  and  Corr.1).  We  also  wish  to  express  our 
appreciation 
that 
comprehensive report. 
Since its establishment, the Office of the Special 

Adviser 
for 
Development  and  Peace  has  made  significant  strides 
towards  the  attainment  of  the  objective  of  utilizing 
sport as a tool for development and peace. South Africa 
commends  the  work  of  the  Office  in  New  York  and 
Geneva.  Both  offices  have  contributed 
the 
advancement  of  advocacy  work  within  the  United 
Nations  system  and  beyond  aimed  at  promoting 
understanding  and  support  for  sport  as  a  tool  for 
development and peace. 

South  Africa  is  committed  to  the  objectives 
related  to  the  use  of  sport  as  a  tool  for  development 
and peace. As a member of the New York-based Group 
of  Friends  of  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace,  we 
have  worked  with  others  to  encourage  Member  States 
to  actively  integrate  sport  into  their  international 
cooperation  and  development  policies  through  the 
implementation of relevant United Nations resolutions. 
My  delegation  believes  that  sport  provides  a 

forum 
learn  skills  and  discipline, 
confidence  and  leadership,  and  that  it  teaches  core 
principles,  such  as  tolerance,  cooperation  and  respect. 
Our leaders have persistently highlighted the potential 
that sport has in building social cohesion and national 
reconstruction  and  unity.  In 
this  connection,  we 
remember  how  our  nation  was  bound  together  in  joy 
when  we  won  the  Rugby  World  Cup  in  1995  and  the 
African  Soccer  Cup  of  Nations  in  1996,  and  more 
recently  when  we  won  the  Rugby  World  Cup  for  the 
second time, earlier this year. 
South  Africa  has  also  partnered  and  adopted 

measures, 
in  compliance  with  General  Assembly 
resolutions on sport for development and peace. In this 
context,  since  2004  we  have  conducted  the  Siyadlala 
Community  Mass  Participation  Programme  and  the 
20 

07-57301 


School  Sport  Mass  Participation  Programme. 
In 
addition,  our  country  has  partnered  with  other 
countries  such  as  Angola,  Australia,  China, 
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  others  in 
the area of sport for development and peace. We have 
also  ratified  the  UNESCO  International  Convention 
against Doping in Sport. 

South  Africa  is  honoured  to  have  been  awarded 
the  rights  to  host  the  Féderation  internationale  de 
football association (FIFA) World Cup in 2010. This is 
the first time that this global game is being hosted on 
the African  continent. The  tournament  is  an  important 
milestone  for  the  entire  continent,  and  we  believe  it 
provides our country, the region and the continent with 
a  golden  opportunity  to  boost  our  sport  and  tourism 
industries.  The  2010  World  Cup  tournament  can  help 
advance  our  economic  development  to  a  higher  notch 
and  fast-track  the  attainment  of  elements  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 

The  African  Union  (AU)  has  declared  2007  the 
International  Year  of  African  Football,  underscoring 
the  United  Nations  view 
that  sport  can  be  an 
instrument  to  promote  unity,  solidarity  and  peace.  In 
this  context,  the  AU  collaborated  with  the  South 
African  Government  and  the  New  York  Office  of  the 
Special Adviser  on  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace 
on  the  activities  for  the  International  Year  of African 
Football,  as  well  as  for  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the 
Confederation  of  African  Football  and  the  lead-up  to 
the 2010 World Cup. 

My  delegation  expresses  its  appreciation  for  the 
contribution  made  by  the  New  York  Office  of  the 
Special Adviser  on  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace 
in  shaping  the  concept,  activities  and  innovative 
approaches  of 
the  International  Year  of  African 
Football, which was launched at the eighth Summit of 
African Union Heads of State, held in Addis Ababa in 
January  2007.  The  Office’s  active  participation  in  the 
technical  workshop  for  the  2010  FIFA  World  Cup 
African Legacy Programme, which was held in Pretoria 
in  March  of  this  year,  and  in  the  first  ministerial 
meeting  of  Ministers  of  Sport  and  Youth,  which  was 
held  in  Addis  Ababa,  was  instrumental  in  enhancing 
the momentum of using sport as a tool for development 
and peace. 

South Africa supports the efforts of the Office of 
Sport for Development and Peace focusing on the role 
of sport in peacebuilding activities. In this context, we 
A/62/PV.40
In 
The Acting President: I now call on the observer 
underline the importance of strengthening the sporting 
programmes  that  were  launched  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  in  Liberia,  in  partnership 
with  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions  in  those 
countries,  and  supported  by  other  partners.  We 
welcome  the  commencement  of  similar  projects  in 
other countries, such as Lebanon and Côte d’Ivoire. 

In  recognition  of  the  progress  made  thus  far  in 
the  area  of  sport  for  development  and  peace,  it  is 
important  that  we  build  on  past  success  and  establish 
more  sustainable  progress. 
this  context,  we 
encourage the broader international community and, in 
particular,  the  United  Nations  system  to  provide 
support  in  promoting  sport  as  a  tool  for  achieving 
peace and development. 

In  conclusion,  South  Africa  supports  the  draft 
resolution  (A/62/L.2)  introduced  by  the  delegation  of 
China. 

of the Observer State of the Holy See. 
Archbishop  Migliore  (Holy  See):  The  role  of 

sport within and among societies can be traced to some 
of the earliest civilizations. However, never before has 
the practice of sport become as firmly established as it 
is  today.  Sport  has  become  a  mass  phenomenon 
capable  of  engaging  huge  crowds  on  a  grand  scale, 
breaking  down  geographic,  racial,  social,  economic, 
political and cultural barriers. 

Next year, the global community will once again 
come  together  to  celebrate  the  ancient  tradition  of  the 
Olympic Games in its twenty-ninth modern edition, to 
be  held  in  Beijing.  As  the  world  prepares  for  that 
important event, we are reminded of the role that sport 
can play in the life of every individual and society. 
Citius,  altius,  fortius:  those  three  Latin  words, 

used  a  century  ago  by  Father  Henri  Martin  Dideon  to 
describe  his  students’  achievements  in  sport,  were 
adopted as the Olympic motto because the aspiration to 
be “swifter, higher, stronger” aptly describes the goals 
of great athletes all over the world. 

Sport practiced in a healthy and harmonious way 
is  a  means  of  bringing  together  peoples  of  different 
cultures  and  traditions  in  a  respectful  and  peaceful 
manner.  Through  the  greater  use  of  sport  as  dialogue 
and  encounter,  the  Greek  tradition  of  the  Olympic 
Truce can give way to genuine and long-lasting peace. 
07-57301 

21 
important  reminder 
that, 

A/62/PV.40 


In  fact,  dialogue  and  encounter  through  sport 
hold  great  potential  in  the  area  of  peacebuilding  and 
conflict  prevention.  While  the  rule  of  law  and  justice 
remain 
the  foundations  of  durable  peace,  sport 
provides  a  tool  enabling  warring  factions  to  come 
together  for  a  common  purpose.  Such  moments  of 
unity  may  be  brief  and  at  times  fleeting;  nonetheless, 
they  are  an 
in  human 
experience,  there  are  many  more  things  that  bind  us 
together than there are things that tear us apart. In that 
regard, my delegation notes with appreciation the work 
of  the  United  Nations  New  York  Office  of  Sport  for 
Development  and  Peace  to  foster  such  dialogue  in 
conflict-ridden places such as the Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo  and  Liberia.  We  look  forward  to  seeing 
greater consolidation of its activity. 

In addition to fomenting dialogue across cultures 
and  fostering  peace,  sport  can  serve  as  a  means  for 
greater  personal  and  social  development.  Through 
sport,  people  develop  creativity  and  talent,  overcome 
personal  challenges,  acquire  a  sense  of  belonging  and 
solidarity and learn discipline and a sense of sacrifice. 
Those  values  redound  to  the  benefit  of  the  greater 
community  and  help  us  understand  the  value  of  the 
common good over personal glory. Thus, we encourage 
sports figures to be models for youth and to help foster 
the positive values of sport. 
Today’s society has seen an increasing number of 

cases  of  abuse  and  deviance  in  the  practice  of  sport, 
which lead to a sport culture devoid of human values. 
However, 
to  have 
authentic  role  models  and  generous  protagonists  who 
strive  to  reclaim  the  ideal  of  sport  as  a  real  school  of 
humanity,  camaraderie,  solidarity  and  excellence.  A 
renewed  and  widely  shared  emphasis  on  a  human-
centred  approach  to  sport  would  help  ensure  that  the 
important virtues learned through sport become one of 
the  means  for  developing  and  fostering  healthy  and 
responsible human interaction. 
the  world  of  sport  continues 

The Holy See’s Office for Church and Sports was 
created with that ideal of sport in mind. It works with 
schools,  youth  groups,  amateur  sport  associations  and 
athletic professionals to promote a healthy approach to 
sport and to help young people understand the positive 
impact that sport values can have on both the local and 
global communities. 
The  Olympic  creed  reminds  us  that  the  most 

important  thing  in  life  is  not  triumph,  but  struggle. 
May  the  2008  Olympic  Games  contribute  to  the 
common struggle to make the world a better place for 
one  and  all  through  the  promotion  of  the  inseparable 
and mutually reinforcing values of peace, development 
and full respect for basic human rights. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  in  the  debate  on  agenda  item  45  and  its 
sub-items (a) and (b). Before proceeding to take action 
on draft resolution A/62/L.2, I should like to announce 
that,  since  the  introduction  of  the  draft  resolution,  the 
following countries have become sponsors: Belize, the 
Gambia, Honduras, Lithuania and Zambia. 

The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/62/L.2,  entitled  “Building  a  peaceful  and 
better  world  through  sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal” 
under sub-item (b) of agenda item 45. 

draft resolution A/62/L.2? 

Draft resolution A/62/L.2 was adopted (resolution 
62/4). 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  thus 

concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 
45 and its sub-items (a) and (b). 

Before  I  adjourn  the  meeting,  and  as  announced 
earlier, I would like to invite members to remain seated 
for the informal segment after the adjournment of this 
meeting,  to  hear  the  President  of  the  International 
Olympic Committee. 
The meeting rose at 12.40 p.m. 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
22 

07-57301 
