
A/63/PV.46
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

46th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 12 November 2008, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 




The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m. 


Agenda item 45 
Culture of peace 






to 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/262) 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/127) 
  Draft resolutions (A/63/L.23 and 
A/63/L.24/Rev.1) 
The  President:  Our  world  is  experiencing  an 

extremely difficult period, the worst since the founding 
of  the  United  Nations.  In  fact,  it  would  not  be  an 
exaggeration  to  say  that  the  future  of  humankind 
depends  on  our  ability  and  willingness 
take 
advantage  of  the  lessons  and  opportunities  presented 
by today’s multiple and interrelated crises. It is a time 
of numerous bankruptcies, but the worst of these is the 
moral  bankruptcy  of  humankind’s  self-proclaimed 
“more 
spread 
throughout  the  world.  It  is  not  only  Wall  Street  that 
needs  to  be  bailed  out.  We  need  to  bail  out  all  of 
humankind from its social insensitivity. From now on, 
solidarity  must  guide  and  direct  all  human  activity.  In 
other  words,  morals  and  ethics  must  be  given  the 
central place in our lives that they should occupy. 
Based  on  scientific  evidence,  we  are  now  aware 

of  the  accelerating  destruction  of  the  life-sustaining 
capacity  of  Earth  and  the  real  possibility  of  the 
disappearance  of 
the  human  species.  Both  are 
attributable  to  irresponsible  human  behaviour  and  to 
the  unbridled  greed  and  irrational  consumerism  that 

societies”,  which  has 
advanced 
these  values 
characterize  developed  societies.  We  must  choose 
between  allowing 
to  dominate  our 
societies  and  taking  the  necessary  steps  to  ensure  that 
solidarity and social responsibility become the guiding 
principles of human activity, including in the economic 
and political spheres. 

In  the  inaugural  address  I  delivered  two  months 
ago, at the 1st plenary meeting, I attributed this critical 
state of affairs in our world to what I called insane and 
suicidal selfishness. But I also said then that this crisis 
could and should be turned into an opportunity to take 
the  kind  of  courageous  actions  that  are  needed  to 
ensure  new  levels  of  cooperation  among  humans  and 
between people and nature, and thereby ensure a better 
world for present and future generations. 

One  of  the  most  burning  problems  that  we  face 
today is the shameful reality that, despite the fact that 
we  have 
the  financial  and 
technological resources to prevent it, half of the human 
population  subsists  at  levels  of  hunger,  malnutrition 
and  poverty  that  are  wholly  incompatible  with  their 
inherent  dignity  and  rights.  This  situation  is  not  only 
shameful,  but  it  is  also,  to  use  religious  terminology, 
downright sinful. 

We are all aware of this shameful reality. We also 
know that we have the means to do something about it. 
What is obviously lacking is the political will to move 
from  rhetorical  acknowledgment  of  this  reality  to 
concrete, sustained and coordinated action at the local 
and global levels. Allow  me, in  a moment, to propose 
some ways to apply our values to concrete actions. 
the  knowledge  and 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-59933 (E) 
*0859933* 

to  meet 
A/63/PV.46 


Great spiritual and moral strength is necessary for 
the  kinds  of  actions  that  are  required.  And  that  is 
precisely  why  we  have  gathered  here  today:  to  join 
forces,  as  people  of  faith  and/or  of  deep  ethical 
convictions,  to  tap  into  our  vast  reserves  of  moral 
strength  and  awaken  from  our  indifference  to  the  fate 
of  others.  The  United  Nations  has  very  appropriately 
elaborated  a  complex  agenda  for  making  the  world  a 
better place.  But progress  is too slow. We are  running 
out  of  time  and  do  not  seem  to  have  the  energy  and 
conviction  required  to  move  any  faster.  We  must  not 
hesitate  to  draw  on  the  moral  force  of  our  values  of 
faith  and  ethical  convictions 
today’s 
challenges. 

Before  going  any  further,  let  me  say  that  I  feel 
very  privileged  to  be  presiding  over  this  meeting,  the 
purpose of which is to use our values that are based on 
faith  and  deeply  held  ethical  convictions  to  seek 
solutions  to  the  most  burning  issues  of  our  time  and 
which  are  reflected  in  the  agenda  of  this  General 
Assembly.  I  would  be  remiss  if  I  did  not  likewise 
acknowledge  the  profound  gratitude  I  feel  for  our 
brother,  King  Abdullah  Bin  Abdulaziz  Al  Saud  of 
Saudi Arabia, Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, for 
calling  to  our  attention  the  need  to  hold  this  meeting. 
There is absolutely nothing more important at this time 
in  the  odyssey  of  human  experience  than  to  place  our 
faith-based  values  and  ethical  convictions  at  centre 
stage  in  our  efforts  to  cope  with  the  convergence  of 
crises that we are now facing on a global scale. 

In  order  for  this  two-day  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  achieve  the  hoped-for  results,  we  must 
make it  absolutely clear that we  are not gathered  here 
to  talk  about  religion  or  theology.  This  forum  would 
not  be  the  appropriate  one  for  such  discourse. We  are 
here  today  to  pledge  to  place  our  reserves  of  moral 
strength  at  the  service  of  the  goals  of  the  United 
Nations. 

A  similar  exercise  was  undertaken  63  years  ago 
and  the  outcome  was  one  of  the  most  glorious 
achievements  of  humankind  — 
the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  Today,  confronted  with 
the  many  problems  that  beset  humankind,  it  is  more 
than  ever  necessary  to  summon  up  these  same  ethical 
and moral values in order to move from declarations to 
actions  that  respond  effectively  to  the  numerous 
problems of our time. Making declarations is fine, but 
the time has come for action, for us to demonstrate that 
we  believe  in  our  declarations. We  know  that  nothing 
2 

short  of  heroic  decisions  and  actions  can  awaken  us 
from our moral coma. 

Although  social  responsibility  is  a  basic  law  in 
each  of  the  world’s  religions  and  in  all  ethical  and 
philosophical traditions, we have allowed ourselves to 
become  contaminated  by  the  spirit  of  selfishness  and 
individualism, which are the principal values, or rather, 
anti-values, of the globally dominant culture. 

This culture declares ethics and morals off limits 
to  economic  and  political  activity.  It  claims  that  the 
business  of  business  is  business  and  that  the  concepts 
of  justice  and  fairness  have  no  place  within  it.  The 
principles  of  justice,  mercy  and  compassion  are  not 
applicable  to  economic  activities,  they  say,  and  are 
deemed  to  be  completely  irrelevant.  Unbridled  greed 
and  social  irresponsibility  have  thus  become  the  main 
driving force of the dominant culture. The result is that 
we have now been turned into veritable moral invalids. 
That is why wealthy nations have not even been able to 
muster  the  political  will  to  comply  with  the  minimal 
commitment  to  provide  0.7 per  cent  of  their  gross 
domestic product to help eradicate hunger and poverty 
from the world. 

In order to stop polluting the environment, to stop 
being the irresponsible predators of nature that we have 
become and to love all our brothers and sisters without 
exception  or  exclusion,  we  urgently  need  to  return  to 
the  values  that  are  based  on  our  faith  and  ethical  and 
philosophical traditions. 

We  have  openly  rebelled  against  our  mission  to 
act  as  stewards  of  creation  and  arrogantly  declared 
ourselves  its  proprietors,  arrogating  to  ourselves  the 
right to squander  and abuse the marvels of nature.  By 
being  thus  unfaithful  to  our  most  sacred  values  and 
principles,  we  have  also  endangered  not  only  the 
survival of our own species, but also the very capacity 
of the Earth to sustain life. 

In spite of all our current difficulties, our Earth is 
fortunate  to  have  been  blessed  with  the  presence  of  a 
host  of  great  spiritual  prophets,  saints  and  sages,  who 
have  offered  their  values  to  human  society  over  the 
millennia.  That  divine  wisdom,  or  faith-based  values, 
are embodied in texts such as the Torah, the Bible, the 
Koran and the Vedas, in the noble teachings of Buddha, 
Lao  Tzu  and  Confucius  and  in  the  wonderful  beliefs 
and values of the indigenous peoples  of all  continents 
of  our  Earth.  The  great  spiritual  values  espoused  in 
those teachings can be seen as constituting the spiritual 
08-59933 


assets  of  humankind.  Today,  we  have  gathered  to 
acknowledge  those  values  and  recommit  ourselves  to 
respecting them. 

Without the inclusion of those spiritual assets, not 
even  the  best  planned  programmes  for  the  eradication 
of  hunger  and  poverty  in  the  world  and  for  the 
attainment of peace on Earth can succeed. We need the 
inner strength — the moral energy and inspiration that 
we can get from our ethical values — to overcome our 
selfishness and individualism. 
We  have  those  powerful  spiritual  assets  at  our 

disposal.  Unfortunately,  we  have  opted  to  put  them 
aside  and  decided  instead  to  worship  the  golden  calf, 
and  we  are  now  beginning  to  suffer  the  consequences 
of  that  infidelity  to  our  deepest  held  beliefs  and 
convictions. 

The  advantage  is  that  we  have  an  opportunity  to 
integrate  those  values  into  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations,  which  can  instil  in  us  the  moral  strength  and 
conviction  that  we  need  to  take  action  capable  of 
ensuring the success of our efforts to eradicate poverty, 
guarantee  genuine  human  security 
take 
to  human  rights  and 
seriously  our  commitments 
become faithful stewards of our beleaguered planet. 
To  cite  one  example,  the  high-level  Follow-up 

International 
for 
Development  to  Review  the  Implementation  of  the 
Monterrey  Consensus,  which  is  to  begin  shortly  in 
Doha,  will  be  filled  with  references  to  improving 
human life and to the ideals of justice, peace, progress, 
freedom, 
and 
preferential  treatment  for  the  poor  and  vulnerable.  Of 
course, 
that  all  beliefs  and 
humanist ethical systems fully share. 

I wish to encourage delegations to take advantage 
of  that  important  Conference  to  join  forces  in  a  way 
that  is  consistent  with  the  values  that  inspired  our 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  and  to  work 
together 
towards 
solutions to the most urgent issues on the agenda of the 
Doha  Conference.  The  Conference  offers  us 
the 
opportunity to translate those values into action. 
In  the  section  of  the  agenda  concerning  the 

mobilization  of  domestic  resources, 
the  outcome 
document  now  being  negotiated  begins  with  a 
reference to the need for human beings to be at one and 
the  same  time  the  main  beneficiaries  of  development 
to  make  meaningful  progress 
those  are  principles 
Conference 
cooperation, 
solidarity, 
tolerance 
for  all, 
on 
Financing 
08-59933 

A/63/PV.46
efforts  and  active  participants  in  those  efforts.  It  also 
refers  to  the  need  to  elaborate  appropriate  policies  in 
the fields of education, health, employment and social 
protection  that  are  targeted  to  the  poorest  and  most 
vulnerable sectors of the population, including women, 
children, the elderly and the disabled. 

The agenda highlights the goal of decent work for 
all  and  the  importance  of  building  inclusive  financial 
sectors  and  microfinance  structures.  There  are  also 
references  to  the  goal  of  improving  international 
cooperation in tax matters, since it has been determined 
that  billions  of  dollars 
that  could  be  used  for 
development  are  lost  annually  due  to  the  failure  of 
individuals and corporations to pay taxes. I believe we 
can  all  agree  that  it  is  the  social  and  legal  duty  of 
citizens to contribute to the common good. 

Likewise,  there  are  calls  in  the  Doha  document 
(TD/B(S-XXII)/2) for more vigorous efforts to combat 
corruption, a scourge that plagues societies both in the 
North and South, and to promote respect for the rule of 
law,  human  rights,  inclusive  democracy  and  good 
governance. 
In  the  section  dealing  with  international  private 

capital  flows,  corporations  investing  in  developing 
countries are reminded of their duty of corporate social 
responsibility and non-predatory practices, which they 
sometimes  take  seriously  in  the  North,  but  not  in  the 
South.  Similarly,  in  the  section  on  international  trade, 
all countries are held to their commitment to make the 
current  round  of  multilateral  trade  negotiations  a 
development  round  focused  in  particular  on  the  needs 
of poorer countries. 

In  the  section  dealing  with  international  official 
development  assistance,  donor  countries  are  urged  to 
respect the commitment they often reiterate to allocate 
at least 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product to 
cooperation  assistance  to  developing  countries,  a  goal 
that is still far from being met. That should be seen as 
another  essential moral duty of social justice, in other 
words,  a  way  in  which  humankind  as  a  whole  could 
contribute  to  the  common  good.  Those  countries  that 
have  set  targets  to  achieve  that  goal  should  accelerate 
their compliance and those that have not should do so.  

There are calls for further exploration of various 
innovative  sources  of  financing  that  may  prove  to  be 
very  useful  in  bringing  us  closer  to  the  attainment  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  complying  with 
to  Africa’s  development  needs  and 
commitments 
3 

international 
revamping  of 
A/63/PV.46 

adopting  measures  to  deal  with  challenges  such  as 
climate change and the scarcity of food and energy. 

In the section dealing with external debt, there is 
a proposal to identify more effective and just solutions 
to that distressing problem, which threatens to destroy 
the  prospects  for  growth  and  development  in  so  many 
countries of the South. Solutions that have been put in 
place  so  far  have  been  found  to  be  insufficient  and 
selective. For example, they only target countries with 
very  low  per  capita  incomes  and,  unjustly,  do  not 
include so-called middle-income countries, where most 
of the world’s poor people actually live. 

Finally, in the so-called systemic issues section of 
the  Doha  document,  there  is  a  call  for  a  thorough 
review  and 
financial 
structures  and  institutions,  which  are  clearly  not 
equipped  to  deal  with  the  realities,  problems  and 
challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century.  What  is  more, 
they do not adequately include developing countries in 
global  economic  governance  and  decision-making 
processes. 

That  appeal  reflects  a  fundamental  concept  of 
justice, solidarity and representative democracy, which 
must be applied at the international level, just as it is so 
passionately  defended  at 
level.  The 
ongoing  financial  crisis  has  now  become  one  of  the 
central issues to be addressed in the Doha Conference. 
For that reason, it should not escape our attention and 
our strong collective response as people of faith and as 
a testimony of our love of God and of our neighbours. 
Solidarity  must  be  the  star  that  guides  us  all  to  the 
peace that we must strive with our utmost commitment 
to attain. 

May  the  compassionate,  all-loving  and  merciful 
God  enlighten  our  minds  in  our  deliberations  and 
strengthen our hearts so that, as people of faith and/or 
of deep ethical-philosophical convictions, we may rise 
to  the  occasion  and  take  the  courageous  and  heroic 
actions  that  are  needed  to  save  us  from  the  grave 
consequences of the crises that threaten us all, rich and 
poor, from the North and from the South, although, as 
it has always been, the greatest threats are being faced 
by our dispossessed brothers and sisters throughout the 
world. 
(spoke in Spanish) 

General Ban Ki-Moon. 
I now give the floor to His Excellency Secretary-
the  national 
The 
Thank 
Secretary-General: 

you, 
Mr. President, for convening this high-level meeting to 
hold  an  interfaith  dialogue.  To  His  Majesty  King 
Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Custodian of the Two 
Holy  Mosques,  I  say  asalamu  alaykum.  I  thank  all 
participants  for  coming  together  for  this  high-level 
meeting.  Their  presence  attests  to  the  importance  and 
urgency of dialogue in today’s world. Saudi Arabia has 
taken  a  truly  inspiring  initiative  for  global  harmony 
and mutual understanding. I thank the Custodian of the 
Two  Holy  Mosques,  His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  Bin 
Abdulaziz Al Saud, for his dynamic role in making this 
gathering possible. 

We  live  in  a  wonderfully  diverse  global  village. 
Globalization can be a great force for progress but, as 
economies merge, as cultural boundaries disappear and 
as  new  media  bring  our  societies  closer  together  than 
ever before, new fault lines can emerge. Indeed, we are 
seeing some troubling phenomena. Communal strife is 
intensifying.  Extremist  ideologies  are  on  the  rise. 
Societies are more polarized. Anti-Semitism remains a 
scourge.  Islamophobia  has  emerged  as  a  new  term  for 
an  old  and  terrible  form  of  prejudice.  Other  kinds  of 
faith-based  discrimination  and 
a 
dismaying consistency. Sometimes it seems as if none 
of  history’s  awful  lessons  have  been  learned.  One  of 
the great challenges of our time must now surely be to 
ensure  that  our  rich  cultural  diversity  makes  us  more 
secure, not less. 

Traditionally,  peace  has  involved  balancing  the 
interests  of  different  States,  but  we  have  learned  that 
lasting  peace  requires  more 
than  a  competitive 
equilibrium.  For  peace  to  endure,  individuals,  groups 
and nations must come to respect and understand each 
other.  Interfaith  initiatives  are  addressing  that  need 
with ever greater frequency and force. One of the most 
respected of those initiatives was the World Conference 
on  Dialogue,  held  in  Madrid  this  past  July  at  the 
invitation  of  King  Abdullah.  That  landmark  meeting 
brought  together  followers  of  the  world’s  religions, 
eminent  scholars,  intellectuals  and  others.  Participants 
affirmed  their  belief  in  the  fundamental  equality  of 
human  beings  irrespective  of  their  colour,  ethnicity, 
race,  religion  or  culture.  They  also  pledged  to  act 
within their spheres of influence to foster dialogue and 
cooperation. 
We  at  the  United  Nations  welcomed  the  Madrid 

to  our  own 
Conference  as  a  major  contribution 
longstanding  efforts  to  promote  tolerance  and  mutual 
racism 
show 
4 

08-59933 
the 
initiative  of 


respect. That work derives from our founding Charter, 
from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights — the 
sixtieth  anniversary  of  which  we  will  mark  next 
month — and from other groundbreaking human rights 
instruments. 

It  takes  concrete  form  in  the  work  of  initiatives 
such  as  the  United  Nations  Alliance  of  Civilizations, 
which  was  established  at 
the 
Governments  of  Spain  and  Turkey.  Over  the  past  two 
years,  the  Alliance  has  been  supporting  grass-roots 
civil  society  projects  that  seek  to  bridge  cultural 
divides  by  addressing  entrenched  stereotypes  and 
polarization  among  communities.  Those  projects  have 
involved  exposing  young  people  to  other  cultures  and 
having  experts  provide  opinions  and  advice  on  issues 
that  threaten  to  inflame  identity-based  conflicts.  The 
Alliance  has  also  established  a  group  of  friends  and 
intends  to  advance  that  work  further  still  at  the  next 
forum, to be hosted by Turkey in April next year. 

Many  other  Member  States  have  put  forward 
initiatives: Iran, Kazakhstan, Pakistan, the Philippines, 
Russia  and  others.  The  United  Nations  Educational, 
Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization  has  been  striving 
to  promote  intercultural  understanding  since  its  very 
founding.  The  Tripartite  Forum  on 
Interfaith 
Cooperation  for  Peace  is  helping  Governments,  civil 
society  and  United  Nations  agencies  to  share  ideas. 
Those  efforts  complement  each  other  and  advance  the 
cause. They are showing that there is no corner of the 
world  that  cannot  benefit  from  an  active,  targeted 
approach  to  promoting  cross-cultural  contacts  and 
education. The call to dialogue is striking a chord. 

But  we  cannot  be  satisfied  with  declarations  of 
intent  and  commonality,  important  as  those  are.  What 
we  need  is  dialogue  that  delivers.  We  need  new 
partnerships 
last 
representative  has  gone  home.  For  that  to  work,  we 
need to involve everyone: Government officials, grass-
roots  groups,  chief  executive  officers,  philanthropists, 
academics  and  the  media.  We  especially  need  the 
world’s  young  people.  By  virtue  of  their  youth, 
prejudice may not be as ingrained; in a sense, they may 
have less to unlearn. They are well placed to approach 
the  unfamiliar  —  people,  customs  and  ideas  —  with 
open minds. 

Living  together  in  peace  has  proved  tragically 
difficult. We must try harder to bring shared values to 
life. With knowledge and leadership, we can live up to 
that  will  continue  after 
the 
A/63/PV.46
the best of our traditions and ensure human dignity for 
all. As we move ahead, let us be guided by the words 
of the great international civil servant Ralph Bunche. It 
was 1949. He was in the midst of the peace efforts for 
which  he  won  the  Nobel  Prize  for  Peace.  At  a 
particularly trying moment, he said the following:  
to 
“I  have  a  deep-seated  bias  against  hate  and 
intolerance.  I  have  a  bias  against  racial  and 
religious bigotry. I have a bias against war and a 
bias  for  peace.  I  have  a  bias  that  leads  me  to 
believe  in  the  essential  goodness  of  my  fellow 
men,  which  leads  me  to  believe  that  no  problem 
of human relations is ever insoluble”. 
That is the only bias we can tolerate. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  thank  the 
Allow  me  now  to  draw  the Assembly’s  attention 
the 


Secretary-General for his statement. 

to  some  organizational  matters  pertaining 
conduct of the meeting. 

I  should  first  like  to  refer  to  the  length  of 
statements.  In  order  to  accommodate  all  the  speakers 
inscribed  on  the  list,  I  urge  speakers  to  limit  their 
statements  to  no  more  than  15  minutes,  on  the 
understanding 
the 
distribution  of  more  extensive  texts.  I  appeal  to 
speakers to cooperate in that respect. In the light of that 
given time frame, I would like to appeal to speakers to 
deliver  their  statements  at  a  normal  speed  so  that 
interpretation may be provided properly. 
To assist speakers in managing their time, a light 

system has been installed at the speaker’s rostrum that 
functions as follows. A green light will be activated at 
the start of a speaker’s statement. An orange light will 
be  activated  30  seconds  before  the  end  of  the  15 
minutes.  A  red  light  will  be  activated  when  the 
15 minute  limit  has  elapsed.  Furthermore,  in  order  to 
avoid disruption for the speakers, I ask representatives 
to  remain  in  their  seats  after  a  statement  has  been 
delivered. 
that  would  not  preclude 
that 


Address by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques 
King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud of the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Head  of  State  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  and  Custodian  of  the  Two 
Holy Mosques. 
08-59933 

5 
A/63/PV.46 


into 
Throughout 
history, 
they  will 
the  General  Assembly  — 
His Majesty King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud 
of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Custodian of the 
Two  Holy  Mosques,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  Bin 
Abdulaziz  Al  Saud  of  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia, 
Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
King Abdullah (spoke in Arabic): In the presence 

of  this  gathering  of  world  leaders  and  representatives 
and  members  of 
the 
conscience  of  the  United  Nations  —  and  before  the 
whole  world,  we  state  with  a  unified  voice  that 
religions, through which Almighty God sought to bring 
happiness to humankind, should not be instruments that 
cause  misery.  Human  beings  were  created  as  equals 
and partners on the planet; either they live together in 
peace  and  harmony  or 
inevitably  be 
consumed  by  the  flames  of  misunderstanding,  malice 
and hatred. 
with 

differences  between  the  followers  of  religions  and 
cultures  has  engendered 
intolerance  and  bigotry, 
causing  devastating  wars  and  considerable  bloodshed, 
without  any  sound  logical  or  ideological  justification. 
It  is  indeed  high  time  for  us  to  learn  from  the  harsh 
lessons  of  the  past  and  concur  on  the  ethics  and  lofty 
ideals  in  which  we  all  believe.  Matters  on  which  we 
differ will be decided by our omniscient Creator on the 
Day of Judgment. Every tragedy suffered by the world 
today  is  but  a  result  of  the  abandonment  of  the  noble 
principles enunciated by all religions and cultures. The 
roots of all global crises can be found in human denial 
of the eternal principle of justice. 

Terrorism and crime are the enemies of God and 
of every religion and civilization. They would not have 
appeared  except  for  the  absence  of  the  principle  of 
tolerance,  the  sense  of  alienation  that  has  affected  the 
lives  of  many  of  our  young  people,  leading  them  to 
drugs  and  crime,  and  the  dissolution  of  family  bonds 
that  the  Almighty  God  had  intended  to  be  firm  and 
strong.  Our  dialogue,  which  will  be  conducted  in  a 
civilized  manner,  should  revive  and  consolidate  those 
lofty ideals among peoples and nations. No doubt, that 
will constitute a glorious triumph of what is most noble 
in  human  beings  over  what  is  most  evil  in  them,  and 
preoccupation 
will give humankind hope for a future in which justice, 
security and a dignified life will prevail over injustice, 
fear and poverty. 

I  wish  to  thank  His  Excellency  the  President  of 
the General Assembly for convening this meeting. I am 
also  grateful  to  my  friends,  world  leaders  from  East 
and West, for attending this meeting. I am indeed proud 
of  their  friendship  and  their  participation.  On  this 
occasion,  permit  me  to  call  on  the  participants  in  the 
Madrid  Dialogue  to  elect  a  committee  to  represent 
them and to undertake the task of guiding this dialogue 
in the coming days and years. I can assure them and all 
the  States  of  the  world  and  their  peoples  that  our 
concern for this dialogue stems from our Islamic faith 
and  values,  our  compassion  and  care  for  the  human 
condition, in order to save humanity from its miseries. 
We  will  continue  what  we  have  begun,  extending  our 
hand  to  all  those  advocating  amity,  peace,  justice  and 
tolerance. 

from the Holy Koran:  
In conclusion, I would like to recall some words 
“O mankind! We have created you from a single 
pair  of  a  male  and  female,  and  made  you  into 
nations  and  tribes,  so  that  ye  may  know  each 
other.  Verily,  the  most  honoured  of  you  in  the 
sight  of  God  is  he  who  is  the  most  righteous  of 
you.” (The Holy Koran, XLIX:13) 
May  peace  and  mercy  and  the  blessings  of  God 

be with you. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  His  Majesty 
King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud of the Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia, Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, 
for the statement he has just made. 
His Majesty King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud 
of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Custodian of the 
Two  Holy  Mosques,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
from 


Address by Mrs. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, 
President of the Republic of the Philippines 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  Her  Excellency  Mrs. 
Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, President of the Republic of 
the Philippines. 
6 

08-59933 


A/63/PV.46
Mrs.  Gloria  Macapagal-Arroyo,  President  of  the 
Republic of the Philippines, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Gloria 
Macapagal-Arroyo,  President  of  the  Republic  of  the 
Philippines, and to invite her to address the Assembly. 
President Arroyo: Thank  you,  Mr.  President  for 

convening  this  high-level  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly.  My  congratulations  go  to  His  Majesty  the 
Custodian  of  the  Two  Holy  Mosques  for  drawing 
attention to the World Conference on Dialogue held in 
Madrid  last  July. At  that  Conference,  Their  Majesties 
the  King  of  Saudi  Arabia  and  the  King  of  Spain 
brought  together  Jews,  Muslims,  Christians,  Hindus, 
Buddhists and representatives of other religions in the 
hope of promoting understanding and tolerance among 
followers  of  the  world’s  faiths.  That  is  also  the  hope 
for this meeting here in New York. 

The  Philippines  fully  supports  this  initiative 
because  we  take  a  great  interest  in  promoting  world 
peace  and 
in  encouraging  greater  cross-religion 
exchange.  Allow  me  at  the  outset  to  introduce  draft 
resolution  A/63/L.24 
of 
interreligious and intercultural dialogue, understanding 
and  cooperation  for  peace”,  tabled  jointly  by  the 
Philippines  and  Pakistan  and  co-sponsored  by 
approximately 60 States. This draft resolution emerged 
as  a  consensus  text  after  a  series  of  consultations. 
Among the salient points  of the draft resolution is the 
affirmation 
and 
interreligious  dialogue  constitute  an  important  part  of 
the alliance of civilizations and of the culture of peace. 

The draft resolution encourages the promotion of 
dialogue 
in  all  cultures  and 
civilizations. It emphasizes that everyone has the right 
to  freedom  of  expression.  It  also  affirms  that  the 
exercise  of  this  right  carries  with  it  duties  and 
responsibilities  necessary  to  respect  the  rights  or 
reputations  of  others  and  to  protect  national  security, 
public  order,  public  health  or  morals.  The  draft 
resolution  requests  the  proclamation  of  a  United 
Nations  decade  for  interreligious  and  intercultural 
dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace.  I 
commend the draft resolution for adoption at the close 
tomorrow.  This  will 
of  our  plenary  meeting 
demonstrate  once  again  our  solidarity 
the 
that  mutual 
understanding 
“Promotion 
the  media 
through 
entitled 
for 
is  working  on 
promotion  of  interfaith  dialogue  as  a  powerful  aid  to 
ensure durable peace worldwide. 

The  draft  resolution  is  especially  relevant  to  the 
United Nations under the leadership of His Excellency 
Ban Ki-Moon because, for the first time in the United 
Nations’  history,  the  Secretary-General  has  issued  a 
report  on  interreligious  and  intercultural  activities. 
Likewise,  UNESCO 
interreligious 
dialogue. 

Regrettably, the story of faith has too often been 
twisted into a source of despair and destruction among 
peoples  and  nations.  There  are  those  who  wish  to 
instigate religious wars. There are those who use faith 
to  divide  rather  than  unite  people.  They  camouflage 
their evil designs by invoking religious prejudice in the 
hope of heightening a clash of civilizations. In this era 
of  propaganda  on  the  clash  of  civilizations,  it  is 
especially  important  that  we  pursue  broader  interfaith 
dialogue  to  promote  solidarity.  Our  challenge  is  to 
redeem the true meaning of our faith, if we are to bring 
true peace and prosperity to the world. We must make 
this  challenge  an  opportunity 
to  forge  religious 
understanding. But we must not mistake tolerance and 
understanding  of  other  faiths  and  belief  systems  as  a 
blank  check  allowing  abuse  in  the  form  of  violence 
cloaked in religion, which is completely unacceptable. 

The Philippines has  actively advocated interfaith 
dialogue. Interfaith dialogue is an official policy of the 
Philippine  Government.  It  is  also  a  historical  truth 
among  our  diverse  peoples  and  beliefs.  Faith  is 
ingrained in the lives of our people. It is the primordial 
seed  of  humanity.  It  offers  hope,  confidence,  courage 
and 
global 
neighbourhood. 
in 

development  policy,  it  becomes  more  effective  in 
resolving conflict. Our archipelago of more than 7,000 
islands  has  had  its  share  of  religious  strife,  ethnic 
tension  and  violence.  For  years  we  have  worked  to 
achieve peace in Mindanao in the southern Philippines. 
The  peace  process  was  recently  dealt  a  setback  by 
violence  carried  out  by  lawless  renegade  elements  of 
the  Moro  Islamic  Liberation  Front.  But  we  are  fully 
committed to the peace process. There is no alternative 
to peace. We are working to make as much progress as 
possible  on  peace  within  the  parameters  set  out  by 
authentic  dialogues  with  communities.  However, 
before  we  can  actively  and  effectively  reactivate  the 
interfaith  understanding 
commitment 
to  make 
integrate 
As  we 
better 
a 
08-59933 

7 

in 
the 
including 
are  our  partners 
engagement,  with 
involvement, 
A/63/PV.46 

peace  process  again  in  earnest,  we  must  first  bring 
stability back to the island, restore order and be able to 
trust  that  responsible  elements  of  the  Moro  Islamic 
Liberation Front have regained control. 
Religious  leaders  can  speed  up  dialogue  and 

reconciliation.  They 
the 
peacemaking  process.  The  historic  divide  between 
Christians  and  Muslims  in  our  country  is  narrowing 
dramatically. That is in no small part due to our focus 
on  interfaith  dialogue  and  a  willingness  to  accept  the 
sincerity of those who differ with us in faith. 

The Bishops-Ulama Conference is our format for 
interfaith  dialogue.  It  is  a  movement  of  Catholic  and 
Christian  bishops  and  Muslim  ulamas  organized  to 
promote  mutual  understanding  of  faiths  and  religions 
for peace. 

We  all  want  to  see  peace  and  prosperity  in  the 
Philippines.  Through  interfaith  dialogue,  under  the 
leadership  of  the  Bishops-Ulama  Conference,  through 
largest  possible 
global 
international 
the  United 
Nations,  Saudi Arabia,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Indonesia, 
Libya,  Malaysia  and  others  in  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic  Conference,  Spain,  Sweden  and  the  European 
Union,  the  United  States,  Japan,  Australia  and  other 
bilateral  official  development  assistance  partners,  and 
through  economic  assistance  at  the  community  level, 
we are confident that peace will happen. 

Three  years  ago,  we  had  the  honour  of  chairing 
the  first  Informal  Summit  of  Leaders  on  Interfaith 
Dialogue and Cooperation for Peace here in the United 
Nations.  
At the regional level, we are one of the conveners 

of  an  ongoing  series  of  Asia-Pacific 
interfaith 
dialogues that began in Indonesia in 2004. Subsequent 
dialogues  were  held  in  the  Philippines  in  2006,  New 
Zealand in 2007 and Cambodia in 2008. 

Currently,  we  are  preparing  to  host  the  Special 
Non-Aligned  Movement  Ministerial  Meeting  on 
Interfaith  Dialogue  and  Cooperation  for  Peace  and 
Development, scheduled for May 2009. 
Our  participation  today  in  this  initiative  on  the 

culture of peace advances our relationship with Middle 
Eastern  and  Islamic  nations. Their  support  in  carrying 
out  our  interfaith  dialogues  has  been  critical  to  our 
progress 
southern 
Philippines. What we are doing together here today and 
in  promoting  peace 
tomorrow  is  every  bit  as  powerful  as  bullets,  military 
tanks  and  armaments  to  fight  those  who  bring  misery 
and violence to people at home or across the globe. We 
must follow our faith and have faith in each other if we 
are  to  truly  lift  up  the  poor,  transform  war  into  peace 
and stamp out the intolerance and hatred wrought by a 
false reading of the divine message.  

We maintain high hopes in interfaith dialogue as 
a  means  for  building  bridges  to  replace  barriers 
between  communities  of  different  cultures  and 
ethnicity.  We  are  here  today  united  by  our  faith  and 
determined  to  bridge  the  valley  that  unnecessarily 
divides  us,  whether  we  live  across  the  street,  across 
rivers or across oceans and continents from each other. 
We can and must bridge the divide through the alliance 
of  civilizations  so  that  we  can  advance  the  common 
good of humanity. 

Let us embrace the power of dialogue here today 
and  tomorrow  for  peace,  development  and  human 
dignity.  Let  us  adopt  draft  resolution A/63/L.24/Rev.1 
on  the  promotion  of  interreligious  and  intercultural 
dialogue, understanding and cooperation for peace. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Republic  of  Philippines  for  the  statement  she  has 
just made. 
Mrs.  Gloria  Macapagal-Arroyo,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  the  Philippines,  was  escorted  from 
the General Assembly Hall.  


Address by Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber 
Al-Sabah, Amir of the State of Kuwait 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

with  now  hear  an  address  by  the Amir  of  the  State  of 
Kuwait. 

Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, Amir 
of  the  State  of  Kuwait,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Highness  Sheikh  Sabah 
Al-Ahmad  Al-Jaber  Al-Sabah,  Amir  of  the  State  of 
Kuwait, and to invite him to address the Assembly.  
Sheikh Al-Sabah  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  thank  the 

Almighty  God  that  we  are  all  assembled  here  in  this 
Hall.  We  came  to  foster  peace  and  the  good  of 
in 
the 
8 

08-59933 


humanity,  to  consolidate  the  links  between  us  through 
dialogue and understanding, to focus on the values and 
bonds  that  join  us  and  to  reject  the  misgivings  and 
suspicions that separate us. 

I congratulate you, Mr. President, on the occasion 
of this high-level meeting and wish you every success 
in conducting its deliberations. It is also my pleasure to 
recognize in particular my brother, the Custodian of the 
Two  Holy  Mosques,  King Abdullah  Bin Abdulaziz Al 
Saud,  the  King  of  the  brotherly  Kingdom  of  Saudi 
Arabia, for his initiative to hold this high-level meeting 
in 
the  General  Assembly,  which  was  originally 
established to embrace and consolidate  dialogue as  an 
enduring principle of international relations, seeking to 
achieve  peace  and  build  bridges  of  cooperation  and 
interconnection  between  nations  and  peoples.  We 
therefore  convey  to  His  Majesty  our  most  heartfelt 
thanks and appreciation for his gracious and continued 
efforts  in  this  field,  wishing  him  success  in  his 
endeavours, which have our full support.  

We  also  value  the  good  results  of  the  World 
Conference on Dialogue, which was held this past July 
in  Spain  under  the  auspices  of  —  and  thanks  to  the 
gracious  efforts  of  —  the  Custodian  of  the  Two  Holy 
Mosques,  King Abdullah  Bin Abdulaziz Al  Saud,  and 
His Majesty King Juan Carlos I of Spain. 

I  must  also  extend  my  thanks  to  His  Excellency 
the  Secretary-General  and  to  the  United  Nations 
specialized  agencies  for  espousing  the  noble  goals  of 
dialogue, 
peoples, 
promoting programmes and paving the way to create a 
world 
fanaticism  and  promotes 
moderation,  fuses  our  roots  and  melts  differences, 
eliminates  obstacles  and  opens  horizons,  magnifies 
commonalities 
removes 
impediments through cooperation. 

Our world today is facing difficult circumstances, 
as  problems  have  intensified,  and  diversified,  and 
solutions  have  become  complex  and  difficult 
to 
implement.  The  inability  to  resolve  political  issues  in 
numerous areas of the world has led to the emergence 
of new conflicts and civil wars, and pressing economic 
crises  have  become  entangled  with  deadly  natural 
disasters.  

New  phenomena  have  emerged  and  intensified, 
such as terrorism, drugs and discrimination. The spirit 
of  fanaticism  and  hatred  has  become  widespread. 
Feelings  of  hatred  and  exclusion  have  inflamed  the 
consolidating 
renounces 
between 
peoples 
among 
peace 
that 
and 
A/63/PV.46
in 
the  dialogue  between 
followers of religious, cultural and political groups and 
their symbols, principles and values have been vilified. 

Regrettably, all those phenomena have shaken the 
foundations of global stability. As leaders and peoples, 
therefore, we must assume our historical responsibility 
to  carefully  examine  our  painful  reality  through  a 
serious  and  sincere  dialogue  among  peoples,  religions 
and cultures. We should therefore focus our efforts on 
strengthening  genuine  religious  and  moral  values  and 
on the commonly held just principles that all religions 
espouse  and  on  which  all  cultures  are  based,  so  as  to 
establish a point of departure  from which we can join 
together  for  the  common  good  to  foster  cooperation 
and  peace.  Today,  more 
than  ever  before,  both 
conceptually  and  in  reality,  we  must  transform  the 
world  from  a  culture  of  hatred,  fanaticism  and  war  to 
one  of  dialogue  and  coexistence.  The  way  to  achieve 
that  is  by  interacting  positively  with  one  another 
without  fear,  for  we  have  all  been  entrusted  with  the 
destiny of humankind for the benefit of all beings. 
Perhaps  a  good  way  to  achieve  that  is  by 

participating 
intellectual 
leaders  of  the  followers  of  the  divine  religions  and 
other  beliefs,  since  dialogue  has  now  become  part  of 
the  political  environment.  The  United  Nations,  for 
example, has made a contribution to the establishment 
of  an  appropriate  atmosphere  through  the  General 
Assembly’s  adoption  of  resolution  53/22,  which 
proclaimed  2001  as  the  Year  of  Dialogue  among 
Civilizations in order to counter hatred and incitement 
to  violence  and  conflicts.  To  that  end  as  well,  the 
General  Assembly  adopted  resolution  62/90,  which 
proclaimed  2010  as  the  International  Year  for  the 
Rapprochement of Cultures. 

A sound analysis of the tragedies that humankind 
has  endured  reveals  that  in  no  instance  were  those 
events the result of religious beliefs or cultural values; 
rather, they were caused by extremism, fanaticism and 
discrimination  on  the  part  of  some  followers  of  the 
divine religions and other beliefs. Instead of being the 
cause of problems, the essence, methods and teachings 
the 
of 
problems 
therefore 
incumbent  upon  clergy  and  educated  people  of  all 
religious  faiths  to  highlight  those  facts  and  to  help 
correct  misconceptions  in  the  minds  of  those  who 
espouse extremism, fanaticism and discrimination. 
the  divine  religions  provide  solutions 
faced  by  humankind. 
to 
is 
It 
08-59933 

9 
and 
and 
have 

that  affirm 
contributions 
fair  opinions 
A/63/PV.46 


Moreover,  intellectuals  and  educators  must  raise 
awareness  among  young  people  and  inculcate  in  them 
respect for the divine religions. They must also instil in 
them the spirit and value of moderation and tolerance, 
as well as to promote positive interaction between the 
various  religions  and  beliefs.  In  addition,  the  media, 
which  shape  the  intellect  and  feed  the  mind,  must 
address  these  subjects  in  a  positive  manner  and 
recognize  the  scope  of  their  influence  in  forming 
enlightened  and 
the 
interconnection between, and the oneness of, all human 
beings. 

As  leaders  and  peoples,  we  are  aware  of  our 
historical  responsibility  to  combat  extremism  and 
discrimination,  promote  moderation 
avoid 
extremism.  That  is  certainly  no  easy  task,  yet  it  is  a 
necessary  undertaking.  We  in  Kuwait  have  made 
numerous 
established 
programmes  and undertaken other  efforts towards that 
end.  Kuwait  established  an  international  centre  for 
moderation  that  has  convened  numerous  intellectual 
conferences,  including  the  two  international  meetings 
held  in  London  and  Washington  over  the  past  two 
years.  The  relevant  Government  agencies  have  also 
established programmes and held seminars targeting all 
sectors  of  society  that  have  helped  to  raise  awareness 
about moderation among the population. 
Kuwait  has  also  sponsored  and  convened  many 

regional and international conferences and seminars on 
moderation  in  Islam.  We  are  encouraging  religious 
tolerance among peoples and respect for the beliefs of 
the 
religions,  while 
safeguarding their dignity and avoiding offending their 
symbols.  We  have  also  opposed  the  use  of  religious 
beliefs as a basis for discrimination in society and have 
called  for  respect  for  the  different  characteristics  of 
peoples and for their right to equality and coexistence. 
All  this  is  at  the  heart  of  the  relationship  between 
human beings and achieving it is the highest purpose of 
all religions and cultures. 

The best outcome to our well-intended gathering 
in this Hall would be a joint international commitment 
to  respect  all  religions  and 
to  avoid  damaging, 
interfering  with  or  ridiculing  their  symbols,  while 
endeavouring 
those  who 
advocate them. We must also commit to ban efforts that 
seek to deepen discord among religions and undermine 
the  chances  of  coexistence  among  human  beings.  We 
must  commit  to  encourage  and  finance  programmes 
followers  of  other  divine 
to  deter  such  acts  and 
for 
relations 
international 
that promote the spread of the culture of tolerance and 
understanding  through  dialogue,  so  as  to  establish  a 
framework 
through 
conferences  and  seminars,  and  develop  educational, 
cultural  and  information  programmes  to  achieve  those 
goals. 

The best way for me to end my statement before 
the  Assembly  is  to  quote  the  words  of  Allah  the 
Almighty as he commands us: 

“O mankind! We created you from a single 
pair  of  a  male  and  a  female,  and  made  you  into 
nations and tribes, that ye may know each other. 
Verily  the  most  honoured  of  you  in  the  sight  of 
Allah  is  the  most  righteous  of  you”  (The  Holy 
Koran, XLIX:13). 
That 
is  our  course,  our  objective  and  our 

ambition, as well as our message to the entire world. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I thank the Amir of the State of 
Kuwait for the statement he has just made. 
Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, Amir 
of  the  State  of  Kuwait,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Shimon Peres, President of the State 
of Israel 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by the President of the State 
of Israel. 
Mr. Shimon Peres, President of the State of Israel, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Shimon  Peres, 
President  of  the  State  of  Israel,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly. 

this  week,  we 
commemorated  the  passing  of  13  years  since  the 
assassination  of  Prime  Minister  Yitzhak  Rabin,  my 
friend  and  partner  in  our  journey,  who  was  murdered 
while  singing  a  song  of  peace.  Assassins  may  take  a 
life, but they cannot kill a dream. That fateful night at 
the square, we stood together and sang of peace, which 
has  been  the  aspiration  of  my  people  for  generation 
upon generation. Then came three shots. 
President  Peres:  Earlier 
10 

08-59933 



However, we were not alone in our despair. Many 
around the world who cherished Rabin’s vision came to 
stand at our side and share our grief. Arab and Muslim 
leaders came, which we very much appreciated. At the 
time, it felt like sorrow had shattered barriers. Tragedy 
had  united  sons  and  daughters  of  all  religions.  Our 
shared  agony  shed  light  on  our  shared  hopes,  our 
hunger  for  fraternity  and  the  dream  of  peace  that  we 
nurtured in our hearts. 

In our region, children bear the names of prophets 
who  are  sacred  to  us  all.  Why  should  Avraham  and 
Abraham  and  Ibrahim  grow  up  as  adversaries  in 
animosity?  Why  should  Moses,  Moshe  and  Musa  live 
that way? As our prophets asked,  


“Have  we  not  all  one  father?  Hath  not  one 
God  created  us?  Why  do  we  deal  deceitfully, 
every  man  against  his  brother,  by  profaning  the 
covenant  of  our  fathers?”  (The  Holy  Bible, 
Malachi 2:10) 
Abraham said to his nephew Lot,  

“Please  let  there  be  no  strife  between  me 
and  you,  and  between  my  herdsmen  and  your 
herdsmen, for we are kinsmen.” (Genesis 13:8) 

That  was  the  first  call  for  peace  among  brothers 
in  history.  Brotherly  relations  should  not  involve 
violence  and  domination.  We  all  worship  the  same 
Lord  in  Heaven.  Religion  carries  the  word  of  God  to 
man, as is written in Psalms:  

“What  man  is  he  that  desires  life  and  loves 
many days, that he may see good?” (Psalms 34:12) 

“Depart  from  evil  and  do  good;  seek  peace 
and pursue it.” (Psalms 34:14) 
Religious  belief  requires  that  we  recognize  the 

eternal  message  that  all  men  were  created  in  God’s 
image.  Harming  a  human  being  is  tantamount  to 
harming  God  himself.  When  nuclear  weapons,  long-
range  missiles,  indiscriminate  terror  and  fanatical 
incitement  determine  the  agenda,  all  of  us  have  to 
change that agenda. 

The Jewish and Arab national revivals occurred at 
almost the same time and on almost the same piece of 
land.  They  occurred  rapidly  and  in  a  land  that  was 
small. However, after the First World War, a window of 
opportunity  was  opened  when  Emir  Feisal  and 
President  Weizmann  aspired 
to  create  a  new 
environment.  They  met  89  years  ago,  in  November 
A/63/PV.46
1919,  to  announce  an  understanding  between  two 
peoples  from  the  same  cradle  who  could  have  lived 
under  the  shadow  of  the  same  trees  —  the  old  olives 
and tall dates. Their declaration states in part: 
through 
the  Arabs  and 
“mindful  of  the  racial  kinship  and  ancient  bonds 
existing  between 
the  Jewish 
people,  and  realizing  that  the  surest  means  of 
working  out  the  consummation  of  their  natural 
aspirations 
the  closest  possible 
is 
collaboration”.  
That was great statesmanship and timely wisdom. 

Alas, we did not take heed of it. Instead, we confronted 
one  another,  abandoning  faith  for  greed  and  forging 
swords  instead  of  peace. They  tore  apart  the  land  and 
increased hostility, resulting in a region of barriers and 
walls  that  rose  higher  and  higher  and  destroying  any 
bridges 
that  may  have  been  built.  Hundreds  of 
thousands of  men and women from all sides lost their 
lives;  many  were  incurably  injured;  others  lost  their 
homes and became refugees. Fortunes were wasted on 
the purchase, maintenance and replacement of weapons 
that inevitably became obsolete. Resources were spent 
on sustaining hostility instead of advancing life. There 
can be no consolation for the bereaved families or the 
orphaned  children,  other  than  the  end  of  violence  and 
bloodshed.  

There is an Arab proverb that states that there are 
three events that cannot be reversed: an arrow released 
from its bow, a word that has escaped one’s mouth and 
a  bullet  that  splits  the  heart.  Alas,  we  cannot  change 
the  past;  however,  we  can  build  and  shape  a  new 
future. That  seems  more  feasible  today  in  the  light  of 
the  Saudi  proposal  that  evolved  into  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative. 
I  listened  to  the  statement  of  His  Majesty  the 

King  of  Saudi  Arabia.  I  hope  that  his  voice  will 
become  the  prevailing  voice  of  the  whole  region  and 
all people. It is right. It is needed. It is promising. The 
Initiative’s  portrayal  of  our  region’s  future  provides 
hope  to  the  people  and  inspires  confidence  in  the 
nations. Yes,  in  order  to  change  the  world  we  have  to 
change ourselves. 
The Arab  Peace  Initiative  states  that  “a  military 

solution  to  the  conflict  will  not  achieve  peace  or 
provide security for the parties”. Israel agrees with that 
assumption.  The  Initiative  continues  by  saying  that 
“just  and  comprehensive  peace  in  the  Middle  East  is 
the strategic option of the Arab countries”. That is also 
08-59933 

11 

A/63/PV.46 

the  strategic  option  of  Israel. The  Initiative  states  that 
the  goals  are  to  “consider  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict 
ended … enter into a peace agreement with Israel and 
provide  security  for  all  the  States  of  the  region”,  as 
well as to “establish normal relations with Israel in the 
context of comprehensive peace” and “stop the further 
shedding  of  blood,  enabling  the  Arab  countries  and 
Israel  to  live  in  peace  and  good-neighbourliness  and 
provide  future  generations  with  security,  stability  and 
prosperity”. 

Those expressions in the Arab Peace Initiative are 
inspirational  and  promising;  they  represent  a  serious 
opening for what may become real progress and a great 
reality. 

A  comprehensive  regional  peace  requires  the 
completion  of  the  bilateral  negotiations  with  the 
Palestinians  and  the  sharing  of  the  painful  cost. 
Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni, who is conducting those 
negotiations  and  who  has  just  returned  from  Sharm 
el-Sheikh,  has  said  that  we  are  going  to  continue  to 
negotiate despite the Israeli elections. We are ready for 
that, as we have proved many times in the past. 
Thirty  years  ago  we  signed  the  peace  accords 

with  Egypt.  Fifteen  years  ago  we  undertook  the  Oslo 
initiative with the Palestinians. Fourteen years ago we 
achieved  peace  with  the  Kingdom  of  Jordan.  Nine 
years  ago  we  withdrew  completely  from  Lebanon. 
Three  years  ago  we  evacuated  Gaza  completely  and 
willingly  dismantled  all  our  settlements  there;  it  was 
not  simple.  Today  we  are  making  progress  in  the 
negotiations with the Palestinians. We are exploring the 
possibility of real peace with the Syrians, who are last 
on the list of historic conflicts. 

However,  there  are  those  in  our  region  who  sow 
hatred  and  try  to  widen  the  abyss  and  erect  barriers; 
those who seek to wipe out other people and encourage 
killing, as though they were gods. In order to stand up 
against  those  who  instigate  discord  and  violence,  we 
must bear the flag of brotherhood and peace. That will 
be  a  beacon  for  a  world  in  trouble.  It  will  end  many 
conflicts  and  offer  a  comprehensive  peace  for  all 
people  — 
freedom  without  domination  or 
occupation;  global  economic  cooperation  and  cultural 
relations — a new vision for the entire region. 

I  know  that  it  is  harder  to  pursue  peace  than  to 
wage  war.  Building  is  more  difficult  than  destruction. 
Yet,  it  is  my  life  experience  that  it  is  worthwhile  to 
strive  for  peace,  build  homes  and  respect  human  life. 
real 
12 

That is the proper biography for men of goodwill. For 
the  sake  of  our  children,  let  us  break  the  bonds  of 
hostility that stem from the past. When the world faces 
a serious crisis, let us offer a new remedy to overcome 
old  maladies.  The  global  crisis  worries  us  just  as  our 
crisis  worries  the  world.  However,  we  can  adopt  a 
position  acceptable  to  the  entire  world  that  does  not 
erase  our  national 
identities  but  offers  global 
opportunities for all of us. 

This  meeting  of  religious  leaders  can  produce  a 
movement of profound significance, one that will bear 
great  responsibility.  If  we  call  on  believers  to  serve 
peace in every nation for all nations, for every person 
and for all peoples, the bridges we build will render the 
barriers  useless.  Let  us  free  the  world  from  the 
perception that an irrevocable curse of darkness hangs 
in the skies of the Middle East. Our shared history has 
known  golden  ages  during  which  we  —  Arabs,  Jews 
and Christians — lived as friends and brothers. 

Interfaith dialogue will elevate our spirits, bring a 
breath of fresh air to our peoples today and live on in 
posterity. Let us renew our faith in one God, in a God 
of  values  and  respect  for  human  life. That  is  the  duty 
and  responsibility  of  all  States  and  religious  leaders. 
Let us not recoil from difficulty. We must not hesitate 
when  faced  with  risks.  Working  for  peace  will  justify 
our  prayers  and  bring  a  new  sense  of  purpose  to  our 
lives. It will demonstrate our values to our children, all 
values to all children. Peace is not just a goal. It was a 
promise  made  to  us  at  the  dawn  of  time  and  at  the 
pinnacle  of  the  holiest  mountains.  Let  us  climb 
together  to  those  mountains  and  breathe  fresh  air  in  a 
new landscape. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the State of Israel for the statement he has just made. 
Mr. Shimon Peres, President of the State of Israel, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 

Address by His Majesty King Abdullah II bin 
Al Hussein, Head of State of the Hashemite Kingdom 
of Jordan 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  head  of  State  of  the 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. 

His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  II  bin  Al  Hussein, 
head  of  State  of  the  Hashemite  Kingdom  of 
Jordan,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
08-59933 


The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Majesty  King Abdullah  II  bin 
Al  Hussein,  head  of  State  of  the  Hashemite  Kingdom 
of Jordan, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 

King  Abdullah  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The  most 
appropriate  way  to  begin  my  speech  would  be  to  cite 
the words of God Almighty: 
initiative 
to  convene 
this 
that  seeks 
to  promote 
in  enriching  human  civilization  and 

“Call to the way of your Lord with wisdom 
and  goodly  exhortation,  and  have  disputations 
with  them  in  the  best  manner;  surely  your  Lord 
best  knows  those  who  go  astray  from  His  path, 
and  He  knows  best  those  who  follow  the  right 
way”. (The Holy Koran, XVI:125) 
Allow  me  to  express  my  deep  gratitude  and 

appreciation  to  my  brother  the  Custodian  of  the  Two 
Holy  Mosques,  His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  Bin 
Abdulaziz  Al  Saud  of  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia, 
for  his 
international 
conference 
the  cause  of 
interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue  on  a  well-
charted  scientific  basis  devoid  of  fanaticism  and 
isolationism  and  guided  by  a  spirit  of  toleration  and 
acceptance of the other. The course he advocates calls 
for  highlighting  the  common  denominators  among 
civilizations  and  the  followers  of  world  religions  and 
for  mutual  recognition  of  the  role  of  each  culture  and 
religion 
in 
realizing  the  common  good  of  humankind  throughout 
the ages. 
My  brother,  the  Custodian  of  the  Two  Holy 

Mosques, began this process by breaking down barriers 
among  the  followers  of  world  religions,  first  with  his 
landmark meeting with His Holiness the Pope and then 
by convening the Mecca and Madrid conferences. The 
dialogue  he 
the 
convening  of  this  international  conference,  which 
together  adherents  of  different  faiths  and 
brings 
cultures 
rapprochement, 
understanding and tolerance among them. 

The  high  status,  respect  and  appreciation  Saudi 
Arabia enjoys, especially in the Muslim world, enable 
the Kingdom to lead this dialogue and will facilitate its 
success  at  a  time  when  Islam  is  being  subjected  to 
many  injustices,  and  accusations  arising  from  the 
ignorance  of  some  about  this  religion.  Islam  calls  for 
moderation  and  tolerance  and  eschews  extremism, 
violence and bigotry. 
launched  continues 
today  with 
forge 
in 
order 
to 
A/63/PV.46
than  half  of 

Since  many  of  the  participants  and  observers  in 
this meeting are non-Arabic speakers, please allow me 
to continue in English. 
(spoke in English) 

My friends, in our time, we are urgently called to 
the way of peace. Throughout the world, understanding 
and trust among peoples of different faiths and cultures 
have  been  eroded.  This  is  especially  apparent  among 
adherents  of  the  three  monotheistic  faiths,  who  make 
up  more 
the  global  population. 
Misinformation  and  stereotypes,  created  by  a  few,  are 
increasingly  shaping  perceptions  of  the  other  and 
creating fears, suspicions and even hatred. 

To  reverse  the  tide  of  resentment  and  fear, 
communication  is  vital.  There  must  be  a  new  and 
global  dialogue  among  people  of  different  faiths  and 
civilizations. Such a dialogue is essential to reveal the 
commonalities that unite humanity, but it does more. It 
teaches  people  to  respect  their  differences;  it  opens 
eyes  and  hearts  to  the  beauty  of  diversity;  it  helps 
disentangle  fact  from  fiction;  and  it  exposes  the 
fraudulence of extremist teachings. 

In  Jordan,  we  have  made  interfaith  dialogue  and 
understanding  a  priority.  The  Amman  Message  is  an 
explanation  of  the  true  nature  of  Islam  and  a  call  to 
peaceful  coexistence  among  all  human  beings.  It  has 
been  supported  by  more  than  500  of  the  world’s 
leading  Muslim  scholars  from  all  eight  schools  of 
Islamic  jurisprudence.  It  has  been  endorsed  by  the 
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference,  representing 
Muslim  countries  the  world  over.  Jordan  is  proud  to 
continue  this  work,  including  support  for  other  global 
initiatives.  One  such  initiative  is  “A  Common  Word”, 
an  overture  from  Muslim  scholars  to  their  Christian 
counterparts,  declaring  the  common  ground  between 
Christianity and Islam. 

In  all  this  work,  we  seek  to  advance  a  global 
dialogue that can help redirect the course of our future 
away from hostilities  and  towards peace. This summit 
shows  that  support  for  such  dialogue  has  become  a 
priority  at  the  highest  levels.  Now,  together,  we  must 
make  it  our  common  task  to  move  the  discussions 
forward,  out  of  the  conference  rooms  and  into  the 
world’s homes, schools, offices and lives. 

It  is  impossible  to  talk  about  interfaith  harmony, 
especially  between  East  and  West,  without  also 
discussing  conflict  resolution  in  the  Middle  East.  The 
08-59933 

13 
just,  negotiated  solution 
A/63/PV.46 

conflict between Israel and the Palestinians is the core 
conflict  in  our  region.  It  is  a  political  conflict  and  it 
demands  a 
that  brings 
statehood  and  freedom  for  Palestinians  and  security 
and more regional acceptance for Israel. For with every 
day  that  justice  is  denied  to  Palestinians,  with  every 
day  that  the  occupation  prevents  a  positive  future,  the 
regional  and  global  impact  grows.  Resentment  and 
frustration  are  felt  throughout  the  region  and,  indeed, 
throughout  the  world.  Millions  of  people,  especially 
young people, question whether the West means what it 
says  about  equality,  respect  and  universal  justice. 
Meanwhile,  extremists  —  Muslim,  Christian  and 
Jewish — are thriving on the doubts and divisions. 

My friends, I can think of no more effective way 
to  ease  East-West  and  interfaith  tensions  than  to  end 
that  divisive  conflict  with  a  peace  based  on  our  deep, 
shared values: justice, respect for international law and 
the right of all people to live in dignity. 

As  we  move  forward  with  tangible  solutions  to 
that  and  other  regional  conflicts,  we  must  also  make 
tangible  strides  in  communication.  That  means  a 
sustainable, institutional effort to spread tolerance and 
acceptance  through  practical  initiatives  across  the 
globe.  Young  people  are  vital  to  success.  I  hope  that 
from this summit we will launch student exchanges and 
joint university projects to bring young people together 
and  show  them  that  what  humanity  has  in  common  is 
far greater than what separates us. I also hope that we 
can encourage leadership from the world’s media, large 
and  small.  No  group  is  in  a  better  position  to  get  the 
truth  out  —  on  every  continent  —  that  people  of 
different faiths can live in peace and harmony, and that 
when  we  do  so,  we  are  more  equipped  to  face  the 
challenges.  Only 
the 
prosperous future all of us seek. 

This  milestone  gathering  is  not  the  end  but  the 
beginning  of  our  journey.  The  participation  of  all 
present has helped us take a giant step forward on the 
path to global peace and acceptance. It is now up to all 
of us to walk the path that takes us to our goal. 

Dialogue among civilizations is not a luxury; it is 
a necessity. Indeed, it is a duty that we must all fulfil if 
we are to end the growing tensions that threaten global 
stability.  Today,  everywhere  in  the  world  —  the 
Americas,  Europe,  the  Middle  East,  Africa,  Asia  — 
people  of  faith  and  goodwill  are  coming  together.  I 
pledge to this Assembly that Jordan will be by its side, 
together  will  we 
realize 

a full partner, at every step of the way. Let us together 
dare  to  shape  a  new  future  —  a  future  free  from 
injustice,  free  from  hatred  and  free  from  cultural 
misconceptions.  May  God  bless  you  and  reward  your 
efforts. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  His  Majesty 
King Abdullah II bin Al Hussein, Head of State of the 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, for the statement he has 
just made. 
His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  II  bin  Al  Hussein, 
Head  of  State  of  the  Hashemite  Kingdom  of 
Jordan, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 


Address by Ms. Tarja Halonen, President of the 
Republic of Finland 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by Her Excellency Ms. Tarja 
Halonen, President of the Republic of Finland. 
Ms.  Tarja  Halonen,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Finland, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the United Nations Her Excellency Ms. Tarja Halonen, 
President of the Republic of Finland, and to invite her 
to address the Assembly. 
President Halonen: I am honoured to attend this 

high-level  meeting  convened  by  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia.  On  behalf  of 
Finland, I welcome the initiative  of His Majesty King 
Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, to widen and deepen 
the dialogue among cultures, religions and faiths. 
I have come here with an open mind in the spirit 

of  peace.  With 
the 
importance  of  national  borders  has  decreased. 
Globalization  has  brought  about  more  human  contact 
and  today  different  people,  cultures,  civilizations  and 
faiths  encounter  each  other  every  day.  People  have 
different opinions and beliefs. Increased interaction can 
promote  understanding  among  people  but  it  can  also 
strengthen  prejudices  and  stereotypes.  Attention  is 
needed from all of us. Therefore it is only appropriate 
that we meet  on theme “Culture of Peace” here at the 
United Nations. 
the  advent  of  globalization, 
14 

08-59933 
intercultural 
cooperation  on 
the  Finnish  presidency  of 



After the shocking events of 11 September 2001, 
I  initiated  discussions  with  Christian,  Jewish  and 
Islamic religious groups in Finland. Since then, I have 
seen and felt how these people who belong to different 
religions and cultures have, by respecting one another, 
acted as a unifying factor and resource in our society. I 
am very sincerely grateful to them for this work. I hope 
that  similar  constructive  phenomena  have  been 
experienced elsewhere as well. The political leaders of 
a  country  cannot  take  the  whole  responsibility  but 
encouragement and guidance are needed. 

How  to  analyse  the  situation  and  solve  conflicts 
is important in the whole of society, including homes, 
schools  and  work  places.  Peacebuilding  is  needed 
always and everywhere. During its history, Finland has 
been involved in wars and conflicts like most European 
countries.  During 
the 
European  Union  in  2006,  on  our  initiative,  a  network 
of  voluntary 
and 
interreligious  issues  was  established.  In  the  network, 
representatives of European Union organs and member 
States  have  worked  on  new  ways  and  means  to 
cultivate  good  relations  among  cultures  and  religions. 
This challenging work continues. 

One of the basic and most comprehensive sources 
of human rights is the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights,  written  and  approved  by  consensus  at  the 
United  Nations  in  1948.  In  the  coming  days,  we  will 
celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of the Declaration. It 
emphasizes human dignity and equality and establishes 
a solid basis for dialogue between various cultures and 
civilizations. My own country, Finland, is committed to 
the universal  values, rights and  freedoms enshrined in 
the  Declaration.  But  for  us,  it  is  also  a  declaration  of 
responsibilities.  It  is  our  responsibility  to  respect  and 
observe universal human rights in full and everywhere. 
The  Declaration  proclaims  equal  and  universal  human 
rights  for  all  humans:  men  and  women;  believers  and 
non-believers. It has been and is still a great source of 
inspiration 
combat 
and 
marginalization everywhere. 

The dispute between Israel and the Palestinians is 
often mentioned as a key issue, symbolizing the breach 
between  the  West  and  the  Muslim  world.  Finland 
welcomes and supports serious initiatives to solve this 
dispute. It is generally acknowledged that any solution 
must  be  based  on  a  two-State  model  and  on  reaching 
agreement on the status of Palestinian refugees and on 
Jerusalem. Nevertheless, there is no instant formula for 
discrimination 
to 
08-59933 

A/63/PV.46
the  part  of 
the  Israelis  and 
peace. Finding a solution requires negotiations and we 
all  know  that  these  are  always  influenced  by  national 
and 
international  political  situations.  Reaching  a 
negotiated solution requires political will and courage, 
above  all  on 
the 
Palestinians.  Our  countries  and  organizations  should 
above  all  support  the  negotiations  and  refrain  from 
doing  anything  that  hinders  them.  Any  agreement 
reached  between  Israel  and  the  Palestinians  must  also 
be accepted by everyone else. 

This  meeting  stresses  the  importance  of  the 
religious dimension of intercultural dialogue in today’s 
multicultural  and  multi-faith  world.  We  hope  that  this 
meeting can serve as a source of inspiration for people, 
religious communities, civil society and authorities on 
all  levels  to  engage  in  interreligious  dialogue. We  are 
invited to move into a new era of respect for a variety 
of  convictions.  We  are  challenged  to  recognize  the 
universal  spiritual  and  human  values  of  the  religions 
that  have  shaped  our  common  world.  We  have  to  do 
our part today in order to provide for a better world for 
generations to come.  
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Republic  of  Finland  for  the  statement  she  has  just 
made.  
Ms.  Tarja  Halonen,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Finland, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 


Address by His Excellency Mr. Michel Sleiman, 
President of the Lebanese Republic 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Michel 
Sleiman, President of the Lebanese Republic. 
Mr.  Michel  Sleiman,  President  of  the  Lebanese 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Michel 
Sleiman,  President  of  the  Lebanese  Republic,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Sleiman  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We  meet 

once again at the United Nations General Assembly on 
agenda item 45, entitled “Culture of peace”, in order to 
promote  dialogue  and  cooperation  among  people  of 
15 

Convened  by 
the  President  of 
community, 
the 
A/63/PV.46 

different  cultures  and  followers  of  various  religions. 
We  are  also  here  to  highlight  our  interest,  as  an 
in  developing  mutual 
international 
understanding  within 
realms  of  knowledge, 
interaction and respect on the basis of justice, rightness 
and equality. 

the  General 
Assembly,  our  meeting 
today  bears  particular 
importance because it is being held at such a high level 
in response to an initiative of the Custodian of the Two 
Holy  Mosques,  His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  Bin 
Abdulaziz  Al  Saud  of  Saudi  Arabia  who,  last  July  in 
Madrid,  launched  a  process  of  dialogue,  cooperation 
and  solidarity  that  was  attended  by  many  people  in  a 
desire  to  chart  a  path  towards  achieving  common, 
human  purposes  and  establishing  relationships  of 
tolerance,  mutual  acceptance  and  respect  for  religious 
and cultural differences and specificities. 

Our common interest in the invitation to dialogue 
and the commitment to its outcome is compounded by 
the  prevailing  critical  circumstances  in  inter-  and 
intra-State relations which has grown because of fears 
and  concerns  over  manifestations  of  sectarian  and 
ethnic  violence,  terrorism  and  intimidation,  coercion 
and defamation, disrespect and abuse of dignity. 

As  a  result,  the  international  community  has 
chosen  to  place  religious  and  cultural  differences  in 
their  proper  context  and  to  encourage  understanding, 
not as a luxury, limited to one or other cultural group, 
but  as  a  crucial  problem  that  concerns  us  all  and  that 
must be without hesitation in an urgent manner. 

We must have a true dialogue, one of hearts and 
minds,  so  as  to  establish  relations  among  different 
cultures  and  religions  based  on  mutual  awareness  of 
common  denominators  as  well  as  recognition  of 
differences and particularities. 

At the same time, impulsive resort to dialogue to 
resolve  existing  or  potential  conflicts  will  not  yield 
results unless it is based on a long, cumulative process 
that has diligently and regularly integrates relations of 
trust and openness towards one another. We should be 
committed to our ideas, convictions and practices in a 
spirit of genuine dialogue based on justice. 

Within  the  context  of  such  a  process  lies  the 
importance  of  the  cultural,  educational  and  media 
efforts  that  should  accompany  the  dialogue,  launched 
or supported by the United Nations and its specialized 
and 
for 
continuation  of 
to  which  participants 
agencies.  These  agencies  include  UNESCO  and  the 
bodies that the Madrid World Conference on Dialogue 
created 
committed 
themselves. 

In spite of this, the effectiveness of this dialogue 
remains  subject  to  the  dynamics  of  asymmetric  power 
relations.  Furthermore, 
control, 
oppression and arbitrariness puts the credibility of any 
dialogue to a critical test. This is primarily true in our 
Arab Levant and the Holy Lands. 
For how could any dialogue progress and flourish 

when  Israeli  occupation  of  Palestinian  and  Arab 
territories persist, when the national  and human rights 
of  the  Palestinian  people  are  systematically  violated, 
including the right of Palestinian refugees to return to 
their  territories  and  homeland,  and  when  attempts  to 
impose  a  resettlement  of  Palestinian  refugees  in  other 
countries continue. 
Such  a  reality  is  in  contravention  of  United 

Nations  resolutions  that  have  brought  us  here  today 
and  with  the  spirit  of  justice  which  must  embrace  the 
dialogue that we have been convened here to discuss.  

Therefore,  Jerusalem,  the  city  of  peace,  where 
believers  in  the  monotheistic  religions  come  together, 
would  not  realize  its  historic  mission  unless  the 
injustice  imposed  on  its  sons  and  on  the  Palestinian 
people  as  a  whole  is  redressed  and  the  occupation  is 
ended. 

It  is  no  secret  to  those  who  like  and  know 
Lebanon  —  and  they  are  quite  numerous  —  that  our 
country  embodies  unique  characteristics  that  have 
withstood ordeals that tested our will to live together in 
one  country,  rich  in  its  diversity,  solid  in  its  Arab 
identity and interacting with world cultures. 

These  characteristics,  in  addition  to  our  deeply 
rooted experience in our modern history that combines 
unity and diversity, freedom and mutual respect, deep-
rooted 
that  have  made 
Lebanon  a  place  of  meeting  and  openness.  Indeed, 
these  attributes  qualify  Lebanon  to  be  the  widest  and 
richest  space 
intercultural 
dialogue, serving both Arab and Islamic worlds and the 
interests of the world at large. 

In my statement before the General Assembly last 
September  (see  A/63/PV.6),  I  had  the  opportunity  to 
state  that  the  philosophy  of  the  Lebanese  entity  is 
based  on  dialogue,  harmony  and  coexistence.  I 
traditions  and  modernity, 
interreligious  and 
16 

08-59933 


emphasized  our  ambition  to  see  Lebanon  become  an 
international centre for the management of the dialogue 
of civilizations and cultures and, consequently, a global 
laboratory  for  this  universal  dialogue.  This  would  be 
especially  appropriate  given  the  fact  that  article  9  of 
the  Lebanese  Constitution  stipulates  that  freedom  of 
belief  in  Lebanon  shall  be  absolute  and  that  the  State 
shall  respect  all  religions  and  sects  and  ensure  the 
exercise of religious rights under its protection. 

Lebanon is not merely a country. It is, rather, an 
example of a message of freedom, a model of pluralism 
and  a  space  for  dialogue  and  coexistence  of  different 
cultures  and  religions. As  was stated by His Holiness, 
Pope John Paul II, and confirmed by His Holiness Pope 
Benedict XVI, Lebanon is a necessity both for the East 
and  the  West  and  thus  deserves  the  full  support  and 
endorsement of the international community. 

Felt  at  many  levels,  such  support  can  only  be 
promoted by achieving a just and comprehensive peace 
in  the  Middle  East  based  on  the  resolutions  of  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  in  its 
entirety and in accordance with the spirit of justice that 
constitutes the essence of religions. 

We  gather  here  today  to  restate  our  rejection  of 
the  clash  of  ignorance  and  to  emphasize  our  will  to 
work  together  in  the  fields  of  ethics,  culture,  politics 
and  peaceful  international  relations.  The  gathering  of 
this  body  here  today,  with  all  its  symbolism,  prompts 
us  to  remember  together  the  strong  link  that  exists 
between  our  approach  to  and  culture  of  dialogue  and 
our commitment to the United Nations Charter. 

Such  an  invitation  reminds  me  of  what  binds 
Lebanon  to  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights,  in  whose  drafting  it  participated,  and  to  this 
Organization that stood by my country in defending its 
freedom,  independence,  sovereignty  and  stability  so 
that  it  would  remain  a  country  true  to  itself  and  a 
witness  to  the  richness  promised  by  the  meeting  of 
religions  and  intercultural  dialogue  that  is  based  on 
respect for the principles  and values that aspire to the 
good of all mankind. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Lebanese  Republic  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 
A/63/PV.46
Mr.  Michel  Sleiman,  President  of  the  Lebanese 
Republic,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.  
from 


Address by Mr. Hâmid Karzai, President of the 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

with  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. 
Mr.  Hâmid  Karzai,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Afghanistan,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Hâmid Karzai, 
President  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of Afghanistan,  and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.  
President  Karzai:  I  would  like  to  thank  you, 

Mr. President, for convening this high-level meeting on 
the culture of peace, one of the most pertinent issues of 
our time. Most of all, allow me to thank the Custodian 
of the Two Holy Mosques, His Majesty King Abdullah 
Bin  Abdulaziz  Al  Saud  of  Saudi  Arabia,  for  his 
dedication  to  the  cause  of  interfaith  dialogue  and  for 
initiating  this  event.  There  is  nothing  more  important 
than  the  elimination  of  the  scourge  of  extremism, 
xenophobia  and  hatred,  which  can  be  possible  only 
through dialogue and cooperation. 

We  are  meeting  here  today  to  affirm  that  all 
religions  in  our  world  reflect  and  nurture  mankind’s 
inner desire for peace and self-realization. Despite our 
different faiths, peoples of various religions have lived 
together  in  peace  and  harmony  all  over  the  world. 
Where  there  has  been  conflict  or  confrontation,  it  has 
stemmed  not  from  religion,  but  from  the  pursuit  of 
narrow  political  objectives  by  certain  individuals, 
many religions and political ideologies. 

is 
sometimes marred by misconceptions, particularly with 
regard  to  such  phenomena  as  bigotry,  extremism  and 
terrorism  and  to  whether  they  are  rooted  in  our 
religious  convictions.  Many  associate  terrorism  with 
religion,  others  give  that  association  credence  by 
describing it as a reaction of the East against the West, 
and all fail to grasp the phenomenon in its real nature. 

plausible  causal  connection  with 
Nothing  could  be  further  removed  from  a 
than 
Sadly,  our  understanding  of  each  other 
terrorism 
08-59933 

17 

A/63/PV.46 

religion. The terrorism we know is political rather than 
religious.  The  terrorism  we  know  is  the  historical 
product  of  bad  politics  and  the  reckless  pursuit  of 
narrowly defined interests. 

These  are  not  textbook  observations.  I  have  the 
history of my country to illustrate my view. Terrorism 
has never been a religious phenomenon in Afghanistan. 
Indeed, terrorism there is an international and regional 
phenomenon,  rooted  in  a  complex  historical  context, 
spanning  the  past  four  decades.  The  invasion  of 
Afghanistan  by  the  Soviet  Union  in  the  1980s,  the 
subsequent  misuse  of  religion  for  political  objectives 
and 
the  deliberate  promotion  and  utilization  of 
extremism  as  a  bulwark  against  the  Soviet  threat  are 
important  factors  that  have  collectively  produced  the 
phenomenon  of  terrorism  we  are  facing  as  an  enemy 
today.  Al-Qaida  and  other  terrorist  networks,  as  we 
know  them  today,  are  residues  of  a  reckless  past  that 
we must rectify.  

Therefore, religion is not the source of terrorism. 
The term “Islamic terrorism”, which is frequently used 
to  describe  acts  of  brutality  and  violence, 
is 
fundamentally  misleading.  Not  only  does  Islam,  a 
religion 
condemn 
unequivocally  any  act 
life  and 
property of an innocent individual, but the Holy Koran 
has, in fact, equated murdering an innocent person with 
the killing of all of humanity. Far from being complicit 
with  terror,  Muslims  have  actually  been  among  the 
most afflicted victims of international terrorism. 

Today, if the world is to rectify the failings of the 
past  and  reverse 
threats  against  peace  and 
coexistence,  dialogue,  understanding  and  mutual 
acceptance are the way forward. At the same time, we 
must also counter the few discordant voices that preach 
hatred and division and misuse the name of religion to 
mask  their  pursuit  of  political,  rather  than  religious, 
goals.  We  must  ensure  that  the  voice  of  peace  and 
tolerance prevails. 
To  overcome  misperceptions,  we  must  also 

educate  and 
the 
differences  and  commonalities  between  our  cultures.  I 
have  long  rejected  the  notion  that  we  face  a  clash  of 
civilizations.  We  are  instead  confronted  with  a  world 
that seems to have been reduced in size by the forces of 
globalization.  We  should  appeal  to  our  media  to 
educate  and  to  build  bridges  between  us  rather  than 
equating  differences  with  incompatibility,  threats  and 
and  moderation, 
the 
inform  our  populations  about 
that  violates 
peace 
of 
the 
18 

the  rule  and  not 
fear. We  should  approach  the  diversity  of  our  cultures 
as  having  given  our  world  its  colour  and  vibrant 
beauty. 

Afghanistan over the past seven years has been a 
powerful case for the prospect of a genuine cooperation 
among civilizations aimed at achieving common goals. 
Countries  such  as  Saudi  Arabia,  the  United  States  of 
America,  members  of  the  European  Union,  Japan, 
China,  India,  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  Iran  and 
Pakistan  are  engaged  in  supporting  our  efforts  to 
rebuild  Afghanistan,  and  they  have  been  engaged  in 
joint  projects,  such  as  building  our  national  ring  road 
from  the  East  to  the  West  of  the  country.  Indeed,  our 
future  as  a  peaceful  world  lies  in  the  extent  to  which 
cooperation  among  civilizations,  as  exemplified  in 
Afghanistan,  can  become 
the 
exception. 

to 
I  am 
underscore the importance of an international effort to 
promote  tolerance  and  mutual  acceptance  and  to  fight 
extremism.  We  fully  support  King  Abdullah  Bin 
Abdulaziz Al  Saud  in  his  efforts  to  promote  interfaith 
dialogue  and  tolerance.  Our  great  religious  traditions 
and  the  basic  tenets  of  our  faiths  must  guide  us.  We 
must  all  remember  the  words  of  our  holy  books,  and 
we must conquer our basic instincts of fear and hatred. 

It is our great hope that dialogues such as that in 
Madrid and today’s in New York will serve to make us 
all  aware  of  the  fact  that  peace,  tolerance  and  respect 
are  the  heritage  of  all  of  us  and  that  extremism  of  all 
kinds  is  rooted  not  in  religion  but  in  the  reckless 
pursuit of narrowly defined political interests. 

To  emphasize  the  oneness  of  humankind  and  to 
break  all  barriers,  the  great,  celebrated  Persian  poet 
Sa’adi, famously wrote: 
truly  honoured 
to  be  here 
today 
“Human  beings  are  members  of  a  whole,  In 
creation of one essence and soul. If one member 
is afflicted with pain, Other members uneasy will 
remain. If you have no sympathy for human pain, 
The name of human you cannot retain.” 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Islamic  Republic  of Afghanistan  for  the  statement 
he has just made. 
Mr.  Hâmid  Karzai,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Afghanistan,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
08-59933 


Address by Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabr 
Al-Thani, Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the State of Qatar 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the State of Qatar. 

to 
the  promotion  of 
Sheikh  Hamad  bin  Jassim  bin  Jabr  Al-Thani, 
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
of the State of Qatar, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have  great 

pleasure  in  welcoming  Sheikh  Hamad  bin  Jassim  bin 
Jabr Al-Thani, Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign 
Affairs  of  the  State  of  Qatar,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the General Assembly. 
Sheikh  Al-Thani  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

Allow  me,  Sir,  at  the  outset  to  convey  to  you  the 
greetings  of  His  Highness  Sheikh  Hamad  bin  Khalifa 
A1-Thani,  the  beloved  Emir  of  our  country,  and  His 
Highness’ sincere appreciation to the Custodian of the 
Two  Holy  Mosques,  King Abdullah  Bin Abdulaziz Al 
Saud  of  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia,  for  his  kind 
invitation to attend a high-level meeting of the General 
Assembly  on  interfaith  dialogue,  as  well  as  for  his 
presence,  his  opening  of  its  work  and  his  significant 
contributions 
interreligious 
dialogue. 

I also thank you, Your Excellency, Mr. President, 
for  the  enthusiasm  you  have  shown  in  convening  this 
important meeting. I commend the efforts of Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  to  pursue  the  promotion  of 
dialogue among civilizations and religions at all levels. 

Dialogue  among  cultures,  civilizations  and 
religions  was  one  of  the  most  prominent  issues  in  the 
recommendations  of  the  Outcome  Document  of  the 
2005 World Summit, in which we unanimously agreed 
that  furthering  relations  among  nations  is  the  only 
means 
fight 
extremism,  because  such  an  approach  will  ensure  the 
establishment  of  a 
for 
humankind.  Dialogue  has  become  a  central  policy 
pillar  at  the  national,  regional  and  international  levels 
for  achieving  peace  and  sustainable  development. The 
values  of  tolerance  and  respect  for  various  religions 
and  cultures  have  thus  become  the  foundation  of  the 
State of Qatar’s policy, which respects and is guided by 
the  tolerant  Islamic  sharia.  The  State  of  Qatar  views 
interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue  as  a  strategic 
to  avoid  misunderstanding  and 
lasting  peace 
to 
just  and 
A/63/PV.46
choice  that  urgently  requires  the  creation  of  an  open 
space,  thus  ensuring  coexistence,  peace  and  stability 
among peoples. 

Since  2003,  my  country  has  annually  hosted  the 
Doha  Conference  of  Inter-Faith  Dialogue  as  a  vital 
expression  of  the  importance  of  this  option.  We  have 
allowed  all  followers  of  other  monotheistic  religions 
residing  in  the  State  of  Qatar  to  construct  their  places 
of worship as a concrete expression of the principle of 
respect for the freedom of creed and worship called for 
by the tolerant Islamic sharia. 

All  religions  share  common  ground  and  have 
joint  pluralistic  universal  values.  They  all  call  for 
equality,  harmony, tolerance  and acceptance of others. 
Throughout the ages, political  and  economic interests, 
rather  than  religious  and  cultural  differences,  have 
been  the  root  causes  of  confrontation  among  nations. 
While those differences do exist in today’s world, they 
are not a cause for confrontation. On the contrary, they 
must provide a motive for expanding our understanding 
and  deepening  our  dialogue,  as  stated  in  the  Holy 
Koran:  “We  have  made  you  tribes  and  families,  that 
you  may  know  each  other”  (The  Holy  Koran, 
XLIX:13).

Despite  the  conflicts  that  have  taken  place  at 
times  among  followers  of  the  three  monotheistic 
religions  throughout  history,  dialogue  and  coexistence 
among  them  have  been  widely  pursued  —  a  fact  that 
highlights  the  importance  of  communication  and  the 
narrowing of differences. 
It  is  indeed  regrettable  to  see  tendencies  and 

thus 
attitudes 
aggravating 
for  such 
tendencies  undermine  the  process  of  awakening  based 
on understanding among peoples. Therefore, we cannot 
but  recognize  the  fact  that  we  must  move  from  the 
stage of debate to the stage of concrete action. In this 
context,  we  in  the  State  of  Qatar  fully  agree  with  the 
recommendations  issued  at  the  Madrid  Conference, 
most  notably  concerning  the  urgent  need  to  agree  on 
establishing  universal  rules  for  dialogue  among  the 
followers  of  different  religions  and  cultures  with  a 
view  to  consecrating  the  human  values  and  moral 
principles  that  represent  the  common  denominator 
among the followers of various religions and cultures, 
and the drafting of a global document that would help 
to  disseminate  and  promote  a  culture  of  respect  for 
religions,  religious  symbols  and  places  of  worship. 
tensions  and  confrontation 
intolerance  and  bigotry, 
that  fuel 
08-59933 

19 

influential  actors 
A/63/PV.46 

Such  a  results-oriented  approach  is  the  best  way  to 
ensure  the  preservation  of  human  heritage  and  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  common  human  values 
against the threats of isolationism and intolerance. 

In  this  regard,  efforts  should  be  made  to  launch 
that  stage,  not  only  by  Governments,  but  also  by  all 
intellectually 
the 
religious,  social,  economic,  academic  and  artistic 
fields —  and  even  at 
level,  which 
constitutes the bedrock of society. 
The  lofty  objective  of  all  these  efforts  is  to 

preserve  human  dignity,  promote 
the  common 
development of human society and build a harmonious, 
peaceful world for future generations. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign Affairs  of  the  State 
of Qatar for the statement he has just made. 
in  society 
family 
the 
in 
Sheikh  Hamad  bin  Jassim  bin  Jabr  Al-Thani, 
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
of  the  State  of  Qatar,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 


Address by Mr. Abbas El Fassi, Prime Minister of the 
Kingdom of Morocco 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by the Prime Minister of the 
Kingdom of Morocco. 
to 
Mr.  Abbas  El  Fassi,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Morocco,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have  great 

pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abbas 
El Fassi,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr. El Fassi (Morocco) (spoke in Arabic): Allow 

me  at  the  outset  to  express  my  deep  appreciation  and 
happiness in participating in this high-level meeting of 
the  utmost  importance.  The  Kingdom  of  Morocco 
initiative,  which  represents 
welcomes 
this  noble 
another  opportunity 
to 
the 
fundamentals 
the 
representatives  of  all  faiths.  It  also  encourages 
interfaith  dialogue 
international 
cooperation  with  a  view  to  ensuring  spiritual  security 
and peaceful coexistence in our societies. I would also 
further 
communication 
strengthen 
between 
reinforces 
and 
of 
the 
faiths 
His  Majesty  was 
three  monotheistic 
like  to  express  our  deep  and  sincere  gratitude  to  the 
brotherly  Kingdom  of  Saudi Arabia  and  its  sovereign, 
the  Custodian  of 
the  Two  Holy  Mosques,  King 
Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, who spares no effort 
in  promoting  and 
institutionalizing  ongoing  and 
constructive dialogue among religions. 

in  convening 
instrumental 
several  international  meetings  aimed  at  the  promotion 
and  consolidation  of  that  dialogue  and  integrating  it 
into  a  common  system  of  human  values  at  both  the 
religious  and  the  civilizational  levels. Those  meetings 
are  part  and  parcel  of  other  international  efforts, 
including several events that were held  in Madrid last 
July under the auspices of His Majesty King Abdullah 
Bin  Abdulaziz  Al  Saud  and  His  Majesty  Don  Juan 
Carlos  I  of  Spain,  with  the  participation  of  spiritual 
leaders  of 
and 
representatives  of  other  religious  and  philosophical 
beliefs. We are convinced that today’s meeting will be 
another step in strengthening the capacities of Member 
States  to  face  future  challenges  and  ensure  wider 
support for the common system of human values. 

The  Kingdom  of  Morocco  places  great  emphasis 
on and attaches much importance to interfaith dialogue 
as an issue of increasing interest in a globalized world 
subject 
transcontinental 
technological  order.  Morocco’s  interest  in  interfaith 
dialogue stems from its awareness of the risks of ethnic 
and  ideological  extremism  and  their  consequences, 
including violence and the denial of the rights of others 
from  different  strata  of  societies,  who  are  often  the 
victims of those who promote religious misconceptions 
with ill-intentioned objectives. 

Based  on  our  belief  and  thanks  to  the  various 
initiatives undertaken by His Majesty King Mohammed 
VI, Morocco has been and remains a key player in the 
reinforcement  of 
interfaith  and 
intercultural  dialogue  at  the  regional  and  international 
levels. The  Kingdom’s  initiatives  aim  at  consolidating 
a culture of tolerance, openness and dialogue. 

In  that  respect,  it  is  worth  noting  that  after  the 
terrorist  attacks  of  11  September  2001,  His  Majesty 
called  for  a  permanent,  structural  and  strategic 
dialogue  among  States  based  on  respect  for  human 
rights, notably the right to freedom, dignity and peace 
without  distinction  or  discrimination  based  on 
ethnicity, religion or culture. 
transnational  and 
the  values  of 
to  a 
20 

08-59933 
stability. 
international  peace  and 



King  Mohammed  VI  also  called  for  defusing 
hotbeds  of  tension  and  combating  the  extremism  that 
undermine 
In 
connection with that principle, His Majesty has spared 
no  effort  to  responsibly  and  diligently  bridge  the  gap 
between the parties to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict in 
the Middle East and to push the peace process forward 
in an effort to reach a just, lasting and comprehensive 
peace  that  conforms  to  international  legal  standards 
and  preserves  the  inalienable  political  and  civil  rights 
of  the  Palestinian  people  by  allowing  them  to  live  in 
dignity in an independent and sovereign State, side by 
side with Israel in peace and security, with Al Quds as 
its capital. 

In  his  capacity  as  President  of  the  Al  Quds 
Committee,  His  Majesty  has  always  insisted  on  the 
need  to  respect  the  special  status  of  Al  Quds  and  to 
preserving  its  religious  and  cultural  identity  and  its 
historical  monuments  so  that  it  can  remain  the  vivid 
symbol  of  dialogue  and  coexistence  between  religions 
and beliefs that it has been throughout history. 

The  support  of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  for  the 
initiative of the sisterly Saudi Kingdom falls within the 
framework  of  seeking  the  right  tools  to  translate  into 
concrete  action 
the 
international  community  and 
into  practical 
applicable  measures  that  would  activate  interfaith 
dialogue  and  promote  a  culture  of  peace  and 
cooperation. 

In  that  context,  it  is  important  to  recall  some  of 
the  objectives,  which  can  be  summarized  as  follows: 
define 
and 
conceptually  and  support  it  through  the  creation  of  a 
follow-up  mechanism  to  help  Member  States  create 
structures  capable  of  initiating  a  serious,  responsible 
and  genuine  dialogue  among  religions;  and  encourage 
academia to promote the culture of dialogue. 

In that regard, we propose the establishment of a 
network  of  educational  institutions  and  universities  as 
a forum of interaction between the youth of the world, 
intellectuals  and  clerics.  The  network  would  include 
modules  on 
school 
programmes; it would also strengthen the primary role 
of  the  media  in  spreading  a  culture  of  tolerance  and 
promoting  values  of  openness,  understanding  and 
reconciliation  between  the  freedom  of  expression  and 
respect for sacred religious and spiritual beliefs. 
the  principles  and  goals  of 
theoretically 
interreligious  dialogue 
in 
then 
interfaith 
dialogue 
A/63/PV.46
In 
that  context, 

The  responsibility  for  achieving  those  objectives 
lies  in  the  willingness  of  all  countries  individually  or 
collectively to make the necessary efforts to implement 
them.  That  can  be  achieved  by  creating  a  structured 
work or action plan that focuses on different activities 
and  is  supported  by  States  that  will  endow  it  with  the 
operational context that it deserves. 

The Kingdom of Morocco is seriously concerned 
about  the  rise  of  phenomena  of  disrespect  for  sacred 
religious  and  spiritual  beliefs,  such  as  Islamophobia, 
with  its  widespread  negative  effects  in  many  parts  of 
the world.  

the  Kingdom  of  Morocco 
reaffirms  the  necessity  of  Member  States  engaging  in 
serious  and  responsible  dialogue  among  religions  in 
order to promote the culture of dialogue and to counter, 
through  ideas,  two  predominant  paradigms  —  the  so-
called clash of civilizations and end of history — that 
continue  to  affect  the  orientation  and  approaches  of 
international relations. 

From  this  rostrum,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco 
expresses  its  full  support  for  all  efforts  to  counter 
attempts  to  discredit  religious  and  sacred  values 
through a global approach that takes into consideration 
the  specificities  of  all  religions  and  beliefs  and 
prioritizes  national  and  regional  policies  related  to 
comprehensive  development.  It  also  expresses  its 
support  for  consensual  solutions  that  can  be  reached 
through interfaith dialogue and a culture of peace.  

The  Kingdom  of  Morocco  takes  this  opportunity 
to  express  its  support  for  the  initiative  of  interfaith 
dialogue  and  a  culture  of  peace,  and  looks  forward  to 
the  adoption  of 
the  draft  outcome  document 
(A/63/L.24/Rev.1),  which,  we  hope,  will  give  the 
necessary  material  and  moral  support  to  achieve  the 
noble goals for which we all strive and aspire. 

May  God Almighty  let  us  not  be  misguided  and 
grant us blessings. He is the granter of all blessings and 
peace. May God’s blessing be upon you all. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 
the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Morocco for the statement 
he has just made. 
Mr.  Abbas  El  Fassi,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Morocco,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
08-59933 

21 

is 
thanks  for 
the  deepest 
an  obligation, 
A/63/PV.46 

The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Eminence  Cardinal 
Jean-Louis Tauran, President of the Pontifical Council 
for Interreligious Dialogue of the Observer State of the 
Holy See. 
Cardinal Tauran (Holy See) (spoke in French): I 

should like to associate myself with all those who have 
preceded  me  in  this  debate  to  voice,  on  behalf  of  my 
delegation, 
the  welcome 
accorded to us. 

I  have  the  privilege  of  conveying  the  warm 
support of Pope Benedict XVI, for whom the culture of 
peace 
as  his  Magisterium 
demonstrates.  He  had  the  opportunity  of  expressing 
that here, together with the high regard that he has for 
the work of the United Nations. 

Today,  how  can  we  not  remember,  given  the 
reason we are gathered — the culture of peace — that 
the United Nations, by virtue of its nature and mission, 
should  be  a  school  for  peace?  Here,  we  should  learn 
always  to  think  and  act  taking  into  account  the 
legitimate  aspirations  and  interests  of  all.  Here,  all 
Member  States  are  equal  in  dignity  and  their  daily 
debates,  like  their  great  decisions,  can  increase  the 
sense  of  belonging  to  the  same  family.  As  Members 
strive  to  overcome  the  simple  logic  of  relations  of 
strength  to  allow  the  rule  of  law  and  the  wisdom  of 
peoples to prevail, they become the craftsmen of peace. 

In  that  very  demanding  task,  as  Members  know, 
believers  and  their  communities  have  their  place  and 
their  role.  As  has  been  reiterated  here  this  morning, 
religions, despite the weaknesses and contradictions of 
their  followers,  are  messengers  of  reconciliation  and 
peace.  

In their families, their schools and their places of 
worship,  believers  who  pray,  live  in  harmony  and 
support  all  initiatives  that  contribute  to  protecting  the 
human  person  and  the  Earth  are  also  teaching  the 
language  and  gestures  of  peace.  They  strive  to  listen, 
understand,  respect  the  other  and  trust  him  before 
judging him. Such attitudes educate and open the way 
for peace. 

We, believers, wish to offer that legacy of values 
and  attitudes  to  all,  because  we  believe,  as  Pope 
Benedict  XVI  has  said,  that  peace  is  compromised  by 
indifference to the true nature of man. 

Every  week,  millions of believers gather in their 
synagogues,  their  churches,  their  mosques  and  other 
places  of  worship  to  pray.  There,  they  experience 
brotherhood.  They  achieve  unity  in  diversity.  They 
remind us all that man does not live by bread alone. We 
believers  wish  to  make  that  wisdom  available  to  all. 
Religions  give  meaning  to  the  human  adventure  by 
inviting  contemplation  and  harmony  among  oneself, 
others and creation. 

To achieve that, above all, believers must express 
themselves  consistently  and  credibly. They  cannot  use 
religion  to  oppress  freedom  of  conscience,  justify 
violence, spread hate and fanaticism or undermine the 
separation of politics and religion. 

Moreover, participating in  public dialogue in the 
societies  of  which  they  are  members,  believers  feel 
called to help further the common good, which is based 
on  a  pillar  of  values  that  all  of  us,  believers  and 
non-believers  alike,  share:  the  sanctity  of  life,  the 
dignity  of  the  human  person,  respect  for  freedom  of 
responsible 
conscience  and 
freedom,  acceptance  of  different  opinions, 
the 
appropriate use of reason, the enjoyment of democracy, 
and care for natural resources, to mention but a few. 

the 
participants, who belonged to different religions, stated 
in the final Declaration that:  
the  Madrid  Conference, 
Last  July,  at 
religion, 
regard 
for 
“Dialogue  is  one  of  the  necessities  of  life.  It  is 
also  one  of  the  most  important  means  of  mutual 
understanding, cooperation, … and realization of 
the  truth,  which  contributes  to  the  happiness  of 
humankind.” (A/63/311, annex, para. 9)  
That is the dialogue we are engaged in here today. 

In conclusion, I would now like to speak on behalf 
of  the  Catholic  Church  to  assure  the  international 
community  of  the  will  of  its  priests  and  its  faithful  to 
continue  to  offer  to  all  their  brothers  and  sisters  in 
humankind  the  spirit  of  brotherhood,  the  strength  of 
prayer  and  the  hope  offered  by  Christ,  who  “hath 
broken down the middle wall of partition between us” 
(The Holy Bible, Ephesians 2:14). Such values inspire 
our deeds on Earth, where man suffers and hopes.  

May  we  all  together,  without  forsaking  our 
cultural  and  religious  differences,  lead  the  way  to  a 
surer  and  more  unified  world.  Let  us  go  beyond  mere 
tolerance  and  unsound conciliation.  Let  us  make 
brotherhood not merely an ideal, but a reality.  
The meeting rose at 1 p.m. 
22 

08-59933 
