
A/63/PV.52
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

52nd plenary meeting 
Monday, 17 November 2008, 12.30 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 
country’s  most  marginalized  sectors,  the  indigenous 
movement,  the  farmers’  movement  and  the  original 
workers’  movement.  For  almost  200  years,  we  were 
excluded,  marginalized  and  discriminated  against  in 
our republic. Our natural resources were pillaged. The 
indigenous  farmers’  movement  has  therefore  always 
sought  to  change  the  social  structures.  We  have  used 
democracy  as  a  tool  to  change  economic  policies  that 
do  not  provide  an  answer  to  the  economic  and  social 
concerns of the majorities that make up the indigenous 
movement.  

I would briefly like to recall how we moved from 
a  union  and  communal  struggle  to  an  electoral  one. 
After  so  many  demonstrations  and  so  many  marches 
from  Chapare,  Cochabamba  and  Caracollo;  after 
marching for kilometres and kilometres and weeks and 
weeks to seek social justice, to seek equality from the 
Government  in  office  and  to  seek  that  they  heed  the 
demands  of  the  peoples;  and  after  signing  many 
agreements, one after another, the time came when we 
asked:  When  are 
to  be 
implemented?  
largest 

mobilizations  in  1994,  the  Government  offered  us 
satisfactory  agreements.  We  went  back  to  our  regions 
to celebrate with great joy. Weeks and months went by 
and  nothing  changed.  The  agreements  were  not 
implemented. We therefore asked ourselves when those 
agreements  entered  into  between  the  Government  and 
union leaders following those great marches would be 
carried out.  
these  agreements  going 
the  most  recent  and 
After  one  of 




The meeting was called to order at 12.35 p.m. 

Address by Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, President of the 
Republic of Bolivia 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Bolivia. 
into 
Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, President of the Republic 
of  Bolivia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Evo  Morales 
Ayma,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Bolivia,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.  
President  Morales  Ayma  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

First,  I  would  like  to  greet  you,  Mr.  President,  and  to 
acknowledge the presence of the representatives of the 
States Members of the United Nations. I would like to 
express my thanks for the opportunity to be here at the 
United Nations to share with the Assembly the process 
of change that we initiated in 2006 in the context of a 
democratic  and  cultural  revolution  seeking  to  achieve 
equality among Bolivian men and women.  

I  wish  to  recall  briefly  something  that  is  known 
throughout  the  world.  I  come  from  a  background  of 
social  struggle  and  social  movements,  specifically  the 
indigenous farmers’ movement. I remember clearly the 
many peaceful demonstrations we held that were aimed 
at putting an end to injustice and inequality among my 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-60539 (E) 
*0860539* 

A/63/PV.52 


We  came  to  the  conclusion  that  they  would  be 
implemented  when  we  had  political  power.  What  did 
we have to do to become political leaders? How could 
we  create  a  political  tool  for  liberation  that  could  be 
used  to  defend  national  sovereignty,  dignity  and  the 
groups that had been so neglected throughout Bolivia’s 
history?  To  reiterate,  those  groups  include  indigenous 
people  and  workers,  as  well,  of  course,  as  patriotic 
members  of  the  middle  class  and  intellectuals,  all  of 
whom  joined  the  first-ever  political  movement  in  the 
country’s history comprised of indigenous peasants.  
We had organized a political movement that was 

not  created  by  political 
scientists,  experts  or 
intellectuals.  That  movement  grew  out  of  marches, 
mobilization  and,  especially 
the  native  peasant 
movement,  although  some  city-based  groups  also 
joined.  We  also  told  ourselves  that  if  we  wanted  to 
build  a  political  liberation  movement,  we  first  had  to 
put an end to political serfdom. Sinecures were rife; in 
the countryside, the various parties merely participated 
in  election  campaigns,  but  they  never  went  to  peasant 
communities.  

As  we  began  to  build,  the  movement  grew  little 
by  little.  In  the  beginning,  we  could  barely  get  a 
member  of  Congress  elected.  In  the  second  elections 
we  participated  in,  we  elected  four  members  to  the 
national  Parliament.  By 
third  elections,  we 
succeeded  in  winning  27  of  the  130  seats  in  the 
Chamber of Deputies.  

The  first  time  I  participated  in  the  National 
Congress,  I  was  expelled  for  having  said  something 
important. I told members that they were only thinking 
of how much money they could make and how, while I 
never saw them worrying about their towns, regions or 
districts.  Based  on  what  I  believed  and  had  seen,  I 
came  to  the  conclusion  that  the  Parliament  was  the 
supreme  mafia  of  the  State.  I  had  to  pay  a  price  for 
that.  Unfortunately,  I  was  expelled.  I  left  happy, 
however, without worries or bother, but we returned in 
2002  with  27  parliamentarians.  In  2005,  we  won  the 
elections. 

I say this to illustrate how we began at the bottom 
to build a new Bolivia that would be united and where 
there would be equality and dignity. We now have the 
opportunity  to  achieve  what  we  believed  as  union 
leaders  in  the  Palacio,  the  Government  and  the  State, 
and to keep our promise of equality, dignity, unity and 
respect  for  our  diversity.  We  are  very  diverse,  both 
the 
some 
very 
including 
nationalizing 
profound 
physically and economically. Once in Government, we 
economic 
launched 
transformations, 
our 
hydrocarbon  resources.  That  has  made  it  possible  for 
us  to  address  some  needs  by  using  the  country’s  own 
economic resources.  

Bolivia  has  suffered  continual  budget  deficits 
since  the  1940s  or  1950s  and  has  never  enjoyed  a 
surplus.  That  is  a  matter  of  record.  In  2006,  the  first 
year  of  my  Government,  thanks  to  nationalization, 
Bolivia had a budget surplus. We have  begun to grow 
economically. For example, prior to the nationalization 
of  natural  resources,  including  hydrocarbons,  Bolivia 
received  barely  $300  million  of  the  $1.5  billion 
generated  by  hydrocarbon  resources.  Last  year,  we 
received $2 billion. That figure continues to grow. We 
hope that the price of a barrel of oil will not decrease 
further this year. If the price remains between $60 and 
$70, that natural resource will produce $2.5 billion for 
Bolivia, accounting for nearly 50 per cent of our export 
earnings. Before I became President in 2005, Bolivia’s 
export  earnings  amounted  to  barely  $2.7  billion;  by 
September  2008,  our  exports  were  worth  $6  billion. 
And  we  are  a  small  country  with  many  economic  and 
social problems.  

We  have  begun  to  address  our  social  problems 
and  needs  gradually.  Nevertheless,  as  we  began  to 
make changes, groups emerged from various regions to 
challenge  and  destabilize  the  Government  and  to 
launch  attacks  against  our  democracy,  our  way  of  life 
and even the export of gas.  

the  General 
Assembly  to  allow  me  to  speak  today  in  order  to 
inform  representatives  about  how,  through  dialogue, 
we have been able to resolve the confrontation between 
small  opposition  groups  and  the  national  Government 
and  social  movements.  Some  groups  claim  that  they 
have  been  trained  to  lead  Bolivia  and  to  dominate 
Indians  and  workers. They  do  not  accept  that  a  union 
leader could become President in order to turn Bolivia 
into a democracy. 

As  our  armed  forces  did  not  acquiesce  in  the 
attempted  coups  d’etats,  in  September  and  October 
those  groups  attempted  a  civil  coup.  They  seized 
airports  and  State  institutions  in  several  departments 
and States. They disrupted gas exports to Argentina and 
Brazil.  I  recall,  for  instance,  that  when  I  was  a  union 
leader,  I  was  accused  of  being  a  terrorist  merely  for 
the  President  of 
I  have  asked 
2 

08-60539 


having  marched  in  demonstrations.  Yet  those  groups 
attempted  to  destroy  democracy  by  taking  over  State 
institutions. I believe that they carried out genuine acts 
of terrorism, genocide, conspiracy and sedition.  

I  am  here  to  thank  this  international  forum  for 
having  defended  democracy,  the  rule  of  law  and  truth 
in  my  country.  Regrettably,  however,  I  have  another 
truth to tell. The United States was the only country to 
fail  to  repudiate  those  acts  of  terrorism,  sedition  and 
genocide. Others did, however. The United Nations, the 
Union of South American Nations and the Organization 
of American States defended truth, democracy and the 
rule of law. 

We are in negotiations to determine how to reach 
agreement  with  those  groups.  I  had  little  experience 
with  negotiations  as  a  union  leader,  but  as  President  I 
have  had  to  negotiate  with  opposition  groups.  It  has 
been  necessary  to  carry  out  those  negotiations  with 
transparency,  sincerity  and  honesty  in  order  to  bring 
our  peoples  together.  In  that  connection,  I  should  like 
to  emphasize  the  solidarity  and  important  role  of  the 
United Nations and the entire international community. 

During the dialogue between the Government and 
the opposition, I asked for reasons. If we were wrong, 
tell  us  what  we  are  wrong  about.  As  they  had  no 
argument  to  make,  they  kept  silent.  Of  course,  social 
movements and the national Government are respected 
for 
to  achieve 
consensus on issues. 

The Assembly is aware that we are expanding the 
transformation of our country by putting in place a new 
political  constitution  for  the  Bolivian  State.  What  are 
we attempting to accomplish thereby?  

With  regard  to  the  most  maligned  group  in 
Bolivia’s  history  —  the  indigenous  peoples  —  article 
1 of the new political Constitution recognizes the rights 
of  indigenous  peoples,  as  the  United  Nations  has 
already  done.  Thus,  we  are  talking  of  a  multinational 
State  where,  for  the  first  time,  the  State  is  for 
everyone —  people  of  mixed  race,  creole,  indigenous 
and  black.  We  are  all  physically  diverse  and,  in  our 
new  political  Constitution  of  the  Bolivian  State,  we 
recognize the diversity of the people of my country. 

However,  it  is  important  that  we  find  a  way  for 
the State and its public institutions to be a solution for 
the  Bolivian  people.  The  executive,  legislative  and 
public powers have to be  at the service of the people. 
their  decisions  and 
their  ability 
A/63/PV.52
our 
20 
approximately 
Politics  is  service,  after  all.  Our  ancestors  left  us  a 
trilogy  of  indigenous  prescriptions:  amasua,  amayuya 
and amaquilla — do not lie, do not steal and do not be 
weak.  Despite 
reform 
constitutions,  none  has  ever  recognized  these  moral 
principles.  They  are  humanist  values  that  have  never 
been  acknowledged  by 
the  various 
legal  and 
constitutional instruments of our country.  

Of  course,  political,  civil,  labour  and  cultural 
rights,  as  well  as  equality  between  men  and  women, 
will be enshrined. We have a law by which a minimum 
of  30  per  cent  of  women  must  participate  in  our 
institutions  of  authority.  That  is  equality.  We  have 
made  progress  on  the  local  level  in  that  regard,  but  it 
has been harder to advance at the national level. Under 
the  new  Constitution,  it  will  be  possible  to  move 
forward together. 

Opposition  groups  constantly  question  me  on 
whether  the  Government  is  going  to  put  an  end  to 
private  property.  Do  I  want  to  take  away  people’s 
houses  and  confiscate  their  cars?  That  is  completely 
false.  Economically,  we  are  very  diverse;  there  is 
private  property  and  there  is  State  property.  The  new 
political Constitution of the Bolivian State enshrines a 
pluralistic  economy  in  which  private  property  and 
collective property are respected, as is State property. 

It  is  typical,  for  example,  to  have  collective 
property in the countryside. Where I was born, there is 
no private property. The land is collective and belongs 
to  the  entire  community,  and  that  is  respected  in  the 
new  political  Constitution  of  the  Bolivian  State.  I 
repeat: We have private and State property. 

Under  no  political  constitution  of  the  Bolivian 
State  was  coca  leaf  recognized  as  a  national  product. 
Scientifically,  as  some  United  States  and  European 
universities  —  including  Harvard,  which  we  thank  —
have recognized the coca leaf in its natural state is not 
harmful  to  human  health.  However,  it  is  demonized. 
We  are  not  defending  cocaine.  I  would  never  do  that. 
We  do  not  agree  with  coca  leaf  being  turned  into 
cocaine, but in the culture of the indigenous peoples of 
the Andes, it is traditional to consume the coca leaf. I 
very  much  regret 
the  United  States  Drug 
Enforcement Agency does not recognize the traditional 
consumption of coca leaf. 

The  new  political  Constitution  of  the  Bolivarian 
State recognizes coca leaf as a natural product that is a 
cultural property of the indigenous peoples of Bolivia. 
that 
08-60539 

3 
A/63/PV.52 

We have to combat its derivative, and we are doing so 
in Bolivia while respecting human rights.  

Furthermore,  as  recognized  in  the  new  draft 
Constitution,  it  is  important  that  we  live  in  harmony 
with  mother  Earth,  not  just  with  human  beings.  The 
new  Constitution  is  therefore  aimed  at  defending  the 
environment.  Defending  the  environment  is  defending 
humankind. 

The  new  political  Constitution  of  the  Bolivian 
State  has  another  new  element.  It  will  not  be  possible 
for  any  country  to  set  up  a  military  base  on  Bolivian 
territory. I and my social movement have been victims 
of  the  military  bases  of  the  United  States;  we  want  to 
put an end to that struggle of our peoples and enshrine 
in  the  Constitution  the  absence  of  foreign  military 
bases on Bolivian soil. 

The  new  political  Constitution  of  the  Bolivian 
State  also  declares  that  war  will  never  be  waged  with 
any neighbouring country because war is not a solution 
for our peoples. It brings death and destruction and no 
one  wins.  The  only  winners  are  the  transnational 
companies, 
arms 
manufacturers.  To  the  credit  of  the  conscience  of  our 
peoples  and  social  movements,  we 
reject  any 
declaration of war under the new political Constitution 
of the Bolivian State. 
I wish today to thank the international community 

for having supported us in this process of change in the 
context  of  the  cultural  and  democratic  revolution. 
There  have  been  many  demonstrations  calling  for 
respect  for  human  rights.  It  is  very  important  to  be 
constantly  with  the  people,  to  heed  them,  to  dialogue 
with them and listen to what they are asking for. If the 
President  and 
the 
demands of the people for lack of financial resources, 
it  is  important  to  acknowledge  that;  but  we  are  also 
seeking funds to address those demands, and when we 
speak  to  the  opposition,  we  speak  with  them  face  to 
face and let the people judge who is right. 

As we are all aware, these are difficult times for 
my  Government,  given  the  provocation  coming  from 
certain sources. We also have the obligation to do away 
with individualism, sectarianism and regionalism. It is 
crucial to consider the equality of our peoples. We need 
to  seek  equality  and  justice  among  all  our  peoples  — 
all peoples of the Earth. 
the  Government  cannot  meet 
industrialists 
the 
and 
the 


In  regard  to  some  international  issues,  I  would 
refer  to  the  so-called  financial  crisis.  We  have  heard 
over the past two weeks that developed countries have 
given 30 times more money to the banks of Wall Street 
than to development aid funds which is needed to meet 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  That 
money  should  go  to  the  victims  rather  than  to  those 
who have caused this crisis. It should go to those who 
have  lost  their  homes  because  they  cannot  pay  their 
debts, and to those who have lost their jobs due to this 
crisis. It should not go to the directors of the banks that 
have caused this international crisis. 

The  so-called  new  Washington  consensus  of  the 
Group  of  20  continues  to  put  its  trust  in  free  trade.  I 
question free trade. Free trade is not part and parcel of 
fair  trade  of  peoples.  Therefore,  in  order  to  emerge 
from the crisis, we must discard the neo-liberal model 
and the capitalist system.  

In  Bolivia,  we  have  begun  to  change  gradually. 
That  has  helped  us  not  only  to  gain  self-respect,  but 
also to begin to resolve our social problems. How have 
we  done  so?  Pardon  me  for  speaking  the  truth:  I  was 
elected  President  with  nearly  54  per  cent  of  the  vote. 
Opposition  groups  constantly  challenged  me 
to 
relinquish my mandate. I accepted, and offered to give 
up power and to let the people judge us. There was no 
problem. Our support rose from 54 to 67 per cent. The 
people  are  so  wise.  And  that  is  why  this  economic 
model  must  be  changed.  The  unfair  trade  imposed  by 
some  international  bodies  is  not  a  solution  for  my 
country or for others.  

In  order  to  emerge  from  the  financial  crisis,  we 
must change the rules of the World Trade Organization 
(WTO). As a union leader, I have participated in quite 
a  few  of  the  international  conferences  convened  as 
alternative to the summits of heads of State. Now, I am 
much  more  convinced  that  the  time  has  come  to 
consider  how  to  change  the  WTO  rules.  The  world 
economic 
restructured  by  all 
192 countries  represented  here  at  the  United  Nations, 
not  by  just  20  countries.  Perhaps  those  20  countries 
feel responsible for the financial crisis, which has done 
great  harm  to  countries  throughout  the  world.  That  is 
why all countries must participate actively.  
We support the idea of a  United Nations summit 

aimed  at  restructuring  not  only 
international 
financial  system,  but  also  the  World  Bank  and  the 
International  Monetary  Fund.  I  wish  to  say  very 
system  must  be 
the 
4 

08-60539 


strongly that it is important that we invest in profound 
economic  and  social 
transformation.  That  means 
changing  the  economic  model.  Those  of  us  who  have 
emerged 
from  poverty  and  social  struggle  are 
convinced  that  it  is  not  only  through  dialogue  and 
cooperation,  but  also,  and  fundamentally,  through  the 
participation  of  the  international  community  that  we 
can change our countries and the entire world.  
A/63/PV.52
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Republic  of  Bolivia  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 
Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, President of the Republic 
of  Bolivia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
from 
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. 

08-60539 

5 
