
A/63/PV.40
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

40th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 6 November 2008, at 12.20 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 




The meeting was called to order at 12.20 p.m. 

Agenda item 103 (continued) 
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs 
  (c)  Election of five members of the International 







Once again, I should like to remind representatives 
Court of Justice  
  Memorandum by the Secretary-General 
(A/63/186) 
  List of candidates (A/63/187 and Add.1 and 
Add.2) 
  Curricula vitae (A/63/188) 

The  President:  As  members  are  aware,  one 

vacancy  on  the  Court  remains  to  be  filled.  The 
Assembly will now proceed to vote with respect to the 
remaining vacancy.  

that, pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of procedure,  


“After  the  President  has  announced  the 
beginning  of  voting,  no  representative  shall 
interrupt the voting except on a point of order in 
connection with the actual conduct of the voting.” 
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Ballot  papers 
will now be distributed.  

All  the  candidates  whose  names  appear  on  the 
ballot  paper  are  eligible.  The  names  of  the  four 
candidates  who  have  already  obtained  an  absolute 
majority  of  votes,  that  is,  Mr.  Ronny  Abraham, 
Mr. Awn Shawkat Al-Khasawneh, Mr. Antônio Augusto 

Cançado  Trindade  and  Mr.  Christopher  Greenwood, 
have  been  deleted  from  the  ballot.  May  I  remind 
delegations that the name of only one candidate should 
be  marked  with  a  cross.  Any  ballot  paper  on  which 
more  than  one  name  is  marked  will  be  considered 
invalid. Votes may be cast only for those whose names 
appear on the ballot papers. 

  At the invitation of the President, Mrs. Noni Ismi 
(Brunei  Darussalam),  Ms.  Yuliana  Georgieva 
(Bulgaria),  Miss  Sheree  Chambers  (Jamaica), 
Mr. Paul  Ballantyne  (New  Zealand),  Mr.  Saidu 
Dodo  (Nigeria)  and  Ms.  Louise Ahldén  (Sweden) 
acted as tellers. 
  A vote was taken by secret ballot.  

The meeting was suspended at 12.35 p.m. and resumed 
at 1.05 p.m. 

follows: 

The  President:  The  result  of  the  voting  is  as 









192 
0 
192 
0 
192 
97 


Number of ballot papers: 

Number of invalid ballots:   
Number of valid ballots: 

Abstentions: 

Number of members voting: 
Required absolute majority: 
Number of votes obtained: 






Mr. Abdulqawi Ahmed Yusuf (Somalia)  74 
Ms. Miriam Defensor-Santiago 
(Philippines) 
Mr. Maurice Kamto (Cameroon) 
Mr. Sayeman Bula-Bula (Democratic 
Republic of the Congo) 
71 
44 
3 





This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-59117 (E) 
*0859117* 


Once again, I should like to remind representatives 
A/63/PV.40 


In view of the lateness of the hour, and since no 
candidate obtained an absolute majority in the previous 
round of balloting, further balloting will be postponed 
until 3 o’clock this afternoon.  
The meeting was suspended at 1.10 p.m. and resumed at 
3.20  p.m.  with  Mr. Wolfe  (Jamaica), Vice-President,  in 
the Chair. 
The Acting President: Members will recall that, 

at the end of the two rounds of balloting conducted this 
morning,  one  candidate  remained  to  be  elected.  The 
Assembly will now proceed to vote with respect to the 
remaining vacancy. 

that, pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of procedure,  


“After  the  President  has  announced  the 
beginning  of  voting,  no  representative  shall 
interrupt the voting except on a point of order in 
connection with the actual conduct of the voting.” 
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Ballot  papers 
will now be distributed. 

All  the  candidates  whose  names  appear  on  the 
ballot  paper  are  eligible.  The  names  of  the  four 
candidates  who  have  already  obtained  an  absolute 
majority  of  votes  —  Mr.  Ronny  Abraham,  Mr.  Awn 
Shawkat Al-Khasawneh, Mr. Antônio Augusto Cançado 
Trindade and Mr. Christopher Greenwood — have been 
deleted from the ballot. May I remind delegations that 
the name of only one candidate should be marked with 
a cross. Any ballot paper on which more than one name 
is marked will be considered invalid. Votes may be cast 
only  for  those  whose  names  appear  on  the  ballot 
papers. 

  At the invitation of the President, Mrs. Noni Ismi 
(Brunei  Darussalam),  Ms.  Yuliana  Georgieva 
(Bulgaria),  Miss  Sheree  Chambers  (Jamaica), 
Mr. Paul  Ballantyne  (New  Zealand),  Mr.  Saidu 
Dodo  (Nigeria)  and  Ms.  Louise Ahldén  (Sweden) 
acted as tellers. 
  A vote was taken by secret ballot. 

The meeting was suspended at 3.30 p.m. and resumed at 
3.55 p.m. 

as follows: 
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 
















67 
29 
188 
0 
188 
0 
188 
97 
Mr. Abdulqawi Ahmed Yusuf (Somalia)  90 
Ms. Miriam Defensor-Santiago 
(Philippines) 
Mr. Maurice Kamto (Cameroon) 
Mr. Sayeman Bula-Bula (Democratic 
Republic of the Congo) 
Number of ballot papers: 

Number of invalid ballots:   

Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 

Number of members voting: 
Required absolute majority: 
Number of votes obtained: 






2 

Since  no  candidate  has  received  an  absolute 
majority  in  the  previous  round  of  balloting,  the 
Assembly will proceed to another unrestricted ballot to 
fill the remaining vacancy. 
Mr.  Ileka  (Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo) 

(spoke in French): I would like to inform the Assembly 
that the Democratic Republic of the Congo has decided 
to  withdraw  Mr.  Sayeman  Bula-Bula’s  candidature.  I 
would like to take this opportunity to express to all the 
delegations  that  have  supported  us  our  gratitude  and 
appreciation.  I  would  like  to  call  on  those  delegations 
to continue to give us their support in order to  enable 
the General Assembly to ensure that the great forms of 
civilization and the principal legal systems of the world 
are represented within that august United Nations body, 
the International Court of Justice. 
The Acting  President:  Members  have  heard  the 

statement  by  the  representative  of  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  that  that  delegation  no  longer 
wishes their candidate to be considered.  

just 
made,  we  shall  therefore  proceed  to  the  current 
unrestricted ballot, and the name of Mr. Sayeman Bula-
Bula  will  be  deleted  from  the  next  ballot  paper. 
Members  should  remember  that,  for  this  round,  any 
vote for Sayeman Bula-Bula will not be counted.  
Mr.  Cabral  (Guinea-Bissau)  (spoke  in  French): 

Would you be kind enough, Sir, to explain to us on the 
basis  of  which  article  and  rule  you  now  invite  us  to 
proceed as you have suggested? I would be grateful if 
you could do so, because if I refer, for example, to rule 
150  of  the  General  Assembly  rules  of  procedure,  it 
says: 
into  consideration 
the  statement 
Taking 
2 

08-59117 


(spoke in English) 

“The  election  of 

the 
International  Court  of  Justice  shall  take  place  in 
accordance with the Statute of the Court.”  
the  members  of 
(spoke in French) 
So  I  would  like  to  know  upon  which  article  you  are 
basing  the  modus  operandi  you  have  just  suggested, 
Sir. 
* * * 
The Acting President: I apologize for the delay. 

In  response  to  the  point  that  was  raised  by  my 
colleague  the  representative  of  Guinea-Bissau,  I  give 
the floor to the representative of the Secretariat. 
Mr. Botnaru (Department for General Assembly 

and  Conference  Management):  Articles  11  and  12  of 
the Statute of the International Court of Justice, which 
govern  the  procedure  for  elections,  do  not  make 
specific  reference  to  the  process  of  the  withdrawal  of 
candidates.  However,  in  keeping  with  the  long  and 
well-established  practice  of  the Assembly,  in  the  light 
of  the  fact  that  candidates  are  nominated  by  national 
groups  of  Member  States, 
the  withdrawal  of 
nominations may also occur at any point leading up to 
the election, in accordance with Article 5 of the Statute 
of the International Court of Justice.  

Since the candidate from the Democratic Republic 
of the Congo was nominated by one national group — 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  —  its  request 
for  withdrawal  is  certified  by  the  General  Assembly 
and is in accordance with Assembly practice. 
Mr. Cabral (Guinea-Bissau) (spoke in French): I 

never wanted to question the sovereign decision of the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  to  withdraw  its 
candidate.  That  was  not  my  question.  But  since  the 
representative of the Secretariat has referred to, among 
others, Article 12, I would like to read out Article 12 of 
the Statute of the International Court of Justice, which 
states, in paragraph 1, that: 


“If,  after  the  third  meeting,  one  or  more 
seats  still  remain  unfilled,  a  joint  conference 
consisting of six members, three appointed by the 
General  Assembly  and  three  by  the  Security 
Council, may be formed at any time at the request 
of  either  the  General  Assembly  or  the  Security 
Council, for the purpose of choosing by the vote 
of  an  absolute  majority  one  name  for  each  seat 
A/63/PV.40
still  vacant,  to  submit  to  the  General  Assembly 
and  the  Security  Council  for  their  respective 
acceptance.”  
to  Article  11  of 
the  Statute  of 
Then  it  refers  to  the  joint  conference.  That  is  what 
Article  12  states.  Article  12  does  not  refer  to  the 
sovereign  right  of  a  State  to  withdraw,  at  its  pleasure, 
its candidate. 
The Acting President: I thank the representative 

of  Guinea-Bissau  for  the  clarification.  I  now  give  the 
floor to the representative of the Secretariat. 
Mr. Botnaru (Department for General Assembly 

and  Conference  Management):  I  would  like  to  make 
reference 
the 
International Court of Justice, which states: 


“If,  after  the  first  meeting  held  for  the 
purpose of the election, one or more seats remain 
to  be  filled,  a  second  and,  if  necessary,  a  third 
meeting shall take place.” 

The General Assembly is now only in the second 
meeting.  We  are  not  in  the  third  meeting,  because 
during  the  first  meeting  we  obtained  more  than  the 
necessary  number  of  candidates  that  fulfilled  the 
requirement for an absolute majority. That was the first 
meeting. Then we started the second meeting, and that 
was announced. The subsequent reconvening was not a 
new meeting, but a resumed meeting. We are now still 
in the second meeting. We did not adjourn the meeting 
in  the  morning;  we  closed  the  first  meeting  after  the 
first ballot. Now we are still in the second meeting of 
the Assembly. 

Cameroon on a point of order. 

in 
French): This is not exactly a point of order. I have not 
heard  an  answer  to  the  question  asked.  We  had  two 
meetings this morning, because the President opened a 
first  meeting,  and  he  said  “The  meeting  is  adjourned” 
and  we  had  a  second  meeting.  We  are  now,  this 
afternoon, in the third meeting.  

At  this  third  meeting,  the  voting  has  not  been 
concluded.  As  a  result,  we  have  used  up  all  our 
meetings  and  we  are  in  the  situation  described  by  the 
representative of Guinea-Bissau. We are already in the 
third  meeting.  We  have  reached  the  end  of  the  third 
meeting and the vote did not reach a conclusion.  
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to 
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
08-59117 

3 

A/63/PV.40 

The  Acting  President:  I  am  afraid  that  the 

interpretation of the representative of Cameroon is not 
correct,  but  I  will  allow  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat  to  explain  in  the  same  manner  that  it  was 
explained to my colleague from Guinea-Bissau. I give 
the  floor  once  again  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat,  who  will  very  carefully  explain  what  has 
started, what has finished and what has recommenced. 
I will not attempt to do so. 
Mr. Botnaru (Department for General Assembly 

and  Conference  Management):  Let  me  read  from  the 
President’s notes for the 39th meeting, the first plenary 
meeting held this morning: 



“In accordance with Article 10, paragraph 1 
of the Statute of the Court, those candidates who 
obtain  an  absolute  majority  of  votes  both  in  the 
General  Assembly  and  in  the  Security  Council 
shall be considered as elected.  
“Pursuant  to  rule  151  of  the  rules  of 

procedure  of  the  Assembly,  if  in  the  first  ballot 
the  number  of  candidates  obtaining  an  absolute 
majority  is  less  than  five,  the  Assembly  will 
proceed … to a second ballot to fill the remaining 
vacancies, until five candidates have obtained the 
required majority.”  
By way of explanation as to the previous practice, 

the notes read: 



“At  its  915th  meeting,  on  16  November 
1960,  the  General Assembly  decided  that  ballots 
shall  be  unrestricted.  That  decision  has  been 
followed consistently. 

“I should like to bring another matter to the 
attention  of  the  General  Assembly.  Cases  have 
arisen in the Security Council in which more than 
the  required  number  of  candidates  has  obtained 
an  absolute  majority  on  the  same  ballot.  The 
same  also  occurred  in  the  General  Assembly,  at 
the  44th  plenary  meeting  of  the  sixtieth  session, 
on 7 November 2005. 

“Both  organs  decided  to  hold  a  new  ballot 
on  all  the  candidates,  and  no  notification  to  the 
President of the other organ was made until only 
the required number of candidates, and no more, 
had obtained an absolute majority.” 

After the first ballot, four candidates — actually, 
five candidates — obtained the absolute majority. That 


the  General  Assembly  and 
was  one  meeting. An  exchange  between  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  President  of  the 
Security Council was made. Those four candidates that 
obtained  the  absolute  majority  both  in  the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council were elected. That 
meeting  was  adjourned  and  such  adjournment  was 
announced by the President. I would now like to quote 
from the President’s closing words at the adjournment 
of the first meeting this morning: 

“In  accordance  with 

the  provisions  of 
Article  11  of  the  Statute  of  the  Court,  it  will  be 
necessary  to  hold  another  meeting  to  fill  the 
remaining vacancy.  

“I  propose  that  the  present  meeting  be 
adjourned  and  that  the  40th  meeting  should  be 
held  immediately  to  vote  on  the  remaining 
vacancy.”  

The meeting was adjourned and the next meeting, 
the  40th  meeting,  was  reconvened  immediately,  in 
parallel  between 
the 
Security  Council.  The  Security  Council  concluded  its 
meeting.  The  General  Assembly  did  not  conclude  its 
40th meeting, since none of the candidates obtained the 
necessary  absolute  majority.  We  are 
therefore 
continuing  with  the  same  meeting  until  one  of  the 
delegates obtains an absolute majority.  
The Security Council has already held its meeting 

and, as soon as the Assembly gets five candidates with 
an  absolute  majority,  the  exchange  of  letters  between 
the President of the Security Council and the President 
of the General Assembly will occur. If those candidates 
are  the  same,  then  the  election  is  over.  If  those 
candidates  are  not  the  same,  the  Assembly  and  the 
Council  will  go  into  a  third  meeting.  I  hope  that 
clarifies the situation. 
The Acting President: Having thought we settled 

the  issue,  I  now  reluctantly  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Guinea-Bissau. 
Mr.  Cabral  (Guinea-Bissau):  This  matter  is  a 

serious one. It is not a joke. I apologize to any delegate 
here who believes otherwise. It is not joke. We are not 
asking for the floor or taking it just for the purpose of 
merely  speaking.  We  are  not  here  to  distract  or  to 
entertain anybody.  

I  just  want  to  ask  a  simple  question:  which 
meeting is this? Is this the second meeting? Or is this 
the  third  meeting?  This  is  a  simple  question,  after 
4 

08-59117 
just  want 
The  Acting  President:  I 


which we will know where we are. Because if you go 
back  to  rule  151  of  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the 
General Assembly, Sir, it tells you what we should do. 
I just want to know which meeting this is.  

We  had  the  first  meeting  and  we  elected  four 
candidates  because  those  four  obtained  an  absolute 
majority  in  both  the  Security  Council  and  in  the 
General  Assembly,  and  they  were  declared  to  be 
elected.  Then  we  had  the  second  meeting.  As  I 
understand it, we just had a third meeting. But if that is 
not the case, please explain it to me. Then, if we have 
to  challenge  you,  Sir,  or  the  Secretariat,  we  will.  But 
please, just tell us whether the official record will show 
that the Secretariat declared that we were in the second 
or the third meeting. That is all that I am asking.  
to  ask 

everybody  to  remain  calm.  I  assure  the  representative 
of  Guinea-Bissau  that  I  did  not  interpret  any  rules  to 
determine  what  meetings  we were  in.  I  gave  the  floor 
to the Secretariat. The representative of the Secretariat 
did come to explain which meeting we were in.  

On  the  basis  of  the  explanations  made  by  the 
Secretariat,  I  thought  the  representative  of  Guinea-
Bissau  was  satisfied.  Then,  at  the  request  of  the 
representative of Cameroon, the Secretariat went  back 
to get the transcript from this morning. I took it that the 
representative  of  Cameroon  was  satisfied  with  the 
reading  out  of  that  transcript.  If  that  is  not  the  case,  I 
would ask that he so clarify, because I thought that the 
explanation of the Secretariat had been  satisfactory. If 
not,  then  we  will  just  continue  the  meeting  until 
whenever we are able to hold a ballot. As I am merely 
sitting  in  for  President  d’Escoto  Brockmann,  there  is 
no need to challenge me, please.  
this 

discussion,  I  would  like  to  lodge  a  parliamentary 
inquiry. Whether this meeting is the first or the second, 
I am not even sure. But the fact of the matter remains 
that,  under  the  rules,  when  there  is  an  inadequate 
number  of  candidates  who  have  obtained  absolute 
majorities  in  the  voting,  that  same  meeting  may 
continue by way of different ballots. A distinction must 
be made between meetings and balloting, so there can 
be  a  second  balloting,  a  third  balloting,  a  fourth 
balloting, still within the first meeting.  

the  document 
Now my inquiry is — and I have here before me 
to  us,  namely 
Mr.  Davide  (Philippines):  Pursuant 
that  was  released 
to 
A/63/PV.40
A/63/186 — whether we are still governed by paragraph 
11 of that document, which I will now read out: 

the  915th  plenary  meeting  of 
“At 

the 
General  Assembly,  on  16  November  1960,  a 
procedural discussion was held as to whether rule 
94 (then rule 96) of the rules of procedure of the 
Assembly  should  be  applied  in  elections  to  the 
International  Court  of  Justice.  That  rule  lays 
down  a  procedure  for  restricted  ballots  in  the 
event  that,  after  the  first  ballot,  the  requisite 
number  of  candidates  have  not  obtained  the 
required  majority.  By  47  votes  to  27,  with  25 
abstentions,  the  Assembly  decided  that  the  rule 
did  not  apply  to  elections  to  the  Court  and 
proceeded 
the  requisite  number  of 
candidates by a series of unrestricted ballots. That 
decision has been followed consistently.”  
I  shall  continue  with  paragraph  12  of  document 
to  elect 

A/63/186:   


“Accordingly,  if  in  the  first  ballot  in  either 
the  General  Assembly  or  the  Security  Council, 
the  number  of  candidates  obtaining  an  absolute 
majority is less than five, a second ballot will be 
held  and  balloting  will  continue  at  the  same 
meeting  until  five  candidates  have  obtained  the 
required  majority  (rule  151  of  the  rules  of 
procedure  of  the  Assembly  and  rule  61  of  the 
provisional rules of procedure of the Council).”  

Now,  if  we  apply  paragraphs  11  and  12  that  I 
have  just  read,  and  assuming  that  we  have  approved 
this — because the same was read by the President this 
morning,  it  would  appear  to  me  that  the  same  was 
adopted. What the result would therefore be is that an 
announcement  of 
for  winning 
candidates  cannot  be  binding,  because  there  should 
have  been  an  unrestricted  second  balloting  until  five 
candidates had been elected.  

That,  then,  is  my  point  of  inquiry,  namely, 
whether that is the rule. It seems that the Philippines is 
supported by those paragraphs 11 and 12. There cannot 
be  an  announcement  of  four  elected  members  in  any 
round of balloting if five had not obtained the required 
majority.  It  is  necessary  that  in  any  announcement  of 
winning candidates there must be five winners. 
The  Acting  President:  With  the  indulgence  of 

the Assembly,  I  have  been  asked  by  the  Secretariat  to 
results  only 
the 
08-59117 

5 


A/63/PV.40 

suspend  the  meeting  for  10  minutes  or  so,  while  they 
consult with the delegations concerned.  
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  4.35  p.m.  and  resumed 
at 5 p.m. 
The Acting President: I call on the representative 

of  the  Secretariat  for  a  final,  hopefully,  clarification, 
after which I propose to proceed to the balloting. 
Mr. Botnaru (Department for General Assembly 

and Conference Management): As I mentioned earlier, 
and  as  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  was 
following,  we  started  today  with  the  39th  meeting  of 
the  Assembly.  The  result  of  the  ballot  was  that  five 
candidates  got  an  absolute  majority.  The  Security 
Council  held  its  plenary  meeting  in  parallel.  Letters 
from both Presidents were exchanged on the results of 
the  election  in  the  Security  Council  and  those  of  the 
election in the General Assembly.  

Four  candidates  were  the  same  in  the  results  of 
the election in the plenary and in those of the election 
in  the  Security  Council.  The  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  announced,  as  I  read  out  earlier,  that  since 
we  do  not  have  five  candidates  that  match  in  the 
elections  in  the  Security  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly, we will proceed with the second meeting of 
the Assembly.  

The  President  adjourned  the  39th  meeting  and 
immediately  opened  the  40th  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly.  The  same  was  done  simultaneously  by  the 
Security Council. We proceeded to another ballot. As a 
result,  none  of  the  remaining  candidates  —  we  were 
voting  to  elect  one  candidate  —  got  the  required 
absolute  majority,  97  votes,  though  in  the  Security 
Council the vote was conclusive.  
In  order  to  match  the  results  in  the  Security 

Council  and  the  General Assembly,  the Assembly  has 
to  continue  the  same  meeting  to  proceed  with  other 
ballots. The 40th meeting, in which we are now, should 
continue  until  we  have  a  candidate  with  an  absolute 
majority.  After  that  result,  the  Presidents  of  the  two 
bodies will exchange letters and give the names of the 
candidates. If the result matches, the election is over. If 
not,  the  General Assembly  will  have  a  third  meeting. 
The  Security  Council  will  do  the  same.  That  is  in 
accordance with Article 11 of the Statute of the Court:  


“If,  after  the  first  meeting  held  for  the 
purpose of the election, one or more seats remain 
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
The  Acting  President:  We  shall  now  begin  the 
to  be  filled,  a  second  and,  if  necessary,  a  third 
meeting shall take place.”  

If  the  voting  is  still  inconclusive  at  the  third 
meeting,  or  the  results  at  the  third  meeting  in  the 
Security Council and in the General Assembly are not 
the same, then we shall implement Article 12. 

voting process. Ballot papers will now be distributed. 

on a point of order. 
in 

French):  There  are  two  issues.  If  the  same  meeting 
continues  and  a  candidate  withdraws,  it  cannot  be  the 
same meeting. That is the first point. 

Secondly,  when  we  asked  the  question,  Sir,  that 
you clarified, we asked for the Legal Counsel to come 
and answer it, so that the issue is fully recorded in the 
verbatim  records  and  this  confusion  does  not  arise 
again in the future. So ask the Legal Counsel to come 
and clarify the issue once and for all. 

representative of the Secretariat. 
Mr. Botnaru (Department for General Assembly 

and  Conference  Management):  The  practice  of  the 
General  Assembly,  and  even  in  elections  in  other 
principal bodies, is that if a Member State withdraws a 
candidature,  it  does  not  mean  the  Assembly  ends  the 
meeting and then starts another meeting. We have this 
in  elections  in  the  Security  Council,  too.  The  number 
of the meeting is the same.  

The  only  difference  is  that  if  a  Member  State 
withdraws  its  candidature  in  the  election  for  the 
International Court of Justice, all those national groups 
that  recommended  that  candidate  should  support  the 
withdrawal of the candidate. Since the candidate of the 
Member  State 
its  candidate  be 
withdrawn  was  supported  only  by  its  own  national 
group,  we  consider  that  that  is  a  correct  request.  No 
other support is needed, and thus the General Assembly 
can  proceed  and  withdraw  that  candidature  from  the 
list for the ballot. 

voting process. Ballot papers will now be distributed. 

on a point of order. 
The  Acting  President:  We  shall  now  begin  the 
I give the floor to the representative of Cameroon 
I give the floor to the representative of Cameroon 
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
that 
requested 
6 

08-59117 
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  Guinea-


in 

French): I agree with you, Sir, and I ask you to believe 
that I do not wish to delay this meeting unduly. But the 
Legal Counsel should come and say all that, so that it 
appears  in  the  verbatim  records.  That  was  my  other 
request. 
The Acting  President:  I  would  like  to  point  out 

the lateness of the hour to my friend and colleague. At 
this point, we do not know if we will be able to obtain 
an  explanation  from  the  Legal  Counsel,  but  it  would 
mean that the meeting would have to be suspended and 
risk going closer to 6 p.m. But I am in the hands of the 
Assembly.  If  you  are  insisting,  it  means  that  the 
meeting  would  have  to  be  suspended.  So  can  I  appeal 
to my colleague from Cameroon? 

Bissau. 
Mr.  Cabral  (Guinea-Bissau):  Please,  could  the 

Secretariat just tell us if it is possible or not to satisfy 
the  request  made  by  the  representative  of  Cameroon. 
We are all very reasonable people here. We just want to 
know if it is possible to satisfy his request. He has not 
requested, if my understanding is correct — that is my 
interpretation of his request — that the Legal Counsel 
himself  come  here,  but  there  is  a  Legal  Office.  There 
are  very  competent  people  there.  Whenever  there  is  a 
meeting  of  the  General  Assembly,  and  indeed  any 
official meeting of the United Nations, there should be 
at the disposal of that meeting a legal counsel to guide 
the proceedings of the meeting. 
Now,  is  it  possible  to  satisfy  that  request? As  to 

the lateness of the hour, people are paid to work until 
6 p.m. at least, and the meeting is still going on here. Is 
it possible or not? If not, we will accommodate that.  

We  have  a  different  interpretation  of  rule  151  of 
the rules of procedure of the General Assembly. While 
I have the floor, I shall read it out, just because we are 
dealing with clever people here.  


“Any meeting of the General Assembly held 
in  pursuance  of  the  Statute  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  for  the  purpose  of  electing 
members  of  the  Court  shall  continue  until  as 
many  candidates  as  are  required  for  all  the  seats 
to be filled have obtained in one or more ballots 
an absolute majority of votes.”  
Then we are told that this is the second meeting. 

What  about  “shall  continue”?  But  please  tell  us  if  it 
A/63/PV.40
is  reflected 
in  document  A/63/186, 
possible to have somebody come or not, and then if it 
is not possible, that is fine with us. 
The  Acting  President:  Are  there  any  other 

requests? If not, I give the floor to the representative of 
the Secretariat. 
Mr. Botnaru (Department for General Assembly 

and  Conference  Management):  I  have  just  been  told 
that  the  view  of  the  Legal  Counsel  of  the  Secretary-
General 
the 
memorandum  by  the  Secretary-General,  which  was 
cited  by  Member  States.  If  I  may  say,  not  as 
representative  of  Legal  Affairs,  when  it  says  in  rule 
151 that “Any meeting of the General Assembly held in 
pursuance  …  for  the  purpose  of  electing  …  shall 
continue  until  as  many  candidates  as  are  required  for 
all the seats to be filled”, our understanding is not that 
it  is  necessarily  the  same  meeting,  because  the  same 
one  is  the  third  on  the  elections  of  the  Security 
Council.  That  means  that  we  cannot  break  after  one 
meeting to have a meeting of the General Assembly on 
something  else,  and  then  come  back,  but  that  we  will 
continue  with  meetings  of  the  Assembly  until  the 
elections  are  over.  Otherwise,  how  can  we  coordinate 
and be in accordance with Article 11?  

At the same time, we have to work simultaneously 
to  synchronize  the  number  of  our  meetings  with  the 
Security  Council.  Imagine  that  we  are  working  in  the 
same meeting and we do not send a communication to 
the  Security  Council  on  what  has  happened  here,  and 
we are going with the same candidate — I just cannot 
imagine  the  outcome  of  such  a  practice.  We  are 
following  exactly  the  same  practice  as  in  previous 
years,  and  the  memorandum  of  the  Secretary-General 
repeats exactly the same as in every year.  
The  difference,  and  some  delegates  raised  the 

issue, is that we have had more ballots during the first 
meeting. During the last elections, in 2005, at the first 
ballot  there  were  more  candidates  with  an  absolute 
majority  than  required. That  is  why  there  was  another 
ballot  within  the  same  meeting.  I  hope  that  that 
clarifies the situation. 

representative of Cameroon. 
in 

French): I note that our friend Mr. Botnaru has tried to 
provide  an  explanation,  but  as  he  is  not  the  Legal 
Counsel  —  and,  Sir,  if  you  do  not  want  to  invite  the 
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
08-59117 

7 

I give the floor to the representative of Benin on a 
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
A/63/PV.40 

Legal  Counsel,  you  can  continue  —  we  are  not 
satisfied. He is not the Legal Counsel, and I asked for 
the  Legal  Counsel  to  provide  an  explanation.  He  is 
simply  saying  that  it  is  already  mentioned  in  the 
memorandum  of  the  Secretary-General,  but  if  you 
insist that we continue, that is fine, but I am not happy. 
The Acting President: I thank the representative 

of  Cameroon  for  his  understanding.  I  take  it  that  we 
can now proceed. 

point of order. 
Mr.  Zinsou  (Benin)  (spoke  in  French):  My 

delegation has some concerns. We would like to know 
whether  the  candidate  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  was  actually  authorized  to  withdraw  his 
candidature  at  this  state  of  the  proceedings.  That  is 
really a point of order. 

representative of the Secretariat. 
Mr. Botnaru (Department for General Assembly 

and  Conference  Management):  Yes,  as  I  explained 
earlier,  it  is  the  sovereign  right  of  Member  States  to 
withdraw their candidature, and, as I explained earlier, 
if  the  candidate  has  support  from  more  than  one 
group — from more than its own national group — all 
other groups should support that proposal. In this case, 
the  candidate  is  considered  withdrawn,  and  we  go 
ahead. As the candidate has the support of his national 
group only, the rules are satisfied and we can go ahead 
with elections. 
The  Acting  President:  We  shall  now  begin  the 

voting  process.  Ballot  papers  will  now  be  distributed. 
All  the  candidates  whose  names  appear  on  the  ballot 
paper are eligible. The name of the candidate who has 
withdrawn has been deleted from the ballot. 

May  I  once  again  remind  delegations  that  the 
name  of  only  one  candidate  should  be  marked  with  a 
cross. Any ballot paper on which more than one name 
is marked will be considered invalid. Votes may be cast 
only for those whose names appear on the ballot papers. 
  At the invitation of the President, Mrs. Noni Ismi 

(Brunei  Darussalam),  Ms.  Yuliana  Georgieva 
(Bulgaria),  Miss  Sheree  Chambers  (Jamaica), 
Mr. Paul  Ballantyne  (New  Zealand),  Mr.  Saidu 
Dodo  (Nigeria)  and  Ms.  Louise Ahldén  (Sweden) 
acted as tellers. 














189 
0 
189 
0 
189 
97 
  A vote was taken by secret ballot. 
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 

The meeting was suspended at 5.25 p.m. and resumed at 
6.05 p.m. 

as follows: 

Number of ballot papers: 

Number of invalid ballots:   

Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 

Number of members voting: 
Required absolute majority: 
Number of votes obtained: 


52 


21 

Mr.  Abdulqawi  Ahmed  Yusuf  of  Somalia  has 
obtained an absolute majority in the General Assembly. 
I  have  communicated  the  result  of  the  vote  to  the 
President  of  Security  Council.  I  have  received  the 
following letter from His Excellency Mr. Jorge Urbina, 
President of the Security Council: 

Mr. Abdulqawi Ahmed Yusuf (Somalia) 116 
Ms. Miriam Defensor-Santiago 
(Philippines) 
Mr. Maurice Kamto (Cameroon) 

“I have the honour to inform you that at the 
6012th  meeting  of  the  Security  Council,  held  on 
6 November 2008 for the purpose of electing five 
members of the International Court of Justice for 
a  term  of  office  beginning  on  6  February  2009, 
Mr. Abdulqawi Ahmed Yusuf obtained an absolute 
majority of votes.” 
Mr.  Abdulqawi  Ahmed  Yusuf  has 
therefore 

obtained  an  absolute  majority  in  both  the  Security 
Council  and  the  General  Assembly.  He  is  therefore 
duly elected as a member of the International Court of 
Justice  to  serve  for  a  nine-year  term  commencing  on 
6 February 2009.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  extend  to 
him the congratulations of the Assembly on his election.  

As  a  result  of  the  independent  voting  in  the 
Security  Council  and  in  the  General  Assembly,  the 
following  five  candidates  have  obtained  an  absolute 
majority 
in  both  organs:  Mr.  Ronny  Abraham, 
Mr. Awn Shawkat Al-Khasawneh, Mr. Antônio Augusto 
Cançado  Trindade,  Mr.  Christopher  Greenwood  and 
Mr. Abdulqawi  Ahmed  Yusuf.  I  thank  the  tellers  for 
their assistance. 

We  have 
consideration of sub-item (c) of agenda item 103. 
this  stage  of  our 
thus  concluded 
8 

08-59117 
the 
floor 
to 
the 
I  give 
representative  of 
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon)  (spoke 



Cameroon. 
in 

French):  First  of  all,  I  would 
to  warmly 
congratulate  all  the  judges  who  have  been  elected. 
Given  the  results  of  the  election,  I  am  sure  they  will 
fully and effectively fulfil their mandate at the Court. 

Secondly, I wanted to ensure that it is recorded in 
the verbatim records that throughout the election there 
were  difficulties,  that  my  delegation  requested  the 
Legal  Counsel 
to  come  and  give  an  accurate 
interpretation  of  the  rules  and  that  the  Legal  Counsel 
did not come. 
like 
A/63/PV.40

Thirdly, I would like to point out that, in the last 
round  of  elections,  the  list  from  which  the  General 
Assembly worked was not the same as in the Security 
Council,  in  that  in  the  meantime  one  candidate  had 
withdrawn, which meant that it was different from the 
list  that  the  Security  Council  used  for  its  own  vote. 
According  to  the  rules,  we  should  have  adjourned  the 
meeting  to  enable  the  Security  Council  to  have  the 
same list for the election, and, as that was not the case, 
I  must  express  great  regret.  I  would  like  all  those 
points  to  appear  in  the  verbatim  record,  so  that  in  the 
future  we  avoid  the  difficulties  that  occurred  during 
this vote. 

to 
congratulate  the  judges  who  have  been  elected  and 
wish them much success in carrying out their function 
as judges of the Court. 
The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m. 


Once  again,  my  delegation  would 
like 
08-59117 

9 
