
A/63/PV.55
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

55th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 19 November 2008, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .


(Nicaragua) 
  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Kpotsra 
(Togo), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
conflicts 
through  dialogue 
Member States, including permanent Council members. 
Consequently,  Member  States  have  increasingly  less 
confidence in the Security Council. 

The  Security  Council  should  remain  the  United 
Nations body responsible for global peace and security 
and never be used as a tool to legitimize the pursuance 
of  strategic  interests  of  certain  countries.  For  that 
reason,  it  is  important,  first  and  foremost,  to  ensure 
that the principle of impartiality is strictly observed in 
all  activities  of 
the  Security  Council.  Peaceful 
settlement  of 
and 
negotiations among the parties concerned should be the 
main remedy in every case. 

Sanctions and coercive measures, such as the use 
of  force,  should  be  rejected,  as  they  only  aggravate 
conflicts.  That  necessitates  establishing  a  mechanism 
to  make  Security  Council  resolutions  effective  only 
after  endorsement  by  the  General  Assembly.  The 
Security  Council 
that 
unjustifiably handles only developing countries. That is 
also  imperative  for  the  democratization  of  the  United 
Nations and the fair settlement of conflicts. 

the  Security  Council  should  be 
reformed as early as possible, given the current rapidly 
changing world situation. In that regard, it is important 
to  ensure  that  non-member  States  of  the  Council  and 
other 
the 
overwhelming  majority  of 
the  United  Nations 
membership, are fully represented. 
With regard to expansion of the Security Council, 

the delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
should  not  be  a  court 
countries,  which 
developing 
Secondly, 
are 





The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 



Agenda items 9 and 111 (continued) 
Report of the Security Council (A/63/2) 
Question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and 
related matters 
Mr.  Sin Son  Ho  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 

of  Korea):  More  than  60  years  have  already  elapsed 
since the Security Council of the United Nations came 
into  existence  with  a  mission  of  maintaining  global 
peace  and  security.  But,  to  our  regret,  the  world  has 
never  been  at  peace.  In  most  cases,  the  Security 
Council is being used to serve the interests of specific 
countries, disregarding all fundamental principles, such 
as  respect  for  sovereignty  and  non-interference  in  the 
internal  affairs  of  other  countries,  which  constitute  a 
cornerstone in international relations. 

sanctions  and  coercive 
measures  are  imposed  against  sovereign  States  under 
the  pretext  of  conflict  resolution  and  righteous 
struggles  to  safeguard  sovereignty  are  condemned  as 
threats  to  international  peace  and  security.  Abuses  of 
power  by  the  Security  Council,  such  as  dealing  with 
issues  beyond  its  mandate,  have  become  evermore 
serious. Furthermore, the debates over the last 15 years 
on  reform  of  the  Security  Council  have  produced  no 
result,  due  to  the  serious  conflicting  views  among 

today’s  world, 
In 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-60935 (E) 
*0860935* 

enlarging 
the  Council’s 
A/63/PV.55 

Korea would like to reiterate its consistent position on 
first 
non-permanent 
membership, which can be easily agreed, and deferring 
enlargement of the permanent category of membership 
to a later stage. 

Even  if  the  permanent  membership  is  to  be 
expanded,  a  country  like  Japan,  a  war-criminal  State 
that has not paid for its past crimes but, rather, distorts 
its past history of aggression, should never be allowed 
to occupy a permanent seat in the Council. 
Even today, Japan — far from honestly reflecting 

on its past crimes against humanity and making sincere 
reparations  —  resorts  to  despicable  acts  to  seize  Tok 
Islet,  which  is  a  sacred  territory  of  Korea,  and 
suppresses 
the  General  Association  of  Korean 
Residents in Japan, an organization of overseas Korean 
citizens of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. 

Worse  still,  Japan  has  also  attempted  to  raise 
issues  irrelevant  to  world  peace  and  security  in  the 
Security Council, such as the so-called abduction issue, 
only  evoking  the  alarm  and  denunciation  of  Member 
States, as revealed last June. 

If  a  permanent  seat  were  given  to  such  an 
irresponsible  and  brazen-faced  Japan,  it  would  be  the 
same as encouraging Japan’s ambition for its old dream 
of  the  Greater  East  Asia  Co-Prosperity  Sphere.  That 
would  be  extremely  dangerous  for  the  entire  United 
Nations membership. 

Last  but  not  least,  it  is  equally  important  that 
Security Council reform should encompass measures to 
ensure transparency in the activities of the Council by 
opening  informal  consultations  to  the  public  and 
allowing  interested  countries,  including  parties  to 
conflicts, to attend informal meetings. 

In  conclusion,  the  delegation  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  expresses  its  confidence 
that,  under  the  leadership  of  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly,  His  Excellency  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann,  realistic  and  practical  approaches  will  be 
devised to achieve reform of the Security Council, and 
reaffirms  its  commitment  to  actively  participate  in 
deliberations on the reform of the Council. 
Mr.  Kaiser  (Czech  Republic):  At  the  outset,  I 

would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly for convening this meeting and Ambassador 
Jorge Urbina, Permanent Representative of Costa Rica 
and  current  President  of  the  Security  Council,  for  his 
taken  due  note  of 
detailed  presentation  of  the  annual  report  of  the 
Council (A/63/2). That report testifies to the enormous 
workload  on  that  key  body  of  the  United  Nations, 
stemming  from  its  mandate  to  maintain  global  peace 
and security. The Czech Republic acknowledges all the 
efforts  that  are  being  undertaken  to  bring  peaceful 
solutions  to  various  conflicts  in  many  regions  of  our 
world today. 

I would like to use this opportunity to share some 
thoughts  of  the  Czech  delegation  concerning  Security 
Council reform. We believe that that subject should be 
considered  one  of  the  priorities  of  the  sixty-third 
session  of  the  General Assembly. After  many  years  of 
preparatory  discussions,  the  time  has  come  to  move 
that  agenda  forward.  Let  us  therefore  fully  implement 
decision  62/557 that has finally opened  the door  for  a 
meaningful intergovernmental process. That unanimous 
decision is binding on all of us. From that perspective, 
we  have 
the  plans  recently 
announced by the President of the General Assembly. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  the  main  task  today  is  to 
launch  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  that  will 
eventually lead to a reform of the Security Council that 
will  adapt  it  to  the  new  realities  of  the  twenty-first 
its  effectiveness  and 
century,  while  safeguarding 
functionality.  Only  by  so  doing  will  we 
truly 
implement  decision  62/557.  There  is  absolutely  no 
reason  for  any  further  delays,  nor  any  need  to  spend 
much  time  on  preparatory  work,  since  the  format  and 
modalities  of  the  intergovernmental  process  are  well 
defined  by  that  same  decision  62/557,  namely,  an 
informal  plenary  of  the  General  Assembly  with  its 
rules  of  procedures.  Subsequently,  the  basis  of  the 
negotiations  consists  of  all  proposals  submitted  so  far 
by all Member States and groupings. 

The Czech delegation is convinced that under the 
able  leadership  of Ambassador  Tanin  we  will  proceed 
quickly,  while  preserving  the  basic  principles  of 
transparency,  openness  and  inclusiveness  that  are 
absolutely  indispensable  to  maintain  the  confidence 
and  active  participation  of  each  and  every  Member 
State  of  the  United  Nations  interested  in  the  reform 
process.  Our  delegation  is  ready  to  participate  in  an 
open and cooperative spirit. At this juncture, we do not 
want 
future 
negotiations.  At  the  same  time,  we  believe  that  any 
reasonable reform of the Security Council should lead 
to  an  expansion  of  its  membership  in  both  the 
permanent and the non-permanent categories and make 
the  outcome  of 
to  pre-empt 
the 
2 

08-60935 
in 
on 
the 
any 
preconditions 
the  next  phase,  namely, 


it  more  equitable.  It  should  also  take  into  account  the 
legitimate ambitions and needs of small and mid-sized 
countries. 

The previous 15 years of thorough debates should 
not  be  lost.  Undoubtedly,  the  deliberations  of  the 
Open-ended  Working  Group  on  Security  Council 
Reform have created a solid platform on which we can 
build. Thus, it has fulfilled its mandate. However, none 
of  its  future  activities  should  block  or  slow  down  the 
proceedings 
the 
intergovernmental  process.  There  is  no  reason  for 
creating 
upcoming 
deliberations of the General Assembly.  

Over recent months, the determination of the vast 
majority  of  Member  States  to  make  a  decisive  step 
forward  has  been  echoed  again  and  again.  The 
challenges  of  today’s  world  require  us  to  create  a 
stronger  and  more  representative  and  effective  United 
Nations system, including the Security Council. That is 
a  task  given  to  us  by  our  political  leaders  at  the  2005 
Summit.  The  Czech  Republic  is  ready  to  work  hard 
towards that goal. Let us start sooner rather than later. 
Mr.  Swe  (Myanmar): At  the  outset,  I  would  like 

to  thank  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Costa  Rica 
for  introducing  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council (A/63/2). 
Under  Article  24,  paragraph  1,  of  the  Charter, 

States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  confer  on  the 
Security  Council  the  primary  responsibility  for  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  and 
agree  that,  in  carrying  out  its  duties,  the  Council  acts 
on their behalf. The Security Council is accountable to 
the General Assembly and the annual report represents 
the fulfilment of that important Charter obligation. The 
report  indicates  that  the  Council  had  yet  another  year 
of intensive work. 

The  principal  approach  of  the  report  remains 
similar  to  that  of  last  year.  The  report  is  informative, 
but  not  analytical.  While  we  value  the  information 
provided  in  the  report,  we  consider  that  the  Security 
Council should strive for a report that goes beyond the 
listing of its activities and meetings. 

The Security Council is entrusted with the vitally 
important  responsibility  of  maintaining  international 
peace  and  security,  and  the  decisions  that  it  makes 
impact  on  millions  of  people  around  the  world.  That 
underscores  the  urgency  of  reforming  the  Council,  so 
A/63/PV.55
not 
does 
that it can meet the challenges of a new era. The debate 
on  the  question  of  equitable  representation  on  and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council and 
related  matters  is  taking  place  with  that  sense  of 
urgency. 

The  question  of  equitable  representation  on  and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council has 
been  on  our  agenda  for  some  time.  However,  our 
collective  efforts  in  the  Working  Group  established 
under  General  Assembly  resolution  48/26  have  not 
borne fruit.  

We  share  the  view  that  reform  of  the  Council 
must be an integral part of the ongoing reform process 
of the United Nations and that the reform of the United 
Nations  will  remain  incomplete  without  an  actual 
reform  of  the  Council.  It  must  be  stressed  that  any 
reform  of  the  Council  will  be  meaningless  if  the 
restructured  Council 
become  more 
representative,  more  effective  and  more  transparent  in 
its decision-making process. 

Momentum  for  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
was given a shot in the arm by the 2005 World Summit. 
Expectations were raised with regard to the prospect of 
reaching agreement on a formula that would garner the 
widest  possible 
support.  Subsequently,  positive 
developments  have  emerged  from  consultations.  The 
important  role  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on 
Security  Council  Reform  as  the  most  appropriate 
democratic  forum  was  reaffirmed.  Accordingly,  the 
Working  Group  was  mandated  to  continue  its  work. 
Furthermore,  the  General  Assembly  also  agreed  to 
launch  an  intergovernmental  negotiation  process  on 
Council  reform  (decision  61/561).  The  momentum 
generated during the sixty-first session was maintained 
by  the  President  of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-
second session. 

Regrettably,  all  subsequent  attempts  have  not 
resulted  in  significant  headway,  due  to  entrenched 
positions. We are discouraged by the conclusion of the 
task  force 
insufficient  support  for 
launching  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  It  is 
clear 
flexibility  and 
compromise  will  be  required  of  the  major  interest 
groups  if  the  discussions  on  Council  reform  are  to 
move forward. Such flexibility and compromise will be 
possible only with a renewed demonstration of political 
will. 
this  conclusion 
there 
from 
that 
that 
is 
08-60935 

3 

important 
in  making 
The  outcome  of 
the  present  stage  of 
A/63/PV.55 


the 
discussions on the question of Security Council reform 
demonstrates that we will not be able to overcome the 
present  impasse.  As  was  the  case  in  discussions  on 
Council  reform  in  the  past  years,  the  category  of 
membership  is  the  most  challenging.  The  Council’s 
membership  must  therefore  be  expanded  in  both  the 
permanent and non-permanent categories to reflect the 
present  reality  and  to  strengthen  the  legitimacy  of  the 
Council’s decisions.  

The  expansion  of  the  Council  must  take  into 
account  the  need  for  representation  of  developing 
countries,  which  are  currently  underrepresented  in  the 
Council. The  representation  of African  countries  must 
also  be  adequately  addressed.  At  the  same  time,  the 
Council’s agenda, procedures and working methods are 
equally 
the  Council  more 
transparent and democratic.  

In  connection  with  the  Council’s  agenda,  we  are 
particularly concerned by the failure of the Council to 
strictly  adhere  to  the  provisions  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations.  The  Non-Aligned  Movement,  which 
represents 
the 
membership  of  the  United  Nations,  has  stressed  on 
many  occasions  that  the  Council’s  decision  to  initiate 
formal  and  informal  debates  on  the  situation  in  any 
Member State or any matter that does not constitute  a 
threat to international peace and security is contrary to 
Article 24 of the Charter.  

Reform of the Council’s procedures and working 
methods must be aimed at promoting transparency and 
accountability  in  the  Council’s  treatment  of  issues  of 
interest  to  Member  States.  The  Council’s  lack  of 
willingness to hold open debates on such issues and its 
restriction on participation in their consideration are at 
odds  with Article  31  of  the  Charter,  under  which  any 
United Nations member may participate in any Council 
debate on issues that it considers affect it. 

and 
accountability, the rest of the Member States should be 
afforded  more  opportunities 
the 
substantive  work  of 
the  Council.  My  delegation 
considers  that  continued  improvement  in  the  working 
methods  of  the  Security  Council  should  not  be  held 
hostage  to  progress  on  the  issues  of  membership 
expansion and representation. In that regard, we should 
strive for more progress. 
overwhelming 
transparency 
to  engage 
number 
of 
the 
To 
promote 
greater 
in 
increase 
impasse  on 
The  continued 
to  speak  on  behalf  of 
the  question  of 

Security  Council  reform  is  highly 
lamentable.  It 
negatively  reflects  on  the  United  Nations  system  as  a 
whole.  As  the  Working  Group  stated,  a  realistic 
approach  is  the  only  way  forward.  Compromise  and 
flexibility  on  all  sides  are  essential  if  we  are  to 
overcome the deadlock.  

At  the  2005  World  Summit,  the  heads  of  State 
and Government expressed support for the early reform 
of  the  Security  Council  as  an  essential  element  of  the 
overall reform of the Organization. It is incumbent on 
us to continue to work for an overall agreement, based 
on  the  progress  achieved  so  far,  in  a  spirit  of 
cooperation  and  accommodation.  The  momentum  that 
has been generated must be maintained. My delegation 
will continue to support the President’s efforts to move 
the present discussions forward. 
Mr.  Nhleko  (Swaziland):  I  have  the  utmost 

honour 
the  Kingdom  of 
Swaziland  on  agenda  item  111,  entitled,  “Question  of 
equitable  representation  on  and 
the 
membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters”.  

At the outset, my delegation wishes to align itself 
with the statement delivered at the 53rd meeting by the 
Chair of the Group of African States, Mauritius. 
The subject before us is of long standing. A lot of 

effort  has  been  expended,  but  we  still  fall  short  of  a 
conclusive  resolution.  While  we  agree  on  accelerated 
talks  and  negotiation  on  the  matter,  regrettably  our 
words  are  not  matched  by  actions.  The  stakes  have 
long  been  laid  and  we  need  to  move  with  urgency, 
since  the  democratization  of  the  Security  Council  has 
been very inconsequential. 

It would be unbecoming of me, at the early stages 
of  my  address,  if  I  did  not  reaffirm  and  recapture  the 
principles  and  intents  of  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and 
the  Sirte  Declaration,  which  remain  beacons  of  hope 
for  Africa  and,  by  extension,  for  my  own  country. 
Nobody  needs  a  reminder  of  what  is  contained  in  the 
Ezulwini Consensus, and we will not tire in our efforts 
to 
justice  characterized  by  equitable 
geographical  representation  in  the  Security  Council. 
The  status  quo  does  not  inspire  confidence  in  the 
United  Nations  as  a  credible  body  that  shelters  the 
weak and the unfortunate. 
fight 
for 
in 
4 

08-60935 
The 
intergovernmental  process 
to 



The principles of Ezulwini are very compelling to 
the African cause. This is by no means a ploy to avoid 
being  realistic.  The  truth  of  the  matter  is  that  the 
present  regime  is  surreal.  The  Open-ended  Working 
Group  on  Security  Council  Reform  has  been 
constituted  since  1994.  My  delegation  reaffirms  its 
unwavering  support  for  the Working  Group.  Its  report 
makes  it  succinctly  clear  that  the  Security  Council 
should  be  reformed  to  ensure  that  it  better  represents 
the  world  of  today.  That  premise  is  a  good  one  for 
negotiations, as some of the Permanent Five can attest.  

should  be 
undertaken  without  delay.  It  is  encouraging  that  the 
Working Group has identified some common elements. 
The Kingdom of Swaziland wishes to express its desire 
to  hammer  away  at  such  commonalities  so  that  we 
move  quickly  to  negotiate  on  the  more  difficult  ones. 
For this, we support the efforts of the President of the 
General  Assembly 
implement  a  strategy  of 
aggregation to simplification in the areas of categories 
of  membership,  extent  of  expansion, 
regional 
representation and the right of veto. 

We seek not only structural reform of the Security 
Council,  but  also  reform  of  the  Council’s  working 
methods,  which  should  demonstrate  the  virtues  of 
transparency, 
the 
membership.  This  reform  should  be  undertaken  in 
partnership  with  the  Security  Council  body  set  up  for 
that purpose. 

The “no reform” option is actually not an option 
at all. Member States should carry this agenda forward 
as a way to vindicate the United Nations as a just and 
altruistic  body.  Failure  to  act  will  project  injustice, 
impotency  and  parochialism  far  into  the  future.  We 
must  remain  firm  in  our  determination  to  keep  the 
agenda moving forward. 

Africa has a commanding oversight regarding the 
selection  and  allocation  of  the  two  permanent  seats. 
This is true to the virtues of the propensity to collective 
action and justifiable distribution. 

I conclude by giving prominence to the Ezulwini 
Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration,  as  both  are 
credible springboards for Africa to achieve greater, and 
justifiable,  leverage  in  its  quest  for  justice  in  the 
Security Council. 
Mr. Menon (Singapore): The annual report of the 

Security  Council  that  we  have  before  us  (A/63/2) 
fairness  and  participation  by 
A/63/PV.55
provides a good overview of the scope and volume of 
issues  dealt  with  by  the  Council  in  the  past  year.  We 
would  like  to  commend  Viet  Nam  for  its  consultative 
efforts in drafting the expanded introductory section of 
the report.  

Today’s debate allows us to discuss the priorities 
and  challenges  facing  this  important  organ  of  the 
United  Nations.  At  the  same  time,  we  also  sense  a 
renewed  interest  on  the  part  of  the  wider  membership 
in  Security  Council  reform  following  the  September 
decision  by  the  General  Assembly  to  commence 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  this  long-standing 
question. 

What matters most to small States like Singapore 
are the Council’s effectiveness and transparency and its 
involvement  of  non-Council  members  on  issues  of 
direct  concern  to  them. As  a  member  of  the  Group  of 
Five  Small  States  (S-5),  Singapore  believes  strongly 
that  the  Security  Council  must  improve  its  working 
methods in order to make the Council more accessible 
and,  by  extension,  more  effective.  We  welcome  the 
increase  in  public  meetings  and  improved  access  over 
the past year.  

But much more needs to be done to  enhance the 
Council’s  transparency  and  accountability. At  present, 
States  that  are  directly  involved  in  the  various  issues 
addressed  by  the  Council  do  not  always  have  the 
opportunity to express their views in Council meetings. 
And even when it is decided that meetings will be open 
to  the  wider  membership,  those  decisions  often  come 
so late that many States are unable to prepare and make 
substantive contributions. 

Last  Tuesday,  during  the  meeting  of  the  Open-
ended Working Group on Security Council Reform, the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  spoke  about  the 
very  first  meeting  of 
the  Security  Council,  on 
17 January  1946,  which  was  held  at  Church  House, 
London.  What  the  President  did  not  say,  and  which 
might  come  as  a  surprise  to  many  of  us  in  this 
Assembly, is that the first meetings of the Council were 
in fact held in the open and on record, with reports of 
the frank exchanges available for all to read. It is said 
that  there  was  so  much  transparency  at  that  first 
meeting that the representative of the United Kingdom, 
without realizing that his microphone was switched on, 
was  heard  to  complain,  “That  bloody  Chairman  has 
double-crossed me again!” It is therefore disheartening 
08-60935 

5 

that  see 
today’s  discussion, 
the  General  Assembly 
A/63/PV.55 

to  see  how  much  the  Council  has  regressed  since  its 
early days. 

Moving  on  to  the  broader  question  of  Security 
Council  reform,  we  realize  that  progress  has  been 
difficult because of the divergent interests, aspirations 
and objectives of the United Nations membership. The 
September  decision  by 
to 
commence intergovernmental negotiations was a finely 
balanced  but 
fairly  positive  outcome.  We  can 
appreciate the ambivalence with which some Members 
States  might  participate  in  discussions  on  Council 
reform.  However,  my  delegation  shares  the  view  of 
Member  States 
the 
meetings  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  and 
informal  plenary  meetings  to  be  held  in  the  future  as 
opportunities to move forward on this matter. Most of 
us agree that the status quo is unacceptable. I hope that 
we  can  work  together  in  a  pragmatic  and  realistic 
manner  to  achieve  meaningful  progress  on  Security 
Council reform. 

Singapore’s  position  on  this  subject  is  well 
known.  We  have  articulated  our  position  on  various 
occasions, and I will not dwell too much on the details. 
We  believe  that  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is 
needed in order to strengthen the United Nations as an 
organization and to better reflect geopolitical realities. 
The choice is clear: either we reform to forestall crises, 
or  we  wait  for  crises  to  force  change  on  us.  In  this 
regard, we have consistently voiced our support for an 
expansion  of  seats 
the  permanent  and 
non-permanent  categories. As  I  said  at  the  beginning, 
as a member of the S-5, we feel that any reform should 
include  working  methods.  After  all,  if  the  Council’s 
working  methods  remain  questionable,  it  does  not 
matter whether it has 5, 25 or 100 members. 

For  small  States  like  Singapore,  reform  is  also 
about making the Security Council more representative 
of the Organization’s membership. The President of the 
General  Assembly  has  spoken  of  the  democratization 
of the United Nations being his number-one priority. I 
am sure that everyone here has seen his banner, which 
reads  “Towards  the  Democratization  of  the  United 
Nations  —  Every  Country  Counts”.  If  we  are  serious 
about  turning  this  rhetoric  into  reality,  we  have  to 
ensure  that  the  views  and  interests  of  all  of  us,  in 
particular the small States, are taken into account in the 
reform of the Security Council.  
in  both 
to 
ensure 
that 
reflective  of 
small  States 
the  views  of 
that  we  are  all  Member  States  of 

I  heard  some  parties  argue  —  I  must  say  rather 
disingenuously  —  during  the  meeting  of  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group  last  Tuesday  that  a  majority  is 
defined  by  total  population.  But  I  would  remind  this 
body 
this 
Organization. It is the small States, while modest in the 
size of their populations, that make up the majority of 
States Members of the United Nations. Therefore, it is 
crucial 
are  not 
disadvantaged in any reform arrangement. With this in 
mind, I would like to make the following four points. 

First,  in  any  expansion  of  the  Security  Council, 
there  should  be  more  non-permanent  seats,  to  provide 
more  opportunities  for  small  States  to  serve  on  the 
Council.  That  is  an  important  aspect  of  making  the 
Council  more 
the 
membership.  Small  States  have  few  opportunities  to 
serve  regularly  on  the  Council.  Indeed,  many  have 
never served even a single term since becoming United 
Nations  members.  I  stress  this  point  because  all  too 
often  the  discussions  on  reform  revolve  around  the 
interests  of  the  larger  and  medium-sized  Powers.  We 
should not forget that small States have made valuable 
and  constructive  contributions  during  their  stints  as 
non-permanent  members.  Likewise,  any 
increase 
should  accurately  reflect  geographic  distribution.  We 
cannot  have 
the 
non-permanent seats. 

Secondly,  there  have  recently  been  proposals  to 
create  a  new,  intermediate  category  of  long-term 
renewable or re-electable seats. Again, this idea sounds 
like  one  that  caters  more  to  the  larger  and  medium-
sized  countries.  As  I  stated  previously,  Singapore’s 
preferred  option  is  to  expand  both  the  permanent  and 
non-permanent  categories.  But 
is 
widespread support for going down the path of creating 
renewable  or  re-electable  seats,  that  approach  would 
have to be accompanied by measures like a “time-bar” 
to  prevent  larger  and  medium-sized  countries  from 
flip-flopping 
traditional 
non-permanent  category  and  any  new,  intermediate 
category, to the detriment of small States.  

Singapore sees no reason why any country should 
have  two  bites  of  the  cherry.  In  other  words,  once  a 
country  declares  its  decision  to  run  for  a  seat  in  the 
intermediate category, and regardless of the outcome of 
that election, it should be precluded from running for a 
traditional  two-year  non-permanent  seat  for  a  certain 
number  of  years  afterwards.  Likewise,  a  country 
region  dominating 
any  one 
if 
there  ever 
between 
easily 
the 
6 

08-60935 
the  current  composition  of 


running  for  a  two-year  non-permanent  seat  should  be 
barred from running for a renewable seat for the same 
period.  

Without such restrictions, many small States may 
well  get  the  short  end  of  the  stick,  since  it  is  usually 
the  larger  countries  that  have  the  resources  to  run 
consecutive  or  concurrent  campaigns. We  must  ensure 
a fair playing field for all Member States. The right to 
serve on the Council cannot be restricted to only larger 
and medium-sized countries. 
Thirdly,  any  reform  arrangement  should  strike  a 

good balance between the size and effectiveness of the 
Security  Council.  Members  often  ask  whether  we  can 
enlarge the Council without making it more unwieldy. 
For  balance  and  thoroughness,  why  not  consider  the 
flip  side?  Can  we  improve  the  existing  Council 
structure  by  reforming  both  categories  of  its  current 
composition? As the Ambassador of Costa Rica said in 
his  statement  at  the  Open-ended  Working  Group 
meeting  last Tuesday,  we  might  want  to  ask  ourselves 
whether 
the  Security 
Council, especially in the permanent category, reflects 
today’s geopolitical realities.  

Perhaps  it  might  be  worthwhile,  as  part  of  our 
ongoing exercise, to take a more clinical approach. We 
may  want  to  go  back  to  first  principles  and  consider 
how best to reflect current geopolitical realities within 
the  composition  of  the  Council’s  permanent  and 
to 
non-permanent  membership.  Maybe  we  need 
undertake  some  fundamental  restructuring  of 
the 
Council’s  composition  —  let  me  assure  you  that  I  am 
not here to speak heresy. The broader point I am trying 
to  make  is  that  we  should  leave  no  stone  unturned  in 
our  deliberations  if  we  are  to  seek  the  most  optimal 
solution in this quest for reform. 

Fourthly,  there  is  the  question  of  the  veto.  We 
remain  opposed  to  granting  the  veto  to  any  additional 
members. It will only complicate decision-making and 
increase  the  chances  of  gridlock  in  the  Security 
Council.  That  said,  we  also  recognize 
the 
permanent  five  will  not  readily  give  up  their  right  to 
veto.  But  one  cannot  be  overly  pragmatic;  we  simply 
cannot  avoid  addressing  the  issue  of  the  veto  in  any 
reform arrangement. 

If the Council’s permanent members will not give 
up  their  veto  then,  as  a  start,  they  should  exercise 
leadership  by  agreeing  to  withhold  the  veto  when 
considering  compelling  cases,  such  as  instances  of 
that 
A/63/PV.55
(Solomon 
I 
thank 
Mr.  Beck
genocide  or  ethnic  cleansing.  At  the  minimum,  they 
should be prepared to explain any use of the veto to the 
other  Member  States.  After  all,  there  should  be  no 
privileges without responsibilities. 

My  aim  today  was  to  highlight  some  long-
standing  concerns  that  are  shared  by  Singapore  and 
other  small  States. As  a  small  country,  Singapore  has 
no  aspirations  for  permanent  membership.  However, 
we  are  mindful  of  the  interests  of  small  States.  We 
would  like  to  reiterate  that  Security  Council  reform 
cannot  only  serve  the  interests  of  the  larger  and 
medium  Powers.  The  views  and  interests  of  small 
States,  which  make  up  the  majority  of  the  United 
Nations,  must  also  be  taken  into  account.  Otherwise, 
there will be little progress on this issue. 
Islands): 
the 

President  of  the  General Assembly  for  convening  this 
plenary meeting. I would like to join others in thanking 
Ambassador  Jorge  Urbina  of  Costa  Rica,  current 
President  of  the  Security  Council,  for  presenting  the 
Council’s  informative  report  (A/63/2).  My  delegation 
welcomes the discussion on this document. 
It  is  hoped  that  in  the  face  of  today’s  global 

financial  and  climate  change  crises,  the  Council  will 
also look at their security implications. As stated in the 
past, the Security Council must be proactive and place 
emerging threats on its agenda. 

In the past, the scarcity of water and the failure of 
agriculture,  as  well  as  droughts  and  other  natural 
calamities,  has  forced  people  to  migrate.  For  small 
island  developing  States  such  as  mine,  migratory 
movement  from  low-lying  islands  to  larger  islands  is 
already  happening.  The  threat  of  conflict  is  real  as 
people  leave  their  ancestral  land  to  go  to  completely 
new  settings  under  a  different  land  tenure  system  and 
into another ethnic domain. 

Solomon  Islands  is  a  country  of  half  a  million 
people  speaking  some  87  different  languages.  Other 
low-lying  countries 
region  are  already 
discussing,  at  the  presidential  level,  moving  to  a  third 
country.  In  this  context,  we  must  not  address  these 
issues only from the development perspective, but also 
from a security angle. The Pacific island States will be 
submitting  a  draft  resolution  along  those  lines  as  we 
believe 
that 
left 
unaddressed. 
threats  could  worsen 
in  our 
these 
if 
08-60935 

7 
A/63/PV.55 


In  our  opinion,  the  financial  crisis  will  have  an 
impact  on  official  development  assistance.  Poverty  is 
the  root  cause  of  much  of  today’s  conflict.  President 
Lula da Silva once said that peace cannot rise from the 
ashes  of  poverty  and  that  no  amount  of  peacekeeping 
will  bring  peace  if  the  marginalized  and  the  most 
vulnerable remain unattended. We have seen billions of 
dollars  made  available  to  stabilize  the  financial  crisis 
and  hope,  from  a  security  perspective,  a  stimulus 
package  could  be  directed  to  the  least  developed 
countries and small island developing States. 

The issue of Security Council reform has become 
important as a matter of preserving international peace 
and  security.  However,  we  are  mindful  that  the  issue 
has  been  discussed  for  the  last  15  years.  As  my 
delegation  stated  recently  at  the  second  Open-ended 
Working  Group  meeting,  the  road  to  reforming  our 
Security  Council  has  been  marked  by  so  many  twist 
and  turns  that  we  have  measured  the  journey  in  terms 
of  the  countless  meetings  of  the  Open-ended Working 
Group, convened to justify reforms, while not actually 
having carried out these reforms. 

Over  the  years  we  have  stated  and  restated  our 
position  on  Security  Council  reform.  Since  2005,  we 
have also seen interest groups pronouncing themselves 
on Security Council reforms; hence we will not discuss 
something that is already common knowledge. 

The  unanimous  decision  of  15  September  2008, 
mandating  the  commencement  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations  before  28  February  2009 
(decision 
62/557),  brings  a  sense  of  direction.  My  delegation  is 
particularly  pleased  with  and  supportive  of 
the 
the  President,  Miguel  d’Escoto 
commitment  of 
Brockmann, 
to 
long-awaited 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  That  decisive  action 
demonstrates  true  leadership  which  we  commend  and 
would like to build on. 

Within  the  recent  Open-ended  Working  Group, 
my delegation expressed concern about seeing a debate 
on  the  varying  interpretations  of  decision  62/557.  My 
delegation hopes that, under the President’s leadership, 
the  eagerness  of  the  Assembly  to  reform  one  of  the 
principal organs of our institution will be evident. My 
delegation 
the  opening 
statement  yesterday,  that  the  President  will  soon 
present  a  working  plan  for  the  Working  Group  to 
commence its work. We hope not to get bogged down 
with procedural matters in this process. 
to  hear  from 
is  pleased 
launching 
the 

and  of 
Allow  me 
the  General  Assembly  on 

Since  our  leaders  spoke  on  the  subject,  the 
General  Assembly  has  spearheaded  a  number  of 
reforms  in  recent  years  and  we  hope  that  Security 
Council  reform  will  be  accomplished  in  a  similar 
manner. The reform process will be conducted through 
the  informal  plenary  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
within  the  Assembly’s  rules  of  procedures  to  ensure 
that  transparency,  accountability  and  inclusiveness  are 
maintained throughout the process.  

to  conclude  by  congratulating 
Ambassador Tanin on his appointment as Vice-Chair of 
the  Open-ended  Working  Group 
the 
intergovernmental negotiations. My delegation assures 
the  President  and  his  facilitator  of  our  support  and 
cooperation  as  we  continue  to  look  to  them  for  firm 
and clear leadership in this important matter. 
Mr.  Ettalhi  (Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke  in 

Arabic): At  the  outset,  I  would  like,  on  behalf  of  the 
members of the League of Arab States, to congratulate 
the  President  of 
this 
successful debate on two important items we have been 
studying  for  several  years.  Our  consideration  of  these 
items  stems  from  our  interest  in  finding  an  outlet  that 
would lead to Security Council reform which is a sine 
qua non for overall United Nations reform. 

the 
recommendations contained in the report of the Open-
ended  Working  Group  on  the  Question  of  Equitable 
Representation  on  and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  Other  Matters  related  to  the 
Security  Council  (A/62/47)  especially  as  concerns  the 
initiation of intergovernmental negotiations. 

In  this  connection,  the  Arab  League  emphasizes 
the  need  to  render  these  negotiations  open,  inclusive 
and  transparent.  They  should  take  into  consideration 
the positions of all Member States and regional groups.  

Member  States  deployed  considerable  efforts 
during the previous General Assembly session to bring 
about concrete progress in Security Council expansion 
and  reform  within  the  framework  of  the  Open-ended 
Working  Group  on 
the  Question  of  Equitable 
Representation  on  and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  Other  Matters  related  to  the 
Security  Council.  At  the  end  of  the  session,  decision 
62/557 was adopted which reflects a consensus among 
Member  States  that  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
the matter should start no later than February 2009.  
The  League  of  Arab  States  welcomes 
8 

08-60935 
calling 
for 
position 



The  Working  Group  was  entrusted  with  looking 
into  methods  for  preparing  for  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations,  their facilitation  and  the  submission  of  a 
report  to  an  informal  General  Assembly  meeting  no 
later than 28 February 2009. 
The Arab  States  underscore  their  commitment  to 

constructive  cooperation  with  all  parties 
towards 
Security  Council  reform  in  order  to  make  that  body 
more consistent with today’s realities, and hence, better 
able  and  more  effective  in  carrying  out  its  role  in  the 
area  of  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security, as enshrined in the Charter. 
Once  again,  the  Arab  States  stress  the  unified 

Arab 
permanent  Arab 
representation  in  an  expanded  Security  Council,  as 
mentioned in a letter dated 13 June 2008 addressed by 
the  Chairperson  of  the  Arab  Group  for  the  month  of 
June  to  the  President  of  the  Security  Council.  This 
letter,  contained  in  the  report  of  the  Open-ended 
Working  Group  on 
the  Question  of  Equitable 
Representation  on  and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  Other  Matters  related  to  the 
Security  Council  (A/62/47),  states  the  Arab  Group’s 
view that Security Council reform should include true 
reform 
the  Council’s  modus  operandi, 
respecting  transparency  and  openness  in  the  Council’s 
activities and proceedings. 

The  reform  process  should  bring  about  the 
participation  of  non-Council  members,  particularly 
those countries that are directly concerned with issues 
under discussion, as set out in Article 31 of the Charter. 
Informal,  closed  consultations  should  be  limited,  and 
more open discussions should be  available to increase 
than  restrict  participation  by 
transparency  rather 
Member  States.  More 
for 
non-Council members should also take place. 
With  regard  to  the  item  entitled  “Report  of  the 

Security  Council”, 
its 
appreciation for the initiative of the delegation of Viet 
Nam  to  hold  an  inclusive  briefing  for  Member  States 
on the report before its submission. At the same time, it 
believes  that  the  report  before  us  today  (A/63/2)  does 
not  give  a  clear  picture  of  what  is  transpiring  in  the 
Council. Nor does it reflect the Council’s commitment 
to  the  content  of  General  Assembly  resolutions,  in 
particular as regards avoiding the narrative aspect and 
including  in  the  report  an  analysis  of  the  reasons  that 
prompted the Council to adopt such resolutions as well 
the  Arab  Group  expresses 
inclusive  briefings 
through 
A/63/PV.55
issues, 
such  as 
as  the  various  positions  of  States,  especially  the 
permanent members, and the reasons standing between 
the Council and its taking decisive positions related to 
important 
the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. 

We  hope  that  the  future  reports  of  the  Security 
Council  will  be  more  useful  and  incorporate  the 
detailed reasons that prevent the Council from carrying 
out  its  mandate  in  the  area  of  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and security in certain regions. By 
the  same  token,  we  hope  that  the  General  Assembly 
will  take  timely  action  to  make  up  for  the  Council’s 
occasional  impotence,  given  the  occasional  use  or 
threat of use of the veto. 
Mr. Argüello (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): We 

thank  the  representative  of  Costa  Rica,  who  holds  the 
presidency  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  month  of 
November,  for  presenting  the  annual  report  of  the 
Security Council, contained in document A/63/2. 

As  we  can  see  from  the  report,  the  Security 
Council  had  another  year  of  intense  activity,  in  which 
many of the topics on its agenda continued to occupy a 
prominent place in their work programme over several 
years. It is not the intention of the Argentine delegation 
to examine the work of this body in detail, but we do 
wish  to  stress  our  concern  due  to  the  worsening 
situation  in  intra-State  conflicts,  which  take  place 
mostly in regions distant from development, with great 
institutional  fragility.  In  this  sense,  I  am  saddened  to 
report  that,  although  last  year  at  this  same  podium  I 
referred  to  the  situations  in  Darfur,  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  Somalia,  those  situations 
continue to be desperate. 

For  this  reason,  we  stress  that,  faced  with  the 
danger  of  repeated  genocide,  ethnic  cleansing  and 
crimes  against  humanity,  Member  States  have  the 
responsibility 
these 
atrocities when the State that is under the obligation to 
do so cannot do so or does not have the will to comply 
with  its  obligations.  In  this  sense,  we  reaffirm  our 
commitment and support for the International Criminal 
Court  which  will  ensure  that  those  responsible  for 
atrocities  do  not  go  unpunished.  That  is  why  we 
encourage  those  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to 
sign and ratify the Rome Statute. 

that  conflicts 
between  States  call  for  renewed  efforts  for  peace 
within the framework of international and humanitarian 
Furthermore,  we  understand 
to  protect  populations 
from 
08-60935 

9 
with 
social 
The 
follow 
stability 
involved 
the  parties 
development. 
Argentina  continues 
formation  of  a  new  Government 
A/63/PV.55 

law.  We  call  on 
to  make 
substantive progress directed towards a just, legitimate 
solution  to  the  conflict  in  the  Middle  East,  in  the 
framework  of  the  international  legality  established  by 
the various Security Council resolutions. 

the 
to  closely 
evolving  situation  in  Haiti.  Demonstrations  and  the 
social  tension  created  by  the  crisis  in  food  prices  last 
is 
April  highlighted  once  again  how 
interrelated 
The 
establishment  of 
the  United  Nations  Stabilization 
Mission  in  Haiti  (MINUSTAH)  has  contributed  from 
its  inception  to  improving  the  security  situation, 
facilitating  the  democratic  transition,  promoting  a 
framework  of  greater  respect  for  human  rights  and 
strengthening  the  institutional  capacity  of  the  Haitian 
State. 

last 
September has now created an opportunity for renewed 
cooperation  with  the  Security  Council  to  continue 
consolidating  achievements  and  reaching  the  pending 
objectives.  Reform  of  the  police  force,  the  judiciary 
and the penal system, the development of an effective 
border  management  framework,  the  promotion  of  a 
political dialogue and the coordination of international 
cooperation  continue 
for 
MINUSTAH’s action. 

The  Secretary-General  has  presented  us  with 
guidelines for a consolidation plan which will make it 
possible  for  us  to  assess  the  progress  in  Haiti  in  five 
essential areas that are mutually interlinked. Argentina 
will closely follow the development of those variables 
and will seek to continue to contribute to the fulfilment 
of MINUSTAH’s mandate.  
Security  Council  reform  is  a  complement  to  the 

process  of  reforming  the  Organization  and  should 
continue  to  be  a  priority  on  our  agenda.  In  its  current 
composition,  the  Council  does  not  reflect  current 
realities,  either  in  terms  of  its  representativity  or  in 
terms of its working methods. As pointed out last year, 
every  day  that  goes  by  without  reform  of  the  Council 
makes that body more illegitimate and more ossified — 
illegitimate because of its inadequate representation of 
the 192 United Nations Members and ossified because 
it reflects a 60-year-old historical reality.  

Argentina, as a member of the group Uniting for 
Consensus,  believes  that  we  should,  in  a  balanced 
manner, mirror the Organization’s current composition 
to  be  priority 
topics 

of 
and 
taking 
regional 
facilitation 
preparation 
into  account 
On  11  and  17  November, 
representation  would  guarantee 
in  the  Security  Council.  For  example,  reserving  seats 
for 
the 
interests  of  developing  countries,  small  States,  small 
island  States  and  all  under-represented  countries  and 
regions.  The  Council’s  membership 
should  be 
expanded 
the  principles  of 
democracy,  equity  and  accountability.  In  our  view, 
those  three  principles  can  be  guaranteed  only  by 
expanding the category of elected members.  

the  Open-ended 
Working Group met pursuant to decision 62/557, which 
mandates  it  to  define  a  framework  and  modalities  for 
the 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  that  will  begin  next 
February in the informal plenary consultations format. 
In this phase, our primary objective is to define, within 
the  Working  Group,  objectives,  principles  and  terms 
that  will  guide  our  future  work  and  enable  us  to 
identify  basic  principles  for  future  intergovernmental 
negotiations. We hope that, at the close of the phase of 
Working  Group  consultations,  we  can  present  results 
that are favourable to all parties.  

In  the  view  of  our  delegation,  the  process  of 
comprehensively reforming the Security Council in all 
its  aspects  can  succeed  only  with  clear  rules  and 
procedures that will guarantee a fair result for all. 
Mr. Del Rosario Ceballos (Dominican Republic) 

(spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of  my  delegation,  I 
should  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  for  having  convened  this  important  plenary 
meeting of the General Assembly. At the same time,  I 
wish to express our appreciation for the way in which 
my  valued  friend  Ambassador  Jorge  Urbina,  in  his 
capacity  as  President  of 
the  Security  Council, 
introduced the report now before us (A/2008/2). 

Today, the General Assembly has before it one of 
the  most  important  items  inscribed  on  its  agenda:  the 
question of equitable representation on and increase in 
the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters.  The  interest  of  all  United  Nations  Member 
States in restructuring the Security Council as a matter 
of urgency has been amply demonstrated.  
In the various statements on the issue, we note a 

clear  tendency  to  highlight  the  overall  importance  of 
reforming the Security Council to strengthen its efforts 
to  maintain  international  peace  and  security  so  that  it 
can  address  the  challenges  before  it  in  the  best  way 
possible. In that spirit, we welcome and recognize as a 
10 

08-60935 


genuine  step  forward  the  adoption  of  decision  62/557 
on 15 September, which truly marked the beginning of 
the  eagerly  awaited  intergovernmental  negotiations  in 
plenary  consultations  of 
the  General  Assembly. 
Regardless  of  the  interpretations  and  technicalities 
cited  by  some  Member  States  with  regard  to  that 
important  decision  in  terms  of  the  framework  and  the 
modalities  for  those  intergovernmental  negotiations, 
we  have  an  agreement  that,  we  believe,  while  very 
general  in  nature,  lays  the  foundations  for  the  basic 
principles of reform and the changes needed after more 
than 15 years of deliberations. 

In  our  long  diplomatic  career  at  the  United 
Nations,  we  have  noted  with  satisfaction  a  number  of 
changes  made  to  the  Security  Council’s  working 
methods.  I  am  referring  to  the  general  increase  in  the 
number  of  public  meetings,  briefings  and  informative 
consultations,  the  fact  that  the  floor  is  given  more 
frequently  to  non-members  of  the  Council  during 
exploratory debates and the fact that non-members are 
allowed to participate more actively in more important 
debates,  sometimes  in  the  deliberative  phase  and 
sometimes in the decision-making phase. That progress 
is undeniable.  

However,  those  practices  must  become  the  rule 
rather  than  the  exception  —  hence  the  need  to  make 
more lasting improvements, which must be carried out 
within  the  framework  of  broad  reform  of  the  Security 
Council. We are speaking about the need to reform the 
Council’s  composition  and  functioning  in  order  to 
make  it  a  more  representative  organ  and  to  further 
improve  its  working  methods  and  its  decision-making 
process so as to ensure greater openness, transparency 
and democracy within the organ. We  are  also  speaking 
about  the  need  to  examine  all  aspects  of  reform  — 
including  the  periodic  review  of  a  reformed  Security 
Council — as an integrated whole.  
Undoubtedly,  that  is  an  arduous  task,  given  the 
importance  of  the  interests  at  stake  —  such  as,  for 
example,  the  question  of  the  veto.  However,  what  is 
paramount is the desire of the international community, 
represented  at 
to  carry  out 
substantive  reform  of  the  Security  Council  that  will 
correct 
in  geographical 
representation 
international 
the 
equilibrium.  That  would  truly  reflect  the  universal 
nature of our Organization. 
the  United  Nations, 
the  existing 
strengthen 
imbalance 
and 
A/63/PV.55
our 
to 
guide 
efforts 

We should take advantage of the new framework 
and  the  negotiation  cycle  ahead  of  us  to  hold  debates 
and make contributions that can raise the political level 
of  our  deliberations,  thereby  translating  the  political 
will that is so often expressed into a truly constructive 
approach to Security Council reform.  

We  are  fully  confident  that,  under  the  skilful 
guidance  of  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann, 
President  of  the  General Assembly,  we  shall  continue 
to find ways to make progress in our efforts to reform 
the  Security  Council.  We  are  confident  that  he  will 
make  our  debates  as  fruitful  and  dynamic  as  possible 
and  will 
undertake 
intergovernmental negotiations in plenary consultations 
of the Assembly with the achievable goal of building a 
more  representative  and  effective  Council.  We  assure 
the President that he can count on my delegation’s full 
support and cooperation.  
Mr.  Badji  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  My 

delegation  is  pleased  to  participate  again  this  year,  in 
the  consideration  of  the  agenda  item  on  the  report  of 
the  Security  Council.  We  thank  Ambassador  Jorge 
Urbina,  Permanent  Representative  of  Costa  Rica  and 
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  month  of 
November,  for  having  introduced  the  Council’s  report 
for  this  year  (A/63/2),  which  is  before  is  for  our 
consideration today. 

We  associate  ourselves  with  the  statement  made 
at the 53rd meeting by the Permanent Representative of 
Mauritius,  speaking  on  behalf  of  the  African  Group. 
My  country  would  like  to  add  a  few  comments  in  a 
national capacity. 

The  Security  Council  is  an  organ  with  a  special 
purpose,  as  it  is  charged  with  ensuring  international 
peace  and  security  on  behalf  of  all  Member  States  of 
the  United  Nations.  While  the  source  of  its  actions  is 
legitimate,  since 
founding 
instrument,  the  United  Nations  Charter,  we  need  to 
make sure that its decisions are also in conformity with 
the Charter and that they are taken in the interest of the 
international community as a whole. That is one of the 
reasons  why  the  submission  of  the  Security  Council 
report 
is  of  special 
significance.  Indeed,  it  should  provide  an  opportunity 
for  the  plenary,  deliberative  body  of  our  universal 
Organization  to  be  informed  in  detail  about  how  the 
Security  Council  has  discharged  its  responsibility  for 
the maintenance of international peace and security as 
the  General  Assembly 
it  derives 
from 
the 
to 
08-60935 

11 

Our  consideration  of 
the  necessary  elements 
A/63/PV.55 

well  as  about  the  reasons  underpinning  the  action  or 
inaction of the Security Council. 

However,  as  several  delegations  have  stressed, 
the current format of the Security Council report does 
not  always  provide 
for 
assessment  and 
to  spark  and  sustain  a  fruitful 
discussion.  We  therefore  need  to  work  so  that  the 
analysis in the Council’s report is for both organs, the 
General  Assembly  and 
the  Security  Council,  an 
opportunity to strengthen their relationship in order to 
better promote the values, objectives and principles of 
the United Nations. 

the  Security  Council’s 
report  offers  us  an  opportunity  to  discuss  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Council, which, more than ever before, is a topical 
subject of concern to Member States. The reason is that 
Security  Council  reform  has  become  necessary  due  to 
the  three-fold  requirement  of  modernity,  justice  and 
legitimacy of the Council. 

The  position  of Africa  is  known. The  Permanent 
Representative  of  Mauritius  described  it  well  in  his 
statement  at  the  beginning  of  the  debate.  Senegal 
defends  that  position,  recalling  that  we  cannot  talk  of 
equitable 
the  Council  without 
remedying  the  injustice  of  Africa  being  the  only 
continent that does not have a permanent seat on it. 

Decision 62/557, adopted on 15 September 2008, 
offers new prospects that could finally make it possible 
for  us 
intergovernmental 
negotiations.  However,  we  need  to  remember  that,  in 
addition  to  gaining  a  more  modern  Council,  one 
adapted  to  the  realities  of  the  twenty-first  century,  we 
need above all a more legitimate Council, one that is in 
a position, thanks to enhanced credibility and authority, 
to  deal  with  the  enormous  challenges  we  face  in 
maintaining international peace and security. 

In  the  context  of  this  report,  we  need  to  make 
sure  that  the  negotiating  process  is  open,  transparent 
and  inclusive  and  that  it  take  place  completely  within 
the  framework  of  and  according  to  the  procedures  set 
out in decision 62/557. Any artificial solution obtained 
by forcing the issue or any other kind of pressure will 
only further divide the international community on this 
question and diminish our chances of success. 
to  embark  on  genuine 
representation  on 
the 
increase 
Senegal believes that the formula that will finally 
representation  of 

be  agreed  must 
developing countries and small States. 

Any  reform  of  the  Council,  however,  must 
strengthen its effectiveness. To that end, the Council’s 
working methods need to be adapted by increasing the 
participation of States not members of the Council. 

We know that we  can rely on the wisdom of the 
President of the General Assembly and the members of 
his  team  to  see  to  it  that  the  momentum  of  Security 
Council  reform  during  the  Assembly’s  sixty-first  and 
sixty-second sessions is kept up and strengthened at the 
current session. The President’s diligence and patience 
will  be,  when  we  meet  again,  the  instruments  for 
finalizing  this  reform  that  we  sincerely  want  and  that 
will  give  the  United  Nations  the  means  to  better 
respond to the aspirations of the peoples of the world. 

Mr.  Borg  (Malta):  This  year’s  report  of  the 
Security Council (A/63/2) once again demonstrates the 
array of challenges which the members of the Council 
were  confronted  with  during  the  12  months  of  the 
reporting  period.  The  58  resolutions  adopted  by  the 
Council  as  well  as  the  50  presidential  statements 
clearly  indicate  the  intensive  work  carried  out  by  the 
Council,  acting  on  behalf  of  the  United  Nations 
Member  States  and  the  international  community  at 
large,  in  the  collective  maintenance  of  peace  and 
security. 

As stated in the introduction to the report, “Africa 
again  featured  prominently  on  the  Council’s  agenda” 
during  the  12  months.  Indeed,  16  African  countries 
were the subject of careful examination by the Council. 
This  situation  continues 
the  critical 
importance  of  the  Council,  working  closely  with  the 
General Assembly, in timely and appropriate action to 
prevent,  under  the  relevant  provision  of  the  Charter, 
aggravation of particular situations or disputes. 

In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  mission  to  five 
African  countries  organized  last  June  by  the  Security 
Council, which brought the work of the Council closer 
to  the  Governments  and  peoples  of  conflict  areas.  It 
also  goes  without  saying  that,  in  the  context  of 
peacekeeping  operations,  Africa  continues  to  provide 
considerable  human  and  financial  challenges 
that 
require  us  to  redouble  our  efforts  to  assist  those 
countries 
they  are 
encountering so that their people can live in peace and 
security.  We  commend  the  interface  that  has  been 
the  obstacles 
to  overcome 
to  highlight 
12 

08-60935 
to 
to 
block 
of 
should 
not 
towards 
ongoing 
progress 
continue 
operations 
the  Middle  East  problem  with 


established  between  the  Council  and  the  African 
Union. 

The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  continues  to  be 
on  the  agenda  of  the  Security  Council  after  six 
decades,  and  yet  we  are  still  searching  for  a  lasting 
solution 
the 
Palestinian  question  at  its  core.  While  we  do  not 
underestimate the complex nature of this question, we 
regret  that  the  Council  has  not  been  able  to  agree  on 
timely  and  urgent  measures  to  address  the  situations 
that 
a 
comprehensive  and  durable  solution  to  this  issue. The 
international  community  welcomed 
the  Annapolis 
conference.  The  Security  Council  has  a  fundamental 
role  to  play  in  solidly  backing  the  outcome  of  that 
conference  in  order  to  advance  the  Middle  East  peace 
process.  It  is  our  hope  that  in  the  coming  months  the 
Council will review its efforts in support of the current 
positive engagement between Israelis and Palestinians. 

The  role  of  United  Nations  peacekeepers  in  the 
numerous 
be 
underestimated and therefore needs the full support and 
encouragement 
States.  The 
achievements  of  the  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations,  including  in  Nepal  and  in  Liberia,  are 
examples  showing  that,  with  determination  and  the 
close cooperation of all concerned, success is possible, 
and they give encouragement to others to surmount the 
difficulties of achieving peace and reconciliation. 

important 
element  linking  the  work  of  the  Security  Council  and 
of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  The  Peacebuilding 
Commission  has  played  a  valuable  role  in  giving  a 
number  of  States  emerging 
the 
opportunity  and  the  necessary  facilities  to  consolidate 
progress  towards  durable  peace  and  security  in  their 
war-ravaged  countries.  We  commend  the  members  of 
the Peacebuilding Commission for their dedication and 
active contribution in this regard.  
In  all  these  areas,  the  role  of  regional  and 

subregional  organizations 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security  must  continue  to  be 
strengthened. Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United 
Nations  sets  out  the  purpose  and  objectives  for  the 
Security  Council 
in  “the  development  of  pacific 
settlement  of  local  disputes  through  such  regional 
arrangements or by such regional agencies either on the 
initiative  of the states concerned or by  reference  from 
Post-conflict  peacebuilding 
from  conflict 
all  Member 
is  an 
in 
A/63/PV.55
It 
is 
that 
rights. 
the  Security  Council”  (Article  52,  para.  3).  The  roles 
being  played  by  the  African  Union,  the  European 
Union,  the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation 
in Europe, the Organization of American States and the 
League of Arab States are to be lauded and encouraged. 
Mr. Beck (Solomon Islands), Vice-President, took 

the Chair. 

My delegation welcomes the initiative of holding 
thematic  debates,  which  have  taken  place  in  the 
Security  Council  with 
the  participation  of  a 
considerable  number  of  Member  States. We  commend 
the Council for its unfailing efforts to encourage global 
justice  and  fight  impunity  for  crimes  related  to  the 
violation  of  human 
increasingly 
acknowledged 
the  vulnerable  groups  of  our 
societies,  particularly  women  and  children,  must  find 
the  necessary  refuge  and  protection  offered  by  the 
Security  Council  in  times  of  armed  conflict.  The 
presidential  statements  on  the  protection  of  civilians 
complement  and  reinforce  the  valuable  work  being 
carried  out  by  the  Special  Representative  of  the 
Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict.  
Likewise,  the  work  of  the  five  subsidiary  bodies 

of  the  Security  Council  is  commendable  and  must  be 
recognized  as  an  important  building  block  in  the 
Council’s overall work. 
I  would  like  now  to  turn  my  attention  briefly  to 

Security  Council  reform  by  highlighting  a  few  points 
that I raised during the last meeting of the Open-ended 
Working  Group  concerning  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  other  matters  related  to  the 
Council. Last Monday, the Open-ended Working Group 
continued its consideration of the follow-up to decision 
62/557  of 
the  General  Assembly’s  sixty-second 
session. My delegation welcomed that decision, which 
builds  on  the  progress  achieved  so  far,  in  particular 
during  the  2006  and  2007 Assembly  sessions,  as  well 
as  the  positions  of  and  proposals  made  by  Member 
States  to  continue  immediately  to  address  within  the 
framework  and 
Open-ended  Working  Group 
modalities 
facilitate 
intergovernmental negotiations. 

the  Open-ended  Working 
Group’s  role  in  Security  Council  reform  even  though 
that  Group  has  recently  been  unfairly  accused  of  not 
delivering the goods. We firmly believe that the time is 
ripe  to  commence  intergovernmental  negotiations,  no 
We  acknowledge 
to  prepare  and 
in  order 
the 
08-60935 

13 

in 
for 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
A/63/PV.55 

later  than  28  February  2009.  We  still  believe  that,  in 
order 
to 
succeed, we need a programme of work that defines a 
structured  plan  for  meetings 
the  Open-ended 
Working  Group  that  should  serve  as  a  basis  for  the 
preparation  of  the  launching  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations.  As  we  stated  in  the  Working  Group  on 
Monday,  we  have  never  been  so  close  to  starting 
intergovernmental negotiations. 

As  a  representative  of  a  small  island  State,  I 
would  be  remiss  if  I  did  not  seize  this  opportunity  to 
exhort  small  and  medium-sized  countries 
to  be 
involved  in  the  negotiating  process  as  soon  as  it  is 
launched.  We  believe  that  Security  Council  reform 
must perforce accommodate the interests and concerns 
of all Member States, be they large, medium or small. 
All  Member  States,  large  and  small,  must  claim 
ownership of the reform by ensuring that their interests 
are fully taken into account. Any formula for Security 
Council  reform  that  addresses  the  interests  of  only  a 
few,  in  total  disregard  for  the  wishes  of  small  and 
medium-sized  countries,  can  hardly  be  expected  to 
produce legitimate reform. A comprehensive reform of 
the  Security  Council  must  lead  to  a  more  democratic, 
inclusive, 
transparent, 
effective  and  accountable  Council.  Any  process 
undertaken in this regard must be all-inclusive. 
Our primordial consideration continues  to be the 

democratization  of  the  work  of  our  Organization,  the 
United Nations, and one of its principal organs, where 
every country counts. The  central  element guiding the 
reform  of 
the 
strengthening  of  its  authority  through  its  nature  and 
legitimacy, whereby all Member States have the equal 
opportunity  to  represent  their  country  on  the  Security 
Council. 
the 

Grenadines):  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  aligns 
itself with the statements made at the 53rd meeting by 
Barbados  on  behalf  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM)  and  by  Cuba  on  behalf  of 
the 
Non-Aligned Movement. 

According  to  our  Charter,  the  Security  Council 
has the “primary responsibility for the maintenance of 
international  peace  and  security”.  It  is  through  the 
prism  of  that  formidable  responsibility  that  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  views  this  report  and  the 
question of Security Council reform. 
the  Security  Council  should  be 
Mr.  Gonsalves
(Saint  Vincent 
representative, 
equitably 
and 
the  Council.  We  also  acknowledge 
In  our  own  region,  Saint  Vincent  and 

the 
Grenadines  would  like  to  thank  the  Council  for 
continuing to focus its attention on the threats to peace 
and  security  that  confront  our  brothers  and  sisters  in 
Haiti.  We  welcome  the  continued  presence  of  the 
United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti  and  call 
for its further extension and expansion in a manner that 
reflects  the  current  situation  on  the  ground  and  is 
cognizant  of  the  ongoing  threats  facing  our  fellow 
Caribbean Community State. 

There are also many hotspots and flashpoints for 
conflict  across  our  troubled  planet,  and  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines  thanks  the  Council  for  the  work 
that  it  has  done,  and  continues  to  do,  in  pursuing  its 
functions and responsibilities. We are grateful for every 
conflict  contained,  resolved  or  avoided  through  the 
work  of 
the 
magnificent bravery and sacrifice of troops, police and 
other  personnel,  and  we  thank  those  States  who  have 
volunteered their sons and daughters to the noble cause 
of world peace. 

However,  it  is  the  nature  of  the  Council’s  work 
and  mandate  that  its  shortcomings  and  failures  will 
attract  more  attention  than  its  successes.  That  is  as  it 
should  be,  because  every  failure  of  the  Council 
represents 
and 
development being reversed.  

In  that  regard,  my  delegation  confesses  some 
disappointment with the content of the report (A/63/2) 
before  us.  I  am  reminded  of  the  job  applicant,  who, 
lacking 
to  really 
distinguish  himself,  resorts  to  puffery  and  padding  of 
his résumé to dazzle with verbosity and mind-numbing 
assemblages of data that are devoid of context. 
Take, for example, the Council’s assessment of its 

work in the Sudan, where, as we speak, another slow-
moving genocide is staining humanity’s conscience. On 
pages 14 to 17 of the report, my delegation learned that 
the  Security  Council  condemned,  condemned  in  the 
strongest  possible  terms,  expressed  strong  concern, 
expressed  deep  concern,  expressed  serious  concern, 
considered 
adopted 
statements,  took  note  of  developments,  exchanged 
views, and extended the mandate of existing ineffective 
missions and panels of experts, essentially perpetuating 
an  unacceptable  status  quo.  But  what  did  the  Council 
actually  do  to  stop  people  from  being  massacred?  Is 
that  what  we  meant  by  “never  again”?  An  endless 
the  necessary  accomplishments 
briefings, 
uprooted 
peoples 
reports, 
heard 
lives 
lost, 
14 

08-60935 
that 
justify  billions 
inadequacies  of 


stream  of  impotent  statements  and  interminable  hand 
wringing is of no comfort to the murdered innocents in 
Darfur and represents a stark failing by the Council to 
fulfil its mandate. 

Similarly,  regarding  the  situation  in  the  Middle 
East, including the Palestinian question, we learn from 
the report that: “the Council was not able to reach the 
unanimity  needed  for  it  to  take  any  action  during  the 
current  12-month  reporting  period,  despite  the  seven 
attempts that were presented by different delegations in 
due course” (A/63/2, p. 1). The Council was also limited 
to  merely  reviewing  the  situations  in  Kenya  and 
Zimbabwe,  apparently  since  “neither  situation  is  a 
formal Security Council agenda item” (A/63/2, p. 1).  

Those  failings,  and  many  others,  speak  to  both 
the  absence  of  the  requisite  political  will  and  the 
the  Security  Council. 
structural 
Political  priorities 
to  save 
profligate  financiers  but  pinch  pennies  in  lifesaving 
efforts, or that sacrifice our young in far more ignoble 
adventures than the cause of international peace cannot 
be blamed solely on the Council. However, we can and 
must  address  the  issue  of  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  because  its  current  track  record  does  not 
inspire  confidence  in  its  ability  to  operate  effectively 
as it is. 

When  the  Security  Council  was  created  in  1948, 
the  United  Nations  consisted  of  58  Members.  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  like  133  other  current 
Member  States,  was  neither  consulted  nor  afforded  an 
opportunity to address the composition and function of 
the Council. When  we joined the United Nations, like 
133  other  countries,  the  composition  of  the  Council 
was presented to us as a fait accompli — an immutable 
and immovable object in the United Nations landscape. 
As  the  world  has  moved  from  great-Power 

unilateralism 
multilateral 
interconnectedness,  and  as  new  Powers  and  threats 
have  emerged  and  old  ones  have  faded,  the  Council 
remains stubbornly resistant to change and impervious 
to  the  logic  of  an  evolving  world.  As  the  United 
Nations 
remains 
fundamentally  unequal.  As  we  cheer  emerging 
democracies,  the  Council  is  firmly  undemocratic  and 
unrepresentative.  As  we  demand  transparency,  the 
Council’s functions remain shrouded and opaque. And 
as  we  decolonize  the  world,  our  most  cherished 
international  function  remains  the  sole  province  of  a 
trumpets  equality, 
to 
multipolar, 
the  Council 
08-60935 

A/63/PV.55
virtual five-headed monarchy, largely unchanged in 60 
years of global metamorphosis. 

How,  for  example,  can  this  report  state  that 
“Africa  again  featured  prominently  on  the  Council’s 
agenda” (A/63/2, p. 1), while the Council itself remains 
devoid of a permanent African presence? Surely, Africa 
deserves  appropriate  membership  on  a  body  that  is 
often preoccupied with the continent, quite apart from 
the  undeniable  overarching  logic  of  equitable  and 
developmental representation. 
To be fair, the stagnation of reform is not entirely 

the  fault  of  the  Council  itself,  but  of  us,  the  members 
of  the  General  Assembly.  We  have  for  too  long 
succumbed  to  paralysis  by  the  analyses  or  the  undue 
pressures  exerted  by  minority  groups  with  a  narrow 
self-interest in inaction. 

We therefore welcome decision 62/557, which the 
President of the Assembly described on Monday as our 
road  map  and  yesterday  as  our  platform  for  progress. 
Decision  62/557  has  finally  cleared  the  way  for 
intergovernmental  negotiations  to  begin  no  later  than 
February  of  next  year,  but  hopefully  much  sooner. 
There  will  undoubtedly  be  hiccups  on  the  road  to 
substantive Security Council reform. However, we urge 
all  Member  States  to  approach  the  process  in  good 
faith and with flexibility. 
Yesterday, the President again reminded us of the 

noble 
imperative  of:  “a  more  democratic  United 
Nations,  where  every  country  counts”  (A/63/PV.53). 
That  imperative  is  rooted  in  the  principle  of  the 
sovereign  equality  of  States,  which  underpins  the 
operation  of  this  body. That  equality  might  be  a  legal 
fiction,  but  the  legality  of  that  fiction  is  enshrined  in 
our Charter and there is no place for Orwellian notions 
that some States are more equal than others. It follows 
naturally  from  that  concept  that  negotiations  are  open 
to all States and that the voices of all States are to be 
equally respected in that process. 
As  such,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines 

rejects,  as  a  matter  of  principle,  any  undue  pressure 
being  applied  by  minority  groups  or  any  backroom 
gentlemen’s  agreements  that  supersede  the  letter  and 
spirit  of  unanimous  decisions.  Similarly,  we  repudiate 
the concept that we must somehow avoid voting on the 
substance  of  Security  Council  reform,  lest  influential 
members of a small minority question the credibility of 
a  reformed  Council.  In  response  we  ask:  What  of  the 
134  Members  who  have  never  had  the  opportunity  to 
15 
is 
to  come 
in 
from 
to  debase 
financial  might 
Saint  Vincent  and 
A/63/PV.55 

voice  an  opinion  on  the  current  Council? Are  we  not 
collectively  and  individually  influential?  And  why 
should  we  accept  the  credibility  of  a  process  that 
denies us our right to stand up and be counted?  

To  fear  the  transformative  democratic  power  of 
the vote or to weigh and rank States’ positions by their 
military  and 
the 
foundations  upon  which  this  institution  stands.  We 
have as our road map a decision that explicitly divorces 
the  consultative  role  of  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group  on  Security  Council  Reform 
the 
the  General 
substantive  negotiations 
Assembly  plenary.  It  serves  no  one 
to  revisit, 
renegotiate  or  subvert  a  unanimous  decision  of  such 
recent vintage. The clarity of decision 62/557 leaves no 
doubt as to the urgency of our task. 

the  Grenadines  has  no 
aspirations  to  join  the  permanent  membership  of  a 
reformed  Council  and  is  under  no  illusions  as  to  the 
difficulties inherent in the reform process or the myriad 
modern challenges facing a reformed Council. Instead, 
we approach this issue from a position of principle and 
pragmatism, and we see the efficacious functioning of 
a  democratic,  representative,  nimble,  responsive  and 
transparent  Council  as  absolutely  essential  to  the  core 
values  of  the  United  Nations.  Let  us  rise  above 
pettiness  and  dilatory  tactics  and  get  on  with  the 
serious work of reform. 
Ms. Štiglic (Slovenia): At the outset, let me thank 

the  President  of  the  Assembly  for  convening  this 
meeting.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Permanent 
Representative of Costa Rica, His Excellency Mr. Jorge 
Urbina,  for  presenting  to  the  General  Assembly  the 
report  of  the  Security  Council  covering  the  period 
1 August  2007  to  31  July  2008  (A/63/2),  which 
contains  revealing  facts  regarding  the  diverse  agenda, 
the ever increasing workload and the complexity of the 
issues before the Council. 

There is still much room for improvement in the 
Council’s 
and 
accountability, so that it  can fulfil its  responsibility to 
maintain  international  peace  and  security  in  the  most 
effective  and  efficient  way.  Slovenia  believes  that 
urgent  consideration  has 
the 
transformation  of  existing  structures.  Reform  of  the 
United Nations Security Council is long overdue, and it 
is  an  essential  part  of  overall  United  Nations  reform. 
With  regard  to  the  Council,  reform  needs  to  address 
to  be  given 
inclusiveness 
transparency, 
to 

the 
and, 
proposals 
ultimately, 
the  Council’s 
interaction  with 
the  enlargement  of  membership  and 
both 
improvement of its working methods. 

We  welcome  the  open  debate  that  took  place 
under  the  Belgian  presidency  of  the  Security  Council 
in  August  on  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council. Regardless of the Security Council’s size, we 
need to promote improvements in its working methods 
and 
the  entire 
membership  of  the  Organization.  We  also  appreciate 
and support the initiatives of the “Small Five” (S-5) in 
this regard. 

While  progress  has  been  made  in  the  area  of 
working  methods,  the  second  part  of  the  reform 
agenda,  namely,  enlargement  of  Security  Council 
membership,  has  been  lagging  behind.  Although  the 
discussions on Security Council reform in recent years 
have  produced  useful  ideas,  and  valuable  work  has 
been  done  by  the  facilitators  appointed  by  previous 
General  Assembly  Presidents,  the  time  has  come  for 
specific 
decisions. 
Enlargement  of  the  Security  Council  is  not  only  a 
matter of fairness, but it is also the necessary condition 
for  the  Council’s  effectiveness.  The  time  is  ripe  for 
changes  in  the  Council’s  structure  that  will  make  it 
more  representative  and  strengthen  its  authority  and 
legitimacy.  

We have to maintain the momentum generated in 
previous discussions and move forward. We, therefore, 
welcome  General  Assembly  decision  62/557  of 
15 September  2008,  adopted  unanimously,  to  continue 
immediately with discussions within the framework of 
the  Open-ended  Working  Group  and  to  commence 
intergovernmental  negotiations  in  informal  plenary  of 
the General Assembly not later than 28 February 2009. 
These  negotiations,  in  order  to  be  successful,  have  to 
be  conducted  in  an  open,  transparent  and  inclusive 
manner.  We  also  welcome  the  appointment  of  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Zahir  Tanin, 
the  Permanent 
Representative of Afghanistan, to facilitate the process. 
We are convinced that under his able leadership we can 
achieve some tangible results at the end of this process. 

Allow  me,  Sir,  to  take  this  opportunity  to  draw 
the  General  Assembly’s  attention  to  some  ideas  put 
forward  by  the  President  of  Slovenia,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Danilo  Türk,  in  his  address  to  the  General 
Assembly  during  this  year’s  general  debate.  Those 
ideas  could  be  helpful  to  the  General  Assembly 
16 

08-60935 
the 
the  coming  discussion  on 


presidency  during 
Security Council. 

The membership of the Security Council could be 
expanded in three directions. First, there should be six 
additional  permanent  members from  all  the  regions  of 
the  world.  Secondly,  there  should  be  an  additional 
category  of  non-permanent  members  with  a  more 
frequent  rotation,  six  in  any  particular  composition  of 
the  Security  Council,  elected  in  accordance  with  a 
formula to be determined by the General Assembly and 
alternating  every  second  two-year  term.  Thirdly,  the 
remaining  eight  non-permanent  members  would  be 
elected  in  accordance  with  the  principle  of  equitable 
geographical  distribution.  Thus,  the  total  size  of  the 
reformed  Security  Council  would  not  exceed  25 
members.  The  amendment  to  the  Charter  authorizing 
the  enlargement  of  the  Security  Council  would  also 
need  to  include  a  review  clause  allowing  for  a 
comprehensive review of the new system. 

We must not fail to use the momentum created by 
the  unanimous  decision  by  Member  States  to  move 
forward  the  negotiations  on  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security Council. 

We  are  convinced  that  the  leadership,  guidance 
and  wisdom  of  the  General  Assembly  President, 
coupled  with  the  necessary  political  will,  good  faith 
and flexibility among the membership, will bring us to 
a successful  conclusion of these prolonged debates on 
the issue of Security Council reform. 
Mr. Ali (Malaysia): At the outset, I wish to thank 

the  Permanent  Representative  of  Costa  Rica,  in  his 
capacity  as  President  of  the  Security  Council  for  the 
month of November 2008, for introducing the report of 
the Security Council, contained in document A/63/2. 
My delegation regards this debate as an important 

opportunity 
the 
performance and effectiveness of the Security Council 
in  discharging  its  responsibilities.  Article  24  of  the 
United Nations Charter states that the Security Council 
is  entrusted  with  primary  responsibility  for 
the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  and 
that  in  carrying  out  this  responsibility  the  Security 
Council  acts  on  Member  States’  behalf.  Since  this  is 
the mandate, Member States should ideally be the ones 
to periodically assess the work and performance of the 
Security Council. This report of the Security Council to 
the  General  Assembly  is  one  way  to  discharge  that 
for  Member  States 
to  appraise 
A/63/PV.55
responsibility. We thank the Permanent Representative 
of Viet Nam for organizing a meeting in July during his 
presidency of the Council to hear views from Member 
States as the report was being prepared. 

Another  avenue  by  means  of  which  Member 
States  can  be  kept  apprised  of  Security  Council 
deliberations  is  through  periodic  briefings  by  the 
President  of  the  Council. We  thank  those  who  briefed 
us  during  their  presidencies.  We  note,  however,  that 
these briefings have been sporadic. Malaysia reiterates 
its call for there to be more regular, open briefings on 
the work of the Security Council, so that non-members 
of the Council can be kept abreast of its work. 

We  note  that  the  overall  international  peace  and 
security  situation  remains  very  challenging,  including 
during  the  period  covered  by  the  report. The  Security 
Council has maintained the same rigorous pace as last 
year  in  holding  219  formal  meetings,  as  compared  to 
224  meetings  in  2007,  including  191  public  meetings. 
The  Council  also  adopted  58  resolutions  and  50 
presidential statements. We note, too, that the Council 
held  177  closed  consultations  of  the  whole  and  an 
undisclosed  number  of  informal  consultations. We  see 
the  sense  and  need  for  non-members  of  the  Security 
Council,  particularly  those  directly  involved  in  the 
issues  being  considered,  to  participate  and  provide 
input  at 
those  meetings  and  consultations.  My 
delegation  reiterates  the  oft-repeated  calls  by  Member 
States  for  greater  transparency,  accountability  and 
improved  participation  of  the  general  membership  of 
the United Nations in the work of the Security Council. 

We  note  the  continued  focus  by  the  Security 
Council on the challenging situations besetting several 
regions in Africa, which also reflect the complex socio-
economic  and  political  developments  of  the  continent 
as a whole. One third of the 42 main items relating to 
the  maintenance  of  peace  and  security  deal  with 
conflicts in Africa. Several debates relating directly to 
Africa were held, including those on peace and security 
in  Africa  and  the  role  of  the  Security  Council  in 
conflict  prevention  and  resolution,  particularly  in 
Africa.  In  addition,  several  thematic  issues  also  have 
reference to Africa, including the issues of the role of 
regional 
the 
maintenance  of  peace  and  security,  post-conflict 
peacebuilding, children and armed conflict, small arms, 
and women and peace and security. We note also that a 
Security  Council  mission  was  organized  to  visit  five 
African  countries. There  have  been  some  encouraging 
subregional  organizations 
and 
in 
08-60935 

17 

the  Great  Lakes 
A/63/PV.55 

results  in  mitigating  a  number  of  conflicts  in  Africa, 
with  some  movement  towards  a  peacebuilding  mode. 
But  there  still  remain  many  daunting  challenges  that 
pose serious threats to regional and international peace 
and security, notably with regard to the situation in the 
Horn  of  Africa, 
region  and 
Sudan/Chad. 

Malaysia had been among several countries from 
outside the region that were affected by the situation in 
the  Horn  of Africa,  in  particular  piracy  in  the  Gulf  of 
Aden,  which  has  become  more  pronounced  recently. 
We  therefore  urge  the  Security  Council  to  continue  to 
increase its efforts at restoring and ensuring peace and 
stability  in  the  region.  Efforts  at  continuing  to  engage 
and  work  closely  with 
regional  organizations, 
including the African Union, are among several options 
that the Security Council could pursue. 

While we agree that the Security Council should 
give  greater  attention  to  developments  in  Africa,  we 
regret  that  little,  if  any,  is  given  to  addressing  the 
Palestinian  question.  This  continues  to  be  the  main 
cause  of  instability  and  insecurity  not  only  in  the 
Middle  East  region  but  in  the  world  at  large.  Despite 
the monthly public briefings and debates conducted by 
the  Security  Council,  the  Council  has  of  late  failed  to 
adopt  a  single  outcome  on  the  question. What  is  most 
frustrating  is  that  even  the  most  obvious  violations, 
such  as 
illegal 
settlements,  which  has  been  acknowledged  at  many 
meetings,  including  at  Annapolis,  have  failed  to  get 
any response or reaction from the Security Council. 

We do not understand why the Council should be 
so  concerned  and  eager  to  act  on  matters  such  as 
climate  change,  where  security 
implications  are 
debatable,  yet  be  stone  silent  on  the  Palestinian 
question.  We  are  deeply  disappointed,  and  we  regret 
that  the  Council  has  been  rendered  ineffective  in 
finding a workable solution to the Palestinian question, 
an issue that has been with the Security Council since 
its inception.  

We  also  regret  that  the  Security  Council  has 
failed to implement its own resolutions on this subject 
including  its  resolutions  242  (1967)  and  338  (1973). 
The continued failure of the Security Council to solve 
the Palestinian question has undermined its credibility 
in  the  maintenance  of  the  international  peace  and 
security,  which  I  should  recall,  is  a  responsibility 
conferred on it by Article 24 of the Charter. 
the  continuing  construction  of 
regarding 
in 
report 
participation 
the  Council 
in  discharging 
should  provide 

Malaysia  takes  note  of  the  Security  Council’s 
own effort to improve its working methods. During the 
period  covered  in  the  report,  the  Council  adopted 
presidential  note  S/2007/749,  which  outlined  new 
measures 
informal 
consultations of the general membership of the United 
Nations  and  of  experts,  the  issuance  of  the  summary 
statement of issues of which the Council is seized and 
the  preparation  of  the  annual  report  to  the  General 
Assembly.  We  applaud  the  thickness  of  this  year’s 
Security  Council  report  in  terms  of  volume  but  note 
that, even with the extra detail, the report is limited to 
the  mere  factual  presentation  of  the  activities  of  the 
Council and its subsidiary bodies. 

My delegation is of the view that the report of the 
Security  Council  should  be  more  substantive  and 
analytical,  so  as  to  enable  Member  States  to  make  a 
proper  assessment  and  gain  an  understanding  of  the 
its 
effectiveness  of 
responsibilities.  The 
the 
justification  and  rationale  behind  major  actions  and 
decisions  of  the  Council.  Likewise,  the  report  should 
also  be  transparent  concerning  the  failure  of  the 
Council to adopt a particular draft resolution or action. 

In August 2008 the Security Council held an open 
debate  on  the  subject  of  improving  its  own  working 
methods  (see  S/PV.5968).  Malaysia  believes  that  a 
number of useful proposals were made during the open 
debate which are worth  revisiting. We  hope that those 
proposals will not merely be relegated to the annals of 
history. 

It  seems  to  my  delegation  that  the  workload  of 
the  Council  has  increased  in  recent  years. This  seems 
to be a ongoing trend and is likely to continue in view 
of  the  outstanding  issues  and  breaking  conflicts  that 
necessitate the Council’s attention. The Council is thus 
fast reaching its capacity. In order to avoid the Council 
becoming  overstretched  in  areas  which  are  not  within 
its  specific  mandate  to  oversee,  the  Council  should 
refocus  on  its  core  business:  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security under Chapters VI and 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations. 

the  “Question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  other  matters  related  to  the 
Security  Council”  has  been  on  the  agenda  of  the 
General  Assembly  since  September  1992, 
though 
attempts were made as early as 1979 to include it in the 
The 
item  on 
18 

08-60935 


agenda. We understand that the background to this was 
the increase in United Nations membership from 113 in 
1963  to  152  countries  in  1979,  and  the  amendment  of 
the  Charter  in  1965.  The  amendment  resulted  in  an 
increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council 
from  11  to  15.  The  membership  of  our  Organization 
has  since  increased  to  192  countries,  which  makes  it 
even  more  relevant  to  address  this  question.  Fifteen 
States, with five having permanent membership and the 
right to veto, seems an incongruous arrangement for a 
body entrusted with international peace and security. 

The inclusion of this agenda item in the work of 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  establishment  of  the 
Open-ended  Working  Group  on  Security  Council 
reform  have  enabled  us  to  have  discussion.  Yet  very 
little  progress  has  been  achieved  on  this  question. 
While we believed that there was much value in taking 
carefully considered steps rather than a giant leap into 
the  unknown,  the  movement  was  too  snail-paced  for 
the comfort of all. 

However,  the  adoption  of  decision  62/557  on 
15 September 2008 gives us cause to be optimistic that 
the  day  has  finally  arrived  when  we  can  all  begin  to 
engage  in  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  believe 
that  we  actually  have  a  chance  to  make  concrete 
progress.  Decision  62/557  provides  a  definitive 
timeline, by which we should begin intergovernmental 
negotiations no later than 28 February 2009. 

We saw the divisiveness that was apparent in the 
first meeting of the Open-ended Working Group, which 
concluded 
to  be  a 
reinterpretation  of  decision  62/557,  which  we  had 
adopted  by  consensus.  We  are  quite  concerned  at  this 
development and hope that it is not a reflection of what 
we  should  expect 
to  encounter  when  we  begin 
intergovernmental negotiations. We reiterate that, amid 
the  interpretation  of  62/557,  including  on  whether  the 
commencement  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
would  be  determined  by  the  outcome  of  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group’s  addressing  of  framework  and 
modalities,  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  will 
proceed as agreed by 28 February 2009. 

We  trust  in  the  leadership  and  wisdom  of  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  to  ensure  that  the 
process leading towards reform of the Security Council 
will yield concrete results in negotiations that are open, 
transparent and inclusive. We reaffirm our support and 
cooperation  in  working  with  the  President  and  other 
last  Monday.  There  seemed 
A/63/PV.55
to 
At 
the  outset,  with  regard 
members of this body to successfully complete our task 
of  reforming  the  Security  Council  so  that  it  is  more 
democratic, representative, effective and transparent. 
Mr. Yáñez-Barnuevo (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): 

My delegation appreciates this opportunity to take part 
in this joint debate on the annual report of the Security 
Council  to  the  General Assembly  and  on  the  question 
of the necessary reform of the Security Council. 

the  Security 
Council’s  report  to  the  General  Assembly  (A/63/2),  I 
would  like  in  particular  to  thank  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Costa  Rica,  as  President  of  the 
Council  for  this  month,  for  his  presentation  of  the 
report.  Costa  Rica  is  making  a  very  laudable  effort  in 
fulfilling this important responsibility, through which it 
is  promoting  transparency  and  the  broadest  possible 
participation in the work of that principal organ of the 
Organization,  which,  according  to  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  bears  primary  responsibility  for  the 
maintenance of international peace and security. 

The report submitted by the Security Council on 
this  occasion  is  more  analytical  than  last  year’s,  as 
requested by a large number of delegations during the 
discussion  held  at  the  sixty-second  session  of  the 
Assembly.  We  are  thus  moving  forward,  in  that 
Members  of  the  Organization  can  adequately  evaluate 
of  the  work  carried  out  by  the  Council  during  the 
specified  period.  As  can  be  seen  in  the  report,  the 
Security  Council  has  considered  a  set  of  cross-cutting 
issues which are of particular relevance to the General 
Assembly. 
such  as 
non-proliferation  and  disarmament,  the  fight  against 
terrorism,  the  protection  of  civilians  in  armed  conflict 
and the protection of women in armed conflict, to cite 
only a few examples.  

Those  are  issues  that  the  Security  Council  has 
considered  in  depth  and  areas  in  which  the  two 
principal  United  Nations  organs  should  have  greater 
interaction, exploring the various avenues opened up to 
us by the United Nations Charter itself. Specifically, I 
am referring to the implementation of Article 15, which 
establishes that the General Assembly shall receive and 
consider  annual  and  special  reports  from  the  Council 
concerning  the  measures  that  the  Council  has  decided 
upon  or  taken  to  maintain  international  peace  and 
security. 
My delegation understands that, if we encourage 

the  drafting  and  submission  of  such  reports  on 
referring 
I  am 
to 
issues 
08-60935 

19 

responsible, 
to  continue 
representative, 
A/63/PV.55 

particular issues — a possibility that is also addressed 
in  Article  24,  paragraph  3,  of  the  Charter  —  we  can 
improve  the  interaction  and  cooperation  between  the 
two  principal  United  Nations  organs.  We  believe  that 
that  would  result  in  the  adoption  of  more  effective 
measures  aimed  at  preventing  and  eliminating  threats 
to  peace  and  promoting  conditions  conducive 
to 
international security. 

Better  interaction  between  the  two  principal 
United  Nations  organs  is  an  issue  of  great  importance 
to the Organization’s future and should be addressed in 
the  forthcoming  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security  Council  reform.  As  members  are  aware,  the 
commencement of those negotiations was agreed upon 
at the close of the previous Assembly session, when we 
adopted  decision  62/557  in  order  to  achieve  a  more 
democratic, 
legitimate, 
effective, participatory and transparent Council. In that 
decision,  we  also  agreed 
to  hold 
consultations  within  the  Open-ended  Working  Group 
on  the  framework  and  the  modalities  for  future 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  Therefore,  we  are 
convinced  that  we  must  take  the  maximum  advantage 
of the time available to us — until 1 February 2009 at 
the latest — to prepare for and facilitate the holding of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  so  that,  as  we  all 
hope, they can lead to as broad a general agreement as 
possible  among  Member  States  on  the  various  aspects 
of Security Council reform. That will make it possible 
for such reform to be truly owned and accepted by the 
entire  membership,  to  enter  into  force  as  soon  as 
possible and to be implemented and effective. 

As  for  the  various  issues  that  will  arise  in  the 
forthcoming  negotiations,  our  position  is  well  known 
concerning  the  size  and  composition  of  the  Security 
Council.  We  are  convinced  that  a  more  democratic, 
representative,  responsible  and  thus  more  legitimate 
Council  can  result  from  an  expansion  of  the  category 
of  non-permanent  members,  which  are 
the  only 
members elected periodically by the Assembly and thus 
accountable to it. Our position, which does not favour 
an  expansion  of  the  permanent-member  category, 
should be interpreted not as a rejection of a particular 
country or group of countries, but rather as a matter of 
principle  based  on 
the 
Organization,  which  is  far  greater  than  the  individual 
interest of any Member State.  
With  regard  to  the  Council’s  decision-making 

mechanisms,  it  should  be  recalled  that  any  expansion 
the  general 
interest  of 
ensuring 
appropriate 
of  the  Council’s  composition  will  necessarily  require 
that the majority needed to take decisions be adjusted. 
From that perspective, our position is that a distinction 
should  be  made  between  the  various  types  of  Council 
decisions  —  just  as  the  Charter  distinguishes  between 
procedural  and  substantive  issues  —  and  that  we 
should  also  take  into  account  the  diverse  scope  of 
substantive Council decisions affecting Chapter VII or 
other types of issues under the Charter. 

We  believe  that  the  use  of  the  veto  should  be 
reserved  exclusively  for  decisions  that  the  Council 
adopts  to  implement  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter, 
because  such  issues  require  agreement  among  the 
permanent  members.  We  are  in  favour  of  the  various 
proposals aimed at limiting the use of the veto in cases 
in which it is not really necessary or required under the 
Charter.  

Concerning  the  issue  of  regional  representation, 
we are convinced of the need to give regional groups a 
greater role in designating and endorsing their Council 
candidatures, 
subregional 
representation  in  each  of  them.  We  also  favour  the 
establishment of mechanisms that would guarantee the 
representation  of  transregional  groups,  such  as  the 
League  of  Arab  States  and  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic  Conference,  including  through  arrangements 
among the regional organizations concerned.  

In any case, we need to find formulas that ensure 
adequate  representation  for  small  and  medium-size 
States  and  for  countries  of  the  developing  world, 
particularly in Africa. However, a more prominent role 
for  regional  groups  must  not  call  into  question  the 
competencies  of  the  General  Assembly,  which,  under 
the  Charter,  has 
electing 
non-permanent members of the Security Council. That 
gives them the legitimacy of having the support of the 
Organization’s entire membership. 

With  regard  to  the  Council’s  working  methods, 
my delegation supports the proposals submitted by the 
Group  of  Five  Small  Countries.  In  particular,  we 
support the proposed reforms related to monitoring the 
implementation  of  Council  decisions  —  through  the 
establishment of appropriate assessment mechanisms — 
and  to  the  functioning  of  the  Council’s  subsidiary 
bodies.  

to 
emphasize  that,  in  addition  to  strictly  monitoring  the 
functioning,  we  must  promote  greater 
Council’s 
this  opportunity 
last  word 
I  should 
take 
the 
in 
like 
to 
20 

08-60935 
in 
of 
the 
that 
civil 
during 
society, 
increase 
exception, 
just  with 


dialogue and interaction between Council members and 
representatives 
including 
non-governmental organizations and personalities from 
the  parliamentary,  academic  or  business  worlds.  If  we 
truly want credible reform of the Security Council that 
makes it more democratic, representative, responsible, 
legitimate,  effective  and  transparent,  we  must  be  able 
to  adequately  address  the  main  reform  issues,  without 
any 
intergovernmental 
negotiations that will begin on 28 February 2009 at the 
latest. We are fully prepared for those negotiations and 
hope  that  all  other  Members  of  the  Organization  will 
be at that time.  
Mr.  Hill  (Australia):  Given  the  time  pressure,  I 

will  deal 
the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related  matters.  Australia 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
recognizes 
equitable  representation  on  and 
the 
membership of the Security Council are long overdue. 
We  support  their  imminent  start  and  the  initiative  that 
the Assembly President has shown in commencing that 
process. 

Reform of the Security Council is one of the most 
important institutional issues currently before Member 
States  and  is  something  in  which  all  Member  States 
have 
in 
the  goal  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  with 
bringing about a more representative Security Council 
that  acts  with  greater  authority,  unity  and  credibility 
and functions more efficiently and democratically. 

We  will  approach  the  negotiations  with  open 
minds, recognizing that reform will be achievable only 
if  we,  as  Member  States,  can  develop  a  solution  that 
gains  as  broad  support  as  possible.  Australia  looks 
forward  to  working  with  delegations  from  across  the 
diversity  of  positions  to  find  a  solution  that  achieves 
that  support,  while  keeping  an  eye  at  all  times  on 
ensuring that the Security Council remains relevant to 
the  modern  world.  Throughout  the  negotiations,  we 
must  focus  on  ensuring  that  the  decision-making 
capacity of the Security Council is not diminished, but 
rather  enhanced.  That  can  be  achieved  only 
if 
effectiveness and equitable representation are balanced. 

We  must  keep  in  sight  that,  through  the  United 
Nations  Charter,  we  Member  States  have  conferred 
upon  the  Security  Council  primary  responsibility  for 
the maintenance of international peace and security. At 
stake.  Australia  will 
participate 
a 
A/63/PV.55
India 
confuse 
increase 
Australia 
and  not 
recognizes 
representation 
for  Africa,  a 
a  time  when  the  agenda  of  the  Council  is  full  and  the 
challenges  facing  countries  are  many,  we  must  take  a 
global  view 
the  Council’s 
responsibility  with  our  own  national  or  regional 
preferences. 

Australia considers that, for the Security Council 
to  remain  relevant,  any  reform  must  acknowledge  the 
contribution  to  international  peace  and  security  made 
by  Japan  and  India  and  include  them  as  permanent 
members.  Japan  is  a  major  financial  contributor  to 
United Nations peacekeeping missions and a leader in 
developing  peacebuilding  activities. 
is  an 
emerging economy with over 1 billion people. We also 
envisage  that  an  expanded  Council  would  include 
appropriate 
region 
comprising  over  one  quarter  of  United  Nations 
Member States, and for Latin America. 

in 
that  any 
non-permanent  membership  will  need  to  balance  the 
representation of regional groups that have changed in 
size  since  the  last  expansion,  particularly  Eastern 
Europe and Asia. We also believe the expansion of the 
Council should not be so large as to diminish its ability 
to fulfil its responsibilities under the Charter. 

Australia  still  believes  a  particularly  important 
aspect of Security Council reform is that of its working 
methods.  While 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  could  be  lengthy,  there  are  measures  that 
we  could  undertake  today  to  improve  the  decision-
making  ability  of  the  Council  and  the  openness  and 
transparency  of  its  processes,  including  access  by 
non-members. 

the 
Australia 
membership  and  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council  is  vital  to  enhancing  the  credibility  of  the 
United Nations and the Organization’s capacity to fulfil 
the goals set out in the Charter. The commencement of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  will  be  timely,  and 
Australia  looks  forward  to  contributing  constructively 
throughout that process. 
Ms. Ochir (Mongolia): Let me begin by thanking 

His  Excellency  Ambassador  Jorge  Urbina,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Costa  Rica  and  President  of  the 
Security  Council  during  the  month  of  November,  for 
presenting  the  report  of  the Security  Council  (A/63/2) 
to the General Assembly on behalf of the Council. My 
delegation  would  also  like  to  thank  His  Excellency 
Mr. Srgjan  Kerim,  President  of  the  General Assembly 
the  process  of 
considers 
reform 
that 
of 
08-60935 

21 
and 
to 
in 
for 
The 
last 
The 
ready 
engage 
session  of 
sixty-second 
two  meetings  of 
A/63/PV.55 

at its sixty-second session, and the members of his task 
force — the Permanent Representatives of Bangladesh, 
Chile, Djibouti and Portugal — for their hard work to 
move the process forward during the previous session. 

the  General 
Assembly  made  a  historic  breakthrough  in  the  long-
stalled  process  of  Security  Council  reform  with  the 
unanimous  adoption  of  decision  62/557,  which 
concluded  our  preparatory  phase 
launching 
intergovernmental  negotiations. And  now,  we  believe, 
the  time  has  come  to  seize  that  momentum  and  move 
forward expeditiously. 

the  Open-ended 
Working  Group  on  Security  Council  Reform  have 
vividly revealed that a large majority of Member States 
are  willing 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  as  soon  as  possible.  In 
that  respect,  my  delegation  regrets  that  it  was  found 
somehow  impossible  to  start  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  21  November  this  year,  as  originally 
proposed  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann, President of the General Assembly, in his 
letter of 10 October 2008. However, we remain hopeful 
that  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  will  start  soon 
and  are  eagerly  looking  forward  to  new  dates  being 
announced  by  the  President  of  the  General Assembly, 
as he has stated that “A better Council cannot wait until 
tomorrow,  if  we  want  to  have  a  better  tomorrow” 
(A/63/PV.53).  We  also  remain  encouraged  by  the 
determination and commitment of the President of the 
General Assembly to implement the letter and the spirit 
of decision 62/557. 

My  delegation  shares  the  view,  expressed  by 
many, that having considered the question of equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related  matters  over  the 
course  of  the  past  15  years,  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group has already made its contribution to the process 
and has largely exhausted its potential. We would only 
welcome 
the  Open-ended  Working  Group 
somehow came up with constructive recommendations 
over  the  next  few  weeks.  But  either  way,  whether  the 
Open-ended  Working  Group  produces  an  outcome  or 
not, its work should not in any way stall the start of the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  comprehensive 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  and  the  ensuing 
process. 
it 
if 

ensuring 
the  proposal  of  Costa  Rica, 

As  we  are  poised  to  start  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  the  principled 
position  of  Mongolia  on  Security  Council  reform. 
Mongolia  has  consistently  stood  for  a 
just  and 
equitable  enlargement  of  the  Security  Council  by 
the  number  of  both  permanent  and 
increasing 
non-permanent  members,  while 
due 
representation  of  developing  and  developed  countries 
alike. 

We  also  believe  that  the  Security  Council  needs 
to  further  improve  its  working  methods.  This  is  part 
and parcel of a comprehensive reform package. Taking 
note  of  last  August’s  open  debate  of  the  Security 
Council  on  its  working  methods  (see  S/PV.5968),  we 
support 
Jordan, 
Liechtenstein,  Singapore  and  Switzerland  —  Small 
Five  States  —  aimed  at  enhancing  the  accountability, 
transparency  and  inclusiveness  of  the  Council’s  work 
with  a  view  to  strengthening  its  legitimacy  and 
effectiveness.  We  also  believe  that  open  debates  and 
interactive  briefings  by  the  Security  Council  are  a 
commendable  practice  to  be  further  enhanced  to  the 
benefit of non-members. 

As  to  the  report  of  the  Security  Council,  we 
support  the  view  that  its  content  needs  more  in-depth 
analysis  and  that  relevant  amendments  to  that  effect 
could  be  introduced  into  the  provisional  rules  of 
procedure of the Security Council. We would also like 
to  commend  the  innovative  efforts  of  the  Permanent 
Mission  of  Viet  Nam,  which  sought  to  interact  with 
non-members  before  the  finalization  of  the  Security 
Council  report.  We  believe  that  that  initiative  could 
also  be  followed  by  future  Presidents  of  the  Security 
Council. 

In conclusion, I would like to assure the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  of  my  delegation’s  full 
support  for  his  efforts  to  move  forward  with  Security 
Council 
of 
intergovernmental negotiations and to steer the conduct 
of the negotiations together with Ambassador Tanin in 
the spirit outlined. Let us come together, keep together 
and work together. 
Mr.  Cancela  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Uruguay,  as  it  has  already  indicated  on  previous 
occasions,  shares  the  view  that  Security  Council 
reform  is  a  matter  of  urgency.  We  deem  this  process 
necessary,  on  one  hand,  in  order  to  comply  with  the 
mandate  given  us  by 
the  heads  of  State  and 
launching 
through 
reform 
the 
22 

08-60935 
for 
to  adapt 
the  subject 
the  Council 


Government in 2005 and, on the other, because there is 
the  need 
to  current 
circumstances so as to confront the new challenges. We 
would  like  the  Council  to  be  a  more  effective, 
representative,  democratic  and  transparent  body.  To 
that  end,  reform  must  also  encompass  the  Council’s 
working methods.  
We  welcome  the  circulation  of  the  resolution  of 

last  year’s  General  Assembly  on 
in 
question, which was orally amended in one of the last 
sessions  presided  over  by  your  predecessor.  The 
resolution definitively clarified the main points decided 
upon  during  that  session,  although  the  process  of  its 
development  was,  quite  frankly,  confused.  We  would 
also like to welcome the decision on the timetable for 
the meetings of these various negotiations, in particular 
the  call  to  begin  intergovernmental  negotiations  by 
21 November  next  year.  However,  I  must  note  with 
sincerity  that  we  would  have  liked  the  presidency  to 
carry  out  broader  consultations,  in  particular  with 
regional  groups,  in  drawing  up  the  calendar  for  these 
meetings, since such important occasions should enjoy 
the strongest possible guarantees of transparency. 

With regard to the negotiations, Uruguay does not 
wish to repeat its position on Security Council reform. 
That position is already well known and has remained 
unchanged  throughout  all  the  sessions  of  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group.  We  would,  however,  like  to 
reiterate  one  point  that  has  been  central  to  all  the 
statements  by  the  delegation  of  Uruguay,  namely,  our 
firm opposition to all solutions that grants the right to 
veto  to  new  members  of  the  Security  Council,  either 
directly or indirectly, through moratoriums or any other 
mechanism  aimed  at  prolonging  the  extension  of  that 
right over time. 

Uruguay’s principled position can be traced back 
to  the  very  establishment  of  the  Organization.  In  the 
San  Francisco  Conference,  the  delegation  of  Uruguay 
stated  that  members  of  the  Security  Council  should 
enter that body without distinction as to prerogative or 
rights,  while  accepting  that  those  countries  that  had 
carried the greatest burden in the war be assured seats 
on  the  Council  but  not  indefinitely  and  only  for  a 
period that might be judged advisable, say eight or ten 
years, for example. 

intergovernmental  negotiations,  as  called 
various  delegations 
to  begin  a  phase  of  direct 
for  by 
the 
We  are  about 
to  overcome 
A/63/PV.55
is 
difficulties  encountered  by  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group. All  issues  will  be  on  the  table,  but  we  cannot 
ignore  the  fact  that  many  topics  have  already  been 
debated for more than 12 years and that no agreement 
has  been  reached  on  them. Thus,  we  do  not  believe  it 
prudent to continue, for the moment, with questions on 
which  we  know  we  will  not  reach  a  consensus  or  a 
broad  majority.  We  understand  that  the  topic  of  the 
veto is among those questions. 
Mr. Park In-kook (Republic of Korea): I would 

like to thank the President of the General Assembly for 
organizing  this  debate.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  this  month,  His 
Excellency  Ambassador  Urbina  of  Costa  Rica,  for 
introducing  the  report  of  the  Security  Council.  We 
appreciate the informative content of the report, as well 
as the intensive work undertaken by the Council during 
the period covered by the report. 

Today I would like to focus on the vital issue of 
Security  Council  reform.  It 
the  view  of  my 
delegation  that  meaningful  reform  should  uphold  the 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations in order 
to render the Council more representative, accountable, 
transparent, efficient and democratic. My delegation is 
in  favour  of  enhancing  the  democratic  legitimacy  of 
the  Security  Council  through  an  increase  in  elected 
members with terms of varying duration. Only through 
elections  can  democracy  and  accountability  be 
sustained;  not  just  a  single  election  that  entitles  the 
winners  to  remain  in  office  in  perpetuity  but  periodic 
elections,  whereby  Member  States  will  have 
the 
opportunity  to  review  the  performance  of  Council 
members  and  respond  accordingly.  Similarly,  only 
through  elections  can  the  door  of  opportunity  be 
opened  to  qualified  Member  States  to  present  their 
candidatures  in  the  hope  of  serving  the  international 
community  in  the  pursuit  of  international  peace  and 
security.  

the  Security 
An 
Council  is  improving  its  working  methods.  We  must 
meet  the  goal,  agreed  upon  in  the  World  Summit 
Outcome  document,  of  making  the  Council  more 
efficient  and 
its 
effectiveness, legitimacy and the implementation of its 
decisions.  We  welcome  the  proposals  that  have  been 
put  forward  so  far  to  enhance  the  transparency, 
accountability and inclusiveness of the Council’s work. 
We support the steps taken so far by the Council in this 
regard  and  believe  that  consistent  effort  should  be 
integral  part  of  reforming 
further  enhancing 
transparent, 
seeking 
08-60935 

23 
for 
the 
Our  Working  Group  has  been  mandated 
A/63/PV.55 

made  to  improve  the  working  methods  on  an  ongoing 
basis. 

to 
address  the  framework  and  modalities  in  order  to 
prepare  and  facilitate  the  international  negotiations  in 
accordance  with  General Assembly  decision  62/557.  I 
think  we  are  now  on  the  right  track,  in  the  sense  that 
many  Member  States  have  shown  their  understanding 
and  agreement  on  the  sequential  link  between  the 
preparatory work to be undertaken by the Open-ended 
Working Group and the intergovernmental negotiations 
to be launched no later than the end of February 2009. 
It  was  in  this  vein  that  my  delegation,  together  with 
that  of  Mexico,  presented  a  joint  proposal  on  a  draft 
timetable  for  consultations  to  the  last  Open-ended 
Working  Group  meeting.  My  delegation 
is  fully 
committed to working towards the successful launch of 
intergovernmental negotiations no later than the end of 
February. We propose that we make the best use of the 
time  remaining  to  utilize  the  Working  Group  as  a 
preparatory  committee 
intergovernmental 
negotiations,  as  proposed  by  Mexico  in  previous 
meetings of the Open-ended Working Group. 

We should now start conducting open, transparent 
and inclusive consultations, with a view to making the 
most  accurate  possible  assessment  and  agreement  on 
the framework and modalities. In doing so, we will be 
able to draw on the progress made thus far in the Open-
ended Working Group, in particular, the reports of the 
facilitators  and  the  work  of  the  task  force.  The 
accumulation  of  progress  made  in  the  Open-ended 
Working  Group  is  embodied  in  paragraph  (e)  of 
decision 62/557. 

Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  several 
points on the issue of the framework and modalities of 
negotiations. First, as a matter of principle, we should 
aim to achieve the widest possible political acceptance 
by  the  membership  and,  in  any  case,  well  above  the 
required  two-thirds  majority  in  the  General Assembly. 
Member States have time and time again come together 
as  an  overwhelming  majority  to  adopt  important 
reforms,  as  eloquently  observed  yesterday  by  the 
Ambassador of Italy, as they did in adopting landmark 
resolution 1991 (XVIII) on 17 December 1963, which 
only increased the number of non-permanent members 
from  11  to  15. This  objective  is  also  stipulated  in  the 
report of the Open-ended Working Group contained in 
document A/61/47. The rationale is clear — the impact 
the 
of 
the  Security  Council  on 
the  reform  of 

impasse.  As 
membership is of such magnitude that we cannot afford 
to alienate a significant portion of the membership. 

Secondly,  Security  Council  reform  is  comprised 
of  extremely  delicate  and  complex  elements  that  need 
to  be  addressed  in  a  comprehensive  and  organic 
manner.  All  the  key  issues  are  so  closely  interlinked 
and  all-encompassing  that  it  would  not  make  sense  to 
arbitrarily dissect them and deal with them separately. 
Security Council reform is a comprehensive issue that 
requires  holistic  approaches  by  which  all  the  relevant 
issues are discussed in tandem with one another.  

Thirdly,  the  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform  should  build  on  the  progress  made  thus  far,  in 
particular,  the  work  of  the  sixty-first  session  of  the 
General  Assembly.  My  delegation  agrees  with  the 
facilitators’  conclusion  that  intermediate  approaches 
are the only feasible compromise option that can break 
the  current 
their  report  points  out, 
flexibility  is  key  in  moving  forward  on  Security 
Council  reform.  At  this  stage,  it  is  reasonable  to 
consider the best possible solution. We believe that the 
facilitators’ report could be a point of convergence that 
might serve as a basis for inclusive negotiations. 

Lastly,  my  delegation  reiterates  the  following 
objectives  and  guiding  principles  of  Security  Council 
reform. First, the sovereign equality of Member States 
must  be  respected.  Secondly,  equitable  geographic 
distribution  must  be  ensured.  Thirdly,  the  democratic 
its 
underpinnings  of 
accountability 
to 
be 
strengthened.  Fourthly,  ownership  of  the  reform  must 
be solidified through the accommodation of interests of 
all Member States and of regional and other groupings, 
traditionally 
in  particular, 
that  have  been 
underrepresented.  Fifthly,  we  must 
increase 
the 
opportunity  for  all  Member  States  to  serve  on  the 
Security  Council,  particularly  groups  that  have  been 
historically  underrepresented,  such  as  small  and 
medium-sized States, as well as African States. In this 
regard,  we  hope  to  continue  our  dialogue  with  all 
interested Member States with a view to finding ways 
to address their concerns and interests. 

The Republic of Korea has always been ready to 
embark  on  a  negotiations  process  with  a  view  to 
reaching  our  common  goal  of  a  comprehensive  and 
timely  reform  of  the  Security  Council. We  are  willing 
to  participate  in  consultations  and  negotiations  in  a 
flexible  way,  based  on  our  principled  positions.  It  is 
the  Council 
to  enhance 
the  membership  must 
those 
24 

08-60935 


our hope that Member States and groups will also show 
greater  flexibility,  political  will  and  commitment,  in 
order to advance Security Council reform. 
Mr.  Çorman  (Turkey):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 

thanking the President for convening this joint meeting 
which provides a very timely opportunity to reflect on 
the activities of the Security Council as well as on the 
Council’s ongoing process of reform. 

I  would  also  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to 
Ambassador  Jorge  Urbina  of  Costa  Rica,  President  of 
the  Security  Council,  for  presenting  the  annual  report 
of the Council to the General Assembly (A/63/2). 

The  report  provides  an  accurate  account  of  the 
work  of  the  Security  Council  and  demonstrates  the 
multiplicity of issues considered by the Council under 
its  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security.  It  also  confirms  the  increased 
workload  of  the  Council  whereby  African  issues, 
particularly  within  the  context  of  peacekeeping  and 
peacebuilding  efforts,  remain  at  the  forefront  of  its 
agenda.  Finally,  the  report  points  to  many  of  the 
important  challenges  which  lie  ahead  for  the  Council, 
albeit  indirectly,  as  well  as  the  challenges  that  await 
our Organization as a whole. 

While the report could have been more analytical 
and  less  descriptive,  we  are  also  well  aware  of  the 
complexity  of  many  of  the  issues  that  are  featured  on 
the Council’s agenda — a complexity that would have 
rendered  such  an  analytical  approach  extremely 
difficult  to  implement.  That  said,  there  is  still  much 
room for further improvement of the working methods 
transparency, 
of 
accountability 
therefore 
encourage  the  Council  to  continue  its  efforts  to  that 
end. 

I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  briefly 
reiterate Turkey’s position on Security Council reform. 
As  we  have  emphasized  on  numerous  occasions, 
Turkey  remains  fully  committed  to  an  early  reform  of 
the  Council 
the  Council  more 
democratic, representative and transparent. We believe 
that  such  an  approach  will  further 
the 
legitimacy and credibility of our Organization. We also 
believe  that  these  widely  shared  general  principles 
should  continue  to  guide  our  efforts  in  every  stage  of 
the reform process.  
inclusiveness.  We 
that  will  render 
the  Council 
increase 
and 
to 
enhance 
its 
A/63/PV.55
the 
the  other 
In  addition,  while  focusing  on  Council  reform, 

we 
should  not  overlook 
important 
components  of  the  reform  process  at  the  United 
Nations,  particularly  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly.  In  fact,  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
and  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  are 
inevitably  two  interrelated  issues  and  should  proceed 
simultaneously. 

My  country  has  taken  an  active  part  in  the 
discussions and consultations that are under way in the 
Open-ended  Working  Group  on  Security  Council 
reform.  We  attach  importance  to  the  Working  Group, 
which, as the main forum for this discussion, should set 
the  stage  for  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  that 
will soon start informally at the General Assembly. In 
our  opinion,  setting  the  stage  means  completing  the 
consultations and discussions in the Working Group on 
the  main  parameters  of 
intergovernmental 
negotiations.  With  these  considerations  in  mind,  we 
have  lent  our  support  to  the  proposal  by  Mexico  and 
the  Republic  of  Korea  on  scheduling  several  more 
meetings of the Working Group prior to the start of the 
intergovernmental negotiations by February 2009. 

We believe that, with sufficient preparation prior 
to  these  negotiations  and  mutual  flexibility  to  be 
demonstrated  by  all  parties,  we  will  be  able  to  bring 
the process of Security Council reform to a successful 
conclusion.  The  General  Assembly  may  count  on  our 
delegation’s full cooperation, support and flexibility in 
this process. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  delegation  of  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  would 
to 
welcome  the  convening  of  this  meeting  because  of  its 
importance  to  the  consideration  of  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  and  of  the  United  Nations  system  in 
general.  Likewise,  we  would  like  to  acknowledge  the 
report  of  the  Security  Council  presented  to  us  by 
Ambassador  Jorge  Urbina,  Permanent  Representative 
of  Costa  Rica,  in  his  capacity  as  President  of  the 
Security  Council  for  November  2008.  We  would  also 
like  to  highlight  the  work  carried  out  by Ambassador 
Le  Luong  Minh,  Permanent  Representative  of  Viet 
Nam, in the preparation of the report in question.  

The  changes  to the international scene  following 
the  end  of  the  cold  war  reaffirmed  the  need  to 
encourage  discussions  on  adapting  the  United  Nations 
and  its  bodies,  especially  the  Security  Council,  to 
like 
08-60935 

25 

in 
to  move  from 
Venezuela  has  expressed 
A/63/PV.55 

current  realities  in  order  to  allow  them  to  effectively 
respond  to  the  challenges  of  peace,  security  and 
development.  

As  members  are  aware,  the  General  Assembly 
adopted  decision  62/557  by  consensus,  renewing  the 
mandate  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  the 
Question  of  Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase 
in  the  Membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  Other 
Matters Related to the Security Council. The Assembly 
approved  an  ambitious  plan 
the 
discussions that have been taking place to the phase of 
effective  intergovernmental  negotiations  within  the 
framework of the Assembly itself. As the President  of 
the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  Hugo  Chávez 
Frías,  said  during  the  interactive  dialogue  that  took 
place  at  the  Millennium  Summit,  the  United  Nations 
cannot  continue  to  navigate  with  a  map  dating  from 
1945.  

its  support  for  an 
increase 
the  number  of  both  permanent  and 
non-permanent  Security  Council  members  and  has 
repeatedly advocated the suppression of the use of the 
veto.  An  agreement  on  that  matter  would  make  the 
Council  more  representative  and  reflect  the  new, 
current composition of the United Nations.  

We have likewise expressed support for countries 
of  the  developing  world,  from  Africa,  Asia,  Latin 
America  and 
respectively,  being 
included in the Council as permanent members. Such a 
decision would serve to crown the legitimate aspiration 
of  peoples  and  countries  that  have  not  been  able  to 
exercise this responsibility for over 60 years.  

Venezuela  believes  that  the  inclusion  in  the 
Security  Council  of  new  permanent  members 
representing regions of the developing world would be 
an  appropriate  measure  to  correct  the  asymmetries  of 
power  in  that  organ.  A  multipolar  world  is  taking 
shape.  The  hegemonic  positions  inherited  from  the 
Second  World  War  must  be  overcome,  and  current 
realities  must  be  expressed  in  the  composition  of  the 
major bodies of the United Nations.  

Our  country  also  advocates  an  increase  in  the 
number  of  new  non-permanent  members,  bearing  in 
mind the principle of equitable geographic distribution 
enshrined in Article 23 of  the United Nations Charter. 
The  Government  of  Venezuela  expresses  its  firm 
opposition 
is  an 
is 
anachronistic  decision-making  mechanism  and 
the  veto  power,  since 
the  Caribbean, 
to 
it 
the  future, 
favours,  on  an 
the  use  of 
immediate  basis, 
through 
the  veto 
contrary  to  the  principle  of  the  sovereign  equality  of 
States enshrined in the letter and spirit  of the Charter. 
The issue of the veto is inseparable from that of reform 
and  expansion.  Both  objectives  will  contribute  to  the 
democratization of this global forum.  
With  a  view  to  achieving  the  elimination  of  the 

the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
in 
veto 
the 
Venezuela 
regulation  of 
the 
establishment  of  certain  criteria,  which  should  be 
applied  to  issues  of  both  procedure  and  substance. 
Along  those  lines,  it  could  be  considered  that,  for 
situations involving a threat to or a breach of peace in 
situ,  in  accordance  with  the  nature  and  scope  of 
Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter,  two  concurrent  negative 
votes  of  Council  member  States  would  be  required  to 
prevent the  adoption of  a  decision. Likewise, the veto 
would not be used in decisions under Chapter VI of the 
Charter,  which  lays  out  guidelines  for  the  pacific 
settlement of disputes. 

In  terms  of  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council, we recognize that, in recent years, some small 
progress  has  been  made.  Nevertheless,  this  progress 
remains  insufficient,  since  it  does  not  duly  reflect  the 
calls  for  greater  openness  and  transparency  in  the 
functioning of that organ.  

Peace  is  a  matter  for  everyone,  be  they  small 
States  or  large  States,  rich  or  small.  Peace  should  not 
be  supported  by  privilege,  and  Venezuela  therefore 
expresses its rejection of the practice — and there have 
been  efforts  to  implement  this  —  of  making  a  rule  of 
closed  and  informal  meetings.  That  type  of  meeting 
should  be  an  exemption. The  predominant  rule  should 
be  public  meetings,  as  established  in  rule  48  of  the 
Council’s  provisional  rules  of  procedure. That  type  of 
proceeding  prevents  greater  participation  by 
the 
majority  of  Member  States  in  the  daily  life  of  the 
United Nations.  

the  democratization  of 
international  relations  or  the  promotion  of  democracy 
in  countries  while  defending  the  status  quo,  which 
excludes  and  marginalizes  the  majority  of  Member 
States  when  it  comes  to  taking  major  decisions.  In  a 
spirit 
and 
the  Security  Council  should  hold 
participation, 
consultations  with 
its 
decisions.  Non-member  countries  should  be  invited  to 
participate in informal consultations using a procedure 
the  countries  affected  by 
We  cannot  advocate 
transparency, 
openness 
greater 
of 
26 

08-60935 
to 
the  General  Assembly, 
level  of  Council  accountability 


similar to that established in Articles 31 and 32 of the 
United Nations Charter.  

The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  believes 
that  efforts  to  reform  the  United  Nations  should 
necessarily  strengthen 
the 
Organization’s  main  body 
for  deliberation  and 
policymaking  and  the  most  representative  body  of  the 
Organization.  In  this  context,  in  order  to  ensure  the 
necessary 
the 
Member  States,  the  Council  should  submit  periodic, 
substantive and analytical reports to the Assembly. The 
current  method  applied  by  the  Council  of  presenting 
annual  reports  that  are  only  factual  in  nature  has  not 
produced  the  desired  results.  Let  the  Council  render  a 
regular,  systematic  account  of  its  activities  to  the 
Assembly in accordance with Articles 15 and 24 of the 
Charter.  

To conclude, I wish to reiterate the support of my 
delegation  for  your  work,  Sir,  as  head  of  the Working 
Group.  We  hope 
that  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin, 
Permanent Representative of Afghanistan, in his role as 
facilitator, will direct with moderation and equanimity 
the work in the negotiations phase in the Assembly.  
the 
thank 

President  of  the  General Assembly  for  convening  this 
meeting.  We  would  like  to  align  ourselves  with  the 
statement  delivered  by  the  Permanent  Representative 
of Mauritius in his capacity as Chairman of the African 
Group. We  would  also  like  to  commend  the  President 
of the Security Council for the month of November, the 
Permanent Representative of Costa Rica, for presenting 
the  annual  report  of  the  Council  (A/63/2),  and  the 
delegation of Viet Nam for preparing the report. 

The annual report of the Security Council before 
us  indicates  the  many  areas  all  over  the  world, 
particularly  in  Africa,  where  the  Council  remains 
engaged  in  helping  to  resolve  conflicts.  The  Council 
also stimulated constructive debate on important global 
issues  such  as  security  sector  reform,  the  role  of 
women in peacekeeping operations and the relationship 
between  the  Council  and  regional  organizations  in 
terms  of  Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter.  The  Council’s 
sustained  engagement  on  these  issues  is  testimony  to 
what it can achieve when it fully and robustly assumes 
its responsibilities in terms of the Charter. 

At  the  same  time,  we  must  unfortunately  lament 
the  fact  that  the  Security  Council  has  not  been  as 
successful  in  resolving  some  conflict  situations  or  has 
Mr.  Sangqu  (South  Africa):  We 
A/63/PV.55
failed dismally to intervene in others. The most serious 
threat  to  the  credibility  of  the  Council  remains  its 
inability  to  resolve  protracted  conflicts,  such  as  in 
Palestine  and  Western  Sahara.  It  is  our  hope  that  the 
Council  will  stem  the  erosion  of  its  credibility  by 
transcending  its  divisions  and  the  national  interests  of 
its members and by uniformly discharging its Charter-
based  mandate  to  maintain  international  peace  and 
security. 

Membership  on  the  Security  Council  confers  a 
global  responsibility  in  that  all  its  members  are 
entrusted  with  the  task  of  helping  to  advance  peace 
throughout  the  world.  South Africa  does  not  accept  a 
status  quo  where  some  issues  on  the  agenda  of  the 
Council,  such  as  anti-terrorism,  non-proliferation  and 
the  Western  Sahara,  are  regarded  as  the  preserve  of 
some countries to the exclusion of others. 

Over  the  past  two  days,  we  have  heard  an 
overwhelming  call  for  a  fundamental  reform  of  the 
Council.  All  that  remains  is  for  us  to  commit  to 
implementing  decision  62/557,  unanimously  endorsed 
on  15  September  by  this  Assembly.  Through  that 
watershed  decision,  the  general  membership  of  the 
United  Nations  decided  to  move  away  from  a  process 
of  endless  consultations  on  the  issue  of  the  reform  of 
the  Council  and  to  commence  meaningful,  direct 
intergovernmental  negotiations  in  informal  plenary  of 
the General Assembly during its sixty-third session, but 
not later than 28 February 2009. 

As  you  indicated,  Sir,  in  your  statement  of 
11 November,  there  is  a  need  to  implement  that 
decision in letter and spirit. Decision 62/557 indicates 
that positions and proposals of Member States, regional 
groups  and  other  Member  State  groupings  shall  form 
the  basis  for  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We 
believe  that  the  positions  of  Member  States,  regional 
groupings and other Member State groupings are quite 
clear and have been presented over and over again. The 
basis, 
for 
intergovernmental 
negotiations does exist.  

As  for  my  delegation,  we  are  on  record  as 
supporting  the  African  position  as  espoused  in  the 
Ezulwini  consensus.  We  also  have  a  clear  African 
Union  Summit  mandate 
the 
forthcoming  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the 
basis of the Ezulwini Consensus and Sirte Declaration. 
We  should  also  proceed  with  the  negotiations  by 
clustering  issues,  as  indicated  in  paragraph  (e)  (ii)  of 
to  participate 
therefore, 
starting 
in 
08-60935 

27 

A/63/PV.55 

decision  62/557,  and  focus  on  the  following  five  key 
issues:  categories  of  membership;  the  question  of  the 
veto;  regional  representation;  size  of  an  enlarged 
Council, and working methods of the Council, as well 
as  the  relationship  between  the  Council  and  the 
General Assembly. 
South  Africa  would  have  no  problem  with  the 

the  Question  of 
Open-ended  Working  Group  on 
Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase 
the 
Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters 
Related to the Security Council meeting as many times 
as  it  wishes  to  consult  on  all  matters  related  to  the 
reform of the Security Council. In fact, paragraph (f) of 
the  decision  decides  that  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group  should  continue  to  exert  efforts  during  the 
present  session  of  the  General  Assembly  aimed  at 
achieving general agreement among Member States.  

However,  looking  at  the  substance  of  the  issues 
proposed  for  discussion,  my  delegation  is  concerned 
that  it  seems  that  we  again  want  to  rehash  and  repeat  

in 
the  same  consultative  discussions  the  Open-ended 
Working Group has had over the past 15 years, which 
unfortunately have not been very helpful in moving the 
process  of  the  reform  forward.  Decision  62/557  was 
significant, as it moved the process away from ongoing 
consultations  and  ushered  us  into  direct  meaningful 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  cannot  reopen, 
renegotiate  or  amend  that  decision  in  any  way.  All 
Member States signed up to that decision unanimously, 
as  is,  and  it  must  now  be  implemented  in  letter  and 
spirit, as is. 

In  conclusion,  South  Africa  strongly  urges  you, 
Sir,  to  convene  the  informal  plenary  of  the  General 
Assembly to commence intergovernmental negotiations 
as  soon  as  it  is  possible.  We  shall  participate  in  this 
process  in  good  faith,  with  high  expectations,  in  the 
hope that we can make progress on the issue of reform 
of the Security Council during the present session. 
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. 
28 

08-60935 
