
A/63/PV.17
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

17th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 2 October 2008, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 
members  of  the  speakers  for  this  opening  plenary 
meeting. 

Members  will  further  recall  that  the  two-day 
meeting  will  consist  of  plenary  meetings  and  a  panel 
discussion. 
(spoke in English) 

I  am  very  pleased  to  welcome  everyone  to  this 
high-level  plenary  meeting  on  the  midterm  review  of 
the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action.  Over  the  next  two 
days  we  will  focus  our  attention  on  the  impressive 
work  under  way  to  ensure  that  landlocked  developing 
countries  have  transit  transport  systems  to  facilitate 
their access to international trade despite their physical 
isolation.  

the  General  Assembly 
concluded  its  general  debate.  I  was  very  pleased  that 
we  devoted  our  time  and  effort  to  two  high-level 
meetings  on  the  special  needs  of  Africa  and  on  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  Both 
meetings  were  of  particular  interest  to  landlocked 
countries.  It  is  notable  that  nine  of  the  fourteen 
countries  with  the  lowest  human  development  index 
scores last year are landlocked.  

World leaders were in agreement that the turmoil 
of  the  world’s  financial  markets  must  not  jeopardize 
the  funding  commitments  made  to  Africa  and  to  the 
MDGs.  Representatives  of 
landlocked  developing 
countries  know  more  than  anyone  the  vulnerability  of 
their  economies 
to  erratic  markets  and  soaring 
transportation  costs.  I  promise  to  do  all  that  I  can  as 
this  week 
Earlier 



The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 

High-level plenary meeting devoted to the midterm 
review of the Almaty Programme of Action 
Agenda item 52 
Groups of countries in special situations 
(b)    Specific actions related to the particular  





needs and problems of landlocked developing 
countries: outcome of the International 
Ministerial Conference of Landlocked and 
Transit Developing Countries and Donor 
Countries and International Financial and 
Development Institutions on Transit Transport 
Cooperation  

  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/165) 

  Draft resolution (A/63/L.3*) 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  General 

Assembly,  in  accordance  with  resolution  62/204  of 
19 December  2007,  will  now  begin  the  two-day  high-
level  meeting  devoted  to  the  midterm  review  of  the 
Almaty Programme of Action.  

Members will recall that in resolution 62/204 the 
General  Assembly  requested  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly to convene consultations during the 
sixty-second  session  of  the Assembly  to  facilitate  the 
preparation  of  an  outcome  document  for  the  midterm 
review and to finalize its organizational aspects. In this 
regard, in a letter dated 29 September 2008, I informed 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-53281 (E) 
*0853281* 

tackling 
A/63/PV.17 

President  of  the  General  Assembly  to  assure  the 
continuing  support  of  the  international  community  for 
landlocked nations.  

We  are  living  in  troubled  times,  and  billions  of 
people  are  looking  to  the  United  Nations  to  fulfil  the 
promises  of  security  and  well-being  that  they  have 
entrusted to us.  

As I look at the accomplishments since the 2003 
Almaty  Conference,  I  am  heartened  to  see  the  central 
and effective role the United Nations is playing in the 
implementation of the Almaty Programme of Action.  

Facilitating  negotiations  and  assisting  in  the 
implementation  of  complex  development  projects  is 
what the United Nations is all about. The success of the 
Programme can only strengthen the United Nations at a 
time  when  it  is  looking  to  enhance  its  participation  in 
international economic policy-making.  

The  2003  Almaty  Conference  aimed  to  forge 
global partnerships to address the special needs of the 
countries  concerned  by 
their  continued 
marginalization from the world economy in a focused, 
but holistic, fashion. 

The  resulting  Almaty  Programme  of  Action 
outlines  a  clear  set  of  priorities  for  action  in  transit 
policy 
and 
maintenance,  international  trade  and  trade  facilitation, 
and international support measures.  

There  has  been  considerable  progress  since  the 
Almaty  Programme  of Action  was  adopted  five  years 
ago. Thanks to their cooperative efforts, donor nations, 
a  range  of  international,  regional  and  subregional 
organizations and financial institutions have stepped up 
their targeted assistance and support for the landlocked 
and transit developing countries. 

In  and  of  itself,  the  decision  by  the  General 
Assembly  to  convene  the  present  midterm  review  of 
the  implementation  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of 
Action  reflects  the  commitment  of  the  international 
community  to  the  Programme’s  full  and  effective 
implementation.  

However, much more needs to be done to achieve 
the  Programme’s  overarching  goal  of  establishing 
efficient  transit  transport  systems  in  all  landlocked 
regions of the world.  
realities,  coupled  with  critical 

infrastructure  deficiencies,  as  well  as  cumbersome 
infrastructure 
Geographical 
development 
issues, 
to 
trade  of 
the  external 
important  obstacle 
Landlocked  country  export  development 
border  crossing  procedures,  continue  to  pose  daunting 
impediments 
landlocked 
developing countries.  

is 
severely  constrained  by  rising  transit  transport  costs. 
These limit the range of potential exports and markets 
in  which  goods  can  be  competitively  and  profitably 
traded.  
Today,  high  trade  transaction  costs  remain  the 

single  most 
to  equitable  and 
competitive  access  by  landlocked  countries  to  global 
markets.  

This  midterm  review  is  an  extremely  important 
exercise  to  assess  what  has  been  achieved  so  far  and 
what can be done better. It will guide the second half of 
the  implementation  period  of  the  Almaty  Programme 
so  that  it  can  more  effectively  assist  landlocked 
developing  countries  in  their  effective  integration  in 
the international trading system.  

We know that success thus far has depended on a 
range of partners. They have enabled the establishment 
of more effective transit transport systems that benefit 
landlocked  developing  countries  and 
transit 
neighbours in all regions of the world.  

The generosity and support of Member States has 
been,  and  will  be,  crucial  to  safeguard  the  progress 
achieved and to accelerate progress in the years ahead. 
In this regard, I would like to express special thanks to 
Mr.  Yukio  Takasu  of  Japan  for  his  excellent  work  in 
facilitating  the  negotiation  process  of  the  outcome 
document  that  Member  States  are  expected  to  adopt 
tomorrow.  

Let  us  all  reaffirm  in  the  course  of  this  meeting 
the  crucial  importance  of  these  partnerships,  with  the 
United Nations systems chief among them. 
(spoke in Spanish) 
I now call on the Secretary-General. 

The Secretary-General: Last week I convened a 

high-level  event  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  We  used  the  occasion  to  review 
progress towards attaining the MDGs. I sounded alarm 
bells  that  we  were  running  out  of  time  to  honour 
commitments made to the developing world.  

The  response  was  overwhelming.  Governments, 
foundations, civil society groups and businesses joined 
their 
2 

08-53281 
the  world’s  31 


hands.  We  managed  to  forge  new  partnerships  and 
prepare  new  action  plans  to  speed  up  progress.  We 
generated  unprecedented  commitments  in  pledges  to 
help the world’s poor. The final figures are not in yet, 
but the total may be as much as $16 billion. I am now 
more hopeful about attaining the MDGs by 2015. 

Today we are sounding alarm bells for the Almaty 
Programme  of  Action.  I  hope  for  a  similarly  hope-
inspiring response.  

Too many of the landlocked developing countries 
are  not  on  track  to  meeting  the  MDGs.  According  to 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme,  they 
account for 10 of the 20 countries with the lowest level 
of human development.  
It  is  vital  that  landlocked  developing  countries 

increase  their  volume  of  exports  in  order  to  meet  the 
MDGs.  Currently 
landlocked 
developing countries account for less than 1 per cent of 
global merchandise trade.  

The  single  biggest  obstacle  to  increasing  this 
share  is  the  very  high  cost  of  transport.  In  some 
landlocked  developing  countries,  transport  costs  can 
exceed  70  per  cent  of  the  export  value.  This  has 
become  a  bigger  barrier  to  trade  than  tariffs.  Clearly, 
we  need  a  more  vigorous  effort  for  international 
cooperation. 

There  has  been  some  encouraging  progress  in 
implementing the Almaty Programme. Many countries 
are improving transit transport policies. This is making 
it  easier  for  landlocked  countries  to  use  neighbouring 
countries’  ports  and  roads.  Trade  facilitation  has  also 
reduced the costs of doing business.  

Much  more  now  needs  to  be  done  in  the  area  of 
infrastructure development. Roads and railways remain 
inadequate.  Many  ports  are  using  obsolete  cargo 
handling  equipment.  We  need 
to  mobilize  more 
international support in order to improve infrastructure. 

The  Millennium  Summit  of  September  2000 
the  special  needs  of 
committed 
landlocked 
countries.  The  Almaty 
Programme  of Action  translates  that  commitment  into 
specific actions.  

the  Almaty 
Programme  by  working  with  countries  to  develop 
integrated 
transport  networks;  modernize  customs 
operations; build capacities for trade negotiations; and 
to  addressing 
developing 
The  United  Nations 
supports 
A/63/PV.17
to 
implement 
develop  indicators  for  monitoring  progress.  We  are 
building  partnerships  with  financial  institutions  and 
regional development banks in our activities.  

The achievements so far are encouraging. But we 
need  full  implementation  by  all  partners  in  order  to 
make significant progress. Let us use the success of the 
high-level  event  on  the  MDGs  as  inspiration  for  this 
review.  
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by the President of Mongolia, 
His Excellency Mr. Nambar Enkhbayar. 
President  Enkhbayar:  I  am  pleased  to  address 

the  opening  meeting  of  the  high-level  meeting  of  the 
General  Assembly  devoted  to  the  midterm  review  of 
the Almaty Programme of Action. 

I  strongly  commend  the  leadership  of  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  in  galvanizing  the  activities  of 
the  United  Nations  system  organizations 
in  our 
concerted  efforts 
the  Programme. 
Mongolia  also  extends  its  high  appreciation  to  High 
Representative  Cheick  Diarra  and  his  Office  for  the 
coherent  coordination  of  all  the  preparatory  activities 
in the lead-up to this high-level review. 

Over  the  coming  two  days  we  will  engage  in  an 
extensive  discussion  to  take  stock  of  the  progress 
achieved so far in moving forward the implementation 
of  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action,  to  share  the 
lessons learned and identify future actions to speed up 
its  realization  through  addressing  the  still  persistent 
constraints. 

It is gratifying to note that over the last five years 
the  landlocked  and  transit  developing  countries,  with 
the support of their developed partners, have registered 
certain  headway  in  all  five  priority  areas  of  the 
Programme.  They  have  strengthened 
their  policy 
reform  efforts,  including  the  liberalization  of  transit 
and  transport  services;  increased  accession  to  relevant 
international conventions; the establishment of regional 
inter-modal  transport  corridors;  and  harmonization  of 
common rules and standards. 

The  international  community  has  come  to  better 
recognize  that  high  transit  transport  costs  represent  a 
more  important  barrier  than  most  favoured  nation 
tariffs for landlocked developing countries. As a result 
is  a  much  broader 
it 
recognition  of 
landlocked 
developing countries per se and a stronger engagement 
the  special  needs  of 
is  encouraging 
that 
there 
08-53281 

3 

the 
The  past 
Secretary-General’s 
to 
the  gross  domestic  product  of 
A/63/PV.17 

of  development  partners  with  respect  to  transport 
infrastructure  development  and  trade  facilitation,  as 
well as aid, debt relief and market access.  

Multilateral  and  development  institutions  and 
regional  organizations  also  tend  to  allocate  greater 
attention and resources to the establishment of efficient 
transit  systems.  All  these  efforts  are  encouraging  and 
ought  to  be  further  consolidated  for  the  effective  and 
full implementation of the Programme. 

few  years  have  been  somewhat 
favourable  for  the  overall  economic  development  and 
growth of landlocked developing countries as a group. 
report 
According 
(A/63/165), 
the 
landlocked  developing  countries  grew  annually  by 
almost  8  per  cent  in  the  period  2003-2006.  Foreign 
direct investment has also seen a certain increase over 
the  same  period.  In  addition,  as  of  2006  more  than 
90 per  cent  of  exports  of 
landlocked  developing 
countries  to  developed  markets  enjoyed  duty-free 
access, a significant increase from 70 per cent back in 
2003. 
Despite  these  positive  developments,  landlocked 

developing  countries  continue  to  face  considerable 
challenges  inherently  linked  to  their  geographical 
handicap.  Over  the  past  decade,  their  share  in  world 
exports  has  remained  unacceptably  dismal  —  well 
below 0.6 per cent — with commodities accounting for 
the bulk of exports.  

In our case, transit transport costs through Russia 
and  China  amount  to  up  to  8  per  cent  of  our  GDP. 
Hence,  with  a  view  to  promoting  a  comprehensive 
subregional  agreement  designed  to  harmonize  transit 
regulations and reduce transit transport costs, Mongolia 
has  initiated  a  Tripartite  Framework  Agreement  on 
Transit  Transportation  with  its  two  neighbours.  The 
draft  agreement  has  been  agreed  in  principle,  and 
negotiations continue on annexes.  
The  agreement,  once  concluded,  will  provide  a 

legal  framework  for  efficient  transit  systems  to  and 
through Mongolia by allowing freedom of transit by all 
transport  and  promoting  simplification, 
modes  of 
harmonization 
customs, 
administrative procedures and documentation. 

and 
integration  of  landlocked  developing  countries  and 
their  transit  neighbours  play  an  important  role  in 
standardization  of 
Subregional 
cooperation 
regional 
and 
and 
at 
aimed 
initiatives 
promoting 
The  continued  marginalization  of 
effectively  addressing  cross-border  trade  and  transit 
transport  problems.  In  this  context,  we  welcome  the 
regional 
the 
development of regional rail and road transit transport 
networks,  including  the  Asian  Highway  and  Trans-
Asian  Railway  Agreements,  to  which  Mongolia  has 
already become a party. 

landlocked 
developing  countries  from  the  international  trading 
system  prevents  them  from  fully  using  trade  as  an 
instrument  for  achieving  the  respective  MDGs.  It  is 
disheartening  that  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  (UNDP)  Human  Development  Report 
(2007-2008)  shows  that  10  out  of  20  of  the  lowest-
ranking  countries  in  the  human  development  index 
were  landlocked  developing  countries.  Their  situation 
is being further exacerbated by the current global food, 
energy and financial crises.  

In  this  regard,  we  need  to  seize  this  opportunity 
of  reviewing  the  implementation  of  the  Programme  to 
explore  new  avenues  on  how  to  urgently  respond  to 
these global development challenges, both existing and 
emerging. 
international  assistance  for  export 

Increased 
diversification, 
development, 
institutional capacity-building and better market access 
are  essential  for  landlocked  developing  countries.  As 
high  transaction  cost  represents  the  main  cause  of  the 
marginalization 
the 
international  trading  system,  the  current  negotiations 
on  market  access  for  agricultural  and  non-agricultural 
goods  should,  in  our  view,  give  particular  attention  to 
products from landlocked developing countries.  

facilitation  negotiations, 
especially  the  part  on  GATT  article  V,  present  an 
opportunity  to  set  internationally  applicable  rules  and 
standards that are most urgently needed. In this respect, 
I 
the 
Ulaanbaatar  thematic  meeting  last  year  to  consider 
negotiating a separate, multilateral agreement on issues 
covered by GATT Article V on Freedom of Transit. 
The  Ulaanbaatar  meeting  on  trade  and  trade 

the  Burkina  Faso  meeting  on 
facilitation  and 
infrastructure development constitute an important part 
of  the  substantive  preparations  in  the  run-up  to  this 
midterm  review.  I  gather  that  the  publications  on  the 
outcome of these thematic meetings are being launched 
by the Office of the High Representative. 
reiterate  my  earlier  proposal,  voiced  at 
In  addition, 
infrastructure 
countries 
these 
trade 
of 
from 
4 

08-53281 
the 
financial 
institutions, 
in  promoting 


With a view to maximizing the efficiency of our 

coordinated  efforts 
interests  of 
landlocked  developing  countries,  including  effective 
and  full  implementation  of  the Almaty  Programme  of 
Action,  I  recently  proposed  to  set  up  an  international 
think-tank  and  offered  to  host  it  in  Ulaanbaatar.  I  am 
pleased  that  this  initiative  has  enjoyed  active  support 
from our fellow members of the group.  

We  are  also  hopeful  that  the  relevant  bodies  of 
the  United  Nations  system  and  international  and 
along  with  our 
regional 
development  partners,  will  step  in  to  ensure 
its 
efficient and effective functioning. 

As for the national implementation of the Almaty 
Programme of Action, Mongolia has introduced several 
innovative measures to build policy framework and to 
promote  public-private  partnership.  On  my  initiative, 
the  MDG-based  National  Development  Strategy  —  a 
comprehensive  mid-  and 
long-term  development 
blueprint  —  was  approved  earlier  this  year.  The 
Strategy makes human development and modernization 
of infrastructure as a key priority for making Mongolia 
a middle-income country by 2021. 

Furthermore, a National Committee on Trade and 
Transport  Facilitation,  set  in  motion  in  2005,  is 
entrusted  with  a  mandate  to  serve  as  a  nationwide 
coordinator  for  the  Programme’s  implementation.  It  is 
composed of representatives of government, the private 
sector,  academia  and  non-governmental  organizations 
to ensure a broad-based partnership.  
Also, with active participation of all stakeholders, 

Mongolia  has  developed  a  comprehensive  sector 
development  Programme  called  Transit  Mongolia 
incorporating  all  Programme  priorities  and  Mongolia-
specific  goals.  Hence,  we  believe  that  creation  of  a 
designated  institutional  mechanism  along  with  the 
relevant plan of action lays a sound foundation for the 
Programme’s  effective  implementation.  In  addition, 
active  engagement  of  investors,  both  foreign  and 
national,  and  the  local  business  community  helps  to 
better  mobilize  the  needed  resources,  both  financial 
and human. 
Finally,  I  wish  to  emphasize  the  crucial  role  of 

regional  and  international  cooperation  in  ensuring 
effective  implementation  of  the  Programme.  In  this 
regard,  my  delegation  fully  endorses 
the  related 
provisions  in  the  draft  outcome  document  to  be 
adopted at the end of our review meeting.  
A/63/PV.17
including 
I  now  give 
I  wish  the Assembly  a  successful  review  with  a 

We  commend  the  considerable  efforts  made  by 
United  Nations  bodies,  in  particular  that  of  the  Office 
of  the  High  Representative,  in  coordinating  system-
wide  activities  towards  Programme  implementation. 
We  also  acknowledge  the  important  work  and  support 
provided  by  our  development  partners,  both  bilateral 
and  multilateral, 
the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Trade  and  Development  (UNCTAD), 
the  United  Nations 
Industrial  Development 
Organization  (UNIDO),  the  regional  commissions,  the 
World Bank and the regional development banks. 

productive outcome. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  thank  the 

President  of  Mongolia  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

to  His  Excellency 
Mr. Hamed Diane Semega, Minister of Equipment and 
Transport of Mali. 
Mr. Semega (Mali) (spoke in French): As Mali’s 

Minister of Equipment and Transport, and chairman of 
the  Mali  delegation,  I  wish  on  behalf  of  Mr. Amadou 
Toumani Touré, President of the Republic of Mali and 
Chairman of the Group of the Landlocked Developing 
Countries, to convey his fraternal greetings.  

I also, on behalf of the 31 members of our Group, 
salute Mr. Choummaly Sayasone, President of the Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  who  has  energetically 
and  skilfully  led  the  work  of  the  Group  since  its 
foundation in 1994. His mandate has certainly yielded 
positive  results;  suffice  it  to  recall  his  valuable, 
decisive role in the adoption of the Almaty Programme 
of Action.  
In addition, I thank the President of Kazakhstan, 

Mr.  Nursultan  A.  Nazarbayev,  whose  country  hosted 
the International Ministerial Conference of Landlocked 
and Transit Developing Countries and Donor Countries 
and 
and  Development 
Institutions  on  Transit  Transport  Cooperation,  a 
historic  meeting,  whose 
are 
enshrined  in  what  is  now  known  as  the  Almaty 
Programme.  
the  Landlocked  Developing 

The  Group  of 
Countries  expresses 
its  gratitude 
to  Ambassador 
Chowdhury,  who,  as  Under-Secretary-General  with 
responsibility  for  landlocked  developing  countries, 
showed  a  constant  commitment  and  total  devotion  to 
recommendations 
International 
the 
floor 
Financial 
08-53281 

5 
A 
for 
the 
figures  speak 
framework  of 
A/63/PV.17 

his  noble  mission  and  produced  many  relevant 
initiatives.  

Finally,  I  warmly  congratulate  my  compatriot 
Ambassador  Cheick  Sidi  Diarra  on  the  lofty  mission 
which Mr Ban Ki-moon has entrusted to him.  

The midterm review of the Almaty Programme of 
Action that we are beginning comes five years after its 
adoption by resolution 58/201 of 23 December 2003.  
The  problems  of  development  must  be  analysed 

within 
the  globalization  of 
economies. The landlocked developing countries are no 
exception.  To  the  contrary,  most  of  us  are  excluded 
from international trade,  and those which do take part 
are largely at the mercy of the vicissitudes of the world 
economy.  

I  believe  that  it  will  be  useful  to  outline  the 
serious  constraints  imposed  by  geography  on  our 
countries  in  their  struggle  for  economic  and  social 
development.  

themselves.  The 
few 
31 landlocked developing countries cover 12.5 per cent 
of  the  surface  of  the  globe,  with  their  16.3  million 
square kilometres, and have 370 million inhabitants, or 
5.5  per  cent  of  the  world’s  population,  which  is 
estimated  to  be  more  than  6  billion,  yet  they  generate 
only  2  per  cent  of  the  gross  world  product.  Their 
fundamental  characteristic  is  their  distance  from  the 
sea,  resulting  in  excessive  transport  costs.  Kazakhstan 
is  the  landlocked  country  most  distant  from  the  sea, 
with its nearest accessible port 3,750 kilometres away. 
It is true that there are certain differences between our 
countries,  which  include  some  oil  producers  and 
exporters.  
The  external  debt  of  the  landlocked  developing 

countries is becoming harder and harder to sustain. As 
to  external  trade,  their  competitiveness  is  greatly 
affected by everything to do with transport and transit. 
Therefore,  with  limited  export  resources,  we  must 
deplore the limited and very poorly diversified supply 
capacities, which usually result in only poor products. 
A  consequence  for  the  developing  countries  is  a 
notorious  weakness  of  their  physical  infrastructure, 
whose development is too costly for their budgets. 

landlocked  developing 
countries  have  transaction  costs  linked  to  transport 
averaging  between  15  per  cent  and  25  per  cent,  about 
last  figure: 
One 
the 

twice  those  of  transit  countries  and  more  than  three 
times those of the developed countries. 

With all those facts, the challenges we face have 
never been so difficult as they are today. Three crises, 
including the international financial crisis, have hit us 
in swift succession, particularly in the last two years. If 
they have severely shaken the developed countries and 
less fragile developing countries, it is easy to imagine 
how  much  they  threaten  the  very  socio-economic  and 
political  foundations  of  the  landlocked  developing 
countries.  

If  the  international  community  does  not  react 
with  more  determination  and  more  consistently,  the 
sacrifices  made  by 
landlocked  developing 
countries, together with our partners, will have been in 
vain.  The  encouraging  results  registered  by  these 
countries  for  more  than  a  decade,  particularly  in 
restructuring  and  adapting  their  economies  to  the 
demands of globalization, will thus be wasted.  

We  are  here  at  the  midterm  review  to  make 
clearly understood the strong apprehensions expressed 
in  our  countries  and  to  mobilize  the  international 
community.  The  worsening  situation  of  our  countries 
requires  action  by  all,  particularly  by  the  developed 
countries, but also, to a lesser extent, by the emerging 
countries.  

General stated: 
In  his  report  of  13  August  2007,  the  Secretary-
the 
of 
the 
assisting 
landlocked 

“The midterm review of the implementation 
of  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action  is  an 
important  exercise  aimed  at  determining,  among 
other things, what has been achieved so far, what 
could have been done better and how the second 
half  of 
implementation  period  can  be 
effectively  utilized  to  advance  on  the  ultimate 
goal 
developing 
countries.” (A/62/226, para. 23) 

With globalization becoming more manifest every 
day,  countries  must  be  increasingly  competitive  in 
order  to  play  a  bigger  part  in  the  world’s  multilateral 
trade  system,  through  the  World  Trade  Organization, 
whose 
the 
developing  countries  to  prepare  themselves  better  for 
global competition.  

By  way  of  example  I  would  mention  the  special 
and  differential  treatment,  which,  beyond  granting 
transition periods to come up to the required level, will 
instruments  allowing 
rules  provide 
6 

08-53281 
to 
My 
thanks  also  go 


make  possible  the  granting  of  a  period  of  time  to 
implement  technical  assistance  and  strengthen  the 
capacities of the landlocked developing countries.  

In  this  regard,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  the 
Landlocked Developing Countries, I warmly thank the 
World  Bank  and  the  World  Trade  Organization  for 
supporting our countries in establishing a methodology 
for self-evaluation of national situations. Such analysis 
will  make  possible  notification  of  the  time  needed  to 
implement  their  obligations  and  particularly  details  of 
technical assistance and strengthening of the necessary 
capacities. 

the  United  Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development for setting up a 
negotiating  group  of  our  countries  and  strengthening 
their  capacity  to  familiarize  national  experts  with  the 
machinery of trade negotiations. 

Today’s  meeting  gives  me  an  opportunity  to 
thank,  for  their  constant  support,  the  whole  United 
Nations family, and particularly the Secretary-General, 
whose support in various forms has undoubtedly made 
it  possible  to  advance  towards  implementation  of  the 
Almaty Programme. 
I also thank the Office of the High Representative 

for 
the  Least  Developed  Countries,  Landlocked 
Developing  Countries  and  Small  Island  Developing 
States,  mandated  by  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  the  Secretary-
General,  to  organize  this  review  and  coordinate  the 
preparatory  work,  and  I  congratulate  it  on  the  clarity 
and effectiveness of this action. 

I  conclude  with  an  African  saying:  When  two 
elephants fight, it is the savannah grass that suffers. In 
the context of globalization, the Almaty Programme of 
Action  is  certainly  not  a  magic  wand,  but  its  full  and 
active  implementation  will  make  it  possible  for  the 
landlocked  developing  countries  not  to  be  the  grass 
crushed 
lot  of  globalization,  by 
permitting  them  to  take  part  in  global  economic 
competition. That would be justice. 

floor 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of India. 
Mr. Mukherjee (India): The Almaty Programme 

of Action  has  resulted  in  a  clear  acknowledgement  of 
the  special  needs  and  problems  of 
landlocked 
developing  countries,  including  the  need  for  sustained 
international support to address them. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pranab  Mukherjee, 
the  vacant 
in 
A/63/PV.17
it 
to 
the 
the 
Thus 
that  of 
is  no  coincidence 
Yet  our  review  shows  that  the  devil  does  indeed 
It  is  therefore  imperative  that  we  utilize  this 
to  make  a  genuine  assessment  of 
the  Almaty 

Equally  important  is  the  understanding  that  any 
effective  solution  must  address  the  constraints  and 
challenges  faced  by  the  transit  developing  countries 
neighbouring landlocked developing countries. 

lie in the details of the implementation. 
Despite  their  best  efforts,  landlocked  developing 

countries have not been  able to take full advantage of 
the global growth witnessed since Almaty, and many of 
them  remain  marginalized  from 
international 
trading system. 

Modernization  of  trade  facilitation  and  transit 
procedures  remains  pending,  primarily  due  to  lack  of 
their  own  resources  and  capacities  and  financial  and 
technical assistance. 

the 
31 landlocked  developing  countries  16  continue  to  be 
classified  as  least  developed  countries.  The  current 
global  food  and  energy  crises  have  made 
their 
problems more acute. 

opportunity 
challenges 
Programme of Action. 

Various  reports  by  the  United  Nations  and  other 
bodies  clearly  identify  lack  of  resources  as  a  key 
barrier to implementation of the Almaty Programme of 
Action. 

Transit  transport  infrastructure  projects  involve 
high  investments  and  long  gestation  periods,  usually 
with low rates of return and comparative higher risks. 

Naturally,  it  becomes  difficult  to  attract  private 
sector  investment,  particularly  in  countries  where  the 
private sector itself is not well developed. 

Official development assistance (ODA) therefore 
remains critical for long-term funding. Yet, regrettably, 
ODA  to  the  transport  sector  has  actually  fallen  in  the 
landlocked developing countries. 
Moreover, infrastructure development needs to be 

complemented  by  efficient  storage  and 
logistics 
management  systems  and  integrated  information  and 
communication  networks.  It  also  requires  seamless 
integration  of  transport  infrastructures  of  landlocked 
countries  with  the  transit  transport  infrastructure  of 
their  transit  developing  countries,  as  well  as  with  any 
implementation  of 
08-53281 

7 

in 
they 
to  be  encouraged.  All 
Other  assistance  envisaged 
A/63/PV.17 

special transit transport corridor. Inter-modal transport 
also  needs 
these  require 
significant financial and technical assistance, as well as 
capacity-building. 
Transit  developing  countries  themselves  face 

many  development  challenges.  Yet 
take  on 
additional costs of providing transit transport facilities 
to  landlocked  countries  even  when  areas  in  their  own 
countries remain as remote from the sea as those of the 
landlocked  countries.  While  the  transit  developing 
countries  undertake  this  in  a  spirit  of  cooperation  and 
friendship,  they  also  need  to  be  provided  enhanced 
international support. 

the  Almaty 
Programme of Action has also been limited. Debt relief 
has not translated into additional resources, since much 
of the debt was already in arrears. Technology transfer 
has  not  been  effective.  We  need  to  put  in  place  a 
proactive mechanism that promotes technology transfer 
at concessional and preferential rates. 

Enhancing  international  trade  from  landlocked 
developing  countries  and  transit  developing  countries 
is  crucial  for  their  development.  This  requires  an 
enabling 
environment.  Developed 
countries  need  to  provide  enhanced  market  access  to 
products  of  special  interest  to  landlocked  developing 
countries  and 
transit  developing  countries.  The 
overarching  principle  of  the  special  and  differential 
treatment remains a categorical imperative. 

Trade  and  transit  issues  are  inextricably  linked. 
Enhancement  of  trade  facilitation,  customs  control 
efficiency  and  simplification  of  documentation  and 
procedures for international trade require technical and 
financial assistance. 

We  must  also  remain  cognizant  that  there  are 
significant  regional  variations  in  implementing  the 
Almaty  Programme,  and  one  size  cannot  fit  all. 
Bilateral initiatives, where appropriate, also play a key 
role. 

facing 
landlocked  developing  countries  has  highlighted  that 
there are regions within some developing countries that 
have difficulty in accessing global markets on account 
of geography or political boundaries. This lack of easy 
access  to  the  sea  and  remoteness  from  international 
markets causes them to face challenges similar to those 
faced by landlocked developing countries. It would be 
focus  on  challenges 
The  enhanced 
international 
to 
to 
Regional 
initiatives 
to  recognize 
We  have  excellent  historical 
appropriate 
the  need  and  call  for 
cooperation to meet the special transit requirements of 
landlocked regions of a country. 
ties  with  our 

the  highest 
landlocked  neighbours,  and  accord 
importance 
these 
links, 
further  strengthening 
including  through  cooperation  on  transit  transport 
issues.  We  have  also  contributed  to  the  development 
efforts  of  other  landlocked  developing  countries  and 
transit  developing  countries  as  part  of  South-South 
cooperation. 

Landlocked  countries  with  a  contiguous  border 
with  us  have  special  bilateral  cooperation  agreements 
for easy transit of their goods through India. 
transit 

improve 
connectivity  and  intraregional  trade  are  equally  a 
priority for us. We also continue to join our landlocked 
neighbours  in  financial  partnerships  for  infrastructure 
development,  and  make  available  technical,  economic 
and capacity-building support. 
We hope that this midterm review will invigorate 

the 
implementation  of 
the  Almaty  Programme, 
including  the  provision  of  enhanced  assistance  from 
the international community. 
Before  I  conclude  let  me  thank  Mr.  Cheick  Sidi 

Diarra, 
High 
Representative  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries, 
Landlocked  Developing  Countries  and  Small  Island 
Developing States, and his team for the excellent work 
they are doing, and their efforts in making this review 
meeting a success. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hans  Winkler,  State 
Secretary  for  European  and  International  Affairs  of 
Austria. 
Mr.  Winkler  (Austria):  First,  I  would  like  to 

express  my  sincere  gratitude  for  the  opportunity  to 
address  the  Assembly  in  this  debate  on  landlocked 
developing countries, which I consider not only timely, 
but also of the utmost importance. 

Despite real progress towards the implementation 
of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs), 
especially in the area of poverty reduction, it is still the 
least  developed  countries,  the  landlocked  developing 
countries and the small island States that are the most 
adversely affected. They need our paramount attention, 
Under-Secretary-General 
and 
8 

08-53281 
recall 
I  also 


as  the  relevant  reports  on  the  implementation  and 
progress of the MDGs point out. 

The  year  2008  has  seen  a  number  of  important 
events  on  development  cooperation  with  participation 
at  the  political  level,  including  many  Heads  of  State 
and  Government.  I  personally  attended  the  twelfth 
session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development  and 
the  High-Level  Forum  on  Aid 
Effectiveness,  both  held  in  Accra  earlier  this  year, 
which  confirmed  that  the  group  of  States  that  we  are 
addressing today indeed require our special attention.  

the  Africa  and  Millennium 
Development  Goal  summits  of  the  General Assembly, 
held  a  few  days  ago,  which  the  Austrian  Federal 
President  and 
the  Austrian  Federal  Chancellor 
attended.  

Moreover,  we  are  currently  preparing  the  Doha 
Follow-up  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development  to  Review  the  Implementation  of  the 
Monterrey Consensus, which will take place at the end 
of November through the beginning of December. 

All these high-level meetings would have been of 
no avail if not followed by concrete action. Therefore, 
it  is  high  time  now  to  substantially  increase  our 
common efforts — developed and developing countries 
alike — in order to reach the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  for  all  countries  and  peoples  in  the 
world. 

Austria  views  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action 
as  a  significant  landmark  in  the  recognition  of  the 
special  needs  and  problems  of  landlocked  developing 
countries.  Our  common  goal  must  be  to  effectively 
integrate  them  into  the  world  economy.  That  is  a 
precondition for poverty-reduction and achievement of 
the MDGs. 

At  the  midpoint  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of 
Action  we  must  take  stock  of  where  we  stand  in  our 
common  efforts  to  support  landlocked  developing 
countries in overcoming their development constraints. 

Thirty-one landlocked developing countries in the 
world  continue  to  face  serious  constraints  in  their 
efforts  to  achieve  the  goals  of  fighting  poverty  and 
elevating  the  living  standards  of  their  population. 
According  to  the  2007-2008  Human  Development 
Index  rankings,  eight  of  the  12  countries  with  the 
lowest  Human  Development 
are 
landlocked,  10  landlocked  countries  are  classified  as 
scores 
Index 
One 
A/63/PV.17
logistics 
economic 
and 
poor 
and 
reason  why 
markets, 
problems 
among  those  with  low  human  development,  and  not  a 
single one of the non-European landlocked countries is 
classified among those with high human development. 

human 
development  indicators  for  landlocked  countries  are 
generally so much worse than those for their maritime 
neighbours  is  their  dependence  on  other  countries’ 
transit routes for access to overseas markets.  

Landlocked  developing  countries  in  sub-Saharan 
Africa  are  especially  adversely  affected. The  isolation 
world 
from 
infrastructure, 
communication 
delays 
significantly  increase  the  costs  for  African  firms  and 
impose  an  additional  burden  on  their  economies.  The 
cost  penalties  borne  by  the  private  sector,  particularly 
for  transport  and  energy,  are  daunting,  more  than 
wiping out any comparative advantages these countries 
might have, such as lower labour costs. 
Allow  me  to  share  Austria’s  experience  as  a 

landlocked, predominantly mountainous country in the 
middle  of  Europe.  Our  geopolitical  situation  after  the 
Second  World  War  —  at  the  border  between  two 
different  political  and  economic  systems  —  proved  to 
be  an  obstacle  to  trade  and  economic  integration. The 
fall  of  the  Berlin  Wall  and  the  removal  of  the  Iron 
Curtain in 1989, Austria’s membership in the European 
Union,  from  1995,  and 
the 
European  Union  towards  Eastern  Europe  provided 
Austria  with  unprecedented  economic  opportunities 
and welfare for its population. 
Our  example  shows  that  not  only  the  right 

economic  and  social  environment  but  also  enabling 
geopolitical conditions are required to further regional 
integration and cooperation. Today, as a member of the 
European  Union,  Austria  has  access  to  all  ports  of 
European Union member States across roads, railways 
and inland navigation. Transit and access to the Black 
Sea  ports  are  ensured  on  the  basis  of  the  Danube 
Convention, which regulates and guarantees free traffic 
on the Danube. 

During  the  Third  United  Nations  Conference  on 
the  Law  of  the  Sea,  which  took  place  from  1973 
through  1982,  Austria  chaired 
the 
so-called geographically disadvantaged States, most of 
them landlocked developing countries. In this position, 
Austria 
interests,  mainly 
concentrating on participation in research regarding the 
use  of  marine  resources,  representation  in  the  entities 
the  enlargement  of 
the  group  of 
represented 
their 
08-53281 

9 
European 
provided 

integration 
A/63/PV.17 

of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea and the question of transit rights and access to the 
sea.  

valuable 
assistance  to  us.  Joint  planning  of  transport  facilities 
and routes, as well as collective financial aid to support 
projects  in  the  infrastructure  sector,  makes  it  possible 
to combat the negative environmental effects of transit 
traffic.  

Because  of  our  own  history  and  experience, 
Austria  focuses  its  development  cooperation  with 
partners  in  landlocked  developing  countries  such  as 
Burkina Faso, Uganda, Ethiopia, Bhutan, Moldova and 
the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia.  Special 
emphasis is given to supporting regional infrastructure 
development in sub-Saharan Africa and to contributing 
to 
the  European  Union-Africa  Trust  Fund  on 
Infrastructure.  

On the basis of our own experience, and because 
this is supported by statistics and facts, I would like to 
stress the significance of regional integration. It cannot 
be stressed enough. It provides security and peace, and 
prevents crisis through common political and economic 
stability  and  a  common 
legal  framework,  which 
constitute  the  basic  prerequisites  for  transit  and  free 
access to the sea. 

wishing you — and us all — a successful meeting. 
The meeting rose at 11.15 a.m.
With  that  in  mind,  I  conclude,  Mr.  President,  by 
10 

08-53281 
