
A/63/PV.39
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

39th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 6 November 2008, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 




The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 

Agenda item 103 (continued) 
Election to fill vacancies in principal organs 
  (c)  Election of five members of the International 






Court of Justice 
  Memorandum by the Secretary-General 
(A/63/186) 
  List of candidates (A/63/187 and Add.1 and 2) 

  Curricula vitae (A/63/188) 

The President (spoke in Spanish): This morning, 

the  General  Assembly  will  proceed  to  the  election  of 
five members of the International Court of Justice for a 
nine-year  term  of  office  commencing  on  6  February 
2009.  The  terms  of  office  of  the  following  judges 
expire  on  5  February  2009:  Mr.  Ronny  Abraham 
(France),  Mr.  Awn  Shawkat  Al-Khasawneh  (Jordan), 
Ms.  Rosalyn  Higgins  (United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland),  Mr.  Gonzalo  Parra-
Aranguren  (Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela)  and 
Mr. Raymond Ranjeva (Madagascar). 

In  connection  with  the  election,  I  should  like  to 
bring  the  following  matters  to  the  attention  of  the 
members of the General Assembly. 
I  should  like  to  confirm  that,  at  this  time,  the 

Security  Council, 
the  General 
Assembly, is also proceeding to elect five members of 
the Court. That procedure is in accordance with Article 
8 of the Statute of the Court, which provides that “The 

independently  of 
to 
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  shall 
proceed  independently  of  one  another  to  elect  the 
members of the Court”. 
Accordingly,  the  results  of  the  voting  in  the 

General  Assembly  will  be  communicated 
the 
Security  Council  only  when  five  candidates  have 
obtained the required majority in the Assembly. 

I  should  also  like  to  draw  the  attention  of  the 
Assembly  to  the  documents  relating  to  the  election. 
Document  A/63/186  contains  a  memorandum  by  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  present  composition  of  the 
Court and the procedure to be followed in the General 
Assembly  and  in  the  Security  Council  with  regard  to 
the election. Documents A/63/187 and A/63/187/Add.1 
contain  the  list  of  candidates  nominated  by  national 
groups.  

the  Legal  Counsel  has 
In 
informed  me  that,  after  the  established  deadline  for 
nominating  candidates, 
following  additional 
submissions  were  received  from  several  national 
groups,  all  of  which  relate  to  the  candidates  already 
nominated  by  other  national  groups  appearing  in 
documents  A/63/187  and  Add.1:  Ronny  Abraham 
(France)  has  been  nominated  also  by  the  national 
groups  of  Italy,  the  Russian  Federation  and  Uruguay; 
Awn  Shawkat  Al-Khasawneh 
(Jordan)  has  been 
nominated  also  by 
the  national  groups  of  Italy, 
Paraguay  and  Uruguay;  Antônio  Augusto  Cançado 
Trindade  (Brazil)  has  been  nominated  also  by  the 
national groups of Chile, El Salvador, Paraguay, Spain 
and  Uruguay;  Christopher  Greenwood 
(United 
that  connection, 
the 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-59039 (E) 
*0859039* 

in 
in 
to  a  note  by 
The  Assembly  also  has  before 
A/63/PV.39 

Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland)  has 
been nominated also by the national groups of Italy and 
the  Russian  Federation;  and Abdulqawi Ahmed  Yusuf 
(Somalia)  has  been  nominated  also  by  the  national 
groups of Italy and Uruguay.  
I  should  also  like  to  draw  the  attention  of  the 

Assembly 
the  Secretary-General, 
contained  in  document  A/63/187/Add.2,  in  which  he 
indicates  that  the  national  group  of  Colombia  decided 
to withdraw its nomination of Mr. Rafael Nieto-Navia 
as a candidate. 

it  document 
A/63/188,  which  contains  the  curricula  vitae  of  the 
candidates nominated by the national groups. 
In accordance with Article 10, paragraph 1, of the 

Statute  of  the  Court,  those  candidates  who  obtain  an 
absolute  majority  of  votes  both 
the  General 
Assembly  and 
the  Security  Council  shall  be 
considered as elected. 

The consistent practice of the United Nations has 
been  to  interpret  the  words  “absolute  majority”  as 
meaning a majority of all electors, whether or not they 
vote or are allowed to vote. The electors in the General 
Assembly are all 192 Member States. Accordingly, for 
the  present  election,  97  votes  constitute  an  absolute 
majority in the General Assembly. 

Pursuant to rule 151 of the rules of procedure of 
the  Assembly,  if  in  the  first  ballot  the  number  of 
candidates  obtaining  an  absolute  majority  is  less  than 
five,  a  second  ballot  will  be  held  and  balloting  will 
continue at the same meeting until five candidates have 
obtained the required majority. 

General  Assembly  decided 
unrestricted.  That  decision  has  been 
consistently.  

I  should  like  to  bring  another  matter  to  the 
attention of the General Assembly. Cases have arisen in 
the  Security  Council  in  which  more  than  the  required 
number  of  candidates  have  obtained  an  absolute 
majority on the same ballot. The same also occurred in 
the  General Assembly,  at  the  44th  plenary  meeting  of 
the sixtieth session, on 7 November 2005. 

Both  organs  decided  to  hold  a  new  ballot  on  all 
the  candidates,  and  no  notification  to  the  President  of 
the  other  organ  was  made  until  only  the  required 
At its 915th meeting, on 16 November 1960, the 
that  ballots  shall  be 
followed 
2 

number  of  candidates,  and  no  more,  had  obtained  an 
absolute majority. 

May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
the  same  procedure  should  the  case  arise  at  this 
election?  
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  should  like 

to  remind  representatives  that,  pursuant  to  rule  88  of 
the rules of procedure,  
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Ballot 
“After  the  President  has  announced  the 

beginning  of  voting,  no  representative  shall 
interrupt the voting except on a point of order in 
connection with the actual conduct of the voting.” 
Any  announcements,  including  those  concerning 

withdrawals of candidatures, should therefore be made 
prior to the commencement of the voting process, that 
is to say, before the announcement of the beginning of 
the voting process. 

papers will now be distributed. 
Representatives  are  requested  to  use  only  the 

ballot  papers  now  being  distributed.  Only 
those 
candidates  whose  names  appear  on  the  ballot  papers 
are  eligible.  Representatives  will  indicate  the  five 
candidates  for  whom  they  wish  to  vote  by  placing 
crosses to the left of their names on the ballot papers. 
Ballot  papers  on  which  more  than  five  names  are 
marked  will  be  considered  invalid.  Votes  may  be  cast 
only  for  those  whose  names  appear  on  the  ballot 
papers. 
At the invitation of the President, Mrs. Noni Ismi 
(Brunei  Darussalam),  Ms.  Yuliana  Georgieva 
(Bulgaria),  Miss  Sheree  Chambers  (Jamaica), 
Mr. Paul  Ballantyne  (New  Zealand),  Mr.  Saidu 
Dodo (Nigeria) and Ms. Louise Ahlden (Sweden) 
acted as tellers. 
A vote was taken by secret ballot. 
  The meeting was suspended at 10.35 a.m. and 
resumed at 12.15 p.m. 
The  President:  The  result  of  the  voting  is  as 



follows: 



Number of ballot papers: 

Number of invalid ballots:   
Number of valid ballots: 







191 
    0 
191 
08-59039 


















163 
157 
152 
    0 
191 
  97 
Mr. Antônio Augusto Cançado  
Trindade (Brazil) 


Mr. Christopher Greenwood  
(United Kingdom of Great Britain  
and Northern Ireland)  

Mr. Ronny Abraham (France)   
Mr. Awn Shawkat Al-Khasawneh 

(Jordan) 
Ms. Miriam Defensor-Santiago  
(Philippines) 


Mr. Abdulqawi Ahmed Yusuf 
(Somalia)   

Mr. Maurice Kamto  
(Cameroon) 
Mr. Sayeman Bula-Bula 
(Democratic Republic of the Congo) 


Abstentions: 


Number of members voting: 

Required absolute  majority: 

Number of votes obtained: 


































The  following  five  candidates  have  obtained  an 
absolute majority in the General Assembly: Mr. Ronny 
Abraham,  Mr.  Awn 
Shawkat  Al-Khasawneh, 
Mr. Antônio  Augusto  Cançado  Trindade,  Ms.  Miriam 
Defensor-Santiago and Mr. Christopher Greenwood.  

the President of the Security Council.  

the Security Council, which reads: 
I  have  communicated  the  result  of  the  voting  to 
I have also received a letter from the President of 
  92 
  23 
  81 
106 
151 





A/63/PV.39
(spoke in Spanish) 

“I have the honour to inform you that at the 
6011th  meeting  of  the  Security  Council,  held  on 
6 November  2008,  for  the  purpose  of  electing 
five members of the International Court of Justice 
for  a  term  of  office  beginning  on  6  February 
2009,  Mr.  Ronny  Abraham,  Mr. Awn  Shawkat 
Al-Khasawneh,  Mr.  Antônio  Augusto  Cançado 
Trindade,  Mr.  Christopher  Greenwood  and 
Mr. Abdulqawi  Ahmed  Yusuf  obtained 
an 
absolute majority of votes.” 
to  serve  for  a  nine-year 
(spoke in English) 

As  a  result  of  the  independent  voting  in  the 
Security  Council  and  in  the  General  Assembly,  the 
following  four  candidates  have  obtained  an  absolute 
majority in both organs: Mr. Ronny Abraham, Mr. Awn 
Shawkat Al-Khasawneh, Mr. Antônio Augusto Cançado 
Trindade  and  Mr.  Christopher  Greenwood.  They  are 
therefore  duly  elected  members  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice 
term 
commencing on 6 February 2009. I should like to take 
this  opportunity  to  extend  to  them  the  congratulations 
of the Assembly on their election.  

In accordance with the provisions of article 11 of 
the  Statute  of  the  Court,  it  will  be  necessary  to  hold 
another meeting to fill the remaining vacancy.  

I  propose  that  the  present  meeting  should  be 
adjourned  and  that  the  40th  meeting  should  be  held 
immediately to vote on the remaining vacancy. 
The meeting rose at 12.20 p.m.
08-59039 

3 
