
A/63/PV.50
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

50th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 13 November 2008, 6 p.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 







  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Mbuende 
(Namibia), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
The meeting was called to order at 6.05 p.m. 





Agenda item 45 (continued) 
Culture of peace 



  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/262) 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/127) 
  Draft resolutions (A/63/L.23 and 
A/63/L.24/Rev.1) 
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 

representative of Ecuador. 
Mr. Morejón (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): It is 

a  great  honour  to  address  the  Assembly  on  behalf  of 
the  people  and  the  Government  of  Ecuador,  a  country 
that is convinced that dialogue, equality under the law 
for  all  peoples,  mutual  respect,  self-determination, 
cooperation 
the 
fundamental  principles  which  should  guide  relations 
among  States.  Ecuador  supports  the  pacific  settlement 
of international disputes and conflicts and emphatically 
rejects  the  threat  or  use  of  force  as  a  mechanism  to 
resolve them. We therefore condemn interference in the 
internal  affairs  of  States,  as  well  as  any  form  of 
intervention.  Loyal  to  those  principles,  my  country 
promotes  peace  and  universal  disarmament  and 
condemns  the  development  and  use  of  weapons  of 
mass destruction.  
and  peaceful 
coexistence 
are 
of 
rejection 
violence, 

As  a  founding  Member  of  the  United  Nations, 
Ecuador  has  enshrined  in  its  legal  structure  the 
standards  set  out  in  the  Charter,  as  well  as  the 
principles  derived  from  the  Constitution  of  UNESCO 
and  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  But 
we have gone further. In our new political constitution, 
recently  approved  by  a  vast  majority  in  a  public 
referendum, Ecuador proclaims itself a State of law, in 
which all individuals, groups, associations, educational 
communities, enterprises and institutions enjoy in their 
daily activity a firm commitment based  on respect for 
life, 
understanding, 
environmental  preservation  and  solidarity  as  essential 
elements  for  attaining  social  inclusion  and  equality. 
Furthermore, 
the  new  constitution  of  Ecuador 
condemns the imposition of bases or installations with 
military  purposes  by  one  State  on  the  territory  of 
another,  since  we  have  declared  our  country  to  be  a 
territory of peace. 

established 
tolerance  and  multiculturalism  as  basic  principles, 
respecting all types of religion and worship, including 
the  enormous  spiritual  richness  of  our  indigenous  and 
Afro-Ecuadorian  peoples.  As  President  Rafael  Correa 
Delgado,  an  economist  by  training,  stated  during  the 
commemoration of the tenth anniversary of the signing 
of Peace Accord with our brotherly country Peru, “we 
have to build a profound sustainable peace on the basis 
of development and justice”. That is precisely what we 
are doing in Ecuador; we  are building  peace each  and 
every  day  with  commitment  and  effort  and  based  on 
social  justice,  equality,  dignity  and  respect.  We  are 
Additionally,  my 
country  has 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-60280 (E) 
*0860280* 

to  change 
trust  measures, 
A/63/PV.50 

committed to building a supportive human society that 
fosters regional integration. 

To  that  end  and  convinced  that  peace  brings 
progress,  our  current  Administration,  since  taking 
office,  has  actively  participated  with  its  Peruvian 
counterpart  in  implementing  innumerable  projects  in 
the  area  of  the  southern  Ecuadorian  border,  dealing 
with  many  different  issues,  including  transportation, 
trade,  mutual 
irrigation  channels, 
tourist  plans,  highways  and  country  roads,  migration 
mechanisms,  educational  and  cultural  exchange 
programmes,  hydroelectric  stations,  environmental 
measures,  a  bi-national  park  for  peace,  among  other 
things,  involving  a  joint  investment  of  $2  billion  for 
executing projects. Those projects, as our President has 
said,  evince  our  political  will 
the 
development pattern. Today we are trying to strengthen 
the  border  and  move  towards  a  human  security 
concept. 

We  in  Ecuador  firmly  believe  that  the  human 
being  must  be  considered  the  central  concern  of  the 
international  order  and  that  strict  respect  for  human, 
civil, political, economic, social, cultural and collective 
rights  must  form  the  core  of  foreign  policy,  based  on 
the  premise 
rights  are  universal, 
interdependent  and  indivisible.  The  application  of 
those  principles  must  be  guided  by  the  principles  of 
universality, 
non-
selectivity,  with 
that  constructive 
dialogue and cooperation is necessary in order to foster 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  and 
fundamental 
to 
development. 

The  same  view  applies  with  regard  to  the 
implementation  of  Plan  Ecuador  in  area  of  the  border 
zone with Colombia. Its purpose is to conceive human 
security  as  a  result  of  peace  and  development.  That 
plan 
three  fundamental  axes:  first, 
strengthening security and the culture of peace, centred 
on the human being and based upon the satisfaction of 
their  needs  and  the  achievement  of  their  full  potential 
in  terms  of  capabilities  and  freedoms.  Secondly,  it 
fosters  the  maintenance  of  equitable  international 
relations  in  solidarity  with  others;  and  thirdly,  it 
affirms  a  defense  policy  based  on  the  protection  of 
populations  and  natural  resources,  national  heritage 
and effective control of one’s territory. 
the  recognition 
is  based  on 
that  human 
impartiality, 
objectivity 
freedoms, 
including 
and 
the 
right 
and 
poverty, 
violence. 
exclusion 
economic 
objectives, 
development 
in  Colombia 
internal  conflict 

Owing  to  the  impact  of  the  internal  Colombian 
conflict on Ecuadorian society, Plan Ecuador is focused 
on  multidimensional  and  multi-sector  prevention 
efforts  aimed  at  solving  the  grave  problems  resulting 
from 
Its 
implementation  is  based  on  achieving  national  social 
and 
strict 
compliance  with  international  agreements  in  the  field 
of  human  rights,  conservation  and  the  sustainable 
exploitation  of  natural  resources  and  the  fight  against 
all kinds of illegal activities affecting human security. 

We propose to that effect the strengthening of the 
economy  of  the  border  provinces,  improvement  in  the 
quality  of  life  of  the  people,  increasing  the  presence 
and  the  coordination  of  our  State  institutions  and 
strengthening the management capacity of Government 
and local social organizations. That is the only way to 
respond  efficiently  and  in  a  timely  manner  to  the 
increased  number  of  social  problems  and 
those 
resulting from the displacement of groups of people by 
the 
to  strengthen 
humanitarian  aid,  minimize  the  environmental  impact 
of  production  activities  and  to  keep  the  population 
from getting involved in illegal activities. 

Plan  Ecuador  is  a  starting  point  that  sets  the 
political  agenda  of  the  Government  regarding  the 
northern  border.  That  instrument  has  been  enriched 
with the help and participation of the main local actors. 

The refugee issue in the northern border area is a 
national priority for my country as we seek to build our 
culture  of  peace.  In  order  to  foster  comprehensive 
economic  and  social  development  and  build  a  zone  of 
peace,  as  conceived  by  Plan  Ecuador,  State  policies 
regarding refugees must guarantee their protection and 
at  the  same  time  provide  a  lasting  solution  for  those 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  Colombians  who  need 
international protection. 

Ecuador  has  implemented  key  strategies  to  fulfil 
such  high  humanitarian  objectives  and  they  deserve 
special  mention.  Those  strategies  allow  the  active 
inclusion  of  people  in  need  of  international  protection 
into  Ecuadorian  society,  making  Ecuador  the  country 
with  the  largest  number  of  refugees  in  the  western 
hemisphere. 

Finally,  and  despite  the  enormous  investment  in 
human and economic resources for refugees, which has 
gone  beyond  the  country’s  possibilities,  Ecuador  has 
renewed  its  commitment  to  the  issue  of  refugees,  the 
2 

08-60280 
for 
the 
effective  promotion 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 


same  commitment  that  has  been  strengthened  by  the 
implementation of our renewed policy on refugees. 

Everything I have said in this statement provides 
examples  of  what  my  country  and  Government  have 
implemented 
and 
implementation of a culture of peace. Ecuador is truly 
convinced that only by building a new multipolar order 
that  actively  incorporates  the  economic  and  political 
regional  blocks  and  by  strengthening  horizontal 
relations,  can  a  better,  more  just,  democratic  and 
diverse world be built. 

Chairman of the delegation of Belarus. 
Mr.  Dapkiunas  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

Belarus welcomes the results of the World Conference 
on Dialogue, which took place in Madrid in July 2008. 
We agree with the principles of dialogue, tolerance and 
mutual understanding set forth in the final Declaration. 
Belarus particularly appreciates the idea in the Madrid 
Declaration  on  the  value  of  diversity  in  the  culture  of 
peoples and civilizations. 

At  the  2005  World  Summit,  the  President  of 
Belarus proposed to recognize the diversity of ways to 
achieve  progressive  development  as  a  value  of 
civilization.  The  purpose  of  the  initiative  was  to 
support  diversity  of  political,  social  and  economic 
systems  in  today’s  world.  Such  diversity  involves 
various  ways  of  life  for  peoples,  including  religious 
and cultural aspects and historic legacies.  
is  certainly  a  value 

Diversity 
for  world 
civilization.  It 
is 
the  political, 
economic  and  social  lives  of  peoples  that  is  the 
prerequisite for effective dialogue, including a dialogue 
of  cultures  and  religions.  Supporting  diverse  ways  of 
progressive  development  is  also  one  of  the  most 
important  factors  in  maintaining  international  peace 
and  security.  We  agree  with  the  appeal  in  the  Madrid 
Declaration  to  encourage  a  dialogue  of  religions.  For 
Belarus, the principles of interreligious and inter-ethnic 
tolerance,  dialogue  and  cooperation  have  been  an 
integral element of social life.  

The  historical  religious  and  ethnic  diversity  in 
Belarus has led to an absence of conflicts on the basis 
of  religious  or  ethnic  intolerance.  The  favourable 
interreligious  and  interracial  relations  in  Belarus  are 
fostered  by  active  State  policy.  We  believe  that  the 
United Nations should broadly and decisively promote 
the  diversity  of 
A/63/PV.50
intolerance; 
to  enhance 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
the  development  of  inter-ethnic  and  interreligious 
dialogue.  We  welcome  the  holding  in  the  United 
Nations  of  yearly  forums  on  encouraging  dialogue 
among  cultures  and 
religions  as  an  effective 
mechanism for exchanging experiences. 

However, specific proposals that have been made 
in recent discussions in recent years have not yet been 
sufficiently  reflected  in  decisions  of  the  General 
Assembly, other bodies and specialized agencies of the 
United  Nations  system.  We  believe  it  is  important  to 
call  upon  the  international  community  to  assist  in 
expanding  education  as  an  effective  means  to  combat 
religious  and  racial 
the 
innovative  use  of  the  latest  information  technologies 
for  interreligious  and  inter-ethnic  dialogue,  especially 
among young people; to ensure political correctness in 
the media and their moral and ethical responsibility in 
the  context  of  freedom  of  speech  and  also  to  expand 
academic exchange among countries. Belarus proposes 
that we consistently include these ideas in decisions of 
the General Assembly. 

representative of Costa Rica. 
Mr.  Weisleder  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Costa  Rica  wishes  to  express  its  thanks  to  King 
Abdullah  Bin  Abdelaziz  Al  Saud  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Saudi  Arabia  for  his  endeavours  to  bring  about  this 
meeting 
the  dialogue  among 
civilizations promoted by Spain and Turkey.  

A  country  such  as  ours,  which  on  1  December 
will  celebrate  60  years  since  we  constitutionally  and 
institutionally  abolished  our  army,  must  welcome  all 
efforts intended to achieve and promote peace. Here, it 
is  worth  recalling  what  Pope  John  Paul  II  stated  with 
intellectual  and  spiritual  clarity  at  the  thirty-first 
session of the Conference of the Food and Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  (FAO):  in  today’s 
world, development is the new name for peace.  
For  its  part,  the  United  Nations,  as  the  broadest 

most  democratic  and  most  inclusive  organization  of 
peoples and States, and faithful to its founding values, 
has stated, by remit of heads of State or Government in 
the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  that  the 
three pillars of its mission are peace, development and 
respect for human rights.  

The  Millennium  Declaration  tells  us  that  those 
pillars are interrelated and mutually reinforcing. It is of 
the  context  of 
in 
08-60280 

3 

the  adoption  of 
A/63/PV.50 

great symbolic significance that, in December, 60 years 
will have passed since both the abolition of the army in 
our  country  and 
the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  If  only  human  rights 
were to prevail effectively and universally, how far we 
would have progressed towards a culture of peace.  

Accordingly, there are two fundamental elements 
if  we  are  to  conceive,  develop  and  disseminate  a 
culture  of  peace.  On  the  one  hand,  we  must  live  in 
peace  —  in  peace  with  our  neighbour  and  with 
ourselves, deeply respecting the essential in all human 
beings,  each  of  whom  possesses  inherent  dignity.  On 
the other hand, we must ensure that access to education 
is a true, effective and universal right.  

Education, both in the home and at school, must 
convey  respect for others:  for their religions, cultures, 
physical  and  mental  states  and  any  other  human  or 
social attribute. The values about which we are talking 
today  and  which  we  are  promoting  must  be  the 
cornerstone  of  the  educational  materials  used  by  our 
children  and  young  people.  Our  Governments  must 
ensure that no book, tape or education material of any 
sort 
fostering 
discrimination,  indifference,  hate  or  violence  against 
any human group. 

It  is  undeniable  that  we  are  living  in  difficult 
times. While  men  and  women  of  goodwill  throughout 
the world praise peace and live in peace, weapons and 
petty or lofty ambitions fill our fields with blood when 
they  should  be  planted  with  seeds  and  irrigated  with 
water  so  that  the  natural  world  that  God  gave  us  may 
offer  the  rich  fruit  of  the  Earth  that  feeds  all  of  us. 
While  men  and  women  of  goodwill  yearn  for  a 
solidarity  that  would  organize  and  protect  humanity, 
greed  and  selfishness  are  rampant.  While  people  of 
goodwill work to bring close those who have been cast 
aside  or  considered 
importance, 
ignorance  or  poorly  understood  tradition  nevertheless 
keeps them afar and under domination.  

However, against this backdrop, allow me here to 
recall the old adage that it is always darkest before the 
dawn. How much truth there is in that phrase. At a time 
when we are in the midst of wars, natural disasters and 
economic  events  that  worry  all  of  us,  the  prophetic 
vision  and  the  dream  of  Martin  Luther  King,  Jr.,  are 
ever  more  real.  The  power  of  his  idealism  and  the 
power  of  change  must  overturn  prejudice  and  mental 
barriers  that,  a  short  time  ago,  appeared  invincible. 
to  be  without 
concepts 
contains 
or 
ideas 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Martin  Luther  King  and  his  ideals  have  reached  the 
promised  land.  The  culture  of  respect  for  diversity  as 
the foundation of peace has taken a great leap forward.  

From  my  country,  Costa  Rica,  where,  whenever 
we sing our national anthem, we say “Long live work 
and peace”, we raise our voice in this Hall to proclaim 
together  with  the  prophet  Isaiah  that  swords  shall  be 
beaten into ploughshares and that men shall learn war 
no more.  

Chairman of the delegation of Croatia. 
Mr. Jurica (Croatia): Let me start by expressing 

my sincere appreciation to the President of the General 
Assembly for organizing this high-level meeting and to 
His  Majesty  the  King  of  Saudi  Arabia  for  having 
undertaken  this  initiative.  We  have  had  the  chance 
during the past two days to listen to heads of State or 
Government  from  the  many  diverse  regions  of  the 
world,  and  we  have  heard  them  place  a  great  deal  of 
importance  on  the  value  of  mutual  dialogue  and 
understanding.  Their  strong  commitment 
the 
promotion  of  these  values  can  give  rise  to  a  future 
filled with promise and hope. 

Today  we  live  in  a  world  that  is  closely  linked 
through  telecommunications  and  the  global  economy. 
We  do  not  need  to  live  close  to  one  another  to  know 
that somewhere else in the world a different culture or 
religion  or  system  of  beliefs  exists.  As  our  citizens 
interact,  our  economies  and  our  cultures  also  interact. 
In 
interaction,  mutual  understanding  of  one 
another’s  faith  and  culture  is  the  basis  for  our  well-
being, our stability and our prosperity. 

On  the  other  hand,  it  would  be  wrong  for  any 
religion  to  claim  superiority  over  others  in  terms  of 
holding the highest truth.  If we  fail to understand  and 
appreciate  one  another’s  differences,  religion  and 
culture will eventually be used to promote and deepen 
conflicts,  instead  of  bringing  us  closer  together.  The 
freedom  to  hold  a  belief  of  one’s  choosing,  or  to 
change  it,  is  an  essential  attribute  of  the  human 
conscience and a prerequisite for peaceful coexistence 
and unity as one single but diverse human family. 

As  we  celebrate  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, it is crucial to 
ensure that every single person has freedom of speech 
and expression and freedom of faith and belief, which 
this 
to 
4 

08-60280 


includes freedom of religion. That, in its ultimate form, 
is the basis for intercultural dialogue. 

With  its  geographical  position,  Croatia  has  been 
at  the  crossroads  of  various  religions  and  cultures  for 
centuries.  It  is  a  place  where  Central  and  Eastern 
Europe meet the Mediterranean and where Christianity 
meets  Islam  and  Judaism,  the  cradle  of  our  belief  in 
one  God  and  creator.  Croatia  is  a  strong  supporter  of 
the Alliance of Civilizations initiative, which is aimed 
at  combating  extremism  and  overcoming  cultural 
misunderstandings  among  civilizations.  Croatia  has 
actively engaged in that process  and is  about to begin 
preparing for its national plan on the issue.  

Croatia  welcomes  the  idea  behind  the  World 
Conference  on  Dialogue,  held  this  year  in  Madrid, 
Spain,  which  brought 
together  representatives  of 
various  religions  in  the  hope  that  it  would  promote 
mutual  understanding  and  tolerance.  We  would  also 
like  to  draw  attention  to  the  recent  meeting  in  Rome 
between Catholics and Muslims, at which a number of 
timely  and  pertinent  issues  were  discussed.  Such 
meetings are good examples of bridging the differences 
among  cultures  and  religions  where  a  common 
denominator can be found. 

Religious  communities  and  their  leaders  hold  a 
great  deal  of  power  and  responsibility  in  their  hands. 
Believers listen to the  words of such leaders and seek 
their  guidance,  especially  at  this  time  of  change  and 
challenges.  The  important  responsibility  of  promoting 
mutual  understanding  and  tolerance  that  rests  with 
religious  leaders  provides  them  with  a  unique  moral 
authority to guide people in the direction of accepting 
their neighbours and rejecting distorted uses of religion 
that exacerbate conflicts and tensions. 
In  many  regions  of  the  world,  we  see  that 

interreligious  and 
is  a 
prerequisite  for  international  peace  and  security. As  a 
country rich in cultural diversity, we understand that a 
common and  peaceful  future for the  benefit  of  all  can 
be  built  only  on 
tolerance, 
understanding  and  reconciliation. We  should  all  strive 
to  accept  our  differences  and  use  them  as  a  bridge  by 
which to bring nations and peoples together and build 
the  conditions  for  a  peaceful  solution  to  long-lasting 
conflicts, 
than  exacerbating  dissimilarities 
created  by  historical  or  cultural  differences  or 
misgivings. 
intercultural  cooperation 
the  foundations  of 
rather 
A/63/PV.50
hatred 
and 
the 
terrorism, 
this  high-level  meeting  of 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on 

Although no one can change the past, we can all 
commit  to  strengthening  our  future  prospects  by 
investing  in  new  generations.  Our  children  were  not 
born with prejudice in their hearts; they were taught it. 
If  we  offer  them  interfaith  education  based  on  the 
principle of mutual understanding and acceptance, they 
will grow up with a better chance to shape a world free 
of discrimination and intolerance. 

Chairman of the delegation of Sri Lanka. 
Mr.  Palihakkara  (Sri  Lanka): The  delegation  of 

Sri  Lanka  commends  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  Bin 
Abdulaziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia for the initiative to 
convene 
the  General 
Assembly on the subject “Culture of peace”. The world 
community  is  confronted  with  multiple  crises  that 
touch  upon  human  and  inter-State  behaviour  in  all  its 
aspects,  heightening  tensions,  uncertainty  and  even 
fear  and  anxiety.  It  is  indeed  timely  to  reflect  on  the 
need  to  understand  and  deal  with  the  scourges  of 
extremism, 
xenophobic 
tendencies that lie at the root of those problems.  

Initiatives  on  the  dialogue  among  civilizations, 
the  dialogue  among  faiths  and  the  dialogue  among 
peoples and communities are not new; they have been 
and  remain  an  integral  part  of  the  human  endeavour 
aimed at overcoming conflict and intolerance. About a 
decade ago, when theories regarding an imminent clash 
of civilizations were being propounded by some, there 
were  wise  initiatives  in  Asia  to  promote  a  dialogue 
among civilizations. That process has come a long way. 
It  has  been  heartening  to  see  its  further  evolution 
through  high-level  meetings  that  have  been  held  at 
important  venues  in  places  ranging  from  Madrid  to 
Phnom  Penh  and  from  Tehran  to  Astana,  covering 
almost  all  corners  of  the  world  and  now  coming  to 
fruition here at the United Nations in New York. 

All those initiatives have  been timely in a world 
beset  by  words  and  deeds  of  bigotry.  The  present 
dialogue  can  deepen  mutual  understanding  and  enable 
us 
to  develop  shared  perspectives  on  common 
challenges  affecting  humanity  and  a  vision  for  a 
collective response to such challenges, rooted in values 
and ethics. 

A  culture  of  peace  should  not  be  a  rhetorical 
exercise or a matter of precept alone, nor is it a debate 
on values versus human rights or vice versa. It is self-
08-60280 

5 
providing 
approaches 
best-practices 
A/63/PV.50 

evident  that  a  culture  of  peace  is  the  core  value 
underpinning all major religions of the world.  

Moreover,  the  crises  of  the  past  and  present 
notwithstanding,  we  live  in  an  era  in  which  examples 
of great men and women who have nurtured, practiced 
and  given  meaning  to  the  concept  of  non-violence, 
tolerance  and  passive  resistance,  without  resort  to 
terror and without harm to fellow human beings, have 
become  more  relevant  than  ever  before.  Mahatma 
Gandhi,  Martin  Luther  King  and  the  living  legend 
Nelson Mandela are but a few of those who continue to 
be  icons  of  peace  and  reconciliation.  Their  missions 
and  lives  have  drawn  more  on  the  inner  strength  of 
being human, proving beyond a shadow of a doubt that 
intolerance and terrorism  have no place in any human 
endeavour 
to  overcome  oppression,  denial  or 
deprivation.  Even  today,  there  are  a  countless  number 
of  persons  still  out  there  who  are  practicing  those 
ethics, 
to 
peacebuilding  and  conflict  resolution.  As  we  invest 
time, resources and energy in forums such as this, it is 
also  timely  that  we  take  a  leaf  from  their  lives  as  we 
reflect  on  the  important  aspect  of  advancing  a  culture 
of peace at all levels. 

We  live  in  an  increasingly  fragile  and  polarized 
world.  Underdevelopment,  poverty  and  a  multiplicity 
of  social  and  economic  ills,  compounded  by  hatred, 
terrorism and the defamation of religions and cultures, 
as well as unsustainable consumption and exploitation, 
Environmental 
continue 
degradation, 
the 
continued  weaponization  of  human  security  — 
including,  of  course,  the  menace  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  —  and  organized  crime  continue  to  push 
the  world  towards  further  instability  and  crisis. While 
human 
breathtaking 
developments  in  science  and  technology,  the  benefits 
of such creativity are increasingly being outweighed by 
the potential for misdirection and exploitation that they 
have entailed.  

By  definition,  a  culture  of  peace  includes  much 
more than just peace and security, which we often talk 
about.  It  encompasses  the  gamut  of  positive  attributes 
needed to replace the culture of weapons and violence, 
misery  and  repression  that  has  dominated  the  human 
history.  These 
rejecting 
terrorism and violence, sharing with others, listening in 
order 
planet, 
in 
rediscovering 
the  erosion  of  ethical  values, 
understand, 
solidarity 
participating 
preserving 
respecting 
humanity. 
include 
ingenuity 
has 
heralded 
to 
beset 
to 
life, 
the 
and 

democracy.  There  are  yet  more,  which  relate  both  to 
our  way  of  life  and  to  our  relationships  with  fellow 
human  beings.  Compassion,  not  hatred,  and  informed 
inquiry,  not  blind  adherence  —  as  advocated  in 
Buddhism  —  are  key  strands  that  run  through  the 
concept of a culture of peace. 

A  culture  of  peace  presupposes  realizing  equity 
and  equality  for  all,  with  justice  and  dignity.  An 
absence  of  these  would  naturally  negate  any  effort  at 
achieving  a  global  order  conducive  to  stability  and 
prosperity. A  comprehensive  approach  to  enhancing  a 
culture  of  peace,  therefore,  remains  predicated  on  a 
lasting  commitment  and  the  will  to  take  meaningful 
measures  on  multiple  fronts,  essential  to  securing 
humanity. 

First, we should place emphasis on the imperative 
of  peaceful  coexistence.  At  the  same  time,  positive 
recognition  of  differences  in  the  ways  of  life  and  the 
expressions of ideas, as well as the pursuit of beliefs, is 
of  equal  importance.  We  should  both  strengthen  and 
expand the platform for dialogue. It is unfortunate that 
dialogue 
is  often  confused  with  argument,  and 
consequently, an overemphasis on argument culture has 
overshadowed the importance of a culture of dialogue. 
This  is  true  of  many  peacemaking  efforts,  whether 
inter-State or intra-State. We need to reverse that trend. 

religion, 
community,  or  ethnicity  can  be  equated  or  associated 
with  violence  or  terrorism  is  crucial  to  sustainable 
peace.  Equally,  no  entity  postulating  or  practicing 
terrorism  can  or  should  be  allowed  to  claim  to 
represent any community, ethnic or religious interests. 

to  address  vulnerabilities, 
compounded  by  backwardness,  social  and  economic 
exclusions, if necessary even by upholding the value of 
affirmative  action.  It  is  also  imperative  that  we  take 
conscious  and  determined  action  to  humanize  our 
thoughts  and  conduct  more.  We  witness,  on  a  daily 
basis, the media and others describing ordinary events 
in militaristic terms. It is unfortunate that we continue 
to  apply  the  dichotomy  of  combatants  versus  non-
combatants to civilians, whereas the distinction should 
in 
fact  be  civilians  versus  non-civilians.  The 
introduction of the term “collateral” into the lexicon of 
human 
the  most  negative 
developments  in  recent  years.  It  is  time  that  we,  and 
younger  generations,  were  weaned  away  from  such 
A  positive 
is  one  of 
affirmation 
important 
that  no 
relations 
is 
It 
6 

08-60280 
foundation 
strengthening 


thinking.  Only  terrorist  groups  would  benefit  from 
such weaponized thought processes. 

Last but not least, we should build on the positive 
aspects  of  our  different  value  systems  and  belief 
systems in order to harness a greater understanding and 
rapprochement.  The  media,  like  other  actors  and 
players, need to play a catalytic role in this context. It 
is time to desist from the promotion of conflict and the 
glorification  of  terrorism  and  rededicate  ourselves  to 
actively 
the 
for 
multiculturalism and coexistence. 

As  a  country  where  the  four  major  religions  of 
Buddhism,  Hinduism,  Christianity  and  Islam  have 
coexisted  for  centuries  in  peace  and  harmony,  Sri 
Lanka  shares  an  intrinsic  belief  in  the  value  and 
importance of a sustained dialogue among civilizations 
and cultures, as well as interreligious and intercultural 
cooperation  for  peace.  That  spirit  and  ethic  of 
coexistence and mutual respect have been the bedrock 
of our 2,500 year-old civilization, founded on the core 
Buddhist values of compassion, understanding, modest 
living  and  friendliness  towards  nature.  Buddhism  and 
other  religions  have  immense  potential  and  scope  to 
play  crucial  roles  as  religions  of  peace  in  culture  of 
peace initiatives. 

Chairman of the delegation of Bolivia. 
Mr. Siles Alvarado (Bolivia) (spoke in Spanish): 

We are gathered here today to consider agenda item 45, 
entitled  “Culture  of  peace”,  to  think  together  of  ways 
to strengthen dialogue among our various religions and 
of  ways  of  achieving  an  alliance  among  our 
civilizations. 

We are living through times of crisis and change. 
This consideration and search for unity among peoples 
has become of paramount importance in these turbulent 
times, these times of crisis and major challenges, times 
in  which  we  are  becoming  aware  that  our  world  is  on 
the brink of inevitable disaster, of global crisis, a world 
emergency  that  could  be  described  in  the  following 
ways.  First,  climate  change  is  causing  ever  stronger 
and more frequent disturbances and natural disasters. If 
certain  critical  thresholds  are  passed,  there  could 
suddenly be disastrous consequences, especially for the 
poorest nations and peoples. 

Second,  the  depletion  of  the  planet’s  natural 
resources, which are being drastically sapped owing to 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
A/63/PV.50
over-exploitation  by 
industrialized  nations,  which 
every  year  consume  30  per  cent  more  of  the  world’s 
natural resources than can be renewed. 

Third, we have a water crisis. With urbanization, 
industrialization and increased use of energy, there has 
been a greater consumption of water, and water tables 
have  been  drawn  upon  to  a  greater  degree,  thus 
reducing the sources of this vital liquid in many areas 
of the world. 

Fourth, the current crises in food production have 
resulted  from  climate  change,  speculation  and  the 
increasing conversion of agricultural produce into raw 
materials for agro-fuels. This is causing a drastic price 
hike and is gradually reducing world reserves. 
Fifth, an energy crisis has arisen with the end of 

the era  of  cheap  energy,  above all, oil  and gas — and 
yet, no alternative forms of energy have been found to 
replace  them  at  the  current  levels  of  consumption. 
Neither  are  there  energy  models  that  could  contribute 
to  reducing  consumption.  We  continue  to  see  natural 
resources being pillaged. 

the  current  financial  crisis  has  been 
spreading  throughout  the  world  in  2008  and  has 
deepened 
countries, 
burdening peoples with the responsibility of saving the 
system  at  the  cost  of  seeing  their  rights  eroded  and 
unemployment increasing. 

Seventh,  there  is  the  crisis  of  time,  in which  the 
time scale of industrial production clashes harshly with 
the  rhythm  of  life,  leading  to  a  tremendous  collision 
between  the  rhythm  of  natural  time  cycles  and  the 
linear time of history as measured by the clock. 

This  multifaceted  crisis  is  an  expression  of  the 
crisis  of  the  capitalist  system.  As  it  worsens,  it  is 
becoming  a  factor  that  is  de-stabilizing  international 
relations. 

If  the  countries  of  the  world  do  not  reach 
agreement  on  the  necessary  joint  measures  to  resolve 
the  crisis,  the  culmination  of  the  effects  of  climate 
change in the world and depleted natural resources will 
mean  that  it  will  be  more  likely  that  many  politicians 
will favour the military option. They would do so in an 
attempt  to  hold  on  to  their  privileged  living  standards 
for longer and maintain their control over access to oil 
deposits  and  strategic  routes  for  the  transport  of 
hydrocarbons,  but  also  over  access  to  drinking  water, 
asymmetries 
between 
Sixth, 
the 
08-60280 

7 

A/63/PV.50 

important  mineral  deposits,  forests  and  land  for  food 
and biofuels, among other natural resources.  

This  global  systemic  crisis  derives  from  a 
resurgence of racism as a tool of powerful groups and 
elites  to  entrench  their  privileges  and  to  see  in  the 
others — those different from them, the ones they have 
colonized  —  a  threat  to  their  ability  to  continue  to 
enjoy  their  accustomed  lifestyle.  In  several  countries 
and regions, racism has gone from speech to action and 
is expressed in violent acts against indigenous cultures, 
migrants  and  peoples  of  the  South.  Sometimes,  this  is 
subtly  expressed 
through  policies  and  control 
mechanisms in certain States.  

Faced  with  this  worrying  perspective  of  the 
growing global crisis, the culture of life and peace has 
blossomed,  a  culture  that  is  embodied  by  indigenous 
peoples,  as  has  been  demonstrated  throughout  history, 
and that is now gaining strength as an alternative to the 
unquestioned  prevailing  system.  Our  communities  are 
fostering  another,  more  balanced  form  of  life  and  the 
construction  of  another  Abya  Yala  —  which  is  now 
called America — of another world.  
We  indigenous  peoples  wish  to  live  not  just 

together with other human beings but in harmony with 
Mother Earth. Indigenous nations throughout the world 
are  the  reservoir  of  ancestral  wisdom  and  scientific 
knowledge  for  protecting  life.  They  are  the  moral 
reserve and a decisive factor for saving the world. We 
as human beings have to recognize that we are part of 
Mother  Nature  and  that  we  need  to  re-establish 
complementary relationships among ourselves and with 
nature. 

In that framework, everybody and everything are 
of importance in our culture. We all have a space. We 
are  all  worth  something.  We  all  maintain  a  balance 
among  ourselves.  That  is  to  say,  we  all  need  one 
another and we all belong to the culture of life. We are 
all  a  part  of  a  community  based  on  giving  and 
receiving,  on  living  in  complementarity  with  each 
other,  on  the  common  good,  on  organized  mutual 
support  and  on  life  together,  in  which  capacities  are 
developed  without  destroying  human  beings  and 
nature. We are part of the Tama — the great family — 
which  has  always  been  present 
the  unity, 
complementarity,  hearts  and  actions  of  indigenous 
peoples. 
To  contribute  to  this  international  debate,  our 

President, Evo Morales, has put forward ten proposals, 
in 
inhuman,  with  unbridled 
ten commandments to save the planet, humankind and 
life.  Among  the  most  important  proposals  is  the 
obligation to put an end to the capitalist system. If we 
wish to save Earth in order to save life and humankind, 
we must put an end to the very essence of capitalism, 
which  is  the  seeking  of  profit  at  the  cost  of  life.  The 
serious  effects  of  climate  change  and  of  the  energy, 
food and financial crises are not a result of the actions 
of  human  beings  in  general,  as  is  often  explained. 
Rather,  they  are  products  of  the  prevailing  capitalist 
system,  its  production  and  consumption  networks  and 
its  destructive  and  predatory  logic,  which  has  made 
civilization 
industrial 
development eternally clashing with life.  

Renouncing  war  is  another  inescapable  task, 
because  peoples  do  not  win  wars,  only  empires  win 
wars.  Nations  do  not  win  wars,  only  transnational 
corporations  win  wars.  Wars  benefit  small  groups  of 
the  powerful  and  not  peoples.  They  destroy  life  and 
pillage  natural  resources.  Nothing  and  nobody  can  be 
saved from war. Those who fight suffer and those who 
go  hungry  to  feed  war  suffer.  Mother  Earth  and  the 
natural balance of life suffer. Above all, it is the human 
condition  and  those  rights  that  we  have  built  up  little 
by little, as nations, that suffer.  

It is essential to build a world free of imperialism 
and  colonialism,  where  relations  must  be  aimed  at 
complementarity,  the  respect  for  diverse  sovereign 
entities and identities and where the deep asymmetries 
that exist between one family and another, one country 
and  another  and  one  continent  and  another  are  taken 
into account.  

regional 
integration  are  being  built.  Those  processes  clearly 
show  that  we  wish  to  bring  about  coexistence  among 
our various peoples, economies and civilizations, to put 
an  end  to  the  unipolar  world  and  bring  about  a 
balanced, multipolar one.  

Another  issue  is  how  to  put  an  end  to  wasting 
energy. In 100 years, we have used up fossil fuels that 
were 
created  over  millions  of  years.  Some 
Governments  set  aside  land  to  produce  energy  for 
machines and cars and not for human beings. We must 
implement  policies  to  curb  the  overproduction  of 
biofuels and, in this way, avoid hunger and poverty for 
our peoples.  
We  must  become  fully  aware  with  regard  to 

respect  for  Mother  Earth.  The  capitalist  system  treats 
the  world,  blocs 
Throughout 
for 
8 

08-60280 
local  agriculture, 
thus  stimulating  self-sufficiency  and 


her  as  a  raw  material,  as  a  resource  according  to  the 
system’s  predatory  logic.  But  Earth  is  our  home  and 
cannot be turned into merchandise.  

In  this  time  of  climate  chaos  and  resource 
scarcity  on  our  finite  planet,  we  must  put  an  end  to 
consumerism,  waste  and  luxury  and  consume  only 
what is necessary. We must prioritize what we produce 
and  consume  locally,  as  well  as  exchanges  among 
regions, 
the 
sovereignty  of  communities  within  the  limits  allowed 
by the health and resources of the planet. We must not 
go beyond what the Earth can provide to shelter us. 
Industrialized  nations  must  radically  reorient 

their  production, 
their  economies  and 
readapt 
consumption  and  energy  use 
levels.  They  must 
abandon  the  vision  of  unbridled  economic  growth, 
which  is  utopian  and  suicidal.  They  must  reduce 
industrialization  and  long-distance  trade  and  promote 
local  production  and 
thereby 
overcoming the imbalances among nations.  

The  major  problems  facing  humankind  and  the 
planet  today  are  connected  with  the  imbalances  that 
have  been  created  among  nations  and  regions.  We 
cannot  tackle  the  various  crises  we  have  mentioned  if 
these  imbalances  among  countries  persist.  It  is  not  a 
question of helping developing countries to achieve the 
same level of development as developed countries. The 
living arrangements in the North cannot be extended to 
the  entire  planet,  because 
there  are  not  enough 
resources on Mother Earth to withstand such pillaging 
of natural resources. If we were all to live at the same 
level  as  developed  countries,  we  would  need  three  or 
four more planets. This is unsustainable development.  

Therefore, Bolivia talks of living well rather than 
of living better at the cost of others and nature. Living 
well  is  based  on  the  life  of  our  peoples,  the  riches  of 
our communities: fertile land, clean air and water and a 
simple 
to 
consumption and ensure balanced production.  

Living better is a concept that implies that certain 
peoples can live better than others. However, if we live 
better  and  see  others  who  are  worse  off,  that  is  not 
living well. Exploiting and subjugating our neighbours 
or attacking nature might enable us to live better, but it 
is  not  living  well.  For  us,  living  well  means  living  in 
community, being complementary one to another rather 
than  competitive,  sharing  and  not  taking  advantage  of 
our neighbours, living in harmony with others and with 
life,  which  can  reduce  our  addiction 
A/63/PV.50
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
nature and being aware of the interdependence among 
nations and regions and the interdependence of human 
beings with nature.  

By awakening the ethical and moral values of our 
peoples  and  cultures,  we  should  build  brotherhood 
among  nations,  to  make  this  new  millennium  a 
millennium  of  life,  and  not  of  death  or  war,  a 
millennium  of  balance  and  complementarity.  We,  the 
nations  of  the  world,  must  together  decide  on  and 
direct  our  destinies.  We  must  all,  men  and  women, 
construct  a  culture  of  patience,  of  dialogue  and, 
fundamentally,  of  life  and  peace.  Together,  we  must 
bring  about  respect  and  harmonious  and  peaceful 
complementarity among our nations and communities.  

Finally,  we  firmly  believe  that  we  can  neither 
resolve  nor  satisfactorily  address  all 
the  crises 
besetting us today unless we undertake discussions and 
profound reflection, here in the United Nations, on the 
new  paradigms  that  must  guide  us  in  the  twenty-first 
century. 

representative of the United Republic of Tanzania. 
Mrs.  Kafanabo  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania): 

The delegation of Tanzania is pleased to participate in 
this important debate on the promotion of interreligious 
and 
and 
cooperation  for  peace,  under  the  agenda  item  on  the 
culture  of  peace. This  high-level  meeting  has  come  at 
an  opportune  time,  when  the  rejection  of  intolerance 
and a profound aspiration to live in peace and security 
are becoming an increasingly salient feature of society 
today. 

We  congratulate  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  for 
successfully  organizing  this  high-level  meeting.  We 
believe  that  its  outcome  will  contribute  to  a  better 
understanding  and  a  deepening  dialogue  among 
cultures,  religions  and  faiths. All  of  us  therefore  have 
an  obligation  to  maintain  the  momentum  that  will  be 
generated through this meeting. 

We  also  wish  at  this  juncture  to  commend  the 
work  undertaken  by  UNESCO  and  other  United 
Nations agencies, the Alliance of Civilizations and the 
Tripartite Forum on Interfaith Cooperation for Peace in 
promoting the culture of peace. 
The importance of intercultural and interreligious 

harmony  cannot  be  underscored  sufficiently  in  the 
understanding 
intercultural 
dialogue, 
08-60280 

9 
a 
for 
to  express 
their  cultural  and 
culture  of  peace 
A/63/PV.50 

United Republic of Tanzania, a country with a diverse 
population. We have over 100 ethnic tribes and several 
religions,  which  coexist  in  harmony  and  with  full 
freedom 
religious 
diversities.  In  Tanzania  we  have  succeeded  in  having 
four  peaceful  transitions  of  the  presidency.  The  union 
of  the  Tanzania  mainland  and  the  island  of  Zanzibar 
44 years  ago,  has  stood  the  test  of  time  and  is  an 
exemplary case of unity of sovereign countries.  
The  Government  of  Tanzania  firmly  believes  in 

fostering 
sustainable 
development  and  the  prosperity  of  all  people.  The 
culture  of  peace  and  the  unity  that  we  enjoy  in 
Tanzania  has  not  come  about  by  itself;  it  has  been 
developed and nurtured. We have consistently instilled 
in our children and our people the  values of tolerance 
and  dialogue.  We  have  further  continued  to  impress 
upon them the need to refrain from the use of force and 
violence  and  instead  to  reason  with  and  respect  each 
other,  for  we  know  that  the  costs  of  conflicts  are 
devastating. 

The  freedom  of  religious  belief,  worship  and 
practice is enshrined in our Constitution. However, we 
go beyond the expression and protection of the right to 
faith  and  worship  and  encourage  dialogue  between 
various  faiths  and  religions  to  help  to  develop  the 
understanding  of  the  faiths  and  religious  beliefs  of 
others  and  to  reduce  ignorance.  Mutual  understanding 
breeds  respect  for  each  other,  while  ignorance  is  the 
seed  of  religious  bigotry  and  intolerance  and  can  be 
used  by  a  few  disillusioned  people  to  sow  seeds  of 
misunderstanding and discord in society. 

The  responsibility  for  instilling  the  culture  of 
peace  is  not  the  responsibility  of  the  Government 
alone.  Concerted  efforts  are  needed 
from  all 
stakeholders,  such  as  parliaments  and  civil  society, 
including religious and faith-based organizations. 

The  Helsinki  Process  on  Globalization  and 
Democracy,  which  Finland  and  Tanzania  co-chaired, 
and  its  final  report,  which  was  presented  to  the 
Secretary-General in September 2008 by the Presidents 
of Tanzania and Finland, underscored that globalization 
had brought changes with it, not only in world politics, 
but also diversity in the people and cultures in many of 
our  countries.  In  this  regard,  the  involvement  of 
different  stakeholders  and  international  collaboration 
and  cooperation  are  equally  essential  in  meeting  the 
objectives of the Decade for the Culture of Peace. 

The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 

We are encouraged that one of the main goals of 
the culture of peace is to ensure that the Charter of the 
United Nations is adhered to and enhances the creation 
of a culture where peace will prevail. Tanzania, as one 
of the champions of peace in the African continent and 
beyond,  will  continue  to  support  the  Decade  for  the 
Culture of Peace, the Alliance of Civilizations and the 
Tripartite Forum on Interfaith Cooperation. We should 
endeavour to ensure that the United Nations continues 
to play a leading role in these initiatives. 

chairman of the delegation of Nepal. 
Mr. Acharya (Nepal): I would like to express our 

sincere  appreciation  for  the  convening  of  this  timely 
high-level  meeting  on 
the  culture  of  peace.  We 
commend  the  initiative  of  His  Majesty  King Abdullah 
of  Saudi  Arabia  for  convening  this  meeting.  The 
presence of so many world leaders here is a testimony 
of  the  collective  commitment  to  the  cause  of  an 
enduring  culture  of  peace  in  the  world,  for  bringing 
about  harmony  and  understanding  among  different 
religions, cultures and civilizations. 
Peace  is  the  highest  calling  and  highest  ideal  of 

the  United  Nations.  It  is  among  the  most  important 
objectives  of  our  Organization.  The  United  Nations 
embraces  the  universally  shared  values  and  goals  for 
the culture of peace. In this context it is very important 
that  we  take  up  the  agenda  of  the  culture  of  peace, 
dialogue and alliance among civilizations and religions 
to  promote  harmony,  tolerance  and  fraternity  among 
the world’s various cultures, religions and civilizations. 

Nepal appreciates various initiatives on the issue 
of  the  culture  of  peace,  alliance  and  dialogue  among 
civilizations and harmony among the world’s religions 
and  cultures,  including  the  decision  to  include  the 
culture  of  peace  on 
the  General 
Assembly. The  United  Nations  system  can  do  a  lot  to 
promote 
interface  among 
civilizations, bringing together Governments, religious 
institutions,  civil  society  leaders  and  the  media  to  act 
together in the interest of the culture of peace. 

The  messages  of  peace  and  harmony  resonate  in 
every culture, civilization and faith. Nepal is a cradle, a 
confluence  of  various 
and 
civilizations,  with  Hinduism,  Buddhism  and  various 
native religions observed by diverse ethnic groups and 
indigenous  peoples.  Nepal  is  a  perfect  example  of 
tolerance  and  harmony  among  peoples  who  observe 
interfaith  dialogue  and 
the  agenda  of 
religions, 
cultures 
10 

08-60280 
it 
is  a  fact 
the  conclusion 


various  religions  and  cultures. Although  we  have  had 
our  share  of  conflict  and  violence,  which  we  are 
putting  behind  us  through  a  nationally  driven  peace 
process, 
that  religious  and  cultural 
differences are not a source of conflict in the country. 

Today,  Nepal  has  made  remarkable  progress 
towards  peace,  democracy  and  development  through 
our  own  creative  peace  process.  The  peaceful 
resolution  of  Nepal’s  decade-long  conflict  reflects  the 
importance  of  the  culture  of  peace.  The  people  of 
Nepal  have  arrived  at 
that  all 
disagreements  will  henceforth  be  resolved  through 
dialogue, accommodation and the verdict of the people 
through democratic means. 

Nepal is the country of birth of Lord Buddha, the 
Apostle of Peace and the Light of Asia. The teachings 
of  Buddha  include  the  ideals  of  peace,  compassion, 
non-violence  and  tolerance,  which  are  among  the 
guiding  principles  of  the  United  Nations.  In  that 
context, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  homage  to  Lumbini,  the 
sacred birthplace of Buddha, during his recent visit to 
Nepal. I would like to take this opportunity to state that 
we are committed to developing Lumbini into a city of 
world  peace.  The  United  Nations,  which  was 
significantly  involved  in  the  Lumbini  development 
master  plan,  can  play  a  significant  role 
the 
development of Lumbini as a fountain of world peace, 
which will greatly contribute to the culture of peace in 
the world. 

Peace  cannot  develop  in  a  vacuum,  especially 
when people are forced to live in abject poverty, in the 
face  of  so  much  prosperity 
the  world.  The 
international community should therefore invest further 
in  sustainable  economic  and  social  development,  so 
that the world’s increasing population will not have to 
resort to deadly competition over shrinking resources. 

Let me conclude by saying that respect for human 
rights  and  the  diversity  of  cultures,  religions  and 
civilizations  and 
sustainable 
development  should  be  at  the  core  of  the  activities  of 
the United Nations to promote a culture of peace in the 
world. 

chairman of the delegation of Argentina. 
Mr. Argüello (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): My 

delegation  would  also  like  to  express  its  gratitude  for 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
the  promotion  of 
in 
A/63/PV.50
the  dialogue 
the  initiative  of  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi Arabia  to  hold 
this high-level meeting. I should also like to thank the 
President of the General Assembly for agreeing to hold 
today’s meeting.  

Argentina  believes  fully  in  the  important  role 
played  by  the  United  Nations  in  bringing  together 
peoples  of  different  cultures  and  religions.  In  that 
connection,  we  welcome  the  holding  of  the  Madrid 
World  Conference  on  Dialogue  and  the  Declaration  it 
adopted  as  a  significant  contribution  to  that  noble 
objective. 

We  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  efforts  to  bring  about  the  culture  of 
peace  and  genuine  dialogue  among  peoples,  cultures 
and  religions  and  to  implement  resolution  62/90,  in 
which  the  General  Assembly  affirmed  that  mutual 
understanding  and  interreligious  dialogue  constituted 
important  dimensions  of 
among 
civilizations and the culture of peace.  

Through its various agencies, the United Nations 
has  carried  out  a  series  of  efforts  —  albeit  utilizing 
emphatically  different  approaches  and  mandates  —  to 
promote and implement the Programme of Action on a 
Culture  of  Peace,  which  was  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly in September 1999. In that connection, it is 
worth  mentioning  the  work  done  by  UNESCO,  which 
included  cultural  and  other  efforts  focused  on  the 
religious  aspect  of  international  dialogue.  Among 
additional initiatives, I should like to refer in particular 
to the Alliance of Civilizations, an effort to which the 
Argentine Republic has given its utmost support since 
it  was  launched  in  2004  on  the  initiative  of  the 
Government of the Kingdom of Spain with the support 
of Turkey. 
In  line  with  the  report  of  the  High-level  Group 

for the Alliance of Civilizations and its plan of action, 
allow  me  to  recall  that  Argentina  has  promoted  the 
dissemination  and  strengthening  of  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations  in  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
region.  In  that  regard, Argentina  organized  a  regional 
seminar  on  the  theme  “Women  and  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations:  opportunities  and  challenges”,  which 
was held in Buenos Aires on 28 and 29 April 2008 and 
included the participation of governmental experts and 
civil 
from  every  Latin 
American and Caribbean country.  
Such  a  committed  effort  as  the  Alliance  of 

Civilizations  could  not  ignore  gender  issues  and  the 
representatives 
society 
in 
08-60280 

11 

later  sent 
A/63/PV.50 

status  of  women  throughout  the  world,  in  which 
women  suffer  scandalous  inequalities  and  various 
forms of discrimination. On several occasions, we have 
reiterated  that  the  report  of  the  High-level  Group, 
which  was  appointed  by  the  Secretary-General,  has 
itself drawn attention to disturbing facts including, for 
example, that 70 per cent of children who do not attend 
school are girls and that no less than two thirds of the 
world’s  illiterate  people  are  women  or  children. Thus, 
inequality,  discrimination  and  marginalization  as 
regards  women  are  therefore  indisputable  facts  that 
have a direct impact on how we view the other, as well 
as  on  the  possibility  of  a  genuine  and  constructive 
dialogue among societies and cultures.  

The statements, conclusions and recommendations 
of  the  Buenos Aires  seminar  have  been  compiled  in  a 
book  entitled  Women  and  the Alliance  of  Civilizations: 
Opportunities and Challenges, which was launched and 
distributed  on  the  occasion  of  the  last  ministerial 
meeting  of  the  Group  of  Friends  of  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations.  The  book  was 
to  every 
delegation of the Organization’s Member States. 

It was especially enlightening to realize that there 
could potentially be analogous situations between acts 
of intolerance in the Middle East and certain situations 
in  Central America  stemming  from  the  phenomena  of 
colonization  and,  subsequently,  immigration,  which 
have  marked 
the  history  of  our  continent.  That 
experience  is  an  especially  interesting  aspect  of  a 
region such as Latin America and the Caribbean, where 
major  migratory  flows  have  historically  converged  to 
transplant  hopes  and  dreams  in  places  of  destination. 
Inevitably,  however,  the  same  prejudices  that  existed 
where those flows originated were also brought to our 
region. Those  issues  were  the  subject  of  debate  at  the 
regional  seminar  held  in  Buenos  Aires.  We  hope  that 
the work begun there will continue to be developed in 
the coming years. 

In conclusion, Argentina will continue to play an 
active  role  in  promoting  and  expanding  dialogue  and 
understanding  among  societies  and  cultures  in  the 
various regional and international forums in which we 
participate, especially as regards the lofty goals of the 
Alliance of Civilizations.  

Lastly,  we  believe  that  all  countries  that  share 
those ideals have difficult work ahead, including a very 
real  agenda  to  implement.  I  assure  the Assembly  that 
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Argentina  will  spare  no  effort  and  will  continue  to 
participate actively in that noble task. 

chairman of the delegation of Cameroon. 
in 

French):  We  note  with  appreciation  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General contained in document A/63/262, as 
well  as  his  note  contained  in  document A/63/127.  We 
also  welcome  the  holding  of  this  high-level  debate 
devoted to the interreligious and intercultural dialogue, 
aimed at establishing a culture of peace. Among other 
things,  this  year’s  high-level  debate  is  part  of  a 
tradition  that  has  been  taking  root  at  the  United 
Nations for several years. 
As the Assembly is aware, Cameroon has always 

associated itself with that tradition. Just to limit myself 
to the recent past, I note that my country was a sponsor 
of  resolution  61/221,  adopted  in  2006,  whereby  the 
General Assembly decided to hold in 2007 a high-level 
dialogue on cooperation among religions and cultures. 
My  country  was  also  a  sponsor  of  resolution  62/90, 
adopted 
that  mutual 
understanding and dialogue among religions constitute 
important  aspects  of  dialogue  among  civilizations  and 
of a culture of peace.  

As  in  the  past,  this  high-level  debate  is  fully 
relevant.  That  is  why  this  year,  once  again,  we  have 
become  a  sponsor  of 
two  draft  resolutions 
(A/63/L.23  and  A/63/L.24/Rev.1)  submitted  under 
agenda item 45.  

Today’s discussion is relevant because our world 
continues  to  pay  a  heavy  price  for  the  lack  of 
understanding  and  absence  of  dialogue.  Economic 
imbalances  and,  especially,  intolerance  and  bigotry 
continue 
for  peoples 
throughout  the  world.  Intolerance  and  bigotry  are  in 
fact  phenomena  that  underlie,  inter  alia,  the  terrorism 
that  spares  no  continent.  Intolerance  is  also  the 
rejection  of  others,  which  underlies  all  the  destructive 
fanaticism  that  we  have  seen  throughout  the  world. 
That is why serious thought and decisive action remain 
necessary in this regard.  

It  must  be  said  that  the  idea  of  a  dialogue  of 
cultures and religions is not in and of itself totally new. 
However, it should be acknowledged that the idea was 
given  new  life  immediately  following  11  September 
2001.  Dumbstruck,  the  world  found  itself  face  to  face 
to  cause  untold  suffering 
in  2007,  which  affirmed 
the 
12 

08-60280 


with  the  question  of  its  existence  and  its  future. 
Analysts  of  all  stripes,  overtaken  by  the  trap  of 
urgency, thought that they had found all the answers in 
the  idea  of  a  clash  of  civilizations.  Attractive  and 
powerful  as  a  simplistic  idea  may  be,  this  thesis  held 
that humankind had entered an era of conflict of a new 
kind.  It  was  as  if  different  civilizations,  cultures  and 
religions  could  not  agree  on  common  principles  and 
that by their very nature they were destined to fight for 
domination. 

Cameroon has mobilized all of its energy in order 
to promote a culture of peace, both within and without 
its  borders.  Internally,  our  slogan,  “Peace,  work  and 
homeland”,  begins  with  the  word  “peace”,  and  that 
highlights  the  importance  that  we  attach  to  this 
essential value. 

My  country,  a  true  mosaic  of  peoples,  cultures 
and religions, ensures respect for freedom of belief and 
religion for all, representation and harmony among the 
components  of  our  population  within  institutions,  and 
the  promotion  of  bilingualism  and  of  Cameroonian 
languages and cultures. 
Twice,  in  1985  and  in  1995,  Pope  John  Paul  II 

visited  Cameroon.  During  his  visits,  people  of  all 
religious  faiths  gathered  together  to  enshrine  the 
virtues  of  peace,  ecumenism,  understanding  and 
fraternity among all people. It is in that same spirit that 
the Government and the people of Cameroon intend to 
greet  Pope  Benedict  XVI  in  March,  during  his  first 
visit to Africa. 
relations,  my  country 

eloquently demonstrates its commitment to a culture of 
peace  through  a  policy  of  friendship,  solidarity  and 
good-neighbourliness with the countries of the Central 
African subregion, the continent of Africa and the rest 
of the world.  

Regarding the peaceful settlement of disputes, as 
attested by the Bakassi dispute between Cameroon and 
its 
concluded 
successfully,  Cameroon  is  convinced  that  there  is  no 
crisis  pitting  two  States  against  each  other,  much  less 
any  internal  crisis,  that  cannot  be  solved  peacefully 
through the virtue of dialogue. In this regard, President 
Paul Biya stated in a message to the nation,  
republic,  Nigeria,  which 
terms  of 
foreign 
In 
sister 

“The  choice  we  have  made  in  the  Bakassi 
dispute — to see right prevail over might — has 
been found to be fully justified because we are a 
A/63/PV.50
In 
people  profoundly  dedicated  to  peace,  which  we 
are  endeavouring  to  preserve  and  without  which 
the  progress  and  development  to  which  our 
peoples rightly aspire would not be achievable.” 

This  dedication  of  my  country  to  the  culture  of 
peace is also reflected by our readiness to take part in 
peacekeeping  operations  initiated  or  sponsored  by  the 
United Nations or the African Union. This contribution 
also  involves  training,  for  which  my  country  has 
created,  with  donor  support,  a  training  school  for 
peacekeeping and security.  

Like  all  peace-loving  nations,  we  believe  that 
peoples  throughout  the  world  need  a  vision  that 
highlights the values of peace, tolerance and dialogue. 
That vision should be embodied in several areas.  

terms  of  education,  we  should  promote 
recognition  and  respect  for  other  people  and  their 
differences.  In  this  regard,  my  country  welcomes  the 
intersectoral  activities  launched  by  UNESCO,  and 
especially  the  platform  entitled  “Contributing  to  the 
dialogue among civilizations and cultures and a culture 
of peace”, which is designed to encourage the updating 
of  education  and  pedagogical  materials  to  promote,  in 
particular  among  young  people,  respect  for  and 
recognition  of  diversity  of  belief.  We  note  with 
satisfaction  the  cooperation  between  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations and UNESCO, and especially the signing 
in  Madrid,  in  January  2008,  of  a  memorandum  of 
understanding  providing  for  joint  activities  fostering 
dialogue and mutual understanding.  
The President took the Chair. 

In terms of information and communications, we 

to 
should  use 
encourage 
that 
standpoint,  my  country  welcomes  the  launching  in 
February  2008  by  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  of  a 
media  rapid  reaction  mechanism  in  support  of  the 
activities of media professionals.  

In  an  organization  like  the  United  Nations,  a 
constant culture of peace should be one of the decisive 
elements  for  the  overarching  common  interests  of 
humankind. That is why we should maintain at the core 
of  this  culture  the  virtues  of  dialogue,  tolerance, 
solidarity,  cooperation,  respect  and  mutual  esteem, 
understanding, harmony and a love for oneself and for 
others.  
the  media  and  new 
the  values  of 
tolerance.  From 
technologies 
08-60280 

13 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
A/63/PV.50 


Where there is no peace, we must together try to 
sow it, cultivate it and maintain it. Where we do have 
peace, we should together try to consolidate it, nurture 
it, cherish it and above all share it, for mutual benefit, 
because if we let it get away from us, it would be as if 
we had decided to do without the air we breathe. 

floor to the chairman of the delegation of Uganda. 
Mr. Butagira (Uganda): It is a great pleasure for 

me to address this important high-level meeting. I wish 
to  thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
convening this meeting. I wish to thank most sincerely 
the Custodian of the Two  Holy Mosques, His Majesty 
King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia 
for  initiating  this  meeting  and  his  dedication  and 
contribution  to  the  pursuit  of  interfaith  dialogue  and 
understanding.  

When  I  look  at  God’s  creation,  I  marvel  at  his 
wonderful  architecture.  From  majestic  mountains, 
valleys,  rolling  hills,  plains,  glimmering  sand,  vibrant 
rain  forests;  whatever  it  may  be,  it  is  all  beautiful 
scenery.  Then  I  turn  my  thoughts  to  the  living 
creatures. I see tall people, short people, people of all 
shapes, people of all colours and hues.  I see a variety 
of  animals  and  bird  species  in  their  varied  and 
beautiful  colours.  Again,  I  marvel  at  the  wonderful 
architecture  God  created.  Finally,  I  recall  different 
cultures,  faiths  and  religious  beliefs  and  values.  In 
short, diversity is beautiful, as God so decreed.  

Who  are  we  then  to  disrupt  that  wonderful 
chemistry that God put in place? Those extremists who 
distort religion for their own purposes and who kill in 
the  name  of  religion  thinking  they  will  go  to  heaven: 
they will be disappointed when they find themselves in 
hell instead. Those people have rebelled against God’s 
creation.  We  should  strive  to  live  in  peace  with  one 
another and to respect different cultures and faiths, for 
no faith is superior to another.  
I  was  enthralled  by  what  His  Majesty  King 

Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud said yesterday, at the 
46th meeting: “Religions, through which the Almighty 
God  sought  to  bring  happiness  to  mankind  should  not 
be instruments that cause misery.” 
This  meeting  is  significant  as  it  represents  an 

opportunity 
the  entire  world 
community  to  interact  with  a  view  to  enhancing  our 
collective,  peaceful 
and  bonds  of 
coexistence 
faiths  of 
for  all 

in  countering 
is  also  significant  because  of 
friendship.  It 
the 
preparations  under  way  for  the  International  Year  for 
the Rapprochement  of Cultures in 2010  by the United 
Nations system. We have witnessed in the recent past a 
number of commendable initiatives at the international 
level  to  promote  interfaith  dialogue.  This  meeting  is 
unique because it is an unparalleled opportunity for us 
all to dialogue as people of different faiths and cultures 
under the United Nations umbrella but with a common 
goal  and  destiny.  It  is  imperative  that  we  use  this 
umbrella to engage in a very serious dialogue and that 
is  why  Uganda  gives  this  initiative  its  full  support. 
However,  it  is  necessary  that  in  all  our  endeavours  a 
coordinated effort be made to minimize the duplication 
of initiatives.  
We  in  Uganda  consider  interfaith  dialogue  a 

necessity and not an option. We know that all religions 
share  common  foundations.  They  espouse  equality, 
peace  and  tolerance.  We  should  therefore  spare  no 
effort individually, nationally and at the global level to 
become  more  active 
ignorance  by 
offering  positive  information  on  interfaith  beliefs.  We 
should  dispel  negative  stereotypes  and  extremism. 
Uganda is a country of multiple religious faiths where 
people  of  different  faiths  live  side  by  side  in  relative 
harmony.  As  a  country,  we  have  deliberately 
encouraged  interfaith  collaboration  and  partnership. 
The experience has been exemplary and has generated 
consensus  among  the  different  faith  communities  to 
work  together.  It  has  resulted  in  true  friendships  and 
other  opportunities  to  work  together  as  a  community. 
We  are  committed 
that 
momentum and are willing to share our experience and 
make a positive contribution to this process. 

This  meeting  comes  at  a  time  of  momentous 
events and changes in the world. It comes one day after 
the ninetieth anniversary of the end of the First World 
War  and  at  a  time  when  our  focus  is  on  conflict 
prevention and resolution initiatives. It also comes at a 
time when we are refocusing on human dignity, family 
values and development. Our faith should be a catalyst 
to  bring  us  together  as  it  has  done  today  to  reflect, 
understand  and  address  these  challenges.  Together  we 
must  do  more  to  address  the  challenges  of  poverty, 
widespread  hunger,  gender  inequality,  environmental 
deterioration and the lack of education, health care and 
clean water. We should deal conclusively on actions to 
reduce  debt  and  increase  aid,  trade  and  technology 
transfer to those less fortunate.  
to  maintain  and  sustain 
14 

08-60280 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 



We should also recognize that the range of human 
development  in  the  world  is  vast  and  uneven,  with 
astounding progress in some areas amid stagnation and 
dismal decline in others. As people of faith, we should 
recognize  that  balance  and  stability  in  the  world 
require  the  commitment  of  all  nations,  rich  and  poor, 
and a global development compact to extend the wealth 
of  possibilities  to  all  people.  Our  religious  and  moral 
values  should  inspire  us  to  address  the  problems  that 
face humanity. They should be our rallying call to deal 
with  the  important  issues  of  our  time  for  peace  and 
cooperation.  We  must  commit  resources  towards  this 
endeavour. 
This meeting underlines the crucial role faith can 

play 
in  enhancing  peaceful  coexistence,  peace, 
harmony  and  prosperity  for  us  all.  It  is  our  duty  and 
must be our pledge. Uganda supports this initiative and 
it  is  our  commitment  to  work  tirelessly  for  a  peaceful 
and prosperous world. 

floor to the representative of Côte d’Ivoire. 
Mr. Bailly (Côte d’Ivoire) (spoke in French): On 

behalf  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Laurent  Gbagbo, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  who 
requested that I convey to the Assembly his wishes for 
the  full  success  of  this  meeting,  permit  me  to  express 
our  gratitude 
to  you,  Mr.  President,  for  having 
convened 
Ivorian 
delegation also takes this opportunity to convey to His 
Majesty  King  Abdullah  Bin  Abdulaziz  Al  Saud  of 
Saudi Arabia, Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, the 
thanks of Mr. Youssouf Bakayoko, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs  of  Côte  D’Ivoire,  for  having  initiated  this 
process,  which  challenges  world  leaders  and  religious 
leaders  to  urgently  establish  a  genuine  and  frank 
dialogue  among  religions  with  a  view  to  the  further 
promotion  of  a  culture  of  peace.  Although  he  was 
invited 
important  meeting, 
Minister  Bakayoko  was  unable  to  travel  to  New York 
for scheduling reasons.  

Côte d’Ivoire celebrates a national peace holiday 
on 15 November  each year. We long ago incorporated 
the values of peace and tolerance into our development 
programmes,  our  policy  of  national  construction  and 
coexistence  with  neighbouring  countries  and  our 
foreign policy. Thus, our country cannot remain on the 
sidelines  of  this  historic  meeting  on  the  culture  of 
peace.  Côte  d’Ivoire  unreservedly  supports  the  Saudi 
this  high-level  meeting.  The 
to  participate 
this 
in 
A/63/PV.50
like 
Our 
other 
country, 
initiative  and  United  Nations  efforts  to  establish  a 
permanent  framework  for  dialogue  among  religions 
and  to  adopt  appropriate  strategies  to  promote  the 
implementation  of  all  the  recommendations  resulting 
from this meeting. 
nations  whose 

representatives  have  spoken  before  me, 
remains 
convinced  that  the  establishment  of  such  a  dialogue 
would inevitably give rise to a new era in international 
relations firmly based on an innovative vision of hope 
for humankind. Indeed, there is an urgent need for the 
world  to  transcend  religious  differences  and  to  work 
resolutely  towards  a  rapprochement  of  civilizations, 
respecting the convictions and faiths of all. That is why 
our  country  fully  endorses  the  two  draft  resolutions 
before  the  General  Assembly  on  the  International 
Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace  and  Non-Violence  for 
the Children of the World, 2001-2010 (A/63/L.23), and 
on  the  promotion  of  interreligious  and  intercultural 
dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace 
(A/63/L.24/Rev.1).  

In  that  regard,  we  urge  the  Assembly  to  adopt 
both  draft  resolutions  in  order  to  show  our  collective 
commitment to this new process. Clearly, it will result 
in a platform for exchanges that will undoubtedly help 
to  bridge 
the  chasm  of  misunderstanding  and 
resentment  that  exists  between  civilizations.  With  a 
strong  political  and  collective  commitment,  we  must 
promote  all  the  shared  ethical  and  moral  values 
advocated by religions in their diversity. 

We believe that world leaders must, in addition to 
current initiatives, go beyond mere wishful thinking to 
engage  in  religious  dialogue  in  order  to  carry  out 
policies that will reduce or even destroy identity-based 
and  ideological  barriers  that  have  long  served  as 
pretexts for the perpetuation of systems of exploitation 
and  oppression  that  have  helped  to  divide  the  world 
into blocs of mistrust.  

Justification  of  the  culture  of  profit  and  the 
protection  of  some  interests  at  the  expense  of  others 
have  resulted  in  the  demonization  and  subjugation  of 
entire  sectors  of  humankind  in  a  context  of  extreme 
despair  and  insecurity  linked  to  the  aggravation  of 
extremism,  fanaticism  and  intolerance  and  to  the 
decline of the moral and political principles that led to 
the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations  immediately 
after  the  Second  World  War.  It  is  obvious  that, 
ultimately,  this  Manichaean  vision  of  world  affairs, 
08-60280 

15 
in 
that 
the 
the  economic  crisis 
A/63/PV.50 

which is linked to the supremacy of one religion over 
another and of one race over another, as well as to the 
promotion  of  a  single  school  of  thought  or  model  for 
society,  can  only  be  suicidal  for  humankind,  which  is 
rich in its pluralism.  

The  path  of  Côte  d’Ivoire  throughout  its  recent 
history shows how the adoption of the culture of peace 
as a pillar of development and an aspect of integration 
has  helped  our  country  to  overcome  the  danger  of 
implosion  and  not  to  succumb  to  ethnic  and  religious 
it  has  been 
chaos 
experiencing  for  several  years.  Indeed, 
in  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  as  stated  by 
late  President  Félix 
Houphouët-Boigny,  the  founding  father  of  our  nation, 
peace is not an empty word; it is a behaviour. The Félix 
Houphouët-Boigny Peace Prize, awarded each year by 
UNESCO,  emphasizes  that  support  for  the  culture  of 
peace is a dynamic approach to action.  

It was on behalf of the culture of peace, which is 
at the centre of his governmental policy, that President 
Gbagbo  launched  direct  dialogue  with  the  former 
Ivorian  rebels,  leading  to  the  Ouagadougou  Political 
Agreement,  which  enabled  us  to  reunify  our  country. 
Indeed,  our  national  experience  demonstrates  that  the 
world  can  overcome  division  in  order  to  build  a  new 
world  order  based  on  partnership  with  a  human  face, 
anchored in human development and the correction  of 
imbalances.  
That  is  why  we  agree  with  those  who  firmly 

believe 
the 
predictable  rhetoric  of  statements  of  intention,  but 
rather in persuading the decision makers of this world 
to opt for a society that would place greater priority on 
the moral dimension of managing world affairs, which 
would  help  to  help  fulfil  the  purposes  of  the  United 
Nations  as  we  celebrate  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human Rights.  

the representative of the Comoros.  
Mr.  Oussein  (Comoros)  (spoke  in  French): At  a 

time when the world has been hit head-on by crises of 
all  sorts  related  to  finance,  energy,  food  and  identity, 
and  when  doubt,  intolerance,  mistrust,  selfishness  and 
isolationism  have  supplanted  tolerance  and  fraternal 
solidarity among peoples, the holding of this important 
dialogue  among  religions  is  more  meaningful  than 
ever.  In  that  regard,  I  should  like,  on  behalf  of  the 
Union of the Comoros, to thank His Majesty Abdullah 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on 
the  real  challenge 
lies  not 
that 

Bin Abdulaziz Al  Saud  of  Saudi Arabia,  Custodian  of 
the  Two  Holy  Mosques,  who  has  taken  the  welcome 
initiative  to  promote  the  holding  of  a  dialogue  among 
religions on several occasions.  

We  believe  that  to  engage  in  dialogue  with 
another  religion  is  to  discover  what  it  shares  with  us 
and  to  find  ourselves  in  it.  Thus,  in  addition  to  what 
makes  us  different  and  separates  us,  there  is  a 
commonality  among  believers  that  is  deep  and  strong 
enough  that  they  realize  that  they  are  similar  and 
united.  

In  a  world  that  has  become  an  increasingly 
interdependent  global  village,  our  salvation  lies  in  the 
awareness that nothing is really sustainable without the 
other.  We  must  have  respect  for  his  or  her  faith, 
religion and differences in the firm conviction that we 
are  all  links  in  the  same  chain.  Our  solidarity  and 
survival depends on our common will to build a better 
world,  inspired  by  the  spirit  of  justice,  tolerance, 
sharing and fraternal solidarity. 

The  Union  of  the  Comoros,  a  Muslim  nation 
known  for  its  legendary  hospitality,  has  always  been 
profoundly dedicated to the daily practice of tolerance 
and  respect  for  human  dignity.  It  is  firmly  convinced 
that  human  beings,  as  God’s  creatures  and  with  a 
multiplicity of cultures and civilizations are a source of 
wealth and thus should not be a source of conflict. 

All  religions  and  all  humankind  today  are  faced 
with the challenges of all the drifting of an increasingly 
dehumanizing  and  unjust  modern  world.  It  must  be 
acknowledged  that  the  Muslim  world  is  increasingly 
becoming victim to the policy of double standards. We 
consider that Islamophobia has become one of the great 
evils  of  our  times  since  the  end  of  the  cold  war  and 
11 September.  That 
injustice  and 
ignorance.  

Interreligious  dialogue  can  help  to  bring  people 
to more understanding and, undoubtedly, do away with 
the  logic  of  the  clash  of  civilizations. We  endorse  the 
thought  of  the  late  President  Léopold  Sédar  Senghor, 
who  spoke  of  “enrichment  of  our  differences  to 
converge  towards  the  universal”.  Learning  to  know 
oneself 
the 
circumstance  is  an  essential  step  for  enrichment  of 
differences and for building a culture of peace.  

Since all believers of all religions are called to be 
instruments of love and harmony for all of humankind, 
together  whatever 
is  a  result  of 
in  order 
live 
to 
in 
16 

08-60280 
I  should 
like 
that  since 
to  announce 
the  situation  of 


they  must  renounce  all  forms  of  oppression  and 
terrorism,  especially  when  such  acts  are  committed  in 
the name of religion.  

Finally,  because  there  can  be  no  peace  without 
development,  and  convinced  that  no  believer  can 
remain  indifferent  to  injustice  and  poverty,  the  Union 
of  the  Comoros,  in  the  framework  of  this  dialogue, 
calls upon all believers to unite in order to relieve the 
hungry and to work together for a new, more just, more 
transparent and more equitable world order, taking into 
account 
the  poorest  and  most 
impoverished. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 

the last speaker in the debate. We shall now proceed to 
take  a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/63/L.24/Rev.1, 
entitled  “Promotion  of  interreligious  and  intercultural 
dialogue, understanding and cooperation for peace”.  

the 
publication  of  the  draft  resolution,  the  following 
countries have expressed the wish to become sponsors: 
Afghanistan,  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Bahamas,  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  Brazil,  China, 
the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  Egypt,  Ethiopia,  Grenada, 
Honduras,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  Iraq,  Japan, 
Mali,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Saudi  Arabia,  Seychelles,  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Trinidad and 
Tobago, Tunisia and the United Arab Emirates.  

the draft resolution? 

  Draft resolution A/63/L.24/Rev.1 was adopted 
(resolution 63/22).
The President (spoke in Spanish): Before giving 

the floor to the representative of the United States, who 
wishes  to  speak  in  explanation  of  position  on  the 
resolution just adopted, may I  remind  delegations that 
explanations of position are limited to 10 minutes and 
should be made by delegations from their seats. 
Mr.  McMahan  (United  States  of America):  The 

United States was founded on the principle of freedom 
of 
in  our 
Constitution, has nourished a rich diversity of religions 
that have contributed greatly to the growth and vitality 
of our society for over 400 years. The Republic of the 
Philippines has also enshrined the concept of freedom 
of  religion  in  its  Constitution  and  has  been  active  in 
promoting 
the  principle.  We  commend  President 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
religion.  This 
enshrined 

freedom, 
A/63/PV.50
Arroyo  for  her  efforts  to  promote  and  protect  human 
rights in her region and around the world. 

As  in  past  years,  the  text  before  us  has  much  to 
recommend  it.  It  acknowledges  the  importance  of 
religious and cultural diversity and affirms that mutual 
understanding and dialogue are important for achieving 
a  true  and  lasting  peace.  It  recognizes  the  importance 
of  education,  and  it  recognizes  the  vital  role  of  the 
news  media,  whose  ability 
to  work  freely  and 
objectively is crucial to open and honest dialogue, even 
when the news they report is unpleasant or critical. 

Indeed,  without  the  freedom  for  each  and  every 
individual to express his or her opinions or beliefs, any 
attempt 
and 
understanding rings hollow. The Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights, the sixtieth anniversary of which we 
are celebrating this year, is clear. Article 19 reads:  
dialogue, 
diversity 
promote 
to 
this  right 
“Everyone  has  the  right  to  freedom  of 

includes 
opinion  and  expression; 
freedom  to  hold  opinions  without  interference 
and  to  seek,  receive  and  impart  information  and 
ideas 
through  any  media  and  regardless  of 
frontiers.”  

The United States affirms unequivocally that free 
expression  is  the  proper  antidote  for  intolerance. 
Without  the  freedom  to  share  thoughts  and  opinions, 
we  cannot  hope  to  break  down  the  ignorance  and 
mistrust  that  breeds  violence.  A  widely  cherished 
principle  among Americans  is  that,  while  we  may  not 
always  agree  with  what  someone  might  say,  we  will 
fight  for  their  right  to  say  it.  We  must  honour  that 
principle  even  if  in  some  instances  the  words  may  be 
offensive.  The  remedy  for  offensive  speech  is  more 
speech  and  more  dialogue  and  more  understanding  — 
not less. 

For  those  reasons,  the  resolution  before  us  must 
not  in  any  way  be  read  to  restrict  peaceful  expression 
of opinion or belief. The right of all people to think and 
express 
the 
birthright  of  all  humanity.  We  cannot  countenance 
efforts  by  some  to  roll  back  the  fundamental  freedom 
of expression. 

Let  me  be  clear.  Unfortunately,  there  are  some 
Governments  that  have  misused,  and  will  continue  to 
misuse, United Nations resolutions and declarations to 
justify imprisonment, torture and even death sentences 
for those who offer interpretations of religion — or of 
themselves  freely  and  peacefully 
is 
08-60280 

17 

prevalent 
that  many 
The  President:  We  have  heard  the  only  speaker 
A/63/PV.50 

proper  governance  —  that  differ  from  those  of  the 
Government  in  power.  Sadly,  that  tendency  is  so 
widely 
non-governmental 
organizations  have  begun  tracking  those  cases,  as  has 
my Government. 

We  ask  the  members  of  this  body  to  ensure  that 
United Nations resolutions are not misused in that way 
and  to  hold  accountable  those  Governments  that  seek 
to stain the United Nations by associating it with their 
acts  of  intolerance  or  brutality.  Members  of  society 
must be able to engage in the open exchange of views 
without  fear  of  recrimination  if  we  are  to  develop  the 
understanding and trust necessary to get along and live 
with one other. 

in explanation of position. 

As  we  come  to  the  close  of  this  remarkable 
meeting,  I  am  both  heartened  and  astonished  by  the 
outpouring of appeals that we have heard over the past 
two  days.  I  thank  all  participants  for  contributing  to 
this ongoing dialogue on the culture of peace.  

This  meeting  has  proved  that  while  we  do, 
obviously,  have  differences 
in  our  religions  and 
theologies,  we  are  very  much  united  in  our  essential 
values. Just as important, we must apply those values if 
we  are  to  survive  the  consequences  of  the  converging 
man-made crises that we face at this critical historical 
juncture. 

Religions and theologies are necessarily rooted in 
cultures  and  are  thus  inevitably  different.  We  should 
celebrate  and  thank  God  for  such  diversity.  While  we 
might agree that homogenization is good for milk, it is 
not  good  for  human  cultures.  We  must  defend  the 
cultural 
the  same 
determination with which we defend the biodiversity of 
our planet. 

At  the  level  of  values,  whether  faith-based  or 
flowing  from  our  rich  ethical  and  philosophical 
traditions, we see the hand of God. There are, however, 
values,  or  rather  anti-values,  that  do  not  come  from 
those roots. They spring from the dominant culture that 
foments  hatred, 
social 
irresponsibility. 

His Majesty, our brother the King of Saudi Arabia 
and  Custodian  of  the  Two  Holy  Mosques,  King 
Abdullah  Bin Abdulaziz Al  Saud,  expressed  that  very 
clearly:  
identity  of  all  peoples  with 
intolerance,  greed 
and 
the  abandonment  of 
“Every tragedy suffered by the world today is but 
a  result  of 
the  noble 
principles  enunciated  by  all 
religions  and 
cultures.  The  roots  of  all  global  crises  can  be 
found in human denial of the eternal principle of 
justice.” (A/63/PV.46) 

We  have  heard  calls  for  restoring  the  values  of 
compassion  and  solidarity  to  the  increasingly  barren 
landscape  of  political  decision-making.  Speakers  from 
all corners of the Earth have insisted that we put people 
above profit  as the ultimate measure  of  success in the 
increasingly heartless and bankrupt world of business. 

From  our  brother  Shimon  Peres,  President  of 
Israel,  we  heard  that  we  have  abandoned  our  faith  by 
opting for greed. He pointed out that, for us to change 
the world, we must first change ourselves. I could not 
agree with him more. Referring to this meeting, he said 
that  it  was  capable  of  beginning  a  movement  of  great 
importance to the world. 

We  note  the  call  by  Mr.  Gordon  Brown,  Prime 
Minister of the United Kingdom, to apply our values to 
ensure  that  we  be  remembered  as  the  generation  that 
ended  illiteracy  and  reversed  our  negative  impact  on 
climate change.  

We  have  heard  from  those  who  adhere  to  no 
particular  faith,  but  bring  messages  of  hope  and  love, 
for  surely  the  values  that  are  central  to  our  faiths  can 
be just as strongly felt and defended by those who are 
not religious. 

We  have  heard  urgent  appeals  to  transcend  our 
narrow  self-interests  as  nations,  peoples,  communities 
and individuals. We have heard the call to restore trust, 
care and solidarity in our institutions. 
The  message  is  very  clear:  Either  we  restore  the 

timeless  values  of  brotherhood  and  sisterhood  or  we 
will  surely  flounder  in  a  morass  of  indifference  and 
self-induced  destruction,  which  will  extend  to  the 
entire planet. 
We  have  come  together  in  the  midst  of  a 

gathering  perfect 
and 
destructiveness are forcing all of us to rethink the way 
that we are conducting ourselves as human beings. We 
are aware that the storm is of our own making, and that 
it  will  take  heroic  measures  to  prevent  it  from 
destroying  our  aspirations  to  economic,  social  and 
spiritual well-being, wherever we are in the world. 
storm,  whose 
intensity 
18 

08-60280 
into  crisis  and  poverty  because  of 



We  have  come  together  realizing  that  we  must 
take  responsibility  for  the  billions  of  people  who  are 
living in inexcusable poverty and deprivation. Leaders 
have referred to the innocent millions  whose lives are 
tipping 
the 
irresponsibility  and  greed  of  people  in  far-off  places. 
We must change that with a sense of urgency. 

We  have  defined  this  moment  as  a  turning  point 
in  human  history,  where  courageous,  even  heroic 
leadership  is  needed.  Let  us  draw  on  the  reservoirs  of 
love  and  solidarity  that  we  all  possess.  Let  us  be 
courageous and heroic. I deeply believe we can. 

In his statement at the beginning of this meeting, 
His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  Bin  Abdulaziz  Al  Saud 
said:  
“Our  dialogue,  which  will  be  conducted  in  a 
civilized  manner,  should  revive  and  consolidate  

A/63/PV.50
those lofty ideals among peoples and nations. No 
doubt,  that  will  constitute  a  glorious  triumph  of 
what is most noble in human beings over what is 
most evil in them, and will give humankind hope 
for  a  future  in  which  justice,  security  and  a 
dignified life will prevail over injustice, fear and 
poverty.” (A/63/PV.46) 

This  has  been  such  a  meeting.  In  a  couple  of 
weeks, at our meeting on financing for development in 
Doha, we will have a chance to show the world that we 
are, indeed, serious about making solidarity the guiding 
principle in our resolutions and in our actions. 
(spoke in Spanish) 

consideration of agenda item 45. 
The meeting rose at 8.10 p.m. 
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
08-60280 

19 
