
A/63/PV.43
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

43rd plenary meeting 
Monday, 10 November 2008, 4 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 
Guatemala — left the  country in 2002,  after ten years 
of fruitful work. 

Having  said  this,  some  of  the  repercussions  of 
prolonged  conflicts  —  the  one  in  Guatemala's  lasted 
nearly  40  years  —  take  a  long  time  to  resolve.  In  the 
case  of  my  own  country,  we  inherited  a  culture  of 
impunity  as  a  consequence  of  that  conflict,  which  led 
to a continuation over time of human rights violations 
illustrated  by  threats,  extortions,  intimidations  and 
even  the  use  of  violence  against  judges,  prosecutors, 
teachers,  journalists,  human  rights  activists  and  other 
innocent civilians.  

Protected  by  the  environment  of  impunity  I  just 
described,  some  delinquent  groups  also  emerged,  at 
times  with  high  degrees  of  organization  and  with 
transnational  connections.  Succeeding  Governments 
made  important  efforts  to  combat  impunity  through 
specific 
at 
strengthening  the  civil  police,  the  judicial  system,  the 
system of penitentiaries, the Public Prosecutor's Office 
and other entities of the State, including the legislative 
branch. 

It was in the context of those efforts that the idea 
was  developed  to  create  a  more  robust  criminal 
prosecution  mechanism  with  the  assistance  of  the 
United  Nations.  During  the  conceptual  stage  of  the 
initiative, various alternatives were explored, the most 
ambitious of which being the creation of a new United 
Nations  mission  that  would  undertake  some  of  the 
tasks  of  a  public  prosecutor,  and  the  most  modest 
expression  of  which  being  a  technical  cooperation 
programmes 
projects 
aimed 
and 





  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Kpotsra 
(Togo), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
The meeting was called to order at 4.50 p.m.  





to 
Agenda item 20 
The situation in Central America: progress in 
fashioning a region of peace, freedom, democracy 
and development 

the  representative  of  Guatemala 
  Letter dated 27 October 2008 from the 
Secretary-General addressed to the President  
of the General Assembly (A/63/511) 
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.18) 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  give 
to 


the  floor 
introduce draft resolution A/63/L.18. 
Mr.  Rosenthal  (Guatemala)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

It  has  been  several  years  since  the  General Assembly 
last  addressed  this  agenda  item,  on  the  situation  in 
Central  America.  That 
in  fact,  a  source  of 
satisfaction for us, since, in contrast to the situation of 
15  or  even  10  years  ago,  Central  America  is  now  a 
region  at  peace  where  democratic  institutions  and 
respect for basic human rights have been strengthened 
and where progress has been achieved in the economic 
and  social  spheres.  Some  of  those  advances  may  be 
fragile  or  insufficient,  but  there  is  no  doubt  that  the 
current  situation  is  incomparably  better  than  the  one 
which prevailed during the mid-1990s. For that reason, 
the  most 
recent  United  Nations  Human  Rights 
Verification  Mission  in  the  region  —  the  mission  to 

is, 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-59523 (E) 
*0859523* 

the 
last  year  of 
to  strengthen 
the  Office  of 
the  administration 
A/63/PV.43 

project 
the  Public 
Prosecutor. Consultations and negotiations between the 
Government and the United Nations were extended for 
some  time  in  order  to  search  for  a  more  appropriate 
model that would be consistent with Guatemala's legal 
and constitutional framework as well as with the norms 
of the Organization.  
A  relatively  ambitious  first  attempt  was  tried 

during 
that 
relinquished  power  in  January  of  2004,  but  it  did  not 
meet  with  the  approval  of  the  Guatemalan  Congress 
and  was  even  challenged  by  the  Constitutional  Court, 
the latter of which found that the Commission usurped 
some  functions  that  were  the  exclusive  jurisdiction  of 
the  Guatemalan  State. A  second  attempt  promoted  by 
the  previous  administration  moved  in  the  direction  of 
working through national institutions by strengthening 
them,  with  the  creation  of  an  ad  hoc  commission 
governed  by  national  legislation.  Such  a  commission 
would  be  composed  of  personnel  appointed  by  the 
United Nations with a mandate that would not interfere 
with  the  Office  of  the  Public  Prosecutor  and  would 
work hand-in-hand with that body. 

That  revised  version  of  the  commission,  adapted 
to  the  norms  of  the  United  Nations,  was  also  judged 
compatible with the  constitutional and juridical norms 
of  Guatemala  by  the  Constitutional  Court,  and  as  a 
result  was  approved  by  the  Congress  in  August  of 
2007.  The  letter  of  27  October  sent  by  the  Secretary-
General to the President of the General Assembly, and 
which has circulated under the symbol A/63/511, offers 
more detailed information on the matter. 

There  are  two  specific  observations  to  be  made. 
The  first  is  that  the  Commission  responds  to  an 
initiative  originating  in  Guatemala,  rather  than  an 
initiative  of 
the  United  Nations.  It  reflects  our 
profound  conviction  that  international  cooperation  is 
needed  in  order  to  confront  organized  groups  that 
operate  with  impunity  —  not  to  replace  national 
authorities,  but  to  support  them  and  thus  strengthen 
them in the future.  

We  approached  the  United  Nations  because  we 
perceived  an  objective  and  independent  Organization 
without  its  own  agenda.  We  sought  creative  means  of 
partnering  with  the  Organization  without  renouncing 
our  obligations  as  a  sovereign  State  under  our  own 
Constitution.  We  persevered  in  that  effort  and,  as 
already 
consecutive 
the 
third 
stated, 
this 
is 
that 
administration to tackle that initiative and it has finally 
managed to implement it.  

The  second  observation  is  that  in  our  view,  the 
lessons learned in Guatemala will also be beneficial to 
the United Nations.  

We are now entering relatively new and unknown 
territory  for  multilateral  cooperation,  but  we  must 
the  United  Nations  has  accumulated 
recall 
extremely  valuable  experience 
in  defending  and 
protecting the rule of law and human rights throughout 
its institutional life. More recently, it has accumulated 
a  wealth  of  experience  thanks  to  the  activities  being 
carried out by the United Nations Office on Drugs and 
Crime.  We  believe  that  the  work  of  the  International 
Commission  against  Impunity  in  Guatemala  will  open 
new  areas  of  work  for  our  Organization  and  provide 
lessons that may in due time be useful to other Member 
States. 
The  purpose  of  the  draft  resolution  that  we  now 

present  to  the  plenary  is  two-fold.  It  is,  first  of  all,  to 
ensure  that  the  main  intergovernmental  body  of  the 
United  Nations  will  be  involved  and  informed  about 
the  steps  taken  by  the  Government  of  Guatemala  and 
the  Secretary-General  from  the  moment  the  General 
Assembly  urged  the  latter,  in  2003,  to  support  the 
initiative  of  creating  the  Commission  discussed  in  the 
draft  resolution.  Secondly,  its  aim  is  to  continue  the 
support  of  the  General  Assembly  for  our  initiative, 
without 
financial  or  budgetary 
any 
implications. 
Let  me  conclude  by  thanking  the  Secretary-

General for the welcome that has been extended to our 
initiative.  I  would  also  like  to  pay  tribute  in  public  to 
the  many  States  that  have  supported  the  Commission 
by  means  of  voluntary  financial  contributions  or 
cooperation  in  the  form  of  providing  national  experts, 
as  well  as  to  the  staff  of  the  Commission,  and  most 
particularly  the  Commissioner,  Carlos  Castresana,  for 
their dedicated work. Finally, I would like to thank the 
countries  that  have  supported  us  by  sponsoring  the 
draft resolution that we are about to consider. I would 
also like to thank those who, I hope, will support us in 
adopting it by consensus. 
Mr. Yáñez-Barnuevo (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): 

As  we  commence  this  debate,  I  think  we  should  not 
lose track of the historical background, as outlined by 
the preceding speaker, the representative of Guatemala. 
We  should  recall  that  this  is  an  item  that  has  been  on 
additional 
2 

08-59523 
Spain  supports 


the agenda of the General Assembly since 1983 and its 
earlier  title  showed  that  it  dealt  with  procedures  to 
establish  a  sound  and  lasting  peace.  The  title  of  the 
item has changed, which is, I think, clear testimony to 
the  progress  reached  in  Central  America  in  the  past 
decade  and  the  positive  role  that  the  United  Nations 
has  played,  and  continues  to  play,  in  supporting  the 
dynamic of peace, democracy and development that the 
subregion has experienced. 

However, the strengthening of the peace process, 
which the General Assembly and the Security Council 
were  examining  in  the  1980s  and,  even  more,  in  the 
1990s  should  not  lead  us  to  forget  the  needs  of  the 
subregion.  Overcoming  post-conflict  situations  is  an 
arduous,  long-term  process,  and  in  Central  America 
there  are  still  considerable  challenges,  such  as 
combating impunity and transnational organized crime, 
but  also  eradicating  poverty,  especially  in  rural  areas 
and  among  the  indigenous  population.  Often,  this  is  a 
challenge  that  remains  in  spite  of  very  promising  and 
positive macroeconomic indicators. 

in 
looking  at  these  challenges.  Regional  mechanisms  of 
dispute settlement, along with United Nations support, 
have demonstrated their strong effectiveness in Central 
America.  We  are  convinced  that  further  deepening  of 
Central American  integration  is  essential  to  achieving 
economic  and  social  development,  as  well  as 
strengthening  democratic  institutions  and  the  rule  of 
law in the countries that make up the subregion. 

Spanish  assistance  efforts  in  Central  America 
have  worked,  and  will  continue  to  work,  with  this  in 
mind. We will continue giving priority to assistance to 
democratic  governance,  citizen  participation  and 
strengthening civil institutions. Examples of this policy 
are the Cooperation Programme with Central America, 
put  into  place  in  2003  and  strengthened  in  2006  with 
the  Fund  established  by  Spain  and 
the  Central 
American Integration System (SICA), and cooperation 
programmes based on commitments adopted at various 
Ibero-America  summits,  such  as  the  one  that  recently 
took  place  in  San  Salvador.  These  were  commitments 
that  have  led  us  to  work  more  in  such  areas  as 
combating gender violence, juvenile crime or impunity 
for violent crimes. 

For  all  these  reasons,  we  welcome  the  efforts  of 
the  Government  of  Guatemala  in  the  past  few  years, 
particularly  in  the  areas  of  institutional  development 
regional  perspective 
the 
A/63/PV.43
such 
as 
it  has  already 
Spain  has  supported 
the  General  Assembly 
establishment  of 
Impunity 
against 
reform  of  the  security  forces,  as  has  been  emphasized 
in  the  recent  letter  by  the  Secretary-General  to  the 
(A/63/511). 
President  of 
the 
Initiatives 
the 
International  Commission 
in 
Guatemala  (CICIG)  and  measures  adopted  in  the  area 
of  human  rights  have  shown  that  the  Government  of 
Guatemala  has  the  determination  and  the  necessary 
vision to take its country down a path of lasting peace 
and democratic consolidation. 

As  is  reflected  in  the  Secretary-General’s  letter 
that  I  just  mentioned,  the  Commission,  following  the 
first  year  of  its  mandate,  is  at  a  crucial  juncture.  Its 
innovative  character  made  it  difficult  to  start  work; 
however, after the initial months of getting up to speed, 
under the skilful, expert steering of  its  Commissioner, 
Mr.  Carlos  Castresana, 
taken  on 
significant  cases.  The  support  and  commitment,  both 
on  the  part  of  the  Government  of  Guatemala  and  the 
United Nations Secretary-General, as well as of all the 
friends  of  Latin America,  has  become  more  necessary 
than ever for it to succeed. 

the  establishment  and 
operation  of  this  Commission  from  its  very  beginning 
through  agreements  with  Guatemala  and  the  United 
Nations  and  is  the  main  contributor  to  its  funding.  In 
fact, we have already provided three million euros for 
the period covering 2008 and 2009. We will continue to 
support  the  work  of  the  Commission,  so  that  the 
Commission 
the 
strengthening of rule of law in Guatemala. 

In  his  letter  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly, the Secretary-General identified some of the 
challenges that the Commission will have to take up as 
it advances with its work. 

It is important for the United Nations system as a 
whole to respond to the Secretary-General’s appeal for 
full  cooperation 
the 
International  Commission  and  for  it  to  fulfil  its 
mandate as an addition to the measures adopted by the 
Government  of  Guatemala  in  order  to  meet  the 
concerns expressed by the citizens of Guatemala. 
We would like to thank the Secretary-General for 

the  information  he  has  provided  on  this  innovative 
initiative  and  we  emphasize  our  support  for  the 
commitment  and  efforts  made  by  the  Government  of 
Guatemala.  It  is  essential  to  keep  working  to  ensure 
that  Central  America  remains  on  the  agenda  of  the 
to  ensure 
the  success  of 
carry  out 
can 
continue 
to 
08-59523 

3 
that 
it 
serves  as 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  We 
A/63/PV.43 

General  Assembly  as  a  key 
to  progress  and 
development  and  as  an  example  of  democratic 
consolidation. 

Spain, which is part of the Group of Friends that 
has  supported  the  International  Commission  against 
Impunity  in  Guatemala  ever  since  it  was  initiated,  is 
one of the sponsors of the draft resolution that has been 
submitted  to  the  General  Assembly  for  consideration. 
We  hope  that  this  draft  resolution  will  be  adopted  by 
consensus  and 
support  and 
encouragement  in  the  difficult  and  important  task  that 
the  International  Commission  and  the  Government  of 
Guatemala have before them. 

have heard the last speaker in the debate on this item. 

We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
A/63/L.18.  Before  giving  the  floor  to  delegations 
wishing  to  speak  in  explanation  of  position  before 
action  is  taken  on  the  draft  resolution,  may  I  remind 
members  that  explanations  of  vote  or  position  are 
limited 
to  10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats. 
Ms.  House  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United  States  wishes  to  make  a  very  brief  statement 
expressing 
International 
Commission  against  Impunity  in  Guatemala,  as  that 
Commission  continues  to  implement  its  mandate  to 
assist  the  Government  of  Guatemala  in  promoting  the 
rule  of  law  and  ensuring  justice  and  security  for  the 
Guatemalan people. 

Over  the  past  year,  the  Commission  and  the 
Government of Guatemala have directly confronted the 
challenge  of  strengthening  Guatemalan  institutions 
responsible  for  investigating  and  prosecuting  crime, 
and  for  ensuring 
legal 
processes.  The  strengthening  of  these  institutions  will 
enable  Guatemala  to  protect  the  fundamental  human 
rights  of  its  citizens.  Much  work  remains  to  be  done 
but notable progress has been made, and we hope that 
it will continue. 

The United States commends this effort  and will 
continue  to  offer  its  strongest  support  for  all  actors 
committed  to  promoting  peace  and  upholding  the  rule 
of law in Guatemala. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly  will  now  take  action  on  draft  resolution 
A/63/L.18. Before we do so, I should like to announce 
transparent  and 
impartial 
support 
the 
its 
for 

that  the  following  additional  countries  have  become 
sponsors of the draft resolution: Antigua and Barbuda, 
Austria,  Azerbaijan,  Belgium,  Bolivia,  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Croatia,  Cyprus,  Denmark,  Ecuador,  Estonia,  Finland, 
Greece,  Guinea,  Hungary,  Iraq,  Japan,  Lithuania, 
Madagascar,  Mexico,  Peru,  the  Republic  of  Korea, 
Sierra  Leone,  Slovakia,  the  former Yugoslav  Republic 
of Macedonia and the United States of America.  

draft resolution A/63/L.18? 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
adopted
resolution  A/63/L.18  was 
Draft 
(resolution 63/19). 
The  Acting  President:  Before  calling  on  the 

representative  of  the  Russian  Federation,  who  wishes 
to  explain  his  delegation’s  position  on  the  resolution 
just adopted, I remind delegations that explanations of 
vote  or  position  are  limited  to  10  minutes  and  should 
be made by delegations from their seats. 
Mr.  Rogachev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  We  have  just  adopted  a  very  important 
resolution  on  the  International  Commission  against 
Impunity  in  Guatemala.  We  would  like  to  welcome 
efforts by that country both to combat lawlessness and 
to  strengthen  the  rule  of  law.  We  hope  that  the 
International  Commission  will  fulfil  the  tasks  set 
before it and will assist the Government of Guatemala 
to  put  an  end  to  organized  criminal  groups  that  this 
country has inherited as the legacy of a lengthy internal 
conflict.  

That  being  said,  we  would  like  to  highlight  the 
unique  legal  nature  of  this  Commission,  which  was 
established  as  the  result  of  an  agreement  between 
Guatemala  and  the  United  Nations.  In  that  agreement, 
the  Commission  was  described  as  a  non-United 
Nations body.  

We understand that the modalities of cooperation 
by  the  United  Nations  in  the  area  of  strengthening 
national legal systems should be part and parcel of the 
unique  political  and  legal  context  of  each  specific 
State. Sometimes non-traditional solutions are required 
to achieve that. Nevertheless, the Russian Federation is 
convinced 
the  establishment  of  such  non-
traditional  arrangements  should  be  undertaken  in  a 
transparent manner, with the full involvement of bodies 
representing 
fully 
authorized  to  make  such  important  political  decisions 
on behalf of the Organization. 
the  United  Nations 
that  are 
that 
4 

08-59523 
the 
issue  of 
the  establishment  of 



In the present case, we note that we have strayed 
from  that  rule.  The  Russian  Federation  considers  that 
bringing 
this 
Commission  up  for  consideration  by  the  General 
Assembly post factum, that is, after the fact, should not 
become  the  rule  in  the  work  of  the  Secretariat.  Of 
course, we reserve the right to return to this issue, and 
to any other issue, in the future, and we would like this 
statement  to  be  included  in  the  official  record  of  this 
meeting. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  We 

have  heard  the  only  statement  in  explanation  of 
position.  

May  I  thus  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the 
General  Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of 
agenda item 20? 

It was so decided. 

Agenda item 65 
Strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian 
and disaster relief assistance of the United Nations, 
including special economic assistance 
  (a)  Strengthening of the coordination of emergency 
humanitarian assistance of the United Nations 
(A/63/81, A/63/277 and A/63/348) 








countries or regions 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/295)  
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.21) 
  (b)  Special economic assistance to individual 



  (c)  Assistance to the Palestinian people 

  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/75) 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  give 

the  floor  to  the  representative  of  Yemen  to  introduce 
draft resolution A/63/L.21. 
Mr.  Mohamed  (Yemen)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  As 

members  know,  certain  provinces  of  the  Republic  of 
Yemen  were  recently  affected  by  unprecedented 
torrential rains and floods. That led to a natural disaster 
that  caused  considerable  damage  to  property  and  loss 
of  life,  as  well  as  damage  to  infrastructure.  This  has 
undermined  the  Government’s  efforts  to  achieve  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015. 
The scale of the damage caused by the disaster is 

estimated  to  be  about  $1  billion,  according  to  a 
A/63/PV.43
preliminary  international  assessment  by  the  World 
Bank,  as  requested  by  Yemen’s  Ministry  of  Planning 
and International Assistance. Some 3,275 houses were 
destroyed,  over  10,000  people  were  left  homeless  and 
about  4,000  hectares  of  land  were  swept  away  due  to 
the flooding and the torrential rains. 

While  we  welcome  the  efforts,  support  and 
assistance  provided 
to  Yemen  by  neighbouring 
countries,  other  friendly  countries  and  the  donor 
community,  we  urge  the  international  community, 
United  Nations  agencies  and  other 
international 
financial  institutions  and  development  agencies,  to 
provide  additional technical and material assistance to 
enable  the  Government  of  Yemen  to  cope  with  the 
consequences  of  the  disaster  and  continue  with  its 
tireless efforts to achieve the MDGs. 

We  wish  to  express  our  deep  gratitude  and 
appreciation to all of those who have supported us and 
have sponsored the draft resolution we have submitted 
on special economic assistance for Yemen (A/63/L.21), 
and hope it will be adopted by consensus. 

I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  my 
gratitude  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
report  entitled,  “Strengthening  of  the  coordination  of 
emergency  humanitarian  assistance  of 
the  United 
Nations” (A/63/81), which we are examining today. 
Mr. Ripert (France) (spoke in French): I have the 

honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union: 
Turkey,  Croatia,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia,  Albania  and  Montenegro,  as  well  as 
Ukraine  and  Armenia,  align  themselves  with  this 
statement,  which  has  been  distributed  in  its  complete 
written form. I wish here only to highlight some of its 
key points.  

First  of  all  I  wish  to  communicate  to  the 
representative  of  Yemen  Europe’s  expressions  of 
solidarity with regard to the disaster that his country is 
facing  at  this  time.  I  also  wish  to  thank  the  Under-
Secretary-General  for  Humanitarian  Affairs  for  the 
reports submitted to this session and to reiterate the full 
support of the European Union (EU) as well as for all 
of  the  teams  of  the  Office  for  the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). 

Conflicts,  natural  disasters,  climate  change, 
increasing shortages of scarce resources and increased 
competition  to  obtain  them,  as  well  as  humanitarian 
08-59523 

5 
and 
towards 
so 
that 
solidarity 
framework, 
is  essential 
the  principles  of 
The  European  Union  condemns 
A/63/PV.43 

crises continue to affect civilian populations around the 
globe.  

In  December  2007,  the  European  Union  agreed 
on  a 
the  European  Consensus  on 
Humanitarian  Aid.  It  is  based  on  respect  for  and 
compliance  with 
international 
humanitarian 
law  and  based  upon  a  partnership 
approach  between  different  stakeholders  at  various 
stages  of  assistance.  The  European  Union  recognizes 
the  coordinating  role  of  the  United  Nations  while 
emphasizing 
the  primary  responsibility  of  States 
themselves.  
The  European  Union  would  like  to  express  its 

gratitude 
humanitarian 
personnel  who  often  risk  their  lives  in  increasingly 
difficult  situations.  The  EU  reiterates  its  commitment 
to  respect 
the  principles  of  humanity,  neutrality, 
impartiality, and independence. Compliance with those 
principles 
the  efforts  of 
humanitarian actors are accepted. 

the  attacks 
committed  against  humanitarian  personnel  which 
continue  to  occur  in  a  number  of  crises,  notably  in 
Darfur, Iraq, Somalia and Afghanistan. It is even more 
worrying  and  unacceptable  to  find  that  humanitarian 
workers  —  both  those  from  the  United  Nations  and 
those from non-governmental organizations (NGOs) — 
are being specifically targeted in greater numbers each 
day. 

The  European  Union  underlines  that  the  primary 
responsibility  for  ensuring  their  safety  falls  on  the 
States 
or 
installations.  The  European  Union  further  recalls  its 
firm condemnation of all acts of terrorism, in any form, 
anywhere and whatever the excuse. 

The European Union attaches great importance to 
respect  for  the  areas  where  humanitarian  efforts  are 
being carried out. That is essential for ensuring access 
to the populations in distress. Humanitarian action has 
its  own  logic.  However,  in  some  circumstances,  as  a 
last  resort  and  in  conformity  with  certain  conditions, 
security  must  be  provided  that  conforms  to  the  Oslo 
Guidelines  and  the  Guidelines  on  the  Use  of  Military 
and  Civil  Defence  Assets  to  Support  United  Nations 
Humanitarian  Activities  in  Complex  Emergencies  — 
the  MCDA  Guidelines.  Such  security  that  will  ensure 
that aid reaches populations in need, while at the same 
time  protecting  humanitarian  personnel.  Furthermore, 
hosting  United  Nations 
operations 

Security 
illustrated, 
that  each 
individual  State  has 
the  independence  of  humanitarian  actors  as  regards 
needs  assessments  of  populations  affected  by  crises 
must be maintained. 
Finally,  as  several  recent  crises  linked  to  natural 

disasters  or  conflicts  have 
there  are 
unfortunately still some States’ that, in an unacceptable 
manner,  deliberately  restrict  humanitarian  access  to 
disaster-stricken  populations.  The  European  Union 
calls  for  humanitarian  assistance  to  be  delivered 
without any restrictions and for humanitarian personnel 
to be guaranteed freedom of movement. 

As agreed by the heads of State or Government at 
the  2005  World  Summit,  the  European  Union  is 
convinced 
the 
responsibility  to  protect  its  population  from  genocide, 
war  crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and  crimes  against 
humanity.  The  international  community,  through  the 
United  Nations,  also  has  the  responsibility  to  assist 
with  the  protection  of  populations  from  those  crimes. 
But where national authorities are manifestly failing to 
meet  the  responsibility  to  protect  their  population,  the 
international  community  has  confirmed  that  it  is 
prepared  to  take  collective  action  through  the  United 
Nations 
effective 
implementation  of  the  responsibility  to  protect  is  of 
utmost importance to the European Union.  

Among the millions of  civilians who are victims 
of  conflict,  women  and  children  are  particularly 
vulnerable  and  unfortunately  often  become  the  main 
targets. The  European  Union  underlines  in  that  regard 
the  importance  of  fully  and  effectively  implementing 
Security Council resolutions 1674 (2006), 1325 (2000), 
1820 (2008) and 1612 (2005). In the case of increasing 
gender-based  violence  and  sexual  violence  that  has 
nearly  become  an  actual  war  tactic,  the  European 
Union intends to soon adopt the Guidelines to Combat 
Violence  against  Women,  to  show  that  action  in  this 
domain is a priority and to make that action sustainable 
over the long term. 

Furthermore,  the  European  Union  welcomes  the 
action  of  the  Security  Council  Working  Group  on 
Children  and  Armed  Conflict  and  reaffirms  actions 
made to reintegrate children who are victims of war, in 
particular by UNICEF. 

Now, I would also like to mention the three major 
crises facing the international community: first, climate 
change  and  natural  disasters;  secondly,  spiralling  food 
prices  and  thirdly,  the  consequences  of  the  financial 
Council. 
The 
6 

08-59523 
in 
current 
financial 
liaison  with 
role  played  by 
the  coordination 
for  Disaster  Reduction. 
the  Caribbean  battered 


crisis. Cyclone Nargis in Burma and recent hurricanes 
in 
already  vulnerable 
populations. The European Union reaffirms the need to 
help  OCHA, 
relevant  national 
authorities, to play its role in coordinating responses to 
international disasters and underscores the crucial role 
that NGOs play in disaster response. 

The  European  Union  is  determined  to  promote 
disaster  risk  reduction  and  to  prepare  populations  in 
developing  countries  in  the  best  possible  manner, 
through  coherent  and  coordinated  action  at  local, 
national and regional levels. Local capacity-building is 
essential.  The  European  Union  encourages  States  to 
implement  the  Hyogo  Framework  for  Action,  and  it 
the 
supports 
International  Strategy 
It 
supports  integrating  risk  reduction  and  early  planning 
strategies in development cooperation. 

As regards the food crisis, the United Nations has 
been  in  the  front  line  with  respect  to  mobilizing  the 
international  community  and  helping 
to  provide 
immediate  response  in  the  hardest-hit  countries.  The 
European Union would like to highlight the quality of 
the  work  done  by  the  United  Nations  Task  Force 
coordinated  by  Mr.  John  Holmes. The  response  to  the 
food crisis will have to take place over the long term so 
as  to  address  its  structural  causes.  That  is  the  aim  of 
the  Global  Partnership  for  Food,  promoted  by  the 
Group  of  Eight,  with  which  the  European  Union  fully 
associates itself. 

Although  it  is  still  difficult  to  assess,  it  is  clear 
that 
the 
impact 
humanitarian  action.  On  the  one  hand,  greater  needs 
linked to a deterioration of the situation of populations 
already  in  distress  can  be  predicted.  On  the  other,  the 
countries  of  the  South  fear  a  potential  reduction  of 
financial contributions. 

The  European  Union,  which  has  reaffirmed  its 
commitments  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
and  which  is  the  largest  donor  to  United  Nations 
humanitarian 
the  Under-
Secretary-General 
for  Humanitarian  Affairs  and 
Emergency  Relief  Coordinator  to  broaden  the  donor 
base and calls upon all States to mobilize. 

The European Union thinks it crucial to increase 
the  predictability  and  flexibility  of  humanitarian 
financing. We believe the establishment of the Central 
Emergency  Response  Fund  (CERF)  and  common 
crisis  will 
encourages 
agencies, 
A/63/PV.43
the 
and 
and 
including 
coordinators 
international 
humanitarian  funds  to  be  very  positive  developments. 
The  European  Union  welcomes  the  improvement  in 
rapid  response  to  crises  thanks  to  CERF  and  the 
emphasis  on  underfunded  crises.  The  Office  for  the 
Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  must  give 
consideration  to  the  outcome  of  the  independent 
evaluation of CERF. 

The European Union supports the United Nations 
humanitarian reform, especially the role of resident and 
humanitarian 
sector-wide 
approach,  which  helps  achieve  more  coherent 
international  action,  bringing  together  all  relevant 
actors, 
local 
non-governmental  organizations,  and  allows  a  better 
assessment  of 
the  strengths  and  weaknesses  of 
humanitarian  assistance.  A  balance  between  coherent 
action and flexible implementation must be found. 
Moreover,  the  European  Union  supports  the 

partnership  approach  set  up  within 
the  Global 
Humanitarian Platform. To guarantee the effectiveness 
of  humanitarian  aid,  needs  assessments  must  be 
improved  at  the  global  and  local  levels.  That  requires 
reliable  information  and  clearly  defined  priorities.  In 
that  regard,  the  European  Union  welcomes  the  vital 
role  of  the  United  Nations  Disaster  Assessment  and 
Coordination System.  

Lastly,  it  is  not  enough  just  to  provide  an 
emergency response. Early recovery and reconstruction 
must  be 
to  humanitarian 
assistance. In order to strengthen the connection among 
those various aspects, the European Union encourages 
humanitarian  and  development  actors  to  coordinate 
their action from the earliest stages of crisis response.  

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  the 
European Union’s full support for the Under-Secretary-
General  for  Humanitarian  Affairs  and  our  resolve  to 
work  closely  with 
the  United  Nations  and  all 
humanitarian  actors,  so  as  to  provide  the  victims  of 
conflicts  and  disasters  with 
the  solidarity  and 
assistance they deserve. 
Mr. Hunte  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  I  have  the 

honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China  on  agenda  item  65  (a),  “Strengthening  of  the 
coordination  of  emergency  humanitarian  assistance  of 
the United Nations”. 

All  countries  are  vulnerable  to  disasters.  States 
can  and  indeed  must  cooperate  to  find  collective  and 
the  natural  successors 
08-59523 

7 

to 
the  United  Nations 
to  coordinate  responses 
A/63/PV.43 

cooperative  solutions  to  the  challenges  that  disaster 
presents.  The  relevance  of 
that  cooperation  has 
multiplied with the increase in the number and impact 
of  natural  disasters  in  recent  years.  The  collective 
efforts of Member States to promote more responsive, 
prompt,  fair  and  needs-based  humanitarian  assistance 
must be augmented and strengthened. 

The Group of 77 and China believes that a system 
such  as  the  one  just  described  calls  for  an  increase  in 
resources  available 
for 
humanitarian  assistance.  We  also  believe  that  greater 
attention  needs  to  be  paid  to  the  ability  of  the  United 
Nations 
to  demands  for 
humanitarian  assistance.  That  can  be  achieved  by 
strengthening  the  Office  for  the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian  Affairs  and  by  making  sure  that  the 
Central  Emergency  Response  Fund  (CERF)  is  well 
funded. 

In that regard, we thank the Secretary-General for 
his  recent  report  on  CERF  (A/63/348).  While  we  are 
still analysing that report, our preliminary view is that, 
after two years of operation, the CERF has been a step 
forward  in  ensuring  a  more  predictable  and  timely 
response to humanitarian emergencies. We take note of 
the findings in the summary of the Secretary-General’s 
report that CERF has become "a valuable and impartial 
tool  for  humanitarian  action  by  helping  to  accelerate 
response".  We  also  note  the  call  to  Member  States  to 
contribute to the Fund and we would, in particular, like 
to be kept abreast of amounts being disbursed and the 
policies  governing  the  disbursal  of  such  funds.  We 
certainly  can  support  the  recommendations  of  the 
Secretary-General  to  keep  the  Fund’s  progress  under 
review. 

The  increase  in  the  number  and  scale  of  natural 
disasters  and  their  impact  in  recent  years  has  resulted 
in  massive  loss  of  life  and  livelihood  and  threatened 
agricultural  production  and  food  security.  The  global 
food crisis has further exacerbated conditions for more 
than  900  million  people,  mainly 
in  developing 
countries,  who  are  undernourished.  The  crisis 
is 
expected  significantly  to  increase  the  demand  for 
humanitarian assistance. We believe that there is a need 
to address those developments in a holistic manner and 
significantly to scale up the response to the crisis. 

We would like to take this opportunity to reiterate 
that  international  humanitarian  law  and  the  guidelines 
contained in the annex to General Assembly resolution 
8 

08-59523 
the 
regard 
its  role 
46/182 remain the  framework governing the provision 
of humanitarian assistance. The General Assembly has 
stated on numerous occasions, including in the guiding 
principles  of  resolution  46/182,  that  humanitarian 
assistance  should  be  provided  with  the  consent  of  the 
affected  country  and  on  the  basis  of  an  appeal  by  it. 
The  resolution  also  emphasizes  that  humanitarian 
assistance  must  be  provided  in  accordance  with  the 
principles  of  humanity,  neutrality  and  impartiality. 
Moreover,  coordination  of  all 
types  of  external 
assistance  must  be  done  by  the  recipient  Government. 
That  would  ensure  better  coherence  and  coordination 
of relief efforts. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  is  concerned  about 
statements and efforts made this year that would imply 
the need to modify the agreed basis for the provision of 
humanitarian  assistance.  We  should  avoid  attempts  to 
expand  the  scope  of  humanitarian  assistance  or  to 
introduce guidelines and principles on operational and 
other  matters  into  deliberations  of  this  Assembly 
without  due 
to  adequate  and  sufficient 
intergovernmental consultations. We are engaged in the 
strengthening of the humanitarian response capacity of 
the  United  Nations  and 
in  coordinating 
international  assistance 
to 
emergencies.  We  remain  open  to  proposals  and  ideas 
that  will  contribute  to  those  objectives  and  that  result 
from  an  inclusive  intergovernmental  process  that  duly 
takes  into  account  the  views  and  needs  of  recipient 
countries of international humanitarian assistance. 

Sound  national  disaster  management  policies 
require  strong  capacity  and  coherent  strategies  that 
address  both  disaster  prevention 
and  disaster 
management. However, while there is no substitute for 
effective national efforts, a national response alone can 
sometimes be inadequate. In that regard, there is a need 
for  more  bilateral, 
international 
cooperation in response to natural disasters. 

The  United  Nations  system  and  the  international 
community  have  a  unique  role  to  play  in  assisting 
developing  countries 
their  existing 
humanitarian  capacities,  knowledge  and  institutions, 
including  by  promoting  access  to  and  transfer  of  new 
technology,  funding  and  expertise 
to  developing 
countries.  Such  assistance  will  help  developing 
countries to strengthen preparedness, including through 
the  development  and  maintenance  of  early  warning 
systems;  to  respond  rapidly  to  natural  disasters  and 
long-term 
mitigate 
to  enhance 
to  national 
to  address 
responses 
their 
impact; 
regional 
and 
from 
relief 
field  of  natural  disasters, 
international  solidarity  and  hope 


challenges  of  the  post-recovery  period;  to  reduce  the 
risks  associated  with  future  natural  disasters  and  to 
accelerate relief and rehabilitation. 

Building  on  this  last  point,  an  issue  of  great 
interest and concern to our Group is the transition from 
relief to development. We believe that it is possible to 
make  that  transition  and  to  transform  disasters  into 
opportunities  for  sustainable  development.  That  is  the 
case when efforts are made at an early stage to support 
local  and  national 
recovery  processes.  We  are 
convinced  of  the  need  for  continuing  international 
engagement  in  the  post-disaster  period  to  restore 
livelihoods,  build  resilience  and  reduce  vulnerability. 
We hope that there will be a greater focus on meeting 
those needs even as we work towards improving CERF. 

In that context, as in previous sessions, the Group 
of  77  and  China  will  submit  a  draft  resolution  on 
international cooperation on humanitarian assistance in 
the 
to 
development. We believe that international cooperation 
in  response  to  natural  disasters  gives  life  to  the 
principle  of 
to 
multilateralism.  We  are  pleased  with  the  growing 
consensus  on  this  annual  draft  resolution  and  we  look 
forward  to  our  partners’  continued  support  for  that 
important initiative. 
Mr.  Mitchell  (Grenada):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak  on  behalf  of  the  14  States  members  of  the 
Caribbean Community (CARICOM) that are Members 
of 
item  65, 
“Strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian and 
disaster  relief  assistance  of 
the  United  Nations, 
including  special  economic  assistance”,  and 
its 
sub-item  (a)  “Strengthening of the coordination of the 
emergency  humanitarian  assistance  of 
the  United 
Nations”. 
The CARICOM member States wish to associate 

themselves  with 
the 
representative of Antigua and Barbuda on behalf of the 
Group  of  77  and  China.  We  welcome  the  Secretary-
General’s  reports  on  those  agenda  items  and  wish  to 
take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  the  Emergency 
Relief Coordinator and his staff for their hard work and 
dedication in facing the challenges of the past year. 

We  remain  disconcerted  by  continuous  reports 
over the past five years of an upward trend in disasters 
of vastly devastating effect and the probability that this 
trend  will  continue  as  vulnerabilities  increase.  Even 
the  United  Nations  on  agenda 
statement  made  by 
the 
A/63/PV.43
to 
in 
interest 
system.  Without  prejudice 
more  worrisome  to  the  CARICOM  member  States  in 
that context is the reported growth in the frequency and 
severity  of  hydrometeorological  hazards.  Addressing 
the  complexity  of  disasters  and  ending  the  cycle  of 
vulnerabilities  necessitates  an  integrated  approach  to 
disaster  management  that  would  include,  as  indicated 
in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/61/84),  disaster 
planning  and  preparedness,  sustained  assistance  for 
post-disaster  recovery  and  reconstruction,  and  the 
prioritization of risk-reduction as a matter of urgency.  

To that end, the World Summit Outcome set forth 
three  broad  areas  to  improve  the  United  Nations 
humanitarian 
the 
importance  of  progress  at  an  even  pace  in  all  three 
areas,  CARICOM  has  particular 
the 
improvement  of  facilities  for  rapid  access  to  funds  in 
the  initial  phase  of  a  humanitarian  emergency  and  for 
ensuring  equitable  response  to  neglected  emergencies 
or otherwise chronically underfunded emergencies.  

The  development  of  small  island  developing 
States  with  particular  vulnerabilities  to  hurricanes, 
floods  and  earthquakes  is  itself  dependent  on  the 
frequency and magnitude  of such weather  events. Yet, 
in  the  most  recent  past,  there  has  been  an  inadequate 
international  response  to  the  disasters  that  struck 
Grenada,  Guyana,  Haiti  and  Jamaica,  as  well  as  other 
islands whose infrastructure is weakened by persistent 
and  constant  strong  winds,  rains  and  tidal  swells.  It 
was in that context that we welcomed the launch of the 
Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) to ensure a 
more  predictable  and  timely  response  to  humanitarian 
emergencies,  and  recognized  the  innovative  grant 
element in the improved Fund. 
the  Fund, 
the 

CARICOM 
its 
overall 
pleased  with 
application. We note in particular the provision for the 
immediate disbursement of funds based on appeals for 
rapid  response  to  situations  in  Africa,  the  ongoing 
situation  in  Haiti  and  situations  caused  by  the  current 
food crisis. Also to be noted is the allocation of funds 
to  underfunded  crises.  The  two-year  evaluation  has 
found  that  CERF  has  proven  itself  a  valuable  and 
impartial  tool.  The  Fund  has  helped  to  accelerate 
response and increase coverage of needs, in addition to 
having  served  as  a  catalyst  for  proven  field-level 
coordination and evidence-based prioritization.  

Since  its  launch  in  2006,  the  Fund  has  allocated 
more  than  $1  billion  for  humanitarian  aid  around  the 
Two  years  after 
launch  of 
remains 
08-59523 

9 
last 
joins 

resort  and 
A/63/PV.43 

world. In order to ensure that CERF remains an effective 
funding tool, its funds must be replenished. In this regard, 
CARICOM  member  States  urge  the  transformation  of 
pledges  into  firm  funding  commitments  and  call  on  the 
Secretary-General  to  continue  to  use  his good  offices  in 
that process.  

Secondly,  it  is  important  to  recall  the  purpose  of 
CERF  as  a  mechanism  of 
the 
complementary role it plays in the humanitarian appeals, 
mechanisms and emergency funds of individual agencies. 
Thus,  CARICOM  notes  that  the  Fund  has  been  able  to 
complement  other  humanitarian  funding  arrangements 
and  has  been  a  valuable  and  successful  addition  to  the 
humanitarian  financing  architecture.  CERF  is  noted  to 
work best when used in combination with United Nations 
agencies’  own  emergency 
funds  or  with  other 
humanitarian pool funding mechanisms. 

CARICOM  member  States  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to praise the invaluable role that the Advisory 
Group continues to play in the management of the Fund 
and  to  take  note  of  the  Secretary-General’s  recent 
appointment  of  16  members  of  the  Advisory  Group, 
including  four  past  members,  to  assure  continuity  and 
integrity.  CARICOM  continues  to  endorse  the Advisory 
Group’s recommendation that Member States make every 
effort to achieve the $500 million target established by the 
General  Assembly.  CARICOM 
the  Secretary-
General in calling on Member States to contribute to the 
Fund  at  the  forthcoming  high-level  conference  on  the 
central emergency response fund in December 2008. 

In 1991, CARICOM member States established the 
Caribbean  Disaster  Emergency  Response  Agency,  a 
disaster-management  programme  designed  to  coordinate 
disaster  response  and  management  at  the  regional  level. 
At  this  juncture,  CARICOM  would  like  to  extend  its 
appreciation to the donors for their ongoing support and 
to  acknowledge  the  recent  assignment  by  the  European 
Commission of €3.4 million to support the Agency’s new 
direction,  in  which  it  will  no  longer  only  respond  to 
disasters  when  they  occur,  but  also  promote  prevention 
and  preparation  activities  that  reduce  the  risk  posed  by 
disasters before they occur. 

CARICOM is pleased to inform the Assembly that 
the  Caribbean  Disaster  Emergency  Response  Agency 
(CDERA)  is  now  being  transformed  into  the  Caribbean 
Disaster  Emergency  Management  Agency,  with  key 
resource  management, 
elements  addressing  human 
information  and  communication 
technologies  (ICT) 
in  advance  of  disasters  and 
enhancement,  and  application  in  an  integrated  project 
management platform at the coordinating unit level.  

Disasters in the Caribbean are now more destructive 
than  ever,  mainly  due  to  more  frequent  and  stronger 
hurricanes  precipitated  by  global  climate  change.  The 
situation is exacerbated by increasing urbanization. These 
increasingly  destructive  disasters  not  only  kill  but  also 
wipe out years of investment and infrastructure, and their 
rehabilitation costs are stretching already fragile regional 
economies  to  the  point  where  development  programmes 
have to be sacrificed.  

Therefore, it should be noted that timely assistance, 
such  as  that  provided  by  the  European  Community 
contributes tremendously by strengthening the Caribbean 
regional response, which assists the region by enhancing 
preparations 
thereby 
improving  prospects  for  speedy  recovery  following  a 
disaster. These types of cooperation serve to minimize the 
human and economic impact caused by disaster. 

It  is  most  evident  that  the  effects  of  disasters  are 
increasingly  widespread.  Developed  and  developing 
countries are both feeling the brunt, thus highlighting the 
urgent need for all nations and regions to work together. 
Mr.  Singh  Dhindsa  (India):  I  have  the  honour  of 

delivering this statement on behalf of the Governments of 
Sweden and India. 

We  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
the  documentation  presented  under  this  item,  including 
his report (A/63/277). We also appreciate the briefing that 
Under-Secretary-General  John  Holmes  provided  at  an 
earlier date. 

India and Sweden recognize that the coordination of 
emergency  humanitarian  assistance  is  one  of  the  most 
important  responsibilities  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
impartial,  voluntary  and  multilateral  nature  of  United 
Nations humanitarian assistance is highly valued by both 
countries. 
Sweden and India have noted that the demands for 

humanitarian assistance are likely to trend upwards in the 
near future. We take note of the fact that there has been an 
increase in the number and impact of natural hazards. We 
further take note of the complex emergency situations and 
the  humanitarian  challenges  these  situations  continue  to 
pose. 

that  humanitarian 
principles and international humanitarian law provide the 
India  and  Sweden  reiterate 
10 

08-59523 
a 
have 
National  Governments 


basis for humanitarian assistance. The letter and spirit of 
these  principles  need  to  be  scrupulously  respected. 
Sweden  and  India  reaffirm  the  idea  that  humanitarian 
assistance  must  be  provided  in  accordance  with  the 
principles of humanity, neutrality and impartiality. 

primary 
responsibility  for  disaster  management  although  it  is 
sometimes  difficult  for  States  to  tackle  emergencies  on 
their  own.  Nations  can  and  must  cooperate  amongst 
themselves to find collective and cooperative solutions to 
the  challenges  that  disasters  represent.  The  efforts  of 
Member  States  to  come  together  to  promote  a  more 
responsive,  prompt,  fair  and  needs-based  humanitarian 
assistance system must be augmented and strengthened. 

India  and  Sweden  believe  that  the  capabilities  and 
role of the United Nations in coordination and delivery of 
international  humanitarian  assistance  need 
to  be 
strengthened. This approach would mean an augmentation 
of the operational coordination capacities of the Office for 
the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  (OCHA), 
improved  delivery  of  humanitarian  services  by  relevant 
United  Nations  funds  and  programmes,  and  a  greater 
accountability to stakeholders. 

Disaster  management  has  to  be  a  holistic  process. 
India  and  Sweden  believe  that  prevention  is  better  than 
cure.  We  must,  therefore,  give  greater  attention  and 
resources 
reduction  and  disaster 
preparedness.  Moreover,  disaster  risk  reduction  and 
preparedness need to be mainstreamed into development 
policies. 
that  disaster 

management must be an inclusive process. Communities, 
civil  society  and  the  private  sector  all  have  important 
roles  to  play.  We  must  act  in  partnership  to  exploit  and 
augment  synergies.  Cooperation  in  strengthening  local, 
national and regional capacities in the areas of emergency 
response, disaster risk reduction and disaster preparedness 
will benefit all.  
In a globalized world, each nation has capabilities, 

resources, experiences and knowledge that can be used in 
partnership  with  all  nations  and 
international 
community for their mutual benefit. Mechanisms that tap 
these  capacities  and  disseminate  best  practices  and 
knowledge must, therefore, must be given high priority by 
the United Nations. 

The  world  is  going  through  an  unprecedented 
financial crisis. It is important in these times to highlight 
Sweden  and  India  also  believe 
to  disaster 
risk 
the 
A/63/PV.43
of 
delivery 
international 
I  will now make  a  national  statement  on  behalf  of 
the ongoing necessity of maintaining and augmenting the 
levels  and  predictability  of  funding  for  humanitarian 
assistance. In this regard, Sweden and India believe that 
the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) has been 
a  success.  The  fund  has  succeeded  in  mobilizing  $1 
billion during its two years of operation. The disbursal of 
these funds has played a role in accelerating responses to 
emergency situations and has had a positive impact on the 
management  of  these  situations.  The  institution  and 
operation  of  the  Central  Emergency  Response  Fund  has 
highlighted  the  collective  and  shared  interests  that  all 
Member States have in the humanitarian agenda. 
Member States have a common interest in ensuring 

effective 
humanitarian 
assistance. The consensus that exists with respect to these 
common  interests  can  be  articulated  and  strengthened 
through  constructive  and 
informed  dialogue.  This 
approach  will  reinforce  our  common  ability  to  face 
disasters whether natural or man-made. 

the Government of India. 

India  would  like  to  align  itself  with  the  statement 
made by Antigua and Barbuda on behalf of the Group of 
77 and China. 

The  humanitarian  role  of  the  United  Nations  has 
assumed added importance in the recent past. In his report 
on International Cooperation on Humanitarian Assistance 
in 
the 
Secretary-General  has  stated  that  there  is  a  longer-term 
trend  of  increasing  frequency  and  intensity  of  recorded 
disasters associated with natural hazards. Asia, including 
India, has been affected by these hazards in the past year. 

In  addition  to  disasters  associated  with  natural 
hazards,  the  global  humanitarian  scenario  has  been 
complicated  and  placed  under  greater  stress  by  the 
emergence of new challenges such as the unprecedented 
increase in food prices. The rise in food prices will have a 
negative  effect  on  populations  living  near  and  under 
poverty thresholds and will increase humanitarian distress 
in  large  parts  of  the  developing  world.  The  nature, 
contour  and  resourcing  of  the  humanitarian  response  to 
this  development  is  a  matter  of  interest  and  concern  to 
India  and  other  developing  countries.  Under 
these 
circumstances  it  would  be  logical  to  assume  that  the 
demands  on 
the  field  of 
humanitarian assistance will continue to grow. 
the  Field  of  Natural  Disasters  (A/63/277), 
the  United  Nations 
in 
08-59523 

11 

A/63/PV.43 


Member  States  have  the  primary  responsibility  for 
providing  humanitarian  assistance  in  response  to  all 
emergencies.  While  there  is  no  substitute  for  effective 
national efforts, a national response alone can sometimes 
be inadequate. The United Nations has a key part to play 
in  complementing  and  supplementing  the  efforts  of 
Member States. 

There is also a need for more bilateral, regional and 
international  cooperation  to  deal  with  disasters  and  to 
make  the  most  effective  use  of  our  capabilities.  Greater 
cooperation is required not only in the emergency phase 
of disaster response but also in relief and rehabilitation, in 
disaster  preparedness  and  in  setting  up  and  maintaining 
early warning systems. These all are, and should be, parts 
of effective disaster management strategies. 

The Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) has 
completed two years of existence. India has noted that the 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  acknowledges  that  the 
Fund has largely achieved its objectives and has become, 
in  a  short  time,  a  valuable  and  impartial  tool  for 
humanitarian  action,  inter  alia,  by  helping  to  accelerate 
response and by catalyzing field-level coordination. 
The  CERF  today  accounts  for  about  5  per  cent  of 

annual  global  humanitarian  assistance  flows.  As  a 
developing  country  with  strong  faith  in  the  universality, 
neutrality,  impartiality  and  multilateral  nature  of  United 
Nations  assistance,  India  would  like  to  see  this  share 
increase. 

increasing 
incidence  of  attacks  on  humanitarian  personnel  and 
United  Nations  premises.  India  has  always  opposed 
violence  and  condemns  such  attacks  in  the  strongest 
possible terms. 

India  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
reiterate  that humanitarian assistance has  to be  given  on 
the  basis  of  humanitarian  principles  and  international 
humanitarian  law.  On  numerous  occasions,  including  in 
the Guiding Principles of resolution 46/182, the General 
Assembly has stated that humanitarian assistance should 
be provided with the consent of the affected country and 
on  the  basis  of  an  appeal  by  it.  It  also  emphasizes  that 
humanitarian  assistance  must  be  provided  in  accordance 
with 
the  principles  of  humanity,  neutrality  and 
impartiality. 
is  deeply  concerned  by 
India 
the 
strategy 
is 
the  Rio  Declaration, 
the  existing  normative  and 
India’s  disaster  management 

However,  we  have  noted  that  there  have  been 
efforts to expand this base and the scope for intervention. 
While 
legal  basis  for 
humanitarian assistance is adequate, India is open to new 
ideas  to  strengthen  the  Organization’s  operational  and 
coordination  capabilities.  We  also  believe  that  the  spirit 
and letter of intergovernmental processes must be adhered 
to in such initiatives. 

Disaster management in  India  aims  to  build  a  safe 
and  disaster-resilient  India  by  developing  a  holistic, 
proactive, multidisaster and technology-driven strategy. A 
National  Disaster  Management Authority  headed  by  the 
Prime  Minister  has  been  instituted  to  achieve  this 
objective through a culture of prevention, mitigation and 
preparedness  so  as  to  generate  a  prompt  and  efficient 
response at the time of disasters. 

in 
conformity  with  the  International  Strategy  for  Disaster 
Reduction, 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  the  Hyogo  Framework  2005-
2015. 

The  pillars  on  which  India’s  disaster  management 
strategy  are  based  consist  of  community-based  disaster 
management, capacity development, consolidation of past 
initiatives  and  best  practices,  and  cooperation  with 
agencies at national, regional and international levels. 
to 

is  committed 
promoting  a  culture  of  prevention  and  preparedness  and 
encouraging mitigation measures based on state-of-the-art 
technology  and  environmental  sustainability.  It  is  also 
committed  to  mainstreaming  disaster  management  into 
the  development  planning  process  and  to  creating  an 
institutional and legal framework, an enabling regulatory 
environment  and  an  effective  compliance  regime.  It 
believes that an efficient humanitarian response must give 
special attention to those who are vulnerable and weak. 

The  Government  places  great  emphasis  on 
developing  contemporary  forecasting  and  early  warning 
systems.  It  also  believes  in  working  together  with  the 
media,  non-governmental  organizations  and  the  private 
sector in generating awareness and capacity development 
in tackling humanitarian disasters. 
The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m. 
The  Government  of 
India 
12 

08-59523 
