
A/63/PV.57
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

57th plenary meeting 
Monday, 24 November 2008, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 
The meeting was called to order at 3.30 p.m. 



Agenda item 64 
Promotion and protection of human rights 

  Draft resolution (A/63/L.31) 
The  President:  Before  we  proceed,  I  would  like 

to  inform  Member  States  that,  on  behalf  of  the  entire 
membership,  representatives  of  all  regional  groups  — 
Algeria,  Argentina,  Azerbaijan,  Germany 
and 
Indonesia —  were  appointed  as  facilitators  by  the 
President  of  the  General Assembly  in  connection  with 
draft  resolution  before  us  today. As  a  result,  no  more 
sponsors  will  be  accepted 
resolution 
A/63/L.31. 
(spoke in Spanish) 

The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/63/L.31, entitled “Commemoration of the 
sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human Rights”. 

draft resolution A/63/L.31? 

63/25). 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  General 

Assembly has concluded this stage of its consideration 
of agenda item 64. 
The  draft  resolution  was  adopted  (resolution 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
for  draft 

Agenda item 16 
Question of Palestine 


  Report of the Committee on the Exercise of the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People 
(A/63/35) 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/368) 
  Draft resolutions (A/63/L.32, A/63/L.33, 
A/63/L.34 and A/63/L.35) 






Statement by the President 
The President: I am pleased to open this plenary 

meeting, in which we take up the question of Palestine. 
This  morning,  with  heavy  hearts,  we  observed  the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People.  I  joined  His  Excellency  Ambassador  Paul 
Badji,  Chairman  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of 
the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People,  and 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  to  voice  our  ongoing 
concern  about  the  terrible  situation  in  the  Gaza  Strip 
and  the  West  Bank  and  to  express  our  solidarity  with 
that long-suffering people. 

the 
Chairman on the current situation of Palestinians living 
under  occupation.  As  well, 
the  Secretary-General 
summarized  the  complex  initiatives  that  are  being 
undertaken  by  the  international  community  to  move 
forward  peace  talks  and  the  establishment  of  the 
Palestinian  State.  I  urged  the  international  community 
to  raise  its  voice  against  the  collective  punishment  of 
the  people  of  Gaza,  a  policy  that  we  cannot  tolerate. 
the  comprehensive  report  of 
We  heard 







This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-61587 (E) 
*0861587* 

A/63/PV.57 

We  demand  an  end  to  that  massive  abuse  of  human 
rights and call on Israel, the occupying Power, to allow 
humanitarian and other supplies to enter the Gaza Strip 
without delay. 

I  spoke  this  morning  about  apartheid  and  how 
Israeli  policies  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories 
appear  so  similar  to  the  apartheid  of  an  earlier  era  a 
continent away. I believe it is very important that we in 
the United Nations use that term. We must not be afraid 
to  call  something  what  it  is.  It  is  the  United  Nations, 
after  all,  that  adopted  the  International  Convention  on 
the  Suppression  and  Punishment  of  the  Crime  of 
Apartheid,  making  clear  to  the  entire  world  that  such 
practices  of  official  discrimination  must  be  outlawed 
wherever they occur. 

We  heard  today  from  a  representative  of  South 
African  civil  society.  We  know  that  civil  society 
organizations  all  around  the  world  are  working  to 
defend  Palestinian  rights  and  are  trying  to  protect  the 
Palestinian  population,  which  we,  the  United  Nations, 
are  failing  to  protect.  More  than  20  years  ago,  we  in 
the  United  Nations  took  the  lead  from  civil  society 
when  we  agreed  that  sanctions  were  required  to 
provide a non-violent means of pressuring South Africa 
to  end  its  violations. Today,  perhaps  we  in  the  United 
Nations  should  consider  following  the  lead  of  a  new 
generation of civil society, who are calling for a similar 
non-violent  campaign  of  boycott,  divestment  and 
sanctions to pressure Israel to end its violations. 

I  have  attended  a  great  many  meetings  on  the 
rights  of  the  Palestinian  people.  I  am  amazed  at  how 
people continue to insist on patience while our brothers 
and  sisters  are  being  crucified.  Patience  is  a  virtue  in 
which  I  believe,  but  there  is  nothing  virtuous  about 
being  patient  with  the  suffering  of  others.  We  must 
endeavour,  with  all  our  heart,  to  put  an  end  to  the 
suffering of the Palestinian people. 

I have great love for the Jewish people, and that 
has  been  true  all  my  life.  I  have  never  hesitated  to 
condemn  the  crimes  of  the  Holocaust  or  any  of  the 
many  abuses  committed  against  our  Jewish  brothers 
and  sisters.  However,  their  suffering  does  not  give 
anyone the right to abuse others, especially those who 
historically  have  such  deep  and  exemplary  relations 
with the Jewish people. 

Having  said  that,  I  would  like  to  remind  our 
Israeli brothers and sisters that, even though they have 
the  protective  shield  of  the  United  States  in  the 
that  cynically  perpetuates 
Security  Council,  no  amount  of  arm  twisting  and 
intimidation will change resolution 181 (II), which was 
adopted 61 years ago and called for the creation of two 
States.  Shamefully,  there  is  no  Palestinian  State  to 
celebrate today, and the prospects are as distant as ever. 
All  explanations  notwithstanding,  that  central  fact 
makes  a  mockery  of  the  United  Nations  and  gravely 
hurts its image and prestige. How can we continue like 
that? I urge the international community to defuse the 
political  deadlock 
that 
hatred, isolation and abuse. Our solidarity must prompt 
concrete  action  to  realize  those  elusive  rights,  which 
most of us can take for granted.  
(spoke in Spanish) 

I  now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Paul 
Badji  of  Senegal,  who  will  speak  in  his  capacity  as 
Chairman  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People. 
Mr.  Badji  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  I  would 

like,  at  the  outset,  on  behalf  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People,  to  most  sincerely  thank  all  who  participated 
this morning in the special meeting held to observe the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People.  On  that  solemn  occasion,  the  importance  and 
urgency of achieving a comprehensive, just and lasting 
solution to the question of Palestine was forcefully and 
unanimously  reaffirmed.  There  was  also  considerable 
support for the exercise by the Palestinian people of its 
inalienable rights. 
Before  I  introduce  the  four  draft  resolutions  that 

the  Committee  has  prepared  under  the  agenda  item 
under  consideration,  I  should  like  to  make  some  brief 
remarks  with  regard  to  the  situation  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian 
the 
political process. 
One  year  ago,  the  international  community  as  a 

whole  welcomed 
international 
conference at Annapolis convened by the United States 
of  America  to  follow  up  an  initiative  by  the  Quartet. 
The  Conference  led  to  the  resumption  of  the  political 
process  between  Israelis  and  Palestinians  and  elicited 
an  unprecedented  level  of  political,  economic  and 
financial  support  by  the  international  community  for 
the  Palestinian  Authority,  and  subsequently  led  to 
substantial  pledges  at  the  donors’  conference  held  in 
Paris  in  December  2007.  The  Committee  joined  the 
groundswell  to  relaunch  the  peace  process  and,  in  the 
territory  and  on  developments 
in 
the  holding  of  an 
2 

08-61587 
the  construction  of 


context of its programme of work, worked to establish 
an  environment  conducive  to  advancing  permanent 
status negotiations. 

Under  the  auspices  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People, 
the  Secretariat’s  Division  for  Palestinian 
Rights organized three major international meetings in 
2008.  The  Palestinian  Reform  and  Development  Plan 
was  at  the  heart  of  the  debate  that  took  place  at  the 
United Nations seminar on assistance to the Palestinian 
people held in February 2008 at Amman, during which 
donors were  encouraged to become  active participants 
in  the  implementation  of  the  Plan.  The  seminar  also 
made  it  possible  to  undertake  an  assessment  of  the 
numerous  obstacles  impeding  the  achievement  of  that 
goal,  namely,  the  hundreds  of  checkpoints  and  the 
routine  closure  of  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory, 
which  stifle  economic  development,  the  expansion  of 
settlements  and 
the  wall  on 
Palestinian  land,  which  further  fragments  the  West 
Bank.  

The delegation that represented the Committee at 
the  seminar  took  up  the  situation  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem, during a 
meeting  with  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Jordan. Following the Amman seminar, a delegation of 
the Committee visited two refugee camps in Jordan and 
obtained first-hand knowledge of the living conditions 
of its inhabitants. 

The  United  Nations  International  Conference  on 
Palestine  Refugees,  which  was  organized  by  the 
Committee  in  April  at  the  Paris  headquarters  of 
UNESCO,  took  up  the  issue  of  the  many  Palestinians 
forced to live for over 60 years in refugee camps in the 
West  Bank,  the  Gaza  Strip,  Jordan,  Lebanon  and  the 
Syrian  Arab  Republic.  Participants  at  the  Conference 
stressed the fact that a durable solution to the Palestine 
refugee  problem  and  to  the  Israeli  Palestinian  conflict 
could only be achieved if those refugees could exercise 
their  inalienable  right  to  return  to  their  homes  and  to 
recover the property of which they had been deprived.  

The  Conference  highlighted  that  the  right  of 
return of refugees, which is a fundamental and widely 
acknowledged 
rights 
principle,  did  not  diminish  with  the  passage  of  time 
and  remained  fully  applicable  to  Palestine  refugees. 
Participants 
the  Conference  also  unreservedly 
supported  the  resumption  in  the  political  process. 
humanitarian 
in 
and 
human 
A/63/PV.57
in 
they  cautioned 
However, 
that  any  final  Israeli-
Palestinian peace agreement must encompass a just and 
fair solution to the Palestine refugee question.  

The Committee’s delegation took advantage of its 
stay  in  Paris  to  meet  with  officials  of  the  French 
Ministry 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  with  French 
parliamentarians  at  the  Palais  Bourbon  and  Palais 
du Luxembourg.  Those  meetings  resulted  in  useful 
exchanges of views on the role of the European Union, 
the United Nations and the Committee in international 
efforts to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. 

In  June  2008  in  Malta,  the  Committee  held  the 
United  Nations  International  Meeting  on  the  Question 
of  Palestine  to  assess  difficulties  impeding  the  parties 
from  making  progress 
the  peace  process. 
Participants  at 
the  Meeting  expressed  particular 
concern about the ongoing expansion of settlements in 
the West Bank and East Jerusalem and the continuation 
of  the  construction  of  the  wall,  both  of  which  are 
contrary to international law and serve to prejudge, as 
has  been  pointed  out  numerous  times,  the  outcome  of 
permanent status negotiations.  
While  affirming  that  acts  of  violence  by  either 

side were damaging to the political dialogue, the Malta 
Meeting  also  expressed  support  for  every  effort  to 
achieve  a  ceasefire.  It  also  welcomed  the  important 
role  played  by  European  countries  and  encouraged 
them  to  become  more  active  in  various  aspects  of  the 
political process.  

The  Committee’s  delegation  to  the  Meeting  also 
met  with  Malta’s  President  and  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs.  On  its  return  through  Rome,  it  also  visited 
Vatican  City  to  meet  with  the  Secretary  for  Relations 
with States of the Holy See. 

I should now like to highlight an important aspect 
of  the  mandate  conferred  upon  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People by the General Assembly, so as to illustrate how 
the Committee contributes to the comprehensive efforts 
of the United Nations to find a peaceful solution to the 
question  of  Palestine  through  the  establishment  of  a 
Palestinian  State  living  side  by  side  with  Israel  in 
peace and security. 

Having listened to assessments by Palestinian and 
Israeli  experts  and  the  analyses  made  by  renowned 
international  specialists  on  the  issue,  the  Committee 
concluded  that  there  is  a  widening  gap  and  stark 
08-61587 

3 

in 
relaunched 
A/63/PV.57 

discrepancy  between  bilateral  negotiations,  the  efforts 
of  the  international  community  and  the  deteriorating 
situation  on  the  ground.  Even  more  worrying  are  the 
ongoing settlement activities, the blockade of Gaza, the 
construction  of  the  wall  on  Palestinian  land,  the 
demolition  of  houses  in  East  Jerusalem,  the  daily 
incursions  by  the  Israeli  army  into  Palestinian  areas 
and violence by Israeli settlers — all of which threaten 
to derail already fragile negotiations. 

Today,  one  year  after  the Annapolis  Conference, 
the  Committee  cannot  but  encourage  the  parties  to 
continue  the  political  process  by  building  on  the 
achievements. The only solution is to undertake serious 
negotiations  on  the  substantive  issues.  At  the  same 
time, actions on the ground must change dramatically. 
Settlement activities must be stopped. Extremists must 
be  brought  to  justice  for  their  acts  of  violence.  The 
blockade of  Gaza must be lifted. The ceasefire should 
be  maintained  and  expanded  to  the  West  Bank. 
Economic  activity  should  be 
the 
Palestinian  territories  by  lifting  restrictions  on  the 
movement  of  people  and  goods.  Those  measures  will 
make  it  possible  to  restore  confidence  in  the  peace 
process  and  to  gradually  build  public  support  among 
Palestinians and Israelis. That will allow the parties to 
take  decisions,  even  though  they  may  appear  difficult 
at the moment. 
The Committee believes that the basic reason for 

the  conflict  continues 
illegal 
occupation  of  Palestinian  territory.  We  emphasize  the 
urgent need to find a negotiated solution that will end 
the  occupation,  ensure  that  the  Palestinian  people  can 
exercise  their  inalienable  rights  and  guarantee  the 
security  of  the  State  of  Israel.  Such  a  settlement  must 
be  based  on  international  law,  Assembly  resolution 
194 (III),  Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967), 
338 (1973),  1397  (2002)  and  1515  (2003),  other 
relevant  United  Nations  resolutions  and  the  principles 
outlined in the road map and the Arab Peace Initiative. 

to  be  extremely 
concerned  about  internal  Palestinian  divisions,  which 
pose  obstacles  to  national  reconciliation  and  the 
reunification  of  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip 
under  the  control  of  the  Palestinian  Authority.  The 
Committee  supports  efforts  by  Arab  and  other 
countries, as well as the initiatives of the President of 
the  Palestinian  Authority,  Mahmoud  Abbas,  aimed  at 
restoring the national unity necessary for embarking on 
The  Committee  continues 
the  ongoing 
to  be 
the  path  towards  a  permanent  settlement  of  the 
question of Palestine. 

The  Committee  firmly  believes  that  the  United 
Nations  should  continue  to  maintain  its  permanent 
responsibility  with  regard  to  the  question  of  Palestine 
until it is resolved in all its aspects in accordance with 
international  legitimacy.  The  Committee  calls  on  the 
Security Council to act decisively to implement its own 
resolutions  regarding  the  question  of  Palestine,  in 
particular  resolutions  242  (1967)  and  338  (1973). The 
Committee  also  expects  that  the  Council  —  on  which 
the  primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security has been conferred — 
will fulfil its obligations under the Charter. For its part, 
the  Committee  will  continue  to  fulfil  the  mandate 
entrusted to it by the General Assembly, so as to help 
the Palestinian people achieve its inalienable rights. 
In this  context, I would now like to introduce to 

the  General  Assembly 
the  four  draft  resolutions 
approved  by  the  Committee  and  circulated  under  the 
agenda  item  under  consideration,  namely,  A/63/L.32, 
A/63/L.33, A/63/L.34 and A/63/L.35. 
The first three draft resolutions concern the work 

of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable 
Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People,  the  Division  for 
Palestinian  Rights  of  the  Secretariat  and  the  special 
information programme on the question of Palestine of 
the  Department  of  Public 
the 
Secretariat.  Those  draft 
the 
important mandates entrusted to those three entities by 
the Assembly. As in the past, the Committee intends to 
make  sure  that  resources  available  to  it  are  used 
judiciously to carry out all the activities envisaged. The 
three draft resolutions have also been updated. 
The  fourth  draft  resolution,  which  is  entitled 

“Peaceful  settlement  of  the  question  of  Palestine”, 
reiterates  the  position  of  the  General  Assembly  with 
regard  to  the  essential  elements  of  such  a  settlement 
and includes references to the developments of the past 
year.  The  draft  resolution  notes  with  satisfaction, 
among  other  things,  the  international  community’s 
redoubled  efforts  to  support  the  political  process,  the 
reaffirmation  of  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  the 
follow-up  steps  undertaken  by Arab  States,  as  well  as 
the  activities  by 
its  Special 
Representative. 

introduced 
The  four  draft  resolutions  that  I  have  just 
and 
Information  of 
reaffirm 
positions,  mandates 
the  Quartet  and 
resolutions 
outline 
4 

08-61587 
the 
Chapter 
I  contains 
the  Palestinian  People, 


programmes that are of special importance, particularly 
at this crucial moment. I call on the General Assembly 
to  vote  in  favour  of  those  draft  resolutions  and  to 
support the important goals contained therein. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Saviour  Borg  of  Malta, 
Rapporteur  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable  Rights  of 
to 
introduce the Committee’s report.  
Mr. Borg (Malta): It is an honour for me, in my 

capacity  as  the  Rapporteur  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People,  to  introduce  to  the  General  Assembly  the 
annual report of the Committee, which is contained in 
document  A/63/35.  Allow  me  to  summarize  each 
section of the report. 

introduction,  which 
outlines  the  Committee’s  objectives  and  its  general 
perspective  on  the  events  that  have  taken  place  in  the 
course  of  the  past  year.  The  chapter  highlights,  in 
paragraph  4,  “the  dichotomy  between  the  resumption 
of  the  Israeli-Palestinian  political  negotiations  and 
intensified international engagement on the issue, and a 
deteriorating situation on the ground”. 

Chapters  II  and  III  summarize  the  mandates 
entrusted  by  the  General Assembly  to  the  Committee, 
the Division for Palestinian Rights and the Department 
of  Public  Information.  They  also  contain  information 
on the organization of the Committee’s work during the 
year under review. Those two Chapters also reconfirm 
the  Committee’s  declared  position  that  all  United 
Nations  Member  States  and  Observers  wishing  to 
participate  in  the  work  of  the  Committee  as  observers 
are welcome to do so. 
Chapter  IV  reviews  the  situation  relating  to  the 

question  of  Palestine  and 
relevant  political 
developments  as  monitored  by  the  Committee  during 
the year in the occupied Palestinian territory, including 
East  Jerusalem.  That 
the  situation  of 
Palestinian refugees; the Israel Defense Forces’ deadly 
military  incursions  into  the  Gaza  Strip,  which  have 
resulted  in  a  large  number  of  civilian  casualties;  the 
rocket  and  other  attacks  by  Palestinian  militants 
against 
the  Egyptian-mediated 
ceasefire 
the  Gaza  Strip  between  Israel  and 
Palestinian  groups;  and  efforts  aimed  at  Palestinian 
national reconciliation. 
Israeli 
in 
civilians; 
includes 
the 
A/63/PV.57
in 
the  occupied  Palestinian 

Also  in  that  Chapter,  the  Committee  denounces 
the excessive and indiscriminate use of force by Israel, 
the  occupying  Power,  against  the  Palestinian  civilian 
population 
territory, 
including  East  Jerusalem,  and  condemns  extrajudicial 
killings,  the  destruction  of  Palestinian  homes,  civilian 
infrastructure  and  agricultural  lands  and  the  attendant 
devastating  effects  on  the  Palestinian  population.  At 
the  same  time,  the  Committee  strongly  condemns  all 
attacks against Israeli civilians and infrastructure. 

That  Chapter  also  addresses  other  issues  of 
serious  concern,  including  the  increasing  number  of 
obstacles  to  movement  and  access;  the  continued 
construction of the separation wall, in contravention of 
the  Advisory  Opinion  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice;  the  demolition  of  Palestinian  homes;  the 
continued  blockade  imposed  by  Israel  on  the  Gaza 
Strip,  which  is  obstructing  the  movement  of  persons 
and goods and exacerbating the humanitarian situation 
in  the  Gaza  Strip;  the  detention  of  approximately 
11,000 Palestinian prisoners in Israeli prisons; Israel’s 
continued settlement expansion activity; the continued 
intimidation  by  settlers 
violence,  harassment  and 
against  Palestinian 
crisis 
throughout 
the 
deterioration  of  the  agricultural  sector;  the  halting  of 
the  import  of  fuel,  food  and  medical  and  relief  items; 
and  the  difficulties  still  faced  by  the  United  Nations 
Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the 
Near East in carrying out its mandate. 
The  political  developments  reviewed  in  that 

the  Annapolis 
Chapter 
conference 
joint 
understanding reached at the conference, as well as the 
Paris international donors’ conference and the resulting 
$7.4 billion in pledges. The Chapter also highlights the 
efforts  being  made  by  the  Palestinian  Authority  to 
advance  economic  development,  as  well  as 
the 
important  role  being  played  by  the  Quartet  and  its 
representative, Mr. Tony Blair. 

Chapter  V  reviews  the  action  taken  by  the 
Committee to mobilize the international community in 
support  of  the  Palestinian  people,  in  cooperation  with 
United Nations bodies, Governments, intergovernmental 
and civil society organizations and others. It is divided 
into  two  main  sections.  Section A  describes  action  in 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council,  as 
well  as  statements  issued  by  the  Committee’s  Bureau. 
the 
Section  B  contains  a  detailed  account  of 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
the  convening  of 
Israeli-Palestinian 
include 
and 
the  water 
civilians; 
territory; 
the 
08-61587 

5 

society, 
information  on 
including  parliaments  and 
A/63/PV.57 

implementation  of 
the  programme  of  work  and 
activities  of  the  Committee  and  the  Division.  It  also 
provides 
the  continued  dialogue 
between the Committee and members of the European 
Union and other intergovernmental organizations. 

Sub-section  1  gives  an  account  of  the  various 
international  meetings  and  conferences  organized  in 
the course of the year, including those held in Amman, 
Paris and Malta. The Committee’s delegation also met 
at  Vatican  City  with  the  Secretary  of  Relations  with 
States of the Holy See. 

Sub-sections  2  to  7  deal  with  the  Committee’s 
cooperation  with  intergovernmental  organizations  and 
civil 
inter-
parliamentary  organizations;  the  Division’s  research, 
monitoring  and  publications  work;  the  administration, 
maintenance, expansion and development of the United 
Nations  Information  System  on 
the  Question  of 
Palestine (UNISPAL); the training programme for staff 
of the Palestinian Authority; and the observance of the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People  held  here  in  New  York,  in  Geneva  and  in 
Vienna. 

Chapter  VI  provides  an  overview  of  the  work 
done  over  the  year  by  the  Department  of  Public 
Information  (DPI)  in  pursuance  of  General  Assembly 
resolution  62/82  of  10  December  2007,  whose 
objective  is  to  raise  international  awareness  on  the 
question of Palestine and on the situation in the Middle 
East  with  a  view  to  contributing  effectively  to  an 
atmosphere  conducive  to  dialogue  and  supportive  of 
the  peace  process.  Important  contributions  by  DPI 
included  the  coverage  of  intergovernmental  meetings, 
reports  by  the  United  Nations  Radio Arabic  Language 
Unit  of  meetings  organized  by  the  Committee,  the 
highlighting  of  stories  by  the  United  Nations  News 
Centre,  a  training  programme  for  young  Palestinian 
journalists,  the  permanent  exhibits  at  United  Nations 
Headquarters and at Geneva, and the dissemination of 
information  by  United  Nations  information  centres, 
services and offices. 

The  last  chapter  of  the  report  contains  the 
conclusions  and  recommendations  of  the  Committee. 
In that chapter, the Committee notes that the year 2008 
marked  60  years  of  Palestinian  dispossession  —  the 
Nakba — and reiterates the permanent responsibility of 
the  United  Nations  towards  the  question  of  Palestine 
that 
to  establish  an 
until it is resolved in all its aspects in accordance with 
international law. 

Encouraged  by  the  outcome  of  the  Annapolis 
conference  and  the  Paris  donors’  conference,  the 
Committee  stresses  the  need  for  a  complete  cessation 
of  all  acts  of  violence,  including  military  attacks, 
destruction  and  acts  of  terror.  It  calls  upon  Israel,  the 
occupying  Power,  to  end  its  illegal  policies  and 
oppressive  practices 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  such  as  settlement 
activities,  the  construction  of  the  wall  and  numerous 
measures of collective punishment.  

The  Committee  also  emphasizes  the  importance 
for both sides to implement their road map obligations. 
The  Committee  also  stresses 
the  political 
momentum  provided  by  the  Annapolis  and  Paris 
conferences  must  not  be  lost,  and  supports  all  efforts 
towards the goal of achieving a final status agreement 
by the end of 2008. 

The Committee expresses its view that the illegal 
Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territory must end 
without conditions, which should allow the Palestinian 
people 
independent  State  on  all 
territories occupied in 1967, including East Jerusalem, 
and  to  exercise  their  inalienable  rights,  including  the 
right to self-determination.  
The Committee also expresses its firm support for 

the  two-State  solution,  in  accordance  with  Security 
Council  resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973),  1397 
(2002)  and  1515  (2003).  The  Arab  Peace  Initiative 
remains  a  crucial  element  for  advancing  peace  in  the 
region.  

While welcoming the unwavering and substantial 
budgetary support for the Palestinian Authority by the 
European  Union  and  other  major  donors, 
the 
Committee encourages member States of the European 
Union  to  take  a  more  proactive  role  in  international 
efforts  at  resolving  the  conflict.  The  Committee  also 
calls upon all donors to live up to their pledges in order 
to  ensure  the  continued  functioning  of  the  institutions 
of the Palestinian Authority. 

The  Committee  calls  upon  Israel  to  end  its 
military operations in the occupied Palestinian territory 
and to stop any other measures that further undermine 
Palestinian  institutions.  The  Committee  expresses  its 
strong  opposition 
illegal  construction  and 
expansion  of  settlements  in  the West  Bank,  as  well  as 
the 
in 
to 
6 

08-61587 
and 
the 
a 
Israel, 
reminds 
immediately 
unconditionally, 
leaders  of  all 
The  Committee  again 
The  Committee  calls  upon 


the  unlawful  construction  of  the  wall,  and  finds  those 
activities 
incompatible  with  negotiations  on  a 
permanent settlement.  

the 
occupying  Power,  that  it  is  bound  by  the  Geneva 
Convention  relative  to  the  Protection  of  Civilian 
Persons  in  Time  of  War,  which,  inter  alia,  obliges 
parties  to  the  Convention  to  protect  civilians  during 
hostilities.  The  Committee  also  calls  on  Israel  to 
release, 
all 
Palestinian  prisoners,  including  imprisoned  Cabinet 
members  and  parliamentarians.  Also,  the  Committee 
strongly condemns the killing of innocent civilians by 
either side, denounces rocket attacks on Israel and calls 
for a cessation of those activities by Palestinian armed 
groups. 
the  Palestinian 

leadership, 
factions  and  all 
Palestinians to unite in support of President Abbas, his 
Government and all democratically elected Palestinian 
institutions, and to resolve their political differences by 
peaceful  means.  The  Committee  also  calls  for  a 
comprehensive  national  dialogue, 
supported  by 
confidence-building  measures,  to  start  a  process  of 
regaining  national  unity  and  the  reunification  of  Gaza 
and the West Bank under the Palestinian Authority. 

The Committee, convinced that its own work and 
the  programme  of  mandated  activities  of  the  Division 
for  Palestinian  Rights 
significant 
contribution by the United Nations and its membership 
in the search for a solution to the question of Palestine, 
also 
constructive 
contribution  of  the  Division  for  Palestinian  Rights  of 
the  Secretariat  in  support  of  its  mandate  aimed  at 
enabling 
their 
inalienable rights. 

The  Committee  stresses  that  its  programme  of 
international  meetings  and  conferences  contributes  to 
focusing 
Governments, 
intergovernmental  and  civil  society  organizations  and 
the  general  public  on  the  need  to  advance  a  peaceful 
settlement of the conflict and to mobilize much-needed 
assistance  for  the  Palestinian  people.  It  also  suggests, 
in its report, themes for its programme of meetings for 
the year 2009. 

society 
organizations  for  their  efforts  to  uphold  international 
legitimacy  with  regard  to  the  question  of  Palestine 
the  Palestinian  people 
The  Committee 
to  exercise 
emphasizes 
commends 
represent 
attention 
useful 
civil 
the 
and 
the 
of 
A/63/PV.57
the 
called 
support; 
requests 
such  as 
including 
flexibility 
the  necessary 
the  website  on 
The  Committee 
its  programme  of 
through  advocacy  and  the  mobilization  of  public 
opinion,  as  well  as  for  their  initiatives  aimed  at 
alleviating  the  plight  of  the  Palestinian  people.  It  also 
expresses  its  intention  to  develop  its  cooperation  with 
parliamentarians and their umbrella organizations. 

for 
the  Division 
Palestinian  Rights  to  continue  its  substantive  and 
secretariat 
research, 
monitoring  and  publications  and  other  informational 
further  expansion  and 
activities, 
development  of  UNISPAL, 
the  graphic 
enhancement  of 
the  question  of 
Palestine;  the  annual  training  programme  for  staff  of 
the Palestinian Authority; and the annual observance of 
the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian 
People. 

The  Committee  requests  the  continuation  of  the 
special  information  programme  on  the  question  of 
Palestine  of  the  Department  of  Public  Information, 
with 
for  by 
developments relevant to the question of Palestine. 

Finally,  while  reiterating  its  desire  to  make  a 
contribution  to  the  achievement  of  a  comprehensive, 
just and lasting settlement of the question of Palestine, 
the  Committee  calls  upon  all  States  to  join  it  in  that 
endeavour and to extend their cooperation and support 
to  the  Committee.  It  also  again  invites  the  General 
Assembly 
the 
Committee’s role and to reconfirm its mandate. 

In  conclusion,  may  I  express  my  thanks  and 
appreciation to the Chairman and the other members of 
the  Committee,  as  well  as  the  officials  of  the  United 
Nations  Division  for  Palestinian  Rights,  for 
the 
assistance  they  have  extended  to  me  as  Rapporteur  of 
the  Committee.  I  would  like  to  express  the  hope  that 
the  report  I  have  just  introduced  will  be  of  assistance 
and  guidance  to  the  Assembly  in  its  deliberations  on 
the question of Palestine. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Riad  Malki,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Palestine. 
Mr. Malki (Palestine) (spoke in Arabic): I would 

like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  Palestine’s 
pleasure at seeing you, Mr. President, preside over the 
General  Assembly  during  its  sixty-third  session.  We 
reiterate our confidence in your abilities and wisdom in 
importance  of 
recognize 
the 
to 
08-61587 

7 
adopted 
resolution  181 
this  morning  once  again 
A/63/PV.57 

guiding the Assembly’s efforts to address the important 
and critical issues on its agenda. 

Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair. 
We  are  gathered  in  the  Trusteeship  Council 

Chamber 
to  solemnly 
commemorate the International Day of Solidarity with 
the Palestinian People. Our people are filled with deep 
gratitude  for  the  outpouring  of  solidarity,  support  and 
concern expressed to them on this Day from all corners 
of  the  world.  The  Day  is  traditionally  observed  on 
29 November,  the  date  in  1947  when  the  General 
Assembly 
(II),  which 
partitioned  historic  Palestine  into  two  States  —  one 
Arab  and  one  Jewish  —  and  led  to  the  tragedy  and 
injustice  that  befell  the  Palestinian  people  with  their 
uprooting,  dispersion,  dispossession  and  loss  of  their 
homeland in the Nakba of 1948.  
The  annual  observance  of  the  Day  reassures  the 

Palestinian  people  of  the  continuing  international 
commitment,  especially  on  the  part  of  the  United 
Nations,  to  uphold  its  historic  responsibility  with 
regard to the question of Palestine until it is resolved in 
all its aspects, in accordance with international law and 
United  Nations  resolutions.  That  commitment  and  the 
ongoing 
strengthen 
Palestinian  perseverance  over  the  many  years  of 
struggle  against  injustice,  oppression  and  occupation 
on  the  long  road  towards  the  realization  of  the 
Palestinians’  inalienable  human  rights  and  national 
aspirations.  Yet,  today,  as  the  Palestinian  people 
solemnly  reflect  on  the  passage  of  60  years  since  the 
Nakba,  they  are  also  filled  with  grief  at  the  immense 
suffering  and  losses  they  have  endured,  collectively 
and individually. Our people are tired and drained from 
the  suffering  and  hardships  that  they  have  withstood, 
and  they  are  filled  with  longing  for  the  rights  and 
freedom  they  have  for  so  long  been  denied,  including 
their rights to self-determination and return. 

the  Palestinian  people, 
comprised  of  more  than  three  generations  of  families, 
continue to live in exile as refugees. They are dispersed 
throughout the diaspora, with millions still languishing 
in refugee camps and denied the right to return to their 
homes  to  live  in  peace  with  their  neighbours,  and 
suffering  innumerable  hardships.  In  the  meantime,  the 
remainder  of 
including 
refugees,  continue  to  live  under  Israeli  occupation  in 
solidarity  have  helped 
the  Palestinian  people, 

the  occupied  Palestinian  territories,  including  East 
Jerusalem,  and  are  continually  subject  to  oppression 
and the violation of their human rights. 

As  they  reflect  on  that  reality,  the  Palestinian 
people  are  filled  with  sorrow  and  resentment  at  the 
injustice,  endless  humiliation  and  affronts  to  their 
dignity that they have been forced to endure for so long 
before the eyes of the world as they have continued to 
appeal  for  their  rights.  Moreover,  they  are  deeply 
disappointed  by  the  many  promises  repeatedly  made, 
yet  unfulfilled,  to  uphold  the  law  and  resolutions  of 
international  legitimacy  to  justly  resolve  the  question 
of Palestine and finally bring peace and stability to our 
region. 

However,  the  Palestinian  people  remain  hopeful 
and are reassured by the justness of their cause and the 
international  support  that  has  helped  to  sustain  their 
steadfastness  over  the  decades.  The  political,  socio-
economic,  humanitarian  and  moral  support  and 
assistance  that  has  been  extended  to  the  Palestinian 
people from around the world has helped to ease their 
suffering and strengthen their resolve to bring an end to 
the  occupation,  realize  their  rights  and  achieve  a 
comprehensive, just and lasting peace.  

Indeed,  despite  repeated  crises,  upheavals  and 
displacement,  the  Palestinian  people  have  never  given 
up  on  their  legitimate  national  aspirations.  Under  the 
leadership of their sole legitimate representative — the 
Palestine  Liberation  Organization  — 
they  have 
remained  determined  to  achieve  justice  and  to  live  in 
peace  and  security  in  their  homeland. As  embodied  in 
the  1988  Palestinian  declaration  of  independence  and 
as  pledged  at  the  Middle  East  peace  process  launched 
in  1991,  they  are  committed  to  the  two-State  solution 
as 
their 
independent State of Palestine, with East Jerusalem as 
its  capital,  in  the  Palestinian  territory  under  Israeli 
occupation since 1967. 

therefore  remains 
The  Palestinian 
committed  to  the  Madrid  terms  of  reference,  Security 
Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and the 
principle  of  land  for  peace.  Our  leaders  have  also 
strived  to  fulfil  our  obligations  under  the  Quartet’s 
Road  Map  and  have  fully  endorsed  and  committed 
themselves  to  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative.  In  addition, 
our leaders have made every effort to follow up on the 
joint understandings agreed at Annapolis.  
the  means  of  peacefully  establishing 
leadership 
to 
More 
than  half  of 
8 

08-61587 
to 
We  have 
Moreover, 
therefore  returned 
the  Palestinian  people  and 



their 
leadership  remain  convinced  that,  as  regards  the 
question of Palestine, the international community will 
ultimately  fulfil 
its  responsibilities  by  upholding 
international law and the Charter of the United Nations 
so as to achieve a peaceful settlement that will give our 
people the freedom for which they have waited so long 
and  allow  them  to  take  their  rightful  place  among  the 
nations  of  the  world,  including  here  in  the  General 
Assembly. 

the  General 
Assembly  to  renew  our  appeal  to  the  international 
community to continue and intensify efforts in support 
of the peace process in order to achieve a peaceful and 
just  settlement  of  the  question  of  Palestine  in  all  its 
aspects,  including  a  just  solution  to  the  plight  of 
Palestine refugees on the basis of resolution 194 (III). 
In today’s world, there is no doubt that the question of 
Palestine is at the core of the Arab-Israeli conflict and 
that  rectifying  the  injustice  that  has  been  done  to  the 
Palestinian  people  is  fundamental  to  ensuring  peace 
and stability in the Middle East. The positive effects of 
such  an  accomplishment  will  no  doubt  extend  beyond 
our  region,  as  has  been  repeatedly  asserted  for  many 
years in numerous debates regarding Palestine.  

In addition, the issue of Palestine has emerged as 
a  central  theme  in  debates  concerning  other  relevant 
issues  of  our  time,  including  at  the  recent  high-level 
meeting  on  dialogue  among  religions  and  cultures. 
During  that  meeting,  country  after  country  referred  to 
the  pressing  need  to  resolve  the  Palestine  question,  as 
it  is  at  the  centre  of  widely  held  perceptions  among 
States  regarding  the  lack  of  justice,  equality  and 
respect for human rights in the world and the existing 
tensions and sensitivities among religions and between 
East and West.  

In  fact,  a  just  and  peaceful  resolution  to  the 
question of Palestine and the closing of this tragic era 
will allow the peoples of the world to truly believe that 
the wrongs of history can be righted and that dialogue 
and peaceful negotiation, rather than military force and 
aggression, are the means to resolve conflict. That will, 
in turn, allow us to turn our attention and energies from 
conflict 
the 
development  of  our  societies.  The  resulting  hope  and 
political,  social  and  economic  stability  and  security 
will  allow  us  to  make  the  necessary  efforts  to  lift  our 
peoples  from  the  suffering  caused  by  armed  strife, 
poverty  and  hunger  and  to  harness  our  true  potential. 
the  pursuit  of  coexistence  and 
A/63/PV.57
territory, 
Palestinian 
infrastructure  and 
its  unlawful  colonization  campaign, 
That  will  benefit  our  people  and  the  international 
community as a whole and help us to establish a more 
harmonious and prosperous future. 

Regrettably, we have not made significant strides 
towards the realization of those goals since we last met 
in  this  Hall  to  consider  the  question  of  Palestine.  An 
honest  and  careful  assessment  of  the  current  situation 
reveals  little  progress  in  the  peace  process  since  its 
resumption  a  year  ago.  It  also  shows  a  continuing 
deterioration  of  the  situation  on  the  ground  in  the 
occupied 
including  East 
Jerusalem, as a result of ongoing illegal Israeli policies 
and practices. 
Even under the aegis of the peace process, Israel, 

the  occupying  Power,  has  continued 
to  commit 
countless  violations  of  international  law,  including 
humanitarian  and  human  rights  law,  many  of  which 
amount  to  war  crimes.  Israel  continues  with  impunity 
to  kill,  injure,  imprison,  displace  and  collectively 
punish  Palestinian  civilians.  It  is  destroying  their 
homes,  properties, 
lands  and 
continues  to  inflict  immense  losses  and  humanitarian 
suffering  on  our  people.  At  the  same  time,  Israel 
continues 
in 
particular  by  building  and  expanding  settlements  and 
constructing  the  wall  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory, including East Jerusalem. All those efforts are 
aimed at creating facts on the ground in order to alter 
the 
territory’s  character,  status  and  demographic 
composition, entrench Israel’s presence on the territory 
and advance its expansionist agenda. 

For many decades, Israel has relentlessly pursued 
the  two-pronged  policy  of  subjugating  and  oppressing 
the Palestinian people and confiscating and colonizing 
their  land. As  time  and  developments  in  the  situation 
on  the  ground  have  demonstrated,  Israel’s  deliberate 
intent in that regard has been to consolidate its control 
over the Palestinian territory it has occupied since 1967 
in  order  to  forcibly  acquire,  and  de  facto  annex,  as 
much  of  that  land  as  possible.  Israel’s  pursuit  of  that 
policy  has  entailed  establishing  a  vast  web  of  illegal 
practices and crimes and violating every human rights 
standard.  That  has  caused  extensive  hardships  for  the 
Palestinian  people, 
socio-
economic  devastation  and  the  fragmentation  of  the 
unity,  contiguity  and 
the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  thereby  fuelling  the  cycle  of 
violence  and  instability  and  undermining  every  effort 
at peace. 
including  widespread 
integrity  of 
to 
08-61587 

9 
is 

acts  of  violence,  harassment, 
A/63/PV.57 


In  the  past  year,  Israel’s  occupying  forces  have 
continued to use excessive and indiscriminate military 
force against Palestinian civilians and their property, in 
grave violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention. That 
has resulted in major losses of innocent lives, including 
children  and  women,  as  well  as  thousands  of  injuries 
and  psychological  trauma  among  the  population  and 
the further destruction of property, homes, agricultural 
land and infrastructure.  

Death,  injury  and  property  destruction  have  also 
continued to be perpetrated by extremist armed Israeli 
settlers  who  have  been  illegally  transferred  to  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territory.  They  continue  to  carry 
out 
incitement, 
provocation  and  terror  against  Palestinian  civilians. 
The  situation,  which  is  especially  severe  in Al-Khalil 
(Hebron),  is  worsening  as  settler  attacks  intensify  and 
the  occupying  Power  continues  to  fail  to  halt  their 
lawlessness  and  to  hold  them  accountable  for  their 
crimes. 
In  addition,  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  has 

arbitrarily  detained  and 
imprisoned  approximately 
11,000  Palestinian  civilians,  including  women  and 
children.  Despite  the  release  of  some  prisoners  in 
recent  months,  ongoing  Israeli  raids  and  arrests  have 
kept the number of prisoners at a high level. Moreover, 
Palestinian  prisoners  and  detainees  continue  to  be 
subjected  to  physical  and  mental  ill-treatment,  abuse, 
solitary  confinement  and  torture.  They  are  denied 
family  visits,  adequate  medical  care  and  food  and  are 
held 
inhumane 
conditions. 

Israel  is  also  continuing  its  policy  of  collective 
punishment against the Palestinian people by imposing 
closures  and  restrictions  on  the  movement  of  persons 
and  goods  within,  into  and  out  of  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  which 
has been virtually cut off from the rest of the territory. 
Palestinian  access  to  schools,  hospitals,  employment, 
agricultural  land,  food  supplies,  holy  places  and 
humanitarian  assistance,  as  well  as  to  each  other,  is 
being  severely  obstructed  by  the  complete  closure  of 
the  Gaza  Strip  and  by  a  labyrinth  of  more  than  630 
checkpoints and roadblocks in the West Bank — to say 
nothing  of  the  settlements,  the  wall,  the  bypass  roads, 
the permit regime and, in  particular, the imposition of 
residency  restrictions  on  Jerusalem  residents.  All  of 
that  has  had  a  tragic  and  catastrophic  impact  on  the 
Palestinian economy and the social fabric. 
completely  unsanitary 
and 
in 
campaign 
in 
the  most 
the  poverty 

In  that  regard,  Israel’s  continuing  siege  of  the 
Gaza Strip has transformed the area into a huge prison. 
That 
inhumane  form  of  collective 
punishment,  and  is  tantamount  to  a  war  crime.  That 
deplorable  situation  has  continued  despite  a  ceasefire 
brokered  by  Egypt  in  June,  which  aimed  at  breaking 
the  cycle  of  violence  as  well  as  the  blockade.  The 
sealing  of  border  crossings,  the  restrictions  on  the 
movement of persons and  goods in Gaza — including 
humanitarian  personnel  and 
import  of  food, 
medicine  and  other  essential  supplies  —  the  complete 
prohibition  of  exports  and  the  cutting  off  of  fuel  and 
electricity  have  increased  socio-economic  deprivation 
in  Gaza  and  deepened  the  already  dire  humanitarian 
crisis. Every aspect of life has been disrupted; poverty, 
hunger,  disease  and  unemployment  are  continuing  to 
increase,  with  80  per  cent  of  Gaza’s  civilians  now 
living  below 
line  and  completely 
dependent  on  food  aid  to  survive.  In  addition,  half  of 
the  labour  force  is  unemployed  and  more  than  90  per 
cent of industry and businesses are closed. 
At the same time, Israel is continuing its massive 

settler  colonization 
the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  in  grave  breach  of  the  Fourth 
Geneva Convention and its Additional Protocol I. That 
effort,  also  in  violation  of  United  Nations  resolutions, 
shows complete disregard for the 9 July 2004 Advisory 
Opinion of the International Court of Justice and flouts 
the commitments made by Israel in the peace process. 
That campaign includes ongoing illegal confiscation of 
Palestinian  land,  the  construction  and  expansion  of 
settlements  and  outposts,  the  transfer  of  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  Israeli  settlers,  the  construction  of  the 
wall,  the  establishment  of  a  bypass  road  system 
prohibited  to  Palestinians  and  intended  to  connect  the 
settlements  to  each  other  and  to  Israel  and  numerous 
other illegal measures.  

intensive  settlement 
activities,  especially  in  and  around  occupied  East 
Jerusalem,  where  it  is  expanding  settlements  and 
transferring settlers. In pursuing its efforts there, Israel 
continues 
impose 
residency  restrictions  and  carry  out  excavations.  The 
purpose is to alter the city’s demographic composition 
and  character  and  to  force  the  “quiet  transfer”  of 
Palestinians and ensure a Jewish majority in the city. 

Taken  as  a  whole,  the  settlements,  the  wall,  the 
bypass roads, the checkpoints and other Israeli military 
installations  occupy  huge  swaths  of  Palestinian  land, 
to  demolish  Palestinian  homes, 
is  continuing 
Israel 
the 
its 
10 

08-61587 
In 
the 
the 
daily 
being 
direct 
Israel’s 
unlawful 
exploited 
and  which 
addition 
for 
of 


including  areas  with  water  and  natural  resources  that 
are 
total 
approximately 50 per cent of the West Bank’s occupied 
land area. Moreover, that vast settler colonial network 
is  separating  Palestinian  communities,  especially  in 
East  Jerusalem,  transforming  many  of  them  into 
walled-off  cantons,  thereby  causing  the  displacement 
of thousands of civilians. 
humanitarian 
to 

the 
consequences 
the  Palestinian  people, 
continuation 
colonization 
campaign  seriously  jeopardizes  future  prospects  for 
peace.  That  campaign  is  altering  the  demographic 
composition,  character  and  status  of  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory  and  is  undermining  its  contiguity, 
integrity and unity. It is the main obstacle to efforts to 
politically  and  physically  achieve 
two-State 
solution  of  Palestine  and  Israel,  living  side  by  side  in 
peace  and  security  on  the  basis  of  the  pre-1967 
borders, 
accordance  with  Security  Council 
resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973),  1397  (2002)  and 
1515  (2003),  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  the  Road 
Map. 

All  of  Israel’s  illegal  actions  must  be  firmly 
repudiated and condemned. A complete cessation of all 
Israeli  settlement  activity  and  human  rights  violations 
is required, both in order to stem the human suffering 
caused  by  the  occupation  and  to  create  a  more  stable 
environment  conducive  for  peacemaking.  It  is  the 
collective  duty  of 
international  community, 
including  the  Security  Council,  to  uphold  the  law, 
implement  all  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions  and 
act  in  unison  to  compel  Israel  to  abide  by  its  legal 
obligations, 
the  aim  of 
achieving  the  two-State  solution  and  end  the  Israeli-
Palestinian  conflict  as  well  as  the  entire  Arab-Israeli 
conflict. 

The  continuation  of  the  current  situation  is 
unacceptable. There can never be peace and security in 
the  Middle  East  as  long  as  the  question  of  Palestine 
remains  unresolved.  Moreover,  peace  can  never  be 
achieved  as  long  as  Israel  continues  to  defy  the  law, 
remains  an  unwilling  or  absent  partner  in  the  peace 
process  and  continues 
impose  an 
unlawful,  unilateral  military  solution.  Only  a  peaceful 
settlement,  including  a  just  solution  to  the  Palestinian 
refugee  problem,  can  bring  an  end  to  the  conflict  and 
establish  the  peace,  stability  and  security  that  we  all 
seek and to which all peoples are entitled. 
truly  pursue  peace  with 
to  attempt 
in 
the 
to 
A/63/PV.57
their 
right 
to  help 
the  parties 
to  advance 
including 
to 
their 
The  Palestinian  people  and 

leadership 
remain committed to the peace process on the basis of 
the  clear  principles  of  international  law  and  the 
resolutions  of  the  United  Nations,  which  serve  as  the 
terms  of  reference  for  peace.  We  urge  all  concerned 
parties,  including  the  Quartet,  to  seize  the  historic 
opportunities  created  by  the Arab  Peace  Initiative  and 
the  Annapolis  conference  and  make  every  effort 
necessary 
their 
negotiations  to  bring  an  end  to  Israel’s  occupation  of 
Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  and  all 
other Arab territories occupied since 1967. We also call 
for  their  help  in  realizing  the  Palestinian  people’s 
their 
inalienable 
rights, 
to  self-
determination  and 
independent  State  of 
Palestine, as well as a just, lasting and comprehensive 
peace. 

Indeed, at this critical time, it is incumbent upon 
the  international  community  to  redouble  its  efforts  to 
uphold its legal, political and moral responsibilities to 
promote a peaceful settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict.  After  60  long  years,  during  which  both 
Palestinian  and  Israeli  peoples  have  lived  in  conflict, 
no  effort  should  be  spared  to  bring  an  end  to  this 
tragedy and to the suffering and loss on both sides. In 
that  regard,  we  firmly  believe  in  the  purposes  and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations and of 
international 
seek 
international  support  to  achieve  a  just,  lasting  and 
comprehensive  peace  settlement,  in  the  hope  that  one 
day soon we shall gather here to celebrate the inclusion 
of  a  free  and  independent  Palestine  among  the  family 
of nations. 
Mr.  Hossain  (Bangladesh):  Let  me  begin  by 

thanking 
this  very 
important  meeting  to  coincide  with  the  observance  of 
the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian 
People.  While  reaffirming  our  full  solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian people and lending our unwavering support 
to  their  legitimate  struggle  for  self-determination, 
Bangladesh  stands  firm  in  its  position  on  the  Arab-
Israeli conflict in favour of achieving a just, lasting and 
comprehensive peace in the Middle East. 
The  delegation  of  Bangladesh  aligns  itself  with 

the statement that will be made by the representative of 
Cuba on behalf of Non-Aligned Movement. In addition 
to  that,  we  would  like  to  highlight  some  of  the  points 
that are of particular concern to us. 
the  President  for  scheduling 
law.  We  will 
continue 
to 
08-61587 

11 
to  violate 
law. 
Israel  has  continued 
international  humanitarian 
to  self-determination  and 
rights 
sovereign  State 
A/63/PV.57 


The people of Palestine have been under Israel’s 
illegal  occupation  for  the  past  four  decades.  Their 
fundamental 
to 
remain  unrealized. 
establish  a 
Bangladesh  is  deeply  concerned  over  the  continued 
suffering of the Palestinian people and the deteriorating 
humanitarian situation in the occupied territory. 

international 
humanitarian  law  by  committing  systematic  human 
rights  violations  against  the  Palestinian  people.  The 
situation in the occupied Palestinian territory, including 
East  Jerusalem,  remains  critical.  The  blockade  of  the 
Gaza Strip is yet another example of Israel’s violation 
of 
Indiscriminate 
closures enforced by Israel are impeding access on the 
part of humanitarian assistance workers to the occupied 
territories,  halting  commercial  activities  and  causing 
the  loss  of  thousands  of  jobs.  That  has  brought  the 
economy to the verge of irreversible collapse. Not only 
has it restricted access to basic necessities of life, it is 
also  destroying  the  social  fabric  of  the  Palestinian 
people  by  causing  widespread  displacement.  We 
demand the immediate withdrawal of all restrictions on 
the movement of Palestinian civilians. 

The continued expansion of Israeli settlements in 
the  occupied  territories  and  the  construction  of  the 
separation  wall  threaten  to  derail  the  ongoing  peace 
negotiations.  With  the  unabated  construction  of  the 
wall,  which  ignores  the  advisory  opinion  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  the  occupied  territories 
are  increasingly  being  fragmented  into  smaller  parts, 
which will seriously affect the viability of a Palestinian 
State.  Bangladesh  reiterates  its  call  for  the  immediate 
dismantling of the wall. 

My delegation would like to draw attention to the 
fact that Israel, as a signatory to the relevant provisions 
of the Fourth Geneva Convention, which stipulates the 
responsibilities of an occupying Power, cannot, legally 
or  morally,  absolve  itself  of  its  responsibilities  to 
guarantee  basic  human  rights  to  the  people  under  its 
occupation.  The  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council,  in  their  resolutions  adopted  over  the  years, 
have reconfirmed the obligation of Israel to ensure the 
basic  human 
the  Palestinian  people. 
Bangladesh  believes  that  only  the  full  and  sincere 
implementation  of  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the 
General Assembly and the Security Council can resolve 
the Palestinian crisis. 
rights  of 

We 
concur  with 

The  situation  in  the  occupied  territories  has 
further deteriorated during the past year in the face of 
relentless  violence,  destruction,  killing,  curfew, 
closures and systematic violations of human rights and 
legal  norms  by  Israeli  forces.  The  concerted  Israeli 
actions  to  subdue  the  resistance  of  the  Palestinian 
people  in  the  form  of  collective  punishment  have 
broken all known international humanitarian norms. As 
mentioned  in  the  Secretary-General’s  latest  report 
(A/63/368),  the  situation  on  the  ground  in  Israel  and 
the  occupied  territories,  including  East  Jerusalem,  has 
hampered political efforts to achieve the vision of two 
States living side by side in peace and security. 

the  Secretary-General’s 
observation  that,  with  the  launch  of  the  Annapolis 
process  and  regular  bilateral  negotiations  between 
Israel and Palestinians, new hopes for the achievement 
of  a  peaceful  settlement  of  the  question  of  Palestine 
have emerged. Bangladesh is ready to play a supportive 
role  in  that  collective  endeavour  to  achieve  a  just  and 
comprehensive  peace  in  the  Middle  East.  But  unless 
the two parties join the process in all sincerity and with 
genuine  political  willingness,  the  process,  like  many 
other  attempts  in  the  past,  will  only  raise  some 
optimism before unravelling into yet another let-down. 

The just and legitimate struggle of the Palestinian 
people for self-determination and freedom from foreign 
occupation  enjoys  the  strong  support  and  solidarity  of 
the  entire  international  community.  We  welcome  all 
recent  regional  and  international  efforts,  including  the 
revival of the Arab Peace Initiative and the Conference 
on  the  Middle  East  hosted  by  the  United  States  in 
Annapolis  last  year.  We  welcome  the  commitment  to 
the  establishment  of  the  Palestinian  State  and  the 
agreement  to  start  final  status  negotiations  to  resolve 
all  core  issues,  including  those  pertaining  to  borders, 
refugees, settlements and Jerusalem. In order to be fair, 
those issues must be resolved on the basis of previous 
agreements,  especially  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the 
United Nations and the Security Council, the principle 
of land for peace, the Madrid Peace Conference terms 
of  reference,  the  Quartet’s  Road  Map  and  the  Arab 
Peace  Initiative.  That  will  entail  Israel’s  complete 
withdrawal 
territories, 
including East Jerusalem. We are hopeful that a peace 
treaty  will  be  achieved  without  further  delay  in  the 
near  future,  and 
implemented  quickly  and 
earnestly.  Delay  and  obstruction  will  only  exacerbate 
from  occupied  Palestinian 
then 
12 

08-61587 


the  situation  and  make  the  prospects  for  peace  even 
bleaker. 

The  Secretary-General’s  report  reflects  the  dire 
humanitarian  situation  in  the  occupied  territories. The 
international  community  must  exercise  its  clout  to 
ensure  Israel’s  full  compliance  with  its  obligations  in 
all  the  occupied  territories.  Israel  must  also  end 
policies  and  actions  that  seek  to  change  the  reality  on 
the ground and that could prejudice a final settlement, 
including  the  integrity  and  viability  of  the  future 
Palestinian  State.  The  discussions  at  Annapolis  also 
recognized  the  crucial  importance  of  addressing  all 
aspects of the Arab-Israeli conflict in order to achieve 
comprehensive peace. We hope to see tangible progress 
on  those  parallel  tracks,  so  as  to  reach  a  just  and 
durable resolution of the conflict. 

A  lasting  and  sustainable  resolution  of  the Arab-
Israeli conflict, including the issue of Palestine, which 
is  at  the  core  of  that  long-lasting  crisis,  must  be  our 
collective  strategic  objective. All  Member  States  must 
pledge  complete  commitment  to  that  objective  and 
extend  their  full  moral,  diplomatic,  political  and 
economic support for its early realization. We strongly 
believe that that would not only help to stabilize other 
simmering  situations  in  the  region  but  also  have  a 
resounding 
and 
international peace and security as a whole. 

In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  underscore  that 
Israeli  activities  in  the  occupied  territories  remain  a 
matter  of  grave  concern  to  us.  We  express  our  full 
solidarity with the Palestinian people and reiterate our 
steadfast  support  for  their  legitimate  and  inalienable 
rights  to  a  sovereign  and  independent  State  with 
Jerusalem as its capital. 
Mr. Delacroix (France) (spoke in French): I have 

the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union 
(EU). The candidate countries Turkey, Croatia and the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; the countries 
of  the  Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and 
potential candidates Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
Montenegro and Serbia; and Ukraine and the Republic 
of Moldova align themselves with this statement. 
This  debate  on  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East 

and  the  question  of  Palestine  is  being  held  one  year 
after 
the  Annapolis  conference,  whose  outcomes 
opened  up  new  prospects  for  the  peace  process.  The 
EU wishes to welcome the commitment of both parties 
to  finding  a  solution  that,  in  accordance  with  the 
regional 
positive 
impact 
on 
A/63/PV.57
exception, 
in 
just, 
the  efforts 
to  achieve  a 
accordance  with 
Quartet’s  Road  Map,  must  permit  the  creation  of  an 
independent,  democratic  and  viable  Palestinian  State, 
living  in  peace  and  security  alongside  the  State  of 
Israel and its other neighbours. 

The EU stresses the importance of the negotiation 
process  between  the  parties  initiated  at  Annapolis, 
which makes it possible to address all major problems 
without 
the 
commitments  previously  agreed  between  the  parties. 
The  commencement  of  the  negotiations  also  renewed 
the  involvement  of  regional  and  international  partners 
in 
lasting  and 
comprehensive peace in the Middle East. The EU fully 
supports  the  ongoing  negotiation  process  and  requests 
that  the  parties  maintain  a  constructive  dialogue  in 
order  to  find  a  just  and  lasting  solution  to  the  Israeli-
Palestinian  conflict  as  quickly  as  possible,  based  on 
Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973), 
1397 (2002) and 1515 (2003), the principle of land for 
peace,  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative,  the  Road  Map  and 
previous agreements between the parties. 

In order to consolidate the progress made thus far, 
the  parties  must  make  further  efforts  to  honour  their 
previous commitments, in particular those set out in the 
Road  Map  and  in  the  Agreement  on  Movement  and 
Access. In that regard, the EU is particularly concerned 
at the settlement activities in and around Jerusalem and 
in  the  remainder  of  the  West  Bank.  Those  activities, 
which  run  counter  to  international  law  and  to  Israel’s 
Road  Map  commitments,  must  be  suspended.  They 
undermine the credibility of the Annapolis process and 
affect  the  future  viability  of  the  Palestinian  State. 
Furthermore, 
the 
Palestinian economy more difficult. The EU also calls 
on  the  parties  to  refrain  from  any  unilateral  measure 
that  could  jeopardize  the  outcome  of  the  negotiations 
on a final settlement. 

If the peace process is to succeed, it is essential to 
put an end to all acts of violence and terrorism between 
the parties. The EU firmly condemns the rocket attacks 
on  Israeli  territory  carried  out  by  Palestinian  militias. 
While  recognizing  Israel’s  legitimate  right  to  self-
defence,  the  EU  calls  on  Israel  to  exercise  the  utmost 
restraint and stresses that its actions must in no way be 
disproportionate  to  or  contravene  international  law. 
The  EU  condemns  in  the  strongest  possible  terms  the 
acts  of  violence  and  brutality  committed  against 
Palestinian  civilians  by  Israeli  settlers  in  the  West 
Bank. 
the  development  of 
they  make 
08-61587 

13 

A/63/PV.57 


The  EU  commends  Egypt’s  efforts  to  overcome 
inter-Palestinian divisions and to reunite Palestinians in 
the West Bank and the Gaza Strip under the legitimate 
Palestinian  Authority.  The  EU  is  concerned  at  the 
recent  return  of  violence  in  Gaza  and  southern  Israel. 
We call on the parties to respect the calm and hope that 
it  will  lead  to  increased  support  for  the  civilian 
population  of  Gaza,  including  regular  opening  of  the 
crossings for humanitarian or commercial flows, and to 
a lasting peace on Israel’s southern border. 

The  EU  appeals  once  again  for  the  immediate 
release  of  Corporal  Gilad  Shalit  and  would  like  to 
commend the efforts made to that end, in particular by 
partners  in  the  region. We  also  call  for  the  immediate 
release of Palestinian ministers and legislators held by 
Israel. 

The EU supports the efforts being made in many 
areas  by  the  parties  within  the  framework  of  the 
Annapolis  process.  In  particular,  we  support 
the 
development  of  the  Palestinian  security  sector  as  a 
result  of  the  efforts  of  the  European  Union  Police 
Mission  for  the  Palestinian  Territories.  The  EU  also 
supports  the  economic  development  of  the  future 
Palestinian  State  with  continued  humanitarian  and 
financial  assistance,  in  close  cooperation  with  the 
Quartet  Representative 
the  EU  Special 
Representative.  

In that connection, the EU wishes to highlight the 
importance  of  the  donor  conference  held  in  Paris  on 
17 December 2007, which represented vital support for 
the  political  process  initiated  in  Annapolis.  It  is  now 
essential  to  carefully  monitor  the  outcomes  of  the 
conference in order to ensure that the pledges made in 
Paris  are  actually  translated  into  financial  assistance. 
The  EU  thus  calls  on  the  donor  countries  to  commit 
themselves  as  soon  as  possible  to  fulfilling  those 
pledges.  We  also  welcome 
the 
Conference  in  Support  of  Palestinian  Civil  Security 
and the Rule of Law, held in Berlin on 24 June 2008. 
in 

Spanish):  On  this  important  occasion,  I  have  the 
honour  to  address  the  General Assembly  on  behalf  of 
the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM). 

The  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  People  is  a  special  opportunity  for  the 
international community to reaffirm its support for the 
efforts  of 
their 
inalienable  right  to  self-determination  and  to  achieve 
Mrs.  Núñez  Mordoche
that  heroic  people 
the  holding  of 
to  exercise 
(Cuba) 
(spoke 
and 
their 
territory, 
rights.  On 
inalienable  human 
independence  and  freedom.  Today,  we  recall  that,  for 
more  than  60  years,  the  Palestinian  people  have 
suffered from statelessness, dispossession and dispersal 
in  exile,  hoping  to  be  able  to  exercise  their  right  to 
return to their lands. For more than 40 years, they have 
endured  a  brutal  foreign  occupation  and  have  been 
denied 
this 
occasion,  we  must  reaffirm  our  commitment  on  the 
basis  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the  norms 
and  principles  of  international  law  and  the  relevant 
United  Nations  resolutions,  and  we  must  pledge  to 
redouble our efforts to bring an end to this injustice by 
making the efforts necessary to resolve the question of 
Palestine  in  all  its  aspects,  including  a  just  resolution 
of the plight of Palestine refugees, and to achieve long 
sought peace and justice.  
Regrettably,  over  the  past  year,  the  situation  in 

the  occupied  Palestinian 
including  East 
Jerusalem,  has  continued  to  deteriorate  and  to  be 
characterized by extreme violence, instability and high 
tension. The  toll  in  terms  of  human  lives,  the  injured, 
the  displaced,  the  homeless,  the  impoverished  and 
those  lacking  access  to  basic  needs  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  particularly  in  the  besieged  Gaza 
Strip,  continues  to  increase  at  an  alarming  rate.  The 
poverty  rate  currently  stands  at  65.8  per  cent  in  the 
occupied Palestinian territory and at 80 per cent in the 
Gaza Strip, where the majority of the people depend on 
food  aid  for  survival  and  nearly  50  per  cent  are 
unemployed. 
NAM  expresses  its  great  concern  at  the  constant 

the  occupied 
deterioration  of 
Jerusalem, 
Palestinian 
particularly  as  a 
the  excessive  and 
indiscriminate  use  of  force  by  Israel,  the  occupying 
Power,  against  the  Palestinian  civilian  population  and 
many other illegal policies and practices carried out by 
Israel, including its inhumane and destructive measures 
the  Palestinian 
of  collective  punishment  against 
civilian  population.  Those  measures  by 
Israel 
constitute grave breaches of international humanitarian 
law,  violate  virtually  all  of  the  Palestinian  people’s 
human rights and have devastated their socio-economic 
conditions, resulting in a dire humanitarian crisis. 

In  that  regard,  Israel  is  continuing  to  impose 
closures  by  completely  sealing  off  the  Gaza  Strip, 
thereby  obstructing  the  movement  of  persons  and 
goods such as food, medicine, fuel and other essential 
humanitarian supplies. It is also continuing to impose a 
situation 
including  East 
the 
territory, 
result  of 
in 
14 

08-61587 
incursions 


humiliating and discriminatory network of hundreds of 
checkpoints  and  roadblocks  throughout  the  entire 
occupied  Palestinian  territory.  That  has  resulted  in 
serious  fragmentation  and  undermined  the  contiguity 
and  integrity  of  the  territory,  completely  isolated  East 
Jerusalem  from  the  rest  of  the  West  Bank  and  caused 
significant  damage  to  the  Palestinian  economy  and 
society as a whole.  

Moreover, Israel is continuing to detain and arrest 
thousands of Palestinian civilians, who are imprisoned 
in  inhumane  conditions  and  subjected  to  all  forms  of 
ill-treatment.  It  is  also  carrying  out  intense  military 
raids  and 
into  Palestinian  population 
centres. That has led to extensive loss of life and injury 
to  Palestinian  civilians,  including  children,  and  the 
deliberate  and  widespread  destruction  of  property  and 
land. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  condemns  Israel’s 
prolonged  military  occupation  of  Palestinian  territory 
since  1967  and  expresses  its  grave  concern  over  the 
distressing  developments  and  ongoing  deterioration  of 
the situation in the recent period. For four decades, in 
its  actions 
territory, 
including  East  Jerusalem,  Israel  has  unrelentingly 
violated  international  law,  international  humanitarian 
law  and  human  rights  law.  As  a  result,  it  has  caused 
immense  suffering  to  the  Palestinian  people  and 
obstructed all efforts to achieve a just and lasting peace 
agreement. 

In  addition  to  the  illegal  practices  and  measures 
to  which  I  have  referred,  for  four  decades,  Israel  has 
carried  out  deliberate  and  unlawful  policies  and 
practices 
demographic 
composition,  character  and  nature  of  Palestinian 
territories  and  de  facto  annexing  them,  in  particular 
through  such  measures  as  the  confiscation  of  large 
areas  of  Palestinian  land,  the  implementation  of  its 
illegal  colonial  settlement  policy  and,  since  2003,  its 
illegal  construction  of  a  wall  in  the  West  Bank, 
including 
Israel 
continues to pursue those illegal policies and measures 
to  this  day,  in  total  disregard  for  and  in  contravention 
of international law, including in particular the Fourth 
Geneva  Convention,  United  Nations  resolutions  and 
the 9 July 2004 Advisory Opinion of the International 
Court of Justice. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  expresses  its  grave 
concern  that,  even  under  the  peace  process,  Israel 
in  and  around  East  Jerusalem. 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
altering 
in 
aimed 
at 
the 
A/63/PV.57
in 
their 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
continues  and  has  accelerated  its  unlawful  settlement 
activities 
territory, 
especially in and around East Jerusalem. Moreover, the 
Movement is alarmed by the rising incidence of Israeli 
settler  violence,  harassment  and  intimidation  against 
Palestinian  civilians,  their  properties  and  agricultural 
land.  We  call  on  the  occupying  Power  to  take  every 
necessary  measure  to  bring  an  end  to  settler  violence 
and lawlessness and to hold the perpetrators of crimes 
against  Palestinian  civilians  accountable  for 
their 
actions. 
NAM  condemns  all  illegal  actions  by  Israel,  the 

occupying  Power,  and  calls  for 
immediate 
cessation. Israel must cease all settlement activities and 
all  other  illegal  policies  and  practices  infringing  upon 
and  violating  the  human  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people.  In  addition,  NAM  believes  that  such  illegal 
Israeli actions, including ongoing military attacks, have 
seriously undermined the functioning of the Palestinian 
Authority  and  have  undoubtedly  contributed  to  the 
growing  polarization  of  Palestinian  society.  In  that 
regard,  NAM  hopes  for  a  speedy  restoration  of 
Palestinian national unity, which is a crucial element to 
achieving the legitimate national aspirations and goals 
of  the  Palestinian  people.  NAM  also  calls  upon  all 
concerned  parties  to  make  the  necessary  efforts  to 
promote reconciliation and unity. 
NAM  underscores  the  severity  of  the  situation 

faced by the Palestinian civilian population in the Gaza 
Strip as a result of the suffocating siege and closure of 
all  its  crossings  by  Israel,  the  occupying  Power.  Such 
unlawful collective punishment against the Palestinian 
civilian population has caused the further deterioration 
of  socio-economic  conditions. That  has  led  to  poverty 
and hunger and worsened the humanitarian situation to 
alarming levels. In that regard, it is incumbent upon the 
international  community  to  demand  that  Israel  respect 
all of its obligations under international law, including 
humanitarian and human rights law, and cease all such 
illegal  and  inhumane  practices  against  the  Palestinian 
civilian population of Gaza. 

Israel  has  clear  responsibilities  as  an  occupying 
Power, from which it must not be absolved. Moreover, 
nothing  justifies  its  violation  of  its  obligations  and 
responsibilities.  Israel  must  comply  with  its  legal 
obligations  under  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention, 
which  is  applicable  to  the  entire  occupied  Palestinian 
territory,  including  East  Jerusalem.  In  that  regard,  it 
must be emphasized that the Gaza Strip clearly remains 
08-61587 

15 
to 
alleviate 
the 
current 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
Today,  we  also  urge  all  States  and 
A/63/PV.57 

part  of 
territory.  NAM 
therefore once again urges Israel, the occupying Power, 
to  put  an  end  to  all  serious  violations  of  international 
law  and  to  fully  abide  by  international  humanitarian 
law, as it is obliged to do as the occupying Power.  

In that regard, NAM demands that Israel open all 
crossings  to  allow  for  the  movement  of  persons  and 
goods  and  the  unfettered  access  and  movement  of 
humanitarian  personnel  and  supplies,  including  those 
of  United  Nations  agencies  on  the  ground.  NAM  also 
demands  that  Israel  honour  its  responsibility  to  repair 
all the damage caused to the infrastructure of the Gaza 
Strip. 

the 
international  community  as  a  whole  to  continue  to 
urgently  provide  economic  and  financial  assistance  to 
the  Palestinian  people  during  this  critical  period  in 
order 
financial 
and 
humanitarian crisis they continue to experience. 

NAM member countries once again call upon the 
Security  Council  to  assume  its  responsibilities  under 
the Charter, take the necessary actions to implement its 
own resolutions and take the necessary steps to compel 
Israel 
its 
occupation  and  all  illegitimate  and  illegal  practices  in 
occupied 
including  East 
Jerusalem. It is unacceptable that the Security Council, 
whose 
to  maintain 
international  peace  and  security,  continues  to  fail  to 
carry  out  its  permanent  responsibility  with  regard  to 
the  Palestinian  question  until  it  is  resolved  in  all  its 
aspects on the basis of international law. 

occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  are  a 
serious 
the  prospects  for  achieving  a 
negotiated  agreement  in  the  form  of  the  two-State 
solution  on  the  basis  of  the  1967  borders,  and 
consequently  pose  a  threat  to  the  prospects  for  peace. 
In  that  regard,  NAM  expresses  its  concern  about  the 
little  progress 
the 
re-launching  of 
the 
Annapolis  Conference,  in  November  of  2007,  and  the 
resumption of direct bilateral negotiations between the 
Israeli and Palestinian sides.  

Despite  ongoing  negotiations  and  meetings 
between  the  two  sides,  the  process  continues  to  be 
obstructed  and  undermined  by  Israel’s  continuing 
pursuit of illegal policies and practices in the occupied 
that  has  been  made 
since 
the  peace  process  following 
unilateral  measures 
law  and  end 
responsibility 
international 
to  respect 
Palestinian 
territory, 
threat 
to 
primary 
is 
Israel’s 
in 

for 
their 
right 
rights, 
including 
territory  and 
its  disrespect 
Palestinian 
the 
commitments  it  has  undertaken  in  the  peace  process. 
NAM  calls  upon  all  concerned  parties,  including  the 
Quartet,  to  make  the  efforts  necessary  to  promote  the 
peace  process  towards  the  achievement  of  a  just, 
lasting and comprehensive peace. 

On  this  occasion,  as  we  gather  once  again  to 
address  the  question  of  Palestine  more  than  60  years 
after the conflict began, NAM reaffirms its support for 
the just cause of the Palestinian people and their efforts 
to  realize  their  legitimate  national  aspirations.  NAM 
will continue to support the Palestinian  people  and its 
leadership  in  order  to  bring  an  end  to  the  Israeli 
occupation  begun  in  1967,  in  accordance  with  the 
norms and principles of international law and relevant 
United Nations resolutions. 

We reaffirm our unwavering commitment to a just 
and peaceful solution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict 
and  to  the  exercise  by  the  Palestinian  people  of  their 
inalienable 
to  self-
determination  and  sovereignty  in  their  independent 
State of Palestine, with East Jerusalem as its capital. 
Mr.  Dwivedi  (India):  We  thank  the  President  of 

the  Assembly  for  convening  this  discussion  on  the 
question of Palestine in the General Assembly today as 
we  mark  the  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian people. 
There can be little doubt that this issue remains of 

great  concern 
international  community. 
Instability in that ancient and holy land began with the 
question of Palestine, and has since impacted upon the 
wider situation in the Middle East and upon the entire 
world. As  a nation that has had historical and  cultural 
relations  with  all  the  communities  of  the  Middle  East 
through the millennia and a strong tradition of support 
for  a  just  and  mutually  acceptable  solution  to  the 
question  of  Palestine,  India  has  an  abiding  interest  in 
the early resolution of this long-festering problem. The 
question  of  Palestine  is  a  matter  for  which  there  is 
strong  support  among  all  the  sectors  of  society  and 
political parties in India. 

Our meeting takes place almost one year after the 
international  conference  at  Annapolis.  We  in  India 
shared  the  sense  of  anticipation  and  hope  that  earnest 
and  results-oriented  discussions  would  commence  at 
the  earliest  time  possible,  aimed  at  finding  the  just, 
mutually  acceptable  and  durable  solution  whose 
contours  are  well-known  and  hardly  need  reiteration. 
the 
to 
16 

08-61587 
A/63/PV.57
As 
late 
last  week  of 
The  announcement 


We had also hoped that the process of dialogue would 
help  quickly  to  address  the  daily  litany  of  violence, 
blockades, rhetoric and privation. 

And yet our hopes remain unfulfilled. Settlements 
continue  to  expand  in  the  occupied  territories,  in 
contravention  of  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention  and 
the  Road  Map.  The  separation  wall  continues  to  be 
built,  in  derogation  of  the  Advisory  Opinion  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  and  resolutions  of  the 
General  Assembly.  The  division  of  Palestinian 
territories  endures  since  the  events  of  June  2007, 
despite efforts to unify the leadership. 

Most  damagingly,  the  blockade  of  Gaza  persists. 
Restrictions  on  movement  and  the  enduring  blockade 
of Gaza have serious humanitarian consequences in an 
already precarious situation. Restrictions on supplies of 
fuel  and  electricity  in  Gaza  have  only  intensified  the 
humanitarian challenge. 
the 

suspension of humanitarian aid into Gaza as a result of 
the  resumption  of  the  blockade  was  very  unfortunate, 
troubling and a cause for great concern. While we, too, 
hear  reports  of  some  resumption  of  access  for 
humanitarian  relief,  we  call  for  the  lifting  of  the 
blockade to afford full access to Gaza for the supply of 
humanitarian aid and essential commodities. 
The  security  situation  also  remains  a  challenge. 

Despite  efforts  to  maintain  a  ceasefire,  incidents  of 
indiscriminate  violence  and  retaliation  continue  to 
erupt, thus perpetuating the cycle of violence. The rise 
of 
is 
particularly  disturbing  as  it  runs  the  risk  of  inciting 
further  violence  in  those  highly  sensitive  locations.  In 
this  context,  India  notes  with  satisfaction  the  positive 
progress  recorded  by  the  Palestinian  Authority  in 
securing several towns in the Palestinian territory. 

It  is  important  that  we  retain  clarity  regarding 
fundamentals.  India  believes  that  all  violence  must  be 
eschewed if there is to be a positive atmosphere for any 
serious  dialogue.  However, 
itself 
adequate.  There  also  needs  to  be  a  serious  effort  to 
dismantle  the  barriers  to  free  movement  within  the 
West Bank and the blockades around Gaza. 

Apart  from  facilitating  the  entry  of  humanitarian 
relief, it is also essential that normal supplies of basic 
facilities, 
such  as  power,  water  and  essential 
commodities,  be  resumed.  Citizens  of  Gaza,  like  any 
incidents  of  violence  by 
illegal  settlers 
is  not 
this 
in 
leads 
the  Quartet 
other  people,  also  have  the  right  to  expect  normal 
access  to  medical  facilities.  The  construction  of  new 
settlements  in  the  occupied  territories  and  of  the 
separation wall must stop forthwith. 

A  sovereign,  viable  and  independent  State  of 
Palestine,  to  which  the  international  community  is 
committed  through  all  relevant  resolutions,  cannot  be 
created under the present circumstances. Our collective 
commitment  to  resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973), 
1397  (2002)  and  1515  (2003)  is  devoid  of  meaning  if 
we do not ensure that all parties to the conflict abide by 
their commitments under the Road Map.  

international 
the 
community’s efforts to assist the negotiations between 
Palestinian  and  Israeli  leaders,  we  urge  the  Quartet  to 
do much more to ensure that the process progresses in 
a manner that helps us achieve the desired outcome at 
the  earliest.  India  remains  in  support  of  a  political 
solution,  based  on  the  Road  Map  and  the Arab  Peace 
Initiative,  which  remain  the  only  widely  endorsed 
framework for an agreement. 

While India is not directly involved in supporting 
these  negotiations,  we  have  maintained  our  effort  to 
help  avert  a  larger  humanitarian  crisis.  Last  month, 
during  President  Abbas’s  visit  to  India,  our  Prime 
Minister 
earlier 
commitment  of  $20  million  —  $15  million  in  project 
assistance  and  $5  million  in  assistance  —  but  also 
announced a grant of $10 million as budgetary support 
for  the  Palestinian  National  Authority.  An  additional 
sum  of  $10  million  was  announced  for  project 
assistance  for  Palestinian  development  programmes. 
India’s  assistance  programmes  in  capacity-building, 
and  in  support  for  educational  programmes  were  also 
expanded. 

This leads us to the larger point: The only lasting 
solution  to  the  question  of  Palestine  is  a  just,  lasting, 
mutually  acceptable  and  comprehensive  solution, 
drawn  up  along  well-known  contours  that  are  set  out 
and  recognized 
the  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions.  The  ongoing  violations  of  the  Road  Map 
and 
the 
atmosphere  only  make  the  prospects  of  an  eventual 
peace more remote. It remains critical for the parties to 
the  conflict  and 
in 
particular  the  Quartet,  to  redouble  efforts  to  settle  the 
question of Palestine in the year ahead. 
the  persistence  of  actions 
international  community, 
that  vitiate 
reaffirmed 
India’s 
only 
not 
in 
the 
08-61587 

17 

the 
the 
strong 
support  at 
India  reiterates 
A/63/PV.57 


that  an  early,  amicable  and 
mutually  acceptable  solution,  in  accordance  with  the 
relevant  resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly,  brooks 
no delay. 

Mr.  Hoang  Chi  Trung  (Viet  Nam):  On  the 
occasion of the International Day of Solidarity with the 
Palestinian  People,  allow  me  to  convey  the  most 
heartfelt  greetings  of  the  Government  and  people  of 
Viet Nam to the Government and people of Palestine. 

The  Vietnamese  delegation  associates  itself  with 
the  statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of  Cuba 
on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

Looking  back  to  a  year  awash  with  mixed 
developments with regard to the Middle East situation, 
my  delegation  welcomes  the  positive  signs  visible 
across the region, including the continued engagement 
of  Israel  and  Palestine  in  negotiations  on  final  status 
issues,  guided  by  the Annapolis  process  and  the  Road 
Map; 
international 
conferences  held  in  Paris,  Bethlehem,  London  and 
Berlin for a viable Palestinian State; and the high-level 
diplomacy  initiatives  and  mediation  efforts  of  the 
Quartet,  the  League  of  Arab  States  and  regional 
countries. 

Along with the tangible progress reached between 
Israel  and  relevant  parties  on  ceasefires,  prisoner 
exchange  and  other  areas  of  mutual  concern,  further 
steps  undertaken  by 
to 
enhance national unity, security and the rule of law and 
to  promote  foreign  investment  and  socio-economic 
development  reforms  deserve  our  recognition  and 
encouragement. We share the intense aspiration for the 
process of peace to prevail despite so much frustration 
and despair. 

This  measured  progress,  albeit  doubly  prized  in 
the light of the difficult situation of the past two years, 
cannot  conceal  the  fact  that,  more  than  six  decades 
after the General Assembly adopted resolution 181 (II) 
on the partition plan, and more than four decades after 
the Security Council adopted resolution 242 (1967) on 
the  Arab-Israel  conflict,  peace  in  the  Middle  East 
remains elusive and the Palestinian people continue to 
suffer immensely. 

This  year,  despite  the  investment  of  so  much 
hope,  energy  and  effort  in  the  peace  process,  we 
continue  to  witness  a  perpetuation  of  the  longest 
military  occupation 
the 
the  Palestinian  Authority 
in  contemporary  history, 
the 
to 
of 
of 
the 
to 
further 
right 
facilitate 
including 
In  order 
international 
in  Gaza.  We  underline 
continued denial and violation of the inalienable rights 
of  Palestinians, 
self-
determination  and  the  right  of  Palestinian  refugees  to 
return, and unjustifiable attacks against civilians on all 
sides. 

Viet Nam shares the concerns of the international 
community  over  Israel’s  continued  military  incursions 
into the West Bank, its expansion of illegal settlements 
in the Palestinian territory, its ongoing construction of 
the  separation  wall,  its  imposition  of  closures  and 
restrictions  on  freedom  of  movement  and  access  to 
persons and goods in Gaza, and its continued detention 
of thousands of Palestinian prisoners. 

the  ongoing 
negotiations,  Israel  must  put  an  immediate  end  to  its 
restrictive measures, open border crossings, and ensure 
unfettered  access  for  humanitarian  assistance  to  the 
Palestinian  people 
the 
importance  of 
the  unflagging  commitment  and 
contributions 
community, 
especially  the  United  Nations,  the  League  of  Arab 
States,  the  Quartet  and  regional  countries  in  this 
respect. 

Peace  processes  have  never  been  easy  ventures. 
They can be satisfactorily nurtured only as long as the 
peaceful 
diplomatic 
negotiations  and  dialogue  prevail  over  violence,  the 
use  of  military  force  and  confrontation.  The  Middle 
East  conflict  will  remain  unresolved  unless  all  parties 
concerned  go  beyond  the  ordinary  in  their  efforts  to 
renounce  violence,  refrain  from  any  action  that  might 
destabilize  the  explosive  situation,  implement  hard-
earned  agreements  and  abide  scrupulously  by  their 
the  Road  Map  and 
reciprocal  obligations  under 
international 
rights  and 
humanitarian law. 

In conclusion, Viet Nam reaffirms its support for 
a just,  comprehensive  and  lasting peace  in the Middle 
East  on  the  basis  of  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the 
Security  Council,  including  resolutions  242  (1967), 
338 (1973), 1397 (2002) and 1515 (2003), the Madrid 
terms of reference and the principle of land for peace, 
as well as the Arab Peace Initiative. 

Mr.  Edrees  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Despite 
the  convening  of  the  Annapolis  Conference  to  revive 
the  Middle  East  peace  process,  new  hopes  for 
achieving  a  peaceful  settlement  of  the  question  of 
Palestine and realizing the objective of establishing an 
law,  particularly  human 
settlement 
disputes, 
18 

08-61587 
in 
territory, 
including 
in  2007; 
the  question  of  Palestine 
any  notable  progress,  while 


independent  sovereign  and  viable  Palestinian  State 
before  the  end  of  2008,  this  objective  was  not 
accomplished,  regretfully.  The  negotiations  have  not 
resulted 
the 
humanitarian  conditions  of  the  civilian  population  in 
the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip  have  continued  to 
deteriorate.  The  progress  to  which  we  aspire  in 
exercising  the  inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people  has  not  been  met,  because  of  the  illegal 
practices  by  the  occupying  Power  and  its  constant 
rejection of United Nations resolutions. 
The  General  Assembly  considered  the  agenda 

item  on 
the 
negotiating process continues between the Israelis and 
the  Palestinians. Yet,  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  has 
not  ceased  its  unlawful  practices  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian 
imposition  of 
collective punishment on the civilian population of the 
Gaza  strip,  as  underscored  by  the  Under-Secretary-
General  for  Humanitarian  Affairs  before  the  Security 
Council  in  successive  meetings.  Moreover,  Israel  has 
continued  to  carry  out  extrajudicial  killings,  has  used 
excessive  and  indiscriminate  force  against  Palestinian 
civilians  and  has  expanded 
its  construction  of 
settlements, 
confiscated 
Palestinians  lands  and  destroyed  their  property. All  of 
this  has  prevented  the  establishment  of  the  necessary 
supportive  political  environment  to  achieve  the  peace 
objective.  It  has  also  affected  the  endeavours  of  both 
parties  to  reach  an  agreement  on  the  final  status  core 
issues,  including  the  Road  Map  and  the  Annapolis 
understandings. 

Consideration of this agenda item on the question 
of  Palestine  by  the  sixty-third  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  obtains  great  importance  in  re-emphasizing 
support  for  the  Palestinian  people’s  endeavours  to 
restore their inalienable rights, prominent among which 
is  the  right  to  self-determination  and  to  establish  a 
viable, independent, geographically contiguous State of 
Palestine, living side by side with Israel, within a clear 
time frame that addresses the crucial six issues of final 
status  negotiations  with 
the  same  effectiveness, 
through intensive negotiations between both Israeli and 
Palestinian  sides,  and  with  the  support  of  the  United 
Nations  and  other  members  of 
international 
Quartet. 

Regrettably,  as  highlighted  in  the  current  report 
of the Secretary-General on the peaceful settlement of 
the question of Palestine (A/63/368), despite all efforts 
separation  wall, 
the 
A/63/PV.57
made  by  the  international  community  to  advance  the 
bilateral negotiations between the Palestinian Authority 
and Israel, and notwithstanding the efforts made by the 
Palestinian  Authority  to  fulfil  its  commitments  under 
the  Road  Map,  the  Israeli  side  has  not  honoured  its 
commitments.  The  report  also  refers  to  the  progress 
made by the Palestinian Authority in imposing law and 
order  in  the  West  Bank.  It  emphasizes  that  Israel  has 
not  fulfilled  its  commitments  to  end  its  unlawful 
settlement activities and states that Israel has continued 
to  expand  settlements  at  an  unprecedented  rate,  with 
the  purpose  of  creating  a  fait  accompli  on  the  ground 
and  annexing  large  areas  of  occupied  Palestinian 
territory. That has a negative effect on the chances for 
successfully  carrying  out  final  status  negotiations  on 
such issues as the future border of the Palestinian State 
and its geographical contiguity and viability. 

Similarly,  Israel  is  continuing  its  construction  of 
the  separation  wall,  whose  purpose  is  to  bolster  its 
settlement  policy,  in  contravention  of  the  advisory 
opinion  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  the 
relevant  resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly.  That 
effort  is  also  part  of  Israel’s  attempts  to  change  the 
legal  and  demographic  character  of  the  West  Bank  in 
order to deviate from the 1967 border with the State of 
Palestine, established by the Green Line, and to isolate 
East  Jerusalem  from  the  rest  of  the  occupied  West 
Bank.  It  also  shows  flagrant  disregard  for  the  judicial 
and moral content of the Court’s advisory opinion and 
is  a 
the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention. 
That  is  the  current  situation  in  the  West  Bank. 

However, 
is 
deteriorating even further as a result of the suffocating 
siege  imposed  by  the  occupying  Power,  its  closure  of 
border  crossings  and  its  restrictions  on  movement. 
Consequently,  there  are  huge  shortages  of  fuel,  food 
and  medical  supplies.  Poverty  has  increased  and  the 
socio-economic  and  health  conditions  of  the  civilian 
population  have  deteriorated.  Israel’s  most  recent 
escalation in the Gaza Strip could lead to a resumption 
of  the  horrific  vicious  cycle  of  violence  and  counter-
violence.  Egypt  calls  for  mutual  respect  of  the  truce 
agreement  and  for  a  halt  to  the  firing  of  rockets  and 
shells  against  civilians 
Israel  and  Palestine. 
Moreover,  Israel  should  commit  itself  to  halting  all 
military operations against Palestinian civilians. 
The  implementation  of  the  Road  Map  and  the 

Annapolis  understandings  requires  that  we  step  up 
flagrant  violation  of 
the  Gaza  Strip 
situation 
the 
in 
in 
the 
the 
08-61587 

19 

the  Quartet  and 
the  supervision  of 
the  removal  of  obstacles 
issues.  First,  both  sides  must  commit 
A/63/PV.57 

international efforts to achieve agreement on core final 
status 
to 
implementing  several  confidence-building  measures 
under 
the 
international  community.  They  must  also  translate  the 
outcome  of  negotiations  into  reality  on  the  ground, 
with  a  view  to  achieving  a  final,  lasting  and  just 
solution to the question of Palestine based on Security 
Council  resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973),  1397 
(2002)  and  1515  (2003),  General Assembly  resolution 
194 (III), the Arab Peace Initiative, the Road Map, the 
Madrid terms of reference and the principle of land for 
peace. 

The success of the peace process requires serious 
efforts  by  the  international  community  to  rectify  the 
current  unlawful  situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory and to compel Israel, the occupying Power, to 
implement  its  commitments  under  the  Road  Map  and 
the  relevant  provisions  of  international  law.  It  also 
requires  the  immediate  cessation  of  all  settlement 
activities, 
imposed  on 
freedom  of  access  and  movement,  reopening  border 
crossings  into  the  Gaza  Strip,  including  Palestinian 
institutions in occupied East Jerusalem, and the release 
of  Palestinian  prisoners  and  officials.  The  Gaza  Strip 
must  also  continue  to  receive  fuel  supplies  and 
crossing  points  should  remain  open.  The  contiguity 
aspired  to  by  the  Palestinian  people  must  also  be 
ensured, so as to end the suffocating crisis in Gaza. 
In that regard, Egypt continues to support efforts 

aimed  at  restoring 
the 
Palestinian  people  and  to  achieve  their  legitimate 
aspiration to establish an independent and viable State 
on  the  basis  of  two  States  living  side  by  side.  The 
solution must also include  compensation and the right 
of  return  of  refugees,  as  well  as  an  effort  to  achieve 
Palestinian national reconciliation and the preservation 
of  the  integrity  of  Palestine’s  territory  as  a  single 
contiguous  political  entity  in  the  West  Bank  and  the 
Gaza  Strip  under  the  leadership  of  the  Palestinian 
Authority.  Egypt  will  continue  its  efforts  to  maintain 
international support until those goals are achieved. 

Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): On behalf of Syria, I would like to express our 
deep gratitude to the Committee on the Exercise of the 
Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  its 
Chairman,  Ambassador  Paul  Badji,  as  well  as  to  the 
Secretariat’s  Division  for  Palestinian  Rights.  I  would 
also like to express our gratitude to the Department of 
inalienable  rights  of 
the 
self-determination 
for  resolutions  of 
Public  Information’s  special  information  programme 
on  the  question  of  Palestine  for  its  contributions  to 
implementing  resolutions  of  international  legitimacy 
related to the Palestinian cause, which call for putting 
an  end  to  the  suffering  of  a  people  that  has  lasted  for 
approximately  60  years  —  the  Nakba.  I  should  also 
like to thank the President of the General Assembly for 
his conscientious appeal in his statement at the opening 
of this meeting.  

This  year’s  meeting  on  the  question  of  Palestine 
coincides  with  six  decades  of  the  Palestinian  people’s 
Nakba  and  continuous  pain  and  suffering.  That  has 
included  their  forced  displacement  and  eviction  from 
their Palestinian homeland and has prevented refugees 
from returning to their cities and villages after foreign 
settlers  seized  their  homes.  All  that  took  place  in 
blatant  disregard 
international 
legitimacy, international law and human rights law.  

The  General  Assembly  is  meeting  to  debate  the 
agenda item entitled “Question of Palestine” in order to 
reaffirm  its  support  for  the  Palestinian  people  in  their 
struggle  against  Israeli  occupation  and  so  they  can 
achieve 
their 
independent  State  on  their  land  and  fully  regain  their 
legitimate rights. Those include the right of refugees to 
return  on  the  basis  of  resolution  194  (III)  of  1948. 
Despite  the  fact  that  the  United  Nations  has  adopted 
hundreds  of  resolutions  calling  on  Israel  to  end  its 
occupation  of  Arab  territories,  Israel  continues  to 
refuse to heed the will of international legitimacy. The 
Palestinian people continue to suffer under the yoke of 
Israeli occupation and to be the victims of a policy of 
murder and destruction.  
In  the  light  of  this  unfortunate  dichotomy  of 

Israel’s  non-compliance  with 
the 
international  community,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the 
continued  suffering  of  the  Palestinian  people  on  the 
other, it is critical for the United Nations to uphold its 
responsibilities  to  the  Palestinians  in  order  to  find  a 
just  solution  to  this  question.  It  was,  after  all,  this 
that  adopted  resolution 
international  Organization 
181 (II); 
the 
consequences  of  the  lack  of  implementation  of  that 
resolution  to  the  present  day.  The  President  of  the 
General Assembly  was  indeed  correct  and  courageous 
when  he  described  the  United  Nations  inability  to 
secure  the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State  as  the 
most  significant  failure  of  this  Organization  since  its 
inception. 
therefore,  all  Member  States  bear 
the  will  of 
establish 
and 
20 

08-61587 
The  Security  Council  has 
the  United  Nations.  Among 



We  recall  General Assembly  resolution  273  (III) 
which set the conditions for the acceptance of Israel to 
membership 
the 
conditions  were  Israel’s  abidance  by  the  principles  of 
the  Charter  and  respect  for  these  principles  and  for 
relevant  resolutions,  particularly  resolutions  181  (II) 
and  194  (III),  both  of  which  affirm  the  right  of  the 
Palestinians  to  establish  a  Palestinian  State  on  their 
national soil. These resolutions also establish the right 
of  return  to  Palestinian  refugees  who  were  forcibly 
removed from their homes. 

We  must  recall  that  the  General Assembly  when 
accepting  Israel’s  United  Nations  membership,  duly 
noted Israel’s statements and explanations presented to 
the  Special  Political  Committee  at  the  time  as  well  as 
its  commitment  to  implement  those  two  resolutions. 
This  commitment,  however,  was  very  interestingly 
removed  from  the  framework  of  Israel’s  international 
accountability. 

taken  no  serious 
decision on this question because of the objections of a 
well-known  permanent  member  State  and  because  of 
the automatic bias of some other countries in favour of 
Israel’s rejection of its obligations. All of this has sent 
the  wrong  message  from  the  international  community 
to Israel, declaring, in fact, that Israel is above the rule 
of law. 

This  year,  our  meeting  is  being  held  while  the 
entire  world  is  watching  the  Palestinian  people  being 
subjected  to  destruction,  killing  and  displacement  that 
are unprecedented in contemporary history. All of this 
is a result of Israel’s practice of State terrorism against 
the defenceless Palestinian people. 

Israel  continues  to  desecrate  places  of  worship 
and  demolish  safe  homes.  It  continues  to  prevent 
medical  supplies,  water,  food  and  electricity  from 
reaching  an  entire  population.  Using  the  pretext  of 
archaeological  interests,  it  continues  to  excavate  in 
areas  surrounding  places  of  worship,  including  the 
Al-Aqsa  Mosque,  Al-Haram 
and 
Al-Maghariba Gate. 

collective 
punishment  and  intentional  destruction.  The  most 
recent  example 
the  entire 
infrastructure  of  the  Gaza  Strip,  which  is  under  a 
suffocating  siege.  Israel  has  closed  border  crossings, 
thus transforming the Gaza Strip into the largest open-
air prison in the world. 
its  policy  of 
targeting  of 
continues 
al-Sharif 
in 
Israel 
is 
the 
A/63/PV.57
to 
in 

Israel  continues  to  expand  its  settlements,  build 
the  racist  separation  wall,  destroy  infrastructure  and 
confiscate land. It continues to detain and liquidate key 
political personalities who were democratically elected 
by  the  Palestinian  people.  Nor  has  Israel  spared  the 
United  Nations;  Israeli  occupation  forces  continue  to 
detain  and  kill  members  of  the  United  Nations  Relief 
and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near 
East and to limit the movement of its staff, inspect its 
vehicles  and  storm  its  buildings  in  violation  of  the 
Convention  on  the  Privileges  and  Immunities  of  the 
United Nations of 1946. 

At a time when Arab States are seeking to make 
peace, Israel is pursuing its policy of annexing land by 
intensifying  settlement  activity 
the  occupied 
territories  and  by  its  continued  construction  of  the 
racist  separation  wall,  in  blatant  violation  of  the 
advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice. 

Most  countries  of  the  world  and  the  United 
Nations  itself,  in  all  its  bodies  and  organs,  have 
adopted  a  clear  position  on  Israeli  settlement  activity, 
condemning  and  demanding  a  halt 
it.  The 
intensification of Israeli settlement activity contradicts 
the desire to achieve peace, is a real obstacle to peace, 
and only worsens the situation in the region. 

Syria  reaffirms  its  continuing  support  for  the 
rights of the Palestinian people to regain their occupied 
territories and to establish their independent State, with 
Jerusalem as its capital. Syria underscores the need to 
regain  Palestinian  national  unity  through  a  national 
the  Palestinians’ 
dialogue 
that  would  strengthen 
negotiating  position  and  bolster 
the  will  of 
the 
Palestinian  people.  Furthermore,  Syria  is  working  to 
that end in its capacity as Chair of the Arab summit. 
just  and 

comprehensive  peace  can  be  achieved  only  through 
Israel’s implementation of the relevant United Nations 
resolutions,  at  the  forefront  of  which  are  Security 
Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), as well 
as  Council  resolution  497  (1981),  pertaining  to  the 
Syrian Golan Heights. Syria also calls for a revival of 
the  peace  process  launched  at  the  Madrid  Conference 
of 1991. 

The Arab Peace Initiative, which was endorsed by 
the 2002 Arab Summit in Beirut and reaffirmed by the 
Arab  Summit  Conference  held  this  year  in  Damascus, 
reflects  the  desire  of  Arabs  to  achieve  a  just  and 
comprehensive peace and is a sound foundation for the 
Syria  has  always  believed 
that  a 
08-61587 

21 
A/63/PV.57 

achievement  of  this  peace  in  a  manner  that  is  in  line 
with resolutions of international legitimacy. 
Mr. Mansour (Tunisia) (spoke in Arabic): Today 

as we are discussing agenda item 16 on the question of 
Palestine, we are also commemorating the International 
Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People. 
This  is  an  opportunity  of  particular  meaning, 

because it allows us once again to consider the difficult 
situation  endured  by  the  Palestinian  people,  the  deep 
suffering that they experience every day and the denial 
of  their  basic  rights.  That  is  why  we  reaffirm  our 
commitment  to  step  up  our  efforts  in  order  to  put  an 
end to this human tragedy. We also urge all those who 
can bring their influence to bear to step up their efforts 
in  order  to  bring  about  a  prompt  and  appropriate 
settlement  of  the  crisis  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories. 

Tunisia  would  like  to  express  its  deep  concern 
regarding  Israel’s  continuing  settlement  activities  and 
its provocative practices against the Palestinian people. 
In  fact,  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Palestinians  are 
enduring great difficulties  owing to the  siege imposed 
by  Israel,  which 
the  delivery  of  basic 
humanitarian  assistance  and  food.  This  also  impedes 
the progress of negotiations and undermines peace and 
stability in the region.  
At  a  time  when  the  international  community 

hopes 
the  peace  process  and 
negotiations, Tunisia is committed to the protection of 
rights  based  on 
legitimacy  and 
principles of international law. We have always been a 
champion  of  the  just  cause  of  the  Palestinian  people. 
This courageous people has always had the full support 
of Tunisia, which has stood with the Palestinian people 
in  their  struggle  and  has  always  demonstrated  that 
solidarity,  so  the  Palestinian  people  can  restore  their 
legitimate 
and 
their 
independent State on their own soil. 
My country has spared no opportunity to reaffirm 

its  ongoing  principled  support  for  these  policies  and 
the President of the Republic, Zine El Abedine Ben Ali, 
has  on  many  occasions  expressed  that  Tunisia  would 
always stand with the just Palestinian cause, the cause 
of justice and peace in the region and worldwide and a 
cause that Tunisia holds most dear. 

The  responsibility  to  find  a  comprehensive,  just 
and  lasting  solution  to  the  Palestinian  question  is  a 
justice  and 
establish 
to 
reinvigorate 
national 
rights 
impedes 
the 

historical and shared responsibility of the international 
community, including all its components. Here we will 
not  fail  to  reaffirm  our  appreciation  of  the  continuous 
efforts  of  the  international  community  and  the  United 
Nations  to  provide  the  necessary  support  for  the 
Palestinian  people.  I  would  like,  in  particular,  to 
highlight  the  action  of  United  Nations  Relief  and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East 
and the actions of the Committee on the Exercise of the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People.  

It  is  crucial  that  we  step  up  our  efforts  and 
provide  all  the  necessary  support  to  the  Palestinian 
people  so  that  we  can  restore  peace  in  the  region. 
President Ben Ali has stated that Tunisia, based on its 
commitment  to  peace  as  a  strategic  choice  and  its 
tireless commitment to the just Palestinian cause, calls 
upon  the  United  Nations  to  step  up  its  efforts  to 
implement  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  so  that 
that  people  can  live  as  it  deserves  in  freedom  and 
dignity.  Tunisia  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  continue 
its efforts and to join any actions or any initiatives that 
are  pursued  in  order  to  bring  about  a  just  overall 
settlement  to  the Arab-Israeli  conflict  and  in  order  to 
enable  peace  and  security  to  reign  in  the  Middle  East 
region. 

It  is  necessary  to  pool  all  the  efforts  of  the 
international  community  in  order  to  put  an  end  to  the 
suffering  of  the  brotherly  Palestinian  people.  We  also 
urge the Quartet and the international community to lay 
the  groundwork  for  Israeli-Palestinian  negotiations  in 
order to achieve the peace to which the peoples of the 
region  aspire,  based  on  international  legality,  the 
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  and  the  Arab 
Peace Initiative. 
Mr. Al Oyaidi (Saudi Arabia) (spoke in Arabic): I 

wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
and  His  Excellency  the  Secretary-General  for  the 
efforts they are exerting to establish international peace 
and security, given the evolving conditions and threats 
that  are  currently  facing  the  world. The  contemporary 
issues  that  we  are  facing  require  cooperation  among 
States  in  order  to  maintain  international  peace  and 
security  in  the  world,  as  well  as  to  establish  stability. 
The situation also requires the United Nations to play a 
double role: to ensure the effective and efficient power 
of international legitimacy in order to keep the dangers 
of  war  and  conflicts  at  bay,  as  well  as  to  work  to 
resolve  all 
in 
through  peaceful  means 
issues 
22 

08-61587 
international 
the  principles  of 


accordance  with 
legitimacy. 

The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia participated, along 
with  other  Arab  States,  at  the  peace  talks  held  in 
Madrid  in  1991  and  in  various  other  rounds  of 
multilateral  negotiations,  in  the  hope  of  ending  the 
unjust  occupation  of  the  Palestinian  territories  and 
other  occupied Arab  lands. All Arabs  look  forward  to 
an end of the Arab-Israeli conflict. However, Israel has 
not  implemented  any  of  the  agreements,  and  stability 
continues  to  be  an  unlikely  possibility  in  light  of 
Israel’s  continued  construction  of  settlements,  the 
racist  separation  wall,  the  confiscation  of  land,  the 
demolition  of  homes,  as  well  as  the  practices  of 
depriving  the  Palestinian  people  of  their  rights  and  of 
preventing humanitarian access.  

Palestinians  are  still  suffering  from  violence  and 
terrorism  committed  by  armed  and  fanatical  Israeli 
settlers.  Moreover,  Israeli  occupation  forces  continue 
to  carry  out  operations  aimed  at  destroying 
the 
Palestinians  and  their  establishments  and  at  further 
oppressing  and  torturing  them.  Furthermore,  current 
Israeli practices are aimed at forcing the Palestinians to 
surrender to despair and frustration. 

demands 
international legitimacy, especially Security Council  
Arabs  chose  peace,  not  surrender,  and  their 
implementation  of 
remain  as 
follows: 
A/63/PV.57
resolutions  242  (1967)  and  338  (1973)  and 
the 
principle  of  land  for  peace,  as  well  as  a  just  and 
comprehensive  peace.  This  requires  a  full  Israeli 
withdrawal  from  the Arab  lands  occupied  in  1967,  as 
well as a return of Palestinian refugees to their homes 
and the restoration of their rights and compensation for 
those  who  do  not  wish  to  return.  Moreover,  the 
Palestinian  people  must  be  allowed  to  exercise  their 
right  to  self-determination  and  to  establish  their  State 
on  their  national  soil,  with  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  as  its 
capital. There must also be an Israeli withdrawal from 
the Syrian Golan Heights and from the Sheba’a Farms 
in South Lebanon.  

The  Israeli-Arab  struggle  is  still  a  dominant 
factor  in  many  of  the  issues  in  the  Middle  East,  as  it 
has  been  for  the  past  six  decades.  It  has  given  rise  to 
terrorism  and  extremism  and  is  a  basic  obstacle  for 
development  and  reform  efforts  in  the  area.  All  Arab 
States have underscored their commitment to a just and 
comprehensive 
international 
legitimacy,  and  these  countries  are  still  waiting  for  a 
serious Israeli commitment to that. Partial solutions do 
not  support  the  ongoing  negotiations  between  the  two 
sides  to  reach  a  comprehensive  final  status  solution. 
This  requires  the  Israeli  side  to  immediately  halt 
settlement activity in the occupied Palestinian territory. 
Israel’s  continued  settlement  activities  only  empties 
those negotiations of any meaning.  
The meeting rose at 6 p.m. 

based 
peace 
on 
08-61587 

23 
