
A/63/PV.37
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

37th plenary meeting 
Monday, 3 November 2008, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 
the  absence  of 
Islands),  Vice-President, 
the  President,  Mr.  Beck 
the 
took 
In 
(Solomon 
Chair. 
  (f)  Cooperation between the United Nations and the 

Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 

  (g)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 



the Council of Europe 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.12) 


  (h)  Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Economic Community of Central African States 


  (i)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Economic Cooperation Organization 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 

  (j)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 


the Eurasian Economic Community 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.13) 


  (k)  Cooperation between the United Nations 




and the International Organization of 
la Francophonie 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 

  (l)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Inter-Parliamentary Union 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 

 (m)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 


the Latin American Economic System 
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.10) 













The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 

Agenda item 114 (continued) 
Cooperation between the United Nations and 
regional and other organizations 
  (a)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 






the African Union 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 

  (b)  Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Asian-African Legal Consultative Organization 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.7) 


  (c)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 

  (d)  Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.9) 


  (e)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 





the Caribbean Community 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-58387 (E) 
*0858387* 


  (q)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization of American States 




  (r)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization of the Islamic Conference 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 

  (s)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Pacific Islands Forum 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 

  (t)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Preparatory Commission for the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty Organization 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/156) 
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.11) 



  (u)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 







A/63/PV.37 

  (n)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the League of Arab States 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 

  (o)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization for the Prohibition of 
Chemical Weapons 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/155) 


  (p)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 



the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in Europe 


the Southern African Development Community  
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 

Mr. Pramudwinai (Thailand): I have the honour 

to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  States  members  of  the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN): 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Cambodia,  Indonesia,  the  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Malaysia,  Myanmar, 
the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Viet Nam. 

We  are  now  witnessing  a  blossoming  of 
regionalism in all corners of the world. Now more than 
ever,  regional  organizations  and  arrangements  have 
played a pivotal role in bringing countries together and 
nurturing a habit of consultation and cooperation in all 
areas  of  common  concern  and 
interest.  ASEAN 
that  blossoming  and  strengthening  of 
welcomes 
regionalism  because  we  see  regionalism  as  a  building 
the 
integration  and  for 
block  of,  and  a  supporting  pillar  for,  the  effective 
global  multilateralism  that  is  embodied  in  the  United 
Nations. 

We  are  also  witnessing  a  blossoming  of 
partnership  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
organizations.  ASEAN  welcomes 
increasing 
emphasis that the United Nations has given to forging 
partnerships  with  many  regional  organizations  in  all 
regions  of  the  world.  Such  a  partnership  in  this 
interdependent and globalized world is truly a win-win 
relationship.  By  engaging  with  regional  organizations, 
the  United  Nations  benefits  from  their  in-depth  and 
unique  understanding  about  the  challenges,  concerns, 
sensitivities and nuances of those regions. At the same 
time,  regional  organizations  would  benefit  from  the 
United Nations vast wealth of expertise, best practices 
and networks in a broad range of issues. 

ASEAN  is  committed  to  continuing  to  advance 
the  noble  principles  and  objectives  of  the  United 
Nations in South-East Asia. For over 40 years since its 
founding  in  1967,  ASEAN  has  emerged  as  a  stable 
force  for  regional  peace  and  security,  for  enhanced 
economic 
the  creation  of  a 
community  of  caring  and  sharing  societies.  Through 
ASEAN,  countries  of  South-East  Asia  come  together 
and  peacefully  interact  on  all  issues  of  common 
concern  for  the  region.  Through  habit  of  working 
together  and  consensus-making,  ASEAN  countries 
have been successful in turning enmity into amity. By 
managing differences and emphasizing commonalities, 
ASEAN  as  a  group  has  managed 
to  overcome 
successive  challenges  facing  the  region.  But  ASEAN 
knows that we cannot be complacent. And that is why 
we  are  witnessing  a  renaissance  of ASEAN  in  South-
East Asia.  
At  the  ASEAN  summit  in  Singapore  last  year, 

ASEAN 
common 
objectives  in  mind:  to  make  South-East  Asia  a  better 
place, to make ASEAN  a stronger organization and to 
ensure  that  ASEAN  will  continue  to  be  a  strong  and 
effective  partner  for  international  peace,  stability  and 
prosperity.  

At  that  summit  in  Singapore,  ASEAN  leaders 
took  a  bold  step  forward  by  signing  a  landmark 
ASEAN  Charter,  which  will  provide  a  legal  and 
institutional framework to make ASEAN a more rules-
based, 
efficient 
organization. The signing of the ASEAN Charter was a 
people-centred, 
together  with 
effective 
leaders 
came 
and 
2 

08-58387 
in 
equality, 
territorial 
in  Thailand 
fourteenth  ASEAN  summit, 


significant  milestone 
the  ASEAN  community-
building  process,  whose  goal  is  to  transform  a  region 
that is home to over 500 million people into an ASEAN 
Community  by  2015.  It  is  also  important  to  note  that, 
by  signing  the ASEAN  Charter, ASEAN  leaders  have 
committed  themselves  to  the  principles  of  democracy, 
the  rule  of  law  and  good  governance,  and  respect  for 
and  protection  of  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms, while respecting the fundamental importance 
the  principles  of 
of  amity  and  cooperation  and 
sovereignty, 
integrity, 
non-interference,  consensus  and  unity  in  diversity. 
Today, the ASEAN member States are working to ratify 
the ASEAN  Charter  in  time  for  its  entry  into  force  at 
the 
in 
December 2008.  

Partnership  between  ASEAN  and  the  United 
Nations  has  been  long  and  enduring  and  has  grown 
from  strength 
to  strength.  The  United  Nations 
Development  Programme  was  designated  an  ASEAN 
Dialogue  Partner  in  1977  and  has  since  been  working 
closely  with  ASEAN  in  a  wide  range  of  regional 
development  issues.  In  2006,  ASEAN  was  granted 
observer  status  in  the  General Assembly.  In  2007,  the 
Secretaries-General of ASEAN and the United Nations 
signed  a  memorandum  of  understanding  on  ASEAN-
United Nations cooperation to promote a full range of 
cooperation based on mutual benefits.  

However,  it  took  the  tragic  Cyclone  Nargis  in 
May  2008  to  really  test  and  prove  the  strength  and 
resilience  of  the  partnership  between ASEAN  and  the 
United  Nations.  In  response  to  that  natural  disaster, 
ASEAN  firmly  adhered  to  the  ASEAN  way  that 
emphasizes  understanding,  dialogue 
and,  most 
important,  trust  and  confidence,  while  being  clear 
about  the  need  for  the  group  to  act. Thus  the ASEAN 
Humanitarian  Task  Force  for  the  Victims  of  the 
Cyclone  Nargis  was  established  in  May  this  year  by 
ASEAN  Foreign  Ministers  to  work  closely  with  the 
United  Nations  and  Myanmar 
in  coordinating 
international 
so  doing,  ASEAN 
successfully acted to build a diplomatic bridge with the 
international community through the United Nations.  
It  is  evident  that  the  ASEAN-led  coordination 

mechanism and the Tripartite Core Group subsequently 
established  on 
the  basis  of  partnership  between 
Myanmar, ASEAN and the United Nations have played 
a  pivotal  role  in  ensuring  the  timely,  coordinated, 
systematic  and  effective  delivery  and  utilization  of 
assistance. 
In 
08-58387 

A/63/PV.37
emergency  humanitarian  relief  supplies,  as  well  as 
planning  for  recovery  and  rebuilding  efforts  over  the 
longer term. That partnership has been welcomed by all 
sides,  including  the  United  Nations,  as  a  successful 
model  of  cooperation  that  could  be  applied  to  other 
regions facing humanitarian emergencies. 

We  are  determined  to  sustain  and  build  on  that 
positive  momentum  of  partnership  between  ASEAN 
and  the  United  Nations.  In  December  this  year,  the 
third  ASEAN-United  Nations  summit  will  be  held  in 
Thailand.  It  will  provide  a  good  opportunity  for 
ASEAN  leaders  and  the  Secretary-General,  as  well  as 
heads  of  United  Nations  agencies, 
funds  and 
programmes,  to  forge  a  comprehensive  and  system-
wide  partnership  between  ASEAN  and  the  United 
Nations.  

ASEAN believes that there are many endeavours 
in which ASEAN and the United Nations could benefit 
from  working  together  on  critical  areas  of  global 
concern,  such  as  mitigating  the  impacts  of  the  current 
global financial crisis and other pressing issues such as 
attaining the Millennium Development Goals, food and 
energy 
security,  environmental  management  and 
climate  change,  strengthening  global  and  regional 
cooperation  on  disaster  management,  and  fighting 
against deadly infectious diseases, such as HIV/AIDS, 
malaria and avian flu. 

This  year,  ASEAN  will  also  submit  a  biennial 
draft  resolution  on  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and 
the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations under this agenda item. The draft resolution is 
based  on  the  most  recent  resolution  on  that  subject 
(resolution  61/46),  which  the  Assembly  adopted  by 
consensus  in  December  2006.  The  draft  resolution 
contains  factual  updates  on  positive  developments 
regarding cooperation between the United Nations and 
ASEAN during the past two years. ASEAN hopes that 
this draft resolution will enjoy strong support from our 
partners, as in the past. 

ASEAN  is  going  through  an  exciting  time  in  its 
evolution. It is transforming itself from a community of 
ten ASEAN countries into an ASEAN community, from 
a  collection  of  different  markets  and  production  bases 
into  a  single  market  and  production  base,  and  from  a 
community of ten identities into a community based on 
a common identity. 

spirit  of  ASEAN  solidarity,  we  will  succeed 
ASEAN  is  confident  that,  together  as  one  in  the 
in 
3 

A/63/PV.37 

achieving  the  goal  that  we  have  set  for  ourselves. 
ASEAN’s  success  will  be  the  success  of  the  United 
Nations  because  a  stronger,  more  cohesive  and 
effective ASEAN will be a stronger and more effective 
partner for the United Nations. 
Ms. Banks (New Zealand): I have the honour to 

present  this  statement  on  behalf  of  members  of  the 
Pacific  Islands  Forum  based  in  New  York,  namely: 
Australia,  the  Federated  States  of  Micronesia,  Fiji, 
Nauru, Palau, Papua New Guinea, the Republic of the 
Marshall  Islands,  Samoa,  Solomon  Islands,  Tonga, 
Tuvalu, Vanuatu and New Zealand. 

At  the  outset,  I  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
his  report  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  regional  and  other  organizations  (A/63/228).  The 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Pacific Islands Forum has gained momentum in recent 
years,  and  we  are  pleased  that  the  United  Nations  has 
observer status at the Forum. 

We  encourage  regular  consultations  between  our 
Forum’s Secretariat and the United Nations, as well as 
United  Nations  participation  in  meetings  of  Pacific 
Islands Forum leaders. 

We  welcome  the  cooperation  of  United  Nations 
funds, programmes and specialized agencies to help the 
Pacific Islands address and overcome the ever-growing 
challenges before us, especially the achievement of the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015. The 
United  Nations  “delivering  as  one”,  processes  are 
already  under  way 
region.  The 
the  United  Nations  development 
development  of 
assistance  framework  for the Pacific subregion, which 
covers  the  period  from  2008  to  2012  and  brings 
together 15 United Nations agencies located in several 
different countries, has been a significant step towards 
implementing this “delivering as one” approach. 

We  also  need  to  work  closely  together  to  ensure 
full  and  effective  implementation  of  the  Mauritius 
Strategy 
the 
Barbados  Programme  of Action  and  the  Johannesburg 
Plan of Implementation. 

Global financial and economic turbulence and the 
threat  of  global  recession  pose  great  risks  to  us  all. 
Small,  isolated  economies  like  many  of  those  in  our 
region  are  especially  vulnerable.  The  Forum’s 
engagement with the United Nations and its funds and 
programmes  helps 
those  areas  of 
Implementation  of 
the  Further 
the  Pacific 
to  address 
for 
in 
the 
and 
Donor 
coordination 
aid  delivery 
integration  of  MDGs 
vulnerability  and  to  strengthen  national  and  regional 
development, thereby strengthening our region’s ability 
to engage with the international community. 

We  can  already  point  to  a  number  of  areas  of 
valuable  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations.  The 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP)  has 
supported implementation of the Forum’s Pacific Plan, 
which  is  the  overarching  framework  for  collaboration 
and  cooperation  among  Forum  countries.  We  also 
appreciate the work done by UNDP and the Economic 
and  Social  Commission  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific  to 
support 
into  national 
development  strategies  in  our  region.  Other  assistance 
has  been  provided  in  the  areas  of  disaster  risk 
management,  human  security,  anti-corruption,  private 
sector development and disabilities issues. 

in 
accordance with the principles of the Paris Declaration 
on Aid  Effectiveness  has  been  a  growing  focus  in  our 
region.  Pacific  leaders  have  adopted  the  Pacific  Aid 
Effectiveness  Principles,  emphasizing  the  importance 
of this work to all of us. We welcome the work of the 
UNDP Pacific Centre on enhancing donor coordination 
in  the  region,  and  we  look  forward  to  continuing  to 
work  closely  with  United  Nations  agencies  in  that 
respect. 

We  are  grateful  too  for  the  work  done  by  the 
United  Nations  Environmental  Programme  in  our 
region on sustainable development, and for its support 
for the Secretariat of the Pacific Regional Environment 
Programme  (SPREP),  which  is  involved  in  a  range  of 
environmental  programmes  in  the  Pacific.  UNICEF’s 
efforts 
improved  nutrition,  child 
immunization,  better  quality  child-focused  data  and 
budgeting  are  much  needed.  We  also  welcome 
engagement  between  United  Nations  agencies  and 
Pacific  regional  organizations  in  coordinating  our 
response on HIV and sexually transmitted infections. 

These areas of cooperation, and many others not 
listed, are greatly valued, as is the strengthened United 
Nations  presence 
in  recent  years. 
However,  we  do  believe  that  there  is  still  scope  to  do 
significantly  more  and,  in  particular,  to  increase  the 
impact of the partnerships between the United Nations 
system  and  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum.  We  urge  all 
United  Nations  agencies  operating  in  the  region  to 
constantly  assess  their  role  and  engagements  against 
that  of  Pacific  regional  agencies.  It  is  critical  that  we 
in  our  region 
focus  on 
that 
4 

08-58387 


all  look  to  maximize  collaborative  action  and  avoid 
duplication. 

Finally,  we  note  that  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum 
covers a vast region of island States and that our region 
is  particularly  vulnerable  to  the  effects  of  climate 
change.  A  draft  resolution  entitled  “Security  and 
climate  change”  (A/63/L.8)  has  been  submitted  by 
Pacific  small  island  developing  States  under  agenda 
item  107. We  encourage  all  Member  States  to  support 
that draft resolution. 
Mr.  Butagira  (Uganda):  I  have  the  honour  of 

speaking  on  behalf  of  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic 
Conference (OIC) Group in New York. I would like to 
thank  and  commend  the  Secretary-General  for  the 
comprehensive  and  informative  biennial  report  on 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
and other organizations (A/63/228). From the outset, I 
wish  to  reiterate  the  commitment  of  the  OIC  to 
deepening its cooperation with the United Nations. 
I  would  also  like  to  acknowledge  the  successful 

outcome  of 
the  biennial  general  meeting  on 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  OIC, 
held in Geneva from 8 to 10 July 2008. The Secretary-
General’s report captures some of the major outcomes 
of  this  meeting,  some  of  which  I  would  like  to 
highlight today as they merit inclusion in the upcoming 
resolution on OIC-United Nations cooperation. 
First, the report enumerates the efforts undertaken 

by 
the 
in  enhancing  practical 
cooperation  and  building  complementarity  through 
regular meetings at the level of the Secretaries-General 
and  through  consultations  among  other  critical  actors, 
including  the  Special  Adviser  on  the  International 
Compact  with  Iraq,  the  Executive  Director  of  the 
Counter-Terrorism  Committee  Executive  Directorate 
and  the  High-level  Coordinator  on  the  issue  of  the 
repatriation  or  return  of  all  Kuwaiti  and  third  country 
nationals or their remains. 
the 
to 

International  Conference  on  Terrorism,  held 
in 
November 2007 in Tunisia and coordinated by the two 
organizations  in  partnership  with  the  Government  of 
Tunisia, where a fruitful exchange of views took place. 
Participants  dispelled  misapprehensions  about  Islam, 
identified vulnerable areas exploited by terrorists in the 
social,  cultural,  ethical  and  ideological  spheres,  and 
recommended  solutions  to  make  those  areas  less 
conducive to their use. 
the  report  draws  attention 
two  organizations 
Secondly, 
A/63/PV.37
and 
resource 
food 
I 
commend 
to 
improve 
in  various 
fields, 
organizations 
development, 
Secretary-General 

Thirdly, the report notes that the Geneva meeting 
of the representatives of the United Nations system and 
OIC  and  its  specialized  institutions  in  July  reviewed 
cooperation 
including  science, 
technology, trade, development, implementation of the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  refugees, 
human 
security, 
agriculture,  environment,  health,  population,  arts, 
crafts  and  promotion  of  heritage.  Both  sides  also 
follow-up  mechanisms  by 
agreed 
identifying  focal  points  and  exchanging 
lists  of 
officials specializing in areas of common interest. 

Fourthly,  the  report  notes  that  the  Office  for  the 
Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  has  been 
developing  a  dialogue  with  OIC  to  reach  out  to 
non-governmental 
other 
humanitarian  actors  in  Islamic  countries,  and  that 
UNICEF  has  been  exploring  ways  to  develop  and 
formalize  its  partnership  with  OIC,  including  specific 
initiatives linked to the MDGs as part of the OIC Ten-
Year Programme of Action. 

for 
the 
highlighting  the  aforementioned  developments  and 
urge  follow-up 
implementation  of  agreed 
activities and programmes.  

I  would  now  like  to  draw  attention  to  several 
other  equally 
issues,  undertakings  and 
decisions 
to  OIC-United  Nations 
cooperation  that  did  not  appear  in  the  Secretary-
General’s  report,  which  also  require  follow-up  and 
implementation. 

First  is  the  general  meeting’s  acknowledgement 
that the OIC remains an important partner to the United 
Nations in peace and security and in fostering a culture 
of peace at the global level, and the agreement between 
the  two  sides  to  continue  cooperation  in  conflict 
prevention, peacekeeping and peacebuilding.  

Second is the United Nations offer to inform the 
OIC  of  and  invite  it  to  seminars  and  other  training 
opportunities  in  the  areas  of  conflict  prevention, 
negotiations, mediation and elections organized by and 
for the United Nations. 

Third  are  the  efforts  of  the  two  organizations  to 
promote and facilitate the Middle East peace process in 
accordance with relevant Security Council resolutions, 
particularly  resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973)  and 
1515  (2003),  General  Assembly  resolution  194  (III), 
pertaining 
in 
the 
important 
08-58387 

5 

the 
should 
be 
including 
acknowledged 
recognized, 
and 
the  Secretary-General 
for 
two  organizations  and 
A/63/PV.37 

the  Arab  Peace  Initiative,  the  Road  Map  and  the 
commitments  of  the  Annapolis  Conference.  Those 
should  be 
inter-organizational 
cooperation in all fields that serve that goal should be 
encouraged. 

Fourth,  the  OIC  proposal  for  greater  interaction 
between  the  two  Secretariats  beyond  the  current 
biennial  arrangement  to  include  a  periodic  review  of 
cooperation 
through 
appropriate follow-up directives. 
Fifth  is  the  close  cooperation  between  the  OIC 

Secretariat  and 
the  United  Nations  Alliance  of 
Civilizations  in  advancing  dialogue  and  intercultural 
understanding, 
the  Secretary-General’s 
participation in the OIC summit inviting the Alliance to 
all  major  OIC  conferences,  and  holding  meetings 
between  the  OIC  Secretary-General  and  the  High 
Representative  of 
the 
Alliance of Civilizations to institutionalize cooperation 
between 
finalize  a 
memorandum  of  understanding  between 
two 
organizations. 
Sixth is multifaceted cooperation among the OIC 

and the United Nations and its specialized agencies in 
humanitarian affairs, which should be welcomed. There 
is  a  need  to  pursue  greater  proactive  engagement, 
resulting 
concrete 
programmes  in  capacity-building,  emergency  assistance 
and strategic partnerships. 

Seventh, the two organizations should strengthen 
cooperation  in  fighting  poverty  in  Member  States  to 
promote  sustainable  development  and  achieve  the 
MDGs. 

Lastly, at the Annual Coordination Meeting of the 
Ministers for  Foreign Affairs of Member States of the 
Islamic Conference, held on 26 September 2008 here at 
the  United  Nations,  it  was  decided  to  celebrate  the 
fortieth  anniversary  of  the  OIC  in  2009  with  national 
and  international  programmes  on  different  aspects  of 
the  OIC,  highlighting  its  activities,  evolution  and 
reform.  The  OIC  looks  forward  to  collaborating  with 
the United Nations in the commemoration. 

I  would  like  to  conclude  by  underlining  the 
essential  role  that  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  regional  and  other  organizations  can  play 
international  peace  and 
in 
prosperity, 
the  MDGs.  However,  our 
the  achievement  of 
implementation 
of 
including 
the 
in 
the 
to  make  use  of 
approach must be pragmatic and holistic to ensure that 
agreed activities are implemented. That will require the 
wider  international  community  to  lend  its  full  support 
to  attaining  that  objective.  The  OIC  Group  will  be 
tabling  a  draft  resolution  under  agenda  item  114  — 
Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
and other organizations — and we look forward to the 
full support of all our partners. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  Building  a  collective  approach,  which  is 
crucial  to  overcome  temporary  threats  and  challenges 
effectively, 
requires  a  gradual  strengthening  of 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
and  subregional  organizations,  based  on  the  firm 
foundation  of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  especially 
Chapter VIII.  

The  United  Nations  and  regional  organizations 
are  intended  to  complement  each  other  harmoniously 
and 
their  specific  comparative 
advantages.  With  respect  to  the  United  Nations,  that 
means  above  all  universality  of  membership  and  of 
areas of activity and universally recognized legitimacy. 
In  turn,  regional  organizations  often  have  a  better 
understanding of local circumstances and more suitable 
equipment, as well as their own sources of financing. A 
clear  division  of 
the 
prerogatives  of  the  United  Nations  and  its  Security 
Council, will make it possible to increase the capacity 
in the international community for dealing with crises.  

We  think  that  regular  meetings  of  the  Secretary-
General of the United Nations with leaders of regional 
organizations  are  extremely  relevant.  The  United 
Nations  agenda  of  cooperation  with 
its  regional 
partners is becoming more ambitious and multifaceted. 
To  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  goals  have  been 
added  combating  the  spread  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction and the illicit trade in small arms and light 
weapons,  resolving  other  destabilizing  cross-border 
problems,  fighting  drug  trafficking  and  organized 
crime and contributing to solving the various complex 
socio-economic issues around the world. 

The  Russian  Federation  continues  to  strongly 
support further strengthening multifaceted cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Collective Security 
Treaty  Organization  (CSTO),  the  Commonwealth  of 
Independent  States  (CIS)  and  the  Eurasian  Economic 
Community  (EURASEC),  which  has  made  significant 
contributions  to  overcoming  contemporary  problems 
labour,  while  maintaining 
6 

08-58387 
and 
crime, 
systematic 
and  EURASEC, 
relief  operations  and 


and  challenges  at  both  the  regional  and  global  levels. 
We  welcome  the  already  solid  ties  those  regional 
mechanisms  have  with  the  United  Nations  and  their 
joint  implementation  of  a  number  of  projects  and 
programmes. 

Integrated  processes  in  our  region  have  become 
more mature and active and have increasingly drawn in 
countries  from  neighbouring  subregions.  The  legal, 
institutional  and  financial  basis  for  that  kind  of 
cooperation is becoming firmly established. Within the 
CIS,  CSTO 
and 
comprehensive  interaction  is  under  way,  including  in 
such areas as ensuring security, peacekeeping, fighting 
cross-border 
organized 
economic 
trade,  environmental  protection, 
development  and 
humanitarian 
regulation  of 
migration. 

Cooperation  between the  United Nations and the 
CSTO  has  considerable  potential.  Within  the  CSTO, 
very  intensive  work  is  under  way  to  establish  its  own 
in-house  peacekeeping  potential,  including  for  use  in 
the 
framework  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations.  There  are  considerable  opportunities  for 
pooling the efforts of those two organizations. 

Cooperation  between  CSTO  member  States  on 
United  Nations  issues  is  based  not  only  on  common 
positions  on  many  of  the  current  problems  on  the 
United Nations agenda, but also on an understanding of 
the  need  to  strengthen  its  leading  role  in  international 
affairs. We are interested in maximizing the collective 
mechanisms  and  potential  of  the  United  Nations  in 
neutralizing  challenges  to  regional  security  arising 
from  international  terrorism  and  in  contributing  to 
economic development. 
is 

playing  an  increasing  role  in  ensuring  stability  in  the 
Eurasian region. Its members favour further developing 
their cooperation with the United Nations in a number 
of 
fighting 
international  terrorism  and  the  illegal  drug  trade,  thus 
contributing  to  the  post-conflict  reconstruction  of 
Afghanistan. 
In the very near future, the States of the Shanghai 

Cooperation  Organization  intend  to  raise  the  issue  of 
including on the agenda of the Assembly’s sixty-fourth 
session a new item on cooperation between the United 
Nations and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. 
The  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization 
important 
including 
areas, 
very 
A/63/PV.37
in 
transport 
including 
protection, 
cooperation, 
is  enshrined 
environmental 
further  strengthens 

We also support further strengthening cooperation 
between  the  Eurasian  Economic  Community  and  the 
United  Nations.  EURASEC  is  developing  rapidly  at 
present. Cooperation is under way on a number of key 
energy, 
issues, 
tourism, 
overcoming 
emergency  situations,  migration,  education  and  other 
areas. Within the Community, steps have been taken to 
establish a customs union, a free trade area and a single 
energy market. 

Now  that  intensive  and  practical  activity  is  fully 
in  line  with  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and 
the 
commitment  to  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter,  which 
the  constitutive 
documents of the Community. The Eurasian Economic 
Community  furthermore  has  played  a  key  role  in  the 
extensive  structures  of  multilateral  cooperation  in  the 
region  aimed  at  ensuring  sustainable  development, 
stability,  peace  and  security.  That  makes 
it  an 
important partner of the United Nations system in our 
region and points to the need to further step up efforts 
to develop cooperation between the two organizations. 

According to the report of the Secretary-General, 
the  main  achievements 
that  area  have  been 
highlighted.  We  welcome  those  achievements,  but  we 
believe 
strengthen 
cooperation. With a view to strengthening the results of 
that cooperation, Russia has, together with Belarus, the 
current  president  of  the  Community,  submitted  to  the 
United  Nations  a  draft  resolution  on  cooperation 
between 
the  Eurasian 
Economic  Community.  We  attach  great  importance  to 
the  adoption  of  the  draft  resolution  by  consensus  and 
wish to thank all delegations that have taken part in its 
elaboration and have joined its original two sponsors.  

We  also  think  that  the  potential  for  mutually 
beneficial cooperation between the United Nations and 
other  integration  mechanisms  in  the  territory  of  the 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States  is  far  from 
having been exhausted. In that context, we expect more 
activity,  initiative  and  openness  to  dialogue  from  the 
leadership  of  the  United  Nations  agencies.  Russia  is 
ready 
further 
strengthening that cooperation. 

I  would  like  also  to  mention  the  issue  of 
cooperation between the United Nations and the Black 
Sea  Economic  Cooperation  Organization  (BSEC). 
the  United  Nations  and 
is  necessary 
to  work 
to  do 
its  part 
towards 
in 
it 
to 
further 
08-58387 

7 

require 
security 
region  will 
A/63/PV.37 

Russia is an active and concerned member of that main 
comprehensive  forum  for  Black  Sea  cooperation.  We 
support  efforts  to  further  increase  the  work  of  that 
organization and to adapt it to current realities. We are 
convinced that ensuring stable development, prosperity 
the 
and 
in 
the 
implementation  of 
long-term  mutually  beneficial 
economic projects carried out in the framework of the 
Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation  Organization.  We 
think  that  projects  such  as  the  circular  motorway 
around  the  Black  Sea  and  the  establishment  of  a 
circular  Black  Sea  electric  power  grid  are  excellent 
examples of that kind of project.  

We  support  the  work  already  under  way  in  the 
BSEC to create a common energy strategy for countries 
in  the  region.  We  think  that  cooperation  between  the 
BSEC  and  the  European  Union  should  be  based  on 
equal  footing  and  mutual  benefit  and  the  Community 
preserve, even augment, its own identity. The BSEC is 
also  ready  to  cooperate  with  countries  outside  the 
region.  That  participation  should  be  based  on  the 
principle  of  non-interference  in  the  development  of 
multilateral  cooperation  between  the  countries  of  the 
region  on  the  basis  of  their  interests,  capacities,  skills 
and 
especially 
counterproductive  to  try  to  politicize  economic  ties  in 
the  region  and  cooperation  in  the  framework  of  the 
BSEC.  

We believe the BSEC has an excellent future. The 
organization  is  a  functioning  part  of  the  overall 
European  cooperation  system  and 
integration 
processes on the continent and is able to play a role in 
bringing  the  peoples  of  the  region  closer  together  and 
is  finding  balance  and  common  ground  in  the  Black 
Sea  region.  By  strengthening  its  cooperation  with  the 
United  Nations,  we  will  further  contribute  to  that 
progress.  Russia  fully  supports  the  draft  resolution  on 
the matter and has become one of its sponsors. 

We  also  think  that  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe  is  moving 
along nicely. The development of cooperation between 
those  two  organizations  will  contribute  to  ensuring 
peace  and  security  and  will  protect  human  rights,  not 
only in Europe but around the world as a whole. 
The  draft  resolution  on  the  cooperation  between 

the  United  Nations  and 
the  Council  of  Europe 
(A/63/L.12), which is being considered by the General 
Assembly today, fully meets those goals, and we hope 
experience. 
It 
would 
be 
the 
security, 
including 
that, just as it was two years ago, it will be adopted by 
consensus. 

We  would  like  to  see  further  development  of 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  other 
European organizations, including the Organization for 
Security  and  Cooperation in Europe  and the European 
Union, where mechanisms for reacting to emergencies 
are being developed. What is essential there is to fully 
recognize  the  primary  responsibility  of  the  United 
Nations  Security  Council  for  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and 
the 
imposition of mandatory sanctions and political control 
over  peace  enforcement  operations.  That  fundamental 
principle  based  upon  Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter 
should  also  govern  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  

We  must  further  increase  positive  cooperation 
between the Organization and regional and subregional 
partners  in  Africa,  including  the  African  Union,  the 
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States,  the 
Southern  African  Development  Community  and  the 
Intergovernmental Authority on Development.  
An important role in seeking peaceful solutions to 

the  many  problems  of  their  regions  will  be  played  by 
the League of Arab States, the Cooperation Council for 
the  Arab  States  of  the  Gulf,  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic  Conference,  the  Organization  of  American 
States  and  various  Latin  American  organizations. 
Russia  has  established  and  is  developing  dynamic 
relationships with all of those organizations. 
Mr. Menon (Singapore): Allow me to first thank 

the Secretary-General and the Secretariat for the report 
on  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and 
regional and other organizations (A/63/228). We would 
also  like  to  associate  ourselves  with  the  statement 
made  by  Thailand  on  behalf  of  the  Association  of 
Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  and  commend  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  leadership  and  support  in 
fostering  and  strengthening  cooperation  between  the 
United Nations and ASEAN. 

Much  of  our  work  in  this  session  has  been 
clouded by bad news. The lack of progress in the Doha 
Round,  the  food  and  fuel  price  crises,  the  financial 
meltdown  on  Wall  Street  and  the  resultant  economic 
turmoil  across  the  globe  have  all  cast  a  long  shadow 
over  our  deliberations  at  the  sixty-third  session  of  the 
United  Nations  General  Assembly.  We  have  had 
debates  on  the  role  that  the  United  Nations  can  and 
8 

08-58387 
them 
to 
trust  between 


should  play  to  restore  global  confidence  during  this 
time  of  economic,  social  and  political  crises.  Smaller 
countries  like  mine  have  a  strong  vested  interest  in 
seeing  international  institutions  strengthened,  so  that 
they can better deal with the various problems.  

While  reform  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Bretton Woods institutions is important and urgent, we 
can  also  make  these  international  institutions  more 
effective  by  encouraging 
forge  strong 
partnerships  with  regional  institutions  that  play  useful 
roles  in  fostering  regional  peace  and  development. 
Indeed, even the United Nations Charter recognizes the 
role that regional arrangements can play in helping the 
United  Nations  to  achieve  its  various  objectives. Take 
ASEAN  as  an  example:  many  of  you  will  recall  that, 
when  Cyclone  Nargis  hit  Myanmar  in  May  this  year 
and  caused  a  humanitarian  crisis  in  the  country,  there 
was for several days a stand-off between the Myanmar 
Government and the international community over the 
provision  of  assistance.  ASEAN  had  to  step  in  and 
build  a  bridge  of 
the  Myanmar 
Government and the international community.  

A  tripartite  organization  involving  the  United 
Nations,  ASEAN  and 
the  Myanmar  Government 
worked  effectively  to  overcome  problems  on  the 
ground  and  ensured  that  international  aid  reached  the 
furthest corners of the affected area. It also prevented a 
second wave of deaths from hunger or disease. ASEAN 
on  its  own  did  not  have  the  capabilities  to  help 
Myanmar  in  a  major  way,  but  ASEAN  working 
together  with 
and  other 
international  agencies  was  able  to  make  a  huge 
difference. In the process, we in ASEAN also learned a 
great deal about disaster management from bodies like 
the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs 
and the World Food Programme. 

Mr.  Nsengimana  (Rwanda),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair. 

However, it is also a fact that every region has its 
own  distinctive  characteristics,  which  must  be  taken 
into  account  when  building  partnerships  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  particular  region.  It  may  or 
may not be possible to replicate what ASEAN was able 
to  achieve  with  the  United  Nations  in  the  case  of 
Cyclone  Nargis,  in  other  parts  of  the  globe.  In  short, 
there  is  no  one-size-fits-all  model  for  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  regional  institutions. 
To  expect  otherwise  would  be  to  ignore  the  fact  that 
the  United  Nations 
A/63/PV.37
every  region  has 
its  own  unique  characteristics, 
priorities  and  needs.  The  Secretary-General’s  report 
makes  that  point  and  shows  how  wide-ranging  such 
models of partnership can be. 

Unfortunately,  instead  of  celebrating  the  rich 
diversity  that  exists  in  the  global  community,  my 
delegation has observed a tendency on the part of some 
Member  States  to  try  to  impose  some  of  their  values 
and  practices  at  the  regional  level  on  the  rest  of  the 
global  community.  They  expect  the  rest  of  us  to 
welcome those values and practices, which are peculiar 
to  their  region,  and  to  embrace  them  as  universal 
values.  

Some  members  may  recall  that,  in  2004,  my 
delegation  took  the  floor  during  the  debate  on  this 
same  agenda  item  to  object  to  an  attempt  by  the 
Council  of  Europe  to  impose  its  views  regarding  the 
death penalty upon the rest of us through its resolution 
on cooperation with the United Nations. In that regard, 
my  delegation  was  baffled  by  the  attempt  by  the 
Council  of  Europe  again  this  year  to  slip  similar  and 
even  more  controversial  elements 
its  draft 
resolution  and  to  expect  all  of  us  to  go  along  with  it. 
Fortunately,  consensus  on 
resolution  was 
preserved,  at  least  as  of  now,  because  the  Swedish 
chair  of  the  informal  consultations  exercised  strong 
leadership  and  professional  objectivity  during  the 
negotiations. 

All of us should acknowledge that in a universal 
organization  such  as the United Nations, there will be 
some occasions when we will not necessarily be able to 
agree with one another because of our different values 
or  practices.  Our 
task  will  certainly  be  more 
complicated if some delegations insist on disregarding 
the  valid  concerns  of  others  and  attempting  to  impose 
their  views  on 
the  United  Nations 
membership. 

When we are confronted by multiple crises, either 
at home or at the global level, we should all rise to the 
challenge  and  work  in  collaboration  to  strengthen  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  organizations.  This  is  no 
time to be running roughshod over each other’s views. 
We  can  only  achieve  a  “we  community”  —  a  concept 
that  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  has  often 
talked about — when we learn the basic rule of respect 
and  empathy  for  each  other’s  views,  and  that  has  to 
start here in the Assembly. 
the  rest  of 
into 
that 
08-58387 

9 
to 
to 

like 
also 
(spoke 
reiterate 
(Canada) 
Mr.  McNee 
A/63/PV.37 


in  French): 
Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
organizations  is  an  essential  tool  for  the  achievement 
of the objectives of the United Nations and its various 
bodies.  That  cooperation  is  key  to  peace  and  security 
efforts.  The  expertise  of  and  means  of  regional 
organizations complement those of the United Nations, 
and thereby enhance the contributions of each.  

Canada has established partnerships with various 
players,  such  as  the  African  Union,  the  Economic 
Community of West African States, the Southern Africa 
Development  Community, 
the  Organization  of 
American States (OAS), the Caribbean Community, the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and 
the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe (OSCE), on a host of issues. Those partnerships 
illustrate  the  importance  we  place  on  the  involvement 
of regional players. 

We  would 
the 
responsibilities  of  Member  States 
support 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  various 
organizations  in  order  to  ensure  that  such  cooperation 
is  effective.  For  example,  donors  and  countries 
contributing  troops  to  peace  missions  under  the  aegis 
of various organizations must ensure that those troops 
are endowed with the resources they need to carry out 
their mandates. 

The  partnership  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  African  Union  in  Darfur  illustrates  a  number  of 
possibilities  and  demonstrates  the  challenges  which 
such  cooperation  poses.  That  cooperation  is  still 
necessary to foster African solutions to threats to peace 
and  security  on  that  continent.  Because  peace  and 
security  in  Africa  are  closely  related  to  the  human 
rights 
development, 
extensive cooperation among the relevant bodies of the 
United  Nations  and 
is  also 
necessary. 

I  would  like  to  highlight  further  examples  of 
cooperation  with  regional  partners  that  are  relevant  to 
the United Nations. Canada’s working, for example, to 
develop  practical  approaches  to  cooperation  with  the 
ASEAN  Regional  Forum. 
In  addition,  we  are 
monitoring  the  cohesion  between  the  efforts  of  the 
OAS  and  other  regional  institutions  in  the  Americas. 
We are also following cooperation efforts between the 
OAS and all of the parties that support development in 
Haiti.  We  would  also  like  to  highlight  the  joint 
the  African  Union 
governance 
situation, 
and 
in 
to 
like 
take 
certain 
I  would 
this  opportunity 
cooperation between the United Nations and NATO in 
Afghanistan. We welcome the cooperation between the 
United  Nations  and  the  OSCE,  particularly  in  Kosovo 
and Georgia. 

The  United  Nations  and  regional  organizations 
must  also  cooperate  closely  to  integrate  fragile  States 
into the world economy. The United Nations must also 
work with regional economic organizations in order to 
participate in development efforts. 

to 
specifically  address  cooperation  between  the  United 
the  International  Organization  of 
Nations  and 
la 
Francophonie 
(OIF).  The  OIF  has  diplomatic 
capabilities  in  the  areas  of  prevention  and  mediation 
that  we  would  like  to  see  strengthened  so  that  the 
Organization can help resolve international crises more 
effectively,  particularly 
francophone 
countries,  and  fully  participate  in  finding  collective 
and realistic solutions.  

A few days ago, the twelfth francophone summit 
was held in Quebec City, with some 30 heads of State 
or  Government,  the  Secretary-General  of  the  OIF  and 
the  Secretary-General  of 
in 
attendance. The summit was an opportunity to discuss 
issues that are mobilizing the international community, 
such as the financial crisis, and to focus on four other 
major issues within the francophone world: democracy 
and 
law;  governance  and  economic 
solidarity; the environment; and the French language. 

The  heads  of  State  or  Government  adopted  the 
Quebec  City  declaration,  which  contains  specific  and 
concrete  commitments  on  each  of  those  major  issues. 
Armenia’s  status  changed  from  observer  to  associate 
member  at  the  summit,  and Thailand  and  Latvia  were 
admitted  as  observers.  The  OIF  is  now  comprised  of 
70 States and Governments. 

A  high  point  in  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the francophone world came on 28 March 
2008,  when 
the  United 
Nations and the Secretary-General of the OIF reviewed 
international policy issues and welcomed the similarity 
of  their  views  on  world  peace,  peaceful  conflict 
resolution,  the  implementation  of  the  Convention  on 
the  Protection  and  Promotion  of  the  Diversity  of 
Cultural Expressions, and the dialogue among cultures 
and  civilizations.  They  also  expressed  the  desire  to 
implement  operational  mechanisms 
facilitate 
consultations, the ability to refer issues to one another 
the  Secretary-General  of 
the  United  Nations 
the  rule  of 
to 
10 

08-58387 
the  United  Nations  are  serving 


and coordination between the two organizations in the 
context  of  preventing,  managing  and 
resolving 
conflicts that may arise in the francophone world. 

Cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  also 
requires  the  enhancement  of  the  OIF’s  involvement  in 
mobilizing  francophone  contingents in  United Nations 
peacekeeping operations. More than half of the troops 
deployed  by 
in 
francophone  countries.  While  the  number  of  such 
missions is increasing, the number of French-speaking 
personnel  engaged  in  those  operations  is  declining, 
which  is  causing  communications  problems  on  the 
ground. 

Cooperation  between the  United Nations and the 
OIF  also  necessitates  a  stronger  OIF  presence  in 
Peacebuilding  Commission  activities,  in  particular  in 
the  country-specific  configurations 
for  Burundi, 
Guinea-Bissau and the Central African Republic. Other 
areas of cooperation, in particular electoral observation 
and assistance, may also be enhanced.  

Finally,  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  International  Organization  of  la  Francophonie 
is  also  key  to  the  successful  implementation  of 
resolution  61/266,  on  multilingualism,  adopted  last 
year. 

Resolution  61/7  currently  defines  the  framework 
for  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
International  Organization  of  la  Francophonie.  In  the 
coming  days,  Canada  will  submit  a  draft  resolution 
designed to update the parameters of that framework in 
the  wake  of  the  recent  adoption  of  the  Quebec  City 
declaration a few days ago, with a view to guiding joint 
activities in the coming years. We are delighted at the 
thought of seeing the results of that cooperation in the 
coming  months,  which  will  pave  the  way  for  the 
preparations  for  the  next  Francophonie  summit,  to  be 
held in Madagascar in 2010. 
(spoke in English) 
In conclusion, Canada, in cooperation with other 

Member  States,  will  continue 
that 
cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  remains 
productive  so  that  francophone  experience  is  used  to 
the  fullest  extent  in  carrying  out  the  United  Nations 
mission, and so that the relationship becomes a model 
of complementarity between United Nations action and 
that of regional organizations. Our capacity to manage 
effectively  the  wide  range  of  issues  facing  us  will 
to  ensure 
A/63/PV.37
the 
to  examine 
determine  how  cooperation  between 
the  United 
Nations,  especially  the  Security  Council,  and  regional 
organizations develops. 
Mr.  Mansour  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  The 

debate  that  brings  us  together  today  gives  us  an 
excellent  opportunity 
state  of 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
organizations and to reflect on how we can strengthen 
their links of synergy and interaction.  

I  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  the  information  he  has  provided  in  his 
summary  report  on  cooperation  activities  undertaken 
these  past  two  years  (A/63/228).  The  report  clearly 
shows  the  genuine  will  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
regional  organizations  concerned  to  consolidate  and 
diversify  in  various  areas  and  at  various  levels  their 
cooperation  and  their  capacity  to  be  complementary. 
My delegation welcomes that fact because it is therein 
that  the  objective  of  full  cooperation  between  United 
Nations  and  regional  organizations  takes  on  real 
significance and relevance. 

My delegation feels that regional cooperation, the 
structure and scope of which have become increasingly 
multidimensional  and  integrated,  is  now  more  than 
ever  a  supplementary  tool  for  United  Nations  action 
and 
of  multilateralism. 
Developments  on  the  international  scene  have  clearly 
shown  that  the  universality  of  the  United  Nations  and 
the  regional  approach  can  work  together  towards  the 
same  objectives  and  optimize,  upstream  and  down, 
their  action  and  capacity  to  better  serve  the  needs  of 
development,  peace  and  human  understanding,  and  to 
do so without a conflict of competence or mandate. 

regional 
organizations  play  in  international  governance  and  in 
the  consensual  approach  to  the  situations  facing  the 
world,  my  delegation  feels  that  the  organizations 
involved  should,  in  that  respect,  be  integrated  as  full 
partners  in  the  United  Nations  dynamic.  The  regional 
cooperation dimension is also part of the revitalization 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  achievement  of  its 
development  goals,  particularly 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals.  

We  should  remember  in  that  respect  that  the 
September  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  Document 
stressed that aspect by recommending that we identify 
and adopt measures to strengthen cooperation between 
regional  organizations. 
the  United  Nations  and 
development 
for 
the 
role 
that 
Given 
the 
growing 
08-58387 

11 

to 
strengthen 
in  various  areas 
remind 
consultation 
this  debate 
to 
As  a  member  of  a  number  of 
A/63/PV.37 

Moreover,  the  various  biennial  reports  adopted  under 
item 114 evidence the growing interest that the United 
Nations  community  accords  to  increasing  cooperation 
and  coordination  and  to  the  added  value  that  the 
regional organizations provide at various levels.  

Additionally,  my  delegation  would  like  to  take 
advantage  of 
regional 
organizations 
and 
cooperation  among  themselves,  since  they  are  guided 
by  the  common  ideals  of  peace,  development  and 
dialogue among civilizations. 

regional 
organizations, Tunisia  is  convinced  that  such  valuable 
cooperation 
should  be  duly 
appreciated,  better  supported  and  better  structured.  In 
that  regard,  cooperation  activities  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  League  of Arab  States  —  the  vitality 
and  strengthening  of  which  we  welcome,  particularly 
in  the  area  of  peace  —  should  be  further  extended  to 
other  sectors  more  directly  linked  to  development.  In 
point of fact, a number of meetings and joint activities 
have taken place, including the coordination meeting in 
Geneva in July 2008 between the two parties that led to 
the launching of various projects of common interest in 
the  economic,  social,  environmental,  technical  and 
cultural  domains,  attesting  to  the  shared  will  to 
strengthen  institutional  links,  as  well  as  the  scope  of 
and  base  for  cooperation.  The  follow-up  mechanism 
established  on  that  occasion  is  certainly  an  important 
pillar  in  the  edifice  of  cooperation.  We  would  have 
wished  that  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  had 
given more information with regard to the mandate and 
the  functioning  of  that  mechanism,  in  particular  its 
ability  to  make  periodic  assessments  of  the  status  of 
cooperation. 
My  delegation  welcomes  the  fact  that,  over  the 

past 
the  United 
two  years,  cooperation  between 
Nations  and  the  African  Union  has  taken  on  another 
dimension and opened up new perspectives. There have 
been  many  successes,  and  we  are  now  attempting  to 
address the specific needs of our continent, particularly 
in  the  area  of  peace  and  conflict  management,  in 
keeping with the priorities established in the Ten-Year 
Capacity-Building  Programme  for  the  African  Union, 
presented in the declaration Enhancing United Nations-
African  Union  Cooperation:  Framework  for  the  Ten-
Year  Capacity-Building  Programme  for  the  African 
Union, the text of which was signed in Addis Ababa in 
November 2006. 
In 
that 
structured, 
the  decision 
that  respect, 

to  set  up  a 
coordination  and  consultation  mechanism  between  the 
Peace  and  Security  Council  of  the African  Union  and 
the Security Council of the United Nations, as well as 
joint  meetings  to  be  held regularly  between  those  two 
bodies in that framework undoubtedly meets the needs 
of  our  time,  given  that  Africa  is  the  theatre  of  most 
conflicts,  and  particularly  since  it  provides  edifying 
proof 
targeted  and  coordinated 
cooperation between the African Union and the United 
Nations  can  contribute  to  the  creation  of  an  African 
capacity  for  conflict  prevention,  peacekeeping  and 
peacebuilding. 

By  dint  of  the  political  sensitivity  of  its  basic 
structure, cooperation between the United Nations and 
the African  Union  on  the  issues  of  peace  and  security 
has  monopolized  attention,  downplaying  other  aspects 
of  cooperation  —  such  as  economic  and  social 
support —  that  while  requiring  less  involvement  and 
fewer  resources,  are  nevertheless  important.  The  goal 
is to support the process, of development in particular 
the  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, at the national, regional and subregional levels, 
especially since Africa is clearly behind with regard to 
the agreed deadlines. 

Before  concluding  on  that  point,  I  would  like  to 
stress  that  my  delegation  can  only  welcome  the 
significant  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  and  its 
Member  States  in  the  area  of  peace  and  security  in 
Africa,  and  hopes  that  questions  of  economic  and 
human  development  will  enjoy  the  same  level  of 
attention and commitment. The development of Africa 
today is at the heart of the United Nations agenda and 
of the international community. 
the 

the  United 
strengthening  of  cooperation  between 
Nations  and 
Islamic 
the 
Conference  (OIC)  in  diverse  and  important  economic, 
political,  social  and  humanitarian  fields. The OIC  and 
its  specialized  agencies  are  deployed 
in  various 
domains  and  with  numerous  partners  in  order  to 
contribute to the efforts of the international community 
in the service of development, peace and security. 

In  that  framework,  the  international  conference 
convened  by  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization 
of the Islamic Conference in Tunis in November 2007, 
in  cooperation  with  the  Tunisian  Government,  on  the 
theme 
and 
My  delegation  notes  with  satisfaction 
“Terrorism:  Dimensions, 
the  Organization  of 
Threats 
12 

08-58387 
the 


Countermeasures”, has enabled us to identify solutions, 
to  recommend  paths  of  action  and,  in  particular,  to 
clear  up  a  good  number  of  misunderstandings  at  the 
heart  of  a  certain  erroneous  perception  of  Islam.  The 
conference  illustrated  the  extent  to  which  cooperation 
and exchanges enable us to take the road less travelled 
and  to  find  common  ground  on  subjects  that  are 
apparently controversial or even conflictual. 

On  another  level,  the  meeting  held  in  Geneva  in 
July 2008 between the United Nations system and the 
OIC and its specialized institutions enabled us to assess 
the  level  of  cooperation  and  where  it  could  be 
strengthened. 

It  is  a  fact  that  the  world  today  faces  many 
challenges,  and  the  fact  that  they  are  getting  worse  is 
indisputable.  The  only  way 
international 
community  can  rise  to  those  challenges 
is  with 
everyone’s  help,  and  a  collective  commitment.  The 
process  of  complementarity  between  the  universal 
action  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  constructive 
contribution of regional organizations itself arises from 
that imperative. 
Ms.  Negm  (Egypt)  (spoke  in Arabic): Allow  me 

to start by expressing our appreciation to the Secretary-
General  for  his  excellent  report  on  the  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  regional  and  other 
organizations 
(A/63/228).  Egypt  attaches  special 
importance  to  such  cooperation  for  its  significant  role 
in helping to achieve the goals of the United Nations in 
its  three  main  fields  of  work:  international  peace  and 
security,  development  in  its  political  and  economic 
dimensions,  and  the  effective  promotion  of  human 
rights and fundamental freedoms. 

The  Secretary-General’s  report  demonstrates  the 
depth  of  the  relationship  between  the  United  Nations 
and regional and other organizations and the increasing 
levels  of  steady  cooperation  between  them.  In  that 
context, the delegation of Egypt welcomes the report’s 
focus  on  the  growing  cooperation  between  United 
Nations  bodies  and  specialized  agencies,  on  the  one 
hand, and the African Union, on the other, in the areas 
of peace and security; the African Union’s institutional 
capacity-building;  mediation  and  conflict  resolution; 
the  holding  of  elections;  peacekeeping  and  support  in 
implementing 
for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  programmes;  disarmament, 
light 
especially  with  respect 
to  small  arms  and 
weapons;  and  other  areas  associated  with 
the 
the  New  Partnership 
A/63/PV.37
on 
role 
by 
Financing 
Conference 
the  panel’s 
promotion and development of industry, environmental 
protection, refugee issues, and food and food security. 

In the field of development, cooperation must be 
strengthened between both parties in order to confront 
the  world’s  exceptional  food,  energy,  global  financial 
markets  and  climate  change  crises.  Those  crises  will 
affect Africa  more  than  another  region.  I  also  wish  to 
stress  the  need  to  implement  the  political  declaration 
issued  at  the  recent  high-level  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly on Africa’s development needs as well as the 
proposals  put  forward  by  the  leaders  at  the  high-level 
event  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Those 
proposals aim at increasing financing for Africa and to 
give  it  special  consideration  during  the  Follow-up 
International 
for 
Development  to  Review  the  Implementation  of  the 
Monterrey Consensus.  

In the area of international peace and security, we 
welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  initiative  to  form  a 
joint  United  Nations-African  Union  panel,  chaired  by 
former  Italian  Prime  Minister  Prodi,  in  support  of 
African  peacekeeping  operations.  We  look  forward  to 
receiving 
report.  Concurrently,  we 
emphasize  the  importance  of  continuing  to  strengthen 
cooperation  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
Peace  and  Security  Council  of  the  African  Union  so 
that  Africa  can  also  contribute 
to  maintaining 
international peace and security in other regions of the 
world.  

In  the  same  context,  I  would  like  to  refer  to  the 
important 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission 
in  African  countries  emerging  from 
conflict and its achievements during the first two years 
of  its  existence.  The  United  Nations  and  the  African 
Union  should  encourage,  sustain  and  support  the 
Commission’s  role.  We  also  stress  the  need  to  assist 
and  strengthen  the  capacities  of  the  Commission  by 
providing  the  necessary  financial  resources  from  the 
regular  budget  of  the  United  Nations,  and  to  take  the 
regional  dimension  of  the  process  of  reviewing  the 
work  of  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  into  consideration  in 
2009  and  2010,  in  a  manner  that  would  help  to 
strengthen cooperation between the United Nations and 
the African Union. 

Cooperation  between  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic  Conference  (OIC)  and  the  United  Nations  is 
gaining 
the  negative 
campaign  against  Islam  and  its  symbols  and  of  the 
played 
importance 
in 
the 
light  of 
08-58387 

13 
the  process  of 
A/63/PV.37 

efforts  of  some  to  defend  that  campaign  by  citing 
freedom  of  expression.  This 
issue  requires  both 
organizations  to  step  up  their  role  in  correcting  the 
erroneous image of the Islamic world and in deepening 
cooperation  among  all  peoples,  regardless  of  their 
religions  and  faiths.  That,  in  turn,  would  require 
working together in the fields of culture and education 
through  dialogue  among  civilizations,  cultures  and 
religions.  In  that  regard,  the  delegation  of  Egypt 
encourages the holding of seminars and conferences in 
cooperation  with 
the  member  States  of  both 
organizations  so  that  such  cooperation  will  produce 
concrete results in promoting the culture of peace. It is 
our  hope  that  the  high-level  meeting  to  be  held  in  the 
middle of this month will constitute a further basis for 
strengthening  cooperation  among  all  countries  in  that 
important area.  

Cooperation  between the  United Nations and the 
League  of  Arab  States  is  of  equal  and  increasing 
importance, not only because of the leading role of the 
United  Nations 
the  peaceful 
settlement  of  the  Middle  East  question  and  its  role  in 
the  diplomatic  Quartet,  but  also  in  promoting  the 
international  process  of  addressing  the  case  of  the 
Palestinian  refugees  and  ensuring  their  access  to 
urgently  needed  humanitarian  assistance,  and 
in 
confirming the fact that the United Nations remains at 
the centre of the political process aimed at establishing 
an independent, viable Palestinian State with Jerusalem 
as its capital.  
In  that  regard,  it  is  necessary  to  immediately 

the  agreement 
commence 
the 
between 
the 
institutional 
their  secretariats.  The 
process  will  lead  to  the  sharing  of  experience  and  of 
lessons 
joint  efforts,  and 
enhance 
regional 
organizations  for  the  achievement  of  international 
peace and security. 
the  Asian-

African  Legal  Consultative  Organization  (AALCO) 
and  the  United  Nations,  the  delegation  of  Egypt 
welcomes the consultations between both organizations 
in the various fields of international law. The Egyptian 
delegation  reiterates  and  affirms  the  importance  of 
strengthening such cooperation, especially with respect 
to  the  activities  of AALCO’s  Centre  for  Research  and 
Training to build capacities in the field of international 
learned,  promote 
their  coordination  with  other 
two  organizations 
links  between 
Regarding  cooperation  between 
implementation  of 
their 
the 
to  strengthen 
in 

in 
conflict 
prevention, 
law in all its branches and to ensure effective national 
implementation of international law obligations.  

the 
The  delegation  of  Egypt  also  affirms 
importance  of  strengthening  cooperation  between  the 
United Nations and the International Organization of la 
Francophonie;  of  expanding  it  from  merely  cultural 
cooperation  to  cooperation  in  the  fields  of  early 
warning, 
peacebuilding, 
peacekeeping  capacity-building;  and  of  developing, 
establishing  and  implementing  national  strategies  for 
development  and  other  important  areas  that  would 
enhance the goals of both organizations. 

The  delegation  of  Egypt  follows  with  keen 
interest  the  growing  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  since  the 
signing  of  the  1996  Cooperation  Agreement  between 
them; the adoption in 2002 of resolution 57/47 granting 
the Union observer status; the organization of hearings 
and  common  interactive  debates  on  the  sidelines  of 
successive  sessions  of  the  General Assembly;  and  the 
participation  of  parliamentarians 
the  official 
delegations of their countries to the General Assembly. 
That growing cooperation clearly highlights the nature 
of  the  organic  relationship  between  strengthening  the 
principles  of  democracy,  ensuring  good  governance  at 
the national and international levels and broadening the 
basis for parliamentary participation in the multilateral 
international sphere.  

Owing to the complexity and multifaceted nature 
of  cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  with 
regard  to  participation  in  relevant  United  Nations 
conferences, issues of international peace and security 
and  efforts  to  promote  and  enhance  economic  and 
social development, democracy and human rights, and 
given  Egypt’s 
in  promoting  such 
cooperation  during  the  chairmanship  of  Mr.  Fathi 
Sorour, Speaker of the People’s Assembly, we support 
the  Secretary-General’s  recommendation,  set  out  in 
paragraph 139 of the report, that the General Assembly 
positively  consider  devoting  a  specific  agenda  item  to 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Inter-Parliamentary  Union.  Egypt  will  participate 
actively in the consultations on that subject, which will 
be  considered  during  negotiations  on  the  annual  draft 
resolution on this item. 

The delegation of Egypt has closely followed the 
increasing cooperation between the United Nations and 
many organizations in Europe, Asia and Latin America, 
leading 
role 
14 

08-58387 


the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
in  particular 
Nations, 
the  Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation 
Organization,  the  Caribbean  Community,  the  Council 
of  Europe  and  other  organizations  covered  in  the 
report.  We  will  follow  up  on  efforts  to  enhance  such 
cooperation in the future with a view to achieving the 
purposes and principles of the United Nations. 
Mrs.  Ithete  (Namibia):  The  Inter-Parliamentary 

Union  (IPU), 
the  world  organization  of  national 
parliaments,  is  the  natural  institutional  link  between 
the  United  Nations  and 
the  world  of  national 
parliaments. Namibia is particularly honoured that The 
Honourable  Mr.  Theo-Ben  Gurirab,  Speaker  of  the 
National  Assembly  of  the  Republic  of  Namibia,  was 
elected  as  President  of  the  IPU.  We  believe  that  his 
experience  as  a  former  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs and President of the General Assembly 
will  certainly  contribute  to  the  strengthening  of  the 
partnership between the United Nations and the IPU. 

In  order  to  bridge  the  implementation  gap  with 
regard to United Nations decisions and resolutions and 
to ensure greater democratization of the United Nations 
system,  it  is  important  to  engage  more  closely  with 
national  parliaments  and  parliamentarians  all  over  the 
world. Such engagement would give parliamentarians a 
better  understanding  of  the  importance  of  translating 
international commitments into national legislation and 
policies.  It  would  also  provide  greater  political 
momentum for achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals  and  addressing  the  major  global  challenges  of 
our time. 

The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/63/228) 
goes  a  long  way  in  highlighting  the  importance  of 
cooperation among the United Nations system, national 
parliaments  and 
the 
conclusions  and  recommendations  contained  in  the 
report,  particularly  those  related  to  the  circulation  of 
the outcome document of the joint United Nations-IPU 
annual  parliamentary hearing at the United Nations as 
an official United Nations document and the allocation 
of a separate General Assembly agenda item to explore 
cooperation  among 
the  United  Nations,  national 
parliaments and the IPU. 

As  at  previous  sessions,  the  General  Assembly 
will  be  requested  to  adopt  the  draft  resolution  on 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  IPU. 
The  draft  resolution  will,  inter  alia,  encourage  the 
United  Nations  and  the  IPU  to  continue  to  cooperate 
the  IPU.  Namibia  supports 
A/63/PV.37
economic 
and 
social 
the 
the 
It  will  also  encourage 
closely  in  various  fields  —  in  particular  peace  and 
security, 
development, 
international  law,  human  rights  and  democracy  and 
gender  issues  —  bearing  in  mind  the  significant 
two 
benefits  of  such  cooperation  between 
organizations. 
IPU’s 
contributions  to  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly, 
including  the  revitalization  of  the  Assembly,  United 
Nations  reform  and  system-wide  coherence.  Namibia 
trusts  that  the  draft  resolution  will  be  adopted  by 
consensus. We therefore urge Member States to support 
it. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  take  this  opportunity  to 
inform  Member  States  that  Namibia  will  facilitate  the 
negotiations  on  the  draft  resolution  on  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  IPU.  We  would 
also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  Italy 
on  a  job  well  done  in  facilitating  a  similar  draft 
resolution in 2006. 
Ms. Chen Peijie (China) (spoke in Chinese): It is 

increasingly  important  that  the  United  Nations,  the 
world’s  most  universal 
international  Organization, 
enhance  its  cooperation  with  other  international  and 
regional  organizations  to  address  the  challenges  of 
globalization  and  myriad  issues  in  the  international 
arena.  The  Chinese  delegation  welcomes  the  General 
Assembly’s  consideration  of 
item, 
“Cooperation between the United Nations and regional 
and  other  organizations”.  On  this  occasion,  I  should 
like  to  make  some  brief  comments  on  the  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Asian-African 
Legal Consultative Organization (AALCO). 

AALCO is the only influential intergovernmental 
organization  that  is  composed  of  Asian  and  African 
States  and  dedicated 
issues. 
Founded  in  1956,  it  was  a  major  outcome  of  the 
famous  Bandung  Conference  of  1955.  For  more  than 
half  a  century,  AALCO  has  worked  consistently  to 
promote  cooperation  and  exchanges  among Asian  and 
African  States  in  the  spirit  of  unity,  friendship  and 
cooperation  advocated  at  the  Bandung  Conference.  It 
assists  Asian  and  African  States  in  the  practice  of 
international  law  and  in  their  efforts  to  promote  the 
progressive development and codification of such law. 
Comments  and  proposals  made  by  AALCO  on  the 
relevant  items  on  the  agendas  of  the  Sixth  Committee 
and  the  International  Law  Commission  serve  as  an 
important  frame  of  reference  for  Asian  and  African 
States as they participate in discussions on the relevant 
important 
to  addressing 
legal 
the 
08-58387 

15 

in 
to  actively  participate 
A/63/PV.37 

General Assembly items and have great reference value 
for the work of other United Nations legal bodies.  

AALCO  enjoys  good  cooperative  relations  with 
the  United  Nations  and  its  relevant  organs.  Over  the 
years,  AALCO  and  specialized  United  Nations 
agencies, such as UNESCO, the United Nations Office 
on Drugs and Crime, the Office of the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Refugees and the International 
Law  Commission,  have  sent  representatives  to  one 
another’s  meetings 
the 
consideration  of  relevant  items.  As  a  result,  the 
cooperation among those bodies has been continuously 
enhanced and broadened.  

Asia  and  Africa  have  the  largest  number  of 
developing countries and the largest populations in the 
world. Thanks  to  their  efforts  over  many  years, Asian 
and  African  countries  have  achieved  enormous 
progress  in  the  political,  economic  and  social  fields. 
Their  status  and  role  in  international  affairs  have 
grown  markedly,  which  has  made  them  an  important 
force  for  world  peace  and  shared  development. As  an 
important  platform  for  exchange  and  cooperation, 
AALCO  will  no  doubt  play  an  increasingly  positive 
role  in  enhancing  the  effective  participation  of  Asian 
and  African  States  in  promoting  democratization  and 
the rule of law in international relations. 

As  a  State  member  of  both  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Asian-African  Legal  Consultative  Organization, 
the  Chinese  Government  has  consistently  supported 
AALCO’s 
and 
exchanges with the United Nations. From this rostrum, 
I wish to reiterate that the Chinese Government will, as 
enhancing 
always, 
cooperation 
Legal 
Consultative  Organization,  the  United  Nations  and 
other relevant organs. 
Mr.  Badji  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Senegalese  delegation  associates 
the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Uganda,  on 
behalf of the States members of the Organization of the 
Islamic Conference (OIC), on cooperation between the 
United Nations and the OIC. However,  Senegal, in  its 
capacity  as  Chair  of  the  OIC  Summit  at  its  eleventh 
session, would like to share with the Assembly some of 
our thoughts with regard to that cooperation. 

The  important  role  of  regional  organizations  and 
others  in  dealing  with  the  major  issues  on  the  agenda 
of  the  United  Nations  General  Assembly  has  been 
the  Asian-African 
itself  with 
contribute 
efforts 
to 
enhance 
cooperation 
to 
continue 
to 
among 
16 

reaffirmed many times since this debate began. In point 
of  fact,  whether  it  is  terrorism,  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict,  peacebuilding,  human 
rights  or  even 
humanitarian action, organizations such as the African 
Union and the Organization of the Islamic Conference 
are  well-placed  to  understand  the  deep-seated  causes 
and  to  provide  suitable  solutions,  either  because  of 
their knowledge of the region concerned or because of 
the particular membership of the organizations.  

Let me say that it is with the greatest satisfaction 
that  Senegal  notes  the  continued  strengthening  of 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Organization  of 
the  Islamic  Conference,  and  we 
welcome  the  attention  paid  to  the  important  issues  on 
the  OIC  agenda  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon, 
as well as his presence in Dakar on 13 March 2008 at 
the signing of the peace agreement between Chad and 
the Sudan, which took place on the margins of the OIC 
Summit.  That  is  a  good  illustration  of  that  ongoing 
attention.  Added  to  that  is  the  upcoming  high-level 
meeting  of  the  General Assembly  on  dialogue  here  in 
New  York  under  the  auspices  of  His  Excellency 
Mr. Ban  Ki-moon,  which  will  provide  yet  another 
occasion for those two organizations to strengthen their 
links. 

The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/63/228) 
notes in section L of its part II that over and above the 
relations  between  the  Secretariat  and  the  OIC,  the 
cooperation  between  that  organization  and  the  United 
Nations  has  also  been  extended  to  other  agencies  and 
bodies  of  the  United  Nations  system,  in  particular  in 
the  form  of  initiatives  taken  with  UNICEF,  the World 
Meteorological  Organization  and  the  Office  of  the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. 

We  welcome  that  dynamism,  however  we  also 
hope  that  those  various  areas  of  cooperation  will  go 
beyond  simple  talks  between  staff  of  the  respective 
programmes for each body or agency and actually lead 
to  effective  synergies  that  will  have  a  specific  impact 
on projects on the ground. 

In  that  respect,  the  OIC’s  contribution  to  the 
World Food Programme in November 2007, the first of 
its  kind,  should  serve  as  an  example.  In  that  area, 
Senegal would like to propose that the United Nations, 
through  its  competent  departments  and  services,  take 
an  active  role  in  the  implementation  of  the  OIC 
programme  aimed  at  providing  one  half  of  a  million 
computers  to  poor  countries  that  are  members  of  the 
08-58387 
and  promotion  of  human 


Organization  of 
the  Islamic  Conference.  Such  a 
programme,  if  implemented,  would  constitute  a  major 
contribution  to  the  achievement  by  those  countries  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  which  are  at  the 
heart of the United Nations priorities. 

In conclusion, I would like to stress the fact that 
virtually all of the United Nations interventions in the 
area of peace and security and humanitarian action are 
carried  out  in  countries  that  are  also  members  of  the 
OIC. That shows that these are two preferred areas for 
the necessary cooperation between those organizations 
and, for that reason, Senegal will spare no effort during 
its  time  in  office  as  Chair  of  the  OIC  to  increase  the 
number  of  initiatives  and  joint  actions  in  those  two 
areas. 
Mr. Aligrudić (Serbia): As a State Member of the 

United  Nations,  the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE)  and  the  Council  of 
Europe  —  of  whose  Parliamentary  Assembly  I  am  a 
Vice-President  —  Serbia  is  a  staunch  supporter  of 
those  organizations.  By  furthering  their  goals  —  the 
preservation 
rights, 
democracy and the rule of law and supporting political, 
legal  and  institutional  reforms  —  the  Council  of 
Europe and the OSCE make important contributions to 
conflict  prevention,  confidence-building  and 
the 
promotion of peace. Their cooperation with the United 
Nations is therefore ever so important. 

the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) of the United 
Nations  was  emphasized  at  the  third  Summit  of  the 
Council of Europe in Warsaw in 2005. The MDGs, as 
well  as  current  challenges  such  as  terrorism  and  other 
crimes,  make  it  incumbent  on  the  United  Nations  and 
the  Council  of  Europe  to  intensify  their  cooperation 
and joint approach, drawing upon hitherto experiences 
and  available  resources  to  deal  with  those  challenges. 
Those issues help to bring into focus again the validity 
of  the Agreement  between  the  Council  of  Europe  and 
the United Nations Secretariat signed in 1951.  

Cooperation in the field of human rights between 
the Council of Europe and the United Nations, as well 
as  between  the  Human  Rights  Commissioners  of  the 
two organizations, should be intensified, particularly in 
the  context  of 
international 
standards and their practical implementation. 
Serbia  strongly  supports  the  activities  of  the 

Council  of  Europe  aimed  at  promoting  respect  for 
the  establishment  of 
the  achievement  of 
importance  of 
The 
A/63/PV.37
aimed 
at 
implementing 
in  connection  with 
the  conclusions  and  recommendations  of 
human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Kosovo 
and  Metohija,  the  Serbian  province  under  interim 
United Nations administration, as well as the Council’s 
activities, 
international 
standards,  particularly  with  respect  to  members  of  the 
non-Albanian  communities.  All 
those  activities, 
however,  must  be  designed  and  implemented  in  strict 
compliance  with  Security  Council  resolution  1244 
(1999),  which  provides  the  only  legal  basis  for  the 
activities of international organizations in Kosovo and 
Metohija. 

Considering  that  the  United  Nations  Interim 
Administration  Mission  in  Kosovo  (UNMIK)  and  the 
the  Agreement  on 
Council  of  Europe  concluded 
Technical  Arrangements 
the 
Council  of  Europe’s  Framework  Convention  for  the 
Protection  of  and  National  Minorities  in August  2004 
and  that  the  first  monitoring  cycle  relating  to  the 
implementation  of  the  Convention  in  Kosovo  and 
Metohija  was  completed  by 
the  adoption  of  a 
resolution  by  the  Committee  of  Ministers  of  the 
Council  of  Europe  on  21  June  2006,  it  is  of  vital 
importance to take the appropriate measures contained 
in 
the 
resolution.  It  is  equally  important  to  proceed  with  the 
provisions of the letter sent by the Advisory Committee 
on  the  Council  of  Europe’s  Framework  Convention  to 
the Special Representative of the Secretary-General in 
Kosovo and Metohija of July 2007 and the report to the 
Committee  on  the  implementation  of  the  resolution  in 
Kosovo and Metohija. It is all the more important now, 
as  no  reply  to  the  letter  had  been  received  by  May 
2008, when a new letter was sent. 

the  Technical 
Agreement  for  the  implementation  of  the  European 
Convention for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman 
or  Degrading  Treatment  or  Punishment  between  the 
Council of Europe and UNMIK in August 2004 and the 
exchange  of  letters  between  the  Secretary-General  of 
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the 
Secretary-General  of  the  Council  of  Europe  in  2006, 
the  experts  of 
the 
Prevention of Torture were given the possibility to visit 
all detention and prison units in Kosovo and Metohija 
in  order  to  verify  whether  the  provisions  of  the 
Convention were being complied with and whether the 
inspection modalities in the NATO detention units were 
defined.  And  the  fact  that  the  first  visit  of  the 
Committee 
in  March  2007  provides 
the  European  Committee  for 
the  conclusion  of 
took  place 
Following 
08-58387 

17 

by 
the 
cooperation 
Independent 
A/63/PV.37 

eloquent  proof  that  the  cooperation  of  international 
organizations is needed and is fruitful. 

Of  exceptional  importance  to  my  country  are 
field  activities  related  to  the  restoration  of  cultural 
heritage  in  Kosovo  and  Metohija,  particularly  those 
conducted 
International 
Commission  for  Cultural  Heritage,  established  by  the 
Council  of  Europe,  the  European  Commission  and 
UNMIK  in  the  wake  of  the  March  2004  riots  against 
non-Albanians.  
The three years of activity of the Reconstruction 

Implementation  Commission  with  respect  to  Serbian 
the  Commission’s 
sacred  places  has  confirmed 
implementation  of 
importance  for 
the  successful 
the  promotion  of 
cultural  heritage  projects  and 
inter-ethnic 
and 
dialogue. 
Serbia 
appreciates  very  much  the  fact  that  the  Commission’s 
activities  are  pursued  under  the  auspices  of  UNMIK 
and  in  accordance  with  Security  Council  resolution 
1244  (1999),  with  the  participation  of  the  Serbian 
Orthodox  Church.  Serbia  particularly  appreciates  the 
Council  of  Europe’s  contribution  to  the  Commission’s 
work  and  expects  the  Council  to  continue  to  play  its 
cooperative role. 

The  question  of  refugees  continues  to  be  an 
extremely  burdensome  problem  for  Serbia  and  the 
entire region of South-Eastern Europe. In order to find 
lasting  and  sustainable  solutions,  it  is  necessary  to 
intensify  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations,  in 
particular  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner 
the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
(OSCE), in order to solve this problem at the regional 
level,  with  the  full  implementation  of  the  Sarajevo 
Declaration.  
Serbia  fully  supports  the  continuation  of  the 

activities  of 
in  Kosovo  and 
Metohija within its current mandate, under the auspices 
of  UNMIK  and  on  the  basis  of  Security  Council 
resolution  1244  (1999).  This  means  that  the  activities 
of the OSCE Mission in Kosovo must be status-neutral. 
It  is  of  particular  importance  that  that  Mission  not 
facilitate  by  its  activities  the  building  and  functioning 
of  those  institutions  created  through  the  unilateral 
declaration  of  independence  of  the  province.  Serbia 
expects  the  OSCE  Mission  in  Kosovo  to  become 
increasingly  engaged  in  addressing  one  of  the  most 
critical  issues  for  Kosovo  and  Metohija:  the  security 
the  OSCE  Mission 
(UNHCR),  and 
for  Refugees 
that, 
the 
in  addition 
is  necessary 
institutions  and 
The  OSCE  Mission 
the  Serbian  proposal 
in  very  difficult  conditions.  In 
it 
and  status  of  the  non-Albanian  ethnic  communities 
that 
which 
live 
connection, 
to 
developing democratic institutions and the rule of law, 
the  OSCE  Mission  in  Kosovo  accentuates  in  its 
activities  the  improvement  of  the  status  of  the  ethnic 
groups  discriminated  against.  This  implies  respect  for 
human rights, security, freedom of movement, property 
and labour rights, health protection and education. We 
call on the OSCE Mission in Kosovo to devote special 
attention  to  communities  living  in  enclaves  and  to 
support 
to  establish  new 
municipalities  which  would  reduce 
level  of 
isolation of the population living in the enclaves.  

A  comprehensive  programme  for  the  sustainable 
return  of  internally  displaced  persons  must  be  drawn 
up, to which the OSCE Mission in Kosovo may render 
a  significant  contribution  through  cooperation  with 
competent  Serbian 
international 
organizations. 

in  Kosovo  should  also 
support  the  protection  of  the  property  rights  and 
individual  tenancy  rights  of  the  members  of  ethnic 
communities  discriminated  against;  ensure  property 
restitution  and  compensation 
for  destroyed  or 
inaccessible property; and make sure that the rights of 
the State of Serbia to privatized property or property to 
be privatized are respected. There is no doubt that the 
respect  and  protection  of  those  rights  are  among  the 
preconditions  for  the  safe  and  sustainable  return  of 
internally displaced persons to their homes.  

The  OSCE  Mission  in  Kosovo  should  invest 
additional  efforts  in  improving  the  situation  of  the 
judiciary in Kosovo and Metohija. Those efforts would 
be particularly important in establishing an appropriate 
judiciary  system  in  those  parts  of  the  province  whose 
population 
the  secessionist 
Government. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  underline  the 
question  of  the  destiny  of  missing  persons,  namely 
Serbs  and  other  non-Albanians 
in  Kosovo  and 
Metohija,  particularly  in  the  light  of  the  testimony 
published in the book by Carla Del Ponte, former Chief 
Prosecutor  of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
the Former Yugoslavia. I therefore urge UNMIK to do 
its  utmost  to  ensure  that  all  cases  are  properly 
investigated. 
recognize 
refuses 
to 
18 

08-58387 


The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General Assembly resolution 44/6 of 17 October 1989, 
I  now  call  on  the  Secretary  General  of  the  Council  of 
Europe, Mr. Terry Davis. 

Mr.  Davis  (Council  of  Europe):  Some  people 
argue  that  a  world  facing  economic  turmoil  and 
terrorist  threats  should  have  other  priorities  than 
human rights. They could not be more wrong. 

Recession  and  terrorism  are  two  very  different 
things,  but  they  both  cause  insecurity  and  fear.  They 
both put a strain on relations among people and among 
peoples.  It  is  at  times  like  these  that  there  is  an  even 
greater need for the values of humanity; a greater need 
for justice, for equality, for solidarity, for tolerance and 
for  mutual  respect,  both  among  people  and  among 
peoples.  

History  has  taught  us  a  harsh  lesson  every  time 
this simple truth has been forgotten or ignored. It was 
with that truth in mind that, 60 years ago, this General 
Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights. And it was with this truth in mind that, 60 years 
ago,  a  group  of  European  countries  established  the 
Council  of  Europe  and,  two  years  later,  adopted  the 
European Convention on Human Rights.  

Today,  the  General Assembly  is  discussing  draft 
resolution  A/63/L.12,  on  cooperation  between  the 
United Nations and the Council of Europe. I hope that 
it will receive the broadest possible support. Its content 
reflects the work which the Council of Europe is doing 
to  protect,  promote  and  expand  in  Europe  the  values 
and  ideals  which  are  common  to  us  all.  In  our 
endeavour, the United Nations is a most important and 
valuable partner. Our cooperation is continuous, close, 
wide-ranging, specific and meaningful.  

The  draft  resolution  contains  a  more  detailed 
description of where our cooperation stands today and 
where  we  would  like  to  take  it  tomorrow.  It  refers  to 
our  activities,  standards,  achievements  and  objectives, 
about  all  of  which  we  feel  very  strongly.  Some  are 
universally  accepted;  others,  less  so.  But  they  were 
included to inspire dialogue, not to dictate.  

One  omission  from  the  draft  resolution  is  a 
reference  to  the  abolition  of  the  death  penalty. At  the 
Council of Europe, we regard the death penalty as one 
of 
inhumane  and  degrading  forms  of 
punishment.  Only  one  country  in  Europe,  in  fact  the 
only  European  country  which  is  not  a  member  of  the 
the  most 
A/63/PV.37
the  International  Organization  of 
Council of Europe, still uses the death penalty and we 
look forward to its abolition there as well.  

This is a good illustration of the fact that Europe 
is not alone. We know that we are part of the majority 
here  in  the  United  Nations  General  Assembly.  That 
makes  my  final  point  for  me:  the  Council  of  Europe 
does not presume to lecture or to impose its ideas and 
values  on  the  rest  of  the  world;  that  was  the  old 
imperialist attitude of Europe. Today we recognize that 
we are only one part of the world. We are proud of our 
values  but  we  are  not  too  proud  to  admit  that  we  can 
learn from other continents. We want to work together 
with the rest of the world to define our common values 
and  translate  them  into  reality.  In  short,  we  want  to 
work  together  with  the  United  Nations  to  change  the 
world. I hope for the Assembly’s support. 

The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 
General  Assembly  resolution  33/18  of  10  November 
1978  and  General  Assembly  decision  53/453  of 
18 December  1998,  I  now  call  on  the  permanent 
observer  of 
la 
Francophonie. 
Mr.  Camara  (International  Organization  of  la 

Francophonie)  (spoke  in  French):  As  this  is  the  first 
time that I have taken the floor, I should like, on behalf 
of  Mr.  Abdou  Diouf,  Secretary-General  of 
the 
International  Organization  of  la  Francophonie  (OIF), 
and on my own behalf, to congratulate the President of 
the General Assembly and the other Assembly officers 
on  the  trust  placed  in  them  to  lead  the  work  of  the 
sixty-third  session.  The  Secretary-General  of  the  OIF 
also requested that I commend His Excellency Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon for his excellent relationship with the OIF, for 
the quality of his report (A/63/228) and for his constant 
availability.  Indeed,  the  two  Secretaries-General  have 
met three times in less than two years, which attests to 
the excellent relations between the two organizations.  

I  thank  the  Group  of  Francophone Ambassadors, 
who,  since  the  moment  that  I  arrived,  have  made  me 
feel welcome and have given me all the individual and 
collective support that an organization can expect from 
its  members. 
the 
representatives of Latvia and the Kingdom of Thailand, 
which  recently  joined  the  OIF.  On  behalf  of  the  OIF 
Secretary-General,  I  assure  them  that  they  will  find 
friendship and solidarity there.  

of 
Because  of  the  comprehensiveness  of  the  report 
regarding 
the  Secretary-General 
In  particular, 
I  congratulate 
(A/63/228) 
08-58387 

19 

in  particular 
the  Convention  on 
the  Optional  Protocols 
A/63/PV.37 

cooperation between the United Nations and the OIF, I 
need not list the significant results achieved in that area 
over the past two years. As members will have noted in 
the  report,  the  OIF’s  activities  seek  to  strengthen  the 
pillars  of  the  United  Nations:  security,  development 
and human rights.  

I  should  like  to  quickly  emphasize  the  areas  in 
which  the  OIF  would  particularly  like  to  highlight  its 
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  in  the  coming 
years: consolidating activities related to early warning, 
preventive  diplomacy  and  the  OIF’s  mediation  at  a 
seminar following up on the Paris meeting, which was 
mentioned  this  morning;  further  strengthening  the 
peacekeeping capacities of French-speaking States and 
encouraging  them  to  contribute  military  contingents 
that include police and civilian components; increasing 
electoral  assistance  and  monitoring  to  consolidate  the 
rule  of  law  and  assist  democratic  transitions;  and 
promoting  swifter  ratification  of  major  international 
instruments, 
the 
Protection  and  Promotion  of  the  Diversity  of  Cultural 
Expressions  and 
the 
Convention on the Rights of the Child, which has been 
ratified  by  all  French-speaking  countries  and  whose 
twentieth anniversary will be commemorated in 2009. 

The  OIF  regrets  the  fact  that  the  francophone 
community  is  affected  by  several  crisis  situations. We 
are  convinced  of  the  added  value  of  our  organization 
and  its  ability  to  make  a  specific  contribution  to  the 
resolution of those crises in accordance, of course, with 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  international  law 
and the sovereignty of States.  

Therefore,  in  close  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations,  the  OIF  will  strive  to  increase  its  efforts  to 
promote  the  rule  of  law  and  the  restoration  of 
constitutional order whenever necessary, in conformity 
with 
promote 
implementation 
the  Ouagadougou  Political 
Agreement  as  well  as  stability  in  Chad,  the  Great 
Lakes  region,  Lebanon  and  Haiti;  and  to  assist  the 
inclusive  political  dialogue  process  in  the  Central 
African Republic. 

The  OIF  participates  actively  in  the  work  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  within  its  country-specific 
configurations 
the  Central  African 
Republic  and  Guinea-Bissau.  Here,  we  commend  the 
respective  Chairs  of  those  configurations  and  the 
Peacebuilding Support Office.  
the  Bamako  Declaration; 
for  Burundi, 
of 
to 
to 
the 
of 
Given 
In 
that 
regard, 
reduction 
seriousness 
the  world. 

The  Quebec  summit,  which  was,  as  recalled 
earlier, the first North-South forum of heads of State or 
Government  to  meet  following  the  outbreak  of  the 
financial  crisis,  called  for  reform  of  the  international 
financial system through efforts to find sustainable and 
viable  solutions  within  inclusive  forums,  taking  into 
account the concerns and sensitivities felt in all regions 
throughout 
the  OIF 
commends the initiative of the President of the General 
Assembly  to  establish  an  expert  group  to  express 
independent  views  in  relevant  forums. The  OIF  hopes 
that  French-speaking  experts  will  be  more  closely 
involved in seeking solutions to that terrible crisis. 

environmental 
challenges  and  climate  change,  the  OIF  reaffirms  its 
support for the United Nations Framework Convention 
on  Climate  Change  and  for  the  implementation  of  the 
Kyoto  Protocol  and  the  Bali  Road  Map.  We  are 
working  towards  the  common  goal  of  at  least  a  
50 per cent 
in  global  greenhouse  gas 
emissions  by  2050  and  are  continuing,  within  the 
framework  of  the  negotiations  under  United  Nations 
auspices,  to  seek  a  global  consensus  on  concrete 
objectives  more  closely  aligned  with  the  scenarios 
formulated by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change. 

Based on the shared values of peace, democracy, 
the rule of law and human rights, as well as the sharing 
of 
is  particularly 
sensitive  to  respect  for  the  status  of  languages.  That 
demand  and  that  vigilance,  which  we  share  with  all 
other 
the 
implementation 
on 
multilingualism,  which  is  understood  as  achieving 
parity  among 
the 
Organization  and  between  the  two  working  languages 
of the Secretariat. The twofold  commemoration  of the 
sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights  and  of 
the  International  Year  of 
Languages  highlights  all  the  meaning  and  importance 
of that principle. 

The  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  has 
already  shown  the  way  forward.  Within  a  very  short 
period  of  time,  by  virtue  of  his  personal  commitment 
and political resolve, he has made statements that have 
taken  into  account  the  reality  of  diversity.  Can  the 
Secretary-General’s 
and 
strengthened  to  serve  the  peoples  of  the  United 
Nations?  
the  six  official 
in 
61/266, 
groups, 
of 
languages  of 
the  French 
resolution 
language, 
the  OIF 
linguistic 
is 
reflected 
example 
be 
followed 
20 

08-58387 
the 
the 
by 
and 
Public 
translators, 
Information, 
recommendations 



In  addition  to  his  personal  commitment,  the 
Secretary-General  followed  up  on  one  of  the  General 
Assembly’s 
appointing 
Mr. Kiyotaka  Akasaka,  Under-Secretary-General  for 
Communications 
as 
Coordinator  for  Multilingualism  to  strengthen  the 
United Nations as a forum to set a global agenda. The 
OIF  congratulates  Mr. Akasaka  and  assures  him  of  its 
availability and support. Promoting diversity illustrates 
the  old  adage:  instead  of  being  right  alone,  let  us  be 
right  together;  let  us  prefer  being  right  collectively  to 
being right individually.  

The  women  and  men  who,  in  the  silence  of 
booths  and  behind  computer  keyboards,  are  busy 
manipulating  countless  documents  —  those  without 
whom conferences and seminars would be monotonous 
and monolingual and who work tirelessly to enable us 
to understand and listen to one another — those women 
and  men, 
interpreters,  editors, 
proofreaders  and  supervisors  of  the  language  and 
conference services of the United Nations system, who 
restore  to  the  world  its  plural  identity  and  linguistic 
diversity,  deserve  our  undivided  attention  and  full 
consideration.  On  behalf  of 
International 
Organization of la Francophone, I salute them.  
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General Assembly resolution 35/2 of 13 October 1980, 
I now call on the observer for the Asian-African Legal 
Consultative Organization. 
(Asian-African  Legal 

Consultative  Organization):  It  is  my  privilege  and 
honour,  on  behalf  of 
the  Asian-African  Legal 
Consultative  Organization 
in  my 
capacity  as  President  of  the  forty-seventh  session  of 
AALCO, 
the  most 
representative and democratic forum of the world. 

the 
to 
Assembly President and to his colleagues in the Bureau 
on  their  elections  to  those  high  offices.  We  are 
confident that, with his wisdom and experience, he will 
steer the session to a very successful outcome. 

Consultative 
Organization  was  one  of  the  tangible  outcomes  of  the 
historic  Bandung  Conference,  which  took  place  in 
1955. It linked together States of the Asian and African 
regions, sending a message to the world that whatever 
may  be  the  differences  in  our  political,  economic  or 
legal systems, we are inextricably linked together as an 
I  extend  my  sincere  congratulations 
Mr.  Narinder  Singh
this  Assembly, 
(AALCO)  and 
Asian-African 
to  address 
Legal 
The 
A/63/PV.37
that 
law,  and 
recognize  no  national  boundaries, 
Asian-African  identity.  That  message  of  Bandung  has 
had  a  lasting  appeal,  which  for  years  has  brought 
Asian-African  countries  together  in  various  world 
forums. 

AALCO  has  been  promoting  Asian-African 
cooperation on legal matters during the 52 years of its 
existence. The organization was originally founded by 
seven  States  and  has  grown  over  time  to  comprise 
47 member States and two observers. We look forward 
to  enlarging  our  membership  even  further,  so  that  we 
may  become  more  representative  and  better  promote 
the  views  and  concerns  of  the  member  States  of  the 
region.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  call  upon  other 
countries  from  Asia  and  Africa  to  consider  becoming 
members of AALCO. 

The  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  document 
(resolution  60/1)  acknowledged  that  many  of  today’s 
threats 
are 
interlinked and must be tackled at the global, regional 
and national levels in accordance with the Charter and 
international 
regional  and  other 
organizations can play a key role in helping the United 
Nations  face  those  global  challenges.  Cooperation 
between the United Nations and regional organizations 
should  seek  to  capitalize  on  the  strength  of  each 
organization and should be complementary.  

AALCO  complements  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations 
and 
codification  of  international  law. AALCO  provides  an 
opportunity  to  a  large  number  of  Asian  and  African 
countries to contribute actively to the strengthening of 
the  rule  of  law  in  international  relations.  It  has 
undertaken various studies on international legal issues 
of  common  concern  and  has,  in  cooperation  with  the 
United  Nations,  played 
in 
the  positions  of  Asian  and  African 
harmonizing 
countries in the legal area. 

AALCO  held  its  forty-sixth  and  forty-seventh 
annual  sessions  in  Cape  Town,  South Africa,  in  2007 
and New Delhi, India, in 2008, respectively, and during 
those  sessions  a  number  of  items  on  our  agenda 
complemented the work of the United Nations. At both 
those  sessions,  we  considered 
the 
International Law Commission, the law of the sea, the 
status  and  treatment  of  refugees,  cooperation  against 
trafficking  in  women  and  children,  human  rights, 
terrorism,  the  environment  and  the  United  Nations 
Convention  against  Corruption.  At  the  Cape  Town 
the  work  of 
development 
progressive 
significant 
role 
the 
in 
a 
08-58387 

21 
is  exploring 
A/63/PV.37 

session,  we  focused  special  attention  on  the  ongoing 
Doha Round of trade negotiations and on international 
cooperation  in  countering  terrorism,  while  at  the  New 
Delhi  session,  the  topic  for  special  consideration  was 
issues in international humanitarian law. 

The forty-seventh session of AALCO gave rise to 
mandates  that  are  pertinent  to  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations. For example, the secretariat has been asked to 
conduct  a  study  to  find  durable  solutions  to  refugee 
problems.  On  international  terrorism,  the  AALCO 
Secretary-General 
the  possibility  of 
holding  a  workshop  in  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations Office on Drugs and Crime to deal with legal 
aspects  of  countering  terrorism.  The  secretariat  is 
considering  preparing  model  legislation  to  implement 
the  United  Nations  Convention  against  Corruption  of 
2003,  while  the  work  on  model  legislation  against 
trafficking in persons, especially women and children, 
is well on its way to completion.  

The  topic  of  climate  change  was  a  priority  issue 
at our most recent session, and the secretariat has been 
mandated to follow up on the ongoing negotiations for 
an  international  agreement  on  stronger  action  on 
climate  change  for  the  period  beyond  2012,  as  laid 
down in the Bali Action Plan. In addition, AALCO will 
hold  a  one-day  seminar  entitled  “Sixty  Years  of  the 
International  Law  Commission”  in  New  Delhi  on 
2 December  2008.  The  wide  range  of  topics  on 
AALCO’s agenda clearly illustrates the capacity of the 
organization  to  contribute  positively  to  collective 
efforts aimed at tackling the new challenges facing the 
international community. 

teaching,  study, 
dissemination  and  wider  appreciation  of  international 
law in the Asian-African region, AALCO has launched 
an annual training programme on general international 
law,  whose 
to  
14  November  2008  at  its  headquarters  in  New  Delhi. 
We hope to strengthen that programme further with the 
support of the relevant United Nations bodies, such as 
the  United  Nations  University  and  the  United  Nations 
Institute for Training and Research, with which we are 
working closely. 

We need to mobilize all our resources to address 
the  tremendous  global  challenges  facing  humankind. 
Undoubtedly,  strengthening  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  organizations  is  a  key 
element  in  that  respect.  Expanding  relations  between 
first  session  will 
from  3 
run 
In  order 
to  assist 
in 
the 

the  United  Nations  and AALCO  could  also  serve  that 
objective  and  contribute  to  fulfilling  the  purposes  and 
principles of the United Nations. 

In  conclusion,  may  I  express  our  hope  and 
expectation  for  enhanced  future  cooperation  between 
our two organizations in all areas of common concern 
and in the best interests of our Member States. Finally, 
I would like to commend the Secretary-General for his 
comprehensive report (A/63/228) on the subject. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General  Assembly  resolution  57/32  of  19  November 
2002,  I  now  call  on  the  Secretary  General  of  the 
Inter-Parliamentary Union, His Excellency Mr. Anders 
Johnsson.  
Mr.  Johnsson  (Inter-Parliamentary  Union):  Last 

month, Sir, one of the predecessors of the President of 
the  General  Assembly  and  today  the  Speaker  of  the 
Parliament  of  Namibia,  Dr.  Theo-Ben  Gurirab,  was 
elected  President  of  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union 
(IPU). He has asked me to deliver these remarks on his 
and the IPU’s behalf and to assure the President that he 
looks  forward  to  working  very  closely  with  him  in 
strengthening cooperation  between the  United Nations 
and the Inter-Parliamentary Union. 

As  the  latest  report  (A/63/228)  of  the  United 
Nations  Secretary-General  amply  attests,  cooperation 
between our two organizations over the past two years 
has  been  substantive  and  widespread.  It  has  covered 
international  peace  and  security, development,  finance 
and trade, democracy, gender and human rights. 

I  do  not  propose  to  dwell  on  the  details  of  this 
broad agenda, but I would like to highlight a few points 
of  particular  relevance  for  our  future  work  together. 
Two  years  ago  the  General  Assembly  adopted  an 
ambitious  resolution  (resolution  61/6)  on  cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Inter-Parliamentary 
Union  (IPU)  which  welcomed  the  efforts,  then  under 
way,  for  a  greater  parliamentary  contribution  to  the 
work of the United Nations. It urged the IPU to play an 
active  role  in  relation  to  the  newly  established  United 
Nations  bodies, 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission, the Development Cooperation Forum and 
the Human Rights Council. I am pleased to report that 
good progress is being made on all of these fronts. 

Since  then,  the  IPU  has  been  working  closely 
with  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  based  on  the 
common  understanding  that  a  key  prerequisite  for 
in  particular 
08-58387 
22 

to  more 
as 
it 
to 
in  efforts 
this  perspective, 
in  Geneva  for  discussions  with 


lasting peace is the establishment of strong institutions 
of  good  governance.  From 
the 
institution  of  parliament,  as  a  forum  for  national 
reconciliation where political parties from the majority 
and  opposition  can  forge  a  consensus  on  national 
development  objectives,  requires  particular  attention. 
The  IPU  will  continue  to  work  with  the  Commission, 
with  a  view 
fully  engaging  national 
parliaments in the countries under consideration by the 
Commission 
to  promote  democratic 
governance,  national  dialogue  and  reconciliation.  At 
the  risk  of  stating  the  obvious,  I  will  add  that 
democracy  will  not  flourish  in  a  country  where  the 
parliament is neglected. 

The IPU is also closely following the work of the 
Human Rights Council, particularly as it relates to the 
universal  periodic  review  of  the  fulfilment  of  human 
rights obligations and commitments by United Nations 
Member  States.  As  I  speak  here  today,  members  of 
parliamentary human rights bodies are meeting at IPU 
headquarters 
the 
Council  and  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for 
Human  Rights  to  develop  a  programme  of  action  for 
parliamentary  participation  in  the  review.  This  is  part 
of  our  work 
involvement  by 
parliaments  everywhere  in  the  international  human 
rights monitoring and follow-up mechanisms. It means 
involving  members  of  parliament  at  an  early  stage 
when  the  periodic  country  reports  to  be  submitted  to 
the  United  Nations  are  being  drafted.  It  involves 
submitting  the  conclusions  and  recommendations  that 
emanate  from 
to 
parliament  for  further  consideration  and  action  by 
them,  and  it  involves  consolidating  the  oversight 
function  of  parliament 
relates 
the 
implementation of international commitments. 

As  far  as  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
Development  Cooperation  Forum  is  concerned,  the 
IPU  has  played  a  part  in  shaping  its  agenda  and 
working  procedures. 
the 
parliamentary  segment  of  a  Stakeholder  Forum  on  the 
role  of  national  and  local  stakeholders  in  contributing 
to  aid  quality  and  effectiveness.  Its  report  was 
introduced  to  the  Development  Cooperation  Forum  at 
its first substantive session here in New York this July, 
and it helped influence the outcome of the third High-
Level  Forum  on Aid  Effectiveness.  Indeed,  the Accra 
Agenda 
the 
responsibility  of  parliaments  to  help  design  national 
those  main  monitoring  bodies 
In  June  we  convened 
to  secure  deeper 
for  Action 
speaks 
clearly 
about 
A/63/PV.37
as 
The  Secretary-General’s 
development  plans,  ensuring  greater  transparency  in 
public  financial  management  and  overseeing  sound 
mutual assessment reviews. 

report  offers  many 
examples of the IPU helping to mobilize parliaments in 
support  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  The  newly  elected  IPU  President,  who,  as 
President  of  the  General Assembly,  presided  over  the 
drafting  of  the  Millennium  Declaration,  is  committed 
to redoubling that effort. Under his leadership, the IPU 
will  also  pursue  the  parliamentary  campaign  that  it 
launched  last  year  to  build  political  momentum  in 
support  of  the  current  negotiations  to  address  climate 
change. 
General Assembly resolution 61/6 also called for 

development, 
joint  United  Nations-
the 
Inter-Parliamentary  Union  events,  of 
the  annual 
parliamentary hearing  at the United Nations and other 
specialized  parliamentary  meetings  in  the  context  of 
major United Nations conferences. Each year we hold a 
parliamentary meeting during the annual session of the 
Commission  on  the  Status  of  Women,  seeking  to 
mobilize parliamentary action on the main issue under 
consideration  by  the  Commission.  This  year’s  high-
level  meeting  on  HIV/AIDS  was  accompanied  by  an 
IPU-United  Nations  Development 
Programme-
UNAIDS organized parliamentary meeting that yielded 
some  very  practical  policy  recommendations  for 
parliaments.  This  is  the  second  year  that  the  annual 
parliamentary  hearing  at  the  United  Nations  will  be 
convened  jointly  by  the  President  of  the  United 
Nations  General  Assembly  and  the  President  of  the 
IPU. One of the subjects on our agenda for the hearing 
this November is the responsibility to protect, on which 
we expect a lively and constructive exchange of views. 
The United Nations Secretary-General recommends, in 
his report, that the report of this hearing be circulated 
as  an  official  United  Nations  document,  a  proposal 
with which, needless to say, the IPU concurs. We very 
much hope that we can rely on your support as well. 

Last  week  the  President  convened  an  interactive 
panel  discussion  for  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
subject  of  the  global  financial  crisis.  Two  weeks 
earlier, members of the 154 parliaments represented in 
the  IPU  held  a  similar  debate  on  the  occasion  of  the 
119th  IPU  Assembly.  The  resolution  they  adopted  on 
that  occasion  calls  for  a  truly  global  and  multilateral 
response  to  a  crisis  that  extends  far  beyond  the  world 
of finance. The resolution refers repeatedly to the need 
08-58387 

23 

themes 
for  consideration  by 
A/63/PV.37 

to  ensure  justice,  transparency  and  accountability.  It 
calls on parliaments to make sure that safeguards are in 
place  to  avoid  the  emergence  of  similar  crises  in  the 
future  and,  more  generally,  it  invites  parliaments  to 
exercise  greater  democratic  oversight  of  finance  and 
the economy. The resolution also exhorts Governments 
to  remain  vigilant,  notwithstanding  the  crisis,  in 
meeting  international  commitments  to  implement  the 
MDGs and similar internationally agreed development 
goals. It concludes by giving us a mandate to organize, 
as soon as possible, a global parliamentary conference 
to  examine  the  causes  of  the  crisis  and  to  suggest 
avenues  for  dealing  with  its  consequences.  We  very 
much  hope  to  be  able  to  count  on  your  support  and 
cooperation when we carry this proposal forward. 
When  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at 

its  sixty-third  session  took  up  office,  he  singled  out 
democratization  of  the  United  Nations  as  one  of  the 
main 
the  General 
Assembly in the year ahead. We can only welcome his 
decision,  as  it  is  a  theme  to  which  the  IPU  itself  has 
been paying considerable attention. 

Two  years  ago,  when  we  last  addressed  the 
General  Assembly  on  the  question  of  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  IPU,  the  second 
World  Conference  of  Speakers  of  Parliament  had 
recently 
at  United  Nations 
Headquarters  in  this  very  Hall.  The  parliamentary 
leaders  then  issued  a  political  declaration  entitled 
“Bridging the democracy gap in international relations: 
A  stronger  role  for  parliaments”.  They  expressed 
support  for  United  Nations  reform,  including  the 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and  a  more 
representative Security Council, and they gave voice to 
the need to make the United Nations more democratic 
and accountable to the people it serves throughout the 
world.  They  suggested  that  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations,  national  parliaments  and  the  IPU 
needed to be significantly strengthened and developed 
into a strategic partnership for that to happen. 

As  the  Secretary-General’s  report  suggests,  this 
agenda  can  be  advanced  through  a  regular  exchange 
between  the  United  Nations  System  Chief  Executives 
Board for Coordination and the senior leadership of the 
IPU,  with  a  view  to  building  greater  coherence  in  the 
work of the two organizations. However, it also needs 
to be placed at the forefront of deliberations here at the 
United Nations. The  IPU is ready to  engage in such  a 
discussion, and we invite the General Assembly to join 
taken  place  here 
call 
us.  In  his  report,  the  Secretary-General  suggests  that 
the  Assembly  may  wish  to  devote  a  specific  agenda 
item to this issue. We trust that Member States will be 
ready  to  support  this  proposal.  It  would  be  one 
important way in which the Assembly can advance its 
agenda of democratizing the United Nations. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General Assembly resolution 54/5 of 8 October 1999, I 
now 
on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Leonidas 
Chrysanthopoulos, Secretary General of the Black Sea 
Economic Cooperation Organization. 
Mr.  Chrysanthopoulos  (Black  Sea  Economic 

Cooperation  Organization):  The  foundations  of  the 
Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation  Organization 
(BSEC) were laid down in 1992 as a political initiative 
for  economic  cooperation  in  the  wake  of  tremendous 
changes  that  had  taken  place  in  the  world.  It  was  a 
period following the collapse of the Soviet Union. The 
founding  fathers  of  BSEC  wanted 
to  create  an 
organization  that  could  promote  peace  and  stability  in 
the Black Sea region through prosperity. 

In those 16 years, BSEC has become a forum for 
discussion  and  cooperation  in  a  wide  range  of  areas, 
namely,  energy, 
trade  and  economic 
development,  small  and  medium-sized  enterprises, 
environment,  tourism,  culture,  education,  science  and 
technology, 
pharmaceutics, 
agriculture,  emergency  relief  and  elimination  of  the 
consequences of natural and human-made disasters, as 
well as combating organized crime and terrorism. 
Furthermore,  BSEC  has  built  a  permanent  and 

extensive  institutional  framework  of  cooperation  that 
covers  all  levels  of  governance.  BSEC  has  also 
elaborated  binding  agreements  and  common  action 
plans  on  key  issues  of  regional  cooperation.  The 
Agreement  on  Combating  Organized  Crime  and  its 
protocols, the agreements on cooperation in emergency 
situations and the agreements on simplification of visa 
procedures  for  business-people  and  for  professional 
lorry driver nationals are some examples. 

Today,  BSEC  is  in  the  process  of  implementing 
regional  projects  of  major  significance  for  the  Black 
Sea  region,  as  well  as  for  the  Eurasian  region.  These 
include  the  Black  Sea  Ring  Highway  project  and  the 
project on the development of the motorways of the sea 
in the BSEC region. The memoranda of understanding 
related to those projects were signed in 2007. The two 
projects pertain to the development of transport links in 
telecommunications, 
transport, 
24 

08-58387 
ring 
highway 
system, 
Since 


the  region.  They  are  expected  to  do  much  to  foster 
intra-BSEC  trade,  as  well  as  tourism,  infrastructure, 
transport  investments  and  economic  prosperity  among 
the countries of the Black Sea. Most importantly, they 
will make a concrete positive difference in the lives of 
the  people  of  the  region  and  bring  them  closer 
together —  which  should  be  an  objective  of  all 
international and regional organizations. 
The Black Sea Ring Highway project envisages a 

four-lane 
approximately 
7,100 kilometres long, to connect BSEC member States 
with  one  another.  The  project  on  the  development  of 
the motorways of the sea in the BSEC region concerns 
strengthening  the  maritime  links  among  the  ports  of 
BSEC member States. That project will make the Black 
Sea smaller by creating the necessary infrastructure for 
better  connecting  the  Black  Sea  ports  and  the  Black 
Sea with the Mediterranean and the Caspian Seas. 

At its fifty-fourth session, the General Assembly, 
by  its  resolution  54/5  of  8  October  1999,  granted 
observer status to the Black Sea Economic Cooperation 
Organization. 
Subsequently,  General  Assembly 
resolution  55/211  of  20  December  2000,  on 
cooperation between the United Nations and the Black 
Sea  Economic  Cooperation  Organization,  opened  up 
to  develop  working 
new 
relationships  with  other  organizations  within 
the 
United Nations system and beyond. 
then,  BSEC  has  signed  cooperation 

the  United  Nations  Economic 
agreements  with 
Commission 
the  United  Nations 
Environment Programme, the United Nations Industrial 
Development  Organization  (UNIDO)  and  the  United 
Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP).  BSEC  has 
also  developed  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations 
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization,  the  World  Trade 
Organization,  the  World  Bank,  the  United  Nations 
Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  (UNODC)  and 
the 
International Organization for Migration (IOM). 

the 
development  of  relations  between  BSEC  and  the 
specialized  agencies  and  other  organizations  and 
programmes  of  the  United  Nations  system  during  the 
2007-2008  period.  Within 
the  framework  of  our 
cooperation  with  UNDP,  the  Black  Sea  Trade  and 
(BSTIP)  was 
Investment  Promotion  Programme 
launched 
the  first 
partnership project between UNDP and  BSEC and the 
to  give  a  brief  summary  of 
for  Europe, 
in  December  2006.  BSTIP 
is 
avenues 
for  BSEC 
I  wish 
A/63/PV.37
first programme jointly financed by Turkey and Greece 
under the auspices of UNDP. 

The  overall  aim  of  the  Programme  is  to  support 
economic  growth  and  development  in  the  Black  Sea 
subregion  through  closer  economic  integration  and  to 
expand intraregional trade and investment links among 
BSEC  member  States.  BSTIP  is  expected  to  have  a 
positive  impact  on  the  reduction  of  poverty  as  well. 
New  partnerships  will  be  developed  with  business 
support  organizations.  The  beneficiaries  of  BSTIP  are 
small  and  medium-sized  enterprises  and  special 
emphasis is given to enterprises managed by young and 
women  entrepreneurs.  The  Programme 
is  being 
implemented  in  cooperation  with  local  chambers  of 
commerce  and  business  support  organizations  in  each 
of the BSEC countries. 

As  far  as  our  cooperation  with  UNODC  is 
concerned,  the  first  joint  BSEC-UNODC  project  has 
just  recently  been  completed.  The  BSEC  Regional 
Action  Plan  for  Strengthening  the  Criminal  Justice 
Response  to  Trafficking  in  Persons  in  the  Black  Sea 
Region is a concrete product of that cooperation. That 
BSEC  Regional  Action  Plan  aims  at  promoting 
expertise  and  best  practices  exchange  as  well  as 
enhancing cooperation among BSEC member States in 
combating  human  trafficking.  Along  with  its  policy 
development and capacity-building aspects, the Action 
Plan gives special consideration to three basic elements 
in  fighting  human  trafficking,  namely,  prevention, 
protection and prosecution. 

As part of our cooperation with IOM, we recently 
completed  a  joint  BSEC-IOM  project  on  migration 
management.  A  concrete  outcome  of  that  cooperation 
was  that  the  Migration  Policy  Recommendations  for 
the Black Sea Region were developed and adopted by 
BSEC.  The  main  purpose  of  the  Recommendations  is 
to  encourage  the  creation  of  a  framework  for  BSEC 
member States for sharing expertise and best practices 
in  migration  policies  in  view  of  preventing  irregular 
migration  flows  and  simultaneously  facilitating  legal 
ones. The establishment of cooperation between BSEC 
and  UNIDO’s  International  Centre  for  Hydrogen 
Energy Technology is another positive development.  

I  would  like  to  thank  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  for  his  factual  report  on  the  status  of 
cooperative  relationships  between  BSEC  and  various 
United  Nations  organizations  during  2007  and  2008 
(A/67/228). We appreciate his recommendation that the 
08-58387 

25 

In 
the  declaration, 
A/63/PV.37 

United  Nations,  the  specialized  agencies  and  other 
organizations  and  programmes  of  the  United  Nations 
system  should  continue  to  hold  consultations  with 
BSEC and formulate and implement joint programmes 
pertaining to fields of common interest. 

On  25  June  2007,  BSEC  celebrated  its  fifteenth 
anniversary  with  a  summit  in  Istanbul.  Almost  all 
heads of State or Government of BSEC member States 
attended.  This  high  level  of  participation  was  a 
reflection  of  the  political  support  provided  by  the 
member  States  as  well  as  the  strong  credibility  of  the 
organization. 

One  of  the  most  important  conclusions  of  the 
summit,  which  finds  its  reflection  in  the  summit 
declaration, concerns the  redefinition of the focus and 
priorities  of  BSEC  in  certain  areas  of  cooperation 
where  we  can  derive 
tangible  results,  such  as 
environmental  protection,  trade,  transport,  tourism, 
energy,  telecommunications,  science  and  technology 
and the fight against all forms of organized crime. 

the  heads  of  State  and 
Government  of  BSEC  member  States  reiterated  their 
commitment  to  contribute  to  the  attainment  of  the 
United  Nations  Millennium  Development  Goals  at 
national,  regional  and  global  levels  and  instructed  the 
Council  of  Ministers  of  Foreign  Affairs  to  examine 
possible steps for the achievement of those goals in the 
BSEC  region.  Within  that  framework,  cooperation  is 
envisaged with UNICEF and UNDP. 

The consequences of the ongoing global financial 
crisis are of concern to all of us. Measures need to be 
taken  by  all  BSEC  member  States  to  safeguard  their 
financial institutions so that economic development in 
the  BSEC  region  is  not  impeded. The  BSEC Working 
Group  on  Banking  and  Finance  will  be  convened  on 
18 November to assess the situation. 

This  assessment  will  allow  the  member  States 
that  have  taken  measures  to  protect  their  financial 
institutions 
those 
member  States  that  have  not  yet  been  affected  at  the 
same level by the financial crisis. 

The global food crisis is one of the themes in the 
debate at this session of the General Assembly, and it is 
also  being  addressed  by  our  organization.  Within  the 
BSEC working group on agriculture and agro-industry, 
BSEC  member  States  have  considered  the  situation 
concerning  the  consequences  of  the  increase  in  food 
information  with 
to  share 
that 
that 
lead 
to 
of 
respect, 
understanding 
identified  various  causes 
prices and the actions that may be undertaken in order 
to  reverse  such  an  increase.  Acknowledging  that  the 
increase in food prices is a worldwide trend that affects 
both developed and developing countries, the working 
group 
the 
increase.  

In addition to our efforts to achieve food security, 
another  area  where  BSEC  wishes  to  contribute  is  the 
improvement 
and 
cooperation  among  nations  and  peoples  of  different 
cultures  and  religions  and  to  counter  the  forces  that 
fuel  polarization.  We  believe  that  any  effort  in  this 
direction  is  valuable  in  promoting  sustained  peace, 
security  and  stability.  It  is  within  this  framework  that 
BSEC  has  decided  to  open  exploratory  contacts  with 
the Alliance of Civilizations.  

Before concluding, I would like to pay tribute to 
the Republic of Albania, the previous chair-in-office of 
BSEC, for drafting and introducing the draft resolution 
that is now before the General Assembly (A/63/L.9). I 
also wish to thank the sponsors of the text and hope it 
will  be  adopted  by  consensus.  Adoption  of  this  draft 
resolution  will  give  new 
to  BSEC’s 
cooperation with the United Nations and its specialized 
agencies and others in the pursuit of the objectives and 
principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations as well as those contained in the BSEC charter. 
BSEC will continue to play its role with determination 
in efforts to strengthen multilateral cooperation to meet 
the global challenges of this millennium. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General  Assembly  resolution  477(V)  of  1  November 
1950,  I  now  call  on  the  Permanent  Observer  for  the 
League of Arab States.  
Mr. Mahmassani (League of Arab States) (spoke 

in  Arabic):  I  would  like  at  the  outset  to  commend 
Mr. Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann on his election to the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-third 
session. 
the 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  the  report 
that he has presented to this session (A/63/228) on the 
close and multifaceted cooperation between the League 
of Arab  States  and  the  United  Nations  in  confronting 
the  challenges  and  risks  posed  to  international  peace 
and security.  

The  League  of  Arab  States  and  its  specialized 
agencies  are  working  on  continuing  and  intensifying 
their  various  facets  of  cooperation  with  the  United 
I  would 
impetus 
thank 
also 
like 
to 
26 

08-58387 
in 
the 
level  of 
the  political  crisis 
the  area  of  capacity-building. 


Nations, as set forth in the Secretary-General’s report. 
The  most  recent  meeting  between  representatives  of 
the United Nations and the League of Arab States took 
place in Geneva in early July 2008 and covered several 
political  issues.  It  also  discussed  and  proposed  joint 
projects 
the  economic,  environmental,  social, 
humanitarian,  cultural  and  technical  fields,  as  well  as 
in 
In  addition, 
participants  agreed  to  form  a  mechanism  to  follow  up 
United  Nations  and  Arab  League  resolutions;  bolster 
institutional ties between their two secretariats so as to 
exchange  experience,  expertise  and  lessons  learned; 
and  raise 
joint  efforts  for  conflict 
prevention. 

The  United  Nations  Secretary-General  has 
supported the Arab League’s initiative and proposals to 
end 
in  Lebanon.  Cooperation 
between the two organizations over the Iraqi issue has 
primarily  focused  on  establishing  and  activating  an 
expanded regional dialogue that was initiated in Sharm 
el-Sheikh 
in  2007.  The  Arab  League  has  also 
cooperated  closely  with  the  United  Nations  on  the 
launching  and  implementation  of  the  International 
Compact  with  Iraq.  This  cooperation  involves  several 
joint  undertakings,  including  projects  in  the  fields  of 
commerce,  investment,  finance,  agriculture,  water, 
sustainable development and the implementation of the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).  

In the field of industrial development, the United 
Nations Industrial Development Organization has been 
cooperating with the Arab Industrial Development and 
Mining Organization and the Arab League Educational, 
Cultural and Scientific Organization. Projects related to 
the  environment  have  included  implementation  of  the 
sustainable  development  initiative  in  the Arab  region, 
as  well  as  efforts  to  implement  resolutions  of  the 
United  Nations  Environment  Programme  and 
the 
Global Ministerial Environment Forum.  

In  addition,  the  Department  of  Economic  and 
Social Affairs (DESA), together with the Arab League, 
has implemented a special capacity-building project in 
the field of evaluating development strategies aimed at 
achieving  the  MDGs  in  the Arab  region.  Last  March, 
DESA, working in collaboration with the Western Asia 
regional  office  of  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  (UNDP)  and  the Arab  League,  organized, 
in Abu Dhabi the first Round Table Meeting of Experts 
on  Sustainable  Consumption  and  Production  in  the 
Arab  Region.  Participants  stressed  the  importance  of 
A/63/PV.37
to 
The  Arab  League’s  efforts 
cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  and  the 
need  to  build  confidence  in  the  dialogue  among 
civilizations,  as  well  as  bolster  their  alliance  and 
maintain the values of peaceful coexistence and human 
dignity.  

In  this  context,  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations 
signed a memorandum of understanding with the Arab 
League  in  order  to  encourage  cooperation  in  various 
fields, including an initiative to support human rights, 
tolerance and the exchange of new practices, as well as 
finding  opportunities 
to  enrich  dialogue  between 
different cultures and religions.  

intensify  full 
cooperation with the United Nations in all fields makes 
it  eager  to  continue  consultations  and  discussions  in 
order  to  search  for  all  possible  ways  and  means  to 
guarantee  the  implementation of  all  resolutions  issued 
by  the  Organization,  whether  related  to  disarmament, 
combating  terrorism  or  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
conflict. 

The most important priority for the Arab League 
is to find a just and lasting solution to the Arab-Israeli 
conflict, in accordance with resolutions of international 
legitimacy, the Madrid terms of reference and the Arab 
Peace  Initiative.  Strengthening  cooperation  between 
the two organizations will reinforce ongoing efforts to 
confront  international  dangers  and  challenges  and 
maintain international peace and security. Moreover, it 
would  guarantee  a  Middle  East  region  free  of  nuclear 
weapons  and  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  in 
accordance with resolutions of international legitimacy.  

Cooperation  between  the  League  of  Arab  States 
and  the  United  Nations  emanates  from  a  deep-rooted 
traditional  Arab  culture  which  calls  for  tolerance  and 
peaceful  coexistence  with  others  through  dialogue 
among  civilizations.  The  draft 
to  be 
presented  to  the  General Assembly  under  this  agenda 
item,  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  League  of  Arab  States 
(A/63/L.20),  would 
strengthen  the  principles  of  cooperation  between  the 
two organizations. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  in  the  debate  on  agenda  item  114  and  its 
sub-items (a) to (u). 

The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolutions A/63/L.7, A/63/L.9, A/63/L.10, A/63/L.11, 
A/63/L.12 and A/63/L.13. 
resolution 
08-58387 

27 


the  Black 
to  adopt  draft 
A/63/PV.37 


Draft resolution A/63/L.7 is entitled “Cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Asian-African 
Legal  Consultative  Organization”.  Before  proceeding 
to  take  action  on  the  draft  resolution,  I  should  like  to 
announce  that  since  its  introduction  the  following 
countries  have  become  sponsors:  the  Congo,  Gabon, 
Syrian Arab Republic and Mongolia. May I take it that 
the  Assembly  decides 
resolution 
A/63/L.7? 

  Draft resolution A/63/L.7 was adopted (resolution 
63/10).
The Acting President: Draft resolution A/63/L.9 

is  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and 
Sea  Economic  Cooperation 
Organization”. Before proceeding to take action on the 
draft resolution, I should like to announce that since its 
introduction  the  following  countries  have  become 
sponsors:  Austria,  Azerbaijan,  Belarus,  Bulgaria, 
Georgia, Montenegro and Serbia. May I take it that the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/63/L.9? 
  Draft resolution A/63/L.9 was adopted (resolution 

63/11).
The  Acting  President:  Draft 

resolution 
A/63/L.10 is entitled “Cooperation between the United 
Nations  and 
the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
Economic  System”.  Before  proceeding  to  take  action 
on  the  draft  resolution,  I  should  like  to  announce  that 
since  its  introduction  the  following  countries  have 
become  sponsors:  Belize,  Brazil,  Canada,  Colombia, 
Costa  Rica,  Ecuador,  Guatemala,  Guyana,  Honduras, 
Jamaica and Panama. May  I  take  it  that  the Assembly 
decides to adopt draft resolution A/63/L.10? 
  Draft resolution A/63/L.10 was adopted 

(resolution 63/12).
The Acting President: We shall now turn to draft 

resolution  A/63/L.11,  entitled  “Cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Preparatory  Commission 
for 
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty 
Organization”. 


  A recorded vote has been requested. 
  A recorded vote was taken. 




In favour: 

Albania,  Argentina,  Australia,  Austria,  Bahrain, 
Belarus,  Belgium,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Burundi,  Cambodia, 
China,  Congo,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech 
Republic,  Djibouti,  Dominican  Republic,  Egypt, 
Estonia,  Finland,  France,  Germany,  Greece, 
Guatemala,  Guinea,  Hungary,  Indonesia,  Iran 
(Islamic  Republic  of),  Iraq,  Ireland,  Israel,  Italy, 
Libyan 
Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Mexico,  Mongolia,  Montenegro, 
Myanmar,  New  Zealand,  Peru,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Republic 
of  Moldova,  Romania,  Russian 
Federation,  Rwanda,  San  Marino,  Singapore, 
Slovakia,  South  Africa,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka, 
Sweden,  Switzerland,  Thailand,  Togo,  United 
Arab  Emirates,  United  Republic  of  Tanzania, 
Yemen, Zambia 
Jamahiriya, 
Arab 
Against: 




the 
Japan, 
United States of America 
  Draft resolution A/63/L.11 was adopted by 64 
votes to 1 (resolution 63/13).
[Subsequently,  the  delegations  of  Chile,  Costa 
Rica,  Ecuador, 
the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  the 
Netherlands,  Slovenia, 
former  Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia and the United Kingdom 
advised  the  Secretariat  that  they  had  intended  to 
vote in favour.] 
The  Acting  President:  Draft 
resolution 

A/63/L.12 is entitled “Cooperation between the United 
Nations and the Council of Europe”. Before proceeding 
to  take  action  on  the  draft  resolution,  I  should  like  to 
announce  that  since  its  introduction  the  following 
countries  have  become  sponsors:  Albania,  Andorra, 
Armenia, Austria,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Denmark, 
Estonia,  Finland,  France,  Germany,  Hungary,  Iceland, 
Ireland,  Latvia,  Lichtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Mexico,  Monaco,  Montenegro,  Netherlands,  Norway, 
Romania,  San  Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia,  Slovenia, 
Spain,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  Turkey,  Ukraine  and 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt draft 
resolution A/63/L.12?  

  Draft resolution A/63/L.12 was adopted 
(resolution 63/14).

28 

08-58387 

Mr.  Rachkov  (Belarus)  (spoke 
The  Acting  President:  Draft 



resolution 
A/63/L.13 is entitled “Cooperation between the United 
Nations and the Eurasian Economic Community”. May 
I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft 
resolution A/63/L.13? 

  Draft resolution A/63/L.13 was adopted 
(resolution 63/15).
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 

representative  of  Belarus  to  speak  in  explanation  of 
position. 
in  Russian): 

Belarus  welcomes  the  adoption  of  draft  resolution 
A/63/L.12, on cooperation between the United Nations 
and  the  Council  of  Europe.  In  the  resolution,  the 
General Assembly rightly pays tribute to the Council of 
Europe  for  its  advancement  and  protection  of  human 
rights, including for its work on the issue of trafficking 
in human beings.  

We  are  happy  to  see  mention  of  the  entry  into 
force  of  the  Council  of  Europe  Convention  on Action 
against Trafficking in Human Beings. However, the list 
of parties to that important document and to a number 
of other international treaties of the Council of Europe 
on  issues  of  combating  crime  is  in  fact  limited  to  the 
member  States  of  the  Council  of  Europe.  Because  of 
various  circumstances,  not  all  States  that  could  and 
would  wish  to  make  a  meaningful  contribution  to 
achieving  the  goals  of  the  Convention  have  access  to 
the mechanisms of cooperation contained in it. 

One  means  of  developing  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and 
the  Council  of  Europe, 
especially  in  combating  human  trafficking,  would  be 
for  the  United  Nations  to  promote  a  global  plan  of 
action  on 
the 
aforementioned  Council  of  Europe  Convention  on 
Action  against  Trafficking  in  Human  Beings,  not  all 
States  are  parties  to  other  international  documents  in 
the area of combating human trafficking, including the 
Palermo  Protocol  to  Prevent  Trafficking  in  Persons, 
especially  Women  and  Children.  We  believe  that  a 
United  Nations  plan  of  action  to  combat  human 
trafficking,  designed  to  draw  in  all  Member  States, 
could 
the 
implementation  of  various  regional  and  international 
documents  in  that  area  in  a  clear  and  open  plan  for 
multilateral  cooperation,  with  a  genuinely  global 
nature. 
the  case  with 
experience 
topic.  As 
combine 
valuable 
that 
is 
in 
A/63/PV.37

to  conclude 
the  General  Assembly 
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 

wish  of 
its 
consideration of sub-items (b), (d), (g), (j), (m) and (t) 
of agenda item 114? 
  It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  thus 

concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 
114 and its sub-items (a),  (c), (e), (f), (h), (i), (k), (l), 
(n) to (s) and (u). 
The Acting  President:  Before  proceeding  to  the 

next  item  on  our  agenda,  I  would  like  to  appeal  to 
those  Member  States 
to  submit  draft 
resolutions on the remaining sub-items to do so as soon 
as possible. 
intending 




Agenda item 59 
Holocaust remembrance 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/316) 


Ms.  Halpern  (United  States  of America): Albert 
Einstein once said “The world is a dangerous place to 
live,  not  because  of  the  people  who  are  evil  but 
because of the people who don’t do anything about it”. 
Einstein  was  referring  to  the  deafening  silence  that 
prevailed throughout the world while the Holocaust — 
the  systematic  slaughter  of  innocents  by  the  Nazis  — 
was taking place.  

The  lessons  of  the  Holocaust  are  as  real  in  our 
day  as  they  were  70  years  ago,  on  the  eve  of 
Kristallnacht. In every generation tyrants rise up to test 
the will of the world. They know from studying the rise 
of Hitler that it is possible to promise unspeakable acts 
of violence and yet not be opposed. They know that the 
world has the capacity to stand by and let evil flourish. 
But  they  must  also  know  that  we  too  have  studied 
history  and  that  we  too  have  learned  lessons  from  it. 
The  passage  of  resolution  60/7  by 
the  General 
Assembly  three  years  ago,  on  1  November  2005,  is 
proof  of  that.  That  resolution  sets  a  new  course  for 
international  action  to  memorialize  the  victims  of  the 
Holocaust and to confront the threat of genocide in our 
own day. 
The  United  States  welcomes  the  release  of  the 

the  United 
Secretary-General’s 
to 
Nations  Outreach  Programme  and 
acknowledge 
to 
implement  the  full  range  of  activities  called  for  by 
is  pleased 
the  excellent  work  done  so  far 
report  on 
recent 
08-58387 

29 

in 
A/63/PV.37 

resolution  60/7.  The  efforts 
to  educate,  conduct 
outreach and help raise generations free from the bonds 
of  hatred  are  much  needed  and  form  the  basis  of  the 
work of the United Nations at all levels.  

The Outreach Programme is to be commended for 
the  creative  platforms  it  has  used  in  order  to  reach 
across 
the  broad  spectrum  of  diverse  societies, 
including  seminars,  briefings  and  round  tables,  online 
educational  curricula,  film  screenings,  exhibits  and 
concerts.  Such  an  all-encompassing  approach 
to 
Holocaust remembrance will prove to be indispensable 
to the education of today’s young people to the dangers 
inherent  in  hatred  and  bigotry  and  to  the  horrors  of 
what humankind is capable of doing to one another.  

The  United  States  is  proud  to  be  a  committed 
participant 
those  Outreach  Programme  efforts. 
American educators, film-makers, musicians, institutes 
of  higher  education,  museums  and  foundations  have 
contributed their resources and talents to the success of 
this Programme.  

The United States Holocaust Memorial  Museum, 
for example, has been an active partner with the United 
Nations  Programme.  The  United  States  Holocaust 
Memorial Museum has organized training seminars for 
United  Nations  information  officers  serving  in  the 
field. The work of memorializing the Holocaust and the 
prevention  of  future  genocides  must  be  an  abiding 
concern  for  all  free  nations  because  the  threat  in  our 
own time is very real. 

The  same  underlying  issues  of  State-sponsored 
hatred  and  intolerance  which  led  to  the  Holocaust  are 
as  dangerous  today  as  they  were  then.  The  false  and 
anti-Semitic libels that flourished in Europe before the 
Second World War now find new audiences throughout 
the  world.  The  dignity  and  value  of  each  individual 
must  be  respected  and  protected  in  order  to  prevent 
future acts of genocide. The Outreach Programme and 
all of the countries that have participated to date are to 
be  commended  for  their  tireless  efforts  in  spreading 
that message. 

it 
Despite 
remains  inexplicable  that  one  of  the  Member  States, 
Iran,  continues  to  insist  upon  denying  the  truth  of  the 
Holocaust. As the United States has stated many times 
before, 
to 
approving  the  extermination  of  the  Jewish  people  in 
particular,  and  to  approving  genocide  in  general. That 
is unacceptable and unconscionable. 
the  adoption  of  resolution  60/7, 
the  Holocaust 
tantamount 
to  deny 
is 
it 
If 
of 
that 
the  denial  of 
the 
tragic  event 
the  Holocaust  does  prove 

lessons 
that 
anything, 
is 
incomprehensible, 
in  human  history 
remain unlearned. It is for that reason that the Outreach 
Programme  is  especially  important.  We  hope  that  the 
Programme  will  continue  to  expand  and  provide  the 
necessary  resources  to  counter  intolerance  and  hatred 
while  promoting  understanding  and  respect.  The 
United  Nations  will  continue  to  support  that  essential 
mission. 

Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  could  not  have 
been  more  correct  in  stating  that  it  is  not  enough  to 
remember,  honour  and  grieve  for  the  dead. As  we  do, 
we  must  also  educate,  nurture  and  care  for  the  living. 
We must foster in our children a sense of responsibility 
so  that  they  can  build  societies  that  protect  and 
promote the rights of all civilians. 

It  is  a  simple  truth,  an  eternal  truth  and  a  truth 
worth defending against all those who seek to infringe 
upon it. For if we do not affirm and protect the right of 
every  human  being  to  live  in  a  world  free  from 
baseless hatred, racism and bigotry, we can never claim 
to be an organization of united nations. 
Ms.  Shalev  (Israel):  At  the  outset,  please  allow 

me to thank the President for convening this meeting.  
One  week  from  today,  the  United  Nations  will 

mark 
the  Kristallnacht 
pogrom — the Night of Broken Glass — a single night 
that served as a prelude to the Holocaust. On that night, 
organized  gangs  of  Nazi  rioters  and  their  supporters 
rampaged throughout Germany, destroying more than a 
thousand  synagogues,  as  well  as  thousands  of  Jewish 
shops  and  businesses.  In  the  massive  pogrom,  Jews 
were murdered and many thousands more were sent to 
concentration camps. 

The anniversary we commemorate is one of many 
activities  of  the  Holocaust  and  the  United  Nations 
Outreach  Programme.  It  has  been  organized  since  its 
inception, following the adoption in November 2005 of 
resolution 60/7, entitled “Holocaust remembrance”.  

The  resolution  was  a  historic  and  universal 
achievement  that  signalled  the  first  acknowledgement 
by  the  United  Nations  of  the  tragedy  that  befell  the 
Jewish  people  during  the  years  of  the  Second  World 
War.  Indeed,  other  peoples,  cultures  and  nations  also 
suffered severely from Nazi atrocities. However, let us 
not  forget  that  no  other  nation  lost  such  an  enormous 
the  70th  anniversary  of 
30 

08-58387 
and 
report 
that 
the 
impressive  work  of 
are  not 
The  Secretary-General’s 
The  State  of  Israel  and 


proportion of its people as did the Jewish people. In the 
words of Elie Weisel, “Not all victims were Jews. But 
all Jews were victims”. 
report  before  us 

the 
(A/63/316)  details 
Holocaust 
the  United  Nations  Outreach 
Programme  of  the  Department  of  Public  Information, 
under  the  leadership  of  Mr.  Kiyo  Akasaka  and  his 
predecessor,  Mr.  Shashi  Tharoor.  Israel  commends 
their valuable work and dedication and will continue to 
support and cooperate with Mr. Akasaka and his staff. 

the  Jewish  people 
appreciate the historic resolution unanimously adopted 
by  the  General  Assembly  three  years  ago  regarding 
Holocaust  remembrance.  Yet  the  resolution  and  the 
Secretary-General’s 
ends  unto 
remembrance  must  be  a 
themselves.  Holocaust 
dynamic  and  ongoing  effort 
requires  our 
commitment  to  adapting  the  lessons  of  the  Nazi 
genocide to evolving threats in our times. 

Thus, we  cannot ignore the troubling reality that 
today — more than 60 years after the Holocaust — we 
have  heard  from  this  very  rostrum  a  leader  of  a 
Member State who calls for the destruction of another 
Member State and denies the historical realities of the 
Holocaust.  In  this  Hall,  all  Member  States  swore: 
“Never  again”.  It  is  therefore  incumbent  upon  us  not 
merely 
to  act 
immediately  and  with  resolve  against  a  Member  State 
whose  leaders  declare  such  despicable  and  dangerous 
words. For in the end, the Nazi Holocaust did not begin 
in the gas chambers. That is where it ended. The Nazi 
Holocaust began with the dangerous words of men. 

Israel  wishes  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
his  work,  as  detailed  in  the  report,  and  my  delegation 
continues  to  offer  its  assistance  to  ensure  that  the 
lessons  of  the  Holocaust  continue  to  promote  peace, 
coexistence and tolerance. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  Humankind  recalls  the  terrible  crimes  of 
Nazism  with  indignation  and  grief.  The  bloodiest  of 
those  crimes  was  the  Holocaust.  In  my  country,  we 
remember  those  who  fell  victim  to  Nazism,  including 
the  six  million  killed  in  the  Holocaust,  half  of  whom 
were citizens of the Soviet Union. 

Russia considers the Holocaust to be not only the 
national tragedy of the Jewish people, but a catastrophe 
to  condemn  such  statements,  but 
A/63/PV.37
of  humankind  as  a  whole.  Current  and 
future 
generations  must  understand  who  encouraged  that 
horrific crime and who committed it. It is unacceptable 
to  whitewash  the  actions  of  those  who  participated  in 
the  crimes  of  Nazism  and  were  condemned  by  the 
Nuremberg  trials,  first  and  foremost,  the  members  of 
the  Schutzstaffel,  the  ideologues  and  executors  of  the 
Holocaust. 

Thus  we  are  very  worried  about  the  chauvinistic 
and  pro-Nazi  tendencies  in  certain  countries,  which 
pose  a  threat  to  democracy  and  human  rights.  In 
civilized  countries,  it  must  be  unacceptable  to  glorify 
the  memory  of  Fascism’s  accomplices  — 
the 
legionaries of the Waffen SS and other collaborators — 
who  destroyed  the  lives  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
peaceful  citizens,  prisoners  of  war  and  concentration 
camp  internees.  It  is  also  our  responsibility  to  pay 
tribute to all the soldiers who died freeing Europe from 
Fascism  and  who  saved  the  Jews  and  other  peoples 
from  slavery  and  complete  destruction.  Let  us  not 
forget  those  who  freed  the  prisoners  from Auschwitz-
Birkenau, Majdanek, Treblinka and other death camps. 

At the same time, we are seeing cynical attempts 
to rewrite history around the world. In some countries 
that declare themselves democratic, the days of victory 
over 
tragedy. 
Memorials 
fascism  are 
demolished.  Monuments  are  erected  and  official 
decorations  awarded  to  those  who  fought  for  fascism 
during  the  war  and  whose  hands  are  drenched  in  the 
blood of innumerable innocent victims. Furthermore, in 
many States the accomplices of fascism and those who 
were  directly  responsible  for  putting  Nazism’s  racial 
theories into  practice are often seen as  representatives 
of national liberation movements and freedom fighters 
for  their  countries.  Thus,  the  very  concept  of  such 
movements is desecrated, since they are  considered to 
be  undertaken  in  the  name  of  racial  purification.  We 
believe  that  such  an  approach  to  be  an  insult  to  the 
historic  memory  of  peoples,  especially  to  those  who 
fought against fascism.  

The  Second  World  War  cost  50  million  people 
their  lives.  Having  overcome  the  scourge  of  Nazism, 
the  world  paid  too  high  a  price  to  have  to  accept 
attempts to revive it 60 years after the  war that led to 
the creation of the United Nations. We need to be very 
vigilant  in  the  face  of  attempts  to  revive  the  ideology 
that  led  to  the  Holocaust  and  uncompromising  in 
combating neo-Nazism and other forms of racism.  
fascism  are  considered  days  of 
those  who 
fought 
to 
08-58387 

31 
contribute 
to 
severely 
History  has 
resolution  would 
A/63/PV.37 


That  is  why  the  Russian  Federation  requested 
that,  at  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  a  draft 
resolution  to  be  submitted  to  the  Third  Committee  on 
the  inadmissibility  of  certain  practices  that  contribute 
to  fuelling  contemporary  forms  of  racism,  racial 
discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related  intolerance 
(A/C.3/63/L.49). We are convinced that the adoption of 
the  draft 
the 
consolidation of international efforts to overcome those 
ugly  phenomena.  We  call  on  all  States  that  condemn 
the crimes of Nazism and fascism and pay tribute to its 
victims to support that initiative. 

condemned  National 
Socialism. The crimes of Nazism and its collapse are a 
formidable  warning  to  all  those  who  incite  ethnic 
tensions  and  forget  the  lessons  of  the  Second  World 
War.  We  cannot  allow  people  to  suffer  again  by 
permitting  the  spread  and  resurgence  of  chauvinist 
doctrines.   
Mr.  Ripert  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  I  am 

honoured  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union, 
Croatia,  Ukraine,  Moldova,  Montenegro,  Serbia  and 
Bosnia and Herzegovina. 

The  European  Union,  like  the  United  Nations, 
arose out of the ruins of the Second World War. At the 
height of the turmoil, the Holocaust covered our entire 
continent with its ashes. However, far beyond Europe, 
it  marked  consciences  and  changed  our  hearts.  The 
human race will never be the same again. 
More  than  60  years  have  passed  since  the 

took  place, 
Holocaust.  Where 
Europeans  have  together  patiently  built  a  Union  that 
has  consolidated  peace  throughout  the  continent  and 
brought  them  security  and  prosperity.  United  in  their 
diversity,  Europeans  have  learned  the  errors  of  their 
ways.  They  did  not  build  to  forget  —  quite  the 
contrary. The memory of the Holocaust was at the core 
of  their  entire  reconciliation  process.  Europe  is  aware 
of 
their 
children  and  grandchildren. All  Europeans  must  know 
and  remember  so  that  the  barbarity  that  almost  swept 
them away will never emerge again.  
Three  years  ago,  the  General  Assembly  adopted 

resolution  60/7,  which  designated  27  January  as 
International Day of Commemoration in memory of the 
victims  of 
the  Holocaust.  The  European  Union 
welcomes  the  adoption  of  that  resolution,  which 
commemorates  the  liberation  of  the  Nazi  camps  and 
its  responsibility 
the  survivors, 
the  actual 
tragedy 
towards 

honours  the  memory  of  Holocaust  victims,  first  and 
foremost  the  millions  of  Jewish  victims  —  men, 
women  and  children  —  but  also 
the  Roma, 
homosexuals,  political  prisoners  or  prisoners  of  war, 
and the physically and mentally handicapped. 

Commemorating Holocaust victims is an integral 
part  of  our  common  heritage.  It  demonstrates  our 
commitment  to  doing  our  utmost  to  counter  the  very 
idea that the worst might happen again. Unfortunately, 
as  we  have  seen  in  the  past,  that  lesson  is  still  being 
rejected,  denied  or  scorned  in  various  parts  of  the 
world.  Even  today,  as  the  United  Nations  meets  once 
again  to  reaffirm  its  condemnation  of  the  Holocaust 
and to perpetuate the memory of its victims, some have 
cast  doubts  in  that  regard  or  even  deny  it  ever 
occurred. 

That  is  why  the  Assembly  requested  that  the 
Secretary-General establish an outreach programme on 
the theme “The Holocaust and the United Nations” and 
take  measures  to  encourage  civil  society  to  mobilize 
throughout  the  world.  The  European  Union  welcomes 
the  programme  and  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
(A/63/316),  which 
successful 
implementation  since  its  establishment  in  January 
2006.  The  programme  facilitated  the  creation  of  an 
international  network  of  groups  from  civil  society, 
world-renowned  institutions  and  Holocaust  experts  to 
develop  as  efficient  and  comprehensive  an  outreach 
programme as possible. 

By  providing  civil  society  with  communication 
tools  to  keep  the  memory  of  victims  alive,  the 
programme 
fight  against 
forgetting  or  denying  the  Holocaust.  As  there  are 
increasingly  fewer  Holocaust  survivors  who  can  still 
bear witness to it, it is essential that we find new ways 
to keep the memories of those horrendous crimes alive 
for future generations. 

As the President of the Republic of France said at 
Auschwitz  at  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  liberation 
of the camps in 2005,  
is  contributing 
underscores 
the 
its 
to 
“To  honour  their  memory,  to  honour  the 

memory  of  all 
those  deportees  who  died 
tragically  in  this  place  of  suffering  and  Nazi 
extermination: that is the duty of all peoples who 
refuse to accept that the insult of oblivion should 
be  added  to  this  betrayal  of  human  values  … 
When we remember each and every one of them, 
we  give  them  justice.  We  prevail  over  their 
executioners, who promised them oblivion.”  
08-58387 
32 

The  purpose  of  adopting  a 



resolution  on 
Holocaust denial (61/255) last year was to confront the 
dangers  of  ignorance  and  scorn.  The  Holocaust  has  a 
specific  universal  character  that  cannot  be  denied  or 
undermined.  By  commemorating  the  Holocaust,  we 
reaffirm  our  commitment  to  fighting  anti-Semitism, 
racism,  hatred  and  all  forms  of  religious,  political  or 
ethnic  intolerance.  For  all  those  reasons,  in  2005  the 
European  Union  supported  declaring  an  International 
Day  of  Commemoration  in  memory  of  the  victims  of 
the  Holocaust  and  establishing  a  specific  United 
Nations outreach programme.  

Members  of  the  Assembly  can  rest  assured  that 
the  people  of  Europe,  united  in  the  memory  of  the 
horror  and  in  their  desire  to  promote  peace  and 
solidarity  among  all  peoples,  will  continue  to  act 
together  to  repel  any  temptation  to  forget  and  the 
dangers of disavowal. That is our honour and our duty 
as a free people. 
Mr.  Pfanzelter  (Austria):  Austria  fully  aligns 

itself  with the statement which has just  been made by 
the Ambassador  of  France  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union.  
We thank the Secretary-General for his  excellent 

and 
comprehensive 
the 
programme  of  outreach  on  the  Holocaust  and  the 
United  Nations. The  report  shows  that  Member  States 
all  over  the  world  have  benefited  from  the  outreach 
programme  since  the  adoption  of  resolution  60/7  in 
2005.  The  resolution  also  urges  Member  States  to 
develop  educational  programmes  that  will  inculcate 
future generations with the lessons of the Holocaust in 
order  to  help  prevent  future  acts  of  genocide  and,  in 
that  context,  specifically  mentions  the  Task  Force  for 
International  Cooperation  on  Holocaust  Education, 
Remembrance  and  Research.  As  the  current  Chair  of 
the  Task  Force,  Austria  is  very  grateful  for  the  work 
carried  out  by  the  Secretariat  under  the  outreach 
programme.  Let  me  share  some  aspects  of  the  Task 
Force’s work under the Austrian chairmanship.  

The Task Force’s work is based on the Stockholm 
Forum  Declaration  of  2000. The  Declaration  cites  the 
quest  for  mutual  understanding  as  one  of  the  most 
important  lessons  to  be  learned  from  the  Holocaust. 
The  commitments  it  enshrines  originate  from  the 
unprecedented  character  of  the  Holocaust,  which  will 
always  hold  a  universal  meaning.  The  Task  Force’s 
working  groups  function  as  a  unique  network  of 
(A/63/316)  on 
report 
A/63/PV.37
the 
its 
support 
and 
expertise 
should  be 
the  Holocaust 
international  cooperation  comprising  some  of 
the 
world’s  leading  experts  in  the  field  of  education, 
remembrance  and  research.  The  intention  is  that 
teachers,  students  and  society  as  a  whole  learn  about 
the  Holocaust  and  the  lessons  to  be  drawn  from  it  for 
present  and  future  generations.  Task  Force  efforts  to 
mobilize 
for  Holocaust 
memorials  contribute  to  the  culture  of  Holocaust 
remembrance.  Special  working  groups  focus  on  the 
genocide against the Roma, as well as on the Holocaust 
and other genocides. 

The Task  Force  by  its  very  nature  is  particularly 
concerned  with  tendencies  of  diminishing  or  denying 
the  Holocaust.  The  Task  Force 
is  comprised  of 
25 member States, but it carries its mission beyond its 
own geographical range. Gaining knowledge about and 
dealing  with 
further 
mainstreamed. That calls for a broader communication 
strategy  with 
aim  of  having  Holocaust 
remembrance  generally  accepted  as  part  of  human 
rights education and learning. One of the Task Force’s 
main  goals  under  the  Austrian  chairmanship  is  to 
improve medial outreach. Its website serves as an open 
and  accessible  resource  for  mainstreaming  Holocaust 
education, remembrance and research. The Task Force 
makes  its  tools  accessible  to  the  general  public  and 
seeks 
cooperation  with  other 
organizations pursuing similar objectives. 

On  10  November  2008,  the  day  of  remembrance 
of  the  1938  pogroms,  Task  Force  member  States  will 
come  together  with  representatives  of  the  United 
Nations,  the  European  Union,  the  Council  of  Europe 
and  the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe to discuss common objectives and experiences. 
My delegation is very pleased that the Special Adviser 
of 
the  Prevention  of 
Genocide,  Mr.  Francis  Deng,  will  also  be  present  at 
that special event. 
Mr.  McNee  (Canada): In 2005, when the United 

remembrance  programme  was 
Nations  Holocaust 
created,  an  invitation  was  extended  to  all  Member 
States to remember the Holocaust and to build societies 
based  on  inclusion,  human  dignity  and  respect  for  all 
persons.  It  is  not  good  enough  for  us  to  stand  here 
today  and  say  that  we  remember  and  mourn  what 
happened  over  six  decades  ago,  for  no  one  can  truly 
comprehend the suffering of those who perished in the 
Holocaust.  But  we  do  understand  that  the  attempted 
extermination of the Jewish people was a crime against 
the  Secretary  General  for 
to  deepen 
08-58387 

33 

all 
forms  of 
racism 
A/63/PV.37 

all of humanity, and we understand that the prevention 
of  genocide  is  a  fundamental  responsibility  of  the 
international community today. 
Societies  built  on  an  ethos  of  tolerance  and 

acceptance,  where 
and 
discrimination  are  equally  unacceptable,  are  needed 
now  more 
than  ever.  Today,  discrimination  and 
intolerance  have  not  yet  been  eradicated.  Doing  so  is 
central  to  the  task  of  preventing  genocide  and  crimes 
against humanity in the future. 
Canada is both supportive of and pleased with the 

energy  and  dedication  the  United  Nations  Department 
of  Public  Information  has  put  into  implementing 
resolution 60/7 of 2005. The Secretary-General’s report 
(A/63/316) provides an impressive list of activities that 
have  been  undertaken  since  then,  including  initiatives 
commemorating  the  end  of  the  Holocaust,  network-
building, academic seminars, civil society engagement 
and  developing  information  products  for  educators. 
Canada  would  like  that  work  to  continue  in  years  to 
come. 

We  have  been  struck  by  the  fact  that  so  many 
civil society organizations and artists responded to the 
United  Nations  call  to  work  together  in  ensuring  that 
the  Holocaust  is  never  forgotten.  We  note  in  that 
context  that  a  Toronto-based  multinational  group  of 
children came to the United Nations lobby last year to 
perform extracts from Oratorio Terezin, a moving piece 
based  on  poetry  written  by  children  in  the  Terezin 
ghetto.  
In Canada, we have acted to educate our citizens 

on  the  Holocaust.  An  annual  Canadian  Holocaust 
Remembrance  Day  has  been  established,  at  which  the 
Prime  Minister, 
and 
parliamentarians  appear  with  Holocaust  survivors  on 
Parliament  Hill  to  ensure  that  the  memory  of  the 
Holocaust 
archival 
collections — including the Jacob M. Lowy Collection, 
which  contains  some  of  the  earliest  attempts  to 
document  and  publicize  the  Holocaust  —  have  been 
made  available  for  education  and  research.  The 
Canadian  Government  has  provided  funding  to  the 
Montreal  Holocaust  Memorial  Centre  and 
the 
Vancouver  Holocaust  Education  Centre,  and 
is 
currently providing multi-year funding for the creation 
of a new human rights museum in Winnipeg, Manitoba. 
Also, Canada has been active in exploring the question 
of Holocaust-era cultural property.  
lost.  Canadian 
political 
leaders 
party 
is 
never 
34 

in 

Canada is very pleased to see that the Department 
of  Public  Information  has  used  the  entire  United 
Nations  network  to  ensure  that  the  message  reach 
audiences  around  the  world.  We  applaud  the  fact  that 
the  outreach  programme  makes  every  effort  to  warn 
against  the  consequences  of  anti-Semitism  and  other 
forms of discrimination.  
It  is  very  impressive  to  see  so  many  events  and 

countries 
the  Secretary-General’s  report.  That 
having  been  said,  as  United  Nations  information 
centres are only present in some countries, we all need 
to do even more to ensure that this messaging reaches 
the entire world. It is up to national Governments to fill 
the gap where there is no United Nations presence. 

Canada  also  notes  the  importance  of  resolution 
61/255  of  2007,  which  urges  all  Member  States 
unreservedly to reject any denial of the Holocaust as a 
historical  event,  either  in  full  or  in  part,  or  any 
activities to that end. 

In June 2007, Canada took the first step towards 
becoming  a  full  member  in  the  Task  Force  for 
International  Cooperation  on  Holocaust  Education, 
Remembrance  and  Research.  Membership  in  the  Task 
Force  will  strengthen  our  ability  to  contribute  to  the 
construction  of  societies,  both  in  Canada  and  around 
the world, that are based on human dignity and where 
acts like the Holocaust are no longer possible. 
(spoke in French) 

In conclusion, Canadians, like all members of the 
international community, have a duty to remain vigilant 
with respect to all forms of racism and discrimination, 
including  anti-Semitism.  We  must  ensure  that  the 
memory of the Holocaust is never lost. Canada, for its 
part, is firmly committed to that end. 
Mr. Hill (Australia): It is now over 60 years since 

the  world  saw  the  defeat  of  a  barbaric  and  tyrannical 
Nazi  regime  that  had  been  set  on  the  systematic 
eradication  of  the  Jewish  people.  Australia  considers 
the  genocide  perpetrated  against  the  Jewish  people 
during  the  Holocaust  to  be  the  most  abhorrent  of 
crimes.  It  cost  many  millions  of  lives  and  caused 
immeasurable  damage  and  dislocation  to  the  lives  of 
many millions more. Its effects have been profound for 
a number of generations and continue to be felt today. 

The  Holocaust  showed  the  depths  to  which 
humankind  can  descend  and  made  clear  to  the  world 
the  devastating  consequences  of  anti-Semitism,  racial 
08-58387 
the  Secretary-General 


hatred  and  persecution.  However,  it  is  a  sad  fact  that 
anti-Semitism,  Holocaust  denial,  racism  and  religious 
intolerance continue to exist to this day. 

Australia  commends  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations  Programme  of  outreach  on  the  Holocaust  and 
the  United  Nations,  as  detailed  in  the  Secretary-
General’s report (A/63/316). Since its establishment in 
2006, the programme has  worked  actively to meet the 
aims  of  resolution  60/7  on  Holocaust  remembrance, 
including through memorial and educational activities, 
exhibitions  and  media  outreach.  Raising  awareness  of 
the Holocaust not only helps us to remember the many 
victims  but  also  serves  as  a  reminder  of  the  need  to 
remain  vigilant  and  to  take  steps  to  prevent  such  a 
horror from happening again. 

(Rwanda):  My  delegation 
commends 
report, 
entitled “Programme of outreach on the ‘Holocaust and 
the United Nations (A/63/316)’”.  
Remembrance  of  the  Holocaust  serves  first  and 

foremost 
the 
Holocaust,  to  educate  a  generation  of  young  people 
about  the  Holocaust  and  genocide,  to  raise  awareness 
across the broader public and to stimulate more people 
to  use  their  voice  and  challenge  society’s  values. 
Rwanda, as a nation that has experienced the horrors of 
genocide, 
significance  of 
remembrance and the role it plays in reconciliation and 
the prevention of future genocides.  

My  delegation  commends  the  work  that  the 
Department of Public Information has undertaken with 
various stakeholders and through a variety of mediums 
to  ensure  that  the  lessons  from  the  Holocaust  and  the 
genocide  in  Rwanda  are  disseminated  to  as  wide  an 
audience  as  possible.  Rwanda  has  received  generous 
support in exposing what led to the Rwandan genocide 
of 1994.  

organizations 

My  delegation  appreciates  the  work  of  other 
that  are  educating  and  exposing  
fully  appreciates 
to  commemorate 
the  victims  of 
Mr.  Ndabarasa
for  his 
the 
A/63/PV.37
I  now  call  on  the  representative  of  Iran  to 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

intolerance  in  varied  forms  that  may  graduate  into 
genocide  or  acts  of  genocide.  Those  noble  efforts 
deserve  commendation  and  the  good  work  must  be 
continued, because hate and intolerance are still forces 
in our world. 

speaker in the debate on this item.  

exercise the right of reply. 

Mr.  Khazaee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  Today 
the  General  Assembly  heard  baseless  and  absurd 
distortions  by  certain  States  against 
the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran.  We  reject  those  distortions  and 
express  our  concern  over  and  condemnation  of  the 
misuse  of  this  body  by  certain  circles  to  pursue  some 
unwarranted political goals. 
We,  along  with  others,  have  condemned  and 

continue  to  condemn  genocide  against  any  race  or 
ethnic or religious group  as a crime  against humanity. 
My  delegation  wishes  to  reiterate  that  unambiguous 
position  here  again  today.  In  our  view,  there  is  no 
justification for genocide of any kind, nor can there be 
any  explanation  for  certain  unfortunate  attempts  made 
by  some,  and  particularly  by  the  Israeli  regime,  to 
exploit  past  crimes  as  a  pretext  to  commit  new 
genocides and crimes. 

We believe that to be a valid and serious concern 
that  the  international  community  should  not  fail  to 
address.  Unfortunately,  certain  political  and  media 
circles  have  mischievously  interpreted  that  genuine 
concern and resorted to a campaign of misinformation 
and  defamation  against  those  who  have  called  for  a 
thorough examination of the incidents. 

The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 
has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
agenda item 59. 
The meeting rose at 6.40 p.m. 

08-58387 

35 
