
A/63/PV.36
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

36th plenary meeting 
Monday, 3 November 2008, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 






In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Cujba 
(Republic  of  Moldova),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.  






Agenda items 40 and 44 
Report of the Economic and Social Council 

  Report of the Economic and Social Council 
(A/63/3) 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/371) 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/255) 
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.14) 



Integrated and coordinated implementation of and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United 
Nations conferences and summits in the economic, 
social and related fields 

  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/83) 

  Draft resolution (A/63/L.15) 

The Acting President: In connection with agenda 
item  40,  I  would  like  to  remind  the  members  of  the 
General Assembly  that,  pursuant  to  General Assembly 
resolution 58/316 of 1 July 2004, the Assembly, on the 
recommendation of the General Committee, decided at 
its  2nd  plenary  meeting,  on  19  September  2008,  to 
consider  agenda  item  40  in  its  entirety  in  plenary,  on 
the  understanding  that  the  administrative,  programme 



in 
that, 
and budgetary aspects should be dealt with by the Fifth 
Committee. 
At  the  same  meeting,  the Assembly  took  note  of 

the  clarification 
implementing  resolution 
58/316 to consider item 40 in its entirety in plenary, the 
relevant parts of chapter I  of the  report  that are under 
agenda items already allocated to the Main Committees 
will  be  considered  by  the  Committees  concerned  for 
final action by the General Assembly. 

I  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Léo 
Mérorès,  President  of 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  to  introduce  the  report  of  the  Economic  and 
Social Council. 
Mr.  Mérorès  (Haiti),  President  of  the  Economic 

and  Social  Council  (spoke  in  French): I  have  the 
honour  to  introduce  the  2008  report  of  the  Economic 
and Social Council (A/63/3). The Council’s substantive 
session  in  July  took  place  at  an  important  juncture.  It 
was  a  transition  year  for  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  which  has  now  operationalized  many  of  the 
new  functions  given  to  it  by  the  2005  World  Summit 
Outcome, 
the  biennial  Development 
Cooperation  Forum  (DCF)  and  the  annual  ministerial 
review  of  the  implementation  of  the  international 
development goals. 
Today,  allow  me  to  briefly  highlight  the  key 

outcomes  of  the  Council’s  work  so  far  and  then  to 
focus  on  the  future,  including  the  steps  forward.  We 
began  the  year  with  the  annual  special  high-level 
meeting  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  with  the 
Bretton  Woods 
the  World  Trade 
in  particular 
institutions, 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-58333 (E) 
*0858333* 

the  broad  mandate,  an 
A/63/PV.36 

Organization  and  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Trade  and  Development.  The  meeting  made  an 
important  contribution  to  the  preparations  of  the 
follow-up to the International Conference on Financing 
for Development to Review the Implementation of the 
Monterrey Consensus, which — as we all know — will 
be  held  in  Doha,  Qatar,  from  29  November  to 
2 December 2008. 

Turning  now  to  the  high-level  segment,  the  2008 
Development  Cooperation  Forum,  including  its  series 
of  preparatory  meetings,  was,  in  the  view  of  many,  a 
success.  Given 
important 
objective of the preparations for the first Forum was to 
establish 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  as  a 
principal forum for political dialogue and policy review 
on  the  effectiveness  and  coherence  of  international 
development  cooperation.  Another  objective  was  to 
contribute  to  the  outcome  of  key  intergovernmental 
processes, such as the upcoming Doha Review and the 
recently  concluded  Accra  High-level  Forum.  Those 
objectives  have  been  achieved,  and  the  Accra  Agenda 
for Action reflects several of the policy messages of the 
Development Cooperation Forum. 
A  number  of  factors  account  for  the  preliminary 

success  of 
the  Development  Cooperation  Forum, 
including  the  perceived  quality  of  the  high-level 
symposiums held under the auspices of the Forum, the 
professionalism  and  political  balance  of  the  analytical 
work,  including  the  Secretary-General’s  report,  the 
ability  to  attract  key  development  cooperation  actors 
and the strong public support from stakeholder groups, 
such  as  parliamentarians,  civil  society  and 
local 
governments.  Indeed,  the  Forum  is  seen  as  having 
established  a  comparative  advantage  in  organizing 
multi-stakeholder consultations on aid issues. 

in  building 
political support for and ownership of the Forum by the 
whole  range  of  stakeholders,  the  Forum  also  faces 
several  challenges.  One  is  to  strengthen  the  distinct 
identity  of  the  Forum  as  a  leading  global  forum  for 
dialogue  among  senior  policymakers  dealing  with 
development cooperation at the country level. 

A  related  challenge  is  to  further  raise  awareness 
of 
the  Development  Cooperation  Forum  among 
practitioners  at  the  country  level,  especially  since 
adding experiences from the local level to the debate at 
the  global  level  is  a  particular  comparative  advantage 
of the Forum. 
While  progress  has  been  made 
such  as 
2 

08-58333 
in 
for 
social 
development 
further 
strengthen 
its 
contribution 
role  as  an 
to 
implement 
development,  which 
growth, 
It is important that the preparations for the 2010 

Forum 
to 
international  development  cooperation.  An  important 
recommendation of the 2008 Forum was that it should 
play  a  key 
international  mutual 
accountability  mechanism  that  would  draw  together 
analysis of progress in national and global-level mutual 
accountability  processes.  For  the  2010  Forum  to  be 
able  to  advance  the  global  dialogue  on  this  important 
issue,  it  is  important  that  member  States  and  other 
stakeholders  actively  participate 
the  upcoming 
preparatory process. 
The  2008  annual  ministerial  review  focused  on 

encompasses 
sustainable 
economic 
and 
environmental  protection.  It  helped  spur  the  efforts  of 
countries 
the  global  consensus  on 
sustainable  development  at  the  national  level  and 
provided  practical  guidance  to  assist  in  those  efforts. 
The annual review also served to advance the ongoing 
work  on  climate  change,  which  was  also  bolstered  by 
the climate change and development event organized in 
the  run-up  to  the  substantive  session.  This  meeting 
discussed ways on how developing countries can cope 
with  climate  change  and  how  to  reduce  the  world’s 
carbon footprint. 

The  national  voluntary  presentations  during  the 
annual review continue to be seen by member States as 
a  very 
strengthening 
accountability  for  fulfilment  of  development  goals. 
This  year  brought  presentations 
from  developed 
countries,  namely  Belgium,  Finland,  Luxembourg  and 
the  United  Kingdom,  which  discussed  lessons  from 
their  development  policies  and  programmes.  Chile, 
Kazakhstan, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic and 
the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  shared  both  their 
success 
to 
implementation at the country level. The success of the 
annual  review  as  a  collaborative  review  mechanism  is 
reflected  in  the  large  number  of  volunteers  for  2009 
and 2010. 

the  high-level 
The 
segment were enhanced by an extensive series of side-
events, 
review 
innovation  fair  and  ministerial  breakfasts  and  panel 
discussions organized by member States, entities of the 
United  Nations 
non-governmental 
stakeholders,  including  civil  society  and  the  private 
sector. Together, those meetings served to promote and 
impact  and  visibility  of 
the  annual  ministerial 
important  mechanism 
specific  obstacles 
stories  and 
the 
system 
and 
of 
other 
First, 
Many 
system 
outcomes 
is  now  proceeding  with 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council 


catalyse  tangible,  multi-stakeholder  partnerships  for 
implementing the international development agenda. 

The 2008 high-level segment concluded with the 
adoption of the Ministerial Declaration. It underscored 
the need for urgent, collective and collaborative action 
by  all  members  of  the  international  community  to 
address  global  financial  turmoil,  rising  food  and  fuel 
prices, environmental degradation and climate change. 

the  Council’s 
substantive session are of key relevance to the work of 
the General Assembly. They will assist, I am sure, the 
Second and Third Committees in their work. 

is 
entrusted  with  the  follow-up  to  the  implementation  of 
the  General  Assembly  resolution  on  the  Triennial 
Comprehensive  Policy  Review 
of  Operational 
Activities  for  Development  of  the  United  Nations 
system.  As  called  for  by  the  Council,  the  United 
Nations 
the 
implementation  of  the  Assembly’s  resolution  on  the 
policy  review,  and  the  resolution  adopted  by  the 
Council this summer gave new impetus to these efforts. 

and 
encouraged the ongoing strengthening of humanitarian 
coordination,  particularly  in  partnerships,  funding  and 
ground 
leadership 
of 
mainstreaming  gender 
in  humanitarian 
assistance.  Member  States  have  underlined 
the 
importance  of  national  capacity-building,  disaster-
preparedness and risk reduction, and have strengthened 
legal  disaster  relief  frameworks.  Member  States  also 
reacted to the reality on the ground by condemning the 
increased  attacks  against  humanitarian  personnel, 
urging the persecution of perpetrators. 

to  convene 
emergency sessions, such as the one on the global food 
crisis  this  year.  The  time  may  have  come  to  adopt  a 
regular  practice  of  turning  to  the  Council  whenever 
major  emergencies  occur.  The  Council  organized  a 
meeting  on  the  food  crises,  which  was  very  well 
attended. 

Thirdly,  the  Council’s  role  in  peacebuilding  and 
post-conflict  development  was  also  recognized  and 
received unwavering support from member States. The 
extension  of  the  mandate  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Advisory 
Group  on  Haiti  is  a  manifestation  of  the  confidence 
The  Council  has  now  started 
Secondly,  member  States 
recognized 
capacity 
equality 
and 
the 
on 
A/63/PV.36
to 
how 
event 
goals, 
discussed 
developments 
particularly 
(MDGs). 
that  member  States  placed  in  the  Council’s  role  of 
supporting a country’s long-term development. 

The  Council’s  informal  discussion  on  possible 
modalities  of  interaction  between  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  and  the  Peacebuilding  Commission, 
using  the  framework  of  the  work  of  its  Ad  Hoc 
Advisory Group on Guinea-Bissau, generated a general 
consensus on the need to further explore how to bring 
development work into the Peacebuilding Commission 
and how to bring the peace and security dimensions of 
peacebuilding  into  the  work  of  the  Council.  In  my 
view,  the  time  has  come  perhaps  to  clarify  the 
relationship  between  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
and  the  Council  and  to  define  the  modalities  for  their 
interaction. 

The  Council  intends  to  expand  the  range  of 
stakeholders  that  the  United  Nations  can  partner  with 
in promoting the implementation of the internationally 
the 
agreed 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
Its 
philanthropy 
corporate 
philanthropy  can  contribute  to  advancing  the  MDGs, 
especially  for  sustainable  development.  The  Council 
to 
intends 
the 
philanthropic 
continue 
discussions  how  to  facilitate  the  growth  and  flow  of 
philanthropic  resources  on  a  global  basis  and  the 
possible 
a  United  Nations 
Philanthropy  Day  as  a  way  to  mobilize  interest  and 
support for philanthropy worldwide. 

My experience as President of the Economic and 
Social Council has shown me that the convening power 
and  the  spirit  of  engagement  that  have  been  the 
hallmark  of  the  United  Nations  conferences  are  well 
captured  in  the  Council. The  Council  has  opened  new 
vistas  of  cooperation  among  various  stakeholders. 
I find this to be an encouraging sign. The Council has 
great  potential  for  becoming  the  forum  for  promoting 
collaborative  action  in  the  pursuit  of  current  crises.  I 
urge the Assembly to utilize this potential to the fullest. 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 

representative  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda  to  introduce 
draft resolutions A/63/L.14 and A/63/L.15. 
Mr.  Ashe  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  I  have  the 

honour to deliver this statement on behalf of the Group 
of  77  and  China.  The  Group  wishes  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General for the report contained in document 
just 
A/63/83  and  we  also  welcome 
its  outreach 
and 
further  expand 
establishment 
community 
report 
could 
the 
of 
08-58333 

3 
to 
on 
the 
instead 
to  use 
the 
theme 
anodyne 
including 
sustainable 
these  goals, 
“Implementing 
A/63/PV.36 

introduced by the President of the Economic and Social 
Council and contained in document A/63/3. During this 
year’s substantive session of the Economic and Social 
Council 
the 
internationally  agreed  goals  and  commitments 
in 
regard 
development”,  ministers 
pointedly  recognized  that  the  international  community 
was  meeting  at  a  critical  juncture  in  our  efforts  to 
the  Millennium 
realize 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  and 
that  we  faced 
multiple challenges in our efforts to achieve them. 
Back  then  in  July,  less  than  four  months  ago, 

some  were  still  sceptical  about  recognizing 
the 
looming  turmoil  in  financial  markets  as  a  crisis, 
preferring 
terms 
“instability”  and  “uncertainty”.  In  the  short  space  of 
time  since  then,  the  world  has  come  to  recognize  the 
financial situation for what it is: a crisis. The crisis in 
international  financial  markets  has  now  permeated  the 
global economy, significantly slowing global economic 
growth.  This,  added  to  the  food  crisis  and  rising  fuel 
prices,  as  well  as  the  impacts  of  environmental 
degradation  and  climate  change,  means  that  urgent 
individual and collective actions, both short- and long-
term, are needed to curtail the impact on development 
and to ensure that development gains are not reversed 
and future efforts are not undermined. 
Our  ministers  expressed  determination  to  take 

concerted  action  to  promote  progress  towards  the 
realization  of  the  internationally  agreed  development 
goals,  including  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
in 
to 
development.  We  certainly  hope 
the  strong 
political will that is required will be demonstrated in a 
timely fashion. 

In  the  face  of  such  challenges,  development 
remains a central goal in and of itself, and sustainable 
development, 
and 
environmental dimensions, constitutes a key element of 
the  overarching  framework  and  purpose  of  the  United 
Nations.  During  the  Council’s  discussions  on  various 
economic and social issues, the Group of 77 and China 
identified several areas where progress was lacking and 
which  we  deemed  vital  for  development  and  for  the 
achievement of the internationally agreed development 
goals, including the Millennium Development Goals. 

There is general agreement that global challenges 
such  as  climate  change  and  the  environmental  crisis, 
those  overwhelming 
economic, 
face  of 
social 
in 
its 
the 
risks 
that 

in 
which 
the  crisis 
community.  But 
infrastructure  — 
addressed  with  urgency.  The 
the  global  food  crisis,  the  financial  crisis,  the  energy 
international  policy  and 
crisis  and 
institutional 
bear 
disproportionately  on  developing  countries  and  the 
poor  —  have  to  be  addressed  in  an  integrated  and 
holistic manner. They cannot be sequenced and have to 
be 
international 
community  has  the  framework  of  the  MDGs  and  the 
other internationally agreed development goals around 
which  to  rally  efforts.  But  actual  implementation 
actions  remain  woefully  lacking.  There  is  now  an 
opportunity  for  extraordinary  responses  from 
the 
international 
the  window  of 
opportunity is closing very fast and will be lost, if we 
are not swift to respond concretely and instead carry on 
with the status quo. 

As we continue to examine and assess the role of 
the  United  Nations  system  in  ensuring  a  coordinated 
implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  major  United 
Nations  conferences  and  summits  at  all  levels,  the 
Group of 77 and China continues to stress the need to 
ensure  a  strong  and  direct  link  between  coordination 
and  development  effectiveness.  The  outcome  of 
increased  coordination 
tangible  and 
measurable  development  results  where  they  matter 
most. We should therefore place priority on monitoring 
results at the country level.  
We  remain  convinced  that  the  United  Nations  is 

the  best  intergovernmental  forum  for  advancing  the 
development  agenda  and  for  facilitating 
the  full 
realization  of  all  internationally  agreed  development 
goals,  including  the  MDGs.  On  the  very  important 
factor of policy coherence, the United Nations, through 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  has  a  key  role  to 
play 
the  policies  of  developed 
countries  and  international  institutional  partners  are 
coherent  and  consistent  with  development  goals  and 
objectives of developing countries, particularly policies 
on trade, finance, intellectual property and the transfer 
of  technology.  Such  inconsistencies  should  be  the 
subject  and  object  of  deliberations  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  and  the  General Assembly,  so  that 
they may be identified and corrected. 
The  Group  of  77  and  China  reiterates  that 

securing  real  progress  on  MDG  8,  on  the  global 
partnership  for  development  must  become  a  priority. 
The  importance  of  benchmarks,  and  targets  under 
MDG  8  cannot  be  overemphasized,  as  global 
partnership  is  necessary  to  achieve  all  internationally 
in  ensuring 
should  be 
that 
4 

08-58333 


agreed development goals and the MDGs. The General 
Assembly should make this message abundantly clear. 

Additionally, there remain many challenges to the 
coordination of United Nations humanitarian assistance 
activities,  both  in  natural  disaster  situations  and  in 
complex  emergencies.  These  include  addressing  such 
situations  in  a  timely,  safe  and  effective  manner.  A 
single  natural  disaster  can  set  back  development 
progress  in  a  developing  country  by  several  decades, 
accentuating poverty and economic vulnerabilities. For 
these  reasons,  it  is  critical  that  affected  States,  donor 
countries, 
the  United  Nations  system  and  other 
humanitarian  organizations  coordinate  to  provide  the 
much-needed humanitarian assistance and development 
support  while  recognizing  the  primary  role  of  the 
affected  State  and  fully  respecting  General  Assembly 
resolution 46/182. 

In  conclusion,  the  Group  of  77  and  China  hopes 
that  the  international  community  and  development 
partners  will  take  urgent  measures  to  address  the 
significant  and  debilitating 
implementation  gaps 
identified  in  several  areas,  in  particular  in  technology 
transfer, 
rural 
including  agricultural 
development, 
subsidies, debt and official development assistance. 

I  wish  now  to  take  this  opportunity  to  introduce 
the two draft resolutions that are before the Assembly. 
The first is the draft resolution contained in document 
A/63/L.15,  entitled  “Commemoration  of  the  fifteenth 
anniversary  of 
International  Conference  on 
Population and Development”. 

fifteenth 
anniversary  of  that  landmark  international  conference 
on  population  and  development,  which  was  held  in 
Cairo.  Fifteen  years  later,  the  international  community 
is well poised to note achievements, assess progress and 
identify  shortfalls  in  the  achievement  of  International 
Conference  on  Population  and  Development  goals.  In 
this regard, I  am pleased  to introduce, on behalf of the 
Member States that are members of the Group of 77 and 
China,  the  draft  resolution  contained  in  document 
A/63/L.15,  entitled  “Commemoration  of  the  fifteenth 
anniversary  of 
International  Conference  on 
Population  and  Development”.  The  draft  resolution 
proposes  that  the  General  Assembly  devote  one  day 
during  its  sixty-fourth  session  to  a  commemoration  of 
the fifteenth anniversary of the International Conference 
on  Population  and  Development.  The  Group  thanks  all 
Next  year,  2009,  will  mark 
trade  policies 
agriculture 
security, 
food 
and 
the 
the 
the 
A/63/PV.36
on 
Population 
Conference 
July  2006  on 
the  recommendation  set  out 
delegations for their support of this draft resolution and 
looks  forward  to  a  fitting  commemoration  of  the 
International 
and 
Development plus 15. 

Permit  me  now  to  introduce  the  draft  resolution 
contained in document A/63/L.14 entitled “Smoke-free 
United  Nations  premises”.  By  its  decision  2008/231, 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  recommended  that 
its  sixty-third  session, 
the  General  Assembly,  at 
in  Council 
consider 
resolution  2006/42  of  27 
the 
implementation  of  a  complete  ban  on  smoking  on  all 
United  Nations  indoor  premises,  at  Headquarters  as 
well  as  at  regional  and  country  offices  throughout  the 
United  Nations  system,  and  the  implementation  of  a 
complete  ban  on  sales  of  tobacco  products  on  all 
United Nations premises. 

In  this  regard,  I  am  pleased  to  introduce,  on 
behalf  of  the  Member  States  that  are  members  of  the 
Group  of  77  and  China,  draft  resolution  A/63/L.14, 
entitled  “Smoke-free  United  Nations  premises”.  The 
Group 
that  have 
participated  in  the  consultations  on  this  resolution, 
especially  the  delegation  of  Uruguay  for  conducting 
those  consultations  on  behalf  of  the  Group.  We  are 
heartened  by  the  overwhelming  support  among  all 
States  for  this  resolution,  and  we  look  forward  to  its 
adoption by consensus. 

Before  action  is  taken  on  the  draft,  there  is  one 
small correction to be made. In operative paragraph 3, 
the  words  “the  measures  for”  should  be  inserted  after 
“report on”. Paragraph 3 should now read: 
the  many  delegations 
thanks 
the  measures  for 

“Requests  the  Secretary-General  to  submit 
to  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth 
session  a  report  on 
the 
implementation of the present resolution.” 

Finally, the Group of 77 and China looks forward 
to adoption by consensus of both draft resolutions, and 
we thank all delegations for their support. 
Mr.  Delacroix  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  I  am 

honoured to speak on behalf of the European Union on 
agenda  item  40,  on  the  report  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council. The  countries  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidates Albania, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  and  Montenegro;  Iceland, 
member  of  the  European  Free  Trade  Association  and 
08-58333 

5 
thanks 
The  European  Union 
A/63/PV.36 

the  European  Economic  Area;  and  Ukraine  and 
Armenia align themselves with this statement. 

the  Secretary-
General for his report on the activities of the Economic 
and  Social  Council  (A/63/3).  We  would  also  like  to 
congratulate the President of the Council, Ambassador 
Mérorès,  for 
the  great  expertise  and  benevolent 
authority with which he steered the Council’s work  in 
the  last  few  months.  The  European  Union  takes  this 
opportunity to renew its support for the Economic and 
Social  Council.  The  recent  introduction  of  the  annual 
ministerial review and the holding this year of the first 
Development  Cooperation  Forum  have  had  a  very 
positive impact in terms of strengthening the Council, 
in line with the desire expressed by the heads of State 
and  Government  at  the  World  Summit  in  September 
2005. 

The  first  Forum  took  place  during  the  Council’s 
high-level  segment  and  was  able  to  play  an  important 
role  as  a  setting  for  constructive  dialogue  within  the 
United  Nations  on  the  key  issues  of  cooperation  and 
development,  including  South-South  cooperation  and 
aid  effectiveness.  It  facilitated  the  review  of  trends  in 
international 
the 
identification 
of 
recommendations to formulate and implement national 
development  strategies.  The  European  Union 
is 
convinced that the Forum can make a key contribution 
in  its  capacity  as  a  preferred  entity  for  examining  aid 
architecture,  encouraging  dialogue  and  strengthening 
including 
coordination  among  all  relevant  actors, 
emerging  donors,  particularly 
the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the Millennium Development Goals. 

In  order  to  boost  the  Forum’s  efficiency  and 
allow 
interactive  discussion  on  cooperation  and 
development  issues,  the  European  Union  believes  that 
two  or  three  specific  themes  should  be  identified, 
which  would  enable  the  Forum  to  draw  up  a  factual 
assessment,  highlight  the  elements  of  coordination  to 
be improved and identify best practices on the ground. 

The role of the Development Cooperation Forum 
was recognized in the Accra Agenda for Action on aid 
effectiveness,  and  we  hope  it  will  contribute  to 
international dialogue and mutual accountability on the 
issues  related  to  aid,  in  the  spirit  of  the  global 
partnership 
to  which 
is 
particularly committed. 
cooperation, 
the  making 
development 
of 
the  European  Union 
to 
achieve 
gaps 
and 


The  role  of  the  Annual  Ministerial  Review  held 
during  the  Council’s  high-level  segment  is  also  very 
important.  The  European  Union  supports  its  goal  of 
reviewing progress made in the implementation of the 
outcomes of conferences and summits and their follow-
up  processes.  It  welcomes  the  smooth  running  of  the 
second session of that voluntary exercise, on the theme 
“Implementing  the  internationally  agreed  goals  and 
commitments  in  regard  to  sustainable  development”, 
which contributed to the formulation of lessons learned 
and best practices on that issue. 

The European Union will be just as mobilized for 
the 2009 Annual Ministerial Review, which will focus 
on  the  theme  of  “Implementing  the  internationally 
agreed  goals  and  commitments  in  regard  to  global 
public  health”.  The  European  Union  stresses  in  this 
regard  that  its  States  members  rank  among  the  largest 
contributors  to  the  health-related  activities  of  the 
United  Nations system, in particular the World Health 
Organization,  the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on 
HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS),  and  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight 
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. It also welcomes the 
contribution  of  developing  countries  in  presenting 
lessons  learned  from  their  progress  in  implementing 
internationally  agreed  development  goals.  In 
that 
regard,  it  recalls  the  need  to  maintain  an  appropriate 
balance  between  the  numbers  of  developing  and 
developed  countries 
for  national 
voluntary  presentations.  That  balance  must  take  into 
account their respective representation in the Economic 
and Social Council and the United Nations. 
The  European  Union  considers  further  reform  of 

the Economic and Social Council’s working methods to 
be  paramount  in  view  of  enabling  the  Council  to 
refocus on its core functions and to assume its full role 
of guiding and coordinating international action in the 
economic, 
In 
particular,  the  European  Union  believes  that  an  even 
better organized and focused substantive session would 
clearly be a guarantee of coherence and effectiveness. 

to 
reiterate  the  importance  that  it  accords  to  achieving 
increased  coordination  and  complementarity  among 
United  Nations  activities,  in  particular  as  regards  the 
necessary  links  between  the  work  undertaken  by  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and  that  of  funds  and 
programmes,  between  the  Council’s  work  and  that  of 
the General Assembly. 
social  and  environmental  arenas. 
the  European  Union  would 
that  volunteer 
Finally, 
like 
6 

08-58333 
at 
to 
policies, 
that  seek 
anti-tobacco 
the  national 


Ms.  González  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 

the  context  of  the  consideration  of  the  report  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and  draft  resolution 
A/63/L.14,  on  a  smoke-free  United  Nations  premises, 
Uruguay’s  delegation  wishes  to  align  itself  with  the 
statement of the Group of 77 and China. My delegation 
wishes  to  reiterate  once  more  its  support  for  the  draft 
resolution  on  smoke-free  premises,  a  continuation  of 
the work initiated by the Economic and Social Council 
in July with the adoption of decision 2008/231, which 
recommended  that  the  General  Assembly  implement 
the Council’s resolution 2006/42 of 27 July 2006. 
My country attaches particular importance to that 

that  reason,  we  have  made  a  firm 
issue.  For 
commitment 
the 
international  level,  by  ratifying  the  World  Health 
Organization  Framework  Convention  on  Tobacco 
level,  by 
Control,  and  also  at 
implementing  correspondent  policies 
to 
improve  the  well-being  of  its  population.  In  2006  my 
country became the first in Latin America to be totally 
free of tobacco smoking in closed public areas. 

In  that  regard,  we  feel  it  is  appropriate  to  recall 
that  the  consumption  of  tobacco  is  unquestionably  a 
risk factor for health and a cause of death, in addition 
to  being  associated  with  all  sorts  of  diseases  ranging 
from cancer to cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases, 
as  noted  by  the  report  submitted  to  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  by 
the  United  Nations  Ad  Hoc 
Interagency Task Force on Tobacco Control. 

Tobacco  affects  not  only  smokers.  Second-hand 
smoke is damaging to health. Our delegation believes it 
is the responsibility of all in the Organization to protect 
against  exposure  to  tobacco  smoke  in  public  places, 
especially  in  indoor  work  spaces  and  closed  public 
premises.  The  majority  of  States  Members  of  the 
Organization have adopted and encouraged smoke-free 
policies,  and  the  United  Nations  and  Governments 
should  set  an  example  in  public  health.  Reducing  the 
smoking areas in the workplace protects staff members 
and delegates from involuntary exposure to smoke and 
aids  smokers  in  reducing  their  daily  consumption.  In 
view  of  these  facts,  we  believe  that  the  Organization 
should  act  and  it  is  thus  essential  that  the  General 
Assembly take prompt action on this matter so that we 
can have a smoke-free United Nations. 
in 

Russian):  Allow  me  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Mr.  Alimov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
annual 
08-58333 

7 
A/63/PV.36
re-emerging 
cooperation 
The  Russian 
delegation 
has 
system  and 
for  multilateral 
threats  and  challenges 
Economic and Social Council for his very informative 
presentation  of  the  Council’s  report  (A/63/3).  I  would 
also like to convey our gratitude to the Secretariat for 
ensuring  the  Council’s  ability  to  work  effectively 
during the course of this year. 

consistently 
championed  the  strengthening  of  the  role  of  the 
Council  within  the  framework  of  the  United  Nations 
development 
the  global  economic 
architecture as a whole. We view the Council as one of 
the  leading  platforms  within  the  framework  of  the 
universal Organization to seek compromise solutions to 
the  most  pressing  socio-economic  problems  of  today, 
including 
to 
consistent  sustainable  development.  The  Council’s 
updated, more flexible and more focused format and its 
demonstrated ability to rapidly respond  to new threats 
and  challenges  have  provided  the  Council  with  the 
opportunity  to  become  one  of  the  most  utilized 
mechanisms 
for 
development,  including  in  the  context  of  the  task  of 
overcoming the global financial crisis.  

The  successful  conduct  of  the  second  annual 
ministerial  review  of  the  progress  in  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  of  the 
first  full-scale Development Cooperation Forum allow 
us to speak of the Council as having fully achieved its 
intended operational level in implementing its mandate 
as  the  main  body  in  the  United  Nations  system 
ensuring  coordination  of  multilateral  efforts  aimed  at 
achieving  the  MDGs.  Of  special  importance  here  was 
the Development Cooperation Forum. In our view, the 
Forum,  on  the  whole,  discharged  its  main  function  to 
serve  as  a  universal  platform  for  equal  partnership 
dialogue  on 
the 
participation  of  as  broad  a  range  of  partners  as 
possible, including civil society and the private sector. 
A  priority  task  is  the  search  for  the  best  work  format 
for the Forum to enable it to genuinely promote greater 
agreement  on  and  the  effectiveness  of  development 
processes.  The 
the 
targeted  at 
framework  of 
and 
elaborating 
compromise  decisions,  which  may  serve  as 
the 
foundations of future intergovernmental agreements. 

One  of  the  ways  to  strengthen  the  role  of  the 
Council is the more effective use of the potential of the 
Council’s 
its 
the 
coordination 
interactive  discussion  within 
the  Forum  must  be 
concrete 
issues  of  development  with 
sessions 
functions.  We 
implement 
that 
recommendations 
to 
believe 
the 
the 
segment 
topic  of 
should  become 
A/63/PV.36 

coordination 
the  main 
platform  for  a  practical,  focused  and  grounded 
consideration of the issues of the work of regional and 
functional  commissions  of  the  Council,  including  the 
format for the dialogue with their Executive Directors, 
as  well  as 
comprehensive 
implementation  of  the  decisions  of  major  United 
Nations  summits  and  conferences  in  the  field  of 
economics. 

We  welcome  the  outcomes  of  the  operational 
segment  of  the  session,  whose  work  is  of  major 
importance  from  the  point  of  view  of  implementing 
agreements achieved within the framework of triennial 
reviews of substantive activities, which give the United 
Nations  practical  policy  guidance  in  the  field  of 
cooperation  for  development  and  which  turn  United 
Nations programmes of work and funds at the country 
level.  

The humanitarian segment confirmed the growing 
importance  of  a  timely  and  appropriate  response  to 
natural  disasters  of  increasing  frequency  and  severity. 
The Council fully retains its role as the main platform 
of  work  within  the  framework  of  the  United  Nations 
for  consideration  of  humanitarian  issues.  We  are, 
however,  forced  to  note  that  the  fact  that  the  Council 
had to vote on a humanitarian resolution this session — 
the first time in its history — creates a very dangerous 
precedent  and  points  to  an  undesirable  trend  towards 
the  politicization  of  humanitarian  issues  at  the  United 
Nations. The Council should continue to play a role in 
considerations  aimed  at  finding  responses  to  such 
global challenges threatening progress in achieving the 
MDGs, such as the food crisis. We back the efforts of 
the United Nations system to overcome it. We believe 
that  the  Rome  Declaration  and  the  Comprehensive 
Framework  for  Action  worked  out  by  the  High-level 
Task Force can serve as a sound basis for consolidating 
the efforts of the international community in this area. 

The  high-level  segment  of  the  upcoming  the 
Council session, will, as is well known, be devoted to 
assessing progress in the implementation of objectives 
and  obligations  agreed  at  an  international  level  in  the 
field of health. The President of the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-third  session  of  has  declared  the  topic  of 
global  health  as  one  of  his  priorities.  Russia  supports 
increased  attention  devoted  to  health  issues  on  the 
Organization’s  agenda.  However,  we  urge  that  their 
consideration  in  various  United  Nations  forums  over 
the  coming  year  should  take  place  in  a  consistent, 

coherent  manner  following  a  single  line  of  logic,  and 
with consideration by the Council as a central element. 
We  expect  that  the  organizations  and  specialized 
agencies  of  the  United  Nations,  coordinated  by  the 
Council, will, in a timely fashion, start preparations for 
Council sessions, including at a regional level. Russia 
is ready for constructive cooperation in this field with 
all interested partners. 
Mr.  Voto-Bernales  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Allow  me  first  of  all  to  express  my  thanks  for  the 
report introduced by the distinguished representative of 
Haiti,  Mr.  Mérorès,  and  to  pay  tribute  to  his  skilful 
guidance  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  as  its 
President.  

My delegation associates itself with the statement 
made by the representative of Antigua and Barbuda on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

Two  years  have  elapsed  since  the  adoption  of 
resolution  61/16  on  strengthening  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council,  which  established,  among  other  things, 
two elements that my delegation regards as fundamental 
to  improving  the  work  of  the  Council:  on  one  hand, 
substantive  annual  reviews  at  the  ministerial  level  and, 
on the other, the Development Cooperation Forum.  

We  welcome  the  holding  in  July  of  the  first 
meeting  of  the  Development  Cooperation  Forum,  at 
which  time  the  President  of  the  Council  said  that  the 
launching of the Forum was a significant milestone in 
the  implementation  of  the  global  partnership  for 
development  as,  for 
international 
issues  as  such  will  be 
development  cooperation 
discussed under the aegis of the United Nations by the 
Economic and Social Council in order to strengthen the 
impact of cooperation for development. 

In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to  underscore  a 
number of points that we regard as key for this work to 
proceed  effectively.  The  Forum 
further 
strengthen  the  voice  of  all  those  concerned,  including 
civil  society,  parliamentarians,  the  private  sector  and 
through  support  for  high-level 
local  government, 
dialogue  on 
issues  of  cooperation  for 
development.  Due  consideration  must  be  given  to  the 
broad  range  of  topics  affecting  the  efficiency  of 
cooperation  for  development,  such  as  climate  change, 
food security and policy coherence. The Forum should 
continue  to  provide  independent  high-quality  analysis 
on  the  topic  of  cooperation  to  ensure  a  broad  and 
inclusive  international  debate  on  that  agenda.  The 
the  main 
the  first 
should 
time, 
8 

08-58333 
for  accountability,  bringing 


Forum  should  play  a  key  role  as  an  international 
mechanism 
together 
analysis of progress achieved on the national and global 
levels  as  related  to  the  topic  of  mutual  accountability, 
thus contributing to donor-beneficiary coordination. 

Another  key  event  at  the  July  meeting  was  the 
thematic  debate  entitled  “Promoting  an  integrated 
approach to rural development in developing countries 
for  poverty  eradication  and  sustainable  development, 
taking  into  account  current  challenges”,  at  which  my 
country raised a number of points that it would like to 
reiterate in this forum. 

Like climate change, protection of biodiversity is 
a  long-term  global  issue  that  is  not  being  handled 
effectively  and  is  closely  associated  with  sustainable 
development.  In  that  regard,  we  need  to  heighten 
awareness  of  the  problem  and  increase  the  number  of 
international  programmes  promoting  technical  and 
financial assistance for the protection of biodiversity. 

The  rules  and  incentives  established  by  markets 
in  the  developed  countries  to  mitigate  the  effects  of 
climate change can at times hamper some exports from 
developing  countries.  For  that  reason,  technical  and 
financial  assistance  is  needed,  so  that  the  developing 
countries can upgrade their manufacturing plants, so as 
to  comply  with 
those  new  and  more  stringent 
requirements. 

The current regimes of intellectual property rights 
need  to  be  reviewed  to  take  into  account  the  interests 
of developing countries. We are particularly concerned 
about the protection of traditional knowledge. 

In  the  private  sector  of  developing  countries, 
limited  access  to  credit  and  technology  can  hinder 
investment  in  cleaner  and  more  efficient  production 
depending  on  resources  and  the  establishment  of  new 
companies  that  contribute  to  sustainable  development. 
In  that  regard,  we  must  support  not  only  the  large 
corporations,  but  also  individual  initiatives  and  small 
business, which is essential to developing countries. 

As  a  result,  we  underscore  the  importance  of 
initiatives,  such  as  that  of  the  Commission  on  Legal 
Empowerment  of  the  Poor,  co-chaired  by  the  former 
Secretary  of  State  of  the  United  States  of  America, 
Ms. Madeleine  Albright,  and  Mr.  Hernando  de  Soto, 
who delivered the report of the Commission on 3 June 
2008  and  to  which  we  believe  all  necessary  support 
should be offered. 
A/63/PV.36
should  underpin 
international 
investment  and 

Just  10  days  ago,  thanks  to  the  endorsement  of 
our region, my country had the honour to be elected as 
a member of the Council for the period 2009 to 2010. 
We  are  excited  to  return  to  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council, since the work of that body relates closely to 
the outlook and priorities of Peru’s foreign policy. 

Together  with  the  impetus  given  to  economic 
growth  by 
the  generation  of 
employment  —  goals  towards  which  we  are  working 
hard  —  fighting  against  poverty  and  exclusion  is 
currently  probably  the  most  daunting  challenge  of 
Peru’s national and foreign policies. We are convinced 
that the dignity of the human being and his well-being 
lie at the core of our concerns. 

In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  put  forward  two 
brief thoughts of a general nature about the work of the 
Council.  

First, we need to refocus the work of the Council. 
As His Holiness Pope Benedict XVI pointed out when 
he last addressed the General Assembly: “The founding 
principles  of  the  Organization  …  express  the  just 
aspirations of the human spirit and constitute the ideals 
which 
relations” 
(A/62/PV.95,  p.  3).  In  that  regard,  the  work  of  the 
Council should focus on the human being and make the 
individual the core of its actions and the purpose of all 
goals. 

Secondly,  to  put  it  plainly,  we  believe  that  we 
need more action and less rhetoric. It is not so much a 
question  of  creating  new  commitments  as  fulfilling 
those  already  made.  That  needs  the  establishment  of 
flexible and effective follow-up mechanisms in all the 
Council’s areas of activity. 

Mr. Sen (India): I am grateful for the opportunity 
to express our views on the report of the Economic and 
Social Council for 2008 (A/63/3). India attaches  great 
importance  to  the  work  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  and  believes  that  its  strengthened  structure 
will assist in better discharging its role as the principal 
body  for  coordination,  policy  review,  policy  dialogue 
and recommendations on issues of economic and social 
development. We underline the importance of the new 
mandate, given to the Council in 2006, to undertake a 
regular  and  periodic 
review  and  assessment  of 
international  economic  and  development  policies  and 
their 
the 
Development  Cooperation  Forum  as  a  key  body  in 
impact  on  development.  We  support 
08-58333 

9 

in 
trends 
those  actions  weaken 
international  development 
A/63/PV.36 

overseeing 
cooperation. 

Insofar as the report of the Economic and Social 
Council  for  2008  is  concerned,  we  would  like  to 
comment  on  the  report  of  the  Statistical  Commission 
on  its  thirty-ninth  session  (E/2008/24),  which  was 
considered by the Economic and Social Council during 
its  2008  substantive  session.  While  the  Statistical 
Commission was asked merely to look at the indicators 
for  the  targets  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  we  would  like  to  reiterate  our  position  and 
place on record that we do not agree with the change in 
targets  effected  last  year  by  the  United  Nations 
Secretariat,  particularly  the  transfer  of  a  target  from 
Goal 8 to Goal 1. Such actions, without the approval of 
Member  States,  are  arbitrary  and  misrepresent  the 
decision  taken  at  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome. 
Further, 
the  monitoring  of 
MDG 8  and  are  against  the  spirit  of  the  global 
partnership for development. We would therefore urge 
the Statistical Commission to focus particularly on that 
aspect during its fortieth session. 
Mr. Murakami (Japan): Today, it is my pleasure 

to share Japan’s position under agenda item 40, on the 
report  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  (A/63/3), 
and  agenda  item  44,  on  integrated  and  coordinated 
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of 
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  in 
the economic, social and related fields (A/63/83). 

to  express  my 
delegation’s  sincere  gratitude  to  the  Secretariat  for 
providing  those  reports.  I  would  also  like  to  join 
previous  speakers  in  praising  Ambassador  Mérorès, 
President of the Economic and Social Council, for his 
skilful  and  successful  leadership  of  the  Council  this 
year.  

On  22  October,  with  the  endorsement  of  the 
regional  group,  Japan  was  re-elected  a  member  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  for  the  term  from  2009 
to  2011.  My  delegation  would  like  to  express  its 
that 
sincere  gratitude 
supported  our  re-election.  We  are  committed 
to 
continue playing an active and constructive role in the 
deliberations of the Council. 

Japan attaches great importance to the activities of 
the Economic and Social Council. During the high-level 
segment  of  the  substantive  session  this  year,  the  then 
Japan, 
Vice-Minister 
First  of  all,  I  would 
the  Member  States 
Foreign  Affairs 
to  all 
like 
for 
of 
the 
in  Geneva.  Under 
Mr. Yasuhide Nakayama, declared that Japan supported 
the  efforts  to  strengthen  the  Council,  including  the 
establishment of the Development Cooperation Forum. 
Japan  not  only  financially  supported  the  preparation 
process of this year’s Economic and Social Council, but 
also sent panellists to its meetings to share their views. 

Japan  has  announced  its  intention  to  make  a 
national  voluntary  presentation  at  next  year’s  annual 
ministerial  review 
theme 
“Implementing  the  internationally  agreed  goals  and 
commitments in regard to global public health”, Japan 
will present its unique experience in enhancing public 
health  domestically,  as  well  as  its  recent  role  as  a 
strong advocate for the promotion of global health. 

The  high-level  meeting  on Africa’s  development 
needs  and  the  high-level  event  on  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  in  September  provided  an  ideal 
opportunity for world leaders to send a strong message 
that  we  should  act  together  to  make  strong  efforts  for 
the development of Africa  and the achievement of the 
MDGs. For its part, Japan placed the MDGs at the top 
of  the  agenda  at  the  two  important  summits  it  hosted 
earlier this year, namely, the fourth Tokyo International 
Conference  on African  Development  (TICAD  IV)  and 
the Group of Eight (G-8) Summit. 

The  fourth  Tokyo  International  Conference  on 
African  Development,  which  took  place  in Yokohama 
in  May  this  year,  was  co-organized  by  Japan,  the 
United  Nations,  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme 
the  World  Bank. 
Representatives  of  51 African  countries,  including  41 
leaders,  along  with  other  donor  countries  and  a  wide 
range  of  international  organizations,  gathered  to  rally 
behind  the  theme  “Toward  a  vibrant  Africa”,  or,  in 
French,  “Vers  une  Afrique  qui  Gagne”.  They 
reaffirmed 
importance  of  developing  country 
ownership  and  international  community  partnership  in 
advancing  development.  They  also  emphasized  the 
need  to  accelerate  broad-based  economic  growth,  to 
ensure human security including achieving Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  the  consolidation  of 
peace 
and 
address 
environmental issues and climate change. 

At  the  Group  of  Eight  (G-8)  Hokkaido  Toyako 
Summit  in  July,  leaders  declared  that,  in  tackling  the 
MDG  agenda,  they  would  work  to  improve  human 
security  through  the  protection  and  empowerment  of 
individuals and communities. In its discussions, the G-8 
and  good  governance 
(UNDP) 
and 
the 
to 
10 

08-58333 
the 
of 
to 
regard 
pursuing 
education, 
importance 
specific  commitments,  which 


focused on the areas of health, water and sanitation, and 
education.  In  the  field  of  global  health,  the  G-8 
emphasized 
a 
comprehensive  approach  in  order  to  strengthen  health 
systems,  improve  maternal,  newborn  and  child  health 
and combat infectious diseases. At the successful MDG 
Partnership  event  on  water  and 
sanitation  on 
24 September, Japan announced its determination to put 
even  greater  effort  into  enhancing  good  water  cycle 
management.  With 
Japan 
emphasizes  the  importance  of  improving  both  the 
quality  and  quantity  of  basic  education  as  well  as  of 
developing  a  well  balanced  and  holistic  education 
system,  including  secondary,  higher  and  technical  and 
vocational education and training. All of these policies 
came  with 
Japan 
announced  earlier  this  year  and  reiterated  at  the  high-
level event on the MDGs. Japan is determined to work 
steadfastly in order to fulfil these commitments. 
In  the  fight  against  climate  change,  the  G-8 

leaders  sought  to  share  with  all  parties  to  the  United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change the 
vision  of  the  goal  of  achieving  a  reduction  of  at  least 
50  per  cent  in  global  emissions  by  2050.  They  also 
emphasized  the  importance  of  midterm  goals  and 
national  plans,  and  shared  the  view  that  sectoral 
approaches  are  useful  tools  for  achieving  national 
emission reduction objectives. 

to  provide 
leadership  towards  the  eradication  of  poverty  and  the 
achievement of sustained economic growth through the 
enhancement  of  human  security.  My  delegation  hopes 
that fruitful discussions at the United Nations will lead 
to  concrete  actions  towards  the  achievement  of  these 
goals. 
Mrs. Aitimova (Kazakhstan): At the outset, allow 

me  to  express  some  words  of  appreciation  to  the 
President  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  for  his 
report  and  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report 
entitled  “Role  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in 
the  integrated  and  coordinated  implementation  of  and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations 
conferences  and  summits,  in  the  light  of  relevant 
General  Assembly  resolutions,  including  resolution 
61/16”. 

the 
implementation  of  resolution  61/16  since  its  adoption 
is accurately reflected in the report. The report contains 
Japan  stands  ready 
the  progress  made 
to  continue 
We  believe 
that 
in 
A/63/PV.36
of 
and 
process 
integrated 
to  promote  an 
a  number  of  important  recommendations  for  further 
action 
integrated  and  coordinated 
approach to the implementation of the outcomes of the 
major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  in 
economic, social and related fields. It concerns, first of 
all,  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs), namely, poverty eradication, sustained 
economic  growth  and  sustainable  development.  We 
should  realize  that  our  eventual  success  in  attaining 
those  goals  will  be  achieved  through  cross-sectoral 
interaction,  as  well  as  through  the  mobilization  of 
resources  and  maximization  of  support  from  various 
constituencies in the development process. 

The  delegation  of  Kazakhstan  would  like,  in 
particular,  to  emphasize  the  role  of  the  General 
Assembly in ensuring overall monitoring and oversight 
of  the  implementation  of  decisions  taken  in  global 
multilateral  forums.  We  note  with  satisfaction  that,  in 
accordance  with  the  relevant  recommendations  of 
resolution 61/16, the Economic and Social Council was 
strengthened  during  the  reporting  period  in  its  role  as 
the central mechanism for system-wide coordination of 
the 
coordinated 
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of 
the major United Nations conferences and summits. 

As  a  member  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  Kazakhstan  would  like  to  note  that  the 
Council 
its  multi-year 
programme  of  work  based  on  a  focused  and  balanced 
list  of  cross-sectoral  thematic  issues  common  to  the 
outcomes of global multilateral events. The multi-year 
work  programme  is  helping  the  Council  to  achieve 
greater  coherence  and  effectiveness  in  the  exercise  of 
its managerial and coordination responsibilities. 
The new Economic and Social Council functions, 

the 
such  as 
the  annual  ministerial  review  and 
Development  Cooperation  Forum,  constitute 
the 
central  pillars  of  a  revitalized  Council  and  have  been 
significant  strides  in  positioning  the  Council  as  the 
principal  forum  for  global  dialogue  and  reviewing 
policy  regarding  the  effectiveness  and  coherence  of 
international  development  cooperation.  The  results  of 
the  various  conferences  and  follow-up  processes  are 
brought together in an integrated manner at the annual 
ministerial review. This year, during the second annual 
ministerial  review,  Kazakhstan  conducted  its  national 
voluntary  presentation  on 
the 
implementation  of  the  MDGs.  During  the  preparatory 
process,  which  gave  the  Kazakhstan  Government  the 
its  progress 
successfully 
finalized 
in 
08-58333 

11 

A/63/PV.36 

opportunity to once again look critically at the progress 
made  towards  attaining  the  MDGs,  national  MDG 
benchmarks were set, higher than those agreed upon at 
the  global  level.  In  this  regard,  my  delegation  would 
like  to  express  deep  gratitude  to  experts  from  the 
Department of Economic and Social Affairs and to the 
Council secretariat for providing technical assistance in 
the course of those preparations for the presentation. 

The  first  ever  Development  Cooperation  Forum 
brought  together  representatives  from  Governments, 
the private sector, intergovernmental organizations and 
academia  to  discuss  technical  aspects  of  development 
cooperation  issues.  It  was  truly  a  historic  session, 
which implemented the new functions of the Council in 
their  entirety.  Further  evidence  of 
the  Council’s 
leadership  role  in  the  development  area  is  the  launch, 
during  the  previous  session  of  the  Council,  of  the 
global  debate  on 
the  consequences  of  economic 
insecurity  caused  by  the  overlapping  food,  fuel  and 
financial  crises,  in  search  of  an  appropriate  response. 
This  is  a  truly  global  forum  in  which  the  world  can 
unite  in  order  to,  among  other  things,  reinvent  the 
global financial architecture.  

involvement  of 
functional  and  regional  commissions  in  the  review  of 
their  working  methods,  priorities  and  programmes, 
taking into account the multi-year work programme of 
the annual ministerial review, in order to better pursue 
the  implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  various  global 
events.  Recognizing  the  instrumental  role  of  regional 
commissions 
the 
the  various 
implementation  of 
the  outcomes  of 
conferences  within 
their  respective  purviews,  my 
delegation  calls  on  member  States  to  support  the 
proposal  to  open  sub-regional  offices  of  regional 
commissions,  particularly 
the 
Economic  Commission  for  Europe  and  the  Economic 
and  Social  Commission  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific  in 
North Central Asia, which will bring the Council closer 
to beneficiary countries. 

One  of  the  central  events  of  this  year  in  the 
United Nations was the high-level event in the General 
Assembly  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  to 
assess the achievements made at the midpoint towards 
2015.  

In  view  of  the  slowdown  in  the  process  of 
implementing the MDGs within the defined time frame, 
governments  and  business  and  civil  society  partners 
joint  office  of 
in  maintaining 
We  welcome 
the  ongoing 
focus  on 
the 
the 
its 
to 
the 
My 
and 
like 
functional 
delegation  would 
Therefore,  we  encourage 
review  meetings  of 
the  Status  of  Women  and 
made new commitments in the amount of $16 billion to 
help  meet  the  MDGs.  Implementation  of  additional 
development programmes will require additional efforts 
by development partners.  
the  Economic  and 

Social  Council, 
regional 
commissions  and  other  relevant  subsidiary  bodies  to 
gear their deliberations and workplans towards making 
significant contributions to that process. This concerns 
primarily  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  high-level 
segment  with  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  in  2009, 
periodic  sessions  of  the  Commission  on  Sustainable 
the 
Development  and 
Commission  on 
the 
Commission  for  Social  Development.  We  also  hope 
that the outcome of the Doha Round of negotiations at 
the  end  of  this  month  will  contribute  to  accelerating 
progress towards the development goals. 

reiterate 
Kazakhstan’s  adherence  to  its  commitments  to  the 
Millennium Declaration and the outcomes of the major 
United  Nations  conferences  and  summits.  We  also 
express  our  conviction  that  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  as  one  of  the  main  organs  of  the  United 
Nations,  should  continue  to  play  a  critical  role  in 
ensuring  steady  progress  towards  forging  a  global 
partnership for development. 
Ms.  Legarda  (Philippines):  I  am  honoured  to 

deliver this statement on behalf of the Philippines and 
to state for the record that the Philippines aligns itself 
with  the  statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of 
Antigua and Barbuda on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China.  The  Philippines  also  wishes  to  commend  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive  report  on 
agenda  item  44,  entitled  “Role  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  in  the  integrated  and  coordinated 
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of 
the major United Nations conferences and summits, in 
the  light  of  relevant  General  Assembly  resolutions, 
including resolution 61/16” (A/63/83).  

As  an  immediate  past  Vice-President  of  the 
Economic and Social Council, the Philippines has been 
in  the  privileged  position  of  actively  participating  in 
the revitalization of that important organ of the United 
Nations. In the same manner, it continues to contribute 
to  the  work  of  the  various  functional  Commissions  of 
which it is a member. 
12 

08-58333 
in  meeting 



On substantive matters, the Economic and Social 
Council annual ministerial review’s  focus this year on 
sustainable  development  showed  much  overlap  with 
the  Philippines’  positions  on  cross-cutting  issues  such 
as the  food  crisis, climate  change and the gender  gap, 
which  were  reported  on  during  the  Commission  on 
Sustainable  Development’s  meeting  last  May  —  all 
aspects of which add to the challenges already faced by 
developing  countries 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

The  Philippines  has  taken  the  position  that 
greater  focus  should  be  concentrated  on  adaptation 
than  on  mitigation.  Adapting 
to  climate  change 
requires  reducing  underlying  vulnerabilities,  building 
response  capacities  and  managing  climate  risks.  Two 
weeks ago, parliamentarians from countries vulnerable 
to climate change gathered in a consultative meeting in 
Manila, Philippines, and came up with The Manila Call 
for  Action  of  Parliamentarians  on  Disaster  Risk 
Reduction  and  Climate  Change  Adaptation.  This 
representative was privileged to be a co-convener with 
the  United  Nations  Inter-Agency  Secretariat  of  the 
International  Strategy  for  Disaster  Reduction.  The 
Philippines,  together  with  those  countries  will  also 
look  into  compliance  by  our  respective  Governments 
with the Hyogo Framework for Action 2005-2015, the 
guide  for  effective  disaster  reduction  at  the  national 
level, which 168 countries adopted in 2005. 

It is now high time to review legislative progress 
pursuant  to  the  Hyogo  Framework  for  Action,  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change  and  the  Bali  Action  Plan.  Accordingly,  the 
Philippine  reiterates  the  parliamentarians’  entreaty  to 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union 
to  commence  the  process  of  transforming  the  Hyogo 
Framework  for  Action  into  an  internationally  binding 
legal instrument. The Philippines is convinced that that 
would  strengthen  our  commitments  and  ensure  the 
realization  of  the  goals  and  objectives  of  the  Hyogo 
Framework for Action. 

The  Economic  and  Social  Council  special 
meeting  on  the  global  food  crisis  was  one  of  the  very 
first discussions on the problem and one that led to the 
high-level  meeting 
the  eventual 
finalization  of  the  Comprehensive  Framework  for 
Action. 

Whereas 30 years ago we were one of the biggest 
exporters of rice, we are now one of the world’s largest 
in  Rome  and 
A/63/PV.36
importers of rice and the Philippines remains critically 
engaged  in  efforts  concerning  the  food  crisis.  During 
the  meeting  of  the  Commission  on  the  Status  of 
Women,  the  Philippines  highlighted  the  fact  that  the 
World  Economic  Forum  ranked  the  Philippines  as  the 
only Asian country in the top ten on the global gender 
gap  index  —  an  achievement  that  reflects  progress  in 
narrowing  the  gender  gap.  However,  that  is  not 
reflective  of  the  vulnerability  faced  by  women  in  the 
face of the current global financial crisis. 

On  procedural  matters,  it  has  become  apparent 
that  all  of  the  major  global  crises  that  have  made  the 
headlines over the past year — the food and fuel crises, 
climate  change  and  environmental  degradation  and 
most  recently,  the  financial  crisis  —  are  within  the 
purview  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council.  Those 
crises  pose  grave  threats  to  the  achievement  of  all 
internationally  agreed  development  goals  and 
in 
particular the Millennium Development Goals. 

The  number  and  severity  of  the  global  crises 
challenge the United Nations system and challenge all 
United  Nations  Member  States  as  well,  in  terms  of 
trying  to  find  quick,  coherent,  comprehensive  and 
coordinated  responses  to  the  multidimensional  and 
often interrelated effects of those problems. 

The  Philippines  supports  taking  a  closer  look  at 
the  utility  of  reporting  triennially  on  efforts  to  reduce 
the  amount  of  work  that  may  not  have  any  useful 
outcome. 

Finally,  on  a  personal  note  and  speaking  as  a 
member  of  the  Philippine  Senate  —  the  Upper  House 
of the Congress of the Philippines — let me underscore 
the  report’s  recommendation  on  the  conduct  of  the 
Economic 
Social  Council  Development 
Cooperation Forum (DCF) that, 

“The  inclusion  of  civil  society  organizations, 
parliamentarians as well as local government and 
private  sector  representatives  provides  for  a 
unique  opportunity  to  garner  a  wide  range  of 
inputs  for  a  deepened  dialogue  on  the  future  of 
international 
cooperation.” 
(A/63/83, para. 68) 
development 
and 
There is much merit in that recommendation. I believe 
that the development pillar of the United Nations must 
be pushed forward on the  basis of a multi-stakeholder 
approach,  as  it  is  only  in  that  manner  that  we  can 
actually 
recommendations, 
ensure 
that 
policy 
08-58333 

13 

at 
for 
the 
economic  development 
A/63/PV.36 

negotiated  resolutions  and  programme  implementation 
can have any real meaning to the ordinary person. 
Mr.  Dapkiunas  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

This year has been a difficult one for the international 
community.  The  weakness  of  existing  coordinating 
mechanisms 
an 
international  level  has  led  to  the  emergence  of  a 
multifaceted  global  crisis  in  energy,  food  and  finance. 
Countering  that  crisis,  as  shown  by  the  results  of  the 
interactive discussion of 30 October, will be impossible 
without  radical  reform  of  the  existing  system  of 
international  financial  institutions,  in  whose  activities 
the principles of the free market often take precedence 
over  ensuring 
sustainable  development  of 
individual  States  and  the  conditions  for  sustainable 
development of the global economy as a whole. 

In that respect, we should welcome the efforts of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to  conduct  a  review 
of  the  progress  made  in  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  the  convening  in 
2008 of a series of special sessions and meetings with 
the  participation  of  the  heads  of  the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions  and  the  World  Trade  Organization.  Those 
events  allowed  us  to  better  understand  the  nature  of 
those  crises,  identify  their  origins  and  forecast  their 
short  and  midterm  impacts  on  various  States.  We 
believe  that  the  practice  of  convening  such  events 
should continue. 
Belarus has consistently advocated enhancing the 

role  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  as  a 
specialized body to resolve global economic problems. 
Similar to the Security Council, which is a body whose 
mission  is  to  respond  to  threats  and  challenges  to 
international  peace  and  security,  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  must  become 
for 
coordination  of  the  international  community’s  efforts 
to  respond 
its  area  of 
competence.  In  that  respect,  we  believe  that  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  should,  as  rapidly  as 
possible,  convene  a  high-level  meeting  to  consider 
ways to overcome the financial crisis. We welcome that 
the  Development  Cooperation  Forum  and  the  annual 
ministerial  review  have  been  mainstreamed  into  the 
activities  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council. 
However, further steps in that direction will be needed. 

The  questions  of  assistance  to  middle-income 
countries  should  be  included  in  the  framework  of  the 
fight  against  the  consequences  of  the  financial  crisis. 
to  global  challenges 
centre 
the 
in 
capacity 
focus  on 
Indonesia  welcomes 
the  broadest  possible 
We  call  upon  the  international  community  to  step  up 
international  cooperation  in  providing  that  group  of 
States  with  technical  assistance,  in  order  to  provide 
them  with 
to 
independently  elaborate  and  implement  sound  and 
effective strategies for their development. 
Mrs. Wahab (Indonesia): Indonesia would like to 

thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the  reports  contained 
in  documents  A/63/3  and  A/63/83.  We  also  join 
previous  speakers  in  thanking  the  President  of  the 
Economic and Social Council for his leadership. 

Indonesia  also  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
made by the representative of Antigua and Barbuda on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China.  
the  General  Assembly’s 

continued 
integrated  and  coordinated 
implementation  of,  and  follow-up  to,  the  outcomes  of 
the major United Nations conferences and summits. As 
emphasized  in  paragraph  151  of  the  World  Summit 
Outcome  (resolution  60/1),  the  General  Assembly 
should  strengthen  its  relationship  with  other  principal 
organs to ensure better coordination. In paragraph 155 
of  the  same  document,  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  was  called  upon  to  ensure  follow-up  of  the 
outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and 
summits, 
agreed 
development goals.  
The Economic and Social Council’s launch of the 

annual  ministerial 
and  Development 
Cooperation  Forum  in  2007  contributed  to  those 
interrelated  objectives.  The  annual  ministerial  review 
and Development Cooperation Forum are important to 
enhance the effectiveness of the United Nations system 
and its impact on development. More importantly, both 
forums  bridge  the  divide  between  the  normative  and 
operational  work  of  the  United  Nations.  That  thus 
helps close the implementation gap. 

The measure of success for both entities rests on 
two  achievements.  First  is  their  impact  in  enhancing 
the integration of the international development agenda 
in  the  programmes  of  work  of  United  Nations  system 
entities.  Second  is  their  effectiveness  in  providing 
coherent  support  to  the  implementation  of  national 
strategies. 

In  that  connection,  Indonesia  is  pleased  that  a 
multi-year  programme  of  work  has  been  adopted  for 
the  annual  ministerial  review.  Organizing  a  different 
internationally 
including 
review 
the 
14 

08-58333 
In 
the 
the 
Likewise, 
implementation  of 
theme,  “Implementing 
the  first  biennial  meeting  of 


thematic  area  each  year  provides  a  clear  structure  for 
the  deliberations.  Furthermore,  it  facilitates  better 
assessment of the role of the annual ministerial review. 
It  also  mobilizes  the  engagement  of  the  functional 
commissions. 

the 
Development  Cooperation  Forum  in  New  York  this 
year also provided clear policy direction regarding the 
Doha  Review  Conference  and  the  3rd  High-Level 
Forum on Aid Effectiveness, held at Accra. 
Those  measures,  in  Indonesia’s  view,  provide  a 

constructive  contribution  to  the  Council’s  role  as  the 
principal  body  overseeing  the  overall  implementation 
of the internationally agreed development goals.  
the  multi-year 

programme  of  work  of  the  annual  ministerial  review, 
Indonesia  commends  the  programmatic  contributions 
of the functional commissions in regard to the themes. 
Their  input  towards  this  year’s  annual  ministerial 
review 
internationally 
agreed goals and commitments in regard to sustainable 
development”,  showed 
this 
process. It is commendable that their efforts are being 
attuned  to  current  challenges.  The  particular  focus  in 
most of the commissions in regard to climate change is 
encouraging. 
It  is  important  that  the  regional  commissions 

continue  to  contribute  the  efforts  of  their  member 
States 
agreed 
development  goals. The regional commissions need to 
align  their  programmes  of  work  with  regional  priority 
areas.  Therefore,  strengthening  their  capacities  by 
working  together  with  the  Secretariat’s  Department  of 
Economic and Social Affairs becomes imperative. 

While  acknowledging  the  positive  developments 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  we  cannot  fall 
into  complacency.  It 
to  continually 
promote  policy  coherence  at  all  levels.  The  link 
between the global policy debate and national activities 
should be strengthened.  

At the international level, the contribution of the 
functional  commissions is  still ad hoc. There needs to 
be  a  clear  and  systematic  way  of  contributing  to  the 
annual  ministerial  review  while  not  overlooking  the 
priorities  of  their  respective  programmes  of  work. 
Likewise, the United Nations system’s current effort to 
enhance  coordination 
interaction 
their  commitment 
through  closer 
internationally 
to  meeting 
important 
the 
to 
is 
A/63/PV.36
for 
ensure 
effective 
the  work  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council, 
The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
between 
the 
Executive Committee on Economic and Social Affairs, 
the newly constituted Chief Executives Board structure 
and the executive boards of the funds and programmes 
could  help 
the 
support 
implementation of conference commitments. 

At  the  national  level,  the  effort  of  the  United 
Nations through the “One United Nations” approach is 
a  positive  step  towards  integrated  follow-up  of  the 
United  Nations  conferences  and  summits.  We  should 
build on the lessons learned. In terms of reporting, the 
recommendation  to  triennialize  the  report  on  the 
integrated  follow-up  merits  further  consideration. 
However, it may be more valuable to follow the timing 
of 
the  current  Economic  and  Social  Council 
restructuring. It is worth considering biennial reports to 
conform  with 
the  Development 
Cooperation Forum and to ensure timely assessments. 

speaker in the debate on agenda items 40 and 44. 

resolutions A/63/L.14 and A/63/L.15. 

We  turn  first  to  draft  resolution  A/63/L.14, 
entitled “Smoke-free United Nations premises”. I draw 
the  attention  of  the  members  to  the  fact  that  the 
asterisk  in  the  line  of  sponsors  should  appear  after 
Antigua 
correction,  where 
necessary,  will  be  reflected  in  the  addendum  to  the 
document.  

take  action  on  draft 
resolution  A/63/L.14,  I  should  like  to  announce  that 
since  the  introduction  of  the  draft  resolution  the 
following  countries  have  become  sponsors: Argentina, 
Finland,  France, 
the 
Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and 
the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland. 

draft resolution A/63/L.14?  

Draft 
(resolution 63/8). 
The  Acting  President:  We  turn  next  to  draft 

resolution A/63/L.15, entitled “Commemoration of the 
fifteenth  anniversary  of  the  International  Conference 
on Population and Development”. 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
resolution  A/63/L.14  was 
and  Barbuda.  That 
Before  proceeding 
Israel,  Lebanon, 
adopted
Ireland, 
to 
08-58333 

15 

to 
Before  proceeding 
A/63/PV.36 


take  action  on  draft 
resolution  A/63/L.15,  I  should  like  to  announce  that, 
since  the  introduction  of  the  draft  resolution,  the 
following  countries  have  become  sponsors:  Austria, 
Bulgaria,  Canada,  Denmark,  Finland,  Ireland,  Israel, 
Italy,  Luxembourg,  Mozambique, 
the  Netherlands, 
Portugal,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain,  Sweden  and  the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. 

May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
draft resolution A/63/L.15? 

Draft 
(resolution 63/9). 

The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
items 40 and 44. 
resolution  A/63/L.15  was 
adopted

Agenda item 114 
Cooperation between the United Nations and 
regional and other organizations 
  (a)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 






the African Union 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 

  (b)  Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Asian-African Legal Consultative Organization 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.7) 


  (c)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 

  (d)  Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.9) 


  (e)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Caribbean Community 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 

  (f)  Cooperation between the United Nations and the 







Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 











  (g)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Council of Europe 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.12) 


  (h)  Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Economic Community of Central African States 



  (i)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Economic Cooperation Organization 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 

  (j)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 


the Eurasian Economic Community 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.13) 


  (k)  Cooperation between the United Nations and the 








International Organization of la Francophonie 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 

  (l)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Inter-Parliamentary Union 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 

 (m)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Latin American Economic System 
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.10) 

  (n)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the League of Arab States 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 


  (o)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization for the Prohibition of 
Chemical Weapons 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/155) 


  (p)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 





the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in Europe 
  (q)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization of American States 
  (r)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization of the Islamic Conference 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 
16 

08-58333 


  (s)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 


the Pacific Islands Forum 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 

  (t)  Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/156) 
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.11) 



  (u)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 






(Preparatory  Commission 
the Southern African Development Community  
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/228) 
Mr.  Tóth
for 


the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization): 
I  have  the  honour  to  report  today  on  the  status  of  the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  (CTBT)  and 
on  the  progress  achieved  by  the  Treaty’s  Preparatory 
Commission.  The  CTBT  is  an  essential  pillar  of  the 
nuclear  disarmament  and  non-proliferation  regime.  It 
was  built  on  strong  foundations  and  it  continues  to 
grow in strength every year. 

The history of the United Nations and the General 
Assembly  cannot  be  written  without  mentioning  the 
efforts that have been made, and continue to be made, 
to secure international peace and security. These efforts 
have  gone  hand  in  hand  with  significant  attempts  to 
control  and  one  day  eliminate  from  our  lives  the 
imposing reality of nuclear weapons. 

The  comprehensive  ban  on  nuclear  weapon 
testing  that  was  negotiated  by  the  Conference  on 
Disarmament in the 1990s and the subsequent efforts to 
prepare  for  that  ban  reach  back  to  the  very  first 
resolution  of  this  Assembly.  In  January  1946,  the 
Assembly’s  first  session  adopted  resolution  1(I): 
“Establishment  of  a  Commission  to  deal  with  the 
problems  raised  by  the  discovery  of  atomic  energy”. 
The Commission was given the task of making specific 
proposals on the exchange of scientific information for 
peaceful  ends,  the  control  of  atomic  energy  to  ensure 
its use for peaceful purposes, the elimination of atomic 
weapons  and  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  and 
the  provision  of  effective  safeguards  to  protect  States 
against the hazards of violations and evasions. 
In the course of the 62 sessions of the Assembly 

and  the  62  years  that  have  followed,  many  noble  and 
A/63/PV.36
regime 
to  build 
the  verification 
effective  proposals  have  been  made  and  implemented. 
The  CTBT,  with  its  ban  on  nuclear  testing,  its 
comprehensive  and  global  verification  regime  and  its 
open  dissemination  of  the  scientific  and  technical 
information  gathered  is  one  endeavour  that  has  met 
that early Commission’s terms of reference in full. 

In its most basic form, the CTBT is a ban on all 
nuclear testing, for all people, for all time. The Treaty 
foresees  the  establishment  of  a  global  and  democratic 
verification  regime  to  monitor  compliance  with  the 
Treaty’s  provisions.  In  1996,  the  year  the  Treaty  was 
opened  for  signature,  a  Preparatory  Commission  was 
established 
in 
anticipation  of  the  Treaty’s  entry  into  force,  while  at 
the  same  time  promoting  the Treaty  and  its  principles 
so  that  the  system  could  one  day  be  put  to  work 
properly. 

But,  in  fact,  the  verification  system  has  already 
been  put  to  a  test.  Two  years  ago,  I  stood  before  the 
Assembly in the shadow of reports that the then eight-
year  moratorium  on  nuclear  weapon  testing  —  the 
longest  silence  in  the  history  of  nuclear  weapon 
explosions — had been broken. The announcement by 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea that it had 
conducted a nuclear test on 9 October 2006 cut to the 
core of the CTBT’s purpose and mandate. 

I reported to the Assembly then on the challenge 
that event posed for the nascent verification regime and 
how it met this challenge successfully when it detected 
the  event  and  attributed  it  to  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic.  That  event  was  some  20  times  smaller  in 
yield  than  the  nuclear  explosion  that  took  place  over 
Hiroshima.  

At  a  time  when  the  verification  regime  was  in 
provisional operation and the International Monitoring 
System  was  only  half  complete,  it  was  an  unwelcome 
challenge.  But  the  silver  lining  was  that  the  Treaty’s 
verification regime proved itself and has since spurred 
its members to greater action. 
At  the  request  of  the  Secretary-General,  the 

United  Nations  system 
is  undertaking  significant 
efforts  to  present  to  the  international  community  a 
coordinated  and  effective  approach  to  addressing  the 
challenge  of  climate 
change.  The  Preparatory 
Commission,  with  its  cutting  edge  technical  and 
scientific 
substantial 
contribution to make to this effort. 
capabilities,  may  have 
a 
08-58333 

17 

the 
system,  with 
and  observing 
A/63/PV.36 


The  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty 
Organization (CTBTO) is uniquely placed for this task, 
with  an  international  monitoring  system  spanning  the 
globe 
atmosphere,  oceans, 
landmasses  and  all  that  rests  between. The  purpose  of 
this  wide-scale  environmental  monitoring  is  to  ensure 
compliance  with  the  Treaty’s  provisions.  But,  by  its 
very nature, it can be adapted for other purposes. 

In the past two years alone, the system has grown 
exponentially,  and  70  per  cent  of  the  337  facilities  to 
be  built  across  the  territories  of  89  countries  are 
complete. The global communications infrastructure — 
the communications lifeline supporting the system and 
comprising 250 terminals networking the globe — has 
been completely revamped just in the past 12 months. 
The  existing 
the  multiplicity  of 
technologies it supports, could prove a highly effective 
and  efficient  means  of  generating  valuable  climate-
related information directly. 

The  network  could  also  potentially  support 
sensors  co-located  with  our  monitoring  facilities  and 
targeted  specifically  at  the  global  climate  change 
problem. Approximately $1 billion have been invested 
in the system by its members over more than a decade. 
The  system  is  truly  unprecedented  in  its  global  reach, 
with facilities located in some of the harshest yet most 
relevant environments. This is a significant asset of the 
international community, one that has definite potential 
to  help  us  address  global  climate  change  issues 
successfully. 

There  are  other  potential  civil  and  scientific 
applications to which the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-
Ban Treaty’s verification regime can be put to use. As 
we  have  developed  and  improved  the  system,  interest 
in it has grown. That interest has led to other avenues 
for which the data we are generating can be put to use, 
such  as  tsunami  warning  alerts.  People  naturally  want 
the  best  and  we  can  provide  the  fastest,  most  reliable 
and highest quality data. 

Following  extensive  cooperation  with  UNESCO, 
agreements  for  the  provision  of  data  for  tsunami 
warning  purposes  have  recently  been  signed  with 
institutions  in  Australia,  Japan  and  the  Philippines. 
More are to follow with Indonesia and other countries. 
Important 
the  Treaty’s 
verification regime are already being put to use. Plenty 
more could follow. 
life-saving  applications  of 
for 
into 
this  Treaty 
A  great  distance  has  been  travelled  by  the 

Preparatory  Commission 
the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization  since  I  last 
stood before you. In the changing global context of the 
twenty-first century, this Treaty is now more necessary 
than  ever.  A  verification  regime,  unprecedented  in 
scope and ambition, is coming to life. As we assemble 
here  today,  it  is  waiting.  It  is  a  massive  human  and 
financial  investment,  a  great  endeavour  of  scientists 
and  Governments  alike,  waiting  to  enter  into  full 
operation  because  that  is  what  it  was  built  to  do  and 
that is what it stands ready to do. 
However,  all  of  this  is  for  naught  if  we  cannot 

bring 
force.  The  Preparatory 
Commission is now a 180-member-strong organization. 
We  are  five  ratifications  away  from  crossing  the 
150-ratifications  barrier.  It  would  seem  that  all  roads 
lead  to  the  universalization  of  the  CTBT  and  its 
principles. And yet, because of the Treaty’s own built-
in  mechanisms,  there  are  still  nine  countries  whose 
ratification  is  necessary  for  this  Treaty  to  enter  into 
force. Consequently, we are kept at the gate. 

I say that this Treaty is now more necessary than 
ever. This is not simply rhetoric. Gaps have developed 
in  the  disarmament  and  non-proliferation  regime.  In 
the barriers erected to protect us from nuclear weapons, 
we  are  not  living  up  to  the  resolve  with  which  our 
predecessors  first  convened,  united  in  their  common 
aim  of  delivering  us  from  the  threat  posed  by  the 
discovery of atomic energy. We have lost the sense of 
urgency. 

When  we  consider  the  myriad  challenges  before 
us  today,  the  argument  for  establishing  this  Treaty 
immediately in the international rule book proves more 
compelling than ever. 

Concerns  about  energy  security  are  moving 
alternative  energy  solutions  to  the  forefront.  So  too  is 
the  potential  threat  posed  by  climate  change,  as  its 
effects  become  more  apparent  in  our  daily  lives.  The 
potential resurgence of nuclear energy rests at the crux 
of  these  two  defining  issues  on  the  international 
agenda. Nuclear energy may well be about to witness a 
renaissance. 
Such a resurgence will almost certainly lead to an 

facilities, 
increase 
in 
institutions 
sensitive 
components  of  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle.  Such  a  surge 
across  the  board  will  make  it  more  difficult  than  ever 
the  number  of  countries, 
and 
individuals  managing 
18 

08-58333 
in 
to 
regime 
legal  and 
to  navigate 
technical  barrier 


to  differentiate  between  prohibited  and  permitted 
nuclear activities. We are moving in a direction where 
the  choice  between  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes  or  nuclear  energy  for  weapons  will  be  based 
more on political grounds than on technical ones. 

As nuclear energy is promoted to address energy 
security and climate change challenges, this promotion 
must  go  hand  in  hand  with  a  strengthening  of  the 
disarmament and non-proliferation regime — a regime 
that  has  been  weakened 
recent  years.  The 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is the last and 
most  visible 
the 
development  of  nuclear  weapons.  It  can  keep  the 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation 
from 
unravelling,  as  we  progress  through  the  twenty-first 
century  and  attempt 
the  compound 
challenges facing our world and as we learn the lessons 
of the current global economic crisis. These challenges 
must  not  be  left  unattended;  they  must  not  be  left  to 
unregulated  competition  and  market  forces  for  an 
adequate  response;  they  require  even  more  regulation 
than  other  volatile  areas  of  our  daily  lives;  they  will 
not  forgive  complacency;  and  they  must  be  faced 
promptly, decisively and collectively. 

The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and 
the efforts we are currently undertaking are steeped in 
the  tradition  of  this  body.  That  such  tradition  is 
important because it is the tradition of cooperation and 
collective 
responsibility.  Nations  assembled  here 
62 years  ago  and  began  that  tradition  in  the  General 
Assembly:  to  have  disparate  and  diverse  communities 
working  together  as  one  international  community 
towards a common goal and with a common ownership 
of  that  enterprise  and  the  fruits  of  that  enterprise. 
Those  efforts  extend  now  to  every  outpost  of  human 
endeavour, 
the  exploitation  of  nuclear 
materials. 

Undoubtedly,  the  most  terrifying  problem  raised 
by  the  discovery  of  atomic  energy  was  the  realization 
of  the  capacity  to  destroy  ourselves  —  to  end  human 
life on this planet. We are locked in a constant struggle 
to  control  that  capacity,  to  see  it  diminish  so  that  the 
positive  applications  of 
thought  and 
knowledge may flourish. 

The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and 
the  global  and  democratic  verification  regime  that  it 
provides  make  us  stronger. They  give  us  the  power  to 
win  that  struggle.  During  the  past  10  years  the Treaty 
including 
scientific 
A/63/PV.36
for 
the  Organization 
was repeatedly challenged by nuclear weapon tests and 
action putting at risk its eventual entry into force, and 
the  number  of  ratifications  grew  from  a  mere  13  to 
nearly  150.  During  the  same  period  a  $1  billion 
verification  regime  was  put  in  place.  It  happened  not 
because of political myopia or abundance of resources. 
It  happened  because  all  those  nearly  150  countries 
voted  with  their  feet.  It  happened  because  all  those 
countries  put  their  money  where  their  mouth  is.  It 
happened  because  they  saw  the  clear  and  present 
difficulties but were determined to prevail. 

The  great  act  of  this  body,  as  it  moves  forward, 
must be to see the day when proposals to deal with the 
problems raised by the discovery of atomic energy are 
no  longer  needed,  because  the  problems  have  been 
solved and all that lies before us is opportunity and the 
freedom to pursue it in the absence of fear. 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 

Director-General  of 
the 
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, Mr. Rogelio Pfirter, 
to present the report of that organization. 
Mr.  Pfirter  (Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of 

Chemical Weapons): I have the pleasure of addressing 
this  Assembly  under 
item  entitled: 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Organization 
the  Prohibition  of  Chemical 
Weapons”.  Indeed,  such  cooperation  is  vital  for  peace 
and security through the promotion of disarmament and 
non-proliferation. 
the 
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons 
(OPCW) plays its part by implementing its mandate of 
eliminating  all  declared  chemical  weapons  and 
ensuring  their  non-proliferation  through  the  tools  of 
verification.  The  disarmament  and  non-proliferation 
regime  established  by  the  Convention  has  received 
consistent  support  both  from  the  States  parties  to  the 
Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) as well as from 
the  United  Nations.  This  has  strengthened  the  hard-
won  norms  banning  the  development,  production, 
stockpiling and use of chemical weapons. 

the  activities  and 
programmes  of  the  OPCW  on  the  implementation  of 
the  CWC  in  2006  (see A/63/155)  and  the  draft  report 
for  2007  have  already  been  circulated  to  the  General 
Assembly.  As  part  of  the  continuing  cooperation 
between the OPCW and the United Nations, I also had 
the  opportunity  of  informing  the  First  Committee  on 
15 October  about  the  current  state  of  implementation 
common  quest, 
The  annual 
the  agenda 
report  of 
this 
for 
In 
08-58333 

19 

signalled 
of 
in 
the 
reaffirming 
the 
importance  of 
anniversary 
regarding 
the  validity  of 
these  premises 
A/63/PV.36 

of  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention.  Last  year, 
United  Nations  Member  States 
their 
overwhelming support for the Convention at the high-
level  meeting  convened 
to 
commemorate 
the 
tenth 
Convention’s  operation.  It  was  gratifying  to  witness 
such  strong  commitment  to  the  Convention  and  the 
work  of  the  OPCW.  The  adoption  each  year  of  a 
consensus  resolution  by  the  United  Nations  General 
Assembly, 
the 
Convention,  represents  another  concrete  manifestation 
of such continuing support. 

This  year,  our  States  parties  met  for  the  second 
5-year Review Conference and reaffirmed unanimously 
their  conviction 
the 
Convention’s  objectives  in  the  context  of  the  goals  of 
peace  and  security.  The  Conference  stressed 
in 
particular  that  the  Convention  sets  new  standards  for 
global  disarmament  and  non-proliferation 
through 
verification  in  a  non-discriminatory  and  multilateral 
manner. While affirming the importance of completing 
chemical  disarmament  within  the  given  deadlines,  the 
Conference equally underscored the need to strengthen 
the  non-proliferation  aspects  of  the  Convention.  It 
emphasized, in this context, the importance of effective 
national  implementation  of  the  obligations  of  the 
Convention as a means to both deter and punish misuse 
of toxic chemicals for any unlawful purposes. 

The  second  Review  Conference  also  recognized 
the  important  role  OPCW  can  play  in  support  of 
internationally  agreed  action  against 
international 
terrorism.  In  this  framework,  it  recalled  the  decision 
adopted  by  the  Executive  Council  in  December  2001 
stressing the effective implementation of all provisions 
of  the  Convention.  I  wish  to  underline  that  this  is 
entirely  consistent  with 
the  objectives  of  United 
Nations  Security  Council  resolution  1540  (2004)  and 
that  the  OPCW  is  fully  cooperating  with  the  United 
Nations  to  promote  effective  implementation  of  that 
resolution. 

The  success  of  the  second  Review  Conference 
bears  eloquent  testimony  to  the  foresight  and  wisdom 
of States parties to the Chemical Weapons Convention. 
Thanks  to  this  spirit,  the  Convention  remains  a 
comprehensive 
and 
non-proliferation  tool  that  has  demonstrably  made  a 
significant difference in advancing a system of security 
based  on  respect  for  rules  that  apply  to  all  uniformly, 
with verification as the watchword. 
effective  disarmament 
and 
20 


Allow  me  to  summarize  the  progress  that  has 
been  made  in  the  implementation  of  the  Chemical 
Weapons Convention. I will also touch upon our future 
challenges. 

As  of  30  September  2008,  the  OPCW  had 
verified  the  destruction  of  more  than  28,600  metric 
tons of Category 1 chemical weapons. This represents 
41.25  per  cent  of  the  total  stockpiles  declared  by  six 
States  parties.  In  the  two  years  since  I  last  addressed 
the  General  Assembly, 
the  amount  of  chemical 
weapons that has been destroyed has doubled. Also in 
this time, two of the six declared possessor States have 
completely fulfilled their destruction obligations under 
the  Convention.  They  are  Albania  and  a  State  party. 
They  deserve  the  appreciation  of  the  international 
community for reaching these milestones. And so does 
India, which is close to reaching this landmark. But, of 
course,  the  time  remaining  to  accomplish  the  total 
destruction  of  declared  chemical  weapons  by  all 
possessor States is also growing short and a significant 
amount still remains to be destroyed.  

The major burden of these obligations rests with 
the  Russian  Federation  and  the  United  States.  The 
Russian  Federation  has 
the 
destruction of more than 11,600 metric tons or 29 per cent 
of its Category 1 chemical weapons. The  commissioning 
of new destruction facilities, as well as the construction 
of additional ones, is proceeding apace. The authorities 
in the Russian Federation have been very clear in their 
pledge to fulfil their obligations under the Convention, 
within  its  time  frame  and  in  the  manner  mandated  by 
CWC, and, as stated in a recent report submitted by the 
Chairman of  the OPCW’s Executive Council, they are 
taking concrete steps to that end. 

The  United  States  of America  has  completed  the 
destruction  of  nearly  15,400  metric  tons  or  55.4  per 
cent  of 
its  declared  stockpiles.  New  destruction 
facilities are under construction, which will add to the 
existing  capacity  of  the  United  States  to  destroy 
chemical  weapons,  thereby  further  supporting  the 
resolve of this State party to meet its obligations under 
the  Convention.  The  United  States  has  also  provided 
critically  needed  assistance  to  other  countries  in  their 
destruction efforts. 

The  United  States  and  the  Russian  Federation 
have  both  shown  resolve  and  transparency  by  hosting 
visits by delegations of the Executive Council to their 
chemical  weapon  destruction  facilities.  These  visits 
to  date  completed 
08-58333 


have  enabled  representatives  of  the  Council  to  gain 
first-hand  knowledge,  both  about  the  scale  of  the 
operations  at  destruction  facilities  and  the  overall 
magnitude of the undertakings of these two countries. 

I  reiterate  my  deep  appreciation  to  both  these 
possessor  States  for  this  firm  commitment  to  uphold 
and fulfil their obligations under the CWC. 

China  and  Japan,  for  their  parts,  have  submitted 
reports on the progress made towards the destruction of 
all  chemical  weapons  abandoned  by  Japan  on  the 
territory  of  China.  I  wish  to  commend  the  exemplary 
cooperation  between  these  two  countries  in  dealing 
with  this  historical  legacy  and,  in  this  regard,  to 
reaffirm  the  readiness  of  the  Technical  Secretariat  to 
provide all possible assistance. Indeed, we can all look 
forward  to  the  early  commencement  of  the  process  of 
destruction of these weapons. 

The  Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya  is  also  making 
progress  towards  the  elimination  of  its  chemical 
weapons.  The  required  processes,  involving  technical 
reviews  and  approval  of  relevant  plans  by  the  OPCW 
Executive  Council  concerning  the  destruction  facility 
and activities, are expected to be completed soon. This 
will  set  the  stage  for  the  destruction  of  Libya’s 
chemical  weapons,  so  as  to  complete  the  process  by 
2011. 
In  terms  of  its  security  objectives,  the  CWC  is 

both a disarmament and a non-proliferation instrument. 
Today  we  have  in  operation  an  effective  and  efficient 
industry 
regime 
this 
the  promotion  of 
non-proliferation  effort  and 
confidence  among  States  parties  in  the  chemical 
industry’s  legitimate  and  peaceful  activities. Since the 
CWC  entered  into  force  in  1997,  the  OPCW  has 
conducted  almost  3,500  inspections  at  195  chemical 
weapons-related  facilities  and  over  1,100  industrial 
sites on the territory of all States parties. Over 98 per 
cent of the world’s chemical industry is located on the 
territory  of  States  parties  to  the  Convention.  I  once 
again  wish  to  acknowledge  the  support  the  chemical 
industry  has 
the  Convention.  This 
cooperation  sustains  the  confidence  in  the  exclusively 
peaceful purposes of its activities. However, it must be 
remembered  that  there  are  nearly  4,500  industrial 
facilities worldwide that are liable to inspections.  

As  the  OPCW  moves  closer  to  the  goal  of  the 
complete  elimination  of  declared  chemical  weapons 
industry 
stockpiles, 
to  evolve  an 
is  essential 
inspection 
that 
to 
is  key 
shown 
for 
to 
it 
A/63/PV.36
of 
are 
under 
While 
the  goals  of 
Implementation 
those  matters 
the  Convention’s 
to  effectively  serve 
verification  regime  that  is  responsive  to  the  long-term 
validity 
non-proliferation 
objectives.  That  requires  continued  refinement  and 
intensification of industry verification to ensure that all 
categories of relevant facilities, especially the category 
known  as  the  “other  chemical  production  facilities”, 
are adequately covered under the verification regime. 

active 
consideration by the OPCW’s policymaking organs, the 
Organization’s Scientific Advisory Board is engaged in 
matters  that  are  no  less  important.  There  is  an 
increasing overlap between the chemical and biological 
sciences  and  a  fusion  between  them  and  information 
technology  —  trends  that  require  close  study  to 
determine  their  relevance  to  the  purposes  of  the 
Convention.  Those  potential  developments  call  for  a 
measure  of  readiness  to  adapt  the  verification  regime 
of  the  OPCW  to  new  challenges,  so  that  it  will 
continue 
the 
Convention. 
Following  the  adoption  of  the  Plan  of  Action 

the 
of  Article  VII 
regarding 
obligations, 
the  promotion  of  effective  national 
implementation  of  the  Convention  has  remained  a 
priority and represents a highly active programme area 
for the OPCW. The number of States parties that have 
enacted legislation covering all key areas had increased 
from  51  in  October  2003  to  82  by  30  October  2008, 
and  126  States  parties  had  informed  the  secretariat  of 
the  legislative  and  administrative  measures  that  they 
had adopted. Of those States parties, 112 had submitted 
the  texts  of  their  adopted  measures.  The  number  of 
States  parties  that  have  designated  or  established  a 
National Authority, which is a step required under the 
Convention, had increased to 177, or 96 per cent of all 
States parties. 

It  is  through  the  establishment  of  the  necessary 
administrative  and  legislative  measures  that  States 
parties  equip 
to  detect,  pursue  and 
prosecute  any  breach  of  the  Convention  by  their 
nationals  on  their  territory.  The  relevance  of  such 
measures  to  anti-terrorist  efforts  is  obvious.  With  the 
domestic  implementation  of  the  CWC  showing  higher 
rates of compliance than comparable legal instruments, 
the  OPCW  has  had  its  own  successful  experience  and 
will continue to share it with others. That has been the 
case  in  the  context  of  the  regional  and  subregional 
outreach  activities  organized  by  the  United  Nations 
Office  for  Disarmament  Affairs  and  the  Security 
themselves 
08-58333 

21 

in 
in 
the 
framework  of 
for  programmes 
A/63/PV.36 

Council  Committee  established  pursuant  to  resolution 
1540 (2004). I note with satisfaction that the OPCW’s 
contributions  related  to  that  Committee’s  work  and 
experience  have  been  found 
to  be  of  particular 
relevance and utility to the United Nations. 

Here, I wish to express my gratitude to members 
of the OPCW individually and to the European Union, 
acting 
its  Joint  Actions 
programme,  for  having  made  available  generous 
financial contributions that have sustained an extensive 
and  productive  programme  of  activities  in  support  of 
the work of the Organization. Of course, this is true not 
only 
the  area  of  national 
implementation,  but  also  for  activities  related  to 
assistance, protection and international cooperation for 
peaceful purposes. The latter are particularly important 
for  many  member  States  whose  economies  are 
developing or in transition. 

The delivery of emergency assistance in the event 
of  an  attack  or  threat  of  attack  of  chemical  weapons 
has  assumed  considerable  importance  in  view  of  the 
increase  in  the  number  of  such  threats  from  non-State 
actors.  States  parties  are  therefore  keen  to  build  their 
national  capacities  to  deal  with  scenarios  that  may 
involve either the use of chemical weapons or the use 
of toxic chemicals as such weapons. 

The OPCW regularly holds training courses in all 
regions  of  the  world.  They  include  programmes  for 
emergency responders as well as field exercises for the 
delivery  of  assistance  in  cooperation  and  coordination 
with other organizations, including the United Nations. 
The  next  such  exercise  is  scheduled  to  take  place  in 
Tunisia in 2010. 
In  the  field  of  the  peaceful  applications  of 

seen  both 
chemistry,  OPCW  programmes  have 
qualitative 
thus 
benefiting  a  growing  number  of  qualified  individuals, 
who return from those programmes better equipped to 
serve  their  organizations  and  countries.  In  that  area, 
Africa  receives  special  attention  in  terms  of  the 
allocation  of  programmes  for  and  the  sponsorship  of 
candidates. For that purpose, the OPCW programme to 
strengthen  cooperation  with  Africa  on  the  Chemical 
Weapons  Convention  is  making  steady  progress,  with 
the cooperation of countries in the region. 

An overwhelming majority of the members of the 
international  community  are  now  States  parties  to  the 
CWC,  thus  lending  to  its  prohibitions  and  norms  the 
and  quantitative 
enhancement, 
in 
to  deposit 
Iraq’s  decision 
tangible  progress 
is  a  signatory  State.  Despite 
force  of  general  international  law.  Adherence  by 
184 States in 11 years’ time is a notable record. Yet, the 
Convention’s objectives and purposes will not be fully 
realized  until  the  remaining  11  countries  Members  of 
the  United  Nations  have  joined  the  Convention.  I 
warmly  welcome 
its 
instrument  of  accession  with  the  Secretary-General. 
Lebanon is also expected to do so shortly. That would 
leave only nine countries outside the jurisdiction of the 
OPCW. We expect some in that group of nine to accede 
to  the  Convention  in  the  near  future,  as  they  continue 
to  make 
their  domestic 
preparations. 

I  would  especially  urge  the  remaining  countries 
in  the  sensitive  region  of  the  Middle  East  to  delink 
their  consideration  of  joining  the  Convention  from 
other  political  and  regional  issues.  I  welcome  the 
ongoing interaction that we enjoy with Egypt and with 
Israel,  which 
their 
reservations with regard to joining the CWC, they have 
not  avoided  constructive  engagement.  I  hope  to  enter 
into  similar  discussions  with  Syria.  I  will  continue  to 
appeal  to  them  to  consider  the  benefits  that  their 
accession to the Convention would bring to the Middle 
East region in terms of building mutual confidence and 
promoting a positive assessment of prospects for peace 
and security in that part of the world. 
It  also  remains  my  hope  that  the  Democratic 

People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  which  until  now  has 
avoided  any  contact  with  the  OPCW,  will  make  some 
gesture towards discussing the issue of the abolition of 
chemical  weapons.  That  would  be  a  positive  move  in 
the  Korean 
the  context  of  promoting  peace  on 
peninsula 
the 
requirements  of  Security  Council  resolution  1718 
(2006),  which,  in  addition  to  dealing  with  the  nuclear 
issues,  refers  to  the  necessity  of  abandoning  other 
categories  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
in  a 
complete, verifiable and irreversible manner. 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  thank  United 

Nations  Member  States  for  their  continued  interest  in 
and support for the work of the OPCW. I am sure that 
they  share  my  optimism  about  the  future  of  an 
organization  whose  members  have  demonstrated  great 
resolve  and  commitment 
the  noble 
objectives of  the CWC. Time and  again, through their 
constructive actions and their spirit of consensus, they 
have raised multilateralism to an exemplary level. For 
the  Technical  Secretariat  remains  fully 
its  part, 
and  would  be 
consistent  with 
in  upholding 
22 

08-58333 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on 


committed  to  the  tasks  that  it  has  been  mandated  to 
perform. 

The  commonality  of  objectives  between  the 
United Nations and the OPCW, based on the ideals of 
the United Nations Charter aimed at  a  prosperous  and 
peaceful world, reminds us of the importance of mutual 
cooperation  and  collaboration,  which,  I  am  confident, 
will strengthen further in the years to come. 
the 

representative  of  India,  who  will  introduce  draft 
resolution A/63/L.7. 
Mr.  Natchiappan  (India):  India,  as  President  of 

the  Asian-African  Legal  Consultative  Organization 
(AALCO)  for  this  year,  is  privileged  to  introduce,  on 
behalf  of  its  sponsors,  draft  resolution  A/63/L.7  on 
cooperation between the United Nations and the Asian-
African Legal Consultative Organization.  

The draft resolution, inter alia, notes the progress 
achieved  in  enhancing  cooperation  among  the  United 
Nations, its agencies, other international organizations 
and AALCO. It expresses appreciation for the work of 
AALCO  with  respect  to  issues  such  as  combating 
corruption,  international  terrorism  and  the  trafficking 
in women and children, as well as human rights issues. 
It also recommends that the consideration of this item 
be  scheduled  to  coincide  with  the  Sixth  Committee’s 
deliberations  on  the  work  of  the  International  Law 
Commission with a view to promoting close interaction 
between AALCO and the Sixth Committee. 

It  may  be  recalled  that  the  Asian-African  Legal 
Consultative  Committee,  as  it  was  then  known,  was 
established to provide expertise in international law to 
Asian and African States, as well as specific assistance 
and  advice  upon  request  on  any  topic  of  international 
law.  Such  advice  could  be  rendered  in  developing  a 
for 
suitable 
for 
implementation  of 
providing  a  model  agreement 
joint 
cooperative arrangements, or as an opinion on a given 
subject to one or more member States. 

Over  the  last  50  years,  AALCO  has  acquired  a 
unique  stature  in  promoting  legal  cooperation  among 
Asian  and  African  States  in  the  field  of  international 
law.  Its  annual  conferences  are  major  events  in 
international  law,  and  the  New  Delhi  session  in April 
this  year  was  well  attended  by  ministers  and  senior 
officers  of  member  States,  besides  several  observer 
legislation 
treaties  or 
to  establish 
or 
international 
framework 
legal 
A/63/PV.36
and 
representatives  of 
delegations 
international 
organizations. The exchange of views on contemporary 
issues  of  international  law,  including  subjects  being 
studied  by  the  International  Law  Commission  and 
those arising in connection with the implementation of 
the  world  trade  regime,  proved  highly  beneficial  to 
participants. 

Reports  of  AALCO  and  declarations  adopted  at 
its  annual  sessions  have  become  an  important  source 
for  the  development  of  international  law  and  are  an 
expression of the views and interests of the Asian and 
African States. AALCO has been dedicating its efforts 
to identifying the common interests of Africa and Asia 
on a variety  of contemporary issues before the United 
Nations  and  other  world  bodies,  thus  helping  the 
evolution  of  a  fair,  just,  equitable,  universal  legal 
order.  These  views  were  duly  communicated  by  the 
Secretary-General of AALCO to the United Nations, at 
which it has the distinction of being an observer, and to 
the  International Law Commission, whose sessions its 
Secretary-General regularly attends. 

We  would  like  to  encourage  AALCO  to  expand 
its  activities  by  progressing  on  its  several  forward-
looking  plans  for  the  benefit  of  its  member  States.  In 
this regard, mention could be made of special training 
programmes  for 
teaching  and 
expertise  in  legal  advising  in  international  law,  the 
establishment  of  special  chairs 
teaching  of 
international  law  in  universities  of  member  State,  the 
offer  of  fellowships  to  Asian  and  African  students  to 
pursue  higher  studies  in  international  law,  and  the 
encouragement 
and 
periodicals  devoted  to  the  cause  of  international  law 
that are of special interest to Asia and Africa. 

Some of these activities can, however, be pursued 
only  if  more  funds  are  available.  The  clearance  of 
arrears  in  contributions  and  raising  funds  through 
voluntary contributions would help. 

I  am  pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  the 
Secretariat  of  AALCO  has  shifted 
its  new 
headquarters building, provided by the Government of 
India. The  new  building  is  fully  equipped  to  meet  the 
needs  of  an  intergovernmental  organization.  We  hope 
its modern conference facilities will motivate AALCO 
to  organize  more  programmes  for  the  benefit  of  its 
members.  The  shifting  of  the  offices  of  AALCO  and 
the  residence  of  the  Secretary-General  to  their  own 
for  publication  of  books 
the  promotion  of 
in 
to 
08-58333 

23 

A/63/PV.36 

new  buildings  would  also  partially  ease  the  financial 
situation. 

However, it is a matter of great satisfaction that, 
despite  its  financial  limitations,  the  work  of  the 
Organization  is  efficiently  organized  by  a  small  but 
dedicated  band  of  international  experts  working  under 
the  guidance  of  the  international  diplomatic  staff, 
including  its  most  competent  Secretary-General.  Its 
excellent  library  and  facilities  deserve  to  be  further 
improved.  In  due course, AALCO could  operate as an 
international  law  documentation  centre  for  the  benefit 
of Asian and African States.  

We  congratulate  the  new  Secretary-General  of 
AALCO,  Mr.  Rahmat  Mohamad,  and  hope  he  will 
infuse  more  vitality  in  the  work  of AALCO.  We  also 
thank the former Secretary-General, Mr. Wafik Kamil, 
for his immense contribution to the work of AALCO. 

We  are  optimistic  that  in  the  years  to  come 
AALCO will achieve greater success in clarifying and 
consolidating  the  common  interests  of  Asian  and 
African States. It will also surely enhance its activities 
in  training  and  the  dissemination  of  international  law 
expertise  among  them.  We  have  no  doubt  that  the 
cooperation  between AALCO  and  the  United  Nations 
will  continue  to  grow  stronger.  We  wish AALCO  and 
its members every success in their future endeavours. 
the 

representative  of  Albania,  who  will  introduce  draft 
resolution A/63/L.9. 
Mr.  Dilja  (Albania):  I  have  the  honour  to 

introduce,  on  behalf  of  the  Black  Sea  Economic 
Cooperation  Organization  (BSEC)  member  States, 
under  sub-item  (d)  of  agenda  item  114,  the  draft 
resolution  contained  in  document  A/63/L.9,  entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization”.  

the 
the  very  beginning 
importance that all member States of this organization 
give  to  that  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations.  Let 
me  also  express  the  appreciation  for  the  valuable 
support  that  all  countries  that  have  co-sponsored  that 
resolution have given to it.  

The  draft  resolution  on  BSEC-United  Nations 
cooperation  stresses  the  priorities  of  the  work  of 
BSEC. It will give further impetus to that cooperation, 
while  reiterating 
that  multilateral 
economic  cooperation  contributes  to  enhancing  peace, 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on 
Let  me  stress  at 
the  conviction 
interest, 
thus  contributing 
to 
transformed 
the  necessary  premises 
Building  on  experience  and 
stability  and  security.  The  wider  Black  Sea  is  being 
increasingly 
into  a  dynamic  area  of 
development,  with  a  growing  weight  in  both  the 
geopolitical and geo-economic aspects.  

The  wider  Black  Sea  area  can  edge  closer  to  its 
neighbours  and  the  world  only  through  concerted 
efforts and coordinated initiatives by different regional 
and  international  organizations.  To  that  effect  the 
selection  of  the  areas  of  common  interest  would 
produce 
for  engineering 
significant  projects  for  the  region.  It  could  also 
represent one of the most effective ways to ensure the 
solidification of BSEC as a regional voice, with its full 
weight and dignity. 

the  advanced 
institutional  frame,  BSEC  offers  a  pragmatic  project 
and  a  results-oriented  approach  in  the  spheres  of 
common 
improved 
regional  cooperation  and  beyond,  as  well  as  the 
creation of synergies and an increase in  the efficiency 
of  resource  use.  As  an  acknowledgment  of  those 
qualifications, different actors in the region and beyond 
have given further attention to BSEC. 

through 
BSEC  and  its  interaction  with  other  regional  and 
international  organizations,  of  which 
the  United 
Nations  is  among  the  first,  is  one  of  the  best  ways  to 
effectively  address  the  threats  and  challenges  that  lie 
ahead and is a real contribution to confidence-building 
in  the  region  and  beyond,  as  a  prerequisite  to  a  more 
peaceful and secure world. 

This  year,  preparation  of  the  draft  resolution  has 
taken  into  consideration  the  ongoing  reform  of  BSEC 
aimed at increasing its effectiveness. Also, it serves the 
purpose  of  promoting  cooperation  among  members  of 
BSEC and its strategic partners worldwide. 

We are convinced that this year’s draft resolution 
will further strengthen cooperation between the United 
Nations  and  the  Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation 
Organization  and  will  contribute  to  the  promotion  of 
the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations,  as 
well as the statutory goals and objectives of BSEC. 

Before I conclude, I would like, on behalf of the 
Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation  Organization,  to 
extend our thanks to all the delegations that contributed 
to  this  draft  resolution.  It  is  also  the  hope  of  the 
regional  cooperation 
The  enhanced 
24 

08-58333 
The  Acting  President:  I  call  next  on 


sponsors  that  the  draft  resolution  will  be  adopted 
without a vote, as in previous years. 

the 
representative  of  Uruguay,  who  will  introduce  draft 
resolution A/63/L.10. 
Mr.  Cancela  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation  is  honoured  to  introduce,  on  behalf  of  the 
sponsors,  the  draft  resolution  contained  in  document 
A/63/L.10,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and 
the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
Economic System”.  

The Latin American Economic System (LAES) is 
an  intergovernmental  regional  agency  made  up  of  26 
countries  of  Latin America  and  the  Caribbean.  It  was 
created  in  1975  and  is  headquartered  in  Caracas, 
Venezuela.  The  purpose  of  LAES  is  to  promote  a 
system  of  consultation  and  coordination  for 
the 
adoption  of  common  positions  and  strategies  on 
economic  matters  throughout  the  countries  of  Latin 
America and the Caribbean vis-à-vis groups of nations, 
forums  and  international  agencies,  as  well  as  to  boost 
cooperation  and  integration  among  countries  of  Latin 
America and the Caribbean. 

On  27  September  1991,  the  United  Nations  and 
LAES  signed  a  cooperation  agreement  in  which  they 
agreed to strengthen and expand cooperation on topics 
of common interest. In order to give further impetus to 
the  already  fruitful  relationship  between  those  two 
bodies,  I  now  introduce  the  draft  resolution  that  we 
trust  will 
the 
Assembly. 
the 

representative  of  Sweden,  who  will  introduce  draft 
resolutions A/63/L.11 and A/63/L.12. 
Mr.  Lidén  (Sweden):  Sweden,  representing  the 

Chair  of 
the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization 
(CTBTO), has the honour to introduce a draft resolution 
entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization”,  which 
is 
contained in document A/63/L.11. 
A  political  momentum  is  building  up  around  the 

Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty 
(CTBT). 
There is increased attention by the world community to 
the  role  of  the  CTBT  in  nuclear  disarmament  and  the 
prevention  of  nuclear  weapons  proliferation,  which 
the  Preparatory  Commission 
The  Acting  President: 
receive  unanimous  support 
from 
for 
I 
call 
on 
A/63/PV.36
continue  to  be  among  the  most  important  challenges 
facing  humankind  today.  We  all  know  the  importance 
of  the  CTBT  for  the  overall  non-proliferation  regime, 
raising  the  threshold  for  the  acquisition  of  nuclear 
weapons,  preventing  a  qualitative  arms  race  and 
building  confidence  through  an  effective  verification 
system. Positive developments regarding ratification of 
the  Treaty  would  furthermore  give  important  impetus 
to the review of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons in 2010. 

The  CTBT  has  been  signed  by  180  States  and 
ratified  by  145  of  them.  Only  nine  so-called Annex  2 
States remain to ratify the Treaty in order for it to enter 
into force. The Treaty’s verification regime is now well 
advanced in its build-up. More than 80 per cent of the 
International  Monitoring  System  stations  have  been 
certified  or  constructed.  An  international  scientific 
studies project is under way to monitor the progress of 
the  verification  regime.  The  verification  regime  thus 
seems  to  be  ready  for  the  Treaty  to  enter  into  force 
soon. 

The coming period will be a defining one for the 
Treaty’s  future.  Sweden  was  among  the  very  first 
nations  to  sign  and  ratify  the  CTBT  and  has  made  a 
consistent  contribution  to  furthering  it.  Therefore  we 
feel  a  special  responsibility  and  have  steadfastly 
supported  the  efforts  of  our  partners  and  the  CTBTO 
Preparatory  Commission  in  promoting  the  Treaty.  In 
that  regard,  we  welcome  recent  ratifications  of  the 
Treaty by States and call on other States to follow that 
lead.  We  also  appreciate  the  work  of  the  Preparatory 
Commission 
its  Executive 
Secretary  and  the  efforts  of  the  Provisional  Technical 
Secretariat.  We  call  on  all  delegations  to  support  the 
draft resolution. 

Let  me  now  turn  to  the  second  draft  resolution 
that  I  have  the  honour  to  introduce  today. This  time  I 
do so because of Sweden’s current chairmanship of the 
Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. The 
resolution is entitled “Cooperation between the United 
Nations and the Council of Europe” and is contained in 
document A/63/L.12. 

The draft resolution demonstrates the wide range 
of  areas  where  the  United  Nations  and  the  Council  of 
Europe  cooperate  and  where  the  Council’s  activities 
contribute  to  furthering  the  goals  of  the  United 
Nations. The first draft of the resolution was prepared 
by  the  Council  of  Europe,  in  Strasbourg.  We  have 
the  CTBTO  and 
for 
08-58333 

25 
I 
call 
on 
The  Acting  President: 
A/63/PV.36 

conducted  informal  consultations  with  United  Nations 
Member States, and I wish to thank all delegations for 
their  constructive  and  cooperative  approach  to  the 
consultations. 

With  the  changes  that  were  agreed  during  the 
consultation process, I hope that the text before us here 
today will be adopted by consensus. In addition to the 
33  countries  that  appear  as  sponsors  in  document 
A/63/L.12, the following countries have also joined as 
sponsors:  Azerbaijan,  Belgium,  Bulgaria,  Canada, 
Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Georgia,  Greece, 
Israel,  Italy,  Japan,  Malta,  Poland,  Portugal, 
the 
Republic  of  Moldova  and 
the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia. 
the 

representative  of  Belarus,  who  will  introduce  draft 
resolution A/63/L.13. 
Mr.  Dapkiunas  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  It 

is my great honour, on behalf of the member States of 
the Eurasian Economic Community — the Republic of 
Belarus,  the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  the  Kyrgyz 
Republic,  the  Russian  Federation  and  the  Republic  of 
Tajikistan  —  to  present  draft  resolution A/63/L.13  on 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Eurasian Economic Community. 

The Eurasian Economic Community (EURASEC) 
was  created  in  2000.  Since  2003  it  has  enjoyed 
observer status in the General Assembly, and it closely 
cooperates with agencies of the United Nations system. 
With  the  objective  of  strengthening  the  institutional 
framework  of  that  cooperation,  in  September  2006  a 
memorandum  of  understanding  was  signed  between 
EURASEC  and 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme. In January 2007, a cooperation agreement 
between  the  EURASEC  Inter-Parliamentary Assembly 
and  the  United  Nations  Economic  Commission  for 
Europe was concluded. 

Last  year  the  General Assembly  adopted  its  first 
resolution  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Eurasian  Economic  Community  (resolution 
62/79), which was based on strengthening cooperation 
between the organizations and reinforcing the practical 
links. 

The draft resolution submitted for the Assembly’s 
consideration  is  prepared  on  the  basis  of  the  report  of 
the  Secretary-General  on  the  implementation  of  the 
first  resolution  on  cooperation  between  the  Eurasian 

Economic Community and the United Nations in such 
fields  as  the  management  of  water  resources,  energy 
and  technology  transfer  (see  A/63/228,  paras.  67-70). 
The  draft  also  invites  continued  cooperation  between 
the two organizations. 

In  conclusion,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  convey 
my  gratitude  to  the  sponsors  of  the  resolution  and  all 
delegations  that  took  part  in  the  consultations  and 
contributed  towards  the  agreement  on  the  text  of  the 
resolution. 
Mr.  Del  Picchia  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union  (EU).  The  candidate  countries  Turkey,  Croatia 
and  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  the 
countries  of  the  Stabilization  and Association  Process 
and  potential  candidates Albania  and  Montenegro  and 
the  European  Free  Trade Association  country  Iceland, 
member  of  the  European  Economic  Area,  as  well  as 
Ukraine, the  Republic of  Moldova and Armenia, align 
themselves with this statement.  

The  development  of  the  regional  integration 
process  is  one  of  the  essential  factors  that  have 
contributed 
the 
maintenance  of  peace  and  security  throughout  the 
world. It is only natural that such development should 
go  hand  in  hand  with  improved  cooperation  with  the 
United Nations.  
The  EU  is  among  the  most  ambitious  and 

successful  examples  of 
integration.  By 
strengthening  the  solidarity  among  its  members  and 
implementing its policies throughout the Union, the EU 
has  successfully  bridged  divides  and  promoted 
prosperity  within  its  borders.  The  role  played  and  the 
competencies exercised by the EU are fully in keeping 
with the spirit of the provisions of Chapter VIII of the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  which  encourages 
cooperation  between  regional  organizations  and  the 
United  Nations  in  accordance,  of  course,  with  the 
purposes and principles of the Charter, in particular the 
pre-eminence  of  the  Security  Council  in  the  area  of 
peacekeeping. 

The European Union has supported the objective 
of  mutual  strengthening  between  the  United  Nations 
and regional organizations. As stressed in the European 
Security Strategy, adopted in 2003 — which we intend 
to update before the end of the year — one of the EU’s 
priorities is to strengthen the United Nations and equip 
to  economic  development  and 
regional 
26 

08-58333 
to 
its 
shoulder 
it  needs 
the  means 


it  with 
responsibilities and undertake effective action.  

On  the  basis  of  the  2003  and  2007  EU-United 
Nations joint declarations, the cooperation between the 
EU  and  the  Organization  in  the  areas  of  crisis 
management  and  security  has  developed  significantly 
in  recent  years,  particularly  through  the  launching  of 
EU  operations,  within  the  framework  of  the  European 
Security and Defence Policy, to support United Nations 
peacekeeping operations. We have made that a priority 
of  the  French  presidency  of  the  European  Union.  EU 
ministers  raised  the  issue  at  a  seminar  held  in  New 
York  on  26  September,  attended  by  the  Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon;  Mr.  Javier  Solana,  EU 
High  Representative  for  the  Common  Foreign  and 
Security  Policy;  and  Ms.  Benita  Ferrero-Waldner, 
European  Commissioner 
for  External  Relations. 
Furthermore,  from  20  to  22  October  in  Paris,  we  held 
the  first  meeting  of  the  International  Forum  for  the 
Challenges  of  Peace  Operations,  on  cooperation 
between the EU and the United Nations as an example 
of partnership under Chapter VIII of the Charter. Many 
representatives  of  major 
regional  organizations, 
including  the African  Union,  participated.  In  addition 
to  the  realm  of  security,  the  EU  has  lent  constant 
support 
the  areas  of 
humanitarian  and  development  assistance  and  the 
defence and promotion of human rights.  

The European Union attaches great importance to 
the  development  of  other  examples  of  regional 
integration  throughout  the  world.  It  has  long  been 
developing  institutional  ties  with  various  regional 
organizations  and  promotes  the  strengthening  of  those 
organizations  particularly 
its  development 
policy.  In  particular,  it  welcomes  the  role  played  by 
many  regional  and  subregional  bodies  in  promoting 
human rights and fundamental freedoms. 
The European Union welcomes the strengthening 

of 
the 
regional  organizations  and 
institutions  and  the  United  Nations,  as  one  can  see 
from  reading  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
(A/63/228), and continues to attach great importance to 
the framework provided by Security Council resolution 
1631  (2005),  on  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and regional organizations in the maintenance 
of international peace and security.  

In  particular,  the  European  Union  supports  close 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
the  United  Nations 
ties  between 
through 
in 
to 
A/63/PV.36
The 
encourages 
also  welcomes 
the  potential  of 
European  Union 
combating  violence 
The  European  Union 
the  Council  of  Europe, 
African Union in the area of crisis management on the 
African  continent.  In  that  regard,  it  welcomes  the 
Secretary-General’s  establishment  of  an  EU-United 
Nations  panel  to  assess  modalities  of  support  for 
regional  peace  operations  carried  out  under  United 
Nations mandates. 

close 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
(OSCE).  The  cooperation  among  the  United  Nations, 
the OSCE and the EU during the Georgian conflict and 
their  co-chairmanship  of  the  international  discussions 
in  Geneva  demonstrate 
such 
cooperation 
in  crisis  management  and  conflict 
settlement.  The  three  organizations  are  also  jointly 
engaged in Kosovo. 
the 

the  United 
development  of  cooperation  between 
Nations  system  and 
in 
particular  in  the  areas  of  intercultural  dialogue,  child 
protection, 
against  women, 
protecting  refugees  and  promoting  human  rights 
education. The  Council  of  Europe  is  the  best  example 
of  the  very  positive  role  that  a  regional  organization 
can  play  in  protecting  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms. 

In  addition,  the  European  Union  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  rapprochement  between  the  United 
Nations  and 
la 
Francophonie (OIF), which represents one third of the 
States  with  seats  in  the  General  Assembly  and  is 
increasingly  asserting  itself  as  a  political  force  on  the 
international scene. The EU notes with satisfaction the 
increased cooperation between the two organizations in 
the  area  of  peacekeeping,  as 
the 
participation  of  the  Secretary-General,  together  with 
some  40  heads  of  State  or  Government  of  French-
speaking  countries,  in  the  Quebec  summit  held  from 
17 to 19 October this year and by the holding in April 
of  a  joint  United  Nations-OIF  seminar  on  cooperation 
in the areas of early warning and conflict prevention.  

Thus,  together  with  the  Secretary-General,  the 
OIF  is  working  to  build  French-speaking  capacities 
within the framework of peacekeeping operations. The 
OIF  does  not  seek 
to  duplicate  United  Nations 
activities, but rather to carry out supplementary ones in 
consultation with the Secretary-General, relying on the 
the  International  Organization  of 
illustrated  by 
08-58333 

27 
the  European  Union 
at 
The  European  Union 
therefore  supports 
A/63/PV.36 

intrinsic  added  value  of  multilateral  Francophone 
capacities.  

It is not only regional organizations that can help 
the United Nations to attain Charter objectives. In that 
connection, 
particularly 
commends  the  role  of  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union 
(IPU) and welcomes the growing cooperation between 
it  and  the  United  Nations.  Given  the  essential  role 
played  by  national  parliaments  in  defining  national 
policies, we believe it essential that parliamentarians of 
various countries be increasingly better informed about 
ongoing  developments 
the  United  Nations. 
Furthermore,  the  United  Nations,  like  the  agencies 
within  it,  must  work  in  ever  closer  cooperation  with 
parliaments  to  improve  the  assessment  of  States’ 
international  commitments  in  drafting  legislation  and 
national budgets.  

the 
recommendations made by the Secretary-General in his 
report,  in  particular  that  the  outcome  document  of  the 
annual parliamentary hearing of the IPU at the United 
Nations  be  distributed  as  an  official  United  Nations 
document. The next hearing will take place on 20 and 
21 November. 
Finally,  the  European  Union,  of  course,  strongly 

supports  broadening 
the 
United  Nations  and  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-
Ban  Treaty  Organization  and  works 
to 
promote  universal  ratification  of  the Treaty. The  same 
applies  to  cooperation  with  the  Organization  for  the 
Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons  (OPCW),  which 
might  be  further  increased,  in  particular  in  relation  to 
the  OPCW’s  efforts  —  like  those  of  the  Security 
Council  Committee  established  pursuant  to  resolution 
1540 (2004) — to combat chemical terrorism. 

that  good 
coordination between regional and other organizations, 
on the one hand, and the United Nations, on the other, 
can  strengthen  United  Nations  action,  whether  in  the 
area  of  economic  development,  security  or 
the 
promotion of human rights.  

For  all  those  reasons,  the  European  Union  looks 
forward to actively participating in the coming days in 
formulating  draft  resolutions  under  General Assembly 
agenda item 114. 

Mr. Talbot (Guyana): I have the honour to make 
this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  14  States  members  of 
The  European  Union  believes 
the  cooperation  between 
28 


the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM),  on  agenda 
item 114 (e), entitled “Cooperation between the United 
Nations and the Caribbean Community”. It is my first 
duty  to  express  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General 
for  the  report  that  he  has  presented  (A/63/228)  to 
facilitate our consideration of the item. 

I  am  proud  to  assert  that  CARICOM  is  a  family 
that  is  close-knit  by  ties  of  geography,  culture  and 
history. But that closeness never obscures in our minds 
our membership also in a wider community — a global 
community that is desperately in need of a global order 
that  draws  its  inspiration  from  nowhere  else  but  the 
Charter  of 
the  United  Nations.  However  fragile, 
however  fractured  that  order  may  be  at  present,  our 
world  would  be  a  dark  and  dreary  place  without  the 
light  offered  by  the  United  Nations  Charter  along  our 
path to a peaceful, just and habitable planet. Hence the 
importance of cooperation with the United Nations and 
of  giving  effect  to  the  principles  contained  in  its 
Charter. 

What  is  more,  we  in  CARICOM  have  a  number 
of shared interests and goals, and we face basically the 
same  kinds  of  challenges.  Like  any  other  family,  we 
endeavour  to  seek  ways  to  strengthen  our  unity  of 
action to meet our common needs and goals. Basically, 
we  are  prepared,  as  far  as  it  is  possible,  to  seek 
solutions to the challenges facing us all.  

But  there  are  naturally  some  problems  that  will 
not  be  solved  by  our  own  collective  self-help  efforts, 
however  hard  we  may  try.  Some  require  cooperation 
that is much deeper, much wider and more varied than 
we  can  ever  forge  within  our  own  subregion.  That  is 
another  area  where  the  United  Nations  becomes  so 
important to us. In this Organization, we feel ourselves 
to be a family within a family. The consideration of the 
question  of  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations 
provides  an  opportunity  for  us  to  focus  afresh  on  the 
bonds and the many commonalities that exist between 
us  and  the  Organization,  what  our  cooperation  has 
achieved  and  what  it  still  needs  to  achieve.  Much  of 
that we will  detail in  a draft resolution that we intend 
to present for the consideration of this Assembly.  

For  those  reasons,  therefore,  when  I  ascended  to 
this podium, it was not simply because the date and the 
time  for  this  item  had  come.  More  fundamentally,  it 
was  to  show  once  again  the  deep  commitment  of 
CARICOM  to  the  objectives  and  goals  of  the  United 
Nations  and  to  outline  our  vision  of  the  place  of 
08-58333 
tirelessly 
to  have 


CARICOM-United  Nations  cooperation  in  the  wider 
polity. 

CARICOM  is  a  community  which,  for  the  most 
part, is comprised of small island and low-lying coastal 
developing  States,  all  facing  peculiar  sustainable 
development  challenges  arising  therefrom.  For  us,  the 
effects  of  climate  change  are  an  overwhelming  and 
enduring concern. As members of the wider family, we 
therefore feel entitled to look to the United Nations for 
recognition  of  the  vulnerabilities  to  which  our  special 
status  exposes  us  and  for  the  establishment  of  a 
corresponding regime of solidarity and cooperation.  

We are pleased that, following the adoption of the 
Millennium Declaration and the Final Document of the 
World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development,  our  case 
was  robustly  sustained  by  the  Organization  in  the 
adoption  of  resolution  61/197,  which, 
inter  alia, 
expressed  unequivocal  support  for  the  efforts  of  the 
the  Caribbean  Sea 
CARICOM  States 
designated  as  a  special  area 
in 
the  context  of 
sustainable development. 

More  specifically,  in  the  area  of  climate  change, 
the  United  Nations  Environment  Programme  (UNEP) 
and,  in  particular,  the  Regional  Office  for  Latin 
America and the Caribbean in Panama, have facilitated 
a  number  of  environmental  initiatives,  most  recently 
the  promotion  of 
the  multilateral  environmental 
agreement  project  between  UNEP, 
the  European 
Community and African, Caribbean and Pacific States, 
which  seeks  to  build  the  capacity  of  CARICOM 
member  States  to  meet  their  obligations  under  a 
selected  set  of  multilateral  environmental  agreements, 
including  the  Convention  on  Biological  Diversity  and 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change.  UNEP  is  also  working  with  the  Caribbean 
Community  Climate  Change  Centre 
the 
CARICOM  secretariat  in  ensuring  that  the  region  is 
updated  on  preparations  for  the  Copenhagen  climate 
change conference. 

In  the  area  of  food  security,  the  Food  and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) 
has  been  active  in  the  region  in  promoting  the  nexus 
between  food  security,  climate  change,  sustainable 
development  and  agriculture  in  the  Caribbean.  FAO 
continues to maintain an amicable, mutually beneficial 
and  sustainable 
the  Caribbean 
Community in general. That relationship covers a wide 
range  of  activities  in  the  agricultural  sector,  including 
relationship  with 
and 
A/63/PV.36
food 
security 
through 
thereby 
the  years 
regional  cooperation 
promoting 
the  Regional 
Programme  for  Food  Security.  FAO  has  also  been 
responsive  to  the  current  rise  in  food  prices  and  the 
resulting negative consequences it poses to the region. 
It  has  provided  in  excess  of  $1.25  million  in  direct 
grant assistance distributed among CARICOM member 
States, with Haiti being treated separately. Those funds 
have  been  used  to  help  small-scale  farm  production 
input  resources,  including  seeds,  fertilizer,  chemicals 
and tools, by assisting member States in implementing 
a  project  on  soaring  food  prices  and  in  developing 
sustainable  strategies  in  the  economic  production  of 
food. 
The  Caribbean  Community  has  benefited 

tremendously  over 
from  development 
assistance  made  available  by  the  United  Nations 
Development Programme (UNDP) over a succession of 
programming cycles and, within the past decade, under 
successive 
frameworks.  The 
received  much  valued 
Community  has 
technical  training,  advisory  and  operational  assistance 
provided to CARICOM member States, the CARICOM 
secretariat  and  other  CARICOM  institutions  with 
region-wide mandates and responsibilities. 

The esteem in which UNDP is held in its relations 
with  the  Community  is  a  function  not  merely  of  the 
quantum or variety of resources we have received over 
the  years,  but  also  of  the  strategic,  substantive  and 
truly  development-oriented  nature  of  the  assistance 
granted  and  the  responsiveness  of  the  Programme  to 
CARICOM needs and priorities. 

CARICOM States are also the beneficiaries, in a 
number  of  areas  critical  to  our  development,  of  a 
network  of  relations  of  functional  cooperation  with 
several  other  funds,  programmes  and  specialized 
agencies  of  the  United  Nations  system,  including 
UNICEF,  the  United  Nations  Industrial  Development 
Organization and the United Nations Population Fund. 
We greatly value those relationships, and look forward 
to their continuation and intensification. 

the  United 
cooperation  with 
Nations  happily  maintains  a  dynamic  character, 
including bilateral and multilateral consultations, focus 
groups,  memorandums  of  understanding  and  other 
working 
joint 
programme  development  and  continuous  interaction, 
which allow us to address issues as soon as they arise 
and  help  prevent  stasis.  The  highest  level  of  those 
information-sharing, 
CARICOM’s 
agreements, 
08-58333 

29 

The  meeting 
the  Organization, 
is  usually  organized  by 
A/63/PV.36 

consultations  is  the  general  meeting  between  the 
United  Nations  system  and  the  Caribbean  Community 
and its associated institutions.  

the 
Department of Political Affairs, with which CARICOM 
representatives  naturally  maintain  a  close  and 
productive  working 
relationship.  Preparations  are 
currently in train for the fifth general meeting, which is 
due  to  take  place  in  New  York  in  January  2009. 
CARICOM States are looking forward to that meeting, 
at which we expect the heads of regional agencies to be 
represented.  On  that  occasion,  in  addition  to  giving 
voice  to  our  own  concerns  regarding  the  state  of 
cooperation  with 
including  our 
dissatisfaction at the closure of the Caribbean Regional 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and 
Crime (UNODC) in Barbados, we will also be looking 
forward  to  joining  the  Secretariat  in  constructing  with 
us  a  shared  vision  of  a  regime  of  cooperation  that  is 
fully consistent with the realities and challenges of the 
rapidly evolving international context. 
The various development efforts to which I have 

referred  naturally 
successful 
implementation  and  maintenance,  an  overarching 
umbrella  of  security.  So  vital  is  the  field  of  security 
that it was officially included as the fourth pillar of the 
Caribbean 
three 
pre-existing  priority  pillars  of  human  and  social 
development,  trade  and  economic  integration  and 
foreign  policy  coordination.  Even  as  the  Community 
strengthens its security arrangements and makes every 
effort to fulfil its international security commitments, it 
looks to the United Nations and its relevant specialized 
agencies, including UNODC, to support its efforts. We 
are pleased that UNODC has recommenced work in the 
Caribbean 
the  relevant  regional 
counterparts.  However,  we  reiterate  the  region’s  call 
for  the  reopening  of  the  UNODC  Office  in  the 
Caribbean. 
More  generally,  we  have  found  in  the  United 

Nations — both at the level of the Secretariat and that 
of the Assembly at large — a framework within which 
we  can  maximize  the  benefits  of  cooperation  in  those 
areas  where  we  consider  the  potential  threats  to  be 
greatest. I refer to our active contributions to the global 
effort 
the 
Programme  of  Action 
to  Prevent,  Combat  and 
Eradicate  the  Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms  and  Light 
Weapons  in  All  Its  Aspects,  and  also  towards  the 
integration  process, 
in  concert  with 
for 
the  effective 
implementation  of 
require, 
for 
their 
joining 
the 
the  maintenance  of  critical 
conclusion  of  an  arms  trade  treaty,  among  other 
initiatives. 
The special challenges faced by our sister State of 

for  mutual 
Haiti  have  also  provided  occasion 
cooperation  between  CARICOM  and 
the  United 
Nations. We wish to place on record here our gratitude 
and appreciation through the work being done through 
the  United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti 
(MINUSTAH).  CARICOM  recognizes  the  sacrifices 
made and the support that continues to be extended to 
MINUSTAH  by  countries  throughout  Latin  America 
and the Caribbean, as well as other parts of the globe. 
We welcome the adoption on 14 October of resolution 
1840  (2008),  by  which  the  Security  Council  extended 
the  mandate  of  MINUSTAH  by  one  year,  thereby 
assuring 
international 
support  for  Haiti  at  this  time  when  it  continues  to  be 
tested.  In  our  view,  it  is  vital  that  MINUSTAH’s 
mandate remain adequate  to the  evolving realities and 
needs of the situation in Haiti. 

Finally,  in  our  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations, CARICOM States see, beyond the satisfaction 
of our interests as a regional collectivity, the need for a 
wider  service  to  the  international  community  and  the 
need to help ensure that the high and lofty principles of 
the  Charter  do  not  remain  just  that  —  high  and  lofty 
principles  —  but  that  we  also  do  our  part  to  secure 
their  attainment  and  their  consistent  fulfilment.  It  is 
that  vision  that  propels  our  active  participation  in  the 
dialogue  on issues as  varied as reform of the Security 
Council, 
the 
Human  Rights  Council,  and  so  on.  In  that  way,  we 
believe,  we  are  helping  to  create  an  Organization  that 
is modern, responsive, democratic and outward-looking 
and  that  encourages  and  truly  strengthens  faith  in  the 
principle  of  international  organization.  In  the  final 
analysis,  we  believe  that  it  is  in  our  actions  in  those 
disparate  areas  that  we  engage  in  the  most  practical 
cooperation with the United Nations. 
Mr. Salguiero (Portugal): On behalf of the States 

members  of  the  Community  of  Portuguese-speaking 
Countries  (CPLP)  —  Angola,  Brazil,  Cape  Verde, 
Guinea-Bissau,  Mozambique,  Portugal,  Sao Tome  and 
Principe and Timor-Leste — I have the honour to speak 
on  item  114  (f),  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Community  of  Portuguese-Speaking 
Countries”. 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
30 

08-58333 
to 
proving 
CPLP  and 
information  and  cooperation  on 



Since  CPLP  was  granted  observer  status  to  the 
United  Nations  in  1999,  it  has  engaged  in  multiple 
activities that complement and support the work of the 
Organization  in  the  realms  of  political  coordination, 
facilitation, mediation, electoral assistance, institution-
rebuilding,  and  the  promotion  of  development  and 
cooperation in cultural and social areas. 

In the two years since the adoption of resolution 
61/223,  under  Guinea-Bissau’s  chairmanship  of  CPLP 
the  Community’s  relations  with  the  United  Nations 
system  have  developed  and  strengthened 
in  an 
impressive  manner, 
be  mutually 
advantageous.  I  will  highlight  just  a  few  concrete 
examples of existing initiatives and partnerships. 

the  United  National  Educational, 
Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization  are 
jointly 
organizing  workshops  for  journalists  on  reporting  on 
elections and on HIV/AIDS prevention. 
On  25 April  2008,  a  cooperation  agreement  was 

signed between the Executive Secretariat of CPLP and 
the Portuguese unit of United Nations Radio regarding 
exchange  of 
the 
promotion  of  journalistic  content  to  a  Portuguese-
speaking  audience  and  with  a  view  to  organizing 
initiatives 
to  promote  cultural  diversity  within 
Portuguese-speaking countries. 
Last  May,  a  technical  cooperation  project  was 

signed  by  the  CPLP  and  the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations,  aimed  at  the 
formulation of a South-South/North-South cooperation 
programme  for  the  implementation  of  the  United 
Nations Convention to Combat Desertification. 

the 
International  Fund  for  Agricultural  Development  and 
CPLP,  signed  in  November  2007,  will  intensify  the 
fight  against  rural  poverty  in  Portuguese-speaking 
developing countries. 

A  partnership  between  CPLP,  the  International 
Labour  Organization  and  the  International  Programme 
on  the  Elimination  of  Child  Labour,  supported  by  the 
Brazilian  and  Portuguese  Governments,  led  to  the 
holding of a training course on combating child labour 
in  the  Portuguese-speaking  countries  in  December 
2006. 

CPLP  is  also  preparing  the  launching  of  a 
lusophone  education  network,  in  partnership  with  the 
World Bank, aimed at accelerating the response of the 
cooperation 
agreement 
between 
A 
A/63/PV.36
to 
and 
the  CPLP 
educational  sector  in  member  States  to  the  HIV/AIDS 
pandemics. 

Those  actions,  among  others,  described  in  the 
report  of 
the  General  Assembly, 
transmitted in document A/63/343, and in the report of 
the  Secretary-General  on  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  and  other  organizations, 
contained  in  document  A/63/228,  demonstrate  the 
engagement of the Community of Portuguese-speaking 
Countries in multilateral actions initiated by the United 
Nations  towards  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  addressing  the  effects  of 
climate change. 

In  accordance  with  the  pertinent  dispositions  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  that  encourage 
regional cooperation for the promotion of the purposes 
and  principles  of  the  United  Nations,  the  Community 
of  Portuguese-speaking  Countries  has  also  reached 
cooperation  agreements  with  a  number  of  regional, 
subregional 
intergovernmental  organizations, 
including  the  African  Union,  the  Council  of  Europe, 
the  Economic  Community  of  West African  States  and 
the  International  Organization  of  la  Francophonie.  A 
memorandum  of  understanding  with  the  European 
Commission was signed in November 2007, which we 
expect  to  be  the  basis  for  great  improvements  in  the 
multilateral CPLP cooperation framework. 

At  the  seventh  CPLP  summit  held  in  Lisbon  on 
25  July  2008,  the  heads  of  State  and  Government 
recalled  the  far-reaching  importance  of  sharing  a 
language  spoken  today  by  over  250  million  people  in 
eight  countries  and  four  continents,  and  reached  a 
political  commitment 
the  Portuguese 
language  in  the  international  community,  including  in 
international  and  regional  organizations  and  United 
Nations  agencies  and  programmes.  The  promotion  of 
Portuguese  as  a  global 
language  and  CPLP’s 
contribution  to  peace,  regional  stability  and  food 
security were the main topics of the summit and are the 
main  priorities  of  the  current  two-year  Portuguese 
chairmanship of CPLP. 

Portuguese-speaking 
Countries  supports  the  work  of  the  Guinea-Bissau 
country-specific  configuration  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  which  has  been  actively  chaired  by  the 
Permanent Representative of Brazil, Ambassador Maria 
Luiza Viotti, and in whose deliberations CPLP and all 
its  member  States  are  proud  to  participate.  The 
to  promote 
Community 
The 
of 
08-58333 

31 

A/63/PV.36 

Community  of  Portuguese-speaking  Countries  is  also 
assisting  Guinea-Bissau’s  current  electoral  process,  in 
particular in the deployment of an election observation 
mission. 

In Timor-Leste, CPLP and  its member States are 
deeply  committed  to  strengthening  State  institutions 
and are working as prominent partners with the United 
Nations  and  the  Timorese  authorities  in  efforts  to 
consolidate peace and promote development. 

In  the  coming  days,  the  States  members  of  the 
Community  of  Portuguese-speaking  Countries  will 
introduce  a  draft  resolution  under  agenda  item  114 
stressing  the  progress  achieved  in  the  cooperation 
between  CPLP,  United  Nations  agencies  and  other 
bodies 
the 
establishment  of  a  formal  cooperation  agreement 
between the secretariats of both organizations. I thank 
in  advance  all  Member  States  that  may  wish  to  offer 
their support and sponsorship. 
The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.
and  programmes, 
and 
encouraging 
32 

08-58333 
