
A/63/PV.44
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

44th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 11 November 2008, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 







  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Cujba 
(Republic  of  Moldova),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 

Agenda item 65 (continued) 
Strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian 
and disaster relief assistance of the United Nations, 
including special economic assistance 
  (a)  Strengthening of the coordination of emergency 
humanitarian assistance of the United Nations 
  Reports of the Secretary-General (A/63/81, 
A/63/277 and A/63/348) 



  (b)  Special economic assistance to individual 





countries or regions 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/295) 
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.21) 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/75) 
Ms.  Núñez  Mordoche


  (c)  Assistance to the Palestinian people 

in 

Spanish):  First  of  all,  Cuba  wishes  to  associate  itself 
with 
the 
representative of Antigua and Barbuda on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China. 

In recent years, we have noted with great concern 
an increase in the number of humanitarian emergencies 
and, in particular, the seriousness of natural disasters in 
statement  made 
yesterday 
(Cuba) 
(spoke 
the 
by 
its 
the 
Building 
Likewise, 
provisions 
developing 
concerning 
contribution 
various  regions  of  the  world.  Each  event  of  this  kind 
must be used to examine in depth the consequences of 
climate change and ecological imbalance, among many 
other problems facing humankind today. 

Cuba  reiterates  the  importance  of  implementing 
the  Hyogo  Framework  for  Action  2005-2015  and,  in 
particular, 
disaster 
preparedness. 
countries’ 
preparedness  and  response  capacity  is  critical  to  the 
ability  to  cope  with  and  quickly  recover  from  natural 
disasters.  The  transfer  of  new  technologies  to  cope 
with  climatic  change  is  an  essential  aspect  in  disaster 
preparedness. 
of 
international cooperation, in particular the allocation of 
adequate and predictable resources to respond to these 
meteorological  events,  is  of  utmost  importance  in 
moving from the recovery phase to development. 

Cuba reaffirms that humanitarian assistance must 
be provided in a manner that fully respects the guiding 
the  emblematic  General 
principles  provided 
Assembly 
the 
intentions  of  some  to  impose  ambiguous  concepts, 
which  can  be  easily  manipulated  to  justify  any  action 
and jeopardize the principles of sovereignty, territorial 
integrity and non-interference in the internal affairs of 
States.  The  Charter  of  our  Organization  must  be 
respected  and  its  purposes  and  principles  cannot  be 
rewritten,  distorted,  restricted  or  conditioned.  The 
Charter  is  not  simply  one  source  of  law  among  many 
but  the  very  foundation  of  the  United  Nations  and  of 
the fragile world order we still have.  
resolution  46/182.  Cuba 
rejects 
in 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-59758 (E) 
*0859758* 
to 
the 
power 

and 
A/63/PV.44 


The  Cuban  State  takes  very  seriously  its  leading 
role  in  the  initiation,  organization,  coordination  and 
delivery of humanitarian assistance within its territory 
when 
the  country  has  been  affected  by  natural 
disasters,  in  line  with  provisions  of  the  General 
Assembly. In the period of less than a month between 
16  August  and  10  September,  Cuba  was  directly  and 
indirectly  affected  by  four  extreme  meteorological 
events:  the  tropical  storms  Fay  and  Hanna,  which 
caused significant flooding, and the hurricanes Gustav 
and  Ike.  These  two  intense  hurricanes  had  serious 
affects  on  the  Cuban  economy:  the  first  was  the  most 
devastating hurricane of the past 50 years and affected 
the  western  part  of  Cuba  in  particular;  the  second 
affected the whole of the national territory. 
The  sector  most  affected  in  terms  of  material 

damage  was  the  housing  sector,  with  more  than 
500,000  houses  as  well  as  thousands  of  schools  and 
health facilities damaged or completely destroyed. One 
third  of  the  cultivated  land  has  been  devastated. 
Damage 
communications 
infrastructure,  as  well  as  in  the  agricultural  and  food 
sectors,  has  been  severe.  Rough  estimates  put  the 
damage caused by those two intense hurricanes at over 
$8 billion. 

Fortunately,  the  death  toll  was  minimal,  as  a 
result of the huge preparatory efforts on the part of the 
Cuban  authorities  and  people,  which  enabled  millions 
of people to be evacuated and sheltered in safe places. 
Over 3 million people, or 28 per cent of the country’s 
population,  were  evacuated  as  a  pre-emptive  measure 
before the arrival of hurricanes Gustav and Ike. 

The  effectiveness  of  the  Cuban  civil  defence 
services,  in  charge  of  ensuring  compliance  with  civil 
defence measures and the international regulations and 
covenants  on  civil  protection  to  which  Cuba  is  party, 
was  vital  for  the  protection  of  human  lives,  including 
the  use  of  mass  media  and  the  coordination  with 
governmental 
institutions. 
Likewise, the discipline of people all over the country 
and  the  fact  that  they  followed  the  information  and 
complied  with  civil  defence  measures  were  key  to 
avoiding human losses. 

Despite the considerable damage and devastation 
caused  by  the  hurricanes,  no  sick  person  in  Cuba  was 
deprived of medical care. Moreover, all Cuban children 
and  the  30,000  young  people  from  125  countries  who 
study  and  hold  scholarships  in  our  universities  are  at 
and  non-governmental 
this  very  moment  attending  their  classes.  In  Cuba,  no 
one has been or will be abandoned. 

On behalf of the Cuban Government and people, 
allow  me  to  show  our  appreciation  to  the  countries, 
organizations  and  people  that,  in  one  way  or  another, 
have contributed honestly and sincerely, with resources 
or  with  moral  support,  to  the  reconstruction  efforts 
undertaken by my country.  

The  Cuban  territory  has  just  been  hit  by  another 
hurricane, hurricane Paloma. Categorized at level three 
in  the  five-level  Saffir-Simpson  hurricane  scale,  with 
winds over 215 kilometres per hour, it has also caused 
serious  damage  to  the  Cuban  economy.  While  the 
capacities  of  Cuban  civil  defence  services  and  of  the 
people to face another meteorological event have again 
been  put  to  the  test,  there  have  been,  once  again,  no 
human losses. 

Cuba  reaffirms  that  neither  these  hurricanes  nor 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  blockade 
imposed by the United States on Cuba will discourage 
us from continuing to work towards the recovery of the 
country  and  to  defend  the  achievements  of  the  Cuban 
people  over  the  past  50  years. Today,  more  than  ever, 
we demand the cessation of the United States genocidal 
blockade, which was voted against almost unanimously 
by  the  international  community  on  29  October  in  this 
Assembly. 

Cuba  reiterates  that  it  is  prepared  to  continue 
supporting,  with  solidarity  and  without  self-interest, 
those countries affected by natural disasters. Likewise, 
we reaffirm our decision to continue to  extend, to our 
full capacity, our hand in friendship and the support of 
our greatest resource: the human capital created by the 
Revolution and our best experiences. 

For  Cuba,  the  only  way  to  face  the  devastating 
fury  of  nature  is  to  make  available  the  infinite 
resources of the planet to those most affected, with no 
commercial  or  national  self-interest.  International 
solidarity and cooperation are imperative. 
in 

Russian):  Russia  attaches  great 
to 
international  cooperation  in  the  field  of  disaster  risk 
reduction,  mitigation  and  recovery.  The  growing 
number  and  scale  of  natural  disasters  increases  the 
demand for humanitarian services throughout the world 
and  establishes  the  need  for  timely  and  effective 
Mr.  Alimov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
importance 
2 

08-59758 
to 
and 
forth 
to  affected 
to  affected  populations.  Ensuring 


delivery  of  humanitarian  assistance 
populations. 

In  this  context,  the  international  community’s 
commitment  to  the  guiding  principles  of  delivery  of 
emergency  humanitarian  assistance,  set 
in 
General  Assembly  resolution  46/182,  is  of  special 
significance.  Attempts 
conduct  humanitarian 
activities  without  respect  for  the  provisions  of  this 
resolution, 
in  our  view,  politicize  humanitarian 
assistance  and  undermines  international  consensus  in 
this area. There must be no leeway for using the noble 
objectives of humanitarian assistance to people in need 
as  a  mechanism  to  advance  the  political  interests  of 
certain States. 

We  agree  that  so-called  humanitarian  access  is 
one  of  the  key  issues  with  regard  to  humanitarian 
response operations. In this context, we are referring to 
timely  delivery  of  humanitarian 
adequate  and 
assistance 
the 
physical presence of foreign humanitarian personnel in 
affected  regions  is  only  one  aspect  of  this  task  and 
cannot be the end in itself. 
In  so  doing,  one  should  choose  simple,  feasible 

and practical ways and means for providing assistance. 
These can vary in each individual situation. We would 
like  to  underscore  that  the  general  coordination  of 
assistance,  including  defining  and  determining  ways 
and means for delivering aid, as well as the selection of 
partners,  is  the  exclusive  prerogative  of  the  host 
Government.  
We  are  also  convinced  that  international  society, 

all humanitarian partners including  public institutions, 
the 
non-governmental 
organizations  (NGOs)  must  respect  the  sovereignty  of 
the recipient State. 

Regarding  the  use  of  military  assets,  we  have 
recently witnessed the involvement of the armed forces 
of certain States in humanitarian aid delivery. It is well 
known  that  the  international  community,  humanitarian 
institutions  of 
the  United  Nations  system  and 
humanitarian  NGOs  have  repeatedly  declared  that  use 
of military assets in humanitarian operations should be 
considered  only  as  a  last  resort  in  cases  when  using 
civilian assets to save lives is impossible. 
Moreover,  the  General  Assembly  has  repeatedly 

reaffirmed 
fundamentally  civilian  nature  of 
humanitarian  assistance.  In  our  view,  the  rash  use  of 
Nations 
United 
the 
A/63/PV.44
Current 
regarding 
considerations 
military  assets  runs  counter  to  the  principle  of  the 
independence  of  humanitarian  assistance  from  any 
economic,  political  and  military  considerations, 
compromises  the  work  of  humanitarian  personnel  and 
jeopardizes their security. 

assistance 
include  the  emergence  of  yet  another  humanitarian 
issue  —  the  global  food  crisis.  We  would  like  to 
highlight  the  positive  developments  produced  by  the 
special  meeting  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
devoted to food security. 

In  our  opinion,  the  Rome  Declaration  and  the 
Comprehensive  Framework  for  Action  developed  by 
the High-level Task Force on the Global Food Security 
Crisis can serve as a sound basis for the consolidation 
of  the  efforts  of  the  international  community  in  this 
area. 

The  role of the World Food Programme has  also 
increased in this context as the main instrument of the 
United  Nations  for  the  provision  of  food  for  the 
world’s  hungry,  whose  number  has 
surpassed 
900 million people. 

Global climate change is a very important factor 
that  certainly  must  be  taken  into  account  when  we 
discuss  natural  disasters.  In  recent  decades,  we  have 
regularly  witnessed  unprecedentedly  frequent  and 
intensive  tropical  cyclones,  protracted  heat  waves, 
droughts,  heavy  rains  and  floods.  These  extreme 
natural  hazards,  which  are  linked  to  climate  changes, 
often  reduce  to  naught  international  donor  efforts  and 
increase  the  challenges  faced  by  some  countries, 
especially  African  States,  in  the  fields  of  agriculture, 
food provision and disease control. 

We  believe  that,  at  this  stage,  international 
cooperation  must  be  based  on  a  balanced  approach  to 
measures  aimed  at  mitigating  climate  change,  as  well 
as those aimed at adapting to the current and forecasted 
extreme  consequences  of  our  increasingly  variable 
climate. 

Moreover, the growing economic losses from the 
adverse  effects  of  climate  change  in  developed  and 
developing  countries 
importance  of 
adaptation  measures  and  disaster  risk  reduction.  The 
urgent  elaboration  of  joint  measures  to  respond  to 
current and expected extreme consequences of climate 
change  could  help  to  significantly  reduce  the  loss  of 
life, as well as economic losses. 
increase 
the 
08-59758 

3 

in 
A/63/PV.44 


First and foremost, attention should be devoted to 
strengthening  national  capacities  for  mitigating  the 
consequences  of  natural  disaster,  the  development  of 
early  warning  systems,  including  updating  existing 
assessment  and  forecasting  measures.  Scientific  and 
applied research should be supported. 

We  welcome  progress  achieved  in  implementing 
the  Hyogo  Framework  for  Action  2005-2015  on 
building  the  resilience  of  nations  and  communities  to 
disasters  at  the  national,  regional  and  international 
levels. As  noted  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report,  the 
international  community  lags  behind  the  timetable 
included 
the  Hyogo  Framework  aimed  at 
significantly  reducing  the  damage  caused  by  natural 
disasters by 2015. 

There  is  a  need  to  step  up  our  efforts.  The 
International  Strategy  for  Disaster  Reduction  is  an 
important  tool  in  this  regard.  Russia  is  ready  to 
actively  participate  in  the  midterm  review  of  the 
Hyogo  Framework,  which  will  take  place  during  the 
second session of the Global Platform for Disaster Risk 
Reduction  in  June  2009,  and  we  expect  it  will  be 
finalized by 2010. 
It  is  with  a  great  deal  of  interest  that  we  have 

familiarized  ourselves  with 
the 
independent biennial review of the Central Emergency 
Response  Fund  (CERF),  which  shows  that  the  Fund 
has  become  an  essential  financial  tool  that  provides 
humanitarian  assistance  in  a  more  timely  and  flexible 
manner. 
The  conclusions  of  the  review  reaffirm  the 

effectiveness and relevance of the Fund, as well as the 
existence of mechanisms to further improve and adapt 
it  to  changing  conditions  of  humanitarian  assistance 
environment. 

For  our  delegation,  an  important  element  here  is 
the  process  of  needs  assessment  and  criteria 
adjustment. We would ask that further attention be paid 
to  this,  and  we  hope  that  these  elements  will  be 
reflected in the upcoming independent review. 

In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  underscore  that, 
given 
the  growth  of  humanitarian  operations 
throughout 
is  a  need  for  all 
participants in humanitarian assistance to comply with 
for  providing  humanitarian 
existing  parameters 
assistance.  We  hope 
that 
the 
harmonization  of  approaches  will  prevail  in  United 
the  world, 
results  of 
towards 
trend 
there 
the 
the 
and 
other 
international 
response  of 
the  generous  and  effective 
That  valuable  support  sent 
Nations  debates.  This  will  enable  us  to  avoid  the 
undesirable  trend  of  further  politicization  within  the 
United Nations. 
Mr.  Chávez  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

15 August  2007,  an  earthquake,  measuring  7.9  on  the 
Richter  scale,  hit  the  coast  of  Peru,  and  several  cities 
were 
seriously  affected.  Pisco  was  completely 
destroyed. More than 500 people died, more than 1,500 
were  injured  and  thousands  suffered  damage.  The 
losses  in  housing,  schools,  hospitals  and  in  basic 
infrastructure were immense. 

In  facing  this  disaster,  one  of  the  most  tragic  in 
recent  decades  in  our  country,  the  role  played  by 
national  services,  in  particular  the  national  civil  defence 
system,  was  crucial.  But  the  immediate  response  and 
recovery would not have been so effective had it not been 
for 
the 
international  community,  whereby  humanitarian  aid  was 
provided by many States, the United Nations system, the 
Red  Cross 
institutions,  
non-governmental organizations
(NGOs)  and  civil 
society. 
is  a 

international 
demonstration  of 
humanitarian 
supporting  national 
responses  and  the  crucial  role  that  it  plays  in  the  face 
of any disaster. 

Among  the  most  valuable  tools  in  humanitarian 
assistance  and  disaster  relief  are  an  early  warning 
system and systems for disaster response preparedness 
and  risk  reduction.  It  is,  therefore,  important  to 
continue 
systems  nationally, 
regionally  and  internationally.  Exchange  of  knowledge, 
experience and good practice, technology transfer and the 
provision  of  financial  assistance  to  reduce  current  risks 
and avoid new ones are some of the elements included in 
the Hyogo Framework for Action and must be taken into 
consideration to strengthen those systems. 
is  very 

relevant  to  the  provision  of  humanitarian  assistance. 
There  are  significant  international  endeavours  in  that 
sphere.  Among  them,  we  would  like  to  highlight  the 
Guidelines 
and 
Regulation  of  International  Disaster  Relief  and  Initial 
Recovery Assistance as an element in strengthening the 
legal  framework  for  international  disaster  relief.  It  is 
also  worth  underscoring 
the 
Inter-Agency Standing Committee of the Inter-Agency 
the  Domestic  Facilitation 
international  coordination 
the  approval  by 
importance  of 
strengthening 
Likewise, 
assistance 
in 
the 
to  Peru 
those 
for 
4 

08-59758 
in 
to 
their 
enhancing 
preparedness 
the  civilian  population  affected, 


Contingency  Planning  Guidelines  for  Humanitarian 
Assistance  as  a  means  of  supporting  Member  States, 
regional  organizations,  international  agents  and  civil 
society 
and 
organization to supplement national activities. 

With  regard  to  disaster  response,  the  States  and 
the international community must always be aware that 
at times of crisis the rights of victims are exposed and 
vulnerable.  Therefore,  assistance  and  reconstruction 
policies must focus more on promoting and protecting 
human  rights,  with  emphasis  on  women  and  children, 
who are likely to be among the most vulnerable groups. 

Cooperation  between the  United Nations and the 
Governments of countries affected by disasters must be 
enhanced  to  ensure  effective  humanitarian  assistance 
and  the  security  of  humanitarian  staff.  The  most 
tangible  form  of  cooperation  is  to  ensure  rapid,  safe 
and unhampered access on the part of staff, equipment 
and  supplies,  so  that  staff  can  efficiently  provide 
assistance 
in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  international  and 
domestic legislation. 
It  is  of  particular  concern  that,  in  many  cases  of 

complex  humanitarian  emergencies,  United  Nations 
and humanitarian assistance staff, including local staff 
and  volunteers,  have  to  deal  with  various  kinds  of 
threats  and,  in  many  cases,  are  subject  to  deliberate 
attacks on them. Thus, it is imperative that States take 
the  necessary  action 
to  avoid  deliberate  acts  of 
violence  against  humanitarian  and  United  Nations 
personnel, as well as arrest, detention, harassment and 
impediments to freedom of movement. 

Climate change has led to an increase in disaster 
risk.  The  global  food  crisis  makes  the  problem  more 
complex,  as  an  increasingly  greater  percentage  of 
humanitarian  aid  goes  to  purchasing  food,  thereby 
reducing  the  level  of  donations  for  humanitarian 
operations.  Thus,  in  the  present  situation,  the  work 
undertaken by the Central Emergency Response Fund, 
which  has  proved 
to  be  a  rapid  and  effective 
instrument,  becomes  more  crucial.  Therefore,  we 
encourage States to continue contributing to that Fund. 

Those  contributions  continue  to  be  the  most 
tangible  manifestation  of  political  will  to  support  the 
victims  of  disasters.  Without  that  political  will,  little 
can be done to provide the humanitarian assistance our 
populations  need.  Relief  for  millions  of  people,  who 
A/63/PV.44
income 
to 
national 
development 
Mr.  Wetland
(Norway):  The 
the  prevailing  conditions  when 
today  are  suffering  and  expect  our  support,  is  in  our 
hands.  
international 

humanitarian  system  is  under  intense  and  growing 
pressure. Regions of Somalia, the Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo,  Sri  Lanka,  the  Sudan,  Palestine  and 
Afghanistan are examples where the situation has gone 
from bad to worse. 

At  the  same  time,  the  combined  effects  of  the 
financial  crisis  and  high  food  and  energy  prices  have 
put severe financial strains on humanitarian assistance 
efforts,  and there are concerns that the  financial  crisis 
will affect the level of contributions of donor countries. 

A few weeks ago, in the midst of the unravelling 
of  the  financial  crisis,  we  made  the  announcement  in 
Norway  that  we  have  reached  the  goal  we  set  for 
ourselves  three  years  ago  of  providing  1  per  cent  of 
gross 
and 
humanitarian needs. Hopefully, many more States will 
accelerate  their  efforts,  rather  than  cutting  them,  now 
under 
the  most 
vulnerable  and  voiceless  may  become  even  more 
victimized. 

Norway  is  committed  to  continue  to  making 
significant  and  predictable  contributions  to  the  United 
Nations  Central  Emergency  Response  Fund,  common 
humanitarian  funds  and  United  Nations  humanitarian 
appeals.  Only  when  it  is  soundly  funded  will  the 
United Nations be able to respond to the many serious 
global  challenges  in  the  years  to  come,  and  we  ask 
more countries to come on board and shoulder a larger 
share of the financial burden. The United Nations plays 
and  must  play  a  pivotal 
in  coordinating 
humanitarian  assistance.  Close  cooperation  between 
the 
non-governmental 
humanitarian  organizations,  as  well  as  between  the 
United Nations and national authorities, is essential. 

Norway  expects  its  humanitarian  partners  to 
apply  a  gender  perspective  in  all  programmes  and 
activities.  That  is  necessary  not  only  for  justice  and 
equality, but also for quality. It should be obvious that 
women  and  men,  the  young  and  the  elderly,  have 
different  needs,  and  we  expect  those  needs  to  be 
reflected  in  the  humanitarian  appeals  now  to  be 
launched in December. 

Women  and  children  are  particularly  vulnerable 
in  humanitarian  crises.  Nowhere  in  the  world  is  that 
Nations 
United 
role 
and 
08-59758 

5 
and 
actors 

strengthen 
coordination 
A/63/PV.44 

fact more obvious today than in the eastern Democratic 
Republic of the Congo. The widespread and systematic 
sexual violence has devastating consequences not only 
for each and every victim, but also for future peace and 
reconciliation  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo. Sexual violence is internationally recognized as 
a savage weapon of war, in fact as a war crime, but it is 
not an inevitable feature of war. It can be stopped if we 
take  it  seriously  enough. The  awesome  fact,  however, 
is that the world has too often looked away. 

It  is  our  collective  responsibility  to  ensure  that 
such acts do not go unpunished. The Security Council 
has  a  key  role  in  following  up  Security  Council 
resolutions 1325 (2000) and 1820 (2008) and to ensure 
the  protection  of  women  and  children  from  sexual 
violence.  Norway  calls  upon  States  and  all  relevant 
United  Nations  and  humanitarian  organizations  to 
improve 
capacity, 
including  surge  capacity,  in  supporting  victims  and  in 
establishing more effective preventive measures. 

In  many  of  today’s  conflicts  —  and  we  debated 
Afghanistan  here  yesterday  —  access  to  vulnerable 
population  groups  is  becoming  increasingly  difficult, 
and  aid  workers  are  being 
targeted.  All  parties 
concerned, 
and 
neighbouring States, must cooperate in ensuring access 
to civilian populations and in protecting aid workers in 
armed conflict. 

Norway will continue to work to promote respect 
for  fundamental  humanitarian  principles  and  a  clear 
division of the roles of humanitarian organizations and 
military  forces.  The  humanitarian  space  must  be 
understood and protected in all emergencies. 

The  establishment  of  the  Central  Emergency 
Response  Fund  gave  the  United  Nations  a  rapid 
response  capacity.  Still,  the  international  community 
should  be  better  prepared  to  respond  to  humanitarian 
crises  than  we  in  fact  are.  We  all  know  that  it  is  less 
expensive  to  anticipate  and  prevent  than  to  react  and 
repair,  but  the  world  community  seems  still  more 
willing  to  pay  for  the  damages  after  disaster  strikes 
than to invest in the lesser cost of preventive action. 
Climate change adaptation, disaster risk reduction 

and  preparedness  should  be  lifted  up  to  the  top  of  the 
humanitarian  reform  agenda.  Moreover,  the  Security 
Council, the United Nations system and Member States 
must consider the links and improve the transition from 
humanitarian assistance to longer-term development. 
non-State 
including 
The  Convention  on  Cluster  Munitions 

is  a 
historic milestone and a good example of the effective 
prevention  of  humanitarian  disasters.  It  prevents  the 
spread  of  cluster  munitions  to  new  countries  and 
reduces  future  humanitarian  suffering.  Norway  urges 
all  Member  States,  United  Nations  agencies  and 
humanitarian  agencies  to  recognize  cluster  munitions 
as a serious humanitarian problem  and to promote the 
rapid  entry  into  force  and  full  implementation  of  the 
Convention on Cluster Munitions.  

The Convention will be signed in Oslo during the 
signing  conference  from  2  to  4  December  2008.  All 
Member  States  have  been  invited  and  we  hope  and 
expect  to  be  able  to  welcome  them  all  to  the  signing 
ceremony so that we can all take part in that upgrading 
of humanity. 
Mr.  Liu  Zhenmin  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

The Chinese delegation wishes to thank the Secretary-
General  for  the  reports  submitted  under  agenda  item 
65 and associates itself with the statement made by the 
representative of Antigua and Barbuda on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China.  
We  would  also  like  to  take  the  opportunity  to 

express  our  sympathy  and  solidarity  with 
the 
Governments  and  peoples  that  suffered  humanitarian 
emergencies  over  the  past  year.  We  pay  tribute  to  all 
humanitarian workers for their courage and dedication 
and appreciate the tireless efforts of host Governments 
in the areas of disaster  relief and reduction and in the 
protection of the humanitarian personnel. 
On 12 May this year, a devastating earthquake of 

magnitude  8.0  on  the  Richter  scale  struck  Wenchuan, 
Sichuan  province,  China,  resulting  in  colossal  human 
casualties and property losses. I would like to express, 
on  behalf  of  the  Chinese  Government  and  people,  our 
sincere  gratitude 
that  provided 
humanitarian assistance to the Wenchuan quake zone. 

This  year,  climate  change,  soaring  food  prices 
and the financial crisis have heightened the attention of 
all  to  the  current  global  humanitarian  situation. While 
the demand for humanitarian assistance the world over 
is  continuously  on  the  rise,  problems  such  as  the  lack 
of disaster relief capacity and resources facing the vast 
number  of  developing  countries  have  become  ever 
more pronounced.  

the 
common 
international  community  is  the  search  for  ways  to 
to  all  parties 
confronting 
challenge 
A 
6 

08-59758 
to 
for 
leading, 
that 
set  out 
The  Chinese  delegation  believes 


further strengthen cooperation and coordination among 
all  humanitarian  actors,  maintain 
the  sustainable 
growth  of  resources  for  humanitarian  assistance, 
improve  the  timeliness  and  effectiveness  of  disaster 
relief, shore up the disaster reduction and preparedness 
capacities  of  disaster-prone  countries  in  a  practical 
manner,  and  ensure  a  smooth  transition  from  disaster 
relief to development. 
the 

fundamental  humanitarian  principles 
in 
resolution  46/182  of  19  December  1991  represent  the 
prerequisites  and  bases  for  the  effective  provision  of 
humanitarian  assistance.  All  humanitarian  assistance 
actors  must  strictly  adhere 
the  principles  of 
humanity,  neutrality  and  impartiality  and  respect  the 
sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and  national  unity  of 
States.  They  must  observe  international  humanitarian 
law and the laws of the host countries and respect local 
customs  and  traditions,  so  as  to  ensure  the  credibility 
of international humanitarian activities and workers. 
Admittedly,  the  affected  State  has  the  primary 

responsibility 
initiating,  organizing, 
coordinating  and  executing  humanitarian  assistance 
within  its  territory.  China  believes  that  all  other 
humanitarian  assistance  actors,  including  the  United 
Nations  system,  have  an  obligation  to  strengthen 
exchanges and cooperation with the host Government, 
making 
local  coordination 
mechanisms.  Timely 
emergency 
humanitarian  assistance,  especially  materials  and 
technical assistance, should be provided in accordance 
with the actual needs of local Governments and people 
so  as  to  help  the  affected  State  improve  its  relief  and 
disaster  reduction  capacity  in  a  meaningful  way  and 
achieve  its  early  recovery  and  long-term  development 
goals. 

In recent years, under the leadership of Mr. John 
Holmes, Emergency Relief Coordinator, the Office for 
the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) has 
played  an  irreplaceable  role  in  reforming  the  United 
Nations  humanitarian  system  to  improve  humanitarian 
fundraising and coordination — a role that the Chinese 
Government appreciates. 

China  supports  the  further  strengthening  of  the 
steering and coordinating role of OCHA in the field of 
humanitarian assistance. We hope that, with the support 
of  Member  States,  OCHA  will  further  improve  the 
humanitarian  resident  coordinator  system  and  the 
full  use  of  existing 
adequate 
and 
A/63/PV.44
capacity 
and 
resource 
its  relief 
inputs 
in  reforming 
towards  success 
related accountability system and that, drawing on past 
experience,  it  will  improve  the  cluster  approach, 
expand  partnerships  and  enhance  its  disaster-relief 
coordinating 
utilization 
efficiency.  We  also  hope  that  while,  discussing  the 
possible  humanitarian  impacts  of  climate  change,  it 
will  refrain  from  turning  its  focus  away  from  or 
reducing 
to  non-climate  related 
disasters,  and  that,  while  stressing  the  importance  and 
sensitivity  of  humanitarian  access,  it  will  try  to  help 
affected countries to effectively enhance their capacity 
to  address  the  practical  difficulties  in  facilitating  safe 
and  unhindered  access  during  complex  humanitarian 
emergencies. 

The Chinese delegation congratulates the Central 
Emergency  Response  Fund  (CERF)  on  reaching  its 
expected  funding  target  of  $500  million  in  2008,  an 
important  step 
the 
humanitarian  funding  system  of  the  United  Nations. 
China  supports  the  efforts  of  CERF  to  aggressively 
scale  up  its  activities  as  demands  increase  and  as  its 
implementation  capacity  improves.  We  hope  that,  on 
the basis of the first independent evaluation, the Fund 
will continue to refine the criteria for project approval 
and 
its 
accountability and  transparency. At the  same time, we 
appeal  to  Member  States,  the  developed  countries  in 
particular, to continue to make significant contributions 
to  CERF  on  a  voluntary  basis  in  the  current  global 
economic context. 

regional 
Strengthening 
cooperation  is  one  effective  means  to  help  disaster-
their  disaster  relief, 
prone  countries 
reduction 
and 
capacities.  While 
encouraging 
the  Governments  of  disaster-stricken 
countries  to  continue  to  increase  inputs  into  disaster 
reduction  and  preparedness,  China  calls  on  all 
humanitarian  parties  to  fully  implement  the  Hyogo 
Declaration  and  Framework  for Action  and  meet  their 
resource commitments to disaster risk reduction. 

China  also  hopes  that  Member  States  will  fully 
support  the  annual  General Assembly  draft  resolution, 
coordinated  by  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  on 
international cooperation on humanitarian assistance in 
the 
to 
development,  and  that  they  will  effectively  strengthen 
international 
in 
humanitarian  assistance  during  the  transition  from 
disaster relief to development, and help disaster-prone 
field  of  natural  disasters, 
to 
improve 
preparedness 
international 
cooperation, 
strengthen 
allocation 
from 
relief 
address 
the  gap 
resource 
and 
and 
08-59758 

7 

of 
the 
and 
root 
causes 
the  appeals  of 
Secretary-General 
A/63/PV.44 

countries  to  improve  their  national  disaster  relief  and 
reduction  and  preparedness  capacity  in  the  ultimate 
aim  of  achieving  with  a  view  to  finally  attaining  the 
goal  of  providing  assistance  that  tackles  both  the 
symptoms 
humanitarian 
emergencies. 

As  a  natural  disaster-prone  developing  country, 
China is hit by a variety of natural disasters every year. 
For  China,  disaster 
reduction,  preparedness  and 
emergency relief is an important task that Governments 
invariably face at all levels year in and year out. While 
it  responds  to  the  enormous  challenges  posed  by 
natural  disasters, 
the  Chinese  Government  also 
recognizes the importance of international cooperation 
in  the  field  of  humanitarian  assistance.  In  response  to 
requests  from  the  Governments  of  disaster-afflicted 
international 
countries  and 
community,  China  has  actively  participated 
in 
international assistance activities. 
Mr.  Alim  (Bangladesh):  Allow  me  to  begin  by 

commending 
his 
comprehensive  reports  under  agenda  item  65  (a). 
Bangladesh  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made  by 
the representative of Antigua and Barbuda on behalf of 
the Group of 77 and China. 
facing  daunting 

challenges  posed  by  disasters 
in  a  myriad  of 
manifestations,  which  are  now  occurring  with  greater 
intensity  and  devastation 
than  ever  before.  The 
phenomenon  of  climate  change  has  intensified  the 
challenges.  Nine  out  of  every  10  disasters  are  now 
climate-related.  Disasters  caused  by  floods  are  more 
frequent and have increased from about 50 in 1985 to 
more than 200 in 2005. The humanitarian implications 
are enormous, to the say the least. Soaring global food 
prices,  high  volatility  in  the  international  commodity 
markets  and  the  global  financial  crisis  have  further 
intensified the challenges.  

effective 
responses  are  essential  to  saving  lives  and  livelihoods 
in  disasters.  Increasing  capacity  to  predict,  monitor, 
warn and respond to the needs of those who have been 
adversely  affected  is  vital  to  effective  humanitarian 
action.  It  is  against  that  backdrop  that  the  role  of  the 
United Nations in humanitarian assistance has assumed 
added significance. 
Although the vast majority of small and medium-

scale  disasters  are  responded  to  locally  by  national 
Strengthened 
preparedness 
increasingly 
The  world 
and 
the 
for 
is 
of 
an 
and 
feature 
delivery 
essential 
leadership, 
responsible 
aid 
the  United  Nations.  The 
the  necessary  means  and 
authorities,  it  is  necessary  to  strengthen  regional  and 
international  preparedness  and  response  systems  for 
large-scale  events  that  overwhelm  local  capacity  to 
respond.  Well-concerted  efforts  at 
the  national, 
regional  and  global 
levels  are  of  paramount 
importance.  The  international  community  must  come 
up  with 
resources. 
Channelling  humanitarian  funding  to  such  upstream 
activities  as  disaster  preparedness,  early  warning  and 
contingency  planning  is  also  critically  important.  A 
substantial  increase  in  investment  in  disaster  risk 
reduction is urgently required to implement the Hyogo 
Framework for Action. 
The development of a stronger standing response 

greater 
capacity,  more 
improved 
effectiveness 
in 
coordination  can  produce  better  results.  The  Central 
Emergency  Response  Fund  (CERF)  is  a  welcome 
initiative  of 
two-year 
evaluation  found  that  the  Fund  has  proven  to  be  a 
valuable  and  impartial  tool.  In  a  short  time,  it  has 
become 
international 
humanitarian  action.  It  must  be  adequately  supported 
so  that  it  can  reach  the  annual  target  of  $500  million 
set  by  the  General  Assembly.  Early  and  multi-year 
commitments to the Fund would ensure predictable and 
sustainable  access 
to  resources  for  humanitarian 
response. The size of the Fund should also be increased 
progressively.  Donor  funding  to  CERF  should  be 
additional  to  existing  humanitarian  assistance  and  not 
an expropriation from it. 
We would like to reaffirm that General Assembly 

resolution  46/182  remains  the  framework  and  guiding 
principle  for  governing  humanitarian  assistance.  The 
resolution  emphasizes  that  humanitarian  assistance 
must be provided in accordance with the principles of 
humanity,  neutrality  and  impartiality. Those  principles 
must be complied with. We strongly support complete 
safety and security for humanitarian personnel. 
that  faces  natural 

disasters  with  relentless  regularity.  The  emerging 
threats  of  climate  change  reinforce 
the  existing 
challenges.  They  underline  the  need  to  strengthen 
disaster  preparedness  and  risk-reduction  efforts  as  a 
means of reducing the humanitarian impact of various 
disasters.  The  Government  remains  committed 
to 
reducing  the  vulnerability  of  people  to  a  minimum 
level.  Improved  preparedness  and  early  warning 
is  a  country 
Bangladesh 
8 

08-59758 
the  poor  and 


systems have already proven effective in saving human 
lives and livelihoods in Bangladesh.  

Bangladesh has adopted a comprehensive disaster 
risk  reduction  policy,  the  objective  of  which  is  to 
contribute  to  sustainable  development  by  reducing  the 
burden  of  disasters  on 
the  most 
vulnerable.  The  National  Disaster  Management 
Council, headed by the Prime Minister, is the highest-
level forum for the formulation and review of disaster 
management  policies.  The  Inter-Ministerial  Disaster 
Management  Coordination  Committee  is  in  charge  of 
implementing disaster management policies. 

Recently, Bangladesh developed a comprehensive 
climate change strategy and action plan. It is a 10-year 
programme  to  build  the  capacity  and  resilience  of  the 
country  to  meet  the  challenges  of  climate  change  and 
extreme  weather  events.  The  action  plan  envisages 
37 intervention areas and will cost $5 billion over five 
years. Comprehensive disaster management constitutes 
one  of  the  six  basic  pillars  of  the  climate  change 
strategy  in  Bangladesh  and  will  further  strengthen  the 
country’s effective disaster management system to deal 
with increasingly frequent and severe natural disasters. 

Implementing  the  comprehensive  strategy  and 
action plan will, however, impose a massive burden on 
our  fiscal  resources.  We  cannot  do  it  alone.  We 
therefore  call  upon  the  international  community  to 
come  up  with  necessary  support  measures  on  a 
predictable basis. 
Mr.  Haroon  (Pakistan):  It  is  my  privilege  to 

participate  in  this  important  debate  on  strengthening 
the coordination of emergency humanitarian assistance 
of the United Nations. We thank the Secretary-General 
for his various reports under agenda item 65. Pakistan 
wishes  to  associate  itself  with  the  statement  made  by 
the representative of Antigua and Barbuda on behalf of 
the Group of 77 and China. 

The  Secretary-General’s  reports  note  that  the 
number  of  recorded  disasters  have  doubled  over  the 
past  20  years.  While  we  cannot  control 
the 
overpowering  strength  of  natural  disasters,  we  can 
reduce 
they  cause. 
Traditional  wisdom  in  all  our  societies  emphasizes 
preparation for future eventualities. Those who prepare 
in advance suffer less in emergencies. As mentioned in 
the  Secretary-General’s  reports,  preparedness  helps 
affected  communities  and  Governments  to  respond 
effectively  to  disasters.  That  requires  an  efficient 
impact  and  devastation 
the 
A/63/PV.44
The 
Climate  change, 
implications  of  disasters 
emergency response system capable of handling large-
scale disasters and to mitigate their negative impact. It 
should  therefore  be  our  task  to  strengthen  capacity  at 
all levels and to reduce the impact of disasters. 

in  developing 
countries  are  immense,  due  mainly  to  the  long-lasting 
consequences for affected populations and the adverse 
impact on the environment and livelihoods of millions 
of people. It is important to take measures that improve 
the  response  capacity  of  affected  nations  and  for  the 
international  community  to  provide  assistance  and 
cooperation when they are most required. 

intra-State 
inter-State  and 
conflicts,  compounded  by  the  food  crisis,  will  likely 
increase the demand for humanitarian assistance in the 
coming decade. During the past year, the largest driver 
of disasters was the increased incidence and severity of 
extreme weather events. Nine out of every 10 disasters 
are now climate-related. Similarly, another 100 million 
people  will  be  added  to  the  ranks  of  the  800  million 
people who are already suffering from food insecurity 
in our world. 
South Asia is viewed as a region most affected by 

climate change in a series of recent studies and reports. 
The  report  of  the  Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate 
Change mentions increased rainfall, risk of floods, land 
degradation and water stress, among others,  as factors 
that  will  adversely  affect  millions  in  South Asia  who 
will  bear  the  brunt  of  the  consequences  of  climate 
change in many ways. 
In recent years, Pakistan has suffered from high-

magnitude  natural  disasters.  Different  parts  of  the 
country  have  been  hit  by  those  disasters,  which  have 
caused loss of life and infrastructure. Those include the 
devastating earthquake of 2005, which measured 7.6 on 
the Richter scale; heavy rains and subsequent floods in 
2007  and  2008;  and  the  recent  earthquake  measuring 
6.5 on the Richter scale that hit Baluchistan province in 
October  2008.  While  the  initial  phase  of  providing 
relief  to  the  earthquake-hit  population  in  Baluchistan 
province is under way, the Government of Pakistan has 
also started working on a long-term reconstruction and 
rehabilitation plan. 

The  earthquake  of  2005  in  Pakistan  reinforced 
awareness  of  the  need  for  disaster  preparedness.  We 
were  confronted by a situation in which  we had to go 
beyond the conventional disaster management model of 
response,  relief  and  recovery  to  a  better  and  more 
08-59758 

9 

the 
learned 
Secondly,  we 
A/63/PV.44 

holistic model, which includes the processes of hazard 
identification and mitigation, community preparedness, 
integrated response efforts and recovery, which had to 
be  undertaken  contiguously  within  a  risk  management 
context  to  address  issues  of  vulnerability.  We  are 
thankful for the international community’s help in post-
2005  earthquake  reconstruction  and  rehabilitation 
efforts, which are still ongoing. 

From  our  experiences,  especially  in  the  post-
earthquake  period  in  2005,  we  have  learned  the 
following lessons. 

First,  the  integration  of  disaster  risk  reduction 
into all sectoral and national development policies and 
practices is necessary for achieving sustainable social, 
economic and environmental development. 

importance  of 
developing and strengthening institutions, mechanisms 
and  capacities  at  all  levels,  in  particular  at  the 
community level, that can systematically contribute to 
building resilience against natural disasters.  

Thirdly,  communities  play  the  role  of  the  first 
responders  in  any  disaster  management  and  disaster 
risk  reduction  effort.  Community-based  approaches 
offer viable solutions for managing and reducing risks 
and ensuring sustainable development. 

Fourthly,  we  learned  the  importance  of  building 
on  people’s  local  knowledge,  coping  mechanisms  and 
cultural  practices.  We  are  convinced  that  top-down 
disaster reduction interventions alone are insufficient. 
Fifthly,  we  learned  the  need  for  the  systematic 

incorporation  of  risk  reduction  approaches  into  the 
design and implementation of emergency preparedness, 
response 
the 
reconstruction of the affected areas. 

The  lessons  learned  helped  us  to  envisage  a 
devolved  and  decentralized  mechanism  for  disaster 
preparedness 
disaster  management.  That 
mechanism includes the following.  

and Rehabilitation Authority.  
Secondly,  we  promulgated  a  national  disaster 

management  ordinance  and  subsequently  established 
the  National  Disaster  Management  Commission  and 
Authority.  We  have  given  the  senior  post  in  that 
position to the Prime Minister of Pakistan to show the 
importance of the institution.  
First,  we  created  an  Earthquake  Reconstruction 
programmes 
recovery 
and 
and 
in 
in 
to 
Thirdly, 
included 
provincial 

disaster  management 
commissions  and  authorities  have  been  established, 
while  similar  arrangements  have  been  made  at  the 
district 
level  and  district  disaster  management 
authorities have been notified across the country. Those 
are the linchpins of the whole system and play the role 
of the first line of defence in the event of a disaster.  

Fourthly,  a  national  disaster  risk  management 
framework  has  been  formulated  to  coordinate  and 
guide  the  work  of  the  entire  system  in  the  area  of 
disaster  risk  management.  The  framework  has  been 
developed 
through  wide-ranging  consultation  with 
stakeholders at the local, provincial and national levels. 

Fifthly,  by  the  next  academic  year,  starting  in 
April and May 2009, disaster management will be part 
of  the  curricula  of  schools  in  our  country.  It  is  also 
being 
the  curricula  of  non-formal 
education. 
As  the  number  of  natural  disasters  increases,  so 

has  the  magnitude  of  their  destruction.  Effective 
preparedness,  post-disaster  relief  and  rehabilitation 
require cooperation within the international community 
to  build  capacities  and  increase  funding  resources  to 
the  challenges  of  natural  disasters. 
respond 
However, 
territorial 
integrity  and  national  unity  of  States  must  remain  the 
overarching  parametres  in  all  efforts  for  coordination 
of  humanitarian  assistance.  The  role  of  the  concerned 
State in the identification, coordination and delivery of 
humanitarian  assistance,  where  assistance  is  requested 
from the international community, remains primary. 
Mr.  Maurer  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 

Switzerland  thanks  the  Secretariat  for  the  reports  on 
the  agenda 
the 
coordination of the United Nations urgent humanitarian 
assistance  provided  by  United  Nations  agencies.  The 
reports  underline  the  major  challenges  that  the  United 
Nations has had to face in the past year. The number of 
civilian  victims  of  armed  conflicts  and  of  natural 
disasters  remains  alarming.  In  addition,  we  are 
confronted  by 
the 
humanitarian impact of climate change, the food crisis 
and, on top of all this, the international financial crisis. 

I  would  like  briefly  to  address  three  subjects: 
first,  humanitarian  access;  secondly,  the  security  of 
humanitarian  personnel  and  protection  of  United 
Nations personnel; and thirdly, humanitarian reform, in 
particular the strengthening of response coordination. 
such  global  challenges  as 
the  strengthening  of 
the  sovereignty, 
item  on 
respect 
for 
10 

08-59758 



Current  crises  have  brutally  reminded  us  that 
respect  for  relevant  international  law,  in  particular 
international  humanitarian  law,  and  for  humanitarian 
principles  by  parties  to  a  conflict  have  been  severely 
put to the test, and the protection and assistance needs 
of civilian populations are often not met. 

Rapid  and  unimpeded  access  by  humanitarian 
organizations  to  all  victims,  whether  in  the  case  of 
armed  conflicts  or  of  natural  disasters,  is  therefore 
that  fact  and 
essential.  Switzerland 
is  aware  of 
organized  a  meeting  of  experts 
in  Montreux, 
Switzerland,  on  30  June  and  1  July  2008,  aimed  at 
identifying  the  main  obstacles  to  humanitarian  access 
in  situations  of  armed  conflict  and  at  considering 
methods  of  overcoming  those  obstacles  at  the  legal, 
political and operational levels. Switzerland intends to 
organize  a  follow-up  to  that  meeting  in  2009.  A 
forthcoming  contribution  could  be  the  drafting  of  a 
good practices guide in this area. 

The  security  of  humanitarian  personnel  and  the 
protection  of  United  Nations  personnel  are  another 
major cause for concern. It is imperative for the actors 
concerned to respect their obligations in that regard in 
accordance  with 
in  particular 
international humanitarian law. 

Switzerland  encourages  the  Secretary-General  to 
take  the  measures  necessary  to  implement  within  the 
United Nations system the recommendations contained 
in  the  report  of  the  Independent  Panel  on  Safety  and 
Security  of  United  Nations  Personnel  and  Premises 
Worldwide, published in June 2008. 

the 
operational  level  the  achievements  of  humanitarian 
reform. Switzerland has long promoted a collaborative 
approach among all humanitarian actors. We thus note 
with  satisfaction  that  humanitarian  reform  is  formally 
taking  account  of  the  principles  of  collaboration  and 
coordination.  Switzerland 
improved 
encourages 
for 
the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian  Affairs  and  the  members  of  the  Inter-
Agency  Standing  Committee  to  pursue  their  efforts  to 
enhance coordination.  
Moreover,  effective  responses  cannot  be  made 

without highly competent leadership. Strengthening the 
capacities of resident and humanitarian coordinators to 
deal  with  complex  crises  should  be  among  our 
priorities.  We  should  like  to  see  improved  joint 
appropriate 
humanitarian 
inter-agency 
the  Office 
to  consolidate  at 
time  has  come 
assessments, 
international 
needs 
law, 
The 
A/63/PV.44
on 
the 
like 
that 
to 
his 
thank 
reports 
Ms.  Alzhanova  (Kazakhstan):  First  of  all,  I 
for 
the 
relief 
management  of  the  various  capacities  of  operational 
actors  and  a  constant  focus  on  compliance  with 
humanitarian principles. 

We  also  believe  it  important  to  take  action  in 
areas other than humanitarian reform to ensure a more 
effective  collective  response  by  the  United  Nations 
system  to  the  protection  needs  of  civilian  populations 
before,  during  and  after  crises  or  armed  conflicts. 
Switzerland  believes 
the  various  ongoing 
initiatives to identify specific measures that will enable 
us  to  make  coherent,  complementary  and  coordinated 
responses are not only welcome, but also necessary. 

the  Secretary-General 
would 
submitting 
strengthening 
coordination  of  humanitarian  and  disaster 
assistance of the United Nations. 
Kazakhstan  commends  the  positive  conclusions 

the  Secretary-General  regarding 
two-year 
of 
assessment  of  the  work  of  the  Central  Emergency 
Relief  Fund  (CERF),  which  remains  a  principal  body 
for  resolving  humanitarian  issues.  Within  a  short 
period  of  time,  CERF  has  successfully  achieved  most 
of  its  predetermined  goals  and  become  a  useful  and 
objective 
implementation  of 
humanitarian  activities.  In  that  context,  we  welcome 
the  high-level  conference  on  the  Fund  that  will  take 
place in December as a great opportunity to strengthen 
the  political  and  financial  commitments  of  United 
Nations Member States. 
the  Fund’s  work 

regarding the voluntary contributions of Member States 
and  the  equitable,  timely  and  effective  distribution  of 
resources.  That  said,  we  would  like  to  note  that 
Kazakhstan  has  doubled  its  voluntary  contributions  in 
recent years. In the light of a number of recent natural 
disasters  in  Central Asia,  we  would  like  to  emphasize 
the increasing role of the regional office in Kazakhstan 
of  the  Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian 
Affairs (OCHA) and to suggest transforming that office 
into  a  Central  Asian  coordination  centre  for  the 
prevention and mitigation of emergency situations. 
Furthermore,  our  country  has  promoted  an 

initiative  aimed  at  establishing  an 
international 
logistics  unit  modelled  on  the  coordination  centre  at 
the Almaty airport. We believe that that city is in a very 
convenient  geographical  location  for  providing  rapid 
responses  to  emergencies  and  humanitarian  support  in 
My  delegation  appreciates 
instrument 
the 
for 
08-59758 

11 
During 
accords 
priority 
attention 
totalling 
resources 
Kazakhstan 
this  year  alone, 
to  allocate  additional 
foodstuffs,  clothing  and  medicine 
A/63/PV.44 

Europe  and  Asia.  In  that  regard,  we  look  forward  to 
receiving 
the  endorsement  of  OCHA  and  our 
neighbouring countries. 

The  impacts  of  climate  change  and  military 
conflicts  are  being  exacerbated  by  soaring  food  and 
fuel prices, which have caused violent protests in many 
countries.  According  to  World  Bank  projections,  as  a 
result of the food crisis, the number of people suffering 
from  hunger,  which  currently  stands  at  800  million, 
could  increase  by  another  100  million.  In  order  to 
mitigate the consequences of the crisis, donor countries 
will  have 
to 
humanitarian operations. 

the  Republic  of 
Kazakhstan  has  provided  humanitarian  support  in  the 
form  of 
to 
Afghanistan,  China,  Cuba,  Georgia,  Moldova,  Russia, 
Tajikistan  and  Ukraine, 
approximately 
$10 million. 

to 
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  on  issues  related 
to the global environment and climate change. With an 
ecological  problem  of  a  global  scale  on  its  national 
territory — a problem inherited as a result of 40 years 
of  nuclear 
the  Semipalatinsk  area  — 
Kazakhstan faces serious practical challenges related to 
global climate change. 
In  that  context,  we  would  like  to  draw  the 

attention 
60/216, 
“International  cooperation  and  coordination  for  the 
human  and  ecological  rehabilitation  and  economic 
development 
of 
Kazakhstan”,  a  three-year  resolution  containing  a 
provision requesting the Secretary-General to report to 
the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-third  session  on  the 
progress  made  in  implementing  the  resolution.  In  that 
connection,  we  request 
to 
accelerate  the  issuance  of  that  document  by  the 
Secretariat  for  consideration  by  the  General Assembly 
at a plenary meeting during the current session. 

To  conclude  my  intervention,  I  would  like  to 
underscore once again that, by synergizing our efforts, 
we  can  prevent 
the  horrendous  consequences  of 
cataclysms  and  ensure  a  better  future  for  millions  of 
disaster victims. 
Mr. Normandin (Canada) (spoke in French): On 

behalf  of  the  Government  of  Canada,  I  should  like  at 
the  Secretary-General 
the  Semipalatinsk 
of  members 
resolution 
testing 
in 
to 
of 
region 

of 
targeting 
civilians, 
affected  by  natural  disasters 
the  outset  to  thank  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  for  the  opportunity  to  participate  in  this 
important debate.  

Every  year,  natural  disasters  and  conflicts 
endanger  the  lives  and  livelihoods  of  millions  of 
people.  All  too  often,  those  people  are  increasingly 
vulnerable  to  widespread  human  rights  violations, 
including sexual and gender-based violence, as well as 
forced  displacement.  We  continue  to  witness  the 
deliberate 
including 
humanitarian  workers,  by  those  who  refuse  to  comply 
with  international  humanitarian  law  and  fundamental 
humanitarian  principles.  Moreover,  as  recent  natural 
disasters clearly demonstrate, it is more important than 
ever before that we make concrete efforts to effectively 
reduce  disaster  risks  and  put  mitigation  strategies  in 
place.  

Thanks  to  modern  means  of  communication,  the 
world is increasingly aware of the living conditions of 
populations 
and 
emergency  situations.  However,  it  remains  difficult  to 
achieve  concrete  and  lasting  results  in  the  area  of 
humanitarian  aid.  Examples  such  as  Sri  Lanka, 
Somalia,  Zimbabwe,  Haiti  and  the  Sudan  are  stark 
reminders of the repercussions that such situations can 
have for civilian populations. The lack of full, safe and 
unhindered access by humanitarian workers to affected 
populations only exacerbates the situation. That is why 
such  access  is  a  fundamental  requirement  for  any 
humanitarian response.  

All  too  often,  however,  some  still  attempt  to 
deliberately delay or even deny such access or to use it 
as  a  political  bargaining  tool,  further  aggravating  the 
suffering of civilian populations. Such obstacles to the 
delivery  of  foodstuffs,  medicine  and  other  relief 
supplies  reflect  a  blatant  disregard  for  humanitarian 
principles endorsed by Member States.  

essential 
services  to  millions  of  people  in  need,  often  at  great 
personal  risk.  The  recent  attacks  carried  out  against 
humanitarian  actors 
the  Sudan  and 
Afghanistan highlight that vulnerability. Unfortunately, 
that  is  particularly  true  for  the  national  personnel 
working  for  humanitarian  organizations.  Increasingly, 
humanitarian workers are the targets of violent acts and 
face  harassment,  kidnappings  and  deadly  attacks. 
Likewise,  aid  convoys  are  hijacked  or  blocked  and 
humanitarian personnel are expelled from the countries 
Humanitarian 
in  Somalia, 
personnel 
provide 
12 

08-59758 
to 
and 
assessments 
enhance 
Better 


in which they were deployed. We are deeply saddened 
by  such  abhorrent  and  deliberate  attacks  against 
humanitarian  personnel  and  condemn 
them  as 
violations  of  international  humanitarian  and  human 
rights law. Thus, we urge all Member States to ensure 
the  protection  and  security  of  those  who  provide 
essential emergency assistance to populations in need. 
(spoke in English) 

Canada fully recognizes the important role played 
by the United Nations in responding to crises, and we 
strongly  support  efforts  by 
the  United  Nations 
agencies,  led  by  the  Office  for  the  Coordination  of 
international 
Humanitarian  Affairs, 
coordination, 
action. 
humanitarian 
comprehensive 
needs 
the 
identification  of  gaps  in  response  are  key  to  ensuring 
timely and effective humanitarian action. 

The  cluster  coordination  approach  is  a  valuable 
model  and  is  helping  to  improve  the  predictability, 
timeliness  and  effectiveness  of  humanitarian  action, 
while paving the way for recovery. It has enabled us to 
address  weaknesses  in  response,  strengthen  inter-
agency  cooperation  by 
the  Red  Cross 
Movement  and  non-governmental  organizations,  and 
provide  a  more  predictable  and  consistent  response, 
with  designated  agencies  now  accountable  for  a 
specific sector. 

Of  course,  with  any  new  approach  there  will  be 
challenges,  including  recognizing  the  need  to  help 
build the capacity of national Governments to facilitate 
the  coordination  of  humanitarian  response.  We  also 
need to assist those clusters that are not performing to 
our collective expectations and ensure that cluster lead 
agencies  have 
to  enhance 
coordination and response. Canada remains committed 
to  the  cluster  coordination  approach  and  encourages 
the  United  Nations  system  to  continue  efforts  to 
implement the approach in all emergencies. 
role  played  by 

humanitarian  coordinators  in  providing  the  leadership 
needed  to  ensure  effective  international  humanitarian 
action. The combination of their skills, their experience 
with  the  humanitarian  system  and  knowledge  of  and 
presence  in  a  local  context  makes  them  an  invaluable 
resource. 

On  a  separate  subject,  flexible  and  responsive 
financing  mechanisms  are  also  critical  to  ensuring 
We  also  note 
the  vital 
including 
required 
tools 
the 
A/63/PV.44
and 
humanitarian 
evidence-based  needs 
effective 
response.  The  Central 
Emergency  Response  Fund  has  become  an  integral 
funding tool that agencies can turn to in the immediate 
aftermath  of  a  crisis,  speeding  up  humanitarian 
response.  Providing  a  predictable  source  of  funding 
also  helps  to  ensure  a  more  equitable  allocation  of 
resources  across  crises.  Yet  we  must  ensure  that 
reliable 
assessments 
underpin humanitarian funding mechanisms. This is at 
the core of good humanitarian donorship. 

Rising  food  prices  and  their  impact  on  global 
food security have emerged as a priority issue and have 
the potential to impact upon our collective capacity to 
meet  the  food  and  nutritional  needs  of  populations  at 
risk.  Canada  is  committed  to  assisting  those  most 
affected by the food crisis. 

In  April  2008,  we  announced  an  additional 
$50 million  in  food  aid,  bringing  our  contribution  to 
over $230 million for this fiscal year. Canada has also 
completely opened its food aid budget to international 
procurement. Special emphasis is on procurement from 
developing  countries  to  provide  Canada’s  food  aid 
partners  with  the  flexibility  to  purchase  commodities 
locally and regionally, which is more effective. 
In  conclusion,  as  we  move  forward,  we  need  to 

tools  and 
continually  re-examine  and  refine 
strategies  we 
timely 
humanitarian action, and learn from recent experiences. 
It is also important that we have the means to monitor 
and assess restrictions on  humanitarian  access and the 
ability  to  hold  accountable  those  responsible  when 
such access is infringed upon or denied. 

It  comes  down  to  a  matter  of  collective  will  — 
the pursuit of common efforts to assist and protect the 
vulnerable  —  if  we  are  to  assert  our  conviction  to 
refuse  to  stand  silently  in  the  face  of  humanitarian 
crises. 

Observer of Palestine. 
Mr.  Mansour  (Palestine):  We  are  here  today  to 

discuss an issue to which the Palestinian people attach 
great  importance:  international  assistance.  For  the 
Palestinian  people,  international  assistance  represents 
the  unwavering  commitment  of 
international 
community  to  the  Palestinian  people  and  the  ultimate 
realization of their inalienable rights. Over the past six 
decades,  this  assistance  has  been  key  to  the  resilience 
The  Acting  President:  I  call  on  the  Permanent 
for  effective  and 
rely  on 
the 
the 
08-59758 

13 
for  which 
the  path  of 
legitimacy 
law,  a  commitment 
A/63/PV.44 

of the Palestinian people and to ensuring that they, the 
majority  of  whom  are  dispossessed  refugees,  are  not 
forgotten  or  forsaken  despite  many  years  of  conflict, 
turmoil and suffering. 

This  assistance  has  time  and  again  served  as  a 
reaffirmation  of  the  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to 
live  a  life  of  dignity  and  to  build  their  societal 
institutions to enable them to survive and withstand the 
imposed misery of military occupation and prepare for 
a tomorrow free from its shackles. This assistance is a 
to  stand  by 
reflection  of  a  clear  political  will 
international 
the  principles  of 
international 
the 
Palestinian  people  will  always  extend  their  gratitude 
and thanks to the international community. 

The past eight years have seen mounting burdens 
on  Palestinian  society;  as  well  as  on  international 
donors; as a direct result of deliberate, systematic and 
illegal  actions  and  policies  by  Israel,  the  occupying 
Power.  These  policies  and  actions  have,  on  numerous 
occasions,  directly  targeted  donor-funded  projects, 
retarding 
supported 
Palestinian  development  and  forcing,  on  both  the 
Palestinian  people  and  the  international  donors,  an 
agenda  of  emergency  relief,  rather  than  development 
and sustainability. 

In  fact,  aggressive  Israeli  policies  against  the 
Palestinian  people  have 
imposed  a  process  of 
“de-development” in the occupied Palestinian territory, 
including  occupied  East  Jerusalem.  According  to  the 
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, 
Israel’s  continued  illegal  construction  of  the  wall  and 
settlements  and  its  regime  of  closures,  siege  and 
military checkpoints have been the direct cause of this 
de-development, as well as of the erosion of productive 
capacity  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory.  In  2004 
alone,  the  projected  income  loss  was  $4  billion  —  an 
intolerable  price  to  pay  for  a  people  living  under 
occupation  and  struggling  to  lift  themselves  out  of 
dependency and hardship. 

the  Palestinian 
Authority  and  the  international  donor  community, 
recovery from this forced plunge into deep poverty and 
economic  shrinkage  has  been  slow  and  extremely 
difficult  because  neither  the  painful  daily  reality  of 
occupation  nor 
its  devastating  consequences  has 
changed. 
the  best  efforts  of 
internationally 
Despite 
and 

International  agencies 

including  all  United 
Nations  agencies,  the  Quartet’s  Special  Envoy,  the 
World Bank and many others widely recognize Israel’s 
closure  policy  as  the  most  devastating  factor  limiting 
the  Palestinian  economy.  In  this  regard,  Ms.  Karen 
Koning AbuZayd, Commissioner-General of the United 
Nations  Works  Agency  and  Project  for  Palestine 
Refugees in the Near East, recently said: 
“I  must  express  my  alarm  about 

the 
devastating  economic  and  human  cost  of  the 
situation.  [As  numerous  expert  studies  have 
concluded,] the fundamental cause of this distress 
is  the  system  of  closure  and  other  movement 
restrictions imposed by the Government of Israel 
on Gaza and the West Bank.” 
The World  Bank,  in  particular,  has  left  no  doubt 

in 
the  Palestinian 
this 
economy would have probably doubled in size between 
2000 and 2007 were it not for the restrictions and other 
punitive  measures  imposed  by  Israel,  the  occupying 
Power. 

Affairs also clearly states that: 
The Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian 
respect,  concluding 
that 
“seven  years  of  restrictions  …  [have]  developed 
into  an  entrenched  multi-layered  system  of 
obstacles  and 
[the 
occupied  territory]  and  affecting  the  freedom  of 
movement  of  the  entire  Palestinian  population 
and its economy”.  
fragmenting 
restrictions, 
should 
suffering 
The facts here are undeniable; so, too, are the looming 
prospects  of  unjustified 
these 
circumstances be allowed to persist. 

The  continuing  Israeli  military  occupation  has 
created  two  sets  of  punitive  realities  for  Palestinians 
living  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory,  including 
East  Jerusalem.  One  is  in  the  West  Bank,  including 
East  Jerusalem,  where  access  to  land,  crops  and  other 
property has been severely restricted, and the effects of 
which,  experts  warn,  will  be  devastating  for  years  to 
come. According to a report issued by the World Bank 
in  October  2008,  entitled  “The  Economic  Effects  of 
Restricted  Access  to  Land  in  the  West  Bank”,  Israeli 
restrictions  on  movement  of  people  and  access  to 
natural resources extend much beyond its most obvious 
manifestations.  According  to  the  World  Bank,  Israel, 
the  occupying  Power,  physically  barred  Palestinians 
from  accessing  38  per  cent  of  the  land,  reserved  to 
14 

08-59758 


serve  illegal  settlements  and  punitive  closure  regime 
that  constrain  movement  of  people  and  goods  within 
and  out  of  the  West  Bank.  The  World  Bank  then 
concludes that  
to  food, 
insecurity 
the  rights 
to  health  care, 
infrastructure,  as  well  as 
“recurrent destruction of trees, private homes and 
public 
settlers’ 
encroachments on private land create a permanent 
state  of 
that  deters  Palestinian 
investment”. 

In the Gaza Strip, poverty is even deeper, as is the 
suffering.  With  80  per  cent  of  the  population  living 
below  the  poverty  line  and  more  than  80  per  cent 
dependent  on  food  aid,  Gaza  is  experiencing  a  grave 
humanitarian  crisis.  This  is  due  to  an  inhumane  and 
illegal siege that continues to be imposed by Israel, the 
occupying Power — a siege that has denied more than 
1.5 million  people  their  fundamental  human  rights, 
including 
to 
livelihood and adequate standard of living, and to live 
a life of dignity as they are cut off from the most basic 
requirements  of  a  normal  life,  including  essential 
humanitarian  imports.  Nearly  all  Gaza’s  industrial 
operations  have  come  to  a  grinding  halt,  with  the 
number of industrial sector establishments falling from 
3,500 at the beginning of 2005 to less than 150 at the 
end of 2007.  

The situation I have just outlined has far-reaching 
consequences  extending  beyond  daily  misery  and 
reaching well into the future of our children. According 
to  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme,  in 
2007  more  than  53.7  per  cent  of  Palestinian  families 
lived  below  the  national  poverty  line  —  more  than 
double  the  number  in  1998.  UNICEF  reveals  that,  in 
the  occupied  Palestinian  territory,  nearly  half  the 
children  aged  6  to  36  months  and  40  per  cent  of 
expecting mothers suffer from anaemia. 

A joint survey by the World Food Programme, the 
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works 
Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East shows 
that, despite humanitarian aid, food insecurity is on the 
rise  and  now  affects  38  per  cent  of  the  Palestinian 
population  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory. These 
alarming  figures  are  expected  to  rise  if  the  current 
conditions continue. 

Over  the  past  few  years,  international  aid  to  the 
Palestinian  people  has  increased  significantly,  and  we 
are  grateful  for  that.  Yet,  this  increase  has  had  little 
A/63/PV.44
to  meet 
to 
lifting 
is  channelled 
In  December  2007, 
effect on the grim reality on the ground. Unfortunately, 
this is not surprising, given what we have discussed for 
so  long,  as  the  situation  on  the  ground  continues  to 
deteriorate  because  of  the  Israelis’  systematic  illegal 
policies.  No  amount  of 
international  aid  can 
compensate  for  the  astonishing  losses.  Instead,  this 
increased  aid 
the  rising 
emergency needs brought about by these policies. This 
is  counterproductive,  as  the  much-appreciated  and 
much-needed  international  aid  should  be  serving  the 
important  goal  of  building 
the  Palestinian  State 
towards  the  realization  of  the  two-State  solution.  But, 
according  to  the  World  Bank,  under  the  current 
circumstances  and  with  the  increased  campaign  of 
aggressive  Israeli  measure,  this  aid  “has  succeeded  in 
doing  little  more  than  slowing  down  the  deterioration 
of  the  economy,  despite  ever  larger  volumes”.  This 
picture needs to change dramatically. 
Despite  the  difficulties  I  have  just  outlined,  the 

the 
Palestinian  Authority’s  commitment 
Palestinian  people  from  deep  poverty  and  misery  is 
unwavering;  so,  too,  has  been  the  commitment  of 
international  donor 
principled  members  of 
community. 
the  Palestinian 
reform  and 
Authority  presented 
In 
development  plan. 
this  serious 
commitment, 
the 
international  donor  community 
pledged  at  the  Paris  Conference  $7.7  billion  over  the 
subsequent  three  years.  One  year  on,  despite  initial 
shortcomings  in  meeting  pledge  commitments,  the 
pledged  assistance  has  been  committed  and  dispensed 
this  year  as  planned.  Naturally,  this  has  greatly 
contributed  to  the  fiscal  stability  of  the  Palestinian 
Authority,  allowing  it  to  plan  and  execute  projects  of 
crucial importance to restoring stability and security to 
Palestinian  cities,  as  well  as  providing  the  necessary 
environment 
and 
investment.  

If empowered and not continuously repressed by 
the  occupying  Power,  Palestinians  can  achieve  these 
goals and more because the Palestinian people have the 
power  and  potential  to  achieve  results.  Let  us  not 
forget  that,  in  1999,  the  Palestinian Authority,  despite 
all  the  restrictions  of  existing  under  occupation,  ran  a 
surplus. We can do so again. 

When  discussing  international  assistance  to  the 
Palestinian  people,  we  must  be  very  aware  of  two 
important points: the goal that is driving this assistance 
and  the  need  to  create  the  necessary  conditions  to 
three-year 
to 
development 
economic 
the 
its 
response 
for 
08-59758 

15 
A/63/PV.44 

ensure  that  this  assistance  achieves  its  intended  goal. 
That  is  why  we  continue  to  call  on  the  international 
community to intensify its efforts to bring an end to all 
of  the  illegal  Israeli  practices  I  have  outlined  in  order 
to ensure that aid is directed to development instead of 
emergency relief. 
The past series of meetings of the Ad Hoc Liaison 

the  Coordination  of  International 
Committee  for 
Assistance 
to  Palestinians,  as  well  as  donor 
conferences  and  political  conferences,  including  the 
Annapolis  Conference,  have  clearly  called  for  the 
lifting  of  restrictions  imposed  by  Israel  on  Palestinian 
economic activities to allow for donor assistance to be 
effective  and  for 
to  recover. 
Moreover, the World Bank and the United Nations have 
stated  very  clearly  that  there  has  been  little  or  no 
progress  with  regard  to  easing  Israeli  restrictions  on 
daily 
territory, 
including  East Jerusalem,  not least in  connection with 
the 
settlement 
activities. 

The  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  human  rights 
situation  in  the  Palestinian  territories  occupied  by 
Israel  since  1967,  Mr.  Richard  Falk,  states  in  his 
report: 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
the  private  sector 
intensification  of 
illegal 
Israeli 
life 
in 

the 
the  full  due  support  of 
of the Palestinian people, providing them with hope for 
a better tomorrow and convincing them that our efforts 
for development and economic stability are not hostage 
to  Israeli  measures  and  that,  rather,  they  are  concrete 
steps  that  will  lift  them  from  the  misery  of  poverty 
under occupation to the hope of prosperity in freedom. 

Development cannot coexist with oppression and 
hegemony,  whose  worst  manifestation 
is  foreign 
occupation  and  its  oppressive  practices.  We  need  to 
uphold our  commitment to spare no  effort in  ensuring 
that  children  and  civilian  populations  under  foreign 
occupation are given every assistance and protection so 
that  their  lives  can  return  to  normal  and  they  can  be 
empowered to look forward and work towards a better 
future. 
Palestine should not be the exception. Hence, we 

expect 
international 
community in order to uphold the Palestinian people’s 
right  to  self-determination,  which  the  world  has  come 
to realize and agree is a prerequisite not only for peace, 
but for development and for getting back on track. 

I conclude by offering special and sincere thanks 
on  behalf  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  all  United 
Nations  agencies  for  their  commitment  to  the  welfare 
and  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people.  On  this  day,  on 
which our people are commemorating the passing of a 
great  Palestinian  leader,  President  Yasser  Arafat,  who 
dedicated  his  life  to  the  realization  of  the  inalienable 
rights  and  national  aspirations  of  the  Palestinian 
people,  we  express  our  gratitude  for  the  international 
community’s  unwavering  support  for  and  solidarity 
with 
the  Palestinian  people  on  all  fronts.  Our 
appreciation is also extended to Member States whose 
assistance  and  support  has  enabled  the  Palestinian 
people 
steadfast  despite 
overwhelming  challenges  and  the  brutal  injustices 
imposed  upon  them.  We  hope  that,  together,  we  can 
soon  ensure  that  this  assistance  is  once  again  directed 
at  sustainable  development  and  State-building  for  the 
resilient people of Palestine. 
Mr. Al-Jarman (United Arab Emirates) (spoke in 

Arabic):  Allow  me  at  the  outset,  on  behalf  of  the 
delegation  of  the  United Arab  Emirates,  to  convey  to 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  our  deep 
gratitude and appreciation for his efforts in steering the 
work  of  this  session;  we  wish  him  every  success.  I 
would also like to associate myself with the statement 
to  persevere  and  be 
law,  but 
“Israel  is  not  only  failing  to  fulfil  its  legal 
obligations  as 
the  occupying  Power  under 
international  humanitarian 
is  also 
obstructing  Palestinian  efforts  to  mitigate  the 
impact  of  those  violations  on  the  well-being  of 
(A/63/326, 
Palestinians  enduring  occupation” 
para. 22). 

Now  the  question  is: What  will  the  international 
community do about such irresponsible policies, which 
have  reversed  all  the  progress  we  have  achieved 
together?  No  economy  can  actually  succeed  with  the 
presence  of  any  one  of  the  many  restrictions  that  the 
Palestinian  economy  faces.  That  is  why  determined 
steps should be taken to curb Israel’s intransigence and 
flagrant  disregard 
law  and  all 
agreements  and  commitments.  We  must  not  allow  for 
the  situation  to  continue  whereby  international  aid  is 
now  being  spent  to  pay  for  repairing  the  colossal 
damage  caused  by  Israel’s  illegal  actions.  Instead,  the 
occupying Power must be compelled to recognize that 
such  actions  come  at  a  price.  Only  then  would  these 
illegal actions stop and could we once again embark on 
the important effort of making a difference in the lives 
international 
for 
16 

08-59758 
and 
food 
to  discharge 
the  Organization 
crises  have  had 


delivered by the representative of Antigua and Barbuda 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

We  have  followed  closely  the  reports  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  United  Nations  humanitarian 
activities,  which  spell  out  the  seriousness  of  the 
challenges  facing 
this  field 
imposed  by  the  growing  number  of  people  in  need  of 
emergency  and  humanitarian  relief  assistance  due  to 
the  frequency  of  natural  disasters,  the  impact  and 
devastation  of  which  are  especially  exacerbated  in 
developing  and  poor  countries.  Moreover,  the  global 
financial 
serious 
repercussions  for  millions  of  people  in  countries 
already suffering from poverty, the negative impact of 
climate  change,  armed  conflicts  and  serious  diseases. 
All  of  this  calls  for  increased  efforts  by  the  United 
Nations  and  its  relevant  partners  to  meet  the  growing 
need  for  humanitarian  assistance,  and  emphasizes  the 
urgent  need  to  supply  the  Organization  with  financial 
and  human  resources  necessary 
its 
growing responsibilities. 

In  this  context,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  my 
country’s  support  for  the  people  and  Government  of 
brotherly  Yemen  in  the  crisis  following  the  recent 
floods  in  that  country.  I  would  like  to  reiterate  our 
support  for  draft  resolution  A/63/L.21,  introduced  by 
the  representative  of  Yemen,  on  providing  special 
economic assistance to Yemen. We have already begun 
to  provide  urgent  relief  assistance  to Yemen  since  the 
floods occurred last month.  

the 
essential role of the United Nations and commends its 
in  mobilizing  and  coordinating 
valuable  work 
international 
humanitarian 
emergency relief assistance for millions in the affected 
areas.  We  recognize  that  international  partnership  and 
cooperation  with 
the  most 
effective  way 
the  optimal  results  for 
humanitarian activities in different parts of the world.  

My  country  has  thus  been  eager  to  coordinate 
many  of  its  humanitarian  initiatives  and  contributions 
with  the  United  Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies 
through  bilateral  partnerships  and  direct  collaboration 
in implementing many emergency relief and long-term 
projects  in  countries  affected  by  natural  disasters  and 
armed  conflicts.  As  a  member  of  the  Donor  Support 
Group  of 
the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), we have contributed to 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  emphasizes 
the  Organization  are 
the  Office 
to  ensure 
provide 
efforts 
in 
to 
for 
A/63/PV.44
assistance 
honouring 
its  many 
in  addition 
than  $1  billion, 
enhancing OCHA’s work, thus strengthening the efforts 
of the Organization in the humanitarian field so it can 
achieve  greater  efficiency  when  providing  relief  in 
emergencies. 

financial 
Besides 
commitments to the United Nations entities concerned 
with  humanitarian 
and  development 
activities  by  contributing  more 
than  $1  million 
annually, the Government of the United Arab Emirates, 
together  with  a  number  of  charity  foundations, 
including  the  United  Arab  Emirates  Red  Crescent 
Society,  contributes  to  all  international  assistance  for 
people  in  affected  areas  in  all  parts  of  the  world.  Our 
contributions  over the past  three years have  amounted 
to  more 
to  other 
contributions  directed  towards  the  reconstruction  of 
countries  affected  by  armed  conflicts, 
including 
Palestine,  Lebanon,  Afghanistan,  Iraq,  Darfur  and 
Bosnia and Herzegovina.  

At  the  same  time,  we  collaborate  with  United 
Nations  major  funds,  programmes  and  agencies  to 
finance and coordinate the implementation of a number 
of  relief  and  development  projects  in  those  countries. 
In  order  to  mitigate  the  effects  of  increasing  food 
prices in the global markets, over the past few months 
we have sent tons of wheat and food products to many 
affected countries. 
Furthermore,  my  country  plays  a  major  role  in 

coordinating  and  strengthening 
international  relief 
efforts by providing highly efficient logistics facilities 
on  our 
International 
Humanitarian  City,  one  of  the  world’s  largest  centres 
providing integrated logistics facilities  and services to 
local, 
humanitarian 
organizations  and  agencies.  In  2007,  the  United Arab 
Emirates  Red  Crescent  signed  an  agreement  with  the 
United  Nations  Office  for  Project  Services  to  provide 
logistical  support  to  ensure  the  more  efficient  and 
effective delivery of relief supplies to persons affected 
by  natural  disasters  and  other  crises,  especially  in 
Africa and Asia. Recently, we established an office for 
the  coordination  of  foreign  assistance,  the  first  of  its 
kind  in  the  Middle  East,  in  order  to  coordinate  with 
United  Nations  entities  and  donor  countries,  at  the 
international  level,  with  a  view  to  enhancing  and 
accelerating our response to emergencies and emerging 
conditions in affected areas. 
land,  such  as 
international 
the  Dubai 
regional 
and 
08-59758 

17 

a 
of 
and 
such 
to 
as 
measures 
resolutions 
implement 
launching 
A/63/PV.44 

We  emphasize  the  importance  of  implementing 

the 
recommendations 
all 
international conferences on national and international 
strategies for dealing with disasters and their aftermath 
at all stages, including by urging developing countries 
to shoulder their responsibilities in implementing such 
strategies and encouraging developed counties to fulfil 
their  commitments  to  assist  developing  countries  to 
build  national  capacity  to  deal  with  natural  disasters 
and the aftermath of armed conflicts. We have worked 
with some countries that receive our assistance to build 
their  national  capacity  to  deal  with  disasters  through 
financing  and  other  support  for  programmes  and 
research  aimed  at  enhancing  their  ability  to  predict 
disasters and contain their aftermath and to strengthen 
infrastructure.  
At  the  national  level,  we  have  taken  all  the 

those 
necessary 
recommendations, 
crisis 
management and emergency response project aimed at 
setting  up  an  integrated  local  response  mechanism  for 
emergencies  and  environmental  disasters.  In  addition, 
we  are  committed  to  implementing  an  environmental 
strategy that will reduce carbon emissions and mitigate 
the adverse effects of climate change. 

The  United  Arab  Emirates  attaches  particular 
importance  to  supporting  and  assisting  the  Palestinian 
people  and  their  Government  during  the  humanitarian 
crisis  caused  by  the  cruel,  aggressive  policies  of  the 
Israeli occupying forces. My country holds a firm and 
principled position in its support of the legitimate and 
inalienable  political  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people 
and  supports  the  Palestinian  National  Authority.  We 
have  translated  this  political  and  moral  position  into 
action, with continuous material and economic support 
that 
emergency 
humanitarian, 
development and technical assistance.  

Our  assistance  to  the  Palestinians  from  1994  to 
mid-2008  is  estimated  at  $4.2  billion,  including  our 
pledge  at the  Paris Donor  Conference of $300 million 
to  rebuild  Palestinian  refugee  camps  in  Syria  and  for 
housing  projects  in  Gaza,  Jenin  and  the West  Bank  as 
well  as  our  pledge  in  Vienna  to  contribute  to  the 
reconstruction  of  Nahr  el-Bared  refugee  camp  in 
Lebanon.  In  September  of  this  year,  the  head  of  State 
of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  ordered  the  disbursal  of 
$5 million  as  urgent  assistance  to  the  United  Nations 
Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the 
included 
has 

this 
the 
to 
that 
fulfil 
it  can 
the  outset 
the  basis  of 
occupying  Power, 
Near  East  (UNRWA)  to  help  meet  the  needs  of 
refugees in the camps. 

  Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair. 
In 
regard,  we  stress 
Israel, 
the  urgency  of 

compelling 
to 
immediately stop its aggression, lift its restrictions and 
blockade  against 
the  Palestinians,  comply  with 
resolutions  of  international  legitimacy  and  resume 
peace  negotiations  on 
relevant 
international resolutions and the Arab Peace Initiative.  
We  further  urge  donor  countries  to  strengthen 

their  assistance 
the  Palestinian  people  and 
Government  in  order  to  ease  their  suffering  until  the 
end  of  the  Israeli  occupation  of  their  land  and  the 
establishment of an independent State of Palestine with 
Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  as  its  capital,  and  to  continue 
the  regular  and  emergency 
financial  support  for 
activities  of  UNRWA  so 
its 
commitments to the Palestinian refugees. 
Mr.  El-Bahi  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  am 

pleased  at 
thanks  and 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report 
the  coordination  of 
(A/63/81)  on  strengthening 
emergency  humanitarian  assistance  of 
the  United 
Nations 
to  complex 
to  better  respond 
emergency  situations  in  many  parts  of  the  world,  as 
well as for his other relevant reports. 

We appreciate the valuable efforts undertaken by 
the  various  organs  and  agencies  working  in  the 
humanitarian 
International 
Organization  for  Migration  (IOM),  the  International 
Committee  of  the  Red  Cross  (ICRC)  and  all  other 
non-governmental  organizations.  I  would 
to 
specifically  mention  the  efforts  undertaken  by  various 
national 
society 
organizations  for  the  purpose  of  accelerating  the 
delivery of relief assistance. 

Facing  the  present  global  challenges,  prominent 
among  which  are  humanitarian  needs,  requires  a 
broader and better understanding of how to strengthen 
cooperation and coordination with national institutions. 
The  world  today  is  witnessing  an  increase  in  both 
natural  and  man-made  catastrophes.  The  frequency  of 
such  disasters  has  increased,  which  requires  joint 
coordination  and  early  monitoring  in  order  to  predict 
these events.  
non-governmental 
to  extend  my 
in  order 
field 
such 
as 
the 
and 
civil 
like 
18 

08-59758 
the 
and 
importance 
underscores 
in  complementing 



The  growth  in  the  frequency  of  these  disasters 
has  led  to  what  we  can  call  the  globalization  of 
humanitarian  disasters  that  transcend  the  political 
borders  of  States.  This  doubles  the  impact  of  those 
disasters 
of 
commitment  to  the  main  guidelines  of  humanitarian 
activities,  the  most  important  of  which  are  neutrality, 
independence,  transparency,  integrity  and  respect  for 
the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  States.  We 
hope here that all of those principles will be translated 
into tangible action on the ground.  
In  this  regard,  we  would  like  to  commend  the 

tireless  efforts  to  strengthen  national  capacities  for 
preparedness  and  response,  as  described  in  the  report 
of  the  Secretary-General,  and  we  hope  that  further 
steps in this direction will be taken without delay. 
The  role  of  States  at  the  country  level  is  central 

and 
fundamental 
the  efforts 
undertaken  by  the  United  Nations  through  the  Office 
for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). 
The  experience  of  the  Sudan  clearly  demonstrates  the 
importance  of  the  role  of  the  State.  As  the  Sudan 
previously  hosted  one  of  the  largest  humanitarian 
operations  in  the  world,  Operation  Lifeline  Sudan, 
which  established  a  model  for  the  coordination  of 
international  humanitarian  assistance  in  cooperation 
with  the  national  Government  of  the  Sudan,  my 
country was able to sign a complimentary humanitarian 
assistance protocol with the United Nations for Darfur. 
This  has  facilitated  the  delivery  of  humanitarian 
assistance in Darfur through a fast-track system.  
It  is  worth  mentioning  here  that  the  Sudanese 

Government  has  formed  a  high-level  committee  to 
follow up on the implementation of the protocol. This 
committee  includes  representatives  of  the  Secretary-
General  and  of  specialized  agencies  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  Government  of  the  Sudan  was  eager  to 
include donors on this committee by inviting observers 
of donor States to follow up on the implementation of 
the  humanitarian  protocol.  This  has 
stabilized 
humanitarian indicators, which is reflected in all of the 
Secretary-General’s reports on the situation in Darfur.  

The  situation  is  stable,  and  there  has  been  a 
decline in mortality rates and a general improvement in 
public  health  indices.  Moreover,  at  present,  there  are 
no  epidemics  in  these  provinces.  None  of  that  would 
have  been  possible  without  the  commitment  of  the 
Sudanese  Government  to  support  and  protect  its 
citizens and its willingness to cooperate and coordinate 
A/63/PV.44
with the United Nations and its agencies. Here, a large, 
and  growing,  role  is  being  played  by  our  national 
organizations  and  agencies  at  a  time  when  particular 
value  is  attached  to  humanitarian  efforts. At  the  same 
time, 
the  United  Nations  must  attach  greater 
importance to peaceful solutions, because ultimately it 
is these that will last. This would enhance the initiative 
recently  launched  in  the  Sudan:  the  Sudan’s  People’s 
Initiative to solve the problem of Darfur. 

Here,  we  must  point  out  the  intention  of  the 
United Nations to move from emergency humanitarian 
action  to  the  development  phase,  as  reflected  in  the 
report of the  Secretary-General. This could mesh with 
my  Government’s  continuous,  intensive  efforts  to 
spread development throughout the Sudan, particularly 
in  Darfur,  as  a  basis  for  bringing  about  peace  and 
stability.  The  absence  of  development,  as  is  well 
known, is the main cause of this conflict. 

We  would  like  to  commend  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  (A/63/81)  on  the  strengthening  of 
the coordination of emergency humanitarian assistance 
of the United Nations, in particular his observations on 
Darfur, contained in paragraph 11. As concerns areas in 
which  humanitarian  action  was  affected  because  of 
lack of security, those areas are controlled by the rebel 
movements  and  are  the  only  ones  where  attacks  on 
humanitarian  workers  have  occurred.  Reports  of  the 
Secretary-General 
the  Security  Council  have 
indicated that it was the rebel movements that actually 
carried  out  those  attacks.  In  this  connection,  my 
delegation  would 
thanks  and 
appreciation to all those who have contributed towards 
providing  humanitarian  assistance  to  our  citizens  in 
Darfur. 

As  indicated  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  (A/63/348),  the  experience  of  the  Central 
Emergency  Response  Fund 
(CERF)  shows  how 
important  it  is  to  go  beyond  the  scope  of  the  work  of 
the  Fund  in  providing  emergency  funding  in  response 
to the initial recovery challenges, such as the return of 
victims from camps to their areas of residence. In this 
connection, my delegation would like to underline the 
importance  of  coordinating  emergency  relief  and 
development  assistance  through  funding  development 
projects, 
projects 
encouraging  people  to  return  from  camps  to  the  areas 
from  which  they  were  displaced.  We  should  attach 
importance to building national and regional capacities 
in  the  area  of  humanitarian  emergency  relief  and 
quick-impact 
to  extend 
through 
small 
its 
to 
like 
08-59758 

19 

the 
through  consultation  with 
However,  we  must  point  out 
A/63/PV.44 

development  work 
national Governments concerned. 

Again,  we  would  like  in  particular  to  stress  the 
importance  of  complementing  humanitarian  assistance 
with meeting development needs in order to avoid the 
problem  of  dependency  and  to  ensure  a  smooth 
transition from humanitarian assistance to development 
and reconstruction. 

The Secretary-General stresses the importance of 
strengthening cooperation  between the  United Nations 
and regional organizations and with non-governmental 
organizations (NGOs). We would like to underline the 
important role of NGOs in humanitarian efforts.  

some 
that 
organizations  exploit  the  appearance  of  humanitarian 
assistance  for  purposes  other  than  humanitarian  ones. 
Therefore,  we  appeal  to  all  relevant  actors  to  be  fully 
committed to the guidelines for humanitarian action in 
order  to  achieve  the  desired  objectives.  We  should 
urgently strengthen the coordination of United Nations 
humanitarian  assistance  so  that  we  can  respond  to 
emergencies  and  other  complex  situations  in  many 
parts of the world. 
Mr. Okuda (Japan): We commend the Office for 

the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) and 
other  humanitarian  agencies  for  the  work  they  have 
done 
to  humanitarian  emergencies 
caused by natural disasters and complex emergencies. 

We  welcome  the  progress  that  has  been  made  in 
effecting  humanitarian  reform.  The  Government  of 
Japan supports the Central Emergency Response Fund 
(CERF), which has been facilitating the initial response 
of United Nations agencies to humanitarian crises and 
strengthening  responses  to  chronically  underfunded 
crises. We  also  are  pleased  to  see  that  an  independent 
review found that the Fund has proven itself a valuable 
and  impartial  tool.  I  would  just  note  that  a  Japanese 
national was recently appointed to the CERF Advisory 
Group,  and  Japan 
the 
improvement  of  the  Fund  through  that  increased 
engagement. 

The  further  roll-out  of  the  cluster  approach  is 
another sign of progress, but as fault has been found in 
a  number  of  areas  —  for  example,  the  fact  that 
excessive  time  is  spent  on  coordination  and  that  the 
system lacks priorities — additional improvements are 
needed. 
in  responding 
to  contribute 
intends 
to 
to 
in 
sector, 
expand 
community 
increase  aid 
food  crises  are  having  on 

I would like to make three points today. First, we 
are  concerned  about  the  serious  impact  which  the 
current  global 
the 
implementation of emergency humanitarian assistance. 
The international community must address this issue in 
order to achieve human security. At the Toyako summit 
of  the  Group  of  Eight  this  year,  leaders  called  on  the 
international 
emergency 
assistance  for  everyone  who  is  still  suffering  from 
hunger and malnutrition; remove export restrictions on 
agricultural  products;  and 
to  and 
investment  in  the  agricultural  sector  of  developing 
countries.  We  hope  that  every  Member  State  will 
respond positively to this initiative. 
For  its  part,  Japan  has  provided  approximately 

food  aid  and  other  agricultural 
$1.5 billion 
assistance since January this year. We are committed to 
implementing  the  pledge  we  made  at  the  summit  as 
quickly  as  possible  and  intend  to  strengthen  the 
measures  we  have  already  taken.  In  addressing  the 
food  crisis,  it  is  vital  for  each  actor  to  implement  its 
own measures steadily under a global partnership with 
all  the  relevant  entities,  such  as  developing  countries, 
the  private 
and 
international organizations. 

The  extensive  damage  caused  by  the  cyclone  in 
Myanmar  and  the  earthquake  in  China  reminds  us  of 
the  importance  of  disaster  preparedness  and  risk 
reduction. If further evidence were needed, it would be 
necessary  only  to  look  to  Cuba,  which,  without  a 
doubt, by carrying out a  range of measures before the 
hurricanes struck that country recently, saved the lives 
of  a  great  number  of  people.  For  its  part,  Japan  has 
experienced  every  type  of  natural  calamity  and  has 
centuries  of  experience  in  addressing  them.  With  our 
extensive  experience  and  knowledge,  and  with  the 
technology  we  have  developed,  we  are  determined  to 
contribute to international cooperation in this area. 

Thus, for example, we made a contribution to the 
formulation  of  the  Hyogo  Framework  for  Action  and 
the  development  of  the  Tsunami  Warning  System 
(TWS),  coordinated  by  UNESCO’s  Intergovernmental 
Oceanographic  Commission  and  the  World  Bank’s 
Global  Facility  for  Disaster  Reduction  and  Recovery. 
In May this year, the Government of Japan announced 
that  it  intended  to  promote  cooperation  in  the  area  of 
disaster risk reduction and preparedness and to create a 
disaster  management  and  infectious  disease  control 
network  in Asia. Agreement  on  the  same  subject  was 
society,  donors 
civil 
20 

08-59758 
the 
We 
their  heavy 
recommendations  of 
commend  humanitarian  personnel 


reached when the foreign ministers of Japan, China and 
the  Republic  of  Korea  met  in  June.  Looking  to  the 
future, Japan intends to strengthen cooperation through 
interaction with the Asia disaster risk centre, the newly 
opened  International  Strategy  for  Disaster  Reduction 
office and other institutions based in Kobe. 

for 
carrying  out 
responsibilities  under 
conditions that are often extremely difficult, and we are 
concerned  about  the  deterioration  in  ensuring  their 
safety  and  security.  The  Secretary-General  needs  to 
consider  carefully 
the 
Independent  Panel  on  Safety  and  Security  of  United 
Nations  Personnel  and  Premises  Worldwide,  and  to 
implement them. And we are proposing, together with 
Brazil  and  Switzerland,  the  establishment  of  a  world 
humanitarian  day  to  honour  and  pay  tribute  to  all 
humanitarian personnel who have lost their lives in the 
fulfilment of their duties and to raise awareness of the 
importance  of  humanitarian  assistance.  We  wish  to 
urge all parties to conflicts around the world to respect 
the  principles  of  humanity,  neutrality,  impartiality  and 
independence  and 
to  strengthen  cooperation  with 
regard to humanitarian activities. We also call upon the 
international community to support this initiative. 

There are other vital issues confronting us as we 
strive  to  strengthen  the  coordination  of  humanitarian 
assistance.  The  effective  use  of  military  assets  is  a 
challenge, for example, and we therefore welcome the 
results of the study commissioned by OCHA. 
Before  concluding  my  statement,  I  wish  to 

importance  of  ensuring  a  smooth 
underline 
transition  from  relief  to  development  assistance.  That 
is  particularly  true  in  post-conflict  countries,  where 
peacebuilding  efforts  contribute  to  the  prevention  of 
further conflict by providing sustainable reconstruction 
assistance  along  with  humanitarian  assistance.  The 
Peacebuilding  Commission  will  provide  input  for  the 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  early  recovery  and 
peacebuilding  to  be  issued  next  year. As  Chair  of  the 
Commission and as a Member State, Japan will do  its 
utmost to move forward the discussions on the issue of 
transition. 
Mr. Tarragô (Brazil): The increase in the number 

and  scale  of  natural  disasters  this  year  is  a  cause  of 
sadness  and  concern.  The  Secretary-General’s  report 
the  severity  of 
(A/63/84)  alerts  us 
to 
the  new 
challenges  compounding 
the  suffering  caused  by 
natural disasters, such as the effects of climate change 
the 
A/63/PV.44
and 
involved 
in  responses 
non-indifference. 
and  the  global  food  crisis.  Although  those  crises  are 
felt  worldwide,  they  have  the  greatest  impact  on 
developing countries. 

The extraordinary resilience and solidarity shown 
by the peoples of Myanmar, China, Haiti and Cuba — 
countries that have been especially affected in 2008 — 
are praiseworthy. The efforts and the dedication of the 
Emergency Relief Coordinator and of the humanitarian 
personnel 
to  humanitarian 
emergencies are also to be commended. 

The  dire  consequences  of  natural  and  man-made 
disasters, as well as the persistence of armed conflict in 
many  regions  of  the  world,  heighten  the  need  to 
strengthen  the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
coordinating  international  humanitarian  assistance  in 
keeping  with  the  mandates  of  its  organs,  agencies, 
funds  and  programmes  and  with  full  respect  for  the 
principles set out in resolution 46/182. 

With regard to the essential but complex issue of 
access to populations in need, I would like to stress the 
importance  that  Brazil  attaches  to  the  principles  of 
non-intervention 
Those 
principles are not mutually exclusive; on the contrary, 
they  reinforce  each  other  when  the  activities  of  the 
various actors are performed in a transparent way. The 
assistance  provided  by  Governments, 
the  United 
Nations  system  and  other  partners  must  add  up  to 
benefit  for  the  populations  in  need.  Denial  of  access 
constitutes  a  violation  of  international  humanitarian 
law and, in many cases, international human rights law 
and refugee law as well. 

More  should  be  done  to  strengthen  national  and 
local capacities, not only to ensure timely and adequate 
responses  to  humanitarian  needs,  but  also  to  enhance 
preparedness and disaster risk reduction. There is a role 
for  the  international  community  in  helping  disaster-
prone  countries  to  develop  such  capacities.  As  we 
know, investing in preparedness saves human lives and 
greatly offsets the costs of response. 
Another cause of concern is the reported increase 

in 
the  number  of  violent 
involving 
humanitarian and United Nations personnel. Five years 
ago, on 19 August 2003, we all mourned the loss of the 
Secretary-General’s  Special  Representative,  Sergio 
Vieira  de  Mello,  and  five  other  people.  Many  more 
United  Nations  officials  and  humanitarian  personnel 
have lost their lives since then. It is unacceptable that 
humanitarian  workers  continue 
to  be  deliberately 
incidents 
08-59758 

21 

the 
A/63/PV.44 

targeted and killed in the discharge of their duties. We 
appeal  to  all  parties,  especially  in  armed  conflicts,  to 
comply  with  their  obligations  under  international  law 
regarding  the  safety  and  security  of  humanitarian  and 
United Nations and associated personnel. 

Brazil believes that a commemorative day should 
be established to pay tribute to all those who have lost 
their lives in the cause of duty and to raise awareness 
about 
importance  of  humanitarian  assistance 
worldwide.  We  invite  all  countries  to  join  us  in  that 
endeavour. 
Brazil  is  fully  committed  to  international  efforts 

to  provide  assistance 
to  countries  affected  by 
humanitarian  emergencies.  The  Brazilian  Government 
has steadily increased its provision of assistance, with 
a  special  focus  on  food  security.  The  creation  of  an 
inter-ministerial  working  group  in  2006  to  direct  our 
efforts  in  that  regard  has  been  effective  in  ensuring 
greater predictability and better coordination. 

Our  humanitarian  activities  have  significantly 
increased  since  then.  In  2007  and  2008,  the  Brazilian 
Government  provided  assistance 
to  approximately 
20 countries  each  year,  mostly  in  Latin  America,  the 
Caribbean  and Africa,  through  an  annual  contribution 
of  $15  million.  Although  the  bulk  of  that  assistance 
was  provided  bilaterally,  we  have  also  increased  our 
contributions  to  the  United  Nations  system,  including 
the World Food Programme, the Food and Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Central 
Emergency  Response  Fund  (CERF).  It  is  encouraging 
to note that CERF, which has been supported by more 
than  80  countries,  has  become  an  important  tool  in 
addressing emergency humanitarian situations. 

We take a special interest in the development by 
the  World  Food  Programme  of  new  tools  such  as  the 
pilot  project  Purchase  for  Progress.  In  Brazil,  a  twin-
track  approach  is  being  implemented  through  a  policy 
of  procuring  agricultural  goods  for  assistance.  The 
policy  benefits  small  farmers  both  in  Brazil  and  in 
affected  countries,  thus  helping  to  decrease  rural 
poverty  while  addressing  the  emergency  needs  of  the 
recipient community. 

the 
humanitarian  situation  in  Palestine.  The  international 
community must step up its efforts to address it. Brazil 
made pledges at the Stockholm Conference in 2006 and 
at  the  donor  conference  held  in  Paris  in  December 
2007. We  also  intend  to  provide  technical  cooperation 
is  greatly  concerned  at 
My  country 
example 
is 
economic  growth 
in the development of public policies on food security 
and  in  the  areas  of  health,  sports  and  elections.  In 
2007,  Brazil  received  a  group  of  117  Palestinian 
refugees. 
Finally,  we  see  an  increased  role  for  regional 

in  assisting  affected  countries.  A 
arrangements 
successful 
the  Caribbean  Disaster 
Emergency  Response Agency.  Usually,  neighbours  are 
those  best  suited  to  help  and  understand  the  needs  of 
affected  countries  and  populations.  My  country  is 
willing  to  discuss  ways  to  strengthen  the  coordination 
of  humanitarian  assistance  in  our  region.  In  that 
context,  we  wish  to  thank  Mexico  for  hosting  in 
September  the  first  Regional  Meeting  on  Enhancing 
International  Humanitarian  Partnerships.  We  are 
pleased  to  follow  up  on  that  successful  event  by 
organizing the second meeting in Brazil in May 2009, 
when  we  will  welcome  all  countries  of  Latin America 
and the Caribbean. 
Ms. Graham (New Zealand): Over the past year 

the  international  community  has  had  to  respond  to  a 
growing  number  of  humanitarian  emergencies.  Those 
emergencies wreak havoc on nations and communities, 
threatening 
and  undermining 
development, 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). We welcome 
the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  strengthening  of  the 
coordination  of  emergency  humanitarian  assistance  of 
the United Nations (A/63/81). The report highlights the 
potential  for  erosion  of  the  progress  we  have  made 
towards  the  MDGs,  if  we  fail  to  address  root  causes 
and  fail  to  better  link  development  and  humanitarian 
efforts. 

It is our duty to seek to prevent and to respond to 
humanitarian  crises.  On  top  of  the  climate-related 
disasters  and  conflict  situations  that  have  affected  us, 
the  global  food  and  financial  crisis  this  year  has 
impacted,  and  will  continue  to  impact  unduly  on  the 
poorest of the poor. 

Our  own  Asia-Pacific  region  is  no  exception  to 
those challenges. High vulnerability and the severity of 
natural disasters have resulted in significant loss of life 
and  economic  damage.  We  have  been  pleased  to 
participate  in  the  roll-out  of  the  clusters  at  a  regional 
level  in  the  Pacific  to  improve  capacity,  predictability 
and  response  in  the  event  of  disasters.  In  times  of 
humanitarian crisis, immediate lifesaving work must be 
undertaken,  but  development  efforts  such  as  disaster 
risk  reduction,  climate  change  adaptation,  a  focus  on 
the  achievement  of 
including 
22 

08-59758 
In 


more  effective  long-term  food  security,  social  safety 
nets and sound economic and legal frameworks are all 
part of the solution, as are more effective partnerships. 

Turning now to the Secretary-General’s report on 
the  Central  Emergency  Response  Fund 
(CERF) 
(A/63/348),  we  are  pleased  to  note  the  evaluation’s 
positive assessment. However, we believe there is still 
room  for  improvement  in  terms  of  consistency  of 
quality,  efficiency, 
timeliness  and  accountability. 
Implementing  the  recommendations  will  require  a 
concerted  and  coordinated  effort  and  we  look  forward 
to  the  release  of  management  responses  to  the  CERF 
evaluation later this week.  

line  with  Good  Humanitarian  Donorship 
principles,  New  Zealand  will  continue  to  provide 
unearmarked  predictable  multi-year  contributions  to 
the  CERF  and  to  multilateral  agencies  with  which  we 
partner, to allow agencies to plan and work effectively 
on the basis of agreed strategic priorities. 

New Zealand supports the key role of the United 
Nations  in  providing  leadership  and  coordination  of 
international humanitarian action, especially the role of 
the  Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian 
Affairs. We also consider civil society participation as 
critical  to  solution  and  reform  efforts.  Development 
by 
and 
communities, 
non-governmental  organizations, 
the  Red  Cross 
Movement  and  the  private  sector  are  substantial  and 
they  must  be  recognized  as  equal  and  complementary 
partners  to  the  United  Nations  humanitarian  system. 
Humanitarian 
planning, 
programming and financing needs to be undertaken in 
a way which supports and enhances the activities.  

New  Zealand  applauds  all  those  humanitarian 
workers  who  put  their  lives  on  the  frontline  to  help 
those  most  in  need.  We  remain  deeply  concerned  that 
there  has  been  an  increase  in  deliberate  and  targeted 
attacks  on  humanitarian  workers  and  we  urge  all 
parties  to  a  conflict  to  respect  the  Convention  on  the 
Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel and 
its  Optional  Protocol.  New  Zealand  will  continue  to 
advocate  for  the  preservation  of  humanitarian  space 
and  for  the  safety  and  security  of  all  humanitarian 
workers. 

In all situations where humanitarian assistance is 
provided, the end goals are the preservation of human 
life,  the  alleviation  of  suffering  and  a  sense  of  well-
development, 
humanitarian 
activities 
policy 
A/63/PV.44
upon 
access, 
contingent 
they  cannot 
sustained 
along  with 
being  and  dignity.  Those  goals  are  worthy  of  our 
collective effort. 
Mr.  McMahan  (United  States  of America):  The 

United States continues to support a stronger and more 
effective  international  response  to  humanitarian  crises 
and we welcome the opportunity to comment on efforts 
to better coordinate the emergency relief efforts of the 
United Nations.  

Access  by  aid  workers  to  communities  in  need 
continues to be one of the most significant constraints 
on the speed and quality of humanitarian response. The 
ability  of  the  humanitarian  community  to  deliver  the 
levels  of  assistance  needed  as  a  crisis  progresses  is 
and 
largely 
safe 
humanitarian 
sufficient 
organizational  capacity  to  meet  assessed  needs.  Even 
with  improvements  in  the  humanitarian  community’s 
response capacities, aid is not always delivered in time 
due 
to  access  restrictions.  Humanitarian  agencies 
cannot  assist  people 
reach.  The 
international  community  looks  to  the  United  Nations 
for  leadership  in  advocating  unimpeded  humanitarian 
access to vulnerable populations. 

Deliberate  attacks  on  humanitarian  workers, 
especially  local  staff  and  their  families,  remain  a 
significant impediment to lifesaving aid in many crises 
and we must all work together to guarantee the safety 
and  security  of  humanitarian  workers  as  well  as 
civilians.  A  renewed  commitment  by  all  States  to 
protect  humanitarian  workers  is  a  vital  component  of 
improved 
of 
humanitarian response. 

Protracted civil conflicts continue to create some 
of the largest situations of forced displacement and are 
a tragic reminder that civilians are at times deliberately 
targeted.  Last  year,  a  million  or  more  internally 
displaced people returned to their homes in Africa. Yet 
in  the  same  year,  recent  estimates  indicate  that Africa 
produced 1.6 million new internally displaced persons. 
The  United  States  calls  on  Member  States  to  protect 
those  whose  lives  or  freedom  are  threatened  by  civil 
conflict  and 
to  support  coordinated  efforts  by 
humanitarian  organizations  with  protection  mandates 
and expertise. 

One of the key humanitarian assistance priorities 
of  the  United  States  is  the  protection  of  women  and 
children  from  gender-based  violence.  We  believe  that 
prevention  and  response  to  gender-based  violence 
effectiveness 
coordination 
and 
08-59758 

23 

Member  States, 
the  United  Nations 
This  year,  establishing  effective 
A/63/PV.44 

should  begin  at  the  onset  of  every  emergency.  The 
United  States  strongly  encourages  all  humanitarian 
assistance  actors  to  integrate  programming  to  counter 
gender-based  violence  into  their  humanitarian  efforts. 
Those  approaches  should  be  multisector  and  aim  to 
combine  protection  activities,  community  services, 
health  care  and  referral  services  into  humanitarian 
assistance operations. 

lines  of 
communication  and  clear  lines  of  responsibility  has 
been a priority of donors in the realm of humanitarian 
reform  and  has  strengthened  overall  United  Nations 
leadership  and  responsiveness  in  humanitarian  crises. 
We  also  continue  to  stress  the  importance  of  the 
participation  of  non-governmental  organization  at  all 
levels  of  coordination,  including  the  cluster  approach. 
The United States commends the progress achieved on 
the  cluster  system  and  urges  the  United  Nations  to 
continue  efforts  to  fully  integrate  and  operationalize 
cluster efforts in the field. 
and 

humanitarian  organizations  are  placing 
increased 
emphasis  on  the  need  to  improve  immediate  and 
coordinated 
to  vulnerable 
populations  facing  urgent  humanitarian  needs.  The 
introduction of the Central Emergency Response Fund 
(CERF)  is  a  positive  step  forward,  but  in  welcoming 
the  CERF,  we  should  also  highlight  the  significant 
bilateral and regional mechanisms that already exist to 
provide  humanitarian  assistance.  Given  the  magnitude 
of  need  and  ongoing  efforts,  no  single  mechanism 
should  be  advocated  over  other  funding  options.  A 
variety of funding mechanisms and responses is needed 
in this complex environment. 

I  want  to  reaffirm  the  strong  support  of  the 
United  States  for  neutral,  impartial,  independent  and 
robust  responses  to  humanitarian  needs  around  the 
globe. We  support  adherence  to  the  core  humanitarian 
principles,  as  outlined  in  the  Good  Humanitarian 
Donorship  initiative,  and  recent  efforts  to  strengthen 
needs-based assessment, improve donor coordination at 
the  central  and  field  levels  and  review  best  practices 
and performance measurement. The United States calls 
on  Member  States 
support  United  Nations 
management  reforms  that  seek  to  develop  strong 
systems 
and  measuring 
for 
performance. 
Given  the  complexities  of  aid  programming,  the 

importance of humanitarian space and maintaining the 
emergency 
assessing 
response 
needs 
to 
to  upholding 
impartiality  of  aid  delivery  is  critical.  The  United 
States  supports  the  Oslo  Guidelines  on  the  Use  of 
Foreign  Military  and  Civil  Defence Assets  in  Disaster 
Relief and appreciates that the leading role of civilian 
organizations in implementing humanitarian assistance, 
particularly  in  areas  affected  by  conflicts,  is  essential 
to  humanitarian  access  and 
the 
humanitarian  principles  of  neutrality,  impartiality  and 
independence. 

In  conclusion,  we  extend  our  appreciation  to  the 
Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs 
and  the  United  Nations  agencies,  as  well  as  fellow 
Member  States,  for  their  continued  efforts  to  improve 
the  swiftness  and  effectiveness  of  our  response  to 
humanitarian crises. 
Mr.  Heller  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In  the 

light of the negative impact of climate change, Mexico 
believes  that  efforts  must  be  redoubled  to  reduce  the 
human  and  material  losses  resulting  from  earthquakes 
and extreme weather events. This year started with the 
earthquake  in  Kyrgyzstan,  and  since  then  more  than 
40 countries throughout the world have been struck by 
disasters, in addition to hurricanes Hanna, Gustav, Ike, 
Kyle and Omar and typhoons in the Asian region.  

Mexico reiterates its solidarity with the victims of 
those events and emphasizes how important it is for the 
international  community 
to  progress 
towards  an  integrated  disaster  prevention  culture.  In 
that respect, Mexico therefore believes that the Hyogo 
Framework  for  Action  2005-2015  is  a  strong  step  in 
that direction, as it provides specific guidance on how 
to  address  the  different  levels  of  risk  management.  In 
particular,  priority  five  of  the  Framework  provides  a 
list of basic actions to strengthen preventive measures, 
such  as  carrying  out  studies,  drawing  up  risk  maps, 
establishing  early  warning 
raising 
awareness among people, inter alia.  

Mexico  believes  that  the  time  has  come  to 
understand  and  focus  on  natural  disasters  and  climate 
change  in  a  holistic  fashion,  availing  ourselves  of  the 
advantages  and  opportunities  provided  by  the  agenda 
for  climate  change  adaptation  and  disaster  reduction 
efforts.  

the 
international  community  in  terms  of  its  focus  on 
disasters  is  demonstrated  by  the  diverse  means  the 
that 
humanitarian  community  employs.  Promoting 
diversity 
in 
the  benefit  of  our  communities, 
the  maturity  of 
Mexico  believes 
systems  and 
to  continue 
that 
to 
24 

08-59758 


particular  those  struck  by  disaster,  means  having  the 
right  tools  to  appropriately  coordinate  our  efforts. 
Progress in enhancing the coordination of humanitarian 
assistance  will  require  a  commitment 
to  engage 
actively 
in 
levels, 
in  political  dialogue  at  all 
institutional and humanitarian capacity-building and in 
the provision of financial resources.  
Today, we have the Office for the Coordination of 

Humanitarian  Affairs  (OCHA),  and 
in  particular 
specific  emergency  response  mechanisms,  such  as  the 
expert  contingents  of  the  United  Nations  Disaster 
Assessment  and  Coordination  Team.  Appropriate 
coordination  will  also  require  financial  tools  that 
correspond  to  the  requirements  of  the  time.  The 
recently established Central Emergency Response Fund 
represents  a  predictable,  transparent  and  increasingly 
important  tool  for  responding  to  such  concerns  in  an 
opportune  and  immediate  manner.  Mexico  supported 
the  creation  of  the  Fund  and  over  the  years  has 
increased  its  contribution  to  it.  For  2008,  we  have 
contributed $100,000, and we will provide $150,000 in 
2009.  

It  is  also  important  to  have  tools  that  facilitate 
requests for — and the receipt of — humanitarian aid. 
Mexico  therefore  believes  that  it  is  important  to  have 
common  rules  in  this  area.  We  believe  that  this 
Organization has an important role to play in providing 
technical  assistance  to  States.  Mexico  reiterates  the 
importance  of  avoiding  redundancy  and  the  waste  of 
resources  on  tasks  already  carried  out  by  existing 
mechanisms.  In  that  context,  Mexico  promotes  the 
coordination  of  humanitarian  assistance  by  taking 
advantage  of  the  synergies  that  exist  between  already 
operational  mechanisms  at  the  international,  regional, 
subregional  and  national 
that  respect, 
Mexico, as the pro tempore secretary of the Rio Group, 
will  promote  the  establishment  and  registration  of 
national  platforms  for  disaster  responses, 
thereby 
giving  political  momentum 
the  commitments 
undertaken in the Hyogo Framework for Action.  

Our  country  is  concerned  that  restrictive  and  
anti-humanitarian  stances  will  undermine  victims’ 
rights  to  humanitarian  assistance.  When  emergencies 
strike,  we  as  a  State  are  called  upon  to  consider  the 
limits  of  our  national  capacity  and  to  exercise  our 
prerogatives  to  request  aid  and  receive  it  under  the 
appropriate  conditions  and  procedures.  That  is  not  in 
question.  However,  those  who  scrutinize  humanitarian 
assistance 
in  such  situations,  putting  sovereignty 
levels.  In 
to 
A/63/PV.44
to 
ensure 
better 
coordination 
the  members  of 
Lastly,  Mexico  wishes 
before  the  needs  of  the  victims,  undermine  the  pillars 
of such assistance and jeopardize peoples’ lives, human 
dignity and health.  

Intensifying dialogue in order to improve disaster 
responses  is  in  the  interests  of  the  entire  community. 
Mexico has therefore combined its efforts with those of 
Canada and OCHA to hold the first Latin American and 
Caribbean  meeting  on  international  mechanisms  for 
humanitarian  aid,  which  was  held  in  Mexico  City  on 
10 and 11 September. The purpose of the meeting was 
to  exchange  information  and  experience  on  the  matter 
and to explore ways of improving cooperation between 
States and the United Nations. Here, Mexico wishes to 
welcome  Brazil’s  initiative  to  continue  that  exercise, 
which will undoubtedly be of benefit to the region. 

to  underscore 
its 
commitment  to  the  endeavours  of  the  United  Nations 
the  Inter-Agency  Standing 
and 
Committee 
of 
humanitarian  assistance,  and  reiterates  its  support  for 
OCHA and Under-Secretary-General John Holmes. 
Mr. Al-Salem  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  am 

pleased to participate in the discussion of an important 
item  on  the  agenda  of  the  General Assembly,  entitled 
“Strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian and 
disaster  relief  assistance  of 
the  United  Nations, 
including  special  economic  assistance”.  We  concur 
with  the  Secretary-General  regarding  mention  in  his 
report  (A/63/277)  of  his  grave  concern  regarding  the 
increase in frequency and intensity of natural disasters 
reported during the past year in comparison to previous 
years. Those disasters killed and injured thousands and 
caused economic losses that exceeded $75 billion.  

The  State  of  Kuwait  is  at  the  forefront  of  those 
States  that  offer  all  kinds  of  humanitarian  assistance 
for  those  afflicted  by  natural  disasters  and  contributes 
to alleviating their suffering, particularly in developing 
countries. 
Based  on  its  sense  of  responsibility  and  its 

conviction  of  the  need  to  respond  promptly,  Kuwait 
provides  such  assistance  bilaterally  and  directly. 
During  the  past  three  years,  Kuwait  provided  more 
than  $700  million  in  financial  assistance  to  many 
countries  and  regions  afflicted  on  every  continent 
without  discrimination.  The  assistance  my  country 
provides  is  in  net  amounts,  with  no  transportation, 
shipping  or  administrative  handling  costs  being 
discounted. 
08-59758 

25 
the 
through 
facilitating 
A/63/PV.44 


In this regard, I wish to mention that Kuwait has 
contributed  to  the  Central  Emergency  Relief  Fund 
since its establishment and is very keen to continue its 
annual  support  to  this  Fund.  Since  it  was  established, 
the  Fund  has  acted  quickly  to  provide  immediate  and 
neutral  financing  to  all  urgent  appeals  for  emergency 
situations. 

While  we  commend  the  performance  of  this 
Fund,  we  call  upon  the  international  community  to 
increase their contributions to it, so that it can continue 
to reach its annual target of $500 million, as set by the 
General Assembly. 

Kuwait  commends  the  excellent  role  that  the 
United  Nations  system  has  played  during  the  past 
years, 
its  various  specialized  agencies, 
programmes and offices, in responding to emergencies 
and 
transportation,  shipping  and 
distribution of emergency humanitarian assistance. We 
also  greatly  appreciate  the  efforts  and  sacrifices  of  all 
those  working  in  the  field  of  humanitarian  assistance. 
Kuwait  expresses  its  concern  over  the  explicit  threats 
directed  at  those  workers  in  areas  afflicted  by  natural 
disasters or conflicts. 

My country calls on all the host countries to exert 
all efforts necessary in  order to guarantee the security 
of all those working in the humanitarian field. We also 
reaffirm  the  call  of  the  Secretary-General  urging  all 
parties involved in responding to emergency situations 
and  natural  disasters  to  strengthen  respect  for  the 
humanitarian  principles  required  for  humanitarian 
action: neutrality, impartiality and independence.  

It  is  incumbent  on  all  of  us  to  respect  the 
commitments of the international community to saving 
the Palestinian people from suffering. In this context, I 
wish to commend the rapid emergency interventions on 
the part of the United Nations, its specialized agencies 
and  non-government  organizations  aimed  at  providing 
support  for  the  basic  needs  as  well  the  economic  and 
development needs of the Palestinians. 

Here,  I  wish  to  refer  to  the  continued  assistance 
that Kuwait provides to the Palestinian people in all its 
forms,  whether  it  is  given  directly  to  the  Palestinian 
Authority  or  through  the  United  Nations  Relief  and 
Works  Agency  for  Palestinian  Refugees  in  the  Near 
East. 

On a related topic, we read with great interest the 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  concerning  assistance 

to the Palestinian people. Based on this report, Kuwait 
demands  that  Israel  cease  all  of  its  inhuman  practices 
against  the  Palestinian  people  and  we  emphasize  the 
need to promptly lift the harsh restrictions imposed on 
cross-border transportation and pedestrian crossings in 
Gaza  and  the  West  Bank.  Additionally,  all  settlement 
activities  must  end  and  the  building  of  the  separation 
wall  stopped,  since  such  practices  have  led  to  a  steep 
deterioration  in  the  economy  and  have  hindered  the 
delivery  of  urgent  international  humanitarian  aid  as 
well as the basic materials necessary for development. 

Kuwait  extends  its  heartfelt  condolences  to  the 
Government  and  people  of  the  brotherly  Republic  of 
Yemen,  for  the  scores  of  people  who  were  killed  and 
injured,  the  thousands  who  were  displaced,  as  well  as 
all the infrastructure damage owing to the heavy rains 
and floods that recently affected the eastern parts of the 
country. 

We also confirm that we shall continue to provide 
all kinds of aid and assistance as we call upon General 
Assembly  members  to  sponsor  and  support  the  draft 
resolution  concerning  providing  special  economic 
assistance  to  the  Republic  of  Yemen  in  order  to 
alleviate the suffering of the brotherly Yemeni people. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  state  that  Kuwait  shall 
continue  to  contribute,  on  the  bilateral  level  and 
through United Nations specialized agencies, to efforts 
to  mitigate  natural  disasters,  challenges  and  global 
crises,  which  impede  the  realization  of  development 
goals. 
Kuwait  shall  also  continue  to  provide  assistance 

for  reconstruction  efforts  through  its  official  and 
unofficial development institutions, such as the Kuwait 
Fund 
for  Arab  Economic  Development,  private 
Kuwaiti  associations  and  charitable  organizations  as 
we continue to aspire to a world where everyone lives 
in peace, stability and prosperity. 
Ms.  Davies  (Australia):  The  past  year’s  events 

have  demonstrated  the  vital  role  of  international 
humanitarian  assistance.  Increased  food  prices  have 
exacerbated  existing  emergencies  and  contributed  to 
sharply increased food insecurity in many parts of the 
world.  Millions  of  people  in  countries  affected  by 
complex 
on 
international  assistance  to  meet  their  basic  needs. 
Natural  hazards,  especially  climate-related  hazards, 
had  devastating  consequences  in  Myanmar,  southern 
Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean. 
emergencies 
dependent 
remained 
26 

08-59758 
the 
risk 
including 
resilience 
reduction, 



Regrettably,  there  are  reasons  to  expect  the 
demand  for  humanitarian  assistance  will  continue  to 
increase in the years ahead. Investments in disaster risk 
reduction  and  preparedness  and 
in  strengthened 
coordination  arrangements  will  be  essential  if  the 
international  community  is  to  tackle  the  humanitarian 
challenges ahead. 
Australia recognizes the need for greater focus on 

disaster 
prevention, 
mitigation and preparedness measures. We may not be 
able to prevent cyclones,  droughts or  earthquakes, but 
planning  and  preparation  can  minimize  the  impacts  of 
natural hazards on vulnerable communities. 

Disaster risk reduction must be incorporated into 
humanitarian action and early recovery efforts in order 
to  build 
and  preparedness  of 
communities.  We  support  efforts  by  the  international 
community  to  build  on  the  existing  knowledge  and 
momentum  for  disaster  risk  reduction,  particularly 
through the Hyogo Framework for Action, to help meet 
the challenges of climate change. 

Australia values the role of the United Nations in 
promoting  coordinated,  effective  and  accountable 
international  responses  to  humanitarian  emergencies. 
We recognise the Emergency Relief Coordinator, John 
Holmes, 
the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian  Affairs  and  the  operational  agencies  of 
the  United  Nations  for  the  key  role  they  play  in 
humanitarian relief. 

We  acknowledge  the  considerable  efforts  that 
have  been  made  to  strengthen  systems  for  needs 
assessment,  planning,  delivery  and  monitoring  of 
humanitarian assistance. Much more needs to be done, 
but we have a strong foundation for future work. 

the 
Humanitarian Coordinator in strategically coordinating 
the  international  response  on  behalf  of  the  United 
Nations, working closely with national authorities. We 
encourage 
the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian  Affairs  to  build  an  expanded  pool  of 
humanitarian  coordinators  ready  for  deployment  with 
the  high-level  capacities  needed  for  these  challenging 
roles.  Greater  investment  is  also  needed  in  improving 
the skills of all United Nations resident coordinators in 
humanitarian  relief  and  disaster  management,  given 
that  resident  coordinators  may  be  required  to  take  on 
the  humanitarian  coordinator  role  in  response  to  a 
crisis. 
In  particular,  we  support 
the  Office 
the  Office 
role  of 
for 
for 
the 
A/63/PV.44
of 
the 
The 
value 
humanitarian 
strengthened  accountability 

cluster 
coordination  approach  has  been  clearly  demonstrated 
in a number of emergencies over the last year. Clusters 
have  been  successful 
in  enhancing  coordination, 
prioritization  and  partnerships  in  key  thematic  areas. 
While  the  cluster  approach  can  be  further  improved, 
including  through  ensuring  the  clusters  consistently 
promote 
to  national 
Governments, beneficiaries and other stakeholders, the 
benefits of improved coordination are clear. 

We  know  that  women  and  men,  and  boys  and 
girls,  are  affected  differently  by  conflict  and  natural 
disasters.  It is imperative that a gender  perspective be 
integrated  into  all  aspects  of  humanitarian  policy, 
planning and implementation. We stress the importance 
of integrated measures, as part of humanitarian action, 
to reduce gender-based violence. We need to strengthen 
the awareness and responsiveness of peacekeepers and 
humanitarian  personnel  to  women’s  and  children’s 
protection needs. 

Australia advocates for the full implementation of 
Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000),  which,  in 
addition to women’s protection,  provides for women’s 
full  and  active  participation  in  peace  processes  and 
peacebuilding. We  call  also  for  special  attention  to  be 
given 
that  women  have  access 
to 
reproductive health services in emergency settings. 

Australia  is  deeply  troubled  by  the  increasing 
incidence  of  violent  attacks  against  humanitarian 
personnel.  Such 
impact  not  only  on 
humanitarian  aid  workers  and  their  families,  but  have 
also led to the suspension of a number of humanitarian 
programmes,  preventing  relief  from  reaching  those 
who  need  it  most.  That  disturbing  trend  must  be 
reversed. 

In  closing,  let  me  take  this  opportunity  to 
reaffirm  Australia’s  commitment  to  supporting  the 
United  Nations  crucial  role  in  disaster  risk  reduction 
and 
international 
humanitarian response capacity. 
Mr.  Punkrasin  (Thailand):  Every  time  a  picture 

of human suffering from a natural disaster is broadcast 
to our offices and living rooms, the common humanity 
inside each and every one of us is inevitably touched. 
When  faced  with  this  image  of  human  suffering,  we 
know that we cannot look away. 
in  building  a  more  effective 
to  ensuring 
attacks 
08-59758 

27 

So 
the 
far, 
international 
A/63/PV.44 


community  has 
responded  generously  and  effectively  to  many  natural 
disasters,  but  we  cannot  be  complacent.  The  urgent 
need  for  action  by  the  international  community  has 
never  been  greater.  According  to  a  report  of  the 
Secretary-General on that issue (A/63/81), since 1987, 
climate-related  disasters  have  increased  by  almost  90 
per  cent,  while  geological  hazards  have  increased  by 
nearly  40  per  cent.  The  largest  driver  of  disasters 
during the reporting period was the increased incidence 
and  severity  of  extreme  weather  events,  mostly 
associated with climate change. Alarmingly, nine out of 
every 10 disasters are now climate-related. 

The  international  community  must  realize  the 
urgency  and  respond  immediately  to  those  gathering 
threats.  To  that  end,  Thailand  strongly  believes  that 
leadership  at  the  national,  regional  and  international 
levels is needed. 

First and foremost, national leadership is vital to 
any  successful  humanitarian  response.  The  national 
leadership  shown  by  countries  affected  by  the  2004 
Indian  Ocean  tsunami  serves  as  a  good  example.  As 
acknowledged  in  a  report  by  the  Secretary-General 
(A/63/84), progress is now apparent across the affected 
region. 

In  Thailand,  the  Government  has  been  making 
earnest efforts not only to rebuild damaged structures, 
but  also  to  make  sure  that  those  structures  will  be 
rebuilt  better.  Engagement  with  and  participation  by 
local communities have proved to be a crucial elements 
in  attempts  to  raise  disaster  awareness  and  design 
prevention  and  response  capabilities  that  are  best 
suited to each specific locality. 
Administrative  and  legal  reforms  have  also  been 

improved 
made 
system-wide coordination. The most important of those 
legal and administrative reforms was the enactment of 
the  new  Disaster  Prevention  and  Mitigation  Act  of 
November 2007 to serve as an overarching framework 
for  Thailand’s  disaster  management  system.  We  have 
been working closely with United Nations agencies and 
the  private  sector  in  the  spirit  of  partnership  to  pool 
expertise, lessons learned and resources in a joint effort 
to strengthen disaster risk reduction, preparedness and 
response  capabilities  at  both  the  national  and  local 
levels. 
Looking ahead, Thailand stands ready to continue 

to  share  our  experience  and  to  work  with  interested 
to  ensure  greater  efficiency  and 
in 
countries 
the  area  of  disaster  risk  reduction, 
preparedness  and  response  capabilities,  as  well  as  in 
achieving  the  goals  set  out  in  the  Hyogo  Framework 
for  Action,  2005-2015:  Building  the  Resilience  of 
Nations and Communities to Disasters. 
Secondly,  regional  leadership  is  necessary  to 

complement  national 
leadership.  When  national 
capability  has  proved  to  be  insufficient  in  responding 
to  an  emergency  humanitarian  situation  caused  by  a 
natural  disaster,  regional  countries  can  offer  needed 
emergency assistance to shore up national response due 
to  comparative  advantages,  such  as  proximity  and  the 
trust and confidence that regional countries enjoy with 
the affected country. 

The most vivid case of regional leadership is the 
response  to  Cyclone  Nargis  that  struck  Myanmar  in 
May  2008.  Individually,  regional  countries  responded 
swiftly and generously to  help the affected population 
in Myanmar. For example, the first batch of emergency 
relief  assistance  from  Thailand  reached  Myanmar 
within  72  hours  after  the  cyclone  struck.  A  constant 
flow  of  relief  supplies  from  the  Government  and 
people of Thailand to the affected people in Myanmar 
soon followed via air and land bridges. Medical teams 
from Thailand were also sent to the hardest hit areas of 
the  Ayeyarwady  Delta  to  work  with  medical  teams 
from Myanmar and other regional countries.  

the  Don  Mueang 
International  Airport  as  a  staging  area  through  which 
humanitarian  assistance  and  equipment  from  around 
the  world  could  be  channelled  into  Myanmar  in  an 
orderly  and  systematic  manner.  From  24  May  to 
22 August 2008, a total number of 232 flights carrying 
approximately  4,000  tons  of  humanitarian  assistance 
passed through the air bridge from Bangkok to Yangon. 

Cyclone Nargis also energized the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) to take a leadership 
role  by  acting  as  a  critical  diplomatic  umbrella  under 
which the international community, acting through the 
United  Nations,  could  work 
in  partnership  with 
Myanmar.  The 
the  ASEAN 
Humanitarian  Task  Force  for  the  Victims  of  Cyclone 
Nargis and the creation of the Tripartite Core Group —
which  comprises  Myanmar,  ASEAN  and  the  United 
Nations — have contributed to the smooth coordination 
of  humanitarian  assistance  and  joint  planning  for 
longer-term recovery and preparedness. 
also  offered 
leadership 
Thailand 
role  of 
28 

08-59758 
and 
standby 
arrangements 



However, ASEAN cannot rest on its laurels. That 
is why Thailand, as the Chair of ASEAN, has attached 
importance to strengthening regional arrangements for 
disaster  risk  reduction,  preparedness  and  mitigation, 
and  response  capabilities.  We  want  to  make  sure  that 
when  the  next  major  natural  disaster  occurs  in  the 
region,  ASEAN  has  effective  trigger  mechanisms  in 
place 
to  mobilize  all  regional  coordination  and 
assistance  in  a  timely  and  systematic  manner.  We 
would  look  at  ways  to  integrate  military  assets  into 
ASEAN’s 
standard 
operating procedures so that those critical assets can be 
mobilized in the event of a disaster.  

We  would  also  explore  ways  to  develop  the 
pre-positioning  of  regional  stockpiles  and  distribution 
hubs for relief supplies. In that case, the experience of 
Don  Mueang  International  Airport  in  Bangkok  as  a 
staging  area  for  humanitarian  relief  delivery  in  the 
wake  of  Cyclone  Nargis  could  serve  as  a  good 
foundation  for  the  region  to  build  upon.  ASEAN  is 
ready  to  share  our  experience  and  lessons  learned  on 
that issue with interested countries and regions, as well 
as the United Nations. 
Thirdly,  collective  leadership  at  the  global  level 

is  a  must 
in  reinforcing  national  and  regional 
leadership and resilience. The international community 
must  realize  that  extreme  climate  variability  and  its 
consequences  are  likely  to  become  a  fact  of  life  from 
now  on.  This  year  alone,  we  have  witnessed 
unprecedented  devastating  storms,  flooding,  droughts 
and  desertification  across  the  world,  not  to  mention 
many large-scale earthquakes in various regions. Many 
lives were lost and livelihoods destroyed as a result of 
those  disasters.  Such  natural  disasters  could  happen 
again  in  the  future.  Thus,  we  have  to  be  better 
prepared. 
A/63/PV.44
the 
that 
risk 

In  that  regard,  Thailand  supports  the  Secretary-
General’s  call  for  sufficient  and  predictable  resources 
at  the  global  level  to  meet  current  humanitarian 
challenges in a timely manner. In response to that call, 
Thailand has this year increased its contribution to the 
Central  Emergency  Response  Fund. At  the  same  time, 
Thailand  strongly  believes 
international 
community  should  place  greater  emphasis  on  funding 
disaster 
reduction  and  preparedness.  More 
technical  and  financial  assistance  for  disaster  risk 
reduction and preparedness programmes should thus be 
made  available  for  developing  countries  situated  in 
disaster-prone  areas.  The  United  Nations  should  also 
work  in  partnership  with  regional  organizations  to 
facilitate  the  mutual  exchange  of  knowledge  and 
expertise,  as  well  as  devise  effective  modalities  for 
joint action in times of emergency. 

Last  but  not  least,  the  international  community 
must show collective responsibility in tackling a major 
driver  of  the  increase  in  natural  disasters:  climate 
change. Therefore, Thailand urges all parties to ensure 
that the United Nations Climate Change Conference to 
be  held  in  Poznan,  Poland,  early  next  month  will  be 
successful. 

Faced  with  the  gathering  threats  of  increasing 
natural  disasters  caused  by  climate  change  and 
geological  activities,  we  have  a  choice  to  make 
between  action  and  inaction;  between  being  better 
prepared  and  being  unprepared;  between  working 
together  as  one  and  working  separately  as  disparate 
parts; and between survival and loss. For Thailand, the 
choice  is  clear.  We  must  act,  we  must  be  better 
prepared and we must work together as one. 
The meeting rose at 1 p.m. 

08-59758 

29 
