
A/63/PV.25
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

25th plenary meeting 
Monday, 13 October 2008, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 
to 
We  have  endeavoured 
shaped  by  the  Heads  of  State  and  Government  at  the 
2005 World Summit. Since then, El Salvador has made 
this vision its own, and we are thankful for the honour 
of having served as Vice-Chair of the Commission. By 
serving  in  the  Commission,  we  are  repaying  the 
international  community  for  the  assistance  we  have 
received in difficult times. 

share  our  own 
experiences of the peacebuilding process by imparting 
a  comprehensive  vision  of  the  process  itself. We  have 
also  endeavoured  to  provide  information  as  requested 
regarding our experience in specific areas in which we 
passed  through  progressive  successful  stages,  such  as 
the  demobilization  and  reintegration  of  armed  forces. 
We  have  been  able  to  share  those  experiences  with 
Guinea-Bissau,  in  particular,  by  advising  that  country 
on its national civilian police.  

El  Salvador  will  remain  committed  to  dialogue 
with  the  various  actors  involved  on  the  ground  in  the 
countries  on 
the  Commission’s  agenda.  Sharing 
experiences  also  contributes  to  the  prevention  of  the 
resurgence of violence by involving the various actors 
in  this  process  and  joining  efforts  with  regional 
organizations  as  well  as  friendly  countries,  without 
neglecting  efforts  to  implement  strategies  oriented 
towards attaining genuinely sustainable development.  

The  Commission  and  the  membership  in  general 
have been strengthened by the work carried out by the 
Working  Group  on  Lessons  Learned,  over  which 
El Salvador 
to  preside.  The 
Working  Group  has  considered  a  broad  range  of 
is  greatly  honoured 






The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m. 

Agenda items 10 and 101 (continued) 
Report of the Peacebuilding Commission  

  Report of the Peacebuilding Commission on its 
second session (A/63/92)  


Report of the Secretary-General on the 
Peacebuilding Fund 

the  report  of 
the  Secretary-General  on 
of  Ambassador  Takasu 
  Report of the Secretary-General on the 
Peacebuilding Fund (A/63/218 and 
A/63/218/Corr.1) 

Mrs.  Gallardo  Hernández  (El  Salvador)  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  Allow  me  to  express  my  delegation’s 
appreciation  for  your  initiative  in  convening  this  joint 
debate on the report of the Peacebuilding Commission 
and 
the 
Peacebuilding Fund. We would also like to express our 
recognition 
his 
commendable 
as  Chairman  of  our 
Commission. Furthermore, El Salvador adds its support 
to the ideas expressed in his statement. We would also 
like 
the 
Netherlands,  Brazil  and  Belgium  for  the  manner  in 
which  they  are  conducting  their  work  on  the  various 
countries under consideration. 

The  Peacebuilding  Commission  was  established 
with  the  purpose  of  creating  a  new  peacebuilding 
architecture within the United Nations system aimed at 
helping  countries  emerging  from  conflict  and  moving 
from war to a process of development. This vision was 

the  Ambassadors  of  Norway, 
leadership 
thank 
for 
to 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-54719 (E) 
*0854719* 
in 
to 
and 
issues 
factors 
budgets; 
involving 
the  various 
strengthening 
in  peacebuilding  contexts;  enhancing 
A/63/PV.25 

questions: elections and risk reduction in post-conflict 
situations; 
local  governance  and  decentralization; 
transitional justice; the situation of internally displaced 
persons 
the 
economic capabilities of States by providing support to 
national 
the 
environment, conflict and peacebuilding. The Working 
Group  has also dealt with  cross-cutting  issues that  we 
consider  fundamental  to  the  peacebuilding  process, 
including  gender  in  peacebuilding,  by  strengthening 
the  participation  of  women,  and  the  importance  of 
regional  approaches 
these  processes.  For  my 
country,  it  is  fundamental  to  ensure  that  the  work  of 
this  group  be  strengthened  in  the  future,  bearing  in 
mind  that  opportunities  for  dialogue  and  exchanging 
experiences  and  best  practices  enable  us  to  give  full 
consideration 
affecting 
peacebuilding  in  post-conflict  countries.  In  fact,  that 
constitutes  important  value  added  to  the  work  carried 
out by the other configurations of the Commission. For 
El  Salvador, 
our  Commission’s 
relationship  with  the  General  Assembly  and  with  the 
Economic and Social Council is of great importance.  
With  regard  to  the  Peacebuilding  Fund,  we  are 

pleased to see that pledges have surpassed the expected 
goal of $200 million. We agree with other delegations 
in  advocating  for  greater  coordination  between  the 
Peacebuilding  Fund  and  Commission  and  for  greater 
transparency  and  accountability. We  also  hope  that,  in 
the future, the Peacebuilding Fund will be of benefit to 
national or regional projects that can effect real change 
on  the  ground  and  strengthen  peacebuilding  efforts. 
The  fact  that  there  is  no  armed  violence  in  a  specific 
context or region should not exclude the possibility of 
transferring  resources  to  the  key  sectors  of  peace, 
security and development.  

El Salvador is conscious of the importance of the 
equitable  participation  of  different  regional  groups  in 
the  work  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  as, 
unfortunately,  conflicts  are  not  the  exclusive  preserve 
of any specific society; rather, they are the outcome of 
a  number  of  factors,  both  internal  and  international, 
which  combine  to  evoke  violent  responses  to  the 
unfulfilled  demands  of  various  political  and  social 
groups.  From  that  standpoint,  the  more  that  the 
international community works together to embrace the 
work  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  the  more 
opportunity  there  will  be  for  political  dialogue  and  to 
share  experiences  among  post-conflict  countries  and 

and 
faith, 
in  good 
the  composition  of 
between them and United Nations organs and to make 
considerable  contributions  to  support  communities  in 
conflict  in  their  attempts  to  peacefully  overcome  their 
differences  by  means  of  dialogue  and  negotiations 
based upon a new national understanding. 

In  view  of  the  above,  El  Salvador  calls  upon 
regional  groups  to  consider  from  the  standpoint  of 
inclusion  and  equitable  participation  the  best  possible 
options  to  break  out  of  the  current  deadlock  and  to 
define, 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission beginning in January 2009. 

Before  concluding,  allow  me  to  make  a  brief 
comment  on  the  Peacebuilding  Fund.  We  believe  that 
what the Fund has succeeded in doing is praiseworthy. 
However, we also hope that the Fund will benefit both 
national 
regional  projects  which  deserve 
consideration.  Once  again,  we  are  fully  committed  to 
continue  to  support  the  Commission  and  countries 
under  consideration  and to  share our experiences with 
them. 
Mr.  Cancela  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  As 

we express our gratitude to Ambassador Takasu for his 
work,  we  would  like  at  the  outset  to  stress  the 
importance of the documents that have been submitted; 
the report of the Peacebuilding Commission (A/63/92) 
and the report on the Peacebuilding Fund (A/63/218).  

In  the  last  two  years  we  have  witnessed  the 
strengthening of the new institutions that were created 
at the 2005 Summit of heads of State and Government 
and  in  the  specific  case  at  hand  —  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  —  we  can  say  that  the  new  body  has 
responded 
in  a  competent  and  flexible  way  by 
confronting  the  challenges  of  the  various  cases  it 
handles,  as  well  as  extending 
its 
programme to an increased number of countries.  

From  that  viewpoint,  we  wish  to  stress  the 
extension  of  the  programme  to  the  Central  African 
Republic and the requests submitted by other countries, 
which  clearly  indicate  an  increase  in  recognition  and 
trust for the work of the Commission. The development 
of 
specific 
circumstances has made it possible to improve political 
dialogue, to achieve coordination between national and 
international  bodies  and  to  improve  the  mustering  of 
resources.  

the  growth  and 
appropriate  use  of  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  and  its 
Likewise,  we  must  stress 
to  deal  with 
the  scope  of 
integration 
strategies 
2 

08-54719 
if  — 
circumstances 


simplified  implementation  mechanism,  as  well  as  its 
being open to specific projects that  can  be carried out 
in  advance  of  the  acceptance  of  countries  by  the 
Commission.  Those  positive 
are 
extremely important, since the international community 
notes  with  deep  concern  two  trends  that  have  been 
strengthened in recent years. 

On the one hand, we observe that a large number 
of countries that are emerging from conflict are lacking 
basic  State  institutions  and  thus  require  emergency 
humanitarian assistance. On the other hand and just as 
worrisome, is the fact that a large number of countries 
have  in  the  immediate  present  succeeded  in  emerging 
from situations of war and violence however, they very 
quickly relapse to the same situation, and we know full 
well  the  outcome:  the  resumption  of  hostilities,  the 
unleashing of violence against civilians, economic and 
social chaos and destruction of the State.  

Peacekeeping is necessary, but it is not sufficient. 
The efforts made by this Organization and its Member 
States  can  best  bear  fruit  only 
through 
coordination  and  international  cooperation  —  we  help 
the  lawful  authorities  of  those  nations  to  build  civil 
society  —  institutions,  jurisprudence,  citizenship  — 
and  political,  social  and  economic  factors  that  will 
make it possible for them to become fully integrated in 
the community of nations, bearing clearly in mind the 
particular  characteristics  and  sovereign  decisions  of 
each and every country.  

the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
represents  for  Uruguay  the  direct  answer  to  the  need 
for  an  institutional  mechanism  within  the  United 
Nations  system  that  responds  to  the  special  needs  of 
countries emerging from conflict. 
Our country is firmly committed to strengthening 

international  peace  and  security  and  its  peacebuilding 
efforts  can  be 
significant 
contribution  of  troops  to  peacekeeping  operations  — 
which  is  the  largest  per  capita  contribution  in  the 
world.  Since  its  first  participation  in  peacekeeping 
until  the  present,  Uruguay  has  garnered  a  wealth  of 
experience  in  the  reconstruction  and  peacebuilding  of 
areas devastated by conflict and has spared no effort to 
put  an  end  to  hostilities,  so  that  communities  can 
achieve peace and national reconciliation.  

Uruguayan  teams  have  provided  major  electoral 
assistance  to  States  during  elections  and  have  also 
helped  to  protect  the  populations  in  countries  where 
seen  by  Uruguay’s 
is  why 
That 
A/63/PV.25
in  order 
of 
its 
should 
reflect 
commitment 
consideration 
recommendations 
there  is  violence.  But  we  note  with  sadness  that  this 
valuable  experience,  as  well  as  that  of  many  other 
Latin American countries, has not been fully put to use 
to serve the international community, through the new 
institution.  

In  that  connection,  we  cannot  fail  to  once  again 
express  our  profound  concern  at  the  lack  of  proper 
representation  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
countries  on  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  whose 
composition 
the  participation  of 
countries in peacekeeping missions and the experience 
they  have  acquired  in  peacebuilding,  as  well  as  an 
to 
equitable  geographical  representation 
ensure 
that 
represent the various viewpoints of the large number of 
actors  involved  in  peacebuilding  in  the  aftermath  of  a 
conflict. 

Uruguay,  which  was  the  very  first  country  to 
submit its candidacy among the Latin American group 
for  the  elections  that  will  be  held  in  December  2008, 
reiterates 
to  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  missions  and  peacebuilding  throughout 
the  world  and  repeats  its  call  to  become  part  of  the 
Commission.  We  will  be  involved  in  the  Commission 
in the spirit of providing our experience and our desire 
to  work  and  cooperate,  which  we  believe  to  be  in 
accordance  with  the  multilateral  mindset  that  our 
country has demonstrated throughout its history within 
the Organization. 
Mr.  Majoor  (Netherlands):  Today’s  debate  is 

important  and I wish to thank you, Sir,  for organizing 
it.  It  represents  an  opportunity  to  share  our  views  on 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  as  well  as 
the 
Peacebuilding  Fund,  two  years  after  both  became 
operational. At the outset, let me say that I align myself 
with  the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of 
France on behalf of the European Union. 

invested 
considerable time and effort over the past two years in 
implementing its mandate through the development  of 
the 
and 
implementation  mechanisms.  The  result  has  been  the 
conclusion  of  Peacebuilding  Cooperation  Frameworks 
for  three  countries  on  its  agenda  —  Burundi,  Sierra 
Leone  and,  recently,  Guinea-Bissau  —  based  on  an 
extensive  mapping  of  peacebuilding  gaps  in  those 
countries.  Those  efforts,  which  the  Commission  has 
had  to  undertake  while  operating  in  largely  uncharted 
The  Peacebuilding  Commission  has 
appropriate 
approaches 
strategic 
08-54719 

3 
in 
the 
is 

the 
and 
While 
lies  and 
those  are 
themselves 
from  which 
the  basis  on  which 
A/63/PV.25 

waters,  have  involved  the  active  participation  of  all 
relevant  stakeholders,  ranging  from  the  Governments 
of  the  countries  concerned  to  the  members  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission 
various 
stakeholders on the ground. 
important 

achievements 
Peacebuilding 
Commission  should  draw  confidence,  they  are  only  a 
stepping  stone  towards 
the  ultimate  goal  of  the 
Commission. That  goal  is  and  must  remain  to  make  a 
positive  difference  in  the  countries  on  its  agenda  by 
ensuring  that  the  identified  peacebuilding  gaps  are 
effectively  addressed.  That  is,  as  has  been  reiterated 
many times before, the most effective way to prevent a 
relapse  into  conflict  in  countries  that  have  been 
struggling  to  strengthen  their  stability  and  democracy 
since  their  conflict  ended. This  is  therefore  where  the 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
valued  added  of 
ultimately 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission should be assessed. Taking 
it  as  our  yardstick,  we  can  fairly  say  that,  while  we 
recognize the considerable achievements made by both 
the Governments of the countries on its agenda and by 
the Peacebuilding Commission itself, we are not there 
yet. 
What  is  needed  at  this  point  in  time  —  and  this 

should 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission’s 
activities in the coming months — is concrete support 
from  existing  and  new  donors  alike  to  address  the 
peacebuilding  gaps  that  have  been  identified  in  the 
countries on the Peacebuilding Commission’s agenda.  

We  have  done  the  strategic  work  so  far  for 
Burundi,  Sierra  Leone  and  Guinea-Bissau.  We  have 
committed  to  ensuring  that  the  identified  gaps  will  be 
addressed. It is now time to translate our commitments 
into  concrete  engagements.  It  is  only  when  new 
resources  and  other  forms  of  support  have  been 
generated 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  is  living  up  to  the  high 
expectations that surrounded its creation in 2005. 

It  is  only  right  that  we  should  be  regularly 
reviewing  the  way  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  has 
been  operating,  and  good 
its 
improvement  have  been  made.  Similarly, 
is 
appropriate that we consider how the functioning of the 
Peacebuilding Fund can be further streamlined. In that 
regard, the ongoing evaluation by the Office of Internal 
that  we  can  confidently  say 
suggestions 
for 
it 
guide 
that 
to 
for 
support 
is  unwavering 
thoroughly  evaluate 
its  agenda  succeed.  However, 
Oversight  Services  will  certainly  give  us  helpful 
insights into how its operation might be improved. 

The  Peacebuilding  Support  Office,  under  the 
energetic  new 
leadership  of  Assistant  Secretary-
General  Jane  Holl  Lute,  will  be  crucial  in  providing 
support for the tasks at hand, as it has done in the past. 
It is the Peacebuilding Commission’s membership that 
must  and  will  be  most  instrumental  in  achieving  the 
goals that we have set out to achieve. 

I draw confidence from the many statements that 
we  have  heard  since  the  beginning  of  this  debate  last 
week.  There 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission’s  original  mandate  and  a 
consensus that the Peacebuilding Commission is on the 
right track. We are all anxious to see the Peacebuilding 
Commission succeed, which in practice means that the 
countries  on 
the 
Commission’s success, unfortunately, is not determined 
by  our  vocal  support  or  our  endorsement  of  its 
mandate;  it  is  determined  by  our  readiness  to  make  a 
contribution  in  the  country  concerned.  When  the  time 
comes 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission in light of its original mandate — and that 
time  will  come  —  we  must  be  confident  that  every 
effort was made to make it work. The time to make the 
Peacebuilding Commission work is now.  

We have before us sufficient strategic documents 
to determine where our support is needed most. Let us 
not waver; let us offer whatever expertise or funds we 
can  muster 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission’s  agenda  are  set  on  an 
irreversible  track  towards  consolidated  peace  and 
stability. 

Mr.  Kim  Bonghyun  (Republic  of  Korea):  On 
behalf  of  my  delegation,  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
Peacebuilding Commission for its second annual report 
(A/63/92),  as  well  as  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
for  his  report  on  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  (A/63/218). 
We also appreciate the initiative of the President of the 
General Assembly  to  organize  this  timely  opportunity 
to debate the reports. 

As is well reflected in the two reports before us, 
in  the  period  of  just  over  two  years  since  it  was 
formally  established,  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
has  carried  out  its  mandates  effectively  and  shown 
great  potential  to  become  a  key  organ  in  coordinating 
international  peacebuilding  activities.  In  particular, 
the 
significant 
the  countries  on 
been  made 
to  ensure 
progress 
that 
has 
in 
4 

08-54719 
in 
of 
the 
The 
results 
Commission 
Peacebuilding 
country-specific 
on-the-ground 


configurations, 
Commission’s 
increasing 
our 
peacebuilding  efforts.  I  would  like  to  attribute  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission’s  promising  progress  over 
the  past  two  years  to  the  active  contribution  of  all 
members  of  the  Commission,  and  in  particular  to 
Chairperson  Ambassador  Yukio  Takasu,  the  Vice-
Chairpersons of the Commission and the Chairpersons 
of the country-specific configurations.  

My  delegation  also  highly  values  the  role  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office  and  appreciates  the 
efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  and  Ms.  Carolyn 
McAskie  in  laying  the  foundations  for  the  Office.  My 
delegation expects that the new leadership of Ms. Jane 
Holl Lute will guide the Office in further consolidating 
the  foundations  of  peacebuilding  operations  with  her 
noted  professional  experience 
the  area  of 
peacekeeping operations. 

and 
Peacebuilding  Fund  were  among  the  major  outcomes 
of the 2005 World Summit and, with the establishment 
of the Commission and the Fund, synergies among the 
three pillars of the United Nations have certainly been 
strengthened.  Moreover, 
international  support  and 
assistance 
to  post-conflict  countries  are  better 
systemized  and  integrated.  The  increasing  number  of 
subjects on the Commission’s agenda indicates that the 
Commission is on track. My delegation is glad that the 
annual  report  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  also 
shares  our  estimation  of  the  second-year  activities  of 
the  Commission.  If  the  first  year  was  a  time  for 
foundation  and  preparation,  the  second  year  truly 
marked  the  beginning  of  progress. To  consolidate  and 
maintain the momentum of progress into its third year, 
I  believe  it  is  high  time  to  consider  the  challenges 
before us. 

should  be 
executed in a way that respects and further strengthens 
the  national  ownership  and  priorities  of  recipient 
countries. One of the ultimate goals of peacebuilding is 
to  stabilize  the  post-conflict  situation  and  establish  a 
basis  for  long-term  sustainable  development.  To  that 
end,  national  ownership  needs  to  be  respected  and 
incorporated from the first steps of the rebuilding stage 
after a conflict. 

Secondly, to prevent post-conflict countries from 
relapsing  into  conflict  situations,  concrete  results  for 
the people on the ground should be visualized quickly. 
First,  peacebuilding  operations 
A/63/PV.25
of 
Thirdly, 
strengthened  with 
the  working  methods 
In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  the  “three 
Qs”:  quick  response,  quick  relief  and  quick  impact. 
Among  other  things,  health  issues  should  be  focused 
on when carrying out the three Qs because the  results 
of  the  three  Qs  are  most  visible  in  those  programmes 
concerned with issues of public health care. Moreover, 
those  in  post-conflict  situations  are  in  desperate  need 
of public health care. Without public health-care issues 
being solved, no country will be able to move forward. 

the 
Peacebuilding Commission need to be further enhanced 
to  respond  more  promptly,  more  effectively  and  more 
strategically. To attain that goal, the Commission needs 
to  place  itself  at  the  centre  of  the  United  Nations 
peacebuilding  architecture  and  ensure  coherent  and 
coordinated execution of United Nations peacebuilding 
activities. 
Fourthly,  the  partnership  among  all  stakeholders 

should  be 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  at  its  centre.  Within  the  United  Nations 
system, relations among the Commission, the Security 
Council  and  the  General Assembly  need  to  be  further 
defined  in  a  more  strategic  and  coordinated  manner. 
Outside  the  United  Nations  system,  we  need  to  make 
further  efforts  to  establish  strategic  relations  with  the 
Bretton  Woods  institutions,  such  as  the  World  Bank 
and  the  International  Monetary  Fund.  Considering  the 
increasing 
the 
peacebuilding  arena,  we  also  need  to  continuously 
engage civil society organizations and other players in 
the private sector. 

Fifthly,  stable  and  predictable  funding  should  be 
secured. It is inspiring that the Peacebuilding Fund has 
attracted more than $269 million in pledges, exceeding 
its  $250  million  funding  target,  according  to  the 
Secretary-General’s  report.  However,  the  report  also 
states  that  80  per  cent  of  the  deposited  funds  came 
from only eight donors. Although it is a good sign that 
over 20 developing countries have made contributions 
to  the  Fund,  in  order  to  secure  more  stable  and 
predictable  funding  we  need  to  further  broaden  and 
diversify the donor base. 

an 
unprecedented  crisis,  often  referred  to  as  multiple 
challenges — the food and energy crisis, development 
challenges  and  climate  change.  The  current  volatile 
financial  situation  further  complicates  the  already 
staggering  situation. Those  challenges  may  negate  the 
faced  with 
the  private 
today  we 
role  of 
Sixthly, 
are 
sector 
in 
08-54719 

5 
the 
of 

each 
Finally, 
framework 
transition  from  peacekeeping 
A/63/PV.25 

accomplishments  we  have  painstakingly  achieved,  not 
only in areas of development, but also in peacebuilding 
spheres.  We  need  to  be  prepared  to  mitigate  and 
minimize  the  effects  of  those  grave  challenges  on  our 
peacebuilding efforts. 

to 
peacebuilding  and  subsequent  long-term  sustainable 
development  should  be  a  seamless  process.  Carefully 
designed strategies and close cooperative relations with 
all  stakeholders  are  necessary  to  minimize  any  gaps 
between  each  stage.  We  understand  that  the  current 
strategic 
country-specific 
configuration has been carefully developed to that end. 
Mr. Cujba (Republic of Moldova), Vice-President, 

took the Chair. 

Just  half  a  century  ago,  the  Republic  of  Korea 
was a country emerging from conflict. With the timely 
and efficient assistance of the international community 
and  the  United  Nations,  we  were  able  to  build  peace 
and  attain  long-term  development.  From  our  own 
experience, we understand and value the importance of 
peacebuilding 
that 
background,  Korea  has  already  contributed  $3  million 
to  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  and  we  look  forward  to 
joining  and  actively  contributing  to  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  next  year. 
It  will  be  a  valuable 
opportunity  for  Korea  to  use  our  past  experience  to 
help  repay  the  international  community  and  facilitate 
post-conflict countries to rebuild and develop. 
(Czech  Republic):  The  Czech 

Republic fully aligns itself with the statement made by 
the representative of France on behalf of the European 
Union,  and  I  would  like  to  add  some  remarks  in  my 
national capacity. 

the 
Peacebuilding  Fund  and  the  Peacebuilding  Support 
Office are pillars of the new peacebuilding architecture 
created by the Millennium Summit. We are very happy 
that  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  in  its  second  year 
of existence has demonstrated itself to be a vital part of 
United Nations reform and has proved its added value. 
During that period, a number of things were achieved. 
Two  new  countries  —  Guinea-Bissau  and  the  Central 
African Republic — were placed on the agenda of the 
Peacebuilding  Commission; 
Peacebuilding 
Cooperation  Framework  for  Sierra  Leone  and  the 
monitoring  and  tracking  mechanism  for  Burundi  were 
adopted;  and  the  Strategic  Peacebuilding  Framework 
activities.  Drawing 
Peacebuilding 
Mr.  Palouš 
Commission, 
from 
The 
the 
provided 
results  of 
In  Burundi, 
the  elections. 
fragile  budgetary 
to  outreach  activities  with 
for Guinea-Bissau was recently finalized and formally 
approved. 

The Peacebuilding Commission proved its added 
value in helping countries on its agenda during difficult 
periods.  The  Commission 
important 
assistance  during  the  preparation  of  the  democratic 
elections  in  Sierra  Leone  and  continued  its  work  in 
close cooperation with the new Government formed by 
the 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  provided  assistance  with 
issues  negatively  affecting  the  country’s  efforts  to 
consolidate  peace  and  representing  potential  crises, 
including  a 
situation  and  a 
parliamentary deadlock. 

The Peacebuilding Commission further improved 
its role in marshalling resources. We highly appreciate 
the  efforts  of  the  Chairman  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  and  the  Chairs  of  the  country-specific 
configurations to establish and further develop contacts 
with the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund 
and other banking institutions. Significant efforts were 
devoted 
the  regional 
organizations and important donors. 

the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  is  to  provide  advice  to  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council.  We  welcome  the 
initiative  of  the  President  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its  sixty-second  session  to  invite  the  Chair  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  to  brief  the  Assembly  on 
the  work  of  the  Commission.  The  briefings  to  the 
Security  Council  by  the  Commission’s  Chair  and  the 
Chairs  of  the  country-specific  configurations  have 
become  a  useful  practice.  Indeed,  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  thanks  to  its  innovative  methods  — 
including the use of modern technology such as video 
links  organizing 
field  missions  of  Commission 
delegations  and 
in  developing  contacts  with  all 
stakeholders, including civil society, women and youth 
organizations — is able to provide updated information 
on 
the 
countries on its agenda. 

We  are  of  the  opinion  that  one  of  the  most 
important roles of the Peacebuilding Commission is to 
mobilize 
for 
peacebuilding  efforts  in  the  countries  on  its  agenda. 
While  a  number  of  things  have  been  accomplished, 
much  more  lies  ahead.  Peacebuilding  is  a  complex 
effort  based  on  social,  economic  and  political 
the  progress  of  peacebuilding  efforts 
the  entire  United  Nations  system 
important 
role  of 
An 
in 
6 

08-54719 
the 
as  UNESCO, 


development.  It  consists  of  many  interlinked  tasks, 
from  security  sector  reform,  the  promotion  of  human 
rights and the rule of law to sustainable economic and 
social  development,  including  the  development  of 
educational  and  health  systems.  The  more  active 
involvement  of  the  special  United  Nations  agencies, 
such 
International  Labour 
Organization  and  the  World  Health  Organization,  to 
mention  only  some,  is  indispensable.  The  link  with 
system-wide  coherence  reform  is  clear.  Countries  on 
the Peacebuilding Commission’s agenda could serve as 
a  very  good  example  of  the  realization  of  the  goal  of 
delivering as one. 

The  Czech  Republic  is  a  country  that  annually 
contributes  to  the  Peacebuilding  Fund,  and  our  next 
contribution  will  be  provided  before  the  end  of  the 
year. As  a  Peacebuilding  Fund  donor  country,  we  are 
pleased  by  the  success  of  the  Fund,  manifested  by  its 
capability to attract pledges exceeding the initial target. 
Thirty-seven peacebuilding projects have already been 
approved and are in different stages of realization. The 
three  windows  mechanism  has  proved 
to  be  an 
appropriate tool for coping with different situations in 
different countries. We would like to see the Fund act 
as  a  catalyst  to  attract  other  donors  to  invest  in  the 
given  countries.  Based  on  the  mapping  exercise,  the 
projects  financed  from  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  should 
also be used to cover gaps in peacebuilding activities. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  stress  how  much 
the Czech Republic is honoured to be a member of the 
Peacebuilding Commission during this exciting period 
when  the  foundations  of  the  Commission’s  future 
activities  are  laid  down.  I  take  this  opportunity  to 
reiterate our firm support for peacebuilding activities. 
Mr.  Monthe  (Cameroon)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

have  known  Ambassador  Yukio  Takasu  for  a  great 
many years now, and it is with a great deal of pleasure 
that,  on  behalf  of  my  delegation,  I  extend  to  him  our 
most  heartfelt  congratulations  for  the  work  he  has 
carried out and for his outstanding presentation  of the 
report 
Peacebuilding  Commission’s 
highlights 
the 
Commission  in  helping  the  countries  concerned  to 
recover  from  post-conflict  situations  and  ensure  that 
they do not plunge back into conflict.  

My  delegation’s  appreciation  also  goes  to  the 
Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his report on 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund.  We  are  also  grateful  to 
role  played  by 
report.  The 
important 
the 
A/63/PV.25
the 
like 
itself  with 
the 
resulting 
in 
the  determination  of 
inclusion  of  other  countries  on 
The  delegation  of  Cameroon  would 
Assistant  Secretary-General  Holl  Lute,  who  is  well-
known for her energy, dynamism and pragmatism. We 
would  like  to  thank  the  various  donor  States,  whose 
generosity  has  enabled  the  Commission’s  work  to  be 
carried  out  in  Burundi,  Sierra  Leone  and  Guinea-
Bissau. That ever-growing generosity has also allowed 
for 
the 
Commission’s agenda. 
to 

associate 
statement  made  by 
Ambassador  Raymond  Wolfe  of  Jamaica  on  behalf  of 
the Non-Aligned Movement.  

In its second year of existence, the Peacebuilding 
Commission  has  undertaken  a  certain  number  of 
activities, 
the 
priorities for the programme of work and action of the 
Organizational  Committee.  The  cooperation  between 
the  Commission  and  the  main  United  Nations  bodies, 
including  the  Security  Council,  the  General Assembly 
and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  has  ensured, 
given  their  theoretical  and  institutional  expertise  on 
various issues, concrete results in the countries on the 
Commission’s agenda.  

During  the  period  under  consideration,  major 
areas  of  peacebuilding  work  were  supported  by  more 
pragmatic  methods  of  work  and  procedures,  enabling 
the  successful  financing  of 
training 
missions in Burundi, Sierra Leone and Guinea-Bissau. 
Outstanding  progress  has  generally  been  achieved  in 
that 
the 
Commission,  the  respective  Governments  and  various 
stakeholders  of  the  conclusions  and  recommendations 
on  the  implementation  of  Strategic  Peacebuilding 
Frameworks.  
My delegation also welcomes the analysis carried 

out  on  the  progress  achieved  and,  in  that  respect 
supports 
for 
peacebuilding  spelled  out  in  the  report,  inter  alia 
the  effectiveness  of  all  peacebuilding 
concerning 
activities  and 
the  resources 
necessary for those activities.  

troop-contributing  country 
supporting  United  Nations  peacekeeping  efforts, 
reiterates  its  readiness  to  cooperate  in  promoting  the 
Commission’s  work.  To 
that  end,  my  delegation 
reiterates  the  hope  expressed  in  the  report  of  seeing 
Member  States  reach  a  consensus  on  the  allocation  of 
the  mobilization  of 
field,  culminating 
Cameroon,  as  a 
the  adoption  by 
the  various 
in 
the 
integrated 
strategy 
concepts 
08-54719 

7 

A/63/PV.25 

seats  by  regional  group  during  the  election  of  the 
members of the Organizational Committee. 

The  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  its  Fund  are 
two  recent  United  Nations  initiatives.  With  regard  to 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund  in  particular,  the  Secretary-
General’s  report  maintains  that,  in  its  second  year  of 
existence,  the  Fund  has  become  a  unique  strategic 
instrument,  capable  of  taking  the  necessary  risks  and 
playing the role of catalyst in supporting peacebuilding 
in States emerging from conflict. My delegation, along 
with  many  other  previous  speakers,  supports  that 
farsighted vision.  

However,  the  multitude  of  players,  in  particular 
in the cooperation between the Peacebuilding Fund and 
various partners and other funds, gives rise to genuine 
concern,  as  highlighted  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
report.  In  that  connection,  the  report  concludes  that, 
with regard to the future direction of the Fund and its 
methods of work,  


“The  concept  of  peacebuilding  is  not  well 
understood by all actors (…) The Fund’s terms of 
reference should clearly define  and publicize the 
scope  of  early  peacebuilding  activities  to  ensure 
that  the  Fund  focuses  on  delivering  strategic, 
value-added results” (A/63/218, para. 54). 

In that context, and especially with regard to the 
mistakes of the past in the management of certain other 
funds,  my 
transparent 
management  of  the  Fund’s  resources.  We  endorse  the 
principle  of  carrying  out  ongoing  assessments  of  the 
criteria  and  directives  currently  being  used,  on  the 
basis  of  achieving  an  appropriate  balance  between 
experience in the field and the financing of projects.  

Finally,  we  support  the  guidelines  suggested  for 
improving  the  Fund’s  intervention  mechanisms,  in 
particular 
simplification  of  project 
implementation  procedures.  That  will  allow  us,  in  the 
long  term,  to  ensure  effective  action  and  to  avoid  the 
delays  noted  during  the  reporting  period  in  Sierra 
Leone and Burundi. 
For  my  delegation,  the  main  objectives  of  the 

Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
to 
prescribe a useful and effective course of treatment to 
rapidly  heal  the  traumatic  post-conflict  wounds  and 
contribute  at  the  same  time  to  a  full  recovery  from 
them.  Close  coordination  must  therefore  take  place 
between the various actors and partners in the field of 
its  Fund  are 
delegation 
advocates 
through 
the 
in 
implementing 
development,  to  enable  each  of  them  to  play  their 
rightful role, under the supervision of government and 
national  authorities,  in  the  full  range  of  actions 
undertaken. 
Mr.  Cabral  (Guinea-Bissau)  (spoke  in  French): 

This  consideration  of  the  report  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  together  with  the  Secretary-General’s 
report on the Peacebuilding Fund, provides us with an 
opportunity to consider the very real progress achieved 
since the first report, which we reviewed last year. 
Indeed, it is an opportunity for us to welcome the 

considerable  progress  made 
the 
decision emanating from the 2005 World Summit, held 
here. The major objective of the Summit was to ensure 
that,  working  together,  we  could  create  a  mechanism 
that could make a difference. That is precisely what we 
are  witnessing.  The  Peacebuilding  Commission  has 
turned  out  to  be  an  extraordinary  mechanism,  a 
mechanism  that  is  at  the  disposal  of  the  people,  who 
need  it  in  order  to,  together  with  the  international 
community,  build  peace  and  create  the  conditions  for 
sustainable development. 
I  would  like,  at  the  outset,  to  wholeheartedly 

thank 
the  Commission,  our 
colleague from Japan, Ambassador Takasu. In his work 
in 
the  Commission,  Ambassador  Takasu  has 
contributed  not  only  his  own  personal  experience,  but 
also the commitment of his country, Japan, which is a 
close  friend  of  Africa.  His  country  is  a  friend  to  a 
continent  that  needs  support  and  help  in  its  efforts  to 
restore peace where it is threatened and to reconcile the 
parties to conflict wherever it arises, but also to create 
the conditions necessary for true development, because 
that is the end goal and the objective that we have set 
for ourselves. I would also like to express to him and to 
the  Vice-Chairpersons  of  the  Commission  our  full 
appreciation  for  their  joint  efforts,  for  having  in  the 
past  year  worked  with  dedication,  devotion  and 
perseverance 
international 
community,  in  particular  the  cause  of  the  neediest 
countries, including my own, Guinea-Bissau.  

I  would  like  to  state  that  we  have  been  very 
impressed  by  the  work  that  has  been  done  by  the 
excellent  team  under  the  leadership  of  Ms.  Carolyn 
McAskie,  who  left  this  past  summer.  She  had  headed 
up  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office.  She  was  an 
excellent  leader,  with  the  support  of  an  extremely 
competent team. I would like to pay tribute to her here 
the  Chairperson  of 
the  cause  of 
the 
in 
8 

08-54719 
the 
report 
introduced  by 


and  now,  while  stating,  on  behalf  of  my  delegation, 
how  pleased  I  am  that  the  Secretary-General  has 
chosen  such  a  competent,  committed  and  — 
in 
the words  of  my  colleague,  the  representative  of 
Cameroon  —  pragmatic  woman  to  replace  her  as 
Ms. Jane  Holl  Lute.  We  are  convinced  that,  working 
together, we can continue the work we have begun and 
ensure  that  this  extraordinary  mechanism  can  provide 
what  is  expected  of  it,  namely  that  we  can  work 
together  to  build  peace  wherever  we  need  such  an 
effort to be made. 
The  Peacebuilding  Commission,  as  can  be  seen 

from 
its  Chairperson 
(A/63/92), has, as I stated, proved to be an impressive 
mechanism,  first  of  all  because  of  its  innovative 
character.  We  have  been  able  to  see,  through  it,  that, 
working  together,  we  can  do  a  great  deal  —  and  do  a 
great deal better. Working together means including all 
the  stakeholders,  all  those  who  are  able  to  make  a 
contribution,  such  as  civil  society  in  the  countries 
concerned,  but  especially  development  partners  and, 
even better, the Bretton Woods institutions, which have 
proven  to  be  not  only  important  but  truly  committed 
partners. They too have been willing to innovate.  

It  is  indeed  a  matter  of  innovation  to  leave  the 
beaten path, to ensure that that mechanism, which was 
willed into being and established by our heads of State 
and is the expression of a hope expressed by all of us 
here  in  the  General Assembly,  is  truly  something  new 
and is able to work in a different way. It should be able 
to  ensure  that  the  hopes  that  often  arise  from  the 
decisions  taken  by  everyone  here  and  by  the  various 
committees  at  the  United  Nations,  not  only  are  an 
expression of the solidarity we owe to the people who 
need our help, but also ensure that those decisions are 
followed by action.  

Very often, the criticism — which is a fair one, in 
my  delegation’s  view  —  levelled  against  the  United 
Nations  system  as  a  whole  is  that  we  discuss  a  great 
deal  and  we  take  many  decisions,  but  those  decisions 
are very often not followed by action. That is where the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  is  fundamentally  different. 
It  eloquently  demonstrates  that  when  we  innovate, 
when  we  are  determined  and  when  we  combine  our 
efforts,  our  knowledge  and,  in  particular,  the  support 
that  can  be  provided  by  countries  able  to  offer  it, 
assistance  can  be  given  to  the  countries  in  question. 
That  assistance  should  not  be  only  in  the  form  of 
financial  support.  More  than  that,  we  need  to  be 
A/63/PV.25
presented 
by 
is 
in 
real, 
the 
tangible  and 
report 
to  proceed  democratically  within  our 
encouraged 
countries,  to  elect  our 
leaders  democratically,  to 
promote dialogue and cooperation, to promote the rule 
of  law  and  to  ensure  that,  through  inclusive  and 
participatory democracy, all the sons and daughters of 
our countries can be called upon to manage their own 
country. That is the key problem, and very often, that is 
the source of conflict, particularly in Africa: hegemony 
and lack of inclusion.  

I would therefore like to state that, thanks to this 
partnership that we have been able to establish between 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  the  countries  on  its 
agenda  —  which  are  represented  by  their  authorities 
but  also  by  civil  society  organizations,  women,  young 
people  and  political  parties  —  and  the  Bretton Woods 
institutions,  we  have  been  able  to  establish  a  true 
partnership  that  truly  works.  The  outcome  of  that 
irrefutable,  as 
partnership 
highlighted 
the 
Commission’s  very  able  Chairperson,  the  Permanent 
Representative of Japan.  

As regards Guinea-Bissau, which since December 
2004  has  been  on  the  agenda  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  we  are  extremely  satisfied.  We  are 
satisfied  because  the  Commission  has  provided  a  link 
within  our  own  society 
the  key 
foundation of democracy is respected. That foundation 
is 
the 
democratic process and gives new meaning to the idea 
of inclusive democracy.  

We have been able to work with the Commission 
to  ensure  that  all  those  concerned  about  the  future  of 
Guinea-Bissau can take part in the management of the 
country-specific 
country.  The 
for 
Guinea-Bissau 
is  headed  by  Ambassador  Viotti, 
our colleague from Brazil, and its team visited Guinea-
Bissau 
this  past  April.  Along  with  my  own 
compatriots —  and  when  I  say  compatriots,  I  include 
everybody,  as  I  stated  earlier,  not  only  Government 
representatives  but  also  civil  society,  women,  young 
people  and  political  parties,  in  other  words,  all  of  the 
stakeholders  —  it  has  been  able  to  bring  about 
agreement, 
the 
strategy  that  was  just  adopted  at  the  beginning  of  this 
month.  

The  strategy  is  the  outcome  of  an  effort  that 
included  everyone,  and  it  reflects  the  participation  of 
each  and  every  stakeholder.  It  is  thanks  to  that  new, 
through  constructive  dialogue,  on 
inclusion,  which  breathes  fresh 
configuration 
to  ensure 
that 
life 
into 
08-54719 

9 
Kim 
Bonghyun, 
As  Ambassador 
A/63/PV.25 

participative  approach  that  we  have  been  able  to 
establish the Strategic Framework for Peacebuilding in 
Guinea-Bissau, which will be the engine for achieving 
peacebuilding in our country. 

We  highly  appreciate  the  support  that  has  been 
provided  to  us,  not  only  by  all  the  members  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  members  of  the 
country-specific  configuration  for  Guinea-Bissau,  but 
also  all  of  our  development  partners,  in  particular  the 
Bretton Woods institutions. I hope that, very soon, we 
will be able to implement the comprehensive Strategic 
Framework, which will allow Guinea-Bissau to take an 
important step forward in our peacebuilding efforts. We 
do  know  that  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  is  not  a 
development  agency.  The  Commission  will  help  us  to 
lay  the  foundations  that  are  needed  to  consolidate 
democracy  and  ensure  proper  development  for  our 
country.  

the 
representative of the Republic of Korea, reminded us a 
moment ago, 50 years ago, the Republic of Korea had 
just  emerged  from  conflict.  That  is  a  very  clear 
example that should encourage us and show us clearly 
that  conflicts  are  not  inevitable.  We  can  emerge  from 
conflict  if  we  are  resolved  to  ensure  that  national 
reconciliation and peace can take hold in our countries 
and that, together, all citizens can combine their efforts 
and 
leave 
underdevelopment  behind.  Underdevelopment  is  not 
inevitable,  and  the  Republic  of  Korea  is  the  clearest 
proof of that.  

With  regard  to  the  Peacebuilding  Fund,  we  are 
indebted  to  all  the  countries  that  have  contributed  to 
the Fund. We have, of course, surpassed the established 
targets, but that is not enough, of course, in the light of 
everything  that  is  expected  from  the  Fund. We  should 
therefore not be too self-satisfied. While thanking each 
and every person who has contributed — and they are 
many  —  we  should  encourage  them  to  persevere  and 
contribute more. We should also encourage those who 
have not yet done so to contribute to the Fund. Believe 
me,  that  is  a  real  and  very  profitable  investment.  To 
invest  in  peacebuilding  is  an  investment  in  the  future 
of international peace. I think we must continue to say 
that those who have contributed to the Fund have made 
the right choice, and on behalf of my country, I thank 
them. 
to  work 
energies 
together 
and 

I  now 
report  of 
the  observer  of 

In conclusion, allow me to say that all those who 
have  contributed  so  far  to  the  Fund  are  making  a 
difference in countries such as Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, 
Guinea,  Haiti  and,  more  recently,  Kenya.  Here  again, 
we are indebted to them for their solidarity. 

Finally,  we  must  continue  to  work  together  so 
that  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  may  truly  be  a 
great mechanism, as I mentioned earlier, a mechanism 
that  will  make  a  difference  and  show  that  a  reformed 
United Nations, when we the Member States so desire, 
can be innovative, realistic and pragmatic. When we do 
so, we can make a difference and blaze a new trail. We 
can make a difference with the speeches we make here 
and  the  decisions  that  we  adopt,  which  must  be 
followed by action. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General  Assembly  resolution  57/32  of  19  November 
2002, 
call  on 
the  
Inter-Parliamentary Union. 
Mr.  Motter  (Inter-Parliamentary  Union):  I  am 

pleased to address the General Assembly on the second 
annual 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
(A/63/92).  Allow  me  at  the  outset  to  commend  the 
Commission for its great contribution to the revival of 
countries  emerging  from  conflict.  Its  much-needed 
assistance  in  stabilizing  and  strengthening  governing 
institutions  and,  in  so  doing,  enhancing  their  capacity 
to sustain peace is greatly appreciated. 

its  
to  point  out 
inception,  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  
Inter-Parliamentary  Union  (IPU)  have  enjoyed  close 
cooperation, especially in the context of strengthening 
the  role  and  capacity  of  parliaments  to  contribute  to 
peace  processes.  The  IPU  looks  forward  to  pursuing 
that cooperation with the Commission. 

It  is  obvious  why  the  international  community 
should  continue  to  include  parliaments  in  efforts  to 
bring  peace  and  stability  to  conflict-prone  societies. 
Indeed, parliaments’ role in articulating and mediating 
between  the  divergent  interests  in  societies  contribute 
in  no  small  way  to  helping  transform  societies  from 
conflict  to  sustainable  peace. A  key  challenge  for  the 
international  community  is  to  ensure  that  parliaments 
in  post-conflict  societies,  which,  like  other  governing 
institutions, are weak or have been undermined by the 
conflict, are given the means to perform their functions 
effectively.  The  fact  that  such  parliaments  are  often 
composed of the very same actors who have been party 
I  am  pleased 
that  since 
10 

08-54719 
into 
that  aims 
institutional 
The  project  brought 
launched  a  far-reaching  project 


to  the  conflict  makes  a  particularly  strong  case  for 
continued  efforts  by  the  international  community  to 
promote  dialogue  and  a  culture  of  tolerance.  It  is  the 
hope of the IPU that the Commission will continue to 
pay particular attention to that major challenge. 

The IPU, for its part, is committed to supporting 
parliaments in post-conflict countries. In June this year, 
it 
to 
strengthen the role of parliaments in  English-speaking 
African  countries  in  promoting  inclusive  political 
processes, 
reform  and  reconciliation. 
Parliaments benefiting from that support include those 
of  Ghana,  Kenya,  Liberia,  Rwanda,  Sierra  Leone, 
Somalia, Sudan and Uganda. Zimbabwe will hopefully 
join the list.  

together  members  of 
parliament  from  those  countries  at  a  regional  seminar 
in  Sierra  Leone  to  discuss  issues  that  parliaments 
should  factor 
their  strategies  for  promoting 
national  peacebuilding  and  reconciliation  processes. 
They  include  transitional  justice  mechanisms,  the 
establishment  of  appropriate  reparation  policies,  the 
role of women, the controversial issue of amnesty, the 
pursuit  of 
including  national  versus 
international courts — security sector reform and many 
more.  The  experiences 
seminar 
highlighted the potential that parliaments have to bring 
people closer and that, if managed well, they can serve 
as  an  important  vehicle  for  political  mediation  and 
action  and  for  the  equitable  allocation  of  resources  to 
address the needs of the population. Participants came 
away with the strong conviction that reconciliation was 
not  an  event  but  rather  a  healing  process  that  affects 
the 
that 
perseverance was essential in the process.  

Also in June of this year, the IPU, in cooperation 
with the Peacebuilding Commission, organized a panel 
discussion in New York on parliaments, peacebuilding 
and 
relevant 
experiences from Burundi, Central America and South 
Africa. The debate touched on a number of aspects and 
challenges,  including  the  role  of  former  combatants, 
the  financing  of  political  parties  and  the  need  for  the 
international  community  to  assist  in  developing  a 
culture  of  shared  responsibilities  among  minority  and  

lives  of  several  generations  and  also 
reconciliation,  which  brought 
justice  — 
shared  at 
forth 
the 
A/63/PV.25
to 
the 
to 
to 
proffer 
support 
provide 
assistance 
request  of 
typical  ones 
the  needs  of 
In  Sierra  Leone,  at 
majority  political  parties. The  meeting  helped  identify 
lessons  learned  and  good  practices  and  pinpointed 
practical ways to implement those good practices. 
Needless  to  say,  the  IPU  has  been  keen  and 

pleased 
to  Peacebuilding 
Commission efforts  at the  national level, especially in 
Burundi  and  Sierra  Leone.  In  Burundi,  the  IPU  has 
been  engaged  with  the  parliament  to  assist  it  in 
promoting  dialogue  and  establishing  mechanisms  that 
promote  inclusiveness  in  decision-making.  It  has  also 
continued 
to  women 
parliamentarians. 

the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  the  IPU  carried  out  a 
comprehensive  assessment  of 
the 
parliament in October 2007. The challenges facing the 
parliament  are 
for  a  post-conflict 
environment.  The  wounds  of  conflict  have  yet  to  be 
completely healed, and Sierra Leone remains a fragile 
and volatile society. The parliament faces the daunting 
task  of  putting  the  pieces  of  Sierra  Leonean  society 
back  together.  National  reconciliation  and  transitional 
justice  will  therefore  continue  to  be  at  the  top  of  the 
agenda. The IPU, in cooperation with UNDP, intends to 
build  on 
specific 
interventions that will enable the parliament to come to 
grips with those challenges. 

In conclusion, I wish to reiterate that a parliament 
is  a  complex  institution  whose  potential  to  deliver  is 
the 
not  always  guaranteed.  The  challenge 
international 
therefore 
take 
cognizance of parliament’s role and complexity and to 
nurture its full capacity. In that regard, we are pleased 
that  the  Commission  has  continued  to  place  the  needs 
of  democratically  elected  parliaments  high  on  its 
agenda.  For  our  part,  we  will  continue  to  raise 
awareness  of  the  work  of  the  Commission  among  our 
members along the lines indicated in the report. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker in the debate on these items. May I take it that 
it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude its 
consideration of agenda items 10 and 101? 

The meeting rose at 4.20 p.m. 
It was so decided.  
that  assessment 
community 
identify 
is 
for 
to 
08-54719 

11 
