
A/63/PV.23
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

23rd plenary meeting 
Thursday, 9 October 2008, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 
for 
the 
International  Tribunal 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now  invite 

the  attention  of  the Assembly  to  documents A/63/458 
and  A/63/470.  In  document  A/63/458,  the  Secretary-
General transmitted two letters, dated 5 June 2008 and 
1 September 2008, from Judge Fausto Pocar, President 
of 
the  Former 
Yugoslavia. In his letter, the Secretary-General informs 
the Assembly that the President seeks the extension of 
the  terms  of  office  of  the  permanent  and  ad  litem 
judges  elected  to  serve  with  the Tribunal  in  2005  and 
whose  terms  of  office  expire  on  16  November  2009 
and  23  August  2009,  respectively.  The  Secretary-
General also states that the President has requested an 
extension of the terms of the remaining ad litem judges 
who  are  not  currently  appointed  to  serve  at  the 
Tribunal. 

the 
Assembly that the President has provided details on the 
necessity  and  urgency  of 
is 
primarily  to  ensure  that  the  judges  may  complete  the 
cases to which they are assigned. As the statute of the 
International  Tribunal  does  not  provide  for 
the 
extension  of  the  terms  of  office  of  the  judges,  the 
approval of the Security Council, as the parent organ of 
the 
the  General 
Assembly, as the organ that elects its judges, would be 
needed. 

In  document  A/63/470,  the  President  of  the 
Security  Council  transmits  to  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly  the  text  of  Council  resolution  1837 
International  Tribunal,  and  of 
The  Secretary-General 
this  request,  which 
informs 
further 




The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 





Agenda item 154 
Judges of the International Tribunal for the 
Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious 
Violations of International Humanitarian Law 
Committed on the Territory of the Former 
Yugoslavia since 1991  

  Letter from the Secretary-General addressed 
to the President of the General Assembly 
(A/63/458) 
  Letter from the President of the Security 
Council addressed to the President of the 
General Assembly (A/63/470) 
The President (spoke in Spanish): Before taking 

up  agenda  item  154,  I  would  like  to  consult  members 
with  regard  to  proceeding  to  the  consideration  of  this 
agenda  item.  In  this  connection,  I  would  like  to  draw 
attention  to  the  relevant  provision  of  rule  15  of  the 
rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly,  which 
reads as follows: 


“No additional item may, unless the General 
Assembly  decides  otherwise  by  a  two-thirds 
majority  of  the  members  present  and  voting,  be 
considered until seven days have elapsed since it 
was  placed  on  the  agenda  and  until  a  committee 
has reported upon the question concerned.” 

In the absence of an objection, I shall take it that 
the Assembly agrees to proceed to the consideration of 
agenda item 154.  


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-54359 (E) 
*0854359* 
A/63/PV.23 

(2008)  of  29  September  2008,  whereby  the  Council, 
inter alia: 



“1.  Decides  to  extend  the  terms  of  office 
of the following permanent judges at the Tribunal 
who  are  members  of  the Appeals  Chamber  until 
31 December 2010, or until the completion of the 
cases before the Appeals Chamber if sooner: 
         –Liu Daqun (China) 
         –Theodor Meron (United States of America) 
         –Fausto Pocar (Italy) 
         –Mohamed Shahabuddeen (Guyana) 

“2.  Decides  to  extend  the  terms  of  office 
of the following permanent judges at the Tribunal 
who  are  members  of  the  Trial  Chambers  until 
31 December 2009, or until the completion of the 
cases to which they are assigned if sooner: 
         –Carmel Agius (Malta) 
         –Jean-Claude Antonetti (France) 
         –Iain Bonomy (United Kingdom) 
         –Christoph Flügge (Germany) 
         –O-Gon Kwon (South Korea)  
         –Bakone Justice Moloto (South Africa)  
         –Alphons Orie (The Netherlands) 
         –Kevin Parker (Australia) 
         –Patrick Robinson (Jamaica) 
         –Christine Van den Wyngaert (Belgium) 
“3.  Decides  to  extend  the  terms  of  office 

of 
judges,  currently 
serving at the Tribunal, until 31 December 2009, 
or until the completion of the cases to which they 
are assigned if sooner: 







Ali Nawaz Chowhan (Pakistan) 
Pedro David (Argentina) 
Elizabeth Gwaunza (Zimbabwe) 
Frederik Harhoff (Denmark) 
Tsvetana Kamenova (Bulgaria) 
Uldis Kinis (Latvia) 
Flavia Lattanzi (Italy) 
the  following  ad 






















Antoine  Kesia-Mbe  Mindua  (Democratic 
Republic of the Congo) 

Janet Nosworthy (Jamaica) 

Michèle Picard (France) 

Árpád Prandler (Hungary) 

Kimberly Prost (Canada) 

Ole Bjørn Støle (Norway) 

Stefan Trechsel (Switzerland) 

“4.  Decides to extend the term of office of 
the  following  ad  litem  judges,  who  are  not 
currently appointed to serve at the Tribunal, until 
31 December 2009, or until the completion of any 
cases to which they may be assigned if sooner: 













Melville Baird (Trinidad and Tobago) 
Frans Bauduin (The Netherlands) 
Burton Hall (The Bahamas) 
Frank Höpfel (Austria) 
Raimo Lahti (Finland) 
Jawdat Naboty (Syrian Arab Republic) 
Chioma Egondu Nwosu-Iheme (Nigeria) 
Prisca Matimba Nyambe (Zambia) 
Brynmor Pollard (Guyana) 
Vonimbolana Rasoazanany (Madagascar) 
Krister Thelin (Sweden) 
Klaus Tolksdorf (Germany) 
Tan  Sri  Dato  Lamin  Haji  Mohd  Yunus 
(Malaysia).” 

If  there  is  no  objection,  I  propose  that  the 
Assembly  decide  to  endorse  this  recommendation  of 
the  Secretary-General,  which  was  endorsed  by  the 
Security  Council  in  its  resolution  1837  (2008)  of 
29 September 2008. 
It was so decided. 

The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
agenda item 154. 

08-54359 
litem 























2 




that 
in  mind 


Agenda items 10 and 101 
Report of the Peacebuilding Commission (A/63/92)  
Report of the Secretary-General on the 
Peacebuilding Fund (A/63/218 and Corr.1)  
The  President:  I  am  very  pleased  that  we  have 

this  opportunity  to  discuss  the  Secretary-General’s 
reports  on  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the 
Peacebuilding Fund. The Commission and its Fund are 
two  new  initiatives  born  of  our  determination  that  the 
United  Nations  be  equipped 
to  assist  countries 
emerging  from  conflict  to  secure  long-term  peace  in 
the  twenty-first  century. They  represent  new  additions 
to the peacebuilding architecture of the United Nations 
and  we  must  keep 
they  are  still 
constructions  in  progress  and  need  our  full  attention 
and support. 

Given  the  record  of  peace  accords  that  have 
failed in their first years, those reform initiatives fill a 
long-standing  gap  in  our  peacemaking  architecture. 
They are examples of the United Nations doing things 
differently  and  learning  from  past  lessons  of  success 
and failure. They arise from efforts to find new ways to 
promote  partnerships  and  solidarity  in  post-conflict 
situations that have been misunderstood and neglected 
in the past. 

The Commission, the Fund and the Peacebuilding 
Support  Office  are  demonstrating  the  importance  of 
broad-based  partnerships  that  count  on  the  dynamic 
support  of  the  entire  United  Nations  membership, 
including  the  main  troop-contributing  countries  to 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions  and  the  major 
donor  countries.  With  that  support,  those  new  entities 
bring  together  the  Organization’s  political,  security, 
development  and  human  rights  components  in  an 
integrated  approach  to  addressing  the  tremendous 
challenges in post-conflict situations. 

in 
meeting  its  original  target  of  $250  million  and  the 
broad base of its contributors are also testimony to the 
confidence vested in the United Nations. It reflects the 
commitment of the international community to closing 
a critical funding gap in the transition from violence to 
sustainable peace and development.  

Two  years  after  their  creation,  the  Commission 
and the Fund continue to explore new ways to address 
the  challenges 
that  many  post-conflict  situations 
represent  to  the  world.  The  reports  before  us  today 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund 
The  success  of 
A/63/PV.23
focused  on 
initial  work 
the  encouraging  progress  made  by 
reflect 
the 
Commission,  the  Fund  and  the  Peacebuilding  Support 
Office  in  addressing  critical  post-conflict  priorities. 
Their 
the  post-conflict 
situations in Burundi, Guinea-Bissau and Sierra Leone. 
Today,  they  are  also  assisting  the  Central  African 
Republic.  The  Fund  has  also  supported  peacebuilding 
initiatives  in  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Haiti,  Guinea,  Liberia, 
Kenya and Nepal. 

The  reports  provide  a  candid  analysis  of  the 
challenges  that  lie  ahead  for  the  Commission  and  the 
Fund.  I  have  voiced  my  concern  about  the  need  to 
sustain  those  and  other  efforts  to  fulfil  the  Charter’s 
mandates  of  peace  and  security,  as  well  as  economic 
and  social  development,  in  these  times  of  global 
financial  crisis.  We  must  ensure  that  the  collective 
action  and  commitment  of  Member  States,  concerned 
countries,  the  United  Nations  system  and  all  relevant 
international  and  regional  actors  are  sustained  in  the 
months and years ahead.  

The  relevance  and  credibility  of  the  new  United 
Nations  peacebuilding  architecture  will  ultimately  be 
measured  by  its  ability  to  mobilize  international 
support  that  delivers  tangible  peace  dividends  to  the 
people  of  Burundi,  the  Central  African  Republic, 
Guinea-Bissau  and  Sierra  Leone.  Those  dividends  are 
needed now — not two, three or five years from now. 

It must also enhance national capacities to sustain 
peace  and  rebuild  the  foundations  for  longer-term 
socio-economic  development.  To  succeed,  its  work 
must respect the principle of national ownership of all 
peacebuilding  efforts  and  must  involve  regional  and 
subregional  actors  to  widen  the  impact  of  peace  and 
stability. 
To that end, I call on the international community 

the 
to  continue 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
the  Peacebuilding 
Fund.  New  and  predictable  financial  and  human 
resources  must  be  channelled  to  address  the  critical 
priorities determined by the countries concerned. 

The  General  Assembly  will  have  other 
opportunities  during  this  session  to  engage  in  critical 
discussions on post-conflict peacebuilding. As a parent 
that 
organ  of 
architecture,  we  welcome 
responsibility.  The  Assembly  will  consider 
the 
Secretary-General’s  proposed  review  of  the  terms  of 
reference  of  the  Peacebuilding  Fund.  We  will  also 
recommendations 
review 
the  Secretary-General’s 
the  capacities  of 
to  strengthen 
this 
08-54359 

3 

A/63/PV.23 

aimed  at  improving  the  United  Nations  response  in 
early recovery and post-conflict situations.  

I also call on all members to demonstrate a spirit 
of  partnership  and  responsibility  so  that  we  can  move 
ahead  with  electing  new  members  of  the  Commission 
in  all  pending  categories  of  membership.  I  intend  to 
invest  the  time  and  effort  needed  to  attain  that 
objective before the end of the year.  

These  represent  opportunities  for  the  General 
Assembly,  with  its  universal  membership  and  moral 
authority,  to  utilize  the  work  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  and  the  services  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund to promote a more democratic, coherent and agile 
United Nations. Our credibility and leadership will  be 
measured  by  our  ability  to  respond  to  the  needs  of 
societies aspiring to peace, stability and prosperity.  

I  see  today’s  debate  as  an  opportunity  for 
Member  States  to  reflect  on  the  question  of  how  the 
General  Assembly  can  best  support  and  reinforce  the 
lofty  goals  of 
the  United  Nations  peacebuilding 
architecture.  We  must  aim  for  nothing  less  than 
significant change in policies and attitudes on the part 
of all relevant stakeholders in addressing the plight of 
societies emerging from conflict. 
(spoke in Spanish) 

the  Permanent 
I  now  give 
Representative of Japan to the United Nations, who is 
also the Chairman of the Peacebuilding Commission. 
Mr.  Takasu  (Japan):  Thank  you,  Mr.  President, 

for  a  very  important  and  encouraging  introductory 
statement, which will guide our work and this debate.  

Today, I am very pleased to present the report of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  on  its  second  year  of 
activity (A/63/92). The report covers the wide range of 
activities  undertaken  by  the  Commission  during  its 
previous session. Thanks to the dedicated efforts of its 
members,  the  Commission  made  steady  progress  and 
produced concrete results in many areas of its work. As 
the  President 
four  country-specific 
configurations  engaged  in  intensive  work  to  produce 
tangible progress on the ground. 

With  regard  to  Burundi,  the  Monitoring  and 
Tracking  Mechanism  of  the  Strategic  Framework  for 
Peacebuilding was adopted in December 2007, and the 
focus  was  changed  to  implementation.  This  June,  the 
first  biannual  review  was  conducted,  under 
the 
stated, 
floor 
the 
the 
to 
rehabilitation, 
Concerning  Sierra  Leone, 
recovery.  The  mobilization 
chairmanship  of  Ambassador  Løvald  of  Norway;  it 
called  for  further  efforts  in  areas  such  as  good 
governance, compliance with the Ceasefire Agreement, 
the  security  sector,  the  rule  of  law,  the  land  issue  and 
socio-economic 
of 
international  assistance  was  also  emphasized,  as  well 
as  the  subregional  dimension  and  the  gender  issue. 
Ambassador  Lidén  of  Sweden  has  now  taken  over  as 
Chair. 

the  Peacebuilding 
Cooperation  Framework  was  adopted  in  December 
2007.  Under  the  chairmanship  of Ambassador  Majoor 
of  the  Netherlands,  the  biannual  review  in  June 
recommended  youth  employment  and  empowerment, 
energy,  the  global  food  crisis  and  rising  oil  prices  as 
areas that would require special attention. 

the  Security 
Guinea-Bissau  was  referred  by 
Council  in  December  2007,  and  the  Guinea-Bissau 
country-specific configuration, under the chairmanship 
of Ambassador  Viotti  of  Brazil,  adopted  the  Strategic 
Framework  for  Peacebuilding  on  1  October.  The 
elections  to  be  held  in  mid-November;  economic  and 
infrastructure 
the  energy 
sector;  security  sector  reform;  the  rule  of  law  and  the 
fight  against  drug  trafficking;  public  administration 
reform; and social questions: these have been identified 
as priority areas. 
The  Central  African  Republic  was  referred  in 

June  2008.  Work  has 
the 
chairmanship  of  Ambassador  Grauls  of  Belgium,  to 
formulate an integrated strategy by making full use of 
the  lessons  learned  from  the  experiences  of  other 
configurations. 
With  strong  leadership  by  the  Chairs  of  the 

the  Peacebuilding 
country-specific  configurations, 
Commission  continued  to  focus  sustained  attention  on 
support  for  national  efforts.  Interaction  within  the 
Commission  and  with  others  strengthened  the  notions 
of the primary responsibility of national Governments, 
national  priorities,  the  partnership  of  the  international 
community 
accountability,  while 
encouraging  interaction  among  national  stakeholders 
and  international  partners.  That  cooperative  approach 
of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  is  its  greatest  asset 
and  has  added  value 
to  ongoing  national  and 
international efforts. 
In  that  connection,  I  would  like  to  express  my 

appreciation  for  the  prompt  approval  by  the  General 
just  begun,  under 
and  mutual 
including 
4 

08-54359 


Assembly  of  the  necessary  funding  for  the  field 
missions  of  country-specific  configurations  and  the 
visits of the Chairs, which were particularly valuable in 
the Commission’s engagement with the countries under 
its consideration. 

Secondly,  there  are  many  other  countries  in  the 
world  besides  those  four  that  are  in  the  post-conflict 
peacebuilding  process  and  face  various 
types  of 
challenges.  The  Peacebuilding  Commission  may 
provide  useful  support  for  efforts  to  address  those 
challenges  by  developing  a  strategy  and  policies  for 
effective  peacebuilding  efforts.  With  that  purpose  in 
mind, 
the  Organizational  Committee  conducted 
in-depth  strategic  and  policy  discussions  —  for 
example,  on  the  role  of  the  private  sector  and  the 
synergy between peacekeeping and peacebuilding. 
In the same vein, the Working Group on Lessons 

Learned,  under 
the  chairmanship  of  Ambassador 
Gallardo  Hernández  of  El  Salvador,  took  up  topics 
such  as  peacebuilding  frameworks,  local  governance 
and  decentralization,  the  gender  issue,  transitional 
justice and internal displacement. The synthesis report 
issued  after  the  last  meeting  could  serve  as  a  good 
basis for future work to develop best practices. 

Thirdly,  serious  efforts  were  made  to  enhance 
partnerships at the highest level, in particular with the 
World  Bank  and  the  International  Monetary  Fund,  the 
African  Union  and 
the  European  Union.  United 
Nations bodies in New York, Geneva and Vienna were 
all  mobilized.  Regular  contacts  with  the  Presidents  of 
principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations  —  the  General 
Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and 
Social  Council  —  were  also  established.  Many 
outreach  efforts  were  made  by  the  Chairpersons  and 
the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office  (PBSO)  to  deepen 
understanding  of  the  specific  needs  of  post-conflict 
countries  and 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission.  In  that  connection,  I  would  like  to 
acknowledge  the  particular  value  of  the  seminars  and 
workshops  organized  recently  in  many  places  in  the 
world, 
including  Geneva,  Tokyo,  Brussels  and 
Alpbach,  Austria.  We  are  grateful  to  the  PBSO  for 
providing valuable support in assisting the work of the 
Commission in all those areas.  

What of the way forward? We have made steady 
progress,  as  you  kindly  acknowledged,  Mr.  President. 
We must continue our efforts to produce more concrete 
the  work  of 
A/63/PV.23
in 
their 
in 
in  new 
also  by  bringing 
results.  I  would  like  to  outline  four  priority  areas  that 
need to be focused upon. 

First, we must continue to produce more tangible 
results  on  the  ground.  We  should  bring  about  visible 
impacts of direct benefit to the people of the countries 
under consideration. In order to consolidate peace, it is 
essential  that  people  can  actually  see  and  experience 
the  signs  of  the  arrival  of  peace  after  a  ceasefire, 
through  such  positive  changes 
lives  as 
electricity  supply  and  the  opening  of  schools  and 
clinics. We need to elicit the support of all stakeholders 
and  to  mobilize  resources,  not  only  from  traditional 
partners  but 
and 
non-traditional partners. I appeal to all Member States 
to extend their support to national efforts in the priority 
areas identified in the integrated strategies. Support for 
the successful conduct of elections in Guinea-Bissau in 
mid-November  or  in  Burundi  in  2010  are  good 
examples to start with. 
Secondly,  it  is  important  to  deepen  strategic  and 

policy  discussions.  The  strategy  for 
international 
efforts  at  peacebuilding  is  still  in  the  early  stages  of 
development. We must make our best effort to develop 
policies  on  how  to  fill  the  gap  between  peacekeeping 
and  peacebuilding  and  also 
the  gap  between 
peacebuilding  and  development.  There  is  a  need  to 
promote  conceptual  and  policy  guidance  for  effective 
peacebuilding  efforts 
the 
Commission.  Topics  such  as  youth  employment,  the 
role  of  the  private  sector,  justice  and  peace  and  the 
subregional  dimension  may  be  considered.  The 
Commission  will  also  cooperate  closely  with  the 
Secretariat  in  the  preparation  of  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  early  recovery  and  post-conflict 
peacebuilding. 

Thirdly, it is important to strengthen partnerships. 
Building  upon  efforts  to  establish  strong  partnerships 
with the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund 
and  the  regional  development  banks,  it  is  essential  to 
continue  such  efforts 
the 
commitment of those partners is translated into specific 
programmatic  cooperation  on  the  ground.  We  also 
continue 
to  engage  actively  with  civil  society 
organizations. 

Fourthly,  we  must  ensure  the  coherence  of  the 
activities  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  We  will 
continue to ensure that all parts of the United Nations 
peacebuilding  architecture  work  in  a  coherent  and 
through  discussions 
to  make  certain 
that 
08-54359 

5 

to 
to  be 
referred 
A/63/PV.23 

coordinated manner for the sole purpose of serving the 
people  on  the  ground.  As  additional  countries  are 
expected 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission, the Commission will continue to improve 
the  efficiency  of  its  working  methods,  with  a  clear 
sense of the added value of its engagement. 

The Peacebuilding Commission is still a new and 
evolving  organ.  The  political  and  substantive  support 
of the members of the General Assembly is critical in 
order for the Commission to advance its activities. The 
Commission  places  great  importance  on  strengthening 
interaction  with  the  General  Assembly,  as  one  of  its 
parent  organs.  Last  January,  I  was  invited  by  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  to  an  informal 
plenary  meeting  to  have  an  interactive  dialogue  with 
the broader membership. That was very useful. I would 
greatly appreciate similar interactions in the future. 

As a result of a stalemate on the allocation of the 
seats among the regional groups for the elections in the 
General  Assembly  and 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council, both organs decided to take interim measures 
to  extend  the  terms  of  some  members.  I  join  you, 
Mr. President, 
to  make 
maximum  efforts  to  overcome  the  impasse  as  soon  as 
possible. 

The foundation was laid in the first year, and we 
began to produce results in the second year. The third 
year will be the real test for this developing organ. The 
Peacebuilding  Commission  must  consolidate 
its 
achievements and help mobilize resources so that it can 
create  a  real  difference  on  the  ground  and  meet  the 
high  expectations  of  the  international  community.  I 
would like to assure all members of our full dedication 
and commitment in that regard. 
In  concluding  my  remarks,  allow  me  to  make 

some  brief  remarks,  in  my  national  capacity,  on  the 
Peacebuilding  Fund.  The  Fund  was  created  to  play  a 
catalytic 
in  attracting  new  and  additional 
resources.  We  welcome  the  fact  that  pledges  to  the 
Fund  have  now  exceeded 
target  of 
$250 million.  The  Fund  is  also  expected  to  play  a 
leading role in the immediate response to post-conflict 
situations.  That  unique  role  needs  to  be  further 
strengthened.  At  the  same  time,  it  is  important  to 
improve accountability to donors and the international 
community.  For  instance,  the  selection  of  countries  to 
be  assisted  by  the  Fund  should  be  based  upon  clearer 
criteria.  The  review  of  the  Fund’s  terms  of  reference 
in  urging  Member  States 
the  original 
role 
to 
thank 
will provide a valuable opportunity to ensure that it can 
better assist the countries in need. 
Mr.  Ripert  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  Thank 

you,  Mr.  President,  for  organizing  this  debate  on  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
the  Peacebuilding 
Fund  —  two  tools  that  were  made  available  to  the 
international community at the Millennium Summit.  

I  wish  first  of  all  to  commend  the  Permanent 
Representative of Japan, who presides over the work of 
the  Commission  with  determination  and  talent.  I  also 
salute  the  representatives  of  Belgium,  Brazil,  the 
Netherlands, Norway, El Salvador and Sweden both for 
chairing the various configurations of the Commission 
and for their unremitting efforts to clearly establish the 
Commission’s  added  value  within  the  United  Nations 
system. 
I  would  also  like  to  welcome  the  role  of  the 

Peacebuilding  Support  Office  and 
the 
Secretary-General  for  his  support  for  that  office.  My 
thanks  go  also  to  Ms.  Carolyn  McAskie,  who  laid  the 
cornerstone  of  the  structure,  and  Ms.  Jane  Holl  Lute, 
who  took  office  a  month  ago  and  to  whom  we  wish 
every success.  

I have the honour to address the Assembly today 
on behalf of the European  Union (EU). The  candidate 
countries  Turkey,  Croatia  and  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia, 
the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  and  Montenegro, 
as well as Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova, align 
themselves with this statement. 

It  is  all  the  more  of  an  honour  to  address  the 
Assembly as the theme of post-conflict stabilization is 
central  to  the  thinking  and  priorities  of  the  European 
Union, which has welcomed the solid achievements of 
the  2005  Summit  and  the  broader  goals  pursued  since 
that 
the  Secretary-General’s 
reflection,  initiated  at  the  request  of  the  Security 
Council,  on  a  more  organized,  effective  and  rapid 
response to post-conflict challenges. 

During its second year of work, the Peacebuilding 
Commission  has  made  promising  progress.  The 
attention  the  international  community  focuses  on  the 
countries  on 
increased.  The 
implementation  of  the  peacebuilding  strategies  for 
Burundi and Sierra Leone — the first two countries on 
the  agenda  —  continues  to  be  based  on  a  clearly 
the  countries  of 
in  particular 
agenda  has 
time, 
its 
6 

08-54359 
in 

it 
is 
important 


defined programme of work for the months ahead. On 
the  ground,  coordination  has  been  strengthened. 
Various national political actors, civil society, partners 
and  donors  are  discussing  together  practical  ways  to 
implement a common road map. 

In  that  context,  it  is  necessary  to  enhance  the 
Peacebuilding Commission’s visibility and its ability to 
drive  and  to  influence  others.  It  is  noteworthy  in  that 
regard  that  countries  that  would  clearly  benefit  from 
engaging  with  the  Commission  are  reluctant  to  do  so. 
Outreach  efforts  are  needed,  aimed  at 
regional 
organizations  in  particular.  The  Commission  might 
consider  holding  some  of  its  meetings  outside  New 
York. 

When speaking of the Peacebuilding Commission 
and 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund, 
to 
remember  that  the  issue  is  not  just  one  of  financial 
resources and that the Commission’s vocation is not to 
become  a  new  distributor  of  development  assistance. 
All energies and resources should be mobilized; here I 
am thinking in particular the role of the diasporas. But 
it  is  true  that  in  many  cases,  the  key  is  to  widen  the 
circle of States and organizations supporting the efforts 
of  the  countries  on  the  Commission’s  agenda.  A 
particularly  good  example  is  the  Central  African 
Republic, where the Commission has an opportunity to 
develop  mechanisms  to  ensure  adequate  mobilization 
of the international community.  

The  European  Union  would  like  to  offer  a  few 
suggestions  for  the  coming  year  on  the  focus  of  the 
Commission’s  work.  First,  we  must  encourage  the 
efforts  of 
to 
strengthen  its  capacity  to  act  in  support  of  the 
Commission.  Secondly, 
should 
improve its working methods to become more effective 
and  more  strategic,  especially  in  view  of  the  possible 
inclusion  of  new  countries  on  its  agenda.  Some 
instruments  were  developed  last  year.  Today,  the 
Commission needs fewer, but better prepared meetings. 
We  must  not  hesitate  to  call  on  the  coordination 
mechanism  of  the  most  committed  States,  such  as  the 
International  Contact  Group,  on  Guinea-Bissau  for 
example. Moreover, we must work on identifying entry 
points  for  the  Commission’s  engagement  progressive 
reduction  and  conclusion.  The  Commission  should 
discuss that with the Economic and Social Council.  

the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  should  be  integrated  into 
the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office 
the  consolidation  work  of 
the  Commission 
Ultimately, 
A/63/PV.23
Security  Council 
strategies  as  expeditiously  as 
possible. Similarly, the Commission must persuade the 
development  stakeholders  to  bring  their  actions  into 
line  with  a  strategy  of  political  and  security 
stabilization  by  supporting  overall  efforts  to  enhance 
the coherence of the Organization as a whole. 

  Mr.  Tanin  (Afghanistan),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
The  EU  is  firmly  committed  to  supporting  the 

activities  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
endorses the priorities that Ambassador Takasu has just 
proposed.  The  European  Commission 
is  actively 
engaged  in  all  the  countries  on  the  Commission’s 
agenda. The  EU  is  one  of  the  Commission’s  principal 
donors,  if  not  the  main  one,  in  terms  of  budget, 
humanitarian  and  development  assistance.  It  also 
participates 
the  development  of  peacebuilding 
strategies.  Lastly,  we  must  not  forget  that  the  EU  can 
also  support  the  implementation  of  the  political  and 
security  parts  of  those  strategies,  particularly  through 
the instruments of the European Security and Defence 
Policy,  such  as  the  Mission  in  Support  of  Security 
Sector Reform in Guinea-Bissau. 

The  EU  notes  that  the  international  financial 
institutions  are  not  lagging  behind  and  have  begun  to 
adjust 
regional  and 
subregional  actors,  especially  the  African  Union.  The 
United  Nations  system  is  demonstrating  thereby  its 
ability  to  be  more  committed  and  ready  to  align  itself 
with the strategies defined by the Commission. 
the 

Peacebuilding Fund to which the States members of the 
EU individually have greatly contributed. The Fund is 
at  the  Secretary-General’s  disposal,  but  it  is  up  to  the 
Assembly  to  provide  it  with  guidance.  In  that  regard, 
the  EU  looks  forward  to  the  review  by  the  Office  of 
Internal  Oversight  Services  and  the  recommendations 
of  the Advisory  Group.  The  Fund  is  an  instrument  to 
the  specific  challenges  of  post-conflict 
address 
stabilization 
that  has  not  yet 
recovery 
demonstrated its full potential. 

For  the  EU,  the  priority  is  to  improve  the 
efficiency of its management and its ability to produce 
quick  results  on  the  ground,  acting  as  a  catalyst  for 
other  financial  mechanisms  of  the  United  Nations 
system.  To  do  that,  it  will  no  doubt  be  necessary  to 
clarify the scope and criteria of its three windows. The 
general issue of responsibility is crucial to keeping the 
instruments,  as  are 
I  would 
Finally, 
return 
their 
like 
and 
to 
to 
08-54359 

7 

in 
(NAM)  caucus 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  welcomes 
A/63/PV.23 

Fund  afloat  in  the  future.  We  are  ready  forthwith  to 
study the ways and means for the General Assembly to 
further improve the Fund’s management.  
Mr. Wolfe  (Jamaica):  As  coordinator  of  the 

Non-Aligned  Movement 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  I  am  deeply  honoured  to 
address  this  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  Movement.  I 
am  particularly  pleased  and  encouraged  by 
the 
commitment  shown  and 
the  continued  valuable 
contributions  of  members  of  the  Movement  to  the 
ongoing work of the Commission. 

the 
second  report  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  as 
reflected  in  document A/63/92,  and  considers  it  to  be 
an accurate account of the activities of the Commission 
over  the  period.  I  would  like  to  say,  too,  that  we  also 
welcome  the  very  informative  and  comprehensive 
report  presented  by  the  Chair  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission. The Movement also welcomes the report 
of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  Peacebuilding  Fund, 
contained in document A/63/218. 

Last  year,  when  we  adopted  the  first  report,  the 
Commission  was  embarking  upon  unfamiliar  territory. 
Twelve  months  later,  NAM  is  of  the  view  that  the 
Peacebuilding Commission is confidently on its way to 
making 
the 
founding  mandate,  which  emerged  from  the  2005 
United  Nations  institutional  reform  package.  NAM 
considers  that  the  advancements  made  in  the  period 
under  review  points  the  Commission  in  the  right 
direction. 

The Movement was particularly pleased with the 
programme  of  work  established  by  the  Commission, 
especially  efforts  geared  towards  the  fulfilment  of  its 
mandate.  Pivotal  in  that  regard  were  efforts  made  to 
accentuate the marshalling of resources  and a genuine 
desire and commitment on the part of members of the 
Commission  and  other  key  players 
to  enhance 
coordination  of  all  peacebuilding  activities  on  the 
ground in the countries on the Commission’s agenda. 
the 

adoption 
for 
Peacebuilding  in  Burundi,  Guinea-Bissau  and  Sierra 
Leone.  Each  Framework  is  a  document  that  describes 
the  Commission’s  engagement  with  the  respective 
Governments  and  their  partners.  The  principle  of 
national ownership of the peacebuilding process by the 
Governments  of  the  countries  on  the  Commission’s 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  welcomes 
Frameworks 
the  solid  contribution  envisioned  by 
Strategic 
the 
of 
to 
check 
the 
of 
progress 
agenda — a priority for the Movement — was a central 
feature  of  the  work  of  the  Commission  and  in  the 
development of each Framework. 
The establishment of the monitoring and tracking 

mechanisms 
the 
implementation  of  the  Frameworks  is  an  indication  of 
the  commitment  of  the  respective  Governments,  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  other  stakeholders  to 
success in the short and medium terms. The monitoring 
and  tracking  mechanisms  will  act  as  a  tool  to  ensure 
that  agreed  targets  are  met  and  that  the  appropriate 
remedial  action  is  taken,  if  and  when  such  action 
becomes necessary. 

In  that  context,  the  Movement  welcomes  the 
decision  by  the  Commission  to  finance  field  missions 
to  the  countries  on  the  Commission’s  agenda,  the 
purpose  of  which  is  to  equip  the  Commission  with 
first-hand  information  to  produce  accurate  analysis, 
with  a  view  to  assisting  the  decision-making  process 
regarding the situations in those countries. 

The  addition  of  Guinea-Bissau  and  the  Central 
African  Republic  to  the  agenda  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  at  their  request,  should  count  among  the 
Commission’s  highlights  and  achievements  during  the 
period  under  review.  The  impressive  work  already 
undertaken by the Commission with the new countries 
in such a short period of time demonstrates that lessons 
learned  from  the  Commission’s  engagement  with  the 
its  agenda  now  form  a 
first 
fundamental  basis 
interaction  and 
development  of  Integrated  Peacebuilding  Strategies 
between  the  Commission,  the  authorities  of  those 
countries and other key stakeholders and partners. 

the 
of 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  much  obviously  needs  to 
be done to ensure that the overall gains are not eroded 
by  instability  or,  in  a  worse-case  scenario,  a  relapse 
into conflict. The Movement believes that one possible 
source  of  such  a  threat  could  come  from  the  strict 
demands  for  peacebuilding  strategies  to  be  developed 
before  Commission  funds  are  allocated  and  that  funds 
be linked to political commitments. That could backfire 
and  severely  hamper  and  undermine  efforts  towards 
consolidating 
those 
societies. 

the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
continues  to  call  for  urgent  and  greater  focus  to  be 
placed on the development agenda of the countries on 
the  fragile  peace  process 
two  countries  on 
for  effective 
tremendous 
addition, 
Despite 
success 
the 
in 
In 
8 

08-54359 
to 
the 
forward 
strengthen 


the Commission’s agenda. The Movement is convinced 
that a focus on the development dimension will provide 
the  sustained  peace  dividend  necessary  to  galvanize 
support,  bolster  confidence  and 
the 
peacebuilding  process  over  a  sustained  and  extended 
period. 

NAM  hereby  encourages  the  Commission  to 
consider  the  utilization  of  the  diverse  experience  of 
countries  within  the  membership  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  to  assist  in  the  restructuring,  upgrading 
and  improvement  of  areas  crucial  to  development: 
education and training, rural agricultural development, 
and capacity-building. Such assistance could be in the 
form of specific bilateral arrangements. 

NAM  underlines  the  importance  of  the  relations 
and coherence between the Peacebuilding Commission 
and  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  and  advocates  closer 
strategic ties between them in furtherance of the aim of 
a coordinated approach to the work of the Commission 
and,  most  importantly,  to  provide  appropriate  funding 
at critical moments. In that connection, the Movement 
looks 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  in  the  General Assembly’s 
review  of  the  terms  of  reference  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund in the not-too-distant future. 

The  Movement  is  appreciative  of  the  confidence 
shown  in  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  and  the 
Peacebuilding  Fund  in  particular,  as  reflected  in  the 
recorded  pledges  which  have  exceeded  the  original 
target of the Fund. As the Commission becomes adept 
at  fulfilling  its  mandate,  so  too  will  the  demand  for 
additional  funding  for  peacebuilding  projects.  In  that 
connection,  the  Movement  takes  this  opportunity  to 
call  for  the  doubling  of  the  target  of  the  Fund  to 
$500 million,  in  anticipation  of  that  demand,  and  to 
prepare the Commission to be in a position to respond 
adequately to needs. 

In  looking  ahead,  NAM  considers  the  upcoming 
review  of  the  overall  work  and  the  processes  of  the 
Commission  to  be  of  crucial  importance,  as  it  will 
determine  to  a  large  extent  how  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  conducts  much  of  its  work  in  the  future. 
The Commission will need to ensure that best practices 
are  further  developed  and  maintained  and  that  the 
provision  of  integrated  peacebuilding  strategies  is 
tailored  to  fit  each  specific  case.  Additionally,  the 
Commission  will  need  to  guarantee  that  collaboration 
and  outreach  with  the  main  organs  of  the  United 
involvement  of 
total 
A/63/PV.23
that 
the  Chair  of 
to  congratulate 
Nations  become  standard  practice  and 
the 
Organizational  Committee  finds  its  niche  as  the  focal 
point of this body. 

The  matter  of  delays  in  the  allocation  of  seats 
among the regional groups for the election of members 
of  the  Organizational  Committee  remains  a  matter  of 
serious  concern.  The  Movement  believes 
that  a 
permanent  long-term  solution  is  the  only  answer  to 
what  could  become  a  hindrance  and  therefore  curtail 
the  important  work  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission. 
The  Movement  urges  a  quick  resolution  of  that 
problem. 
Finally,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  takes  this 

opportunity 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  on  his  leadership  over  the 
period. Permit me also to express our appreciation for 
work  undertaken  by  the  respective  Chairs  of  country-
specific  meetings,  particularly  to  Brazil  and  Belgium, 
the recent Chairs of the country-specific configurations 
of Guinea-Bissau and the Central African Republic. 

Kindly permit me also to express NAM’s sincere 
appreciation to the Peacebuilding Support Office for its 
excellent  contributions  during  the  session,  without 
which the good work of the Peacebuilding Commission 
would not have been possible at all. 
in 

Russian): The  effective  settlement  of  conflicts,  lasting 
peace  and  sustainable  development  can  be  only 
achieved  through  coherence  and  a  comprehensive 
strategic  approach.  It  is  precisely  in  that  regard  that 
Russia  sees 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  which  has  been  designed  to  promote  the 
enhancement  of  coordination  and  efficiency  of 
international  assistance  supported  by 
the  United 
Nations,  international  financial  institutions  and  the 
world  donor  community  to  countries  emerging  from 
crisis. 

We take a positive view of the second year of the 
Commission’s work. That organ possesses considerable 
potential  and  will  likely  become  a  key  international 
instrument  in  the  realm  of  coordinating  peacebuilding 
activities.  We  particularly  point  to  the  role  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  in  close  cooperation  with 
the Governments on its agenda, in identifying priorities 
of  peacebuilding,  determining  gaps 
in  existing 
international  assistance  mechanisms,  and  mobilizing 
necessary donor resources. 
Mr.  Gatilov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
the  key 
task  of 
08-54359 

9 

in 
level 
through 
the  country 
lies  precisely 
A/63/PV.23 


The Commission has made significant progress in 
its  country-specific  configurations.  Together  with  the 
Governments  of  Burundi,  Sierra  Leone  and  Guinea-
Bissau,  Strategic  Frameworks  for  Peacebuilding  have 
been  developed  and  adopted.  In  Burundi  and  Sierra 
Leone,  the  first  biannual  progress  reviews  have  been 
carried  out  in  priority  areas  of  peacebuilding.  The 
Commission  has  started 
to  define  peacebuilding 
priorities in the Central African Republic. 

At the present stage, we see the main task of the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  to  be  the  achievement  of 
real  progress  at 
the 
coordinated implementation of peacebuilding strategies 
and  monitoring  and  tracking  mechanisms  under  the 
leadership of the recipient countries. 

It is our belief that all peacebuilding activity must 
be  based  on  a  broad  national  dialogue  among  all 
political  forces. We  believe  that  the  great  merit  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission 
the 
establishment  of  direct  dialogue  with  national 
Governments,  ensuring  their  national  ownership  and 
responsibility for peacebuilding processes. 
We  believe  that  the  Commission  should  further 

enhance  the  coordination  and  effectiveness  of  the 
peacebuilding 
international 
community.  In  the  coming  year,  it  should  continue  to 
work 
links  with 
international 
regional 
organizations  and  the  donor  community  in  order  to 
mobilize donor resources more effectively. 
to 

improving 
all 
peacebuilding actors in peacebuilding processes and to 
harmonizing  the  work  of  the  Peacebuilding  Support 
Office  and  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  with  the 
existing coordination mechanisms, primarily within the 
United  Nations  system.  Such  cooperation  with  United 
Nations institutions, particularly in the field, should not 
undermine  existing  operational  activities  of 
the 
Organization, but rather strengthen them. 

It  is  particularly  important  to  strengthen  the 
organic  link  between  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
and  the  Security  Council,  primarily  in  regard  to 
common  issues  on  their  agendas.  It  is  important  to 
ensure the timely exchange of information between the 
two  organs,  a  clear  division  of 
labour  and 
complementarity.  Of  course,  that  must  be  done  in 
parallel  with  the  development  of  links  between  the 
Additional  attention  needs 
the 
strengthening 
financial 
to  be  paid 
field  with 
functional 
institutions, 
cooperation 
activities 
of 
the 
on 
in 
the 
like 
We  should 
to  highlight 
Commission, the General Assembly and the Economic 
and Social Council. 

important 
contribution of the Peacebuilding Support Office to the 
work of the Commission. We welcome the appointment 
of  a  new  head  of  the  Office,  Ms.  Jane  Holl  Lute.  We 
hope that enhanced management and accountability of 
the Peacebuilding Fund will be among its priorities. 

We support the focus of the work of the Fund on 
providing  assistance  to  countries  at  the  earliest  stages 
of their emergence from conflict, and note its role as a 
stimulus in mobilizing more sustainable mechanisms in 
supporting of post-conflict recovery processes. 

At  the  same  time,  we  believe  the  time  has  come 
for a review of the terms of reference of the Fund and 
in that regard we await the proposals of the Secretariat. 
We  would  like  to  stress  the  importance  of  improving 
the  assessment  of  peacebuilding  needs,  the  soundness 
of  the  financial  basis  of  projects,  the  establishment  of 
implementation  mechanisms  and  accountability.  We 
want  to  see  clarity,  transparency  and  openness  in  the 
criteria for accessing its resources. 

A  clear  manifestation  of  our  support  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Fund  is  the  decision  of  the  Russian 
Government  to  contribute  $2  million  annually.  We 
expect  that  those  funds  will  contribute  to  a  real 
strengthening of the potential of the Fund in the areas I 
have mentioned. 
Mrs. Viotti (Brazil): Since its inception in 2006, 

the  Peacebuilding  Commission  has  made  substantial 
progress in assisting countries emerging from conflict. 
Brazil  welcomes  the  annual  report  of  the  Commission 
presented  by  Ambassador  Yukio  Takasu,  which 
provides  an  account  of 
the  numerous  activities 
undertaken during the Commission’s second year. The 
Commission  has  demonstrated  its  added  value  and  is 
now  consolidating  its  institutional  niche  within  the 
United  Nations  system.  I  would  like  to  praise  the 
excellent work of Ambassador Takasu in leading us in 
this process. 

The  Commission  has  been  able  to  adopt  three 
Strategic  Frameworks  for  Peacebuilding  in  Burundi, 
Sierra  Leone  and  Guinea-Bissau.  Those  Strategies 
provide 
identifying 
challenges  critical  to  the  consolidation  of  peace, 
coordinating partners on the ground, raising awareness 
a  valuable 
instrument 
for 
10 

08-54359 


of  peacebuilding  priorities  and  marshalling  additional 
resources. 

We  welcome  the  beginning  of  the  consideration 
of the fourth country on the Commission’s agenda, the 
Central  African  Republic,  under  the  chairmanship  of 
Belgium. Brazil has always endorsed the view that the 
Commission  should  be  ready  to  grow,  take  up  new 
countries  on  its  agenda  and  evolve  as  an  important 
advisory  body  for  post-conflict  situations.  Brazil  also 
appreciates  the  work  of  Ambassador  Carmen  María 
Gallardo  Hernández  of  El  Salvador,  Chair  of  the 
Working  Group  on  Lessons  Learned.  The  Group  has 
been  useful  in  promoting  thematic  discussions  on 
matters of relevance to peacebuilding. 

We  welcome  the  initiative  of  holding  strategic 
policy  discussions  in  the  Organizational  Committee,  a 
forum that could play a role in defining broad strategic 
guidelines  for 
the  Commission  by  promoting  an 
inclusive dialogue on key aspects of peacebuilding. In 
particular, the debate on the participation of the private 
sector  in  peacebuilding  activities,  led  by  Indonesia, 
was  an  interesting  and  innovative  exercise  that  will 
guide  our  efforts 
to  persuade  companies  and 
foundations to play a more active role in peacebuilding 
activities. 

The  field  trips  undertaken  by  the  Commission’s 
members  to  the  countries  on  its  agenda  are  an 
invaluable  tool  for  obtaining  first-hand  information 
about the situation on the ground and for maintaining a 
fruitful  dialogue  with  local  authorities,  international 
partners  and  civil  society.  Brazil  fully  supports  the 
continuity  of 
future.  The 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office  should  be  granted  the 
necessary resources for organizing and supporting such 
missions. 

Reaching  out  to  institutions  outside  the  United 
Nations  system  is  important  to  ensure  a  coordinated 
and  coherent  response  to  peacebuilding  challenges. 
Brazil  is  particularly  pleased  to  note  the  growing 
interaction  with  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  the 
participation of which in the Commission’s discussions 
has  certainly  contributed  to  our  work.  By  the  same 
token,  it  is  necessary  to  maintain  and  enhance  the 
ongoing  dialogue  with  regional  organizations,  taking 
into  account  the  regional  dimension  involved  in  many 
peacebuilding-related issues. 
We  believe  that,  in  Guinea-Bissau  and  other 

countries  emerging  from  conflict,  the  consolidation  of 
that  practice 
the 
in 
A/63/PV.23
peace relies on the triangle of security, the rule of law 
and  economic  development.  The  Strategic  Framework 
adopted  by 
the  Guinea-Bissau  configuration  on 
1 October  was  the  result  of  extensive  consultations 
with  local  authorities  and  relevant  stakeholders.  It 
highlights  the  importance  of  the  upcoming  legislative 
elections  and  recognizes  as  major  priorities 
the 
promotion  of  economic  growth  and  the  rehabilitation 
of  infrastructure,  in  particular  in  the  energy  field, 
security  sector  reform,  justice  sector  reform,  the 
consolidation of the rule of law, the fight against drug 
trafficking,  public  administration  reform,  and  social 
to  peacebuilding.  The  Strategic 
issues  critical 
Framework  will 
soon  be  complemented  by  a 
monitoring and review mechanism capable of gauging 
progress in each of the priority areas. 
At the beginning of our work, the Guinea-Bissau 

configuration  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
recommended  a  first  allocation  of  resources  from  the 
Peacebuilding  Fund  to  finance  quick-impact  projects 
that  could  yield  immediate  peace  dividends  to  the 
population. Four projects have been set up in the areas 
of  voter  registration,  youth  employment  and 
the 
rehabilitation  of  military  barracks  and  prisons.  A 
second and more substantive tranche is expected to be 
allocated soon.  

The so-called two-track approach is proving to be 
a  good  innovation.  However,  the  difficulties  that 
currently account for its slow pace in the execution of 
the  Fund’s  projects  —  in  particular  in  the  case  of 
Guinea-Bissau  —  are  a  reminder  of  the  need  to 
strengthen the United Nations presence in countries on 
the Commission’s agenda. 

In  conclusion,  Brazil  praises  the  work  done  and 
expects  the  Commission  to  continue  to  make  progress 
in  the  years  to  come,  thereby  contributing  to  the 
improvement  of  the  lives  of  millions  of  people  in 
countries emerging from conflict. 
Mr.  Liu Zhenmin  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

The  Chinese  delegation  wishes 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  for  its  report  on  the  work 
of its second session. We also wish to thank Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon for his report on the operation of 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund.  We  support  the  relevant 
conclusions  and  recommendations  contained  in  the 
reports.  The  Chinese  delegation  wishes  to  take  this 
opportunity to thank Ambassador Takasu, Chairman of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  for  his  efficient  work. 
thank 
to 
08-54359 

11 
First, 
two  years 
subjects  under 
the  number  of 
A/63/PV.23 

Under  his  guidance,  the  Commission  has  made  much 
headway over the past year. 

the 
It  has  been  over 
Peacebuilding  Commission  was  formally  established. 
Over  the  past  two  years,  the  Commission,  guided  by 
the World Summit Outcome Document, has carried out 
in  earnest  its  mandate  under  the  relevant  General 
Assembly  and  Security  Council  resolutions  and  put 
into  practice  the  concept  of  peacebuilding  around  the 
globe, bringing hopes for peace and development to the 
countries  and  peoples  concerned.  If  the  Commission’s 
work  in  its  first  year  laid  the  foundation,  then  its 
performance  in  the  second  year  further  increased  its 
influence, which can be seen in the following areas.  

its 
consideration  has  increased. After  Burundi  and  Sierra 
Leone,  Guinea-Bissau  and 
the  Central  African 
Republic  were  added  to  the  list,  making  up  a  total  of 
four  countries  on 
the  Commission’s  agenda.  In 
addition, the Peacebuilding Fund is currently providing 
financial support to nine countries. It is fair to say that 
the expansion of the scope of work of the Commission 
and the Fund is both appropriate and efficient.  
Secondly,  the  Commission  has  enhanced  its  ties 

with  stakeholders 
the  United 
Nations by keeping lines of communication open with 
the  main  organs,  including  the  Secretariat,  and  by 
strengthening 
the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions, regional organizations such as the African 
Union, the private sector and civil society.  
Thirdly,  it  has  increased  its  influence  on  the 

ground  by  sending  missions  to  Burundi,  Sierra  Leone 
and  Guinea-Bissau,  demonstrating  its  resolve  and 
commitment 
formulating 
integrated  peacebuilding  strategies,  the  Commission 
invited the participation of representatives of all parties 
to  hear  a  wide  range  of  views.  It  provided  timely 
financial  support  to  Sierra  Leone  for  its  general  and 
local  elections  and  has  been  following  the  Burundi 
peace process closely. 

the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  still  faces  internal  and 
external 
continuous 
turbulence  of  hotspot  issues,  the  worsening  global 
economic  imbalance,  the  food  crisis,  a  shortage  of 
resources,  frequent  natural  disasters  and  rampant 
epidemics  have  posed  grave  global  challenges, 
particularly  for  countries  and  peoples  at  the  lowest 
challenges.  Externally, 
inside  and  outside 
notwithstanding, 
peacebuilding. 
achievements 
links  with 
Those 
to 
In 

since 
in 
terms  of 
improving 
into  play.  In 
should  maximize 
level of development. Internally, as a newly established 
body, the Commission still has a great deal of work to 
do 
its  mechanism  and 
rationalizing its structure. 

With  only  two  years  to  go  before  the  2010 
evaluation  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  reality 
does  not  allow  us  to  take  a  long  pause  for  reflection. 
No  time  should  be  lost  in  further  improving  the 
Commission’s work. China has every confidence in the 
work of the Peacebuilding Commission. I wish to make 
the  following  suggestions  for  further  improving  its 
work. 

First,  coordination  with  other  agencies  must  be 
enhanced  and  the  Commission’s  unique  advantages 
brought 
the  face  of  ever-growing 
challenges, we must act in a collective manner. In some 
areas of peacebuilding, other United Nations agencies, 
the Bretton Woods system, such regional organizations 
as  the  European  Union  and  the  African  Union,  and 
bilateral  assistance  partners  have  already  done  a  great 
deal  of  work  and  accumulated  rich  experience.  The 
Peacebuilding  Commission 
its 
coordinating  role  and  seek  to  strengthen  coordination 
among development mechanisms. In those areas where 
there  has  been  less  investment,  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  should  use  its  advantages  and  play  an 
active  role  by  inviting  the  relevant  parties  to  join  the 
peacebuilding  process.  We  should  map  out  the  use  of 
resources  more  effectively  and  increase  the  impact  of 
peacebuilding through coordination and cooperation.  

Secondly,  we  should  strengthen  the  partnerships 
with  the  countries  concerned  so  as  to  bring  their 
initiative fully into play. The countries concerned bear 
the primary responsibility for their own peacebuilding. 
Ultimately,  the  goal  of  peacebuilding  is  to  build  a 
peaceful 
in 
peacebuilding,  the  local  people  are  both  the  primary 
force  to  be  relied  upon  as  well  as  the  biggest 
beneficiaries.  We  should  have  confidence  in  the  local 
people  and  rely  on  local  Governments,  encouraging 
them  to  bring  their  wisdom  into  play  and  take  part  in 
the  formulation  of  reconstruction  plans  so  that  they 
will  devote  themselves  to  the  cause  of  peacebuilding 
with a sense of responsibility and ownership. 

Thirdly,  we  should  strengthen  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission’s institution-building capacity and address 
various  internal  issues  appropriately.  We  hope  that 
Peacebuilding  Commission  members  will  strengthen 
stable  national 
system 
and, 
and 
the 
12 

08-54359 
the  past 
enhance 
efficiency, 
two  years  has  given  an 


consultation,  take  each  other’s  interests  into  account 
and  appropriately  address  the  question  of  member 
turnover. We  expect  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  to 
streamline  meetings, 
avoid 
formalities and ensure the quality of meetings. We are 
fully  aware  of  the  fact  that  there  are  differing  views 
among  Peacebuilding  Commission  members  on  the 
concept  of  peacebuilding  and  its  priorities.  We  hope 
that  members  will  enhance  their  exchange  of  views, 
increase  mutual  understanding  and  take  divergent 
concerns into consideration. 

With regard to the Peacebuilding Fund, in general 
the Chinese delegation is happy with its financing and 
operations.  As  a  new  financing  mechanism, 
the 
Peacebuilding Fund is of great significance to initiating 
the  relevant  peacebuilding  programmes.  Its  operation 
over 
initial 
demonstration  of  its  key  catalyst  role.  In  its  future 
work,  we  hope  that  the  secretariat  of  the  Fund  will 
continue to provide regular briefings to donors and the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  on  the  Fund’s  operations. 
We  ask  the  management  to  expedite  the  allocation  of 
financial resources and hope that the Secretary-General 
will strengthen the impact appraisal and accountability 
for  projects.  The  Chinese  Government  will  as  always 
support the work of the Peacebuilding Fund. 
Mr. Voto-Bernales (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): At 

the outset,  I would like to set out Peru’s general view 
on post-conflict processes. I will begin by referring to 
national ownership of the peacebuilding process.  

For  Peru,  each  conflict  has  its  own  internal  and 
international  dynamics.  In  spite  of  the  similarity  of 
underlying economic or social factors, there are unique 
ethnic, tribal, constitutional or historical identities that 
ensure that no two cases are the same. Thus, in order to 
deal  more  effectively  with  post-conflict  processes,  we 
must  recognize  the  particular  circumstances  of  each 
case  and  not  follow  a  single  format.  That  is  why  my 
delegation  considers  the  flexibility  in  the  national 
configurations 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission’s  report  to  be  a  key  element  of  the 
progress achieved. 

that 
international  actors  should  be  aware  that  genuine 
ownership  of 
transition  and  peacebuilding 
processes  will  be  more  sustainable  if  those  processes 
are  carried  out  with  the  major  social  legitimacy 
fostered  by  a  participatory  approach.  In  addition 
Secondly,  my 
delegation 
identified 
in 
the 
believes 
A/63/PV.23
celebrating  political  elections,  we  must  verify 
practices, rules and institutions in order to achieve and 
implement  agreements  and  settle  disputes.  That  will 
make it possible to gradually extend State jurisdiction, 
affirm  legitimate  authority  with  the  right  to  use  force, 
consolidate central territorial control through reformed 
security  institutions,  define  policies  to  provide  public 
services,  administer  natural 
resources,  encourage 
investment,  and  increase  budgets  with  the  goal  of 
achieving  self-sufficiency.  As  basic  obligations,  the 
rule  of  law  must  be  respected  and  human  rights 
protected.  

The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/63/218) 
correctly considers Integrated Peacebuilding Strategies 
to  be  a  central  element  of  these  two  years  of  work  in 
the post-conflict architecture. We also believe that field 
visits  have  served  as  a  catalyst  for  concerted  work 
within the States concerned. 

From the outset, international cooperation should 
be devoted primarily to strengthening the political and 
conflict-resolution systems and the training of civilian 
professional  officers.  At  the  same  time,  we  must 
emphasize that rapid-impact projects play a prominent 
role in raising awareness and garnering support among 
the local population. The participation of international 
financial 
international 
businesses is essential to the success of the process. We 
highlight the establishment of the task force on the role 
of  the  private  sector  in  post-conflict  situations,  which 
addresses  aspects  of  microfinance,  remittances  and 
associations  with  private 
foundations.  We  also 
encourage  the  task  force  to  continue  its  work  in 
relation to productive post-conflict investment.  

It can be seen throughout the report that the work 
of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  Fund  and  Support 
Office calls for a medium- and long-term commitment 
backed  by  a  strategic  vision.  That  means 
that 
participation  of  the  international  community  may,  in 
agreement with the State concerned, extend for several 
years, over multiple priority areas and, in some cases, 
to great depth. 

For those countries currently on the agenda of the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  or  benefiting  from  the 
Peacebuilding  Fund,  it  must  always  be  clear  that  the 
cooperation  and  international  assistance  they  receive 
are  subject  to  the  measurement  of  progress  indicators 
in  a  context  that  supports  the  exercise  of  their 
institutions  and 
local  and 
08-54359 

13 

requires 
that  may 
jeopardize 
the  ground 
leadership  of 
long-term  commitment 
A/63/PV.23 

sovereignty,  and  in  full  respect  for  international  law 
and the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. 

In terms of synergy with regional or international 
bodies  and  with  institutions  of  the  United  Nations 
system,  a 
the 
convergence  of  action  and  additional  coordination 
efforts.  The 
the  United  Nations 
guarantees  legitimacy,  transparency,  coordination  and 
adequate  follow-up  in  the  reconstruction  process.  To 
that end, we must ensure that our Organization has the 
capacity  to  analyse,  evaluate,  plan  and  coordinate 
among  its  major  bodies  in  order  to  react  to  sudden 
changes  on 
the 
peacebuilding  process,  and  to  make  the  resultant 
necessary adjustments.  

The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  provides  a 
description of the current situation and progress made, 
as well as an overview of lessons learned, from which 
we  can  derive  ideas  for  improving  the  work  of  our 
Organization,  its  bodies,  funds  and  programmes  to 
achieve more concerted action in that area. 

Finally,  my  delegation  wishes  to  reiterate  its 
support  for  the  work  done  by  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  and  commend 
its 
president, Ambassador Takasu of Japan. We encourage 
the  Commission 
to 
peacebuilding in the Central African Republic, Guinea-
Bissau,  Sierra  Leone,  Burundi  and  other  States  that 
may request it. 

the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  in  the  elections  to  be  held  in  2009  and 
offers those ideas as a foretaste of the contribution that 
it  hopes  to  make  once  the  problem  of  the  current 
regional  underrepresentation  is  satisfactorily  resolved 
for Latin America. 
Mr. Punkrasin (Thailand): In the general debate 

at the sixty-third session of the General Assembly last 
week,  Thailand  reaffirmed  its  commitment  to  peace, 
freedom  and  tolerance,  because  they  are  part  of  our 
national  character.  The  overarching  principle  of  the 
United  Nations  is  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security.  Over  the  years,  however,  we  have 
seen  that,  despite  the  greatest  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations, there have been some devastating setbacks in 
that regard. I am referring to situations of countries in 
the aftermath of conflict. As former Secretary-General 
Kofi  Annan  pointed  out  three  years  ago,  half  of  all 
countries  that  emerge  from  war  relapse  into  violence 
is  a  candidate  for 
leadership  of 
contributing 
continue 
Peru 
the 
to 
is 
fill 
and 
fact 
process 
between 
to  help 
five  years.  The 
within 
that,  beyond 
peacekeeping, there is a critical need to build peace — 
one that is sustainable, one that lasts. 

Two  years  ago,  Thailand  fully  supported  the 
establishment  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  the 
United  Nations  new  intergovernmental  advisory  body. 
The  Commission  was  created 
the 
institutional  gap  at  the  United  Nations  in  assisting 
post-conflict  countries  to  address  their  peacebuilding 
challenges. Although the Commission is a newcomer to 
the  United  Nations  family,  within  the  course  of  just 
two years its role has proved invaluable, particularly in 
serving  as  a  bridge  between  stakeholders  in  the 
peacebuilding 
various 
stakeholders,  such  as  United  Nations  agencies,  non-
governmental  organizations  and  donor  countries,  and 
the  countries  on  its  agenda,  namely,  Burundi,  Sierra 
Leone,  Guinea-Bissau  and 
the  Central  African 
Republic,  so  that  resources  can  be  mobilized  and 
secured for peacebuilding projects in those countries. 

Thailand  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
commend the Commission and the Peacebuilding Fund 
for keeping Member States informed of their activities 
and the progress they have made on the ground. We are 
of  the  view  that  the  Commission  must  continue  to 
develop  and  improve  its  interaction  and  cooperation 
with the Fund, other organs and agencies in the United 
Nations  system  and  all  Member  States.  For  effective 
concrete results, it is essential that the Commission and 
other  bodies  strive 
to  achieve 
coherence  and  close  coordination  in  terms  of  policy 
and operations. 

More importantly, the peacebuilding process must 
put  strong  emphasis  on  the  principle  of  national 
ownership  and  participation.  While  the  Commission 
helps the  countries  rebuild  and  strengthen  themselves, 
it  is  the  countries  that  have  primary  responsibility  in 
making  that  work  and  endure,  so  that  they  can 
eventually  stand  on  their  own  in  the  long  run.  The 
sense of ownership also signifies that the peacebuilding 
process  must  be  adjusted  to  respond  to  the  unique 
conditions,  real  needs  and  situations  on  the  ground  of 
the  countries.  The 
for 
peacebuilding  should,  therefore,  be  formulated  in 
collaboration  between 
the 
countries  by  taking  into  account  that  complexity.  A 
one-size-fits-all  approach  cannot  be  applied  in  that 
regard. 
framework  and  strategy 
the  Commission  and 
to  work 
together 
14 

08-54359 
importance 
to 
that 
in  United  Nations 
Thailand  attaches  great 
sustainable  peace  must  have 



the 
peacebuilding  efforts  of  the  United  Nations.  We  also 
believe 
its 
foundations in development. Through the development 
of  political,  economic  and  social  systems  and 
infrastructure  the  post-conflict  peacebuilding  process 
can  bring  about  lasting  peace,  especially  in  those 
countries  where  United  Nations  peacekeeping  forces 
have  just  completed  their  mandates.  The  role  of 
civilians,  the  private  sector  and  civil  society  in  the 
peacebuilding  process  should  also  be  supported  and 
promoted. 

Thailand  has  a  firm  policy  of  supporting  United 
Nations  peace  operations  and  we  have  consistently 
participated 
peacekeeping 
their  peacekeeping  role,  Thai 
operations.  Besides 
military  and  police  personnel  have  also  contributed  to 
building  peace  and  laying  foundations  in  several 
countries  emerging  from  conflict,  particularly  in  the 
areas  of  development,  security  sector  reform  and  the 
rule of law.  

Just  last  month,  Thailand  and  the  United  States 
co-organized  the  Association  of  South-East  Asian 
Nations  Regional  Forum  workshop  in  Bangkok  on 
stabilization  and 
It  provided  an 
opportunity  for  member  countries  of  the  Forum  to 
exchange  their  ideas  and  experiences  on  the  effective 
stabilization  and  reconstruction  measures  that  help 
maintain  the  stability  of  countries  affected  by  conflict 
and natural disasters.  

With  our  experience,  expertise  and  conviction, 
Thailand  is  confident  that  we  can  contribute  to  the 
peacebuilding efforts in post-conflict areas through the 
development 
the  United  Nations. 
Therefore,  Thailand  has  presented  its  candidature  for 
membership in the Commission for 2009 to 2011 in the 
General  Assembly  category.  With  the  endorsement  of 
the  Asian  Group,  we  hope  to  join  the  Commission 
soon. 
Thailand  is  pleased  that  the  Peacebuilding  Fund 

target  of  $250  million  of 
surpassed 
has 
its 
contributions.  We 
believe 
in 
collaboration  with  the  Commission,  the  Fund  will  be 
even  more  beneficial 
in  need  of 
sustainable peace. Since the establishment of the Fund, 
Thailand  has  contributed  $10,000  and  will  contribute 
more this year. 
that,  working 
reconstruction. 
to  countries 
schemes  of 
A/63/PV.23
to 
to 
there 
appreciation 
express  my 
is  no  doubt 
As  the  Commission  enters  its  third  year  of 

activities, 
that  more  difficult 
challenges lie ahead. Thailand is  ready to lend its  full 
support to the Commission, and to the United Nations 
as  a  whole,  in  its  endeavours  to  create  sustainable 
peace throughout the world. 
Mr. Abdelaziz (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): It is my 

pleasure 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission for its report (A/63/92) and 
to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  (A/63/218  and 
Corr.1) on the Peacebuilding Fund. Egypt aligns itself 
with  the  statement  delivered  by  the  Ambassador  of 
Jamaica on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

Egypt believes in the important role played by the 
Commission in preventing post-conflict countries from 
relapsing  into  conflicts.  That  is  why,  it  has  sought  to 
join the Commission since its establishment in order, to 
participate  efficiently  in  all  its  meetings  and  activities 
and work on helping the Commission to implement its 
tasks,  enshrined 
in  General  Assembly  resolution 
60/180. 

Since its establishment in  2005, the Commission 
has  achieved  great  progress  in  Burundi,  Sierra  Leone 
and  Guinea-Bissau,  as  well  as  its  current  work  on 
behalf  of 
the  Central  African  Republic.  Those 
achievements impose on us an obligation to double our 
efforts and present new ideas and proposals to enhance 
the  performance  of  the  Commission,  to  make  it  more 
efficient in dealing with the situations in the countries 
under its consideration and more capable of adding to 
its  agenda  additional  countries  that  may  request  the 
assistance of the Commission.  

In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  highlight  some  of 
the  practical  points  that  Egypt  thinks  should  be  taken 
into consideration. 

First, the Commission should promote adherence 
to  the  principle  of  national  ownership  in  all  stages  of 
its work. That principle should be applied starting with 
the  request  for  the  Commission’s  assistance  and  onto 
identifying  and 
the  peacebuilding 
priorities  and  terminating  its  work,  particularly  since 
that  principle  enhances  the  trust  of  the  concerned 
countries  and  consolidates  the  cooperation  of  the 
national  authorities  with  the  Commission  on  the 
governmental, parliamentarian and public levels. 

Second,  the  Commission’s  ongoing  efforts  to 
function efficiently require it to continue strengthening 
implementing 
08-54359 

15 

relations  need 
A/63/PV.23 

its  relations  with  various  relevant  United  Nations 
organs,  departments  and  programmes,  as  well  as  with 
the international financial institutions, donor countries 
and  regional  and  subregional  organizations  concerned 
with  peacebuilding,  particularly  those  in  the  same 
regions  as  the  countries  under  the  Commission’s 
consideration.  

While  I  thank  the  Chairman  of  the  Commission 
and the Chairs of the country-specific configurations of 
the  four  countries  for  their  work  to  that  end,  there 
remains  a  compelling  need  for  the  Commission  to 
promote  its  institutional  relations  with  the  General 
Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and 
Social  Council.  Those 
further 
delineation  and  clarification  in  order  to  promote  full 
respect  for  the  institutional  balance  between  those 
organs,  in  accordance  with  the  jurisdiction  of  each 
under the Charter, and to prevent the encroachment of 
any principal organ upon the jurisdictions of the others.  

In that context, I request the General Assembly to 
assume a more active role in monitoring and directing 
the  work  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  by 
convening  regular  sessions  to  review  its  activities, 
evaluate  the  conclusions  of  its  field  visits,  and  find 
ways  to  support  it,  along  the  lines  of  the  periodic 
meetings convened by the Security Council to that end. 

the  categories  of 
membership  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  should 
be  exploited  to  maximum  benefit.  Resolution  60/180 
states  that  the  composition  of  the  Commission  shall 
comprise  representatives  of  the  top  contributors  to 
peacekeeping  operations  and 
the  United  Nations 
budget  and  members  of  the  Security  Council,  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and 
the  General 
Assembly.  From  its  very  inception,  the  Commission 
was  intended  to  benefit  from  the  diverse  nature  and 
experience of all those categories in a way that would 
assist it in its work. However, practical experience has 
shown  that  the  Commission  has  not  benefited  as 
desired  from 
those 
categories.  Egypt  would  therefore  propose  that  the 
Commission discuss that important issue at its coming 
session  to  consider  ways  to  make  full  use  of  the 
diversity of its membership. 

Fourth,  it  is  important  that  the  Commission 
benefit  from  the  lessons  learned  with  respect  to  its 
working methods and provisional rules of procedure so 
that they may be taken into account in the 2010 review 
its  members’  affiliation  with 
the  diversity  of 
Third, 
in 
process. In that regard, I would refer to the method of 
applying  the  concept  of  fair  geographical  distribution. 
In  stressing  the  need  for  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly to make further efforts to resolve that issue, 
Egypt,  in  its  capacity  as  coordinator  of  the  African 
Group on peacebuilding issues, asserts that the solution 
must  not  lead  to  a  decrease  in  the  number  of  seats 
allocated to Africa from the seven already allocated in 
all categories. I also affirm that if there is any increase 
in  the  number  of  seats  allocated  to  any  other  regional 
group, Africa should be given an extra seat or seats in 
addition to the seven currently allocated to it. 

Fifth,  it  is  important  to  promote  the  role  of  the 
Commission  in  setting  a  balance  between  donor  and 
non-donor countries in peacebuilding activities. In that 
regard, I refer to the role of the steering committees in 
the  countries  under  consideration 
identifying 
projects  to  be  financed  by  the  Peacebuilding  Fund.  I 
stress that the steering committees are not competent to 
make  financial  decisions  or  to  direct  the  Secretary-
General  to  provide  financing.  That  jurisdiction  falls 
exclusively  to  the  Commission,  particularly  given  the 
limited membership of the steering committees, which 
include only the donor countries and the Secretariat but 
exclude non-donor States members of the Commission. 

Sixth,  it  is  necessary  to  prepare  a  strategy  that 
allows  civil  society,  non-governmental  organizations 
and  the  private  sector  to  participate  in  various  fields 
related to peacebuilding, in coordination with and upon 
approval of the countries under consideration and with 
the aim of marshalling all efforts. 

Seventh,  the  General Assembly  should  also  lend 
its full support to the Peacebuilding Support Office and 
provide  it  with  the  posts  and  financial  resources 
necessary  to  fulfil  its  role  thoroughly.  The  General 
Assembly should provide the necessary funds from the 
budget of the Organization for two annual field trips by 
the Commission to each of the countries on its agenda, 
with  the  participation  of  representatives  from  all 
regional  groups.  That  would  promote  direct  contact 
between  the  members  of  the  Commission  and  the 
national 
under 
consideration. 

Peacebuilding 
Commission and the Peacebuilding Fund is considered 
to  be  among  the  most  important  issues  that  will  be 
taken  up  in  the  coming  phase,  particularly  in  the 
context of reviewing the Fund’s terms of reference. We 
authorities 
countries 
between 
relation 
The 
in 
the 
the 
16 

08-54359 
also 
supports 
to 
its  ability 
the  proposal 


commend  the  increasing  international  support  for  the 
activities of the Fund, as reflected in the $238.5 million 
of pledged financing deposited in its accounts. Through 
peacebuilding  strategies  and  the  emergency  window, 
that  money  has  financed  37  projects  in  nine  countries 
since the Fund was established. 

While  Egypt  agrees  with  the  report  with  respect 
to  the  steps  taken  to  review  the  terms  of  reference  of 
the Peacebuilding Fund, it confirms its support for any 
effort that would contribute to developing the work of 
the Fund, improve coordination and coherence between 
its  activities  and  the  activities  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  and  enhance 
to  work 
expeditiously and efficiently, particularly in disbursing 
the funds allocated to specific projects in the countries 
under  the  Commission’s  consideration.  Egypt  also 
supports  the  proposal  in  the  report  to  expand  the 
membership  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund  Advisory 
Group, given its vital oversight of the Fund’s activities. 
Egypt 
direct 
Peacebuilding  Fund  support  for 
the  activities  of 
regional and  subregional organizations in the fields of 
peacebuilding.  Egypt  reiterates  its  proposal  that  an 
annual  donor  conference  be  held 
the 
necessary financial support for the budget of the Fund. 
Moreover, Egypt proposes that the review process 

consider 
the 
Peacebuilding  Fund  to  make  it  capable  of  financing 
bigger  projects  and 
to  enhance  consultation  and 
coordination  between  the  Secretary-General  and  the 
Commission when the former believes that a particular 
country is eligible to receive financing from the Fund, 
in  order 
rationalize 
expenditures. 

thank 
the  Permanent 
Representative  of 
for  his  distinguished 
presidency  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Belgium,  Brazil, 
El Salvador,  the  Netherlands,  Norway  and  Sweden  for 
their  valuable  guidance  of  the  Commission’s  work.  I 
also  thank  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office  for  its 
strenuous  efforts  over  the  past  year  and  wish  its  new 
leadership every success. 
Ms.  Pierce  (United  Kingdom):  May  I  join  those 

colleagues  who  have  thanked  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly for organizing this important debate 
today. It offers a useful opportunity to take stock of the 
work  of 
the 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
conclusion,  we 
Japan 
to  prevent  duplication  and 
to  ensure 
target  of 
increasing 
the 
funding 
In 
A/63/PV.23
to 
thank 
Indonesia 
the  chair  of 
Peacebuilding  Fund  and  to  charter  the  challenges  we 
still  face.  Those  challenges  include  how  we  can 
improve our support to countries in the early stages of 
their emergence from conflict. 

I  would  like  to  align  myself  with  the  statement 
made by the  representative of France on behalf of the 
European Union. 

It  is  important  to  celebrate  success,  so  I  would 
like  to  begin  by  thanking Ambassador  Takasu  for  his 
dedicated  chairing  of  the  Organizational  Committee, 
and the Permanent Representatives of the Netherlands, 
Norway  and  Brazil  for  the  achievements  made  on 
Sierra Leone, Burundi and Guinea-Bissau. I would also 
like 
the  Permanent  Representative  of 
El Salvador  for  her  leadership  on  lessons  learned  and 
the  Permanent  Representative  of 
for 
championing work on the Peacebuilding Commission’s 
engagement with the private sector. 
In  addition,  I  would  like  to  welcome  Sweden  in 

taking  over 
the  country-specific 
configuration  for  Burundi,  and  Belgium  in  taking  up 
responsibilities for the Central Africa Republic.  
Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the support 

that  Carolyn  McAskie  provided 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  up  and  running  and  to 
welcome  the  appointment  of  Jane  Holl  Lute  as  her 
successor. 

In last year’s debate I highlighted the need for the 
Commission  to  give  more  focus  to  how  it  could 
provide added value to the peacebuilding processes  in 
the countries on its agenda. The primary impact of the 
Commission  lies,  of  course,  in  helping  to  address  the 
political  barriers 
to  peacebuilding  and  bringing 
coherence to the international community’s efforts. 

The  United  Kingdom  shares  others’  assessments 
of  how  well  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  has  taken 
up this challenge, but it is also true, as many speakers 
have noted, that there remain a number of challenges. I 
would like to highlight five of those challenges as  we 
see them today. 

Firstly,  the  Commission  needs  to  be  better  at 
measuring  its  impact.  We  need  to  live  up  to  our 
commitments,  including  mobilizing  resources.  But  as 
the  first  biannual  reviews  demonstrated,  we  currently 
do  not  have  the  means  to  quantify  what  additional 
resources have actually been mobilized. 
in  getting 
08-54359 

17 

to  make  sure 
A/63/PV.23 


Secondly,  the  Commission  needs  to  be  more 
specific.  We  need  to  get  much  better  at  identifying 
what are the actual, critical gaps in funding and setting 
out tangible benchmarks on how frameworks should be 
implemented.  Our  ability  to  mobilize  resources  will 
improve  if  we  can  specifically  state  what  is  required 
and how those resources would be best channelled. We 
need  to  ensure  that  sufficient  investment  is  made  in 
analysis  and  monitoring  and  that  the  United  Nations 
system  is  providing  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office 
the requisite inputs to achieve this. 

Thirdly,  the  Commission  needs  to  be  more 
efficient.  With  new  countries  on  the  Commission’s 
agenda, this is particularly important. We should focus 
on  fewer,  but  more  strategic  meetings  in  New  York, 
with  most  of  the  day-to-day  work  being  led  in  the 
countries themselves. 
Fourthly,  the  Commission  needs  to  be  more 

flexible  and  agile.  We  need 
the 
Commission’s  engagement  adapts  to  the  changing 
realities on the ground, such as the new threat posed by 
fuel  and  food  prices.  We  also  need  to  make  sure  that 
the  Commission  is  not  formulaic  when  it  approaches 
each new country, but that it tailors its engagement to 
the  challenges  faced  with  each  new  context.  In  this 
vein,  we  have  found  the  approach  adopted  for  the 
Central African Republic very encouraging. 

Fifthly, the work of the Commission needs to be 
better aligned and more inclusive. Governments clearly 
lead  the  process.  But  if  we  want  long-lasting  success, 
all sectors of society need to be involved to ensure this. 
Success is also more likely if steps are made to prevent 
uncoordinated 
pull 
Governments in several directions at once. 
The  Peacebuilding  Commission  needs  to  ensure 

that the international community is a more responsible 
partner  to  the  Government  and  that  political,  security, 
recovery  and  development  engagement  is  all  better 
integrated. 

In  going  forward  this  year,  we  need  to  consider 
whether  the  new  peacebuilding  architecture  is  filling 
the gaps we set it up to fill. It has demonstrated that it 
can play a useful role in countries once United Nations 
peacekeeping  missions  have  drawn  down.  But  as  the 
20 May  Security  Council  debate  on  post-conflict 
peacebuilding 
Peacebuilding 
Commission  and  Peacebuilding  Fund  also  have  a 
programmes 
highlighted, 
donor 
that 
the 
potentially  critical  role  to  play  in  countries  emerging 
from conflict. 

At  that  debate,  my  Foreign  Secretary  stated  that 
the  challenge  faced  is  to  tackle  the  current  statistic  in 
which 30 per cent of conflicts break out again with five 
years of a peace agreement. 
The  critical  gaps  that  were  highlighted  at  that 

debate  are:  better  international  leadership  to  ensure  a 
common  strategy  that  can  drive  forward  integrated 
political,  security  and  development  activities  all  in 
support  of  national  efforts;  increased  national  and 
international civilian capacities to plan and implement 
stabilization  and  recovery  efforts;  and  faster,  more 
flexible funding. 
Recent meetings in London and Copenhagen have 

also  highlighted  the  importance  of  improving  the 
international  community’s  support  to  conflict-affected 
countries in the very early stages of peacebuilding. 

In  the  case  of  funding,  the  Peacebuilding  Fund 
has the potential to fill the current gap in the provision 
of timely, flexible and predictable funding to countries 
emerging from conflict. Indeed, it was set up to support 
early peacebuilding efforts but has, in reality, primarily 
supported later-stage peacebuilding. 
We hope the Office of Internal Oversight Services 

evaluation 
concrete 
recommendations  on  how  to  enable  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund to provide support earlier in the process. And the 
upcoming review of the Fund’s terms of reference will 
provide a good opportunity to make the Peacebuilding 
Fund more effective and responsive. 

the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  engages  with  this  process  and  feeds  into 
the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  how  the  United 
Nations can improve its support to early recovery. The 
desire  of  the  membership  to  have  that  engagement 
from  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  was  something 
that  my  country  and  my  Foreign  Secretary  took  away 
very strongly from the 20 May debate and we hope that 
we can react to that. 

The  United  Kingdom  remains  committed  to  the 
Peacebuilding Commission and we look forward to our 
continued  close  engagement  with  colleagues  in  the 
coming year. 

thank 
Mr. Christian (Ghana): My delegation wishes to 
the  Peacebuilding 
the  Chairperson 
report  will 
important 
forward 
that 
put 
of 
It 
is 
18 

08-54359 
report  on 


Commission,  Ambassador  Takasu,  for  presenting  the 
annual report of the Commission (A/63/92-S/2008/417) 
and also to thank the Secretary-General for presenting 
his  annual 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund 
(A/63/218-S/2008/522). 

My  delegation  wishes  to  align  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Jamaica on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

We believe the Peacebuilding Commission report 
contains  a  fair  assessment  of  the  activities  of  the 
Commission during its second session, i.e. how far we 
have  come  and  what  remains  to  be  done.  From  a 
comparative  analysis  of  the  present  report  and  the 
previous  one,  we  may  reasonably  conclude  that  so  far 
so good, but we dare not underestimate the challenges 
ahead. 

Today’s  debate  offers  us  a  unique  opportunity  to 
critically  examine  where  our  collective  peacebuilding 
efforts may have fallen short of expectations, reflect on 
what  we  could  have  done  better  and  think  through 
creative ways of consolidating the gains we have made. 

There  have  been  noticeable  successes  in  Sierra 
Leone  and  Burundi.  Lessons  learnt  in  those  two 
countries  have  certainly  improved  our  approach  to 
handling  the  cases  of  Guinea-Bissau  and  the  Central 
African Republic. 
My delegation is pleased with the early adoption 

of 
for 
the 
Peacebuilding  in  Guinea-Bissau  and  look  forward  to 
working  with 
that 
configuration  towards  the  attainment  of  the  objectives 
and  priorities  spelt  out  in  the  framework,  including 
ensuring  the  success  of  the  forthcoming  elections  in 
Guinea-Bissau. 

While recognizing the importance of the cardinal 
principles  of  national  ownership  and  international 
partnership,  my  delegation  would  like  to  reemphasize 
that  an  all-inclusive  peacebuilding  paradigm  requires 
the Peacebuilding Commission to actively mobilize the 
support  of  regional  and  subregional  organizations  and 
civil society, among other stakeholders, in post-conflict 
reconstruction. 

is  certainly 
taking  shape,  allowing  it  to  devote  more  attention  to 
issues  of  substance  instead  of  procedure.  But  it  is 
essential  to  keep  our  working  methods  under  constant 
review  to  make  us  work  smarter  and  better  and  to 
The  Peacebuilding  Commission 
the  Chair  and  members  of 
Framework 
integrated 
Strategic 
A/63/PV.23
and 
that 
thinks 
tracking 
the  General  Assembly, 
develop  a  strategic  vision  for  the  future  of  the 
Commission, so that we are not overtaken by events. 

In this regard, we appreciate the fact that with the 
support  of  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office,  the 
Commission  has  adopted  proactive  tools  such  as  the 
mechanisms, 
monitoring 
videoconferencing,  mapping  of  resources  and 
the 
setting  up  of  integrated  country  offices  and  strategic 
frameworks. 

However,  our  long-term  strategic  vision  will 
require new tools such as the development of an early 
warning  mechanism.  For  the  foreseeable  future,  my 
delegation 
in 
collaboration  with  the  Security  Council  and  other 
relevant  bodies  of  the  United  Nations,  should  take  a 
strategic  decision  to  strengthen  the  capacity  of  the 
Peacebuilding Commission for preventive diplomacy. 

This means that in the medium to long term, the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  should  be  concerned  not 
only about preventing countries currently on its agenda 
from relapsing into conflict, but also about developing 
the  capacity 
to  anticipate  potential  conflicts  and 
engaging the international community to address them 
before they reach crisis proportions. 

Some  researchers  have  argued  that  it  takes  a 
minimum  of  10  years  for  peacekeeping  to  succeed. 
While  we  may  not  be  in  a  position  to  validate  that 
claim,  what  we  would  urge  is  that  peacebuilding  and 
peacekeeping  not  be  viewed  as  zero-sum  games  in 
which 
the  deployment  of  peacebuilding  would 
necessarily  lead  to  the  termination  of  peacekeeping 
mandates. We need to strike the right balance between 
entry  and  exit  strategies,  so 
that  peacebuilding 
operations  are  neither  prematurely  terminated  nor 
unduly  extended  to  create  a  dependency  syndrome  in 
the affected country on the agenda. 

As the time for a review of the terms of reference 
of the Peacebuilding Fund draws near, it is appropriate 
to  deepen  dialogue  among  Member  States  on  how  to 
strengthen the institutional links and working relations 
between 
the 
Peacebuilding  Fund.  There  is  a  need  to  increase  the 
role of the Commission in decisions made by the Fund 
in allocating resources to beneficiary countries, so as to 
improve coordination and avert possible duplication of 
efforts. In the meantime, we welcome the improvement 
in  the  lines  of  communication  between  the  Fund  and 
the Commission and the Fund’s effectiveness in raising 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
08-54359 

19 
of 
If 
Peacebuilding 
Support  Office, 
the  Commission. 
A/63/PV.23 

more funds than the amount targeted during the period 
under consideration. 

I wish to conclude by recalling the distinguished 
and  pioneering  contribution  of  Ambassador  Carolyn 
McAskie, former Assistant-Secretary-General and head 
of 
in 
operationalizing the peacebuilding architecture, and to 
wish  her  the  very  best  in  her  future  endeavours.  My 
delegation  also  wishes  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
congratulate  and  welcome  Ms.  Jane  Holl  Lute,  new 
Assistant-Secretary-General  and  head  of  the  Support 
Office, who has already demonstrated her commitment 
to  build  upon  the  work  of  her  predecessor,  and  to 
assure  her  of  Ghana’s  full  cooperation.  Finally,  we 
commend  the  stewardship  of  Ambassador  Takasu  in 
skilfully  guiding  the  affairs  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission to consolidate the success achieved in the 
course of its first session. In his statement, Ambassador 
Takasu  appropriately  recognized  the  contributions  of 
the  past  and  present  Chairs  of 
the  various 
configurations 
their 
effectiveness  is  to  be  enhanced,  the  Commission  and 
the Support Office must be well resourced. 

Finally,  Ghana  remains  committed  and  ready  to 
support  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  in  meeting  the 
challenges  ahead  —  some  of  which  have  been 
identified  in  the  report  before  us  and  in  some  of  the 
statements  we  have  heard  today  —  for  the  sake  of 
solidarity, humanity, peace and security. 
Mr.  Amil  (Pakistan):  We  welcome  this  debate, 

which  offers  a  good  opportunity 
the  general 
membership  to  take  stock  of  the  United  Nations 
peacebuilding  agenda,  which  has  assumed  increasing 
priority  and  prominence  ever  since  the  2005  World 
Summit. 
As  reflected  in  the  Peacebuilding  Commission’s 

annual 
the  new  peacebuilding 
architecture  has  made  appreciable  progress,  both  in 
further  developing  system-wide  institutional  linkages 
and  in  promoting  substantive  work  in  the  countries 
under consideration. As a member of the Commission, 
Pakistan 
its  success.  We 
appreciate  the  contributions  of  all  members  of  the 
Commission,  in  particular  the  Chairman,  the  Vice-
Chairs  and 
the  country-specific 
configurations. We  shall  continue  to  contribute  to  that 
collective effort by actively participating in the work of 
is  fully  committed 
the  Chairs  of 
report 
(A/63/92), 
to 
to 
the 

the  Commission  and  by  providing  assistance  to  the 
countries concerned to the best of our ability. 

The  expansion  of  the  Commission’s  agenda, 
which now includes four countries, is an indication of 
the growing confidence in its work. That has increased 
expectations  —  and  rightly  so  —  especially  those  of 
the  Governments  and  peoples  of  the  countries  under 
consideration. It also entails better organization of the 
Commission’s  work,  especially  increased  coherence 
and  prioritization  among  its  various  formats  and  the 
dedication  of  appropriate  time  and  resources  to  the 
various situations on the agenda. 
At  the  strategic  level,  the  experience  gained  by 

the  Peacebuilding  Commission  should  guide 
the 
development of a common vision of peacebuilding. In 
our  view,  the  following  are  the  keys  to  success:  first, 
greater  convergence  between  the  perspectives  of  the 
partners and the host countries, based primarily on the 
priorities  and  the  national  ownership  of  the  latter; 
secondly,  genuine  political  will  and  flexibility  on  the 
part of all stakeholders; and thirdly, involvement by the 
Commission  from  the  initial  phase  of  United  Nations 
engagement  in  countries  emerging  from  conflict.  A 
comprehensive 
interlinkage 
between  peace  and  development  should  traverse  all 
stages,  from  conflict  prevention  to  peacekeeping  to 
peacebuilding. 

Sustainable  development  and  the  utilization  of 
national  capacities  are  essential  to  ensure  national 
ownership of peacebuilding priorities. Strategies based 
on  an  objective  and  comprehensive  diagnosis  of  the 
situation,  including  the  root  causes  of  conflict,  are 
more 
to  succeed.  Integrated  peacebuilding 
strategies and cooperation frameworks should be living 
plans  of  action,  under  constant  review  and  capable  of 
adjustment 
demands.  The 
Commission’s monitoring and tracking tools will need 
to  be  further  refined  to  ensure  identification  of  new 
gaps  and  timely  and  full  implementation  of  the 
commitments undertaken by all sides. 

It  is  extremely  important  to  provide  resources  at 
the early stages for immediate peacebuilding priorities 
and  quick-impact  and  other  projects  with  catalytic 
effect. The utility of the Peacebuilding Fund is clear in 
that regard. It is important to keep the interests of the 
recipient  countries  paramount  in  the  identification, 
design and prioritization of the projects to be resourced 
from  the  Fund. The  timely  and  effective  disbursement 
approach  based  on 
situation 
likely 
the 
as 
20 

08-54359 
in 
In 
for 
for 
the 
the 
and 
last  analysis, 
involves 
national 
the  success  of 


of  funds  is  equally  important.  In  our  view,  increased 
coordination  and  coherence  between  the  activities  of 
the  Fund  and  those  of  the  Commission  could  yield 
better  results 
that  regard.  The  Commission’s 
guidance  would  be  extremely  relevant  in  the  review 
process of the terms of reference of the Fund. 

the 
Commission  will  be  gauged  in  terms  of  the  concrete 
results achieved for people on the ground. With a view 
to  effective  prevention  against  relapse,  the  ultimate 
objective  of  peacebuilding  should  be 
to  enable 
countries emerging from conflict to stand on their own 
to  achieve  self-sustained  peace  and 
feet  so  as 
fulfilment  of 
development.  That 
commitments 
by 
international 
stakeholders  and  the  mobilization  of  resources,  both 
internal  and  external.  This  is  where  the  Commission, 
because  of  its  unique  composition  and  convening 
power,  has  immense  potential  to  deliver.  It  needs  to 
further  strengthen  its  advocacy  role  so  as  to  tap  all 
avenues 
the  marshalling  of  adequate  and 
predictable  resources  from  the  early  stages  to  the 
extended period of international attention.  

Working on both sides, the Commission can also 
help  address  the  issues  of  donor  restrictions  and 
conditionalities,  on  the  one  hand,  and  absorptive 
capacity  and  mechanisms 
the  effective  and 
transparent  disbursement  and  utilization  of  resources, 
on  the  other.  The  Commission  can  also  promote  the 
cause  of  the  countries  on  its  agenda  more  effectively 
before  the  international  financial  institutions,  which 
should  be  encouraged 
the  operational 
flexibility  to  address  the  special  circumstances  of 
countries emerging from conflict. 

The Commission will also need to focus attention 
on  broader  issues,  including  aid  effectiveness,  trade, 
investment, official development assistance, debt relief 
and  development  of  the  private  sector.  The  work 
facilitated by Indonesia on the role of the private sector 
should  be  taken  forward.  Many  countries  afflicted  by 
complex conflicts continue to be deprived of revenues 
and  earnings  from  their  own  resources,  owing  to 
unequal  trade  regimes,  industrial-country  agricultural 
subsidies  and  the  inability  to  process  their  own  raw 
materials. Therefore, more attention has to be accorded 
to  national  and  international  mechanisms  to  halt  the 
illegal exploitation of natural resources and enable the 
countries concerned to make full use of their resources 
for the benefit of their own peoples. 
to  show 
A/63/PV.23
to 

The Organizational Committee, the nucleus of the 
Commission, is best placed to discuss those and several 
other  cross-cutting  and  thematic  issues.  It  is  time  to 
utilize  its  full  potential.  It  should  have  strategic 
oversight over the work of the Commission, including 
country-specific  meetings  and  the  Working  Group  on 
the  Organizational 
Lessons  Learned.  Energizing 
Committee  would  also  contribute 
increased 
coordination  among  the  stakeholders  —  in  particular 
the  three  relevant  principal  organs  —  which  is  so 
essential for the success of our work. 

The challenges of peacebuilding are complex and 
immense.  They  require  a  holistic  approach  based  on 
sustained  political  attention  and 
the  pooling  of 
necessary  resources.  The  Peacebuilding  Commission 
can deliver only with the full support and commitment 
of the international community.  

In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  conclude  on  an 
encouraging  note.  Notwithstanding  the  differences  of 
opinion among Member States, the collective objective 
of  bringing  tangible  benefits  to  the  countries  under 
consideration  is  becoming  a  rallying  point  for  the 
Commission’s work. 
Mr. Terzi di Sant’Agata (Italy): I would like to 

thank the President of the Assembly for organizing this 
debate  on  the  work  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
and the Peacebuilding Fund.  

presidency of the European Union. 

The Commission is now entering its third year of 
operations.  We  are  beginning  to  see  concrete  results: 
four  countries  are  on  the  agenda,  three  integrated 
strategies  have  been  approved,  one  is  in  the  making, 
and  monitoring  mechanisms  have  been  established. 
The 
is  paying  greater 
international  community 
attention to peacebuilding efforts. 

The  work  undertaken  by  the  Commission  in 
identifying priority areas in respect of the principle of 
national  ownership 
is  most  welcome.  National 
ownership  is  the  necessary  foreground  for  the  success 
of  Commission 
involve 
international 
non-governmental 
organizations and civil society. It is also the foreground 
for 
and 
timelines,  the  optimization  of  resources  and  efforts  to 
avoid the overlapping of programmes. 
strategies,  which  also 
stakeholders, 
strategies,  benchmarks 
the  statement  of 
implementation 
Italy  endorses 
the  French 
08-54359 

21 

financial 
institutions  are  now 
A/63/PV.23 


The  Commission  has  consolidated  its  status  and 
credibility.  Countries  that  need  assistance  with  their 
stabilization  processes  are  aware  of  its  resources. The 
international 
fully 
involved in the Commission’s deliberations. 

It  is  time  to  move  forward,  addressing  new 
challenges  in  a  creative  and  flexible  way.  Peace 
processes  must  be  seen  as  a  whole.  Peacekeeping 
missions  should  be  fully  coherent  with  peacebuilding 
strategies. Therefore,  the  Department  of  Peacekeeping 
Operations, the Department of Political Affairs and the 
Peacebuilding Support Office should be encouraged to 
improve their integrated planning processes. 

On the other hand, the Commission could further 
enhance its role by aiming for more effective dialogue 
and coordination among all stakeholders, including, in 
particular,  regional  and  subregional  organizations.  We 
see  four  main  challenges  for  the  Commission  in  the 
coming  months:  first,  it  must  translate  the  integrated 
strategies  into  concrete  action;  secondly,  it  must  mold 
its  fieldwork  to  local  needs;  thirdly,  it  must  give 
stakeholders the opportunity to become more involved; 
and fourthly, it must assess its added value in bridging 
the  existing  gaps  in  the  stabilization  process.  The 
Commission has to adapt its work to different contexts 
in  order  to  assure  the  proper  links  between  security, 
development and respect for human rights. 

Turning  now  to  the  Peacebuilding  Fund,  the 
second report sheds greater light on the role, value and 
general  constraints  of  that  financial  instrument  within 
the  framework  of  United  Nations  peace  consolidation 
efforts.  We  look  positively  on  the  fact  that,  in  its 
second  year  of  operations,  the  Fund  has  been  more 
dynamic in identifying beneficiary countries and needs 
for  intervention.  The  Fund  has  also  focused  more  on 
improving  analytical  capacities  and  planning,  on 
enhancing coordination with the United Nations offices 
in New York and in the field, and on greater interaction 
with the Commission. 
However, the Fund has not yet developed its full 

potential. 
immediate 
post-conflict  response that we had hoped for. There is 
clearly  a  need  to  tackle  strategy  and  management 
issues,  such  as  the  criteria  for  selecting  beneficiary 
countries,  the  time  frame  for  drafting  and  approving 
projects, local Governments’ financial and institutional 
absorption  capability,  countries’  eligibility  for  the 
various windows and the Fund’s mobilizing force. 
It  has  not  provided 
the 
thank 
of  Brazil 
the  Chairmen 

We  would  thus  like  to  offer  a  few  suggestions. 
We  should  improve  intervention  planning  and  foster 
greater  consistency  between  the  Fund’s  funding  and 
integrated  peacebuilding  strategies;  develop  clear 
guidelines, agreed on by all Members, for the selection 
of eligible countries and establish a fund replenishment 
mechanism to enable consistent and predictable use of 
resources;  harmonize  the  time  frames  for  choosing 
beneficiary  countries  for  the  three  different  windows; 
and  develop  a  strategy  for  the  donor  community  that 
will  allow  the  Fund  to  become  a  reference  point  and 
catalyst of resources. 

Lastly, allow me to express my deepest gratitude 
for  their  efforts  to  the  Chairman  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Japan; 
the  Chairman  of  the  Working  Group  on  Lessons 
Learned, the Permanent Representative of El Salvador; 
and 
country-specific 
configurations,  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  the 
Netherlands,  Norway,  Sweden, 
the  Permanent 
the  Permanent 
Representative 
and 
Representative  of  Belgium.  We  also 
the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office  in  New York  and  in  the 
field,  and  welcome  newly  appointed  Assistant 
Secretary-General Lute as the head of the Office. 

Mr.  Natalegawa  (Indonesia):  Allow  me  first  to 
express  our  appreciation  to  the  President  of  the 
Assembly for convening this important joint debate on 
the report of the Peacebuilding Commission (A/63/92) 
the 
and 
the  report  of 
Peacebuilding  Fund 
the 
Secretary-General for the presentation of his report on 
the  Fund,  and  the  Commission  for  its  second  annual 
report.  We  commend 
the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office,  which  works  closely 
with the members of the Commission. Our appreciation 
also  goes 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme as the administrative agent of the Fund. Of 
course,  we  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Japan  and  Chairman  of 
the 
Commission for his sterling leadership. 

Indonesia  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
made by the representative of Jamaica on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned Movement caucus in the Commission.  

Having  been  entrusted  with  the  responsibility  of 
being  a  member  of  the  Organizational  Committee  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  for  the  past  two  years, 
Indonesia  is  pleased  to  see  the  Commission  and  the 
the  Secretary-General  on 
thank 
the  good  work  of 
(A/63/218).  We 
of 
the 
to 
22 

08-54359 


Fund embark upon the fulfilment of their mandates. In 
that  regard,  my  delegation  will  like  to  offer  some 
remarks that would hopefully contribute to making the 
international peacebuilding architecture more robust. 

First,  when  identifying  peacebuilding  priorities 
and challenges, the Commission has rightly pointed out 
the  importance  of  giving  equal  attention  to  the  issues 
of security, democracy and development. Those are key 
factors  for  nurturing  a  strong  pluralistic  society  and 
lasting  peace.  Security  sector  reform  or  economic 
sector  reform  alone  is  not  a  panacea  to  ensure  that  a 
post-conflict country does not relapse into conflict. 

There needs to be an integrated approach and, in 
order to implement a comprehensive approach in which 
the  security  and  development  dimensions  reinforce 
each  other,  the  disbursements  by  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund should also reflect such an orientation. Indonesia 
also  desires  to  see  such  an  integrated  approach  be 
implemented  in  the  wider  United  Nations  system, 
including  in  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office,  the 
Department  of  Peacekeeping  Operations  and 
the 
Department of Political Affairs, to address post-conflict 
challenges. 

that  national  ownership 
should be the guiding principle in our engagement. We 
fully support the fact that the voice of a democratically 
elected  Government,  that  can  be  held  accountable  to 
the people through elections, should be the bedrock of 
a  nationally  owned  process,  taking  into  account  the 
voices  of  civil  society  and  other  relevant  stakeholders 
in  the  field.  No  matter  how  well-intentioned  the 
international initiatives are, the needs identified by the 
national  Government 
the 
blueprint  by  everyone.  Time  and  again,  we  have  seen 
that  peace  processes  and  the  consolidation  of  peace 
work only if peace and development efforts are owned 
by  society  and  fully  assisted  by  the  international 
community. 

Thirdly,  we  should  not  shy  away  from  giving 
more decisive and strategic roles to the Organizational 
Committee of the Commission. That is in line with the 
mandate  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  While  the 
four  country-specific  configurations  under  the  good 
leadership  of  the  present  and  past  chairpersons  have 
shown  the  benefits  of  the  unique  composition  of 
country  configurations,  the  Organizational  Committee 
should  continue  to  focus  on  thematic  strategies  and 
wider policies on peacebuilding. 
should  be  considered 
Secondly,  all  agree 
A/63/PV.23
included 
sector’s 
engagement 
in 
the 
role  of 
both 
financial 
in 
providing 
through  which 
for  underscoring 
the  private  sector 
the  Commission’s  mandate 

In  that  regard,  we  commend  the  Organizational 
Committee  efforts  under  the  chairmanship  of  Japan  in 
considering 
in 
its  potential 
peacebuilding  and 
engagement 
and 
non-financial support. 

A  task  force  set  up  for  that  purpose  by  the 
Organizational Committee earlier this year focused on 
tangible  ways 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission can contribute to the strengthening of the 
private 
post-conflict 
peacebuilding, as part of the Commission’s mandate to 
bring  together  all  relevant  actors  to  marshal  support 
and  resources.  That  consideration 
three 
particular areas, partnerships with private foundations, 
microfinance  and  remittances.  As  a  follow-up  to  the 
work of the Peacebuilding Commission task force, we 
hope  that  the  Organizational  Committee  will  consider 
taking up some of the task force’s recommendations for 
fulfilling 
to  marshal 
resources. 

The strategic role and policy deliberations of the 
Organizational Committee will be crucial. The Security 
Council, 
statement 
S/PRST/2008/16 of 20 May 2008, has also encouraged 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  to  explore  ways  to 
support national efforts in  affected countries to secure 
sustainable  peace  more  rapidly  and  effectively.  The 
views  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  are  also  very 
helpful when the Secretary-General provides advice to 
the  United  Nations  organs  on  how  to  coordinate 
peacebuilding  activities  and  to  generate  and  utilize 
resources most effectively. 

Fourthly, as stated in the report, the Commission 
should  continue  to  make  efforts  to  create  closer 
strategic  ties  between  its  engagements  and  the  use  of 
the Peacebuilding Fund. The report highlights the need 
to  have  innovative  approaches  to  linking  the  initial 
catalytic  financial  outlay  through  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund  with  more  sustained  and  significantly  larger 
funding sources. 

As  it  has  been  noted,  the  Peacebuilding  Fund 
disbursement  and  implementation  are  based  on  three 
mechanisms: window I for countries under the agenda 
of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  window  II  for 
non-Peacebuilding  Commission  countries  and  window 
III for emergency situations. The Secretary-General has 
the discretionary authority for windows II and III. For 
through 
its 
presidential 
08-54359 

23 

in 
the 
II  and 
III, 
identifying 
for  windows 
Peacebuilding  Commission 
For  windows  II  and  III,  we  commend 
A/63/PV.23 

window  I,  there  is  still  room  to  improve  relations 
between 
and 
Peacebuilding Fund. 

We note the excellent work of the Peacebuilding 
Support  Office  in  this  regard,  but  we  stress  that  the 
involvement  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
members in steering the process should be greater. The 
countries  should  be  involved  from  the  early  planning 
stage  of 
the 
the  projects  and 
establishment of clear evaluation mechanisms. 
the 

important  work  of  the  Secretary-General  in  their 
effective  utilization.  The  Member  States  could  be 
involved  further  by,  inter  alia,  improving  the  terms  of 
reference  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund.  By  further 
involving the Member States in the strategic decision-
making  process 
the 
effectiveness  of  the  Fund  would  improve,  and  the 
ownership of Member States would increase. 

It is also important to start mapping out ways on 
how the private sector can be brought on board for its 
valuable  contribution  to  the  Peacebuilding  Fund.  We 
are  positive 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  task  force  on  the  private 
sector would also be helpful here. The United Nations 
Development Programme could take up those practical 
recommendations, 
Peacebuilding 
Commission  agrees,  views  could  be  sought  from  the 
Programme  on  how  further  concrete  steps  might  be 
undertaken to engage the private sector entities. 
Fifthly,  public  awareness  and  visibility  of  the 

Commission’s work should be improved by making the 
work  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  prominent  in 
regional  and  subregional  organizations,  as  well  as  at 
international 
the 
institutions  and  other 
pertinent forums. 

Finally,  I  would  like  to  share  a  few  thoughts  on 
how  Indonesia  sees  the  General Assembly  playing  its 
important  role  in  ensuring  that  the  United  Nations 
peacebuilding  machinery  functions  well  to  produce 
maximum output in the field. 

The  General Assembly  can  be  very  helpful,  and 
must  exert  greater  effort  in  seeing  that  the  United 
Nations  departments  and  agencies  incorporate  the 
peacebuilding priorities and challenges appropriately in 
the relevant strategies of the United Nations system. 
recommendations  of 
financial 
that 
the 
and 
if 
the 
and 
Peacebuilding  Commission 

In  that  regard,  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  could  play  his  critical  convening  role  by 
holding regular and substantive interactions among the 
Chairs of the Peacebuilding Commission, the Security 
Council  and 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council. 
Therein, relevant lessons learned and best practices can 
be  shared,  with  the  development  of  new  synergies. 
Such  exchanges  can  also  ensure  better  coordination 
among  those  vital  bodies.  Their  combined  voice  will 
aid the advocacy for the Commission, particularly with 
regard to garnering assistance for the recommendations 
of Integrated Peacebuilding Strategies of the countries 
on the Peacebuilding Commission’s agenda. 
Indonesia  reiterates  its  commitment  to  the  cause 

of 
the 
the 
Peacebuilding  Fund  and  will  continue  to  work  with 
others on tangible measures to improve the outcome of 
both. 

Mr.  Hannesson  (Iceland):  It  is  my  pleasure  to 
speak on behalf of the five Nordic countries: Denmark, 
Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. 

I  wish  to  express  our  support  for  the  statement 
delivered  by  the  representative  of  France  on  behalf  of 
the European Union. 
The  Nordic  countries  recognize  the  progress 

made  since 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission, in particular the important 
work of the country-specific configurations. 

We  welcome  the  appointment  of  Jane  Holl  Lute 
and  her  efforts  to  further  strengthen  the  capacity  and 
improve  the  focus  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission. 
With the support of the Peacebuilding Support Office, 
we  need  to  streamline  the  working  methods  of  the 
Commission to allow for more countries on the agenda 
and to focus our efforts at the strategic level to deliver 
on the vision of the Peacebuilding Commission. 

In  that  regard,  we  cannot  emphasize  enough  the 
importance  of  seeking  partnerships  and  coherence  in 
relevant  activities  within  and  outside  the  United 
Nations  with  United  Nations  agencies,  funds  and 
programmes,  regional  and  subregional  organizations, 
and international financial institutions. 

Within  the  peacebuilding  architecture,  we  see  a 
need  to  better  define  the  role  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Support  Office  in  terms  of  giving  assistance  and 
support 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  The 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office  should  have  a  key 
the  establishment 
in  2006  of 
to 
24 

08-54359 
in 
the  Secretary-General’s 


function in the strategic planning of the peacebuilding 
efforts of the United Nations. 

At  the  same  time,  we  need  to  explore  ways  to 
create  synergies  in  order  to  respond  to  the  challenges 
facing countries emerging from conflict in a coherent, 
timely  and  rational  way.  To  that  end,  we  strongly 
support  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office’s  role  in 
coordinating 
report  on 
peacebuilding and early recovery, and look forward to 
actively  engaging 
the  process  of  providing 
recommendations. 

We wish to draw attention to the Early Recovery 
Policy  Forum  held  earlier  this  month  in  Copenhagen, 
where  a  number  of  international  policymakers  and 
practitioners were gathered to put forward proposals on 
how  to  address  gaps  in  capacity,  strategy  and  funding 
when  it  comes  to  early  recovery  and  peacebuilding. 
The Forum highlighted, inter alia, the need to speed up 
post-disaster damage and needs assessments, as well as 
the  necessity  of  rapidly  scaling  up  the  capacity  of 
resident coordinators in a crisis situation. We consider 
those  and  other  conclusions  of  the  Forum  very  useful 
in  our  efforts  to  further  strengthen  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission and the wider peacebuilding architecture. 

Our delegations have been strong contributors to 
the Peacebuilding Fund, which we believe to be a vital 
tool to address immediate needs in countries emerging 
from conflicts. In conflict environments, speed is of the 
essence.  We  clearly  see  room  for  improvement  in  the 
management  of  the  Fund  in  order  for  it  to  work 
efficiently  as  a  catalyst  for  more  sustained  support 
mechanisms. 

We  look  forward  to  the  Office  of  Internal 
Oversight Services review and the recommendations of 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund  Advisory  Group  later  this 
month  in  order  to  further  improve  the  efficiency, 
effectiveness  and  relevance  of  the  Fund. We  hope  the 
evaluation  will  provide  clear  recommendations  to 
address questions regarding the Fund’s function.  

The  Nordic  countries  would  welcome  further 
clarity  on  the  scope  and  allocation  procedure  for  the 
three  funding  windows,  an  improved  and  transparent 
accountability framework and strengthened capacity in 
the  management  of  the  Fund.  We  think  that  the 
in-country  relationship  between  the  Fund  and  the 
Commission  could  be  further  clarified.  Furthermore, 
peacebuilding  gaps  continue  to  go  unfilled,  and  we 
would  consider  it  useful  to  revisit  the  possibility  of 
A/63/PV.23
to 
to 
report 
on 
its 
for  his 
excellent 
second 
stewardship  of 
using  the  Fund’s  funds  to  support  United  Nations 
Secretariat entities and their missions. We look forward 
to  working  with  Member  States  and  to  considering 
improvements  to  the  Fund  in  the  context  of  this 
Assembly. 

In  closing,  allow  me  to  express  the  gratitude  of 
the  Missions  of  Denmark,  Finland,  Iceland,  Norway 
and  Sweden  for  the  reports  submitted  under  these 
agenda  items.  They  contain  valuable  information  and 
form a good basis for our discussions. 
Ms.  Jahan  (Bangladesh):  It  would  be  remiss  of 

me  to  begin  without  thanking  Ambassador  Yukio 
Takasu 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission and his presentation of the 
Commission’s 
session. 
Appreciation is also owed to the Secretary-General for 
his comprehensive reports on the Peacebuilding Fund. I 
also  take  this  opportunity  to  welcome  and  extend  my 
delegation’s  full  support 
the  newly  appointed 
Assistant Secretary-General for Peacebuilding Support, 
Ms. Jane Holl Lute. Our appreciation also goes to the 
former  Assistant  Secretary-General,  Ms.  Carolyn 
McAskie,  for  her  contribution 
the  cause  of 
peacebuilding. 
We  align  ourselves  with  the  statement  made  by 

the  representative  of  Jamaica  on  behalf  of 
the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  caucus.  We  would,  however, 
like to elaborate on a few points. 
The  Peacebuilding  Commission  has  come  a  long 

way 
in  unifying 
three  main  pillars  of  our 
Organization  —  peace  and  security,  development  and 
human  rights  —  in  a  more  integrated  approach  to 
peacebuilding.  The  Commission,  as  we  are  all  aware, 
was  established  to  address  a  lacuna  in  the  United 
Nations  structure:  to  reduce  a  post-conflict  country’s 
risk  of  relapsing  into  the  quagmire  of  the  self-
perpetuating spiral of conflict and crisis. The founding 
resolution was aimed at addressing the special needs of 
countries emerging from conflicts. The Commission, in 
its  second  year,  has  made  significant  strides  in  its 
efforts  to  consolidate  peace  in  the  countries  on  its 
agenda: Burundi, Sierra Leone and Guinea-Bissau. We 
hope that it will be likewise for the new country on the 
agenda, the Central African Republic. 

We  are  pleased  that  the  methods  of  work  of  the 
Commission have been further consolidated during the 
second  year  of  its  operation.  Given  the  complexity  of 
its work and a demanding mandate, the Commission’s 
the 
08-54359 

25 
for 
into 
tool 
to 
society 
should  be 
their 
configurations 
for  peacebuilding 
A/63/PV.23 

second  session  was  very  satisfactory. The  formulation 
of country-specific Integrated Peacebuilding Strategies 
is considered to be the right approach. It has become an 
effective 
strategies.  We 
congratulate  the  respective  Chairs  of  the  country-
specific 
outstanding 
contributions 
the  Commission’s  work.  The 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office  and  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund can also claim their share of credit. We especially 
commend  the  countries  of  Sierra  Leone,  Burundi  and 
Guinea-Bissau  for  their  cooperation  and  for  taking 
national ownership of Commission initiatives. 

In enumerating the achievements of the past two 
years, one should not be complacent, as much remains 
to  be  done.  My  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  the 
operational  relations  of  the  Commission  with  the 
General Assembly, the Security Council, the Economic 
and  Social  Council,  other  intergovernmental  United 
Nations bodies, the relevant international, regional and 
subregional  organizations,  national 
stakeholders, 
financiers  and  civil 
further 
strengthened.  The  Organizational  Committee  should 
inject  more  dynamism 
the  peacebuilding 
architecture  by  playing  a  more  decisive  lead  role. 
There  should  be  greater  coordination  among  all  the 
peacebuilding initiatives at the country level. 
A built-in system for stocktaking, in order for the 

its  own  peacebuilding 
Commission 
achievements is necessary. In that respect, we welcome 
tracking 
the  establishment  of  a  monitoring  and 
mechanism.  It  will  be  useful 
the 
implementation  of  the  framework  and  subsequently 
assessing its accountability and effectiveness. That will 
further  allow  the  Commission  to  make  necessary 
adjustments in its engagements. With the mechanism in 
place,  the  Commission,  in  our  view,  will  be  able  to 
have the maximum impact on the ground. 

The  Working  Group  on  Lessons  Learned  should 
devote  some  time  to  sharing  the  valuable  experiences 
of  the  troop-contributing  countries  in  peacekeeping. 
One  of 
the 
Commission’s work is the attention of the international 
community 
the 
countries  of  engagement.  The  Commission  and  its 
work  should  therefore  be  given  adequate  visibility 
through  outreach  activities  in  order  to  retain  that 
attention. We also welcome the Commission’s decision 
to  finance  the  field  missions  to  the  countries  on  its 
agenda. 
its  peacebuilding  activities 
the  key  factors  for 
the  success  of 
in  monitoring 
to  build  on 
to 
in 

towards 
pluralist 
building 
to  further 
the  work  of 

My  delegation  is  of  the  view  that,  in  order  to 
attain  sustainable  development,  we  should  focus  more 
on  the  issue  of  economic  recovery  in  post-conflict 
societies.  In  order 
the 
Commission,  we  believe  that  efforts  should  also  be 
directed 
political 
institutions; creating peace constituencies; restoring an 
environment of mutual trust, confidence and tolerance; 
and,  ultimately,  establishing  a  process  of  societal 
reconciliation and healing. 

to  making  peacebuilding 
We  can  contribute 
initiatives  more  effective  and  more  suited  to  realities 
on  the  ground  through  external  material  support.  We 
emphasize  ever-greater  ownership  of  that  process  by 
the  respective  Governments  of  the  countries  on  the 
agenda.  National  ownership,  in  our  view,  is  a  key  to 
sustaining  progress.  Post-conflict  societies  must  take 
charge of their own destiny. We have seen how home-
grown 
ideas,  such  as  microcredit  and  women’s 
non-formal  education,  can  work  miracles  in  economic 
recovery and women’s empowerment. The Commission 
should  include  that  as  an  integral  element  in  its 
strategies. 

The  Peacebuilding  Fund  has  a  critical  role  to 
play.  We  are  heartened  by  the  fact  that  the  Fund  has 
exceeded the target of $250 million. That is testimony 
to  the  continued  commitment  of  the  international 
community to the goal of peacebuilding. 

We feel that members of the Commission should 
be  more  frequently  updated  on  the  operations  of  the 
Peacebuilding Fund and provided with information on 
disbursements  with 
time.  The 
relationship between the Commission and the Fund and 
their  individual  roles  have  to  be  made  clear  to  the 
stakeholders on the ground in order to dispel confusion 
as regards eligibility for Peacebuilding Fund support. 

It  is  indeed  a  shared  moral  obligation  to  be 
vigilant  about the special needs of countries  emerging 
from  conflict  and  making  steps  towards  recovery, 
reintegration  and  reconstruction.  It  is  crucial  to  fully 
integrate  the  economic  recovery  and  development 
dimension  in  the  process  of  peacebuilding.  As  more 
countries are brought under its consideration, the work 
of the Commission has rapidly expanded. To cope with 
the  increasing  workload,  the  Commission  and  its 
supporting  bodies  will  require  more  political  and 
material support.  
adequate 
lead 
26 

08-54359 
in 
the 
it 
(A/63/92) 
the 
largest 
architecture. 
future,  and 
Bangladesh,  as  one  of 



troop-
contributing  countries,  is  actively  engaged  in  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations.  We  are  equally 
happy  to  be  associated  with  the  Commission  as  a 
member.  We  will  remain  closely  associated  with  its 
work 
is  our  combined 
responsibility to see to it that the Commission can fully 
function  as  a  competent  intergovernmental  advisory 
body  addressing  post-conflict  situations  and  as  the 
spearhead  for  a  coordinated,  coherent  and  integrated 
international 
The 
peacebuilding 
forward 
community  should  come 
the 
Commission in fulfilling its mandate. 
Mr. Sen (India): We appreciate the scheduling of 

this  timely  joint  debate  on  the  second  report  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission 
the 
Secretary-General’s  report  on  the  Peacebuilding  Fund 
(A/63/218). 

Let me begin by congratulating Japan on its work 
as Chair of the Peacebuilding Commission, in a tenure 
that has lasted somewhat longer than might have been 
expected  at  the  outset.  I  also  express  our  appreciation 
for  the  Chairs  of  the  Commission’s  country-specific 
configurations  and  the  Working  Group  on  Lessons 
Learned. I must make special mention of the delegation 
of  Norway,  the  former  Permanent  Representative  of 
which  chaired  the  configuration  on  Burundi  with 
commitment.  Let  me  also  welcome  the  new Assistant 
Secretary-General for Peacebuilding Support, Ms. Jane 
Holl  Lute,  and  assure  her  of  India’s  continued 
constructive support. 

I also associate my delegation with the statement 
made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Jamaica, 
who  spoke  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
(NAM). We appreciate Jamaica’s work in coordinating 
the  NAM 
Peacebuilding 
Commission.  
I have only a few additional points to add in the 

context  of 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  and  on  the  Peacebuilding  Fund.  Our 
comments  are  based  both  on  our  abiding  commitment 
to the objectives of the Peacebuilding Commission and 
on  our  conviction  that  useful  lessons  may  be  drawn 
from  our  collective  experience  over  the  period  that 
both bodies have been in existence. 

excessive  pessimism  or  premature 
regarding 
First,  we  need  to  guard  ourselves  against  either 
celebrations 
the 
caucus  within 
the 
reports  of 
the 
relevance 
or 
efficacy 
of 
to  assist 
and 
the 
A/63/PV.23
time 
in  debates 
the  agenda  of 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
the  Peacebuilding 
Fund  thus  far.  On  the  positive  side,  the  fact  that  we 
now  have  four  countries  on 
the 
Commission, all at their request, is undoubtedly a good 
sign.  The  finalization  of  Integrated  Peacebuilding 
Strategies for three of those countries and the review of 
two of those Strategies are all signs of progress. It is no 
exaggeration to say that the Peacebuilding Commission 
has indeed become an established player in the United 
Nations context. 

However, while the steady consolidation of a role 
for  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  within  the  lexicon 
of the international system is a good outcome, it is not 
a  sufficient  achievement  of  itself  for  all  of  us  to  take 
pride in. We need to continue to make the Commission 
relevant  to  the  countries  that  it  seeks  to  assist  by 
moving decisively towards a pragmatic, circumstance-
specific approach. For too long we in the Commission 
have  spent 
that  veer  between 
prescriptive  solutions  and  a  conditionality-based 
approach  to  inflexible  positions.  As  long  as  we  have 
our  positions  predetermined  before  we  objectively 
examine  the  situation  in  a  country  seeking  assistance, 
we will not be able to provide truly  dispassionate and 
situation-specific  advice.  That  is  also  one  reason  why 
we  appear  collectively  unable  to  genuinely  listen  to 
what  post-conflict  countries  actually  want  when  they 
seek the Peacebuilding Commission’s assistance. 

Secondly,  to  ensure  that  the  advice  that  is 
provided by the Peacebuilding Commission is relevant 
and useful, we must focus on two aspects. The first is 
to  continue  to  expand  our  access  to  focused,  specific 
and  objective  information  from  the  ground.  Here  the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office  must  play  an  important 
role,  for  without  a  clear  and  unbiased  channel  for 
inputs  from  the  ground,  listing  key  challenges  and 
mapping  gaps  in  the  availability  of  resources  to  meet 
such  challenges, 
the  Commission  cannot  provide 
effective  advice.  Moreover,  since  there  will  inevitably 
be  a  disparity  in  information  flow  between  those 
members  that  have  representation  on  the  ground  and 
those  that  do  not,  that  disparity  could  well  prejudice 
the discourse within the Peacebuilding Commission, to 
no one’s benefit.  

The  second  aspect  is  the  need  for  effective  two-
way  dialogue  between  countries  on  the  agenda  of  the 
Peacebuilding Commission and the Commission itself. 
Such dialogue will be most meaningful if we can make 
the transition to ensuring that the Commission’s advice 
08-54359 

27 
relates 
A/63/PV.23 

is based on a light-touch approach. By that I mean that 
the Commission should not take on the task of advising 
States on post-conflict consolidation. Instead, it should 
help the State concerned to identify and utilize genuine 
international  expertise  in  addressing  such  sensitive 
issues. 

The lightness of the Peacebuilding Commission’s 
touch  also 
the  question  of  national 
ownership, which all of us endorse as a core principle 
of  the  Commission’s  involvement.  That  relates  to  the 
need  to  strengthen  a  representative  and  effective 
Government in the country concerned. Eventually, it is 
the Government of the country that is answerable if it 
is  unable  to  deliver  on  peace  consolidation  strategies, 
and  that  answer  must  be  given  to  the  people  it 
represents.  
It is also the Government of the country that will 

need 
to  manage  processes  beyond 
the  country’s 
engagement  with  the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  It 
follows logically therefore that our primary focus must 
be  on  enhancing  the  legitimacy,  effectiveness  and 
absorptive capacity of the country’s administrative and 
governing system. Without that, we will never have the 
tools  in  place  for  our  own  efforts  to  assist  in  post-
conflict peacebuilding.  

That  is  also  the  case  for  the  Peacebuilding 
Support Office. While there has been a welcome effort 
made  to  include  the  Support  Office  on  the  ground  in 
the  countries  where 
the  Commission  has  an 
involvement,  much  more  needs  to  be  done.  To  begin 
with,  the  capacity  of  the  Support  Office  needs  to  be 
expanded,  but  that  must  also  be  matched  within  the 
United  Nations  system  by  a  willingness  to  genuinely 
include the Office, rather than to zealously guard turf. 
Thirdly  —  and  this  point  is  a  related  one  —  we 

need 
the 
to  make  greater  efforts 
coordination aspect of the Peacebuilding Commission’s 
mandated  role.  Currently,  neither  the  Commission  nor 
the Support Office within the United Nations has been 
able 
their  unique  and  cross-cutting 
positions to perform that task. To those who argue that 
the Commission is not as yet ready for it, the counter-
argument  is  that,  unless  it  is  given  that  task,  it  can 
never  be  ready  to  coordinate  international  efforts. 
Furthermore, it also begs the question as to why major 
donor  organizations  are  sought  after  to  be  part  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission 
its 
coordination role. 
to  energize 
to  enhance 
leverage 
if  not 
to 
to 

the  Commission  and 
improves,  and  unless 

Fourthly,  while  we  have  certainly  done  better  in 
this past year in focusing attention and assisting in the 
marshalling of resources, much more can and must be 
done.  Advice  alone  will  not  consolidate  peace; 
certainly not if it isn’t matched with either material or 
policy assistance. Mobilization of resources is the key 
vehicle by which post-conflict societies can set course 
upon the road to peace consolidation and development. 

As  a  contributor  to  the  Peacebuilding  Fund,  and 
as  a  member  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission’s 
Organizational  Committee,  we  welcomed 
the 
operationalization of the Fund, just as we welcome the 
idea of a renewed resource-mobilization drive towards 
the  end  of  this  year.  We  also  welcome  the  improved 
synergy  between 
the  Fund, 
although  much  more  needs  to  be  done  to  ensure  that 
the  objectives  of  the  Commission’s  policy  advice  and 
the actual disbursement of funds to the State concerned 
are  actually  in  consonance. There  remains  a  troubling 
lag  between  the  two  that  needs  to  be  dealt  with  when 
we  consider  a  new  mandate  for  the  Fund.  Unless  the 
disbursement  of  funds 
the 
strategic  link  between  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
and the Peacebuilding Fund is better, neither body will 
achieve its full potential. 
In  that  context,  I  must  underline  that  we  remain 

unconvinced 
three-window  structure  of 
drawing  upon  the  Peacebuilding  Fund,  in  particular, 
window  II,  has  been  particularly  useful  to  either  the 
Fund  or  the  Commission.  Even  the  report  on  the 
Peacebuilding  Fund  appears  to  suggest,  in  paragraph 
33, that the proactive strategy of identifying additional 
countries  eligible  for  support  for  funds  involved 
selection  of  countries  receiving  high-level  visits  from 
the  United  Nations, 
the 
Secretariat  directly,  and,  in  one  case  that  we  know,  a 
country  that  did  not  approach  the  Secretariat,  but  was 
given funds in order to prolong the Organization’s role 
there.  
That  can  hardly  be  called  effective  criteria  for 

funding  the  Peacebuilding  Fund.  Indeed,  since  the 
entire  process  of  window  II  consideration  takes  place 
without  inputs  from  either  the  Member  States  or  the 
Commission,  it  is  hard  to  know  what  criteria  actually 
apply.  In  fact,  window  II  does  not  rise  to  the  level  of 
even window-dressing.  

There  is  also  a  potential  problem  of  the  blurring 
of  monitoring  lines,  if  a  State  begins  to  receive 
that  approached 
those 
that 
the 
28 

08-54359 
on 
to 
coming 


assistance under Peacebuilding Fund window II, before 
eventually 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission’s  agenda.  Those  and  several  other  issues 
need to be resolved during the discussions on the Fund. 

I would also like to reiterate, in the context of the 
better utilization of Peacebuilding Fund allocations, the 
point I made  earlier about  enhancing the mandate and 
the  capacity  of  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office. 
Without  that,  we  will  always  be  in  a  less  than 
satisfactory position regarding the utilization of money 
allocated  under  the  Fund.  It  is  not  enough  to  ascribe 
that  problem  to  the  weak  absorptive  capacity  in  the 
country  concerned.  It  is  precisely  because  absorptive 
and  administrative  capacities  are  weak  that  assistance 
has been sought. Therefore we need to ensure that the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
the  Peacebuilding 
Fund  work  together  with  the  Peacebuilding  Support 
Office here in New York to provide clear instructions. 
There  must  also  be  a  dedicated  unit  on  the  ground 
dealing  with  projects  funded  by  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund. 

In conclusion, let me reiterate that the mechanism 
of  peacebuilding  is  integrally  related  to  the  larger 
question  of  a  collective  approach.  If  we  continue  to 
segregate ourselves, not only within the Peacebuilding 
Commission,  but  also  among  the  Commission,  the 
Support Office and the Fund and between all three and 
the  rest  of  the  United  Nations  system,  we  will  fail  to 
provide  a  coherent  and  coordinate  response  to  those 
who  look  to  the  United  Nations  to  make  a  difference. 
That should not happen. I reaffirm India’s commitment 
to doing whatever is in our power to ensure that that is 
never the case. 
Mr.  Heller  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation  welcomes  this  opportunity  to  consider  the 
report  submitted  by  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
(A/63/92)  at  the  conclusion  of  its  second  session,  in 
accordance with General Assembly resolution 60/180.  

We  thank  the  Chairman  of  the  Commission, 
Ambassador  Takasu  of  Japan,  and  the  Vice-Chairs, 
Ambassador  Gallardo  Hernández  of  El  Salvador  and 
Ambassador  Christian  of  Ghana,  for  their  work.  We 
also  commend  the  tireless  efforts  of  Ambassador 
Løvald  of  Norway,  Ambassador  Majoor  of 
the 
Netherlands  and Ambassador  Viotti  of  Brazil,  and  the 
Chairs  of 
the  country-specific  configurations  for 
Burundi, Sierra Leone and Guinea-Bissau, respectively. 
In  addition,  we  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our 
A/63/PV.23
its  objectives.  During 
support  for  Ambassador  Grauls  of  Belgium,  who 
recently  began  his  work  as  Chair  of  the  country-
specific configuration for the Central African Republic. 
Furthermore,  my  delegation  recognizes  the  fruitful 
efforts  of  Ms.  Carolyn  McAskie  as  head  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office  and  welcomes  Ms.  Jane 
Holl Lute, new head of the Office.  

Two  years  after  the  work  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  began,  the  new  body  resulting  from  the 
2005  United  Nations  reform  has  made  progress  in 
attaining 
the  period  under 
review, we have noted that, through its country-specific 
configurations, the Commission has definitely — albeit 
not  without  difficulty  —  helped  to  strengthen  the 
national  institutions  of  Burundi  and  Sierra  Leone.  At 
the  same  time,  it  has  included  new  countries  in  its 
agenda, such as Guinea-Bissau and, more recently, the 
Central African Republic. 

We are pleased to observe that, during its second 
session, in keeping with the principles  of its mandate, 
the Commission has redoubled its efforts to improve its 
focus  and  its  working  methods.  The  establishment  of 
comprehensive  peacebuilding  strategies  and  follow-up 
mechanisms  for  Burundi  and  Sierra  Leone  is  one 
example;  others  are  the  Commission’s  ability  to  draw 
on  lessons  learned  and  its  flexibility  in  adapting  them 
to  new  national  specificities.  It  did  so  in  the  case  of 
Guinea-Bissau,  whose  country-specific  configuration, 
to  which  Mexico  belongs,  adopted 
its  Strategic 
Framework for Peacebuilding on 1 October. 

We commend the Commission for all of that. We 
hope  that  the  experiences  gained  and  lessons  learned 
will  form  the  basis  for  continued  improvement  in  the 
system-wide  coherence  of  the  United  Nations  system 
through  coordinated  and  comprehensive  action, 
strengthening  the  link  between  security,  development 
and  human 
rights  as  essential  components  of 
sustainable  peace.  That  will  help  the  dividends  of 
peace  to  reach  the  populations  of  the  countries  on  the 
Commission’s agenda as quickly as possible, which in 
turn  is  a  prerequisite  for  sustaining  any  peace  and 
development process over the short, medium and long 
terms. 

We  hope  that  the  Commission  will  continue  to 
maintain  its  flexible  and  inclusive  character  and  to 
carry  out  its  transparent  and  integrative  work.  In  that 
connection,  we  support  the  more  frequent  holding  of 
informal  plenary  meetings,  such  as  that  held  on 
08-54359 

29 
It 
to 
respect 
important 
is  extremely 
A/63/PV.23 

29 January  2008.  My  delegation  believes  that  such 
meetings  permit  a  flow  of  information  and  promote 
interaction  among  organs,  in  addition  to  arousing 
greater  interest  by  the  membership  in  the  substantive 
work  of  the  Commission  and  in  possibly  participating 
to support the countries on its agenda. 

The  Strategic  Frameworks  are  the  key  and  the 
basis  for  ensuring  that  the  Commission  can  carry  out 
its  work  of  coordination  with 
the 
international  community’s  support  for  the  countries 
concerned.  National  ownership,  mutual  accountability 
and  ongoing  commitment  are  decisive  aspects  in 
formulating  the  Strategic  Frameworks,  which,  my 
delegation  believes,  should  also  be  seen  as  State 
commitments to the United Nations peace architecture 
and should outlast current administrations. It is only in 
that way that the attainment of medium- and long-term 
peace and development objectives can be assured. 

With  regard  to  the  acquisition  of  resources,  my 
delegation agrees with the view expressed in the report 
before  us. 
the 
Commission  continue  to  develop  innovative  methods 
for  mobilizing  national  and  international  resources.  In 
practice,  some  members  of  the  Commission  have 
increased their participation regarding the countries on 
its  agenda.  Other  members  have  even  become  donors 
of  financial  and  technical  assistance,  contributing  to 
national  capacity-building.  That  practice 
should 
continue to be promoted, and my country reaffirms its 
firm commitment in that regard. 

Mexico  is  grateful  for  the  Secretary-General’s 
report  on  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  (A/63/218),  which 
enables  Member  States  to  carry  out  the  mandate  to 
provide  normative  guidance  on  the  use  of  resources. 
The increase in the donor list and the fact that we have 
exceeded funding expectations are tangible proof of the 
commitment  and  confidence  of  the  membership  with 
regard  to  the  Fund.  However,  my  delegation  reaffirms 
the  need  to  make  financial  contributions  to  the  Fund 
predictable  so  that  it  can  respond  more  swiftly  to  the 
many  requests  of  post-conflict  countries  meeting  the 
requirements for its support.  

transparency 
exercise  carried  out  by  the  Peacebuilding  Support 
Office by holding periodic informal meetings to inform 
donors about the financial situation and performance of 
the  Fund.  Nevertheless,  we  must  continue  to  work  to 
improve its functioning and adopt appropriate methods 
My  delegation  welcomes 
that 
the 

the 
report  of 
important  debate  on 
that  will  enable  us  to  clearly  and  precisely  assess 
contributions to the Fund in the various aspects of the 
peacebuilding agenda. We believe that the launching of 
its  mandate  review  will  be  an  ideal  opportunity  to 
undertake that task. 

Finally,  it  is  in  a  spirit  of  confidence  and 
cooperation  that  Mexico  has  decided  to  renew  its 
voluntary  contribution  to  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  this 
year.  We  reaffirm  once  again  our  commitment  to  the 
United  Nations  architecture  mandated  to  promote  and 
strengthen peacebuilding processes. 
Mr.  Kumalo  (South Africa):  Let  me  join  others 

in  expressing  gratitude  to  the  President  for  convening 
this 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  on 
its  second  session 
(A/63/92). South Africa aligns itself with the statement 
made by the representative of Jamaica on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned Movement. 
South Africa  welcomes  the  second  report  of  the 

Peacebuilding  Commission.  The  report  provides  a 
detailed  account  of  the  work  and  activities  of  the 
Commission  during  the  second  year  of  its  operation 
and is a result of serious consultations among members 
of  the  Commission.  We  also  wish  to  thank  the 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
Chairperson  of 
Organizational 
Committee, 
Excellency 
Ambassador  Yukio  Takasu,  Permanent  Representative 
of Japan, for his sterling work. We are grateful too for 
the  significant  contribution  made  by  the  Chairpersons 
of  the  country-specific  configurations  on  Burundi, 
Sierra  Leone,  Guinea-Bissau  and  the  Central  African 
Republic, as well as by the Chairperson of the Working 
Group  on  Lessons  Learned.  My  delegation  also 
welcomes  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the 
Peacebuilding Fund (A/63/218).  
South  Africa  applauds  the  accomplishments  of 

the  Peacebuilding  Commission  during 
its  second 
session,  particularly  the  important  strides  towards 
implementing  its  mandate  and  core  functions.  We 
believe  that  a  strong  Commission  is  crucial  for 
conflict, 
addressing 
instability 
successful 
Commission  is  important  in  preventing  post-conflict 
countries from relapsing into conflict. 

The  annual  report  highlights  the  progress  made 
and challenges faced by the Commission at its previous 
session.  Among 
the 
Commission’s continued efforts aimed at strengthening 
challenges 
and  underdevelopment.  A 
successes  have  been 
associated  with 
His 
the 
30 

08-54359 
through 
reflected 
that,  as 
including 


its  relationship  and  cooperation  with  relevant  organs 
and  institutions,  including  the  General  Assembly,  the 
Security  Council,  and 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council. 

At  the  same  time,  my  delegation  underlines  the 
importance  of  strengthened  cooperation  between  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  relevant  regional  and 
subregional organizations. It is in this context that the 
African  Union  continues  to  play  its  role  in  the 
peacebuilding  field, 
its  Policy 
Framework 
for  Post-Conflict  Reconstruction  and 
Development, which places emphasis on addressing the 
root causes of conflict. 

the 
We  are  pleased 
Commission’s  report,  the  Organizational  Committee 
held  an  interactive  dialogue  with  the  Chairperson  of 
the  African  Union  Peace  and  Security  Council  and 
received a briefing from Joaquim Chissano, the former 
President of Mozambique, during the reporting period. 
We look  forward to  further interactions  of this nature, 
as  they  are  crucial  in  strengthening  and  promoting 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
African Union. 

My  delegation  also  commends  the  establishment 
of  regular  contacts  between  the  Chairperson  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  Presidents  of  the 
General  Assembly, 
the 
Economic and Social Council on issues relating to the 
work  of  the  Commission.  In  that  context,  we  reaffirm 
our  continued  support  for  the  strengthening  of  those 
relationships.  

the  United  Nations  peacebuilding 
architecture  is  in  place,  the  challenge  is  how  to 
consolidate  the  achievements  made  thus  far.  South 
Africa 
the  Peacebuilding  
the  Security  Council  and 
firmly  believes 
Now 
that 
that 
in 
A/63/PV.23
in 
to 
the 
My 
assisting 
fundamental 
develop  methods 
delegation  welcomes 
Commission  should  continue  to  be  driven  by  Member 
States. The Organizational Committee must continue to 
be  the  focal  point  of  all  Commission  activities  and 
decisions, and its central role should be strengthened. 
National  ownership  of  the  peacebuilding  process 

remains 
post-conflict 
countries to rebuild their institutions and sustain peace 
and  development.  To  that  end,  we  commend  the 
Governments  of  the  countries  on  the  agenda  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  for  their  active  role  in 
efforts to rebuild their respective countries. 
report’s 

the 
acknowledgement  of 
importance  of  official 
development  assistance,  trade  and  investment  in  post-
conflict  countries.  We  hope  that  the  Commission  will 
continue 
for  mobilizing 
international and domestic resources. At the same time, 
quick-impact  projects  and  sufficient 
injection  of 
in  countries  emerging  from 
predictable  resources 
conflict  are  crucial 
to  ensuring 
stability  and 
development on the ground. 

In  conclusion,  as  we  gradually  build  up  the 
experience of the Peacebuilding Commission, we need 
to put more emphasis on the nexus between peace and 
development.  In  that  regard,  we  support  a  greater  and 
stronger  focus  on  the  development  agenda  of  the 
countries on the agenda of the Commission. 

Finally,  South  Africa  remains  committed  to  the 
cause  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  We  will 
continue  to  work  with  others  towards  ensuring  that 
post-conflict countries do not relapse into conflict and 
towards  maximizing  the  Commission’s  impact  on  the 
ground, in full alignment, cooperation and accord with 
national Government policies and strategies. 
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. 
08-54359 

31 
