
A/63/PV.35
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

35th plenary meeting 
Friday, 31 October 2008, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 







In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Abdelaziz 
(Egypt), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 




Agenda item 66 (continued) 
Report of the International Court of Justice  

  Report of the International Court of Justice 
(A/63/4) 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/229) 
Mr.  Hernández  García  (Mexico)  (spoke 

in 

Spanish): The Mexican delegation is extremely grateful 
to  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for  its  hard  work 
this  year.  We  would  also  like  to  congratulate  the 
President of the Court, Judge Rosalyn Higgins, for her 
outstanding work at the helm of the highest legal body. 
We wish to pay tribute to her as the first woman to be 
elected  as  a  judge  of  the  Court.  Under  her  leadership, 
the Court has adopted a variety of measures that, with 
the  passing  of  time,  have  had  an  impact  on  its 
efficiency. Her upcoming retirement will certainly pose 
an  important  challenge  to  the  Court.  On  behalf  of  my 
delegation,  I  wish  her  every  success  in  her  future 
endeavours. 

Mexico is fully confident that the renewal of the 
Court  that  will  take  place  in  the  days  to  come  will 
allow it to continue its outstanding work, ensuring that 
the  primary  legal  systems  and  the  various  regional 
perspectives and views are duly represented. 
that 
consideration.  Undoubtedly, 

It is important to highlight the 15 cases before the 
Court  and  the  five  judgments  it  issued  in  the  period 
under 
activity 
demonstrates  the  confidence  that  the  international 
community  has  placed  in  the  Court  as  one  of  the 
principal international juridical organs. Although there 
has  been  a  constant  increase  in  the  number  of  cases 
brought before the Court, we are pleased that it has not 
fallen  behind,  which  attests  to  the  positive  impact  of 
the amendments made to the Courts’ rules of procedure 
and working methods. Proof of that is the fact that, in 
the  judicial  year  2007-2008,  the  Court  was  able  to 
consider six cases simultaneously. 

My delegation welcomes the Court’s achievement 
of its objective of clearing the backlog in its docket. As 
Judge  Higgins  stated,  that  has  made  it  possible  to 
ensure  that  States  obtain  justice  without  unreasonable 
delay. 

Nevertheless, Mexico notes with concern another 
important issue raised in the report — the urgent need 
to increase human resources to support the activities of 
the  Court.  In  that  respect,  we  agree  that  there  is  an 
urgent  need 
to  have 
personalized legal support so that they can spend more 
time in consideration and deliberation. The creation of 
a  documents  division  by  merging  the  Library  and  the 
Archives  Division  is  also  essential  to  the  proper  and 
flexible  functioning  of  the  Court.  Given  the  Court’s 
heavy  workload,  it  is  important  for  the  General 
Assembly  to  heed  the  call  to  increase  the  number  of 
law  clerk  posts  and  to  create  the  aforementioned 
documents division. 
the  Court’s  members 
for 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-58347 (E) 
*0858347* 
A/63/PV.35 


The current report (A/63/4) clearly and concisely 
describes  the  disputes  now  before  the  Court,  which 
reflect its universal character. My delegation notes that 
five  of  the  15  cases  before  the  Court  in  the  reporting 
period  involve  Latin  American  States,  and  that  two 
cases involving the region were resolved this year. One 
of  the  two  judgments  issued  on  Latin  American 
disputes  was  the  decision  in  the  case  concerning 
Territorial  and  Maritime  Dispute  between  Nicaragua 
and  Honduras  in  the  Caribbean  Sea  (Nicaragua  v. 
Honduras)  in  which  sovereignty  over  Bobel  Cay, 
Savanna  Cay,  Port  Royal  Cay  and  South  Cay  was 
decided. The  ruling  of  the  Court  stated  that  neither  of 
the two States had title to those islands by virtue of the 
principle  of  uti  possidetis  juris.  The  Court  ultimately 
established  the  sovereignty  of  Honduras,  based  on  the 
principle of effective sovereignty. 

Equally  important  was  the  Court’s  decision  to 
reject the equidistance line method to delimit maritime 
zones  between  the  two  States,  instead  preferring  to 
carry  out  a  complex  delimitation  process  using  a 
bisector  line.  The  decision  also  demonstrates  the 
Court’s  capacity  to  deal  with  topics  that  are  highly 
complex 
legally,  while 
safeguarding  the  rights  of  third  States  that  could  be 
affected. 

As the Assembly will recall, Mexico participated 
for  the  first  time  in  a  dispute  before  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  in  the  Case  concerning  Avena  and 
Other  Mexican  Nationals  (Mexico  v.  United  States  of 
America). In that case, the Court specified the scope of 
obligations  set  forth  in  article  36  of  the  Vienna 
Convention  on  Consular  Relations  with  regard  to  the 
right  to  notification  and  information  on  consular 
assistance  and  clarified  those  aspects  that  the  parties 
wanted  to  be  defined  in  the  LaGrand  (Germany  v. 
United  States  of  America)  ruling.  The  report  notes 
Mexico’s  filing  of  a  request  for  interpretation  of  the 
Avena Judgment, based on article 60 of its statute. The 
request was accompanied by a request for the granting 
of  provisional  measures  to  stay  the  execution  of  José 
Ernesto  Medellín  and  four  other  Mexican  nationals  in 
Texas.  Mexico’s  recourse  to  the  Court  is  based  on  its 
trust  in  that  principal  international  tribunal  as  the 
suitable  forum  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes 
between States. 

Justice 
intervenes  in  the  settlement  of  disputes  dealing  with 
subjects  that  are  very  different  from  those  it  has 
International  Court  of 
technically 
Today 
the 
both 
and 
through 
the  Court’s  decisions 
traditionally addressed, such as territorial and maritime 
delimitation disputes. Today’s issues are related to the 
treatment of nationals by other States, the denunciation 
of  massive  human  rights  violations  such  as  genocide, 
or the management of shared natural resources. 

My delegation welcomes the detailed information 
in  the  report  on  the  role  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  in  the  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law,  as  well  as 
the Court’s contribution to the analysis of that topic in 
the  General  Assembly.  We  agree  with  the  Court’s 
interpretation  regarding  its  fundamental  role  in  the 
promotion  of  the  rule  of  law  as  the  tribunal  of  justice 
and  as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations. 

Finally,  we  wish  to  highlight  the  importance  of 
disseminating 
its 
publications  and  website. As  my  delegation  has  noted 
before,  the  United  Nations  Secretariat  has  translated 
only  a  very  few  of  the  Court’s  decisions  into  all  the 
Organization’s  official  languages.  We  encourage  the 
Organization  to  continue  its  efforts,  in  a  gradual 
manner,  to  make  the  work  of  the  Court  available  to 
Member States in all the official languages. 

Mexico  reiterates  before  the  Assembly  its  full 
support for and commitment to the International Court 
of Justice. 
Mr.  Elshareef  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 

delegation  believes  that  the  International  Court  of 
Justice is one of the strongest citadels of justice and an 
honest guardian of the rules of international law. Thus 
it deals with matters concerning the rule of law rather 
than  matters  on  the  law  of  domination,  hegemony, 
violence and the use of force in relations among States. 
My  delegation  is  also  pleased  to  express  its  deep 
appreciation  to  Ms.  Rosalyn  Higgins,  the  President  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice,  for  her  presentation 
of  the  report  (A/63/4),  which  described  all  of  its 
activities 
its  most 
significant 
achievements in the fulfilment of its tasks.  

The many legal disputes  from all over the world 
that  are  submitted  for  consideration  by  the  Court 
include those between European States, between Latin 
American States and two African countries, as well as 
other regional and maritime disputes, and they are the 
best proof of its universality. We note here the growing 
number of cases before the Court and the many issues 
that it has decided  on,  as indicated in the report. That 
confirms  and  strengthens  trust  in  the  Court  and  its 
and  highlighted 
2 

08-58347 


ability to play its role and to discharge the most urgent 
and  important  task  of  the  United  Nations,  namely  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  under  the  umbrella  of 
the rules of international law. 

Here we also wish to note the increasing trust of 
Member  States  in  the  Court,  as  evidenced  in  the 
accession  of  192  States  to  its  Statute  and  the  fact  that 
66 States, including the Sudan, have deposited with the 
Secretary-General  a  declaration  of  their  acceptance  of 
its compulsory jurisdiction. 
My  delegation  wishes  to  stress  the  necessity  of 

strict  compliance  with  the  Court’s  decisions.  We 
noticed  that  some  parties  pay  no  heed  to  the  advisory 
opinions  of  the  Court  which  negatively  impacts  its 
performance  and  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law.  My 
delegation  commends  the  Court’s  efforts  to  broadly 
disseminate 
its  publications  and  documents.  That 
provides  a  good  opportunity  for  people  to  become 
acquainted  with 
its  decisions  and  opinions  and 
enhances  awareness  and  relations  with  other  legal 
entities. 

In conclusion, I wish to reiterate our belief in the 
principal role of the Court. We express our thanks to all 
of  its  judges,  who  perform  their  tasks  with  great 
professionalism  and  transparency.  We  reiterate  our 
support for the Court in its efforts to achieve its noble 
objectives, namely justice and the rule of law. 

speaker in the debate on agenda item 66. 

May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 
66? 

The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
It was so decided. 





Agenda item 69  
Report of the International Criminal Court 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/323) 

  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/471) 


The Acting President: In addition to the note by 
the  Secretary-General  transmitting  the  report  of  the 
International Criminal Court, the Assembly has before 
it  a  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  expenses 
incurred  and  reimbursement  received  by  the  United 
Nations  in  connection  with  assistance  provided  to  the 
Court. 
A/63/PV.35
I  call  on  Mr.  Philippe  Kirsch,  President  of  the 

International Criminal Court. 
Mr. Kirsch (spoke in French): I am very pleased 

today  to  present  the  fourth  annual  report  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  to  the  United 
Nations (see A/63/323). 
Ten years ago, the General Assembly set the stage 

for  the  creation  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
when  it  decided  to  convene  the  Rome  Conference  to 
draw up the Statute of the Court. Since then, the Court 
has  grown  into  a  full-fledged  independent  judicial 
institution backed by 108 States parties. 

In  my  remarks  today,  I  would  like  to  update  the 
Assembly  on  developments  at  the  Court  over  the  past 
year,  take  stock  of  where  the  Court  stands  today,  ten 
years  after  the  Rome  Conference,  and  share  some 
thoughts on the future of the Court. 

During  the  past  year  four  situations  were  before 
the  Court.  Three  were  referred  to  the  Court  by  States 
parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  and  concern  events  that 
took  place  on  their  own  territories.  The  fourth  was 
referred  to  the  Court  by  the  Security  Council,  acting 
under  Chapter  VII  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  In 
that regard, it is useful to recall that, while the Statute 
provides  for  the  Prosecutor  to  begin  an  investigation 
proprio motu in accordance with certain conditions, he 
has  not  yet  used  that  option. All  the  situations  before 
the  Court  today  are  there  at  the  will  of  States  or  the 
Security Council.  

In the situation in the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo, referred to the Court by that State, preparations 
for  the  trial  of  Thomas  Lubanga  Dyilo  before  Trial 
Chamber I continued. He is accused of having enlisted 
and  conscripted  children  under  15  and  having  made 
them  take  an  active  part  in  hostilities.  On  13  June 
2008,  the  Trial  Chamber  ordered  a  stay  of  the 
proceedings, having determined that a fair trial was not 
possible  at  that  time  due  to  the  non-disclosure  by  the 
Prosecutor  of  potentially  exculpatory  evidence.  On 
2 July, 
the  Trial  Chamber  consequently  ordered 
Thomas Lubanga’s immediate release. The decision to 
suspend  the  proceedings  was  upheld  by  the  Appeals 
Chamber  on  21  October.  However,  the  same  day,  that 
Chamber  reversed  the  decision  of  the  Trial  Chamber 
concerning Thomas Lubanga’s immediate release. The 
Appeals  Chamber  found  the  Trial  Chamber  had  not 
considered all relevant factors and remanded the issue 
08-58347 

3 
to 
the 
the  Court 
in  October  2007. 
A/63/PV.35 

of  the  defendant’s  release  to  the  Trial  Chamber  for 
reconsideration.  

In the meantime, but separately from the judicial 
proceedings, the Prosecutor worked with the providers 
of  the  potentially  exculpatory  evidence  to  lift  the 
confidentiality  restrictions  that  have  prevented  him 
from disclosing those materials to the defence or from 
making  them  available  to  the  judges.  The  Prosecutor 
has  submitted  a  new  application  for  the  judges  to 
review  those  materials.  The  decision  on  Thomas 
Lubanga’s release and the Prosecutor’s new application 
are currently under consideration by the Trial Chamber. 

In the same situation, the Democratic Republic of 
the  Congo  surrendered  Mathieu  Ngudjolo  Chui  to  the 
Court on 7 February 2008. His case was subsequently 
joined  with  that  of  Germain  Katanga,  who  had  been 
surrendered 
In 
September 2008, Pre-Trial Chamber I confirmed seven 
charges  of  war  crimes  and  three  charges  of  crimes 
against humanity against each of those two individuals. 
Last  Friday, 
joint  file  of  Mr.  Katanga  and 
Mr. Ngudjolo was transmitted to a new Trial Chamber, 
which is beginning preparations for their trial. 
In  the  situation  in  the  Central African  Republic, 

referred 
that  State,  Belgium 
surrendered Jean-Pierre Bemba Gombo to the Court on 
3 July 2008. He is suspected of having committed war 
crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity.  Pre-Trial 
Chamber  III  has  begun  preparations  for  a  hearing  on 
the  confirmation  of  the  charges  against  Jean-Pierre 
Bemba. A date for that hearing is still to be decided. 

In other cases, proceedings continued to a limited 
degree owing to the fact that the following individuals 
have not been arrested or  surrendered to the Court: in 
the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, 
Bosco Ntaganda; in the situation in Uganda, referred to 
the  Court  by  that  State,  Joseph  Kony,  Vincent  Otti, 
Okot  Odhiambo  and  Dominic  Ongwen;  and  in  the 
situation in Darfur, Sudan, referred to the Court by the 
Security Council, Ahmad Harun and Ali Kushayb. 

The  Court  has  issued  requests  for  arrest  and 
surrender  to  States  on  whose  territories  those  persons 
may  be  found.  Under  the  Statute  of  the  Court,  States 
parties  must  arrest  and  surrender  those  persons  in 
accordance  with  their  national  laws.  Where  they  need 
assistance, the support of other States and international 
organizations is indispensable.  
the  Court  by 
to 
The 
continued 
Prosecutor’s  Office 

On  14  July  2008,  the  Prosecutor  applied  to  Pre-
Trial Chamber I for an arrest warrant for the President 
of Sudan, Omer Al-Bashir. That application is pending 
before  the  judges,  who  will  decide  independently 
whether or not there are reasonable grounds to believe 
that  Mr.  Al-Bashir  committed  crimes  within 
the 
jurisdiction of the Court. On 15 October, the Chamber 
requested  the  Prosecutor  to  provide  by  17  November 
additional  supporting  materials  in  relation  to  some 
aspects of that application. 

the 
investigations in the four situations I have described. In 
addition,  that  Office  examined  information  on  crimes 
that  may  have  been  committed  within  the  jurisdiction 
of  the  Court  in  other  situations.  Thus,  the  Prosecutor 
has publicly indicated that he is looking into situations 
concerning  Colombia,  Georgia,  Afghanistan,  Côte 
d’Ivoire and Kenya. 
(spoke in English) 

Now,  I  would  like  to  turn  to  where  the  Court 
stands today, 10 years after the Rome Conference was 
convened by the General Assembly.  

The  ICC  was  born  out  of  the  international 
community’s  experience.  Fifty  years  after  the  historic 
Nuremberg  and  Tokyo  tribunals,  serious  international 
crimes  continued  to  be  committed  with  impunity. 
Justice was too often bargained away for the prospects, 
no  matter  how  unlikely,  of  short-term  political  gains, 
no  matter  how  minimal.  As  a  result,  victims  endured 
the  double  indignation  of  suffering  harm  and  being 
denied 
regions  were 
destabilized,  as  widespread  or  systematic  crimes 
triggered  or  exacerbated  conflict.  Societies  seeking  to 
emerge 
struggled  with 
reconciliation and with the re-establishment of the rule 
of law. 

Against that background, the creation of the ICC 
reflected  the  resolve  of  States  to  give  a  permanent 
institutional  dimension  to  a  fundamental  shift  in 
international  relations  that  had  started  a  few  years 
earlier  —  from  a  culture  of  impunity  to  an  approach 
based  on  respect  for  justice  and  the  rule  of  law.  The 
Court did not displace existing national or international 
mechanisms  for  resolving  conflicts  and  ensuring 
justice.  It  was  set  up  by  States  to  complement,  where 
necessary and only where necessary, their own national 
jurisdictions.  
justice.  Entire 
recourse 
conflict 
often 

to 
from 
4 

08-58347 
to 
to 
start  or 



The  Rome  Statute  reaffirms  the  purposes  and 
principles of the United Nations Charter, and, while not 
a part of the United Nations system, the ICC exists in 
relationship  with  the  United  Nations.  The  Court  is, 
nevertheless, a fundamentally different institution. Like 
justice itself, the Court is impartial and enduring. As a 
permanent  and  independent  institution,  it  stands  as  a 
bulwark  against  the  temptation,  no  matter  how  well 
intentioned, to bargain away justice. It does not partake 
in  political  negotiations 
stop 
investigations or proceedings. All are equally liable for 
crimes committed within the jurisdiction of the Court. 

Since the entry into force of the Rome Statute in 
2003, the Court has adhered strictly to its independent 
and  impartial  mandate.  Before  beginning  each  of  the 
four current investigations, the Prosecutor analysed the 
available  information  and  concluded  there  was  a 
reasonable  basis  to  begin  an  investigation. The  judges 
scrutinized  each  application  by  the  Prosecutor  for  a 
warrant of arrest to ensure that the objective criteria of 
the  Rome  Statute  were  met.  In  all  of  their  judicial 
proceedings, the Pre-Trial, Trial and Appeals Chambers 
have  faithfully  upheld  the  Rome  Statute,  guaranteeing 
the  rights  of  accused  persons  and  suspects  and  giving 
effect to the rights of victims. 

The accomplishments of the Court are not its own 
alone.  They  are  due  in  large  part  to  the  States, 
international  organizations  and  civil  society  that  have 
supported  it.  The  significance  of  those  contributions 
has been evident in the last three years.  

to 
investigate 
and 
independently  where  national  courts  are  unwilling  or 
unable  to  do  so. As  mentioned  earlier,  the  Prosecutor 
has not yet taken up any situation proprio motu. Each 
situation  under  investigation  has  been  referred  to  the 
Court  by  a  State  party  or  by  the  Security  Council.  In 
three  of  those  four  situations,  States  have  asked  the 
Court to look into situations on their own territories. In 
other  words  —  and  I  wish  to  draw  the  Assembly’s 
attention  to  this  point  —  the  Court  has  never  yet 
chosen  itself  to  intervene  in  any  situation,  any  region 
or  any  country.  It  has  only  complied  with  its  judicial 
mandate as requested by the States concerned or by the 
Security Council. 

Secondly, the cooperation of States, international 
organizations and civil society has been essential to the 
Court’s  functioning.  The  Court’s  judicial  proceedings 
First,  States  have  entrusted 
the  Court 
prosecute 
crimes 
fairly 
and 
A/63/PV.35
for 
purely 
judicial 
were  made  possible  by  States  surrendering  suspects, 
protecting  victims  and  witnesses  and  providing 
relevant  information.  I  am  pleased  to  report  that  the 
United  Nations  has  consistently  provided  exemplary 
cooperation  to  the  Court.  Civil  society  has  been  an 
equally  vital  source  of  support 
the  Court, 
encouraging ratification of the Rome Statute, assisting 
States  to  develop  necessary  implementing  legislation 
and  providing  a  useful  critical  review  of  the  Court’s 
activities. 

Thirdly,  States,  international  organizations  and 
civil  society  have  been  indispensable  in  ensuring 
respect for the Court’s judicial mandate. The Court has 
been  effective  only  because  it  is  respected  as  an 
independent, 
institution  whose 
decisions  will  be  enforced. The  Court  has  earned  that 
status  in  part  through  its  own  strict  adherence  to  the 
Rome  Statute,  but  also  as  a  result  of  the  cooperation 
and public support of others. In that regard, the Court 
greatly  appreciates  the  Secretary-General’s  continued 
assistance  and  his  reiteration  of  the  independence  of 
the  Court.  Similarly,  a  number  of  States  parties  and 
States  not  party  to  the  Rome  Statute  have  helped  to 
create  a  climate  of  support  through  their  words  and 
actions.  Where  States  have  been  silent,  civil  society 
has critically filled the void.  

I  would  like  to  turn  now  briefly  to  the  future  of 
the Court. This is a critical stage for the ICC. It is still 
far  too  early  to  pass  judgment  on  the  success  of  the 
Court,  which 
Its 
development  has  been  faster  than  expected  and  the 
early indications are decidedly positive, but the Court’s 
success  in  the  long  term  will  depend  on  a  number  of 
factors.  Most  fundamentally,  it  will  depend  on  the 
Court  properly  fulfilling  its  own  mandate.  The  Court 
must  and  will  continue  to  do  its  part  to  ensure  its 
judicial 
It  will 
investigate and prosecute crimes within its jurisdiction 
in accordance with the principle of complementarity. It 
will  guarantee  the  rights  of  the  accused  and  of 
suspects. It will interpret the Rome Statute and develop 
a  body  of  jurisprudence.  It  will  protect  victims  and 
witnesses.  It  will  give  further  effect  to  the  rights  of 
victims  to  participate.  It  will  address  questions  of 
reparations to victims. And in all those proceedings, it 
will  continue  to  strive  for  the  highest  standards  of 
efficiency and transparency. 
However,  it  is  important  to  bear  in  mind  at  all 

times that the ICC and the ICC system with its checks 
is  a  very  young 
independence  and 
impartiality. 
institution. 
08-58347 

5 
to 
require 
The  Court  will  continue 
A/63/PV.35 

and balances and limitations on the power of the Court 
were created by States as a judicial mechanism to assist 
in  the  achievement  of  certain  objectives  mentioned  in 
the preamble of the Rome Statute, including the end of 
impunity,  as  a  way  to  assist  in  achieving  peace, 
security  and  the  well-being  of  the  world. That  system 
can  work  effectively  only  if  all  actors  in  the  system 
play  their  part  and  do  so  consistently.  The  success  of 
the  Court  will  therefore  also  depend  on  the  actions  of 
others.  

The extent of ratification of the Rome Statute will 
affect  the  ability  to  which  the  Court  can  exercise  its 
jurisdiction. Doing so truly globally, reaching universal 
jurisdiction over time, remains an indispensable goal. 

the 
cooperation  of  States,  international  organizations  and 
civil  society.  Legal  obligations  to  cooperate  with  the 
Court  must  be  met  and  additional  cooperation  will  be 
needed.  Most  obviously,  States  need 
to  execute 
warrants  of  arrest  or  support  the  execution  of  those 
warrants in accordance with the Rome Statute and their 
international  obligations.  Broader  support  will  also  be 
needed in protecting witnesses and agreeing to enforce 
sentences.  States  which  have  not  yet  done  so  are 
invited  to  enter  into  negotiations  with  the  Court  to 
conclude  agreements  on  the  protection  of  witnesses 
and the enforcement of sentences. 

Most critically, it is vital that States, international 
organizations and civil society continue to respect and 
to ensure respect for the  Court’s independence and its 
purely  judicial  mandate.  Their  statements  or  their 
silence  in  certain  circumstances  can  have  significant 
impact on the effectiveness of the Court. Similarly, it is 
important  to  avoid  any  misperceptions  with  respect  to 
the  judicial  nature  of  the  Court  or  to  the  relationship 
between justice and peace. The creation of the ICC in 
1998 was based on the conviction of States that justice 
and  peace  are  complementary.  The  Court’s  mandate 
and  its  independence  must  then  be  reaffirmed  and 
respected.  It  is  particularly  important  to  do  so  where 
the circumstances seem difficult. 

As  well  as  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  Rome 
Conference, this year marks the sixtieth anniversary of 
the  adoption  by 
two 
groundbreaking  legal  texts:  the  Convention  on  the 
Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, 
and  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  The 
former  made  clear  the  fundamental  and  universally 
the  General  Assembly  of 
international  community’s  commitment 
accepted  principle  that  the  prevention  of  the  worst 
crimes  requires  that  perpetrators  be  punished.  The 
latter  gave  voice  to  the  equally  fundamental  and 
universal  principle  that  justice  must  be  independent, 
impartial and equally applied without distinction.  

Those principles today are embodied in the Rome 
Statute, as was the will of States and in the activities of 
the  International  Criminal  Court. That  there  was  need 
for  the  Court  is  a  testament  to  how  often  those 
principles were violated in the past.  
That the Court was in fact created is a testament 

to 
to 
the 
putting  an  end  to  impunity  and  to  establishing  a  new 
politics based on justice and the rule of law. How well 
we succeed in realizing those commitments is up to us. 
The  Court  will  do  its  part,  but  the  support  of  this 
body —  the  General  Assembly  —  and  all  of  its 
Member  States,  which  worked  so  tirelessly  for  the 
creation of the Court, will be critical. 
Mr. Renié (France) (spoke in French): I have the 

honour to speak on behalf of the European Union. The 
candidate  countries  Croatia  and  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia, 
the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates  Albania,  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina, 
Montenegro  and  Serbia,  and  the  European  Free  Trade 
Association  country  Iceland,  member  of  the  European 
Economic  Area,  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic  of 
Moldova  and  Armenia,  align  themselves  with  this 
statement. 
I  would  first  like  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the 

Presidents of the International Court of Justice and the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  for  the  submission 
of their respective reports (A/63/4 and A/63/323). The 
International 
very 
comprehensive  report  demonstrates  that  it  is  an  active 
institution  that  is  now  able  to  accomplish  the  mission 
for which it was established. 
In the period under review, namely, 2007 to 2008, 

the 
indeed  made 
International  Criminal  Court 
substantial  progress  in  conducting  investigations  and 
prosecutions 
four  ongoing  proceedings, 
involving in particular the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo,  the  Central  African  Republic  and  the  Sudan. 
Significant  developments  have  also  taken  place  in 
court proceedings. The Court has been asked to rule on 
procedural  issues  that  are  critical  to  the  trials  ahead. 
That is especially the case as regards the participation 
the  countries  of 
Criminal 
Court’s 
fourth 
in 
the 
6 

08-58347 
during 
the 
tenth 
Effective  cooperation  with 


of victims and the rights of the defence, which are two 
fundamental aspects on which the judges had to rule as 
part of the case of The Prosecutor v. Thomas Lubanga 
Dyilo. 

During  the  same  period,  the  Court  continued  to 
enjoy  the  active  and  necessary  support  of  States, 
primarily the member States of the European Union, in 
order  to  promote  the  goal  of  universality,  which 
underpins the full application of the Rome Statute. 

The  latest  ratifications  from  Suriname  and  the 
Cook  Islands,  which  were  very  symbolic  in  that  they 
were  made 
anniversary 
commemoration  of  the  signing  of  the  Rome  Statute, 
have helped bring the number of States parties to 108. 
The  progress  also  illustrates  that  the  efforts  made  to 
promote the universality of the Rome Statute have been 
successful. In that context, the European Union and its 
member States are more willing than ever to maintain 
their  support  to  ensure  the  membership  of  as  many 
States  as  possible  and  guarantee  the  integrity  of  the 
Rome Statute. 

International 
Criminal  Court  is  essential  to  enable  the  Court  to 
accomplish  its  mission,  as  evidenced  by  the  arrests  of 
Germain  Katanga,  Mathieu  Ngudjolo  Chui  and  Jean-
Pierre  Bemba,  which  would  not  have  been  possible 
without the support of States parties. 

The  action  of  the  Court  must  continue  to  be 
matched  by  all  States,  so  as  to  ensure  that  persons 
subject  to  an  arrest  warrant  are  handed  over  and  that 
justice is served. In that regard, the European Union is 
firmly  committed  to  supporting  the  Court,  so  that  all 
arrest  warrants  are  executed  quickly,  especially  in 
Darfur  and  Uganda.  It  recalls  the  Government  of  the 
Sudan’s  obligation  to  cooperate  with  the  Court  under 
United  Nations  Security  Council  resolution  1593 
(2005).  The  obligation 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  is  non-negotiable.  The 
European Union once again calls on the Government of 
the  Sudan  to  fully  cooperate  with  the  ICC  in  order  to 
implement the decisions of the Court. 
The  European  Union  continues  to  believe  that 

the  Court’s 
combating 
objectives  also  include  implementing  the  principle  of 
complementarity  established  by  the  Rome  Statute. 
However,  that  principle  presupposes  that  States  have 
implemented  the  provisions  of  the  Statute  at  the 
national  level  and  that  they  have  in  place  a  judicial 
to  cooperate  with 
impunity  and 
realizing 
the 
A/63/PV.35
system that allows them to prosecute and try in the first 
instance  those  who  have  committed  the  most  serious 
crimes on their territory. 

In  that  regard,  in  a  context  where  the  use  of 
universal jurisdiction is currently under debate — and 
not without some confusion — it is worth recalling that 
the  Court  is  an  international  court  that  draws  its 
legitimacy  and  prerogatives  from  the  terms  of  an 
international treaty. 

Lastly,  we  should  note  that  there  have  been 
significant new developments in relations between the 
European  Union  and  the  Court:  first,  with  the  signing 
of  a  cooperation  agreement  in  2006,  and  then,  last 
April,  with  the  formalization  of  arrangements  for  the 
exchange  and  protection  of  classified  information. 
Those  developments  have  paved  the  way  for  further 
operational  cooperation.  As  the  report  indicates,  an 
operation  under  the  European  Security  and  Defence 
Policy, namely, the European Union military operations 
in  Eastern  Chad  and  North-Eastern  Central  African 
Republic,  will,  for  the  first  time,  support  the  Court  in 
Chad, mainly in terms of security and logistics. 
I  should  now  like  to  say  a  word  regarding  the 

functioning  of  the  Court  in  order  to  welcome  the 
election  of  new  judges  and  a  new  Registrar.  In 
addition,  we  would  like  to  emphasize  that  we  believe 
that  the  recent  appointment  of  former  ICC  Judge 
Navanethem  Pillay 
as  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  can  only  serve  to 
strengthen  the  natural  link  between  the  protection  of 
human rights and international criminal justice. 
Finally,  with  regard  to  victims,  the  European 

Union  welcomes 
and 
communication  efforts,  especially  in  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo and Uganda. We urge that those 
efforts be extended to all situations. 

The  European  Union  is  also  pleased  to  note  the 
participation  of  victims  at  trial.  Being  able  to  involve 
civil society and to reach the people affected is indeed 
essential. We also hope that the work of the Trust Fund 
for Victims will soon be fully visible to all and that it 
will 
the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  that  the  Statute  was  also 
established for them. 

The Court is  a fundamental tool, both to combat 
impunity  when  the  most  serious  crimes  undermining 
the  very  essence  of  humankind  are  committed  and  to 
the  victims  of  crimes  within 
the  Court’s 
advocacy 
remind 
08-58347 

7 
the  members  of 
A/63/PV.35 

prevent  and  deter  the  use  of  violence.  The  European 
Union  is,  and  will  remain,  firmly  committed  to  the 
Court in achieving those goals. 

Ms.  Guy  (Trinidad  and  Tobago):  Trinidad  and 
Tobago has the honour and privilege to speak on behalf 
of 
the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM) that are States parties to the Rome Statute 
of the International Criminal Court (ICC) on the report 
of  the  Court  contained  in  document  A/63/323.  We 
would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  Judge 
Kirsch, President of the ICC, for his report on the work 
of the Court. 

This  year  marks  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court.  We  were  pleased  to  be  part  of  the 
activities that commemorated that landmark event here 
at  United  Nations  Headquarters.  During 
the 
celebrations, we joined others in saluting the efforts of 
the  international  community  aimed  at  establishing  the 
only  permanent  international  tribunal  charged  with 
prosecuting  those  accused  of  war  crimes,  crimes 
against humanity and genocide.  
Of  particular  significance  to  us  was  the  honour 

bestowed  on  former  President  and  Prime  Minister  of 
the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, The Honourable 
Arthur  N.  R.  Robinson,  for  his  contribution 
to 
international criminal justice and his pioneering work, 
together  with  others,  that  led  to  the  establishment  of 
the  Court.  We  continue  to  play  our  part  towards 
achieving the universality of the Rome Statute. In that 
regard,  we  also  wish  to  congratulate  Suriname  on  its 
accession to the Statute in July of this year. 

In  a  relatively  short  period,  108  States  Members 
of  the  United  Nations  have  become  parties  to  the 
Statute  and  have  undertaken  to  bring  an  end  to 
impunity by holding accountable those persons accused 
of  committing  crimes  that  shock  the  conscience  of 
humankind.  Those  States  have  conferred  on  the  ICC 
jurisdiction  to  prosecute  those  crimes  referred  to  in 
article 5 of the Statute. Over the past 10 years, the ICC 
has  shown  that  it  is  an  independent  and  impartial 
tribunal with a bench of highly qualified judges and a 
cadre of competent professional staff. 

The  achievements  of  the  Court  in  respect  of 
matters  emanating  from  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the Congo, Uganda, the Sudan and the Central African 
Republic show that it is at the centre of the system of 
international  criminal  justice.  The  ICC  has  surpassed 
the  expectations  of  its  supporters  and  dumbfounded 
some of its staunchest detractors.  

The  Court  continues  to  demonstrate  fairness  and 
impartiality,  and  at  the  same  time  it  has  scrupulously 
observed  the  fundamental  tenets  of  due  process.  Such 
impartiality  and  independence  were  observed  in  the 
case of Thomas Lubanga Dyilo, where Trial Chamber I 
issued  a  stay  of  proceedings  and  ordered 
the 
unconditional  release  of  Mr.  Lubanga,  subject  to 
appellate  proceedings.  We  eagerly  await  the  outcome 
of  the  case,  which  has  been  referred  back  to  the Trial 
Chamber  for  determination  by  the  Appeals  Chamber. 
We remain firm believers in the integrity of the judicial 
process and the neutrality of the judges. 

Without  the  cooperation  of  States  parties,  it 
would  be  difficult,  if  not  impossible,  for  the  ICC  to 
fulfil its mandate. We are of the view that States must 
respect  their  treaty  obligations  and  cooperate  with  the 
Court to the benefit of all of us who are advocates for 
justice,  and  especially  to  bring  relief  to  the  hapless 
victims of crime. The effective and timely cooperation 
of  States  parties  is  essential  to  the  execution  of  arrest 
warrants,  the  surrender  of  accused  persons  and  the 
protection and relocation of witnesses. The cooperation 
of States would also ensure that the rights of victims to 
participate  in  the  trials  of  alleged  offenders  are  not 
compromised.  We  therefore  call  on  all  States  parties, 
especially  situation  countries,  to  cooperate  fully  with 
the  Court  in  the  interest  of  promoting  international 
peace and justice and an end to impunity. Nonetheless, 
we  recognize  the  progress  made  by  the  Court  in 
conducting  its  business  with  the  aid  of  States  parties 
and other entities. 

We  nevertheless  must  stress  that  it  would  be 
difficult, especially in situation countries, to promote a 
regime  of  international  peace  and  justice  without 
cooperation with the Court. Peace and justice are twin 
ideals  that  are  recognized  in  both  the  United  Nations 
Charter and the Rome Statute. The pursuit of either one 
must never be allowed to imperil the attainment of the 
other. 

The  Rome  Statute  contemplates  an  ICC  that  has 
complementary  jurisdiction  with  those  of  national 
courts.  States  parties  have  an  obligation  to  implement 
in  their  domestic  legal  systems  legislation  to  give  full 
effect 
the  Statute. 
Consequently,  we  request  that  States  parties  take  the 
necessary  measures  to  enact  domestic  legislation,  in 
their  obligations  under 
to 
8 

08-58347 
the 
initiatives 
importance  of  multilateral 


keeping  with  their  commitments  under  the  Statute,  as 
soon as possible. Additionally, we also appeal to States 
that have not as yet done so to ratify the Agreement on 
the Privileges and Immunities of the ICC. 

The  preamble  to  the  Rome  Statute  contemplates 
cooperation  between  the  ICC  and  the  United  Nations. 
During  the  past  year,  we  have  witnessed  increased 
cooperation  between  both  bodies,  most  notably  in  the 
Central African Republic and the Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo.  Such  collaboration  is  further  testimony 
to 
in 
addressing  issues  of  grave  concern  to  all  members  of 
the international community.  

Moreover,  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  the 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  ICC,  the  United  Nations  was  able  to  provide 
facilities and services for the successful hosting of both 
the  sixth  and  the  resumed  sixth  sessions  of  the 
Assembly  of  States  Parties.  The  hosting  of 
the 
Assembly at United Nations Headquarters has resulted 
in 
increased  participation  by  States  parties  and 
enhanced the visibility of the Court to the wider United 
Nations system. 

Article 36 of the Rome Statute provides for very 
complex criteria for the election of judges to the ICC. 
CARICOM  States  parties  recognize  the  need  for  the 
Court to have judges who not only are highly qualified 
and  of  high  moral  character,  but  who  also  possess  the 
requisite  experience  in  international  law,  or  criminal 
law and procedure, and who qualify for appointment to 
the  highest  judicial  offices  in  their  countries.  We 
strongly  believe 
those 
standards  could  negatively  affect  the  ability  of  the 
Court  to  adjudicate  on  those  crimes  provided  for  in 
article 5 of the Rome Statute.  

It is for that reason that CARICOM has endorsed 
the  candidature  of  Justice  Mohamed  Shahabbudeen  of 
Guyana  for  election  as  a  judge  of  the  ICC  at  the 
elections scheduled for the resumed seventh session of 
the Assembly  of  States  Parties  in  January  2009.  That 
candidature  has  also  been  endorsed  by  the  Group  of 
Justice 
Latin  American 
Shahabbudeen  has  served  as  a 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice  and  is  currently  a  judge 
in  the Appeals  Chamber  of  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal  for  Rwanda,  as  well  as  a  judge  on  the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal 
former 
Yugoslavia.  We  would  therefore  welcome  the  support 
that  any  derogation  from 
and  Caribbean  States. 
judge  on 
for 
the 
A/63/PV.35
all 
those  whose 
of  all  States  parties  for  the  candidature  of  that 
illustrious and eminently qualified jurist. 

In conclusion, CARICOM States parties reiterate 
our  commitment  to  the  principles  and  objectives 
enshrined  in  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  ICC. We  remain 
convinced  that  an  important  pillar  in  the  maintenance 
and  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law  at  the  national  and 
international  levels  is  the  existence  of  a  permanent 
international  criminal  tribunal  with  jurisdiction  to 
prosecute 
actions  undermine 
international peace and security. The imminent closure 
of  the  ad  hoc  tribunals  established  by  the  Security 
Council  makes  the  ICC  an  essential  element  of  the 
international criminal justice system. There must be no 
safe  haven  for  the  perpetrators  of  the  most  serious 
crimes  of  concern  to  the  international  community. We 
will continue to work with States and other entities to 
provide  for  a  strong,  independent  and  effective  ICC 
that we can bequeath to future generations. 
Mr.  Hill  (Australia):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak 

on  behalf  of  Canada,  New  Zealand  and  Australia 
(CANZ). We thank Judge Philippe Kirsch, President of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  for  his 
presentation of the report of the important work of the 
ICC. 

The  Court,  in  our  view,  is  making  significant 
steps  forward.  In  the  past  year,  the  Court  has  issued 
four new warrants of arrest — three in the situation in 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  one  in  the 
situation  in  the  Central  African  Republic.  CANZ 
welcomes and commends the actions of the Democratic 
Republic  of 
in  surrendering  Germain 
Katanga and  Mathieu Ngudjolo Chui to the Court and 
Belgium  in  arresting  and  surrendering  Jean-Pierre 
Bemba Gombo to the Court. Those surrenders provide 
examples  of  the  results  that  can  be  achieved  through 
close cooperation with the Court. 

CANZ recognizes that the Court continues to face 
challenges,  particularly  where  it  is  entirely  reliant  on 
cooperation  and  support  from  others  to  fulfil  its 
mandate. It is of the utmost importance that States rise 
to  meet  those  challenges.  Failure  to  do  so  risks  the 
international  community  betraying 
the  victims  of 
serious  crimes.  CANZ  encourages  all  States  to  assist 
the Court through practical measures. 

CANZ  also  calls  upon  all  relevant  actors, 
including the authorities in Uganda and the Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  to  cooperate  closely  with  the 
the  Congo 
08-58347 

9 
the 
in  ensuring 
In  particular,  we  urge 
A/63/PV.35 

Court  and  one  another 
full 
implementation  of  their  obligations  under  the  Rome 
Statute,  including  the  execution  of  outstanding  arrest 
warrants,  and  in  assisting  the  Court  to  fulfil  its 
mandate. 

We again call on the Government of the Sudan to 
help  bring  an  end  to  impunity  for  the  most  serious 
international  crimes. 
the 
Government  of  the  Sudan  to  cooperate  with  the  Court 
and  to  take  all  necessary  steps  to  arrest  Minister  of 
State  for  Humanitarian  Affairs  Ahmad  Harun  and  to 
transfer  him  and  militia  leader  Ali  Kushayb  to  the 
Court  for  trial.  Acting  on  the  arrest  warrants  will 
demonstrate  not  only  respect  for  the  rule  of  law,  but 
also support for international criminal justice generally. 

The  judicial  work  of  the  Court  has  continued 
apace,  with  preparations  for  trials  continuing  and  the 
Court  deciding  on  the  confirmation  of  charges  and 
applications  for  victim  participation.  Those  are  all 
signs of a Court that is conducting itself professionally, 
expeditiously,  without  political 
interference  and 
according to its mandate. 
Universal  ratification  of  the  Rome  Statute  is 

crucial to the Court’s success. If we are to ensure that 
the  perpetrators  of  the  world’s  most  egregious  crimes 
are denied a safe haven, we must step up our collective 
efforts to promote the universality of the Rome Statute. 
We  are  pleased  that  there  have  been  three  additional 
ratifications and accessions to the Rome Statute in the 
past year. We welcome Madagascar, Suriname and the 
Cook  Islands  as  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute.  It  is 
notable that there are now 108 States parties — over 55 
per cent of the United Nations membership. 

CANZ  have  continued  its  efforts  at  the  regional 
level  to  encourage  further  ratification.  Australia  and 
New Zealand, for example, have worked over the past 
year  with  Pacific  island  States  to  encourage  their 
ratification and implementation of the Rome Statute. In 
August,  New  Zealand  and  Australia  participated  in  a 
regional  seminar  held  by  the  Samoan  Government  to 
raise  awareness  of  the  Court  and  develop  a  model 
Pacific law for the Statute’s implementation. 
Since  September  2000,  Canada’s  Global  Peace 

and Security Fund has provided more than $10 million 
in funding to support events and projects that promote 
ratification  and  implementation  of  the  Rome  Statute, 
assist  with  the  effective  functioning  of  the  Court  and 
other  international  criminal  tribunals,  and  provide 
for 
the 
the 
On  17  July  2008,  we  celebrated 
education  and  outreach  related  to  the  Court  and  other 
international  criminal  tribunals.  Through  the  Fund, 
Canada supported the publication of the third edition of 
the Manual for the Ratification and Implementation of 
the Rome Statute. 

tenth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute.  The 
anniversary  provided  an  opportunity  to  reflect  on  the 
Court’s  achievements  and  reinforce  our  collective 
support  for  it.  In  that  relatively  short  period  of  time, 
the  Court  has  established  itself  as  a  central  institution 
of international criminal justice. 

Providing a permanent, impartial and fair process 
for  the  investigation  and  prosecution  of  those  accused 
of  serious  international  crimes  is  a  key  component  in 
the  fight  for  international  justice.  We  are  convinced 
that having mechanisms to promote and ensure justice 
in conflict situations can only contribute to sustainable 
peace. 

As  noted  earlier,  the  Court  has  now  reached  a 
crucial  stage  of  its  development,  and  it  has  become 
clear  that  the  establishment  of  a  global  justice  system 
brings  with  it  many  challenges.  The  Court  needs  our 
full  support  and  cooperation  to  bring  individuals 
responsible 
the  most  serious  violations  of 
international law to justice without delay. In particular, 
we must ensure that any use of article 16 to defer cases 
is  only  contemplated  in  exceptional  circumstances. To 
fail to do so would represent a failure to ensure justice 
for egregious international crimes. 
With  the  Court  now  six  years  old,  we  are  firmly 

on the path to justice being a reality for perpetrators of 
serious  crimes  worldwide.  That  path  will  lead  to 
enhanced 
the 
international  rule  of  law.  CANZ  will  continue  to 
provide  the  Court  with  our  strong  and  unwavering 
support. We call on all Member States to do the same. 

In  closing,  it  would  be  remiss  of  me,  on  the 
occasion  of  President  Kirsch’s  final  report  to  this 
Assembly, not to express, on behalf of CANZ, our deep 
appreciation for his impressive leadership of the Court 
over  its  formative  years  and  to  wish  him  well  in  his 
future endeavours. 
Mr. Maurer (Switzerland) (spoke in French): My 

delegation would first like to thank President Philippe 
Kirsch  for  his presentation of the  fourth annual  report 
of 
(see 
International  Criminal  Court 
adherence 
respect 
(ICC) 
for, 
and 
to, 
10 

08-58347 
the  Congo  and 


A/63/323),  reviewing  the  Court’s  work  and  the  main 
facts concerning its relations with the United Nations. 
We  would  also  like  to  express  our  gratitude  to  all  the 
staff members of the Court for their work and for their 
daily  efforts  to  accomplish  their  extremely  difficult 
tasks. 

While  the  Statute  provides  the  Court  with  the 
legal  means  to  fulfil  its  tasks,  it  does  not  grant  it  the 
competence  to  implement  its  decisions.  The  Court 
therefore relies heavily on the cooperation of States to 
accomplish  its  tasks.  In  that  regard,  we  very  much 
welcome  the  cooperation  of  certain  States,  which  has, 
in  particular,  made  possible  the  transfer,  in  the  course 
of  the  year  under  review,  of  three  defendants  in 
connection  with  the  situations  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of 
the  Central  African 
Republic.  

However, we are concerned that at the moment no 
less  than  seven  arrest  warrants  are  still  pending 
execution.  In  that  connection,  my  delegation  would 
like  to  reiterate  that,  in  accordance  with  the  Rome 
Statute and obligations under the Charter of the United 
Nations, it is the responsibility of States to support the 
Court  and  to  cooperate  fully  with  it.  Without  the 
cooperation of States, the Court will simply not be able 
to fulfil the mandate that has been entrusted to it. 

report  presented  by 
President  Kirsch  (see  A/63/323),  the  cooperation  of 
States is not limited to the execution of arrest warrants 
but  also  covers  other  activities,  such  as  the  protection 
of  witnesses.  That  cooperation  concerns  in  particular 
those  States  affected  by  situations  being  examined  by 
the  Court,  as  well  as 
their  neighbouring  States. 
Switzerland considers the protection of witnesses to be 
a  central  element  in  the  proper  administration  of 
international  criminal  justice.  We  therefore  commend 
the measures taken and the new methods of protection 
put  in  place,  in  cooperation  with  national  and  local 
authorities, to strengthen witness protection. 

Also  in  the  area  of  cooperation,  my  delegation 
welcomes  the  continuing  collaboration  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Court.  That  cooperation  is 
essential at several levels, especially for the facilitation 
of 
is 
imperative that it should continue in the future. 

Over  the  past  year,  some  criticism  of  the  Court 
has  been  voiced  in  connection  with  the  institution  of 
proceedings  and  with  requests  for  arrest  warrants.  My 
the  Court’s  operations  on 
the  ground.  It 
As  underlined 
the 
in 
A/63/PV.35
support 
reinforcing 
and 
even 
and 
inextricably 
delegation  believes  that  such  criticism  is  proof  and 
example  of  the  fact  that  the  Court  today  is  well 
established  and  anchored  in  the  international  system 
and  that  its  activities  have  a  tangible  impact.  The 
debates  with  regard  to  the  Court  demonstrate  the 
importance and the relevance that it has acquired since 
the adoption of its Statute 10 years ago. 

Finally, my delegation would like to reiterate that 
Switzerland continues to believe that justice and peace 
fundamentally 
are  mutually 
complementary, 
linked. 
International  criminal  justice  is  a  key  element  in  the 
fight  against  impunity  and  in  the  strengthening  of  the 
rule of law. Those elements are central in all societies 
that have experienced the devastation of war. The most 
serious crimes affecting the international community as 
a  whole  must  not  go  unpunished.  There  can  be  no 
doubt  that  the  prosecution  of  those  crimes  contributes 
to  peace  and  reconciliation.  That  is  why  Switzerland 
believes  that  peace  processes  that  aim  at  establishing 
lasting peace and security cannot dispense with justice. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  stress  once  again 
that  Switzerland  remains  committed  to  and  continues 
to 
its 
independence. 

Mr.  Barriga  (Liechtenstein):  We  would  like  to 
thank the President of the International Criminal Court 
(ICC), Mr. Philippe Kirsch, for presenting the report of 
the ICC (see A/63/323) to the General Assembly.  

We  are  satisfied  that  the  Court  has  continued  to 
make  progress  in  its  judicial  work,  considering  in 
particular  that  in  the  early  stages  of  its  life  the  Court 
has  had  to  take  difficult  decisions  that  will  serve  as 
precedents for many years to come.  

We  particularly  welcome  the  additional  arrests 
made  with  respect  to  the  situations  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of 
the  Central  African 
Republic.  During  the  reporting  period,  the  number  of 
suspects in custody of the Court rose from one to four. 
It  is  expected  that  up  to  three  trials  will  take  place  in 
2009. At the same time, we are gravely concerned that 
seven arrest warrants are still awaiting execution; some 
of them have waited for more than three years. 

The  Court  today  shows  many  signs  of  being  a 
healthy  judicial  institution,  including  a  vibrant  legal 
dialogue  between  its  organs  as  several  cases  move 
along.  That  should  be  encouraging  for  States  parties 
the  Congo  and 
the  Court, 
activities 
its 
and 
08-58347 

11 
It  may  be 
true 
that 
A/63/PV.35 

and  observers  alike. 
the 
Prosecutor’s  actions  receive  the  greatest  attention  in 
the media, as is often the case with judicial institutions, 
but  the  actual  record  of  the  Court  over  the  past  year 
shows  that  there  is  a  clear  balance  between  all  the 
organs of the Court, as envisaged by the Rome Statute.  

At  every  step  of  the  proceedings,  decisions  are 
delivered  by  judges  acting  in  chambers  —  collegial 
organs  composed  of  fully  independent  and  impartial 
personalities  representing  all  the  regions  and  legal 
systems  of  the  world,  with  almost  half  of  them  being 
women.  We  fully  trust  their  capabilities  and  integrity, 
which they have proven many times already during the 
first  years  of  the  Court’s  existence,  in  the  interests  of 
due process and justice. 

While  the  Court  has  continued  to  fulfil  its 
mandate  under  the  Rome  Statute  and  in  accordance 
with  the  United  Nations  Charter,  its  activities  have 
received  extraordinary  attention  in  the  public  sphere 
over  the  past  months.  That  is  particularly  true  for  the 
Prosecutor’s application for a warrant of arrest against 
the  President  of  the  Sudan,  which  is  currently  under 
consideration  by  a  pre-trial  chamber. As  a  State  party 
to the Rome Statute, we fully respect the independence 
of  the  Court  and  will  therefore  not  comment  on  the 
specifics of cases before the Court.  

We have also on several occasions commented on 
what  is  often,  in  simplistic  terms,  referred  to  as  the 
question  of  peace  versus  justice,  which  would  require 
its  own  separate  debate.  Our  views  on  that  complex 
issue are well known. They are based on the principle 
that  amnesty  or  any  other  form  of  impunity  for 
genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity are 
unacceptable  under 
law.  We  would, 
however,  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  comment  on 
questions 
the 
jurisdiction of the Court.  

The  ICC  is  an  independent  judicial  institution 
established by a treaty, the Rome Statute. At the same 
time, however, its jurisdiction is in principle based on 
two different and separate legal authorities. On the one 
hand,  the  Court  may  exercise  its  jurisdiction  on  the 
basis of the consent of States, most importantly via the 
ratification of the Rome Statute or a special declaration 
to  that  effect.  Three  out  of  the  four  current  cases  are 
based on such State consent. In fact, those three States 
have 
open 
investigations into crimes committed on their territory.  
that  context 
international 
the  Court 
raised 
in 
regarding 
specifically 
asked 
to 
to  abide  by 
to  universality.  We  also  respect 

On  the  other  hand,  the  Court  may  exercise 
jurisdiction  on  the  basis  of  a  Chapter VII  mandate  by 
the  Security  Council.  In  that  instance,  the  ICC  acts 
very  much  like  an  ad  hoc  tribunal  established  by  the 
Security  Council  itself.  The  obligation  for  all  States 
concerned to cooperate with the investigation emanates 
not solely from the Rome Statute, but from a Security 
Council  resolution  —  such  as  resolution  1593  (2005), 
referring  the  situation  in  Darfur  to  the  ICC.  That 
obligation  to  cooperate  is  firmly  rooted  in  the  United 
Nations  Charter  and  is  in  principle  not  any  different 
from the obligation to cooperate with the Tribunals for 
the  Former  Yugoslavia  and  for  Rwanda.  We  therefore 
call  on  all  States  concerned 
their 
obligations  under  international  law  and  to  cooperate 
fully with the Court. 

We  welcome  the  new  States  parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute,  bringing  its  number  to  108  and  thus  another 
step  closer 
the 
approach  of  some  States  that  continue  to  evaluate  the 
merits of ratification or accession. We encourage them, 
once again, to enter into a dialogue with the Court and 
with  other  States  parties  on  related  questions.  We 
would  suggest  that  the  argument  I  made  earlier 
regarding  the  two  distinct  bases  for  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction  also  has  important  implications  for  any 
non-State party assessing the value of joining the Rome 
Statute. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  every  State  in  the  world  is 
already  potentially  subject  to  the  Court’s  jurisdiction 
by  way  of  a  Security  Council  referral.  In  that  sense, 
every  State  is  already  part  of  this  common  venture  to 
end  impunity,  and  incurs  important  legal  obligations. 
However,  only  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  are 
also rewarded with important rights. States parties find 
themselves  under  the  protection  of  the  Court,  which 
may  open  investigations  into  crimes  committed  on  a 
State  party’s  territory,  thereby  contributing  to  the 
prevention of such crimes. That protection applies not 
only to crimes committed by nationals of States parties, 
but also to crimes committed by foreign forces.  

Furthermore,  States  parties  have  the  right  to 
contribute to  the institutional framework of the Court, 
inter alia; by nominating and electing judges and other 
senior officials and by deciding on the Court’s budget. 
The  Rome  Statute  provides  an  elaborate  system  of 
accountability  in  which  States  Parties  play  a  central 
role.  
12 

08-58347 



In  sum,  becoming  a  State  party  to  the  Rome 
Statute  brings  clear  benefits  to  any  State  that  is 
committed  to  preventing  and  punishing  genocide,  war 
crimes and crimes against humanity on its territory. In 
turn, every ratification of the Rome Statute constitutes 
another step towards more  effective  rule of law at the 
international level. 

I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  Liechtenstein  has 
been  a  long-standing  supporter  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  and  that  we  are  proud  to  have  been 
entrusted with the presidency of the Assembly of States 
Parties  for  the  next  three  sessions.  During  that  time, 
States parties will discuss  possible  amendments to the 
Rome  Statute,  most  prominently  with  respect  to  the 
crime of aggression. The Review Conference at which 
the  respective  decisions  will  be  made  is  now  only 
about  a  year  and  a  half  away.  We  encourage  all 
delegations to continue to participate actively and with 
a constructive spirit in its preparation. The Conference 
has the potential to turn the Rome Statute into an even 
greater achievement than it already is today. 

Mr.  Chávez  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  would 
like to thank the President of the International Criminal 
Court,  Judge  Philippe  Kirsch,  for  being  with  us  today 
and for his interesting presentation on the work of the 
Court in the past year. 

tenth 
anniversary  of  the  establishment  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court.  Significant  progress  has  been  made 
since  the  Court  took  up  its  functions  on  1  July  2002, 
but the Court, States and the United Nations still have a 
long way to go.  

First  of  all,  true  universality  must  be  achieved. 
Unfortunately,  many  States  still  have  neither  ratified 
nor  acceded  to  the  Rome  Statute.  Peru  therefore  calls 
on  those  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  ratify  or 
accede to the Statute in order to give it a truly universal 
scope. 
its 

objectives, the cooperation of States is also necessary. 
In 
their 
obligations  under  the  Rome  Statute  by  facilitating  the 
exchange of information; enforcing the warrants issued 
by 
the  accused  and,  when 
necessary,  transferring  them  to  the  Court;  protecting 
witnesses and victims; and implementing and aligning 
their  national  laws  with  the  Statute.  It  is  therefore  of 
concern  that  individuals  for  whom  the  International 
regard,  States  must  comply  with 
On  17  July,  we  commemorated 
the  Court;  detaining 
to  achieve 
the  Court 
Moreover, 
that 
the 
is 
if 
A/63/PV.35
With 
regard 
cooperation  between 
Criminal  Court  has  issued  warrants  of  arrest  have  not 
yet  been  detained  for  trial  or  delivery  to  the  Court. 
Peru  urges  those  States  wherein  those  individuals  are 
located  to  cooperate  with  the  Court,  to  immediately 
detain them or to provide information on their possible 
location. We recall that there can be no lasting peace or 
security if the perpetrators of crimes enjoy impunity.  

With  regard  to  the  progress  made  in  Peru’s 
cooperation  with  the  International  Criminal  Court,  I 
note  that  my  country  has  already  integrated  a  section 
pertaining to international judicial cooperation into our 
criminal  procedural  code,  which  is  dedicated  to  the 
further  development  of  part  9  of  the  Rome  Statute  to 
ensure  its  effective  implementation.  Such  concrete 
action  can  be  replicated  and  we  therefore  call  upon 
those States that have not yet done so to implement the 
Rome Statute in their national laws.  

the 
International  Criminal  Court  and  the  United  Nations, 
the  Relationship  Agreement  between  both  institutions 
has  enabled  the  Court  to  accomplish  valuable  work, 
particularly in those regions where the United Nations 
is  operating  in  the  field,  and  to  publicize  and  raise 
awareness  of  the  Court’s  work.  We  trust  that  such 
cooperation will be increasingly close and coordinated 
so  that  the  Court  can  draw  on  the  support  of  the 
different  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  especially  the 
Security Council. 

Mr. Monthe (Cameroon), Vice-President, took the 
Chair. 
However, 
than  such 

support.  It  also  needs  its  own  premises  in  order  to  be 
able  to  carry  out  its  work  in  the  best  possible 
conditions.  For  that  reason,  Peru  wishes  to  thank  the 
Oversight Committee for its work in preparing for the 
establishment  of  the  headquarters  of  the  Court.  We 
hope  that  at  the  next  meeting  of  the  States  parties 
efforts will continue to ensure that the construction of 
the Court’s headquarters may begin shortly. 

judicial  year,  3,443 
communications  were  received  in  accordance  with 
article  15  of  the  Rome  Statute.  We  also  wish  to 
underscore  that  States  and  the  Security  Council  alike 
have referred situations for consideration to the Court. 
That  deserves 
international 
community,  as  those  situations  may  include  potential 
cases  of  war  crimes,  crimes  of  genocide  or  crimes 
against  humanity.  Therefore,  Peru  wishes  to  reaffirm 
the  Court  needs  more 
the  attention  of 
current 
During 
the 
to 
the 
08-58347 

13 
to 
and  wishes 
in  particular 
A/63/PV.35 

its  full  support  for  the  work  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court, 
to 
acknowledge  the  outstanding  work  of  the  judges  and 
officials who are working in the fight against impunity 
and thus towards peace, security and the well-being of 
humankind. 

Finally,  one  pending  task  is  the  definition  of  the 
crime  of  aggression.  The  work  accomplished  by  the 
Special  Working  Group  on  the  Crime  of  Aggression 
has  made  a  valuable  contribution  in  this  regard.  Peru 
hopes  that,  at  the  seventh  session  of  the Assembly  of 
States  Parties  to  the  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  further  substantial  progress  can  be 
made towards defining the  crime of  aggression with  a 
view 
the  upcoming  Rome  Statute  Review 
Conference in 2009. 

Mr.  Pírez  Pérez  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 
country has supported and will continue to support the 
establishment  of  an  impartial,  non-selective,  efficient 
and just International Criminal Court that complements 
national  justice  systems,  is  truly  independent  and  free 
from  subordination  to  political  interests  that  could 
distort its essence. 

lack  of 
independence  is  a  cause  for  concern,  given  how  its 
relationship  with 
the  Security  Council  has  been 
defined. Article 16 of the Rome Statute grants power to 
the  Council  to  suspend  the  Court’s  investigations  or 
indictments,  and  article  5  purports  that  the  future 
regulation  of  jurisdiction  of  the  Criminal  Court’s  be 
subject  to  the  Security  Council’s  determination  of 
whether  or  not  an  act  of  aggression  has  been 
committed  by  a  State.  Those  two  elements  cast  doubt 
on the true efficiency and independence of the Court. 
The  Cuban  delegation  has  participated  with 

particular  interest  in  all  phases  of  the  process  to 
establish 
International  Criminal  Court  and 
recognizes  the  relevance  of  the  Rome  Statute  to 
international  law.  However,  even  the  most  modest 
expectations raised at the outset of the process, such as 
the  elaboration  of  a  definition  of 
the  crime  of 
aggression,  have  not  yet  been  met.  We  hope  that  the 
Special  Working  Group  on  the  Crime  of  Aggression, 
which  is  open  to  participation  by  all  United  Nations 
Member  States  on  an  equal  footing,  can  satisfactorily 
complete as soon as possible its work to draft a broadly 
accepted  definition  of  that  crime  that  will  permit  its 
perpetrators 
that 
International  Criminal  Court’s 
tried  and  sentenced.  In 
to  be 
The 
the 
and 
to 
to 
that 
truly 
reaffirms 
readiness 
should  give 
My  delegation 
is 
complementary 
its 
the  application  of 
connection,  we  believe  that  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties 
the  Working  Group  more 
opportunities to function by allocating it more time in 
its  programme  of  work  and  by  holding  intersessional 
meetings if necessary.  

For  Cuba,  a  small  country  that  is  under  an 
economic  and  financial  blockade  and  that  has  been  a 
victim of constant aggression by the greatest Power in 
history,  it  is  very  difficult  to  accede  the  Rome  Statute 
without  a  clear  and  precise  definition  of  the  crime  of 
aggression. We continue to hold a constructive position 
on  the  establishment  of  an  international  criminal 
impartial,  efficient, 
justice  system 
independent 
national 
jurisdictions.  In  that  connection,  we  have  followed 
with  interest  the  development  and  functioning  of  this 
new institution through, inter alia, our participation as 
observer in meetings of the Assembly of States Parties 
to the Rome Statute. 
to 

contribute 
truly  effective 
international  criminal justice  that  abides  by  the  norms 
of  international  law  and,  in  particular,  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations. 
Mr.  Barttfeld  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Argentina  expresses  its  appreciation  and  gratitude  to 
Mr.  Philippe  Kirsch,  President  of  the  International 
Criminal Court, for presenting the fourth report of the 
Court to the General Assembly (see A/63/323). 

This  year,  we  are  pleased  to  celebrate  the  tenth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  and 
the recognition in the field of international law that the 
International  Criminal  Court  has  achieved  since  then. 
The fight against impunity for crimes against humanity, 
genocide  and  war  crimes  is  one  of  the  elements  that 
have contributed most to the achievement of peace and 
stability in international relations. There can be no true 
national reconciliation in countries in conflict or during 
the  subsequent  peacebuilding  phase,  if  we  do  not 
ensure adherence to those universal values by bringing 
to  justice  all  perpetrators  of  such  crimes  without 
distinction. That linkage was stressed by Argentina on 
many  occasions  when  it  was  a  Security  Council 
member in 2005 and 2006. 

There  are  a  number  of  positive  elements  to 
highlight  in  the  report,  which  covers  the  period 
1 August  2007  to  31  July  2008.  While  the  Rome 
Statute  had  received  60  ratifications  by  2002,  108 
14 

08-58347 
to 
the  situations 
the  Court  depends  on 


States  are  now  parties  as  of 
this  year.  That 
demonstrates that the efforts to achieve the universality 
and  full  implementation  of  the  Rome  Statute  are 
producing  results.  It  should  also  be  stressed  that  63 
States have already become parties or signatories to the 
Agreement on Privileges and Immunities of the Court. 

During  the  period  covered  by  the  report,  the 
situations  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Uganda,  Darfur  in  the  Sudan,  and  the  Central African 
Republic were referred to  the Court,  and legal  actions 
were  initiated  in  each  of  those  cases.  Three  of  those 
four  States  referred 
the  Court 
themselves.  However, 
the 
cooperation  of  States,  international  organizations  and 
civil  society  in  carrying  out  its  work.  While  three 
persons  were  handed  over  to  the  Court,  enabling  it  to 
take legal action against all of them, we are concerned 
that there are still seven outstanding arrest warrants.  

There  has  been  some  progress  in  the  area  of 
cooperation,  which  is  reflected,  for  example,  in  the 
support  that  the  Court  has  received  from  the  United 
Nations  field  missions  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  and  the  Central  African  Republic.  We 
should  also  highlight 
the  headquarters  agreement 
between the International  Criminal Court and the host 
country, which entered into force on 3 March 2008. It 
has  strengthened  cooperation  and 
the 
Court’s functioning in The Hague. 

As  the  Court  has  no  police  force  of  its  own, 
cooperation among States, the United Nations, regional 
organizations and other actors is essential if we are to 
attain  the  objectives  set  out  in  the  preamble  of  the 
Rome Statute by the States parties. That is why, at the 
end  of  2006,  Argentina 
the 
framework of its domestic legislation, the provisions of 
the Rome Statute and relations of cooperation between 
the  Argentine  State  and  the  International  Criminal 
Court  and  ratified  the  Agreement  on  Privileges  and 
Immunities  of  the  Court,  enabling  the  Court  to  carry 
out 
impediments  on  Argentine 
territory. 

Finally,  because  the  purposes  and  principles  set 
out  in  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court reflect those of the Charter of the United Nations 
and  are  therefore  universal, Argentina  urges  all  States 
that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  accede  to  or  ratify  the 
Rome Statute in order to guarantee the  universality of 
the fight against impunity. 
implemented,  within 
its  work  without 
facilitated 
A/63/PV.35
that 
a 
balanced 
atrocities, 
systematic 
Lesotho  maintains 
Mr.  Moeletsi  (Lesotho):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak on behalf of my delegation. We warmly welcome 
Judge  Philippe  Kirsch,  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  and  thank  him  for  his  presentation 
today. We also wish to register our highest regard and 
recognition  with  respect  to  the  elaborate  report  (see 
A/63/323)  that  was  presented  today  to  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-third session.  

and 
constructive  relationship  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  International  Criminal  Court  is  extremely 
valuable,  as  it  ensures  the  well-being  of  the  Court 
while  preserving  the  independence  that  it  should  have 
to  ensure  its  proper  functioning.  My  country  is 
committed  to  the  mandate  of  the  Court  and  will 
continue to support endeavours to ensure an effective, 
impartial,  non-selective,  efficient  and  just  Court  that 
promotes and protects the interests of all States parties 
to the Rome Statute of the Court.  

It  is  our  considered  view  that  the  Court  has 
already demonstrated its positive impact in identifying 
the  perpetrators  of 
thus 
strengthening  the  system  of  international  justice  and 
making  an  important  contribution  to  the  search  for 
peace and the promotion of democracy and the rule of 
law.  It  will  be  noted,  however,  that  those  tangible 
milestones  are  being  realized  by  the  Court  despite  its 
handicap  of  having  limited  powers  in  some  instances. 
To my delegation, that only reaffirms the importance of 
United  Nations  and  State  cooperation  aimed  at  the 
future effectiveness of the Court. 

My  delegation  believes  that  the  Relationship 
Agreement  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Court 
provides  many  avenues 
for  mutually  beneficial 
cooperative  efforts  to  establish  the  rule  of  law  and  to 
end  impunity.  Ending  crimes  of  impunity  requires 
determined  cooperation  on  the  part  of  interlocutors 
who  have  international  peace,  justice  and  security  as 
their  common  goals  and  aspirations.  Cooperation  is 
in 
necessary 
communication, 
transportation, 
including 
protection of  victims, witnesses and investigators, and 
in  providing  access  to  suspects  and  enabling  the 
collection of evidence and documents. 

Lesotho is a strong supporter of the International 
Criminal  Court  and  has  consistently  and  actively 
defended the integrity of the Rome Statute, and it will 
continue  to  do  so.  The  establishment  of  the  Court  is 
of 
security, 
the 
logistics 
fields 
and 
08-58347 

15 
A/63/PV.35 

beyond  doubt  the  most  significant  development  in 
recent years in the long struggle to eradicate impunity 
for  the  most  serious  international  crimes  and  thereby 
advance the cause of justice and the rule of law.  

That  point  brings  me  to  address  an  issue  of 
concern  to  my  delegation  that  was  clearly  articulated 
by  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Lesotho, 
Mr. Mohlabi  Kenneth  Tsekoa  in  the  plenary  of  the 
General  Assembly  at 
its  sixty-third  session  on 
27 September 2008. The issue in question relates to the 
abuse  of  the  principle  of  universal  jurisdiction.  The 
Sharm el-Sheikh  Assembly  of  the  African  Union  was 
seized  with  the  issue  of  the  abuse  of  the  principle  of 
universal  jurisdiction  by  some  countries  that  seem 
inclined  to  use  this  principle  to  target  certain African 
Leaders. 

We  recognize  that  universal  jurisdiction  is  a 
principle  of  international  law,  the  purpose  of  which  is 
to ensure that individuals who commit grave offences, 
such  as  genocide,  war  crimes  and  crimes  against 
humanity,  and  who  have  heretofore  enjoyed  impunity 
are  brought  to  justice.  This  noble  principle  should  be 
impartially  and  objectively  applied,  so  that  it  may  not 
be abused for the political ends of some individuals or 
countries,  as  that  could  endanger  international  order 
and security. It is a well known fact that the application 
of this principle by individual States has been rendered 
unnecessary  by 
the  International 
Criminal Court.  

If  a  State  is  unable  or  unwilling  to  deal  with 
certain  grave  situations,  such  a  matter  should  be 
referred  to  the  International  Court,  which  would  deal 
with  it  impartially.  Even  the  Security  Council  refers 
certain situations to the Court. We need only emphasize 
that  the  International  Criminal  Court  was  created  by 
this world body and must enjoy the support and trust of 
the  entire  membership  of  the  United  Nations.  It  must 
also be immune from external influences. 

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  wishes  to  reiterate 
that  Judge  Philippe  Kirsch’s  report  has  reflected 
continued commitment to international criminal justice 
and to the importance of the rule of law in the United 
Nations  system  and  in  the  international  community  at 
large. 

Mrs. Juul (Norway): Let  me start  by expressing 
Norway’s  ongoing  support  for  and  full  recognition  of 
the  work  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC) 
during  the  past  year.  Norway  welcomes  the  Court’s 
the  creation  of 
The 
relationship  between 
the 
fourth  annual  report  and  would  like  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Court,  Judge  Philippe  Kirsch,  for  the 
detailed and informative report (see A/63/323) and his 
presentation,  which  reflect  the  progress  made  during 
the period under review. 

This  July,  the  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute 
along  with  civil  society  organizations  celebrated  the 
tenth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Statute. 
Celebrations  were  held  in  a  number  of  locations  to 
commemorate  the  milestone  reached  ten  years  ago 
when a Court was created that would prevent impunity 
for  mass  atrocities  and  bring  perpetrators  of  such 
crimes to justice when national systems  were not able 
or willing to do so. 

International 
Criminal  Court  and  the  United  Nations  is  of  great 
importance.  Bringing  a  climate  of  impunity  to  an  end 
requires  determined  cooperation  between  actors  who 
have  international  peace,  justice  and  security  as  their 
common  goals  and  ambition.  The 
International 
Criminal  Court  is  independent,  but  has  strong  legal, 
historical and operational ties with the United Nations. 

The United Nations seeks to promote both peace 
and  justice  based  on  human  rights.  These  are  distinct 
but closely related objectives. They may be difficult to 
achieve simultaneously, but we must strive to do so. In 
this  quest,  the  International  Criminal  Court  is  an 
effective  and  important  tool  for  ending  impunity  and 
promoting the rule of law. 

The interplay between the International Criminal 
Court and the United Nations is made clear, both in the 
Rome Statute itself and in the Relationship Agreement 
between  the  two  parties.  The  preamble  of  the  Rome 
Statute  reaffirms  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  In  particular,  all  States 
shall refrain from the threat or use of force against the 
territorial  integrity  or  political  independence  of  any 
State,  or  in  any  other  manner  inconsistent  with  the 
purposes of the United Nations.  

the 
relationship  between  the  International  Criminal  Court 
and  the  United  Nations.  We  urge  all  States  and 
international organizations to support the Court and the 
United  Nations  in  their  efforts  to  reach  their  common 
goals.  Justice  is  also  an  important  building  block  for 
peace,  and  the  international  community  must  ensure 
that the foundation for peace is solid and stands the test 
of time. 
the  strengthening  of 
Norway  welcomes 
16 

08-58347 
increasingly  geared 



The mere existence of the International Criminal 
Court  is  making  a  significant  impact  on  national 
towards 
systems,  which  are 
prevention  and  prosecution.  The  success  of 
the 
International Court should therefore never be evaluated 
solely on the basis of the number of cases it hears. The 
success  of  the  Rome  Statute  should  be  measured  in 
terms  of  the  overall  decrease  in  impunity  for  such 
crimes  and  not  in  terms  of  the  number  of  defendants 
brought  to  The  Hague.  Moreover,  whenever  national 
authorities  investigate,  prosecute  or  issue  judgements 
in cases involving serious international crimes, that in 
itself  reaffirms  the  core  objective  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  namely  that  perpetrators  of  such 
crimes be held accountable. 
However,  when  national  systems  are  not  willing 

or  able  to  bring  perpetrators  to  justice,  the  principle  
of  complementarity  provides  a  safety  net.  This 
mechanism requires international cooperation, which is 
of the utmost importance to the activities of the Court. 
This idea is also stressed in the report itself. 

During the period under review, three individuals 
were  surrendered  to  the  International  Criminal  Court, 
enabling  the  Court  to  begin  judicial  proceedings 
against  each  of  them.  However,  seven  arrest  warrants 
pertaining  to  the  situations  in  Darfur,  Uganda  and  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo remain outstanding. 
This situation is a matter of grave concern for Norway. 

is  not  solely 
dependent  on  the  number  of  cases  brought  before  it. 
Nevertheless,  the  outstanding  arrest  warrants,  four  of 
which have been outstanding for over three years, give 
cause  for  concern.  We  urge  all  the  States  involved  to 
fulfil their obligation to make these warrants effective.  

With  regard  to  the  situation  in  Darfur,  the 
Prosecutor has reported to the Security Council that the 
Sudanese  Government,  in  the  period  under  review,  is 
still  failing  to  comply  with  its  legal  obligations  under 
Security Council resolution 1593 (2005). We therefore 
urge the Sudan to cooperate fully with the Court and to 
comply with its legal obligations without further delay. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  that,  with  the  entry  into 
force  of  the  Rome  Statute  for  Suriname  and  the  Cook 
Islands  on  1  October  2008,  there  are  now  108  States 
parties to the Statute. That is an important step towards 
universality. The number of States Parties is rising year 
by  year,  and  Norway  strongly  hopes 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  will  enjoy  universal 
The  credibility  of 
the  Court 
that 
A/63/PV.35
adherence  in  the  future.  Furthermore,  several  States 
became signatories to the Agreement on the Privileges 
and  Immunities  of  the  International  Criminal  Court, 
bringing the total number of signatories to 63 States by 
the  end  of  the  period  under  review.  We  urge  more 
States to follow suit. 

The International Criminal Court is dependent on 
the cooperation of the States parties. As stressed in the 
report, the Court relies on cooperation in areas such as 
facilitating  investigations,  arresting  and  surrendering 
persons, protecting witnesses and enforcing sentences. 
All  States  parties  must  do  their  utmost  to  provide  the 
ICC with the best possible working conditions. Norway 
expects States with legal obligations under the Statute 
or  that  have  entered  into  cooperation  agreements  with 
the Court to fulfil their obligations and to demonstrate 
their  commitment  to  justice  in  practice.  We  also  urge 
more States to enter into agreements with the Court. 

Finally,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  Norway’s  firm 
and  long-standing  commitment  to  the  integrity  of  the 
Rome  Statute  and 
to  an  effective  and  credible 
International  Criminal  Court. We  believe  that  the  ICC 
should  enjoy  the  broadest  possible  support  from  all 
States.  We  also  believe  that  the  long-term  interests  of 
all  nations,  irrespective  of  size,  region  or  political 
orientation, are served by strengthening the rule of law 
and  promoting  justice.  We  all  share  the  universal 
values  attached  to  the  protection  of  human  dignity. 
That protection is enhanced by taking concerted action 
to  suppress  the  most  serious  crimes  affecting  the 
international community as a whole. 

Mr. Appreku  (Ghana):  My  delegation  wishes  to 
thank the Secretary-General for his note accompanying 
his  submission  of  the  report  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  (A/63/323)  in  accordance  with 
article  6  of  the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the 
United Nations and the ICC. My delegation also takes 
note  of  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  expenses 
incurred  and  reimbursements  received  by  the  United 
Nations  in  connection  with  assistance  provided  to  the 
ICC  (A/63/471).  My  delegation  also 
the 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  Judge 
Philippe Kirsch, for introducing the fourth report of the 
ICC with his thought-provoking address. 

The  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  demonstrated 
the  commitment  of  the  international  community  to 
deterring  and  punishing 
the 
strengthening  of  mechanisms  for  international  justice. 
impunity 
through 
thanks 
08-58347 

17 
for 
respect 
scrupulous 
existing  between 
including 
to  respect  human  rights.  Through 
A/63/PV.35 

The  Rome  Statute,  with  its  emphasis  on  individual 
accountability, serves in many respects to complement 
and reinforce the Charter of the United Nations, which 
has State responsibility as its central focus. 

The  Rome  Statute  contributes  to  ongoing  efforts 
to resolve the prevailing tensions and often conflicting 
tendencies 
the  principle  of  
non-intervention in the internal affairs of States and the 
undertaking  by  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
to  honour  the  obligations  they  assume  under  the 
Charter, 
their 
obligation 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice’s  South-West  African 
cases and the various resolutions declaring apartheid to 
be a crime against humanity, that tension seems to have 
been settled on the side of a presumption in favour of 
not  allowing  States  and  individuals  to  claim  that 
matters are essentially within their domaine réservé as 
far as cases of egregious violations of human rights are 
concerned. 

The Rome Statute as properly understood aims at 
reinforcing  that  trend,  thus  ensuring  that  individuals 
who  commit  acts  of  genocide,  war  crimes,  crimes 
against  humanity  and  ethnic  cleansing  cannot  justify 
such  heinous  acts  by  abusing  the  concept  of  State 
sovereignty  by  invoking  it  as  sword  of  impunity,  and 
then  by  turning  around  and  trying  to  hide  behind  that 
same  State  sovereignty  by  invoking  it  as  a  shield  of 
immunity. 

In keeping with that positive attitude, the African 
Union  actually  took  the  lead  in  some  respects  by 
enshrining in its Constitutive Act the right of member 
States to intervene in cases of genocide, crimes against 
humanity  and  war  crimes.  In  Africa,  we  call  that 
principle  the  doctrine  of  non-indifference,  as  opposed 
to non-interference. However, both the principle of the 
responsibility to protect — on which African countries 
were  instrumental  in  achieving  a  consensus  on  having 
it  be  included  in  paragraphs  138  and  139  of  the 
2005 Summit  Outcome  Document  —  and  Africa’s 
doctrine 
further 
clarification to ensure certainty and predictability as to 
the  circumstances  under  which  they  could  be  engaged 
with  less  controversy.  To  be  sure,  efforts  to  promote 
the universality of the Rome Statute must be sustained 
if  the  authority  and  legitimacy  of  the  International 
Criminal Court is to be enhanced. 
non-indifference 
of 
require 
the 
covered  by 
into  force  on  3  March  2008  of 

My delegation notes that cooperation between the 
United Nations and the ICC continued at a satisfactory 
pace during the period under review. Ghana welcomes 
the  entry 
the 
Headquarters Agreement between the ICC and the host 
State, the  Netherlands, which, as  acknowledged in the 
ICC’s report, has further enhanced cooperation and has 
facilitated the Court’s smooth operations in The Hague, 
thus  bringing  more  clarity  and  certainty  to  issues  that 
were  not  adequately 
interim 
arrangements.  

Ghana  further  welcomes  the  project  concerning 
the  digitization  of  the  entire  legislative  history  of  the 
Rome Statute, which is funded by the Court and being 
undertaken by the secretariat of the Assembly of States 
Parties  and  the  Codification  Division  of  the  Office  of 
Legal  Affairs  for  the  benefit  of  the  Court  itself, 
practitioners,  academics  and  the  general  public.  My 
delegation  looks  forward  to  the  possibility  of  having 
that  project  linked  to  the  audio-visual  library  project 
that was launched by the Under-Secretary-General and 
the  Legal  Counsel  on  Tuesday  of  this  week,  which 
together will strengthen the programmes for the wider 
dissemination  of  international  law  as  a  universal 
language.  

The  role  of  various  partners,  including  civil 
society  organizations,  is  also  commendable  and  must 
be enriched through greater dialogue.  

In  his  introductory  address,  the  President  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court,  Judge  Philippe  Kirsch, 
highlighted  a  number  of  challenges  facing  the  Court 
that require our collective attention, including the need 
for  adequate  resources,  some  of  which  will  be 
considered  during  the  forthcoming  session  of  the 
Assembly  of  States  Parties,  in  which  Ghana  looks 
forward  to  participating  actively.  It  is  also  hoped  that 
factors leading to the slow response to requests for the 
conclusion  of  agreements  for  the  enforcement  of 
sentences,  as  well  as  ways 
improve  witness 
protection programmes, will be addressed among other 
outstanding and pending issues. 

My  delegation  notes  that  the  ICC  has  not  yet 
completed the full cycle from the trial phase to appeal 
in  any  of  the  cases  currently  before  it.  It  is  our 
expectation  that,  by  the  time  the  Review  Conference 
takes  place 
sufficient  corpus  of 
jurisprudence  will  have  been  developed  to  facilitate  a 
more meaningful review of the Rome Statute. 
in  2010,  a 
to 
18 

08-58347 
to 
to 
Judge  Philippe  Kirsch 



In conclusion, my delegation wishes to commend 
the  work  of  the  liaison  offices  of  the  ICC,  as  well  as 
the  working  groups  in  New  York  and  The  Hague. 
Ghana  would  like  to  reaffirm  its  commitment  to  the 
Rome Statute, aimed at strengthening the rule of law. 
In  closing,  Ghana  wishes  to  express  profound 

appreciation 
for  his 
pioneering  role  in  the  establishment  of  the  ICC  as  a 
novel mechanism. The greatest tribute that we can pay 
to him — as we hear that he will retire next year — is 
to  rededicate  ourselves  to  ensuring  that  this  unique 
institution  for  the  promotion  of  international  criminal 
justice  can  stand  the  test  of  time  and  become  an 
enduring legacy.  
Mr.  Okuda  (Japan):  Let  me  begin  by  thanking 

President Philippe Kirsch for his insightful report (see 
A/63/323) on the most recent work of the International 
Criminal Court (ICC) and by congratulating the Court 
on  its  increasingly  important  role  in  the  fight  against 
impunity in the international community. 

Japan  believes  that  we  are  now  experiencing  a 
crucial  period  for  the  ICC  to  define  its  role  in  the 
international  community.  In  2002, 
the  ICC  was 
established as the first permanent international criminal 
court.  In  contrast 
the  procedure  for  ad  hoc 
international  criminal  tribunals,  any  State  party  may 
refer a situation to the Court, and the Security Council 
also has the authority to refer a situation to it. In the six 
years  since  the  Court’s  establishment,  three  States 
parties have referred their situations to the ICC and one 
situation has been referred by the Council. 

On  the  basis  of  our  relatively  brief  experience, 
we have been able to strongly reaffirm the importance 
of  cooperation  by  States.  In  cases  in  which  full 
cooperation has been extended by the States concerned, 
the  ICC  is  making  steady  progress.  Where  such 
cooperation  is  not  available,  the  ICC  is  faced  with 
serious challenges. 
Ten  years  have  passed  since  the  adoption  of  the 

Rome  Statute,  but  we  must  not  forget  the  difficulties 
that  we  encountered  during  the  negotiations  for  its 
creation. Although we finally came to agreement on the 
text  and  the  Statute  entered  into  force  in  2002,  unless 
its  provisions  are 
the  utmost 
prudence,  we  will  not  succeed  in  firmly  establishing 
the credibility and reputation of the ICC.  
implemented  with 
A/63/PV.35
jurisdiction  over 
to  exercise  criminal 

One of the most important principles to be kept in 
mind  is  that  of  complementarity.  Every  State  has  the 
duty 
those 
responsible for the most serious crimes, and the role of 
the  ICC  is  complementary  to  such  national  criminal 
jurisdictions.  States  parties  must  do  their  best  to 
exercise  their  national  jurisdiction  before  referring  a 
situation to the ICC. Moreover, in referring a situation, 
a State party must be prepared to cooperate fully with 
the  ICC  by  fulfilling  the  obligations  set  out  in  the 
Rome Statute. 

The Security Council also may refer a situation to 
the  ICC.  However,  the  decision  to  bring  a  situation 
before  the  Court  entails  heavy  responsibility,  and  the 
Council  must  continue  to  cooperate  closely  with  the 
ICC  on  the  implementation  of  its  decision.  If  the 
Security Council makes the decision to refer a situation 
to  the  ICC,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations, States Members of the United Nations 
are  legally  bound  by  the  Council’s  decision. They  are 
required  to  cooperate  fully  with  the  ICC  in  its 
investigation  and  prosecution.  The  ICC,  for  its  part, 
must provide a full explanation of its actions so that it 
can  enjoy  the  full  support  of  United  Nations  Member 
States.  

Today,  there  are  108  States  parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute. Japan is pleased to observe the steady increase 
in  that  number.  Nevertheless,  in  order  to  enhance  the 
role  of  the  ICC  in  the  international  community,  the 
Court’s  membership  must  become  more  universal.  To 
that end, it is essential that more States become parties 
to the Rome Statute. Japan will play its role in efforts 
to  increase  the  number  of  States  parties,  especially  in 
the  Asian  Group,  which  is  less  well  represented  than 
other regions. 

It  is  Japan’s  hope  that  the  ICC  will  continue  to 
work diligently to eradicate the culture of impunity and 
to  consolidate  its  reputation.  In  that  regard,  Japan  is 
determined to continue and strengthen its contribution 
to the ICC and to the development of the international 
criminal tribunal system as a whole. 
Mr.  Ahmed  (Nigeria):  The  Nigerian  delegation 

thanks  the  Secretary-General  for  the  report  on  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) for the judicial year 
2007-2008  (see  A/63/323),  submitted  to  the  General 
Assembly 
the 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Court.  My  delegation  also  thanks  Judge 
in  accordance  with  article  6  of 
08-58347 

19 
judicial 
discharge 
institution 
that  most 
to  ensuring  proper 
A/63/PV.35 

Philippe Kirsch, President of the ICC, for the clarity of 
his  address.  We  are  appreciative  of 
the  Court’s 
relentless  efforts  in  carrying  out  its  mandate  as  an 
independent 
charged  with 
investigations into and trials of individuals for the most 
serious  crimes  of  international  concern  —  genocide, 
crimes against humanity and war crimes. 
Nigeria  is  deeply  committed  to  the  ICC,  whose 

establishment  we  recognize  as  one  of 
the  great 
advances  in  the  area  of  international  law. The  Court’s 
function of ensuring accountability for grave crimes is 
vital  to  the  maintenance  of  lasting  international  peace 
and  security.  In  order  to  strengthen  its  ability  to 
effectively 
important 
responsibility,  the  Court  relies  on  the  cooperation  of 
States,  international  organizations  and  civil  society,  in 
accordance  with  the  Rome  Statute  and  international 
agreements  concluded  by  the  Court.  Such  cooperation 
the 
is  critical 
investigations, 
execution  of  outstanding  warrants  of  arrest, 
the 
surrender  of  persons,  the  protection  of  witnesses,  the 
enforcement  of  sentences  and  the  enhancement  of  the 
Court’s credibility as an effective tool to end impunity 
and contribute to the prevention of future crimes. 

We welcome the increasing number of States that 
have  become  States  parties  to  the  ICC  treaty.  With 
more 
the  United  Nations 
membership  having  signed  or  ratified  the  treaty,  there 
is  clear  movement  towards  the  Court’s  universality. 
This  welcome  development 
is  worthy  of  further 
support by those States who have yet to sign or ratify 
the Rome Statute. 

We  have  taken  note  of  efforts  by  the  ICC  to 
improve  geographical  representation,  gender  balance 
and the representation of the different legal systems of 
the  world  in  its  recruitment  activities  in  accordance 
with resolution ICC-ASP/1/Res.10 of the Assembly of 
States Parties. As we commend those efforts, we wish 
to underscore the need for the ICC to achieve the target 
of  wide  geographical 
representation  and  gender 
balance,  especially  in  regard  to  the  African  region, 
which, in spite of the fact that it provides most, if not 
all  of 
the  situations  before 
is  still 
the  necessary 
underrepresented.  We  believe 
balance  can  be  attained  without  compromising  the 
quality of staff selected. 

The  Nigerian  delegation  considers  victims  as  a 
critical  component  of  the  justice  system  and  believes 
the  Court, 
that 
thirds  of 
than 
two 
far 
and 
that 
relocation 
the  Court  has  so 
into  10  agreements  with  States  on 
that  for  them  to  have  the  necessary  closure,  efforts 
must be made to bring about healing. We are therefore 
delighted 
received 
applications  from  960  victims  for  participation  in  the 
trials and that 168 of them are already so participating. 

The ICC currently has four situations — Uganda; 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo;  Darfur;  The 
Sudan;  and  the  Central  African  Republic  —  and  six 
cases  before  it.  twelve  arrest  warrants  have  been 
issued,  with  seven  of  them  still  pending.  With  the 
expected  increase  in  the  number  of  cases  in  2009, 
additional funding will be needed. We therefore call on 
all States to disburse their outstanding contributions to 
the  Court  to  enable  it  attain  its  2009  budget  of 
€105.1 million. 
We are pleased to note that the Court has already 

the 
entered 
of  witnesses 
and 
protection 
2 agreements  with  States  on 
the  enforcement  of 
sentences. We believe that, in order to encourage more 
States to enter into such agreements with the Court, the 
Court  needs  to  become  more  proactive  in  exploring 
ways to facilitate the participation of more developing 
States in that regard. 

The Nigerian delegation realizes that family visits 
to  accused  persons  involve  costs,  especially  since 
courts are located far  away from the normal places of 
residence  of  family  members.  Although  family  visits 
may  not  be  considered  a  fundamental  right,  refusal  of 
such  visits  could  nonetheless  demoralize  both  family 
members  and  the  accused  themselves.  We  understand 
that  the  issue  will  be  discussed  during  the  seventh 
session of the Assembly of States Parties, to be held at 
The  Hague 
that  due 
consideration  will  be  given  to  all  aspects  of  that 
important matter before arriving at a decision. 

The  situation  in  the  Darfur  region  of  the  Sudan 
has aroused a great deal of interest in the international 
community,  especially  since  the  ICC  Prosecutor’s 
initial  report  to  the  Security  Council  (see  S/PV.5216). 
Since  then,  there  has  also  been  a  request  for  deferral 
duly  brought  under  article  16  of  the  Rome  Statute  of 
the  ICC.  We  believe  that  the  request  —  which  is  a 
legally  backed  process  and  which  does  not  imply  a 
conflict  between  peace  and  justice  —  should  be 
allowed to run its course. We are also confident that the 
international community will not allow a politicization 
of the process. 
in  November.  We  hope 
20 

08-58347 



In  conclusion,  the  Nigerian  delegation  reiterates 
its  commitment  to  and  continued  support  for  the 
International Criminal Court. 
Mr. Muita (Kenya): My delegation believes that 

the  establishment  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC)  is  an  enormously  significant  advancement  in 
international  law.  We  recognize  the  Court’s  unique 
judicial  role  and,  in  particular,  the  important  part  it  is 
playing in our efforts to put an end to impunity through 
the prevention of the most serious international crimes 
and  guaranteeing  lasting  respect  for  the  rule  of  law. 
Impunity not only encourages the recurrence of abuses, 
but also strips human rights law and humanitarian law 
of their deterrent effect. Therefore, the Court provides 
an enforcement mechanism to prevent that. 

I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm 
Kenya’s commitment to its obligations under the Rome 
Statute.  We  appreciate  the  ongoing  cooperation  and 
consultation  between  the  ICC  and  the  Office  of  the 
Kenya  Attorney-General  on  a  broad  range  of  issues. 
This  attests  to  the  recognition  and  support  that  my 
country gives the Court. 
My  delegation  pays  tribute  to  Judge  Philippe 

Kirsch,  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court, 
and  his  team  for  their  excellent  stewardship  of  the 
affairs  of  the  Court.  Judge  Kirsch’s  unquestioned 
commitment 
the 
development  and  success  of  the  Court  to  date.  As  he 
approaches  the  end  of  his  term,  we  wish  him  all  the 
very best. 
Kenya  welcomes  the  report  of  the  ICC  for  the 

period 1 August 2007 to 31 July 2008 (see A/63/323). 
It  provides  us  with  a  very  useful  framework  for 
evaluating  the  successes  and  challenges  faced  by  the 
Court.  As  we  have  seen,  implementing  the  Rome 
Statute  is  challenging.  My  delegation  believes  the 
success of the ICC hinges on the collective cooperation 
of Member States, the United Nations and the Security 
Council. In particular, the success of the Court depends 
on widespread ratification of its Statute, given that it is 
treaty-based and largely depends on the compliance of 
States parties with their obligations under the law. 
We are very encouraged that the number of States 

parties increased during the reporting period from 105 
to 108. This is testimony to the growing acceptance of 
the  universality  of  the  Statute.  More  recently,  the 
ratification  and  accession  by  Madagascar,  the  Cook 
Islands and Suriname was most welcome. 
justice  has  contributed 
to 
to 
A/63/PV.35
are 
not 
insurmountable 

The  increasing  number  of  States  parties  to  the 
Rome  Statute  and  to  the Agreement  on  Privileges  and 
Immunities is testimony to the global judicial character 
of  the  Court.  In  that  respect,  Kenya  congratulates 
Mexico,  the  Netherlands,  Portugal,  and  the  United 
Kingdom  on  becoming  parties  or  signatories  to  the 
Agreement on Privileges and Immunities of the Court. 
We  urge  the  States  that  have  not  done  so  to  consider 
becoming parties to the ICC Statute. 

My delegation is concerned that the definition of 
the  crime  of  aggression  is  still  pending.  Similarly,  the 
fact  that  the  Court  has  not  conducted  a  full  cycle  of 
proceedings since its inception is worrying. That state 
of affairs will have an impact on the first review of the 
Statute  of  the  Court.  However,  Kenya  believes  the 
challenges 
if  States 
demonstrate a willingness, inter alia, to cooperate. That 
is  especially  true  considering  that  the  Rome  Statute 
affords  us  the  opportunity  to  deal  with  serious  crimes 
against  humanity  under  domestic  law  before  the  ICC 
can  assume  jurisdiction.  We  are  convinced  that  the 
principle  of  complementarity  is  a  positive  aspect  that 
can  help  us  build  upon  our  quest  to  promote  and 
protect human rights. 

I am pleased to report that Kenya is on course in 
its  endeavour  to  implement  internal  mechanisms  to 
expedite  domestication  of 
In 
recognition  of  our  responsibilities  with  regard  to  the 
rule  of  law  and,  in  particular,  the  Rome  Statute,  the 
Government enacted the Witness Protection Act on 31 
October  2006  and  has  now  commenced  a  witness 
protection  programme,  which  was  launched  at  the 
United Nations Office in  Nairobi on 1  July 2008. The 
launch  of  that  programme  is  a  landmark  in  our 
domestic  criminal  justice  system.  We  believe  that  the 
incorporation of a financial allocation into the national 
budget for the 2008-2009 fiscal year will give impetus 
to our efforts. 

Kenya fully supports the inter-Court seminars and 
diplomatic  briefings  held  under  the  auspices  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  and  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  among  other  international  judicial 
bodies.  Those  seminars  and  briefings  will  certainly 
promote  awareness  about  the  activities  of  the  Court. 
We  also  appreciate  the  Court’s  outreach  programme 
and  the  progress  achieved  through  it.  Such  activities 
are crucial to our strategy to promote and enhance the 
dialogue  needed  to  realize  the  plan  of  action  for  the 
the  Rome  Treaty. 
08-58347 

21 
in 
to 
to 
of 
the 
full 
for 
and 
similar 
line  with 
framework 
universality 
the  first  phase  of 
The  completion  of 
A/63/PV.35 

achievement 
implementation of the Rome Statute. 

My  delegation  is  gratified  by  the  strengthened 
and  enhanced  cooperation  between  the  Court  and  the 
United  Nations, 
the  Relationship 
Agreement.  That  cooperation  is  instrumental  to  the 
success  of  the  activities  of  the  Court  and  should  be 
sustained.  We  commend  the  role  being  carried  out  by 
the Court’s liaison office in New York. We propose the 
establishment  of  a 
the 
developing world, especially Africa. 

the 
digitalization  of  the  entire  legislative  history  of  the 
Rome  process  by  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  and 
the  Codification  Division  of  the  Office  of  Legal 
Affairs,  funded  by  the  Court,  is  a  milestone  in  the 
effort to disseminate information about the Court. This 
resource  will  be  of  invaluable  use  to  the  international 
community. 

Given  that  the  operations  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  are  in  harmony  with  the  principles 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
Court’s  work  contributes 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  For  that  reason,  my 
delegation  appeals  to  States  to  uphold  the  model  law 
that they have helped to establish. The commitment of 
States  and  all  other  relevant  actors  should  transcend 
political  considerations  in  order  to  help  preserve  the 
Court’s independence and integrity. 
Mr.  Badji  (Senegal)  (spoke in  French):  I  should 

at 
express  my  heartfelt 
like 
congratulations to Mr. Philippe Kirsch, President of the 
International  Criminal  Court,  on  the  quality  of  the 
work  that  he  has  accomplished  at  the  helm  of  that 
institution and on the detailed information contained in 
his statement. I also congratulate his fellow judges and 
the other personnel of that institution. 
As  members  are  already  aware,  Senegal  was  the 

the 
first  country 
International  Criminal  Court.  In  addition,  one  hardly 
need recall that my country was among the first to sign 
the  international  appeal  for  the  establishment  of  an 
international  criminal  court.  For  those  reasons,  I  once 
again welcome the opportunity provided by the review 
of  the  annual  report  of  the  Court  (see  A/63/323)  to 
reaffirm  Senegal’s 
institution’s 
activities.  
the  Rome  Statute  of 
the  outset 
to  ratify 
interest 
in 
that 
so 
for 
the 
that  were 
the  world 
the  advent  of 
is  one  of 

Of  course,  it  is  difficult  to  precisely  gauge  the 
real  impact  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  a  few 
years after it commenced its work. However, Members 
will  certainly  agree  with  me  that,  in  the  light  of  the 
Court’s report, one can say without risk of being wrong 
that the Court has revived the glimmer of hope that its 
to  victims  whose  hopes  and 
establishment  gave 
expectations 
justice  were 
constantly 
disappointed.  Today,  after  several  years  of  tireless 
efforts  and  struggles,  we  have  put  in  place  the 
instrument  so  eagerly  awaited  by  all  women  and  men 
of  goodwill,  who  have  arduously  devoted  themselves 
to  ending  the  horrors  and  atrocities  that  have  shaken 
and shattered all humankind.  
International 

Obviously, 
the  most  valuable 
Criminal  Court 
achievements of our time in combating the impunity of 
perpetrators of the most serious crimes. Indeed, with its 
establishment,  the  Court  has  contributed,  through  its 
deterrent  effect  on  potential  perpetrators  of  serious 
crimes,  to  a  decline  in  the  number  of  atrocities 
throughout 
so  common, 
particularly during the twentieth century.  

Moreover,  six  years  after  it  began  its  work  on 
1 July  2002,  we  can  boast  of  having  established  a 
permanent  Court  with  a  universal  mission  —  a  Court 
that  is  fully  operational,  with  ongoing  investigations 
and judicial proceedings in four situations, and that has 
been  acceded  to  by  108  States  parties  and  enjoys  the 
active  support  of  more  than  2,500  non-governmental 
organizations and civil society. We have also been able 
to  establish  a  system  in  which  victims  participate  in 
proceedings and benefit from protection and assistance.  
In short, as so well stated by the Prosecutor of the 

Court,  Mr.  Luis  Moreno-Ocampo, 
in  November 
2003 during  the  oath-taking  ceremony  for  the  Deputy 
Prosecutor, Mr. Serge Brammertz,  

“The creation of the International Criminal Court 
represents,  for  the  international  community,  a 
step  comparable 
the  evolution  of  over 
10 centuries of national criminal justice systems”.  

However,  the  very  significant  progress  made 
during  the  life  of  our  young  institution  should  clearly 
not prevent us from fully understanding the complexity 
and scale of the enormous challenges that we must face 
in  order  to  complete  our  joint  effort  to  build  an 
international 
the 
legitimate  aspirations  of  peoples  to  peace  and  justice. 
justice  system 
that  can 
fulfil 
to 
22 

08-58347 
independent, 
the  need 
non-political 


That is why we must never lose sight of the principles 
that  guided  the  drafting  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the 
for  an 
International  Criminal  Court: 
international, 
and 
representative  Court  that  can  work  efficiently  and 
effectively to bring to justice those responsible for the 
most serious crimes; the right of States to shoulder the 
responsibility  for  prosecuting  such  crimes,  if  they  are 
willing  and  able  to  do  so;  the  need  to  guarantee 
reparation and adequate compensation to the victims of 
such  crimes;  and  the  need  to  protect  the  rights  of 
accused persons and the role of the Security Council in 
the maintenance of international peace and security  in 
accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
Those  principles  must  always  guide  the  Court  if  we 
wish  to  fully  succeed,  without  any  legal  tricks  or 
devices, in making it an effective, transparent and non-
selective institution.  

In  reaffirming  our  commitment  to  and  unfailing 
support for the International Criminal Court, as well as 
our commitment to do our utmost to ensure that it has 
the independence and credibility necessary to eradicate 
impunity  throughout  the  world,  I  should  like  to 
conclude  by  solemnly  appealing 
the  entire 
international community to provide the Court with the 
cooperation and support it needs to carry out its noble 
missions.  
Mr.  Hernández  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

The  delegation  of  Mexico  would  like  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  Judge 
Philippe  Kirsch,  for  his  presentation  of  the  Court’s 
fourth  annual  report  (see  A/63/323),  pursuant  to  the 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and the Court. I would like to pay tribute to that jurist, 
diplomat  and  magistrate  for  all  his  effort,  first  in 
achieving  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  and, 
secondly,  in  making  the  Court  fully  operational.  The 
international community is indebted to Judge Kirsch. 

report’s  delivery  comes  on  a  special 
occasion, as we commemorate the tenth anniversary of 
the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute,  which  established 
the International Criminal Court. Mexico celebrates the 
first  decade  of  existence  of  an  international  court 
whose  fundamental  challenge  is  to  meet  the  desire 
cherished  by  the  international  community  since  the 
beginning of the last century: to put an end to impunity 
for the gravest crimes of concern to all of humankind. 
Ten years following the adoption of the Rome Statute, 
its  universalization  remains  both  a  shared  aspiration 
The 
to 
A/63/PV.35
in 
Mexico 
welcomes 
the  Statute 
enthusiastically 
the  objectives  of 
the  necessary  minimum 
and  a  task  to  be  pursued  jointly,  in  the  interest  of 
international  criminal 
achieving 
justice,  as  enshrined 
itself.  The 
Government  of  Mexico  congratulates  Madagascar  on 
its  ratification  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  congratulates 
Suriname  and  the  Cook  Islands  on  their  accession  to 
the Rome Statute during this year, bringing the number 
of States parties to 108.  

the 
achievements  made  in  the  four  and  a  half  years  since 
the Court’s jurisdiction came into effect, without losing 
sight of the difficulties and challenges that have arisen 
in the fulfilment of its mandate. As my delegation has 
previously  stated,  both  the  goal  and  the  challenge  of 
the  Court  lie  in  its  becoming  a  model  of  expeditious, 
effective  and  transparent  justice.  In  this  context,  I 
would  like  to  convey  a  number  of  considerations  on 
behalf of my Government on this judicial body’s work. 

I  turn  first  to  expeditious  and  effective  justice. 
Ten  years  ago,  the  plenipotentiary  representatives  of 
the  United  Nations  gathered  in  Rome  to  provide  the 
Statute  with 
tools  and 
mechanisms  to  fulfil  the  principle  of  effective  and 
expeditious justice. To that end, the Rome Statute was 
equipped with clear and precise Rules of Procedure to 
safeguard  the  rights  and  interests  of  the  parties 
concerned  in  specific  cases.  Mexico  underscores  the 
effectiveness of those tools and mechanisms and deems 
the  Rules  of  Procedure  adequate  to  guarantee  full 
respect for the rights of the accused, victims and other 
actors.  Their  application  at  the  various  stages  of 
proceedings  and  the  gradual  consolidation  of  the 
Court’s jurisprudence will ensure that the expectations 
of a model of agile and effective justice are satisfied.  

Despite these promising signs, Mexico expresses 
its  concern  that,  more  than  two  and  a  half  years  after 
the  surrender  of  the  first  accused  to  the  Court,  it  has 
still  not  been  possible  to  begin  its  first  trial.  My 
Government is fully aware of the challenges that arise 
in  initiating  intrinsically  complex  judicial  proceedings 
and acknowledges that the creation of the Court’s own 
jurisprudence is, by definition, a difficult task. Mexico 
further  recognizes  that  a  lack  of  cooperation,  which  I 
will  address 
the  main 
complicating  factors  in  all  areas  of  the  Court’s  work. 
Even  in  this  context,  the  early  removal  of  possible 
procedural  obstacles  is  fundamental  to  allowing  the 
Court 
jurisdiction  effectively  and 
efficiently,  especially  when  alleged  perpetrators  are  in 
later,  has  been  one  of 
to  exercise 
its 
08-58347 

23 
A/63/PV.35 

the custody of the Court. It is fundamentally important 
to ensure proper preparation of cases, both throughout 
the investigation phase and in the manner of obtaining 
and presenting evidence.  

The Court should begin its first trial primarily to 
bring  justice  to  victims,  but  also  to  move  forward  in 
building its jurisprudence. It is up to States to fulfil all 
their obligations without delay, and it is up to the Court 
to prepare and handle cases in the most diligent fashion 
possible at every stage, in order to avoid any situation 
that could encumber its progress and to guarantee full 
respect for the rights of the accused. 

Regarding  international  cooperation,  it  was  clear 
10 years ago that one of the fundamental premises for 
the  International  Criminal  Court  to  fulfil  its  mandate 
was  the  full  cooperation  of  States  parties  in  the 
investigation  and  prosecution  of  crimes  under  the 
Court’s 
jurisdiction.  This  fundamental  pillar  was 
embodied  in  article  9  of  the  Statute.  Given  the  very 
nature of the investigations carried out by the Court, it 
is unquestionable that the Court must be able to rely on 
the  firm  and  immediate  support  of  those  States  in 
which  investigations  are  taking  place:  the  situation 
countries.  Moreover,  the  complexity  of  the  Court’s 
international 
work  also  obliges 
community, 
regional 
organizations, to cooperate fully with the Court. In this 
regard, it is essential that States respond rapidly to the 
Court’s  requests  for  cooperation  and,  above  all,  that 
they  execute  its  orders,  particularly  arrest  warrants 
issued against presumed perpetrators.  

in 
several  instances,  the  level  of  cooperation  has  been 
excellent; proof of this is the detention and surrender to 
the  Court  of  Mr.  Thomas  Lubanga,  Mr.  Germain 
Katanga  and  Mr.  Mathieu  Ngudjolo  Chui  by  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  as  well  as  the 
recent  detention  and  surrender  of  Mr.  Jean-Pierre 
Bemba Gombo by Belgium. My Government wishes to 
extend  its  deep  appreciation  to  those  States  for  their 
actions. 

Similarly,  the  cooperation  and  assistance  for  the 
Court’s  activities  extended  by  various  bodies  and 
offices of the United Nations, as outlined in the report, 
deserve  acknowledgment.  In  spite  of  this  progress, 
there is still considerable distance to go before the full 
cooperation required by the Statute is achieved. Seven 
of  the  arrest  orders  issued  to  date  have  not  yet  been 
Mexico  recognizes  with  satisfaction 
international  and 
the  rest  of 
including 
that, 
the 
the 
lack  of  cooperation  from 
executed,  and  a  number  of  the  investigations  being 
carried  out  by  the  Prosecutor’s  Office  in  situation 
States  are  constantly  hindered  by  a  lack  of  assistance 
from local authorities. The international community is 
concerned  at 
the 
Government  of  the  Sudan,  with  regard  to  both  the 
investigations  taking  place  on  its  territory  and  the 
arrest  and  surrender  of  suspects  of  crimes  within  the 
jurisdiction of the Court.  

International and non-governmental organizations 
continue  to  report  the  existence  of  generalized  attacks 
against  the  civilian  population  in  the  Sudan.  As  of 
today, there have been over 200,000 civilian casualties 
and nearly 2 million displaced persons from the region 
since the outbreak of the conflict.  

It  is  equally  indispensable  that  we  enhance 
security  for  the  international  humanitarian  personnel 
deployed  by  the  United  Nations,  who  have  been  the 
target  of  attacks.  In  the  case  of  the  United  Nations 
Mission in the Sudan the lack of security has resulted 
in  the  death  of  38  people.  Given  these  numbers,  the 
existence  of  a  peace  process  in  the  region  is  not 
sufficiently clear. 

Mexico  is  convinced  that  peace  and  justice  are 
inseparable  components  of  any  endeavour  to  end  any 
armed  conflict. A  false  dichotomy  between  peace  and 
justice  only  damages 
the 
institutions created to preserve international peace and 
justice.  While  these  institutions  may  have  different 
mandates,  their  role  is  to  complement  and  reinforce 
one  another.  Their  role  is  to  ensure  that  political 
processes  include  the  elements  needed  to  ensure  that 
there is no room for impunity. The rendering of justice 
strengthens 
lasting  and  peaceful 
solutions. 

The  international  community  cannot  ignore  the 
gravity  of  such  situations.  On  the  contrary,  it  should 
strengthen its efforts to act on the basis of a model of 
justice  that  values  the  end  to  impunity  more  than  a 
political agreement. 

With respect to financial efficiency, ten years ago 
the  International  Criminal  Court  was  conceived  as  a 
model  international  institution  in  terms  of  financial 
management  and  administration.  The  complex  and 
diverse  activities  assigned  to  the  Court  naturally 
required  a  large  budget  to  enable  it  and  its  different 
organs to carry out their respective duties. It has been 

the  performance  of 
the  search 
for 
24 

08-58347 
a 
and 
in 
is 
room 
proper, 
diligent 
fundamental 
resources  are 


the Court’s responsibility and challenge to find ways to 
achieve 
transparent 
administration using the resources granted to it.  

Mexico has closely followed the Court’s financial 
development  and  acknowledges  the  efforts  made  and 
measures  taken  to  use  its  resources  responsibly  and 
efficiently.  Nevertheless, 
for 
there 
improvement 
every 
financial  model.  My 
Government is of the view that there are certain areas 
that  can  be  fine-tuned  to  render  the  Court  more  fully 
cost-effective  and  at  the  same  time  ensure  that  it  be 
able to fulfil its mandate.  

Adequate and comprehensive budgetary planning, 
better financial practices in certain areas and the proper 
rationalization  of 
to 
achieving this goal, particularly in times such as these, 
times  of  general  financial  crisis.  Therefore,  Mexico 
will  participate  actively  in  the  upcoming  examination 
of the Court’s budget by the Assembly of States parties 
and invites all other States to act accordingly. 

Ten  years  ago,  160  States  successfully  overcame 
serious  difficulties  and  differences  in  pursuit  of  a 
common cause that finally materialized in the adoption 
of 
the 
International  Criminal  Court.  Today,  108  States  have 
confirmed  their  commitment  to  that  same  cause. 
Mexico  is  convinced  that  they  will  not  waver  until 
justice  prevails  and  all  persons 
for 
committing 
the  most  heinous  crimes  are  held 
accountable before the International Criminal Court. 
Mr.  Mohamad  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We 

have  examined  with  regret  the  content  of  the  report 
presented to the General Assembly on the activities of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  including  in 
the  Sudan  (see  A/63/323).  It  is  a  document  full  of 
exasperating  political  deceit  that  is  directed  at  the 
President  of  our  Republic  himself,  the  symbol  of  our 
dignity and of our nationhood. The author of the report 
is  an 
international  prosecutor  who  has  acted 
unprofessionally and is motivated by a political agenda 
that  has  now  been  unmasked  by  his  fervent  hysterical 
political  actions,  which  are  not  those  of  a  respectable 
man  of  justice  and  undermine  both  justice  and  his 
position.  

The catastrophic actions of the Prosecutor of the 
International  Criminal  Court  has  led  him  to  issue  an 
arrest warrant for the President of our Republic, which 
is  but  one  additional  link  in  the  conspiracy  chain  that 
the  Rome  Statute  and 
the  creation  of 
responsible 
A/63/PV.35
that  would  undermine 
makes  up  his  shameful  political  agenda.  This  action 
has  led  to  outrage  and  criticism  from  all  regional 
organizations,  which  have  asked  him  to  correct  the 
situation  in  order  to  ensure  peace  and  security  in  the 
Sudan. 

The  Sudan  is  not  a  party  to  the  Rome  Statute, 
which  set  up  the  International  Criminal  Court. This  is 
Sudan’s sovereign right, which stems from the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  international  law  and  from 
the  1969  Vienna  Convention  on  the  Law  of  Treaties, 
which  clearly  stipulates  that  the  pacta  sunt  servanda
principle  is  an  important  one  and  that  Member  States 
are not bound by commitments that they have not taken 
of their own free will. The attempt therefore to impose 
a  convention  on  a  State  that  is  not  a  member  of  that 
convention undermines all norms and established rules 
of international law.  
The  ICC  should  not  be  a  tool  in  the  hands  of 

political  organs,  since 
its 
credibility and impartiality. Security Council resolution 
1422 (2002), adopted following the entry into force of 
the Rome Statute, states that States that are not party to 
the  Rome  Statute  and  therefore  not  members  of  the 
ICC  are  not  bound  by  the  provisions  of  the  Rome 
Statute.  They  will 
their 
responsibilities  in  their  national  jurisdictions.  That  is 
what the Sudan is doing, thanks to its competent court 
system, which is known for its efficiency.  
the 

situation 
the 
International Criminal Court, is a faulty resolution and 
contradicts  resolution  1422  (2002),  which  deals  with 
the obligations of States parties and States not party to 
the  Rome  Statute.  In  addition,  resolution  1593  (2005) 
clearly  recognizes  that  States  not  party  to  the  Rome 
Statute have no obligation under the Statute. Is that the 
thrust  and  universality  of  the  justice  that  he  preaches 
and seeks? This is the justice of might makes right. Is it 
right  that  this  report  should  remain  silent  about 
genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity that 
are  committed  on  a  daily  basis  throughout  the  Middle 
East and Asia? The report resorts to holding the Sudan 
hostage.  If  the  pretext  is  based  on  the  policy  that 
Member  States  must  submit  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court,  why  then  are  those  States  that  are  in  a  state  of 
war  in  regions  such  as  the  Middle  East  and  Asia  not 
themselves dealt with by the Court?  
Resolution  1593  (2005),  which  referred 
the  Prosecutor  of 
in  Darfur 
continue 
fulfil 
to 
to 
08-58347 

25 
The  Rome  Statute,  which  established 
that 
A/63/PV.35 


That is a selective approach based on a system of 
double  standards.  That  is  why  the  African  Union 
Summit, convened in July 2008 at Sharm el-Sheikh in 
Egypt,  adopted  a  historic  and  important  decision,  in 
which  the  African  Union  expressed  its  concerns  and 
denounced what is known as universal jurisdiction. All 
day  today  we  heard  nothing  but  the  names  of  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Sudan and the 
Central  African  Republic,  but  we  have  not  heard 
anything  about  Iraq  or Afghanistan  —  only  about  the 
Sudan,  Darfur,  the  Central  African  Republic  and  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo.  
the 

International  Criminal  Court,  stipulates 
its 
provisions shall not run counter to established norms of 
international  law.  In  that  regard,  the  actions  of  the 
Prosecutor are incompatible with the Rome Statute, for 
he  has  disregarded  well-established  immunities  under 
international law in respect of the President of a State, 
a case that was dealt with by the International Court of 
Justice.  The  violation  of  immunities  undermines  the 
principles  of  sovereignty  and  leads  to  chaos,  which 
should not be allowed by the international community. 
Peace 
the  best  guarantee  of 
international justice. Justice is not achieved by merely 
turning to a court.  

The  experience  in  South Africa  is  itself  proof  of 
the primacy of law, which is an integral part of the road 
map  involving  the  Sudan,  the  African  Union  and  the 
United Nations, which is based on four tracks. The four 
components  of  the  peace  process  are  the  hybrid 
peacekeeping  operation, 
tier, 
rehabilitation  and  development.  The  actions  of  the 
Prosecutor do not comply with that road map, but open 
the  door  wide  to  situations  fraught  with  danger  with 
regard to the security of the Sudan and the region as a 
whole.  

international 
We 
community supports the peace efforts brought about by 
the  Sudan’s  People’s  Initiative,  in  close  cooperation 
and  coordination  with  the  chief  negotiator,  Djibril 
Bassolé,  in  accord  with  the  African-Arab  initiative 
under the presidency of Qatar. The Sudan reiterates its 
commitment to comply with all of its obligations with 
regard  to  the  African  Union  and  the  United  Nations. 
The  international  community  must  protect  the  peace 
process  against  any  political  schemes.  The  slogan  of 
justice should not be used as a pretext to exert pressure 
and  to  blackmail  States. Throughout  the  day,  we  have 
the  humanitarian 
the  Sudan 
confident 
are 
that 
the 
in 
is 
heard nothing but references to Darfur, the Congo and 
the Central African Republic.  
Ms. Cabello  de  Daboin  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of  my 
Government, I would like to convey the support of the 
delegation of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela for 
the 
leadership  shown  by  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann and to offer him the cooperation necessary 
for  the  success  of  this  and  future  meetings  on  such 
important  issues  as  international  peace,  security  and 
justice,  which  are  the  guarantees  of  the  well-being  of 
humankind. 

Similarly, we would like to thank Judge Philippe 
Kirsch,  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC),  for  his  introduction  of  the  report  of  the  Court 
(see  A/63/323)  and  to  commend  him  on  the  results 
achieved by the ICC in the past year. 

From the first discussions on drafting the text of 
the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court, 
my  country  played  an  active  and  resolute  role  in 
establishing  the  ICC,  based  on  the  premise  that  the 
most  serious  crimes,  which  constitute  a  threat  to  the 
international community, must not go unpunished. 

In  that  regard,  it  is  necessary  to  underscore  the 
importance  for  States  to  adopt  national  measures, 
aimed  at  strengthening  international  cooperation,  thus 
ensuring  that  those  crimes  are  in  fact  brought  to 
justice. 

It is fitting to recall that my country was the first 
in  Latin  America  to  ratify  the  Rome  Statute  and  has 
always  upheld  the  integrity  of  that  instrument  against 
steps  taken  to  undermine  it,  not  only  through  the 
rejection  of 
agreements 
established or at times imposed on other countries, but 
also through the condemnation of the many resolutions 
that  have  sought  to  distort  the  independence  of  the 
Court  and  undermine  the  efforts  of  the  international 
community to achieve universal criminal jurisdiction. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  emphasize  that  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela has placed particular 
emphasis  on  preserving 
independence  and 
autonomy of the ICC and of its Statute in the ongoing 
negotiations  to  define  the  crime  of  aggression.  Our 
actions  have  included  submitting  a  proposal  aimed  at 
safeguarding  to  the  utmost  the  independence  of  the 
Court when it is to handle a case involving the alleged 
commission  of  a  crime  of  aggression,  thus  firmly 
immunity 
special 
the 
the 
26 

08-58347 
seek 
to 
subordinate 
those  who 


opposing 
the 
proceedings of that international organ of justice to the 
Security Council. 

Our delegation believes that the competencies of 
the Security Council and the ICC are well defined and 
must  not  give  rise  to  false  dilemmas  with  regard  to 
steps  to  be  taken  against  crimes  already  classified  or 
with respect to the crime of aggression, which we shall 
define  in  the  near  future,  because  that  crime  must  be 
repudiated and condemned in all its forms. 
We  would  like  to  use  this  occasion  to  call  on 

those States that have not yet done so to accede to the 
Rome Statute, on the premise that the Court should be 
established  as  the  supreme  authority  to  end  impunity 
and  to  try  the  perpetrators  of  the  most  serious  crimes 
that affect the international community as a whole, be 
it genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanitarian or 
acts of aggression. 
The legal order is responsible for establishing and 

maintaining  peace,  an  unconditional  and  absolute 
peace where each human being can exercise his or her 
freedom under the rule of law. A truly democratic State 
based  on  the  rule  of  law  is  founded  on  truth,  fairness 
and social justice. 

In  conclusion,  we  must  point  out  that  the  search 
for truth is not in conflict with achieving justice. Truth 
is devalued when it is not associated with justice, and 
the  application  of  justice  without  the  understanding 
that  truth  imparts  engenders  the  worst  iniquities.  In 
turn, peace and justice are inseparable. We cannot and 
must  not  sacrifice  one  for  the  other.  Justice  is  crucial 
for 
including  an 
international society. 
Mr.  Butagira  (Uganda):  My  delegation  is  very 

pleased  that  Mr.  d’Escoto  Brockmann  is  chairing  our 
meetings, and we pledge our full commitment to work 
with him and his Bureau.  

We  also  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  Judge 
Philippe Kirsch, President of the International Criminal 
Court,  for  the  detailed  and  informative  report  (see 
A/63/323). We shall endeavour to elucidate some of the 
points raised in the report, placing special emphasis on 
those pertaining to Uganda. 

We  welcome  the  report,  especially  those  parts 
that  recognize  the  efforts  made  by  the  Government  of 
Uganda  to  cooperate  with  the  Court  with  a  view  to 
executing the arrest warrants. As recently as June 2008, 
the  development  of  societies, 
A/63/PV.35
regional  Governments  met  in  Kampala  and  agreed  on 
joint operations against the notorious Lord’s Resistance 
Army. We  call  on  those  States  that  have  the  means  to 
reinforce those efforts to end that affront to the resolve 
of  the  international  community  to  bring  to  justice  the 
perpetrators  of  the  most  serious  crimes.  One  way 
would  be  to  revise  the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations 
Organization  Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo,  to  make  it  robust  so  as  to  include  the 
apprehension of the leadership of the Lord’s Resistance 
Army.  Unless  the  culprits  are  brought  to  justice,  the 
Lord’s  Resistance  Army  will  continue 
to  cause 
mayhem in the region, as it is currently doing. 

The  Lord’s  Resistance  Army  is  a  cancer  that 
needs to be eradicated urgently before it can spread any 
further.  It  is  common  knowledge  that  it  started  its 
heinous  criminality  in  northern  Uganda.  Our  forces 
fought  it  and  flushed  it  out  of  Uganda.  Uganda  had 
warned right from the beginning that unless there was 
cooperation  from  the  international  community,  the 
situation  could  turn  into  a  regional  disaster  with  far-
reaching implications. Unfortunately that warning was 
not  heeded. As  we  speak,  the  Lord’s  Resistance Army 
is  abducting  children  in  eastern  Democratic  Republic 
of the Congo, in the Sudan and in the Central African 
Republic,  and  it  has  reinforced  its  forces  by  the 
hundreds  by  adding  the  kidnapped  children  to  their 
number.  For  the  sake  of  those  and  other  victims,  we 
once again appeal for concrete action. 

We fail to understand the reluctance of those with 
the means to assist in getting rid of this ugly spot from 
our midst. What started as a northern Uganda problem 
has slowly but predictably sucked in other surrounding 
States  until  it  has  gained  the  notoriety  of  a  regional 
disaster. 

Therefore,  for  the  sake  of  the  victims  —  the 
abducted children, those who have been forced into sex 
slavery — and for the sake of the hundreds of children 
who are forced to kill members of their families so as 
to initiate them into that heinous organization, we call 
for  cooperation 
travesty.  Without 
bringing  the  perpetrators  of  those  crimes  to  justice, 
there will be no lasting peace in the region. 

Uganda  calls  on  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Member  States  to  support  the  International  Criminal 
Court so that its credibility might not be doubted. The 
Court must remain independent so that it is not viewed 
in  ending 
this 
08-58347 

27 
A/63/PV.35 

with  suspicion,  as  an  institution  designed  to  settle 
political scores. 

We  welcome  the  outreach  programmes  of  the 
Court in Uganda because they enhance appreciation of 
the international criminal justice system, especially by 
the  victims,  who  are  the  cardinal  stakeholders.  For  its 
part,  in  order  to  reinforce  this  outreach  effort,  the 
Government  of  Uganda  has  offered  to  host  the  first 
review  conference  of  the  Rome  Statute  in  2010  to 
further enhance the visibility of the Court in the region. 
We welcome the support expressed for Uganda’s offer 
to host the review conference. 

Uganda  will  continue  to  cooperate  with  and 
support  the  International  Criminal  Court.  This  is 
evident 
to  provide  well-qualified 
personnel to the bench and other organs of the Court. 

Uganda does not support impunity. We recognize 
that  it  is  a  cardinal  objective  of  the  Rome  Statute  to 
end impunity and to bring to justice the perpetrators of 
the  most  serious  crimes. That  is  why  Uganda  was  the 
first  to  make  a  referral  to  the  Court  in  order  to 
investigate  the  Lord’s  Resistance  Army.  Indeed,  the 
Prosecutor’s  investigation  and  application  resulted  in 
indictments  and  arrest  warrants,  which,  unfortunately,  

in  our  effort 



The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m. 
have  yet  to  be  enforced.  International  cooperation  is 
crucial in any effort to secure  any  arrests, particularly 
since the fugitives are outside the territory of Uganda. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  in  the  debate  on  this  item.  The  General 
Assembly  has 
thus  concluded 
its 
consideration of agenda item 69.  
this  stage  of 
item  44, 
Programme of work 
The Acting President: I wish to inform members 

of  a  slight  change  in  the  programme  of  work  for 
Monday  morning,  3  November  2008.  The  Assembly 
will  first  take  up,  in  a  joint  debate,  agenda  item  40, 
“Report  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council”,  and 
agenda 
coordinated 
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of 
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  in 
the economic, social and related fields”. The Assembly 
will then take up, as the second item, agenda item 114, 
“Cooperation between the United Nations and regional 
and  other  organizations”,  with  its  sub-items,  followed 
by  agenda  item  59,  “Holocaust  remembrance”,  as  the 
third item. 
“Integrated 
and 
28 

08-58347 
