
A/63/PV.51
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

51st plenary meeting 
Monday, 17 November 2008, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 
including 

I now call on the representative of the Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela,  who  will  introduce  draft 
resolution A/63/L.22. 
Mr.  Valero  (Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela) 

(spoke 
in  Spanish):  The  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela  has  submitted  draft  resolution  A/63/L.22, 
entitled  “The  world  financial  and  economic  crisis  and 
its  consequences”,  because  it  is  concerned  by  the 
profound  impact  of  the  financial  crisis  on  the  world 
economy  and,  in  particular,  its  effects  on  developing 
countries  and  the  attainment  of  internationally  agreed 
development  objectives, 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

After  extensive  meetings  with  a  wide  range  of 
countries, a new draft resolution was drawn up, the text 
of  which  was  circulated  informally  for  the  first  time 
among  all  delegations  on  5  November.  The  draft 
resolution  was  submitted 
the  Secretariat  on 
6 November  and  officially  circulated  in  all  official 
languages on 11 and 12 November under the title “The 
world 
its 
consequences”  contained  in  document  A/63/L.22.  It 
was placed under item 107 of the General Assembly’s 
agenda,  entitled  “Follow-up  to  the  outcome  of  the 
Millennium Summit”. 

This draft resolution is sponsored by a significant 
number  of  countries,  as  follows:  Algeria,  Argentina, 
Belize,  Bolivia,  Brazil,  Cuba,  Dominica,  Dominican 
Republic,  Ecuador,  Gabon,  Haiti,  Honduras, 
the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  Solomon  Islands,  Jamaica, 
Malaysia,  Myanmar,  Nicaragua,  Paraguay,  Saint 
economic 
financial 
crisis 
and 
and 
to 





The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m. 

Agenda items 107, 44 and 112 
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit 

  Draft resolutions (A/63/L.22, A/63/L.25 and 
A/63/L.27) 






Integrated and coordinated implementation of and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields 

  Draft resolutions (A/63/L.28 and L.29)
Strengthening of the United Nations system 


  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/125) 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/140 and 
Add.1) 
The President (spoke in Spanish): In connection 

with  agenda  item  44,  members  will  recall  that  the 
report of the Secretary-General contained in document 
A/63/83 was discussed at the 36th plenary meeting, on 
3 November 2008. Members will also recall that, at the 
same  meeting,  the  Assembly  took  action  on  draft 
resolution A/63/L.15.  

Under agenda item 112, the Assembly has before 
it  a 
report  of 
the  Secretary-General,  document 
A/63/125,  and  two  notes  by  the  Secretary-General: 
documents  A/63/140,  transmitting  the  report  of  the 
Joint Inspection Unit, and document A/63/140/Add.1. 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-60527 (E) 
*0860527* 

A/63/PV.51 

Vincent and the Grenadines, the Seychelles, the Sudan, 
Syria,  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  and 
Trinidad and Tobago. 

I am speaking in this General Assembly on behalf 
of all of the sponsoring countries, whom I thank for the 
constructive  spirit  that  they  demonstrated  with  their 
contributions  and  which  made  possible  an  enhanced 
draft  resolution  that  reflects  the  concerns  of  all 
countries regarding the current financial crisis. 

The  need  for  a  United  Nations  summit  on  the 
financial crisis is undeniable; that has been recognized 
by numerous world leaders. In this regard, I would like 
to  recall  that  during  the  eighteenth  Ibero-American 
Summit, held in San Salvador from 29 to 30 October, a 
special  communiqué  concerning  the  world  economic 
environment was adopted. In it, all heads of State and 
Government  of  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean,  as 
well  as  Spain  and  Portugal,  agreed  to  “carry  out 
consultations  to  examine  the  opportunity  to  convene 
with  urgency  a  meeting  of  heads  of  States  and 
Government,  in  the  context  of  the  United  Nations, 
given the gravity of the financial crisis”. In the United 
Nations,  we  have  held  consultations  on  the  draft 
resolution  with  the  Group  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  States,  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  and  we 
have had discussions with the representative of France 
in its role as presidency of the European Union, as well 
as with representatives from numerous Member States. 

Informal  consultations  also  took  place  where 
Member  States  had  the  opportunity  to  express  their 
points  of  view.  In  addition,  meetings  were  requested 
with  countries  belonging  to  the  Organization  of  the 
Islamic  Conference,  the  Group  of  African  States,  the 
Group  of Arab  States,  the  Forum  of  Small  States  and 
the  Group  of  Asian  States,  in  order  to  get  their 
comments  and  suggestions  so  as  to  produce  a  fully 
inclusive draft resolution. 
This  draft  resolution  is  intended  to  promote  a 

necessary  debate 
in  a  responsible 
manner,  the  unprecedented  financial  and  economic 
crisis 
is  affecting  all  countries.  This  draft 
resolution draws attention to the impact that the crisis 
is  having  on  the  poorest  and  most  vulnerable  in  the 
world. 

The  financial  crisis,  which  began  in  the  United 
States of America, has spread throughout all regions of 
the  world,  and  its  effects  are  devastating.  The  growth 
of  gross  domestic  product  in  developed  countries  has 
that  broaches, 
that 
represented 
in 
to 
to  achieve  an 
The  draft  resolution  we  are  introducing  today 
stopped or been reduced. The economic recession that 
has affected some countries also has a negative impact 
on emerging economies and the poorest countries. The 
increase  in  unemployment,  the  drop  in  commodity 
prices, the reduced demand for exported goods and the 
drop  in  remittances,  among  other  factors,  are  drawing 
millions  more  people  into  the  grip  of  poverty,  hunger 
and suffering. 
This  crisis  shows  no  respect  for  borders.  The 

States 
the  United  Nations  must 
responsibly  address  the  implications  of  this  crisis  and 
propose  alternatives 
international 
economic and financial system that is fair and humane 
and benefits all the peoples of the world. 

The United Nations is the most authoritative and 
representative world body to consider a global crisis of 
this nature. The solution to this crisis must be the result 
of  contributions  from  each  of  the  192  countries 
belonging 
this  Organization.  None  should  be 
excluded from this historic debate. 

calls for  

“...  a  comprehensive  review  of  the  international 
financial system, including the functioning of the 
international  financial  institutions,  particularly 
the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  with  a  view  to 
articulating  a  policy  framework  for  transforming 
into  an 
the 
equitable, 
and 
development-oriented  system  that  reflects  the 
interests  of  all  Member  States”.  (A/63/L.22, 
para. 1) 
The  draft  resolution  requests  that  during  the 

sixty-third  session  of 
the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  Father  Miguel 
d’Escoto Brockmann, should “... in close consultations 
with  Member  States  ...  finalize  the  organizational 
arrangements 
the  United  Nations  Summit” 
(para. 2).  This  process,  in  accordance  with  the  draft 
resolution,  must  include  a  high-level  meeting  within 
the Economic and Social Council. 

to 
examine 
the  Monterrey 
Consensus  and  reaffirm  the  commitments  reached  in 
matters  of  official  development  assistance,  among 
other matters. This meeting will be uniquely important 
in tackling financing for development at a time when it 
The  Doha  Review  Conference  proposes 
the  General  Assembly, 
implementation  of 
international 
financial 
system 
inclusive, 
democratic 
for 
the 
2 

08-60527 
that 
We  hope 
the  Follow-up 


might be affected by the world financial and economic 
crisis. 

International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development,  organized 
by His Highness the Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad bin 
Khalifa Al-Thani, will be an auspicious one that brings 
us closer to a more dignified and fair world. 

The  summit  that  this  draft  resolution  proposes 
seeks,  for  its  part,  to  approach  in  a  comprehensive 
manner  the  multidimensional  consequences  of  the 
financial  and  economic  crisis. As  our  draft  resolution 
maintains,  it  is  a  matter  of  historic  dialogue  between 
world heads of State and Government to articulate 

“...  a  policy  framework  for  transforming  the 
international  financial  system  into  an  equitable, 
inclusive,  democratic  and  development-oriented 
system  that  reflects  the  interests  of  all  Member 
States.” (para. 1) 

The Doha Conference and the summit to consider 
the financial crisis deal with issues that have their own 
unique  features,  but  they  are  both  initiatives  aimed  at 
strengthening  the  role  and  authority  of  the  United 
Nations in the international context. 

In  the  extensive  consultations  carried  out  by  the 
sponsors,  we  can  affirm  that  our  draft  resolution  has 
broad-ranging support and that a majority of countries 
are  prepared  to  back  it.  Some  delegations,  however, 
have  requested  more  time  to  consider  the  draft. 
Therefore  and  in  order  to  achieve  a  broad  consensus, 
the  sponsors  have  decided  to  wait  a  few  days  to  take 
action on it. We hope that the Assembly will adopt this 
draft resolution by consensus and that it will become a 
proposal for all the Member States. 
Allow me to say a few words as representative of 

the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  where  the 
Bolivarian revolution continues to make progress. 

The  President  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela, Hugo Chávez Frías, on 25 October 2008, in 
the city of Maracaibo, called upon the United Nations 
to convene a summit of Presidents to discuss the world 
financial  crisis  and  its  effects  on  the  countries  in  the 
region. 

In  this  framework,  President  Hugo  Chávez  Frías 
has  also  called  on  the  countries  that  make  up  the 
Bolivarian Alternative for the Americas: Bolivia, Cuba, 
Dominica,  Honduras  and  Nicaragua,  as  well  as  all 
A/63/PV.51
is 
fully 
that 
system 
that 
and 
solidarity 
committed 
Allow  me 
to  conclude  by  saying 
countries of the countries of the Caribbean Community, 
the Dominican Republic and the countries that make up 
Petrocaribe,  to  examine  the  measures  to  be  taken  in 
order  to  jointly  address  the  effects  of  the  financial 
crisis. This is a regional initiative, the results of which 
will  enhance  the  agenda  of  the  world  summit  we  are 
proposing. 

We  believe  that,  in  the  process  of  preparing  for 
the  summit,  intergovernmental  meetings,  events  and 
initiatives, including participating experts, intellectuals 
and  social  movements,  must  also  be  held.  In  this 
respect, we welcome your initiative, Sir, to convene an 
expert group to support this initiative. 

The  world’s  conscience  must  be  mobilized  to 
create  a  model  for  life  founded  on  justice,  freedom, 
equality 
among  human  beings. 
Venezuela  trusts  that  the  summit  will  be  an  historic 
meeting  at  which  a  fairer,  more  humane  international 
financial 
to 
development  and  the  needs  of  the  poorest  people  will 
be created. 

the 
humanist  values  of  equality,  solidarity  and  social 
justice await a new dawn. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 

floor  to  the  representative  of  Switzerland  to  introduce 
draft resolutions A/63/L.25 and A/63/L.27. 
Mr.  Maurer  (Switzerland):  I  will  speak  first  on 

draft 
“Promoting 
development  through  the  reduction  and  prevention  of 
armed  violence”,  and  subsequently  on  draft  resolution 
A/63/L.25,  entitled  “Legal  empowerment  of  the  poor 
and eradication of poverty”. 
Armed  violence  affects  all  societies  to  different 

degrees,  whether  they  are  at  war,  in  a  post-conflict 
situation, or suffer from everyday forms of criminal or 
political violence. 
In  recent  years,  more  than  740,000  people  have 

died  directly  or  indirectly  from  armed  violence  every 
year, due to both conflict and criminal violence. More 
tragically,  490,000  people  die  every  year 
in 
non-conflict settings from a violent death, according to 
the report entitled “Global Burden of Armed Violence”, 
published this year by the Small Arms Survey. 

armed  violence 
In  non-conflict  settings,  the  economic  cost  of 
lost 
resolution  A/63/L.27, 
terms  of 
in 
the  world 
in 
entitled 
08-60527 

3 

that 
the  achievement  of 
it  establishes  between 
A/63/PV.51 

productivity due to violent deaths is $95 billion a year 
and could reach as high as $163 billion. This represents 
the  equivalent  of  0.14  per  cent  of  the  annual  global 
gross  domestic  product.  Armed  violence,  therefore, 
constitutes a serious obstacle to development and could 
undermine 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

Likewise,  there  is  widespread  recognition  that 
social  and  economic  development  can  have  a  positive 
impact on the reduction of armed violence. With this in 
mind, the Government of Switzerland hosted a summit 
on  armed  violence  and  development  in  Geneva  in 
June 2006. At the conclusion of the summit, 42 States 
from  all  the  regions  of  the  world  adopted  the  Geneva 
Declaration  on  Armed  Violence  and  Development, 
which  has  been  circulated  as  a  United  Nations 
document (A/63/494).  
In  2007  and  2008,  the  Geneva  Declaration  and 

the 
interrelation 
the 
reduction  and  prevention  of  armed  violence  and 
development were discussed in four regional meetings 
for  the  countries  of  Latin America  and  the  Caribbean, 
Africa,  Asia-Pacific  as  well  as  Central  and  South-
Eastern  Europe  and  the  Caucasus.  As  a  result,  the 
Geneva  Declaration  has  been  endorsed  by  102 
countries from all regions of the world. 

Today, Switzerland, on behalf of the sponsors, is 
honoured  to  introduce  draft  resolution  A/63/L.27, 
“Promoting  development  through  the  reduction  and 
prevention  of  armed  violence”,  in  which  some  of  the 
core  values  of  the  2006  Geneva  Declaration  are 
reflected.  The  draft  resolution  has  been  carefully 
crafted  by  a  core  group  of  13  States  that  lead  the 
implementation  of  the  Geneva  Declaration  on  Armed 
Violence  and  Development.  The  text  of  the  draft 
resolution has been broadly consulted. 

The core group members, representing the major 
regions  of  the  world,  are  Brazil,  Finland,  Guatemala, 
Indonesia, Kenya, Morocco, the Netherlands, Norway, 
the  Philippines,  Spain,  Switzerland,  Thailand  and  the 
United Kingdom. Switzerland acts  as the core  group’s 
coordinator.  We  thank  all  the  sponsors  for  their 
support.  As  of  the  beginning  of  the  meeting  this 
morning,  53  countries  have  sponsored 
the  draft 
resolution. We would also like to underline that the list 
of sponsors is still open. 

through 
The  draft  resolution,  “Promoting  development 
the  reduction  and  prevention  of  armed 
its 
to 
of 
together 
reduce  armed  violence 
the  General  Assembly 
the  need  for  a  coherent  and 
twin 
violence”,  reflects  a  careful  balance  of 
objectives 
for  better 
development  and  to  propose  development  strategies 
that lead to a reduction of armed violence. The balance 
is  reflected  in  both  the  preambular  and  operative 
paragraphs of the draft resolution. 

In its preambular paragraphs, the draft resolution 
refers  to  such  United  Nations  documents  as  the 
Millennium  Declaration, 
the  2005  World  Summit 
Outcome, the Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat 
and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light 
Weapons  in  All  Its  Aspects,  as  well  as  the  annual 
resolution 
entitled 
“Relationship between disarmament and development”. 

In  its  operative  paragraphs,  the  draft  resolution 
stresses 
integrated 
approach  to  prevent  armed  violence  with  a  view  to 
achieving  sustainable  peace  and  development.  By 
requesting  the  Secretary-General  to  seek  the  views  of 
Member  States  on  the  interrelation  between  armed 
violence and development, the draft resolution aims at 
bringing 
the  views  and  experiences  of 
Member States on this important issue. On the basis of 
the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  to  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session,  the  way  forward 
will be carefully considered. 

The  aforementioned  core  group  on  the  draft 
resolution  organized  meetings  open  to  all  delegations 
in  which 
the 
opportunity  to  provide  input  with  regard  to  the  draft 
presented today. It was only late last week that the core 
group  was  informed  that  some  delegations  within  the 
Arab Group had raised concerns with regard to some of 
the  formulations  in  the  preamble.  In  a  letter  to  all 
sponsors  on  Friday  afternoon,  I  informed  them  of  the 
proposed  changes  and  asked  them  to  agree  in  silent 
procedure.  None  of  the  sponsors  objected.  In  order  to 
accommodate concerns and further broaden support for 
the  draft  resolution,  the  following  small  revisions  are 
proposed.  

paragraph, 
“Acknowledging  the  Geneva  Declaration  on  Armed 
Violence  and  Development”  should  read  “Taking  note 
of  the  Geneva  Declaration  on  Armed  Violence  and 
Development”.  The 
fifth  preambular  paragraph, 
“Reaffirming  that  development,  peace,  security  and 
human rights are interlinked and mutually reinforcing” 
should read “Reaffirming that development, peace and 
the  membership  as  a  whole  had 
fourth 
preambular 
In 
the 
4 

08-60527 


security, and human rights are interlinked and mutually 
reinforcing”,  with  a  footnote  added  stating:  “See 
resolution 60/1”. I understand that the revision is being 
circulated in writing to all delegations in the Hall as I 
speak.  

The  challenges  of  addressing  the  interrelation 
between  armed  violence  and  development  should  not 
be  underestimated.  By  taking  up  those  challenges  and 
by  seeking  the  views  of  Member  States  on  how  to 
address  the  interrelation  between  armed  violence  and 
development,  the  draft  resolution  can  allow  for  the 
consideration  of  that  important  issue,  which  in  turn 
will  be  a  contribution  towards  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals. The support today of 
all  Member  States  for  the  draft  resolution,  as  orally 
amended, is highly appreciated. 

While  I  have  the  floor,  please  allow  me  also  to 
introduce  draft  resolution  A/63/L.25,  entitled  “Legal 
empowerment of the poor and eradication of poverty”. 

Even as we are well into the twenty-first century, 
half  of  the  world’s  population  still  lives  in  makeshift 
shelters in squatter settlements. We all know that when 
people’s rights over their land and homes are insecure, 
they  cannot  leverage  those  assets.  Nearly  all  of  the 
almost  500  million  working  poor,  who  earn  less  than 
$1  a  day,  labour  in  the  unofficial  economy.  Informal 
work  accounts  for  over  half  of  total  employment  in 
developing countries, and for as much as 90 per cent in 
some South Asian and African countries. 

Worldwide, approximately 40 per cent of children 
in developing countries are not registered by their fifth 
birthday  and,  in  the  least  developed  countries,  that 
number can be as high as 71 per cent. 

While  theoretically  they  may  have  access  to 
justice,  the  poorest  bear  the  brunt  of  the  insufficient 
number  of  judges,  the  backlog  of  cases  in  courts  and 
the  unaffordable  cost  of  accessing  the  formal  legal 
system. 

In July 2007, during the high-level segment of the 
Economic and Social Council, our ministers recognized 
that  the  empowerment  of  the  poor  is  essential  for  the 
effective  eradication  of  poverty  and  hunger.  In  doing 
so,  Member  States  reflected  on  an  ongoing  debate 
about the role of the poor in the development process, 
recognizing  that  the  poor  are  essential  actors  in  any 
meaningful effort to eradicate poverty. The poor should 
A/63/PV.51
the 
issue 
to  bring 
not  only  be  associated  with  the  development  process, 
but empowered to influence and drive it. 

The legal empowerment of the poor is crucial to 
eradicating  poverty.  Secure  property  rights  boost 
business investment and farmers plough more back into 
their land. The introduction of effective property rights, 
managed  by  functioning  institutions,  helps  developing 
countries to progress.  

It is necessary to eliminate the negative aspects of 
informality,  while  at  the  same  time  ensuring  that 
opportunities  for  livelihood  and  entrepreneurship  are 
not destroyed and promoting the protection of workers 
and economic units in the informal economy and their 
incorporation into the mainstream economy. 
After  several  years  of  dialogue  among  experts 

and  the  exchange  of  experience  at  the  regional  level, 
Guatemala,  Switzerland  and  14  other  countries  — 
Benin,  Brazil,  Canada,  Finland,  Honduras,  Iceland, 
Indonesia,  Madagascar,  Mexico,  Nigeria,  Norway, 
Peru,  Spain  and  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  — 
wish 
to  a  more  formal  and 
multilateral level by introducing this draft resolution in 
the General Assembly today. We are convinced that all 
Member States have valuable experience and insight to 
contribute to this important issue. 

The preambular paragraphs of the draft resolution 
set  the  issue  squarely  within  the  multilaterally  agreed 
policy  framework  for  development  and  eradication  of 
poverty,  with  which  we  are  all  familiar,  including  the 
United  Nations  Millennium  Declaration  and 
the 
Monterrey  Consensus.  While  that  framework  and  the 
responsibilities ascribed to individual countries, as well 
as  the  international  community,  are  taken  as  a  basis, 
the  legal  empowerment  of  the  poor  is  presented  as  an 
essential  element  of  an  effective  approach  to  the 
eradication of poverty and hunger. 

A significant input to the discussion on the role of 
the poor in the development process is the report of the 
Commission  on  Legal  Empowerment  of  the  Poor, 
which  was  launched  in  2005  to  study  the  interaction 
between the poor and their national institutions and the 
extent  to  which  the  poor  actually  benefit  from  those 
institutions.  In  is  report  “Making  the  Law  Work  for 
Everyone”, published in July 2008 with the support of 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme,  the 
Commission  drew  preliminary  conclusions  based  on 
22 national consultation processes and the work of five 
technical groups.  
08-60527 

5 
to 
the 
ongoing 

the  Secretary-General 
to  report  on 
discussion 
the  sponsors  will  convene 
A/63/PV.51 

The draft resolution takes note of that report as a 

contribution 
of 
empowerment  of  the  poor.  The  draft  resolution  then 
requests 
that 
important subject matter, bearing in mind not only the 
report  of  the  Commission  on  Legal  Empowerment  of 
the Poor, but also the experience of the United Nations 
and  of  Member  States.  The  Secretary-General  is 
requested  to  present  his  findings  to  the  General 
Assembly  under  the  agenda  item  entitled  “Eradication 
of poverty and other development issues”. 
While  the  draft  resolution  is  largely  procedural, 

this  week 
informal 
consultations  with  the  aim  of  having  it  adopted  by 
consensus  under  agenda  item  107  at  a  meeting  of  the 
General Assembly on 24 November. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 

floor to the representative of South Africa to introduce 
resolution A/63/L.28. 
Mr. Kumalo (South Africa): I have the honour to 

deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  Brazil,  France, 
Indonesia,  Norway,  Senegal,  South  Africa  and 
Thailand. 

Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.  

In Oslo in March 2007, the ministers for foreign 
affairs  of  the  aforementioned  countries  drew  attention 
to  the  urgent  need  to  broaden  the  scope  of  foreign 
policy  as 
traditionally  understood.  The  ministers 
launched  an  initiative  to  use  diplomacy  to  promote 
global health. They pointed to the fact that investment 
in  health  is  fundamental  to  economic  growth  and 
development  and 
to  health  might 
compromise  a  country’s  stability  and  security.  Health 
needs  a  stronger  strategic  focus  on  the  international 
agenda. 

In  their  agenda  for  action,  the  seven  foreign 
ministers  identified  a  number  of  areas  where  policy 
positions adopted can make a significant difference to 
the  prospect  for  global  health.  In  strengthening  the 
capacity  for  global  health,  key  issues  are  capacity  for 
preparedness, 
infectious 
disease  and  the  human  resources  for  health,  including 
the  shortage  and  misdistribution  of  trained  health 
workers.  In  facing  the  threats  to  global  health,  health 
protection  before,  during  and  after  conflict  is  a  key 
issue,  along  with  handling  natural  disasters  and  other 
the  control  of  emerging 
that 
threats 
in 
issues 
for  all,  health 
emergencies and responding to HIV/AIDS. As we seek 
to  make  globalization  work 
is 
intrinsically  linked  to  development  and  combating 
poverty,  trade  policies  and  agreements  and  improved 
governance. 

The initiative was launched here in New York last 
year and sparked great interest among a large group of 
foreign ministers gathered for the sixty-second session 
of  the    General  Assembly.  We  are  grateful  for  the 
support  the  initiative  has  enjoyed  from  the  Secretary-
General  and  the  Director-General  of  the World  Health 
Organization. 

We  recently  enjoyed  a  very  fruitful  debate  on 
globalization  and  health  in  the  Second  Committee. 
There  will  be  several  high-level  events  highlighting 
global  health 
the  months  ahead.  The 
Economic  and  Social  Council  annual  ministerial 
review next summer will highlight the issues of global 
health and the necessity to enhance coordination within 
the United Nations system. 

Indeed,  the  draft  resolution  being  presented  here 
today is carried by a strong current of growing political 
awareness.  There  are  health-related  initiatives  being 
taken in a number of other international bodies, as well 
as in national and regional contexts. 

But  the  challenges  are  daunting  as  well.  It  is 
incumbent upon us all, as diplomats and foreign policy 
operatives,  to  do  our  utmost  to  reach  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  At  present,  progress 
towards the health-related MDGs is lagging behind. We 
need  sustained  political  will  to  change  this  situation 
and  give  the  highest  priority  to  saving  the  lives  of 
women  and  children,  with  a  particular  focus  on 
sub-Saharan Africa. 

Including global health and foreign policy in the 
General Assembly’s agenda next year and being able to 
raise  awareness  of  these  issues  on  the  basis  of  a 
comprehensive  report  and  recommended  action  from 
the Secretary-General will be a good starting point for 
taking up our common responsibility in these fields. 

I  have  the  honour  to  present  to  the  members  of 
the  General  Assembly,  on  behalf  of  all  the  sponsors, 
draft resolution A/63/L.28, entitled “Global health and 
foreign policy” for their consideration and adoption as 
a plenary item under agenda item 44. In addition to the 
sponsors  listed  in  document  A/63/L.28  —  Andorra, 
Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, the Central African 
6 

08-60527 
Israel, 
the 
Ireland, 
Indonesia, 


Republic,  Chile,  Finland,  France,  Greece,  Guatemala, 
Hungary, 
Japan, 
Luxembourg,  Madagascar,  Norway,  Portugal,  San 
Marino,  Senegal,  South  Africa,  Thailand  and  the 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania  — 
following 
delegations  have  also  sponsored  the  draft  resolution: 
Maldives,  Mali,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Mongolia  and 
Sweden. 

We  invite  all  interested  delegations  to  join  the 
sponsorship  in  this  very  important  effort  on  global 
health and foreign policy. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/63/L.29. 
Mr.  Mahiga  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania): 

Further  to  the  letter  sent  on  behalf  of  the  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania  and  Norway,  as  contained  in 
document A/63/538, I have the honour to introduce on 
behalf of those two countries, as well as the sponsors, 
under agenda item 44, the draft resolution contained in 
document  A/63/L.29,  entitled  “International  Labour 
Organization  Declaration  on  Social  Justice  for  a  Fair 
Globalization”. 

The  International  Labour  Organization  (ILO) 
Declaration  was  unanimously  adopted  at  the  ninety-
seventh session of the International Labour Conference 
in Geneva this past June 2008. It builds upon the report 
of  the World  Commission on  the  Social  Dimension  of 
Globalization  by  reaffirming  ILO’s  values  and  role  in 
addressing  social  justice  in  the  present  context  of 
globalization. 

The  Declaration  comes  at  a  time  when  some 
2 billion  people  continue  to  seek  out  a  living  on  less 
than  $2  per  day.  Recent  reports  indicate  that  an 
additional  100  million  people  may  be  pushed  below 
this  threshold  by  the  current  financial  and  economic 
crisis. Against  this  backdrop,  it  is  important  to  ensure 
that there is a strong social dimension to globalization 
whereby 
the  negative 
consequences are felt by all.  

The  ILO  Declaration  provides  a  means  of 
addressing  implementation  of  the  decent  work  agenda 
at  the  country  level  and  highlights  the  importance  of 
creating  more  and  better  jobs.  It  institutionalizes  the 
concept  of  decent  work  and  stresses  inseparable, 
interrelated  and  mutually  supportive  objectives  based 
the  benefits 
rather 
than 
A/63/PV.51
on  employment  creation,  social  protection,  social 
dialogue  and  rights  at  work.  The  Declaration  deepens 
the  ILO’s  obligation  to  develop  programmes  which 
help facilitate full employment and social justice. 

In  order  to  effectively  tackle  the  compounding 
economic  and  social  challenges  of  the  world,  it  is 
important for us, as Government representatives here at 
United Nations Headquarters, to espouse the decisions 
taken  by  our  respective  Governments  at  different 
forums to maintain policy coherence. 
Since  1999  when  the  decent  work  agenda  was 

originally  presented,  various  conferences  and  summits 
have  taken  place  to  underscore  its  importance.  The 
2005 World Summit was the first affirmation by heads 
of  State  and  Government  at  the  United  Nations  in 
support of a fair globalization and of making the goals 
of full and productive employment and decent work for 
all  a  central  objective  of  our  relevant  national  and 
international  policies,  as  well  as  our  national 
development strategies.  

Other  meetings  —  such  as  the  2004  African 
Union  summit  in  Ouagadougou,  the  2005  Summit  of 
the  Americas  in  Argentina,  the  2005  Council  of  the 
European  Union  (EU), 
the  2008  EU/Asia-Europe 
Forum Summit, various summits of the Group of Eight, 
the  Declaration  recently  adopted  at  the  High-level 
Meeting on Africa’s Development Needs and others — 
have  all  reaffirmed  the  importance  of  well-designed 
economic and social policies towards the fulfilment of 
decent  work  for  all. The  ILO  Declaration  builds  upon 
and  enriches  the  decisions  taken  at  these  and  other 
major  conferences  and  summits  and  adds  to  the  work 
undertaken  by  the  broader  United  Nations  system  on 
the wider issues of social justice. 
The draft resolution before the General Assembly 

acknowledges  the  important  adoption  of  the  ILO 
Declaration on Social Justice for a Fair  Globalization. 
It 
the 
interrelated  issues  and  decisions  taken  in  various 
resolutions, and underscores the importance of forging 
decent  work  possibilities,  particularly  in  view  of  the 
present  financial  and  economic  crisis.  The  operative 
paragraphs  call  for  the  continued  promotion  of  the 
decent  work  agenda  by  the  United  Nations  system 
through  the  use  of  the  Toolkit  for  Mainstreaming 
Employment  and  Decent Work,  and  further  calls  upon 
Member  States  to  consider  expanding  the  use  of  the 
Toolkit  at  the  national  level  in  order  to  help  identify 
its  preambular  paragraphs 
reaffirms 
in 
08-60527 

7 

recognizes 
The  operative  section  also 
Through  our  unanimous  adoption  of 
A/63/PV.51 

appropriate  and  conducive  areas  for  promoting  decent 
work possibilities throughout the various ministries. 

I should add that the United Republic of Tanzania 
has  been  working  to  apply  the  Toolkit  at  the  national 
level,  and  we  are  finding  it  to  be  an  extremely  useful 
tool  for  bringing  together  our  various  ministries  to 
coherently address employment challenges.  

the 
inclusive  and  cross-cutting  principles  contained  in  the 
ILO  Declaration  and  thereby  requests  the  Secretary-
General to consider the Declaration when reporting on 
related items in the economic and social fields. 

the 
document,  each  of  our  Governments  has  signed  on  to 
share in the ambitions and  objectives  contained in the 
ILO  Declaration.  The  United  Republic  of  Tanzania, 
Norway  and  all  the  other  sponsors  believe  that  the 
present  draft  resolution  would  help  facilitate  policy 
coherence  throughout  the  broader  United  Nations 
system  in  the  areas  of  promoting  decent  work,  fair 
globalization  and  social 
justice.  The  Declaration 
elevates  the  decent  work  agenda  to  a  new  and  more 
profound  level  in  this  twenty-first  century.  We  would 
like  to  call  upon  all  Member  States  to  review  the 
present draft resolution and we would welcome further 
joint support through more sponsorships. 
Mr. Topdar (India): We welcome the opportunity 

to participate in this joint debate on the various agenda 
items  relating 
integrated  and  coordinated 
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of 
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  in 
the  economic,  social  and  related  fields.  We  thank  the 
Secretary-General for his report on these issues. 

United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  held 
since  the  1990s  have  generated  an  unprecedented 
global  consensus  on  a  shared  vision  of  development. 
However,  what  is  of  concern  is  the  lack  of  similar 
consensus  in  the  matter  of  implementing  that  vision. 
Implementation 
first,  by  a 
continuing  lack  of  adequate  resources  and,  further,  by 
the absence of an enabling international environment. I 
do  not  need  to  repeat  facts  to  highlight  the  lack  of 
resources,  such  as  the  continuing  fall  in  official 
development  assistance  flows  or  the  net  outflow  of 
resources from developing to developed countries. The 
ongoing  financial  crisis,  which  did  not  originate  in 
developing 
their 
remains  hampered, 
impairing 
to 
the 
countries 
but 
is 
trade  policies 
development efforts, is just one illustration of the lack 
of an enabling international environment. 

The  2005  World  Summit  embraced  a  broader 
concept  of  internationally  agreed  development  goals, 
not just limited to the Millennium Development Goals. 
Those can be reached only through the implementation 
of  the  broader  set  of  commitments  undertaken  at  the 
major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits. 
Further, the different goals and targets adopted at these 
conferences and summits can be achieved only if they 
are pursued together in an integrated manner. 
In this regard, we have repeatedly emphasized the 

international 
importance  of  development-oriented 
economic,  financial  and 
to  assist 
developing  countries  in  their  development  initiatives. 
Globalization,  with  its  enhancement  of  the  flow  of 
capital  and  goods  without  sufficient  attention  to  its 
adverse  impacts,  has  made  the  need  for  such  pro-
development policies imperative and most urgent. This 
has  been  amply  demonstrated  by  the  current  financial 
crisis, coupled with the food crisis and higher risks to 
energy security. 
To  ensure  that  international  policies  are  pro-

development,  the  concerns  of  developing  countries 
must  be  effectively  taken  on  board  in  the  formulation 
and  implementation  of  those  policies.  Unfortunately, 
current institutional structures do not permit this, even 
though developing countries are those most affected.  

We are heartened by the near-global consensus on 
the  need  for  an  urgent  and  fundamental  reform  of  the 
international financial and economic architecture. Such 
reform  must  enhance  the  voice  and  participation  of 
developing countries in the decision-making and norm-
setting  processes.  In  order  to  make  this  process  as 
inclusive  as  possible,  the  United  Nations,  with  its 
unique position and legitimacy, should play a key role. 

Trade  must  assist  countries  in  their  development 
efforts. An early development-oriented outcome of the 
Doha  Development  Round  of  trade  negotiations  that 
does  not  sacrifice  the  livelihood  concerns  of  millions 
is  of  paramount 
of  poor  and  marginal  farmers 
importance.  We 
the 
implementation  of  the  development  mandate  of  the 
Agreement  on  Trade-Related  Aspects  of  Intellectual 
Property  Rights.  We  must  ensure  that  rewards  for 
innovators  are  balanced  with  benefits  for  humankind, 
in particular in areas such as public health, sharing the 
benefits of the uses of genetic resources and affordable 
also  need 
accelerate 
to 
8 

08-60527 
from 
financial 
institutions 
international 


environment-friendly  technologies  that  are  crucial  for 
addressing climate change and other related issues. 

The  Economic  and  Social  Council  has  a  crucial 
role to play in fostering a comprehensive development 
agenda  for  the  United  Nations  through  an  integrated 
and  coordinated  implementation  of  commitments. The 
Council has an acknowledged role as a principal body 
for  coordination,  policy  review,  policy  dialogue  and 
recommendations  on  issues  of  economic  and  social 
development.  The  strengthening  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  in  2006  and  the  incorporation  of  new 
elements  in  its  functioning,  were  useful  steps  in  this 
regard. We highlight in particular the importance of the 
new mandate given to the Council in 2006 to undertake 
the  regular  and  periodic  review  and  assessment  of 
international  economic  and  development  policies  and 
their  impact  on  development.  We  must  enhance  the 
capacities of the Economic and Social Council in order 
to  enable  it  to  effectively  implement  this  mandate, 
including carrying out periodic reviews of the policies 
of 
a 
development perspective. 

It is satisfying that the annual ministerial review 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  has  become  an 
important  event  to  review  efforts  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  learn  through  the 
sharing of experiences. The review must have an added 
focus  on  evaluating  the  implementation  of  the  global 
partnership 
for  development.  The  Development 
Cooperation Forum, which held its first session earlier 
this year, must consolidate its unique role in overseeing 
trends  in  international  development  cooperation.  The 
Council  should  also  continue  to  discuss  topical  and 
emerging 
inputs  and 
guidance.  Only  through  such  an  integrated  approach 
can the development agenda be maintained at the core 
of United Nations efforts. 

Strengthening the United Nations system without 
the  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is 
inconceivable.  The  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
must  include  an  expansion  in  the  permanent  and 
non-permanent  categories  and  an  improvement  in  its 
working methods. Let us recall that at the 2005 World 
Summit  we  pledged  early  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  identifying  it  as  an  essential  element  of  our 
overall  efforts  to  reform  the  United  Nations.  The 
continued  delay  in  reforming  the  Security  Council 
illustrates the fundamental deficiency in implementing 
decisions that have been adopted. 
issues  and  provide  policy 
A/63/PV.51
to 
agreed 
Assembly 
revitalizing 

Consultations in the Open-ended Working Group 
have outlived their utility. We are happy that there has 
been  unanimous  recognition  of  this  fact,  and  in 
decision  62/557,  adopted  on  15  September  2008,  the 
General 
commence 
intergovernmental  negotiations  in  informal  plenary, 
based on proposals of Member States, within a defined 
time  frame.  We  fully  support  the  decision  of  the 
President of the General Assembly to commence these 
negotiations on 21 November 2008. This is entirely in 
line with decision 62/557, and we look forward to the 
negotiating process producing concrete results. 
The  United  Nations  system  also  cannot  be 

strengthened  without 
the  General 
Assembly. This must be not simply a technical process 
concerned  with  the  agenda  and  the  technical  means 
employed,  but  also  a  political  process  in  which  the 
General  Assembly  takes  important  political  decisions 
on comprehensively reforming the Security Council, on 
issues of peace under certain circumstances, on having 
an  actual  say  in  the  election  of  the  Secretary-General, 
and  so  forth. An  important  part  of  such  reform  would 
be  to  increase  the  accountability  of  the  Secretariat  to 
the Member States and the efficiency of the Secretariat 
itself. 

Before  concluding,  I  wish  to  highlight  the  fact 
that  we  are  now  in  the  process  of  negotiating  the 
outcome  document  of 
International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development.  It 
is 
important that we do not perpetuate an endless cycle of 
commitments  without  implementation,  and  the  Doha 
outcome  document  will  focus  appropriately  on  means 
of implementation. 
Mrs. Rubiales de Chamorro (Nicaragua) (spoke 

in Spanish): At the outset, I wish to express my thanks 
to  my  colleague,  the  Permanent  Representative  of  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, for introducing draft 
resolution  A/63/L.22  on  the  financial  crisis  and  its 
consequences,  which  represents  a  unique  opportunity 
for  the  “G  192”  —  the  192  Members  of  the  United 
Nations — to achieve the essential global participation 
in  political,  economic  and  financial  decision-making. 
As  a  sponsor  of  the  draft  resolution,  my  country 
associates  itself  fully  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative of Venezuela. 

For  decades,  the  developing  countries  have  seen 
demands and exhortations  of every sort  imposed upon 
us,  particularly  with  regard  to  good  governance. 
the  Doha 
08-60527 

9 

the 
future 
spreading 
a  global 
scale.  There  must  be 
A/63/PV.51 

However,  today  we  are  meeting  to  discuss  a  crisis 
arising from nothing but the bad management of a few. 
At  a  conservative  estimate,  this  has  cost  more  than 
$3 trillion.  The  mantra  of  the  free  market  and  the 
theory  that  it  should  function  without  Government 
regulation  has  been  contradicted  by 
the  massive 
intervention  of  Government  bodies  to  staunch  the 
financial crisis, at the request of the very proponents of 
the  system.  Ironically,  it  now  turns  out  that  State 
intervention and market regulation are the answer.  

The  implosion  of  the  capitalist  system,  with  its 
disastrous  consequences 
like  wildfire 
throughout  the  world,  are  undeniable  reasons  that  the 
answer  to  —  or  better  yet,  replacement  of  —  this 
moribund  model  should  henceforth  be  on  an  equally 
global 
and 
comprehensive  response  sustained  by  the  principle  of 
human  primacy  over  the  production  of  goods. To  that 
end, 
social,  economic  and  cultural 
integration  of  nations  and  peoples  must  become  a 
global objective. 

To  the  delegation  of  Nicaragua,  it  is  clear  that, 
unfortunately,  we  are  among  those  who  have  had 
neither  a  voice  nor  a  vote  in  decisions  on  economic, 
financial  and  trade  policies,  yet  are  bearing  the  heavy 
cost of a crisis not of our making. Hundreds of millions 
of  people  living  in  poverty  are  paying  that  price  with 
their lives. 

The  draft  resolution  before  us  proposes  what 
rightly  should  always  have  obtained,  given  that  we, 
more than 130 developing countries accounting for two 
thirds  of  the  members  of  the  General  Assembly, 
provide 75 per cent of global economic growth. 

The facts clearly demonstrate the inability of the 
system and institutions created 60 years ago to lead the 
world  in  the  twenty-first  century;  neither  can  a  small 
group of countries claim to do so, be they “G” plus any 
other  number.  The  values  of  democracy  are  universal 
and applicable in all spheres, including with respect to 
formulating 
policies. 
Democratization  is  an  imperative  for  the  development 
of the nations of the world, so that at last all of us may 
enjoy  the  advantages  of  economic,  social  and  cultural 
development. 

Lastly,  I  appeal  to  Member  States  to  support  the 
draft resolution, as only with the support of the G192, 
within the framework of the United Nations and on an 
equal footing, can we work to create a new order, with 
economic 
financial 
and 
Implementing 
increasingly  urgent  challenges 
The  political  momentum  needed 
institutions  and  economic  and  financial  policies  that 
will not just put an end to this crisis, but ensure that it 
will not happen again. Only thus shall we demolish the 
model  postulated  on  the  domination  of  some  over 
others. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  Eight  years  after  its  adoption,  implementing 
the  Millennium  Declaration  remains  an  uncontested 
priority of the international agenda. 
the  Millennium  Development 

in 
Goals  (MDGs), 
development financing, combating the negative impact 
of climate change and issues such as the food crisis and 
the  tremendous  problems  in  the  area  of  global  health 
are justifiably the focus of United Nations attention. 

Russia  supports  the  work  of  the  Organization  in 
those areas, since specific steps to advance sustainable 
socio-economic developments throughout the world are 
also  needed  to  counter  threats  to  peace  and  security 
effectively. 
the 

Millennium  Summit  of 
to 
implement  the  MDGs  has  not  only  not  faded  but  has 
been strengthened, as borne out by the high-level event 
of the General Assembly on 25 October. In the global 
economic and financial crisis, achieving progress in the 
implementation of the MDGs will require reinvigorated 
efforts  by  the  international  community.  The  United 
Nations  must  play  a  leading  political  and  organizing 
role. In that regard, Russia supports the idea of holding 
a United Nations summit in 2010 on implementing the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  and  we  are 
grateful  to  the  President  of  the  General Assembly  for 
initiating  the  consultative  preparatory  process  for  that 
event. 

The  MDGs  remain  steadfastly  the  focus  of  the 
international  development  agenda.  Attention  to  them 
must  only  grow  as  we  approach  2015.  Similarly, 
today’s  debate  in  the  General  Assembly  confirms  the 
diverse  ways  to  ensure  development  and  increased 
well-being throughout the world. We are confident that 
during  the  upcoming  consultations  we  will  reach 
consensus  on  all  the  parameters  for  holding  the 
summit, including its thematic scope. 

for 
of 
development, we are pinning our hopes on the success 
of  the  Doha  Conference  and  its  final  adoption  of  a 
the  United  Nations 
Regarding 
financing 
theme 
the 
at 
10 

08-60527 
the  various  areas  of 


politically  comprehensive  and  practical  document  that 
reflects  the  approaches  of  all  Member  States.  We 
believe that all countries interested in strengthening the 
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  global  affairs  will 
demonstrate,  during the  final stages of the negotiating 
process  on  the  outcome  document,  political  will,  a 
sober  and  pragmatic  approach  and  the  ability  to 
concentrate  on  the  most  important  aspects,  as  well  as 
flexibility and willingness to compromise. 

We  agree  that  health  issues  are  completely 
justifiably  occupying  an  increasingly  prominent  place 
in the United Nations. Russia supports greater attention 
to  health  on  the  Organization’s  agenda  and  for  the 
President of the General Assembly to include it among 
his  priorities.  In  so  doing,  we  advocate  that  it  receive 
coordinated,  consistent  and  unified  consideration 
within 
the  United  Nations 
involving  the  United  Nations  Organization  and  its 
specialized  agencies,  with  an  effective  division  of 
labour  among  them  and  under  the  coordination  of  the 
Economic and Social Council. 

The  United  Nations  agencies  must  also  make 
further efforts with regard to food security. Effectively 
countering  the  food  crisis  is  a  joint  responsibility, 
requiring  agreed  and  decisive  action  by  the  whole 
international  community  that  is  comprehensive  and 
includes  both  short-  and  long-term  measures,  to  be 
implemented with close international coordination. We 
welcome the efforts already made in that regard within 
the United Nations and its specialized agencies. 

The  United  Nations  must  not  remain  on  the 
sidelines  in  dealing  with  the  consequences  of  the 
global  financial  and  economic  crisis.  We  need  a 
considered and balanced approach on a consensus basis 
on 
the 
Organization’s involvement in future work in that area.  

At  this  time,  it  is  important  not  only  to  handle 
critical  issues  and  to  minimize  the  negative  impact  of 
the  crisis,  but  also  to  make  maximum  use  of  new 
opportunities  from  a  long-term  perspective. The  crisis 
has  confirmed  the  need  to  reorganize  the  entire 
international 
its 
openness and fairness,  as  well as its  effectiveness  and 
legitimacy.  Reform  of 
international  financial 
system — an issue made more urgent by the crisis — is 
being  and  will  be  discussed  in  very  different  formats. 
Naturally, attention is chiefly fixed on the outcome of 
the  recent  Group  of  Twenty  summit,  which  is  to  play 
format  and  specific  parameters  of 
financial  architecture 
to  ensure 
the 
the 
A/63/PV.51
its  unique 
is 
in 
line  with 
international 
important  part 
in  coordinating 
implementation  of 
the  General  Assembly 
an 
economic cooperation. 
At  the  same  time,  we  see  a  key  role  for  the 

legitimacy  and 
United  Nations,  with 
unifying  capability, 
in  ensuring  agreement  and 
consistency in the operation of a reformed international 
financial  system  for  development.  From  the  United 
Nations  we  can  expect  a  strong  political  gesture  and 
specific  steps,  linking  reform  efforts  with  general 
development challenges. 
In  that  regard,  we  support  Venezuela’s  initiative 

to convene a high-level meeting during the sixty-third 
session  of 
to  conduct  a 
comprehensive  analysis  of  the  international  financial 
system,  which 
strengthening 
multilateralism  and  solving  fundamental  economic 
problems.  The  successful 
that 
initiative  will  require  the  broadest  support  of  Member 
States,  reflected  in  a  balanced  consensus  resolution 
agreed  during  open-ended  consultations.  We  are 
confident  that  during  those  consultations  we  will  take 
due account of the conclusions of the Group of Twenty 
summit  and  the  Doha  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development.  It  is  also  very  important  that  today’s 
draft resolution (A/63/L.29) call for a substantive role 
for  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in  preparing  the 
relevant recommendations for the General Assembly. 

in 
following up  the outcomes of the Millennium Summit 
are  not  fully  captured  by  the  above-mentioned  areas. 
Further conflicts in world politics, owing to worsening 
regional  crises,  the  terrorist  threat,  the  risk  of  the 
spread  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and 
the 
standstill in disarmament, are threatening international 
stability and require an appropriate response.  
strengthen 
joint 

there  being  no 
initiatives 
alternative  but 
through 
multilateral  diplomacy  —  should  help  reinforce  the 
fundamental  role  of  the  United  Nations  as  the  sole 
mechanism  for  maintaining  international  peace  and 
global  security  and  helping  to  promote  collective 
regulation  of  international  relations  in  dealing  with 
problems  holding  us  back  from  sustainable  socio-
economic  development  and  implementation  of  the 
MDGs.  That 
the  political 
provisions of the Millennium Summit. 
to 
in  global  politics  — 
to  solve  our  problems 
the  United  Nations 
The  challenges  of 
is  fully 
in 
line  with 
Recognizing 
the  need 
08-60527 

11 
to 
to 
in 

(spoke 
(Cuba) 
reference 
the  subject 
Mrs.  Núñez  Mordoche
A/63/PV.51 

in 

Spanish):  Expressions  of  concern  over  the  current 
global financial and economic crisis and the damage it 
causes 
financial,  commercial  and  economic 
international  relations,  particularly  its  negative  impact 
on  underdeveloped  economies,  are  heard  daily 
everywhere.  Almost  all  world  leaders  are  forced  to 
make 
their  public 
statements. 

Undoubtedly,  that  crisis  is  a  direct  consequence 
of  the  current  international  economic  order,  governed 
by neoliberal globalization that up to now has favoured 
the  most  powerful  countries,  which  are  at  the  core  of 
the world monetary and financial system, and has had 
considerable  effect  on  Third  World  countries.  The 
principles  of  deregulation  and  many  of  the  recent 
financial developments to date have been based on the 
false  hypothesis  that  market  forces  balance.  However, 
the obvious chaotic situation that we are facing is clear 
proof that that theory is not viable, which our countries 
have been warning for many years. 

No  one  can  deny  that  financial  globalization  is 
today  threatening  mankind’s  actual  wealth.  Besides, 
the vulnerable dollar, the financial imbalances and the 
economic recession in the United States belie the myth 
of the soundness and reliability of current international 
financial 
the 
foundations  of  the  present  day  capitalist  system.  The 
economic  crisis  continues  its  inexorable  progress, 
despite  the  desperate  bailout  plans  designed  by  the 
most  intransigent  detractors  of  State  intervention  in 
economic  affairs.  Nonetheless,  even  amid 
the 
seriousness of the situation, the attempts to perpetuate 
the  current  order  of  things  continue  proliferating  in 
meetings  and closed-door  discussions  among the most 
powerful countries, which are only attempting to make 
cosmetic  alterations 
international  financial 
system,  hoping  to  keep  it  under  their  absolute  control 
and  to  continue  marginalizing  the  vast  majority  of 
world  nations  from  participating  in  global  economic 
and financial decision-making. 

and 
transparency  in  the  international  financial  system  and 
its  main  institutions  is  more  evident  than  ever.  What 
we need today is a profound reform of the system with 
the  participation  of  all  nations  of  the  world  as  equals 
and that will place the interests of developing countries 
finally  at  the  core  of  the  new  international  economic 
order we are fighting for.  
institutions  and  seriously  question 
lack  of  democracy 
scandalous 
The 
to 
the 
the 
to  count  on 
to  start  with 
the  support  of 

For  that  reason  our  country  is  honoured  to 
sponsor,  along  with  an  important  number  of  nations, 
draft  resolution  A/63/L.22,  tabled  by  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela  and  entitled  “The  world 
financial  and  economic  crisis  and  its  consequences”. 
Its  main  objective  is  to  convene  a  United  Nations 
summit  to  review  those  matters,  particularly  the  work 
of  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  which  have  been 
discredited in the eyes of the world. 
We hope that the aforementioned draft resolution 

will  be  able 
the 
overwhelming  majority  of  the  Member  States  of  this 
Organization,  so  as 
inclusive, 
transparent and democratic process so necessary today, 
concerning world financial and economic operations. 

We  commit  ourselves  to  working  steadfastly  to 
achieve  that  purpose,  from  now  until  that  summit  is 
held.  It  will  undoubtedly  constitute  an  unprecedented 
event in the history of the United Nations. We take the 
opportunity  to  call  upon  all  nations  to  join  in  the  far-
reaching initiative. 
Mr. Lacroix (France) (spoke in French): It is my 

honour  to  speak  in  my  national  capacity.  My  country 
wishes to make the following brief remarks with regard 
to  draft  resolution  A/63/L.27  tabled  by  Switzerland, 
entitled “Promoting development through the reduction 
and  prevention  of  armed  violence”.  France,  like  all 
European  Union  States,  enthusiastically  supported  the 
declarations  adopted  in  Geneva  in  June  2006  and 
September  2008,  which  are  the  basis  of  Switzerland’s 
draft  resolution.  We  continue  to  fully  support  the 
relevance of the declarations. 

At  the  same  time,  we  very  much  regret  the 
addition  of  a  preambular  paragraph  in  the  draft 
resolution  that  does  not  figure  in  any  of  the  Geneva 
declarations  and  which 
symbiotic 
relationship  between  disarmament  and  development. 
We  challenge 
too 
systematically,  because  in  reality  it  is  a  complex 
relation. My country continues to have reservations on 
an overly simplistic presentation of that difficult issue. 

At the same time, we do not wish to withdraw our 
support  of  the  Swiss  initiative  because  of  that  one 
issue, because the general thrust of the draft resolution 
has not been changed. As a result, France will associate 
itself  with  the  consensus  for  adopting  the  Swiss  draft 
resolution (A/63/L.27). 
link  as  being  presented 
refers 
to  a 
that 
12 

08-60527 
economies 
are 
based 
on 
that 


Mr. Argüello (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): The 

delegation of the Argentine Republic is addressing the 
General  Assembly  to  express  its  firm  support  for  the 
draft  resolution  submitted  by  the  Bolivarian  Republic 
of  Venezuela,  entitled  “The  world  financial  and 
economic  crisis  and  its  consequences”  (A/63/L.22). 
The  initiative  from  Caracas  to  urgently  convene  a 
world summit to examine the reasons, significance and 
alternatives  with  regard  to  the  current  situation  is  a 
symbolic appeal from the developing countries, which 
seek  explanations  and  alternative  solutions  to  the 
existing  market-based  philosophy  with  regard 
to 
bringing about integration in global society.  

It is clear that the recent bailout measures for the 
banking  systems  adopted  by  the  authorities  of  the 
central 
same 
epistemological  paradigm,  namely  a  formula 
that 
assigns  the  market  a  monopoly  when  it  comes  to  the 
allocation  of  resources  and  undermines  the  role  that 
could be played by Governments. We must look at the 
fundamental causes of the current financial disaster in 
order  to  achieve  a  new  international  financial  system 
based  on  sensible  and  fair  policies 
that  protect 
production and seek economic development and social 
inclusion. 
Mr. Benmehidi (Algeria) (spoke in French): It is 

our  honour  to  sponsor  the  resolution  entitled,  “The 
world 
its 
consequences” (A/63/L.22). We are convinced that the 
initiative  comes  at  an  opportune  time,  allowing  the 
United  Nations  to  react  to  the  international  financial 
crisis,  whose  multidimensional  consequences  have  a 
global  impact.  The  global  nature  of  the  crisis  and  its 
consequences 
through 
inclusive decision-making mechanisms.  

My delegation thus takes note of the conclusions 
reached  at  the  summit  of  the  Group  of  Twenty  on 
15 and 16 November 2008, where it was decided that a 
response  to  the  crisis  could  only  be  multilateral  and 
collective.  From  my  delegation’s  viewpoint,  draft 
resolution  A/63/L.22  fully  meets  those  concerns.  In 
fact, 
the  United  Nations  offers  a  universal  and 
legitimate  framework  to  assess  the  impact  of  the 
financial crisis and to allow all countries to participate 
in seeking appropriate solutions. 

The convening of a summit by the United Nations 
to assess the current financial crisis would undoubtedly 
contribute 
the 
in-depth  analysis  on 
require  global 
and 
economic 
to  a  more 
crisis 
and 
responses 
financial 
A/63/PV.51
My  delegation  also  believes 
underlying reasons for the crisis and assist in creating a 
political  framework  that  will  allow  us  to  convert  the 
international financial system into a system that is fair, 
democratic,  non-exclusive  and  one  that  takes  the 
interests of all Member States into account.  

the  draft 
that 
resolution is a complementary initiative to the ongoing 
process for the Follow-up Conference on Financing for 
Development, which will be held soon in Doha, and the 
ongoing  process  of  the  Group  of  Twenty,  which  will 
start meeting again in the spring.  

We  are  absolutely  convinced  that  the  proposal 
summit  will  allow  us  to  improve  the  quality  of 
relations between the United Nations and the financial 
institutions and make them more operational.  

Finally, Algeria hopes that the General Assembly 
will adopt this draft resolution by consensus, given its 
constructive scope and inclusive nature. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  We 

have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  debate  on  these 
items.  
I should like to inform members that the sponsors 

of  draft  resolutions  A/63/L.22,  A/63/L.25,  A/63/L.28 
and A/63/L.29 have asked for decisions on those texts 
to be deferred until a later date to be announced. 
We  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft  resolution 

A/63/L.27, as orally revised. Before giving the floor to 
the representative of the United States,  who wishes to 
speak  in  explanation  of  position,  I  should  like  to 
remind  delegations 
that  explanations  of  vote  or 
position are limited to 10 minutes and should be made 
by delegations from their seats.  
Mr.  Smolik  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United  States  fully  supports  implementation  of  the 
United  Nations  Programme  of  Action  to  Prevent, 
Combat  and  Eradicate  the  Illicit Trade  in  Small Arms 
and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects and offers many 
assistance programmes in this regard. In addition to our 
own export control activities, we assist other States in 
fully implementing the Programme of Action, in areas 
such  as  export  controls,  brokering 
regulations, 
destruction of excess weapons and stockpile security. 

The  United  States  also  places  a  high  priority  on 
promoting  human  rights,  countering  the  causes  of 
conflict  and 
initiatives. 
However,  the  United  States  does  not  believe  that 
supporting  post-conflict 
08-60527 

13 
resources 
on 
negotiating 
legally  binding 
supports  working 
the  United  States 
A/63/PV.51 

additional  legally  binding  instruments  on  small  arms 
and light weapons or associated issues, as called for by 
the  Geneva  Declaration,  are  required  to  make  an 
impact  on  these  issues,  which  are  important  to  us  all, 
nor  are  such  legally  binding  instruments  likely  to  be 
successful  in  accomplishing  their  desired  goals.  The 
United States prefers to focus on concrete actions that 
address the underlying problems, rather than expending 
limited 
additional 
instruments. 
The  Programme  of  Action’s  strength  is  in  its 

in 
implementation  by  participating  States,  not 
instruments. 
additional  associated 
While 
in 
partnership  with  other  stakeholders  in  reducing  armed 
violence  and  illicit  weapons  proliferation,  we  cannot 
support  the  Geneva  Declaration  as  a  whole. Although 
the United States does not intend to break consensus, it 
cannot support the draft resolution. 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

take  action  on  draft  resolution  A/63/L.27,  entitled 
“Promoting  development  through  the  reduction  and 
prevention  of  armed  violence”,  as  orally  revised.  The 
following  additional  countries  have  become  sponsors 
of  the  draft  resolution:  Albania,  Bulgaria,  Denmark, 
Haiti,  Jordan,  Luxembourg,  Mexico,  Poland, 
the 
Republic  of  Moldova,  Slovenia,  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia and Turkey. [Subsequently, the 
delegation  of  Turkey  informed  the  Secretariat  that  it 
had sponsored the draft resolution in error.]  

draft resolution A/63/L.27, as orally revised? 

  Draft resolution A/63/L.27, as orally revised, was 
adopted (resolution 63/23).
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 

speakers  in  explanation  of  position  on  the  resolution 
that 
just  adopted, 
explanations  of  vote  or  position  are 
to 
10 minutes  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats. 
of 

accommodation, the Pakistan delegation decided to go 
along  with  the  consensus  on  the  draft  resolution 
entitled, 
the 
reduction 
armed  violence” 
(A/63/L.27). However, that should not be construed as 
our  endorsement  of  the  Geneva  Declaration.  In  2006, 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
“Promoting 
and  prevention  of 
I  would 
remind  delegations 
development 
through 
Mr.  Tarar
(Pakistan): 
In 
a 
spirit 
limited 

Pakistan  participated  in  the  consultations  to  negotiate 
the  text  of  the  Geneva  Declaration.  At  that  time,  we 
proposed  certain  amendments  that  were  not  accepted 
and  therefore  we  had  no  choice  but  not  to  attend  the 
summit  on  7  June  2006.  Prior  to  the  regional  meeting 
in  Bangkok  in  May  2008,  we  participated  in  informal 
consultations in Geneva, but, again, our views were not 
accommodated. During the informal consultations held 
in  New  York  earlier  this  month,  we  were  presented 
with a virtual fait accompli.  

However, it is heartening to see that the sponsors 
of  the  resolution  have  demonstrated  flexibility  by 
replacing  “acknowledging”  the  Geneva  Declaration 
with  “taking  note”  of  it  in  the  fourth  preambular 
paragraph. Similarly, the change in the fifth preambular 
paragraph is welcome. However, we are convinced that 
the  eighth  preambular  paragraph  is  unnecessary.  The 
terms,  goals,  targets  and  measurable  indicators  are 
vague and open to convenient interpretation. Similarly, 
we should not declare something to be a complement to 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  which  were 
decided at the level of heads of State and Government. 
It  is  also  ironic  that  even  the  goals  and  indicators  for 
MDGs  agreed  at  the  summit  level  have  not  yet  been 
developed,  especially  for  MDG  8.  So,  instead  of 
creating another road map, we should set our priorities 
right and do first things first.  
Mr. Aly (Egypt): I am taking the floor to explain 

Egypt’s  position  on  draft  resolution  A/63/L.27.  The 
delegation of Egypt joined the consensus on A/63/L.27 
in  keeping  with  its  conviction  that  addressing  armed 
violence  and  promoting  development  represent  areas 
where  the  United  Nations  should  play  a  central  role. 
We  express  our  appreciation  to  the  sponsors  of  the 
draft  resolution  for  addressing  our  key  concerns 
regarding the earlier draft. 
While  the  fifth  preambular  paragraph  of  the 

resolution 
the  Millennium  Summit’s 
identification  of  development,  peace  and  security  and 
human  rights  —  the  main  three  pillars  of  the  work  of 
the  United  Nations  —  as  interrelated  and  mutually 
reinforcing,  Egypt  wishes  to  stress  that  any  reference 
to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  should  begin  by 
the  reaffirmation  of  the  principles  of  the  United 
Nations,  particularly 
the 
Millennium  Declaration.  That  includes  the  United 
Nations  principles  reflected  in  paragraphs  5  and  6  of 
the  Declaration,  reaffirming  the  importance  of,  inter 
alia,  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  States, 
emphasized 
reaffirms 
those 
in 

14 

08-60527 


the  territorial  integrity  of  States,  the  right  to  self-
determination,  the  right  to  self-defence,  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  and  the  promotion  of  friendly 
relations among States. Objectively speaking, it would 
also  have  been  helpful  to  highlight  the  importance  of 
addressing  the  root  causes  of  conflict  and  the  crucial 
role of multilateralism in addressing challenges related 
to conflict and armed violence, including, in particular, 
through  the  implementation  of  relevant  resolutions 
adopted by the General Assembly. 

On  the  other  hand,  we  welcome  the  reference 
made  in  the  draft  resolution  to  the  United  Nations 
Programme  of  Action  on  Small  Arms,  since  the 
Programme  represents  a  consensual,  well-balanced 
basis for addressing the impact of illicit arms transfers 
on armed violence in the context of conflict. 

Acknowledging the procedural nature of this draft 
resolution  and  the  importance  of  the  report  that  draft 
requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session, which might shed 
greater  light  on  the  wide  range  of  views  on  the 
interrelationship 
and 
development,  Egypt  decided  to  join  the  consensus  on 
the draft resolution.  

speaker 
Assembly  has 
consideration of agenda items 44, 107 and 112.  
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
in  explanation  of  position.  The  General 
its 
thus  concluded 
this  stage  of 
violence 
between 
armed 


Programme of work  
The  Acting  President:  Before  proceeding 

further,  I  would  like  to  draw  the  attention  of  the 
General  Assembly 
to  document  A/INF/63/4/Rev.2, 
which contains the Assembly’s programme of work and 
schedule  of  plenary  meetings  for  the  period  from 
18 November  to  16  December  2008  and  which  was 
distributed  to  delegations  this  morning. As  mentioned 
in  that  document,  the  specific  meeting  focused  on 
development under agenda item 107, “Follow-up to the 
outcome  of 
the  Millennium  Summit”,  originally 
scheduled  for  Monday,  24  November,  has  been 
postponed  until  Monday,  15  December  2008,  in  order 
to  better  reflect  ongoing  developments,  including  the 
Follow-up  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
A/63/PV.51
Development  to  Review  the  Implementation  of  the 
Monterrey  Consensus,  to  be  held  in  Doha  from 
29 November. I would like to remind members that the 
lists  of  speakers  on  the  items  listed  in  document 
A/INF/63/4/Rev.2 are open. 

I  would  also  like  to  make  a  few  announcements 
concerning  the  programme  of  work  of  the  General 
Assembly. Members will recall that the Assembly held 
the debate on agenda item 45, “Culture of peace”, at its 
46th to 50th plenary meetings, on 12 and 13 November 
2008. May I  also recall that the Assembly took action 
on draft resolution A/63/L.24/Rev.1 at the 50th plenary 
meeting,  on  13  November  2008.  However,  at  the 
request  of  the  sponsors,  action  on  draft  resolution 
A/63/L.23  was  postponed  until  a  later  date  to  be 
announced. 

I  would  now  like  to  remind  members  of  the 
programme  of  work  of  the  plenary  for  tomorrow 
morning,  Tuesday,  18  November  2008.  The Assembly 
will take up, as the first item, the report of the Second 
Committee  on  agenda  item  48,  “Follow-up  to  and 
the  2002 
implementation  of 
International 
for 
Development  and  the  preparation  of  the  2008  Review 
Conference”.  As  the  second  item,  the  Assembly  will 
resume its consideration of sub-item (l) of agenda item 
114, “Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Inter-Parliamentary  Union”,  in  order  to  take  action  on 
draft  resolution  A/63/L.26.  Thereafter,  the  Assembly 
will  proceed 
item  102, 
“Notification  by  the  Secretary-General  under  Article 
12, paragraph 2, of the Charter of the United Nations”, 
as  the  third  item;  and  agenda  item  9,  “Report  of  the 
Security  Council”,  jointly  with  agenda  item  111, 
“Question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters”, as the fourth item. Members are requested to 
consult  the  Journal  of  the  United  Nations  for  further 
details. 
Before we conclude the meeting, I would like to 

remind  delegations  that  His  Excellency  Mr.  Evo 
Morales  Ayma,  President  of  Bolivia,  will  address  the 
General Assembly at 12.30 p.m. 
The meeting rose at 12.10 p.m.  
the  outcome  of 
Conference 
Financing 
consider 
agenda 
on 
to 
08-60527 

15 
