
A/63/PV.6
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

6th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 23 September 2008, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 
common  response.  Too  often,  people  affected  by 
poverty and conflicts are let down. 

The need to adapt the international architecture to 
these  challenges  is  deeper  than  ever.  We  need  an 
efficient  United  Nations  to  find  common  solutions  for 
our  future.  The  United  Nations  represents  collective 
security in its most global form. Finland is committed 
to building a more secure, fair and just world through a 
reformed and credible United Nations. 

I had the pleasure earlier this week of presenting 
to the Secretary-General the final report of the Helsinki 
Process  on  Globalization  and  Democracy.  The  main 
political message of this joint initiative of Finland and 
the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  is  that  some  of  the 
challenges  posed  by  globalization  can  be  solved  only 
through multi-stakeholder dialogue, and that the United 
Nations could play an important role in facilitating and 
developing new practices for such cooperation. 

Climate  change  must  be  addressed  with  vigour. 
Otherwise,  it  can  wipe  out  our  achievements  in  the 
field  of  sustainable  development  and  even  bring  into 
question the whole future of mankind. Recent extreme 
weather  phenomena  can  be  a  serious  indication  of  the 
challenges  we  are  about 
face.  Multilateral 
engagement  and  shared  responsibility  are  the  only 
effective  means  to  tackle  this  global  menace.  Others’ 
indifference is no excuse for inaction. Climate change 
is  a  matter  of  our  responsibility  to  future  generations. 
There is no place for petty politics or recrimination. 
The United Nations has to play a leading role in 

the global response to climate change. We must reach a 
to 




The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 

Address by Ms. Tarja Halonen, President of the 
Republic of Finland 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Finland. 

Ms.  Tarja  Halonen,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Finland, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the United Nations Her Excellency Ms. Tarja Halonen, 
President of the Republic of Finland, and to invite her 
to address the Assembly. 
President  Halonen:  Let  me  first  congratulate 

you, Sir, on your election to preside over the sixty-third 
session  of  the  General Assembly.  We  express  our  full 
support for your presidency. I also thank the Secretary-
General  for  his  resolute  efforts  to  promote  the  United 
Nations and its values. 

European Union. 

Our  world  is  facing  unforeseen  challenges,  such 
as  climate  change  and  the  food  crisis.  The  current 
economic turmoil also  requires  decisive action. At the 
same  time,  we  have  not  been  able  to  rid  ourselves  of 
conventional  crisis.  Unfortunately,  armed  conflicts  are 
still  a  reality  all  over  the  world. Too  often,  we  —  the 
international  community  —  are  unable  to  agree  on  a 

Finland  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  of  the 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-51606 (E) 
*0851606* 

on 
a 
to 
It 
is 
There 
global 
important 
agreement 
is  mounting  evidence 
A/63/PV.6 

comprehensive 
new 
international climate regime. The Copenhagen Climate 
Change  Conference  will  take  place  in  December  next 
year. It is evident that global commitments need to be 
implemented  and  also  supplemented  by  national  and 
regional  action. 
include  all 
stakeholders,  from  non-governmental  organizations  to 
private  enterprises,  and  from  individual  citizens  to 
Governments. We need everybody; it is necessary that 
women too can participate fully in this work. 

Industrialized  countries  have  to  bear  their  share 
in  mitigating  climate  change.  However,  international 
negotiations on the new climate regime cannot succeed 
without  extensive  participation  by  the  developing 
countries.  We  must  actively  support 
the  most 
vulnerable  developing  countries  in  adapting  to  and 
combating climate change. 

that  poverty, 
especially in rural areas, can be reduced by sustainable 
management of natural resources. Forests are crucial in 
reducing greenhouse gases. Finland has a long history 
of  sustainable  forest  management,  and  we  understand 
its  impact  on  rural  development  and  employment.  We 
would like the United Nations to intensify its efforts to 
assist  Governments  and  communities  to  improve  their 
capacities for rural development and sustainable forest 
management.  We  are  of  course  ready  to  work  with 
others in this respect. 

I  am  pleased  to  be  a  co-host,  together  with  the 
President  of  Liberia,  Ms.  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf,  my 
friend,  of  the  International  Colloquium  on  Women’s 
Empowerment,  to  be  held  in  Liberia  next  March. The 
conference  will  address  women’s  role  in  climate 
change, security, governance and leadership. 
food  prices  are  a  challenge  with 

worldwide  consequences.  Once  again  the  poorest  and 
the  most  vulnerable  —  women  and  children  —  suffer 
the most. Food shortages lead to deterioration of diets, 
and  can  provoke  social  unrest.  Effective  Government 
action  and improved donor coordination are crucial in 
tackling 
food  crisis.  The  United  Nations 
Comprehensive  Framework  for Action  is  an  excellent 
initiative in addressing this global challenge. 
Parallel to the short-term response, attention must 

be  paid 
in 
enhancing food security. Support for the rural sector is 
crucial  for  sustainable  and  equitable  development, 
growth  and  well-being.  Moreover,  the  promotion  of 
long-term  policies 
to  medium-  and 
Rising 
the 
and 
civilian 
the  best 
personnel 
the  food 
good  agricultural  practices 
is  among 
approaches to adaptation to climate change. 

This food issue can also provide opportunities. If 
developing  countries  are  supported  in  the  spirit  of  the 
Aid for Trade agenda, they can better take advantage of 
their  agricultural  potential,  including  exporting.  And 
we  need  to  ensure,  again,  that  both  women  and  men 
benefit  from  support,  keeping  in  mind  that  women 
produce  most  of 
in  many  developing 
countries. 
The  United  Nations  currently  deploys  well  over 

100,000  military 
in 
peacekeeping  operations.  This  is  a  remarkable  figure, 
and  we,  the  Member  States,  must  continue  to  support 
the  United  Nations  efforts  in  this  field.  The  United 
Nations and regional organizations should work closer 
together  in  carrying  the  burden  in  preventing  and 
resolving conflicts. 
Increased  cooperation  should  be  extended  to  the 

African Union. We already have good cooperation and 
experience  in  our  own  region,  because  improving 
efficiency  and  improving  cooperation  between  the 
European  Union  and  the  United  Nations  remain  a  top 
priority. In Kosovo, and most recently also in Georgia, 
we  continue  close  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations, the European Union and the Organization for 
Security and Cooperation in Europe.  

That  is  why  I  also  dare  to  say  that  increased 
cooperation  should  be  extended  to  the African  Union. 
A  continued  United  Nations  peacekeeping  presence  in 
Chad  and  in  the  Central  African  Republic  would 
contribute  to  wider  stabilization  efforts,  both  locally 
and regionally. 

Tackling  today’s  multifold  conflicts  requires  a 
comprehensive 
Trade, 
development  policy  and  humanitarian  aid  need  to  be 
utilized  alongside  traditional  crisis  management  tools. 
We must — even better than today — take women and 
children  into  account  in  conflicts  and  post-conflict 
peacebuilding. 

We have made good decisions. We have to make 
them  become  reality.  I  am  pleased  to  inform  the 
Assembly that last Friday Finland published a national 
action  plan  on 
implementing  Security  Council 
resolution  1325  (2000).  We  hope  that  more  and  more 
member countries will do the same. 
approach 
security. 
to 
2 

08-51606 
strongly 
supports 
justice.  Finland 
to  make  a  commitment  on 


Furthermore,  there  can  be  no  sustainable  peace 

without 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  in  rejecting  impunity  for 
the most serious international crimes. 

Finally,  I  want  to  share  my  memories  and 
experience.  I  had  the  privilege  to  co-preside  over  the 
Millennium  Summit  with  President  Sam  Nujoma  of 
Namibia eight years ago. We witnessed leaders having 
the  spirit  and  the  courage  to  adopt  the  Millennium 
Declaration  and 
the 
Millennium Development Goals. It is our duty to fulfil 
these  commitments.  Africa  requires  our  devoted 
attention and support, as was agreed yesterday. Let us 
work for it, because today, in this Hall, it is once again 
time  to  pledge  our  joint  commitment  to  the  ideas  and 
values of the United Nations.  

the 
Everyone  present  may 
Charter  calls  us  to  do:  “to  unite  our  strength  to 
maintain  international  peace  and  security”.  While  the 
concept  of  security  has  changed  and  become  broader, 
the onus is on us to follow this call of the Charter and 
translate it into action. 

The  President (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Republic  of  Finland  for  the  statement  she  has  just 
made.  

Ms.  Tarja  Halonen,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Finland, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 
remember  what 


Address by Mr. Haris Silajdžić, Chairman of the 
Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Chairman  of  the 
Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 

Mr.  Haris  Silajdžić,  Chairman  of  the  Presidency 
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Haris Silajdžić, 
Chairman  of 
and 
Herzegovina,  and 
the 
Assembly. 

the General Assembly at its sixty-third session. 
the  Presidency  of  Bosnia 
to  address 
President  Silajdžić:  It  is  an  honour  to  address 
invite  him 
to 
A/63/PV.6

Allow  me  to  express  my  gratitude  to  Mr.  Srgjan 
Kerim,  who  ably  presided  over  the  Assembly  during 
the  preceding  year,  and  to  congratulate  you,  Father 
Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann, the new President of the 
General  Assembly.  I  also  thank  you,  Sir,  for  an 
inspiring appeal for respect for basic, universal ethical 
values. 

The first time I stood at this rostrum was in May 
1992,  as  the  Foreign  Minister  of  a  newly  independent 
Bosnia and Herzegovina. At that time, I recounted the 
unspeakable  atrocities  that  were  unfolding  in  my 
country.  I  also  warned  that,  if  not  stopped,  such 
atrocities would only get worse. In fact, I merely asked 
that  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  be  accorded  the  right  to 
defend itself, the right guaranteed by the Charter. 

We  know  what  has  happened  since.  Some  in  the 
international  community  insisted  on  maintaining  the 
arms  embargo  imposed  by  the  Security  Council  in 
1991,  thus  adding  to  the  obviously  overwhelming 
military  advantage  of  Milosevic’s  regime,  which  was 
bent  on  destroying  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  and  its 
people.  They  justified  this  course  by  claiming  that 
lifting  the  arms  embargo  meant  adding  oil  to  the  fire. 
The result was that the fire was quelled with the blood 
of the innocent. 
According to International Committee of the Red 

Cross  data,  200,000  people  —  12,000  of 
them 
children —  were  killed,  up  to  50,000  women  were 
raped, and 2.2 million people were forced to flee their 
homes.  This  was  a  veritable  genocide  and  sociocide. 
The  intent  of  the  perpetrators  of  this  genocide  was  to 
forever  destroy  the  unique  multi-ethnic  fabric  of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina through mass slaughter, rape, 
torture,  abuse,  expulsion  and  plunder.  In  spite  of  this, 
defenders  of  our  country  conducted 
themselves 
honourably,  as  demonstrated  by  the  acquittal  by  the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal 
former 
Yugoslavia  of  most  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina’s 
military leadership. 

All  this  culminated  in  Srebrenica  in  July  1995. 
The  International  Court  of  Justice  —  the  court  of  this 
Organization  —  ruled  in  its  Judgment  of  26  February 
2007 that “the Bosnian Serbs devised and implemented 
a  plan  to  execute  as  many  as  possible  of  the  military 
aged  Bosnian  Muslim  men  present  in  the  enclave” 
(para. 292) and that 

...  were 
“the  acts  committed  at  Srebrenica 
committed  with  the  specific  intent  to  destroy  in 
the 
for 
08-51606 

3 
A/63/PV.6 


...  Srebrenica  crystallized  a 
part  the  group  of  the  Muslims  of  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  as  such;  and  accordingly  …  these 
were acts of genocide, committed by members of 
the  [Army  of  Republika  Srpska]  in  and  around 
Srebrenica from about 13 July 1995.” (para. 297) 

Through  its  acts  and  omissions,  the  United 
Nations,  by  its  own  admission,  bears  part  of  the 
responsibility  for  the  crimes  committed  at  Srebrenica. 
In  fact, 
the  Secretary-General’s  1999  report  on 
Srebrenica unequivocally states: 

“Through error, misjudgement and an inability to 
recognize the scope of the evil confronting us, we 
failed  to  do  our  part  to  help  save  the  people  of 
Srebrenica  from  the  Serb  campaign  of  mass 
murder 
truth 
understood  only  too  late  by  the  United  Nations 
and the world at large: that Bosnia was as much a 
moral cause as a military conflict. The tragedy of 
Srebrenica  will  haunt  our  history  forever.” 
(A/54/549, para. 503) 

We do not want the United Nations to be haunted. 
This  Organization’s  credibility  is  too  important  to  the 
world to carry the burden of this failure. Errors can be 
committed,  but  errors  must  not  be  repeated.  We  want 
the  United  Nations  to  right  the  wrongs.  In  fact, 
international law mandates that this must be done. The 
International  Law  Commission’s  articles  on  State 
responsibility 
acts, 
adopted  in  resolution  56/83  of  12  December  2001, 
mandate  that  “No  State  shall  recognize  as  lawful  a 
situation created by a serious breach [of a peremptory 
norm  of  general  international  law]”,  which  clearly 
includes  the  crime  of  genocide  and  crimes  against 
humanity, “nor render aid or assistance in maintaining 
that situation” (article 41). 

If  those  principles  had  been  applied,  would  the 
institutions  identified  by  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  as  perpetrators  of  genocide  still  exist?  Would 
vast  portions  of  a  country  remain  ethnically  clean? 
Would  over  a  million  refugees  and  displaced  persons 
remain  outside 
these 
principles  allow  for  the  arrest  of  Karadzic  and  the 
simultaneous preservation of the results of his project? 
In  fact,  just  today  The  Hague  Tribunal  announced  a 
revised  indictment  against  Karadzic  that  charges  him 
with  genocide  and  crimes  against  humanity,  against 
both  Bosnians  and  Croats  in  27  municipalities  in 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina.  This  process  will  further 
their  homes?  In  short,  do 
internationally  wrongful 
for 
that 
to  make 
In  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  we  had 
implicate  the  Milosevic  regime  in  the  planning  and 
commission of those crimes.  

We  cannot  bring  back  the  dead,  but  we  can  give 
dignity and justice to the survivors. What we say today 
is aimed not at the past, but at the future, and not only 
for Bosnia and Herzegovina. We owe it to not only the 
victims  and  survivors,  but  humanity  as  a  whole.  The 
message  to  the  would-be  perpetrators  of  crimes  in  the 
name of a twisted ideology should be crystal-clear: do 
not  even  think  about  it;  your  terror  will  not  pay  off. 
That should be the message. 
the 

opportunity 
true  by  a  consistent 
implementation of the  1995 Dayton Peace Agreement, 
which ended the aggression, stopped the genocide, and 
brought peace. These were its major accomplishments, 
and their value cannot be overemphasized. 

The Dayton Peace Agreement, however, was also 
intended  to  reverse  the  effects  of  genocide  and  ethnic 
cleansing.  It  had  all  the  necessary  elements  to  do  so. 
Instead,  in  the  words  of  the  Constitutional  Court  of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, its main provisions have been 
a victim of:  

“a systemic, continuing and deliberate practice of 
the  public  authorities  of  Republika  Srpska  with 
the  goal  of  preventing  the  so-called  minority 
returns,  either  through  direct  participation  in 
violent  incidents  or  through  the  abdication  of 
responsibility  to  protect  the  people  from 
... 
violent  attacks  due  solely 
their  ethnic 
background”. 

Dayton  never  intended  such  ethnic  apartheid  to 
take  root  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina.  It  is  not  the 
implementation  of  the  Dayton  Peace  Agreement,  but 
the  violation  of  its  core  principles,  that  led  to  this 
result.  It  would  be  a  grave  mistake  to  recognize  this 
result  as  lawful  and  legitimate.  It  is  the  responsibility 
of this Organization to make it right. Just as we should 
not  have  been  forced  to  smuggle  arms  into  our  own 
country  to  defend  ourselves,  we  should  not  be  forced 
now  to  smuggle  basic  human  rights,  justice  and 
democracy into Bosnia and Herzegovina. 

Without  righting  this  wrong  can  we  genuinely 
celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of the adoption of the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights 
this 
December?  Moreover,  can  we  celebrate  the  sixtieth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Convention  on  the 
to 
4 

08-51606 
is 
the 
responsibility  of 


Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the  Crime  of  Genocide 
if  the  first  and  only  Judgment  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  on  the  crime  of  genocide  remains  in 
the Court’s archives? 

Now  is  the  time  to  right  these  wrongs.  We  are 
about to start work on the new Constitution of Bosnia 
and Herzegovina, and the outcome of that process will 
answer many of these questions. 

To those who now seek to legitimize the systemic 
violations of the Dayton Peace Agreement, we all must 
say: make no mistake,  genocide  will not be rewarded. 
That 
this  Organization. 
Rewarding genocide would send a dangerous message 
throughout the world, and would surely undermine the 
chances  of  peace  and  stability 
in  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina and the region.  

Seekers  of  justice  are  not  the  enemies  of  peace. 
They  are  the  guardians  of  peace.  As  the  Secretary-
General  said  today,  justice  is  the  pillar  of  peace  and 
stability.  That  is  what  this  statement  is  all  about. 
Certainly,  there  are  those  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina 
who  would  not  agree,  but  they  are  surely  not  the 
victims of genocide. 

We have not forgotten the help we received from 
many of the countries represented here today, a number 
of  whose  soldiers,  diplomats,  aid  workers  and 
journalists  died  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  while 
working  to  end  the  aggression,  bring  peace  and  ease 
the suffering, or to make sure that the rest of the world 
knew about it. For that we thank them once again, and 
renew our sympathy to their families.  
An  even  greater  number  of  countries  have 

assisted  us 
the 
aggression,  and  we  extend  our  heartfelt  gratitude  for 
that as well. Bosnia and Herzegovina still needs help in 
this regard, and we hope that we can work together in 
order  to  ensure  permanent  peace  and  stability  in  my 
country, the region and the world. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the Chairman of 
the  Presidency  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Haris  Silajdžić,  Chairman  of  the  Presidency 
of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  was  escorted  from 
the General Assembly Hall. 
rebuilding  our  society  after 
in 

08-51606 

A/63/PV.6

Address by Mr. Paul Kagame, President of the 
Republic of Rwanda 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Rwanda. 

Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Paul  Kagame, 
President of the Republic of Rwanda, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
President  Kagame:  We  are  gathered  here  once 

again to reflect on major national, regional and global 
challenges  —  and  on  how  together,  as  the  United 
Nations,  we  can  renew  our  commitment  to  finding 
solutions.  It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  share  with  the 
General Assembly some insights on how some of those 
global  developments  affect  Rwanda,  as  well  as  our 
region,  as  we  continue  to  strengthen  our  social, 
economic and democratic institutions for improving the 
lives of our citizens.  

In  the  context  of  fighting  poverty  and  achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  our  second-
generation  poverty-reduction  strategy 
is  gathering 
momentum  in Africa,  East Africa  and  Rwanda,  and  is 
being  implemented  in  the  context  of  greater  stability 
and  peace.  In  Rwanda  we  are  registering  a  healthy 
economic  growth  rate,  which  is  currently  averaging 
7 per  cent  annually,  in  an  increasingly  open  and 
conducive  environment  that  encourages  domestic  and 
foreign  investors.  We  also  continue  to  deepen  our 
regional  integration  in  the  East  African  community. 
That  is  essential  for  a  bigger  and  more  dynamic 
market, which should become a far more effective and 
efficient gateway to global business. 

With 
and 
promoting 
political 
participation, we continue to make significant progress. 
In the just-concluded Rwandan parliamentary elections 
for  the  lower  chamber,  women  candidates  performed 
exceptionally well, increasing their presence in the new 
Parliament  from  49  to  55  seats.  We  believe  that, 
besides  improving  gender  status  in  our  country,  that 
marks healthy progress towards realizing a vision of a 
united, democratic and prosperous Rwanda. 
to 
socio-economic 
empowering  women 
regard 
their 
and 
5 
limited 
A/63/PV.6 


Allow  me  to  raise  another  issue  that  may  have 
wider  implications,  namely,  that  of  justice  and,  more 
specifically, of universal jurisdiction and its abuse. It is 
important that those who consider themselves powerful 
nations do not misuse that tool of international justice 
to  extend  their  laws  and  jurisdiction  over  those  they 
perceive to be weaker countries. If unchecked, one can 
only  imagine  the  legal  chaos  that  would  ensue  should 
any judge in any country decide to apply local laws to 
other sovereign States. The United Nations has a duty 
to  ensure  that  universal  jurisdiction  serves  its  original 
goals of delivering international justice and fairness, as 
opposed to abuse. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  climate  change  is  among 
the  critical  challenges  of  our  time.  Africa  is  being 
gravely  affected.  Deserts  and  dry  zones  continue  to 
claim more territory. Over-reliance on wood for energy 
by  our  populations  is  leading  to  severe  deforestation. 
Furthermore,  unpredictable  weather  and 
rainfall 
scientific  and 
patterns,  combined  with 
technological  capacities,  are  already  undermining  our 
continent’s  ability 
to  effectively  manage  water 
resources.  

We  take  those  challenges  very  seriously  in 
Rwanda.  Earlier  this  month,  in  Kigali,  the  Africa 
Climate Change Forum brought together policymakers, 
business 
scientific 
communities  from  different  parts  of  the  world.  They 
reaffirmed that the world community urgently needs to 
think  globally,  but  also  to  act  locally,  in  translating 
resolutions  into  actions.  Towards  that  end,  we  are 
determined 
the  areas  of 
reforestation, 
for  more 
effective use of water and land resources, as well as to 
prevent soil erosion. It is indispensable that we partner 
together  as  a  global  community  to  urgently  act  to 
protect our planet in the context of the Convention on 
Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol. 

Rwanda  is  committed  to  regional  and  global 
peace and stability. Let us not forget that the process of 
comprehensively  resolving  the  issue  of  those  who 
to  be 
committed  genocide 
completed.  We  stand  ready  to  play  our  part 
in 
addressing  that  matter  in  the  context  of  broader 
objectives  to  consolidate  stability  and  peace  on  our 
continent.  Once  again,  I  assure  the  Assembly  of  our 
determination and commitment to creating a safer and 
better world. 
in  Rwanda  has  yet 
intensify  efforts 
terracing  and 
academic 
irrigation 
and 
leaders 
and 
to 
in 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Republic  of  Rwanda  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 


into 
it  guides 
Address by Mr. Valdas Adamkus, President of the 
Republic of Lithuania 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Lithuania. 

Mr. Valdas Adamkus, President of the Republic of 
Lithuania,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Valdas 
Adamkus,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Lithuania,  and 
to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Adamkus:  First,  I  would  like  to 

express  my  great  respect  to  the  leadership  of  the 
General  Assembly  as 
the  Organization 
through global issues and challenges.  
When I stood at this podium 10 years ago, the list 

of issues to be urgently addressed was about the same, 
yet  the  mood  was  different.  The  Kyoto  Protocol  had 
just  been  signed  and  preparations  for  the  Millennium 
Summit,  including  the  drafting  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals, were under way. The international 
community, guided by the principles and the leadership 
of  the  United  Nations,  showed  the  will  and  the 
ambition to resolve global issues.  

But  did  we  manage  to  turn  that  collective  will 
into  principled  and  decisive  actions?  I  have  to  admit 
that  many  nations,  big  and  small,  have  many  more 
concerns  today  than  they  did  a  decade  ago. Today  we 
feel less secure. The very structure of the international 
system  seems  to  be  fracturing,  depriving  us  of  the 
protection  provided  by 
and 
international  institutions.  In  my  region,  in  Eastern 
Europe  and  in  the  eastern  neighbourhood  of  the 
European  Union  (EU),  that  is  more  obvious  than 
anywhere else.  
international 
law 
6 

08-51606 



Take  energy  security:  oil  supplies  to  Lithuania 
have been cut off without warning, and we do not stand 
a chance of conducting a normal civilized dialogue on 
how to fix the problem. Gas supplies were interrupted 
to  our  neighbours  Ukraine  and  Belarus.  In  that  light, 
and  on  the  eve  of  closing  down  our  only  independent 
power generator, we have very serious reason to worry 
about the possible risks for the future of our economy. 
I would also say that other countries of our region also 
have concerns about unreliable energy supplies. Such a 
situation threatens the stability of the entire region. The 
United  Nations  cannot  be  a  mere  passive  observer  if, 
and  when,  universal  values  and  international  law  are 
under  threat.  Too  often,  we  remain  observers  in  the 
face of mounting security crises.  
What happened to Georgia a few months ago is a 

case in point. The United Nations largely failed to react 
to an act of aggression against a small nation that has 
been  a  Member  of  the  United  Nations  since  1992. 
Perhaps we failed to react because one of the interested 
sides  to  the  conflict  is  a  permanent  member  of  the 
Security  Council,  which  has  the  responsibility  to 
protect  both  the  letter  and  the  spirit  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  and  various  United  Nations 
resolutions. 

But  maybe  we  also  failed  to  react  because  our 
faith in the United Nations has weakened. It is the very 
essence of the Organization’s mission to protect human 
life  and  human  rights,  but  too  often  voting  on  human 
rights  receives  less  and  less  support  from  Member 
States. Today, there are still about 26 million internally 
displaced persons in the world, including in the Sudan, 
Somalia,  the  South  Caucasus  nations  of  Georgia  and 
Azerbaijan, and other places. Last year alone, we faced 
serious  crises  in  different  corners  of  the  planet, 
including  in  Myanmar,  the  Sudan  and  Zimbabwe. The 
world  needed  United  Nations  leadership,  but  the 
Organization has not acted accordingly. That is because 
some States hide behind technicalities or the shield of 
national  sovereignty,  thereby  paralysing  the  United 
Nations. 

It is quite evident that the United Nations cannot 
continue with business as usual. It needs reform and a 
greater  role  in  areas  that  will  determine  the  future  of 
the  twenty-first  century,  such  as  energy,  information 
security, 
against 
fundamentalism  and  the  like.  How  long  will  we 
continue with cold-war-era security definitions, closing 
our  eyes  to  the  less  visible,  but  no  less  dangerous 
anti-terrorism, 
fight 
the 
A/63/PV.6
dangers  of  the  twenty-first  century?  When  17  years 
ago,  following  the  Soviet  occupation,  my  country 
regained  independence  and  joined  the  United  Nations, 
we  were  told  that  never  again  would  Molotovs  and 
Ribbentrops dare to decide the future of other nations. 
Next  year  we  will  mark  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the shameful Molotov-Ribbentrop secret protocols.  

But  Lithuania  and  other  nations  of  the  former 
Soviet Union still have to fight against the revisionism 
seeping  down  from  the  Kremlin’s  towers  and  the 
blatant  claims  that  there  was  no  occupation  of  the 
Baltic  States  and  that  there  was  no  Holodomor  in 
Ukraine,  where  millions  of  people  were  starved  to 
death  by  a  ruthless  dictator.  Should  not  an  alarm  bell 
ring  across  the  entire  international  community  when 
we  see  such  bold  attempts  to  cover  up  crimes  against 
humanity? 

Today,  my  nation  is  commemorating  the  Day  of 
Genocide  of  Lithuanian  Jews.  That  tragedy  is  a 
powerful  reminder  to  us  all  of  the  vulnerability  of 
freedom,  but  it  also  teaches  us  that  sincere  efforts  to 
admit one’s crimes help nations to reconcile and create 
a  truly  peaceful,  secure  and  stable  area. Therefore,  on 
this  solemn  day  we  not  only  remember  but  we  also 
learn. 

If  we  are  to  reform  the  United  Nations  in  a 
meaningful way, perhaps we should have a better look 
at the experience of European nations after the end of 
the  Second  World  War  and  the  end  of  the  cold  war. 
Based on that experience, it is obvious that we need to 
strengthen  democracy  at  home  in  order  to  have  good 
governance  and 
leadership.  Perhaps 
responsible  leaders  will  not  protect  us  from  all  global 
challenges, but they will at least seek cooperation with 
their  people  and  other  nations 
their 
persisting problems. 

It is only through integration that truly indivisible 
security  can  be  achieved.  Indivisible  security  has 
special  meaning  and  importance  for  smaller  nations, 
which have all too often fallen victim to the redrawing 
of maps. It is my conviction that the interaction of, and 
cooperation among, different organizations — like the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe, 
EU,  NATO  and  the  Council  of  Europe  —  have  been, 
and  should  remain,  the  foundation  for  security  and 
stability 
in  Europe.  There  are  difficulties  and 
deficiencies;  but  there  is  no  alternative,  and  new 
alternatives  are  not  needed.  I  am  therefore  deeply 
responsible 
to  resolve 
08-51606 

7 
the 
before 

to  revise 
undertaken 
and  making 
the  principle  of 
The  United  Nations  also  has 
A/63/PV.6 

worried  by  new  calls 
institutional 
structure of European security, rather than to abide by 
commitments 
the  whole 
international community. 

Security based on cooperation should remain the 
basic principle of different European organizations and 
of international relations as a whole. The philosophy of 
the balance of power, which is again growing popular 
in some capitals, has no place in contemporary Europe. 
And because security is indivisible, it is in the interest 
of the international community that the United Nations 
should  play  a  greater  role  in  strengthening  preventive 
diplomacy 
the 
responsibility to protect work. 

to  be  more 
responsive  to  emerging  threats,  such  as  unreliable 
energy  supplies,  fundamentalism  and  cyber  attacks.  It 
does  not  matter  if  the  world  is  unipolar,  bipolar  or 
multipolar. Human life and human rights remain at the 
heart of our world. Only such a world can create a truly 
viable  architecture  among  States  —  an  architecture 
based on trust, openness and respect for human rights. 
But did we see efforts to create such an architecture in 
the  Georgia-Russia  conflict?  What  we  saw  instead 
were  renewed  attempts  to  divide  the  world  into  zones 
of  influence  or  privileged  interests.  That  should  be 
unacceptable  to  the  international  community  in  the 
twenty-first  century.  Division  and  exclusion  are  bad 
remedies for  conflict resolution. Conflict resolution in 
South  Ossetia,  Abkhazia  and  elsewhere 
should 
therefore  be  the  responsibility  of  the  international 
community  and  international  institutions,  not  of  one 
participating side, which hardly remains impartial. 

We also have to maintain commitments to value-
based policies. It is through our commitment to change 
and reform that Lithuania has become what it is today: 
a consolidated democracy, a strong reformed economy 
and an active contributor to international peacekeeping 
missions from the Balkans to Afghanistan. 

I  believe  that  we,  the  peoples  of  the  United 
Nations,  have  to  renew  our  commitment  to  universal 
values and principles, so that we march together and in 
the  same  direction  and  our  steps  become  stronger.  I 
believe that we must learn those lessons well, so that in 
another  10-years’  time  we  can  celebrate  not  only  the 
fulfilled  promise  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals but also the fulfilled promise of creating lasting 
peace  and  an  era  of  progress,  prosperity  and  human 
integrity.  It  is  because  the  United  Nations  consists 
primarily not of the sum total of votes but of universal 
principles that those principles shall be a guiding light 
for  us  in  the  years  to  come.  I  still  believe  that  that  is 
the  core  mission  of  the  Organization.  I  care  deeply 
about it. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the Republic of Lithuania for the statement he has just 
made. 

Mr. Valdas Adamkus, President of the Republic of 
Lithuania,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
from 


Address by Mr. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, President 
of the Islamic Republic of Iran 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran. 

Mr.  Mahmoud  Ahmadinejad,  President  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mahmoud 
Ahmadinejad,  President  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 

President Ahmadinejad (spoke in Farsi; English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  am  grateful  to  the 
Almighty  for  granting  me  another  opportunity  to  be 
present at this world Assembly. In the past three years, 
I have talked to the Assembly about great hopes in the 
bright  future  of  human  society  and  about  some 
solutions 
and 
expanding  love,  compassion  and  cooperation.  I  have 
also  talked  about  unjust  systems  governing  the  world; 
pressures  exerted  by  some  Powers  seeking  to  trample 
the rights of other nations; oppression imposed on the 
majority  of  the  global  community,  especially  on  the 
peoples  of  Iraq,  Palestine,  Lebanon,  Africa,  Latin 
America and Asia; about challenges we are faced with, 
such  as  efforts  to  shatter  the  sanctity  of  families, 
destroy  cultures,  humiliate 
lofty  values,  neglect 
commitments  and  expand  the  shadow  of  threats;  as 
well  as  about  the  arms  race  and  the  unfairness  and 
inability  of  the  systems  governing  world  affairs  to 
reform the status quo. 
sustainable  peace 
achieving 
for 
8 

08-51606 
the 
of 
various 
With 
emergence 



new 
developments, the debility of existing mechanisms has 
been revealed even more starkly. However, at the same 
time an encouraging trend, originating in the thoughts 
and  beliefs  of  peoples,  has  blossomed  and  become 
stronger. Against the backdrop of the despair caused by 
the new developments, that trend has ignited a glimmer 
of  hope  in  the  hearts  of  men  for  a  brilliant,  desirable 
and beautiful future. 

Today, I would like to talk to the Assembly about 
the  main  reasons  behind  the  conditions  ruling  the 
world  and  the  means  to  address  them.  Of  course,  the 
Assembly is already aware of what I am talking about, 
but I think it is necessary to remind ourselves. It seems 
that the roots of problems lie in the way one views and 
perceives  the  world  and  humankind,  as  well  as  in  the 
important  issues  of  freedom,  obeisance  to  God,  and 
justice.  The  world,  humankind,  freedom,  obeisance  to 
God, and justice have been of the utmost importance to 
humans throughout history. 

God  Almighty  purposefully  created  the  world. 
The world is the bedrock for the evolution and growth 
of  a  creature  called  man,  and  the  laws  governing  the 
world  and  all  other  creatures  are  at  the  service  of 
humankind’s  quest  for  loftiness.  The  world  should 
provide  the  needed  opportunities  for  the  fulfilment  of 
the  purpose  behind  humankind’s  creation.  No 
phenomenon,  creature  or,  indeed,  anything  has  been 
created in vain. Together they all pave the way for the 
flourishing of humankind in a complex and purposeful 
system,  and  they  are  each  one  of  the  signs  of  God 
Almighty.  All  are  His  creations  and  He  is  the  sole 
creator and ruler of the world. All existence, including 
power, knowledge and wealth, comes from Him. 

With regard to humankind, God created the world 
for  humans,  and  humans  for  Himself.  He  created 
humans from mud and in the soil, but He did not want 
them to remain in the soil or with animal instincts. He 
kindled  the  light  of  guidance  in  their  souls  and  asked 
them  to  rise  from  the  soil  to  the  heavens  and  to  Him 
with the help of wisdom, prophets and perfect men. 

The world will ultimately disappear, but God has 
created  humankind  for  eternity  and  has  made  it  a 
manifestation  of  Himself.  Creativity,  mercifulness, 
kindness,  knowledge,  wisdom,  zeal,  compassion, 
splendor, justice, bounteousness, generosity, greatness, 
love,  glory,  dignity,  forgiveness,  insight,  kingship  and 
all  other  goodness  and  beauty  are  attributes  of  God. 
A/63/PV.6
God  did  not  create  humans  for  aggression,  bloodshed, 
rancour,  selfishness  and  destruction.  He  made  humans 
His  vicegerents  on  Earth  and  has  asked  them,  on  the 
one  hand,  to  make  Earth  prosper  by  using  their  God-
given  potentials,  to  prepare  the  ground  for  the  growth 
of  divine  attributes  in  all  humans  and  to  provide  all 
with  a  life  full  of  beauty,  amity,  freedom,  justice  and 
goodness; and, on the other hand, in pursuance of that 
path,  to  prepare  for  a  prosperous,  everlasting  life 
endowed by God’s mercy. God has obligated humans to 
live divinely and socially, for it is only through social 
life  and  interactions  with  others  that  divine  attributes 
can emerge. 

With  regard  to  obeisance  to  God,  God Almighty 
has tied the perfection and true freedom of humans to 
the  devotion  and  obedience  to  Himself.  True  freedom 
and  obedience  to  God  are  in  balance,  and  in  fact  are 
two  sides  of  the  same  coin.  Obeisance  to  God  means 
confessing  to  monotheism,  obeying  His  commands, 
and  being  free  from  ungodly  worship.  Obeisance  to 
God  means  the  acceptance  of  the  absolute  truth,  the 
absolute  light  and  the  absolute  beauty.  Obeisance  to 
God  means  abandoning  selfishness,  animal  instincts, 
power-seeking  and  aggression  and  surrendering  to 
righteousness, justice, love and perfection.  

In  that  way,  humans  can  achieve  their  true 
freedom  and  flourish.  They  can  grow  and  manifest 
divine attributes, have affection for others, stand up for 
justice,  fear  no  power  or  threat  and  defend  the 
oppressed. In such an environment, one’s freedom will 
not impinge on any others’. Contention and conflict are 
characteristic  of  materialistic  freedom  and  animal 
instinct.  The  essence  of  all  divine  religions  and 
obeisance  to  God  and  true  freedom  is  disassociating 
from  oppressors  and  instead  obeying  and  worshiping 
God. 

God is omniscient and knows all that is revealed 
or  kept  secret,  and  He  is  kind  and  merciful.  All 
creatures are humble before Him and resign themselves 
to  His  will.  God  is  alive  and  is  the  Creator  of  the 
universe  and  all  life.  God  loves  His  creatures  and 
desires nothing but goodness, blessings and perfection 
for them, and is against bullying, injustice, selfishness 
and domination. 

With regard to justice, it is the foundation of the 
creation of humankind and the whole universe. Justice 
is tantamount to placing every phenomenon in its own 
place  and  providing  humans  with  opportunities  to 
08-51606 

9 

immorality, 
A/63/PV.6 

actualize  all  their  divine  capabilities.  Without  it,  the 
order of the universe will collapse and the opportunity 
for perfection will fade away. Without justice, it would 
be  impossible  for  human  society  to  taste  real  peace, 
beauty, joy and happiness. Justice is the main pillar of 
social life, and without it social life cannot continue or 
grow. 

Humans  need  to  know  God  in  order  to  realize  a 
prosperous society in this world as well as to strive for 
a  beautiful  eternal  life. To  that  end,  they  first  have  to 
know themselves and strive for loftiness in themselves 
and  their  societies.  However,  as  long  as  the  world  is 
construed  as  closed,  limited  and  aimless;  as  long  as 
eternal life is considered imaginary and illusory, while 
the  afterlife  and  the  judgment  day,  as  well  as  reward 
and punishment, are thought of as fictional and unreal; 
as  long  as  morals  and  commitment  to  them  are  called 
backwardness,  while 
lies,  deceit  and 
selfishness  are  considered  desirable  and  humans  are 
limited  to  a  materialistic  life in  this  world;  as  long  as 
attempts  are  made  to  replace  obedience  to  God  and 
following His prophets and true freedom with servitude 
to  materialistic  tendencies,  animal  instincts  and  the 
oppression  of  others,  while  contention  reaches  its 
pinnacle;  as  long  as  the  aggressors,  because  of  their 
financial,  political  and  propaganda  powers,  not  only 
escape  punishment  but  even  claim  righteousness;  and 
as  long  as  wars  are  started  and  nations  enslaved  in 
order  to  win  votes  in  elections,  not  only  will  the 
problems  of  the  global  community  remain  unsolved, 
but they will be increasingly exacerbated. 
Let us look at the situation in the world today.  

Iraq  was  attacked  under  the  false  pretext  of 

uncovering  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
and 
overthrowing  a  dictator. The  dictator  was  toppled  and 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  were  not  uncovered.  A 
democratic  government  is  established  by  the  votes  of 
the  people,  but  after  six  years  the  occupiers  are  still 
there. They insist on imposing colonial agreements on 
the people of Iraq by keeping them under Chapter VII 
of the United Nations Charter. Millions of people have 
been  killed  or  displaced,  and  the  occupiers,  with  no 
sense  of  shame,  are  still  seeking  to  solidify  their 
position in the political geography of the region and to 
dominate  oil  resources.  They  have  no  respect  for  the 
people of Iraq and they disregard any dignity, rights or 
status  for  them.  The  United  Nations  is  not  capable 
enough  to  solve  the  problems  and  to  stop  aggression, 
occupation and imposition.  

In Palestine, 60 years of carnage and invasion is 
still  continuing  at  the  hands  of  some  criminal  and 
occupying  Zionists.  They  have  forged  a  regime  by 
collecting  people  from  various  parts  of  the  world  and 
bringing  them  to  another  people’s  land  by  displacing, 
detaining and killing the true owners of that land. With 
advance  notice,  they  invade,  assassinate  and  maintain 
food  and  medicine  blockades,  while  some  hegemonic 
and  bullying  Powers  support  them.  The  Security 
Council  cannot  do  anything  and  sometimes,  under 
pressure  from  a  few  bullying  Powers,  even  paves  the 
way  for  supporting  those  Zionist  murderers.  It  is 
natural that some United Nations resolutions that have 
addressed  the  plight  of  the  Palestinian  people  have 
been relegated to the archives unnoticed. 
In  Afghanistan,  the  production  of  narcotics  has 

multiplied  since  the  presence  of  NATO  forces  began. 
Domestic conflicts continue, terrorism is spreading and 
innocent  people  are  bombarded  on  a  daily  basis  in 
streets,  markets,  and 
schools  and  at  wedding 
ceremonies. The people of Afghanistan are the victims 
of the willingness of NATO member States to dominate 
the  regions  surrounding  India,  China  and  South Asia. 
The  Security  Council  cannot  do  anything  about  it 
because some of those NATO members also happen to 
be the major decision-makers in the Council. 

In  Africa,  there  are  efforts  to  re-establish  the 
relationships of the colonial era. By starting civil wars 
in 
the 
disintegration of those countries is planned in order to 
serve the interests of some corrupt Powers. When there 
is  national  resistance,  the  leaders  of  the  resistance  are 
put under pressure by legal mechanisms created by the 
very same Powers. 

In  Latin  America,  people  find  their  security, 
national interests and cultures seriously endangered by 
the  menacing 
domineering 
Governments,  and  even  by  the  embassies  of  some 
empires.  

The  lives,  property  and  rights  of  the  people  of 
Georgia,  Ossetia  and  Abkhazia  are  victims  of  the 
tendencies  and  provocation  of  NATO  and  certain 
Western  Powers  and  the  underhanded  actions  of  the 
Zionists. 

The never-ending arms race, the proliferation and 
stockpiling  of  nuclear  and  other  weapons  of  mass 
destruction,  and  the  threats  to  use  them  and  the 
the  Sudan, 
countries, 
including 
large 
shadow 
of 
alien 
10 

08-51606 
to 
Iran’s 
peaceful 
With 
regard 
the  same  Powers 


establishment  of  missile  defence  systems  have  made 
the situation unstable. 

nuclear 
programme, despite the inalienable right of all nations, 
including  the  Iranian  nation,  to  produce  nuclear  fuel 
for  peaceful  purposes,  and  despite  such  facts  as  the 
transparency of all Iranian activities and our country’s 
full cooperation with the inspectors of the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and  the  Agency’s 
repeated  confirmation  of  the  fact  that  Iran’s  activities 
are peaceful, a few bullying Powers have sought to put 
hurdles in the way of the peaceful nuclear activities of 
the  Iranian  nation  by  exerting  political  and  economic 
pressure on Iran and threatening and pressuring IAEA. 
Those  are 
that  produce  new 
lethal  nuclear  arms  and  possess 
generations  of 
stockpiles  of  nuclear  weapons  that  no  international 
organization is monitoring. Moreover, the tragedies of 
Hiroshima  and  Nagasaki  were  perpetrated  by  one  of 
them. 

Indeed,  they  are  not  against  weapons,  but  they 
oppose  the  progress  of  other  nations,  and  tend  to 
monopolize  technologies  and  to  use  those  monopolies 
to  impose  their  will  on  other  nations.  However,  it  is 
very  natural  that  the  great  Iranian  people,  with  their 
trust in God, with determination and steadfastness and 
with the support of their friends, will resist the bullying 
and  have  defended  and  will  continue  to  defend  their 
rights. The Iranian nation is for dialogue, but it has not 
accepted and will not accept illegal demands. The time 
has  come  for  IAEA  to  present  a  clear  report  to  the 
international  community  on  its  monitoring  of  the 
disarmament of those nuclear Powers and their nuclear 
activities,  and  for  a  disarmament  committee  to  be 
established  by  independent  States  to  monitor  the 
disarmament of those nuclear Powers. 

Theories of development that are in line with the 
hegemonic system and not in accordance with the true 
needs of humankind and human societies have become 
repetitive  and  bland  tools  for  assimilating  economies, 
expanding  hegemonic  domination  and  destroying  the 
environment and the social solidarity of nations. There 
is  no  end  in  sight  to  this.  Poverty,  hunger  and 
deprivation  are  hurting  more  than  one  billion  of  the 
world’s  population  and  have  dashed  their  hopes  for  a 
decent life. 

The dignity, integrity and rights of the American 
and European people are being played with by a small 
A/63/PV.6
but  deceitful  number  of  people  called  Zionists. 
Although they are a miniscule minority, they have been 
dominating  an  important  portion  of  the  financial  and 
monetary  centres,  as  well  as  the  political  decision-
making  centres  of  some  European  countries  and  the 
United  States,  in  a  deceitful,  complex  and  furtive 
manner.  It  is  deeply  disastrous  to  witness  that  some 
presidential or premier nominees in some big countries 
have to visit those people, take part in their gatherings 
and  swear  their  allegiances  and  commitment  to  their 
interests in order to attain financial or media support. 

That means that the great people of America and 
various  nations  of  Europe  need  to  obey  the  demands 
and  wishes  of  a  small  number  of  acquisitive  and 
invasive  people.  Those  nations  are  spending  their 
dignity  and  resources  on  the  crimes,  occupation  and 
threats of the Zionist network against their will. 

All  that  is  due  to  the  manner  in  which  the 
immoral and the powerful view the world, humankind, 
freedom,  obeisance  to  God  and  justice.  The  thoughts 
and  deeds  of  those  who  think  they  are  superior  to 
others  and  consider  others  to  be  second  class  and 
inferior,  who  intend  to  remain  out  of  the  divine  circle 
and to be the absolute slaves of their materialistic and 
selfish  desires,  who  intend  to  expand  their  aggressive 
and  domineering  natures,  constitute  the  roots  of  the 
problems in societies today. They are the hindrances to 
the realization of material  and spiritual  prosperity  and 
to security, peace and brotherhood among nations.  

I  explicitly  state  that  the  Iranian  people  and  the 
overwhelming  majority  of  peoples  and  Governments 
are against those deeds and perspectives of the world-
domineering  Powers.  The  establishment  of  justice 
requires  people  who  have  achieved  moderation  and 
justice inside themselves, restrained their domineering 
attitudes and actualized their attributes of self-sacrifice 
and are at the service of humankind. The complete and 
full-scale  manifestation  of  such  characteristics  can 
happen only under the rule of the righteous and perfect 
human  being  who  is  obedient  to  God  and  who  is 
promised by the divine prophets. 

Of  course,  with  the  grace  of  God  Almighty,  a 
hopeful  trend  is  flourishing  in  the  heart  and  soul  of 
human  societies.  The  universal  eagerness  for  justice, 
purity,  love  for  others,  monotheism  and  the  quest  for 
perfection  is  clearly  and  increasingly  on  the  rise.  A 
universal  resistance  to  the  acquisitiveness,  aggression 
and selfishness of the bullying Powers is being formed. 
08-51606 

11 

A/63/PV.6 

Today,  the  bullying  Powers’  thoughts,  practices  and 
strategies  are  rejected  by  nations  and  Governments, 
and  all  are  seeking  to  establish  new  human  relations 
based  on  justice,  with  a  view  to  attaining  prosperity, 
perfection, security and sustainable welfare. That is the 
very  auspicious  phenomenon  that  all  the  traditions  of 
creation and the ruling laws of the universe emphasize 
and support. 

Today, the Zionist regime is on a definite slope to 
collapse,  and  there  is  no  way  for  it  to  get  out  of  the 
cesspool it and its supporters have created. The Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  while  fully  respecting  the  resistance 
of the oppressed people of Palestine and expressing its 
all-out support for it, submits to the Secretary-General 
of the United Nations its humane solution, based on a 
free referendum in Palestine to determine and establish 
the type of State in the entire Palestinian lands. 

The American empire in the world is reaching the 
end  of  its  road,  and  its  next  rulers  must  limit  their 
interference to their own borders. Today, the thought of 
hegemony quickly becomes a demerit. 

I  should  now  like  to  say  a  few  words  to 
expansionist  Governments  ruling  global  relations.  Be 
aware  that  living  with  obedience  to  God  and  carrying 
out  His  orders,  having  compassion  for  people  and 
striving  for  the  fulfilment  of  justice  is  to  your 
advantage too. I invite you to return to the path of God, 
the prophets and the people of the world, as well as to 
truth and justice. The only route to salvation is a divine 
straight  path.  Otherwise,  God’s  hand  of  power  will 
emerge  from  the  sleeve  of  oppressed  nations  and  will 
make  your  life  difficult,  and  will  put  an  end  to  your 
hegemony.  Let  us  love  the  peoples  of  the  world  and 
respect  their  rights.  Rectify  past  behaviour.  That  will 
benefit  you  and  the  human  community.  The  Iranian 
people  are  prepared,  along  with  other  nations,  to  help 
you  be  rescued  from  your  current  situation  and  to 
establish peace and prosperity. 

Fortuitously,  opportunities  are  accessible.  With 
the  grace  of  God Almighty,  the  existing  pillars  of  the 
oppressive  system  are  crumbling.  Great  developments 
in  favour  of  humankind,  as  well  as  its  true  and  real 
rights, are on the way. A golden and brilliant future is 
awaiting  humankind.  A  global  community  filled  with 
justice, friendship, brotherhood and welfare is at hand, 
as I have elaborated — a community that will tread the 
path of beauty and love under the rule of the righteous 
and  perfect  human  being,  the  one  promised  by  all 
divine  prophets  and  the  one  who  is  the  true  lover  of 
humankind;  a  community  that  will  be  devoid  of  all 
fear,  despair  and  privation.  Such  a  community  will 
soon  be  ours.  The  community  promised  by  the  great 
divine  prophets  Noah,  Abraham,  Moses,  Jesus  Christ 
and Muhammad is about to materialize. 

Let  us,  hand  in  hand,  expand  the  thought  of 
resistance to evil and the minority of those who are ill-
wishers.  Let  us  support  goodness  and  the  majority  of 
people  who  are  good  and  the  embodiment  of  absolute 
good that is the Imam of Time, the Promised One who 
will  come  accompanied  by 
Jesus  Christ,  and 
accordingly design and implement just and humanistic 
mechanisms 
constructive 
relationships between nations and Governments. 

May  the  great  Almighty  deliver  the  saviour  of 
nations and put an end to the sufferings of humankind 
and bring forth justice, beauty and love. Let us have a 
proper  share  in  the  establishment  of  that  illuminated 
and promised divine age. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made. 

Mr.  Mahmoud  Ahmadinejad,  President  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
regulating 
for 
the 


Address by Mr. Michel Sleiman, President of the 
Lebanese Republic 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Lebanese Republic. 

Mr.  Michel  Sleiman,  President  of  the  Lebanese 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Michel 
Sleiman,  President  of  the  Lebanese  Republic,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Sleiman  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  should 

like  to  begin  by  congratulating  you,  Sir,  on  your 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-third session.  
12 

08-51606 



I should also like in particular to thank Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  the  excellent  report  he  has 
prepared  on  the  activities  of  the  Organization  in  the 
past  year  (A/63/1),  as  well  as  for  his  concern  in 
ensuring that the issues of Lebanon are at the centre of 
debate. In its close pursuit of the situation in Lebanon, 
the United Nations has established the foundations and 
principles  necessary  to  face  the  crises  and  challenges 
that  have  undermined  the  stability  and  prosperity  of 
our country. I would like to note in particular the role 
of  the  United  Nations  Interim  Force  in  Lebanon 
(UNIFIL)  and  pay  tribute  to  the  sacrifices  of  its 
personnel.  I  note  also  that  in  his  report  the  Secretary-
General notes that there is strong cooperation between 
UNIFIL  and  the  Lebanese  army.  I  would  like  to 
confirm  that  Lebanon  cares  a  great  deal  about  the 
security and safety of those troops, especially vis-à-vis 
the terrorist attacks of which they have been the target. 

Lebanon  is  the  cradle  of  an  ancient  civilization. 
Its  peace-loving  people  set  sail  from  their  shores 
towards  the  European  continent,  carrying  with  them 
elements of an advanced alphabet and spreading in the 
Mediterranean realm and whatever horizons they were 
able to open the spirit of communication, dialogue, and 
free exchange. 

Lebanon,  which  believes  in  human  and  cultural 
values, is one of the oldest parliamentary democracies 
in  the  Middle  East.  Its  constitution  of  1926  embraces 
freedom  of  opinion,  freedom  of  belief  and  justice  and 
rejects 
its 
endeavour  to  put  this  democracy  into  practice,  our 
nation  experienced  a  distinctive  alternation  of  power 
despite  all  the  crises,  aggression  and  wars  it  has 
known.  Today,  our  country  is  preparing  for  new 
parliamentary elections. 

The young Lebanese nation that emerged in 1943, 
however, suffered from the aftermath of the catastrophe 
that  befell  Palestine  in  1948.  It  has  received  on  its 
narrow  territory  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Palestinian 
refugees.  Since  the  late  sixties,  it  has  been  subject  to 
two  large-scale  Israeli  invasions  and  to  a  series  of 
Israeli devastating attacks that wreaked havoc in terms 
of  lives,  property  and  infrastructure. The  records  kept 
by this Organization bear witness to that brutality.  

I  recall  the  two  massacres  of  Qana  that  were 
perpetrated  against  innocent  children,  women  and  the 
elderly, as well as the aggression of July 2006 in which 
tens  of  thousands  were  killed  and  wounded  and 
confessionalism 
fanaticism. 
and 
In 
A/63/PV.6
and 
called 
for 
an 
reiterates 
immediate 
it  caused. 
sovereignty,  unity 
displaced  which  led  to  the  destruction  of  bridges  and 
civilian  facilities  in  various  parts  of  the  country.  The 
Israeli  bombardment  of  the  Jiyeh  power  plant  and  its 
fuel storage tanks caused an environmental catastrophe 
resulting  from  an  oil  slick  along 
the  Lebanese 
coastline. That prompted the General Assembly of the 
United  Nations to  request  Israel  to  provide  immediate 
and adequate compensation to Lebanon for the damage 
and  pollution 
Israel  must  pay  due 
compensation for the full damage it caused through its 
repeated aggression against Lebanon. 

The United Nations has not hesitated to shoulder 
its responsibilities towards Lebanon. The Organization 
issued  a  series  of  resolutions  in  support  of  Lebanon’s 
independence, 
territorial 
integrity,  notably  Security  Council  resolutions  425 
(1978),  which 
and 
unconditional  Israeli  withdrawal  from  all  Lebanese 
territory,  and  1701  (2006),  which  “calls  upon  the 
Government  of  Israel  ...  to  withdraw  all  of  its  forces 
from  southern  Lebanon”.  Lebanon 
its 
commitment to the full content of that resolution. 

Mr. Yañez-Barnuevo (Spain), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 

However,  the  intransigence  of  Israel  and  its 
failure  to  comply  with  the  will  of  the  United  Nations 
Security  Council  pushed  Lebanon 
in 
conjunction  with  diplomacy,  other  legitimate  options. 
In  2000,  thanks  to  its  people,  army  and  resistance, 
Lebanon  was  able  to  force  Israel  to  withdraw  from 
most  of  the  Lebanese  territory  that  it  occupied.  This 
year, successful efforts were made, with the help of the 
United  Nations,  to  complete  the  liberation  of  the 
Lebanese prisoners and detainees from Israeli prisons. 

Despite  these  achievements  and  its  continued 
commitment 
international 
legitimacy,  Lebanon  still  faces  a  host  of  urgent  risks 
and challenges that require the following. 
First, the international community should compel 

Israel  to  fully  implement  resolution  1701  (2006)  and 
stop  its  serious  threats  to  launch  a  new  war  against 
Lebanon.  Such  threats  are  acts  of  aggression  that 
adversely  affect  the  Lebanese  State,  the  national 
economy and civil society. 

The second challenge is the recovery or liberation 
of the remaining occupied Lebanese territory in Shabaa 
Farms, the hills of Kfarshuba and the northern part of 
resolutions  of 
to  adopt, 
to 
the 
08-51606 

13 
to  provide 
the  necessary 
resources 
Fourthly,  we  must  obtain  all 
Thirdly,  Israel  must  be  forced 
A/63/PV.6 

the  village  of  Al-Ghajar,  and  the  upholding  of  our 
rights to our water. 

its 
extensive air breaches of Lebanon’s sovereignty. In its 
most  recent  briefing  to  the  Security  Council,  the 
Department of Peacekeeping Operations confirmed the 
provocative nature of those actions. 

the  maps  of 
landmines and cluster-bomb sites left behind by Israel 
on  Lebanese  soil.  Their  presence  constitutes  a  direct 
threat to the civilian population, especially children. It 
deprives  farmers  and  families  of  their  livelihood  and 
prevents  them  from  cultivating  their  land.  The  States 
concerned  are  therefore  called  upon  to  meet  their 
pledges 
for 
demining declustering programmes. 

Fifthly,  we  need  to  confront  terrorism  in  all  its 
forms  and  to  maintain  internal  civic  peace.  The 
Lebanese  army  and  the  internal  security  forces  have 
been  subjected  to  brutal  attacks  by  terrorist  groups  in 
recent  years.  They  were  forced  to  confront  such 
terrorist groups and make costly and huge sacrifices to 
defend  the  dignity  of  the  Lebanese  people  and  their 
security and stability. In their efforts to combat Israeli 
terrorist  operations,  the  Lebanese  security  services 
managed  to  arrest  the  head  of  an  Israeli  network  that 
carried  out  espionage  and  assassination  operations  on 
Lebanese soil. 

a 
comprehensive  national  strategy  to  protect  and  defend 
Lebanon,  which  would  be  adopted  and  coordinated 
through  genuine  national  dialogue,  which  we  held  on 
16  September.  That  is  in  accord  with  the  Doha 
Agreement,  which  is  based  on  the  sincere  will  for 
national  reconciliation  and  on  extending  the  authority 
of the Lebanese State over all of its territory. 

its 
commitment  to  the  international  tribunal  established 
under  Security  Council  resolution  1757  (2007)  to 
investigate  the  crime  of  the  assassination  of  martyr 
Prime  Minister  Rafik  Hariri  and  his  companions. 
Lebanon is cooperating with the relevant organs of the 
United Nations to bring the truth to light and to achieve 
the process of justice away from any politicization. 

Lebanon closely follows the developments of the 
situation in the Middle East. In view of its commitment 
to  just Arab  causes,  especially  the  cause  of  Palestine, 
this  occasion,  Lebanon 
challenge 
reiterates 
The 
sixth 
is 
to 
develop 
On 

to  stop 
to  provide 
Lebanon  reiterates  its  commitment  to  the  process  of 
achieving a just and comprehensive peace in the region 
and  to  the Arab  peace  initiative  that  was  unanimously 
adopted  by  Arab  leaders  at  the  2002  Beirut  Summit. 
Having  said  that,  Lebanon  stresses  the  need  for  Israel 
to withdraw from all Arab territories that are still under 
occupation  and  stresses  the  inalienable  right  of  the 
Palestinian  people  to  return  to  their  land  and  to 
establish their independent State on their national soil. 
We call on the international community to assume 

its  full  responsibilities 
the  necessary 
financial  resources  to  the  United  Nations  Relief  and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East 
(UNRWA)  and  to  support  the  work  carried  out  by  the 
Lebanese State in this area, until a just solution to the 
Palestinian problem is found. 

From this rostrum, Lebanon cannot but  draw the 
attention of the international community once again to 
its absolute rejection of any form of resettlement of the 
Palestinian  refugees  on  its  territory,  for  the  following 
main reasons. 

First, the resettlement of the Palestinian refugees 
in Lebanon runs counter to their right to return to their 
homeland  and  homes,  which  is  reaffirmed  by  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and 
the 
relevant United Nations resolutions. 
Secondly,  it  is  difficult  for  a  small  country  like 

Lebanon,  with  limited  resources  and  a  population 
below 4 million people, to provide a decent livelihood 
for  more  than  400,000  Palestinian  refugees  on  its 
territory at a time when large segments of the Lebanese 
people  are  emigrating 
their  own 
livelihoods. 

Thirdly,  the  resettlement  of  Palestinian  refugees 
is  explicitly  rejected  in  the  preamble  to  the  Lebanese 
Constitution,  and  by  the  Taif  Agreement,  which  has 
been  recognized  and  enshrined  by  resolutions  of  the 
United  Nations  and  constitutes  a  key  element  of 
consensus in Lebanon. 

While  the  issue  of  Lebanon  is  at  the  centre  of 
attention  of  the  United  Nations,  the  agenda  of  our 
General  Assembly  is  full  of  items  and  of  political, 
economic, social and environmental topics that are still 
waiting  for  a  comprehensive  solution.  In  that  context, 
Lebanon interacts in a special way with the needs and 
aspirations of the African continent, where hundreds of 
thousands of Lebanese citizens have been living on its 
in  search  of 
14 

08-51606 
renaissance  at 


generous  soil  for  over  a  century,  contributing  to 
Africa’s  prosperity  and  development  under  difficult 
circumstances.  Accordingly,  we  support  the  political 
declaration  issued  yesterday  at  the  high-level  meeting 
on  Africa’s  development  needs.  We  therefore  believe 
that  a  major  international  effort  should  be  undertaken 
to finance programmes to combat poverty, disease and 
illiteracy as a means to preserve human dignity and to 
prevent further armed conflicts on that continent. 

Similarly,  we  hope  that  a  more  effective  project 
to  build  solidarity  in  the  face  of  natural  disasters  will 
be  quickly  and  efficiently  finalized  in  view  of  the 
increasing  risks  arising  from  climate  change,  global 
warming, environmental degradation and the spread of 
wildfires in forests and green spaces. 

Deeply  rooted  in  history  and,  with  the  rise  of 
nationalist movements, a contributor to the shaping of 
the  Arab 
the  political,  cultural, 
intellectual  and  social  levels,  as  well  as  a  founding 
member  of  the  League  of  Arab  States,  Lebanon  is 
devoted  to  preserving Arab  solidarity.  In  that  context, 
we need to revisit the concept of cooperation and good-
neighbourliness between countries to consolidate peace 
and  solidarity 
the  world.  That  approach  will 
contribute  to  preserving  human  rights,  and  humanity 
will thus be able to prevent other world wars, regional 
conflicts  and 
transnational  phenomenon  of 
terrorism,  as  well  as  upheavals  in  our  globalized 
economies,  global  crises  and  food  crises. All  of  those 
matters  represent  major  threats  that  could  spark  new 
wars  that  might  spill  over  onto  the  regional  level  and 
from one continent to the next.  
We  need  to  push  for  United  Nations  reform  in 

order 
international  challenge. 
Lebanon  is  extremely  pleased  to  announce  that  we 
have  been  nominated  once  again  to  a  non-permanent 
seat  on  the  Security  Council  for  the  biennium  2010-
2011. We are of course committed to making a positive 
and  constructive  contribution  to  the  Council  and  hope 
that  we  will  have  the  support  of  all  friendly  and 
brotherly States.  

Lebanon’s philosophy has been based on dialogue 
and coexistence from the day its citizens approved the 
National  Covenant  in  1943,  and  subsequently  when 
they  approved 
the  1989  National  Reconciliation 
Agreement in Taif. Those themes were also repeatedly 
stressed  in  the  2008  Doha  agreement.  In  the  face  of 
worsening international conflicts that herald a potential 
that  new 
to  meet 
the 
in 
A/63/PV.6
clash  of  civilizations,  Lebanon  might  well  represent  a 
needed international example as a living laboratory  of 
dialogue of cultures and religions. 

In his Apostolic Letter of 1989, His Holiness the 
late  Pope  John  Paul  II  described  Lebanon  as  “more 
than a country; it is a message of freedom and a model 
of pluralism for both the East and the West”. Moreover, 
in his homily delivered during his apostolic journey to 
Lebanon  in  1997,  John  Paul  II  characterized  Lebanon 
as  “a  country  of  many  religious  faiths,  [which]  has 
shown  that  these  different  faiths  can  live  together  in 
peace, brotherhood and cooperation”. With 18 different 
sects  coexisting  on  its  soil,  and  having  successfully 
preserved  its  democratic  system  and  fundamental 
freedoms  in  spite  of  all  sorts  of  challenges,  Lebanon 
aspires today to become an international centre for the 
management  of  dialogue  of  civilizations  and  cultures, 
hoping that the forces of good in the world will prevail 
and that we can be constructive in our efforts to reach a 
just  and  comprehensive  solution  to  all  aspects  of  the 
conflict in the Middle East as soon as possible. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Lebanon for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr. Michel Sleiman, President of the Republic of 
Lebanon,  was  escorted 
the  General
Assembly Hall. 
from 


Address by Mr. Mwai Kibaki, President of the 
Republic of Kenya 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Kenya. 

Mr.  Mwai  Kibaki,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Kenya, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish): On 
behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Mwai Kibaki, President of the Republic of Kenya, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 

Mr. D’Escoto  Brockmann  on  his  election 
presidency of the General Assembly. 

This  session  of  the  General  Assembly  is  taking 
place at a time of great global challenges, such as the 
President  Kibaki: I  wish  first  to  congratulate 
the 
to 
to 
08-51606 

15 

A/63/PV.6 

energy  crisis,  high  food  prices  and  instability  in  the 
financial  markets.  Those  are  serious  problems  that 
could erode the gains the world economy has made in 
the  past  10  years.  Let  me  add  that  our  gathering  here 
also provides a window of opportunity for us to review 
the  progress  we  have  made, 
individually  and 
collectively, in fulfilling the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs). 

Nevertheless,  before  proceeding  with  my 
remarks,  I wish first  of  all to update the Assembly on 
the progress Kenya has made following the challenges 
we  faced  soon  after  the  general  elections  held  in 
December 2007. 

Kenyans,  fellow  Africans  and  the  international 
community held on to the hope that our country would 
obtain a peacefully negotiated outcome to the political 
crisis. That hope was realized on 28 February with the 
signing of the National Accord and Reconciliation Act. 
The Accord  paved  the  way  for  the  establishment  of  a 
grand  coalition  Government  representing  all  major 
political parties and interests in our country. 

The  Government  is  making  use  of  that  historic 
window  of  opportunity  to  build  a  consensus  that  will 
enable  us  to  address  the  major  challenges  facing  our 
nation.  We  are,  for  instance,  making  good  progress 
towards  the  implementation  of  far-reaching  legal, 
constitutional  and  policy  reforms  that  will  entrench 
national cohesion and meet the political, economic and 
social aspirations of our people. 

I  am  confident  that,  over  the  past  few  months, 
Kenya has regained its glory and redeemed its image as 
a  peaceful  nation,  a  safe  tourist  and  investment 
destination  and 
the  regional  hub  for  peace  and 
humanitarian efforts. I wish to express, on behalf of all 
Kenyans,  our  profound  gratitude  for  the  engagement 
and  support  of  all  our  friends.  In  that  connection,  I 
wish to pay special tribute to the members of the Panel 
of  Eminent  African  Personalities, 
led  by  former 
Secretary-General  Kofi Annan,  the African  Union  and 
the  United  Nations.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  personal 
and constant support. 
the  challenges  of 

competitive elections in fragile democracies divided by 
regional,  racial,  religious  and  ethnic  differences,  the 
time  has  come  for  us  to  reflect  on  the  role  of 
competitive  electoral  processes  in  the  building  of  our 
national democratic institutions. 
As  Africa  grapples  with 
issues 
in 
to 
assume 
to  nurture 
in  Somalia,  I  urge 
to  address  all  outstanding 
community 
in  Somalia  so  as 

Indeed, the challenge of attaining democratic and 
inclusive  elected  Governments  is  at  the  core  of  the 
conflicts  and  insecurity  prevailing  in  many  parts  of 
Africa. In the Sudan, for example, the Comprehensive 
Peace Agreement  (CPA)  continues  to  hold  three  years 
after  its  signing,  despite  challenges.  I  welcome  the 
efforts  made  by  the  parties  to  the  CPA  in  overcoming 
some  recent  difficulties.  I  urge  them  to  intensify  their 
efforts 
the 
implementation of the Accord. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  situation  in  Somalia 
remains fragile. That is mainly because the Transitional 
Federal  Government  of  Somalia  has  still  not  received 
full support from the international community. 

While  I  pay  tribute  to  the  Governments  of 
Uganda and Burundi for providing troops as part of the 
African  Union  Mission 
the 
deployment  of  the  remaining  troops  to  strengthen  the 
Mission.  I  also  urge  the  United  Nations  and  the 
international 
greater 
responsibility 
the 
emergence of a stable and democratic country. 
With  regard  to  the  Great  Lakes,  tremendous 

progress  has  been  made  in  promoting  peace  while 
reducing  conflict  in  the  region. The  conclusion  of  the 
Pact  on  Security,  Stability  and  Development  in  the 
Great  Lakes  Region  has  given  impetus  to  our  efforts. 
However, 
the  Pact  faces 
challenges  owing  to  renewed  tension  and  hostilities.  I 
call upon all those involved to embrace the Pact and to 
seek  the  peaceful  resolution  of  current  problems.  We 
must  not  derail  our  goal  of  achieving  economic 
development  and  regional  integration  in  the  Great 
Lakes.  The  Special  Fund  for  Reconstruction  and 
Development,  on  which  we  all  agreed, 
is  now 
operational. I appeal to the international community to 
contribute  to  the  Fund.  It  is  a  crucial  pillar  for  the 
promotion  of  peace  and  development  in  the  Great 
Lakes region. 

I now return to the food crisis, which I mentioned 
at  the  beginning  of  my  speech.  Our  meeting  is  taking 
place at a time when Africa and many other parts of the 
world are facing a severe food shortage. I am therefore 
happy  to  note  that  the  theme  of  this  general  debate, 
“The  impact  of  the  global  food  crisis  on  poverty  and 
hunger in the world as well as the need to democratize 
the  United  Nations”,  pays  particular  attention  to  that 
important subject. Indeed, while food prices have risen 
the 
implementation  of 
16 

08-51606 
among 
developed 
partnerships 


globally, their impact has been most severe and adverse 
for  the  poorest  people  living  in  developing  countries. 
The continued rise in food prices has national security 
implications for most developing nations. 

Therefore,  in  the  immediate  future,  we  must,  as 
Members  of  the  United  Nations,  find  mechanisms  to 
deliver sufficient quantities of affordable food to poor 
people  in  Africa  and  other  parts  of  the  developing 
world.  In  the  medium  term,  we  must  also  address  the 
issues of agricultural productivity, particularly in terms 
of making available to smaller farmers in Africa better-
yielding seed varieties, modern farming techniques and 
cheaper  fertilizer.  That  will  require  more  effective 
global 
nations, 
international  institutions  and  developing  nations.  In 
particular, such partnerships should place food security, 
agricultural technology development and transfer, trade 
and agricultural credit at the centre of the development 
agenda. 

Indeed,  the  most  equitable  way  to  lift  Africa’s 
people out of poverty and underdevelopment is through 
the  widespread  commercialization  of  agriculture.  We 
must  focus  on  the  manufacture  of  and  trade  in  value-
added  agricultural  products,  supported  by  efficient 
financial  services  and  markets.  In  that  regard,  the 
global  community 
should  hasten  consensus  on 
agriculture and other contentious issues, so as to enable 
the  successful  conclusion  of  the  Doha  Development 
Round of the World Trade Organization.  

On the issue of escalating global oil prices, I wish 
to make a passionate appeal to oil-producing nations to 
consider 
the  plight  of  non-oil-producing  nations, 
especially those in the developing world. There is need 
to address the problem of speculative trading in the oil 
futures  market,  where  prices  have  doubled  in  the  past 
year. Indeed, the rapid increase in oil prices is hurting 
developing countries the most and does not augur well 
for  international  peace  and  stability.  We  should  all  be 
aware that we are one global community and that none 
of us is completely isolated from the instability caused 
by  inflationary  pressures  resulting  from  the  high  oil 
prices. 

We have, over the years, discussed the need for a 
more  effective  and  accountable  United  Nations  that 
will  enable  us  to  address  the  emerging  and  persistent 
global challenges such as climate change, international 
security,  poverty,  conflicts  and  economic  disparities. 
Towards  that  end,  reform  at  the  Security  Council  is 
A/63/PV.6
and, 
in 
I  would 
like 
particular, 
to  congratulate 
the  multinational 
imperative.  We  need  to  ensure  that  its  composition 
reflects  equitable  geographical  representation  of  the 
entire  United  Nations  membership.  Africa  therefore 
deserves  permanent  representation  on  the  Security 
Council. 

Reforms  are  also  needed  in  other  areas.  We  are 
convinced that strengthening the Economic and Social 
Council will enable that organ to reassert its authority 
and  its  capacity  to  promote  greater  coherence  and 
coordination  with 
financial 
institutions,  the  World  Trade  Organization  and  other 
United Nations bodies. 

the  Secretary-
General  for  his  continued  focus  on  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
the 
establishment  of  the  MDGs  Africa  Steering  Group, 
which  has,  among  other  interventions,  proposed  the 
launching  of  an African  green  revolution.  I  also  look 
forward to the insights and recommendations that will 
come  out  of  the  High-level  Event  on  MDGs  later  this 
week. 

Finally,  I  wish  to  note  that  the  challenges  facing 
us  today,  such  as  the  global  food  crisis,  attaining  the 
MDGs  and  climate  change,  more  than  ever  before 
require 
and  multilateral 
cooperation. A  more  effective  and  accountable  United 
Nations  is  therefore  needed  to  meet  and  overcome 
these challenges. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Kenya for the statement he 
has just made. 

Mr. Mwai Kibaki, President of the Republic of Kenya, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 
The President returned to the Chair. 
coordinated 
global 



Address by Mr. Martín Torrijos, President of the 
Republic of Panama 

The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Panama. 

Mr.  Martín  Torrijos,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Panama,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
08-51606 

17 

A/63/PV.6 

the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Martín Torrijos, 
President of the Republic of Panama, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
President  Torrijos  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My  first 

words  are  addressed  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly,  at  its  sixty-third  session,  my  friend  Miguel 
d’Escoto.  I  am  pleased  that  the  responsibility  of 
presiding  over  our  deliberations  has  fallen 
to  a 
distinguished  Latin  American  of  such  political  and 
diplomatic eminence in his country and in the region. 
The President has invited us — and because of its 

great  importance  we  are  obliged  to  comply  with  his 
suggestion — to focus our debate on the impact of the 
world food crisis on poverty and hunger in the world.  
This  Organization  was  founded  at  the  end  of  a 

world conflagration in order to banish war forever and 
to  prevent  armed  confrontations  between  nations  or 
groups of nations. Although it has not been possible to 
avoid  all  such  events,  certainly  it  has  acted  as  a 
deterrent force that has prevented wars that might have 
proved  even  more  devastating.  The  nations  of  the 
world  decided  that  it  would  be  here  that  conflicts 
among its Members would be resolved.  

Now  we  have  to  act  on  a  conflict  that  is  not 
between Member States, but is rather one of all States 
against  hunger  and  poverty.  It  is  difficult  to  explain 
why,  if  the  world  is  producing  sufficient  food  for  all, 
854  million  people  find  themselves  in  a  state  of  food 
insecurity  and  more  than  1.7  billion  people  are 
suffering from iron deficiency. In the last few days we 
have  noted  how  hundreds  of  millions  of  dollars  have 
been  directed  to  rescue  commercial  enterprises,  while 
we still view with indifference the fact that every year 
5.6  million  children  younger  than  5  years  are  dying 
directly or indirectly because of malnutrition — that is 
640 each hour. In other words, since the moment when 
we  began  our  deliberations 
this  morning,  5,000 
children younger than 5 years have died. They did not 
die  because  of  terrorist  acts,  which  all  condemn,  nor 
because of natural disasters, which we all regret. They 
died for a reason as simple as it is tragic — they were 
poor. This situation is simply indefensible. 
As  part  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 

(MDGs), we undertook to reduce the number of people 
suffering  from  hunger  by  one  half  and  the  number  of 
people who live with an income of less than $1 per day 
by one half between 1990 and 2015. How can we meet 
this  objective  if  the  price  of  rice  has  risen  by  74  per 
cent  and  that  of  wheat  by  130 per  cent?  How  can  we 
meet this objective if more than one billion people who 
have escaped extreme poverty run the risk of suffering 
from  hunger  unless  we  do  something  to  stop  this 
upward spiral of food prices? 

What  is  the  point  of  ensuring  that  more  people 
earn more than a dollar a day if the rise in food prices 
has  in  fact  altered  that  measurement  of  extreme 
poverty? I do not want to suggest that nothing is being 
done. The World Food Programme is doing formidable 
work  and  donor  countries  have  made  extraordinary 
contributions  to  alleviate  the  crisis  and  bring  food  to 
the countries that need it most.  

The  deliberations  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
the  High-level  Conference  on  World  Food  Security 
held  at  the  headquarters  of  the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization  and  the  meeting  of  the  High-level  Task 
Force  on  the  Global  Food  Security  Crisis  constitute 
additional  expressions  of  the  concern  of  international 
bodies. 

But  the  fact  is  that  we  face  a  reality  that  has 
already  caused  social  disruption  and  to  which  no 
immediate  solution  is  in  sight.  The  major  mission  of 
the  United  Nations  is  the  preservation  of  peace,  and 
peace is not just the absence of armed conflict between 
countries, but also lies in the tranquillity of nations and 
entails  the  elimination  of  adverse  factors  that  may 
disturb that tranquillity.  

As  if  skyrocketing  food  prices  were  not  enough, 
they  have  now  been  compounded  by  unjustified 
speculation,  which  has  raised  the  price  of  fuel  to 
absurd  levels.  It  is  no  longer  just  the  exorbitant 
earnings  of  oil  companies  that  are  at  stake;  what  is  at 
stake now is the hunger of millions of people who have 
seen  their  efforts  and  hopes  go  up  in  smoke  without 
even knowing what has hit them. 

This  means  that  we  must  see  to  it  that  from  the 
United  Nations  reforms  that  have  been  so  often 
postponed 
there  emerges  a  strengthened  General 
Assembly  so 
its 
membership,  it  may  act  with  authority  in  response  to 
such  situations  as 
today.  The 
Constitution of almost all States of the world provides 
for  the  declaration  of  a  state  of  emergency  as  a 
mechanism  for  dealing  with  imminent  threats  to 
national security or to social harmony. 
that,  as  an  expression  of  all 
those  before  us 
18 

08-51606 
have 
to 
that  we 



I am convinced, and  I want to say so today, that 
because of the price of food, we are facing a threat to 
social  peace  and  that  the  General  Assembly  could  so 
declare  it  so  that  all  governmental  forces,  private 
initiatives  and  international  bodies  may  coordinate 
their efforts in a crusade to rescue hundreds of millions 
of people from the clutches of poverty. 

The world food price crisis cannot be dissociated 
from climate change, as if these two problems were not 
interrelated.  Climate  change  has  led  to  irregular  crops 
through  droughts  and  floods  that  have  had  such  a 
severe effect on food stocks. 
If the problem of the scarcity and the lack of food 

is 
something 
deal  with 
comprehensively, we should take measures to mitigate 
the  polluting  effects  of  carbon,  at  least  by  market 
mechanisms  or  a  limiting  of  carbon  production.  It  is 
indispensable  to  develop  more  efficient  technologies, 
such  as  wind  and  solar  energy,  to  take  the  place  of 
fossil  fuels,  if  our  response  is  not  to  remain  a 
temporary  palliative  but  may  offer  a 
lasting, 
sustainable solution; we must see to it, without further 
delay, that we tackle both problems, the food crisis and 
climate  change,  in  an  integral,  comprehensive  and 
consistent manner. 

It  is  only  thus  that  we  will  be  able,  without 
further  delay,  to  arrive  at  responses  that  are  not  just 
stopgaps,  but  lasting,  sustainable  solutions.  Indeed, 
ever-greater importance is to be attached to the way we 
relate to the ecosystems that sustain life throughout the 
world, and how that affects the survival of our species 
and civilization.  

the  environmental 
agenda  of  the  twenty-first  century  cannot  be  built  on 
the  basis  of  the  idea  of  a  conflict  between  the 
environment  and 
the 
environment  and  trade  barriers,  but  on  the  basis  of 
opportunities  which  the  market  and  trade  offer  to 
stimulate  new  ways  of  addressing  the  environmental 
issues that affect us all. 

We  know  today  that  there  is  no  intractable 
contradiction  between  conservation  and  development, 
as  perhaps  there  might  have  appeared  to  be  when  the 
United  Nations  convened  the  first  meeting  to  discuss 
the  subject  in  1972.  Let  us  make  no  mistake.  The 
opposite of conservation is not development, but waste. 
It  is  clear  from  the  intimate  relationship  that  exists 
between environmental problems and those that have to 
the  market,  nor  between 
We  must  understand 
that 
A/63/PV.6
and, 
above 
do with social and economic development that the best 
way  to  promote  natural  capital  is  to  promote  social 
capital. 

The only way to create a different environment is 
to  build  a  society  free  of  the  problems  of  poverty, 
underdevelopment and ignorance which today limit our 
capacity  to  establish  harmonious  relations  among  all 
social  sectors,  and  between  them  and  their  natural 
environment. 
We  have  the  resources  to  do  it:  technology, 

all,  political 
scientific  knowledge 
leadership  and  innovative  capacity.  But  we  can  only 
succeed through a common approach to environmental 
management,  shared  by  all  the  members  of  the  global 
community  who  are  already  moving  in  this  same 
direction. 

The  international  community  has  been  happy  to 
see that on the other side of the Pacific, tensions have 
abated,  but  we  note  with  concern  that  threats  to 
international peace and security have emerged in other 
parts of the world.  

Panama has set forth its positions in the Security 
Council.  I  shall  therefore  only  refer  to  what  was  also 
suggested  by  the  President,  that  is,  the  need  to 
democratize this Organization. 

Over  the  last  four  years,  I  have  heard  from 
countless speakers a widespread demand for the United 
Nations  to  finally  adapt  its  structures,  which  the 
50 signatories of the original Charter designed 60 years 
ago, to the reality of an Organization with 192 Member 
States  and  a  geopolitical  situation  very  different  from 
that which then existed. 

It has become a ritual repeated year after year for 
every Head of State, foreign minister or ambassador to 
call,  without  much  success,  for  a  recrafting  of  the 
Organization.  For  myself,  as 
the 
commitment  of  my  country  to  the  United  Nations,  for 
the  fifth  time  in  five  years,  I  come  to  this  podium  to 
ask  with  the  same  vigour  and  energy  for  the  political 
will to implement reforms. 

Panama  made  a  proposal,  which,  like  all  the 
others, could not be the subject of consensus. We still 
stand by it. We stand by the idea that this Organization 
must  modernize  itself,  and  soon.  We  cannot  allow  a 
situation  where,  in  the  absence  of  agreement,  we  end 
up by abandoning the spirit of reform that has inspired 
us up till now. 
is  shown  by 
08-51606 

19 

A/63/PV.6 


I propose therefore that we agree, before the end 
of the decade, upon initial fundamental reforms which 
will  begin  to  turn  the  wheels  of  modernization. There 
are numerous examples in different parts of the world, 
as  well  as  in  my  own  experience  as  a  member  of  the 
Government,  that  allow  me  to  assure  members  that 
small reforms, which may appear insignificant to begin 
with, eventually lead to other, more profound reforms. 
We must start somewhere. 

I  would  like  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the 
General  Assembly  for  granting  my  country,  Panama, 
the  honour  of  non-permanent  membership  of  the 
Security Council over the  past two years. Panamanian 
diplomats and jurists contributed to the drafting of the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and,  since  that  time, 
Panama’s  representatives  have  contributed  the  wealth 
of their experience so that the principles which inspired 
the  Charter  can  continue  to  prevail.  You  may  rest 
assured that we will not rest until this Organization, so 
vital  for  peace  in  the  world  and  the  sole  hope  for 
millions  of  the  poor,  is  finally  endowed  with  a  legal 
structure appropriate for the twenty-first century. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Republic  of  Panama  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.  

Mr. Martín Torrijos, President of the Republic of 
Panama,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
from 


Address by Mr. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, President 
of the Republic of Uganda 

The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Uganda. 

Mr.  Yoweri  Kaguta  Museveni,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Uganda,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Yoweri Kaguta 
Museveni, President of the Republic of Uganda, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Museveni: Allow me at the outset, Sir, 

to congratulate you on your election to the presidency 
of  the  General  Assembly.  Uganda  is  convinced  that, 
with  your  experience  and  well-known  diplomatic 
“to 
achieve 
others,  was 
skills, we shall have a successful session. I wish today 
to  pay  tribute  to  your  predecessor,  His  Excellency 
Srgjan  Kerim,  for  the  excellent  manner  in  which  he 
presided  over  the  sixty-second  session.  I  would  also 
like  to  pay  tribute  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
leadership and efforts to reform our Organization. 

The founding fathers of the United Nations had a 
dream  of  creating  an  organization  whose  purpose, 
among 
international 
cooperation  in  solving  international  problems  of  an 
economic,  social,  cultural  or  humanitarian  character”. 
Today  the  world  is  facing  a  multitude  of  problems, 
many  of  which  the  United  Nations  was  meant  to 
address.  

It  is  encouraging  that  the  theme  chosen  for  this 
session  is  the  impact  of  the  global  food  crisis  on 
poverty and hunger in the world as well as the need to 
democratize  the  United  Nations. The  view  of  some  of 
us in Uganda is that the so-called food crisis is actually 
good  for  equatorial  Africa.  It  is  certainly  good  for 
Uganda’s  farmers.  Over  the  years,  we  have  been 
growing  a  lot  of  food:  maize,  bananas,  Irish  potatoes, 
sweet potatoes, cassava, rice and wheat; and producing 
animal  products  such  as  milk  and  beef.  The  problem 
has always been the market for this food.  

That  was  an  account  of  two  problems:  first, 
protectionism  in  the  United  States,  the  European 
Union,  Japan,  China,  et  cetera;  and  secondly,  the  lack 
of factories to process that food so that it could reach 
distant  markets. Apart  from  these  two,  there  are  other 
factors  in  some  African  countries,  including  poor 
traffic  infrastructure,  lack  of  electricity,  lack  of  seeds, 
et  cetera. These, however,  do not  apply  to Uganda. In 
the  case  of  Uganda,  the  problem  has  been  the  lack  of 
markets  and  low  processing  capacity,  in  other  words, 
low  value  addition. The  rest  we  have,  or  we  can  have 
easily.  

The high food and commodity prices have arisen 
on account of the hundreds of millions of Chinese and 
Indians  that  have  entered  the  opulent  middle  class  in 
the  last  20  years.  That  means  they  need  better  food, 
better  houses  that  require  cement  and  steel  bars,  and 
better  means  of  locomotion  such  as  cars. That  is  why 
food and commodity prices have gone up. It is for the 
same  reason  that  petroleum  prices  have  gone  up:  if 
only  200  people  were  driving  cars  previously,  the 
number  has  now  risen  to  400.  That  means  more 
demand  for  petroleum.  Following  the  continuously 
20 

08-51606 


rising  petroleum  prices,  some  Western  countries  have 
started  talking  of  biofuels  —  using  plants  to  produce 
diesel.  

Uganda,  however,  welcomes  all  of  this.  It  is  an 
opportunity,  as  far  as  we  are  concerned.  It  is  not  a 
bottleneck.  In  fact,  farmers  in  Uganda  are  already 
reaping high. That is why our economy grew by 9 per 
cent  last  year.  Once  we  solve  the  problem  of  energy, 
our economy will grow in double digits.  

It  is  good  that  the  United  States  of America,  the 
European  Union,  India,  Japan  and  China  have  opened 
their  markets  to  African  products,  tariff-free,  quota-
free. However, there is still the issue of subsidies. They 
should  be  removed.  In  Uganda,  we  farm  without 
subsidies.  Why  should  not  the  farmers  in  those 
countries  with  better  infrastructure,  lower  interest 
rates, abundant electricity, et cetera, do the same? Why 
do they need protection? Protectionism interferes with 
those  countries  that  can  produce  food  easily,  such  as 
Uganda. That is not correct.  

We  have  been  producing  too  much  milk  without 
having the  capacity to process it. Recently, an  Indian-
owned  company  installed  a  high-tech  integrated  milk-
processing plant and began to process powdered milk, 
producing  a  whole  range  of  finished  milk  products: 
pasteurized  milk,  ultra-heat-treated  (long-life)  milk, 
yoghurt,  butter,  ghee,  et  cetera.  Those  milk  products 
are now being exported to all parts of the world. 

Another  example  has  been  bananas.  Uganda 
produces 10 million metric tons of bananas per annum. 
These are high-quality bananas — called enyam wonyo
in  one  of  our  local  dialects  —  which  contain  rare 
ingredients. They  are  quite  different  from  the  bananas 
known  in  other  parts  of  the  world.  Forty  per  cent  of 
those  bananas  have  been  rotting  in  gardens  and 
marketplaces.  Our 
our 
Government,  are  now  converting  them  into  processed 
foods such as flour, bread, snacks, et cetera.  
High fuel prices are a real problem for countries 

that  do  not  have  petroleum.  Maximizing  the  use  of 
other  forms  of  energy  —  including  hydropower; 
geothermal  power,  which 
in 
countries  such  as  Iceland;  solar  power;  wind  power; 
and biofuels — is part of the answer for such countries. 
All  that,  however,  depends  on  the  development  of 
human  resources 
through  education.  An  educated 
population has more capacity to look for answers than 
an uneducated population.  
is  used  effectively 
scientists, 
funded 
by 
A/63/PV.6
without 
country 
can 
achieve 
Regarding 
development 
the  statement 

As far as Uganda is concerned, in addition to lazy 
individuals, the only groups that are adversely affected 
by high food prices are salary earners in towns. Unlike 
farmers,  they  cannot  benefit  from  higher  food  prices; 
yet they must buy food. Fortunately, however, all such 
families in Uganda have a dual capacity: in addition to 
being salary earners, they or their relatives own land in 
rural areas. They can therefore subsidize themselves by 
growing food using that land. Africa and other regions 
with  agriculture-based  economies  should  rise  up, 
utilize  their  full  potential  and  take  advantage  of  high 
food prices. 

that  I  have  heard 
repeated  so  many  times  since  the  opening  of  the 
present  session  of  the  General  Assembly  —  that  no 
African 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by  2015  —  I  would  like 
to  make  two  positions  clear.  First,  the  statement 
confirms  what  I  said  yesterday  at  the  high-level 
meeting  on  Africa’s  development  needs.  Discussing 
sustainable 
discussing 
socio-economic transformation is not correct. We have 
repeatedly  pointed  that  out.  I  have  often  used  the 
example of pregnancy: one cannot talk endlessly about 
“sustainable  pregnancy”.  Yes,  pregnancy  should  be 
sustainable until it transitions into a baby. Therefore, as 
Europe did, and as other societies in Asia have recently 
done,  Africa  must  metamorphose 
socially, 
economically 
a 
pre-industrial, sometimes feudal, society into a middle-
society,  period. 
class 
Achievement  of  all 
the 
consequence of such a metamorphosis. 

One  cannot  maintain  a pre-industrial society and 
somehow  achieve  the  MDGs. An  industrial  society  is 
what  Uganda  has  been  working  towards  over  the  past 
20  years. Africa  must  industrialize,  develop  a  modern 
services  sector  and  commercialize  agriculture.  That 
means that emphasis must be placed on market access. 
It  means  that  we  should  not  only  gain  access  to  the 
major  markets  of  the  world,  but  also  rationalize  our 
own African  markets  through  regional  and  continental 
integration.  It  also  means  that,  in  order  to  lower  the 
costs of doing business in Africa, we should deal with 
energy;  transport,  especially  by  rail;  and  primary  and 
higher-level  education.  Achievement  of  the  MDGs 
would be a consequence of these developments, rather 
than a precursor or a phenomenon extraneous to them. 
the  MDGs  would  be 
skilled-working-class 
technologically 
and 
from 
and 
08-51606 

21 
A/63/PV.6 



for 
the 
horse.  Why, 
Mr. Yáñez-Barnuevo (Spain), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 

The second position that I would like to point out 
regarding  the  MDGs  is  that  Uganda  is  on  course  to 
meet all of them except those related to maternal health 
and  child  mortality.  I  see  no  reason  why  those  Goals 
should  not  be  achieved.  With 
the  exception  of 
combating HIV/AIDS — which is behaviour-related — 
I  am  sure  that  all  the  others  are  achievable  if  we  in 
Uganda  do  enough  political-led  sensitization  and 
investment. 

I  do  not  associate  myself  with  those  who  are 
pessimistic about Africa or with those who put the cart 
before 
instance,  were 
industrialization  and  value  addition  not  made  one  of 
the  MDGs? The  export  of  raw  materials  is  one  of  the 
cardinal  sins  that  cause  Africa  to  contribute  only  a 
2 per cent share of world trade. If value were added to 
those  raw  materials,  Africa’s  share  of  world  trade 
would  rise,  even  today.  Africa  is  exporting  many 
things, but they are in the form of raw materials; that is 
why  their  value  is  2  per  cent.  If  value  were  added  to 
those raw materials, their value would rise. 

Moreover, that would create jobs for Africans and 
therefore contribute structurally to poverty eradication. 
How  are  we  supposed  to  eradicate  poverty  without 
creating jobs, other than by using witchcraft? We have 
repeatedly  pointed  out  these  issues  in  several  forums, 
to  no  avail.  It  is  Africans  themselves  who  can  and 
should resolve them. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Uganda for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Yoweri  Kaguta  Museveni,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Uganda,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Bharrat Jagdeo, President of the 
Republic of Guyana 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Guyana. 

Mr. Bharrat Jagdeo, President of the Republic of 
Guyana, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
to 
is  still  wrestling  with 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Bharrat  Jagdeo,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Guyana, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Jagdeo:  I  join  with  those  who  have 

spoken before me in congratulating General Assembly 
President d’Escoto-Brockmann on his election to guide 
the work of the Assembly at its sixty-third session.  

As we meet this week, the global financial system 
is  confronting  its  sternest  test  in  recent  memory.  The 
current crisis is systemic in nature, historic in scale and 
global  in  reach.  It  comes  at  a  time  when  the  world 
economy 
the  most  rapid 
escalation, and the highest real levels ever recorded, in 
the  prices  for  fuel  and  food  commodities.  Together 
with  the  world’s  belated  attention  to  the  devastating 
economic  and  social  implications  of  climate  change, 
those  developments  define  the  agenda  before  global 
institutions  and  national  leaders  today. They  make  the 
theme for this year’s debate both timely and necessary. 

Given  the  gravity  and  urgency  of  the  issues 
before us, we must be careful not to conduct this year’s 
debate in the customary rhetorical manner. Instead, we 
must  resolve  to  translate  the  detailed  analysis,  lofty 
statements and good intentions for which the Assembly 
has  become  well  known  into  concrete  actions  that  the 
current  circumstances  demand  of  us,  and  on  which 
history will judge us. 

We  must  each,  as  countries  approaching  the 
podium  to  speak,  be  prepared  to  account  for  the 
pledges  we  have  previously  made.  We  must  also  be 
bold  enough  to  embark  on  a  project  to  achieve  real 
change in the multilateral system. That change must be 
based  on  mandates  that  are  relevant,  institutions  that 
are  accountable  and  a  context  that  is  increasingly 
reflective of integration and interconnectedness. 

Indeed,  I  would  urge  that  the  theme  of  the  next 
General  Assembly  should  emphasize  accountability 
and  coherence  of  action  on  the  part  of  the  developed 
world in matters related to aid, trade and development. 
Often,  when  taken  together,  the  policies  of  those 
countries  result  in  a  significant  net  loss  of  welfare  in 
the developing world and run counter to their declared 
intentions  —  for  example,  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015. 
22 

08-51606 
a 
severe 
and 
setback 



An  episode  that  manifested  itself  merely  two 
years ago as a moderate decline in the housing market 
in  some  parts  of  the  United  States,  and  that  evolved 
into  difficulties  for  that  country’s  sub-prime  mortgage 
market,  has  now  grown  into  a  rapidly  deepening 
systemic financial crisis of global proportions. Even if 
they  are  not  fully  integrated  into  the  global  financial 
system,  small  vulnerable  economies  such  as  Guyana 
will  bear  the  full  effect  of  those  developments  as 
demand  for  exports  tightens,  the  cost  of  capital  rises, 
foreign  direct  investment  becomes  scarce  and  tourist 
arrivals  and  migrant  remittances  decline.  In  short, 
economic  growth  and  poverty  reduction  efforts  will 
suffer 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals will become even more elusive. 
At the same time, crude oil prices rose by 148 per 

cent during the 18 months preceding July of this year. 
In  turn,  that  has  contributed  to  increasing  prices  for 
food  commodities  —  in  particular  for  such  staples  as 
cereals  —  rising  in  some  cases  by  more  than  200  per 
cent  during  the  same  period.  While  there  have  been 
some signs in recent weeks of those increases tapering 
off,  and  in  some  cases  reversing  marginally,  the 
outlook clearly suggests that high prices for energy and 
food are here to stay. 

Without a doubt, increased food prices provide an 
important  opportunity  and  incentive  to  farmers  and 
agricultural 
increase  production. 
However,  they  also  present  grave  implications  for 
access  to  food,  in  particular  by  the  poor  and,  by 
extension,  for  key  nutrition  and  health  indicators 
among our populations.  
The  2007  World  Development  Report  shows  that 

growth generated by agriculture can be up to four times 
more effective in reducing poverty than growth in other 
sectors.  Yet 
in  official 
development assistance fell from 17 per cent in 1980 to 
just 2.9 per cent in 2006. Agriculture must therefore be 
given high priority in the international  agenda  as well 
as in national budgets. 
It  is  also  urgently  necessary  for  large  developed 

countries 
in  which  current 
inefficient and distortionary trade policies, in particular 
subsidies  that  support  inefficient  domestic  production 
and  tariffs  that  protect  against  more  competitive 
imports, can be restructured to reduce distortions in the 
global marketplace. 
the  share  of  agriculture 
re-examine  ways 
economies 
to 
to 
A/63/PV.6
itself 

Given  the  impact  that  persistently  high  food 
prices into the future will have on the poor, the global 
community  must  commit 
to  designing  and 
funding  appropriate  safety  nets  to  ensure  improved 
access to food and the maintenance of basic nutrition. 

In  recent  times,  the  Assembly  has  been  deeply 
concerned  about  the  consequences  of  climate  change, 
and rightly so. But future generations demand that that 
concern  be  translated  into  rapid  action.  The  climate 
change challenge will not slow down to meet the pace 
set by the United Nations. Our response must speed up 
to meet the pace of climate change. 

The  facts  are  straightforward.  If  we  are  to  avoid 
catastrophic  climate  breakdown,  we  need  to  stabilize 
annual  greenhouse  gas  emissions  at  about 
the 
equivalent of 2 tonnes of carbon dioxide per capita by 
2050.  Therefore,  let  the  debate  move  on  to  how  we 
make that happen, and not stagnate on a paralysing fear 
born from the magnitude of the problem. 

There  are  some  promising  signs.  The  Kyoto 
Protocol has resulted in the emergence of a $60 billion 
carbon market, which is a welcome start. But although 
common  sense  dictates  that  those  financial  flows 
should be proportional to the problem being addressed, 
the  bulk  of  that  money  stays  within  the  developed 
world. 
As  a  rainforest  country,  Guyana  is  particularly 

aware  that  there  is  virtually  no  capital  flowing  to 
address tropical deforestation — despite the fact that it 
causes 20 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions and, as 
analyses  done  by  the  Intergovernmental  Panel  on 
Climate  Change,  Nicholas  Stern  and  others  have 
highlighted,  doing  so 
the  most  cost-effective 
abatement solution. That is because the Kyoto Protocol 
contains  no  significant  incentives  to  slow  the  rate  of 
tropical deforestation. 

As leaders,  we must set  a  clear direction for our 
negotiators  as  we  send  them  to  agree  a  post-Kyoto 
climate  agreement,  one 
that  asserts  a  sense  of 
proportionality  in  addressing  the  causes  of  climate 
change  and  ensures  that  all  major  mitigation  options 
are  pursued.  We  must  also  break  the  false  debate  that 
suggests 
choose  between 
combating  climate  change  and  supporting  national 
development.  Instead,  we  need  to  forge  new  high-
growth,  low-carbon  economies  and  make  national 
development  supportive  of  progress  towards  global 
emissions targets. 
countries  must 
that 
is 
08-51606 

23 

A/63/PV.6 


Specifically,  those  of  us  who  are  leaders  of 
rainforest countries need to understand that we provide 
services  that  are  vital  to  the  health  of  our  planet  and 
that,  when  we  seek  capital  flows  to  compensate  for 
that, we are not merely acting as passive poor countries 
looking for aid: we are providing a critical component 
of  the  climate  solution  and  we  should  be  leading  the 
design  of  mechanisms  as  we  forge  a  post-Kyoto 
climate agreement. 

In Guyana, despite the fact that 85 per cent of our 
people  live  below  sea  level  and  are  already  suffering 
from changing weather patterns and rising water levels, 
we do not want to just complain about climate change. 
Instead,  we  want  to  partner  with  others  to  create  a 
solution.  As  part  of  that,  we  are  ready  to  discuss 
placing almost our entire rainforest in the service of the 
world if the right economic incentives are created and 
if  that  can  be  done  in  a  way  that  neither  trades 
sovereignty over our forest nor restricts  the legitimate 
development aspirations of our people. 

The  African,  Caribbean  and  Pacific  (ACP) 
countries  are  currently  negotiating  an  economic 
partnership agreement with the European Union (EU). 
That agreement may fundamentally affect development 
in  our  societies  and  jeopardize  our  future  negotiating 
positions at the World Trade Organization (WTO). The 
European Commission has threatened to impose tariffs 
on  our  exports  under  the  Generalized  System  of 
Preferences  if  we  do  not  sign  agreements  that  reflect 
the EU’s model of WTO compatibility, even though the 
model includes issues that have been removed from the 
WTO agenda — the so-called Singapore issues. Those 
agreements  will 
seriously  prejudice  our 
negotiations  with  other  countries  and  may  jeopardize 
the future of our integration movement. 

The exploitation of the EU’s superior negotiating 
strength and the use of threats to get countries to sign 
are, 
this 
partnership under the economic partnership agreement. 
What is particularly irksome is that we are incessantly 
lectured  by  the  same  group  of  countries  to  the  effect 
that  national  consultations  and  working  with  civil 
society are essential hallmarks of good governance. Yet 
when  the  same  civil  society  opposes  the  economic 
partnership  agreement  on  the  grounds  that  it  is  not 
sufficiently  developmental  in  nature,  we  are  told  to 
ignore  them  —  they  are  complainers.  I  wonder  if  the 
leaders of those countries know, or care, what is being 
done  in  their  names.  Even  at  this  late  hour,  I  wish  to 
ironically,  how 
the  EU  hopes 
to  start 
also 
they 
the 
trying 
legitimacy  and 
irretrievably  harm 
plead  with the EU leaders  to review those agreements 
before 
the  good  historic 
relations  that  have  existed  between  the  ACP  and  the 
EU. 

That brings me to the matter of the much-needed 
reform of our multilateral institutions, which has been 
on the agenda for some time. However, it would be fair 
to say that it has progressed slowly and its results have 
been  few  and  difficult  to  observe.  I  believe  that  the 
reforms  must  be  pursued  along  certain  predefined 
principles.  First, 
institutions  must  have  new 
mandates that are relevant to the current circumstances, 
and they must have at their disposal tools to discharge 
those  mandates  effectively.  Secondly,  the  institutions 
must  have 
reflect  an  equitable 
representation  of  their  membership.  Thirdly,  in  the 
discharge  of  their  functions,  they  must  demonstrate 
flexibility  and  responsiveness.  Fourthly,  they  must 
display  the  highest  standards  of  accountability  and 
transparency.  

As  I  mentioned  earlier,  I  believe  that  limitations 
in  the  mandate  and  functioning  of  the  international 
financial  institutions  were  a  contributory  factor  in  the 
current 
the 
International  Monetary  Fund  should  explicitly  be  the 
preservation  of systemic financial stability as a global 
public  good. 
the  use  of  passive 
surveillance as a general instrument and conditionality-
based  lending  among  the  more  vulnerable  members 
have  clearly  proved  to  be  ineffective.  That  is  so  not 
associated  with 
least 
the 
conditionality-based 
invariably 
never  applicable  to  countries  of  systemic  importance, 
and no mechanisms exist to encourage larger countries 
to respond to policy advice. 

Likewise,  the World  Bank  should  have  a  revised 
mandate  that  focuses  on  certain  key  development 
challenges,  such  as  protection  of  the  environment, 
clean  energy  and  certain  aspects  of  poverty  reduction, 
instead  of 
to  address  every  development 
challenge  and  undermining  its  own  effectiveness.  In 
addition,  more  needs  to  be  done  to  democratize  the 
institutions,  to  align  the  interests  of  the  management 
and staff with those of the countries they serve and to 
make them more accountable to the membership. 

Similarly,  a  more  democratic  and  reformed 
United  Nations  Organization  will  be  better  placed  to 
play a central role in the multilateral system in serving 
crisis.  The  mandate  of 
lending  are  almost 
In  addition, 
financial 
because 
incentives 
24 

08-51606 
of 
the 
reform 
underpin 


the interests of the international community as a whole, 
whether in relation to its peace and security mandates, 
the  protection  of  fundamental  rights  or  the  promotion 
of development. 

Within the Commonwealth, heads of Government 
have  developed  a  set  of  principles  and  guidelines  that 
should 
international 
institutions. Among their recommendations is a call for 
a conference along the lines of Bretton Woods to lead 
the  way  in  determining  the  future  of  the  international 
financial  institutions.  I  trust  that  those  principles  and 
guidelines will be fully embraced. 

every success. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Guyana for the statement 
he has just made. 

I  wish  this  sixty-third  session  of  the  Assembly 
Mr. Bharrat Jagdeo, President of the Republic of 
Guyana, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 


to 
Address by Mr. Mikheil Saakashvili, President of the 
Republic of Georgia 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Georgia. 

Mr.  Mikheil  Saakashvili,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Georgia,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Mikheil  Saakashvili,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Georgia, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
the 

opportunity  today  to  address  this  sixty-third  annual 
gathering of the Assembly at such a critical moment in 
the  history  of  my  own  country  and  of  the  United 
Nations. 
this 

institution’s  towering  ideals  arise  in  small,  faraway 
places, of which we know very little. I come to you as 
the representative of one of those places — the country 
of  Georgia,  a  land  of  fewer  than  5  million  that  last 
month  was  invaded  by  our  neighbour.  Despite  our 
the  most  extreme 
I  welcome 
Saakashvili: 
Sometimes, 
President 
tests  of 
A/63/PV.6
in 
include 
that  Charter 
small  size,  the  legal,  moral,  political  and  security 
implications  raised  by  that  invasion  could  not  have 
greater consequences. 

Indeed,  those  issues  cut  through  to  the  heart  of 
the  founding  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
principles  enshrined 
the 
inviolability  of  sovereign  borders,  the  sanctity  of 
human  rights,  the  supremacy  of  international  law  and 
the global rejection of armed aggression. 

All of those principles were put to the test by the 
invasion  and  now  hang  in  the  balance.  The  invasion 
violated  Georgia’s  internationally  recognized  borders. 
At  the  very  beginning  of  the  aggression,  we  clearly 
told our own people and the world that the spirit of the 
people  of  Georgia  would  not  be  broken  and  that  we 
would never give up freedom and never surrender. We 
never  did  and  never  will.  The  subsequent  recognition 
of  the  so-called  independence  of  our  two  regions  — 
South Ossetia, with a population of less than 20,000 in 
the  areas that Russia  controlled,  and Abkhazia,  with  a 
population  of  less  than  50,000  ethnic  Abkhaz  —  in 
order  to  punish  our  country  and  send  a  signal  to  the 
rest  of  the  world,  not  only  challenged  our  territorial 
integrity  but  also  defied  common  sense  and  the 
elementary  principles  of  international  interaction.  The 
ethnic  cleansing  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  our 
people violated the very idea of human rights.  

This General Assembly, therefore, faces a general 
challenge. We are called upon not just to respond to the 
particular question of one instance of armed aggression 
in  a  single  place  but  to  define  our  attitude  towards 
armed  aggression  in  all  places. We  are  called  upon  to 
answer  the  momentous  question:  will  this  body  stand 
up for its founding principles, or will it allow them to 
be  crushed  under  the  treads  of  invading  tanks,  under 
the  boots  of  ethnic  cleansers,  under  the  immobilizing 
impact of cyberattacks and under the pernicious tactics 
of violent separatism? 

What  would  it  mean  for  every  member  of  this 
Assembly  to  defend  the  underlying  principles  of  the 
United Nations? 

First, each of us must refuse to stand silent in the 
face  of  this  armed  aggression  and  assault  on  human 
rights. 

Secondly, we must stand united and immediately 
adopt  a  policy  of  non-recognition  towards  Georgia’s 
two  breakaway  provinces,  currently  occupied  and 
08-51606 

25 

A/63/PV.6 

annexed  by  the  aggressor.  Together,  we  have  both  a 
moral  and  a  legal  obligation  to  protect  international 
law and the world order. 

Thirdly,  we  must  ensure  that  all  parties  comply 
with the full terms of the existing ceasefire agreement.  

Fourthly,  and  lastly,  we  must  resolve  to  create  a 
meaningful  United  Nations  conflict  resolution  process 
that  will  peacefully  reunify  Georgia  and  solve  the 
problem. 

The bottom line is this: we must be ready to use 
the full power of international law and of our collective 
international institutions to uphold the historic balance 
of justice and thereby set in motion a series of actions 
to right these historic wrongs. 

While  the  crisis  poses  grave  challenges  for  the 
entire  international  community,  it  creates  specific 
obligations for my own country. I would argue that the 
answer to that new assault on our shared values is not a 
closing  up  or  a  circling  of  the  wagons,  but  rather 
greater  openness  on  many  fronts. As  a  democracy,  we 
have  nothing  to  fear.  As  a  democracy,  we  have  an 
obligation  to  our  people  and  to  the  international 
community to be even more open and transparent. For 
me  and  my  Government,  that  commitment  translates 
into a series of specific actions at both the international 
and the domestic levels. Allow me to explain. 

First,  I  know  that  there  are  many  people  in  the 
world  who  seek  a  clearer  understanding  of  how  this 
war  started  and  who  started  it.  Rather  than  recite  our 
case,  let  me  repeat  the  simple  invitation  that  I  first 
made  on  17  August  while  standing  next  to  German 
Chancellor  Angela  Merkel,  who  visited  Georgia 
immediately after the unleashing of hostilities, when I 
proposed 
should  be  an  exhaustive 
independent  investigation  of  the  origins  and  causes  of 
this war. 
Investigators  must  have  unimpeded  access  to  all 

officials, 
intelligence.  Georgia 
welcomes  such  an  investigation.  My  Government  is 
ready to share every piece of  evidence  and to provide 
access  to  every  witness  sought  by  investigators.  We 
call on the other party to this conflict to fully cooperate 
and  not  to  obstruct  the  investigation.  That  is  how 
democracies behave. The truth must come out, not only 
to  clarify  how  events  unfolded  last  month  but  also  to 
help  us  to  answer  the  fundamental  questions  that  this 
invasion has raised. 
documents 
there 
that 
and 
to 
funding 
increasing 
institutions, 
independence 
including  by 
to  parliament  and 

My  Government’s  second  initiative  of  openness 
involves  developments  within  our  borders.  Whereas 
others waged this war with arms, we will wage it with 
values. Georgia was attacked because it is a successful 
democracy in our part of the world. Our response today 
is  to  make  our  democracy  even  more  robust.  That  is 
why I am announcing to the Assembly four categories 
of expanded democratic initiatives. 
First, we will strengthen the checks and balances 

including  granting 
of  our  democratic 
greater 
the 
judiciary.  Secondly,  we  will  provide  additional 
resources  and  protections  to  foster  greater  political 
pluralism, 
for 
opposition  parties  and  ensuring  they  have  greater 
access to the airwaves. Thirdly, we will strengthen the 
rule of law by introducing enhanced due process, trials 
by  jury  and  lifetime  judicial  appointments.  Fourthly, 
we  will  expand  and  deepen  protections  for  private 
property. In everything we do, we will be transparent. 

This  morning,  I  was  honoured  to  learn  that,  in 
Transparency International’s latest index, Georgia was 
among the few countries to have risen significantly in 
the  rankings  over  the  past  year.  Indeed,  the  European 
Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development  ranks 
Georgia among the least corrupt economies in Europe.  

Despite  all the turmoil, my country has endured. 
That  proves  the  resiliency  and  irreversibility  of  our 
democratic  commitment.  In  short,  we  will  fight  the 
spectre  of  aggression  and  authoritarianism  with  the 
most  potent  weapon  in  our  arsenal,  namely,  our 
commitment  to  ever-expanding  freedoms  within  our 
own  borders.  That  amounts  to  nothing  less  than  a 
second  Rose  Revolution.  If  our  first  revolution  was 
about  meeting  a  threat  from  within  by  reinventing  a 
failed  State 
riddled  by  corruption,  our  second 
revolution must be even more focused, as we now face 
an  even  greater  challenge  —  one  that  comes  from  the 
outside.  The  success  of  the  first  Rose  Revolution 
helped save my country. The health of the international 
order could well depend on the outcome of the second 
Rose Revolution. 

Countless  people  throughout  the  world  were 
deeply moved and profoundly troubled by the invasion 
of Georgia, which began, with tragic irony, on the eve 
of that great celebration of peace, the Olympic Games. 
On  the  most  basic  level,  the  world  responded  with 
passionate  humanity 
the  plight  of  ordinary 
to 
26 

08-51606 
times,  are  helping 
to 
those  who,  during 


Georgians under siege; to the sight of 80-year-old men 
and women driven from their villages; to the hundreds 
of  thousands  of  innocent  souls  taking  shelter  from 
bombings;  to  a  small  country  of  less  than  5  million 
people  being  trampled  by  a  neighbour  300  times  its 
size.  The  world  responded  immediately  by  sending 
generous aid, by coming to Georgia and by showing its 
solidarity.  Meanwhile,  leaders  from  around  the  world 
have been working tirelessly to negotiate and enforce a 
ceasefire.  

I  am  especially  grateful  to  President  Sarkozy  of 
France for his dedication to ensuring that the ceasefire 
is  fully  implemented  in  letter  and  in  spirit.  As  all 
parties have  agreed, that  means the  full withdrawal  of 
all military forces from my country to their pre-conflict 
positions. 

The  world’s  actions  proved  that  the  most  potent 
response to this brutal invasion is to rebuild Georgia’s 
democracy  and  economy,  making  them  even  stronger 
than  before.  I  want  to  make  a  special  commitment  to 
these  especially  difficult 
all 
economic 
fund  Georgia’s 
reconstruction:  we  will  spend  their  resources  wisely, 
well and with full transparency. 

Georgia  will  rebuild.  It  will  contribute  to  the 
prosperity  and  security  of  all  its  citizens  and  of  the 
entire  international  community  by  providing  stability 
in  our  part  of  the  world  and  serving  as  a  model  for 
democratic  development.  Reconstruction  will  also 
ensure  that  Europe  continues  to  benefit  from  the  true 
energy  security  that  comes  from  diversification.  And 
everything we do will be done peacefully. 

But today we must ask a series of questions, the 
answers  to  which  have  grave  consequences.  We  have 
all  wondered  in  recent  weeks:  was  this  invasion  an 
aberration  or  a  misguided  attempt  to  resort  to  the 
nineteenth-century logic of brute force, or was it a sign 
of an ominous new trend, one that could continue and 
deepen  to  undermine  the  international  order  of  the 
twenty-first century, eroding State sovereignty and the 
power  of  our  common  and  hard-fought  principles?  I 
believe that that question and others have not yet been 
answered. Others still need to be asked. 
Will we encourage violent and hateful separatism 

around 
standing  aside  when  State 
sovereignty  is  subverted,  or  will  we  draw  a  clear  line 
and defend the principles that uphold the international 
order and declare, enough? In the twenty-first century, 
the  world, 
A/63/PV.6
we  have  better  ways  to  protect  the  rights  of  ethnic 
minorities than with T-72 tanks and Sukhoi fighter jets. 

We  have developed a body of legal and political 
examples  to  accommodate  minority  demands  within 
the  context  of  national  sovereignty.  After  all,  that  is 
one of the great achievements of the United Nations, of 
the  European  Union  and  of  other  multilateral  and 
regional organizations. Its foundation is the belief that 
democracy and prosperity provide room for all. Are we 
ready to throw all that away?  
And what of the use of brute force? Will we look 

the  other  way  or  reward  the  dispatch  of  tens  of 
thousands  of  troops  and  hundreds  of  planes  across 
internationally  recognized  borders  to  bomb  another 
country? Will we cover our eyes when ethnic cleansing 
occurs,  as  it  has  over  and  over  again  for  the  past 
16 years  in  Abkhazia  and  South  Ossetia?  In  a  world 
that  struggles  to  reign  in  traditional  forms  of  State 
violence, will we sanction new ones? 

During  the  invasion  of  Georgia,  we  witnessed 
several terrifying new twists in the waging of war. We 
saw  proxy  forces  and  militias  cynically  unleashed  to 
ethnically  cleanse  the  population  of  my  country, 
operating  without  any  restraint  and  outside  any  order. 
We demand a thorough United Nations investigation of 
the  crimes  against  humanity,  war  crimes  and  human 
rights violations that have been committed.  

We  have  experienced  the  first  full-scale  cyber 
warfare  campaign,  which  was  aimed  at  crippling  my 
country’s  economy  and  our  ability  to  communicate 
with  the  outside  world.  It  is  profoundly  distressing  to 
see  the  technology  that  has  woven  our  world  together 
and  helped  to  bridge  cultures  being  used  to  divide 
ethnic groups and to tear our world apart. 
Today,  when  most  of  the  world  understands  the 

existential 
threat  posed  by  climate  change  and 
ecological destruction, we in Georgia have witnessed a 
sickening campaign of ecocide as part of the invasion. 
That  occurred  when  combat  helicopter  gunships 
continuously dropped firebombs on old-growth forests 
in  the  Borjomi  National  Park,  which  comprises  our 
national  centre  for  tourism,  recreation,  culture  and 
water  resources.  I  believe  that,  together,  we  have  the 
solemn  responsibility  to  deliver  answers  to  those 
questions. We will succeed. Let us resolve to bring the 
right conclusions to the world.  
08-51606 

27 

The 
the  world’s  conscience, 
A/63/PV.6 


invasion  of  our  country  provided  an 
impressive demonstration of the power of global public 
opinion, which can find expression only when societies 
are  open  and  free.  Ultimately,  what  stopped  the  tanks 
and troops from taking our capital was the international 
disapproval voiced by so many here, by the free media, 
by  courageous  human  rights  groups  and  by  leading 
voices  of 
from  Natan 
Sharansky to Václav Havel. 

Rhetoric,  however,  is  no  longer  enough;  today, 
we must act.  If words were sufficient, then something 
might have come from the many calls for peace and the 
countless  warnings  that  I  myself  have  made  from  this 
rostrum over the years. No one has fought harder than 
my  country  and  myself  to  heal  the  ethnic  rifts  in 
Georgia and to bring about a peaceful resolution of the 
conflict, and we will continue to fight forcefully.  

Indeed, in this very place, I have warned so many 
times that this situation was in the making — that there 
was  a  threat.  Four  years  ago,  we  were  discussing  the 
dangers  posed  by  the  illegal  Russian  build-up  in  our 
country  aimed  at  our  territories.  We  spoke  about  the 
distribution  of  passports  and  about  the  illegal  bases 
built on our territories. We knew that those subversive 
tactics,  combined  with  the  ethnic  cleansing  that  had 
driven  most  Georgians  from  those  territories,  would 
one  day  be  used  as  a  pretext  for  invasion. And  that  is 
precisely  what  happened 
is  also 
happening in other countries in our neighbourhood. 

In 2006, I urgently drew attention to the attempts 
being made to annex Abkhazia and South Ossetia, and 
I asked whether any members in this great Hall would 
tolerate  such  interference  by  another  Power  on  their 
own  soil.  I  warned  of  the  risk  that  “a  Pandora’s  box 
will  be  opened,  unleashing  violent  separatism  and 
conflict not only in the Caucasus but across many parts 
of our globe” (A/61/PV.16, p. 4). Today, unfortunately, 
we  stand  at  that  very  precipice,  where  peace  could 
yield to a pernicious new world order. 

One year ago, I came to this Hall with even more 
distressing news: that an illegal new military base was 
being  built  in  South  Ossetia  by  those  who  hoped  that 
arms  and  violence  could  triumph  over  the  will  of  the 
people.  I  noted  that  that  dangerous  escalation  was 
taking  place  under  the  very  noses  of  the  international 
monitors whose job it was to demilitarize the territory, 
and I asked that those reckless acts be countered. Our 
warnings continued in the months and weeks before the 
last  month.  It 
invasion.  We  told  anyone  who  would  listen  about  the 
campaign  that  had  been  unleashed  to  slander  Georgia 
and  my  Government  while  blocking  any  meaningful 
negotiations  with  the  separatists.  That  was  part  of  a 
calculated  effort  to  weaken  international  support  for 
Georgia and to lay the groundwork for the invasion. 

We  gave  the  international  community  the  details 
of  a  sharp  military  build-up  by 
the  purported 
peacekeepers  —  a  build-up  that  began  this  spring  in 
both  conflict  zones,  leading  to  armed  attacks  this 
summer  by  separatist  militias.  Just  before  the  land 
invasion  began  in  the  early  hours  of  7  August,  after 
days  of  heavy  shelling  that  had  killed  civilians  and 
peacekeepers, we urgently sought to refute claims that 
2,100  South  Ossetian  civilians  had  been  killed  by 
Georgians. That was the excuse used by the invader for 
what  it  called  a  “humanitarian  intervention”  —  a 
profound  perversion  of  the  responsibility  to  protect. 
That lie, which was subsequently debunked by Human 
Rights  Watch  —  which  estimated  that  44  had  been 
killed — and others, was an attempt to conceal the true 
motives for the invasion. 

Over the years, I have also spoken many times to 
you  about  the  plans  that  Georgia  has  developed, 
together  with 
to 
peacefully reunify my country. I have spoken about the 
urgent  need  to  replace  and  transform  the  failed 
frameworks  for  negotiation  and  peacekeeping  in  our 
region.  Repeatedly  and  with  sincere  intent,  I  have 
extended my hand to our large neighbour. 

Just  a  few  days  before  the  invasion  of  Georgia, 
we  continued 
to  work  furiously  for  peace.  The 
Secretary-General  had  sent  his  Special  Representative 
to Georgia to determine how to fix the broken process 
of  conflict  resolution,  and  we  cooperated  closely  with 
him.  The  German  Government  had  proposed  peace 
talks  for  mid-August  —  talks  that  my  Government 
eagerly 
the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
also  proposed  talks  in  Helsinki  in  late  July,  to  which 
we  subscribed.  Unfortunately,  the  opposing  parties  to 
the  conflict  repeatedly  turned  their  backs;  they  had 
other plans in mind. 

Finally,  on  the  eve  of  the  invasion,  my  Special 
Envoy  travelled  twice  in  desperation  to  South  Ossetia 
to  plead 
from  our 
neighbouring country failed to come to those meetings. 
He  cited  a  flat  tire  as  the  reason  for  not  showing  up. 
supported.  The  Finnish  Chair  of 
for  peace.  His  counterpart 
international 
community, 
the 
28 

08-51606 
to 
Despite 
the  destruction  wreaked  by 


Within  24  hours,  thousands  of  very  full  tires  were 
rolling across the border of my country. 

So  words  alone  are  not  nearly  enough.  Nor  can 
words  accurately  convey  the  horrors  of  war.  It  is 
difficult,  if  not  impossible,  to  say  that  anything  good 
can  ever  come  of  war.  The  value  of  human  life  is 
incalculable, and we in Georgia grieve not only for our 
own  lost  sons  and  daughters,  but  also  for  our  fallen 
neighbours  who  were  sent  in  to  carry  out  an  unjust 
aggression of war.  
Yet,  the  international  community  has  emerged 

from the invasion of my country with something truly 
valuable:  finally,  clarity.  We  understand  what  has 
happened. We can no longer deny the motivations and 
intentions of those actors who instigated the war. With 
clarity  comes  responsibility.  We  no  longer  have  any 
reason for inaction. Now each of us has a responsibility 
to act. 
the 

invasion —  hundreds  dead;  nearly  200,000  displaced, 
according 
the  United  Nations;  our  economy 
disabled — my Government is putting our convictions 
into  practice.  I  promise  to  you  that  my  Government 
will implement with all due speed the new democratic 
initiatives 
“Rose 
Revolution”.  I  promise  to  you  that  Georgia  will  soon 
be stronger and more democratic than ever before, and 
thus that it will be in a better position to contribute to 
our collective security and prosperity. 

However, if that is to have any meaning, we must 
together defend the principles on which this institution 
was  built.  We  need  actions,  not  words.  Allow  me  to 
repeat once again the four commitments that, I believe, 
we  must  make.  First,  each  of  us  must  refuse  to  stand 
silently  by  in  the  face  of  this  armed  aggression, 
occupation,  ethnic  cleansing  and  assault  directed 
against  a  United  Nations  Member  State.  Secondly,  we 
must  stand  united  in  rejecting  the  forced  and  illegal 
recognition  of  Georgia’s  two  separatist  provinces  and 
what  is  essentially  their  annexation  by  its  neighbour. 
Thirdly,  we  must  ensure  that  all  parties  comply  fully 
with  the  existing  ceasefire  agreement.  Fourthly,  we 
must resolve to create a meaningful conflict resolution 
process  that  will  peacefully  reunify  Georgia  and 
resolve the conflict, in the interest of all ethnic groups 
and minorities, our society as a whole and the region. 
If  we  can  accomplish  those  goals,  then  this 

institution will emerge from this crisis stronger than it 
constitute 
second 
that 
the 
A/63/PV.6
that  have  subverted  State  sovereignty 
was  before.  If,  however,  we  fail  to  stop  the  violent 
tactics 
in 
Georgia, they will spread to other parts of the world. It 
is  our  collective  responsibility 
to  respond  with 
conviction and resolve.  

Georgia has made its choice, and our democracy 
will emerge stronger as a result. Together, we will find 
ways, as we have over the millennia, to ensure peaceful 
coexistence  among  all  members  of  our  multiethnic 
society,  be 
they  ethnically  Georgian,  Abkhaz  or 
Ossetian.  We  have  been  a  Christian  country  since  the 
fifteenth  century,  but  we  are  also  a  country  in  which 
many  different  religious  groups  and  communities 
coexist.  Diversity  is  our  strength,  not  a  source  of  our 
weakness.  We  are  willing  to  strengthen  our  diversity 
even  further  in  order  to  make  my  country  successful 
and whole once again, rejuvenated and rebuilt.  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Georgia for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Mikheil  Saakashvili,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Georgia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.  
The President returned to the Chair. 




into 
Address by Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, President of the 
Republic of Bolivia 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Bolivia. 

Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, President of the Republic 
of  Bolivia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Evo  Morales 
Ayma,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Bolivia,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Morales  Ayma  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

This  meeting  of  the  United  Nations  is  being  held  at  a 
time  when  there  is  a  rebellion  of  peoples  throughout 
the  world,  a  rebellion  against  poverty  and  destitution 
and  against  the  effects  of  climate  change,  against  the 
privatization  policies  that  have  caused  the  financial 
crisis. 
08-51606 

29 

imposed  by 
the  World  Bank  and 
indigenous  workers  and 
A/63/PV.6 


I  wish  to  tell  the  Assembly  that  in  Bolivia  in 
recent  years  we  have  experienced  great  uprisings  by 
our  people,  social  movements  from  the  countryside  to 
the  cities,  of 
farmers 
questioning economic models and systems that simply 
privatized  natural  resources  and  steadily  sacked  the 
country.  The  privatization  of  basic  services  and  the 
policies 
the 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF)  did  not  solve 
anything  for  the  majority  of  Bolivians.  I  came  to  the 
presidency in 2005 and 2006 as a result of that struggle 
by  the  social  movements,  which  was  accompanied  by 
an ongoing labour and social struggle by our Bolivian 
comrades and brothers who were seeking equality and 
social justice.  
With a little experience I can say that in the two 

and  a  half  years  of  my  Government  we  have 
nationalized the natural resources, such as oil and gas, 
and the economy is beginning to change profoundly. In 
2005, before I was elected President, the Bolivian State 
received  only  $300  million  for 
its  oil  and  gas 
resources.  Last  year,  2007,  after  nationalization  and 
after  we  changed  the  hydrocarbons  law,  the  Bolivian 
State  received  $1.93  billion.  Being  a  small  country 
with  about  10  million  inhabitants,  that  enabled  us  to 
improve  the  national  economy.  The  recovery  of  our 
natural resources is so important that that has been the 
goal of a historic fight by our peoples.  

I wish to speak about some results with regard to 
social  issues  and  about  some  profound  changes  in 
democracy that took place with the participation of the 
workers in various social sectors. However — and I am 
certain that in the last few days the world has been able 
to grasp this — there is an ongoing conspiracy of small 
groups against this process of change. I want it known 
that  since  the  first  day  of  my  Government  some 
conservative  parties  that  favour  imperialism  have 
consistently  tried  to  weaken  us  and  to  wear  us  down. 
Last  year  they  requested  a  referendum  to  recall  the 
President.  I  accepted  that  calmly,  and  instead  of  my 
being  recalled,  some  prefects  and  some  opposition 
authorities  were  recalled  by  the  Bolivian  people.  I 
received the support of 67 per cent of the people in the 
recall referendum of 10 August 2008.  

I  should  like  to  recall  something  important  that 
our  forefathers  used  to  say  —  our  leaders  who  fought 
for control of our land, people such as Tupac Catari. In 
1741 we were cut into pieces by the Spanish invasion. 
Before  Bolivia  was  founded  and  before  dying,  our 
in 
to  prevent 
institutions,  and 
leader  said,  “I  die,  but  I  will  return  transformed  into 
millions of people”. For the first time a President of the 
Bolivians  has  received  more  than  2  million  votes.  So 
the  statement  of  Tupac  Catari,  the  leader  of  our 
ancestors, has come true. But that was part of a process 
of change in the democracy, with the awareness of the 
Bolivian people.  

After  13,  14  and  15 August,  that  small  group  of 
conservatives  began  to  organize  a  coup  d’état  of 
municipal  authorities  and  prefects  against 
the 
Government  and  the  State.  I  will  quickly  list  some  of 
those events. On 14 and 15 August there was a meeting 
of  a  so-called  national  coordinating  committee  of  the 
right,  which  attempted 
the  national 
authorities  from  reaching  four  regions  of  the  country. 
They  attacked  the  departmental  command  of  the 
national  police,  and  there  was  an  attack  on  the  police 
subcommander. A roadblock was set up in four regions 
to  cut  off  food  supplies  for  the  population.  Oil 
installations  were  surrounded.  There  was  a  general 
attack  on 
four  departments 
75 government offices were taken over. The State radio 
and television were silenced, especially the community 
radios. The airports were taken by those groups. 

I remember that, when I was a boy, in the military 
dictatorships  the  coups  d’état  began  with  takeovers  of 
the State television stations. History is repeating itself, 
but thanks to the conscience of the Bolivian people this 
civil coup in Bolivia has been defeated. Thanks to the 
participation  of  the  nations  that  have  now  come 
together in the Union of South American Nations, this 
attempted civil coup d’état has been defeated. 

Here, I would like to say something. Surely, some 
participants  are  waiting  for  me  to  tell  them  why  we 
expelled  the  United  States  ambassador.  Europe  and 
Latin America  repudiated  the  attempted  civilian  coup, 
but  the  Government  of  the  United  States  did  not,  nor 
has it denounced those acts of terrorism. This morning 
I  heard  the  statement  of  the  President  of  the  United 
States  condemning  terrorism.  In  Bolivia,  right  wing 
groups are setting fire to gas pipelines and cutting off 
the valves for the export of gas to Brazil and Argentina, 
but  the  embassy  of  the  Government  of  the  United 
States does not condemn such acts of terrorism.  

It  is  not  hard  to  imagine  that,  if  some  social 
movement  were  to  steal  his  country’s  national  wealth, 
the  United  States  ambassador  would  condemn, 
denounce  and  repudiate  such  an  act.  I  would  like  to 
30 

08-51606 
for 
the 
States  Agency 
representatives  of 
I  was  a  parliamentarian.  On 


hear 
the  United  States 
Government  denounce  these  acts  of  terrorism.  Of 
course,  the  terrorists  know  that  the  United  States  is 
their  ally.  It  is  never  going  to  condemn  them.  The 
ambassador  of  the  United  States  was  clearly  the 
primary  human  element  conspiring  against  the  United 
States  Government.  I  remember  perfectly  the  year 
2002,  when 
the 
instructions  of  the  United  States  embassy,  I  was 
expelled  from  Parliament.  I  was  accused  of  drug 
trafficking  and  of  being  an  assassin.  In  2002,  the 
United States created a governance programme through 
the  United 
International 
Development (USAID) to finance the strengthening of 
the conservative political parties and put the brakes on 
a  growing  political  liberation  movement,  a  political 
movement  for  the  sovereignty  of  our  peoples,  a 
political  movement  that  was  designed  to  bring  an  end 
to injustice and to seek equality for Bolivians.  
I  also  remember  —  some  participants  may  not 

recall it clearly — that in 2002, when I was called for 
the first time  to be a candidate for the presidency, the 
United  States  ambassador  said:  “Do  not  vote  for  Evo 
Morales. If you vote for Evo Morales, there will be no 
international aid or international cooperation”, thereby 
instilling fear in the Bolivian people. And they did not 
stop there. They also said: “Evo Morales is the Andean 
Bin Laden, and these farmers are the Taliban”. Hence, 
standing before this Assembly is an Andean Bin Laden 
who  represents  the  Taliban,  which  is  the  indigenous 
farmers’  movement  that  historically  fought  for  its 
claims. 

There are so many accusations of that kind. When 
we  came  to  power,  we  found  a  CIA  office  in  the 
Government palace. After we discovered it, we had no 
problem getting rid of it because we had no need for a 
CIA  office 
they  were 
operating  from  there.  For  example,  in  2004,  they 
wanted 
to  give 
diplomatic  immunity  to  civilians  or  members  of  the 
Bolivian military. We rejected that, of course, thanks to 
our  social  cohesion.  In  2005,  they  began  dismantling 
the  military’s  missiles,  together  with  some  commands 
and, of course, the administration in place at that time.  

Dismantling  the  military  is  treason;  it  is  not 
possible  that  the  Southern  Command  of  the  United 
States  armed  forces  would  practice  such  a  policy. 
However,  they  continuously  tried  to  control  some 
members  of  the  military.  For  example,  in  previous 
the  National  Congress 
the  palace.  Obviously, 
to  force 
in 
A/63/PV.6
that 
told 
they 
these  were  missiles  for 
Governments,  they  created  a  special  counter-terrorism 
force,  the  F-10,  and  at  one  point  in  time  their 
representatives informed me that, in 2005 or 2004, they 
were  prepared  to  kill  labour  or  political  leaders  who 
opposed capitalism and imperialism.  

When  I  appointed  a  commander,  he  was  vetoed 
by  the  United  States  embassy.  Of  course,  we  are  not 
going  to  allow  any  more  vetoes.  Last  year,  special 
firearms  munitions  were  illegally  brought  into  the 
country  at  the  instigation  of  the  commander  of  the 
United  States  military  group,  Colonel  Campbell.  We 
were 
training 
purposes.  Moreover, 
illegally  employ  young 
students  belonging  to  United  States  peace  groups  to 
carry  out  spying  activities  on  officials  of 
the 
Governments  of  Cuba  and  Venezuela.  They  are 
working  in  secret  against  the  Government  of  Bolivia, 
thus  violating  the  constitutional  rights  of  their  own 
United  States  citizens  who  come 
to  Bolivia  on 
scholarships. 

I  would  point  out  that  when  one  works  for 
equality  and  for  social  justice,  one  is  persecuted  and 
conspired  against  by  certain  groups. These  groups  are 
not concerned about human equality. It is clear that this 
is a historic fight for our peoples and that it is nothing 
new.  We  can  speak  about  the  economy,  or  about  the 
cost of silver as an industrial commodity, but what we 
are talking about is the fight between rich and poor. It 
is  the  fight  between  socialism  and  capitalism.  That 
historic  struggle  is  being  resumed  now,  but  I  feel  that 
these  battles  are  uprisings  and  rebellions  of  peoples 
against  an  economic  model  —  against  the  capitalist 
system.  If  we  do  not  understand  that  capitalism  is 
destroying humanity, then I am sure — and I hope that 
no  one  will  be  offended  —  that  we  will  not  solve  the 
problems  of  life,  the  problems  of  the  planet  or  the 
problems of humanity.  

I am not accusing anyone of being an accomplice 
of capitalism. From a communal and labour struggle to 
an  electoral  one,  from  organizer  to  President,  I  have 
become  perfectly  aware  that  capitalism  is  the  worst 
enemy  of  humanity.  As  I  said  a  few  days  ago,  with 
great  sincerity,  while  touring  my  country,  I  was 
brought  up  in  social  movements  among  workers, 
farmers  and  indigenous  peoples.  More  than  500  years 
ago, 
and 
imperialism,  and  that  is  why  I  am  anti-imperialist 
today. No one is going to move me from that position. 
If people like me, they like me a lot, but if they do not 
colonialism 
forefathers 
fought 
our 
08-51606 

31 
for  destroying 
the  planet,  and 
I  have  heard  good  statements 
A/63/PV.6 

like  me,  so  be  it.  What  the  world  is  going  through  is 
unjust.  

So  much  has  been  said  about  climate  change, 
flooding, droughts, how our mountains are losing their 
snow.  If  we  continue  in  this  way,  we  will  all  be 
responsible 
thus 
humankind.  

from  other 
presidents  participating  in  this  debate,  from  which  I 
have learned  a great deal; but I am sorry to say that I 
do  not  believe  that  it  is  enough  to  simply  raise  the 
problems unless we also provide the solutions. I would 
like to say that some blacklists have been drawn up to 
punish Governments.  
It  is  difficult  to  imagine  that  those  terrorists 

the  national 
groups  are  not  condemned,  while 
Government 
for  supposedly  being 
involved  in  drug  trafficking.  According  to  United 
Nations  reports,  some  countries  are  increasing  their 
coca  plantations,  but  they  are  not  on  decertified  lists 
because they are pro-capitalist. To those countries that 
support the counter-narcotics struggle by reducing their 
coca cultivation, we did not say that there would be no 
coca,  but  that  there  would  be  no  free  cultivation  of 
coca,  since  the  coca  leaf  does  have  medicinal  and 
nutritional  benefits.  Once  we  clearly  defined  our 
anti-imperialist 
decertified. 
However,  I  am  quite  sure  that  this  is  not  about 
certification or decertification, terrorist or non-terrorist 
countries.  
Mr. Bush, President of the United States, sent me 

a  message  recently  in  which  he  wrote:  “If  I  am  not  a 
friend,  I  am  an enemy”. I  do not  care  whether  I  am a 
friend of the President of the United States, but I am a 
friend  of  the  people  of  the  United  States.  I  have  had 
many  meetings  with 
from  social 
movements  in  the  United  States  and  we  agree  on  our 
approach to life and humankind. That is why we have 
to put an end to blacklists. We are living in times where 
there  are  no  empires,  no  dominance  or  imposition  of 
economic  models  that  can  greatly  harm  countries  or 
continents or the whole world.  
I  wish  to  say  that  we  have  begun  to  work  on  a 

proposal.  It  is  called  “Ten  commandments  to  save  the 
planet,  humankind  and  all  life”.  I  hope  that  my 
colleagues  will  distribute  this  document,  and  with  the 
participation  of  all  it  will  help  us  save  the  planet, 
humankind and life. One  of the first subjects we raise 
position,  we  were 
representatives 
is  decertified 

here is how we can put an end to capitalism. Wherever 
there  is  capitalism,  there  is  exploitation.  Wherever 
there is capitalism, our natural resources are plundered. 
That is what we have seen and experienced. 

Our  second  point  is  that  we  must  denounce  war. 
As  everyone  knows,  we  are  working  arduously  to  put 
Bolivia back on track by drafting a new constitution. In 
that  new  political  constitution  for  the  Bolivian  state, 
for  the  first  time  the  State  and  the  people  of  Bolivia 
will  constitutionally  pledge  never  to  initiate  war. That 
does not mean that we renounce defending ourselves. I 
do not believe in wars. 

Speaking  of  war,  I  am  sure  that  peoples  do  not 
want wars. They do not want the military intervention 
of  any  country  in  any  part  of  the  world.  In  our  new 
political constitution for the Bolivian State, we propose 
that Bolivia should not accept the military base of any 
country  of  the  world  on  its  territory.  In  that  way,  we 
shall  assert  our  dignity  and  defend  the  sovereignty  of 
Bolivia  and  of  other  peoples.  I  have  very  respectfully 
suggested  to  the  people  and  the  Government  of  the 
United  States  that  it  would  be  best  to  withdraw  their 
military  from  Iraq  and Afghanistan  and  other  parts  of 
the  world  as  soon  as  possible.  If  they  do  not,  the 
peoples 
them  because 
interventionism  and  war  are  no  solution  for  life  and 
humanity.  

Our third point is a proposal for a world without 
imperialism  and  colonialism.  Last  year,  I  heard  a 
critical issue discussed here by several heads of State. 
That  issue  was  water  —  water  as  a  right  of  all  living 
beings. We  also  heard  discussions  on  energy  and  how 
important it is to have clean, environmentally friendly 
energy.  
Speaking  of  nature,  the  indigenous  peoples  have 

experience  living  in  harmony  with  Mother  Earth  and 
nature. Mother Earth is neither a shopping centre nor a 
commodity.  Thus,  the  historic  struggle  of  our  peoples 
is  for  land  and  territory,  and  that  struggle  is  being 
repeated in our country.  

Our  next  point,  as  I  said  earlier,  is  to  Mother 
Nature  within  the  United  Nations.  I  hope  that  can  be 
taken  into  account.  I  would  also  note  that  the  new 
Bolivian  political  constitution  incorporates  the  ten 
commandments to save humanity and the world. 

Basic  services  should  be  human  rights.  Water, 
light  and  telecommunications  cannot  be  in  private 
themselves  will 
expel 
32 

08-51606 


hands. If they are human rights, they should be a public 
service and not left to the private sector. To be sure, we 
have many differences with multinationals. Investment 
is certainly important, but we need investors in Bolivia 
who are not the owners of our energy and our oil, but 
who are our partners.  

My  next  point  is  that  we  should  consume  only 
what  we  need  and  prioritize  local  consumption  in  the 
context  of  food  sovereignty.  We  also  need  to  respect 
the diversity of cultures and economies. 
Our  final  point  concerns  how  to  live  well. What 

does  it  mean  to  live  well?  Living  well  is  living  in 
equality,  solidarity  and  complementarity,  eliminating 
inequalities  between  families  and  the  deep-rooted 
disparities  that  exist  among  countries  and  continents. 
When  we  try  to  live  better,  sometimes  all  we  do  is  to 
become  selfish  and  ambitious.  We  never  think  about 
the larger family, which, for us in Bolivia, is the whole 
of Bolivia.  

The  struggles  of  peoples  for  democracy  and  for 
the  re-establishment  of  the  rule  of  law  is  being 
repeated in Bolivia. In the past, great social movements 
led by indigenous farmers brought down dictatorships. 
In  recent  days,  they  defeated  an  attempted  coup  in 
Bolivia, and we hail them. We have just been informed 
that 
are  wisely  mobilizing 
themselves  in  a  search  of  peace  and  asking  that  new 
standards  be  adopted  to  ensure  equality  be  for  all 
Bolivians. 

In conclusion, I wish to say that I am convinced 
that  only  the  conscience  of  the  people  can  defeat  the 
interests  of  certain  groups  and  United  States 
imperialism. I heard some leaders this morning sue for 
peace with a regulated, moderate form of capitalism. I 
do  not  believe  in  that. There  will  be  peace  only  when 
there is equality among all human beings; there will be 
peace only when our identity and the dignity of every 
people are respected. 
I do not think there can be peace with capitalism, 

no matter how moderate or regulated. We need to work 
together, we need to participate in the struggles of our 
peoples  for  equality.  Only  Governments  and  leaders 
working  together  with  their  peoples  can  find  equality. 
When  we  have  equality,  there  will  be  social  peace 
throughout the world. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
social  movements 
A/63/PV.6
the  Republic  of  Bolivia  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.  

Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, President of the Republic 
of  Bolivia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
from 


Address by Mr. Hifikepunye Pohamba, President of 
the Republic of Namibia 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Namibia. 

Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Namibia,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hifikepunye 
Pohamba, President of the Republic of Namibia, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Pohamba:  I  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on 

your  election  as  President  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its  sixty-third  session.  We  support  the  priorities  that 
you  have  identified  for  this  session.  I  wish  to  express 
Namibia’s  appreciation  for  your  predecessor,  Srgjan 
Kerim,  for  focusing  the  agenda  of  the  sixty-second 
session  on  matters  of  crucial  importance  to  Member 
States.  We  commend  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon, for tirelessly taking up the challenging issues 
of peace, security and economic development. 
The  sixty-third  session  of  the  General Assembly 

is  taking  place  at  a  time  when  the  global  economy  is 
dominated  by  four  interrelated  crises.  I  have  in  mind 
the  financial  crisis  in  the  industrialized  countries,  the 
global energy crisis, the devastating impact of climate 
change  as  well  as  the  food  crisis  which  has  adversely 
affected  poor  people  around  the  world.  Other,  no  less 
daunting,  challenges  are  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic, 
underdevelopment  and  abject  poverty,  as  well  as  the 
need to foster peace and security around the world. We 
must  act  decisively  and  collectively  at  national, 
regional  and  global 
these 
challenges. 

The  devastating  effects  of  climate  change  have 
become  present-day  realities  in  all  parts  of  the  world. 
Namibia  has  experienced  the  negative  impact  of 
climate  change.  The  floods  and  droughts  during  2007 
and 2008 were some of the most devastating in recent 
to  overcome 
levels 
08-51606 

33 

A/63/PV.6 

times. In their wake, they left poor harvests, livestock 
losses,  environmental  degradation,  damaged  infrastructure 
and  destroyed  livelihoods,  thus  putting  a  severe  strain 
on our plans to invest in new development projects.  

Namibia  is  committed  to  the  Bali  road  map  in 
order  to  conclude  the  negotiations  on  the  post-Kyoto 
regime by 2009. We call on all parties to honour their 
commitments  under  the  Kyoto  Protocol,  including  the 
immediate  and  full  capitalization  of  the  Adaptation 
Fund.  Namibia  will  play  its  part  in  the  lead-up  to 
Copenhagen. 

We  want  to  contribute  to  making  Copenhagen  a 
success  in  terms  of  commitments  and  substantial 
mitigations, financial instruments for adaptation efforts 
in  developing  countries  and  mechanisms  for  sharing 
and harnessing appropriate technologies. 

As a net importer of  food  and fuel, Namibia has 
been  hit  hard  by  the  soaring  prices  of  commodities. 
There will be catastrophic increases in the incidence of 
hunger, malnutrition and infant mortality in developing 
countries  unless  the  trend  is  reversed. That  calls  for  a 
decisive  national,  regional  and  international  response. 
In our case, the Government of Namibia has exempted 
some basic foodstuffs from value-added tax in order to 
mitigate  the  effects  of  higher  prices  on  food.  Such 
interventions  can  provide  some  relief  to  households. 
However,  there  remain  long-term  challenges,  which 
demand  appropriate  policies  and  substantial  new 
investment 
to  raise  agricultural  productivity  and 
increase food production around the world.  
There  is  a  real  risk  that  the  gains  made  by 

developing  countries  in  poverty  reduction  and  the 
attainment of the other Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs)  over  the  years  will  be  reversed  if  we  do  not 
act rapidly. 

Global  efforts  to  address  the  food  crisis,  the 
impact of  climate  change  and the drive to achieve the 
MDGs  must  go  hand  in  hand.  In  that  regard,  we 
support the proposal for the General Assembly to hold 
thematic  debates  until  2015  to  take  stock  of  success 
achieved and setbacks encountered in the achievement 
of the MDGs. 

That  will  give  development  cooperating  partners 
an  opportunity  to  account  for  the  fulfilment  of  their 
commitments. On the other hand, developing countries 
should  also  account 
to 
their  commitments 
for 
34 

institutions 
international  financial 
institutions,  enhance  good 
terms.  That  was  called  for  by 
strengthen  democratic 
governance and fight corruption. 

There  is  a  need  for  genuine  political  will, 
especially among donor countries, if the MDGs are to 
be  attained.  In  this  context,  open,  predictable  and 
non-discriminatory trading  and financial systems must 
be  developed.  We  call  for  the  intensification  of  the 
implementation  of 
for 
the  Global  Partnership 
Development as agreed upon at Monterrey in 2002. 
We also appeal to the Bretton Woods system and 

to  create 
other 
special mechanisms to enable middle-income countries 
to  access  financial  resources  for  development  on 
concessional 
the 
Windhoek  Declaration  on  Development  Cooperation 
with Middle-Income Countries. 

The scourge of poverty is one of the most serious 
challenges  facing  humanity  today.  I  believe  that,  with 
the  requisite  political  will,  poverty  can  be  overcome. 
Let  us  act  in  unity  of  purpose  to  address  not  only  the 
manifestations  of  poverty,  but  also  its  underlying 
causes,  which  make  communities  vulnerable.  Let  us 
harness the technological, financial and other resources 
necessary  to  eliminate  the  dehumanizing  effects  of 
poverty on all members of the human family. 

Peace  and  security  as  well  as  social  justice  are 
paramount to the achievement of the MDGs and to the 
resolution  of  conflicts.  In  that  regard,  all  countries 
must commit themselves to implement the policies that 
promote  economic  growth,  social  justice,  the  rule  of 
law,  democracy,  respect  for  human  rights  and  the 
protection  of  the  environment,  in  order  to  guarantee 
durable peace and security. 
Mr. Beck (Solomon Islands), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 

On  15  September  2008,  the  political  leaders  of 
Zimbabwe signed a power-sharing agreement designed 
to  restore  political  and  economic  stability  to  their 
country.  We  wish  to  congratulate  the  leaders  of 
Zimbabwe  on  that  important  milestone  and  to  express 
the hope that it will put that sister country on the path 
towards  economic 
the 
mediation efforts of the Southern African Development 
Community,  led  by  President  Thabo  Mbeki  of  South 
Africa,  who  invested  extraordinary  skill,  time  and 
energy  in  the  process.  We  urge  the  international 
community  to  support  the  implementation  of  the 
recovery.  We  commend 
08-51606 


agreement  by  providing  economic,  financial  and 
humanitarian  assistance.  We  call  for  the  immediate 
lifting of all sanctions that have been imposed on that 
country. 

My  delegation  is  concerned  that  the  question  of 
Western  Sahara  remains  unresolved.  We  support  the 
ongoing  direct  talks  between  the  parties  under  the 
auspices of the Secretary-General. We also call for the 
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  settlement  plan 
for Western  Sahara  and  of  all  relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions providing for a free and fair referendum in 
that  territory.  Namibia  is  also  concerned  about  the 
conflict  situations  in  the  Darfur  region  of  the  Sudan 
and in Somalia. We urge the respective parties to those 
conflicts to work to find lasting peace. 

The people of Palestine have an inalienable right 
to  self-determination.  Namibia  is  concerned  about  the 
lack of progress in the negotiations on the question of 
Palestine. We call for the immediate implementation of 
all United Nations resolutions on Palestine and for the 
establishment  of  an  independent  State  of  Palestine 
living side by side with Israel. 
My  delegation  reiterates  the  call  that  we  have 

made  on  several  occasions  in  this  House  for  the 
unconditional lifting of the economic, commercial and 
financial  blockade  against  Cuba.  Not  only  is  the 
blockade  against  international  law;  its  extraterritorial 
nature  impedes  free  trade  and  economic  development. 
Namibia calls for the implementation of all resolutions 
of  the  General Assembly  calling  for  the  lifting  of  the 
blockade. 

If we are to be able to respond effectively to the 
manifold  challenges  of  our  time,  we  must  accelerate 
the  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  Member  States 
should  work  with 
strengthen  our 
Organization  and to ensure that it delivers in terms of 
its mandate. However, the process will not be complete 
without  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  We  have  an 
obligation  to  make  the  Council  more  representative, 
democratic and accountable. It is an anomaly, and it is 
that  Africa  does  not  have  permanent 
unjust, 
representation  on 
the  Security  Council.  Namibia 
reiterates  the  African  common  position  on  Council 
reform  as  articulated  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and 
the  Sirte  Declaration.  Intergovernmental  negotiations 
on reform should commence without any further delay.  

It  is  our  duty  to  ensure  that  the  United  Nations 
remains true  to its unique  universal character and that 
resolve 
to 
A/63/PV.6
it  becomes  a  source  of  hope  for  a  more  secure  and 
peaceful world for current and future generations. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Namibia for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Namibia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Boni Yayi, President of the Republic 
of Benin 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Benin. 
Mr. Boni Yayi, President of the Republic of Benin, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Boni Yayi, President of the 
Republic  of  Benin,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly. 
President  Yayi  (spoke  in  French):  I  warmly 

congratulate  the  President  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-third 
session.  Benin,  my  country,  will  make  its  modest 
contribution to the work of this session and will strive 
to  promote  the  ideals  of  the  Charter,  to  which  my 
country  here  reaffirms 
its  full  commitment.  His 
predecessor  strove  to  find  ideal  solutions  to  the  great 
challenges  facing  humankind  during  his  mandate.  We 
pay tribute  to him for his  good and faithful service to 
the international community. 

I also wish to commend the diligent and resolute 
efforts  of  the  Secretary-General,  who  has  understood 
the  scope  of  the  grave  crises  that  have  shaken  the 
world over the past year. Thanks to his bold initiatives 
to promote international cooperation, he has been able 
to  revive  the  virtue  of  multilateralism  as  the  best  way 
to  manage  world  affairs 
inclusive  and 
participatory framework highlighting the uniqueness of 
our  world  and  the  shared  responsibility  of  the  human 
species  to  maintain  the  fundamental  equilibriums  on 
which its survival on the Earth and the permanence of 
the biosphere depend.  

In  2007,  responding  to  the  alarm  raised  by  the 
scientific  community,  we  focused  our  attention  on 
in  an 
08-51606 

35 
The 
has 

strategy 
strategy.  That 
Secretary-General 
A/63/PV.6 

climate  change  as  a  global  problem  affecting  the 
environment  on  our  planet,  with 
far-from-rosy 
prospects  for  the  future  of  humankind  and  obvious 
consequences  in  our  daily  lives. The  two  major  crises 
that  we  have  been  attempting  to  contain  for  several 
months  are  unfolding  against  that  backdrop.  The 
energy  and  food  crises,  both  of  which  are  on  our 
agenda,  are  two  of  the  world’s  most  serious  crises  in 
recent  history.  They  mark  a  departure  from  our 
previous certainty as regards uninterrupted and lasting 
supplies of energy and food for our peoples.  

demonstrated 
outstanding  leadership  by  sounding  the  alarm  and 
warning  us  of  the  risks  of  hasty  and  non-viable 
responses  that  could  lead  to  panic  and  serve  to 
exacerbate 
the  situation.  The  Rome  Conference 
organized under the aegis of the Food and Agriculture 
Organization of the United Nations made it possible to 
undertake  a  comprehensive  assessment  of 
the 
complexity of the crisis and to develop an outline for a 
comprehensive 
includes 
immediate  steps  to  address  the  emergency,  as  well  as 
several  cohesive  measures  in  the  short,  medium  and 
long term to preserve peace and stability in vulnerable 
developing  States.  Those  are 
the  countries  most 
affected  by  the  food  crisis,  which  undermines  their 
efforts to combat poverty and hunger. 
The response to the food crisis emergency should 

not  lead  us  to  lose  sight  of  the  timetable  for  the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
The international community has a duty to mobilize the 
necessary  resources  to  correct  the  serious  distortions 
that are at the heart of the food crisis. Our performance 
in 
if  vulnerable 
countries were able to make the investments necessary 
to  relaunch  agricultural  production  throughout  the 
world in a sustainable manner.  
In addition, there is a need to maintain sustained 

growth 
that  can  produce  prosperity  and 
sustainable  human  development  in  the  long  term.  We 
must  continue  to  work  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development Goals and make them a lasting reality.  

In  this  emergency,  the  United  Nations  should 
bring to bear all its influence in order to help countries 
experiencing  difficulties  ensure 
the  survival  of 
threatened  and  vulnerable  segments  of  the  population, 
who risk being decimated  by hunger and famine if no 
one comes to their aid.  
that  regard  could  be 
improved 
rates 
small 
it  possible 
that  makes 
and  medium-sized 

The  time  has  therefore  come  to  give  concrete 
expression  to  the  right  to  food.  It  is  intolerable  that 
hunger continues to be a scourge afflicting humankind 
in  the  twenty-first  century.  In  the  short  term,  priority 
should  be  given  to  strengthening  social  protection 
systems  in  least  developed  countries.  Our  efforts 
should  make  it  possible  to  activate  the  dormant 
potential  of  local  productive  capacity  in  order  to 
stimulate 
businesses. 
Problems  must  be  addressed  through  an  integrated 
approach 
to  maximize 
agricultural  production,  as  well  as  of  preserving, 
bringing to market and distributing food crops in order 
to improve the living conditions of the most vulnerable 
groups  of  the  population,  whose  welfare  we  must 
effectively  ensure.  In  the  medium  and  long  terms,  we 
must  rethink  agricultural  investment  policies  in  order 
to re-establish the balance between cash crops and food 
production,  so  as  to  ensure  food  security  for  States 
while taking cultural specificities into consideration. 

Overall,  this  crisis  illustrates  that  humankind  is 
not  well  equipped  to  manage  the  consequences  of  the 
unfolding  emergency.  This  proves  that  we  are  not 
doing enough for the future and that we run the risk of 
being subject to all sorts of ills. It is for that reason that 
the proposal made by the High-Level Task Force on the 
Global  Food  Security  Crisis  for  an  increase  in  the 
proportion of official development assistance allocated 
to  agriculture  from  3  to  10  per  cent  constitutes  a 
strategic  approach  that  should  be  implemented  with 
common  political  will  commensurate  with  the  stakes 
involved.  I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the  countries 
that  have  already  made  firm  commitments  to  provide 
additional resources in that regard.  

Benin  is  being  seriously  affected  by  the  food 
crisis, but we are  resolutely committed  to undertaking 
the  necessary  reforms.  To  that  end,  in  2006,  my 
agricultural 
Government 
a 
modernization  programme 
to  address 
heightened  distortions.  To  date,  agriculture  in  Benin 
has been characterized by small-scale family farms and 
based  on  the  use  of  outdated  equipment.  In  order  to 
change 
that  situation,  which  has  confined  food 
production  to  subsistence  farming,  a  year  ago  my 
Government  initiated  a  mechanization  programme  to 
improve the competitiveness of the agricultural sector.  

Given that that mechanization alone cannot bring 
about  the  expected  results  without  the  marshalling  of 
water  resources,  we  are  considering  a  programme  for 
national 
in  order 
launched 
36 

08-51606 
for 
increase 
including 
that  will 
to  better  utilize 
Financing  mechanisms, 
to  express  our  great  appreciation 
Soil  degradation,  coastal  erosion  and 


rational  water  management 
that 
resource while preserving it for the future. The goal is 
to promote irrigation agriculture, primarily by building 
irrigation dams in valleys in the north of our country as 
part of an overall development plan.  

the 
combined  effects  of  frequent  flooding  due  to  climate 
change  that  seriously  affect  all  of  West  Africa  are 
among  the  underlying  factors  contributing  to  the  drop 
in  local  food  production.  In  that  connection,  I  should 
like 
the 
awareness-raising  efforts  of  the  secretariat  for  the 
Convention to Combat Desertification.  
the  World 

Bank’s  Adaptation  Fund,  must 
function  with  a 
heightened sense of the urgent need for aid to affected 
regions.  They  should  promote  the  implementation  of 
soil  regeneration  projects,  irrigation  agriculture  and 
reforestation  with  species 
the 
availability of basic foodstuffs. 

As part of efforts to promote diversification in the 
agriculture  sector,  my  Government  also  intends  to 
encourage the cultivation of crops suitable for biofuels 
on  marginally  arable  lands.  The  goal  is  to  reduce 
dependence on hydrocarbons, which has become more 
acute  following  the  dramatic  drop  in  the  generating 
capacity  of  hydropower  plants  as  a  result  of  climate 
change, whose impact has seriously affected economic 
activity  in  my  country  over  the  past  two  years. These 
difficulties have been exacerbated by the dizzying rise 
in oil prices. 

The  tax  cuts  and  import  subsidies  to  which  my 
country  has  resorted  in  order  to  protect  the  buying 
power  of  taxpayers  have  had  a  negative  impact  on 
public  finances.  Those  stop-gap  measures  are  simply 
not sustainable in the long-run.  

This  year  we  are  commemorating  the  sixtieth 
anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights.  Benin  initiated  resolution  62/171,  which  the 
General  Assembly 
the 
International  Year  of  Human  Rights  Learning,  which 
will begin on 10 December 2008. My country proposed 
that  new  approach  in  order  to  once  again  place  the 
human person at the very centre of sustainable human 
development  efforts.  Human  rights  learning  leads  to 
increased  demands  for  human  rights,  which  society  is 
supposed to provide. It is the duty of the international 
community  to  guarantee  them.  We  call  upon  all 
proclaim 
adopted 
to 
A/63/PV.6
for 
the 
of 
the 
to  accelerate 
We  welcome 
implementation 
in  action”  within 
the  framework  of 
recommendations  of 
the  achievement  of 
Member  States  to  give  real  effect  to  the  International 
Year, in line with their national specificities, as well as 
to take all the steps they believe necessary to promote 
ownership and the effective enjoyment of human rights 
by all individuals on their territory. 

The  activities  that  will  take  place  during  the 
International  Year  of  Human  Rights  Learning  will 
provide  additional  impetus  to  the  efforts  we  have 
undertaken  to  ensure  that  all  citizens  subscribe  to  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  especially  in  Africa, 
where  the  risk  of  not  meeting  the  Goals  by  the 
established deadline is the greatest. 

the 
Steering  Group  for  achieving  the  MDGs  in  Africa. 
Benin  is  honoured  to  be  one  of  the  10  pilot  countries 
chosen.  Benin  has  begun  to  integrate  the  concept  of 
“united 
its 
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  system  and 
eagerly awaits its inclusion in the second group of test 
countries 
the 
recommendations  of  the  High-level  Panel  on  System-
wide  Coherence.  This  will  enable  us  to  develop 
synergies 
the 
Millennium Development Goals.  
At  the  national  level,  we  have  integrated  the 

achievement  of 
into  our  national 
development  strategies,  which  are  based  on  attaining 
those  Goals  as  part  of  a  sustainable  development 
process  focused  on  and  sustained  by  our  nation  and 
aimed  at  supporting  economic  growth,  which  will 
enable us to achieve lasting success. 

We  welcome  the  ongoing  consideration  of  ways 
to enhance the effectiveness of development assistance, 
and  we  hope  that  this  will  enable  us  to  develop  a 
consensus vision on the best possible way to revitalize 
the  global  partnership  for  development,  with  the 
ultimate  objective,  in  our  view,  of  reducing  the 
scandalous inequalities which still afflict humankind. 
It  is  clear  that  democratization  of  the  United 

Nations  and  the  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law  at  an 
international 
endeavours  which  will 
contribute to the effective and efficient participation of 
all peoples in managing world affairs, for the benefit of 
present  and  succeeding  generations. The  promotion  of 
the  rule  of  law  at  the  international  level  requires  the 
increased  representation  of  developing  States  in  the 
decision-making  bodies  of  the  international  financial 
their 
institutions,  as  well  as  a 
redefinition  of 
the  MDGs 
level 
are 
08-51606 

37 
A/63/PV.6 

institutional mandates to ensure that better use is made 
of  them  to  mobilize  resources  for  the  development  of 
the  least  developed  countries,  while  preserving  the 
stability of the international financial system. 

The  democratization  of  the  United  Nations  also 
includes  the  long-awaited  reform  of  the  Security 
Council. As a hostage of the inherent contradictions of 
today’s 
remained 
hopelessly stuck, even though it is recognized as being 
of  cardinal  importance  to  the  effectiveness  of  the 
Organization.  The  negotiations  to  that  end  should  be 
carried  out  with  a  heightened  sense  of  responsibility. 
We  must  ensure  equitable  representation  of  Member 
States within the Security Council. I reiterate here the 
legitimate  demands  of  Africa,  as  expressed  in  the 
Ezulwini  Consensus,  within  the  framework  of  reform 
legitimacy  and 
aimed  at  ensuring 
transparency, 
international 
relations, 
it  has 

increased effectiveness of the Council’s decisions as it 
discharges its primary role in maintaining international 
peace  and security. The democratization of the United 
Nations  also  means  a  firmer  commitment  by  Member 
States to respect international and national legality. 

In conclusion, I wish to make an urgent appeal to 
all  parties  to  the  armed  conflicts  that  continue  in 
various hotspots throughout the world, whether they be 
in  the  Middle  East, Asia,  Latin America  or Africa,  to 
choose  the  path  of  peace  and  dialogue  and  to  respect 
democratic values. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Benin for the statement he has just made. 
Mr. Boni Yayi, President of the Republic of Benin, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.  
The meeting rose at 7.35 p.m. 
38 

08-51606 
