
A/63/PV.13
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

13th plenary meeting 
Saturday, 27 September 2008, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 
Viet  Nam  supports  efforts  to  end  violence  in 

Afghanistan and Iraq.  

We should also work to facilitate further progress 
in  the  search  for  lasting  peaceful  solutions  to  the 
nuclear issues on the Korean peninsula and Iran on the 
basis  of  due  respect  both  for  the  legitimate  rights  of 
States  to  develop  and  use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes  and  for  the  regime  of  non-proliferation  of 
nuclear weapons.  

In follow-up to the Annapolis outcome, I wish to 
reaffirm Viet Nam’s support for the role of the Quartet, 
the  League  of Arab  States,  regional  countries  and  the 
United Nations, especially the Security Council, in the 
quest for a lasting solution in the Middle East. Such a 
solution  should  respect  the  inalienable  rights  of  the 
Palestinian people, including their right to establish an 
independent  State  of  their  own,  and  the  principle  of 
land for peace. 

As  leaders  of  the  world  gathered  here  to  discuss 
the  development  needs  of  Africa,  we  were  keenly 
aware  of  the  organic  relationship  between  peace  and 
development.  Viet  Nam  undertakes  to  work  closely 
with the United Nations and the African Union to find 
peaceful solutions to the conflicts and disputes that still 
rage on the continent. 
New  uncertainties  are  unfolding  in  the  global 

economic  and  financial  situation.  Climate  change  and 
energy  and  food  shortages  are  becoming  more  and 
more serious global issues. In the face of that situation, 
it  is  essential  to  enhance  international  cooperation  to 
overcome  these  problems.  In  that  regard,  developed 




The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m. 


Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Pham  Gia  Khiem,  Deputy  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam. 
Mr.  Pham  Gia  Khiem  (Viet  Nam):  Allow  me 

first  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-third 
session.  I  am  confident  that  you  will  ably  guide  our 
session  to  a  great  success.  I  would  also  like  to 
commend  His  Excellency  Mr.  Srgjan  Kerim  for  his 
important contribution to the work of the Assembly at 
its sixty-second session. 

trend  of  peace,  cooperation  and 
development  continues  to  prevail,  there  have  been 
complex developments in the world over the past year. 
Local  conflicts  endure,  acts  of  terrorism  still  occur  in 
many  parts  of  the  world  and  new  tensions  have 
emerged  in  Europe,  including  in  the  Balkans  and  the 
Caucasus. At the same time, the world is experiencing 
the most severe economic uncertainties since the 1997-
1998  financial  crisis,  together  with  new  challenges 
such  as  climate  change  and  the  food  and  energy 
security  crises.  More  than  ever,  the  current  situation 
compels  nations  to  promote  dialogue  and  cooperation 
to  surmount  common  challenges,  both  man-made  and 
natural.  
While 
the 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-53122 (E) 
*0853122* 
to 
that 
A/63/PV.13 

countries  should  take  measures  to  maintain  their 
macroeconomic  and  financial  stability  and  implement 
international  commitments  to  improve  international 
economic relations and the transfer of technology. Such 
cooperation  is  possible  and  effective  only  when  due 
regard  is  given  to  each  country’s  specific  conditions, 
legitimate concerns and interests. 

Given  the  complex  developments  in  the  world, 
the United Nations has a greater role to play in saving 
humankind  from  the  scourge  of  war  and  in  finding 
solutions  to  problems.  The  United  Nations  must  be 
end.  Democratic 
strengthened 
and 
comprehensive  reform  of 
the  United  Nations  — 
including the General Assembly, the Security Council, 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the  specialized 
agencies — will make the Organization more effective 
and  efficient  in  the  areas  of  work  mandated  by  the 
Charter. Viet Nam will continue to contribute to efforts 
aimed at making the United Nations more democratic, 
more effective and more responsive to the needs of the 
peoples of the world.  

In  Viet  Nam,  the  Government  is  working  with 
United  Nations  agencies  and  other  development 
partners to implement the One UN initiative. We hope 
and  believe  that  the  experiences  of  Viet  Nam  and  the 
United  Nations  in  implementing  that  pilot  reform 
programme  will  be  useful  to  other  aid  recipient 
countries  and  to  the  United  Nations  reform  process 
overall. 

In  line  with  its  foreign  policy  of  independence, 
sovereignty,  peace,  cooperation  and  development  and 
its  efforts  to  deeply  engage  with  the  world, Viet  Nam 
has  seriously  observed  its  commitments  and  actively 
participated  in  addressing  global  issues.  We  strongly 
support the Bali Road Map, which aims to establish the 
legal  framework  for 
in 
addressing  climate  change  beyond  2012.  Despite 
natural disasters and epidemics, Viet Nam is honouring 
its  commitments  to  maintain  the  volume  of  its  rice 
exports  at  4  million  tons  annually.  We  intend  to 
continue  those  efforts  to  ease  the  pressures  caused  by 
the rising price of food and to preserve food security. 

The year 2008 marks the first time that Viet Nam 
has  assumed  responsibilities  as  a  non-permanent 
member of the Security Council. In its desire to make 
greater 
of 
international  peace  and  security,  Viet  Nam  has 
participated 
the  Council  as  a 
international  cooperation 
the  maintenance 
the  work  of 
contributions 
to 
in 

increasingly  significant  role 
constructive  and 
responsible  member.  We  shall 
continue  to  uphold  the  principles  enshrined  in  the 
Charter  while  working  with  other  Council  members 
and  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  find  solutions 
that  serve  the  interests  of  international  peace  and 
security and the legitimate interests of all countries and 
parties concerned. 

In the 63 years since its establishment, the United 
Nations  has  traversed  numerous  upheavals  of  history 
and  acquired  an 
in 
international relations. Against that backdrop, and with 
trust in the power of peoples’ will and determination to 
strive for peace, cooperation and development, we are 
strongly  confident  that  the  international  community 
will  overcome  new  challenges  and  that  the  United 
Nations will continue to live up to the expectations of 
all the peoples of the world. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  The  Honourable  Puka  Temu, 
Deputy Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea. 
Mr. Temu (Papua New Guinea): On behalf of my 

people  and  the  Government  of  Papua  New  Guinea,  I 
bring the General Assembly warm greetings and pledge 
our  support  to  you,  Mr.  President,  as  you  guide  us  in 
our  work.  We  also  wish  to  thank  Mr.  Kerim,  your 
predecessor,  for  his  strong  advocacy  during  his  tenure 
as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-second 
session,  especially  in  the  area  of  climate  change.  We 
also  support  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  the 
United  Nations  in  general,  especially  its  agencies,  in 
the  work 
to  enhance  our  development 
aspirations  in  Papua  New  Guinea. As  we  have  always 
done, my Government continues to support the United 
Nations.  
The United Nations currently provides the world 

forum  for  Member  States  to  address  the  many  global 
issues  we  face  together.  United  Nations  reforms  need 
to be carried out in all the relevant areas of the system. 
We  need 
international  gender 
architecture  to  make  it  more  robust,  responsive  and 
effective. It has to be part of the core reform process to 
cater for women, youth and children. We must also be 
vigilant  against  terrorism  and  threats  to  international 
peace  and  security.  The  One  UN  system  needs  to  be 
translated  more  meaningfully  in  order  to  effectively 
enhance each Member State’s development priorities. 
We support the call for the reform of the Security 

Council  in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
to  address 
they  do 
the 
2 

08-53122 
the  Council 
to  better 
reflect 
therefore  welcome 


categories  of  membership.  A  number  of  emerging 
developing  countries  need  to  be  accorded  permanent 
today’s 
status  on 
circumstances.  We 
the  recent 
consensus to initiate the intergovernmental negotiating 
process  to  properly  address  the  long-standing  but 
critical issue of United Nations reform. 

We  live  in  a  world  that  provides  us  many 
opportunities,  as  well  as  formidable  development 
challenges.  The  challenges  include  addressing  the 
destructive  effects  of  the  illicit  use  of  small  arms  and 
light  weapons  and  the  need  to  address  globalization 
and food and energy security, which lead into the wider 
issue of human security. 

Additionally,  the  adverse  impacts  of  climate 
change  and  global  warming  continue  to  threaten  the 
existence of many small island States, especially due to 
rising  sea  levels.  For  many  small  island  States,  sea 
level  rise  and  the  adverse  impacts  of  climate  change 
are  security  issues  threatening  their  very  survival. We 
therefore call upon the international community to act 
urgently in order to ensure the security and welfare of 
small island developing States. 

As  a  thriving  democracy  in  the  Pacific,  Papua 
New Guinea desires to see our friends and neighbours 
in 
freedom  and 
prosperity.  In  that  regard,  and  consistent  with  the 
decision  of  the  leaders  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum, 
Papua New Guinea strongly encourages Fiji to restore 
parliamentary  democracy  by  preparing  for  elections 
and  holding  them  in  2009.  However,  Fiji  must  be 
supported throughout, and not isolated in its efforts to 
address its specific national circumstances.  

On  other  regional  issues,  Papua  New  Guinea 
commends the work done so far on the Pacific Plan for 
Strengthening  Regional  Cooperation  and  Integration, 
which  we  believe  may  catalyse  our 
region’s 
development.  It  is  Papua  New  Guinea’s  strong  view 
that  Member  States  from  the  Pacific  region  should  be 
categorized  separately  by  the  United  Nations  in  terms 
of  aggregated  data  and  in  the  area  of  social  and 
economic  classification.  While  Papua  New  Guinea  is 
ready,  we  can  support  Vanuatu’s  call  for  an  extension 
to  the  May  2009  deadline  for  submissions  on  an 
extended continental shelf. 

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
provide  us  with  one  of  the  greatest  opportunities  to 
leverage our development process. For that reason, we 
the  Pacific  and  beyond  enjoy 
A/63/PV.13
commend  the  Secretary-General  for  convening  the 
high-level  meeting  on  the  MDGs  during  the  present 
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  However,  for  the 
MDGs  to  be  effectively  implemented,  they  must  be 
addressed  consistent  with  national  circumstances  and 
with host-country leadership. Further, for the MDGs to 
be  effective  over  the  long  term,  developing  countries 
must take ownership of the Goals. 

At the midway point of MDG implementation, for 
Papua  New  Guinea,  we  believe  there  is  cause  for 
cautious  optimism.  Papua  New  Guinea  celebrated 
33 years  of  unbroken  constitutional  democracy  on 
16 September  this  year.  Due  to  the  political  stability 
achieved  by  my  Government,  we  can  now  afford  to 
plan long-term for our own development. We have had 
steady  economic  growth  in  the  last  five  years,  due  to 
prudent economic management that has resulted in five 
successive budget surpluses. 

Achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
remains  an  integral  development  priority  for  my 
Government. We have set ourselves 15 national targets 
and 67 indicators, which have been integrated into our 
medium-term development strategy and sectoral plans. 

For example, Papua New  Guinea  recognizes that 
education  is  a  prerequisite  for  the  betterment  of  our 
people’s  lives.  That  is  entrenched  in  our  constitution 
and prioritized under a 10-year national education plan. 
The  current  one-laptop-per-child  pilot  project  will 
make learning accessible, enjoyable and fruitful for our 
children,  while  bridging  the  digital  divide.  We  are 
looking  to  expand  the  project  nationwide  during  the 
Africa  Caribbean  Pacific-European  Union 
Joint 
Parliamentary  Assembly,  to  be  held  in  Papua  New 
Guinea in November. In partnership with UNICEF, we 
have  also  introduced  proactive  programmes  aimed  at 
accelerating the girl-child’s access to education. 

there  remain  major 
challenges, such as maternal mortality and HIV/AIDS, 
which  the  Government  is  now  addressing  through  the 
10-year  national  health  plan.  We  have  also  recorded 
some  positive  results  in  other  major  health  indicators, 
including  a  decrease  in  malaria  incidence  and  in 
malaria-related  deaths,  and 
the  stabilization  and 
decline of infant and child mortality. 

Ultimately, reducing poverty, expanding access to 
education and health and empowering women through 
economic  and  social  participation  are  what  we  in  my 
Government are addressing. 
the  area  of  health, 
In 
08-53122 

3 

change, 
poverty, 
crippling 
A/63/PV.13 


Millennium Development Goal 8 makes reference 
to  partnerships.  We  strongly  believe  that  Goal  is 
critical  to  the  achievement  of  the  other  seven.  We 
believe,  however, 
that  all  partnerships  must  be 
underpinned by mutual respect among the partners. For 
that  reason,  let  me  highlight  some  key  partnerships. 
Our  partnerships  with  Australia,  New  Zealand,  the 
European Union, Japan, China, Italy, Austria and many 
non-governmental organizations continue to contribute 
strongly to Papua New Guinea’s development. We also 
partner with the Coral Triangle Initiative on coral reefs, 
fisheries  and  food  security,  and  the  Forest-11  Group, 
launched  last  year  by  His  Excellency  the  President  of 
Indonesia.  Another  important  partnership  is  with  the 
Bill  and  Melinda  Gates  Foundation,  facilitated  by  the 
Clinton  Foundation,  in  the  area  of  HIV/AIDS  and  the 
provision of antiretrovirals. 

To  succeed,  we  must  significantly  scale  up  our 
partnerships.  Often,  we  all  tend  to  wallow  in  the 
negative  —  environmental  degradation,  catastrophic 
climate 
ineffective 
governance — rather than leveraging the positive. My 
Government’s  vision  is  to  transform  those  societal 
challenges  into  a  framework  for  environmentally  and 
socially sustainable economic growth. It is time to cast 
off policy chains of the past and create a new paradigm 
for the future. 
Let  me  be  specific.  First,  we  cannot  account  for 

the  environment  as  an  externality.  Our  natural 
environment  and  its  services  are  not  free  to  society. 
Once  we  lose  those  services,  often  irreversibly,  the 
costs can be significant. 

Secondly, we must create a broad framework for 
ecosystem service markets. Carbon sequestration must 
only  be  the  first  step,  followed  by  valuations  for 
biodiversity,  water  purification,  rainfall  generation, 
crop pollination and food security.  

Thirdly,  we  must  now  view  our  natural 
environment  as  an  engine  for  wealth  creation.  Those 
valuable  ecosystem  services  must  be  transformed  into 
lasting wealth that supports the rural communities that 
have traditionally cared for those assets. 
Let  me  use  the  issue  of  reducing  deforestation 

and  forest  degradation  —  an  issue  that  our  Prime 
Minister,  Grand  Chief  Sir  Michael  Somare,  has 
championed 
internationally  —  as  an  example. 
Deforestation  is  a  complex  subject,  but,  put  simply,  it 
is driven by the fact that the world values forests more 
the 
is 
it 
and 
perverse 
nonsensical. 
latest  estimate 
dead  than  alive.  Traditional  economic  theory,  which 
considers ecosystem services a common good and thus 
free to all, is primarily responsible for the massive loss 
of the world’s forests. 

With  those  ecosystem  services  valued  at  zero, 
rural  communities  that  depend  on  and  care  for  forests 
must  make  a  living  in  other  ways.  Keeping  the  land 
forested  means  sacrificing  the  opportunities  to  be 
gained  by  converting 
to  other  uses,  such  as 
producing commodities such as timber, palm oil, coffee 
and  cocoa.  The  international  commodity  markets,  in 
fact, have hardly changed from colonial times. 
In  many  ways,  those  two  economic  relics  are 

increasingly 
The 
environment is devastated, rural communities stay poor 
and  the  rich  shift  the  blame.  They  cite  lack  of 
governance and corruption, but those are not drivers of 
deforestation,  but  symptoms  of  obsolete  market 
constructs. 

Therefore,  global  leaders  must  redraft  economic 
theory  and  reinvent  global  markets  for  a  sustainable 
future.  For  example, 
that 
approximately  $20  billion  a  year  will  be  needed  to 
halve  carbon  emissions  resulting  from  deforestation. 
However,  that  would  be  a  wise  investment,  even  for 
that  one  ecosystem  service  alone.  Forests  sequester 
some  3.3  billion  tons  of  carbon  dioxide  annually.  So, 
with today’s price of more than $30 per ton of carbon 
dioxide,  rural  communities  are  effectively  subsidizing 
the  carbon  emissions  of  the  rich  to  the  tune  of 
approximately $100 billion per year — more than total 
annual official development assistance.  

Norway  has  provided  great  leadership  towards 
that necessary paradigm shift. First, Norway has stood 
up  against  global  climate  change  and  has  targeted  the 
achievement of carbon neutrality by 2030. Norway has 
also  dedicated  $2.8  billion 
to  offset  emissions 
reductions  resulting  from  deforestation  in  developing 
countries,  through  the  valuation  of  forest  ecosystem 
services. 

Faced  by  the  ravages  of  climate  change  on  a 
small  island  developing  State,  our  Prime  Minister,  Sir 
Michael  Somare,  has  charted  out  his  own  bold  goals: 
reducing Papua New Guinea’s emissions by 50 per cent 
before  2025  and  achieving  carbon  neutrality  before 
2050.  Sharing  a  similar  vision,  the  partnership  of 
leadership  between  Papua  New  Guinea  and  Norway 
may  significantly  address  several  of  the  greatest 
4 

08-53122 
the 
Together,  we  must 


challenges  of  our  time:  effectively  valuing  global 
environmental  services,  contributing  to  the  mitigation 
of  climate  change,  conserving  global  biodiversity  and 
achievement  of 
financing 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals in rural areas. 

Finally, our global economy values companies in 
the  billions  simply  for  advertising  trinkets  on  the 
Internet. Some countries make billions by selling fossil 
fuels that pollute our atmosphere, others by producing 
low-cost  consumer  products  that  humanity  does  not 
require. In fact, Google is worth $150 billion, while the 
world’s  last  great  tropical  forests  left  standing  are 
worth nothing. How can that be right?  

reconstruct  our  value 
frameworks. New environmental markets must support 
tropical  countries  striving 
to  achieve  sustainable 
development,  by  generating  billions  from  rainforest 
ecosystem  services  that  humanity  has  so  far  been 
exploiting for free. 

Several communities in my country have voted to 
cancel  their  logging  concessions,  telling  me  that  the 
forests  and  rivers  have  provided  all  they  needed  for 
thousands of  years. In some ways, however, they now 
feel trapped. The old ways allowed them to survive but 
did  not  prepare  their  children  for  an  increasingly 
complex  future.  They  now  struggle  with  schools  that 
cannot afford the best teachers and with health centres 
that  provide  only  basic  medicines.  Yet 
those 
communities still remember how to live sustainably — 
a  skill  that  many  others  have  forgotten  in  the  rush  to 
get ahead. 

But there is hope. Bold leadership is required on 
both sides of the economic divide to transform the way 
in  which  we  value  our  environment  and  create  wealth 
for  rural  populations. As  leaders,  we  must  understand 
that,  while  we  may  have  inherited  the  Earth  from  our 
forefathers,  we  have  in  fact  borrowed  it  from  our 
grandchildren  and  our  future  generations.  Indeed,  by 
learning to save our environment, perhaps we can once 
again  learn  how  to  save  ourselves  and  guarantee  a 
better world for our future generations.  
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  José  Antonio  García  Belaunde, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Peru. 
Mr. García Belaunde (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): 

I  should 
to  begin  by  greeting  you,  Sir, 
congratulating  you  on  your  election  to  the  presidency 
like 
A/63/PV.13
to  contributing 
social 
for 
inclusion  are  priorities  of 
Peru  has  been  affected  by 
of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-third  session. We 
are certain that your experience will enable us to have 
fruitful  and  constructive  exchanges  on  the  urgent 
challenges  currently 
facing  humanity.  Thus,  we 
reaffirm  our  commitment 
the 
to 
achievement of positive results during this session. 

Fighting  poverty  and  creating  opportunities  to 
promote 
the 
Government  of  President  Alan  García  Pérez,  and  we 
are  therefore  pleased  that  the  General  Assembly  has 
rightly  chosen  the  theme  of  poverty  —  a  challenge 
requiring  a  global  and  comprehensive  response  —  as 
the central focus of discussion for the present session.  

the  negative 
repercussions  of  the  increase  in  food  and  fuel  prices, 
which  are 
the  poorest 
individuals. In my country, we are working responsibly 
to find appropriate responses that can sustainably meet 
the  challenge  of  enhancing  food  security. At  the  same 
time,  we  are  adopting  urgent  measures  to  assist  those 
most  affected  by  rising  food  prices.  The  direct 
relationship  between  poverty  and  rising  food  prices 
should  lead  us  to  develop  new  and  more  ambitious 
formulas 
that  are 
commensurate with the magnitude of the problem  and 
take 
in  a 
comprehensive manner.  

Against that backdrop, I wish to highlight a new 
threat  to  the  possibilities  of  development:  a  grave 
international  financial  crisis  whose  scale 
is  still 
unknown.  At 
lies  an  unfortunate  and 
irresponsible combination of regulatory loopholes, real 
estate 
inflation,  reckless  mortgages  and  financial 
leverages  without  a  sound  basis  in  the  real  economy. 
This  could  lead  the  world  into  a  crisis  of  confidence 
and  undermine 
that 
developing  regions  have  made  in  their  fight  against 
poverty.  Given  those  phenomena,  we  await  decisive 
responses  and  actions  by  the  developed  countries  to 
support the financial system and avert the great risks of 
this crisis.  

In the case of Peru, I can say that this turbulence 
will  not  cause  us  to  abandon  our  ongoing  policies  of 
investing,  creating  productive  jobs,  increasing  tax 
revenues  and  promoting  growth.  Peru  has  been  very 
successfully 
of 
comprehensive, 
decentralized 
development based on two pillars: an economic policy 
into  account  all  aspects  of  poverty 
international  cooperation 
implementing 
inclusive 
the 
considerable  progress 
programme 
a 
and 
felt  most 
intensely  by 
its  roots 
08-53122 

5 
to 
resources, 
but 
also 

financial 
entrepreneurs 
have 
that  honours 
and  medium 
reduce  poverty, 
A/63/PV.13 

with  the  clear  objectives  of  growth  and  job  creation, 
the  country’s  multifaceted 
taking  advantage  of 
the 
potential;  and  a  social  policy 
increase 
commitment 
social 
inclusion and promote equality of opportunity. 
That approach has brought into our economy not 

only 
advanced 
technologies  and  management  capacities  that  improve 
and  stimulate  the  competitiveness  of  our  production, 
thus  increasing  and  diversifying  exportation.  As  a 
result  of  that  approach,  the  creation  of  direct  and 
indirect employment has increased in an unprecedented 
way  in  many  areas  of  the  country  and  thousands  of 
small 
been 
incorporated into the market in an economy that boosts 
initiative and creative capacity.  

Based  on  those  premises,  Peru  has  made  steady 
progress in recent years, with the growth rate reaching 
9.1  per  cent  in  2007  and  forecast  to  reach  over  9  per 
cent this year. There is, further, a major increase in the 
domestic  component,  which  is  a  driving  force  in  the 
economy. 
But  to  those  positive  macroeconomic  figures  we 

should add the important results in the management of 
the major components of the social model, such as the 
expanding social, education and health services as well 
as  basic  assistance  to  the  poorest.  Through  the  social 
policy, the Peruvian Government has achieved, in only 
two  years,  a  remarkable  reduction  of  more  than  5  per 
cent  in  poverty  and  almost  3  per  cent  in  extreme 
poverty.  Infant  mortality  has  also  fallen  by  51.6  per 
cent  and  illiteracy  levels  have  also  been  reduced  by 
5.7 per  cent. We  have  also  established  an  objective  of 
reducing  chronic  child  malnutrition  by  5  per  cent  by 
2011. We are seeking to enhance the management and 
increase  the  impact  of  the  social  expenditures  of  the 
State. 

Those  achievements  ensure  that  in  the  case  of 
Peru the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) will 
be  met  prior  to  the  2015  deadline  in  areas  such  as 
poverty 
literacy,  health  and 
education,  among  others.  We  also  see  that  the  role  of 
international cooperation was fundamental in our being 
able  to  bring  to  remote  areas  social,  education  and 
production projects that, in a sustainable manner, raise 
the 
rural 
communities.  The  combination  of  the  national  effort 
for  inclusion  and  international  cooperation  should  be 
living  of  members  of 
reduction,  nutrition, 
standard  of 
three 
important 
international 
maintained in order to achieve, as soon as possible, the 
full  involvement  of  the  Peruvian  social  fabric  in 
national development.  

In  recognition  of  all  of  those  advances,  of  the 
economic stability of the country and of the prevailing 
legal  security, 
risk 
indicators  have  given  Peru  its  investment  grade. 
Consistent with this positive evolution of the economic 
perception of my country, foreign investment increased 
by  more  than  23  per  cent  in  2007  and  is  expected  to 
further increase this year. 

Our  growth  is  also  based  on  expanding  the 
markets,  which  we  have  done  through  regional  and 
bilateral  free  trade  agreements  entered  into  with  the 
United States, Chile, Thailand, Canada and Singapore. 
We  hope  to  conclude  further  agreements  soon  with 
South  Korea  and  China.  We  are  conducting  trade 
negotiations with the European Union and the Andean 
countries, a process that we hope will be satisfactorily 
concluded  in  2009.  Furthermore,  we  are  ready  to 
engage  in  negotiations  with  as  many  countries  as 
possible, to enable us to boost trade. 
There  is  a  broad  consensus  regarding  the  shared 

responsibility  of  countries  of  origin  and  receiving 
countries in dealing with the phenomenon of migration. 
Its  causes  have  a  global  dimension,  and  so  should  its 
treatment.  It 
in 
originating  and  receiving  countries  and  in  the  migrant 
communities themselves. We should look at the central 
role of migration in terms of creating opportunities for 
generating  wealth  and  progress,  for  diversity  and  for 
building more tolerant multicultural spaces. 

The  responsible  and  constructive  handling  of 
international migration should begin with the practical 
use  of  international  instruments  for  the  protection  of 
migrants. Therefore, the United Nations, together with 
States, must redouble its efforts to implement measures 
that  will  make  it  possible  to  ensure  respect  for  the 
human  rights  of  migrants,  migrant  workers  and  their 
families.  

For this reason, in Peru we have been promoting 
and  continue  to  promote  the  handling  of  this  matter 
both in the United Nations and in other forums with a 
view  to  establishing  mechanisms  for  exchange  of 
information  and  specialized  knowledge,  undertaking 
standing  consultations  and  forging  closer  cooperation 
between 
for  Migration  and 
Development  and  the  United  Nations.  We  must  make 
tool  of  development,  both 
the  Global  Forum 
is  a 
6 

08-53122 
and 
ideas 


civil society aware of the benefits and contributions of 
migration and continue with dialogue and coordination 
in  multilateral  forums,  without  stopping  the  progress 
towards agreements. 
The concern about poverty and economic growth 

the  sustainability  of 
requires  an  examination  of 
development 
the  most 
relevant 
environmental priorities. We need to deal with security 
and  the  rational  use  of  water  for  agriculture  and  for 
personal  use,  deforestation  control,  soil  degradation 
and  environmental  pollution,  among  others.  We  are 
working  on  these  issues  with  the  most  advanced 
regulations, a product of our own experience. We have 
to  approach  these  matters  organically.  In  the  case  of 
Peru, we established the Ministry for the Environment 
a few months ago. We insist that national development 
programmes take account of the quality of life and the 
sustainability  of 
land-use  models  and  of  natural 
resources.  

Global  warming  requires  us  to  work  intensively 
with  the  entire  international  community  to  reduce 
emissions,  which  are  the  fundamental  reason  for  the 
rise  in  global  temperatures  and  their  already  visible 
consequences.  Peru  is  witnessing  a  rapid  retreat  of  its 
tropical glaciers, which is threatening the water-supply 
regime  in  the  most  populated  and  heavily  agricultural 
areas.  We  want  to  confirm  our  conviction  on  the 
pressing  importance  of  advancing  from  the  platform 
adopted  in  Bali  last  year  with  a  view  to  consolidating 
in Copenhagen in 2009 a comprehensive agreement for 
the reduction of polluting emissions, in order to avoid 
the  worst  natural-catastrophe  scenarios  for  a  not-so-
distant future. 

The  current  international  scene  presents  a  very 
complicated  structure,  characterized  by  contradictory 
trends  of  globalization  and  fragmentation.  Indeed,  on 
the one hand, we have global integration of production 
processes,  trade,  financial  flows  and  technological 
revolution, as well as the dissemination of values such 
as  democracy  and  human  rights.  But,  simultaneously, 
there  is  fragmentation  because  of  increasing  social 
inequality,  poverty,  exclusion,  proliferation  of  civil 
wars,  genocide, 
crime, 
degradation  of  the  environment  and  the  flouting  of 
international law as a means for the peaceful settlement 
disputes.  

Those contradictory trends between globalization 
and fragmentation jeopardize the governance of States, 
transnational 
terrorism, 
to  host 
A/63/PV.13
the 
sustainable  development, 
the  governance  of 
international  system  and 
collective  security  itself.  Peru,  true  to  its  traditional 
constructive  approach,  considers  that  the  international 
order  should  be  based  on  peace,  cooperation, 
multilateralism  and,  of  course,  international  law. Thus 
we are of the view that at the present time we need to 
reaffirm  support  for  the  primordial  role  played  by  the 
United  Nations  in  dealing  with  the  major  subjects  on 
the  international  agenda,  specifically  those  connected 
with international peace and security, the observance of 
democratic  order, 
the 
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights,  and 
environmental protection. 

That  approach  guided  Peruvian  participation  on 
the  Security  Council  and  has  led  it  to  reaffirm  its 
commitment  to  active  participation  in  peacekeeping 
operations in the context of respect for the principles of 
the  sovereignty  of  States  and  non-intervention  in  the 
domestic  affairs  of  other  countries.  Currently,  my 
country’s  armed  forces  are  in  Haiti,  the  Sudan,  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Liberia  and  Côte 
d’Ivoire.  Peru  has  a  contingent  in  the  United  Nations 
Stabilization Mission in Haiti and is coordinator of the 
Group  of  Friends  of  Haiti,  which  is  responsible  for 
helping the Security Council in monitoring this case. 

in 
is  an  active  participant 
numerous multilateral mechanisms. This year, we were 
honoured 
the 
European  Union  and  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
heads  of  State  and  Government.  Next  November,  we 
will  once  again  be  honoured  when  we  host  leaders 
from  the  economies  of  the  Asia-Pacific  Economic 
Cooperation Forum at their sixteenth summit.  

As  part  of  our  involvement  on  the  international 
stage, I should also like to point to our contribution to 
the  establishment  of  the  Latin  American-Pacific  Arc, 
which 
among 
participating  countries  in  economic  and  commercial 
fields,  especially  as  regards  promoting  investments  in 
the areas of infrastructure and facilitating business, and 
in 
the 
competitiveness of our economies. All of that is geared 
towards  ensuring  a  more  pronounced  and  effective 
presence for our region in the Asia-Pacific region.  

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  Peru’s 
commitment to continue to support initiatives aimed at 
promoting an environment conducive to economic and 
social development, the full validity of democracy, the 
the  fifth  Summit  between 
Moreover,  Peru 
cooperation 
harnessing 
promoting 
to 
improve 
aims 
at 
synergies 
08-53122 

7 

A/63/PV.13 

strengthening of the rule of law and the promotion and 
protection of human rights throughout the world. That 
should  take  place  against  an  international  backdrop 
where  conflicts  are  brought  under  control,  security 
prevails  and  there  is  unequivocal  adherence  to  the 
norms  of  international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations. Those are the central priority goals of 
our  foreign  policy  and  constitute  the  guidelines  that 
will  continue  to  orient  Peru’s  participation  on  the 
international stage, and especially in this body. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on 

His  Excellency  Mr. Ahmed Aboul  Gheit,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Egypt. 
Mr. Aboul Gheit (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): The 

sixty-third  session  of  the  General  Assembly  is  taking 
place against the backdrop of various international and 
regional  events  and  developments  that  are  closely 
linked  to  the  peace  and  security  of  all  humankind. 
Among those are the global food crisis, the increase in 
energy prices, global warming and climate change and 
their  negative  and  catastrophic  repercussions  for  the 
entire  world,  the  global  economic  downturn  that  is 
bordering  on  being  a  worldwide  recession,  the  sharp 
global  increase  in  poverty,  our  diminishing  collective 
ability  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs), the rising rate of infection with HIV, malaria 
and  other  deadly  diseases,  and  the  fight  against 
terrorism.  Egypt  believes  that  all  those  challenges,  as 
well  as  others,  are  high  priorities  on  the  international 
agenda.  Their  diagnosis  and 
treatment  require  a 
concerted  international  effort.  We  must  all  be  fully 
aware that jointly overcoming those problems depends 
upon  our  collective  diagnosis  and  our  united  stand  in 
addressing them. 

We  need 
and 
methodology 
problems. 
Unfortunately,  the  existing  frameworks  have  proven 
incapable  of  dealing  successfully  and  effectively  with 
the  challenges  under  consideration.  As  an  example, 
Egypt  believes  that  the  global  food  and  energy  crises 
require  serious  dialogue  between 
importers  and 
exporters of energy and food. President Mubarak called 
for such a dialogue at the recent African Union Summit 
and  at  the  Rome  meeting  of  the  Food  and Agriculture 
Organization (FAO).  

The  channels  currently  available  for  addressing 
and  resolving  the  problems  of  food  and  energy  are  at 
odds with each another, to say nothing of the fact that 
approach,  vision 
deal  with 
a  new 
global 
to 
none of them can provide for a genuine and meaningful 
dialogue  between  importers  and  exporters.  It  was  for 
that  reason 
that  President  Mubarak  was  keenly 
interested in participating effectively in the emergency 
summit convened by FAO, to which I have referred, on 
the  question  of  the  rising  price  and  availability  of 
foodstuffs.  

Along  the  same  lines,  President  Mubarak  has 
strongly  supported  the  African  endeavour  to  adopt  a 
clear  strategy  to  tackle  that  phenomenon.  In  turn,  that 
led to the adoption of the Sharm el-Sheikh declaration 
at  the  last  African  Union  Summit,  which  contains 
Africa’s  comprehensive  vision  for  addressing 
the 
matter.  Egypt  has  also  supported  the  strategy  put 
forward  by  the  Secretary-General  to  deal  with  the 
issue. We have also called for utilizing that strategy as 
the basis for more effective international action. 

In an effort to translate the growing international 
concern into an integrated plan of action to address that 
phenomenon,  Chile, 
Indonesia  and  Egypt  have 
proposed  that  that  question  and  its  repercussions 
should be  a  main theme  at this session  of the General 
Assembly. In that connection, I would like to thank the 
President for his positive response to our initiative and 
also 
strengthening 
international democratic action at the United Nations. 

token,  urgently  establishing 
collective  international  political  will  is  necessary  to 
deal  with  climate  change.  As  one  of  the  countries 
vulnerable  to  the  repercussions  of  that  phenomenon, 
Egypt is acutely aware of its gravity. While reiterating 
our  full  support  for  the  Bali  Plan  of Action  and  Road 
Map, we call for focused international attention on the 
issue  of  categorizing 
low-lying  coastlines,  which 
applies to Egypt. A list of the States most vulnerable to 
climate change is needed so the United Nations and the 
international  community  can  provide  them  with  the 
necessary  support  as  a  matter  of  priority,  including 
technological and financial support. 

Based  on  our  belief  in  globally  addressing  those 
urgent  economic  challenges,  Egypt  and  Norway  are 
facilitating  the  current  negotiations  at  the  United 
Nations  on 
the  Review 
Conference  on  the  Implementation  of  the  Monterrey 
Consensus on Financing for Development. The goal is 
to amend the international development agenda for the 
upcoming  stage,  while  taking  into  consideration  the 
final  document  of 
issue  of 
including 
same 
the 
the 
for 
By 
the 
8 

08-53122 
the  neglect  of 
their  basic 
requirements 
therefore  be  viewed  as  crucial 


agreements  reached  in  all  the  international  meetings 
and conferences held thus far. 

Egypt  believes  that  using  language  that  implies 
double standards is an affront to human rights. Despite 
the  fact  that  everyone  is  adamant  in  declaring  that 
human  rights  constitute  an  indivisible  whole,  the 
reality,  which  we  need  to  change,  is  that  economic, 
social  and  cultural  rights  are  not,  unfortunately, 
accorded  the  same  attention  as  civil  and  political 
rights.  That  adversely  affects  public  perception  in 
many of our societies, in particular those that face dire, 
and  occasionally  destructive,  economic  and  living 
conditions.  For  such  people,  talking  incessantly  about 
human rights is a luxury they cannot afford, and results 
in 
for 
sustenance.  The  promotion  of  economic  and  social 
rights  must 
to 
strengthening  the  human  rights  regime,  which  is 
essential  to  promoting  the  awareness  and  practice  of 
the components of that regime. 

In  that  regard,  I  wish  to  discuss  the  important 
question of using the concept of freedom of expression 
to  incite  hatred  based  on  religion.  With  the  utmost 
respect  for  the  value  and  importance  of  freedom  of 
expression, I emphasize that we reject repeated affronts 
to  religions  and  holy  symbols  being  portrayed  as  a 
legitimate exercise of freedom of expression: there are 
many glaring slogans in whose name crimes have been 
committed against thousands and millions of people by 
offending them and their  religious beliefs. Egypt calls 
upon everybody to consider this matter judiciously and 
objectively  with  a  view  to  striking  the  proper  balance 
that  protects  freedom  of  expression  while  respecting 
the rights and sentiments of all. Egypt will continue to 
seek  such  a  balance,  with  the  aim  of  reaching  a 
consensus  on  the  content  of  draft  United  Nations 
resolutions on this matter. 

Here,  I  wish  to  convey  to  the Assembly  that  we 
are  concerned  by  the  unconstructive  cultural  friction 
that  the  world  is  witnessing,  which  causes  severe 
divergence in opinion and action; this in turn inflames 
public  emotions  and  increases  the  nature  and  severity 
of  the  polarization  and  confrontation  between  the 
followers  of  different  cultures  and  creeds. This  matter 
must not be ignored. 

to 
disarmament,  arms  control  and  non-proliferation  is 
marred  by  defects,  double  standards  and  regression. 
international  community’s  approach 
A/63/PV.13
is  notable 
This  is  a  matter  of  concern  for  us.  Egypt  has  always 
shown great interest in these matters, as best embodied 
in Egypt’s call to rid the Middle East of all weapons of 
mass destruction. Our interest in this matter is based on 
our  unwavering  belief 
that  security  and  military 
balance,  especially  in  conflict  areas,  contributes  to 
laying  solid  foundations  for  peace  between  countries 
and peoples. 

However,  achieving  genuine  peace  and  security 
in  any  region  requires,  among  other  things,  the 
establishment  of  just  and  parallel  international  and 
regional mechanisms in the areas of disarmament, arms 
control  and  non-proliferation.  It 
that, 
unfortunately,  prominent  members  of  the  international 
community  are  unduly  lax  regarding  Israel’s  nuclear 
capability  and  the  extent  to  which  this  constantly 
threatens  the  security  of  the  Middle  East. This  occurs 
as attempts are being made to enhance the obligations 
included  in  international  mechanisms  without  paying 
attention  to  the  issue  of  achieving  the  universality  of 
the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  and  subjecting  all  nuclear  facilities  in  the 
Middle East to the comprehensive safeguards system of 
the International Atomic Energy Agency. 
Egypt  will  nonetheless  persist  in  its  endeavours, 

through  existing  mechanisms  and  forums  and 
in 
coordination  with  friendly  States  that  understand  the 
reality and danger of the situation, in order to change it 
and  to  warn  of  the  danger  that  failing  to  achieve 
universality  for  the  NPT  in  the  Middle  East  would 
entail. 

In  my  statement  today,  I  have  given  precedence 
to  international  over  regional  issues.  This  in  no  way 
diminishes  the  significance  of  crises,  problems  and 
difficulties at the regional level. Rather, it reaffirms the 
importance  that  Egypt  attaches  to  the  international 
situation and international problems in general. 

At the regional level, as members know, Egypt is 
persistently  involved  in  painstaking  efforts  to  keep 
open  a  window  of  hope 
the 
Palestinians  to  achieve  their  legitimate  ambition  to 
gain an independent State on the Palestinian territories 
occupied  on  5  June  1967,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its 
capital.  The  current  situation,  thanks  to  the  efforts  of 
the  United  States,  might  suggest  to  some  that  there  is 
hope  for  a  real  settlement  between  the  Israelis  and 
Palestinians  before  the  end  of  the  year.  However, 
through  diligent  monitoring  of 
the  situation,  we 
that  would  allow 
The 
08-53122 

9 
in 
The  situation 
A/63/PV.13 

understand that achieving a just and lasting settlement 
of  the  conflict  —  one  that  provides  an  opportunity  to 
end Israel’s occupation of Palestinian territories and to 
bring  about  a  Palestinian  State  —  requires  serious 
political  will  on  the  part  of  Israel.  This  must  include 
the  dismantlement  of  settlements  in  tandem  with 
withdrawal  from  the  land,  and  the  restoration  of 
Palestinian rights. 

However, I must admit that we are sceptical about 
the  strength  of  the  will  and  conviction  of  Israeli 
decision  makers.  Hence 
the  procrastination  and 
setbacks,  as  well  as  the  hesitation  in  settling  issues. 
This  is  what  leads  to  the  widely  condemned  and 
politically  loaded  settlement  activities,  which  clearly 
indicate  the  regression  and  weakness  of  the  Israeli 
side’s  will  for  peace.  This  is  also  the  reason  for  the 
prolongation of the conflict, with its consequences that 
the whole world knows only too well. But we in Egypt 
will  not  lose  hope;  we  will  continue  to  work  with 
everyone  in  order  to  achieve  the  objectives  of  justice, 
stability and security for the whole region. 

remains 
disconcerting in the light of ongoing developments. We 
have observed numerous foreign hands interfering with 
Sudan’s security and stability, as if their objective were 
to drive that country towards partition. In this context, 
I would like to affirm that  Egypt is working sincerely 
with all loyal Sudanese parties, at the forefront of them 
the  Sudanese  Government,  in  order  to  settle  existing 
problems. Allow me to note, in particular, the situation 
in  Darfur,  which  remains  difficult,  and  the  significant 
Egyptian  participation 
the  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  force  there,  as  well  as  our  participation 
in  all  dialogue  forums  that  aim  to  settle  the  crisis.  I 
should also note our call for an international meeting to 
address the crisis and to agree on a road map to end it. 
Stability in the Sudan requires outside parties to refrain 
from interfering in Sudanese affairs, just as it requires 
support  for  the  development  process  in  that  country. 
Egypt  will  continue  its  diligent  efforts  to  achieve  the 
interests  of  our  brothers  in  the  Sudan  as  well  as  the 
country’s and the region’s unity and stability. 

In  our  region,  the  concept  of  regional  security 
should  be  construed  broadly,  and  the  security  of  the 
Arab  Gulf  —  which  is  currently  in  the  international 
spotlight  —  is  one  of  Egypt’s  principal  concerns,  not 
only  because  of  Egypt’s  close  relations  with  the 
countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), but 
also  because  of  what  Egypt  represents  in  terms  of 
the  Sudan  also 
in 

the  components  of  our  vision  for 
strategic  depth  for  its Arab  brothers  and  sisters  of  the 
Gulf. Therefore, we follow closely all developments in 
the  region,  in  particular  the  recurrent  discourse  about 
“new  arrangements”  there.  We  affirm  that  Egypt  is 
working  in  coordination  with  members  of  the  GCC 
with  a  view  to  protecting  Arab  national  security  and 
ensuring  that  any  such  arrangements  —  if  they  come 
into existence — will represent true security guarantees 
for all parties. 

A  great  deal  of  work  lies  ahead  of  us  at  this 
session.  This  requires  open  minds  and  outstretched 
hands in order to meet the demands and aspirations of 
our  peoples  for  freedom,  justice,  dignity,  security  and 
peace.  Egypt  will  work  throughout  this  session  to 
advance 
the 
international  and  regional  situation,  which  I  have  just 
elucidated. 

All  of  us  bear  the  responsibility  for  this,  just  as 
we shall all bear the consequences and the results. We 
pledge  to  work  with  dedication  and  sincerity  for  a 
successful session under your able presidency, Sir. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Moctar  Ouane,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Mali.  
Mr.  Ouane  (Mali)  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  my 

great  pleasure,  Sir,  to  convey  to  you  the  heartfelt 
congratulations  of  the  delegation  of  Mali  upon  your 
election to the presidency of the sixty-third session  of 
the  General  Assembly,  and  to  assure  you  of  our  full 
support.  I  should  like  also  to  hail  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon for his devotion and commitment to our 
Organization. 

The  sixty-third  session  of  the  General Assembly 
is  opening  with  the  timely  theme  of  the  impact  of  the 
global  food  crisis  on  poverty  and  hunger  throughout 
the  world.  Indeed, 
in  a  difficult 
international context, one marked by the conjunction of 
food and energy crises. This situation is of concern to 
my delegation, as it is a potential source of generalized 
social and political instability. 

What  can  we  do?  In  Mali,  we  have  granted  the 
highest  priority  to  the  fight  against  poverty  and  the 
high cost of living. In this respect, the Government has 
undertaken a  series of measures to stem the  effects of 
the  present  crisis  through,  inter  alia,  a  temporary 
suspension  of 
taxes  on  basic 
foodstuffs,  such  as  rice,  wheat  flour,  oil  and  milk,  as 
import  duties  and 
takes  place 
it 
10 

08-53122 
lands  within 
framework  of 
rice,  and  a  mechanism 


well as subsidizing gas, hydrocarbons and agricultural 
inputs.  

My country, Mali, is firmly determined to achieve 
food  self-sufficiency  and  to  become,  in  the  medium 
term, an agricultural Power. To that end, we have made 
agriculture  the  principal  tool  to  attain  accelerated 
growth.  Accordingly,  an  agricultural  framework  law 
has  been  adopted,  and  its  progressive  implementation 
has included the following measures. 

First  and  foremost,  the  new  law  contains  a 
measure  to  launch  the  rice  initiative,  which  was 
designed  as  a  proactive  and  structural  response  to  the 
dizzying  increase  in  price  of  grain  products  on  global 
markets.  Next,  the  law  includes  the  setting  up  of  a 
national  agricultural  development  fund  and  a  fund  for 
emergencies  and  disasters.  It  also  involves  the  setting 
up  of  land  commissions  and  a  programme  to  develop 
low-lying 
local 
irrigation works. Finally, it involves the setting up of a 
high council  for  agriculture. In  addition, we will soon 
adopt  guidelines  for  the  marketing  of  grain  products, 
including 
for  supplying 
agricultural inputs.  

Along these same lines, the Government of Mali 
has  prepared  and  implemented  a  national  strategy  to 
fight  poverty,  a  strategic  framework  for  fighting 
poverty  and  a  strategic  framework  for  growth  and 
poverty reduction for the period 2007-2011. 
and  Economic 

Development  Project  has  been  conceived  by 
the 
President of the Republic, Mr. Amadou Toumani Touré. 
It  should  enable  Mali  to  increase  its  production  and 
fairly  share  the  fruits  of  growth,  invest  in  the  future 
and  build  a  State  of  good  governance  and  the  rule  of 
law. 

The  fight  against  corruption  is  another  aspect  of 
this  overall  project.  The  national  convention  that  will 
be  organized  to  address  this  issue  in  October  2008 
should enable the Malian nation to seek through broad 
consultation  a  comprehensive  understanding  of  the 
phenomenon in order to define a plan of action against 
the scourge. 
Mr. Salgueiro (Portugal), Vice-President, took the 

Chair. 


Seeking  to  promote  transparent  and  effective 
management  of  its  public  finances,  Mali,  which  has 
the  African  Union’s  African  Peer  Review 
joined 
our  Social 
addition, 
the 
In 
A/63/PV.13
It  will 
development. 
Mechanism,  has  submitted  its  governance  to  that 
evaluation  process.  This  exercise,  which  will  be 
concluded  in  January  2009,  will  take  stock  of  the 
situation, including in the field of political governance, 
socio-
business  governance  and  governance  of 
economic 
result 
in 
recommendations for improvements in those areas. 

In  the  same  vein,  the  human  rights  situation  in 
Mali has been considered within the framework of the 
new universal periodic review mechanism set up within 
the  context  of  the  Human  Rights  Council.  From  this 
rostrum, laden as it is with symbolism, I would like to 
reiterate the commitment of the Government of Mali to 
take  concrete  action  on  the  relevant  recommendations 
that  we  are  committed  to  following  at  the  outcome  of 
this process.  

Mali  remains  convinced  that  the  prevention  and 
peaceful  settlement  of  conflicts  is  the  best  possible 
guarantee  of  international  peace  and  security.  Backed 
by  that  belief,  my  country  firmly  made  the  choice  of 
dialogue  aimed  at  finding  a  lasting  solution  to  the 
situation  of  insecurity  that  has  prevailed  in  the  north-
east  of  our  country.  In  this  respect,  the Algiers  peace 
agreement  of  4  July  2006  remains  relevant,  as  it 
preserves  our  territorial  integrity  and  our  national 
unity,  by  enabling  the  various  strands  of  the  Malian 
nation  to  fully  participate  in  the  national  construction 
endeavour.  

Aware that security in the Sahelo-Saharan region 
is  closely  linked  to  that  of  States  and  peoples  sharing 
the  space  and  that  conflicts  affecting  one  country  can 
rapidly  spread  throughout  the  region,  the  Government 
of  Mali,  in  October  2008,  will  organize  in  Bamako  a 
conference  on  peace,  security  and  development  in  the 
Sahelo-Saharan region.  

The conference will provide a useful opportunity 
for  the  States  of  the  region  to  jointly  reaffirm  our 
commitment  to  turn  our  shared  space  into  a  zone  of 
peace  and  security,  a  centre  of  stability,  growth  and 
development.  It  will  also  provide  us  with  responses 
adapted  to  the  problems  and  challenges  we  face: 
insecurity, 
and 
trafficking  of  all  types,  including  trafficking  in  drugs, 
arms and human beings. 

Here,  Mali  considers  that  it  is  the  duty  of  the 
international  community  to  take  vigorous  action  to 
maintain and build international peace and security. In 
this  respect,  we  welcome  and  encourage  progress 
transborder 
terrorism 
banditry, 
08-53122 

11 
such 
as  mine 
through, 
inter 
reaffirms 
the  Middle  East  and 
A/63/PV.13 

achieved  in  the  resolution  of  conflicts  and  crises  that 
rack  the  African  continent,  including  those  in  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  the  Sudan,  Somalia  and  the  Great  Lakes 
region.  
Mali  calls  for  the  resumption  of  the  negotiating 

process 
its 
unswerving support for the creation of a sovereign and 
independent Palestinian State. 

There  are  many  other  serious  challenges  facing 
the  international  community  to  which  we  will  have  to 
respond appropriately to build a better world together. 
First  and  foremost,  there  is  the  problem  of  climate 
change. Today more than ever before, the very survival 
of  our  planet  is  threatened  by  climate  change,  which 
has a serious impact on living conditions in developing 
countries 
alia, 
desertification, the silting up of rivers, the deterioration 
of  the  environment,  a  reduction  of  the  length  of  the 
winter  periods,  floods  and  poor  rainfall  patterns.  We 
should,  therefore,  urgently  undertake  measures  which 
are  commensurate  with  the  pressing  nature  of  the 
problem.  In  this  respect,  the  conclusions  of  the  high-
level event on climate change in 2007 and those of the 
Bali  Climate  Change  Conference  in  the  same  year  are 
still relevant and are worthy of being implemented in a 
diligent  way.  Mali,  which  is  a  party  to  the  Kyoto 
Protocol, is eager to make a useful contribution to the 
fifteenth  United  Nations  Climate  Change  Conference, 
to be held in Copenhagen in December 2009. 

The  second  major  challenge  to  which  we  must 
devote particular attention is the HIV/AIDS pandemic, 
which  poses  one  of  the  most  serious  threats  to 
sustainable development. We must redouble our efforts 
and  our  resolve  to  implement  the  2001  Declaration  of 
Commitment, as well as the outcomes of the high-level 
meetings  on  AIDS  and  the  seventeenth  International 
AIDS  Conference,  held  in  Mexico  last August. All  of 
these  forums  have  highlighted  the  severity  of  the 
situation  and  stressed  the  urgent  need  to  act  and  to 
mobilize resources to fight the pandemic.  

the 
challenge 
international  community is the situation of landlocked 
developing  countries,  which,  as  a  result  of  their 
isolation and their great distance from the world’s main 
markets,  are  confronted  with  serious  handicaps.  I 
congratulate the Secretary-General for having taken the 
initiative  to  convene,  following  the  general  debate,  a 
high-level  plenary  meeting  devoted  to  the  midterm 
significant 
third 
The 
for 

review of the Almaty Programme of Action. Mali will 
actively  participate  in  that  meeting  and  will  work  to 
ensure  that  leads  to  operational  conclusions  that  can 
contribute  to  the  comprehensive,  rapid,  and  effective 
implementation of the Almaty Programme of Action. 

The fourth challenge is institutional reform of the 
United  Nations.  This  issue  remains  important  as  the 
continuation of the establishment of the Peacebuilding 
Commission and the Human Rights Council and of the 
strengthening the Economic and Social Council. Thus, 
the  expansion  of  the  Security  Council  is  clearly  a 
pressing  necessity,  particularly  to  redress  the  historic 
injustice committed against Africa, namely, that it does 
not have a permanent seat. That is something which is 
underscored in the joint African position on the issue. 

All  these  challenges  which  we  currently  face 
require  a  collective  global  response.  Only  a  reformed 
and  democratized  United  Nations  may  serve  as  a 
genuine  crucible  for  universal  collective  conscience 
capable  of  best  discharging 
its  primary  mission, 
namely,  to  save  succeeding  generations  from  the 
scourge  of  war  and  destruction.  Mali  will  do  its  full 
part in this fight. 
The Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Mr.  Elmar 

Maharram  oglu  Mammadyarov,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan. 
Mr. Mammadyarov (Azerbaijan): At the outset, I 

have  the  honour  of  congratulating  His  Excellency 
Mr. Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann  of  Nicaragua  on  his 
election  to  the  post  of  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-third  session.  I  wish  him  every 
success  in  his  endeavours.  I  would  like  also  to  pay 
tribute  to  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Srgjan 
Kerim,  for  his  active  collaboration  with  delegations 
throughout  the  last  session.  I  wish  also  to  express  my 
profound  respect  for  the  able  leadership  demonstrated 
by  His  Excellency  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-Moon  in 
the management of the United Nations. 
The  effectiveness  of  the  international  security 

system  has  an  impact  on  the  authority  of  the  United 
Nations.  When  agreement  among  Security  Council 
members  on  approaches  to  overcoming  challenges  to 
world  peace  seems  elusive,  the  common  security  and 
credibility of the United Nations are seriously affected. 

We shall respect our shared values and accept the 
restraints  inherent  in  those  values  in  order  to  find  an 
approach  that  is  based  on  a  global  consensus.  The 
08-53122 
in 
12 

and 
national 
transcend 
boundaries 
the  role  of 
We  must  enhance 
is  only  by  strengthening 


Security  Council  must  fully  realize 
its  primary 
responsibility for the collective management of threats 
that 
have 
implications  for  international  security. All  of  us  must 
strictly  follow  the  Charter  as  a  unique  instrument  of 
international relations. 

The reform of the United Nations and its Security 
Council  will  further  improve  the  credibility  of  the 
United Nations system. The success of the reforms will 
depend  on  our  political  willingness  to  deliver  the 
expected  results.  We  need  to  harmonize  diverging 
views  in  order  to  arrive  at  a  generally  acceptable 
solution that will reflect the universal character of the 
United Nations and adapt it to present-day realities. 

the  General 
Assembly  as  the  supreme  policymaking  organ  of  the 
United  Nations.  It 
the 
Assembly’s  mandate  that  we  can  successfully  tackle 
some of the most pressing issues facing humanity. 

This  session  is  taking  place  at  a  very  critical 
juncture  for  the  South  Caucasus  region  and  for  the 
international  community  as  a  whole.  The  worrisome 
events  that  took  place  last  month  in  Georgia  have 
clearly  shown  that  restoring  stability  to  the  region 
requires  a  collective  effort 
the 
international security system. 
Obviously, the situation in that region is a matter 

of concern for us, and Azerbaijan is already making its 
contribution to reduce tensions. We firmly believe that 
issues  that  cause  disagreements  in  the  region  must  be 
settled peacefully, through dialogue, on the basis of the 
norms  and  principles  of  international  law  and  mutual 
respect. 

The  Georgian  case  has  also  proved  that  the 
protracted  conflicts  existing  in  the  area  of  Georgia, 
Ukraine, Azerbaijan  and  Moldova  (GUAM), including 
the  Armenia-Azerbaijan  Nagorno-Karabakh  conflict, 
remain  a  major  source  of  instability,  and  a  fragile 
ceasefire  regime  cannot  be  a  substitute  for  lasting 
peace  in  the  region.  Persistence  of  these  conflicts 
endangers 
international  peace  and  security  and 
prevents  the  full  utilization  of  the  potential  of  this 
strategically 
the 
crossroads  of  Europe  and  Asia.  A  resolution  of  the 
protracted  conflicts  in  the  GUAM  area  will  not  only 
bring immediate benefits to affected countries, but will 
substantially  contribute 
regional 
security. 
to  stability  and 
strengthen 
important 
situated 
region, 
to 
at 
A/63/PV.13
In 
for 
the 
the 
lands  and 
that  context, 
restoration  of 
The  prerequisite 

the  Caucasus  Stability  and 
Cooperation  Platform  initiated  by  Turkey  could  serve 
as  a  good  departure  point  for  building  the  regional 
security  system.  It  is  of  utmost  importance  to  ensure 
that  our  common  efforts  are  built  on  the  principles  of 
mutual  respect  for  territorial  integrity,  recognition  of 
existing borders, equality and good-neighbourliness. 

the  establishment  of 
cooperation  and  good-neighbourly  relations  in  the 
region  is  the  withdrawal  of Armenian  troops  from  the 
occupied 
full 
sovereignty  of Azerbaijan  over  those  territories.  Only 
through  that  can  we  pave  the  way  for  peace  and 
economic prosperity for the entire region. 

The  earliest  possible  resolution  of  the  armed 
conflict in and around the Nagorno-Karabakh region of 
Azerbaijan  remains  a  primary 
task  for  us.  The 
Government  of Azerbaijan  is  committed  to  a  peaceful 
settlement of the conflict on the basis of the norms and 
principles  of  international  law,  including  relevant 
Security  Council 
resolutions,  General  Assembly 
resolutions  and  documents  of  the  Organization  for 
Security and Cooperation in Europe. 

In  order  to  facilitate  the  negotiation  process, 
Azerbaijan initiated, during the sixty-second session of 
the  General  Assembly,  consideration  of  the  agenda 
item entitled, “The situation in the occupied territories 
of  Azerbaijan”.  The  Assembly  comprehensively 
addressed the issue and adopted resolution 62/243. We 
highly  appreciate  the  principled  support  of  the  States 
members  of  the  General Assembly  for  that  resolution, 
which reaffirmed the Assembly’s continued respect and 
support  for  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of 
the  Republic  of  Azerbaijan  within  its  internationally 
recognized borders and demanded the withdrawal of all 
Armenian forces from all the occupied territories of the 
Republic of Azerbaijan. The resolution also reaffirmed 
“that  no  State  shall  recognize  as  lawful  the  situation 
resulting  from  the  occupation  of  the  territories  of  the 
Republic of Azerbaijan, nor render aid or assistance in 
maintaining this situation” (resolution 62/243, para. 5). 
It recognized  
“the  inalienable  right  of  the  population  expelled 
from  the  occupied  territories  of  the  Republic  of 
Azerbaijan 
their  homes,  and 
stresse[d]  the  necessity  of  creating  appropriate 
conditions 
the 
including 
return, 
return 
this 
for 
to 
to 
08-53122 

13 
A/63/PV.13 



system  of 
the  conflict-
effective  democratic 
comprehensive  rehabilitation  of 
affected territories”. (para. 3) 
The Assembly  
“[recognized]  the  necessity  of  providing  normal, 
secure and equal conditions of life  for Armenian 
and  Azerbaijani  communities  in  the  Nagorno-
Karabakh region of Azerbaijan, which will allow 
an 
self-
governance to be built up in this region within the 
Republic of Azerbaijan”. (para. 4) 

I  would  like  to  stress  that  the  principles  laid  out 
in  the  resolution  will  be  used  as  a  basis  in  the 
negotiation  process.  The  General  Assembly  will 
continue  to  follow  the  situation  in  the  occupied 
territories  of  Azerbaijan  under  agenda  item  18  of  the 
current session. 

In  recent  years,  Azerbaijan  has  made  crucial 
contributions  to  strengthening  regional  stability  by 
promoting  security,  energy,  communications  and 
economic  cooperation  projects.  Production  and  secure 
delivery  of  hydrocarbon  resources  of  the  Caspian  Sea 
to international markets has been an important element 
of  Azerbaijan’s  foreign  and  domestic  policy.  We  will 
continue  to  carry  out  a  strategy  that  will  substantially 
improve energy security and economic prospects in the 
region and beyond. 

Another strategic project under implementation is 
the  construction  of  the  Baku-Tbilisi-Kars  railway 
linking our country with Georgia and Turkey through a 
major 
transport  connection.  This  will  create  an 
essentially  new  and  effective  communication  corridor 
between East and West, between Europe and Asia. 

The  economic  development  and  growth  of 
Azerbaijan  have  been  on  the  rise.  The  growth  rate  of 
our gross domestic product remains one of the highest 
in the world, and reached 18 per cent in the first nine 
months  of  2008.  According 
the  forecasts  of 
international financial institutions, the growth rate will 
retain its dynamics for the next year. 

Azerbaijan  is  of  the  view  that  facilitating  trade 
offers  enormous  opportunities  to  pursue  development 
objectives. Against this background, the joint report of 
the  World  Bank  and 
International  Finance 
Corporation,  “Doing  Business  2009”,  recognized  my 
country  as  a 
in 
implementing  business  regulatory  reforms,  and  as  one 
investment-friendly 
of 
leading  countries  with 
in  2007-2008 
reformer 
top 
the 
the 
to 
of 
the 
Initiative 
Extractive 
(EITI)  and  consider 
economies. According to the report, out of 181 countries, 
Azerbaijan  was  rated  first  in  improving  the  commercial 
environment  and  encouraging  business  start-ups. 
Azerbaijan  strongly  believes  that  these  factors  are 
central in attracting and mobilizing financial resources 
to support socio-economic development of the country.  
In  the  meantime,  we  are  champions  in  the 

implementation 
Industries 
Transparency 
the 
General  Assembly’s  adoption  without  a  vote  of 
resolution 62/274, on the EITI, as a sign of the global 
recognition of our efforts. 

Protection and promotion of human rights is one 
of  the  central  duties  of  the  international  community. 
Today,  this  is  not  merely  a  question  of  protecting 
individuals;  it  is  fundamental  to  promoting  peace  and 
stability around the globe. Azerbaijan remains actively 
involved  in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  human 
rights  bodies.  As  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  we  attach  great  importance  to  the  efficient 
functioning of the Council. It is our common task and 
responsibility to ensure that that institution lives up to 
the  expectations  vested  in  it  and  truly  becomes  an 
objective, vigorous and credible universal human rights 
body. 

its 
obligations  as a State member of various international 
organizations  to  promote  democracy,  the  rule  of  law 
and  human  rights.  We  believe  that  through  consistent 
reforms and investments in education, we will achieve 
long-term  stability  and  prosperity  in  our  part  of  the 
world. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Karel  de  Gucht,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Kingdom of Belgium. 
Mr.  de  Gucht  (Belgium)  (spoke  in  French): 

Belgium  echoes  the  congratulations  that  have  been 
extended  to  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-third session, and wishes him every success. 

During the past year, the international community 
has faced unprecedented challenges. As we gather here 
in  New  York,  a  major  crisis  of  confidence  is  shaking 
the financial markets. This has an impact, of course, on 
the  world  economy.  The  spectre  of  a  global  recession 
has  been  added  to  the  already  onerous  challenges  that 
have arisen in recent times, such as the food crisis, the 
fully  committed 
Azerbaijan 
to  all 
is 
14 

08-53122 
and 
close 
through 
cooperation 


spike  in  energy  prices,  global  warming,  terrorism  and 
the danger of nuclear proliferation. 

In addition, our world is changing and becoming 
increasingly  multipolar.  In  that  regard,  8 August  2008 
will  remain  symbolic:  the  very  day  on  which  China 
offered  us  the  unique  spectacle  of  the  opening  of  the 
Olympic Games, Russia and Georgia were colliding in 
a conflict with harmful repercussions for peace on the 
European  continent.  The  very  foundations  of  the 
balance that had existed since the 1990s seemed to be 
called  into  question.  This  uncertain  situation  has  far-
reaching consequences for international organizations. 

We  could  imagine  that,  in  the  face  of  these 
enormous  challenges,  all  the  world’s  countries  would 
come  together  to  combat  them  jointly.  Unfortunately, 
that is hardly what is happening. Belgium believes that 
only 
enhanced 
multilateralism  will  we  be  able  to  respond  to  these 
challenges.  More than  ever, whether we like it or not, 
we  are  in  a  situation  of  mutual  dependence.  Crises 
affect all of us, and the actions taken by some have an 
impact on everybody else. That is particularly true for 
the  current  serious  financial  crisis.  If  we  can  stabilize 
the  financial  markets  in  the  coming  few  days  through 
proactive measures, that will benefit not only the major 
banks and their employees, but also the entrepreneurs, 
consumers  and  citizens  of  the  whole  world,  including 
those in the least developed countries. Those countries 
have  already  been  heavily  affected  by  the  sharp 
increase  in  the  prices  of  agricultural  and  energy 
products  and  are  the  least  equipped  to  deal  with  a 
tightening of credit conditions.  

Stabilizing the markets is certainly necessary, but 
it  must  not  make  us  lose  sight  of  the  lessons  to  be 
learned from the crisis and the corresponding medium- 
and long-term measures to be taken to ensure that the 
world  does  not  again  become  victim  to  financial 
management  that  at  times  is  risky  and  immense 
speculation with borrowed money.  

We are well aware that the crisis goes far beyond 
the  capacity  of  a  single  country,  however  powerful  it 
may be. Better regulation of financial markets and the 
drawing  up  of  control  regulations  are  essential,  in 
particular with regard to short selling, hedge funds and 
structured  products.  That 
that  can  be 
undertaken  only  at  the  international  level,  in  close 
cooperation among the world’s economies. 
is  a 
task 
A/63/PV.13
that 
thanks 
to 
that 
task 
the  duty 
that.  However, 
their  due  place,  as 
The  developed  countries  have 
Understand  what  I  am  saying:  Belgium 

is 
convinced  of  the  advantages  of  globalization  and  free 
trade.  We  must  not  forget 
that 
globalization of trade, in recent decades the world has 
seen  remarkable  development  and  that  hundreds  of 
millions  of  men  and  women  have  escaped  extreme 
poverty  and  today  have  a  better  daily  life,  even  if  the 
sharing of wealth still remains too unequal. 

to 
spearhead a better organization of the financial world. 
The  European  Union  has  already  taken  steps  in  that 
direction,  and  we  welcome 
there 
remains  much  to  do.  Here,  I  make  an  appeal  that  we 
embark  on 
together,  with  energy  and 
dedication. 

The emergence of new economies is an asset for 
the  world.  Ever  more  countries  are  determined  to 
become players in the international system. They must 
take 
the  French  President 
emphasized  last  Monday  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union (see A/63/PV.5). It is also in everyone’s interest 
to demonstrate responsibility. 
I  would  like  to  stress  today  that  the  emerging 

economic Powers, from Brazil to India and from China 
to South Africa, have, more than we do and more than 
ever,  a  need  for  trade  that  is  both  open  and  fair  to 
continue  to  develop  their  economies  at  the  pace  they 
deserve,  without  however  causing  imbalance  in  the 
pillars  of  international  trade.  Here  too,  we  must  again 
find  the  constructive  political  will  necessary  to  restart 
the Doha trade negotiations that unfortunately failed in 
Geneva last July. 

We all must also show ourselves to be responsible 
players,  in  order  to  try  and  find  solutions  to  the 
challenges  posed  by  the  food  crisis  and  the  huge 
increase in energy prices and to combat the causes and 
effects  of  climate  change.  Those  challenges  we  face, 
issues 
that  are  extremely  complex  and  closely 
interlinked,  are  different  facets  of  one  and  the  same 
question, a question that is at the heart of the concerns 
of  my  country:  that  of  sustainable  development.  None 
of  us  can  resolve  these  problems  alone.  They  call  for 
solutions  at  the  world  level.  It  is  thus  crucial  that  we 
successfully 
the 
negotiations  for  a  global  agreement  on  climate,  as  we 
pledged in Bali.  
Nor  is  it  by  closing  in  upon  ourselves  that  we 

shall reduce the huge inequalities that still characterize 
in  December  2009 
conclude 
08-53122 

15 

is  a  world  responsibility 
International  Conference  on  Financing 
A/63/PV.13 

global development. Better distribution of the fruits of 
economic  growth 
that 
concerns  us  all.  The  Millennium  Development  Goals 
must  remain  our  main  guiding  principle.  The  Follow-
up 
for 
Development  to  Review  the  Implementation  of  the 
Monterrey Consensus, which will take place in Doha at 
the end of this year, will be an important moment. The 
developed  countries  must  do  more,  and  I  reiterate 
Belgium’s  determination  to  achieve  the  objective  of 
devoting  0.7  per  cent  of  its  gross  domestic  product  to 
official development assistance by 2010.  

However,  this  is  a  shared  responsibility,  which 
first  and  foremost  falls  to  the  Governments  of  the 
countries involved. That is why Belgium will continue 
to  work  actively  in  promoting  the  concept  of  good 
governance. 

In  that  regard,  the  issue  of  natural  resources  is 
particularly  important  to  me.  It  is  not  a  matter  of 
calling  into  question  the  sovereignty  of  any  country. 
But sovereignty also carries with it responsibilities  — 
indeed,  responsibilities  first  and  foremost.  Natural 
resources  may  be  a  driving  force  of  development  to 
draw populations out of poverty if their exploitation is 
undertaken in a transparent way to benefit the economy 
of  the  country.  Unfortunately,  experience  shows  that 
frequently 
illegal 
exploitation  often  fuels  conflict.  Therefore,  we  must 
work 
transparency  and 
fighting  illegal  exploitation.  That  is  why  Belgium 
organized  last  year  a  debate  on  that  subject  in  the 
Security  Council  (see  S/PV.5705),  and  why  it  would 
like  extensive  debate  on  natural  resources  during  the 
current session of the General Assembly. 

As  a  member  of  the  Security  Council,  Belgium 
has  had  the  opportunity  to  be  at  the  heart  of  the 
international system. That has bolstered our conviction 
that  we  can  meet  those  great  challenges  only  through 
increased  international  cooperation  and  has  further 
strengthened  our  determination  to  work  for  effective 
multilateralism. The key to that effectiveness is not to 
be  sought  only  in  structures  and  mechanisms.  It  lies 
also  and  above  all  in  our  political  will  to  make  them 
work  and  together  to  find  solutions  to  our  common 
problems. 

Here, I note with regret a certain turning inwards, 
even a return to sovereignty-based concerns. I want to 
be  clear:  I  have  great  respect  for  the  sovereignty  of 
towards  achieving  greater 
the  case  and 
is  not 
that 
that 
that 
shoulder 
a  State  must 
States.  That  goes  without  saying.  That  is  one  of  the 
fundamental  principles  upon  which  our  international 
system  is  founded.  However,  being  a  sovereign  State 
also  means 
its 
responsibilities  in  the  international  community,  even 
more  so  with  regard  to  its  own  population.  Being  a 
sovereign  State  does  not  mean  that  it  can  neglect  the 
needs of its citizens in terms of development, security, 
the rule of law and human rights. Sovereignty does not 
give  carte  blanche  for  conduct  that  is  incompatible 
with  the  values  and  commitments  to  which  we  have 
subscribed  within  the  United  Nations.  Sovereignty 
must be a force for good, and not an excuse for a State 
not  to  meet  its  responsibilities  and  to  avoid  its 
international  and  humanitarian  obligations.  Otherwise, 
it becomes what I would call souverainism: an abuse of 
sovereignty behind which to hide and escape its duties. 

Too often the argument of respect for sovereignty 
prevents the international community from acting when 
the  situation  in  a  country  is  deteriorating  before  our 
eyes,  resulting  in  the  population  suffering  and  an 
increase 
in  serious  human  rights  violations.  The 
examples  are  well  known  and  strike  us  all.  Myanmar, 
Darfur,  Zimbabwe  and  the  eastern  Congo  all  confront 
us with a responsibility to protect, a responsibility that 
the international community is called upon to exercise 
when  a  sovereign  State  cannot  or,  worse,  refuses  to 
assume  that  responsibility.  That  can  be  undertaken 
through 
civil 
administration  of  crises,  peacekeeping  or  peace-
restoration missions, or, earlier on, crisis prevention. 
In  that  context,  I  wish  to  speak  of  combating 

impunity.  Belgium  is  convinced  that  there  cannot  be 
lasting peace without justice. That principle guides our 
foreign  policy.  It  is  achieved  in  the  first  place  by 
bolstering  the  rule  of  law  and  justice  at  the  national 
level before, during and after a conflict. For the gravest 
crimes,  we  actively  support 
the  development  of 
international  criminal  law.  This  is  not  the  time  to  let 
any doubts persist with regard to our active support for 
the International Criminal Court by putting forward, as 
some  do,  other,  more  regional  solutions.  That  is 
particularly  true  now  when  the  Court  is  preparing  its 
first trial. 

Peace  and  security  are  the  responsibility  of  the 
international  community  as  a  whole,  and  it  is  in  that 
spirit  that  Belgium  approached  its  mandate  in  the 
Security  Council,  nearly 
seek 
constantly, in a constructive and non-dogmatic manner, 
two  years  ago: 
humanitarian 
instruments, 
the 
16 

08-53122 
in 


the best way to move things forward. It is particularly 
pleased with the progress in crisis management and the 
extraordinary  expansion  of  peacekeeping  operations. 
From  that  perspective  Belgium  calls  for  a  renewal  of 
the  United  Nations  Organization  Mission 
the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo with a strengthened 
mandate,  which  is  a  key  factor  in  maintaining  in  the 
eastern  Congo  the  prospects  for  settling  the  crisis  and 
avoiding a Somalian scenario.  

Belgium  also  welcomes  efforts  of  regional 
organizations  and  their  collaboration  with  the  United 
Nations.  I  am  thinking,  for  instance,  of  the  European 
Union  alongside  the  United  Nations  in  Chad  and  the 
Central African Republic.  

We need to make further progress with regard to 
an  integrated  and  comprehensive  approach  to  conflict 
resolution.  The  establishment  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission is a real step forward in that area. That is 
why  Belgium  has  assumed  the  chair  of  the  country-
specific configuration on the Central African Republic. 
Major progress has been made, but much remains to be 
done,  in  particular  in  order  to  better  help  countries 
during  that  delicate  phase  when  they  are  emerging 
from crisis. 

We will soon celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of 
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights. That  will 
be  the  time  for  us  to  remember  the  values  that  it 
represents  and  that  we  all  share,  and  to  which  we  all 
subscribed  and  which  we  should  implement  for  the 
benefit  of  our  citizens  and  for  greater  well-being 
throughout the world. It is a responsibility that we must 
remember, particularly since it seems to be called into 
question  at  a  time  when  we  are  faced  with  the  major 
challenges  that  I  have  just  described. Together  and  on 
the basis of our shared values, we should assume those 
responsibilities. 

That  is  the  real  challenge.  It  is  not  through  less, 
but more international cooperation and multilateralism 
that we will achieve solutions. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Walid  Al-Moualem,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Syrian Arab Republic. 
Mr. Al-Moualem  (Syrian Arab  Republic)  (spoke 

in Arabic): Allow me to congratulate the President and 
his  friendly  country,  Nicaragua,  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-third 
session.  I  wish  him  every  success  in  his  mission  and 
A/63/PV.13
to  convene 
and 
express  our  satisfaction  with  the  message  of  his 
introductory  remarks  at  the  opening  of  the  general 
debate.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  his  predecessor, 
Srgjan Kerim, for successfully steering the work of the 
previous  session.  I  extend  to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon our best wishes for success in the realization 
of  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  our 
international Organization. 

The  Middle  East  region  is  one  of  the  most 
volatile  regions  of  the  world,  and  it  continues  to  face 
mounting  challenges.  Daunting  as  those  challenges 
may  be,  they  must  not  deter  us  from  moving  forward 
towards  the  light  at  the  end  of  the  tunnel  and  from 
seeking  better  conditions.  Syria  is  an  essential  part  of 
the  solutions  sought  by  the  peoples  of  the  region,  by 
virtue of its geographic location and the aspirations of 
its people.  
For  that  reason,  President  Bashar Al-Assad  took 

the 
initiative 
the  Damascus  Quartet 
Summit,  attended  by  President  Sarkozy  of  France,  the 
Emir of the State of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa 
Al-Thani,  and 
the  Prime  Minister  Recep  Tayyip 
Erdoğan of Turkey. All of those States have a stake in 
the  security  and  stability  of  the  Middle  East  region. 
Each 
constructive 
contributions,  despite  differing  perspectives  and 
positions.  The  four  leaders  probed  the  issue  of  peace 
and  stability  in  the  Middle  East  and  stressed  the  need 
for consultations and coordination and joint pursuit of 
those  objectives.  They  recognized  that  inaction,  the 
suffering resulting from the Israeli occupation of Arab 
territories that has continued since 1967 and disregard 
for  the  Palestinian  people’s  rights  have  driven  the 
people of the region into a state of despair. Under those 
circumstances,  attaining  a  just  and  comprehensive 
peace  becomes  untenable  and  the  region  becomes  a 
fertile  ground  for  anger  and  turmoil.  In  the  final 
analysis, that situation does not serve the best interests 
of the world or of the countries of the region. 
By convening the Quartet Summit, Syria stressed 

that  a  just  and  comprehensive  peace  is  its  strategic 
choice and that it is striving to attain it in cooperation 
with  regional  and  international  partners  who  share  its 
vision.  The  realization  of  peace  requires  all  of  those 
who  have  a  direct  stake  in  the  matter,  or  those  who 
have  the  power  or  who  can  influence  the  outcome,  to 
evince the necessary political will.  
every  one  has  made 
08-53122 

17 

A/63/PV.13 


Years after the will to build peace lost its priority 
status in the policies that influence the situation in the 
region, we were asked to go to Annapolis. We all went 
to Annapolis, despite the ambiguity of the undertaking. 
We  wonder  what  Annapolis  achieved.  Where  exactly 
do we stand? Have the Annapolis promises to establish 
a  Palestinian  State  before  the  end  of  the  current  year 
been fulfilled? Has Israel stopped building settlements 
in the occupied Arab territories? 

Despite  all  that,  given  that  the  withdrawal  of 
Israel  from  our  occupied  Golan  to  the  line  of  4  June 
1967  and  making  peace  are  Syrian  national  priorities, 
and  notwithstanding  the  circumstances  to  which  I  just 
referred,  we  entered  into  indirect  negotiations  with 
Israel, with commendable mediation by Turkey.  

As  President  Al-Assad  said,  we  wanted  the 
negotiations to establish the grounds and pave the way 
for  direct  negotiations 
that  would  ultimately  be 
sponsored by many international parties. Peacebuilding 
requires,  however,  genuine  Israeli  will  that  is  capable 
of  accommodating  the  exigencies  of  peacemaking.  It 
also requires the American will to include peace in the 
Middle  East  on  its  list  of  priorities  after  years  of 
deliberately  ignoring  and  dodging  the  question,  which 
has exacerbated the situation in the region. 

Syria  stresses  once  again  its  firm  and  consistent 
support  for  the  Palestinian  people’s  rights  to  recover 
their  occupied  land  and  establish  their  independent 
State with Jerusalem as its capital. Syria underlines the 
need  to  restore  Palestinian  national  unity  through 
national dialogue and is working towards that end in its 
capacity as the current Chair of the Arab Summit. 

The Iraqi situation is a matter of prime concern to 
Syria  because  Iraq  is  an  Arab  fraternal  country  and 
because, as a neighbouring country, we are affected by 
the negative and positive developments there. We have 
always  stressed  the  need  to  preserve  the  unity  of  the 
people of Iraq, its territorial integrity, non-interference 
in  its  internal  affairs  and  the  need  to  preserve  its 
sovereignty, 
Islamic 
identity,  and  to  oppose  the  calls  to  divide  it. We  have 
repeatedly  declared  that  the  solution  in  Iraq  begins 
with  national  reconciliation  built  on  the  principle  of 
respect for the will of all Iraqis. We have reiterated the 
need  for  foreign  troops  to  withdraw  from  Iraq  in  line 
with  agreements  reached  with  the  Iraqi  Government. 
We  have  always  condemned  all 
terrorist  acts 
committed  in  Iraq,  resulting  in  the  deaths  of  many 
its  Arab  and 
independence, 
innocent  civilians.  We  believe  that  the  stability  that 
Iraq longs for requires an Iraqi consensus to overcome 
the obstacles barring its realization. 

It  is  regrettable  that  the  abnormal  circumstances 
that  prevailed  in  Iraq  as  a  result  of  the  United  States 
invasion  in  2003  have  prompted  a  great  number  of 
Iraqis  to  leave  their  country  in  pursuit  of  safety  and 
security.  Syria  hosts  many  Iraqi  brothers  and  sisters. 
Therefore,  we  are  deeply  aware  of  the  humanitarian 
crisis  that  has  forced  Iraqis  from  their  country  and 
exacerbated the situation in their country. We hope that 
an improved security situation will permit all Iraqis to 
return to Iraq. 

We  in  Syria  are  pleased  that  the  situation  in 
Lebanon  is  being  resolved  after  the  conclusion  of  the 
Doha Agreement, which enabled the Lebanese to elect 
a  consensual  President,  establish  a  Government  of 
national unity and initiate a national dialogue. Despite 
unfounded claims to the contrary, we have consistently 
supported  all  measures  that  could  assist  the  Lebanese 
in  arriving  at  consensual  solutions  built  on  dialogue 
and the affirmation of national unity. During the recent 
visit  of  the  Lebanese  President  Michel  Sleiman  to 
Syria,  we  declared  that  we  had  jointly  decided  to 
establish  diplomatic 
two 
countries  with  a  view  to  maintaining  and  supporting 
mutual,  deep  and  wide-ranging  relations  and  interests 
between  our  two  fraternal  peoples.  We  also  agreed  to 
resume  the  work  of  the  joint  Lebanese-Syrian  border 
demarcation 
accordance  with 
mechanisms  and  priorities  to  be  agreed  upon  by  the 
two parties. The two countries also agreed to entrust to 
their  respective  authorities  the  task  of  continuing  to 
work  together  to  control  their  common  borders,  fight 
smuggling,  undertake 
to 
promote  trade,  create  the  conditions  for  economic 
integration and establish a common economic market. 

Syria  supports  efforts  aimed  at  guaranteeing  the 
Sudan’s  unity  and  territorial  integrity  and  promoting 
peace and stability in that country. In that context, we 
are  completely  opposed 
the 
Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court and call 
on  the  Security  Council  to  suspend  it  with  a  view  to 
creating 
the 
initiative  endorsed  by  the  Council  of  Ministers  of  the 
League of Arab States on 9 August 2008. The initiative 
called  for  establishing  an  Arab  ministerial  committee 
under the chairmanship of Qatar and entrusting it with 
overseeing  comprehensive  peace  talks  between  the 
the  necessary  measures 
relations  between  our 
favourable  conditions 
for  pursuing 
to 
the  decision  of 
commission 
in 
18 

08-53122 
that 
sponsor 
committee  would 
regard,  Syria  welcomes 


Government  of  the  Sudan  and  the  armed  groups  in 
Darfur.  The 
those 
negotiations  in  cooperation  and  coordination  with  the 
international  mediator  of  the  African  Union  and  a 
United  Nations  representative.  It  would  also  seek  to 
improve  the  humanitarian  situation  and  to  promote 
development in Darfur.  

Syria,  a  member  of  the  committee,  calls  on  all 
States concerned and on the international community to 
support  the  committee  in  its  efforts  to  fulfil  its 
mandate. 
the 
normalization of relations between the Sudan and Chad 
as a positive contribution to the solution of the Darfur 
question. 

The  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  (NPT)  guarantees  the  right  of  all  States  to 
possess  nuclear  technologies  for  peaceful  purposes. 
Much  has  been  said  about  the  Iranian  nuclear  issue, 
with  some  advocating  a  diplomatic  solution  while 
others  promote  the  use  of  force.  Meanwhile,  Iran  has 
time and again stressed that it is solely dedicated to the 
peaceful uses of nuclear power. Deep mistrust between 
Iran  and  its  interlocutors  complicates  matters  and 
prevents 
an 
understanding. We seek a political understanding of the 
Iranian  nuclear  issue.  Any  other  option  is  not  in  the 
interests of any of the stakeholders and will only inflict 
catastrophic losses on the region and the world. 

In  that  context,  and  in  line  with  our  principled 
position, we call for declaring the Middle East a zone 
free  from  all  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  Similarly, 
we  recall  the  draft  resolution  that  Syria  submitted  to 
the Security Council on 29 October 2003. At the same 
time, we stress the need to compel Israel to dismantle 
the hundreds  of nuclear warheads in its  possession, to 
submit its nuclear facilities to the safeguards regime of 
the International Atomic Energy Agency and to accede 
to the NPT. 

The  crisis  that  erupted  in  the  Caucasus  region 
was  an  extremely  ominous  event.  It  is  impossible  to 
ignore 
on 
international  relations.  By  now,  we  know  who  sowed 
its  seeds  and  are  aware  of  the  provocative  acts 
associated  with  it,  prompting  Russia  to  exercise  the 
option 
it  chose.  We  appreciate  Russia’s  positive 
response  to  the  efforts  of  France  in  its  capacity  as 
President  of  the  European  Union  to  arrive  at  a 
settlement  of  the  crisis  that  will  guarantee  regional 
repercussions 
stakeholders 
dimensions 
reaching 
from 
and 
the 
In 
its 
A/63/PV.13
the 
the 
that 
Experience 
food  crises 
demonstrates 
financial  and 
the  world  a  revival  of 
stability  and  spare 
international relations that prevailed in the past. 

Much has been said about the war on terror. Years 
after  waging  that  war,  some  issues  still  prompt  us  to 
ask:  Is  terrorism  less  widespread  today  than  it  was 
before?  Can  we  claim  to  have  prevailed  over  that 
extremely dangerous phenomenon? Accusing countries 
of sponsoring terrorism for ulterior political motives is 
a desperate attempt by those promoting those claims to 
justify the failure of their approach.  
The right approach requires us to address the root 

causes of terrorism. How can we overcome terrorism if 
we continue to conflate terrorism with the right of the 
individual to live on his land, free from occupation or 
threat of war and aggression? We call upon all States to 
cooperate in the fight against terrorism. We particularly 
stress  the  need  to  avoid  confusing  terrorism  with 
fundamental  rights,  because  doing  so  gives  terrorism 
an opportunity to strike. 

unilaterally 
dictating  the  world’s  political  agenda  is  wrong.  The 
wars  and 
raging 
throughout the world today require us to work together 
to  address  that  malfunction  by  seeking  to  engage  all 
regional  and  international  stakeholders  through  active 
diplomacy  and  dialogue  as 
to  settle 
controversial questions. 

Closing  the  door  to  dialogue  and  imposing 
isolation,  unilateral  sanctions  and  diktats  have  never 
been  successful 
the  exercise  of  sound 
international  relations.  Contrary  to  claims  made  from 
this very rostrum a couple of days ago, all attempts at 
isolation  are  doomed  to  failure.  Respect  for  the 
principle  of  democracy  in  international  relations  that 
takes into account the vision and interests of all States, 
large  and  small,  will  contribute  to  the  realization  of 
security and stability in the world and help it solve the 
problems it faces.  
The Charter of our international Organization, in 

which  States  of  different  perspectives  and  interests 
enjoy  equal  membership,  has  set  forth  formulas  that 
remain  valid  and  could  be  used  to  build  a  world  in 
which 
justice  reigns  supreme,  based  on  mutual 
understanding — a world free from the threat of terror 
and  in  which  there  is  no  place  for  inciting  hatred 
among cultures and religions. Promoting those values, 
principles and objectives and using them as guidelines 
for  our  work  will  serve  the  interests  of  peace  and 
the  means 
tools 
in 
08-53122 

19 

A/63/PV.13 

stability  in  the  world  and  contribute  to  the  good  of 
humanity at large. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Sayyid  Badr  bin  Hamad  AlBusaidi, 
Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of 
the Sultanate of Oman. 
Mr. AlBusaidi (Oman) (spoke in Arabic): I have 

the honour to convey the regards of His Majesty Sultan 
Qaboos  Bin  Said  of  Oman,  and  his  best  wishes  and 
appreciation  for  the  efforts  to  make  this  session  a 
success. 

I  am  quite  hopeful  that  this  session  will  yield  a 
great  deal  of  understanding  on  various  issues  of 
common interest that shall enhance global security and 
stability  in  accordance  with  the  aspirations  of  the 
people  of  the  world  to  achieve  prosperity  and  realize 
the Millennium Development Goals. 

I  would  also  like  to  seize  this  opportunity  to 
express  my  appreciation  to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  for  his  commendable  efforts  to  improve  the 
performance of this Organization in the interests of the 
international community. 

In  that  connection,  we  would  like  to  emphasize 
the  role  of  international  institutions  and  the  need  to 
support  their  efforts  by  intensifying  cooperation  and 
coordination  with  them  in  order  to  uphold  justice  and 
righteousness  and  to  entrench  security,  peace  and 
stability throughout the world. 

Annual  sessions  of  the  General  Assembly  are 
important  events  through  which  Member  States  have 
the  opportunity  to  express  their  concerns  and  views. 
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  efforts  to  preserve  the 
environment have remained a top international priority, 
particularly  in  view  of  developments  in  recent  years, 
during  which  the  effects  of  climate  change  have  been 
felt across the world. 

The international community has made numerous 
efforts  in  that  respect,  the  most  salient  of  which 
includes  Agenda  21,  adopted  at  the  1992  United 
Nations Conference on Environment and Development 
in Brazil, and the Bali Road Map adopted at the 2007 
Conference  to  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
in 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
Indonesia.  Those  efforts  are  designed 
to  deepen 
understanding and awareness of climate change and to 
improve weather forecasting in order to save lives and 
that  are 
property, 
to  discourage  human  practices 
detrimental  to  the  environment  and  to  educate  people 
to live in harmony with it.  

More  than  ever  before,  however,  we  are  called 
upon  to  intensify  and  double  our  efforts  and  joint 
cooperation in order to deal with such circumstances in 
a  constructive  and  practical  way.  We  must  support 
purposeful scientific research aimed at finding creative 
means,  policies  and  plans  to  guarantee  a  stable  and 
sustainable  environment  while  taking  into  account 
physical  evidence  related 
to  climatic  cycles  and 
environmental  change  through  the  ages. We  hope  that 
the fourteenth climate change Conference, to be held in 
Copenhagen  next  year,  will  produce  practical  and 
useful  recommendations  that  meet  our  hopes  and 
aspirations. 

Economic  development  and  trade  among  nations 
have helped  build bridges of communication based  on 
mutual  benefits  and  common  interests.  The  current 
trade system, however, is in dire need  of a vision  and 
systems that keep pace with economic transformations 
and  with  emerging  economic  entities  in  order  to 
maintain  the  balance  of  the  global  economy  and  to 
cater to the needs of developing countries. 

Large  industrial  countries  need  to  lift  trade 
restrictions on the exports of developing countries and 
to  share  with  them  modern  technologies,  effective 
marketing  mechanisms,  and  educational  and  scientific 
frameworks 
human 
development 
Trade 
Organization (WTO) should play a more effective role 
towards  the  removal  of  trade  restrictions  and  the 
application  of  appropriate  policies  so  as  to  create  a 
freer trade environment. 

While we welcome the invitation by the Director-
General of the WTO, Mr. Pascal Lamy, to hold another 
round of trade negotiations in the context of the Doha 
Development Agenda, we would like to emphasize that 
such  negotiations  should  rely  on  WTO  rules  that  are 
rooted in equity and justice. 
the  Palestinians  are 

suffering 
human 
circumstances that have deprived them of their right to 
a life of dignity. The harsh Israeli policies of closures, 
the  erection  of  checkpoints  and  the  perpetuation  of 
settlement  activities  make 
lives  of 
Palestinians  very  difficult.  Those  practices  also 
undermine efforts  and initiatives to achieve peace and 
stability. Indeed, they call into question the credibility 
guarantee  meaningful 
The  World 
Everyone  knows 
everywhere. 
the  daily 
that 
that 
the 
repercussions 
of 
tragic 
20 

08-53122 
to  peace 
peace 
a 
The 
selflessly 
forcefully  and 


of  Israel’s  desire  to  seek  a  real  solution  to  end  the 
conflict. 

We  urge  the  international  community  to  step  up 
its efforts to make Israel shoulder its responsibilities, in 
view of the importance and inevitability of peace as the 
only  option  for  joint  and  harmonious  coexistence 
between all peoples of the region. It has become clear 
that there can be no peace without the restoration of the 
legitimate rights of the Palestinian people, foremost of 
which  is  their  right  to  live  safely  on  their  land  and  in 
their  independent  State,  side  by  side  with  Israel  and 
within internationally recognized boundaries. 
is  strategic  and 

Our  commitment 
fundamental.  Ensuring 
is 
collective 
responsibility  of  the  international  community  that 
should  be 
shouldered, 
regardless  of  the  difficulties  encountered.  On  that 
basis,  the  Sultanate  of  Oman,  in  the  context  of  its 
friendly relations and cooperation with many countries, 
is  ever  eager  to  promote  long-term  relations  as  a 
fundamental pillar of joint efforts in support of peace, 
security, dialogue, mutual understanding and harmony. 

Lebanese 
reconciliation is an achievement that invites optimism. 
While we praise the efforts made by the State of Qatar 
and all other Arab States, as well as by the League of 
Arab  States,  we  call  upon  all  Lebanese  parties  to 
implement  the  Doha Agreement  in  order  to  safeguard 
the  higher  interests  of  the  brotherly  Lebanese  people. 
We  also  welcome  the  visit  to  Syria  by  Lebanese 
President  Michel  Sleiman  and  its  positive  outcome, 
including  the  agreement  to  establish  diplomatic  ties 
between the two countries. 

With regard to the situation in Iraq, we note with 
satisfaction the relative improvements in the country’s 
security  conditions.  We  hope  that  the  situation  will 
continue to improve until stability prevails throughout 
Iraq.  We  also  hope  for  continued  efforts  by  the  Iraqi 
Government  and  all  political  forces 
to  reach  a 
comprehensive  national  understanding  that  can  unite 
all  sectors  of  Iraqi  society  and  restore  harmony  and 
concord to its national and social fabric. 
As  for  the  situation  in  the  Sudanese  region  of 

Darfur,  we  welcome  the  steps  being  taken  by  the 
Sudanese Government, in cooperation with the African 
Union  and  the  League  of  Arab  States,  to  establish 
peace  and  stability  in  the  region.  We  therefore  call 
upon  the  international  community  to  support  those 
progress  made 
towards 
A/63/PV.13
efforts  in  order  to  help  build  a  national  consensus 
among all brotherly Sudanese citizens. 

From  this  rostrum,  we  reiterate  our  call  to  all 
Somali parties to cease fighting and to refrain from any 
actions that could hamper sound diplomatic efforts. We 
also  hope  that  all  parties  will  abide  by  the  agreement 
reached in Djibouti on 9 June 2008. 

In  addition,  we  call  for  continued  consultations 
between  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  and  other  States 
on the Iranian nuclear issue. We hope that those efforts 
will result in an agreement that upholds Iran’s right to 
use  nuclear  technology  for  peaceful  purposes,  while 
eliminating 
the  concerns  of  a  number  of  States 
regarding the Iranian nuclear programme. 
The Games of the XXIX Olympiad, hosted by the 

friendly  People’s  Republic  of  China  in  Beijing,  were 
unique in terms of their organization, which definitely 
made  that  international  sports  event  a  great  success. 
The Games have  enriched  human civilization in  all of 
its  beautiful  cultural  diversity.  We  wish  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  express  our  best  wishes  for  the  next 
Olympic  Games,  which  will  be  hosted  by  the  United 
Kingdom in London in 2012, as well as our hope that 
they will continue to contribute to human and cultural 
coexistence among all nations. 
The  progress  that  has  already  been  made  in  the 

endeavours 
field  of 
encourages  us  to  make  further  collective  efforts  to 
address  the  challenges  facing  us  and  to  protect  the 
peoples of the world from their political, economic and 
social  repercussions.  We  also  wish  to  emphasize  the 
importance of a joint commitment to the establishment 
of  justice  and  the  rule  of  law.  Governments  must 
shoulder  their  responsibilities  in  a  spirit  of  positive 
cooperation,  understanding  and  mutual  respect,  which 
are basic principles of international peace and security. 

In  closing,  I  wish  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  the  best  of  luck  in  leading  the  present 
session  to  a  successful  conclusion.  I  should  like  to 
reaffirm  the  support  of  the  Sultanate  of  Oman  for 
efforts  to  ensure  the  welfare  of  all  nations  and  future 
generations. We hope that all of this will be achieved in 
an atmosphere of cooperation, harmony and love. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Marat  Tazhin,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
collaborative 
international 
08-53122 

21 
and 
economic 
confidence 
that,  under  his 
A/63/PV.13 

Mr.  Tazhin  (Kazakhstan):  First  of  all,  I  would 

like  to  congratulate  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  on  his  election  to  his  high  office  and  to 
express  my 
able 
stewardship,  the  sixty-third  session  of  the  General 
Assembly will be fruitful and successful. 

When  Christopher  Columbus  reached  the  shores 
of America in 1492, he believed that he had discovered 
a new route to India. Today we know that, many years 
before  Columbus  made 
that  voyage,  European 
explorers had reached Saint Lawrence Bay. Obviously, 
prior to the so-called discovery of America, developed 
civilizations  had  already  existed  there.  At  the  same 
time,  Columbus  did  discover  America  in  a  certain 
sense, because it radically altered the understanding of 
world geography. 

It  is  globalization  that  is  giving  us  a  new  vision 
of the world in the twenty-first century. While offering 
new  opportunities  to  the  world  economy  and  human 
development,  globalization  is  also  triggering  a  new 
surge  of  political 
competition 
worldwide. 
We  can  now  see  clearly  that  it  is  imperative  to 

prevent  the  interests  of  peoples  and  countries  from 
being sacrificed for the sake of that competition. Given 
recent complications  and disputes, it is  urgent that we 
preserve  the  basic  principles  of  international  law, 
including  that  of  territorial  integrity.  It  is  crucial  that 
we  avoid  double  standards  in  the  application  of  that 
principle. 
Despite the efforts being undertaken, the world is 

not becoming a safer place. We must admit that there is 
still no international consensus regarding the issues of 
disarmament  and  the  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of 
mass  destruction.  As  everyone  knows,  history  could 
repeat  itself  if  we  do  not  learn  its  lessons  properly. 
Therefore,  nuclear  disarmament  and  an  enhanced 
non-proliferation  regime  should  become  a  priority  for 
all, without any conditionalities.  

voluntarily 
country 
relinquished  the  fourth-largest  nuclear  arsenal  in  the 
world,  believes  that  it  is  absolutely  imperative  to 
develop  new  mechanisms  for  adapting  the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  to  new 
realities.  We  call  on  Member  States  to  finalize  the 
necessary  procedures  for  the  entry  into  force  of  the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  and 
the 
strengthening  of  its  verification  mechanism.  That  is 
Kazakhstan, 
that 

the 
the  purpose  of 
precisely 
integrated  on-site 
inspection  field  exercise  currently  being  conducted  in 
our country at the former Semipalatinsk nuclear testing 
ground. 

The  crisis  of  the  non-proliferation  regime  poses 
the  real  threat  that  nuclear  weapons  will  fall  into  the 
hands of terrorists. Kazakhstan is actively participating 
in  the  Global  Initiative  to  Combat  Nuclear  Terrorism 
and in that regard hosted this year the Atom anti-terror 
exercises  and  an  international  conference  on  the 
physical protection of nuclear material.  

The situation in Afghanistan remains a  matter of 
grave concern. In our opinion, the way to normalize the 
situation  is  to  build  up  the  international  community’s 
efforts  for  the  peaceful  reconstruction  of Afghanistan. 
To that end, the Government of my county has adopted 
a special plan on assistance to Afghanistan. 

Kazakhstan  is  committed  to  timely  and  effective 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). We have already reached a number of targets 
in several areas, including poverty reduction, access to 
education  and  the  empowerment  of  women.  Now  we 
are embarking on the MDG-Plus targets, adapted to our 
national  conditions, 
to  set  up  higher 
benchmarks and indicators. 

Like many other countries, Kazakhstan is deeply 
concerned about the situation regarding the global food 
market.  We  share  the  view  of  the  majority  that  an 
integrated approach is required to overcome the current 
food crisis. 

Today  the  international  community  faces  the 
challenge  of  a  global  rise  in  basic  food  prices. 
Kazakhstan, as a major producer and exporter of grain 
crops  and  flour,  is  prepared  to  make  a  substantial 
contribution  to  overcoming  the  food  crisis.  As  of 
1 September  2008,  we  have  lifted  our  ban  on  grain 
exports.  That  is  our  contribution  to  the  international 
community’s  collective  efforts  to  curb  global  grain 
prices. 

Because  of  the  critical  importance  of  energy 
resources,  preserving  the  global  energy  balance  has 
become  a  more  urgent  imperative.  Kazakhstan  fully 
understands  its  ever-increasing  role  and  responsibility 
as a reliable energy supplier.  

Bearing  in  mind  that  energy  and  environmental 
problems  are  closely  interconnected,  I  would  like  to 
once again draw attention to the initiatives set forth by 
in  order 
a 
22 

08-53122 
associated  with 
climate 
change 
importance 
We  would 
like 
Kazakhstan  attaches  critical 


the  President  of  Kazakhstan,  Nursultan  Nazarbayev, 
from this rostrum a year ago (see A/62/PV.4). They call 
for  adoption  of  a  Eurasian  pact  on  the  stability  of 
energy  supplies,  as  well  as  development  of  a  global 
energy  and  environment  strategy  within  the  United 
Nations framework. 

to 
problems 
and 
sustainable development. To ensure the convergence of 
the  European  and  Asian  processes  of  transition  to 
sustainable  development  and  their  merging  into  a 
single Eurasian process, Kazakhstan has put forward an 
initiative  on  convening  in  2010  a  conference  of 
ministers of environment, economy and social welfare 
of the Asian and Pacific countries and a pan-European 
conference on the environment for Europe in 2011. 

to  express  our  profound 
appreciation to the entire international community, the 
United  Nations  and  its  agencies  and  programmes  for 
the support they rendered to our country in mitigating 
the consequences of environmental disasters in the Aral 
Sea  and  Semipalatinsk  regions.  Calling  for  continued 
active international cooperation, we request support for 
the  draft  resolutions  to  be  submitted  at  the  sixty-third 
session  of 
the 
problems of the Semipalatinsk region and granting the 
International Fund to Save the Aral Sea observer status 
at the General Assembly. 

The  growing  number  of  natural  and  man-made 
disasters  makes  it  necessary  to  intensify  international 
cooperation as the most effective means of responding 
to  emergencies.  Kazakhstan  supports  cooperation  in 
setting up national and regional platforms, exemplified 
by  the  Central  Asian  Disaster  Response  Coordination 
Centre. 

We  strongly  believe  that  the  special  needs  of 
landlocked countries should be fully taken into account 
in  accordance  with  decisions  and  recommendations 
based  on  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action.  We  hope 
that the forthcoming midterm review of the Programme 
will  result  in  the  adoption  of  specific  decisions  on 
assistance to this group of countries. 
Escalation  of  ethno-territorial  conflicts  and 

increased  interfaith  tensions  indicate  that  we  have 
reached a critical turning point in our common history. 
Under 
these  circumstances,  Kazakhstan  has  been 
consistently and proactively pursuing a policy aimed at 
ensuring  inter-ethnic  and  interfaith  accord,  as  well  as 
the  General  Assembly  concerning 
A/63/PV.13
preserving  political  and  social  stability  in  our  society. 
Upon  the  initiative  of  our  head  of  State,  President 
Nazarbayev,  the  Kazakh  capital,  Astana,  hosted  two 
Congresses  of  Leaders  of  World  and  Traditional 
Religions,  in  2003  and  2006.  With  its  next  summit 
meeting to be convened in 2009, this forum has already 
proved  to  be  an  effective  international  mechanism  for 
promoting peace and tolerance on a global scale. 

Kazakhstan  is  actively  involved  in  the  work  of 
the  Group  of  Friends  of  the Alliance  of  Civilizations. 
Our initiative to declare 2010 the International Year of 
the Rapprochement of Cultures has been supported by 
all Member States, as reflected in resolution 62/90. We 
appeal to all countries and organizations of the United 
Nations to prepare relevant plans for the attainment of 
the goals of the International Year, in accordance with 
the provisions of that resolution. 

Taking further practical steps to promote dialogue 
among  civilizations,  Kazakhstan  has  proposed  the 
convening  of  a  ministerial  conference  to  be  entitled 
“Common world: Progress through diversity”. Foreign 
ministers  from  different  regions  of  the  planet  have 
been  invited  to  attend  the  first  meeting  of  that  forum, 
which is to be held in Astana in October. 

As  Kazakhstan  prepares  to  assume  the  duties  of 
Chair of the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in Europe in 2010 and of the Ministerial Conference of 
the Organization of the Islamic Conference in 2011, we 
intend  to  use  this  unique  opportunity  to  promote  the 
issues  of  ensuring  greater  tolerance  and  furthering 
measures  by  member  States  against  all  forms  of 
discrimination as serious items in those organizations. 

I  would  like  to  conclude  my  remarks  with  some 
ancient  oriental  wisdom:  “Between  a  man  that  digs  a 
hole and the man that fills it, there should always be a 
third man ready to plant a tree”. In today’s world, the 
United  Nations  performs 
function  by 
fostering  dialogue  and  cooperation  among  all  peoples 
and all States. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Mourad  Medelci,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Algeria. 
Mr.  Medelci  (Algeria)  (spoke  in Arabic):  I  wish 

at  the  outset  to  congratulate  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-third session. I also pay 
well-deserved  tribute  to  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Srgjan 
that  vital 
08-53122 

23 

financial  and  economic 
A/63/PV.13 

Kerim,  and  thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for 
the dignified, far-sighted and able manner in which he 
has  carried  out  his  heavy  responsibilities  since  his 
election. 
The central theme of this session and the subjects 

chosen  for 
two  high-level  events  are  a  perfect 
reflection  of  the  international  community’s  current 
concerns. In recent months, the world has experienced 
crises  that  have  revealed  our  collective  vulnerability 
and  our  inability  to  confront  those  crises.  As  always, 
since  the  world  order  is  based  on  that  imbalance,  the 
developing countries in particular pay the highest price 
by being powerless to meet the challenges that threaten 
their political stability and social cohesion.  
The President returned to the Chair.


In  that  regard,  the  consequences  of  climate 
change  and  the  food  crisis  caused  by  the  scarcity  and 
soaring  prices  of  certain  basic  commodities  have 
plunged  millions  of  people  into  extreme  poverty. 
International 
institutions, 
whose  mission  it  is  to  anticipate  crises  and  alert  the 
international  community  to  their  potential  risk,  must 
play  their  proper  role  by  undertaking  the  needed 
reforms  without  requiring  developing  countries,  in 
particular African  countries,  to  abide  by  commitments 
incompatible with their development goals.  
We  must  effectively  and  resolutely  combat 

terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We stress 
once  again  the  importance  and  urgency  of  adopting  a 
comprehensive  counter-terrorism  convention,  while 
avoiding  any  provisions  or  stipulations  that  would 
prejudice  the  legitimate  struggle  of  people  to  reclaim 
their freedom or of discrediting any particular religious 
community.  

It  is  indispensable  to  continue  the  work  of 
reforming  the  Organization  so  that  it  can  become  an 
instrument  to  promote  freedom,  democracy,  justice, 
peace,  security,  development  and  progress.  Such 
reform will be fruitful and promising only if it includes 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  through  the  equitable 
expansion of its membership, the democratization of its 
decision-making processes and the improvement of its 
working methods.  

Algeria’s actions in the geographical and political 
spheres to which it belongs are based on the principles 
of good-neighbourliness, cooperation and solidarity. In 
the  Arab  Maghreb,  Algeria  is  working  to  ease  the 
transparently 
their 
inalienable  right 
difficulties  we  are  experiencing,  which  have  hindered 
the  re-launching  of  the  Arab  Maghreb  Union,  in  the 
conviction  that  the  destiny  of  our  peoples  and  the 
requirements  of  our  times  demand  the  advent  of  a 
united and prosperous Maghreb. We are, however, keen 
to  ensure  that  efforts  in  that  regard  do  not  meet  with 
new  disappointments,  and  we  therefore  think  that  that 
re-launching must be undertaken on a sound, solid and 
lasting  basis  that  takes  into  account  the  enlightened 
self-interest of all the peoples of the region. 

Inspired by its faith in that ideal of the Maghreb, 
Algeria  has  sincerely  supported  and  will  continue  to 
support efforts to find a just, lasting and internationally 
legitimate  solution  to  the  conflict  in  Western  Sahara 
that  will  allow  the  Saharawi  people  to  exercise  freely 
and 
to  self-
determination. That is why Algeria believes it vital that 
the  momentum  created  by  the  Manhasset  process  be 
preserved  and  encouraged.  We  cannot  overstress  the 
responsibility  of  all  the  parties.  We  have  made  an 
urgent appeal to the Secretary-General to participate in 
actions  to  remove  obstacles  to  the  negotiating  process 
and  to  bring  about  conditions  that  will  permit  the 
holding  of  the  fifth  round  of  the  process  as  soon  as 
possible, as required by the relevant resolutions of the 
Security Council. Algeria, for its part, will continue to 
assume  fully  the  role  dictated  by  its  status  as  a 
neighbourly country and an observer of the process. 

On the Middle East, Algeria is pleased to note the 
positive  developments  in  Lebanon  and  encourages  all 
parties  to  persevere  on  the  path  of  unity  and  national 
reconciliation.  It  is  obvious  that  the  Middle  East  will 
know no peace without a settlement of the Palestinian 
question,  which  is  at  the  core  of  the  Israeli-Arab 
conflict.  There  is  no  need  for  me  to  remind  the 
Assembly that the advent of a just, comprehensive and 
lasting peace in the Middle East will inevitably require 
restoring  to  the  Palestinian  people  their  national  and 
historic  rights,  including  their  right  to  an  independent 
State, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital, the  return 
of  refugees  and  the  restoration  of  all  the  other  Arab 
territories occupied by Israel. On that basis, we appeal 
to  the  international  community  to  fully  shoulder  its 
responsibilities  towards  the  Palestinian  people,  to 
support  their  just  cause  politically  and  to  step  up  its 
humanitarian assistance in order to ease their suffering.  

The  African  continent  has  been  experiencing 
profound  and  promising  changes.  Undeniably,  it  is  in 
the  field  of  peace  that  the  continent’s  achievements 
24 

08-53122 
the  Sudanese  people  can  benefit  from 


have  been  the  most  remarkable.  Thus,  the  African 
Union  and  other  regional  organizations  have  become 
respected  and  necessary  partners,  particularly 
in 
settling  African  crises.  Algeria 
preventing  and 
welcomes  these  positive  trends.  We  regret,  however, 
that  the  support  and  commitment  of  Africa’s  partners 
remain  below  the  agreed  objectives,  both  with  respect 
to  restoring  peace  and 
to  economic  and  social 
development programmes.  

We  believe  it  is  of  the  greatest  importance  to 
refrain  from  any  action  likely  to  thwart  current  peace 
efforts  or  to  undermine  the  unity,  territorial  integrity 
and  sovereignty  of  the  Sudan.  We  must  therefore 
mobilize  the  international  community  to  promote  the 
political process, which remains the only way to ensure 
that 
the 
restoration of peace and national reconciliation. In that 
regard,  we  reiterate  our  support  for  the  efforts  and 
proposals  of  the  League  of  Arab  States,  the  African 
Union, the Organization of the Islamic Conference and 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  calling  on  the  Security 
Council to freeze the decision of the Chief Prosecutor 
of the International Criminal Court and to promote and 
consolidate 
the  dynamics  of  peace  and  national 
reconciliation.  

in 
Zimbabwe,  Algeria  can  only  welcome  the  approach 
adopted by the African Union and the Southern African 
Development  Community  to  enable  the  people  of 
Zimbabwe to overcome their current difficulties.  

We are solidly behind Africa’s efforts to settle the 
Somali  crisis  by  means  of  unreserved  support  for  the 
political process and the dispatch of a peace mission to 
help  the  transitional  authorities  to  restore  peace  and 
security in the country.  

There is no way to overcome the dangers to peace 
and harmony in the world other than concerted efforts 
and  consultations  on  the  basis  of  a  renewed  equitable 
and  effective  multilateral  system 
the 
non-discriminatory  fulfilment  of  human  needs  and  the 
preservation  of  human  dignity  at  the  heart  of  its 
concerns. From that standpoint, the fight against all the 
ills that afflict large swathes of humankind — whether 
extreme  poverty,  endemic  disease,  environmental 
problems  or  clandestine  immigration  —  can  be  won 
only  if  we  all,  and  in  particular  the  developed 
countries, join our efforts. The two high-level meetings 
during this session, and others to be held over the next 
Similarly,  with 
the  situation 
that  places 
regard 
to 
A/63/PV.13
I, 
at 
initiative 
the  outset, 
few  months  will  undeniably  test  our  capacity  to 
respond  collectively  and  solidly  to  the  challenges  of 
our time. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Shaikh  Khalid  Bin  Ahmed 
Al-Khalifa, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Bahrain. 
Shaikh  Al-Khalifa  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

May 
convey  my  heartfelt 
congratulations  to  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-third 
session  and  assure  you  of  the  commitment  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Bahrain  and  its  delegation  to  working 
closely  with  you 
towards  achieving  our  shared 
objectives.  I  have  no  doubt  that  your  experience  and 
abilities will play a crucial role in ensuring the success 
of  this  session.  I  also  want  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Srgjan  Kerim,  for  his 
leadership  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  previous 
session  and 
to  express  our  continued  and  deep 
appreciation to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his 
ongoing,  unflinching  dedication  and 
in 
addressing  the  many  challenges  facing  the  United 
Nations and the world. 

These  General  Assembly  meetings  provide  a 
valuable  opportunity  for  all  of  us  in  the  international 
community  to  reflect  on  the  challenges,  problems  and 
issues  facing  us  all 
to  form  a  more 
comprehensive  view  of  the  issues,  to  understand  their 
causes,  be  it  through  success  or  failure,  and  to  work 
together  to  develop  a  shared  vision  of  the  future  and 
the tools necessary to achieve our aims and realize our 
vision. 

Today,  the  international  community  faces  many 
challenges  in  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs),  notably  those  related  to  energy,  the 
environment,  natural  disasters, 
shortages, 
education  and  the  financial  crisis  that  has  recently 
shaken the world. These challenges make achieving the 
MDGs difficult for many States, to a degree that affects 
their  economic  development  and  increases  the  rate  of 
poverty  in  them.  We  therefore  need  an  urgent  and 
effective response from the international community to 
deal with those pressing issues in order to achieve the 
MDGs.  Yet,  as  we  review  our  progress  to  date,  the 
global effort to achieve the Goals has been uneven, at 
best,  to  the  point  that  we  are  today  on  the  verge  of  a 
development emergency. 
in  order 
food 
08-53122 

25 

The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  welcomes 
A/63/PV.13 


the 
opportunities  provided  by  the  high-level  event  on  the 
MDGs, held on 25 September, and the high-level meeting 
on Africa’s development needs, held on 22 September, to 
renew the commitments of all States. 

In addressing these important issues, we must not 
lose  sight  of  the  impact  of  disasters,  both  natural  and 
man-made, in holding back progress towards achieving 
the  MDGs.  It  is  thus  imperative  that  States  integrate 
disaster  risk  reduction  into  their  development  plans. 
We  simply  cannot  afford  to  ignore  or  delay  these 
development  issues.  Nor  can  we  dismiss  them  as  soft 
issues, for if action is not taken soon, they will become 
real  threats  to  global  security  and  prosperity.  The 
Kingdom  of  Bahrain  therefore  fully  supports  the 
Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction 
and plans to host the launch of the report in May 2009. 

As we all know, the issue of climate change is of 
utmost  importance.  As  the  world  prepares  to  meet  to 
negotiate a successor to the Kyoto Protocol by the end 
of  2009,  global  demand  for  energy  is  rising  fast,  as 
populations  increase  and  some  developing  countries 
undergo  dramatic  economic  growth.  The  International 
Energy Agency  predicts  that  the  world’s  energy  needs 
could  increase  by  50  per  cent  by  2030.  We  therefore 
look forward to the meeting to be held in Poland later 
this  year  in  advance  of  the  United  Nations  Climate 
Change Conference to be held in Copenhagen in 2009. 
We  are  hopeful 
the 
importance  of  the  climate  change  issue  and  will 
commit 
the  overriding 
interests  of  the  future  of  our  planet  and  of  future 
generations.  Our  hope  is  that  a  comprehensive  and 
effective 
and 
implemented. 

The peaceful use of nuclear energy has become a 
preferred  option  for  many  countries,  and  here  the 
Kingdom  of  Bahrain  therefore  shares  the  concerns  of 
the 
future 
agreements  on  the  use  of  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes  must  be  made  within  a  strengthened  
non-proliferation  regime,  with  improved  safeguards 
and  an  expanded  verification  mechanism,  in  order  to 
ensure  that  our  peoples  are  not  put  at  risk.  Indeed,  a 
highlight of the twenty-eighth Supreme Council of the 
Gulf  Cooperation  Council,  held  last  December  in 
Doha,  was 
the  right  of 
countries of the region to seek nuclear expertise and to 
possess nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, in close 
that  all  sides  will  realize 
the  acknowledgment  of 
community.  Therefore, 
to  addressing 
international 
themselves 
agreement 
concluded 
can 
be 
that 
safe 
joint 
is  both 
introduce 
they  are  dealt  with 
cooperation  with  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency. 

Given  its  universal  impact  and  implications, 
energy and its various sources are in need of a holistic, 
global  approach,  yet 
in  a 
fragmented,  piecemeal  manner.  That  unsatisfactory 
situation  leads  us  to  suggest  the  establishment  of  a 
truly  comprehensive  energy  organization.  Such  an 
organization  would  bring  a 
international 
perspective  to  determining  the  role  and  usage  of 
hydrocarbons,  nuclear  power,  new  and  renewable 
energy  sources,  and  would 
innovative 
solutions  to  reduce  pollution  and  greenhouse  gas 
emissions.  Such  a  body  could  provide  accurate 
assessments  of  global  energy  demand  and  supply  and 
bring energy data under one roof. It would also provide 
any  objective  advice  that  might  be  required  on  an 
optimal 
energy  mix 
and 
environmentally sound. 

Having  spoken  of  energy  and  climate  change 
issues,  I  must  now  turn  to  the  food  security  crisis, 
which is a result of high food prices and which in 2007 
increased the number of hungry people in the world by 
about  50  million.  We  believe  that  the  solution  to  that 
crisis lies in working together to implement solutions, 
reducing  biofuel  production,  changing 
such  as 
consumption  habits  and 
in  sustainable 
agricultural methods. 

the 
international  financial  system  has  almost  resulted  in  a 
global  economic  catastrophe. That  shock  has  revealed 
the  weaknesses  and  fragility  of  the  current  financial 
system  and  its  propensity  for  rapid  and  widespread 
dislocation.  We  bear  the  historic  responsibility  to 
establish  transparent  new  regulations  based  on  the 
interests  of  all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
and to prepare a framework that can contain any future 
financial crisis. 

is 
The  fact 
fundamental  to  addressing  these  challenges,  as  no 
country  alone  can  resolve  such  issues  and  crises  or 
isolate 
the 
Secretary-General said in his opening statement, 
(spoke in English) 
that  multilateral  cooperation 
their  consequences.  As 
recently  affected 
The  shock 
that  has 
investing 
itself 
from 
is 
“Nations  can  no  longer  protect  their  interests  or 
advance  the  well-being  of  their  peoples  without 
26 

08-53122 


the  partnership  of  other  nations.”  (A/63/PV.5, 
p. 1). 
to 
and 
reform, 
reinvigorate 
renew  and 
(spoke in Arabic) 
The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  therefore  supports 

efforts 
the 
international  Organization  and  its  organs  to  be  more 
responsive to the needs of a new world. We agree with 
the view of the Secretary-General, set out in his annual 
report (A/63/1), that we need a stronger, more effective 
and more modern Organization. We look forward to the 
structural  reform  of  this  international  Organization  to 
enable  it  respond  more  effectively  to  the  challenges 
faced  by  the  international  community  and  to  increase 
its capacity to deal with such issues. 
We  must  make  every  effort  to  address  such 

shortcomings  as  threats  to  the  international  security 
system emanating from a wide range of external sources, 
including  extremists,  terrorists,  drug  traffickers,  money 
launderers  and  intellectual  property  pirates.  We  need  to 
develop  collective  security  arrangements  that  bring 
together our security efforts while ensuring respect for 
existing  borders  between  States 
avoiding 
encroachment on their sovereignty.  

On  the  issue  of  terrorism,  we  consider  terrorism 
to  have  many  faces  —  whether  in  the  form  of  the 
heinous crime perpetrated in Islamabad a few days ago 
that  led  to  the  deaths  of  scores  of  innocent  people,  or 
agitation and incitement from afar or a variety of other 
manifestations.  We  should  be  clear  and  decisive  in 
confronting terrorism in a comprehensive manner so as 
to  defeat  it  both  in  the  field  and  ideologically.  We 
believe  that  the  struggle  against  terrorism  is  a  battle 
that we should wage, united, if we are to get rid of its 
evil. 

The  Middle  East  faces  many  acute  issues  in 
desperate  need  of  settlement,  the  most  pressing  of 
which is the need for a just, comprehensive, lasting and 
peaceful  settlement  of  the  Palestinian  question  based 
on  ensuring  security  for  all  the  peoples  of  the  Middle 
East  region,  including  Israel.  Such  a  settlement  must 
take  place  within  the  framework  of  international 
legitimacy  and  the  relevant  terms  of  reference,  where 
the choice will be just peace, as called for in the Arab 
Peace Initiative.  

In  that  regard,  there  is  also  an  urgent  need  for  a 
peaceful  settlement  on  the  Syrian  track,  including 
withdrawal  from  the  occupied Arab  Syrian  Golan  and 
A/63/PV.13
referring 
the 
to 
either 
including 
through 
issue 
in  accordance  with 
the  remaining  Lebanese  territories.  It  also  requires  a 
halt to Israeli incursions into Lebanon, whose stability 
must  be  supported.  It  is  also  important  to  have  a 
resolution  of  the  issue  of  the  occupied  islands  of  the 
direct 
United  Arab  Emirates, 
negotiations  or  by 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice.  That  would  be  a 
significant  step  towards  strengthening  trust  between 
the countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council and Iran.  

The Gulf region, which is an integral part of the 
world  economy,  has  experienced  destructive  wars 
during  the  past  three  decades.  It  will  not  be  able  to 
endure  a  new  war,  due  to  the  severe  consequences  on 
the world economy. The Kingdom of Bahrain therefore 
reiterates its call for a peaceful solution to the Iranian 
nuclear  issue,  in  order  to  avoid  the  scourge  of  war  in 
the region and to enhance world peace and stability.  

Moreover,  there  is  an  urgent  need  to  rid  the 
Middle  East  and  the  Gulf  region  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction, 
nuclear  weapons,  while 
safeguarding the rights of all countries to the peaceful 
uses  of  nuclear  energy 
the 
comprehensive  safeguards  regime  of  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency. 

In  order  for  the  Middle  East  to  enjoy  stable  and 
lasting  peace,  it  is  incumbent  upon  us  to  re-evaluate 
our  outlook  on 
the 
possibility  of  developing  new  regional  frameworks  to 
address  and  overcome  long-standing  challenges.  Now 
is the time, for example, to consider the establishment 
of an organization that would include all States of the 
Middle  East,  without  exception,  to  discuss  long-
standing  issues  openly  and  frankly,  in  the  hope  of 
reaching  a  stable  and  durable  understanding  between 
all  parties.  As  Arabs,  we  accept  peace  as  a  strategic 
option.  We  are  committed  to  international  legitimacy, 
ending  old  conflicts  and  hostilities  and  beginning  a 
new  chapter  for  a  historic  rapprochement  between  the 
peoples  of  the  region  that  will  lead  towards  a  better 
future  characterized  by  understanding,  stability  and 
prosperity. 

Developments  in  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  in 
recent  years  have  been  characterized  by  dialogue  and 
understanding, a process inaugurated by our leader, His 
Majesty King Hamad bin Isa Al-Khalifa, as part of his 
extensive reform programme that aims at strengthening 
democracy,  political  reform  and  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  human  rights.  At  a  time  when  we  will 
the  region  and 
to  consider 
08-53122 

27 
A/63/PV.13 

soon  join  the  United  Nations  and  the  international 
community in commemorating the sixtieth anniversary 
of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  which 
laid  down  the  principles  and  values  of  freedom  and 
human  justice  for  modern  times,  Bahrain’s  election  to 
the Human Rights Council and the adoption at Geneva 
in  June  of  the  report  on  our  first  universal  periodic 
review  serve  to  clearly  illustrate  the  international 
community’s  recognition  of  Bahrain’s  efforts  in  the 
area of human rights. 

The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  will  continue  to  move 
forward  in  that  and  other  fields,  for  example,  by 
establishing Bahrain’s national human rights institution 
and  continuing  to  make  progress  in  the  political, 
economic  and  regulatory  spheres.  The  Kingdom  of 
Bahrain  will  not  hesitate  to  play  its  role  in  helping 
brotherly and friendly States and in sharing its success 
stories, which have helped provide a better life for our 
people. In that regard, His Highness Shaikh Khalifa bin 
Salman Al-Khalifa, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of 
Bahrain,  in  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations 
Human  Settlements  Programme,  has  sponsored  an 
award called the Shaikh Khalifa bin Salman Al-Khalifa 
Habitat  Award,  which  honours  distinguished  research 
that contributes to alleviating poverty and safeguarding 
the environment and recognizes the efforts of States to 
achieve  desired  economic  development.  His  Highness 
is  expected  to  present  the  award  this  year  during  the 
fourth session of the World Urban Forum, which is to 
be held in Nanjing, in the People’s Republic of China. 

the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  continues  to 
be its investment in modern education that is practical, 
relevant  and  of  high  quality  and  that  instils  critical 
thinking and creativity and encourages innovation and 
acceptance of the other. In that respect, I want to note 
that  Bahrain  has  been  able  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
the  area  of  education 
significantly  before  the  2015  deadline.  We  have  done 
so  by  providing  children  with  free  high-quality 
education  and  by  making  basic  education  for  all  a 
fundamental human right. 

In conclusion, the Kingdom of Bahrain, the “land 
of  immortality”  and  proud  host  of  many  civilizations, 
is  a  country  where  the  concepts  of  tolerance  and 
coexistence among all segments of society are central. 
Mosques  stand  alongside  churches  and  temples  of 
various  denominations,  and  people  enjoy  freedom  and 
religious  tolerance  irrespective  of  their  religion  or 
A  key  pillar  of  Bahrain’s  approach 
in 
to 

ethnicity.  Fraternal  values,  moderation  and 
the 
rejection of violence and terrorism are embedded in our 
culture, auguring a promising new era in the history of 
humankind.  

That is the Kingdom of Bahrain that is committed 
to  participating  fully,  along  with  the  rest  of  the 
international  community,  in  achieving  global  peace, 
stability and prosperity and to confronting current and 
future  challenges,  for  the  benefit  of  our  peoples  and 
future  generations.  That  is  a  task  the  international 
community  must  undertake  in  a  spirit  of  cooperation 
and  good  faith,  for  when  future  generations  evaluate 
our  actions  and  hold  us  to  account,  they  will  not 
forgive our mistakes and miscalculations. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Omar  A.  Touray,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Gambia. 
Mr.  Touray  (Gambia):  I  bring  to  everyone  here 

greetings  from  His  Excellency  Al  Hadji  Yahya  A.J.J. 
Jammeh, President and head of State of the Republic of 
the Gambia.  

The  legitimacy  of  multilateralism,  which  lies  at 
the  core  of  the  United  Nations  system,  is  being 
increasingly questioned. Yes, with the launching of the 
former  Secretary-General’s  report  “In  larger  freedom: 
towards  development,  security  and  human  rights  for 
all” (A/59/2005), a lot of reforms have taken place and 
are  still  taking  place.  However,  the  question  is,  “Is  it 
enough?” One of the unassailable conclusions reached 
in that report is that “no reform of the United Nations 
would  be  complete  without  reform  of  the  Security 
Council”  (A/59/2005, para. 169). We have established 
a  new  Human  Rights  Council  and  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission 
far-reaching 
management  reforms,  yet  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  is  still  being  unnecessarily  stalled  for  no 
justifiable  reason.  That  delay  constitutes  a  source  of 
frustration  for  the  citizens  of  this  world,  who  are 
increasingly  questioning 
legitimacy  of  our 
decisions.  The  world  is  watching  the  unsatisfactory 
status quo with dismay.  

In any event, the aspirations of the African people 
and  their  Governments  to  adequate  representation  on 
the  Council  cannot  be  ignored  because  they  are 
legitimate and justified. The suggestion that reforming 
the  Council’s  working  methods  alone  could  constitute 
sufficient reform is not accurate. 
and  have  undertaken 
the 
28 

08-53122 
the 
to  address 
them.  The 
for  Development 
the  global  crises.  We 



My  delegation  has  taken  note  of  the  High-level 
Panel’s report and the Secretary-General’s comment on 
United  Nations  system-wide  coherence,  as  well  as  the 
concept  paper  on  institutional  options  to  strengthen 
United  Nations  work  on  gender  equality  and  the 
empowerment  of  women.  My  delegation  aligns  itself 
with the position of the Group of 77 and China on that 
work in progress. 

Our  world  is  also  going  through  a  period  of 
crises,  ranging  from  the  food  crisis  and  the  energy 
crisis  to  the  collapse  of  financial  markets  and  the 
collapse  of  trade  talks.  There  is  no  country  on  Earth 
that is not affected by those crises. Too many repetitive 
high-level  meetings,  too  many  false  promises  and 
unfulfilled  commitments  continue  to  characterize  our 
efforts 
the 
developing world have received too many prescriptions 
international  community  and  we  have 
from 
fastidiously  followed 
irony,  however, 
remains that our partners are not fulfilling their side of 
the bargain in the way they should. It is our hope that 
the  upcoming  Follow-up  International  Conference  on 
Financing 
the 
Implementation  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus,  to  be 
held in Doha this November, will result in the reversal 
of that trend. 

We  are  asked  to  eliminate  subsidies  while  our 
partners in the North continue to give huge subsidies to 
their  farmers.  We  are  opening  up  our  markets  while 
they  continue  to  introduce  subtle  measures  including 
tariff and non-tariff barriers to deny us effective market 
access.  They 
overseas 
development  assistance,  but  turn  around  and  withhold 
the little that trickles in. When it trickles in, it becomes 
a media  event. That is no  way to end poverty. That is 
no way to end the food crisis. That is no way to end the 
energy  crisis.  Certainly,  that  is  no  way  to  address 
climate  change,  and  it  is  no  way  to  achieve  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 
Allow  me  to  share  some  thoughts  about  the 

global  food  crisis.  When  the  crisis  struck  earlier  this 
year,  no  economy  was  spared.  The  food  crisis  was 
predictable  because  the  international  community  over 
the  past  decade  has  neglected  agriculture  in  the 
developing  countries.  In  most  developing  countries, 
agricultural 
institutions 
collapsed,  largely  because  of  underfunding.  Research 
and  development  were  outsourced  to  multinational 
corporations.  Most  of  us  in  the  developing  world  saw 
to  Review 
research 
and 
training 
commit 
to 
doubling 
in 
A/63/PV.13
just 
to  adopt 
As  we  address 
the  collapse  of  our  agriculture  markets 
through 
competition from the heavily subsidized farmers of the 
developed world. World trade talks keep on failing, to 
the  detriment  of  poor  farmers  in  rural  Africa  and 
elsewhere in the developing world. 

Our response to the food crisis followed the usual 
pattern  of  convening  conferences  and  meetings  and 
adopting blueprints that merely heal the symptoms. We 
need more than that. How many times have we met in 
Rome  and  elsewhere 
the  same 
commitments  that  we  have  already  adopted  over  the 
years?  Our  farmers  need  agricultural  inputs,  such  as 
machinery  and  fertilizers,  to  enhance  their  production 
capacity. We  all  know  what  is  at  stake.  Let  us  honour 
our  commitments  in  order  not  to  repeat  the  dramatic 
events that stem from food shortages.  

the  food  crisis,  we  cannot 
underestimate the impact of skyrocketing energy costs 
on the incomes and livelihoods of our populations. Our 
economies are under enormous stress and our gains in 
economic growth and development are at risk of being 
completely  eroded.  We  appreciate  the  efforts  that  a 
number  of  energy-producing  countries  are  making  to 
ease the impact of the crisis on net importing countries. 
Our delegation believes, however, that sustained efforts 
should continue to be made to stabilize the oil market. 
Beyond  tackling  the  economic  crisis  that  is  impacting 
the world, we should also pay attention to the question 
of conflict resolution in various conflict areas. 

One  of  the  cornerstones  of  the  Gambia’s  foreign 
policy is the pursuit of peace and security. As a peace-
loving people, it is our constant desire to contribute to 
the search for lasting peace wherever there is conflict. 
It  is  for  those  reasons  that  the  Gambia  actively 
participates  in  peace  missions  and  promotes  good-
neighbourliness, friendship and cooperation throughout 
Africa and beyond.  

I  must  register  my  satisfaction  at  the  peace 
dividend  that  is  being  reaped  today  across  Africa 
thanks to the commitment of African leaders to finding 
solutions  to  African  conflicts.  We  are  witnessing  the 
resurgence  of  hope  in  Sierra  Leone  and  Liberia  after 
many years of consolidation of peace and security. It is 
my  delegation’s  fervent  hope  that  the  international 
community will not relent in extending to them all the 
financial, technical and material support they require to 
turn their societies around for the better. 
08-53122 

29 

to 
the 
threat 
table.  Regarding 
A/63/PV.13 

The Gambian delegation fully shares the agony of 

the  Somali  Government  and  people  over 
the 
breakdown  of  law  and  order  and  the  internal  conflict 
that  continues  to  plague  that  country.  In  that  regard,  I 
wish  to  salute  the  effort  that  the  Government  and  the 
people of Ethiopia, the neighbouring countries and the 
African Union are making in trying to bring peace and 
security to Somalia.  

It  is  the  strong  desire  of  my  delegation  to  see  a 
peaceful  settlement  of  the  conflict  in  Darfur.  As  a 
troop-contributing country to the African Union-United 
Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur, we humbly call on 
all  the  parties  to  iron  out  their  differences  at  the 
negotiating 
indict 
President Al-Bashir  of  the  Sudan,  the  Gambia  wishes 
to register its full support for the position taken on the 
matter by the African Union, the League of Arab States 
and the Non-Aligned Movement. 

The people of the Middle East are tired of living 
in  a  theatre  of  conflict.  The  Palestinian  conflict  has 
lingered  for  too  long  and  the  condition  of  ordinary 
Palestinians  continues 
to  deteriorate  even  after 
numerous  accords  and  promises.  General  Assembly 
resolutions,  Security  Council  resolutions  and  even  the 
recent  International  Court  of  Justice  advisory  opinion 
on  the  situation  are  not  being  implemented.  The 
Quartet  and 
seem 
helpless. We must ask ourselves: “How do we respond 
to  the  despair  and  lack  of  action  that  seem  to 
characterize the peace agenda of the United Nations in 
that  region?  When  will  the  two-State  solution  be 
achieved?”  Unless  we  do  something  to  break  the 
logjam  in  the  ongoing  negotiations,  lasting  peace  will 
remain elusive. 
Iraq and Afghanistan continue to roil in conflict. 

give 
international 
the 
The 
Governments  of 
to  make 
decisions that are in the best interests of their peoples.  

Allow  me  now  to  address  some  neglected  issues 
of  international  justice.  My  delegation  has  always 
addressed  the  question  of  Taiwan  in  this  Assembly 
from the point of view of justice, fairness and equality. 
Taiwan  is  a  stable  and  prosperous  democracy  that  is 
willing  and  able  to  take  part  in  the  work  that  the 
Organization  does.  How  can  one  justify  the  exclusion 
of  Taiwan  from  actively  participating  in  the  activities 
of  United  Nations  agencies?  Safeguarding  the  welfare 
of the 23 million Taiwanese through their participation 
international  community 
those  countries  space 
community  must 
the 
through 
technical 
countries 
Furthermore,  as 
the  activities  of 
the  world’s  eighth 
should be accepted under the principle of universality. 
For  example,  although  it  has  the  world’s  tenth  largest 
shipping  capacity, Taiwan  does  not  have  access  to  the 
International  Maritime  Organization.  That  adversely 
affects the progress of its shipping industry.  

largest 
economy and twentieth largest foreign investor, Taiwan 
possesses  significant  economic  strength  and  continues 
its  development  experiences  with  many 
to  share 
developing 
and 
humanitarian  assistance.  Taiwan  is  supporting  the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
and  other  internationally  agreed  development  goals.  I 
therefore  strongly  believe  that  we  should  all  agree  to 
let  Taiwan  participate 
the 
specialized  agencies  of  the  United  Nations.  That  is  a 
modest  request  that  my  delegation  fervently  hopes 
merits the Assembly’s objective consideration. 

The  perpetuation  of  the  unjust  extraterritorial 
economic embargo against Cuba has never made sense, 
does  not  make  sense  today  and  has  no  place  in  our 
community  of  nations.  Its  sole  objective  is  to  inflict 
unnecessary  harm  and  suffering  on  a  resolute  people. 
The  General  Assembly’s  persistent  calls  for 
its 
abolition have only met with indifference. At their hour 
of  need,  when  hurricanes  Ike  and  Gustav  inflicted 
massive  damage  on  the  country,  Cuba’s  humanitarian 
call  for  the  lifting  of  the  embargo  to  enable  it  to 
purchase necessary humanitarian supplies has met with 
nothing but a cold response. There is no room for such 
action  in  the  twenty-first  century.  The  embargo  must 
end. 

I would like to address a number of social issues 
that are very high on the global agenda. In Africa, we 
are  committed 
scourges  of 
HIV/AIDS,  tuberculosis,  malaria  and  other  infectious 
diseases.  Over  the  years,  African  Governments  have 
committed  substantial  resources 
those 
diseases. Yet,  our  health-care  delivery  systems  remain 
under  serious  stress  because  of  the  flight  of  trained 
professionals  to  more  advanced  countries.  That  is 
considered  to  be  positive  migration,  but  we  are  being 
devastated by it. I think some serious dialogue needs to 
begin between our countries and beneficiary States on 
how to get fair compensation for such huge losses. 

The  other  side  of  migration  is  what  some  call 
“illegal”  migration,  especially  from Africa  to  Europe. 
It  is  a  question  that  is  tied  to  the  problem  of  youth 
to  combating 
to  fighting 
in 
the 
30 

08-53122 
through 
to 
tackle 


unemployment  in  our  societies  and  to  the  broader 
question of development. Over the years, we have tried 
to address the migration conundrum at various forums, 
but  we  need  to  come  up  with  solutions  that  empower 
young  people 
job  creation,  skills  and 
vocational  training  programmes  in  order  to  stem  the 
tide.  Governments  must  manage  migration  humanely. 
The  human  rights  and  welfare  of  migrants  and  their 
families  should  be  upheld  by  all  societies.  My 
delegation would like to appeal to all  Governments to 
do more to stamp out the increasing rise of intolerance, 
xenophobia  and  racism  directed  against  migrants  and 
their families. 

Ours is a world of considerable opportunities and 
challenges. Let us collectively exploit the opportunities 
offered  by  our  globalized  world 
the 
challenges that face humankind. Together, we can do it. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on 

His  Highness  Sheikh Abdullah  Bin  Zayed Al  Nahyan, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  United  Arab 
Emirates. 
Sheikh  Al  Nahyan  (United  Arab  Emirates) 

(spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of  the  United  Arab 
Emirates,  I  have  the  pleasure  to  express  to  you, 
Mr. President, and to your friendly country our sincere 
congratulations  on  your  election  as  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-third  session.  I  would 
also like to thank your predecessor, Mr. Srgjan Kerim, 
for  successfully  guiding 
the 
previous session. I should also take this opportunity to 
express  my  gratitude  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-
moon  for  his  unceasing  efforts  to  strengthen  the 
Organization  and  re-energize  its  role  in  international 
affairs. 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  has  made  major 

progress  in  a  number  of  domestic  areas.  For  example, 
we have increased the representation of women in our 
executive  and 
including  by 
expanding  their  effective  participation  in  the  labour 
market.  We  are  developing  national  laws  on  the 
protection  of  and  respect  for  human  rights  and  are 
making  significant  efforts  to  improve  the  welfare  of 
those with special needs. Attempts are also under way 
to enact legislation to regulate foreign workers in order 
to  ensure  their  full  rights.  In  keeping  with  our 
commitments under relevant bilateral and international 
agreements,  we  are  also  increasing  our  efforts  to 
the  proceedings  of 
legislative  bodies, 
A/63/PV.13
city, 
combat  human  trafficking  and  to  provide  protection 
and all the necessary support for its victims. 

With regard to the environment, the United Arab 
Emirates  attaches  great  importance  to  environmental 
issues.  In  cooperation  with  the  Worldwide  Fund  for 
Nature,  we  have  launched  a  number  of  ambitious 
strategic  programmes,  such  as  the  development  of 
Masdar  City,  which  will  be  the  world’s  first  carbon- 
and  waste-free 
completely  dependent  on 
renewable and clean technologies such as solar energy, 
which will be used to generate power and desalinate of 
water. 

Foreign  aid  has  an  important  place  on  our 
national agenda. We have continued to provide various 
types of financial and humanitarian assistance to many 
countries  to  help  them  to  fund  their  development 
programmes  and  infrastructure  projects.  Directly  and 
through  our  membership  in  the  United  Nations  Office 
for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  Donor 
Support Group and our contributions to the specialized 
agencies  and  programmes  of  the  United  Nations,  we 
are  also  providing  assistance  to  those  who  have 
suffered from wars and natural disasters. 

In  order  to  alleviate  the  suffering  of  millions  of 
people as a result of rising food prices, my country has 
dispatched 2 million tons of wheat to Yemen, Syria and 
Egypt.  Also  as  part  of  our  foreign  aid,  we  have 
provided additional financial assistance to help several 
developing countries adjust to the phenomenal increase 
in their energy costs. 
In  that  regard,  we  would  like  to  express  our 

concern  about  the  repercussions  of  the  financial  crisis 
in  international  markets.  We  reiterate  that  this  matter 
urgently  calls  for  a  joint  international  mechanism  that 
will  contribute  to  the  establishment  of  strong  and 
transparent  rules  to  regulate  international  financial 
markets.  

The way in which development has taken place in 
the United Arab Emirates provides a vivid example of 
tolerance  and  coexistence.  We  hope  to  enrich  and 
strengthen  those  values  through  our  educational  and 
cultural  programmes,  for  we  strongly  believe  that 
interaction  between  different  nations  and  peoples  is 
both  of  fundamental  importance  and  an  essential 
prerequisite  for  the  achievement  of  stability,  welfare 
and prosperity in our region.  
08-53122 

31 

importance 
to 
the 
radically 
firm  position  demanding 
A/63/PV.13 

The  United  Arab  Emirates  therefore  attaches 

great 
restructuring  and 
modernizing  our  educational  system  to  align  it  with 
technological  and  educational  innovations  so  that  it 
meets  the  needs  and  requirements  of  our  development 
programmes. We also believe that providing education 
for all is one of the major and significant issues facing 
us. It is essential that we devote all our resources to it, 
for in education lies the hope that we can break the evil 
cycle  of  poverty  and  ignorance,  which  in  turn  lead  to 
the creation of a fertile environment in which terrorism 
and extremism can take root and grow. 

Iran’s  ongoing  occupation  since  1971  of  the 
United Arab Emirates’` three islands of Abu Musa and 
Greater  and  Lesser  Tunb  is  an  issue  of  central 
importance  to  us.  From  this  rostrum,  I  would  like  to 
reiterate  our 
full 
restoration  of  our  full  sovereignty  over  the  three 
occupied  islands  and  their  territorial  waters,  airspace, 
continental  shelf  and  exclusive  economic  zone.  The 
islands are part and parcel of our national sovereignty. 
We  reiterate  that  all  actions  and  measures,  whether 
military or administrative, undertaken by Iran since its 
occupation of the three islands are null and void. Iran’s 
actions  have  no  legal  effect.  We  therefore  renew  our 
call  to  the  international  community  to  urge  Iran  to 
respond positively to the sincere appeals of the United 
Arab  Emirates,  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  and  the 
League of Arab States by agreeing to resolve the issue 
through  committed  and  serious  direct  negotiations  or 
by  referring  the  dispute  to  the  International  Court  of 
Justice. 

We  strongly  believe  in  making  the  Middle  East, 
including the Arabian Gulf, a zone free from weapons 
of  mass  destruction.  That  would  require  compelling 
Israel  to  comply  with  United  Nations  resolutions  by 
bringing its nuclear facilities into compliance with the 
safeguards  regime  of  the  International Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA) and unconditionally signing the Treaty 
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, as other 
countries  of  the  region  have  done.  We  also  urge  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  to  continue  its  cooperation 
with  the  IAEA  and  the  international  community  in 
order  to  dispel  fears  and  suspicions  related  to  the 
nature  and  objectives  of  its  nuclear  programme.  We 
also  call  on  all  other  stakeholders 
to  commit 
themselves to continuing to address that issue through 
political  and  diplomatic  means  in  order  to  avoid 
escalation  and  achieve  a  peaceful  solution  that  can 
32 

ensure  stability  and  security  for  the  region  and  its 
peoples. 

Based on our firm belief in the right of countries 
to  develop  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes  in 
accordance  with  the  safeguards  regime  of  the  IAEA, 
the  United  Arab  Emirates  urges  developed  nations  to 
support  the  legitimate  needs  of  developing  countries 
for  access  to  nuclear  energy  by  providing  them  with 
the  best  possible  access  to  the  equipment,  nuclear 
materials  and  technological  and  scientific  know-how 
related to peaceful purposes. The United Arab Emirates 
believes  that  its  peaceful  nuclear  programme  provides 
a practical and responsible example of transparency in 
meeting  our  energy  needs,  while  at  the  same  time  we 
pledge  not  to  engage  in  enrichment  or  reprocessing, 
with the support of the organizations and institutions of 
some  friendly  countries  and  under  the  supervision  of 
the IAEA. 

On  another  front,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  has 
continuously  spared  no  effort  to  support  and  promote 
every  regional  and  international  effort  to  help  the 
Government of Iraq and its people. It is our hope that 
the  latest  initiatives  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates, 
including the write-off of more than $7 billion in debt 
and interest due and the re-opening of our embassy in 
Baghdad,  will  contribute 
to  promoting  economic 
development  and  strengthening  the  political  process. 
That will require the renunciation of all communal and 
sectarian  violence  and  full  commitment  to  the  unity, 
sovereignty and stability of Iraq, the preservation of its 
Arab  identity  and  the  rejection  of  any  attempts  to 
divide or fragment the country. 

With regard to the Middle  East, the United Arab 
Emirates has strongly supported the Palestinian-Israeli 
peace  process,  including  final  status  negotiations  and 
the  outcome  of  the  Annapolis  Conference.  In  that 
context,  we  would  like  to  express  our  concerns  about 
the  lack  of  earnest  in  Israel’s  attitude  towards  those 
negotiations.  We  call  on  the  international  community, 
and in particular the Security Council and the members 
of  the  Quartet,  to  press  Israel  to  lift  the  siege  it  has 
imposed  on  the  Palestinian  people  and  to  implement 
international  resolutions  related  to  freezing  all  of  its 
illegal 
settlement  activity,  dismantling  unlawful 
settlements and ending its occupation of all Palestinian 
and Arab territories occupied since 1967, including the 
holy  city  of  Jerusalem,  the  Golan  Heights  and  some 
Lebanese  territories.  Ending  the  occupation  would 
bring Israel into compliance with relevant international 
08-53122 
that 
I  hope 
forms  and  manifestations, 


resolutions, the road map and the Arab peace initiative. 
It  would  also  ensure 
the  establishment  of  an 
independent  Palestinian  State  with  Jerusalem  as  its 
capital, as well as Israel’s security. 

My  country  has  cooperated  effectively  and 
consistently with every effort to combat terrorism in all 
its 
including  money-
laundering. We  shall  continue  to  do  so  in  order  to  rid 
the  world  of  that  scourge  and  its  causes. At  the  same 
time,  we  re-emphasize  our  support  for  all  activities  to 
promote dialogue among civilizations and enhance the 
spirit of tolerance among all faiths. 

In closing, I would like to stress the need for full 
compliance with the Charter of the United Nations and 
international  law  in  meeting  the  daunting  challenges 
ahead. 
this  session  will  produce 
international  consensus  on  how  to  address  those 
challenges for the benefit of humankind.  
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Lazǎr  Comǎnescu,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Romania.  
Mr.  Comǎnescu  (Romania)  (spoke  in  French): 

Romania fully associates itself with the statement made 
on behalf of the European Union by President Nicolas 
Sarkozy.  I  should  simply  like  to  make  a  few  remarks 
with  regard  to  issues  of  particular  interest  to  my 
Government.  I  should  like  to  frame  my  statement 
around two words: responsibility and solidarity. 

The basic purpose of the high-level meeting that 
took place on 25 September was to review the progress 
made 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  evaluate  the  feasibility  of 
achieving  them.  It  was  a  matter  not  of  whether  they 
were  appropriate  or  reasonable,  which  they  obviously 
are,  but 
the  viability  of 
implementing them in the face of new challenges. The 
conclusion  was  that  international  cooperation  and 
determination  could  provide  a  solution,  provided  that 
responsibilities were met and solidarity forthcoming. In 
doing so, we would be making the idea of community 
concrete. 

With  regard  to  climate  change,  the  world  energy 
crisis and food security, I should simply like to say that 
the  vulnerability  of  nature  is  inevitably  linked  to  our 
increased 
the 
climate  —  sometimes  irreversibly  —  through  the 
cumulative  effects  of  human  activity;  hence  the  moral 
rather  of  determining 
technological  capacity 
implementation  of 
influence 
the 
in 
to 
A/63/PV.13
to 
it  with 
individually 
find  solutions 
the  necessary  means 
to  make  significant  progress.  It 
imperative  of  responsibility  to  the  future.  We  cannot 
separately  or 
the 
problems 
in  particular  global 
that  affect  us  all, 
warming and the energy crisis. 

In the face of all those interconnected challenges, 
it  is  our  responsibility  to  better  equip  the  United 
Nations  with 
to  coordinate 
effective joint efforts. The revitalization of the General 
Assembly,  system-wide  coherence,  Security  Council 
reform and, not least, the reform of the Department of 
Political  Affairs  are  all  areas  in  which  we  have  a 
responsibility 
is 
encouraging  that  there  has  been  an  effort  to  find 
common denominators in many projects and initiatives. 

Any  reform  of  the  Security  Council  must  take 
into  account  the  legitimate  aspirations  of  the  regional 
groups,  with  the  ultimate  goal  of  ensuring  a  more 
representative,  legitimate,  transparent  and  effective 
Council. 
If we expect results from the United Nations, we 

the  appropriate  resources. 
must  provide 
the  Department  of 
Following 
the 
is  only 
to 
Peacekeeping  Operations, 
strengthen 
analysis,  political 
capacity 
mediation,  foresight  and  preventive  diplomacy  of  the 
Department  of  Political  Affairs.  My  country  is  ready 
once  again  support  the  initiative  for  institutional 
consolidation,  in  particular  as  regards  a  European 
regional office charged with expanding its reach to the 
Western Balkans and the Black Sea region.  
United  Nations  regional  political  offices  could 

also  increase  their  cooperation  with  regional  and 
subregional  organizations,  whose  resources  should  be 
in  synergy  with  those  of  the  global  Organization. The 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations,  the  African 
Union  and  other  subregional  organizations  during  the 
recent  crises  in  the  Darfur  region  of  the  Sudan,  in 
Kenya and in Zimbabwe are all encouraging examples. 
We also welcome the ongoing cooperation between the 
United Nations and the International Organization of la 
Francophonie. 

I  should  now  like  to  say  a  few  words  on 
democratization.  Romania  welcomes  the  substantial 
expansion  and  improvement  of  cooperation  in  the 
Conference  of  New  or  Restored  Democracies, 
including  the  unprecedented  efforts  of  Qatar  in  that 
regard.  
reform  of 
it 
for 
logical 
the 
08-53122 

33 

set  out 
the  natural  propensity  of  States 
The  current  challenges  should  give  rise 
A/63/PV.13 


to 
renewed  international  cooperation.  The  network  of 
democratic solidarity that provides support to countries 
emerging  from  conflict  or  from  autocratic  regimes  is 
founded  on  a  philosophy  of  freedom  that  repudiates 
threats  from  international  terrorism  or  radicalism, 
which  have  developed  their  own  network  as  a  sort  of 
parallel  globalization  based  on  fear.  However,  the 
international  network  of  cooperation  should  not  have 
anxiety and fragility as its common denominators, but 
instead 
and 
organizations that share the same values, principles and 
objectives,  namely,  freedom  and  respect  for  the  law 
and the dignity of the human being. Allow me to recall 
that,  on  Romania’s  initiative,  in  2000  the  General 
Assembly adopted its comprehensive resolution 55/96, 
which 
the  defining  characteristics  of 
democracy. 
(spoke in English) 

Peacekeeping  missions  remain  the  backbone  of 
the  international  role  of  the  United  Nations.  Post-
conflict  normalization  and  rebuilding  should  be  an 
integral  part  of  the  international  strategy  to  deal  with 
potential  breaches  of  peace  or 
the  reignition  of 
conflicts.  My  country  acknowledges  and  praises  the 
endeavours  of  United  Nations  personnel  in  Kenya, 
Iraq, Myanmar, northern Uganda, Somalia, Cyprus, the 
Central African Republic and Nepal. 

The  progress  made  in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan 
should  trigger  renewed  solidarity  with  the  peoples  of 
those  countries.  The  efforts  of 
international 
community  to  stabilize  and  ensure  the  success  of  the 
ongoing  deep  transformations  in  Iraq  and Afghanistan 
should be matched by renewed commitment on the part 
of  the  Iraqi  and  Afghan  political  leadership  to  reach 
compromises  and  comprehensive  agreements  allowing 
for political reconciliation and economic development. 

Romania  remains  committed  to  the  democratic 
future of both countries. Romania was first among the 
countries  that  are  not  members  of  the  Paris  Club  to 
agree, in 2005, to the terms of debt relief for Iraq. The 
NATO summit held this year in Bucharest reconfirmed 
solidarity  and  engagement  with  Afghanistan.  Any 
security  agreements  to  complement  or  replace  the 
current security arrangements in Iraq have to take into 
account  the  need  to  ensure  the  protection  of  United 
Nations  personnel  in  order  that  the  United  Nations 
Assistance  Mission  for  Iraq  and  the  Organization’s 
the 
Iraqi 
individual 
tragedies 
recognized 
the  Office  of 
refugees,  5  million 
specialized  agencies,  funds  and  programmes  can 
properly fulfil their extended mandates in Iraq. 

I  should  now  like  to  say  a  few  words  about  the 
Human  Rights  Council.  Romania  has  encouraging 
expectations following the start of the activities of the 
Council’s  Universal  Periodic  Review  mechanism. 
Under the Romanian presidency, the Council examined 
32 national reports, including my country’s own report. 
The  debates  generated  valuable  recommendations  and 
entailed  remarkable  commitments  with  regard  to  the 
universal  application  of 
international 
standards for human rights and fundamental freedoms. 
We  should  not  weaken  our  support  for  the  Human 
Rights  Council  or  for 
the  High 
Commissioner. 

The  widespread  impact  of  humanitarian  crises 
resulting  from  conflicts  and  natural  disasters  requires, 
again and again, our solidarity with the people in need. 
The  tragedy  of  7  million  Sudanese,  almost  5  million 
Palestinian 
internally 
displaced  persons  and  refugees,  3  million  Afghan 
refugees  and  1.4  million  Congolese  and  1  million 
Somali  internally  displaced  persons  should  catalyse 
concrete  actions  of  assistance.  The  recent  Georgian 
crisis  also  added  to  the  international  statistics  on 
internally displaced persons and refugees. Yet, numbers 
as  such  should  not  obscure  in  our  conscience  the 
terrible 
these 
humanitarian catastrophes. 

Aware  of  that  plight,  Romania  is  preparing  to 
host  a  special  evacuation  transit  centre  for  persons  in 
urgent  need  of  international  protection  and  onward 
resettlement.  The  centre  would  provide  temporary 
shelter  for  refugees  facing  immediate  danger  in  their 
countries  of  origin,  pending  final  resettlement  in  third 
countries. 

The  appalling  humanitarian  crises  of  recent 
decades should prompt a renewed effort to define ways 
to prevent and adequately react to such situations and, 
furthermore,  to  rebuild  for  durable  conflict  resolution. 
Further  efforts  should  be  made  to  forge  a  common 
understanding of the conditions and application of the 
principle of the responsibility to protect.  

international 
promotes 
cooperation  in  the  areas  of  crime  prevention  and 
believes that prosecutorial services represent one of the 
main pillars of the criminal justice system. My country 
is  preparing  to  host,  in  March  2009,  the  third  world 
implied  by 
resolutely 
Romania 
34 

08-53122 
the 
forward 
to  welcoming 


summit  of  attorneys  general,  prosecutors  general  and 
chief prosecutors. The meeting is to be organized with 
the support of the United Nations Office on Drugs and 
Crime  and  will  focus  on  prosecutorial  independence 
for  effectiveness,  integrity  and  public  confidence.  We 
look 
international 
community’s representatives in Bucharest next spring. 

Allow  me  now  to  turn  to  the  issue  of  protracted 
conflicts.  It  has  always  been  striking  to  hear  the 
recurrent  references  to  frozen  conflicts.  Let  us  be 
honest:  no  conflict  stays  frozen  indefinitely  without 
consequences. The recent crisis in Georgia proved that 
the  international  community  cannot  hide  or  shy  away 
from  dealing  with  uncertain  situations  under  the 
assumption that they will simply disappear eventually. 
On  the  contrary,  uncertain  situations  and  grey  zones 
gradually  produce  effects,  effect  changes  in  the  status 
quo and can, from apparent tranquillity, spew forth the 
magma of delayed — and thus amplified — conflicts. 
A dormant volcano can still be an active one. Unsolved 
issues  carrying  latent  threats  are  not  socially  or 
politically  neutral,  since  they  generate  new  realities 
and risks to stability and security. 

Deferring the solution of a crisis is not a suitable 
answer. Only a negotiated formula, with the support of 
bona  fide  international  and  regional  mediation  and 
long-term  and  enduring 
assistance,  can  provide 
solutions.  The  crisis 
its 
reverberations  in  Abkhazia  and  the  entire  State  of 
Georgia  and  beyond,  should  focus  the  attention  of  the 
international  community  on  all  protracted  conflicts  in 
the  area, 
including  Transdniestria  and  Nagorny 
Karabakh. 

to  have  a  new  energetic  and 
comprehensive  approach  to  the  so-called  protracted 
conflicts. It is time to jointly understand the danger and 
take  action.  The  United  Nations  and  its  Security 
Council should play their parts and accordingly assume 
their  responsibility.  Hesitation  is  not  helping.  Full 
observance of all principles and norms of international 
law,  including  the  territorial  integrity  of  States,  is  a 
must  for  all  of  us  if  we  want  peace,  security,  stability 
and prosperity to prevail. 

One  of  the  main  objectives  of  the  international 
community should be to consolidate stabilization and a 
democratic  future  across  the  entire  Black  Sea  region. 
Romania  promotes  a  wide  range  of  cooperation  ideas 
in the Black Sea area. If we take a closer look, we can 
in  South  Ossetia,  with 
We  have 
A/63/PV.13
related 
to  cooperate 
to  pollution, 
the  necessary 
see a region with a large population, an important hub 
for  energy  and  transport  flows  and  great  economic 
potential. The United Nations should be there to assist 
the region, not only in unfreezing conflicts but also in 
helping  coastal  countries 
to  solve 
problems 
illegal  migration, 
organized  crime  and  drug  trafficking,  so  as  to  project 
stability and to support development. 

I now turn to disarmament, non-proliferation and 
the  fight  against  terrorism.  I  should  like  to  underline 
that  responsibility  and  solidarity  are  also  basic  pillars 
of the international norms in that regard. That leads me 
to  say,  as  many  before  me  have  done,  that  statements 
such as the one made a few days ago in the Assembly 
about Israel are unacceptable. 

First,  every  State  has  an  essential  responsibility 
to  effectively  and  comprehensively  implement  its 
commitments  by  promoting 
legal 
framework  and  establishing  appropriate  mechanisms 
for verification and control. 

Secondly,  there  is  a  need  for  solidarity  and 
cooperation  at  the  regional  and  multilateral  levels  so 
that  national  measures  and  actions  are  recognized  and 
implemented.  Romania  has  always  demonstrated  its 
interest  and  readiness  to  work  together  with  all  States 
that 
members  of 
respect.  The  most  recent  proof  of 
the 
contribution  of  my  country 
the  seven-nation 
initiative on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation 
launched  by  Norway  in  2005.  Concrete  examples  of 
our  involvement  include  the  international  seminar  on 
how  the  Black  Sea  region  can  contribute  to  improved 
global security, which was hosted in Bucharest in 2007, 
and  other  activities  aimed  at  promoting  the  objectives 
of that cross-regional initiative. 
(spoke in French) 

Allow  me  to  conclude  by  calling  for  effective 
multilateralism  and  the  strengthening  of  the  United 
Nations. After all, some questioned the relevance of the 
United  Nations  after  the  end  of  the  cold  war.  The 
Organization  has  never 
for  criticism  or 
scepticism.  We  do  not  believe  the  issue  to  be  one  of 
trying  to  regain  a  sense  of  lost  purpose.  The  United 
Nations  continues 
the  broadest  and  most 
inclusive  Organization  in  the  world  and  enjoys  a 
special  reputation  and  legitimacy. The  United  Nations 
provides  a  forum  for  all  Member  States  —  large  or 
international  community 
that 
in 
is 
lacked 
to  be 
the 
to 
08-53122 

35 

it 
to 
and 
to  carry  out  our 
through  multilateralism 
A/63/PV.13 

small, rich or poor, developed or developing — to have 
their voices heard and heeded.  

Instead,  the  question  for  all  Member  States  is 
how to make the world Organization and its specialized 
agencies,  funds  and  programmes  more  effective, 
responsible  and  coherent  in  the  face  of  new  and 
ongoing challenges. If the moral imperative that should 
lead  us 
responsibilities  and 
demonstrate solidarity in order to advance the cause of 
humankind is not enough, then what we need is to look 
towards  the  pragmatic  aspect,  namely,  the  utility  and 
sense  implied  in  the  fact  that  the  world’s  well-being 
contributes to the well-being of our own countries and 
citizens. 

History is a good teacher, provided we learn from 
its lessons. History shows us the virtues of joint efforts 
and  the  benefits  of  cooperation.  We  are  still  far  from 
the  Kantian  dream  of  a  stable  world  order  that  is 
democratic  and  prosperous.  But  we  can  move  ever 
closer 
the 
strengthening of the United Nations. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on 

Her  Excellency  Ms.  Aïchatou  Mindaoudou,  Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs,  Cooperation 
and  African 
Integration of the Niger. 
Ms.  Mindaoudou  (Niger)  (spoke  in  French): At 

the  outset,  Sir,  I  should  like  to  warmly  congratulate 
you  on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-third  session,  which  undeniably 
reflects 
international 
community has for your country of Nicaragua, which is 
a  friend  of  Niger.  Your  election  is  also  the  well-
deserved  culmination  of  an  exemplary  diplomatic  and 
political  career.  The  length  and  breadth  of  your 
experience makes you the right person to carry out the 
demanding and noble task entrusted to you. Allow me 
to  assure  you  of  my  delegation’s  commitment  to 
extending to you our constant support during your time 
in office. Niger is particularly honoured to be working 
side  by  side  with  you  as  a  Vice-President  of  the 
Assembly for the sixty-third session. 

May  I  also  pay  tribute  to  your  predecessor, 
Mr. Srgjan Kerim, for the exemplary manner in which 
he  led  the  sixty-second  session  and,  in  particular,  for 
having  grappled  with  the  burning  issues  of  the  day, 
including  the  food  and  energy  crises  and  climate 
change.  With  regard  to  His  Excellency  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon, I should like to express our full 
the  high  esteem 
that 
the 
for 
the 
and 
unified 
progress 
respond, 
significant 
The  Government  of  Niger  would 
appreciation 
on 
fundamental issues made by the Organization under his 
guidance.  

The  subject  you  have  chosen,  Mr.  President,  as 
the  central  theme  of  the  general  debate  during  this 
session  is  highly  relevant.  For  several  months  and  to 
varying  degrees,  all  members  of  the  international 
community  have  been  affected  by  the  overall  rise  in 
food  prices.  That  crisis  has  gripped  the  attention  of 
every  international  body.  Mr.  Olivier  de  Schutter, 
Special  Rapporteur  on  the  right  to  food,  was  far-
sighted in sounding an alarm during a press conference 
held here at the United Nations in which he identified 
the initial structural causes and called for international 
action.  Aware  of  the  urgency  of  the  situation,  the 
Secretary-General set up the High-Level Task Force on 
the  Global  Food  Security  Crisis  in  order  to  provide  a 
comprehensive 
support 
Governments  and  peoples  affected  and  adopt  a 
Comprehensive  Framework  for  Action  to  meet  the 
challenges.  

to 
congratulate  the  Secretary-General  on  his  initiatives. 
We  would  also  like  to  warmly  congratulate  his  Task 
Force  for  their  work  and  for  taking  into  consideration 
the  numerous  efforts  and  views  on  this  issue.  The 
challenge now is to implement the recommendations in 
order  to  save  entire  groups  of  people  in  the  world’s 
most vulnerable countries from the tragedy of hunger. 

For  its  part,  Niger  has  taken  major  specific 
measures to address the sharp rise in the cost of basic 
foodstuffs in order to mitigate the effects on the living 
conditions of the most vulnerable people. 
However,  in  a  country  facing  the  recurrent 

for 
problem  of  drought  and 
agricultural  production,  the  truth  is  that  only  lasting 
solutions  will  help  us  to  counter  the  effects  of  the 
phenomenon  and 
the 
uncertainty 
that  characterizes  Niger’s  production 
system.  

The  Government  of  Niger  has  therefore  decided 
to give priority to the three programmes introduced at 
the  Doha  Conference  on  Consolidating  Food  Self-
sufficiency  in  Niger,  which  was  held  in  June  2007. 
Those  programmes  are  all  the  more  promising  given 
the  potential  boon  to  agriculture  as  a  result  of  the 
upcoming  construction  of  the  Khandaji  dam  on  the 
its 
Niger  River.  The  Government  will  develop 
to  progressively  eliminate 
its  consequences 
like 
36 

08-53122 
is 
the 
The 
international 
financial  crisis,  which 


approach  on  the  basis  of  that  project  and  those 
programmes so as to provide credible response to meet 
the food needs of the people of Niger. 
is 

affecting  many  countries  and 
today  being 
exacerbated by the globalization of the world in which 
we  live,  requires  that  we  harness  our  efforts  and 
initiatives  to  find  solutions  requiring  commitment  on 
the part of us all. While rich countries fear the risk of 
widespread  economic  recession,  the  poorest  countries 
fear  food  insecurity  caused  by  prices  they  can  no 
longer  afford.  Paradoxically,  when  it  comes  to  the 
financial  crisis  and 
the  consequences  of  climate 
change, it is the poorest countries that always pay most 
dearly  for  the  turbulence  affecting  the  globalized 
world. My delegation therefore supports the proposals 
made  by  President  Nicolas  Sarkozy  of  France,  which 
were previously espoused by President Lula da Silva of 
Brazil,  calling  on  the  international  community  to  deal 
urgently with the issue.  

We  also  hold  out  hope  that  the  upcoming  Doha 
Follow-up  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development  will  produce  results  that  include  safety 
net  measures  to  protect  the  poorest  countries  from 
external 
their 
vulnerabilities.  

Although the food, energy and financial crises are 
front  and  centre  on  the  international  stage,  there  are 
also  other 
international 
community in the areas of peace, security, development 
and  human 
among  others.  We  must 
acknowledge  the  fact  that  international  peace  and 
security  has  been  as  sorely  tested  by  conflicts  as  by 
other  scourges  that  are  equally  devastating  to  the 
harmonious  development  of  peoples  and  countries 
throughout 
include 
international terrorism, drug trafficking and the illegal 
trade in small arms.  

Niger is especially concerned about the impact of 
trafficking in drugs and weapons; and especially mines, 
throughout  the  Sahelo-Saharan  strip.  The  actions  of 
certain  armed  groups  are  the  true  cause  of  the  unrest 
prevailing  in  the  northern  part  of  our  territory.  Their 
activities are  increasingly  being brought under control 
thanks to steps taken by the relevant institutions of our 
country.  We  therefore  believe  that  there  is  a  need  for 
increased  willingness  and  cooperation  in  this  area, 
similar  to  that  demonstrated  in  connection  with  the 
the  world.  Those 
challenges 
compound 
scourges 
shocks 
rights, 
facing 
could 
that 
A/63/PV.13
the 
from 
recently 
inscribed  on 
the  agenda  of 
We  also  welcome 
Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  that  we  adopted  in 
2006.  While  we  acknowledge  that  some  progress  has 
been  made,  we  must  also  say  that  further  efforts  and 
commitments  are  needed 
international 
community  in  supporting  countries  in  conflict  or 
emerging from it. 

It is important that we support the progress made 
in  countries  where,  happily,  peace  is  becoming  more 
entrenched,  including  Liberia,  Sierra  Leone,  Burundi, 
Guinea-Bissau and the Central African Republic, which 
was 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission. We  welcome  in  particular 
the resumption of the national peace and reconciliation 
process  in  Côte  d’Ivoire  following  the  invaluable 
impetus  provided  by  the  Ouagadougou  Agreement  in 
2007.  In  that  regard,  my  country  congratulates  and 
encourages all Ivorian politicians on their commitment 
to  peace.  We  hope  that,  with  the  support  of  their 
partners, whose invaluable contributions my delegation 
also  commends,  the  national  peace  and  reconciliation 
process will culminate in the holding of the upcoming 
presidential elections.  

the 
Manhasset  cycle  of  negotiations  as  a  useful  and 
necessary  step  in  the  search  for  a  mutually  acceptable 
and lasting solution to the issue of Western Sahara. 

With  regard  to  the  Great  Lakes  region,  my 
delegation  welcomes  the  entry  into  force,  on  21  June 
2008,  on 
the  Pact  on  Security,  Stability  and 
Development  in  the  Great  Lakes  Region.  We  believe 
that this instrument will enable States parties to address 
the  underlying  causes  of  conflict  and  to  address  the 
challenges 
the  areas  of  security, 
governance and development. We also believe that the 
Pact  is  part  and  parcel  of  the  new  vision  for  the 
settlement  of  conflicts  in  Africa,  perfect  examples  of 
which  have 
just  been  provided  by  Nigeria  and 
Cameroon  with  the  resolution  of  the  issue  of  the 
Bakassi  peninsula,  and  by  Gabon  and  Equatorial 
Guinea  with  the  agreement  on  a  mediation  process  in 
connection with their territorial dispute. 

Nevertheless,  conflicts  persist  in  Africa  and  the 
Middle  East  that  require  appropriate  involvement  by 
the 
the 
situation  in  the  Sudan,  my  delegation  welcomes  the 
appointment  Mr.  Djibril  Yipènè  Bassolé,  former 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Burkina  Faso,  as  the 
Joint African Union-United Nations Chief Mediator for 
international  community.  With  regard 
resumption  of 
they 
face 
the 
in 
to 
08-53122 

37 

regard 
to 
With 
to  Somalia,  we  welcome 
A/63/PV.13 

Darfur.  We  are  certain  that  Mr.  Bassolé  will  provide 
new  momentum  and  help  to  improve  the  situation  in 
that  brotherly  country  by,  among  other 
things, 
facilitating  the  implementation  of  the  Comprehensive 
Peace Agreement, signed in January 2006 between the 
Government  of  the  Sudan  and  the  Sudan  People’s 
Liberation  Movement/Army  with 
the 
Southern  Sudan,  and  by  helping  to  find  an  acceptable 
solution for Darfur. 

the 
regard 
agreement  signed  on  9  June  in  Djibouti  between  the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  and  the Alliance  for 
the  Re-Liberation  of  Somalia.  We  urge  the  United 
Nations  to  do  everything  possible  to  support  those 
countries, both by more effectively backing the African 
Union  Mission  in  Somalia  and  by  deploying  an 
international peacebuilding or peacekeeping force. 

The  bilateral  negotiations  between  Israelis  and 
Palestinians  that  have  begun  in  the  context  of  the 
commitments  undertaken  at  the Annapolis  Conference 
are a genuine source of satisfaction for my delegation. 
We  believe  that  the  parties  should  take  advantage  of 
those  negotiations.  We  therefore  encourage  them  to 
maintain the momentum of Annapolis, which reflected 
the  willingness  of  the  parties  concerned  to  make 
progress 
to 
welcome  the  recent  initiative  of  President  Nicolas 
Sarkozy  of  France 
the  Euro-
Mediterranean  Conference.  We  fervently  hope  that  all 
those measures will make it possible to reach a speedy 
agreement  that  enshrines  the  vision  of  the  two-State 
solution  of  Palestine  and  Israel  living  side  by  side  in 
peace  and  security  within  internationally  recognized 
borders and on the basis of the relevant resolutions of 
the Security Council, the Arab peace initiative and the 
Quartet’s road map. 

We  welcome  the  Doha  agreement  on  Lebanon, 
which confirmed the virtue of dialogue and cleared the 
path 
the 
establishment  of  a  Government.  The  international 
community  should  support  the  Lebanese  people  who, 
through 
their 
political maturity and ongoing desire for national unity. 

The  various  peace  processes  now  underway  will 
not be successful unless confidence-building measures 
are  first  put  in  place.  In  that  regard,  there  is  a  crucial 
need  to  find  solutions  to  the  issues  of  disarmament, 
non-proliferation  and  the  eradication  of  the  trade  in 
for  speedy  presidential  elections  and 
that  agreement,  have  demonstrated 
towards  peace.  We  should  also 
like 
in 
the  context  of 
threats.  As 
small  arms.  That  is  especially  true  for  the  poorest 
countries, who pay a heavy price in conflicts sustained 
by  the  trade  in  small  arms  and  light  weapons.  My 
delegation  therefore  deplores  the  failure  at  the  past 
session of the Disarmament Commission, another in  a 
series due to the lack of consensus on the agenda. 

As  we  have  seen,  the  challenges  in  the  area  of 
international  peace  and  security  are  numerous  and 
complex.  Unfortunately,  for  some  of  us  they  are 
accentuated  by  other  serious,  recurring  and  even 
chronic 
the  2005  World  Summit 
acknowledged in its Outcome Document, those threats, 
which also have an effect on development, are closely 
linked  to  other  areas  in  which  the  United  Nations  is 
active, namely, peace, security and human rights.  

We therefore believe that the year 2008 is critical, 
given  that  it  is  replete  with  major  events  that  could 
contribute to  development. I  am referring to the Doha 
Round  of  trade  negotiations,  which  are  at  a  standstill 
today;  the  high-level  event  on  the  implementation  of 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) midpoint 
to  the  target  date  for  their  implementation,  the Accra 
High-Level  Forum  on  Aid  Effectiveness;  and  the 
Review  Conference  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus  on 
financing for development.  

In  the  quest  for  global  well-being,  Africa  and 
countries  in  special  circumstances  —  especially  least 
developed  countries,  landlocked  developing  countries 
and  small  island  States  —  deserve  focused  attention 
commensurate  with  their  situation.  My  delegation 
would  like  to  pay  homage  to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon for his personal commitment and unwavering 
support for initiatives in that regard intended to benefit 
Africa.  Following  the  G8  Summit  at  Heiligendamm, 
the  Secretary-General  established  the  Africa  Steering 
Group  to  monitor  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs  in 
Africa.  With  the  support  of  a  working  group,  the 
Steering  Group  is  responsible  for  finding  ways  to 
coordinate  and  rationalize  efforts  associated  with 
technical and financial assistance in order to speed up 
Africa’s  progress.  That  initiative  is  very  timely  for  a 
country  like  Niger,  whose  strategy  to  reduce  poverty 
and  speed  up  development  for  the  period  2009-2012 
focuses  precisely  on  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs. 
Moreover,  the  various  efforts  of  the  Government  in 
recent  years  in  the  areas  of  health,  education  and 
access  to  water  have  already  led  to  a  significant 
improvement in the relevant indicators. 
38 

08-53122 



The recommendations of the Steering Group and 
the conclusions of the recent high-level meeting on the 
MDGs,  jointly  organized  by  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly and the Secretary-General, provide a 
very clear course of action for making progress.  

Sustainable development is the main theme of the 
Economic  and  Social  Council’s  2008  substantive 
session. The current debate has clearly shown that such 
development  cannot  be  achieved  without  appropriate 
funding, aid effectiveness and good governance.  
In  conclusion,  the  delegation  of  Niger  believes 

that the United Nations is the world’s premier forum. It 
must serve as a beacon in those times of both hope and 
uncertainty, and ensure collective security in the world 
by means of economic, social and cultural cooperation. 

A/63/PV.13
there 
incomplete  unless 
That  is  why  we  need  genuine  reform  of  the  United 
Nations system. My delegation believes that the reform 
effort  will  remain 
is  a 
significant change in the Security Council, including as 
regards  both  equitable  representation  and  its  working 
methods.  

In  numerous  other  areas  currently  under 
consideration — such as, among others, evaluating the 
experiences of countries involved in pilot programmes 
on system-wide coherence and revitalizing the General 
Assembly,  which  we  must  ensure  —  my  country  will 
contribute  as  much  as  it  can  to  adapting  our  common 
Organization to the challenges we all face in building a 
world of peace, prosperity and development.  
The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m. 

08-53122 

39 
