
A/63/PV.56
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

56th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 20 November 2008, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 








In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Cujba 
(Republic  of  Moldova),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 


Agenda items 9 and 111 (continued) 
Report of the Security Council (A/63/2) 
Question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and 
related matters  
Miss Alipate (Tonga): I have the honour to speak 

on behalf of the Pacific small island developing States, 
namely Fiji, Nauru, the Federated States of Micronesia, 
the  Marshall  Islands,  Palau,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Samoa, the Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Vanuatu  and my 
own country, the Kingdom of Tonga. We welcome the 
opportunity  to  contribute  to  this  discussion  on  agenda 
item  9,  on  the  report  of  the  Security  Council,  and 
agenda 
the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security Council and related matters.  

Permanent 
the 
Representative  of  Costa  Rica,  the  current  President  of 
the Security Council, for his presentation of the annual 
report  of  the  Council  (A/63/2)  on  behalf  of  its 
members.  

When we embarked on the reform of the Security 
Council, it was with a vision to make the Council more 
representative, more effective, more efficient and more 
item  111,  on 
We  wish 
commend 
to 
relevant. It has to live up to the realities of the twenty-
first century. This is imperative, given the concerns of 
the  Council’s  increased  workload  and  the  consequent 
overstretching of its capacity. 

In  2001,  the  Secretary-General  pledged  to  move 
the  United  Nations  from  a  culture  of  reaction  to  a 
culture  of  prevention,  specifically  encouraging  the 
Security Council to consider innovative mechanisms as 
well  as  any  other  early  warning  or  prevention  cases 
brought to its attention by Member States. 

Opinions  that  sudden  threats  to  international 
peace and security, such as climate change, should not 
be  dealt  with  by  the  Security  Council  deny  the  very 
role  which  the  Charter  has  assigned  to  it  and  clearly 
contradict the very spirit of the current reform process. 
The  Security  Council  is  not  only  competent,  but  also 
mandated  to  deal  with  threats  to  international  peace 
and security. It is of utmost importance to all organs of 
the United Nations to fulfil their respective mandates. 

The solution is therefore not to limit the scope of 
the work of the Council. The increased workload of the 
Council  is  reflective  of  the  changing  times  and 
evolving challenges. Consequently, the solution has to 
include  flexibility  and  relevance.  The  capacity  of  the 
Council  needs  to  be  enhanced  so  it  can  be  flexible 
enough to take on new challenges within its purview as 
stipulated  in  the  Charter. Thus,  we  should  continue  to 
focus  on  how  to  make  the  Security  Council  more,  not 
less, relevant to address today’s threats. 
In  terms  of  improving  the  transparency  of  the 

Council’s  working  methods,  we  maintain  our  support 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-61155 (E) 
*0861155* 
improving 
improved 
should 

be  more 
interaction  with 
A/63/PV.56 

for an increased amount of open debates and meetings, 
provisions  for  more  regular  structured  briefings  to 
address  the  concerns  of  non-members,  an  increased 
level of input in the decision-making process from the 
United Nations membership for determining the format 
for  particular  Council  meetings, 
the 
effectiveness of the wrap-up sessions and encouraging 
and  facilitating 
troop-
contributing  countries  by  conducting  regular  meetings 
to  discuss  substantive  matters  and  concerns.  This  is 
particularly relevant for those troop contributors which 
are not members of the Security Council. 

On  the  issue  of  equitable  representation  and  the 
increase in the membership of the Security Council, the 
Security  Council 
broadly 
representative  of  the  international  community  as  a 
whole  and  the  geopolitical  realities  of  today.  To 
achieve  these  goals,  the  Council  should  be  expanded 
both  in  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories.  We 
are  of  the  view  that  during  the  debate  on  the  topic, 
which has continued over a period of 14 years, we have 
had  ample  opportunity  to  express  our  opinions  on  the 
matter.  

We welcome the decision by the President of the 
General  Assembly  to  convene  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  in  an  informal  plenary  on  21  November 
2008 and pledge our support and hope for a successful 
and speedy conclusion. 
Mr.  Lima  (Cape  Verde)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  for  having  convened  this  meeting  of  the 
General Assembly to discuss the report of the Security 
Council  (A/63/2)  on  agenda  item  111,  the  question  of 
equitable  representation  on  and 
the 
membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters. 

introductory 
We 
statement  by  the  President  of  the  Security  Council, 
Mr. Jorge Urbina of Costa Rica. We also listened to his 
enlightening  comments  made  in  his  national  capacity 
and  would  like  to  thank  him  for  his  presentation  of 
relevant  comments  and  his  frankness  in  analysing  the 
function of this important organ of the United Nations.  

Everything  that  has  been  said  in  the  debate  on 
this  subject  up  to  this  point  can  only  encourage  us  to 
continue  to  work  towards  change  and  to  break  with 
sometimes old-fashioned approaches and a system that, 
as we see by its deficiencies in transparency, has seen 
listened  carefully 
increase 
in 
to 
the 
its  day.  From  this  point  going  forward,  we  need  more 
inclusive  work  to  make  the  Security  Council  truly  an 
instrument  for  the  governance  of  the  world,  in  sync 
with the twenty-first century. 

The world has changed. The aspirations that have 
seen light since the creation of the United Nations are 
not  based  on  the  relationship  of  force  inherited  from 
the  last World War,  but  on  shared  ideals  and  renewed 
faith  in  modernity.  Of  course,  we  are  still  facing  so 
many historic challenges, but the world of 2008 is not 
the world of 1948. This has to be understood once and 
for all. 

Those  who  were  irreconcilable  enemies  are  now 
working  together  to  design  a  way  forward  towards  a 
future  of  progress  and  a  world  at  peace  for  their 
descendants. Those  who  were  colonized  are  sovereign 
today, those who had suffered under apartheid are now 
in  charge  of  their  country,  those  who  were  treated  as 
underdeveloped,  who  suffered  from  the  ostracism  of 
unjust, inadequate and unequal State relations are now 
the  driving  forces  of  progress  in  the  world,  having 
emerged as respected and respectable economic Powers. 

The world has changed. It is no longer possible to 
see  its  evolution  and  to  build  our  common  future 
through the lens of a bygone era. My point is that the 
structures  and  mentalities  of  the  old  world  that  still 
exist in United Nations bodies must give way to more 
representative structures and mentalities — those of the 
emerging twenty-first century that are more adapted to 
the  changes  we  have  witnessed.  There  must  be  more 
openness  to  the  legitimate  demands  of  the  peoples  of 
this new world. 

For  so  many  years  now,  we  have  endlessly 
discussed reform of the Security Council and it seems 
that each time our efforts are doomed to failure or that 
we keep going around in circles like people involved in 
mystical  incantations.  All  of  this  brings  us  back  to 
square  one  where  we  are  denied  the  hope  of  moving 
forward. 

this  ritual 
The 
incantation  and  to  start  a  new  cycle  of  negotiations 
with the sole goal of success this time around. We need 
to  resolutely  move  on  to  this  new  decisive  stage  in 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  need  to  set  aside 
the  clever  trick  and  little  deals  among  partners  of  the 
moment to clearly and persistently tackle the challenge 
with  a  real  political  desire  to  reach  lasting  solutions 
which  will  enable  the  Security  Council  to  be  more 
time  has  come 
to  abandon 
2 

08-61155 


efficient,  to  take  into  account  the  views  of  all  and  to 
take decisions in the interest of peace, security and the 
well-being of all. 

Accordingly,  we  must  accept  that  the  smallest, 
most  vulnerable  States  will  have  a  voice.  We  must 
accept  that  Africa  be  duly  represented  and  that  its 
enormous potential plays in its favour. Africa is not and 
will  never  be  a  mere  pawn  on  the  chessboard  of  the 
world.  Africa  wants  to  be  a  full-fledged  partner  in 
building  new  international  relations  based  on  equity, 
ethics  and  renewed  political  determination  to  build 
peace,  to  handle  sustainable  development  and  to  take 
joint responsibility for climate change. 

We seek to get to grips on a solution and not to be 
a  source  of  problems  of  the  world.  Africa  wants  to 
combat  the  inequalities  of  international  relations.  It 
wants  to  resist  the  iniquitous  jeopardy  suffered  until 
now. Furthermore, it will always be against the version 
of  history  that  wants  it  to  remain  subjected,  living  on 
the crumbs magnanimously left in a world where only 
the powerful remain solvent.  

That is why Africa is calling for — and it is only 
fair  to  accord  it  —  two  permanent  seats  and  five 
non-permanent seats, as we have been requesting since 
the Ezulwini Consensus. 

Intergovernmental  negotiations  which  will  soon 
be  starting  must  open  the  way  to  a  new  era  of 
constructive  discussions  about  and  adequate  proposals 
for  a  Security  Council  that  is  adapted  to  the  twenty-
first  century.  We  should  not  be  subjected  to  any 
delaying  tactics,  the  consequence  of  which  would  be 
hard to tolerate. Now we need to lance this abscess. 

In  this  regard,  we  are  pleased  to  note  that  the 
statements  that  we  have  heard  from  the  beginning  of 
this  debate  are  clearer  in  their  proposals,  more  in 
accord  with  the  political  will  underpinning  them  and 
reveal  more  profoundly  the  underlying  reasons  for 
them.  There  is  a  healthy  trend  in  these  discussions 
which bodes well for future debates. 
At  the  same  time,  a  lot  of  time  has  been  lost  in 

fruitless  or, 
regrettably,  deceiving  debates.  The 
discussion we are looking forward to must be open and 
not  based  on  any  kind  of  trickery  or  delaying  tactic. 
Participants  must  be  prepared  to  accept  the  ideas  and 
opinions  of  all  sides.  Together  we  should  reduce  the 
distance  that  still  separates  us,  work  towards  finding 
common ground and, in a realistic way, give the world 
A/63/PV.56
in  which  one  gets  exhausted 
Let  us  make  no  mistake  about  who 
a  functional,  credible,  efficient  and  democratic  organ 
that  can  represent  the  aspirations  of  peoples  and  the 
will of States. We are ready to work with all to create 
that  crucial  instrument  for  a  better  governance  of  the 
world. 

the 
adversaries  are  in  this  debate.  Let  us  not  seek  easy 
culprits  for  our  collective  inertia  or  scapegoats  with 
low  morals.  No  useless  or  futile  invective  about  the 
intentions or the ulterior motives of one and another in 
this new page that we are opening in the history of that 
unique  precious  body,  namely,  the  Security  Council. 
Above  all,  the  small  countries  are  not  responsible  for 
the  current  situation. We  are  all  aware  of  the  changes 
that  must  take  place  for  the  Security  Council  to  be 
more  effective,  more  suited  to  our  times  and,  in 
particular, better able to handle the security of all. We 
need  to  have  the  political  will  to  be  successful  in  this 
task, without which we are doomed to this little parlour 
game, 
in  specious 
reckoning to figure out who is eligible and who is not, 
who is with whom or who is against what.  

Let  us  avoid  falling  into  the  trap  of  simplicity, 
because  our  designated  tasks  now  are  anything  but 
simple.  Let  us  not  believe  that  proposals  —  however 
such  intelligent  and  legitimate  they  might  be  —  that 
take into account only the interests of one group to the 
detriment  of  the  others  can  enable  all  obstacles  to  be 
removed,  all  challenges  surpassed  and  the  difficulties 
overcome.  We  would  like  to  believe  that,  but  the 
experience of 15 years of endless discussions indicates 
the  opposite.  Who  will  take  the  responsibility  of 
leading us once again into a dead end?  

I  would  like  to  state  very  clearly  that  what  we 
want now is not to sit in the back rows of a silent film 
theatre,  but  precisely  to  participate  in  solutions  to  our 
common  problems  and  to  be  the  guarantors  of  those 
solutions. What we want is an in-depth change in world 
governance, so that it can better serve peoples and the 
international community. What we want is that account 
be  taken  of  the  interests  of  all,  in  particular,  of  the 
smallest,  the  poorest  and  most  vulnerable  countries. 
This is not, in our view, about a frantic race to obtain 
some all-powerful right of veto, but about our right to 
contribute,  at  least  to  making  the  veto  irrelevant, 
thereby  shifting  the  challenges  and  balance  of  power 
into another area: that of dialogue and the interests of 
all in the face of the great threats of our time. That is 
08-61155 

3 

A/63/PV.56 

why  we  wish  to  see  the  implementation  of  decision 
62/557 as soon as possible. 

We  would  like  to  begin  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations as soon as possible, but without haste and 
while safeguarding the work of the existing legitimate 
organs.  I  would  not  want  our  Assembly  to  become  a 
talking  shop  in  search  of  the  lost  ark  of  the  Security 
Council. May the negotiations begin and may everyone 
take a stand and express his opinion in all honesty.  

Cape  Verde  is  not  one  of  those  countries  that 
promotes a general position as long as it benefits then. 
We will work in a spirit of openness, watching out for 
the  interests  of  all  countries  but  holding  a  course  set 
collectively  with 
the  aim  of  finding  a  solution 
acceptable to the greatest number and leading towards 
the  expected  changes  in  the  Security  Council.  No  one 
is expected to depend on the ambitions of some or the 
interests  of  others,  however  legitimate.  No  one  is 
expected to act as a stepping stone for those who place 
individual  goals  above  collective  interests.  Like  many 
who  want  to  see  global  governance  restored,  we  want 
to serve  as a  bridge between visions of  the world that 
are  still  far  from  each  other.  We  want  to  serve  as  the 
anchor  point  for  the  constructive  convergence  of  the 
various  possible  options.  We  want  to  unite,  without 
trampling  on  anyone’s  rights,  and  move  towards 
consensus  with  the  consent  of  all.  That  is  the  miracle 
that is expected of us and we know today that we can 
succeed,  because  nothing  is  impossible  for  those  who 
aspire to success. 

speaker in the debate on these items.  

May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  takes 
note of the report of the Security Council, contained in 
document A/63/2? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  Several  representatives 

have  requested  to  exercise  the  right  of  reply.  May  I 
remind members that statements in the exercise of the 
right  of  reply  are  limited  to  10  minutes  for  the  first 
intervention  and  to  five  minutes  for  the  second 
intervention  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats. 
Mr. Okuda (Japan): Thank you, Sir, for allowing 

us  to  exercise  the  right  of  reply.  My  comments  are 
related  to  the  statement  by  the  representative  of  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
4 


First, Japan firmly believes that the qualifications 
of  a  given  country  for  permanent  membership  in  the 
Security Council should be based on that country’s real 
contribution  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security. Since its accession to the United Nations, 
Japan, as a nation committed to peace, has worked hard 
to  promote  disarmament  and  non-proliferation  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  supporting  United 
Nations  action  for  peace  and  stability  in  the  world, 
such  as  peacekeeping  operations,  and  contributing  to 
world development and prosperity. 

Secondly,  it  is  regrettable  that  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea indiscreetly referred to the 
abduction  issue,  the  unfortunate  past  and  other  issues. 
My  delegation  cannot  accept  such  a  reference.  The 
abduction issue is a humanitarian matter that needs to 
be  resolved.  Japan  has  been  facing  up  to  its  past  with 
sincerity  and  consistency  since  the  end  of  the  Second 
World War.  Japan  has  always  maintained  its  policy  to 
resolve  any  issues,  including  the  abduction  and  any 
territorial issues, through dialogue and consultations.  

With  regard  to  Japan’s  position  on  Security 
Council reform, it has been publicly stated many times 
in  the  General Assembly  and  other  forums.  It  is  well 
known  that  Japan  stands  ready  to  contribute  actively 
and  constructively  to  international  peace  and  security 
at any time. 
Mr. Hassan (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): Yesterday, 

we  followed  what  was  said  about  the  Sudan  in  the 
statement made by the so-called country Saint Vincent. 
Perhaps it is the fate of the Sudan, a leading country in 
its  continent,  an  African  country  with  a  long  history 
and an old cultural heritage, to have been beleaguered 
by the conflict in Darfur, which has opened the door to 
each  and  everyone,  from  all  walks  of  life,  to  talk 
shamelessly  about  the  Sudan  in  the  manner  in  which 
the representative of Saint Vincent spoke yesterday. We 
would not have cared and we would not have wanted to 
waste  valuable  time  in  these  deliberations  to  reply  to 
inconsequential  and  petty  remarks.  However, 
the 
delegation of the Sudan asked for the floor to clarify a 
few facts. 

First,  what  the  representative  of  Saint  Vincent 
does  not  know,  or  what  he  perhaps  is  deliberately 
ignoring,  is  that  the  Security  Council,  about  which  he 
is talking, sent an international commission of inquiry 
to  Darfur  in  2004.  That  commission  submitted  its 
report  to  the  Council  at  the  beginning  of  2005,  in 
08-61155 


document  S/2005/60.  He  should  consult  that  report, 
because  the  report  of  the  commission  that  visited 
Darfur  and  undertook 
investigations  emphasized 
categorically to the Secretary-General and the Security 
Council  that  what  is  happening  in  Darfur  is  not 
genocide and does not even resemble genocide.  

Secondly, of course, we all know that there is one 
State,  well  known  to  all  of  us  here,  which  has,  unlike 
all  other  members  of  the  international  community, 
described  what  is  happening  in  Darfur  as  genocide.  I 
do not need to mention the name of that country, but I 
will mention certain fixed principles. 

It  is  not  surprising  that  major  countries  with 
colonial interests and ambitions have their own agendas 
towards  small,  developing  nations.  That 
is  what 
history, both past and contemporary, has taught us. It is 
a  pity,  however,  and  regrettably  so,  that  a  country,  a 
fellow  developing  nation,  should  come  to  this  forum 
not to express its own position but rather to regurgitate 
what was taught to it. This is indeed strange. 

The  report  of  the  Security  Council  to  which  the 
representative  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines 
refers  does  not  include  a  single  clause  that  mentions 
genocide  or  ethnic  cleansing,  but  if  Saint Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines  wishes  to  declare  itself  a  guardian  of 
international  peace  and 
its 
representative not have the courage to refer equally to 
what  the  world  is  witnessing  now  —  massacres  in 
Palestine, Iraq and Afghanistan? Why did he not make 
even  the  slightest  reference  to  those  who  have  tainted 
the 
international 
relations into a butcher shop? Why did he not mention 
that? Instead, he finds himself shamelessly blaming the 
Sudan. 
The  Sudan  sees  today’s  meeting  as  a  forum  for 

transparent  deliberations  by  the  General Assembly  on 
the  reform  and  expansion  of  the  Security  Council  — 
not on the issue of Darfur. Under no circumstances did 
we expect this forum to be exploited by those who are 
beating the drums of war.  

In conclusion, there is a difference between those 
who express their own position — even if we disagree 
with  them  —  and  those  who  stand  here  by  proxy  to 
repeat the words dictated to them by others. 
Mr.  Chabi  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  May  I 

begin by thanking you, Sir, for allowing my delegation 
to exercise its right of reply. 
international  arena  and 
security,  why  did 
turned 
A/63/PV.56
thanks 

My delegation questions the tenor of the remarks 
by the representative of South Africa in our debate on 
the  report  of  the  Security  Council.  He  stated  that  the 
Security Council was unable to resolve the issue of the 
Sahara. This  is  not  just  a  distortion  of  truth  but,  even 
worse,  shows  bad  faith  with  regard  to  one  of  the 
principal organs of the United Nations. 

The truth is simple; we do not need to disguise it. 
Allow me to outline this to the General Assembly and 
recall  for  the  representative  of  South  Africa  that  the 
Security Council is playing an active role in putting an 
end to these various regional conflicts, pursuant to the 
provisions of the Charter, contrary to the allegations of 
the representative of South Africa. 

Over  a  period  of  a  year  and  a  half,  the  Security 
Council  has  adopted  three  resolutions  of  substance 
which, today, consolidate an entire negotiation process 
and  have  allowed  four  negotiation  rounds  to  be  held. 
This  new  and  promising  momentum  has  been  made 
possible 
to  our  action,  which  has  been 
welcomed by the international community, in particular 
by  the  Security  Council,  where,  need  I  recall,  South 
Africa is indeed present. This is a result of the credible 
efforts  made  by  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco.  Three 
resolutions  —  1754  (2007),  1783  (2007)  and  1813 
(2008)  —  were  adopted  unanimously  by  the  Security 
Council,  with  South Africa  among  them.  I  would  say 
here  that  resolution  1813  (2008)  was  adopted  on 
30 April 2008  under  the  South  African  presidency  of 
the Security Council. 

My  country  is  certainly  not  alone  in  observing  a 
certain  incoherence  between  South  Africa’s  desire  to 
play a main role on our continent on the one hand and, 
on the other, its inclination to undermine and diminish 
the patient work which the Security Council has carried 
out  with  regard  to  the  Sahara  by  adopting  a  negative 
view  towards  the  salutary  moves  taken  to  resolve  the 
disagreements.  Here,  we  can  understand  that  what  is 
happening  might  be  disconcerting  for  South  Africa 
because  it  does  not  tally  with  its  view,  which  is  far 
from  being  shared  by  the  majority  of  Member  States. 
South  Africa  cannot  act  as  a  spoiler  or  lead  this 
Assembly  astray  by  ignoring  the  significant  efforts  of 
the Security Council and the international community. 

Lastly,  my  country  hopes  that  South Africa  will 
abandon its biased position and contribute in a neutral, 
constructive  and  responsible  way  to  a  negotiated 
political  solution  to  the  Sahara  dispute.  Were  it  to  do 
08-61155 

5 

Mr.  Sin  Song  Chol 
A/63/PV.56 

so,  it  would  make  a  contribution  to  overcoming  the 
difficulties and obstacles with regard to the construction 
of the Maghreb. My country wishes to see this become 
an area of peace, democracy and shared prosperity. 
Mr. Shin Boo-nam (Republic of Korea): I would 

like to exercise the right of reply in regard to what the 
representative  of  Japan  mentioned  about  territorial 
issues. 

I formally reiterate the position of the Republic of 
Korea  that  Dokdo  Island  has  always  been  an  integral 
part  of  our  territory,  which  is  proven  by  historical 
records, geographical facts and supported by the  rules 
and principles of international law. 
(Democratic  People’s 

Republic of Korea): The delegation of the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  would  again  like  to 
comment  on  the  statement  made  by  the  representative 
of Japan in this General Assembly. 

Whenever  opportunities  are  provided,  Japan  has 
pretended  that  the  issue  of  its  past  crimes  against 
humanity  is  groundless.  This  is  truly  hypocritical  and 
brazen-faced behaviour which turns over the facts that 
are  historically  real  and  proven.  As  is  already  well 
known,  Japan  stands  alone  as  the  only  country  in  the 
world  that  did  not  even  reflect  on  its  tremendous 
crimes  against  humanity  and  did  not  make  proper  and 
honest reparations. 

In  the  past,  Japan  forcibly  drafted  8.4  million 
Koreans,  killed  more  than  1  million  and  forced  more 
than  200,000  women  and  girls  into  sexual  slavery  as 
comfort women for the Japanese army. After its defeat 
in  the  war,  Japan  destroyed  documents  related  to  its 
crimes  in  fear  of  having  those  crimes  disclosed  to  the 
world  at  large.  Destroying  documents  will  not  be 
enough to delete Japan’s dirty crime-laden traces. 

Japan  claims  that  it  has  apologized  for  its 
tremendous large-scale crimes against humanity, but it 
is  indeed  only  a  tricky  and  malicious  move  to  divert 
international  opinion.  It  is  de  jure  and  de  facto  a 
customary practice of Japan to say that it has repented 
for  its  past  crimes  when  it  finds  itself  cornered  at  a 
political  impasse.  And  it  denies  everything  it  has 
promised  to  do  as  soon  as  the  environment  becomes 
more favourable. 

Recently,  high-level  officials  of  the  Government 
of Japan have openly declared and asserted that there is 
no  evidence  or  documentation  that  prove  the  possible 
nature of comfort women with respect to the Japanese 
army;  the  Government  even  went  so  far  as  to  deny 
completely  the  involvement  of  its  Government  and 
army in these dirty crimes. This is the authentic nature 
of  Japan’s  position  towards  its  blood-stained  history. 
To  this  day,  many  of  the  survivors  live  through  pain 
and trauma as a result of that sexual slavery. 
At  present,  with  formal  authorization  from  and 

connivance  by 
the  Japanese  Government,  factual 
content  about  past  crimes  has  been  removed  from  or 
distorted  in  history  textbooks  in  Japan,  and  those 
responsible for human slaughter in the past are praised 
and honoured as heroes.  

It cannot be denied that that is what is happening 
now.  A  country  like  Japan  that  denies  the  resolution 
once and for all of the issue of past crimes will surely 
repeat, again and again, the same path of crimes against 
humanity.  That  is  the  lesson  that  we  have  all  learned 
throughout  history.  That  is  why  we  take  so  seriously 
the  issue  of  Japan’s  crimes  and  its  recent  political 
moves  against  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea, including open moves to seize Tok Islet, which 
is  the  sacred  territory  of  Korea,  and  its  violent  and 
organized repression of Korean residents in Japan.  

to  such  an 
irresponsible and brazen-faced country as Japan, it will 
be  the  same  as  encouraging  Japan’s  ambitions  for  its 
old  dream  of  the  Greater  East  Asia  Co-Prosperity 
Sphere, which will give rise to an extremely dangerous 
threat to the entire international community. 
Mr.  Laher  (South  Africa):  We  reiterate  our 

position  on  what  we  view  as  the  regular  working 
methods  of  the  Security  Council  with  regard  to 
addressing the situation in Western Sahara. Our view is 
based  on  our  experience  as  a  non-permanent  of  the 
Security Council for the last two years. We would also 
like  to  reiterate  our  view  that  the  Security  Council 
should consider the conflict in Western Sahara through 
a  balanced  approach,  based  on  the  principle  of  self-
determination for the people of Western Sahara. 
Mr. Okuda (Japan): The first remark I would like 

to  make  is  with  regard  to  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative  of 
the  Republic  of  Korea.  Japan 
maintains  a  consistent  policy  about  Takeshima  Island, 
which  we  will  not  repeat  on  this  occasion.  Both 
countries  have  their  own  positions  on  this  issue. 
However,  the  important  thing  is  for  both  countries  to 
work together for a mature partnership in the future.  
If  a  permanent  seat 
is  given 
6 

08-61155 



The  second  remark  I  would  like  to  make  is  with 
regard  to  the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  With 
respect  to  our  position  on  the  past,  we  explained  our 
position in exercising our right of reply, and I will not 
repeat  what  I  said  then.  However,  I  have  to  mention 
that  Japan  has  conducted  talks  with  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  on  the  issue  of  the  resolution  of 
issues  relating  to  the  unfortunate  past  as  part  of  the 
process  of  normalization  talks  aimed  at  establishing 
diplomatic relations, and it will continue to do so. The 
allegation  by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  that 
Japan refuses to settle the issue of the past simply does 
not  reflect  the  facts.  For  our  part,  we  wish  to  remind 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  that  it  must  take 
concrete steps to advance normalization talks. 
Mr. Chabi (Morocco) (spoke in French): I would 

like  to  stress  that  the  position  of  South Africa  on  the 
question of the Sahara is not balanced. The partiality of 
the  position  of  that  country  on  the  disputes  in  the 
Sahara  is  well  known.  That  country  has  repeatedly 
demonstrated  flagrant  bias,  contrary  to  the  efforts  of 
the international community to resolve this dispute. For 
its  part,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  remains  actively 
engaged  to  find  a  solution  to  this  question  with  the 
support  of  the  international  community  and  under  the 
aegis of the United Nations. 
(Democratic  People’s 

Republic  of  Korea):  I  apologize  on  behalf  of  my 
delegation  for 
the  floor  once  again.  My 
delegation  considers  that  it  has  the  obligation  to 
reiterate its position with regard to the issue of Japan’s 
crimes,  since  the  Japanese  delegation  seems  not  to 
understand even the essence of its crimes.  

Japan’s crimes are not only issues of the past, but 
are also issues of the present. The recent rash acts and 
blind behaviour in which Japan has used every possible 
means and ways to grab Tok Islet, which is the sacred 
territory  of  Korea,  and  its  flagrant  violation  of  the 
human  rights  of  Korean  residents  in  Japan  and  the 
repression  of  their  sovereign  right  to  organize  are 
typical examples.  

Crimes perpetrated by Japan can neither be made 
to  fade  away  with  the  passing  of  days  nor  be  covered 
up,  no  matter  how  desperately  Japan  tries  to  do  so. 
That is why the delegation of the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  asserts  that  Japan  has  no  right  to 
become  a  permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council, 
Mr.  Sin  Song  Chol 
taking 
A/63/PV.56
the 
community. 
international 
which  has  the  mission  of  maintaining  international 
peace and security.  

Japan  must,  first  of  all,  completely  liquidate  its 
crimes  of  the  past,  if  it  truly  longs  to  get  inspire  the 
trust  of 
Japan’s 
insincerity  has  reached  such  an  extreme  that  even  its 
allies  have  adopted  resolutions  urging  Japan 
to 
liquidate  its  past  crimes  as  soon  as  possible.  Japan 
would be wise to think about and follow the examples 
shown  by  other  countries  in  honestly  resolving  issues 
of the past, instead of trying to evade its responsibility.  

With regard to the very irresponsible remark just 
made by the delegation of Japan, no, Tok Islet is fully 
part  of  the  sovereign  territory  of  Korea.  There  is  no 
room for further consultation or talks or whatever form 
of dialogue there could be. Once again, I reiterate: Tok 
Islet is Korean territory.  

That  is  why  we  say  that  Japan  is  causing 
instability in the North-East Asia region. Through this 
kind  of  very  irresponsible  statements  by  the  Japanese 
delegation, we can easily see that. The more Japan tries 
to  evade  its  responsibility,  the  more  it  will  lose  the 
trust of the international community.  
Mr. Shin Boo-nam (Republic of Korea): I would 

like to exercise the second right of reply regarding the 
territorial  issue  raised  by  the  Japanese  delegate.  I 
would  like  to  reiterate  the  Korean  Government’s  firm 
position  that  Tok  Islet  is  not  the  object  of  either  a 
diplomatic  negotiation  or  a  territorial  dispute  between 
two countries.  
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 

has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
agenda item 9 and agenda item 111.  


Agenda item 105 
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments 
  (a)  Appointment of members of the Advisory 



Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions 
  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/63/528) 

The  Acting  President:  The  Fifth  Committee 

recommends  in  paragraph  6  of  its  report  that  the 
General  Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as 
members of the Advisory Committee on Administrative 
and Budgetary Questions for a three-year term of office 
08-61155 

7 

A/63/PV.56 

beginning on 1 January 2009: Ms. Aїcha Afifi (Morocco); 
Ms. Renata Archini (Italy); Mr. Vladimir Alekseevitch 
Iosifov  (Russian  Federation);  Mr.  Alejandro  Torres 
Lépori  (Argentina);  Ms.  Susan  McLurg  (United  States 
of America). 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to  appoint  those  persons  as  members  of  the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
for a three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 
2009? 

It was so decided.



  (b)  Appointment of members of the Committee 
on Contributions 
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/63/529) 

The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  4  of  the 

report,  the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the 
General  Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as 
members  of  the  Committee  on  Contributions  for  a 
three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2009: 
Mr.  Vyacheslav  Anatolievich  Logutov 
(Russian 
Federation);  Mr.  Richard  Moon  (United  Kingdom  of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland); Mr. Hae-yun Park 
(Republic of Korea); Mr. Thomas Thomma (Germany); 
Mr.  Courtney  Williams  (Jamaica);  Mr.  Wu  Gang 
(China). 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to appoint these persons as members of the Committee 
on  Contributions  for  a  three-year  term  of  office 
beginning on 1 January 2009? 

It was so decided.  



  (c)  Confirmation of the appointment of members of 
the Investments Committee 
  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/63/530) 

The  Acting  President:  The  Fifth  Committee 

recommends  in  paragraph  5  of  its  report  that  the 
General  Assembly  confirm  the  reappointment  by  the 
Secretary-General  of  Mr.  Masakazu  Arikawa  (Japan), 
Mr.  Madhav  Dhar  (India)  and  Mr.  Nemir  A.  Kirdar 
(Iraq) as members of the Investments Committee for a 
three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2009 
and 
the  appointment  of  Ms.  Linah  Mohohlo 
(Botswana),  to  fill  the  remainder  of  the  term  of 
Mr. Khaya Ngqula  (South Africa),  effective  1  January 
2009 and expiring on 31 December 2009. 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to confirm the reappointment by the Secretary-General 
of  Mr.  Masakazu Arikawa  (Japan),  Mr.  Madhav  Dhar 
(India) and Mr. Nemir A. Kirdar (Iraq) as members of 
the  Investments  Committee  for  a  three-year  term  of 
office  beginning  on  1  January  2009  and 
the 
appointment of Ms. Linah Mohohlo (Botswana), to fill 
the remainder of the term of Mr. Khaya Ngqula (South 
Africa),  effective  1  January  2009  and  expiring  on 
31 December 2009? 
It was so decided.

The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  6  of  the 

same report, the Fifth Committee also recommends that 
the  General  Assembly  reappoint  Mr.  Ivan  Pictet 
(Switzerland) as an ad hoc member for a one-year term 
beginning  on  1  January  2009  and  Mr.  Simon  Jiang 
(China)  as  an  ad  hoc  member  to  replace  Ms. Afsaneh 
Beschloss  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran)  commencing  on 
1 January 2009. 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to reappoint Mr. Ivan Pictet (Switzerland) as an ad hoc 
member  of  the  Investments  Committee  for  a  one-year 
term beginning on 1 January 2009 and Mr. Simon Jiang 
(China)  as  an  ad  hoc  member  to  replace  Ms. Afsaneh 
Beschloss  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran)  commencing  on 
1 January 2009? 

It was so decided. 



of 
  (d)  Appointment of members of the International 
the 
Civil Service Commission 
  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/63/531) 

The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  4  of  its 

report,  the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the 
General  Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as 
members 
International  Civil  Service 
Commission  for  a  four-year  term  of  office  beginning 
on 1 January 2009: Mr. Fatih Bouayad-Agha (Algeria); 
Mr. Shamsher Chowdhury (Bangladesh); Mr. Vladimir 
Morozov  (Russian  Federation);  Mr.  Wang  Xiaochu 
(China); Mr. El Hassane Zahid (Morocco). 
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 

the 
to  appoint 
International Civil Service Commission for a four-year 
term of office beginning on 1 January 2009? 

those  persons  as  members  of 
It was so decided.

8 

08-61155 


  (f)  Appointment of members and alternate 


members of the United Nations Staff Pension 
Committee 
  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/63/532)  

The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  4  of  the 

report,  the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the 
General  Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as 
members  or  alternate  members  of  the  United  Nations 
Staff Pension Committee for a four-year term of office 
beginning  on  1  January  2009:  Mr.  Gerhard  Kűntzle 
(Germany); Mr. Andrei Vitalievitch Kovalenko (Russian 
Federation);  Mr.  Lovemore  Mazemo  (Zimbabwe); 
Mr. Muhammad  Muhith 
(Bangladesh);  Mr.  Philip 
Richard  Okanda  Owade  (Kenya);  Ms.  Valeria  María 
González  Posse  (Argentina);  Mr.  Thomas  Repasch 
(United States of America); Mr. Jun Yamada (Japan). 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
to  appoint  those  persons  as  members  or  alternate 
members  of 
the  United  Nations  Staff  Pension 
Committee for a four-year term of office beginning on 
1 January 2009? 


Assembly 
sub-items (a) to (c) and (e) to (f) of agenda item 105? 

It was so decided. 
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
of 
It was so decided. 
consideration 
conclude 
its 
to 




Agenda item 154 (continued) 
Judges of the International Tribunal for the 
Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious 
Violations of International Humanitarian Law 
Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia 
since 1991 

  Letter from the Secretary-General addressed to 
the President of the General Assembly (A/63/548) 
The Acting  President:  Members  will  recall  that 

the  Assembly  considered  this  agenda  item  at  its 
twenty-third plenary meeting on 9 October 2008. 

In  his  letter,  the  Secretary-General  refers  to 
article  13  bis,  paragraph  2,  of  the  Statute  of  the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Prosecution  of  Persons 
Responsible  for  Serious  Violations  of  International 
Humanitarian  Law  Committed  in  the  Territory  of  the 
Former Yugoslavia since 1991, which reads: 
A/63/PV.56

the  permanent 
the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly, 
“In the event of a vacancy in the Chambers 

amongst 
judges  elected  or 
appointed  in  accordance  with  this  article,  after 
consultation  with  the  Presidents  of  the  Security 
Council  and  of 
the 
Secretary-General shall appoint a person meeting 
the qualifications of article 13 of the Statute, for 
the remainder of the term of office concerned.” 

In that regard, the Secretary-General informs the 
Assembly  that,  on  30  June  2008,  Judge  Wolfgang 
Schomburg  notified  the  Secretariat  of  his  resignation 
from  service  with  the  International  Tribunal  for  the 
Former Yugoslavia, effective 18 November 2008. After 
consultations  with 
the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-second session and the President 
of the Security Council, the Secretary-General appointed 
Judge Christoph Flügge to replace Judge Schomburg. 

In  the  absence  of  a  relevant  agenda  item  at  its 
sixty-second  session,  the  General Assembly  could  not 
take  action  on  this  issue.  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly  takes  note  of  the  appointment  of  Judge 
Christoph  Flügge  to  the  International  Tribunal  for  the 
Former  Yugoslavia  for  the  remainder  of  the  term  of 
office of Judge Schomburg? 
  It was so decided.  

The  Acting  President: The  Assembly  has  thus 

concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 154. 

Agenda item 110  
Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly  
The  President: I  have  been  looking  forward  to 

the 
this  opportunity 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  will  now 
come  face  to  face  with  concrete  proposals  that  will 
enable us to reassert the Assembly’s responsibilities as 
the chief deliberative, policymaking and representative 
organ of the United Nations in the months ahead.  

As  members  know,  the  democratization  of  the 
United  Nations  is  the  overarching  priority  of  my 
presidency. I believe that we need to take radical steps 
to regain the authority of the General Assembly so that 
it can perform its duties as the most democratic organ 
of the United Nations. 
  The President took the Chair. 
issue  of 
take  up 
the 
to 




08-61155 

9 

A/63/PV.56 


We are certainly the most representative body of 
the international system, but I do not think we can say 
that  we  are  the  most  democratic.  Yes,  each  Member 
State  has  a  vote  in  the  Assembly,  and  that  is  what 
makes  it  unique  within  the  international  community. 
However,  until  the  Assembly  restores  the  authority 
assigned  to  it  under  the  Charter,  our  democracy  will 
fall  short  of  exercising  the  real  leadership  that  the 
world  requires  at  this  juncture  in  its  history.  It  is 
imperative  to  re-establish  the  balance  among  the 
principal organs of our Organization and to ensure that 
the  powers  assigned  to  each  in  the  Charter  are  fully 
respected. That is what I see as the ultimate goal of this 
process of revitalization.  

My  predecessor  wisely  established  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly  to,  inter  alia,  identify  ways  to  further 
enhance the role, authority, effectiveness and efficiency 
of the Assembly. For the first time, the report before us 
(A/62/952)  provides  us  with  an  overview  of  the 
recommendations  and  changes  that  have  been  made 
over the past 16 years of reform efforts.  

We  thank  the  Working  Group  for  presenting  us 
with  its  comprehensive  review,  and  we  must  now 
implement the recommendations that will improve our 
working  methods  and  our  efficiency.  The  report 
identifies  changes  that  are  already  helping  us  to 
re-establish  the  Assembly’s  credibility  as  the  chief 
deliberative  and  policymaking  body,  and  we  need  to 
act  on those  resolutions not yet implemented that will 
further streamline our work.  

Before we consider the report prepared by the Ad 
Hoc Working Group, I would like to make some brief 
comments that will help us move forward to implement 
specific  changes  that,  I  believe,  we  should  and  can 
institute during this sixty-third session. I think that we 
have  clear  opportunities  to  improve  the  exchanges 
between  the  General  Assembly  and  other  United 
Nations  organs  and 
the  broader  United  Nations 
specialized  agencies  that  make  up  the  United  Nations 
system.  

It  has  been  recommended  that  the  Assembly 
President meet on a monthly basis with the President of 
the  Security  Council  to  review  its  workplan  and  to 
consult  on  specific  issues  of  particular  concern.  I 
would  suggest  that  such  meetings  take  place  with  the 
entire  Assembly  to  permit  more  direct  and  dynamic 
exchanges between the two organs. The same could be 
be 
should 
done  on  a  periodic  basis  with  the  President  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council, 
thus  providing 
opportunities  to  create  more  synergy  between  the 
Assembly and that Council.  

I  have  perceived  a  sense  of  isolation  in  the 
specialized  agencies,  funds  and  programmes  of  the 
United Nations system in my contacts with colleagues 
from  other  duty  stations.  While  they  come  together 
with  the  Secretary-General  once  a  year,  we  would  all 
benefit from briefings to the Assembly itself and could 
undoubtedly contribute to the important work that they 
are  doing.  Let  us  find  opportunities  to  host  those 
exchanges so that they can be both informal and candid 
and can provide real added value to our work. 

We all agree that the procedures for selecting the 
Secretary-General 
formalized.  The 
Secretariat  is  an  enormously  important  organ  of  the 
United  Nations,  and  the  Secretary-General  should  be 
selected  in  a  transparent  and  inclusive  process.  Let  us 
resolve  to  put  into  place  procedures  for  the  timely 
review  of  candidates,  well  before  the  next  election. 
There are many resolutions cited in the report that will 
help  us  to  put  together  procedures  and  to  define 
important  parameters  for  the  position,  including  term 
length and possible re-election. 

I am also inspired by the enthusiastic response to 
the  exchange  between  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
panel  of  experts  that  we  convened  a  few  weeks  ago. 
Those consultations on the international financial crisis 
brought  all  of  us  together  to  examine  collaboratively 
both  the  urgency  and  magnitude  of  the  problem  and 
practical  steps  to  deal  with  them,  resulting  in  the 
establishment  of  a  high-level  commission  that  will 
continue  to  provide  guidance  and  innovative  ideas 
regarding how the Assembly can contribute to the new 
international  financial  architecture  that,  as  all  of  us 
recognize, is needed.  

The  Assembly  has  demonstrated  new  agility  in 
taking  up  urgent  issues  before  us  by  drawing  on  the 
enormous  reserves  of  expertise  that  exist  within  the 
United  Nations  system,  as  well  as  drawing  on  experts 
in the field. No country alone can convene such diverse 
experts from around the world in such a timely manner. 
We must continue to seize these moments and organize 
meaningful and action-oriented responses.  

Therefore,  let  us  be  practical  in  our  response  to 
this  valuable  report  and  identify  opportunities  for 
immediate action. That will be the real measure of our 
10 

08-61155 
is 
to 
like  at 
I  should 
the  outset 


vitality  and  of  our  determination  to  provide  the 
dynamic leadership expected of us. 
Mr. Delacroix (France) (spoke in French): I have 

the honour to speak on behalf of the European Union. 
The candidate countries Turkey, Croatia and the former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia  and  the  countries  of 
the Stabilization and Association Process and potential 
candidates Montenegro and Serbia, as well as Ukraine, 
the Republic  of Moldova, Armenia and  Georgia,  align 
themselves with this statement. 
thank  you, 

Mr. President, for having convened this meeting on the 
revitalization  of  the  General Assembly.  The  European 
Union  would  also  like  to  express  its  gratitude  to  the 
former Assembly President, His Excellency Mr. Srgjan 
Kerim,  for  his  efforts  during  the  sixty-second  session 
to  revitalize  the Assembly,  in  particular  by  convening 
thematic debates on issues  relevant to Member States. 
The  European  Union 
confident 
that  you, 
Mr. President, will continue that process. 

The  European  Union  would  also  like  to  express 
its  gratitude  to  the  two  co-Chairs, Ambassador  Eladio 
Loizaga,  Permanent  Representative  of  Paraguay,  and 
Ambassador Andrzej Towpik, Permanent Representative 
of  Poland,  for  the  work  accomplished  within  the  Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly. 
The European Union has heard well the appeal of 

the  President  of 
for 
democratization  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  place 
that  the  General Assembly  should  take  in  that  regard. 
As  members  are  aware,  the  European  Union  is  firmly 
committed to effective multilateralism, with the United 
Nations  given  central  role  in  that  framework.  Our 
objective 
to  establish  an  effective 
multilateral system based  on international law and the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  
Strengthening the United Nations is a priority for 

Europe.  That  is  why  the  European  Union  remains 
convinced  that,  at  this  stage,  it  is  essential  to  move 
swiftly  ahead  with  the  reforms  of  the  United  Nations 
system  decided  upon  at  the  2005  World  Summit.  We 
remain  resolved  to  participate  actively  in  a  genuine 
constructive dialogue with all United Nations Members 
to push those efforts forward. 
the  General  Assembly 
to  strive 
is 
A/63/PV.56
the 
transparency 
representativity, 
The  process  of 
reforming  United  Nations 

operational  activities  remains  a  priority  for 
the 
European  Union.  Efforts  to  strengthen  the  capacity  of 
United  Nations  bodies  to  unite  their  development 
activities  should  continue.  We  must  also  take  into 
account  cross-cutting  issues  such  as  gender  equality, 
sustainable  development  and  human 
rights.  The 
European  Union  supports  the  pragmatic  from-the-
ground-up approach that has been proposed, and we are 
convinced that the lessons learned in the pilot countries 
should play a significant role in comprehensive reform 
efforts undertaken at the central level. 

The  European  Union  is  aware  of  the  need  to 
continue to reform the principal United Nations organs, 
in particular the General Assembly, the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  and  the  Security  Council,  in  order  to 
improve 
and 
effectiveness of the system. 

The  authority  and  functioning  of  the  General 
Assembly  must  be  in  keeping  with  the  principles  set 
out  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
relevant  resolutions.  The  European  Union  stresses  the 
importance  of  the  full  implementation  of  resolutions 
related to the revitalization of the work of the General 
Assembly.  In 
that  regard,  we  have  noted  with 
satisfaction  the  report  of  the Ad  Hoc  Working  Group 
on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
welcome the adoption of resolution 62/276.  

We  are  counting  on  the Ad  Hoc  Working  Group 
on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  — 
which  is  open  to  all  Member  States  —  to  consider 
ways to strengthen the role, authority, effectiveness and 
efficiency of the Assembly, in particular on the basis of 
its 
the 
European Union wishes to stress the following points.  

First,  the  European  Union  believes  that  the  best 
way to effectively revitalize the General Assembly is to 
ensure  the  implementation  of  the  resolutions  already 
adopted  on  the  issue.  In  that  regard,  we  must  have  a 
tool  at  our  disposal  to  ensure  follow-up  on  their 
implementation.  

Secondly,  in  the  same  spirit,  the  Secretary-
General could, in his annual report on the work of the 
Organization,  present  precise  information  concerning 
the mandates adopted by the General Assembly during 
the  year,  including  information  on  the  status  of  their 
implementation.  
resolutions.  More 
specifically, 
relevant 
08-61155 

11 

to  ensure  strict  compliance  with 
A/63/PV.56 

Thirdly,  with  regard  to  the  functioning  of  the 

Assembly’s  daily  work,  we  believe 
that  further 
consideration  should  be  given  to  the  potential  offered 
by  modern  technologies.  The  voting  system  could  be 
duly  improved  in  the  context  of  the  provisions  — 
including  the  financial  provisions  —  of  the  capital 
master plan.  

Fourthly,  in  the  same  spirit,  the  European  Union 
deplores the late issuance of many reports, which has a 
negative impact on the functioning of intergovernmental 
bodies.  In  that  context,  we  recall  the  need  for  timely 
dissemination  of  the  necessary  documentation  in  all 
official United Nations languages. Once and for all, we 
must  put  an  end  to  the  recent  trend;  the  quality  and 
timeliness of our debates depend on it. We are counting 
on  you,  Mr.  President,  with  the  assistance  of  the 
Secretariat, 
the 
resolutions and rules governing the use of languages in 
various  United  Nations  organs  and  forums,  rule  51  of 
the  General  Assembly’s  rules  of  procedure  and  the 
provisions of resolution 61/266, on multilingualism.  

Fifthly, while recognizing that further progress is 
needed,  the  European  Union  welcomes  the  qualitative 
improvements  made  in  the  annual  report  of  the 
Security Council.  

Sixthly,  and  finally,  with  regard  to  another  issue 
currently  being  discussed,  the  European  Union  recalls 
the  importance  of  implementing  the  relevant  Charter 
Article  and 
the  General 
Assembly  in  the  process  of  selecting  the  Secretary-
General.  
The European Union will be fully involved in the 

efforts  of 
the 
Revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  during  this 
sixty-third session. We will continue to contribute in a 
constructive  and  pragmatic  manner  to  the  efforts  to 
improve the work of the General Assembly.  
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM). 
At the outset, I would like to express the gratitude 

to  Their  Excellencies 
of 
the  members  of  NAM 
Ambassador  Eladio  Loizaga  of  Paraguay 
and 
Ambassador  Andrzej  Towpik  of  Poland  for  their 
excellent  work  in  co-chairing  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General Assembly 
during the sixty-second session.  
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on 
resolutions  concerning 
is  a  critical  component  of 
In  adopting  resolution  62/276, 

the  General 
Assembly  decided  to  continue  to  assess,  during  the 
current  session,  the  extent  to  which  all  its  previous 
resolutions and decisions related to the revitalization of 
the  work  of 
the  General  Assembly  have  been 
implemented.  At  the  outset  of  this  debate,  the  NAM 
would  like  to  recall  the  validity  and  relevance  of  its 
principled positions regarding this matter. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  reiterates  that  the 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly, 
which must be guided by the principles of democracy, 
transparency  and  accountability  and  achieved  through 
consultations, 
the 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  United  Nations  and  that 
its  objectives  should  continue  to  strengthen  the  role 
and  position  of  the  General  Assembly  as  the  chief 
deliberative, policymaking and representative organ of 
the United Nations.  

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  also  emphasizes 
that  the  improvement  of  the  General  Assembly’s 
procedural  and  working  methods  is  only  a  first  step 
towards  more  substantive  improvements  aimed  at 
restoring  and  enhancing  the  role  and  authority  of  the 
General  Assembly,  including  in  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security  as  stipulated 
in 
Articles 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 35 of the Charter.  

In  this  respect,  the  NAM  welcomes  the  decision 
by  the  President  of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-
third  session,  His  Excellency  Father  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann, to put the current meeting under the theme 
of  the  democratization  of  the  United  Nations,  which 
remains  intimately  linked  to  the  revitalization  of  the 
Assembly.  
The  NAM  further  welcomes  the  proposal  of  the 

the 
President 
democratization  of  the  United  Nations,  including  a 
meeting  that  would  focus  on  the  revitalization  and 
empowerment of the Assembly.  
The  NAM,  while  expressing  its  readiness  to 

continue  to  support  all  ongoing  efforts  to  strengthen 
the central role and  authority of the Assembly, wishes 
to  state  that  it  will  oppose  any  approach  that  seeks  to 
undermine  or  minimize 
the 
General  Assembly,  diminish 
its  current  role  and 
functioning  or  raise  questions  about  its  relevance  and 
credibility, or could lead to such results. In this respect, 
the  NAM  notes  with  growing  concern  continuous 
attempts  on  the  part  of  the  Security  Council  to 
to  hold  a  high-level  dialogue  on 
the  achievements  of 
12 

08-61155 


encroach  upon  issues  that  clearly  fall  within  the 
functions  and  powers  of  other  principal  organs  of  the 
United  Nations  and 
their  subsidiary  bodies.  The 
Non-Aligned  Movement  underscores,  once  again,  the 
need  to  fully  respect  the  functions  and  powers  of  the 
principal  organs,  in  particular  the  General  Assembly, 
and  to  maintain  the  balance  among  those  organs  in 
accordance with the Charter. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  has  previously 
expressed  its  satisfaction  regarding  the  central  role 
played  by  the  General  Assembly  both  during  the 
preparatory  process  of  the  2005  World  Summit  and 
during  the  follow-up  phase,  which  allowed  it  to 
reassert  many  of  its  prerogatives.  In  the  light  of  the 
gravity of the current financial and economic crisis, the 
NAM is of the view that the Assembly has an equally 
important  role  to  play  in  bringing  together  all  the 
members  of  the  international  community  to  address 
this  issue.  On  the  other  hand,  members  of  the  NAM 
remain  convinced  that  genuine  revitalization  of  the 
work  of  the  General Assembly  cannot  afford  to  avoid 
addressing  the  main  issue  of  the  lack  of  adequate 
resources  made  available  to  the  Organization  as  a 
whole. 

looks 
forward  to  the  establishment  of  the  ad  hoc  working 
group on General Assembly revitalization called for by 
resolution  62/276  and  expresses 
to 
participate,  along  those  lines,  in  its  work  in  order  to 
arrive at a detailed and fair assessment of the status of 
the implementation of all previous decisions. 
Ms. Blum (Colombia) (spoke in Spanish): At the 

outset,  I  should  like  to  greet  you,  Mr.  President,  on 
behalf  of  my  delegation  and  to  underline  the  efficient 
manner  in  which  you  are  guiding  our  work.  My 
delegation associates itself with the statement made by 
the  Ambassador  from  Algeria  on  behalf  of 
the 
Non-Aligned Movement. 

The General Assembly is the only universal body 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  principal  deliberative, 
policymaking  and  participative  body.  Its  mandate  is 
comprehensive. 
It 
to 
disarmament  and 
the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
security,  as  well  as  economic,  social,  political  and 
cooperation  matters.  In  this  context,  my  delegation 
assigns  great 
the  process  of 
revitalization of the General Assembly and considers it 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
includes  matters 
its  readiness 
importance 
Finally, 
relative 
to 
A/63/PV.56
in 
the 
the 
resolutions  on 
an essential component of the reform and strengthening 
of the Organization. 

I  would  like  to  express  Colombia’s  appreciation 
to  the Ambassadors  of  Paraguay  and  Poland  for  their 
work  as  facilitators  of  the Ad  Hoc Working  Group  on 
the Revitalization of the General Assembly. Thanks to 
their  practical  approach,  today  we  have  a  chart  that 
reflects  the  status  of  implementation  of  the  operative 
provisions  contained 
the 
revitalization of the Assembly, which should serve as a 
model  to  be  included  in  future  reports  on  the  matter. 
Similarly,  my  delegation  is  pleased  by  the  manner  in 
which  the  report  of  the  Working  Group  (A/62/952) 
reflects  the  diversity  of  the  discussions  on  this  issue 
during  the  previous  session.  Its  contributions  are  an 
important starting point for the continued consideration 
of this matter. 

We  believe  that  in  order  to  achieve  positive  and 
tangible  results  we  must  maintain  the  pragmatic  and 
realistic  vision  exhibited  by 
facilitators,  as 
indicated  by  the  President  of  the  Assembly  some 
moments  ago.  Our  work  must  always  have  as  its 
objective  the  full  exercise  of  the  authority  of  the 
Assembly,  as  well  as  achieving  greater  effectiveness 
and efficiency in its work. 

At the same time, my delegation notes with regret 
that  there  is  not  a  greater  willingness  on  the  part  of 
Member  States  to  achieve  tangible  and  substantive 
results in the process of revitalization of the Assembly. 
We  must  recognize  that,  in  spite  of  the  specific 
progress  achieved  in  recent  years,  the  general  balance 
on  revitalization  remains  precarious.  We  note  with 
concern that year after year we repeat the same topics 
in  our  statements  without  these  resulting  in  effective 
Assembly reform. 

Considering  that  this  is  a  topic  whose  principal 
objective  is  to  strengthen  this  central  body  of  our 
Organization,  we  would  like  to  see  a  list  of  speakers 
for this debate as extensive as that for the joint debate 
on the report of the Security Council and the expansion 
of 
the 
meetings  of  the Working  Group  on  General Assembly 
revitalization  unfortunately  pales  in  comparison  with 
that  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  Security 
Council Reform. The imbalance in the will and interest 
demonstrated for both processes speaks for itself. 
In  relation  to  the  recommendations  included  in 

the report of the Working Group, I should like to refer 
its  membership.  Similarly,  attendance  at 
08-61155 

13 


interest 
A/63/PV.56 

to  two  issues  in  particular.  Regarding  the  use  of  new 
technologies  in  the  voting  system  of  the  General 
Assembly,  my  delegation  notes  with 
the 
recommendations  presented  in  the  report  and  supports 
deeper  examination  of  the  matter  in  order  to  achieve 
tangible  results.  We  believe  it  is  important  for  the 
Assembly to have the necessary means to process with 
greater  efficiency  the  counting  of  ballots  in  elections 
held in this body. 

Likewise,  we  support  the  idea  of  creating  a 
working  document  that  collects  those  provisions  on 
revitalization that are relevant to the daily work of the 
Organization.  Such  a  document  could  serve  as  an 
important  guide  for  our  work  within  the  General 
Assembly  and  as  a  reminder  of  the  need  to  fully 
implement those resolutions that have been adopted. 

  Mr. Cujba (Republic of Moldova), Vice-President, 
took the Chair. 
Colombia  continues  to  view  with  concern  the 

imbalance  that  exists  in  the  relationship  among  the 
main bodies of the Organization and the appropriation 
of  General  Assembly  topics  by  the  Security  Council. 
According  to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
Assembly  should  have  a  more  active  role  in  the 
consideration  of  matters  related  to  peace  and  security. 
Similarly,  the  examination  of  topics  such  as  human 
rights  and  humanitarian  law  are  of  the  unique  and 
exclusive competence of the General Assembly. 

The  views  expressed  by  Member  States  during 
the debate on the report of the Security Council reflect 
a  certain  frustration  with  the  existing  relationship 
between  the  Council  and  the  General  Assembly  and 
with  current  communication  between  these  bodies. As 
expressed by my delegation last Tuesday, we recognize 
the  efforts  carried  out  to  improve  communication 
between  the  Council  and  the  rest  of  the  membership. 
However,  this  improvement  in  communication  should 
not  depend  on  the  good  will  of  whichever  delegation 
happens  to  hold  the  Council  presidency  but  should  be 
institutionalized in the working methods of the Council. 

Colombia  views  positively  the  extension  of  the 
mandate  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  in  order  to 
continue  the  consideration  of  the  revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly. We have made significant progress 
in  identifying  some  of  the  areas  on  which  we  must 
focus  our  efforts.  It  is  of  great  importance  to  take 
advantage of the progress achieved, so that during this 
the  full 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  we  can  realize 
tangible results in terms of revitalization. 

Colombia  firmly  believes  in  the  central  role  of 
the  General  Assembly  as  the  principal  organ  of  our 
Organization. My country reiterates its commitment to 
continue  contributing  to  its  revitalization  and  calls 
upon all Member State to show the necessary political 
will  to  achieve  our  objective. As  the  President  of  the 
Assembly  stated, 
implementation  of  all 
resolutions  related  to  revitalization  is  a  necessity.  My 
delegation will continue supporting all efforts aimed at 
reinvigorating the role of the Assembly, given the great 
challenges facing our Organization. 
Mr.  Bui The  Giang  (Viet  Nam):  First  of  all,  on 

behalf  of  the  Vietnamese  delegation,  I  would  like  to 
thank you for convening this meeting to discuss one of 
the  most  important  items  on  the  General  Assembly 
agenda. I would also like to thank Ambassador Eladio 
Loizaga of Paraguay and Ambassador Andrzej Towpik 
of Poland for their leadership in overseeing the Working 
Group  during  the  sixty-second  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. My delegation aligns itself with the statement 
made  earlier  by  Ambassador  Mourad  Benmehidi  of 
Algeria on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

Since 1991, when the item on General Assembly 
revitalization  was  first  officially  recognized  and 
subsequently  included  in  the  agenda  of  the Assembly, 
untiring  efforts  have  been  made  and  various  measures 
have  been  adopted  by  the  General Assembly  in  many 
resolutions  aimed  at  strengthening  its  authority  and 
leadership so as to enable it to effectively play its role 
as 
and 
representative  organ  of 
in 
accordance  with  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations.  In  this  connection,  my  delegation 
appreciates  the  work  done  over  the  past  year  by  the 
Working  Group,  as  can  be  seen  from  its  report  in 
document  A/62/952  and  the  factual  chart  on  the 
implementation  of  all  relevant  resolutions,  both  of 
which  have  been  circulated  to  Member  States.  We 
believe these documents can serve as productive inputs 
for  thorough  discussion  and  fair  assessment  of  the 
status  of  the  implementation  of  those  resolutions, 
which  is  vital  to  further  progress  in  revitalization. We 
reiterate Viet Nam’s commitment to work closely with 
other  Member  States  for  full 
implementation  of 
resolution  62/276  of  15  September  2008  on  the 
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly.  
the  United  Nations, 
policymaking 
deliberative, 
the 
chief 
14 

08-61155 
and 
reform  of 
cooperation 



Bearing  in  mind  the  ongoing  nature  of  the 
process,  we  would  like  to  emphasize  the  following 
points.  First,  as  a  critical  component  of 
the 
the  United  Nations, 
comprehensive 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly 
should continue to aim at strengthening the central role 
and  authority  of  the  General  Assembly  in  the  entire 
United  Nations  system.  In  view  of  the  increasingly 
complicated  developments  in  many  parts  of  today’s 
world, special meetings held by the General Assembly 
involving high-level participation — such as those held 
since  the  opening  of  the  sixty-third  session  on  the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals, 
Africa’s development needs, the midterm review of the 
implementation  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action 
and,  most  recently,  the  dialogue  on  interreligious  and 
intercultural  understanding 
for 
peace — deserve commendation and need to be further 
promoted.  If  properly  organized  and  conducted,  such 
meetings  can  produce  across-the-board  assessment, 
objective analysis and visionary recommendations and 
can  help  pull  together  the  resources  badly  needed  for 
their  implementation.  In  the  same  vein,  we  support 
further General Assembly discussions on current global 
issues  in  the  fields  of  peace,  security,  development, 
humanitarian  affairs  and  human 
in 
particular,  on  the  “three-Fs  crisis”  —  financial,  food 
and  fuel  —  which  would  take  into  account  fully  the 
interests  and  concerns  of  the  membership  and  of 
developing countries in particular. 

Secondly, my delegation shares the view expressed 
by  many  speakers  that,  in  order  to  achieve  tangible 
results,  it  is  essential  to  implement  those  resolutions 
related  to  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly 
that have been adopted to date. To that end, we believe 
that the status of implementation should be  evaluated, 
the  reasons  determining  that  status  analysed,  both 
quantitatively  and  qualitatively,  and  lessons  drawn  in 
order  to  ensure  the  practicality  and  usefulness  of 
recommendations made. 

Thirdly,  improving  cooperation  and  coordination 
among  the  General  Assembly  and  other  principal 
organs  of  the  United  Nations,  other  international 
institutions  and  civil  society,  as  well  as  among  the 
Main Committees and subsidiary bodies of the General 
Assembly,  remains  urgent  for  ensuring  the  success  of 
United  Nations 
the 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General Assembly  in 
particular.  With  that  in  mind,  while  we  welcome  the 
in  general  and  of 
rights  and, 
reform 
A/63/PV.56
In 
improved 
regular  briefings  by  the  Secretary-General  to  the 
General Assembly  and  the  periodic  meetings  between 
the  General Assembly  President  and  the  Presidents  of 
the  Security  Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  my  delegation  would  like  to  see  these 
practices 
in  quality  and  made  more 
interactive  in  nature  with  a  view  to  ensuring  their 
substantiality  and  effectiveness,  thus  contributing  to 
the better performance of the Organization. 

We share the view of the President of the General 
Assembly  regarding  the  intertwined  challenges  and 
opportunities the world is facing today. In this context, 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General Assembly  is 
all the more important and imperative than ever before, 
for,  in  turn,  this  process  will  help  enhance  United 
Nations reform so as to fulfil the Organization’s role in 
leading  the  international  community  to  successfully 
address  the  challenges  and  make  full  use  of  the 
opportunities  at  hand. 
this  undertaking,  my 
delegation assures the Assembly, the Ad Hoc Working 
Group, which we hope will be set up in due time, and 
its Chairs, of our full support and cooperation. 
Mrs.  Vargas  Walter  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

My  delegation  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
made  by  Algeria  on  behalf  of 
the  Non-Aligned 
Movement.  In  that  regard  I  would  like  to  add  some 
comments  on 
item.  Firstly,  my 
delegation would like to thank the co-Chairs of the Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
General  Assembly  for  the  presentation  of  the  report 
and  also  for  the  efforts  in  the  preparation  of  the 
inventory/chart  of  all  relevant  resolutions  on  the 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  consider 
the  chart  a  useful  tool  for  assessing  the  status  of  the 
implementation of those resolutions. 

The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  is  a 
decisive  element  in  a  genuine  reform  of  the  United 
Nations. We cannot hope for an Organization that takes 
democratic  and  effective  action 
the  General 
Assembly  does  not  fully  exercise  the  power  bestowed 
upon  it  by  the  Charter.  The  revitalization  should 
reaffirm the central role of the General Assembly as the 
chief  deliberative,  policymaking  and  representative 
organ  of  the  United  Nations,  as  is  well  recognized  by 
the Charter and the Millennium Declaration. 

It is important that, when that process concludes, 
the Assembly strengthens its independence as an organ 
for  comprehensive  debate,  where  the  freedom  of  its 
important 
this 
if 
08-61155 

15 
that 
exceed 
its 
it  must  stop  meddling 
A/63/PV.56 

Member States to address issues of interest to them is 
not restricted or limited. 

We  underscore  the  need  to  achieve  an  adequate 
balance  among  the  principal  organs  of  the  United 
Nations  in  accordance  with  the  Charter.  It  is  also 
important  that  Member  States  of  the  Organization  put 
an  end  to  any  attempt  to  transfer  General  Assembly 
agenda  items  to  the  purview  of  the  Security  Council. 
The  Security  Council  must  strictly  abide  by  the 
provisions  of  the  Charter,  as  well  as  all  resolutions  of 
the General Assembly, which is the principal organ  of 
the  Organization,  and 
in 
questions  that  are  clearly  within  the  functions  and 
powers  of  other  United  Nations  principal  organs  and 
their subsidiary bodies. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  state  its  concern  at 
the  establishment  of  rules  and  definitions  by  the 
Security  Council 
competence, 
disregarding  the  fact  that,  in  accordance  with  Article 
13  of  the  Charter,  the  General  Assembly  has  the 
primary responsibility for the progressive development 
of international law and its codification. 
My  delegation  believes  that,  in  order  to  avoid 

irregularities  that  set  precedents  within  the  United 
Nations  system, 
the  General 
Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the 
Security  Council  must  hold  regular  discussions  and 
coordinate  among 
the 
agendas  and  workplans  of  their  respective  principal 
organs,  so  as  to  establish  increased  coherence  and 
complementariness among them, in a manner mutually 
reinforcing and respectful of the mandates of each one 
of  them  while  avoiding  duplication  of  work  and 
encroachment on their respective assigned roles. 
Cuba reiterates the fact that that the revitalization 

of  the  Assembly  must  not  be  a  merely  bureaucratic 
process. All  States  must  implement  General Assembly 
resolutions, and multilateralism must not be used by a 
few  powerful  countries  only  to  serve  their  own 
interests. At  the  same  time,  we  further  hope  that,  as  a 
result  of  such  process,  the  interaction  between  the 
Secretariat  and 
the  General  Assembly  will  be 
strengthened, so that the former can respond in a more 
effective manner to mandates set by Member States. 

its 
to  conclude 
statement  by  reiterating  that  the Assembly  may  count 
on the Cuban delegation’s full willingness to continue 
themselves  with  regard 
My  delegation  would 
the  Presidents  of 
like 
to 

its constructive participation in the work in progress on 
the revitalization of the General Assembly. 
Mr. Mansour (Tunisia) (spoke in French): First, 

I wish to congratulate the President of the Assembly on 
his  manner  of  conducting  this  debate,  which  is  of 
special  importance  to  Member  States.  I  also  wish  to 
congratulate the Ambassadors of Poland and Paraguay 
for  their  considerable  efforts  during  the  sixty-second 
session  of  the Assembly  as  facilitators  for  the  agenda 
item  on  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly. 

Once  again  this  year,  the Assembly  continues  to 
debate the item on the revitalization of the work of the 
General  Assembly.  It  must  be  recalled  that  this  is  a 
process  that  requires  the  commitment  of  all  Member 
States,  whatever  their  various  approaches  may  be.  To 
that  end, 
the  heads  of  State  and  Government 
reaffirmed,  at  the  World  Summit  of  September  2005, 
the central role played by the General Assembly as the 
principal  deliberative  organ  of  the  United  Nations 
responsible  for  setting  policy  in  the  Organization.  We 
associate ourselves with the statement made on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement on the agenda item for 
today’s  plenary  meeting.  Nonetheless,  I  wish,  here,  to 
make the following comments. 

My  delegation  believes  that  strengthening  the 
role  and  the  authority  of  the  General  Assembly 
requires,  inter  alia,  the  inclusion  on  its  agenda  of 
clearly  topical  issues  that  are  of  crucial  importance 
both  for  the  Organization  and  for  the  international 
community. It also requires planning of major thematic 
debates,  so  that  Member  States  can  agree  on  the 
principal substantive and topical questions. 

Accordingly, we welcome the high quality of the 
thematic  debates  organized  at  previous  sessions,  a 
practice  certain 
the  current 
presidency.  At  the  same  time,  we  believe  that  the 
structure  of 
those  debates  would  gain  by  being 
modified  in  order  to  establish  an  interactive  dialogue 
among  Member  States.  The  results  of  the  debates 
should  be  taken  into  account  when  elaborating  joint 
action in the United Nations. 
that 

strengthening the role and the authority of the General 
Assembly  also  requires  recognition  of  its  role  in  the 
maintenance of international peace and security. Indeed, 
while it is commonly acknowledged that Article 24 of 
the  Charter  confers  the  primary  responsibility  in  that 
to  continue  under 
Likewise,  my 
delegation 
believes 
16 

08-61155 
the  question  of 
Among  other  subjects, 


area on the Security Council, that responsibility is not 
exclusive. The General Assembly should therefore take 
up  more  questions  of  international  peace  and  security 
in conformity with the relevant Articles of the Charter. 

The  question  of  the  reports  that  the  Security 
Council  is  required  to  submit  to  plenary  in  keeping 
with  the  relevant  Articles  of  the  Charter  should  also 
continue  to  be  discussed.  Despite  repeated  appeals  of 
Member  States,  the  Security  Council  continues  to 
submit  annual  reports  that  are  factual  in  nature.  The 
Council also should be able to submit analytical reports 
to  the  General  Assembly,  including  ones  on  specific 
subjects. 

the 
relationship  between  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
other  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations  should 
also  be  discussed  in  depth.  That  discussion  should  be 
continued  here,  in  the  plenary,  and  also  within  the 
context  of  an  approach  based  on  cooperation  and 
maintaining  the  balance  and  respecting  the  roles  that 
the Charter confers on each of the organs. 

I  wish  to  make  the  following  comments  on  the 
methods  of  work  of  the  General  Assembly.  My 
Government  is  pleased  to  note  that  several  steps  to 
improve the working methods of the General Assembly 
have been implemented, in particular the use in recent 
years  within  the  Main  Committees  of  interactive 
debates, round tables and question and answer sessions. 
Those practices have enriched our deliberations and the 
decision-making  process  in  the  Main  Committees. 
However, 
the 
expectations of Member States. 

On another subject, we believe that several of the 
measures  that  have  been  proposed  during  debates  on 
improving  the  working  methods  of  the  Assembly  but 
have  not  yet  been  the  subject  of  decisions  should  be 
re-examined. That, inter alia, applies to the proposal on 
the  organization  of  the  work  of  the  Main  Committees 
of  the  General Assembly  into  two  substantive  periods 
per  session,  and  to  harmonize  the  best  working 
practices of the Main Committees, which, must I recall, 
do vary. 
Finally, I would like lend my delegation’s support 

to  the  mandate  set  by  the  Assembly  in  September, 
when,  in  resolution  62/276,  it  decided  to  establish,  at 
its sixty-third session, an ad hoc working group on the 
revitalization of the General Assembly to identify ways 
to  enhance  the  role,  authority  and  effectiveness  of  the 
those  efforts  have  fallen  short  of 
A/63/PV.56
is 
a 
that 
it  needs 
universal  membership, 
General  Assembly,  inter  alia,  by  building  on  relevant 
resolutions, and to submit a report thereon.  

In this context, we believe  that the  revitalization 
of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  is  an  ongoing 
process  and 
to  be  pursued  with 
determination.  
Ms. Alzhanova (Kazakhstan): At the 2005 World 

Summit,  Member  States  reaffirmed  their  commitment 
to  strengthening  the  United  Nations  with  a  view  to 
enhancing  its  authority  and  efficiency,  as  well  as  its 
capacity to address effectively the full range of global 
challenges. 
The  United  Nations  General  Assembly,  which 

enjoys 
unique 
intergovernmental body dealing with all critical issues 
around  the  globe.  Strengthening  this  main  organ 
requires  political  will  and  commitment  on  the  part  of 
all Member States. For almost twenty years, repetitive 
Assembly  resolutions  have  focused  on  the  need  for 
further  work  on  revitalizing  the  role  and  authority  of 
the Assembly  and  strengthening  its  performance  so  it 
fully  exercises  the  power  that  the  United  Nations 
Charter accords it. The final objective of this process is 
the  General  Assembly  as 
the  main  deliberative, 
policymaking  and  representative  organ  of  the  United 
Nations. 
Revitalization of the General Assembly is a core 

element  of  the  whole  United  Nations  reform  process 
and  is  closely  linked  to  the  reform  of  other  United 
Nations  main  bodies  and  their  working  methods.  Yet, 
while  the  division  of  labour  between  three  principle 
organs of the United Nations is reflected in the Charter, 
there  is  still  debate  on  the  issue  of  the  disparity  of 
power,  which  most 
likely  derives  from  different 
interpretations of respective Charter provisions. While 
the  cost  of  the  lengthy  debating  process  in  the 
Assembly  has  been  too  high,  the  cost  of  overcoming 
the  gap  caused  by  misinterpretation  is  not.  It  requires 
just a strong political will in the part of Member States. 

Kazakhstan  notes  certain  progress  in  efforts  to 
improve the efficiency of the General Assembly and its 
methods of work. In this regard, my delegation would 
like 
the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Paraguay  and  Poland,  for  their 
practical  approach, which  offers  a detailed  analysis of 
the status of implementation of existing resolutions and 
decisions  on  revitalization  in  the  inventory  chart. The 
chart  is  a  very  handy  instrument  for  assessment  that 
the  co-Chairs, 
to  commend 
08-61155 

17 

the  chart  devised  by 
A/63/PV.56 

consolidates  main  and  relevant  provisions  of  relevant 
resolutions, distributed among three main clusters. We 
commend  the  recommendation  that  the  next  report  of 
the  Secretary-General  on  the  revitalization  of  the 
General  Assembly  use 
the 
co-Chairs as a model. 

Browsing through the chart, one notices that most 
of  the  resolutions  are  either  implemented  or  have 
ongoing status. For some, Member States are indicated 
as the implementing entity. Thus, together we all have 
to  find  the  root  causes  of  our  poor  performance  and 
offer a constructive strategy for delivering the results. 

It  will  not  be  possible  to  implement  all  the 
recommendations  on  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly without a competent and professional United 
Nations  Secretariat.  The  Secretariat  should  be  staffed 
with  people  who  are  the  most  suitable  to  perform  the 
tasks  at  hand.  In  this  regard,  it  is  very  important  to 
ensure  that  the  measures  to  strengthen  the  Secretariat 
achieve their main goal — to improve its efficiency. 

As  a  positive  shift,  we  would  like  to  point  out 
that the President of the General Assembly now meets 
periodically with the Presidents of the Security Council 
and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  with  a  view  to 
ensuring 
increased  cooperation,  coordination  and 
complementarity  of  the  work  programmes  of  those 
three principal organs. 

Moreover,  in  recent  years,  the  Presidents  of  the 
General  Assembly  have  been  proactive  in  addressing 
the  most  pressing  global  issues  through  thematic 
debates and informal plenary meetings. We expect that 
during  the  current  session,  the  President  will  lead 
Member  States 
the  commencement  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform,  which  is  one  of  the  most  acute  issues  of  the 
entire organizational reform process. 

Other  measures  that  have  been  implemented 
include  the  utilization  by  the  Main  Committees  of  the 
practice  of  interactive  debates,  panel  discussions  and 
question-and-answer  sessions  in  order  to  enhance 
informal,  in-depth  discussions  and  to  bring  together 
experts from various fields. Those practices, inter alia, 
have  enabled  a  dynamic  and  candid  exchange  with 
heads of departments and offices, representatives of the 
Secretary-General  and  special  rapporteurs,  thereby 
adding to deliberations and decision-making processes 
in  the  Main  Committees.  Yet  we  believe  that  this 
process should not replace the reforms that are aimed, 
towards 
is  discussing 
today  one  of 
its  expectation 
first and foremost, at strengthening the authority of the 
General Assembly. 

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
express 
that  progress  should  be 
achieved  on  the  revitalization  process  of  the  main 
United Nations body during its sixty-third session. 
Mr. Afifi (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): The General 

Assembly 
the  most 
important  items  on  its  agenda.  This  item  acquires  its 
importance from the nature of the role and authority of 
the  General  Assembly  of  the  United  Nations  as  the 
chief deliberative and policymaking body and the most 
democratic  organ  of  the  Organization.  It  has  these 
qualities  not  only  because  it  comprises  all  Member 
States,  but  also  because  of  its  responsibility  for 
supervising the balance of competence of the main and 
subsidiary  organs,  as  well  as  for  observing 
the 
implementation  of  their  mandates  and  taking  the 
necessary measures to fulfil them, if deemed necessary, 
as  would  be  the  case  if  one  of  those  organs  was  to 
exceed its mandate and infringe on the responsibilities 
of  another  organ  or  not  fulfil  the  purposes  and 
principles set out in the United Nations Charter. 

We  would  like  to  express  our  deep  appreciation 
for  the  role  of  the  Permanent  Representatives  of 
Paraguay and Poland during the past session and their 
efforts to coordinate our discussions on this important 
issue,  which  were  crowned  with  a  report  that,  as  all 
previous  speakers  have  mentioned,  shows  quality  and 
efficiency  (A/62/952).  We  would  like  to  reaffirm  our 
commitment 
the 
recommendations contained therein. 

Egypt  would  like  to  associate  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Algeria  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement. 
However,  I  would  like  to  underscore  a  number  of 
additional important points. 

First,  revitalization  of  the  role  of  the  General 
Assembly is an ongoing process based on the effective 
implementation  of Assembly  resolutions  on  this  issue 
as well as on negotiations on additional steps aimed at 
consolidating what has been achieved, on the one hand, 
and  at  adding  additional  measures  to  revitalize  the 
Assembly, on the other. This will be in accordance with 
agreements  reached  on  this  issue  during  the  sixty-
second session. However, these efforts will not succeed 
if  we  limit  ourselves  only  to  discussing  ways  to 
streamline the Assembly’s programme of work and the 
to  move 
towards 
implementing 
18 

08-61155 
that  would  allow 
Secondly,  we  elected 


mandates of its Main Committees, or if we only seek to 
reduce the number of meetings or the reports submitted 
to it. A clear and objective plan is required, one based 
on  an  integrated  strategy  to  enhance  the  Assembly’s 
capacity  to  uphold  its  responsibilities  and  to  respond 
effectively to international developments as well as to 
the needs of the peoples of the world. 

the  eighth  Secretary-
General of the Organization, by his appointment by the 
General Assembly by consensus upon recommendation 
of the Security Council. 

The  discussions  that  accompanied  that  process 
have  highlighted  the  need  to  continue  searching  for 
ways  to  solidify  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  in 
the  process  of  selecting  a  Secretary-General, 
in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Charter  and  in 
line  with  General  Assembly  resolutions  51/241  and 
60/286.  This  must  be  accomplished  by  establishing  a 
clear  mechanism 
the  General 
Assembly to evaluate the candidates, as well as present 
their names to the Security Council for examination.  

In  addition,  tighter  control  is  required  over  the 
standards that the Security Council uses in offering its 
recommendations  to  the  General Assembly,  especially 
by  banning  the  use  of  the  veto  in  selecting  the 
Secretary-General 
to  ensure  equity  and 
equality among the members of the Council on the one 
hand,  as  well  as  to  establish  a  balance  between  the 
Security  Council’s 
such 
recommendations and the General Assembly’s authority 
in appointing the recommended candidate on the other. 

We  must  put  an  end  to  the  Security  Council’s 
attempts,  increasing  day  by  day,  to  infringe  upon  the 
authority  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  must  reaffirm 
the  need  to  respect  the  separation  of  authority  and 
functions among the main organs, as stipulated by the 
Charter;  and  we  must 
the  General 
Assembly’s authority and specialization in supervising 
the  way  the  Security  Council  undertakes  its  main 
responsibilities, which requires finding a remedy to the 
imbalance in the institutional relationship between the 
two organs. We must not view this issue as an attempt 
to  undermine  the  competence  of  the  Security  Council 
in  favour  of  the  General  Assembly,  for  each  of  these 
two  organs  has  its  own  responsibilities  that  determine 
the  purpose  of  their  existence.  Moreover,  members  of 
the  Security  Council  are  also  members  of  the  General 
Assembly, which means that activating each of the two 
in  making 
in  order 
authority 
tie 
that 
to 
A/63/PV.56
inability 
to  understand 
main organs’ roles and maintaining a balance between 
them is of common purpose and in the common interest 
of all Members of the Organization.  

The need to revitalize the General Assembly also 
applies  to  its  main  role  in  issues  pertaining  to  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  in 
accordance  with Articles  10,  11,  12,  14  and  35  of  the 
Charter.  This  role  should  not  be  limited  purely  to 
funding  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  in 
areas  of  war  and  conflict,  but  it  also  should  be 
embodied in the General Assembly’s playing a real and 
tangible  role  in  preventing  conflict  as  well  as  in 
contributing to the process for settling conflicts.  

It is also tied to the need to activate the General 
Assembly’s  treatment  of  cases  where  the  Security 
Council  is  unable  to  undertake  the  responsibilities 
conferred  on  it  by  United  Nations  Member  States  for 
the maintenance of international peace and security, as 
a  result  of  the  use,  misuse  or  the  threat  of  use  of  the 
veto,  in  a  manner  that  would  reflect  the  Security 
Council’s 
the  nature  and 
dimensions  of  a  number  of  important  issues  that 
threaten  international  stability.  This  could  have  a 
negative impact on the chances of reaching settlements 
on  those  issues  and  could  prolong  conflict,  as  well  as 
increase human suffering. 

In  the  same  context,  it  is  important,  while 
implementing  the  reform  plan,  to  activate  the  roles  of 
the  General  Assembly  and  its  relevant  committees  in 
order to implement the concept of “one vote for every 
State”  and  not  place  obstacles 
the  way  of 
implementing 
the  General 
Assembly. Also,  we  must  not  seek  to  dismiss  the  role 
of  the  General  Assembly’s  supervisory  functions  — 
through  the  use  of  financial  contributions,  which  are 
evaluated  on  the  basis  of  the  ability  to  pay  —  as  a 
means to pressure the Secretariat and the Organization 
and  affect  its  neutrality.  Here,  we  must  indicate  the 
need  to  achieve  a  balance  and  rebuild  confidence 
between  developing  and  developed  countries  and  the 
Secretariat  on  a  more  equitable  basis,  so  the  General 
Assembly  can  assume  its  responsibilities  without  any 
outside influences or pressures. 

The General Assembly President’s address at the 
opening  meeting  of  the  sixty-third  session  called  for 
democratizing  the  United  Nations  based  on  several 
important  considerations.  It  reaffirmed  the  call  issued 
by world leaders in the 2005 World Summit Outcome, 
in 
issues  mandated  by 
08-61155 

19 
to 
ability 
undertake 
Mrs.  Asmady
(Indonesia):  We 
the  Organization  and 
A/63/PV.56 

which stressed the need to commit to the principles and 
purposes  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  during  the 
reform of the Organization. They also affirmed that the 
credibility  of 
its  enhanced 
capacity to undertake its responsibilities are now more 
relevant  to  the  ability  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
exercise  its  institutional  authority,  as  well  as  to 
entrench the balance between it and other organs. 

We  look  forward  to  participating  effectively  in 
the  high-level  dialogue  that  the  General  Assembly 
President  intends  to  hold  on  this  issue,  and  we  hope 
that  it  will  witness  a  real  effort  to  reach  international 
agreement  on  several  steps  that  aim  to  bolster  the 
General  Assembly’s 
its 
responsibilities,  even  though  the  differences  over  this 
issue  remain  and  are  increasingly  tense  as  a  result  of 
the  desire  of  some  to  monopolize  certain  main  and 
subsidiary  organs  by  assuming  these  responsibilities 
without  supervision  in  blatant  contradiction  to  the 
purposes and principles of the Organization. 
the 

President  for  convening  this  debate  on  the  orientation 
of  the  body  that  best  represents  the  aspirations  of  the 
global community. Let me reiterate our support for his 
efforts to enhance democracy within the larger United 
Nations Organization. We also express our gratitude to 
the Permanent Representatives of Paraguay and Poland 
for  their  work  as  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General Assembly 
and thank them for their report on the subject. 

To  address  the  international  imbalance  in  the 
socio-economic  fields  and  to  help  promote  peace,  the 
General  Assembly,  with  the  broadest  membership  of 
nations, should actively play its due role, in accordance 
with to the Charter. Indonesia will continue to play its 
part  in  the  formulation  of  measures  to  strengthen  this 
body. 

Indonesia  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
made by the representative of Algeria on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned Movement. 

To  energize  the  General  Assembly,  we  must  all 
aim to strengthen its role as the principal deliberative, 
policymaking  and  representative  organ  of  the  United 
Nations. In this regard, we need to continue to evaluate 
the 
relevant 
resolutions. Additionally, we should identify new ways 
to  enhance 
the  role,  authority,  effectiveness  and 
implementation  of 
status  of 
thank 
the 

to 
the 
level 
track 
that  positively 
efficiency  of  the  Assembly,  including  by  building  on 
previous Assembly resolutions.  

The implementation of the relevant decisions and 
resolutions on revitalizing the General Assembly cannot 
be  emphasized  strongly  enough.  The  international 
community reposes its trust in this esteemed organ and 
wants  it  to  set  norms  and  to  act  in  a  timely  manner 
when  addressing  the  world’s  ills.  Greater  and  better 
results 
impact  people  everywhere 
require all Assembly Members to implement their own 
calls and commitments, as contained in the documents 
adopted at this forum. 
We  support  some  form  of  mechanism  at  the 

Secretariat 
implementation  of 
resolutions  and  keep  the  members  of  the  General 
Assembly informed on the progress of implementation. 

It is crucial for the General Assembly to continue 
to  work  actively  in  the  areas  of  global  development, 
peace  and  security.  It  must  show  leadership  in  policy 
debates  and 
in  developing  norms  for  effectively 
dealing  with  existing  and  emerging  challenges  of 
collective  concern,  such  as  food,  energy,  climate 
change and the financial crisis. 

My delegation appreciates the General Assembly 
President’s  convening  of  recent  discussions  on  the 
global  financial  crisis.  We  hope  that  these  will  be 
followed  up  effectively,  with  special  consideration  for 
policy  proposals  aimed  at  countering  the  contagion  of 
the crisis among developing regions. 

the  complicated  and 
multifaceted  international  challenges  of  the  twenty-
first  century,  it  is  vital  that  relations  among  all 
principal  United  Nations  organs  are  balanced  and  that 
there is cooperation and collaboration on the pertinent 
issues.  It  goes  without  saying  that  all  United  Nations 
entities  must  perform  their  roles  in  accordance  with 
their  respective  mandates.  But  they  should  seek  ways 
to  create  synergies  for  targeted  purposes,  in  the  spirit 
of the global partnership for development and peace. 

In  this  context,  it  is  essential  that  the Assembly 
also  reflects  on  how  the  ongoing  deliberations  on 
Security  Council  reform,  United  Nations  system-wide 
coherence  and  the  mandate  review  can  contribute  to 
revitalizing the General Assembly. 

The  Assembly  has  an  important  role  to  also 
encourage  and  support  the  United  Nations  peace 
in 
facilitation 
To  properly  deal  with 
architecture 
further 
efforts 
and 
20 

08-61155 
from 
strong 
require 
support 


peacemaking, peacekeeping and peacebuilding, at both 
Headquarters  and  field  levels.  The  relatively  nascent 
United  Nations  institutions,  such  as  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission, 
the 
Assembly, as well as the entire United Nations system. 

Without  prejudice  to  the  United  Nations  Charter 
Article 12 and in line with Article 11, paragraph 2, as 
well  as  General  Assembly  resolution  377  (V),  the 
“Uniting  for  Peace”  resolution,  the  Assembly  should 
play  its  due  role  in  facilitating  the  promotion  of 
international peace and security. 

Moving  forward,  we  believe  that  the  General 
Assembly’s  resolutions  should  be  more  streamlined 
and action-oriented. We also need to plan and organize 
our  work  in  the  different  committees  efficiently,  with 
focused  debates  and  outcomes.  Furthermore,  it  is 
important  that  repetition  and  overlap  of  mandates  are 
avoided. But we must ensure that the rationalization of 
work  is  not  carried  out  at  the  expense  of  substantive 
matters. 
Mr.  Sumi  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  express  my 

sincere  gratitude  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly for convening today’s meeting to discuss one 
of  the  most  important  items  on  the  General Assembly 
agenda,  namely,  the  revitalization  of  its  work.  Since 
the General Assembly is represented by all the Member 
States  of  the  United  Nations  and  is  mandated  to  deal 
with  all  questions  or  matters  within  the  scope  of  the 
United Nations Charter, revitalizing its work is the core 
of the United Nations reform process. 
We  are  in  the  middle  of  useful,  major  thematic 

debates  and  panel  discussions,  and  Japan  appreciates 
this initiative. I am convinced that the outcome of the 
High-level  event  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  held  on  25  September  would  not  have  been  so 
successful  without  the  substantive  contribution  made 
by  the  General  Assembly’s  thematic  debate  held  last 
April 
achievements, 
addressing the challenges and getting back on track to 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals by 2015”. 
I  also  believe  that  the  thematic  debate  on  human 
security  held  in  May  was  extremely  fruitful,  since  it 
could  promote  understanding  by  the  United  Nations 
Member States of this very important concept relating 
to  all 
the 
Organization, such as development, international peace 
and  security  and  human  rights.  I  strongly  expect  that 
the  thematic  debate  on  that  occasion  will  enable  the 
the  major  activities  conducted  by 
“Recognizing 
entitled 
the 
A/63/PV.56
transparency, 
concept  of  human  security  to  be  incorporated  further 
into the work of the Organization. 

Another  thematic  debate  held  in  April,  entitled 
“Toward  a  Common  Understanding  on  Management 
Reform”, although a contribution to recognition of the 
current  agenda  by  Member  States,  did,  however, 
duplicate  certain  discussions  already  held  in  the  Fifth 
Committee.  In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to  point  out 
that,  considering  the  limited  resources  of  the  United 
Nations,  holding  thematic  debates  requires  a  careful 
selection  of  themes  and  content  on  a  case-by-case 
basis. 

Secondly, the General Assembly must continue to 
deploy  its  utmost  efforts  in  improving  its  work, 
discussions and decisions in order to make them more 
effective.  It  is  more  important  than  ever  to  further 
focus  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  on  priority 
to  relay  action-oriented  messages  by 
issues  and 
streamlining 
its  agenda,  reducing 
the  volume  of 
submitted  documents  and  tackling  its  activities  with 
improved  effectiveness.  In 
this  context,  I  would 
particularly  like  to  request  the  Secretariat  to  share,  in 
advance  and  with 
information 
regarding  the  agenda  items  directly  covered  by  the 
plenary of the General Assembly, such as the schedule 
of  discussions  or  actions  on  resolutions,  with  all  the 
Member States through, for example, the Journal. 

the  regular  meetings 
between the  President of the Security Council and the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  as  well  as  the 
practice  whereby  the  Secretary-General  provides  the 
General Assembly with timely briefings and reports on 
various fields. We expect cooperation and coordination 
among the principal organs of the United Nations to be 
strengthened, 
the 
revitalization process continues.  

close 
relationship  between  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Peacebuilding Commission, as the General Assembly is 
the  organ 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  and  we  appreciate  the 
active discussions on that Commission’s annual report 
to the General Assembly. 

Finally,  my  delegation  would  like  to  stress  the 
importance of the implementation of what has already 
been  agreed  upon.  Meaningful  revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly  is  possible  through  timely  and  fair 
implementation of the decisions and measures adopted. 
improved  and  encouraged  as 
that  provides  overall  guidance 
Japan  also  commends 
Japan  welcomes 
Furthermore, 
full 
the 
to 
08-61155 

21 
should  again 
focus  on 
this  agenda 
The  outcome  of 
In  anticipation  of 
the  negotiating  process 
A/63/PV.56 

In this regard, I appreciate every effort made by the Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group  and  the  Secretariat.  However, 
those efforts must be continued, and I believe that the 
ad  hoc  working  group  to  be  established  at  the  sixty-
third session of the General Assembly under resolution 
62/276 
reviewing  and 
monitoring  the  status  of  implementation  of  relevant 
resolutions. 
forthcoming  constructive 

discussion  on 
item,  my  delegation 
reiterates its commitment to contributing to revitalizing 
the work of the General Assembly.  
Mr.  Yaroshevich  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

The  question  of  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the 
United  Nations  General Assembly  is  a  priority  matter 
for  Belarus.  This  item  is  a  topical  one  for  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM)  as  well,  and  Belarus 
fully supports the NAM statement. 
to 

revitalize  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  at  the 
previous session was the adoption of resolution 62/276. 
That resolution set the format for work on this issue at 
the  sixty-third  General  Assembly  session.  It  also 
endorsed  the  report  of  the Ad  Hoc Working  Group  on 
the Revitalization of the General Assembly, as well as 
the  table  that  reflects  the  status  of  implementation  of 
previously adopted resolutions. 

This  far-reaching  result  was  achieved,  inter  alia, 
thanks  to  the  efforts  of  the  two  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
General  Assembly  —  namely, 
the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Paraguay,  Ambassador  Eladio 
Loizaga, and the Permanent Representative of Poland, 
Ambassador Andrzej Towpik. We congratulate them on 
their  creative  and  innovative  approach.  Their  careful 
handling  of  delegations’  proposals  produced  concrete 
practical results. The positive experience of the Ad Hoc 
Working Group acquired at the previous session should 
also  be  used  in  other  negotiating  processes  that  are 
taking place in the General Assembly. 

Work  to  revitalize  the  activities  of  the  General 
Assembly  is  not  an  end  in  itself.  It  should  not  be 
conducted  as  a  mere  nod  to  that  annual  tradition  of 
doing something in that area. The main purpose of that 
work  should  be  to  create  the  conditions  needed  to 
enhance the effectiveness of the General Assembly and 
to  align  its  mandate  with  current  demands  and  the 
international situation. 

recommendations  on 
ideas  should  be  followed  by 

The  work  done  in  recent  years  in  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  is  beginning  to  produce  some  initial 
results.  Thematic  debates  are  now  regularly  held  on 
urgent  international  questions.  The  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  has  the  organizational  capacity  to 
form  a  strong  team  of  professionals  in  his  office. The 
leading media have reacted to the work of the General 
Assembly and the media are paying more attention now 
to events that are taking place in this very Hall.  

However,  much  still  remains  to  be  done.  For 
example,  we  propose  that  we  work  out  a  mechanism 
for  the  Secretariat  to  record  the  most  interesting  and 
constructive  views  and  proposals  made  during  the 
General  Assembly’s  thematic  debates.  That  recording 
of 
their  analysis. 
Following  that  analysis,  it  would  be  a  good  idea  to 
prepare 
the  possibility  of 
implementing  a  delegation’s  proposals. Valuable  ideas 
should not lie fallow, but should be seized and put into 
practice.  Perhaps,  Member  States  should  take  the 
appropriate  decision  to  create  such  a  mechanism  to 
record such ideas.  

There is a need to enhance the role of the General 
Assembly in resolving issues of international peace and 
security, particularly through expanding the possibility 
for  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  convene 
special extraordinary sessions of the General Assembly. 

The  Belarus  delegation  believes  that  the  model 
and the contents of the table that was drawn up at the 
sixty-second session on the status of implementation of 
the provisions of previously adopted resolutions on the 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly 
should  serve  as  a  point  of  departure  for  work  on  that 
issue  at  this  current  session  of  the  General Assembly. 
Now,  we  can  see  better  what  the  Secretariat  and 
Member  States  need  to  work  on  jointly  to  ensure  that 
the role of the General Assembly is in keeping with the 
lofty  status  of  the  United  Nations  accorded  by  its 
Charter.  The  table  clearly  shows  those  areas  and 
decisions  where  progress  has  been  absent  or 
insignificant. It could serve as a guide for action for the 
United Nations Secretariat and Member States.  

Even  today,  we  must  draw  attention  to  the 
inadmissibility  of  significant,  unjustified  delay  in  the 
preparation  of  reports  for  Member  States,  and,  in  a 
number  of  cases,  the  reports  were  prepared,  but  were 
not sufficiently specific.  
22 

08-61155 
in 



We  also  believe  that  it  is  high  time  to  start 
thinking  about  finding  ways  to  really  involve  the 
General  Assembly 
the  process  of  selecting 
candidacies for the post of Head of the United Nations 
Secretariat.  The  fact  that  no  provisions  under  the 
category  Election  of  the  Secretary-General  have  been 
fulfilled  causes  profound  concern  and  requires  due 
action to be taken. On the one hand, the interests of the 
General Assembly in electing the Secretary-General of 
the  United  Nations  are  a  stumbling  block  in  the 
Security  Council-General  Assembly  context.  On  the 
other  hand,  however,  satisfying  those  interests  would 
be  a  real  opportunity  to  improve  the  atmosphere  of 
trust among the principal organs of the United Nations 
and  to  establish  a  genuinely  equal  cooperation  among 
them on that matter. 

The  Belarus  delegation  intends  to  continue  to 
make  a  constructive  contribution  to  the  negotiating 
process  on  revitalizing  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly  of  the  United  Nations  and  is  prepared  to 
propose ideas to enhance that work within the Working 
Group. 
Ms.  Yusof  (Malaysia):  It  is  a  pleasure  for 

Malaysia  to  participate  in  this  debate  on  agenda  item 
110  on  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly.  It  is  even  more  of  an  honour  for  my 
delegation to participate in this year’s debate under the 
stewardship of a General Assembly President who has 
made  democratization  of 
the  United  Nations  a 
cornerstone  of  his  presidency.  We  hope  that  in  his 
efforts  to  democratize  the  United  Nations,  he  will  be 
able  to  imbue  the  General  Assembly  with  renewed 
vigour  and  a  sense  of  ownership  in  the  issues  being 
discussed. 

Allow  me  to  take  this  opportunity  to  align  my 
delegation  with 
the 
representative of Algeria on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement (NAM). 

The issue of the revitalization of the work of the 
General Assembly has been a subject of plenary debate 
since  1991.  However,  only  two  short  years  ago,  in 
adopting  resolution  61/292,  the  General  Assembly 
established 
the 
revitalization  of  the  General Assembly  to  address  that 
issue.  We  are  pleased  to  see  that  the  Working  Group 
has  been  hard  at  work  in  discharging  its  mandate  this 
past year. 
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on 
statement  made  by 
the 
A/63/PV.56

In  that  regard,  the  work  of  the  co-Chairs  of  the 
Working Group, Ambassador Loizaga of Paraguay and 
Ambassador  Towpik  of  Poland,  must  be  given  due 
recognition. By May 2008, the co-Chairs were able to 
circulate a matrix of all the relevant provisions on the 
revitalization  of 
the  General  Assembly.  Malaysia 
welcomes  that  step  forward  by  the  co-Chairs.  That  is 
the  crystallization  of  what  Malaysia  and  other  NAM 
members have requested since the fifty-ninth session of 
the  General  Assembly.  With  the  publication  of  the 
matrix,  it  became  much  easier  to  identify  which 
relevant provisions have been implemented and which 
still remain to be so. 

The matrix itself, however, is merely a procedural 
aspect to the ongoing deliberations in the revitalization 
of  the  General  Assembly.  Substantively,  the  General 
Assembly must reclaim its central role, including in the 
maintenance  of  peace  and  security,  as  laid  down  in 
Article  11  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  Relations 
between the other organs of the United Nations and the 
General  Assembly  must  be  strengthened,  and  the 
contents  of  meetings  that  take  place  between  the 
Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security 
Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  should 
be  disseminated 
the  wider  United  Nations 
membership.  As  the  chief  deliberative  organ  of  the 
United  Nations  with  universal  membership, 
the 
General Assembly and Member States must be kept in 
the loop. 

One of the matters that has always been a subject 
in  the  debate  on  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly  is  the  issuance  of  documentation,  or  more 
specifically 
the 
Secretariat.  After  going  over  this  matter  again  and 
again,  it  is  perhaps  ironic  that  the  Secretary-General’s 
report  on  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly, 
contained in document A/62/608, was also issued late. 
The report was only made available to Member States 
on  10  January  2008.  Malaysia  agrees  that  the  late 
issuance  of  any  report  should  be  accompanied  by  an 
explanation, citing specific reasons for the delay. That 
would  help  assist  Member  States  in  understanding  the 
problem. 
Malaysia  has  always  welcomed  the  holding  of 

thematic  debates  in  the  General  Assembly.  However, 
we  believe  that  the  decision  to  hold  those  thematic 
debates  must  be  done  in  concurrence  with  the  general 
membership  of 
the  Assembly.  That  would  allow 
the 
the  opportunity 
Member  States 
issuance  of  reports  by 
to  prioritize 
late 
to 
the 
08-61155 

23 

the  Working  Group  on 
initiative  of  holding  an 
A/63/PV.56 

thematic  debates  to  be  held  throughout  the  year.  We 
understand 
that  all  subjects  should  be  equally 
important,  but  also  that  there  exist  certain  priorities 
when resources are finite. 

Thematic  debates  and  high-level  segments  must 
also be action-oriented in order to ensure that optimum 
benefit  is  derived  from  the  holding  of  those  debates 
and  segments. A  lot  of  effort,  publicity  and  resources 
go into the holding of those thematic debates and high-
level  segments.  It  is  only  fitting,  therefore,  that  those 
debates end with some form of outcome or proposal. 

Thematic  debates,  panel  discussions  and  high-
level  segments  are  the  General  Assembly’s  way  of 
ensuring  that  it  maintains  its  finger  on  the  pulse  of 
today’s  fast-paced  world.  Malaysia  welcomes 
the 
recent 
interactive  panel 
discussion  on  the  global  financial  crisis.  The  timing 
could never have been better. 
In conclusion, Malaysia looks forward to working 

constructively  within 
the 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  at  this  sixty-
third  session.  Malaysia  believes  that  there  is  great 
potential  in  this  Working  Group  and  is  confident  that 
the  Group’s  discussions  will  further  contribute  to  the 
process  of  the  revitalization  of  the  General Assembly 
as a whole. 
the 

delegation of Nepal would like to thank the co-Chairs 
of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the revitalization of 
the  General  Assembly  for  their  diligent  work  on  the 
preparation  of  the  report  (A/62/952).  My  delegation 
associates  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative  of  Algeria  on  behalf  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement. 
Under  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the 

General  Assembly 
deliberative, 
policymaking  and  representative  organ  of  the  United 
Nations.  It 
the 
acclaimed values of universal democratic representation 
and the sovereign equality of nations. 

The President of the General Assembly has rightly 
highlighted  the  importance  of  the  democratization  of 
the  United  Nations.  That  should  start  with 
the 
revitalization of the General Assembly so as to allow it 
to  play  its  role  as  the  principal  organ  of  the  United 
Nations. 
the  highest  organ  embracing 
Mr.  Bhandari  (Nepal):  At 
the  outset, 
is 
the  main 
is 
in 
the 
the  heads  of 
the  other  organs, 

First,  we  need  to  strengthen  the  Office  of  the 
President of the General Assembly and its coordination 
with 
the  Main 
Committee Bureaux and the Secretariat.  

Secondly,  we  need  to  protect  the  jurisdiction  of 
the  legislative  authority  of  the  General  Assembly  by 
allowing  it  to  proactively  adopt  legislation,  putting  an 
end  to  the  current  practice  whereby  the  Security 
Council adopts resolutions of a legislative nature. 

Thirdly, the deliberative authority of the General 
Assembly  should  be  strengthened,  bringing  in  more 
frequent  discussions  on  issues  of  pressing  concern  to 
the membership. The General Assembly should play a 
more proactive role in finding solutions to the world’s 
emerging crises, such as climate change, the food crisis 
and  the  global  financial  crisis. The  General Assembly 
should  also  focus  its  efforts  on  the  challenges  of 
development,  such  as 
implementation  of 
internationally  agreed  goals,  especially  in  the  least 
developed  countries,  landlocked  developing  countries, 
small  States  and  countries  emerging  from  conflict. 
With  regard  to  all  those  issues,  the  General Assembly 
should aim to produce result-oriented outcomes, rather 
than serving as a mere deliberative talk shop. 
Fourthly, we should be making more efficient use 

of 
the  budget-making  authority  of 
the  General 
Assembly as a step towards revitalizing that body. We 
need  to  strengthen  the  budgetary  authority  of  the 
General Assembly, especially its Fifth Committee, over 
the  functions  and  activities  of  all  the  organs  of  the 
United Nations. 

We welcome the practice of informal briefings by 
the Secretary-General to the General Assembly, which 
enhances  transparency  and  accountability  within  the 
United  Nations  system.  It  would  be  more  useful  to 
have such briefings at regular intervals, such as once a 
month. 

It  is  imperative  for  us  to  strengthen  the  capacity 
of  the  General Assembly  to  implement  its  resolutions. 
At the same time, we should not overburden the General 
Assembly with repetitive and obsolete mandates. 

The image and authority of the General Assembly 
reflects  upon  the  image  of  the  United  Nations.  If  we 
fail  to  revitalize  this  most  important  organ,  our 
Organization will not serve the purpose it was created 
for.  Therefore,  we  must  strive  to  make  the  General 
Assembly more proactive, stronger and more efficient. 
24 

08-61155 
the 
revitalization  of 



On behalf of the delegation of Nepal, I would like 
to  pledge  our  strong  support  for  the  continuous 
revitalization of the General Assembly so as to make it 
capable  of  taking  on  the  numerous  challenges  we  are 
facing  today,  with  a  view  to  enabling  it  to  fulfil  the 
objectives of the United Nations, as per its Charter. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Venezuela)  (spoke 
in 

Spanish):  I  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to 
the presidency for the way in which it has carried out 
the work of this General Assembly and for addressing 
one of the most important issues on the United Nations 
agenda. 

May  I  also  express  our  gratitude  for  the  work 
done by the facilitators of the Ad Hoc Working Group 
on 
the  General  Assembly, 
Ambassador Eladio Loizaga, Permanent Representative 
of the Republic of Paraguay, and Ambassador Andrzej 
Towpik, Permanent Representative of Poland. 
We  also  explicitly  associate  ourselves  with  the 

statement  of  the Ambassador  of Algeria,  on  behalf  of 
the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries. 

The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  is 
today  a  fundamental  element  not  only  of  the  reform 
process  of  the  United  Nations  system,  but  also  of  the 
process  of  adjustments  and  changes  demanded  by 
people  throughout  the  world,  made  urgent  by  the 
greatest  crisis  of  capitalism  since  the  Second  World 
War  and  manifested,  in  all  its  poignancy,  in  the 
financial crisis that is affecting the world today. 

We  find  ourselves  at  a  historic  time,  when  the 
General Assembly, the principal deliberative, standard-
setting and representative organ of the United Nations 
and  the  sole  multilateral,  universal  intergovernmental 
forum,  must  at  last  show  leadership  on  today’s  global 
issues.  Thus,  we  believe  that  the  revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly is a task that cannot be delayed. 

Revitalizing  the  General  Assembly  means  its 
strengthening  as  a  special  forum  to  promote  dialogue 
and cooperation in the search for solutions to problems 
affecting  peace  and 
social  and  economic 
development  of  peoples.  The  revitalization  must 
provide for full respect of the powers and functions of 
this  highest  forum,  as  set  forth  in  the  Charter,  with 
strengthened coordination of its work, particularly with 
the Security Council.  
We  also  believe  that  revitalizing  the  General 

Assembly  must  be  geared  to  ensuring  that  the  United 
the 
A/63/PV.56
Nations  can  respond  effectively  and  legitimately  in 
matters  concerning  the  promotion  of  peace.  But  the 
Assembly should also address the economic, social and 
environmental  issues  affecting  the  poor  of  the  world, 
given the consequences for world security and stability 
and  the  horribly  unjust  inequalities  prevailing  in  the 
world, in particular in developing countries.  

The process of revitalizing the General Assembly 
is  contingent  on  the  political  will  of  member  States. 
The  process  must  be  based  on  the  principles  of 
democracy,  transparency  and  accountability  by  means 
of  open  and  participative  consultations.  We  deeply 
believe that the process of strengthening and reforming 
the Assembly will be possible only if the principles and 
purposes  of  the  Charter  and  the  resolutions  of  the 
Assembly  are  fully  respected  by  all  States,  without 
exception, regardless of the role they play today on the 
international  scene  in  building  a  multipolar  world. 
There must therefore be no first-class and second-class 
countries. The  legal  equality  of  States  and  respect  for 
sovereignty  and  self-determination  must  be  the  pillars 
of an Organization based on equity and fairness.  

The President of the General Assembly can count 
on  the  support  and  contribution  of  the  Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela to the strengthening of the role 
of  the  Assembly  and  its  revitalization,  one  of  the 
unresolved issues facing humanity today. I also assure 
him that our delegation will actively participate in the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly,  which,  as  he  knows,  is  working  in 
accordance with resolution 62/276.  
Ms.  Espinosa  (Ecuador)  (spoke in Spanish):  My 

delegation  would  like  to  begin  by  associating  itself 
the  Permanent 
with 
Representative  of  Algeria  on  behalf  of 
the 
Non-Aligned Movement.  

its 
congratulations and gratitude for the excellent job done 
by  the  co-facilitators,  Ambassador  Eladio  Loizaga, 
Permanent Representative of Paraguay, and Ambassador 
Andrzej Towpik, Permanent Representative of Poland. 
We  acknowledge  their  leadership,  the  transparency 
with which  they conducted the consultations and their 
efficient work in carrying out a careful inventory of the 
implementation  of  resolutions  on  this  matter,  through 
which  we  can  now  analyse  the  status  of  the  mandates 
of  the  various  resolutions.  This  process  led  to  the 
adoption  of  resolution  62/276  by  consensus,  which 
My  delegation  would 
statement  made  by 
reiterate 
the 
like 
to 
08-61155 

25 

the  political  will  of  our  States 
A/63/PV.56 

demonstrated 
to 
strengthen  the  General  Assembly  and  re-establish  its 
authority. 

The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  is  a 
central  element  in  the  genuine  reform  of  the  United 
Nations.  It  is  of  paramount  importance  to  reassert  the 
key role of the Assembly as the principle deliberative, 
normative,  and  policymaking  organ  and  as  the  organ 
that is the most representative of the States Members of 
the  Organization.  Since  a  balance  must  be  struck 
between  the  principle  organs  of  the  United  Nations, 
Member States must strengthen the thematic agenda of 
the  Assembly  and  ensure  that  the  Security  Council 
fulfils  its  objectives  and  mandates  in  accordance  with 
the principles set forth in the United Nations Charter. 

Today’s world demands that the General Assembly 
pronounce  itself  in  a  timely,  informed  and  decisive 
manner on those matters that affect and concern all of 
us.  The  financial,  food,  energy  and  climate  change 
crises  require  careful  analysis,  concerted  responses, 
political  commitments  and  guidelines  for  action.  This 
is the role of the Assembly, and we therefore welcome 
the initiative of the President of the General Assembly 
to  convene  a  discussion  panel  on  the  financial  crisis 
and  to  create  a  group  of  experts  providing  Member 
States  with  detailed 
information,  analysis  and 
alternative ways out of the financial crisis.  

We must also work on the three pillars recognized 
by heads of State in the 2005 World Summit Outcome: 
security,  development  and  the  environment.  Thus,  it 
must be recognized that all United Nations organs must 
work  in  a  coordinated  fashion  on  these  matters.  It  is 
also  important  that  the  outcome  of  the  deliberations 
and  the  commitments  undertaken  as  a  result  of  those 
deliberations receive public recognition and recognition 
by  the  international  community  as  a  whole.  The 
promotion of the work carried out by our Organization 
must  be  made  known  and  accepted  not  just  by  our 
Governments,  but  by  all  social  actors  and  by  public 
opinion in general.  

It  is  therefore  imperative  that  the  mandate  for 
revitalization  include  urgent  measures  to  improve  and 
strengthen  interaction  between  the  Secretariat  and  the 
General  Assembly  so  that  the  implementation  of 
mandates can be carried out effectively. It is urgent for 
us 
the  mechanisms  of 
interaction, monitoring and accountability between the 
various organs of the system.  
to  work  on 
improving 
the  Assembly 
is 
in 
the 
revitalization  of 
system  and  efficiency 

Ecuador  also  believes  it  necessary  to  define  in 
greater detail the road map and results achieved at this 
session  regarding  the  matter  we  are  addressing  today. 
My delegation believes that we are meeting at a special 
time,  since  the  President  of  the  Assembly  has  given 
high  priority  to  the  democratization  of  the  United 
Nations. 

The 
the 
cornerstone of this process. It is therefore important to 
move  resolutely  forward  and to  continue  on  this  path, 
which  has  proven  itself  to  be  open,  inclusive  and 
transparent.  We  now  need  to  achieve  more  tangible 
results  that  improve  the  balance  between  the  various 
organs  of 
the 
policymaking  and  deliberative  work  of  the  General 
Assembly and in the implementation of the agreements 
and mandates of the Assembly.  

In  conclusion,  Ecuador  reiterates  its  ongoing 
readiness to support the actions of the Chairman of the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly  in  order  to  achieve  progress  in  this 
regard.  The  President  of  the  Assembly  can  therefore 
rest  assured  of  the  support  and  active  participation  of 
my delegation. 
Mr. Siva (India): India is happy to participate in 

the  debate  on 
the  General 
Assembly. This is one of the most important issues on 
the agenda of the Assembly at its sixty-third session, as 
it  addresses  fundamental  questions  about  the  structure 
and functioning of the world order. 
India would like to align itself with the statement 

on  this  issue  made  by  the  delegation  of  Algeria  on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  take  note  of  the 
proceedings  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization  of 
the  General  Assembly  created 
pursuant to a decision of the Assembly at its sixty-first 
session.  The  Group  has  painstakingly  catalogued 
decisions  in  this  regard  and  divided  them  into  three 
main  clusters.  These  clusters  deal  with,  first,  working 
methods,  documentation  and  agenda, 
inter  alia; 
secondly,  selection  of 
the  Secretary-General;  and 
finally,  the  role  and  authority  of  the  Assembly.  This 
helps us obtain an overview of where the revitalization 
process stands. 

A  review  of  the  situation  reveals,  to  our  regret 
although perhaps not to our surprise, that very limited 
the  revitalization  of 
26 

08-61155 


progress  has  been  made  on  this  issue  since  it  was 
introduced into the agenda of the General Assembly at 
its forty-sixth session. My delegation acknowledges the 
importance  of  progress  where  it  has  taken  place, 
particularly in those areas where practical results have 
been obtained. However, there is a limit to the extent to 
which  discussions  relating  to  time  limits  on  speeches 
and  provisions  relating  to  modern  technologies  will 
revitalize the Assembly. 

India’s  position  on  this  issue  is  guided  by  its 
desire  to  have  a  more  effective  United  Nations.  India 
also  wants  an  Organization  that  is  more  responsive  to 
the  priorities  and  aspirations  of  the  Member  States, 
particularly the developing countries, which constitute 
the vast majority of Member States. 

India believes that the General Assembly will not 
be  empowered  merely  by  strengthening  procedures.  It 
will  be  empowered  only  if  its  position  as  the  chief 
deliberative, policymaking and representative organ of 
the  United  Nations  is  respected  in  letter  and  in  spirit. 
This requires that the Assembly take the lead in setting 
the global agenda. The convening power of the United 
Nations  must  be  used  more  decisively,  particularly  on 
economic  issues.  The Assembly  must  also  restore  the 
centrality of the United Nations in development matters. 
The thematic debates have been a step forward, as have 
been 
the 
Development Cooperation Forum of the Economic and 
Social Council. However, more needs to be done. 

The  benefits  of  involving  the  General Assembly 
in international economic governance have been made 
evident during the current financial crisis. A section of 
its  membership  drawn  from  the  global  South  has 
consistently pointed out that the economic orthodoxies 
proposed  by  a  group  of  nations  have  grave 
shortcomings.  These  fears,  often  voiced 
this 
Assembly and its Committees, have been validated by 
recent  events.  Events  have  also  underscored 
the 
importance of giving a representative body such as the 
Assembly  a  much  greater  say 
the 
international  economic  and  financial  architecture, 
particularly  in  the  reform  of  the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions. 

Control  over  legislation,  over  materials  and  over 
men confers power. Within the United Nations system, 
it  is  the  Security  Council,  with  its  opaque  working 
methods  and  widely  accepted  need  for  reform,  that 
controls certain vital legislation and senior manpower. 
annual  ministerial 
in  shaping 
in 
the 
review 
and 
A/63/PV.56
the 
While  the  Assembly  has  some  influence  through  the 
Fifth  Committee  and  the  budgetary  process,  there  is  a 
fundamental disparity of authority between the Council 
and the Assembly. 

One  of  the  more  egregious  examples  of  how 
disparity  manifests  itself  is  through  the  process  of 
selecting the Secretary-General. India’s view is that the 
General Assembly, being the voice of the international 
community, must be given a greater say in the process 
of  selection.  Several  mechanisms  to  put  in  place  a 
more  inclusive  and  transparent  procedure  for  the 
appointment  of  the  Secretary-General,  in  accordance 
with  Article  97  of  the  Charter,  have  been  proposed. 
Efforts  in  this  direction  are  better  undertaken  when  a 
selection  process  is  not  on  the  horizon  or  under  way. 
This is an appropriate time. 
In  our  view,  the  appointment  of  high-ranking 

United  Nations  officials  at 
level  of  Under-
Secretary-General and Deputy Secretary-General should 
also  be  subject  to  scrutiny  by  the  general  body  of  the 
Member  States  as  represented  through  the  General 
Assembly.  Thus,  candidates  for  such  senior  positions 
should  be  required  to  be  confirmed  by  the Assembly. 
This  practice  is  observed  in  many  countries  and  is 
consistent  with 
the  principles  of  democracy  and 
representative governance. 

The  issue  of  preventing  encroachment  upon  the 
mandate  of  the  General  Assembly  and  of  making  the 
Security  Council  more  responsive  to  it  must  also  be 
addressed.  The  Assembly’s  competence  in  areas  such 
as  the  process  of  standard-setting  and  codification  of 
international law must be scrupulously respected. 

I  would  like  to  conclude  by  submitting  that  it  is 
only  the  presence  of  political  will  that  will  revitalize 
and empower the General Assembly. It is only political 
will that will provide the Assembly with the tools and 
the mechanisms that will enable it to have a role in the 
making and implementation of international law and in 
the  creation  and  maintenance  of  a  just  and  equitable 
world order. 

The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  has 
been on its agenda for the past 18 years. India believes 
that  there  must  be  meaningful  progress  in  the  areas  I 
have  outlined  to  prevent  this  debate  from  becoming  a 
sterile discussion. 
Mr.  Tarragô  (Brazil):  It  is  no  coincidence  that 

the  joint  debate  on  the  report  of  the  Security  Council 
08-61155 

27 
the  reform  of 
the  Secretary-General  and 
A/63/PV.56 

and 
that  organ  has  been  almost 
immediately followed by the debate on the revitalization 
of  the  General Assembly.  Linking  them  is  a  common 
thread:  the  unique  role  and  authority  of  the Assembly 
and  the  need  to  keep  it  strong  and  relevant  in  its 
relation  with  other  principal  organs  and  with  the 
international community as a whole. This has been one 
of the priorities of the current President of the General 
Assembly,  even  since  before  he  took  office,  and  my 
delegation welcomes his leadership in this endeavour. 

Much  has  been  said  on  the  revitalization  of  the 
General  Assembly  and,  in  line  with  resolutions  we 
have adopted, I will be brief.  

There  are  several  aspects  to  the  matter,  many  of 
them  of  high  political  significance.  Among  them,  I 
would  single  out  the  role  of  the  General Assembly  in 
the  selection  of 
the 
relationship  between  the  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council. But today, I wish to mention one element that 
my  delegation  deems  crucial:  the  role  of  this  body 
itself in its revitalization. 

To  a  large  extent,  it  is  up  to  the  member  States 
represented in this Hall to take the measures needed to 
maintain  the  vitality  of  the  General  Assembly.  The 
Charter  grants  it  full  authority  to  consider  whatever 
issue it sees fit, including those related to international 
peace  and  security,  without  prejudice  to  the  functions 
and powers of the Security Council. We are masters of 
our  agenda  and  of  our  political  initiatives.  We  should 
use  that  authority  and  clout  to  preserve  the Assembly 
as a central actor in the international system. 
This is something we have been doing more and 

more  often 
thematic  and 
interactive  debates  and  similar  actions  constitute  a 
perfect  example.  They  help  to  keep  the  General 
Assembly  involved  in  the  discussion  of  key  global 
problems.  More 
to 
generating  global  responses  to  such  problems.  This  is 
the case, for example, with the debate organized by the 
President  of  the  Assembly  this  past  October  on  the 
current financial crisis. 
recent  years.  The 
they  contribute 
importantly, 
in 

the 
the 
and 
issue, 
initiatives 
We  can  also  ensure  the  vitality  of  the  General 

Assembly  —  and,  depending  on 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  —  by  exploring  their 
functions  as  channels  of  communication  between 
limited-composition 
larger 
international  community.  One  good  example,  once 
again  in  the  economic  domain,  is  the  financial  crisis. 
The  Assembly,  with  a  political  approach,  and  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  with  a  technical  one, 
could  help  to  articulate  what  is  being  discussed 
elsewhere in the international financial institutions and 
related forums and involve the broader membership of 
the United Nations. Each instance has its proper role to 
play, and we should be cognizant of their specificities, 
but  they  can  certainly  establish  a  dialogue  and  profit 
from that dialogue. 

All  this,  and  more,  is  within  our  power.  It  is  a 
matter  of  us  having  the  will  to  take  up  issues  and 
articulate initiatives. The General Assembly is unique, 
as  it  brings  together  the  whole  of  the  international 
community. We, the member States, should be diligent 
and  sometimes  bold  enough  to  use  it  to  promote  the 
realization  of  the  goals  enshrined  in  the  Charter  and 
agreed  to  in  numerous  instruments.  Every  time  the 
Assembly  acts,  we  become  more  likely  to  make  a 
difference on the ground, even if indirectly.  

We  should  not  shy  away  from  negotiating  the 
required  decisions  to  make  the  United  Nations  and  its 
organs more legitimate, democratic and representative. 
In so doing, we will be working to allay the threats to 
life  on  the  planet  and  improve  the  well-being  of  our 
peoples.   
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  in  the  debate  on  this  item. The Assembly  has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 110. 
The meeting was adjourned at 1.05 p.m. 

28 

08-61155 
