
A/63/PV.18
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixth-third session 

18th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 2 October 2008, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 







  In the absence of the President, Mr. Yáñez-
Barnuevo (Spain), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 

High-level plenary meeting devoted to the midterm 
review of the Almaty Programme of Action 
Agenda item 52 (continued) 
Groups of countries in special situations 
  (b)  Specific actions related to the particular needs 





and problems of landlocked developing 
countries: outcome of the International 
Ministerial Conference of Landlocked and 
Transit Developing Countries and Donor 
Countries and International Financial and 
Development Institutions on Transit  
Transport Cooperation  
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/165) 

  Draft resolution (A/63/L.3*) 

The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I give 

the floor to His Excellency Mr. Thongloung Sisoulith, 
Deputy  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic. 
Mr. Sisoulith (Lao People’s Democratic Republic): 

On  behalf  of  the  Lao  delegation,  I  congratulate  the 
President  of  the  Assembly  on  his  election  to  preside 
over this important forum. 

I  also  commend  Ambassador  Yukio  Takasu  of 
Japan  for  the  efficient  manner  in  which  he  facilitated 

the  negotiations  on  the  outcome  document  of  this 
meeting. 

We thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his 
comprehensive  report  on  the  implementation  of  the 
Almaty Programme of Action. We feel pleased with the 
progress made thus far. The special problems and needs 
of landlocked developing countries (LLDCs) have been 
widely recognized, and greater attention and resources 
have  been  given  by  regional  and  global  multilateral 
and  development  institutions  to  the  establishment  of 
efficient transit systems. 

Yet  more  remains  to  be  done  for  the  Almaty 
Programme  of  Action  to  be  made  a  reality.  In  that 
regard,  further  actions  are  required  to  accelerate  the 
process  of  establishing  viable  and  predictable  transit 
the  promotion  of  regional  and 
systems 
subregional 
closer 
cooperation  between  LLDCs  and  their  neighbours, 
transit  policy  reforms  and  trade  facilitation  measures. 
It is also important to provide greater market access for 
goods originating from LLDCs. 

Despite some progress, the economic growth and 
social well-being of LLDCs remain very vulnerable to 
external shocks and the multiple challenges facing the 
international  community:  financial  instability,  global 
economic slow-down, hikes in food and fuel prices and 
the impact of climate change. The LLDCs continue to 
be  marginalized  from  the  international  trading  system 
due to their high transaction costs, which prevent them 
from maximizing the use of trade as an instrument for 
achieving their development goals. 
arrangements, 
cooperative 
through 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-53293 (E) 
*0853293* 
the 
the  road 
The  draft  declaration  will 
A/63/PV.18 


re-energize  all 
stakeholders to do more towards the fulfilment of their 
respective  commitments,  as  called  for  in  the  Almaty 
Programme of Action. 

Since its adoption, the Programme of Action has 
been  translated  into  the  development  strategies  of  the 
Lao  Government.  The  National  Transport  Committee, 
under the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, was 
established  as  a  monitoring  and  reporting  mechanism. 
Strategically  located  in  the  heart  of  the  emerging 
Greater  Mekong  Subregion, 
the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic  has  upheld  its  firm  commitment 
to  actively  participate 
subregional  and 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN) 
economic cooperation frameworks. 
To  reap  benefits  from  regional  and  subregional 

cooperation  programmes  while  promoting 
trade, 
investment and tourism, the Government is pursuing a 
policy of gradual transformation from a landlocked to a 
land-linked  nation,  with  priorities  given 
the 
development  of 
transport  network  and 
regional  and  international  linkages,  including  railway 
links and road maintenance and rehabilitation. 

At the third summit of the leaders of the Greater 
Mekong  Subregion,  held  in  Vientiane,  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic,  in  March  2008,  the  leaders  of 
our  six  countries  adopted  a  Joint  Summit  Declaration 
and  the  Vientiane  Plan  of Action  for  Greater  Mekong 
Subregion  development  from  2008  to  2012  under  the 
theme  “Enhancing  competitiveness  through  greater 
connectivity”. 
Our  leaders  reaffirmed  their  commitment  to 

linkages.  They  also 
fostering  closer  subregional 
pledged 
and 
improvement  of  the  remaining  sections  of  subregional 
corridors  and  to  expand  the  corridor  network  through 
multimodal 
the  Singapore-
Kunming rail link. 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 

To  conclude, 
Republic  reaffirms  its  unwavering  commitment  to 
continue to cooperate with other fellow LLDCs and its 
transit 
the 
implementation of the Almaty Programme of Action. 

We  sincerely  thank  all  donors  for  the  generous 
aid  they  have  provided  to  us  over  the  past  years. Yet, 
with 
least 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
developed  country, 
limited  capacity  as  a 
construction 
neighbours 
landlocked 
accelerate 
follow-up 
including 
linkages, 
the 
its 
in 
the 
to 
to 
in 

to 
I 
the 
and 
informative 
Secretary-General 
for 
report  on 
those  groups  of  countries 
Republic  hopes  to  receive  increased  support  and 
assistance  from  the  donor  community,  including  the 
United Nations system. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  The  Honourable 
Phandu  T.  C.  Skalemani,  Minister  for  Foreign Affairs 
and International Cooperation of Botswana. 
Mr. Skalemani (Botswana): Botswana welcomes 

the  convening  of  this  high-level  plenary  meeting  to 
review  progress  in  the  implementation  of  the  Almaty 
Programme  of  Action  for 
landlocked  developing 
countries. 
a 

thank 
comprehensive 
the 
implementation of the Almaty Programme of Action. I 
also  acknowledge  the  important  work  of  the  Office  of 
the  High  Representative  for  the  Least  Developed 
Countries,  Landlocked  Developing  Countries  and 
Small Island Developing States in its instrumental role 
of  coordination  and  advocacy  of  the  development 
agenda  of 
in  special 
situations. 

This meeting is very timely, especially as it takes 
place  shortly  after  the  high-level  meetings  on  the 
development  needs  of  Africa  and  the  review  of  the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs).  The  effective  implementation  of  the Almaty 
Programme  of  Action,  which  is  one  of  the  crucial 
enablers  for  the  attainment  of  the  Goals,  will  open  up 
opportunities 
and 
development. 

The Almaty Programme of Action, adopted by the 
Assembly in August 2003, was the first comprehensive 
global  strategy  to  address  the  special  needs  of,  and 
challenges  facing,  landlocked  developing  countries.  It 
recognized  the  constraints  posed  by  lack  of  efficient 
transit transport routes and the associated high costs of 
land  transportation,  which  have  a  negative  impact  on 
both  the  competitiveness  of  exports  of  landlocked 
countries  and  access  to  imported  goods.  Botswana  is 
doing its  part to implement the Almaty  Programme of 
Action. 

Botswana  lies  at  the  centre  of  the  southern 
African  plateau  and  is  surrounded  by  four  countries, 
with 
approximately 
762 kilometres away. Our geographical location puts us 
economic  growth 
seaport  being 
the  nearest 
trade, 
for 
2 

08-53293 


at  a  disadvantage  with  regard  to  access  to  cheaper 
means of transportation. 

Though  landlocked,  we  are  a  key  transit  route, 
with  a  responsibility  to  facilitate  the  smooth  and 
efficient  flow  of  the  transit  of  goods.  We  take  this 
responsibility  seriously,  as  demonstrated  by 
the 
programmes  we have undertaken at the  national level, 
bilaterally  with  our  neighbours  and  within 
the 
framework  of 
the  Southern  African  Development 
Community (SADC). 
We  take  a  large  amount  of  transit  traffic  from 

south to north as well as from east to west. The Walvis 
Bay  corridor,  or  trans-Kalahari  corridor,  runs  through 
linking  Namibia, 
the  western  part  of  Botswana, 
Botswana  and  South  Africa,  while 
the  Durban-
Lubumbashi  corridor  traverses  a  section  of  Botswana, 
connecting  us  with  Zambia,  the  Democratic  Republic 
of the Congo and South Africa. 
In  this  context,  Botswana  envisages  the  creation 

of  one-stop  border  posts  in  order  to  address  delays  at 
the  border.  These  posts  will  benefit  the  adjoining 
countries in terms of reduced transport costs and transit 
time. 

the  assistance, 
support  and  cooperation  it  receives  from  transit  and 
coastal  neighbouring  States.  It  is  most  gratifying  that 
Botswana’s 
through  our 
neighbours’  roads,  railways  and  ports  unhindered.  It 
therefore  follows  that  any  assistance  extended  to 
coastal  and  transit  States  in  the  development  of 
efficient  transport  infrastructure  is  crucial  to  the  trade 
routes of landlocked countries. In that regard, ongoing 
efforts to intensify economic cooperation and regional 
interaction  deserve  increased  financial  and  technical 
support. 

As a developing country, Botswana imports most 
of  its  production  inputs,  which,  for  an  economy  like 
ours, dominated by mining activity, amounts to a large 
volume of equipment annually. It is therefore vital that 
we  secure  efficient  transport  routes  and  services  to 
facilitate  the  movement  of  goods.  Botswana  therefore 
attaches  great  importance  to  bilateral  and  regional 
arrangements  to  simplify,  harmonize  and  standardize 
rules  on  transport  and  transit  so  as  to  minimize  trade 
costs  and  make  our  products  competitive 
in 
international markets. 
Botswana  highly  appreciates 
imports  and  exports  go 
A/63/PV.18
in 
Assistance  for 
if  fully 
for  communities 
residing  along 
flow  of 
trade,  Botswana 
their  operations,  so  as 

It  is  the  view  of  my  delegation  that  there  is  an 
urgent need to strengthen and harmonize initiatives and 
programmes  of  regional  economic  communities,  the 
United  Nations,  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  and 
development banks, in order to achieve proper synergy 
and  coordination 
to 
complement the Almaty Programme of Action. 

the  rehabilitation  of  existing 
transport  infrastructure  is  critical.  That  would  ensure 
viability of transport corridors and sustained economic 
spin-offs 
those 
corridors. 
In  order  to  further  facilitate  the  speedy  and 

efficient 
is  currently 
undertaking  expansion  of  the  Sir  Seretse  Khama 
International Airport  in  Gaborone. The  airport  will  be 
able to accommodate bigger aircraft, which will enable 
the transportation of large volumes of goods. 
Botswana’s  classification  as  a  middle-income 

country presents some challenges, as we cannot access 
development  assistance  from  donor  agencies.  The 
unique circumstances of landlocked countries in terms 
of infrastructure development should therefore be taken 
into  account,  as 
they  present  serious  capacity 
constraints. As  a  result,  achievement  of  the  objectives 
of the Almaty Programme of Action will continue to be 
a challenge. However, we shall endeavour to live up to 
our commitments in partnership and collaboration with 
our neighbouring countries. 

reiterate  our 
commitment  to  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action, 
which, 
trade 
opportunities 
indeed  promote 
equitable development of the SADC region as a whole. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  The  Honourable 
Simon Ejua, Minister of State for Works and Transport 
of the Republic of Uganda. 
Mr. Ejua (Uganda): It is a great honour for me to 

be  here  today  to  participate  in  this  review  meeting  of 
the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action.  As  a  landlocked 
developing  country  (LLDC),  Uganda  welcomes  the 
opportunity to take part. 

The  peculiar  challenges  faced  by  landlocked 
developing  countries  due  to  the  lack  of  territorial  and 
international  access 
international 
waterways  limit  their  scope  for  effective  participation 
implemented,  will  enhance 
for  Botswana  and 
In  conclusion, 
I  once  again 
to 
the  sea  and 
08-53293 

3 
in 
As 
systems 
transport 
landlocked, 
A/63/PV.18 

in  international  trade.  They  therefore  require  the 
cooperation  and  collaboration  of  their  neighbouring 
transit countries to overcome the challenges they face. 

The  Almaty  Programme  of  Action,  which 
provides  a  global  framework  for  cooperation  between 
landlocked developing countries and transit developing 
countries,  is  accordingly  an  essential  component  in 
their development agenda. It is also an important effort 
to  effectively  deal  with  the  specialized  requirements 
and challenges facing landlocked developing countries 
and  further  their  integration  into  regional  economic 
communities and their partnerships. 

We  in  Uganda  believe  that  the  review  of  the 
Almaty Programme of Action will provide solutions to 
the challenges currently facing landlocked countries. 

The  Almaty  Programme  of  Action  provides  a 
worldwide  framework  for  the  creation  of  appropriate 
transit 
transit 
developing  and  small  island  developing  countries, 
recognizing  that  valid  solutions  need  an  integrated 
approach so that the challenges and problems faced by 
those countries can be transformed into opportunities. 

inadequate 
infrastructure  is  a  major  obstacle  to  establishing 
efficient  transit  transport  systems  in  both  landlocked 
and  transit  developing  countries.  Addressing  those 
needs will involve considerable investment, the setting 
up  of  public-private  partnerships,  capacity-building 
and  new  policies  and  institutional  reforms  where 
necessary.  That  calls  for  closer  collaboration  between 
the  landlocked  and  transit  developing  countries  and 
their partners to provide additional financial resources 
and capacity-building assistance. 

Road transport is the main mode of transport for 
the  imports  and  exports  of  landlocked  developing 
countries.  Sizeable  resource  allocations  are  required 
for  the  expansion  and  maintenance  of  road  transit 
infrastructure. 

The  key  challenges  facing  international  road 
transport  are  aged  vehicles,  overloading  of  vehicles, 
worsening 
social 
infrastructure  along 
transit  corridors,  cumbersome 
clearance  procedures  and  poor  road  maintenance. 
Subregional  and  regional  infrastructure  development 
plans  should  give  high  priority  to  transit  corridors 
linking 
the 
landlocked  developing  countries 
the  absence  of 
everyone 
present 
knows, 
safety, 
road 
to 

the 
technological 
Landlocked  and 
improvements  and 
the  persistent  problem  of 
transport  networks  of  transit  developing  countries  and 
regional networks. 

Railways  play  an  important  role  in  the  transit 
transport  corridor  systems  linking  ocean  ports  with 
landlocked  developing  countries.  Major  concerns 
include 
limited 
availability  of  equipment,  including  locomotives  and 
wagons,  and  poor  maintenance  standards.  The  actions 
required  include  the  construction  of  new  railway 
connections  and  the  rehabilitation  of  existing  railway 
facilities as a matter of priority, in conjunction with the 
new 
innovations 
being examined. 

The  efficiency  of  port  operations  depends  on 
adequate  infrastructure  and  good  management.  Many 
seaports  are  critical  bottlenecks  in  transit  systems 
because  of  a  range  of  physical  inadequacies  and 
operational  constraints,  which  include  poor  handling 
and  storage  facilities  for  transit  cargo,  cumbersome 
procedures  for  the  clearing  and  release  of  cargo, 
congestion and a shortage of skilled manpower. 

transit  developing  countries 
should seek  cooperative  arrangements to improve port 
facilities  and  services  for  transit  goods,  including  the 
modernization  of  existing  terminals,  the  establishment 
of new ones and the simplification of procedures where 
appropriate. 

Inland waterways provide transit services to some 
landlocked  developing  countries.  The  efficiency  of 
transit  services  along  such  waterways  requires  better 
infrastructure,  appropriate  legal  frameworks  to  govern 
navigational  operations  on  rivers  and  lakes  and  more 
effective  environmental  and  safety  measures.  Further 
efforts should be made to rehabilitate and expand lake 
and  river 
infrastructure  facilities  along  corridors 
linking landlocked developing countries to ocean ports. 

Pipelines  provide  a  cost-effective  means  of 
transport for both oil and natural gas. The planning and 
construction  of  pipelines  requires  close  cooperation 
between  landlocked  and  transit  developing  countries. 
The 
the 
construction  of  pipelines  also  necessitate  capital 
investment  from  the  private  sector.  Landlocked  and 
transit  developing  countries  should  cooperate  and 
coordinate 
the  most 
effective  and  most  suitable  or  shortest  routes,  taking 
into account the interests of the parties concerned. 
to  construct  pipelines  along 
investments 
substantive 
required 
for 
4 

08-53293 
come 
and 
his 
for 
the 
for 
Secretary-General 
challenges,  will 
implementation  of 
the  beneficial 



I  am  confident  that  this  meeting,  having  taken 
stock  of  the  progress  achieved  so  far  and  of  the 
outstanding 
up  with 
recommendations  on  tangible  actions  and  deliverables 
the  Almaty 
to  enhance 
Programme, 
integration  of 
landlocked  and  transit  countries  in  the  global  trading 
system. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Iftekhar  Ahmed 
Chowdhury,  Adviser  in  Charge  of  the  Ministry  for 
Foreign Affairs of Bangladesh. 
Mr. Chowdhury (Bangladesh): On behalf of the 

Group  of  Least  Developed  Countries,  as  its  chair,  I 
begin by commending the President for the holding of 
this  high-level  meeting  for  landlocked  developing 
countries. 

High 
The 
Representative  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries, 
Landlocked  Developing  Countries  and  Small  Island 
Developing  States  deserve  our  praise 
their 
substantive contributions to this event. 

The challenges that landlocked countries face are 
enormous.  The  least  developed  landlocked  countries 
are  the  worst  off.  In  a  highly  competitive  world, 
landlocked 
severe 
constraints because of their narrow export base, lack of 
access  to  the  sea,  distance  from  major  international 
infrastructure  and 
markets, 
face 
cumbersome 
in 
insurmountable 
their 
economies into the world market. 

Landlocked  developing  countries  are  also  highly 
vulnerable  to  external  shocks,  which  are  painfully 
amplified  by 
the  number  of  new  and  emerging 
challenges. The current food crisis, high energy prices, 
climate  change  and  global  warming  pose  a  serious 
threat  to  their  efforts  aimed  at  the  eradication  of 
poverty,  hunger,  malnutrition,  disease  and  illiteracy 
and the achievement of other socio-economic goals. 
Transit  neighbours  of  LLDCs  are  mostly 

developing  or  emerging  economies.  They, 
too, 
encounter  similar  economic  challenges  and  scarcities 
of  resources  and  infrastructure. The  special  needs  and 
challenges  must  be  addressed  comprehensively.  Full 
implementation of the Almaty Programme of Action is 
transit  procedures.  They  still 
integrating 
developing 
inadequate 
challenges 
transport 
countries 
face 
A/63/PV.18
critically  important.  We  concur  with  the  Secretary-
General that 
“Measures to deal with the transit problems must 
address  inadequate  infrastructure,  trade  imbalance, 
transport  organization,  and  weak 
inefficient 
managerial, 
regulatory 
and 
institutional systems.” (A/63/165, para. 77) 
procedural, 
in 
of 
source 
investment 
should  provide 
Official  development  assistance  remains 
Such  a  comprehensive  approach  will  offer  a  win-win 
outcome for both LLDCs and transit neighbours. 

We  must  intensify  global  efforts  to  establish 
viable  and  predictable  transit  systems  for  landlocked 
and  transit  countries.  The  construction,  maintenance 
and  improvement  of  their  transport,  storage  and  other 
transit-related facilities should be ensured. 
the 

major 
developing 
infrastructures  in  landlocked  and  transit  countries. 
Development  partners 
adequate 
financial and technical assistance on a predictable basis 
to  implement  transit  infrastructure  projects  in  those 
countries. 
Landlocked countries and their transit neighbours 

must  cooperate  closely  and  meaningfully  to  build 
efficient  transit  systems.  South-South  cooperation, 
including  triangular  and  regional  and  subregional 
cooperation, has become increasingly important in that 
regard. 
In conclusion, let me reiterate the solidarity of the 

least  developed  countries  with 
the  LLDCs,  and 
Bangladesh’s unswerving support for them. We are not 
an immediate transit country ourselves; rather, we offer 
transit  to  two  landlocked  countries  through  a  third 
country. 

The Government of Bangladesh has always been 
forthcoming  in  providing  such  facilities  to  landlocked 
countries  of  the  region.  We  are  in  the  process  of 
building an uninterrupted road network throughout the 
country.  Developing  multimodal 
transport 
arrangements  involving  road,  railway  and  waterways 
entails huge investment. We call upon our development 
partners to provide adequate support in that regard. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give the floor to Her Excellency The Honourable Dora 
Siliya,  Minister  of  Communications  and  Transport  of 
the Republic of Zambia. 
transit 
08-53293 

5 
in 
of 
for 
the 
terms 
Similarly, 
information 
Specifically 
the  midterm  review  of 
A/63/PV.18 

Ms.  Siliya  (Zambia):  My  delegation  congratulates 

the  Secretary-General  on  convening  this  high-level 
meeting  on 
the  Almaty 
Programme  of  Action.  As  previous  speakers  have 
already  said,  the  review  provides  us  with  yet  another 
platform  to  address  the  immediate  and  long-term 
challenges faced by landlocked developing countries. 

According  to  available  statistics,  sub-Saharan 
Africa  enjoyed  a  positive  and  stable  balance  of  trade 
during  2006  and  2007,  with  exports  contributing  an 
average  of  40  per  cent  to  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP),  while  imports  contributed  36  per  cent  in  2006 
and 38.8 per cent in 2007. 

and 
communications  technologies  development,  in  2006 
the  Internet  penetration  of  the  population  in  Africa 
stood  at  4.7  per  cent.  In Asia  and  North America,  the 
figures  were  13.7  per  cent  and  38.7  per  cent 
respectively. 
landlocked 
developing countries (LLDCs), the Internet penetration 
in  2006  stood  at  2.9  per  cent.  Clearly,  those  statistics 
indicate that Africa’s information and communications 
technologies  development  is  the  lowest  in  the  world, 
representing  only  3.4  per  cent  of  the  world  Internet 
penetration. 

In  the  case  of  Zambia,  statistics  on  growth  are 
very  favourable,  with  GDP  currently  at  $10.9  billion, 
reflecting  a  5.5  per  cent  growth  rate  and  a  GDP  per 
capita  of  $920.  However,  the  available  transport  and 
communication 
that 
growth  in  the  long  term.  Studies  have  shown  that  a 
mere 10 per cent increase in mobile phone penetration 
can contribute as much as 2.6 per cent to GDP growth. 

The  Zambian  Government  realizes  the  important 
role  that  communication  and  transport  infrastructure 
play  in  sustaining  economic  growth  for  long-term 
wealth- and job-creation. 

Our  immediate  challenge  is  a  failure  to  quickly 
and adequately respond to the unprecedented levels of 
economic  activity.  For  example,  on  our  north-south 
corridor there has been a tremendous increase in cargo 
transportation,  causing  a  burden  on  the  treasury  for 
road maintenance. That burden is exacerbated by a run-
down  1,200-kilometre  rail  network  running  alongside 
the main road network on that corridor. 

to 
rehabilitate  the  rail  line  in  the  north-south  corridor, 
infrastructure  cannot  sustain 
An  estimated  $100  million 
required 

is 
rail 
line 
(TAZARA) 
with  another  $179  million  needed  for  the  Dar  es 
the  Tanzania  Zambia 
Salaam  corridor,  which 
Railways  Authority 
linking 
Zambia to Tanzania and ultimately to the ports on the 
east coast of Africa. 

As a landlocked country, we are also immediately 
challenged by the lack of adequate and efficient border 
facilities,  which  adversely  affects  trade  facilitation. A 
good  example  is  again  on  our  north-south  corridor, 
where at any given time over 200 trucks are waiting to 
be  cleared  to  carry  cargo  from  countries  south  of 
Zambia to the Democratic Republic of  the Congo. On 
their return trips the trucks are heavily laden with tons 
of copper. 

It  is  the  view  of  my  delegation  that  at  this 
midterm  review  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action 
we  should  redefine  transit  countries  to  include  some 
landlocked  countries,  such  as  Zambia,  which  are 
carrying  heavy  amounts  of  transit  cargo  to  other 
countries. 

Our  long-term  challenges  are  numerous,  but  not 
insurmountable.  We  believe  that  at  this  review  of  the 
Almaty  Programme  of  Action  clear  guidelines  and 
support  must  be  formulated  to  assist  landlocked  and 
transit  developing  countries  to  develop  integrated 
multimodal transport systems. 
For example, in Zambia we are currently seeking 

financing to undertake feasibility studies for TAZARA 
rail links to the port of Mpulungu on Lake Tanganyika, 
and we are doing the same to construct a 200-kilometre 
rail  link  to  Lions  Den  in  Zimbabwe  so  that  we  are 
linked to the shortest possible route to the sea, which is 
to  Beira  in  Mozambique.  Currently,  our  most  popular 
access 
just  over 
3,000 kilometres, to the port of Durban in the Republic 
of South Africa. 
In  our  effort  to  continue  to  facilitate  trade  and 

enhance  communication,  we  have 
laid 
1,750 kilometres of optic fibre at a cost of $48 million. 
Our  aim  is  to  lay  another  10,000  kilometres  of  optic 
fibre nationwide by 2015. 

As  a  landlocked  country  surrounded  by  eight 
neighbours,  we  realize  that  we  have  to  work  with  the 
region  and  the  private  sector  to  enhance  connectivity 
and maximize returns on investment in communication 
and  transport  infrastructure.  A  recent  study  estimates 
that  the  infrastructure  required  in  East  and  Southern 
is  a  distance  of 
the  sea 
far 
so 
to 
is 
6 

08-53293 
issues, 
including 
legal  and 
institutional 


Africa  will  cost  at  least  $40  billion  annually.  This 
investment  will  go  towards  communication,  transport 
and energy development. 

In  spite  of  our  efforts  to  provide  the  necessary 
infrastructure  to  facilitate  trade,  non-oil-producing 
landlocked developing countries, such as Zambia, will 
continue  to  be  challenged  by  high  transport  costs,  in 
some cases as much as an extra 50 per cent, due to high 
world oil prices. 
It  is  critically  important  that  we  address  the 

and 
software 
administrative  constraints,  that  continue  to  challenge 
our progress. Clear policy implementation must also be 
supported  by  an  enabling 
regulatory 
environment. 

The  very  issues  that  we  are  discussing  today  —
communication  and  transport  —  have  brought  the 
world’s communities much closer than  ever before, as 
is  well  captured  in  the  book  “The  World  Is  Flat”  by 
Thomas L. Friedman. This is why it is imperative that 
our  cooperating  partners  continue 
to  provide  all 
necessary assistance. 

For  example,  in  our  2030  vision  for  Zambia,  in 
which  we  pledge  to  transform  Zambia  from  a  least 
developed country to a middle-income country, we see 
our  landlocked  geographical  position  as  yet  another 
possibility 
transport 
connectivity  in  the  region  and  beyond.  Developed 
infrastructure  leads  to  efficiency,  thereby  creating 
gains for everyone, including our cooperating partners. 

Let me conclude by stating Zambia’s hope that at 
the  next  review  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action 
more positive reports on all aspects of implementation 
will be shared among members of the Programme. That 
will be possible not only through national efforts, such 
as  good  planning  aligned  to  the  budget  process,  but 
also  through  the  fulfilment  of  commitments  by  our 
cooperating partners. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Upendra  Yadav,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Federal Democratic Republic 
of Nepal. 
Mr.  Yadav  (Nepal):  The  Almaty  Programme  of 

Action,  agreed  upon  five  years  ago,  remains  a  sound 
framework  for  partnership  among 
landlocked 
transit  developing 
developing  countries  (LLDCs), 
countries  and  the  developed  partners  to  overcome  the 
communication 
and 
the 
for 
A/63/PV.18
the  activities  under 
in  different 
those 
special  problems  of  the  LLDCs,  which  face  difficulty 
due to lack of access to the sea and to global markets. 
As  we  meet  here  for  the  midterm  review  of  its 
implementation, we need to do more to ensure effective 
implementation  of  all 
the 
Programme of Action. 

The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  shows  that 
both  landlocked  and  transit  developing  countries  have 
made  some  progress  in  implementing  specific  actions 
agreed in the Almaty Programme of Action. They have 
made  policy  reforms  and  given  priority  to  transit 
transport issues. They have engaged in a much stronger 
development  partnership  with  respect  to  transport 
infrastructure  development  and  trade  facilitation,  as 
well  as  aid,  debt  relief  and  market  access.  This  has 
enabled the LLDCs as a group to register a high annual 
growth rate. 

But  the  segregated  data  show  that  different 
countries  are 
stages  of  achieving 
implementation.  And 
landlocked  countries 
emerging  from  conflict  need  special  attention  and 
support. 
My delegation is of the view that we should make 

a  realistic  assessment  of  the  progress  made,  lessons 
learned 
the 
implementation  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action 
and 
its 
implementation. While doing that, we should focus our 
attention on bridging the gaps in the implementation of 
the  agreed  commitments.  We  should  also  take  into 
account  new  challenges  posed  by  climate  change, 
global  food  and  energy  crises,  and  other  external 
shocks of various kinds. 
The  LLDCs  have  been  unfairly  marginalized  in 

their  geographical 
the  global  market  due 
disadvantages. 
inadequate 
from 
infrastructure development, congested transit transport 
systems,  institutional  bottlenecks  and  trade  capacity 
constraints.  As  a  result,  their  competitive  efficiency 
remains  weak  and  vulnerable.  Therefore,  with 
reaffirmation  of  their  right  of  access  to  and  from  the 
sea  and  freedom  of  transit  by  all  means  of  transport, 
special  programmes  need  to  be  developed  to  upgrade 
the necessary facilities to ensure those rights. 

is 
critical for those countries to finance the development 
of their infrastructure. We urge the donor community to 
increase aid to support trade-related public investment 
Increased  official  development  assistance 
on  measures 
encountered 
to 
suffer 
accelerate 
problems 
They 
and 
agree 
in 
to 
08-53293 

7 

on 
the 
conditions, 
dependence 
trade  efficiency  of 
A/63/PV.18 

in accordance with the national development needs and 
priorities of the LLDCs. 

International  trade  and  trade  facilitation  aspects 
are  equally  significant  to  the  LLDCs  to  improve  and 
promote trade as  an engine for growth.  Poor road  and 
transport 
primary-
commodity  exports,  high  transit  transport  costs  and 
numerous procedural constraints and delays continue to 
seriously  undermine 
the 
landlocked countries. 
We  welcome  the  Aid  for  Trade  initiative  of  the 

World Trade Organization and stress the need for more 
resources,  effectively  used,  to  be  allocated  to  that 
practical  initiative  in  developing  trade  logistics  and 
trade diversification strategies, as well as in addressing 
trade adjustment costs. 

In spite of global efforts, data suggest that a total 
of  31  landlocked  countries  have  a  mere  0.61  per  cent 
share  in  world  exports,  and  a  0.57  per  cent  share  in 
world imports. Given this insignificant participation in 
international trade, the LLDCs are entitled to adequate 
special  measures  and  preferential  treatment  under  the 
multilateral  trading  system  to  assure  them  of  fairness 
and  predictability  while 
they  explore  competitive 
trading  opportunities.  The  international  community 
should  therefore  support  the  LLDCs  financially  and 
technologically,  in  a  more  predictable  and  sustainable 
manner. 

Nepal  is  fully  committed  to  taking  all  necessary 
measures at the national level to implement the Almaty 
Programme  of  Action.  Nepal  has  been  undergoing  a 
process of great political and economic transformation. 
Our  new  social  and  economic  programmes  are 
designed  to  accelerate  our  socio-economic  progress. 
We 
post-conflict 
reconstruction programme. 

increasing  agricultural 
productivity,  building  rural  infrastructure,  increasing 
road connectivity and creating a high-growth industrial 
environment.  The  Government 
is 
implementing  various  reforms  in  industrial  and  trade 
policies and transport and customs procedures. 
We  need  strong  partnerships  and  adequate 

juncture,  we  call  for 
resources.  At 
this  critical 
continued  and  enhanced 
support 
from  all  our 
development  partners  to  enable  us  to  fully  implement 
We  have  focused  on 
undertake 
its  part 
need 
also 
for 
to 
a 
the Almaty Programme of Action within the stipulated 
time frame. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Nurlan  Danenov, 
Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of 
Kazakhstan. 
Mr. Danenov (Kazakhstan) (spoke in Spanish): It 

is  a  great  honour  for  me  to  be  here  today  and  to  take 
part in this meeting, which is of great importance to my 
country. 
(spoke in Russian) 

Let me first express my gratitude to the Office of 
the  High  Representative  for  organizing  this  meeting 
and in general for the work of promoting the interests 
of the landlocked developing countries (LLDCs). 

We  commend  the  midterm  review  preparatory 
process,  during  which  a  number  of  thematic  meetings 
took  place,  covering  topics  which  included  the  transit 
transport  infrastructure  in  Burkina  Faso  and  trade 
assistance in Mongolia. There were also three regional 
United  Nations  Economic  Commission  meetings  and 
many other preparatory meetings. 
Those  meetings,  as  well  as  the  findings  and 

recommendations  contained 
the 
Secretary-General,  provided  a  good  basis  for  the 
comprehensive  assessment  of  the  implementation  of 
the Almaty Programme of Action and the definition of 
follow-up measures. In that regard, I have to point out 
the  importance  of  the  High-level  Investment  Forum 
held yesterday. 
It  is  very  important  that  the  outcome  document 

we  are 
result  of  a  common 
understanding and consensus, which assures us that the 
meeting  will 
successful 
implementation  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action 
and to the protection and promotion of the interests of 
landlocked developing countries. 

landlocked 
considerable  progress 
tasks 
accordance with the Almaty Programme of Action. 

What  is  especially  important  is  that  the  world 
community has acknowledged the special needs of the 
inland  countries,  which  must  be  taken  into  account. 
Nevertheless,  we  must  recognize  that,  despite  the 
notable  positive  changes,  many  States  in  that  group 
It is very encouraging that over the last five years 
have  made 
in 
in  carrying  out 
the  report  of 
developing 
contribute 
to  adopt 
countries 
the 
the 
to 
in 
is 
8 

08-53293 
to 
facilities, 
Kazakhstan  makes  a  strong  appeal 


continue  to  be  negatively  affected  by  the  factors  that 
impede  the  development  of  their  economies,  and  are 
not  adequately  involved  in  the  international  trade 
system.  The  main  reasons  are  well  known  and  are 
clearly  and  convincingly  set  out  in  the  Secretary-
General’s report. 

the 
international  community  to  give  due  attention  to  the 
economic vulnerability of landlocked countries, ensure 
their  equal  access  to  world  markets  and  give  them 
comprehensive  support  to  help  them  overcome  the 
obstacles  and  problems  related  to  their  geographical 
location. 

In  that  regard,  we  consider  it  vital  to  expedite 
practical  implementation  of  the  recommendations  in 
the Almaty Programme of Action. 

Kazakhstan  has  a  clear  understanding  of  the 
importance  of  national  efforts.  The  Government  is 
therefore  implementing  result-oriented  work  at  the 
national  level  to  develop  trade  capacity  and  the 
includes  modernizing 
transport  sector.  This  work 
existing 
commercial 
orientation  of  transportation  services  and  eliminating 
non-physical  barriers  to  the  development  of  transit 
shipments. 

The  major  goals  and  parameters  in  this  field  are 
reflected  in  the  Transport  Strategy  of  Kazakhstan  for 
the period to 2015. It provides for the implementation 
of  about  80  investment  projects  to  construct  and 
upgrade airports, highways and railroads, as well as for 
the  development  of  seaport  infrastructure  that 
is 
important  at  the  regional  and  interregional  levels. 
Those projects will cost about $30 billion.  

One  of  the  priorities  is  a  large-scale  project  to 
establish  a  Western  Europe-Western  China  highway 
transit  corridor.  The  length  of  the  Kazakh  part  of  the 
road,  which  can  be  considered  one  of  the  Eurasian 
transport  sections,  exceeds  2,700  kilometres.  The 
project  was  supported  by  Russia,  and  there  are  now 
talks under way with China. 

Our  country  is  ready  to  contribute  its  own  funds 
alongside those of investors. An important role in this 
context  has  been  given 
the 
Kazakhstan  centre 
for  public-private  partnership. 
Kazakhstan has in general — according to participants 
in  the  seventh  International  Forum  “TransEurasia-
2008”,  on  the  subject  of  Eurasian  transit-development 
joint  venture, 
improving 
to  a 
the 
A/63/PV.18
to 
first, 
to 
This 
refers, 
interregional 
joint  project 
The  ESCAP  and  ECE 
prospects,  held  recently  in  Astana  —  met  the  basic 
preconditions  for  attracting  foreign  investments  in  the 
transport infrastructure. 

In  this  context,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  the 
importance  of  attaining  effective  cooperation  of 
Member  States  with  the  regional  Commissions.  In 
general,  we  are  satisfied  with  the  participation  and 
contribution  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Commission 
for  Asia  and  the  Pacific  (ESCAP)  and  the  Economic 
Commission  for  Europe  (ECE)  in  implementing  big 
projects  which  considerably  improve  the  transport 
infrastructure of the Asian region. 

Intergovernmental 
the 
Agreement  on  the  Asian  Highway  Network  and  the 
Intergovernmental  Agreement  on 
the  Trans-Asian 
Railway Network, which  provide for new possibilities 
to  develop  agriculture  and  industry  in  landlocked 
developing  countries  and  transit  countries  in  our 
region.  

for 
strengthening  institutional  capacities  for  development 
of 
land  and 
transport 
connections is also very important. 
I especially note the significance of implementing 

transport  projects  within 
the 
Transport Corridor Europe-Caucasus-Asia (TRACECA) 
and  the  Special  Programme  for  the  Economies  of 
Central  Asia  (SPECA).  Since  1998  Kazakhstan,  as  a 
chairing  country  on  the  issue  of  transport  and  border-
crossing,  has  been  carrying  out  large-scale  activities 
within the framework of the Project Working Group. Its 
work  ensures  the  involvement  of  SPECA  countries  in 
harmonizing  national  laws,  resolving  the  non-physical 
barriers  to  trade,  and  coordinating  highways  and  rail 
networks within the SPECA region. 

At the same time, the United Nations should pay 
more  attention  to  the  countries  of  Central  Asia  and 
Kazakhstan, 
the 
development  of  transit  and  transport  capacity,  due  to 
their  increasing  role  in  meeting  the  challenges  of 
energy and food security in the region.  

In  this  regard,  we  fully  support  the  initiative  of 
the  United  Nations  Secretariat  to  establish  the  joint 
subregional  ESCAP/ECE  office  for  Central  Asian 
countries, and we express our hope that Member States 
will  support  Kazakhstan’s  proposal  to  host  this  office 
in Almaty, which we are convinced would enhance the 
particularly  with 
frameworks  of 
land-sea 
regard 
the 
the 
08-53293 

9 

the 
and 
to 
donor 
that 
Given 
countries 
it  must  be  said 
that  development  of 
A/63/PV.18 

coordination  of  efforts  to  achieve  the  development 
goals in Eurasia. 

transport 
infrastructure  is  one  of  the  major  priorities  for  inland 
countries, 
the  majority  of 
developing  States  in  this  group  require  financial  and 
technical  assistance.  In  this  context,  we  consider  it 
important  that  the  draft  outcome  document  contain  an 
appeal 
international 
organizations and institutions to provide the necessary 
coordinated  technical  and  financial  assistance,  in  the 
form  of  grants  and  preferential  credits,  to  implement 
regional  and  interregional  projects  in  accordance  with 
the Almaty Programme of Action. We express our hope 
that  this  call  will  be  duly  answered  by  all  those  who 
support the Programme of Action.  

In  conclusion,  I  stress  that  Kazakhstan  will 
continue to actively support the activities of the United 
Nations and its regional Commissions in promoting the 
interests  of  landlocked  developing  countries,  and  will 
take  every measure necessary to ensure their effective 
implementation. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  His  Excellency  The  Honourable  Paul  Smit, 
Deputy  Minister  of  Works  and  Transport  of  the 
Republic of Namibia. 
Mr.  Smit  (Namibia):  It  is  indeed  an  honour  for 

me to speak at this high-level plenary meeting devoted 
to  the  midterm  review  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of 
Action.  

This meeting affords us an opportunity to review 
the  progress  we  have  made  since  our  groundbreaking 
meeting in Almaty, Kazakhstan, five years ago. It also 
enables  us  to  share  experiences,  lessons  learned, 
constraints 
of 
implementation and possible ways of addressing them, 
and  to  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  addressing  the 
special  needs  of  landlocked  and  transit  developing 
countries. 

The  Namibian  delegation  associates  itself  with 
the statement to be delivered by Antigua and Barbuda 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

the  primary 
The  Almaty  Declaration  places 
responsibility for establishing effective transit systems 
squarely  on  the  shoulders  of  landlocked  and  transit 
developing  countries.  In  this  regard,  my  country, 
Namibia,  a  transit  developing  country,  in  cooperation 
encountered 
process 
in 
the 
through 
to  Zimbabwe; 
through  Botswana  up 
the  Programme’s  adoption, 
with  landlocked  neighbours,  has  continued  to  register 
significant  progress  in  attaining  the  ideals  of  the 
Programme  of  Action  since  our  meeting  in  Almaty. 
Indeed,  our  transit  transport  programme  started  well 
before 
the 
establishment of transit transport corridor institutions.  

The Walvis  Bay  Corridor  Group  was  established 
in  2000  to  administer  and  manage  the  Walvis  Bay 
corridors,  consisting  of  the  Trans-Caprivi  corridor, 
which provides road connectivity to Zambia through to 
Lubumbashi in the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
and 
the 
Trans-Kunene  corridor,  which  connects  Namibia  with 
southern  Angola  by  both  rail  and  road;  and  the 
envisaged  Windhoek-Luanda  corridor  to  link  the  two 
cities through north-eastern Namibia and south-eastern 
Angola by road.  

The  Trans-Kalahari  Corridor  Secretariat  was 
established  in  2005  to  complement  the  Walvis  Bay 
Corridor  Group.  It  is  responsible  for  the  management 
of the Trans-Kalahari corridor, which links Namibia to 
southern  Botswana  and  to  South  Africa  through  the 
Kalahari highway and further on with Mozambique via 
the  Maputo  corridor.  Southern  corridor  networks  will 
ultimately  link  landlocked  countries  east  to  west  for 
Southern Africa. 

the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action 
following. 

the 
Management  and  Development  of  the  Trans-Kalahari 
Corridor  was  signed  in  November  2003  by  Namibia, 
Botswana and South Africa. 

Namibia has  also signed with Botswana, Zambia 
and Zimbabwe a memorandum of understanding on the 
management and development of dry port facilities, for 
which  negotiations  on  lease  agreements  are  nearing 
finalization. 

Streamlined  customs  procedures,  harmonized 
axle  load  limits  and  border  operating  times  have  been 
introduced on the Trans-Kalahari corridor to accelerate 
transit transport.  

Considerable  investment  has  been  made  at  the 
port  of  Walvis  Bay  by  way  of,  inter  alia,  upgrading, 
acquiring modern synchrolift equipment, deepening the 
port,  developing  dry  dock  facilities  and  making 
operational  upgrades.  The  port  will  undergo  a  further 
Further developments in our efforts to implement 
the 
A  Memorandum  of  Understanding  on 
include 
10 

08-53293 


upgrade  costing  1.3  billion  Namibian  dollars  —  or 
US$ 160 million during the period 2009-2012.  

The  introduction  of  the  one-stop  border  post 
concept  on  our  corridors  is  being  investigated,  in  line 
with  provisions  of  the  Southern African  Development 
Community  Protocol  on  Transport,  Communications 
and Meteorology, and will soon be implemented.  

Another  feasibility  study  on  the  Trans-Caprivi 
corridor  rail  line  has  been  launched.  It  is  aimed  at 
facilitating  rail  connectivity  with  Zambia  and  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo.  

Mechanisms are being put in place to erect at the 
Kasangula  confluence  point  over  the  Zambezi  River  a 
bridge that will eventually link Namibia, Botswana and 
Zambia.  

Discussions  are  ongoing  with  the  Republic  of 
Botswana on the possibility of linking our rail heads on 
the  Trans-Kalahari  corridor,  based  on  the  funding 
pledged by the World Bank.  

Weighbridges have been installed on our corridor 
routes  to  protect  our  road  infrastructure,  and  Namibia 
is  in  the  process  of  acquiring  container  scanners  in 
order  to  increase  efficiency  and  effectiveness  at  our 
border posts.  

Permit  me  to  register  the  appreciation  of  my 
Government  for  the  cooperation  and  support  that  we 
have  been  receiving  from  our  neighbouring  sister 
countries in our effort to implement the letter and spirit 
of the Almaty Programme of Action. 

Paragraphs 8 and 9 of the Almaty Declaration, as 
elaborated  in  Priority  4  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of 
Action,  emphasize 
the 
international  community  should  play  in  providing 
substantial  official  development  assistance  and  other 
resources 
transit  developing 
countries.  

In  spite  of  the  progress  made,  the  following 
challenges  remain  to  be  overcome:  scientific  and 
technical  human  resource  development;  access  to 
affordable  financial  resources  to  the  tune  of  about 
$200 million  to  upgrade  our  rail  facilities;  and  access 
to  affordable  financial  resources  to  the  tune  of  about 
$1 billion  to  extend  Namibia’s  rail  facilities  to  our 
borders. Also at stake is a combined distance of about a 
thousand kilometres within our neighbouring countries 
of Angola, Botswana and Zambia to have full links. 
landlocked  and 
important 
role 
that 
the 
to 
A/63/PV.18
from 
transit 
from 
the 
larger 
support 
in  place 
functional 

However, I should like at this juncture to express 
the gratitude of my Government for the assistance that 
we  continue  to  receive  from  a  few  of  our  cooperating 
partners  towards  the  attainment  of  the  ideals  of  the 
Almaty Programme of Action. Since 2005 Namibia has 
benefited 
the  capacity-building  programme 
facilitated by the United Nations Conference on Trade 
and Development. 
Finally, Namibia’s commitment and political will 

in  putting 
transport 
arrangements  deserves  complementary  financial  and 
technical 
international 
community. If we are to proceed with the development 
of  an  alternative  trade  route  for  Southern  Africa 
through  the  port  of  Walvis  Bay,  the  development  of 
infrastructure  is  a  necessity,  for  which  we  appeal  for 
international  support. Addressing  the  special  needs  of 
landlocked and transit developing countries cannot and 
should  not  be  left  to  those  countries  alone,  because  a 
boost in international trade will benefit all of us.  
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  Her  Excellency  Ms.  María  Teresa  Infante, 
National Director of Borders and Limits of the State of 
the Republic of Chile.  
Ms.  Infante  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Government of Chile is participating enthusiastically in 
the  midterm  review  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of 
Action. We reaffirm our commitment to its objectives, 
convinced of the importance of the priorities defined in 
the Almaty Declaration and Programme of Action.  
The  Programme  provided  an  important  set  of 

concepts  and  has 
to  conduct 
evaluations and identify strategies that give substantive 
direction to national policies on landlocked developing 
countries.  In  pursuing  its  objectives,  we  reaffirm  the 
validity  of  the  central  purpose  of  the  Programme  of 
Action: 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  from  the  perspective 
of landlocked and transit developing countries.  

The  components  of  the  Goals  not  only  include 
subjects linked to development in a broad sense and to 
the  reduction  of  poverty  as  a  general  reference  point, 
but are also intended to create responses at the level of 
international relations and across boundaries. This is to 
benefit 
transit 
developing  countries,  expand  the  horizons  of  those 
countries  and  contribute 
to  overcoming  existing 
material and technical limitations. 
led  our  countries 
landlocked  and 
inhabitants  of 
partnerships 
establishing 
around 
the 
08-53293 

11 

A/63/PV.18 


There  are  many  areas  in  which  the  relationships 
involved  are  tested  and  require  greater  responsibility 
on the part of States. The Almaty Programme of Action 
set  ambitious  objectives.  The  great  majority,  and 
perhaps  the  most  significant,  are  related  to  three 
aspects.  

First,  the  landlocked  and  transit  countries  must 
commit  themselves  to  act  cooperatively  and  with  a 
medium-  and  long-term  perspective.  Issues  such  as 
seeking  and  implementing  more  effective  agreements 
on  transport,  infrastructure,  debt  and  market  access 
should not be viewed solely in the context of economic 
relations,  but  should  also  include  other  types  of 
relationships  involving  not  just  assistance,  but  also 
cooperation, trade and development.  

The  second  aspect  is  the  need  to  strengthen  the 
capacities  to  mobilize  financial  and  human  resources 
and to make sustainable policies benefiting landlocked 
developing  countries,  always  taking  into  account  their 
relationships  with transit developing countries and the 
ability  to  promote  effective  coordination  between 
them.  
Thirdly,  the  following  policies  would  help  to 

bring  about  a  sustainable  reduction  of  vulnerabilities: 
giving appropriate priority to internal mechanisms that 
contribute  to  governance,  in  order  to  promote  the 
partnership between landlocked and transit developing 
countries;  integrating  the  business  sector  and  private 
sector  and  civil  society  initiatives;  and  mobilizing 
national  resources  within  the  framework  of  agreed 
national  and  international  policies.  Such  an  approach 
would  complement  the  efforts  being  made  in  other 
forums at the regional and global levels.  
Exercise  of  the  right  of  access  from  and  to  the 

in  accordance  with 
sea,  and  freedom  of 
international law, enshrined in a series of international 
treaties,  as  well  as  the  legitimate  interests  of  transit 
countries based on their sovereign rights, constitute an 
important reference point founded on international law. 
It is one that my country fully adheres to.  

In  that  context,  the  concept  of  the  special  needs 
of landlocked developing countries — in particular the 
identification  of  those  needs  related  to  the  issue  of 
transit through other States, which also have legitimate 
rights  and  interests  —  cannot  be  separated  from  the 
general processes that I have described.  
transit 
appreciate 
We  particularly 

the  Secretary-
General’s  report  on  the  implementation  of  the Almaty 
Programme of Action, as well as the work of the Office 
of  the  High  Representative  for  the  Least  Developed 
Countries,  Landlocked  Developing  Countries  and 
Small  Island  Developing  States,  which  present  a 
balanced  and  broad  vision  of  the  status  of  the  issues 
that have brought us together today.  

The  priorities  of  the  2003  Programme  of Action 
with  respect  to  transit  policy  issues,  infrastructure 
development  and  maintenance,  international  trade  and 
trade  facilitation,  as  well  as  international  support 
measures,  are  all  an  integral  part  of  Chile’s  foreign 
policy. Around  these  priorities,  Chile’s  policies  in  the 
South American  context  have  produced  specific  work 
programmes and actions with Bolivia and Paraguay.  

With  the  adoption  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of 
Action  it  was  necessary  to  define  courses  of  action  in 
the  South  American  context.  At  the  bilateral  level  an 
agenda is being developed with Bolivia within a broad, 
all-inclusive  dialogue  whose  essential  components 
include  joint  efforts  to  provide  more  efficient  transit 
transport systems and swift, functional border controls; 
to  cooperate  to  prevent  smuggling;  to  harmonize 
environmental 
programmes, 
especially  with  respect  to  dangerous  cargoes;  and  to 
implement 
regulatory 
frameworks,  as  well  as  to  have  the  will  to  improve 
them.  
Bilaterally  with  Bolivia,  we  have  plans  and 

working 
full 
complementarity between public  and private operators 
involved  in  transit  relationships. We  have  adopted  the 
same approach with Paraguay. 
Furthermore, as a result of agreements originating 

from  Chile’s  association  with  the  South  American 
Common  Market  (MERCOSUR)  for  more  than  a 
decade,  there  are  projects  today  that  benefit  all  its 
members  by  giving  access  to  the  Pacific.  As  one  of 
those members, Paraguay now has alternatives.  

The  Government  of  Chile  has  announced  the 
grant of access by Bolivia to the port of Iquique, under 
the  free  transit  regime  that  Bolivia  enjoys  under 
existing  treaties.  That  is  in  addition  to  the  current 
access to Arica and Antofagasta, which already handle 
a  great  deal  of  Bolivian  freight.  Moreover, 
the 
agreement on the pipeline connecting Bolivia to Arica 
continues to be implemented.  
non-discriminatory 
achieving 
and 
public 
health 
useful 
groups 
focused 
on 
12 

08-53293 
the  Chilean 
to  Paraguay  was  set  up, 


In 2004 a duty-free warehouse for freight coming 

from  and  going 
in 
implementation  of  a  specific  agreement  already  in 
force,  consistent  with  the  active  processes  of  physical 
integration  in  which  the  countries  concerned  are 
participating.  

Similar  developments  can  also  be  seen  in  the 
cooperation  policy  of 
International 
Cooperation  Agency,  which  covers,  among  other 
things,  the  education,  culture,  health  and  poverty-
reduction sectors. 

Physical  integration  —  in  which  are  highlighted 
advances  and  deficiencies  in  matters  of  connectivity, 
the  use  of  infrastructure,  transport  systems,  applicable 
norms and the use of border crossings  — has been an 
important  basis  for  understanding  the  real  world  of 
relations between South American countries.  

With regard to rail transport, my Government has 
developed actions designed to revitalize  this means of 
communication with Bolivia, from the point of view of 
both the infrastructure and border crossings. Chile has 
earnestly  cooperated 
that  I  have 
described. 

The  Initiative  for  the  Integration  of  Regional 
Infrastructure  in  South  America  (IIRSA),  which  has 
been in place since 2000, is starting to bear fruit with 
respect to providing methodology for the prioritization 
of projects, their implementation and the consideration 
of their environmental sustainability.  

Chile participates in  a series of  corridors, usable 
throughout  the  year,  that  are  connected  with  the  other 
countries  of  the  Southern  Cone.  We  want  to  enhance 
this process, with the support of international, regional 
and 
the 
framework  of  implementation  of  the  Union  of  South 
American  Nations  so  that  there  will  be  a  convergence 
of  the  objectives  and  commitments  of  States  at  the 
bilateral and regional levels.  

In  strengthening  this  scenario,  we  also  have  to 
reflect  the  agreements  implementing  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  the  Almaty  Programme  of 
Action.  

This  convergence  can  be  seen  in  the  December 
2007  agreement  of  the  Presidents  to  give  life  to  the 
central inter-oceanic corridor, involving Bolivia, Brazil 
and  Chile,  and  joining  Arica  and  Iquique  in  the 
process.  The  project  results  from  the  decision  to 
financing  agencies,  within 
the  process 
subregional 
in 
A/63/PV.18
combine  physical 
integration  with  a  process  of 
equitable  economic  growth  in  the  three  countries, 
aiming  to  support  trade  flows  and  boldly  facilitating 
the movement of people.  

The projects set out should increase trade within 
the regions involved and have an impact on growth and 
employment,  as  well  as  improve  knowledge  of  the 
peoples and quality of life, points that were highlighted 
by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Chile  when  she 
signed the agreement. 
While  integration  is  a  concept  that  begins  with 

the  construction  of  basic  infrastructure,  known  as  a 
kind  of  corridor,  it  becomes  reality  when  it  takes  the 
form  of  specific  initiatives,  since  there  is  no  effective 
integration at the margin of neighbouring countries. In 
South America, both Bolivia and Paraguay are seen as 
fundamental  players  in  this  process,  so  that  any 
integration  with  respect  to  the  Almaty  Programme  of 
Action must actively include them. 

These  matters  cannot  be  separated  from  the 
debate on major issues of international trade, of goods 
and  services,  in  which  it  should  be  agreed  that 
landlocked  developing  countries  must  fully  enjoy  the 
benefits  to  be  derived  from  international  agreements 
and  market  access.  They  must  also  overcome  the 
disadvantages  they  experience  as  a  result  of  their 
geographical location and lesser development. 
We  agree  on  enhancing  the  contribution  that  the 

multilateral 
the 
effectiveness  of  freedom  of  transit,  exercised  in  a 
non-discriminatory 
speedy, 
transparent  mechanisms,  bearing  in  mind  the  specific 
circumstances  and  appropriate  legal  frameworks  for 
passage through third countries, especially with regard 
to environmental and health matters. 

The  task  for  transit  developing  countries  is 
therefore  considerable.  We  support  the  reforms  and 
specific measures designed to simplify procedures and 
formalities  so  that  they  are  not  obstacles  to  relations 
with  landlocked  developing  countries,  but  become 
effective instruments of cooperation. 

international 
organizations  to  support  that  process.  It  is  up  to  our 
Governments 
to 
strengthen  the  capacities  of  transit  and  landlocked 
developing  countries  in  advancing  this  partnership 
process and the provision of adequate infrastructure.  
the  proper  mandates 
responsibility 
to  provide 
can  make 
fashion, 
subject 
trading 
system 
of 
It 
is 
the 
to 
to 
08-53293 

13 
the 
development 
of 
our 
the  midterm 
therefore  support 
A/63/PV.18 


The year 2015 is on the horizon, and my country 
wishes  to  reach  it  having  developed  responses  to 
comply  with  the  objectives  and  guidelines  of  the 
Almaty Declaration.  

review 
outcome  document  and  the  commitments  resulting 
from the policies it sets out, and we join in the general 
agreement on this matter. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ts’ele  Chakela, 
Minister  of  Public  Works  and  Transport  of 
the 
Kingdom of Lesotho. 
Mr. Chakela (Lesotho): It is a great honour and 

pleasure to have this opportunity to say a few words on 
the Almaty Programme of Action.  

As  we  look  back  on  the  five  years  since  the 
Programme  of  Action  was  adopted  in  Kazakhstan  in 
2003, I invite all those present to applaud ourselves for 
a  visionary  programme  of  action  that  has  set  the  tone 
for 
geographically 
disadvantaged countries. I am very proud to have been 
part  of  the  process  that  led  to  its  adoption,  including 
the last preparatory meeting, which was held here. 

Mr.  Wolfe  (Jamaica),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
The  Programme  of  Action  has  seven  objectives 

and  five  policy  priority  areas  —  transit  policy  and 
regulatory 
infrastructure  development, 
trade and transport facilitation, development assistance 
and  implementation  review  —  against  which  our 
progress can be measured.  

It is indeed a daunting challenge, which can only 
be  met 
through  solidarity  and  cooperation  with 
regional  and 
this 
connection,  I  shall  refer  to  some  of  the  initiatives 
Lesotho has undertaken.  

I  wish  to  reiterate  some  of  the  points  I  raised  in 
2007 at Ouagadougou in Burkina Faso, where I gave an 
account of the strides we have made and our transport 
sector plans.  
their  Joint  Bilateral  Commission  of 

Under 
Cooperation,  the  Governments  of  the  Republic  of 
South Africa and the Kingdom of Lesotho have agreed 
to establish a one-stop border post aimed at facilitating 
rapid movement of goods, services and people between 
international  communities. 
In 
framework, 

the  obsolete  navigational  aids  at 
the  two  countries  and  thereby  improving  trade  and 
accelerating economic growth. 

The  Government  of  Lesotho  plans  to  invite  the 
private sector to express interest in the development of 
the Maseru container terminal into a dry port. This is in 
keeping  with  the  regional  standards  of  the  Southern 
African  Development  Community  as  well  as  the  need 
to  expand  and  improve  the  transportation  of  goods 
through rail. 
The  Government  of  Lesotho  is  in  the  process  of 

the 
replacing 
Moshoeshoe  1  International  Airport.  Improvements 
include  the  procurement  of  fire  trucks  to  further 
improve  the  safety  standards  of  the  airport.  These 
activities  are  carried  out  through  the  assistance  of  the 
Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa. 

The European Union has assisted the Government 
of  Lesotho  to  rehabilitate  110  kilometres  of  paved 
roads covering southern and northern parts of Lesotho. 
We are at the final stages of creating a roads directorate 
that  will  have  functional  autonomy  to  fine-tune  our 
implementation strategies.  

We encourage our women to become technicians 
and  engineers;  at  one  point  the  ratio  of  female 
engineers to male engineers at our Department of Rural 
Roads  was  in  favour  of  females.  Our  Road  Fund  is  a 
second-generation  fund  whose  governance  structures 
are in keeping with modern governance regimes. 

However,  amid  these  promising  strides,  we  note 
with concern  that some development partners are now 
focusing their financial assistance on the social sector. 
The interconnection of all sectors of the economy is a 
step in the right direction towards the attainment of the 
Millennium Development Goals. 

We  welcome  the  idea  of  aid-for-trade,  which  is 
supposed  to  assist  us  in  addressing  infrastructural 
challenges,  and  we  are  hopeful  that  it  will  soon  be 
made operational, as it has been on the drawing board 
for too long. 

In conclusion, I call on the development partners 
to honour their commitment and redouble their efforts 
towards  providing  financial  assistance  to  landlocked 
and  developing  countries  in  order  to  enable  them  to 
compete globally.  
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  The  Honourable  Shukuru  Kawambwa, 
08-53293 
We 
14 

tariffs  for 


Minister  for  Infrastructure  Development  of  the  United 
Republic of Tanzania. 
Mr.  Kawambwa  (United  Republic  of Tanzania): 

I  wish  to  thank  the  President  for  convening  this 
important  high-level  meeting  devoted  to  the  midterm 
review of the Almaty Programme of Action, which the 
Assembly endorsed  five years ago. Periodic review  of 
the  Programme’s  implementation  permits  necessary 
adjustments to ensure achievement of the agreed goals 
and targets. 
In  Almaty,  Kazakhstan,  in  2003,  and  then  in 

subsequent consultations in the General Assembly, the 
international  community  recognized  that  high  transit 
transport  costs  represented  a  more  obstructive  barrier 
than  most  favoured  nation 
landlocked 
developing  countries.  It  has  also  been  recognized  that 
both  transit  and  landlocked  developing  countries  face 
enormous  challenges  in  effectively  participating  in 
international trade. 

Tanzania is very much aware of the challenges of 
lack  of  territorial  access  to  the  sea,  remoteness  and 
isolation  from  world  markets  faced  by  landlocked 
countries,  and 
in 
implementing  the  specific  actions  agreed  upon  in  the 
Almaty Programme of Action. 

We  responded  by  preparing  a  country  plan  of 
action  to  be  implemented  by  2010. The  plan  has  been 
linked  to  the  Tanzania  Development  Vision  2025,  the 
Poverty  Reduction  Strategy  Paper  and  currently  the 
National  Strategy  for  Growth  and  Reduction  of 
Poverty. 

the  participation  of 
Tanzania  in  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action  since 
2003.  

First,  the  transport  sector  is  one  of  the  crucial 
lead  sectors  required  to  address  the  remoteness  of 
landlocked countries. Tanzania’s geographical position 
gives transport infrastructure and services an important 
role  in  facilitating  regional  and  international  trade  to 
six bordering landlocked countries. 

transport 
infrastructure  development  and  services  is  to  ensure 
that  all  roads,  railways,  seaports  and  inland  ports 
serving 
are 
expanded  and  improved  to  facilitate  an  adequate  flow 
of international traffic to and from those countries. 
it  has  made  concerted  efforts 
landlocked  neighbouring 
the  policy  objective  on 
to  describe 
Allow  me 
Therefore, 
countries 
08-53293 

15 
to 
A/63/PV.18
current 
central 
Secondly, 
Tanzania’s 
We have three major sea ports — Dar es Salaam, 

transport 
infrastructure  covers  road,  railway,  air,  water  and 
pipeline  routes  linked  to  neighbouring  landlocked  and 
transit  countries.  The  total  road  network  length  is 
85,515  kilometres,  which  includes  trunk  and  regional 
roads.  The  total  length  of  the  railway  system  is 
3,676 kilometres.  The 
line,  measuring 
2,706 kilometres, will be linked to the three landlocked 
countries  of  Rwanda,  Burundi  and  Uganda,  with  links 
to two other landlocked countries. 

Tanga and Mtwara — and several inland water ports.  

There  are  also  four  international  airports  and  a 
pipeline  spanning  1,750  kilometres  used  to  transport 
crude oil from Dar es Salaam to the Ndola refinery in 
Zambia. A  232-kilometre  pipeline  to  transport  natural 
gas  is  foreseen  to  be  linked  to  neighbouring  countries 
in the near future. 
Despite  the  considerable  road  and  rail  network, 

the transport infrastructure is still inadequate. In order 
to  address  the  shortcomings  and  to  achieve  sustained 
development  of  the  sector,  a  national  transport  policy 
was adopted in 2003. The policy covers all areas of the 
transport  sector  necessary  for  the  achievement  of 
national social and economic goals.  

The vision of the transport sector is to have safe 
and  efficient  transport  services  for  all  by  2025.  The 
strategy  is  to  enhance  modal  integration,  development 
of 
transport  corridors  and  enhancement  of  a 
multimodal  transport  system,  with  particular  emphasis 
on  safety,  environment,  security  and  access  for  local 
use as well as for neighbouring landlocked countries. 

In 2007-2008 our Government launched a 10-year 
transport  sector  investment  programme,  with  a  budget 
of  $6.2  billion  for  the  first  five  years,  with  a  view  to 
attaining  improvements  in  transport  infrastructure  and 
services. 

negotiated  Millennium 
Challenge Account resources and was granted a total of 
$698  million,  a  five-year  grant  by  the  United  States 
intended to reduce poverty, stimulate economic growth 
and 
targeted 
infrastructure  investments  in  transport,  energy,  and 
water. 

Under  that  grant,  $373  million  was  allocated  to 
transport  infrastructure,  targeting  transit  facilitation  in 
the 
linking 
landlocked  neighbouring  countries 
Recently  Tanzania 
increase  household 
incomes 
through 
port 
operation 
services; 
also 
critical 
A/63/PV.18 

seaports  of  Mtwara,  Dar  es  Salaam  and  Tanga.  Those 
initiatives are in line with the requirements of both the 
Almaty Declaration and its Programme of Action. 
are 
for 

infrastructure 
Ports 
facilitating 
the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action. 
Therefore,  the  Tanzania  Ports  Authority  is  about  to 
finalize a study on port interface challenges at the port 
of  Dar  es  Salaam.  Those  challenges  include,  first, 
improving 
secondly, 
synergizing key transport  providers and enhancing the 
efficiency  of  the  port  and  its  trade  facilitation  with 
landlocked  countries;  thirdly,  digitizing  the  customs 
process  and  fast-tracking  tax-compliant  customers; 
and, fourthly, reducing congestion at the port of Dar es 
Salaam and bringing the Tanga and Mtwara ports up to 
the required international standards. 

Tanzania,  Rwanda  and  Burundi,  through  the 
African Development Bank, are carrying out a railway 
feasibility  study  on  linking  the  three  countries.  The 
sector  objective  of  the  project  is  to  contribute  to  the 
implementation  of  an  efficient  common  multinational 
multimodal  transport  programme  that  fosters  regional 
economic  integration  and  the  development  of  zones 
with high agriculture, mining, industrial or commercial 
potentials  within 
railway 
development  will  give  landlocked  countries  access  to 
international transport links. 

the  central 
development  corridor  a  public-private  partnership 
arrangement  is  being  considered.  The  Government  of 
the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  has  finalized  the 
restructuring  of  the  Tanzania  Railways  Corporation 
through  a joint venture with RITES Ltd of India.  It is 
expected  that  that  new  initiative  will  improve  the 
efficiency  of  the  central  development  corridor,  which 
connects  the  landlocked  countries  of  Rwanda  and 
Burundi.  The  same  approach  is  being  worked  out  for 
Zambia 
the  Tanzania  Zambia  Railways 
Authority (TAZARA). 
the  Almaty  Declaration, 

Tanzania,  Rwanda,  Uganda,  Burundi 
the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  have  signed  an 
agreement  on  the  establishment  of  a  central  corridor 
transit transport facilitation agency to promote efficient 
transit  transport  systems  and  their  maintenance  over 
time,  in  the  interests  of  all  contracting  parties,  with  a 
view  to  improving  the  accessibility  and  reliability  of 
the central corridor. 
improve  railway  services 
those  countries.  This 
In 
implementing 
through 
To 
in 
16 


increase 

According to the transport component of a World 
Bank  study  entitled  “Africa  Infrastructure  Country 
Diagnostic”,  dealing  with  roads,  railways,  ports, 
airports  and  urban  transport,  it  is  estimated  that 
Tanzania will need to invest at least $12,989 million in 
order  to  meet  the  basic  scenario  —  establishing 
accessibility  standards  applicable  to  developed  and 
middle-income  developing  countries  —  in  a  way  that 
will 
the  competitiveness  of  Tanzania’s 
economy and improve social cohesiveness.  

Therefore, the total investment of about $6 billion 
over 
five  years  by  Tanzania’s 
transport  sector 
investment  programme  is  only  46  per  cent  of  the 
investment  required,  which  implies  that  Tanzania  will 
have  to  sustain  that  level  of  investment  over  the  next 
10  to  15  years  to  be  able  to  meet  the  basic  scenario 
objectives.  

Furthermore,  the  report  noted  that  Tanzania  will 
need to spend at least 8.4 per cent of its gross domestic 
product  (GDP)  to  sustain  that  level  of  investment. 
Consequently,  the  Government  wishes  to  invite  the 
private  sector  to  increase  its  level  of  investment  in  the 
transport  sector,  as  the  study  recommended  that  the 
Government  can  afford  to  invest  in  the  transport  sector 
only  8.4  per  cent  of  GDP,  which  is  equivalent  to 
$158 million annually. 

In  conclusion,  Tanzania  believes  that  efforts  to 
implement  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action  will 
require  an  effective  partnership  between  transit  and 
landlocked  countries,  on  the  one  hand,  and  a  global 
partnership between various international stakeholders, 
on  the  other.  That  approach  will  provide  mutual 
benefits  for  all  parties,  as  more  effective  participation 
in  regional  and  international  trade  will  enable  the 
economies  in  question  to  benefit  from  economies  of 
scale. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Yukio  Takasu,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of Japan. 
Mr. Takasu (Japan): I have the greatest pleasure, 

as  the  representative  of  Japan  and  as  a  facilitator,  to 
speak  at  the  high-level  midterm  review  of  the Almaty 
Programme of Action. 

Japan  has  consistently  advocated  the  importance 
of  ownership  and  partnership  as  the  backbone  of 
development.  Under 
that  principle,  a  developing 
country  establishes  its  own  priorities,  direction  and 
08-53293 
and 
from 
and 
should 
should 
provide 
guidance 
Developing  countries 


strategy  for  development  and  strives  to  realize  those 
objectives in a spirit of ownership.  

take  primary 
responsibility  for  their  development,  but  their  efforts 
should  be  complemented  by  strong  and  sustained 
commitments 
their  global  partners.  That 
philosophy is well embodied in the Almaty Programme 
of  Action 
in 
implementation. 

Since  the  adoption  of  the Almaty  Programme  of 
Action,  many  landlocked  developing  countries  have 
shown  steady  progress  in  terms  of  expanding  their 
gross  domestic  product  and  attracting  foreign  direct 
investment. That  achievement  has  been  made  possible 
above  all  by  the  self-help  efforts  of  landlocked 
developing  countries,  for  which  Japan  expresses  its 
highest respect. But it should be stressed that progress 
has been  achieved  also through their cooperation with 
transit  developing  countries,  as  well  as  partnerships 
with  donor  countries  and  international  organizations. 
At  the  same  time,  we  should  be  mindful  that,  as  the 
report of the Secretary-General notes, much remains to 
be  done 
the  Almaty 
Programme of Action. 

the  overall  economic  development  of 
landlocked  developing  countries,  the  promotion  of 
exports  and  the  importation  of  essential  goods  at 
competitive prices are of the utmost importance. Being 
geographically  disadvantaged,  landlocked  developing 
countries  must  make  infrastructure  improvement  a 
priority.  Only  with  the  development  of  appropriate 
infrastructure  can  economic  activities  be  accelerated 
and trade and investment promoted.  

I  would  like  to  share  with  the  Assembly  some 
examples  of  Japan’s  partnership  in  those  matters  in 
different regions. 

I  begin  with  Africa,  where  many  landlocked 
developing  countries  are  located.  Those  countries  are 
particularly  affected  by  high  transportation  costs  and 
weak  infrastructure.  It  is  necessary  to  narrow  the 
distance between  landlocked developing  countries  and 
world  markets  by  improving  power  and  transportation 
infrastructure and by connecting missing links in road 
networks  throughout Africa,  as  well  as  improving  the 
port facilities of transit countries. 

With  that  in  mind,  Japan  has  taken  the  initiative 
to  support  the  implementation  of  the  Infrastructure 
to  effectively 
implement 
For 
A/63/PV.18
to  attract 
the  private 
Short-Term  Action  Plan  of  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  as  well  as  other 
medium-  and  long-term  infrastructure  development 
programmes in Africa.  

First,  this  year  Japan  hosted  in Tokyo  the  fourth 
meeting  of  the  Infrastructure  Consortium  for  Africa 
(ICA). Then, in May, Japan co-hosted the Fourth Tokyo 
International  Conference  on  African  Development 
(TICAD  IV),  in  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations, 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  and  the 
World Bank.  

The Conference emphasized the need to focus on 
the  development  of  a  region-wide  infrastructure.  It  is 
gratifying that there was finally also consensus among 
all  participants  that  every  effort  should  be  made  to 
strengthen cooperation to promote the  development  of 
road  networks,  ports  and  power  infrastructure  as  an 
engine for growth, using ICA as the platform.  
Moreover, Japan pledged up to $4 billion of soft 

loans  to  Africa  over  the  next  five  years,  to  give 
momentum  to  regional  infrastructure  improvement 
projects  so  as 
investment 
necessary for Africa’s economic growth.  

On  the  same  occasion,  the  World  Bank  and  the 
African Development Bank announced that they would 
extend financing, in the order of $5 billion per year, for 
the  development  of  transport  corridors  and  power 
networks during the same five-year period. That was a 
result of a TICAD IV initiative.  

The improvement of transportation infrastructure 
should  not  be 
infrastructure. 
Institutional infrastructure, such as customs, quarantine 
and  immigration  procedures  at  borders,  needs  to  be 
improved as well.  

the  Japan 
International Cooperation Agency to establish one-stop 
border  posts,  which  will  enable  the  necessary  border 
procedures  to  be  completed  at  one  stop.  For  example, 
Japan has been supporting the establishment of a one-
stop  border  post  on  the  Chirundu  Bridge  between 
Zambia  and  Zimbabwe  through  various  forms  of 
assistance,  including  the  establishment  of  a  legal 
framework,  staff  training  and  the  construction  of 
bridges and other border facilities. At the Fourth Tokyo 
International  Conference  on  African  Development, 
Japan  announced  that  it  would  extend  such  assistance 
for 14 other border posts in Africa. 
Japan  extends  assistance 
to  physical 
through 
limited 
08-53293 

17 
for 
and 
trade 
However, 
international 
infrastructure 
landlocked  and 
Japan’s  support 
Japan  pledged  at 
the  Conference,  as 
integration,  which  are 
A/63/PV.18 


improvements  alone 
cannot increase trade and investment. There need to be 
strong  Government  efforts  to  improve  the  investment 
climate to attract the private sector.  
its 

commitment 
trade 
facilitation,  that  it  would  support  efforts  to  double 
investment  from  Japan  to  Africa.  To  follow  up  that 
commitment,  we  recently  sent  several  joint  public-
private sector missions with a view to promoting trade 
and  investment  in  a  number  of  African  countries, 
including  landlocked  developing  countries  such  as 
Uganda, Botswana and Ethiopia.  

To  make  our  relations  with  least  developed 
countries  in  Africa  even  stronger,  we  are  opening  a 
number  of  embassies  —  this  year  in  Mali,  Botswana 
and Malawi, and next year in Burkina Faso. 
transit 

the  African 
developing  countries  goes  beyond 
continent,  of  course.  We  are  also  very  active  in  other 
parts  of  the  world  in  promoting  regional  cooperation 
and 
the 
development  of  landlocked  developing  countries  and 
transit  countries.  Our  consistent  support  for  the Asian 
highway  project  through  the  Economic  and  Social 
Commission  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific  is  well  known. 
Also,  countries  in  the  Mekong  region  are  working 
together  on  regional  integration  within  three  major 
corridors running east to west and north to south. 

In  December  2006,  with  our  assistance,  the 
Second  Mekong  International  Bridge,  which  links 
Thailand with Laos, was opened, making the east-west 
corridor  almost  complete.  Early  this  year  we  also 
pledged  $20  million 
in 
commodities using that corridor. 

I shall name a few examples of recent support for 
other landlocked developing and transit countries. Over 
the past five to six years we have provided Afghanistan 
with more than $2.5 billion for infrastructure projects, 
including  an  airport  and  major  roads.  We  have  also 
started helping with the construction of an international 
airport  in  Mongolia,  helped  lay  a  railway  network  in 
Uzbekistan,  and  contributed  to  building  or  improving 
roads,  bridges  and 
in  countries  such  as 
Tajikistan,  Pakistan,  Nepal  and  Bolivia.  In  Central 
Asia, we have also sent experts on road administration 
and provided equipment for customs control facilities. 
indispensable  for 
facilitate 
tunnels 
to 
the 
trade 
to 

Many 
Japan  has  established 

When  we  look  at  what  many  Asian  countries, 
including  our  own,  have  experienced  in  recent  years, 
we  see  that  trade  promotion  clearly  makes  significant 
contributions  to  economic  growth.  It  is  therefore 
important to consider development assistance from the 
viewpoint of how trade is promoted.  

With  that  in  mind,  since  2005  Japan  has  been 
implementing  the  Development  Initiative  for  Trade, 
whose purpose is to operationalize Aid for Trade. The 
initiative  aims  at  assisting  developing  countries  to 
acquire export capacity and to further benefit from the 
global  trading  system.  We  will  continue  to  provide 
landlocked  and  transit  countries  with  assistance  to 
facilitate trade promotion. 

landlocked  countries  also  face  major 
challenges  in  the  area  of  climate  change  adaptation, 
including forest degradation and desertification. In that 
regard, 
the  Cool  Earth 
Partnership  to  support  developing  countries  that  are 
trying to achieve economic growth while reducing their 
greenhouse gas emissions. We have pledged $10 billion 
under that initiative, to be disbursed over the next five 
years.  

international 
organizations,  including  United  Nations  organizations, 
to  support 
the  adaptation  efforts  of  developing 
countries  that  are  most  vulnerable  to  climate  change. 
As part of that initiative, earlier this year we supported 
the  establishment  of 
Japan-United  Nations 
Development Programme joint framework for building 
partnerships to address climate change in Africa, under 
which  we  very  much  welcome  concrete  project 
proposals for implementation. 
In  the  informal  negotiations  prior  to  this  high-

the 
level  meeting,  we  conducted  a 
implementation  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action. 
Through  that  process,  representatives  of  landlocked 
developing  countries  clearly  demonstrated  a  sense  of 
primary 
development. 
Cooperation  with  transit  developing  countries,  donors 
and 
that 
development.  
We  make  the  utmost  effort  to  strike  a  balance 

between  the  needs  of  landlocked  developing  countries 
and  cooperation  with  transit  developing  countries.  I 
firmly  believe  that  the  draft  declaration  agreed  upon 
based on those considerations has tremendous value in 
enabling those countries to further integrate themselves 
international  organizations 
closely  with 
responsibility 
review  of 
collaborate 
is  vital 
their 
We 
the 
for 
for 
18 

08-53293 
through 
to 
the 
to  all 
for 
faithfully 
implement 
the  cooperation  of  all 


into  the  global  economy,  and  thereby  benefit  from 
access to the world market. 

For the negotiations on the outcome document for 
this review meeting, as was the case when the Almaty 
Programme  of  Action  was  negotiated  five  years  ago, 
Japan had the honour to serve as a facilitator. The draft 
outcome document, which is now appropriately titled a 
declaration, was successfully agreed upon three weeks 
before  today’s  meeting.  That  achievement  was  made 
possible 
those 
concerned.  
I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  my  deepest 

appreciation 
their  understanding  and 
cooperation. In particular, the invaluable contributions 
of  High  Representative  Ambassador  Diarra  and  his 
colleagues are greatly appreciated.  

The  achievement  is  also  solid  proof  that  the 
international community has been united in its support 
for landlocked and transit developing countries. Let us 
demonstrate the same spirit of cooperation in the next 
the  Almaty 
five  years 
Programme  of  Action  and 
recommendations 
contained  in  the  draft  declaration  on  the  midterm 
review, to be adopted tomorrow.  

The  Assembly  may  rest  assured  that  Japan  is 
determined  to  make  every  possible  effort  to  help 
achieve 
that 
landlocked  and  transit  developing  countries  can  have 
full confidence in. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  John  W.  Ashe,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of Antigua and Barbuda. 
Mr. Ashe  (Antigua  and  Barbuda): The  Group  of 

77 and China welcome the convening of this high-level 
meeting  to  conduct  a  midterm  review  of  the  Almaty 
Programme of Action. 
The  Programme  provides  a  comprehensive 

the  particular  needs  and 
framework 
problems of landlocked developing countries (LLDCs) 
and  transit  developing  countries.  The  time  for  the 
review  is  indeed  opportune,  given  the  looming  2015 
deadline  for 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs).  

Last  week’s  high-level  event  of  the  General 
Assembly  made  it  clear  that  we  are  not  on  track  to 
achieve  most,  if  any,  of  the  MDGs.  Landlocked 
the  objectives,  as  a  strong  partner 
the  achievement  of 
to  address 
A/63/PV.18
in 
and 
challenges 
encountered 
developing  countries  are  among  those  least  likely  to 
meet the Goals. 

The  Group  attach  great  importance  to  high-level 
reviews  of  the  implementation  of  the  outcomes  of 
major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits.  It  is 
the  means  through  which  we  can  monitor  progress  in 
the implementation necessary to achieve the objectives.  

The Group believe that the overall internationally 
agreed  development  goals  and  targets  can  only  be 
realized  through  continued  focus  on  the  special  needs 
of 
the  most  vulnerable  countries.  The  Almaty 
Programme  of  Action 
remains  a  sound  global 
framework for global partnerships aimed at addressing 
the special needs of the LLDCs. Its full implementation 
should be vigorously pursued. 

During this two-day meeting, as the international 
community  takes  stock  of  progress  made,  lessons 
learned 
the 
implementation of the Almaty Programme of Action to 
date,  the  Group  of  77  and  China  hope  that  one  result 
will  be  greater  support  for  the  efforts  of  the  LLDCs 
and  transit  developing  countries  in  their  efforts  to 
address the major constraints on their development. In 
this  regard,  the  five  priority  areas  agreed  upon  in  the 
Programme of Action are critical. 

In this increasingly competitive globalized world, 
trade  is  a  vital  means  of  international  economic 
integration, and it is in this area that the LLDCs are at 
the greatest disadvantage. Therefore, the failure of the 
Doha Development Round to address the development 
challenge in international trade is of great relevance to 
the situation of the LLDCs. 

like to highlight the following points.  

First, the current multidimensional global crises — 
food, energy, climate and finance — will compound the 
challenges to the development objectives of the LLDCs 
and  transit  developing  countries,  and  will  constrain 
national  efforts  to  achieve  implementation  of  the 
Programme. 

initiative, 
including  a  doubling  of  efforts  and  resources  on  the 
part  of  all  development  partners  in  support  of  the 
LLDCs will be required. 

Thirdly,  greater  progress  in  implementation  is 
being  impeded  by  the  persistence  of  long-standing 
In that context, the Group of 77 and China would 
Secondly,  a  robust  and  proactive 
08-53293 

19 
to 
and 
for 
investing 
lack  of 
resources 
competitiveness 
A/63/PV.18 

barriers  to  development,  such  as  international  trade 
barriers, 
in 
infrastructure and weak international support measures. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  is  now  more 
convinced  than  ever  that  a  supportive  international 
trading  system  is  vital  for  the  LLDCs,  and  that  full 
implementation of the Almaty Programme of Action is 
both critical and urgent.  

The  Group  emphasize  the  need  for  initiatives, 
including  aid  for  trade  initiatives,  which  aim  to  lower 
the  administrative,  financial  and  other  costs  to  trade 
and 
enhance 
improve 
productive capacity. 

The Group also emphasize the need for enhanced 
support  from  development  partners  for  building  and 
developing  the  capacity  of  LLDCs  in  World  Trade 
Organization negotiations on trade facilitation, so as to 
enhance  their  ability  to  take  advantage  of  any  greater 
market access opportunities. 

The  Group  is  concerned  that  LLDCs,  like  most 
developing  countries,  continue  to  be  at  a  competitive 
disadvantage  in  attracting  private  investment  despite 
creating  a  more  attractive  investment  climate  through 
reforms 
reduce 
bureaucracy, 
improve  business 
procedures and public services.  
There  is  a  need,  therefore,  for  conscious  policy 

measures 
the  flow  of 
investments,  both  public  and  private,  in  LLDCs  in 
pursuit  of  the  full  implementation  of  the  Almaty 
Programme of Action. 

Furthermore,  bilateral  development  partners  and 
multilateral  institutions,  including  development  banks 
and  agencies,  should 
to 
encourage  and facilitate public and private investment 
in  transit  and  transport  infrastructure  development  in 
LLDCs 
including 
investment guarantees. 

attention to the following points. 

First,  there  is  a  need  for  greater  access  to 
advanced  technologies  in  transport  systems,  services 
and technologies that can improve product quality. 

Secondly,  there  is  a  need  for  sufficient  and 
predictable  levels  of  official  development  assistance 
(ODA).  This  will  require  in  the  first  instance  that 
The  Group  of  77  and  China  wish  to  draw 
to  facilitate  and  enhance 
innovative  means, 
lower  costs  and 
improvements 
their  efforts 
redouble 
and 
policy 
to 

the 
The 
is  for 
third  need 
programmes 
transport-related 
set  of  macroeconomic 
to  donor  countries  and 
developed  countries  deliver  on  their  commitments  to 
provide 0.15 per cent to 0.20 per cent of gross national 
income  as  ODA  to  the  LLDCs.  In  this  regard,  the 
Group  strongly  supports  the  call  of  the  Secretary-
General 
international 
financial  and  development  institutions  to  support  the 
Trust Fund he established for the implementation of the 
Almaty Programme of Action. 

technical  assistance, 
including  the  facilitation  of  South-South  cooperation, 
in  the  construction,  maintenance  and  operations  of 
transport, storage and other transit-related facilities, as 
well  as  the  promotion  of  subregional,  regional  and 
interregional 
and 
projects. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  welcome  the  efforts 
of the Office of the High Representative for the Least 
Developed  Countries, 
Landlocked  Developing 
Countries  and  Small  Island  Developing  States  in 
compiling  a 
indicators, 
including  selected 
transport  and  communications 
statistics,  to  illustrate  progress  in  implementing  the 
Almaty  Programme  of  Action.  We  urge  that  this 
initiative  be  further  enhanced  to  also  include  the 
development  of  an  acceptable  set  of  benchmarks,  in 
addition  to  the  macroeconomic  indicators,  in  order  to 
effectively monitor implementation. 

In conclusion, we emphasize that progress in the 
implementation of the Almaty Programme of Action is 
integral  to  the  implementation  of  all  the  outcomes  of 
major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits, 
including the Millennium Declaration. It is a test of our 
resolve  to  foster  a  global  partnership  for  development 
in  our  efforts  to  track  progress  of  all  internationally 
agreed development goals. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  sincerely  hope  that 
this  high-level  review  meeting  will  increase  the  sense 
of urgency and renew and scale up global partnerships 
in  support  of  the  implementation  of  the  Almaty 
Programme of Action, and, more generally, support for 
the  development  efforts  of  LLDCs  to  achieve  their 
national  development  goals  in  concrete,  tangible  and 
measurable ways. 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Philippe  Delacroix, 
representative of France. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the 
through 
20 

08-53293 
to 
the  midterm  review  of 
the  Secretary-General  and 
candidates  Albania,  Bosnia 


Mr. Delacroix (France) (spoke in French): I have 

the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union 
(EU).  The  candidate  countries  of  Turkey,  Croatia  and 
the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  the 
countries  of  the  Stabilization  and Association  Process 
and  potential 
and 
Herzegovina,  Montenegro,  Serbia,  as  well  as  Ukraine, 
the  Republic  of  Moldova  and  Armenia,  align 
themselves with this statement. 
First,  I  thank  the  President  of  the  General 

Assembly, 
the  High 
Representative  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries, 
Landlocked  Developing  Countries  and  Small  Island 
Developing  States  for  organizing  this  plenary  meeting 
devoted 
the  Almaty 
Programme of Action. 
The  European  Union  also  thanks  Mr.  Yukio 

Takasu,  Permanent  Representative  of  Japan, 
for 
facilitating  negotiations  on  the  draft  final  document 
(A/63/L.3*),  which  were  concluded  last  month.  I  also 
thank the Secretary-General for his most recent report 
(A/63/165). 
The  Almaty  Programme  of  Action  is  built  on  a 

partnership among landlocked and transit countries and 
development partners. In that spirit of partnership, the 
European  Union  would  like  to  reaffirm  before  the 
General  Assembly  its  commitment  to  promoting  and 
implementing  the  priorities  set  forth  in  the  Almaty 
Programme of Action. 

The  European  Union  is  satisfied  with  the  final 
document,  which  we  approved.  It  is  balanced  and 
lead 
comprehensive 
concrete 
recommendations  within 
framework  already 
established  by  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action. 
Before I address a few points that the European Union 
considers  to  be  essential  to  ensuring  development  in 
landlocked  and  transit  countries,  I  should  like  first  to 
express  the  Union’s  satisfaction  with  the  progress 
achieved over the past five years. Generally speaking, 
landlocked  developing  countries  have  been  enjoying 
higher  gross  national  products  and  foreign  direct 
investment. For many of those countries, such progress 
is  encouraging.  I  wish  to  stress  three  points  in 
particular.  

First,  with  respect  to  infrastructure,  as  many 
speakers  have  noted,  landlocked  developing  countries 
are subject to major constraints related to development 
problems.  The 
and 
infrastructure  maintenance 
and  will 
the 
to 
A/63/PV.18
the 
such 
by 
an 
role 
in 
creating 
Secondly, 
remedying 
infrastructure 
financial  and 
technical  assistance 
European  Union  plays  a  key  role  in  that  sphere  by 
providing 
for 
developing  transport,  telecommunications,  energy  and 
water  infrastructures.  Last  year,  the  European  Union 
endorsed the EU-Africa Infrastructure Partnership with 
the  aim  of  promoting  interconnectivity  in  Africa,  in 
particular in favour of the landlocked countries of that 
continent. 
Official  development  assistance  naturally  plays 

an 
important 
lack  of 
infrastructure. However, the private sector also plays a 
decisive  role  in  financing  such  infrastructure,  be  it  in 
landlocked  or  transit  countries.  In  that  respect,  it  is 
to  promote  public-private  partnerships, 
essential 
especially 
investment-friendly 
environment. 

investments 
facilitate  trade  expansion.  Customs  bottlenecks  must 
not  slow  expanding  trade.  Lowering  customs  barriers 
and modernizing existing customs procedures naturally 
encourages  trade.  Landlocked  and  transit  countries 
should  work  together  to  ensure  that  red  tape  does  not 
hinder  trade  and  investment.  We  would  recall  that,  as 
the World Bank has noted, only a quarter of the delays 
in the exchange of goods is due to poor infrastructure 
quality  and  that  paperwork,  inspections  and  customs 
formalities — in short, regulatory constraints — are the 
main causes of logjams and delays. 

That  is  why  the  European  Union  is  funding 
several  customs  modernization  projects  in  landlocked 
developing countries. The European Union is also one 
of the main trading partners of the group of developing 
landlocked  countries.  In  that  context,  it  finances 
several 
landlocked 
developing countries. 

Thirdly, with regard to regional integration, those 
countries  must  develop  through  regional  cooperation 
and  integration  channels.  Developing  landlocked  and 
transit  countries  that  belong  to  dynamic  regional 
organizations  clearly  attract  more 
foreign  direct 
investment and integrate more efficiently into regional 
transport  and 
infrastructure  networks.  The 
European  Union  provides  an  example  of  regional 
integration 
the  economic 
expansion  of  several  of  its  landlocked  member  States. 
Other  examples  —  such  as  those  of  the  Economic 
Community  of  West  African  States  or  the  Greater 
that  has  contributed 
facilitation  projects 
trade 
in 
transit 
to 
08-53293 

21 
to 
that 
transit 
assume 
countries 
responsibility, 
The  delegation  of  Morocco  welcomes 
A/63/PV.18 

Mekong  subregion  —  show  why  it  is  worthwhile  to 
strengthen that level of cooperation. 

The  European  Union  shall  do  its  share  of  the 
work  to  implement  those  various  points.  However, 
landlocked  or 
are  primarily 
responsible  for  their  own  development.  To  that  end, 
they  must  unite  and  work  together  for  their  common 
development.  The  European  Union  welcomes  their 
willingness 
as 
demonstrated  by  the  declaration  we  are  preparing  to 
adopt. In their endeavour, they can count on the active 
partnership of the European Union. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

Ms.  Raja  Ghannam,  Director  General  of  Multilateral 
Cooperation  of  the  Ministry  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Morocco. 
Ms. Ghannam (Morocco) (spoke in French): My 

delegation aligns itself with the statement made by the 
representative of Antigua and Barbuda on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China. 

the 
convening  of  this  high-level  plenary  meeting  devoted 
to  the  midterm  review  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of 
Action.  We  congratulate  Cheikh  Sidi  Diarra  on  his 
outstanding  work  and  tireless  efforts  to  ensure  the 
success  of  this  meeting  and  to  defend  the  interests  of 
landlocked  developing  countries.  My  delegation 
welcomes  the  mobilization  that  took  place  during  the 
preparations  for  this  meeting  and  believes  that  the 
active participation of all stakeholders in that collective 
effort  demonstrates  that 
the  needs  of  landlocked 
countries  remain  a  major  concern  on  the  global 
development agenda. 

The  Moroccan  delegation  firmly  believes  in  the 
importance of the midterm review, which will allow us 
to  assess 
in 
implementing the Almaty Programme of Action and to 
agree on efforts to further mobilize global partnerships 
to  help  landlocked  and  transit  developing  countries  as 
they 
social 
development. The  outcome  of  the  review  process  will 
certainly contribute to progress in the debate on a road 
map for the years ahead so that we can build on earlier 
efforts  to  meet  the  specific  needs  of  the  affected 
countries  and 
to  ensure  an  updated 
transport 
cooperation framework for those countries. 
that  has  been  made 
the  progress 
economic 
achieve 
strive 
and 

the 
failure 
impeding 
However, 
failure  of 
their  economic  and 
those  countries 
in  addition 
represents  yet  another 
to  promote 
to 

This  high-level  meeting  takes  place  in  a  context 
that  is  particularly  difficult  for  landlocked  developing 
countries, which are encountering numerous challenges 
to  their  development.  The  implementation  of  the 
Almaty  Programme  of  Action  will  undoubtedly  help 
them  to  meet  those  challenges.  Landlocked  countries 
are  aware  of  the  need  to  promote  a  policy  of  genuine 
domestic  and  external  openness,  which  is  critical  to 
their  economic  development.  To  that  end,  they  have 
established  road  infrastructure  programmes  to  connect 
their  communications  networks  at  the  subregional  and 
regional levels, encourage the circulation of goods and 
services, and promote business opportunities. 

the  World  Trade 
Organization  trade  negotiations  will  seriously  affect 
the  hopes  of  those  countries  with  respect  to  market 
lost 
access.  The 
opportunity  for 
their 
the  structural 
exports.  Similarly, 
handicaps 
social 
development policies, like other countries of the South 
landlocked  countries  are  dealing  with  the  effects  of 
climate  change,  the  skyrocketing  costs  of  energy  and 
food, and the international financial crisis.  

The  international  community  must  enhance  its 
support for landlocked and transit countries, meet their 
needs in terms of market access, and provide them with 
additional  financial  resources  so  that  they  can  meet 
those  challenges  and  achieve  the  objectives  of  the 
Almaty  Programme  of  Action,  the  implementation  of 
which will require the activation of global development 
partnerships. 

of  South-South 
a 
cooperation,  Morocco  is  ready  to  share  its  own 
expertise  and  know-how  in  the  implementation  of  the 
infrastructure  projects  necessary  to  accelerating  the 
implementation  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action. 
During the course of various international conferences 
held in Morocco — notably the Ministerial Conference 
of  Least  Developed  Countries  and  the  High-Level 
Conference  on  South-South  Cooperation  —  my 
country  has  drawn  attention  to  the  specific  needs  of 
those  countries  and  the  necessity  of  partnerships 
between 
landlocked  developing  countries,  donor 
countries,  the  international  financial  institutions  and 
the private sector. 

The Moroccan delegation remains convinced that 
the  recommendations  of  our  meeting  will  speed  up 
promoter 
faithful 
As 
to 
22 

08-53293 
limited 
to 
I 
take 
It 
is  clear 
that 
the 
the  LLDCs, 
those  challenges  are  not 


implementation  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action 
and  give  a  strong  impetus  to  development  efforts  in 
various regions of the countries concerned. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Baki  İlkin,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of the Republic of Turkey. 
Mr.  İlkin  (Turkey):  It  gives  me  pleasure  to 

address  the  General Assembly  on  the  occasion  of  the 
high-level  meeting  devoted  to  the  midterm  review  of 
the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action. 
the 
opportunity  to  share  some  of  our  views  on  this 
important topic. 

landlocked  developing 
countries  (LLDCs)  still  face  serious  challenges  today. 
And 
the 
geographical and physical constraints; the LLDCs also 
face  certain  structural  inadequacies.  Although  these 
shortcomings  do  not  fully  define  all  the  socio-economic 
development  problems  of 
they  still 
undermine their economic growth. 

The  Almaty  Programme  of  Action  provides  a 
solid framework for international cooperation aimed at 
addressing  the  challenges  faced  by  the  LLDCs.  There 
has 
in 
implementing  the  Programme’s  priority  areas.  Yet  we 
have  to  continue  our  collective  efforts  to  create 
genuine  partnerships  between 
landlocked  and 
transit countries through regional integration schemes.  

Another  important  dimension  in  that  regard  is 
promoting closer cooperation between the LLDCs and 
their  development  partners,  which  will  pave  the  way 
for 
trade 
facilitation and market access. 
The  economic  development  and  growth  of  the 

LLDCs  on  the  whole  has  been  promising  since  the 
the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action. 
adoption  of 
However, 
transport  costs  and  persistent 
structural  issues  have  the  potential  to  slow  down  that 
positive trend. 

part to address the challenges that the LLDCs face.  

In  the  dictionary  of  development,  “bridge”  has  a 
number of meanings. In the case of Turkey, the notion 
of being a bridge has first a geographical connotation. 
The  Anatolian  peninsula  has  been  at  the  epicentre  of 
major trade routes. Starting with the historic Silk Road, 
Let me briefly elaborate on how Turkey plays its 
infrastructure  development, 
considerable 
transport 
progress 
already 
been 
the 
rising 
A/63/PV.18
In 
Turkey  has  always  been  a  conduit  of  close  regional 
transport cooperation and thus trade promotion. That is 
still very much the case. 

We  all  know  that  international  trade  serves  as  a 
powerful  engine  for  development.  That  applies  to  all 
nations, but is certainly vital for landlocked countries. 
Mindful of this fact, Turkey has committed itself to the 
facilitation  of  transport  links  between  the  landlocked 
countries of Asia and their trading partners in Europe. 
Indeed, with the realization of two railway construction 
projects,  the  rail  link  between  Europe,  the  Caucasus 
and Central Asia will have been completed.  

Because  of  its  unique  geographical  location, 
Turkey  is  also  one  of  the  few  countries  that  are 
members  of  both 
the  United  Nations  Economic 
Commission  for  Europe  and 
the  United  Nations 
Economic  and  Social  Commission  for  Asia  and  the 
Pacific.  These  two  important  United  Nations  bodies 
have joined forces to harmonize and eventually link the 
transport  networks  of  two  of  the  most  populous 
continents.  Turkey  has  worked  proactively  for  this 
historic project to become a reality.  
the 

that  framework,  Turkey 
Agreement  on 
the 
Trans-European  North-South  Motorway  network 
project and the Trans-European Railway Project, and it 
is  currently  negotiating  for  the  extension  of  the 
Trans-European  Transport  Networks 
its  own 
territory.  Completion  of  those  projects  would  further 
facilitate  the  access  of  landlocked  countries  to  their 
important trading partners. 

However,  the  provision  of  transport  facilities  is 
only  one  dimension  of  the  problems  that  the  LLDCs 
face.  The  landlocked  developing  countries  need  to 
further  upgrade  their  transport  networks  and  related 
infrastructure  too.  Here  Turkey  again  plays  a  role. 
Through  the  Turkish  International  Cooperation  and 
Development  Agency,  Turkey  has  in  the  last  three 
years  either  directly  undertaken  or  partly  financed 
multiple  transport  infrastructure  projects  at  a  cost 
totalling  $19  million.  We  have  also  been  providing 
various training and education programmes for experts 
from the Central Asian republics.  

I  am  pleased  to  announce  today  the  Turkish 
Government’s  decision  to  contribute  $200,000  to  the 
Trust  Fund  established  to  facilitate  the  follow-up 
activities  for 
the  Almaty 
Programme of Action.  
to 
the  Asian  Highway  Network, 
implementation  of 
is  party 
the 
to 
08-53293 

23 

their 
(LLDCs)  and 
A/63/PV.18 


Our collective efforts to address the special needs 
and  problems  of  the  LLDCs  are  indeed  vital  for  the 
attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. We 
will continue to do our utmost in assisting the LLDCs 
in their development endeavours.  

In  conclusion,  I  extend  our  warm  thanks  to  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Japan,  Ambassador 
Takasu,  for  his  diligent  work  as  facilitator  in  the 
negotiation  process  of  the  declaration  that  will  be 
formally adopted at the end of our meeting.  
I  also  express  our  deep  appreciation  to  Under-

Secretary-General and High Representative Ambassador 
Diarra and his team for their tireless work. 
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  R.M.  Marty  M.  Natalegawa,  chairman 
of the delegation of the Republic of Indonesia. 
Mr. Natalegawa (Indonesia): I begin by thanking 

the  President  for  convening  this  midterm  review  to 
address  the  special  needs  of  landlocked  developing 
countries 
transit  developing 
countries.  
The review takes places at an important juncture, 

when  Member  States  have  reiterated 
their  firm 
commitment  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  The  31  countries  comprising  370  million 
people that we speak of today are an essential element 
of our broader commitment to achieve the Millennium 
Development  Goals.  This 
timely 
opportunity  to  acknowledge  the  progress  achieved  but 
also to highlight the remaining challenges.  

The  declaration  to  be  adopted  at  the  end  of  the 
midterm  review  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action 
contains  important  future  actions  to  enhance  further 
cooperation  between  landlocked  and  transit  countries, 
with the support of the international community. In that 
regard, my delegation expresses its full support for the 
declaration’s adoption. 
Indonesia  recognizes  the  special  needs  of  the 

least  developed  and  landlocked  developing  countries. 
The  high  cost  of  international  trade  caused  by  transit 
and  transport  costs  has  been  a  persistent  barrier.  Even 
since the world market was fully opened to landlocked 
countries,  their  participation  in  international  trade  and 
the  competitiveness  of 
their  products  have  been 
hampered by lack of territorial access to sea ports and 
poor  transit  infrastructure. The  limited  capacity  of  the 
therefore  a 
is 
the 
participation 
infrastructure, even with territorial access to sea ports, 
is another challenge. 

Trade  is  a  powerful  engine  for  growth  and 
development.  Therefore, 
and 
integration  of  landlocked  developing  countries  in  the 
world trading system should be at the centre of global 
efforts.  The  full  inclusion  of  the  least  developed 
countries and LLDCs in the World Trade Organization 
will  address  their  marginalization  in  international 
trade. 
Since  the  adoption  of  the Almaty  Programme  of 

Action,  the  gross  domestic  product  of  the  landlocked 
developing countries as a group grew by almost 8 per cent 
per  annum  for  the  period  2003  to  2006.  The  increased 
GDP  growth  rates  resulting  from  exports  surged 
particularly  for  oil  and  other  mineral  resources. 
Moreover,  the  economic  growth  of  the  major  transit 
countries  has  been  encouraging,  and  neighbouring 
landlocked  developing  countries  have  benefited  from 
the spillover effects. 

Despite  those  encouraging  signs,  however,  the 
economic  growth  and  social  well-being  of  landlocked 
countries  remain  very  vulnerable  to  external  shocks. 
That  causes  even  more  concern  as  the  per  capita 
income and human development of most of the LLDCs 
are among the lowest in the world.  
support 

measures is an urgent task that includes a major effort 
to  reduce  transport  costs,  improve  infrastructure  and 
cooperation 
strengthen 
between 
transit 
neighbours is pivotal for an effective solution to many 
transit  problems,  an  effective  strategy  to  improve 
transit  systems  requires,  first  and  foremost,  action  at 
the regional level. 
the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 

Nations 
for  ASEAN 
Integration Programme gives direction to and sharpens 
the focus of collective efforts in ASEAN to narrow the 
development  gap  between 
its  older  and  newer 
members.  The  initiative  also  aims  to  merge  the 
economy of ASEAN’s newer members into the regional 
and global markets.  

To realize that objective, at their summit meeting 
in Phnom Penh in November 2002 the ASEAN leaders 
endorsed a workplan for the period to 2008 comprising 
203 projects. It is noteworthy that some of the projects, 
Since 
landlocked  countries  and 
capacity-building. 
international 
(ASEAN), 
Therefore, 
providing 
their 
Within 
the 
Initiative 
24 

08-53293 
the 
reiterates 
Indonesia 
joins 
Indonesia 
countries. 


especially  those  related  to  transportation,  are  in  line 
with the Almaty Programme of Action. 

those  who  have  called  for 
international  support  to  address  the  special  needs  of 
transit 
landlocked  developing  countries  and 
developing 
its 
determination to work in unison with the international 
community to create an environment that will pave the 
way towards promoting the well-being of all countries. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Eladio  Loizaga,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of the Republic of Paraguay. 
Mr.  Loizaga  (Paraguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  At 

the  outset,  on  behalf  of  the  delegation  of  Paraguay  I 
would like to say how pleased we are that Mr. d’Escoto 
Brockmann  is  presiding  over  this  high-level  plenary 
devoted 
the  Almaty 
Programme of Action, knowing that he comes from one 
of the three vulnerable groups of this Organization.  
I  recall  that  during  its  eleventh  session  the 

General  Assembly, 
in  February  1957,  adopted 
resolution  1028  (XI),  in  which  Member  States  for  the 
first time gave  
the  midterm  review  of 
to 
“full  recognition  to  the  needs  of  land-locked 
Member  states  in  the  matter  of  transit  trade  and, 
therefore,  [accorded]  them  adequate  facilities  in 
terms  of  international  law  and  practice  in  this 
regard,  bearing  in  mind  the  future  requirements 
resulting  from  the  economic  development  of  the 
land-locked countries”. 
After  46  years  and 
subsequent 
technical 

meetings, 
the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action  was 
adopted in August 2003, with a view to addressing the 
special  needs  of 
landlocked  developing  countries 
(LLDCs)  within  a  new  global  framework  for  transit 
transportation  cooperation  for  landlocked  and  transit 
developing countries. 
The Almaty  Declaration,  which  systematized  the 

the  Landlocked 
special  needs  of 
Developing  Countries,  was 
intense 
negotiations and, above all, a response to the call made 
by  our  heads  of  State  in  Goal  8  of  the  Millennium 
Declaration, in which they recognized the special needs 
and  problems  that  that  Group  faces  owing  to  its 
vulnerable  geographical  position.  It  was  also  possible 
thanks to the support and understanding shown by our 
brother transit countries. 
the  Group  of 
the  result  of 
A/63/PV.18
international 

We are convinced that the Almaty Programme of 
Action  represents  the  necessary  framework  to  build 
fairer  and  more  equitable  relations  between  all  the 
Member  States  and 
financial  and 
development  agencies,  with 
the  aim  of  helping 
overcome that disadvantage in such a way that we can 
participate in and share the benefits to be gained from 
having access to the main world markets, as well as the 
growing globalized and competitive economy. 

At the Almaty Conference in 2003, with a view to 
uniting  efforts  to  tackle  the  challenges  faced  by  the 
Group  of  the  LLDCs  in  future  trade  negotiations, 
Paraguay  was  appointed  coordinator  of  the  Group  for 
matters  relating  to  trade  and  development.  In  keeping 
with  that  mandate,  the  Paraguayan  delegation  in 
Geneva  has  been  working  within  both  the  framework 
of Goal 8 of the Millennium Declaration and the World 
Trade  Organization  (WTO)  to  incorporate  and  defend 
the  interests  of  the  Group  in  multilateral  international 
trade. 

Similarly, in the framework of the United Nations 
Conference  on  Trade  and  Development  (UNCTAD), 
the  Group  of  the  LLDCs  played  an  active  role  in  the 
latest conferences, in particular in UNCTAD XI, which 
took  place  in  São  Paulo,  Brazil,  in  June  2004,  and  in 
the  recent  UNCTAD  XII,  held  in Accra,  Ghana,  from 
20 to 25 April 2008, where there was major recognition 
of  the  need  to  take  into  account  the  position  of  the 
landlocked  developing  countries  in  international  trade 
and other priority areas. 

In  the  preparation  for  that  recent  Conference, 
within  the  framework  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China, 
the Group of the LLDCs submitted several paragraphs 
related  to  questions  of  transportation,  infrastructure, 
trade  facilitation,  investment,  access  to  markets  and 
technical  cooperation,  associated  with  the  Almaty 
Programme  of  Action,  which  were  included  in  the 
Accra Agreement  and  which  the  UNCTAD  secretariat 
is currently implementing. 

It  is  worth  pointing  out  that  for  the  first  time 
UNCTAD has a mandate to assist landlocked countries 
in the area of investment. That has made it possible for 
UNCTAD, jointly with the World Bank and the United 
States  Chamber  of  Commerce,  to  organize  the  High-
Level  Investment  Forum  “Investing  in  Landlocked 
Developing  Countries”,  which  took  place  in  this  Hall 
yesterday.  
08-53293 

25 

A/63/PV.18 


Within  the  framework  of  the  WTO,  negotiations 
are  currently  under  way  for  the  Doha  Development 
Round,  which  began  in  2001  and  was  expected  to  be 
completed  by  2005.  However,  as  we  all  know,  the 
difficulties  in  fulfilling  the  mandate  of  the  WTO 
Ministerial  Conference  have  meant  that  negotiations 
are still going on. 

In  accordance  with  Priority  3  of  the  Almaty 
Programme of Action, on international trade and trade 
facilitation,  the  landlocked  developing  countries  are 
focusing  their  efforts  primarily  on  one  of  the  most 
important  chapters  of  the  Doha  Round,  which  is  trade 
facilitation.  It  is  expected  that,  as  a  result  of  the 
negotiations  in  that  regard,  the  landlocked  developing 
countries  will  be  able  to  count  on  an  international 
instrument 
that  contains  mandatory  compliance 
standards and helps to remove obstacles that currently 
hinder trade and make it more costly, by facilitating the 
transit of merchandise and making it less expensive. 

With a view to establishing a reference point for 
work  in  the  Round,  and  also  to  have  agreed  common 
positions,  we  organized  the  first  Meeting  of  the 
Ministers  of  Landlocked  Developing  Countries 
Responsible  for Trade,  which  took  place  in Asunción, 
Paraguay,  in August  2005. As  a  result  of  the  meeting, 
we  adopted  the  Asunción  Platform  for  the  Doha 
Development  Round,  which  is  today  a  fundamental 
document in the area of trade and trade facilitation. 

In  August  2007,  the  second  Meeting  of  the 
Ministers  of  Landlocked  Developing  Countries 
Responsible  for  Trade  was  held 
in  Ulan  Bator, 
Mongolia, to review the Asunción Platform and adjust 
the objectives of the Group of the LLDCs to the Doha 
Round.  Our  efforts  resulted 
the  Ulan  Bator 
Declaration,  in  which  our  countries  renewed  their 
commitment  to  work  with  determination  for  real, 
beneficial results in the Doha Round.  

landlocked 
developing  countries  have  dealt  with  in  the  World 
Trade  Organization  (WTO)  concerns  the  processes  for 
their  joining  that  body.  Indeed,  eight  members  of  our 
Group are currently negotiating their entry. It is a long, 
costly and complicated process.  

We take this opportunity to repeat our call to the 
members of the WTO to take into account in accession 
negotiations  for 
the 
condition  of  those  countries,  and  not  to  request 
the  countries  of  our  Group 
topic  which 
important 
Another 
in 
trade 
in 
access 
countries’ 
developing 
facilitation  and 
concessions going far beyond their economic, financial 
and development possibilities. 

We also cannot miss the opportunity to point out 
that,  in  addition  to  the  structural  difficulties  of  transit 
restrictions  on 
transport, 
landlocked 
to 
international  trade,  there  are  today  new  challenges  to 
sustainable  development:  the  high  oil  price,  the  food 
crisis, climate change and, most recently, the financial 
crisis,  which  could  have  a  great  impact  on  the  most 
vulnerable  economies.  It  would  therefore  be  prudent 
for  the  international  community,  in  adopting  policies 
and  actions  to  deal  with  those  crises,  to  bear  in  mind 
the  particular  situation  of 
landlocked  developing 
countries. 

In  accordance  with  the  mandate  given  by  the 
Group,  and  with  its  constant  support,  Paraguay  has 
made all necessary efforts in coordinating negotiations 
for the draft  declaration to be considered by ministers 
and  representatives  in  this  high-level  meeting.  The 
document  reflects  the  state  of  implementation  of  the 
Almaty Programme of Action as well as the challenges 
to  be  met  and  commitments  still  to  be  fulfilled  in  the 
next five years. 

I thank the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, 
for  the  support  that  he  has  given  the  Group  of  the 
Landlocked Developing Countries since he took office 
in  order  to,  above  all,  preserve  and  strengthen  the 
Office  of  the  High  Representative  for  the  Least 
Developed  Countries, 
Landlocked  Developing 
Countries and Small Island Developing States. 

I also pay a well-deserved tribute to Ambassador 
Anwarul Chowdhury, the first High Representative for 
the 
Landlocked 
Developing  Countries  and  Small  Island  Developing 
States, for his dedication to the cause of our Group and 
his  efforts 
the  Almaty 
Programme of Action five years ago. 
I also recognize the work done by the Permanent 

Representative  of  Japan,  Ambassador  Yukio  Takasu, 
and  his  team.  As  facilitator,  he  managed  to  reconcile 
the different positions, which made it possible to agree 
on a draft declaration. 

Lastly,  we  express  our  gratitude  to  the  High 
Representative  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries, 
Landlocked  Developing  Countries  and  Small  Island 
Developing  States,  Ambassador  Cheick  Sidi  Diarra, 
Least  Developed  Countries, 
the  establishment  of 
26 

08-53293 
the 
the  session  on  16  September, 


and his team of skilled professionals for their work, in 
accordance  with  the  Assembly’s  mandate,  both  at  the 
preparatory  process  and  in  the  meeting  for  which  we 
come together today. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His Excellency Mr. Hilario G. Davide, chairman of the 
delegation of the Philippines. 
Mr.  Davide  (Philippines):  Since  I  am  speaking 

for  the  first  time  at  the  sixty-third  session,  I  begin  by 
congratulating the President on his truly well-deserved 
election  by  acclamation.  With 
theme  of  his 
stewardship  clearly  defined  in  his  address  at  the 
opening  of 
the 
Philippines  is  confident  that  he  will  provide  that  rare 
brand of leadership that promises to bring the dawn of 
a  new  day  for  the  United  Nations  as  it  grapples  with 
the series of crises that have engulfed our world. 

Strengthened as the President is by his faith, I know 
that he will, just as St. Paul in Corinthians 1:16 exhorted, 
be courageous and strong and his every act will be done 
with  love.  In  this  spirit,  the  Philippines  pledges  its 
cooperation and full support in all his efforts to pursue 
his noble plans for the United Nations. 

and 
congratulates  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
incisive  and  comprehensive  report  on  the  Almaty 
Programme of Action at the time of its midterm review. 

Finally,  I  extend  the  Philippines  gratitude  to 
Ambassador  Cheick  Sidi  Diarra,  High  Representative 
for 
the  Least  Developed  Countries,  Landlocked 
Developing  Countries  and  Small  Island  Developing 
States,  for  his  unceasing  efforts  to  succeed  in  his 
multiple  roles,  especially  in  advancing  the  cause  of 
those countries.  

We also thank Ambassador Yukio Takasu of Japan 
for  his  crucial  role  in  negotiating  and  facilitating  the 
outcome document. 
The Philippines aligns itself with the statement of 

the  Group  of  77  and  China  delivered  by 
the 
representative of Antigua and Barbuda. Nonetheless, it 
wishes to speak briefly on some Philippine concerns.  

It  must  immediately  be  stated  that  the  review 
process  provides  an  opportunity  to  make  a  critical 
examination  of  the  accomplishments  made  and  the 
challenges  faced  by  landlocked  developing  countries 
and  transit  developing  countries  in  addressing  their 
The  Philippines 
commends 
likewise 
A/63/PV.18
the 
and 
these 
challenges 
are  not 
economy 
Admittedly, 
the  world 
development 
including 
(MDGs) 
respective 
goals, 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
internationally agreed development goals. 

Although  the  Philippines  is  not  a  landlocked 
country  —  it  is  an  archipelago  with  7,100  islands  — 
the issue of access to markets by landlocked countries 
finds  congruence  in  the  challenges  related  to  the 
Philippines, as its islands, big and small, separated by 
sometimes unfriendly water, similarly face problems in 
transport and infrastructure needs. 
as 

complicated  in  terms  of  seeking  third-country  access 
for  our  products  to  be  exported  to  wider  global 
the  overarching  objective  of 
markets.  However, 
integration 
through 
harmonization  of  policies  and  trade  facilitation  is  a 
familiar  topic  of  discussion  in  a  similar  grouping  in 
which  the  Philippines  is  involved  —  the  Asia-Pacific 
Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum. 

The similarity between the Almaty agenda topics 
of discussion and those of APEC pointed and led to the 
possibility  of  finding  points  of  synergy,  cooperation 
and mutual benefit. The global village is shrinking fast. 
Problems  and  crises 
in  one  country  directly  or 
indirectly  affect  the  rest.  The  development,  progress 
and  stability  of  one  country  ought  to  benefit,  directly 
or  indirectly,  the  rest.  In  short,  as  has  been  said,  no 
man can be an island entirely of himself.  

This brings us to the conclusion that the logic and 
wisdom  of  global  trade  means  looking  beyond  one’s 
immediate  geographic  neighbours.  Thus,  Almaty’s 
broader  concerns  must  extend  beyond  access  to  the 
coasts.  Even  though  the Almaty  agenda  is  very  much 
situated  in  the  United  Nations  process  —  while 
APEC’s is not — it clearly appears that if the topics of 
trade  facilitation,  policy  harmonization,  transit  and 
infrastructure needs are of common interest, then there 
should  be  some  advantage  to  a  mutual  awareness  of 
discussions and best practices in each forum, especially 
since  some  APEC  members  are  also  Almaty  transit 
countries. 

This  is  not  to  advocate  the  establishment  of  any 
formal  connection  between  the  two  forums.  However, 
since  knowledge  is  power  and  access  to  knowledge  is 
free, 
to  being  aware  of 
information  that  can  be  useful  or  applicable  to  one’s 
particular  situation.  In  any  event,  the  benefits  derived 
from  knowledge  sharing  are  unquantifiable,  and  if  in 
is  no  downside 
into 
there 
08-53293 

27 

In 
addition, 
the  Economic 
A/63/PV.18 

the  end  this  could  lead  to  the  process  of  a  formal 
connection  between  the  two  forums,  a  new  dimension 
of  cooperation  would  be  achieved  for  the  summum 
bonum of all. 

The  Philippines  supports  the  conclusions  and 
recommendations  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on 
the  implementation  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of 
Action.  The  special  needs  of  landlocked  developing 
countries should be recognized, and, as I stated earlier, 
and as recommended in the Secretary-General’s report, 
there is a role to be played by regional and subregional 
organizations in the implementation. 

and  Social 
Commission  for Asia  and  the  Pacific  (ESCAP)  report 
on  emerging  issues  in  the  implementation  of  the 
Programme  of  Action  provides  a  region-specific 
analysis of the existing challenges and efforts made in 
the  five  identified  priority  areas. Again,  the  efforts  of 
ESCAP  and  the  Economic  Commission  for  Europe  to 
provide  technical  expertise  on  paperless  trade  mirror 
similar discussions in APEC. 

The current activities focusing on the needs of the 
landlocked  developing  countries  give  Member  States 
an  update  on  the  remaining  challenges  as  the  LLDCs 
try to situate themselves in a world now hit on all sides 
by crises of unimaginable proportions: climate change, 
the food and energy crisis, and now the financial crisis, 
heightened by what seems to be a failure of the bailout 
strategy 
the  global 
financial markets are in the midst of upheaval, in grave 
turmoil.  The  future  of  the  Doha  Development  Round 
remains  uncertain.  All  these  sad  and  unfortunate 
developments  point  to  extremely  difficult  times,  and, 
unfortunately, the LLDCs are placed in danger of being 
the most negatively affected. 

Our  discussions  here  today  must  take  these 
ominous  developments  into  account.  We  must  work 
harder  to  ensure  that  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  are  not  put  further  out  of  reach  of  the  LLDCs. 
We  must  learn  to  look  at  the  broader  picture,  taking 
into account how regional and subregional discussions 
can integrate the needs of LLDCs and thereby come up 
with mutually beneficial policies for all stakeholders. 

Finally, let me put on record that the Philippines 
will  give  full  support  and  cooperation  in  seeking  a 
common way forward for the expeditious realization of 
the  goals  of  the  Almaty  grand  agenda  as  we  move 
beyond this midterm review. 
the  United  States.  Verily, 
in 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Piragibe  dos  Santos  Tarragô,  the 
representative of Brazil. 
Mr.  Tarragô  (Brazil):  My  delegation  associates 

itself with the statement made by Antigua and Barbuda, 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 
I  am  grateful  for  the  timely  convening  of  this 

meeting  to  take  stock  of  the  implementation  of  the 
Almaty  Programme  of  Action,  as  mandated  by 
resolution 62/204.  

The Brazilian Government is deeply conscious of 
the  importance  of  achieving  the  goals  agreed  to  in 
Almaty,  where  we  set  ourselves  a  road  map  to  guide 
our  efforts  in  assisting  the  landlocked  developing 
countries  (LLDCs)  to  overcome  the  main  obstacles  to 
their  economic  development,  which,  to  a  large  extent, 
derive from their particular geographic situation. 

In keeping with the Programme of Action, Brazil 
is  committed  to  assisting,  in  particular,  its  landlocked 
neighbours — Paraguay and Bolivia — to carry out the 
actions  identified  in  the  five  priorities.  As  a  transit 
country,  Brazil 
their 
realization, especially by seeking to facilitate the flow 
of  trade  of  landlocked  developing  countries  to  and 
from  international  markets.  With  that  in  mind,  Brazil 
has taken a number of initiatives over the years. 

Together  with  our  neighbours  in  the  region,  we 
signed  in  1990  the  Agreement  on  International  Land 
Transportation, which provides the legal basis ensuring 
the  transit  of  goods  to  and  from  the  landlocked 
countries  in  our  region.  Thanks  to  that  agreement, 
intense  and  dynamic  transport  flows  have  taken  place 
ever since. 
Political  initiatives  undertaken  in  our  region 

might  also  contribute  to  the  implementation  of  the 
Almaty  Programme  of  Action.  In  particular, 
the 
creation  of  the  Union  of  South  American  Nations 
(UNASUL)  represents  an  important  step  towards  a 
strengthened regional integration that will foster closer 
relations  among 
fields, 
including 
the  development  of  physical 
infrastructure  projects.  UNASUL  has  already  created 
two  working  groups  —  one  on  regional  infrastructure 
and  the  other  on  finance  integration  —  which  will 
benefit transit to and from landlocked countries in the 
region. 
to  contribute 
its  members 
in  various 
through 
ready 
is 
to 
28 

08-53293 
such  as 
integration  and  for 



Brazil also maintains bilateral committees on trade 
monitoring with Bolivia and Paraguay, which constitute 
important instruments for trade enhancement. That is in 
addition  to  periodic  meetings  at  the  level  of  Deputy 
Foreign Ministers. 
Financing  is  a  key  issue  for  the  promotion  of 

regional 
the  development  of 
landlocked countries. In order to ensure the viability of 
the  numerous 
infrastructure  projects,  particular 
attention  must  be  paid  to  risk-related  mechanisms  of 
the  corresponding  credit  operations.  In  this  respect, 
Brazil has been able to extend financing in support of 
infrastructure works, by means of specific export credit 
programmes and increased capital in regional financing 
institutions, 
the  Andean  Development 
Corporation. 

On  trade,  Brazilian  relations  with  Bolivia  and 
Paraguay  have  improved  in  the  current  decade.  Since 
2002  two-way  trade  between  Brazil  and  Bolivia  has 
grown by more than 200 per cent, and between my country 
and Paraguay it has grown by roughly 100 per cent. 

A  substantial  number  of  Brazilian  companies 
have  invested  in  those  two  neighbouring  countries,  in 
including  agriculture,  cattle 
very  diverse 
breeding, 
furniture,  metallurgy, 
banking, fuel distribution, energy, textiles and clothing, 
and oil and gas exploration.  

Likewise  —  and  of  no  less  importance  —  my 
Government supports the view that in the Doha Round 
of 
landlocked 
developing  countries  should  receive  treatment  that 
enables 
the 
multilateral  trading  system  and  to  benefit  from  their 
integration into it. 

With a view to reducing the existing asymmetries 
in  the  countries  of  the  Common  Market  of  the  South 
(MERCOSUR),  Brazil  supported  the  establishment  of 
MERCOSUR’s Structural Convergence Fund. Since its 
inception  in  2006,  the  fund  has  already  financed 
13 development  projects  in  Paraguay,  amounting  to 
$48 million, in areas such as housing, roads, credit for 
small  enterprises,  the  development  of  technological 
capacity and improvements in animal health. 
the  World  Trade  Organization, 
to  participate  more 
agrochemicals, 
fields 
them 
fully 
in 
A/63/PV.18
thus  easing 
the  Paraná  River, 

In  addition,  Brazil  has  committed  financing 
support for important road projects in Bolivia that will 
improve  domestic  links  and  facilitate  the  transit  of 
goods from Brazil to ports on the Pacific coast. 
Brazil  and  Paraguay  have  agreed  to  build  a  new 

bridge  over 
the 
congestion  that  today  hampers  an  increased  flow  of 
vehicles between the two countries and to the ports on 
the Atlantic coast. 

Finally, through a series of bilateral and regional 
initiatives,  Brazil  has  shown  its  commitment  to  the 
implementation  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action, 
and  it  intends  to  continue  to  do  so.  We  have  been 
working  together  with  partners  in  the  region  to  create 
conditions  that  may  facilitate  the  development  of  our 
landlocked  neighbours  and 
the  current 
disequilibria.  

trading,  financing  and 
transport  benefits  that  we,  transit  countries,  may  be 
able 
landlocked 
countries  will  also  wind  up  being  advantageous  to 
ourselves, as those benefits will have a positive impact 
on the development of our whole region. 
to  our  neighbouring 
We  believe 
to  extend 
reduce 
that 
the 

Programme of work  


Mr.  Yáñez-Barnuevo  (Spain),  Vice-President,  in 
the Chair.  
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I wish 

to  inform  members  that  on  Monday,  6  October,  the 
General  Assembly  will  take  up,  as  the  first  item,  the 
request  by  the  Secretary-General  (A/63/232),  for  the 
inclusion of an additional item in the agenda of the sixty-
third  session,  namely,  “Judges  of  the  International 
Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible  for 
Serious  Violations  of  International  Humanitarian  Law 
Committed  in  the  Territory  of  the  Former  Yugoslavia 
since 1991”.  

Thereafter  the  Assembly  will  consider  agenda 
item  100,  “Report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the 
work of the Organization”. 
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m. 

08-53293 

29 
