
A/63/PV.27
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

27th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 15 October 2008, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 






The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.  

Agenda items 57 and 43 (continued) 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress 
in implementation and international support 
  (a)  New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 

progress in implementation and international 
support 
Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/206) 
  (b)  Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 

peace and sustainable development in Africa 



Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/212) 
2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa 
Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/219) 
Ms.  Greenaway  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  I  have 

the  honour  to  deliver  this  statement  to  the  General 
Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  as 
the  Assembly  reflects  on  implementation  of  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  We 
have indeed had a number of opportunities this year — 
and  we  will  have  others  to  come  —  to  reflect  on  the 
situation  and  challenges  of  the  African  continent. 
Sadly,  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  this  item 
reminds  us  that  our  “attention  reflects  the  fact  that 
most African countries remain off-track with respect to 
achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals” 
(A/63/206, summary). 
for 
for  Africa’s  Development: 

The Group of 77 and China thanks the Secretary-
General  for  his  report  for  this  session  entitled  “New 
Partnership 
sixth 
consolidated  progress  report  on  implementation  and 
international  support”  (A/63/206).  The  Group  also 
thanks  him  for  the  report  he  made  available  for  the 
high-level  meeting 
the 
in  September  and 
recommendations  of 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  Africa  Steering  Group.  These  reports 
and recommendations all remind us that Africa knows 
what it wants, what is required to achieve its goals; and 
it  has  begun  to  take  significant  steps  in  the  right 
direction.  Indeed,  the  Secretary-General  reminds  us 
that “The New Partnership for Africa’s Development is 
both a vision and a policy framework for Africa in the 
twenty-first century” (A/63/206, para. 3). 

the 
Assembly  lines  up  the  actions  taken  by  African 
countries  and  organizations  and  the  response  of  the 
international community, including the United Nations 
system,  to  support  Africa’s  development.  Mr.  John 
Ashe,  Permanent  Representative  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda, delivered the address of the Prime Minister of 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  the  Honourable  Mr.  Baldwin 
Spencer, on behalf of the Group of 77 and China to the 
high-level  plenary  meeting  on  Africa’s  development 
needs on 22 September 2008. The address summarized 
the situation as follows: 


“The  development  needs  and  challenges 
confronting the African continent are well known, 
deep-seated  and  fundamental.  The  international 
community  has  focused  on  those  needs  and 
The  Secretary-General’s 
report  before 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-55233 (E) 
*0855233* 
A/63/PV.27 



in 
the 
and 
summits, 
including 
“We  have 
a  number  of 
international 
challenges 
the 
conferences 
Millennium  Conference, 
International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development,  the 
World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development  and 
the  2005 World  Summit. There  have  also  been  a 
number  of  plurilateral  and  bilateral  initiatives 
directed  to  Africa.  Africa  itself  has  undertaken 
many initiatives to further its development.  

that  addressing 
Africa’s  development  needs  and  challenges 
requires 
internal  action  and  very  significant 
international  cooperation  and  facilitation  in  the 
form  of  resources,  technology  and  a  supporting 
international  environment.  We  have  committed 
ourselves in declarations, resolutions and plans of 
action to stand with Africa in the struggle to meet 
those  needs  and  overcome 
the  challenges.” 
(A/63/PV.3, p.10) 
The  Prime  Minister’s  address 
recognized 

included  six 
questions  to  be  asked  of  the  international  community 
with regard to delivery on its commitment to Africa.  
All the information available indicates a large gap 

between promise and delivery by us as an international 
community.  That  gap  persisted  when 
the  global 
economy  was  in  one  of  the  longest  and  strongest 
periods  of  economic  growth.  The  Group  of  77  and 
China  can  only  urge  that  the  current  crises,  in 
particular  the  financial  and  economic  crises  with  their 
central  initial  impact  in  the  developed  countries,  will 
not divert attention from the long, deep and persistent 
plight of Africa. 

The Group urges us to remain conscious that the 
other crises — the food crisis, the energy crisis and the 
climate change crisis — are having some of their worst 
impacts  in Africa.  The  global  financial  and  economic 
crises  themselves  will  also  have  profound  adverse 
impacts  on  African  development.  Poor  African 
countries,  with  their  high  dependence  on  agricultural 
commodity  exports,  including  cotton,  are  among  the 
most  adversely  impacted  by  the  failure  of  the  global 
trade  negotiations  and  the  continued  application  of 
massive subsidies by developed countries. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  shares  the  view 
contained  in  the  summary  to  the  Secretary-General’s 
report  that  turning  the  vision  —  the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  —  into  concrete  action 
requires  firm  resolve  and  clear  leadership  from  both 
to 
of 
African  countries  and 
international  development 
partners.  The  Group  renews  its  call,  made  through  its 
Chairman 
the  high-level  meeting  on  Africa’s 
development  needs  (see  A/63/PV.3),  for  urgency, 
certainty  and  comprehensiveness  in  our  response  to 
Africa’s development needs. The Group also expressed 
the hope that, by the sixty-fifth session of the General 
Assembly, there will be a strong mechanism in place to 
monitor our commitments to support and assist Africa. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  is  convinced  that 
what the Assembly does  during the sixty-third session 
will have a profound impact, not only on the success of 
Africa’s  vision  but  also  on  its  development  prospects 
for a very long time. Let us find the resolve and do the 
right thing. 
Mr.  Wurie  (Sierra  Leone):  As  this  is  the  first 

time  that  I  address  you,  Sir,  in  your  capacity  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  allow  me  to  join 
preceding  speakers  in  congratulating  you  on  your 
election to your new position. Let me also express my 
delegation’s  confidence  in  you  and  assure  you  of  our 
unreserved support in successfully conducting the work 
of this session. 

the 
statements  made  by  the  Ambassadors  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda  and  the  Republic  of  Kenya,  on  behalf  of  the 
Group  of  77  and  China  and  the  African  Group, 
respectively.  My  delegation  would  like  nonetheless  to 
highlight a couple of issues of national interest. Before 
doing so, however, I would like to thank the Secretary-
General  for  his  comprehensive  reports  (A/63/206  and 
A/63/212) on the progress in the implementation of and 
international  support  for  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development 
the 
recommendations  of  the  1998  report  of  the  Secretary-
General on the causes of conflict and the promotion of 
durable peace and sustainable development in Africa. 

then  Secretary-General 
submitted  his  report  on  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the 
promotion 
sustainable 
development  in  Africa  (A/52/871).  It  is  good  to  note 
that,  despite  the  challenges  identified  in  the  report, 
there has been significant improvement in the areas of 
security  and  governance  in Africa.  In  that  regard,  the 
continent  is  exploring  ways  and  means  to  restore  and 
consolidate peace and stability as a prerequisite for the 
achievement  of  internationally  agreed  development 
goals and Africa’s integration into the global economy.  
My  delegation  aligns 
itself  fully  with 
A  decade  ago, 
(NEPAD) 
durable 
peace 
and 
and 
the 
on 
2 

08-55233 
to 
innovative 
safeguards 
to  pursue 
to  provide  support 


Fortunately,  many  volatile  regions  have  attained 

sustainable 
levels  of  stability,  and  others  have 
witnessed a reduction in the level of conflict. That has 
been  due  to,  among  other  things,  the  United  Nations 
multidimensional  approach  to  peacekeeping  and  the 
renewed  commitment  of  the  international  community 
to confront the scourge of conflict; the transformations 
in  the  African  Union  and  its  peace  and  security 
architecture;  the  establishment  of  the  African  Union 
Panel  of  the  Wise;  the  deepening  of  cooperation 
between the African Union and the United Nations and 
subregional organizations; and the establishment of the 
Peacebuilding  Commission 
to 
countries emerging from conflict. 
The  continent  is  aware  of  the  need  to  strengthen 

legitimate 
democratic  governance  and 
interests  and  respect  for  human  rights  and  the  rule  of 
law. To that end, the African Peer Review Mechanism 
is  providing 
improve 
governance  and  promote  accountability.  Recent 
developments  in  the  West  African  subregion  have 
given  us  cause  for  hope.  The  highly  acclaimed 
democratic  transition  in  post-conflict  settings  such  as 
in Sierra Leone, among other places, is evidence of the 
improvements  that  have  been  made.  We  are  further 
encouraged  by  the  developments  in  the  Great  Lakes 
region and the recent post-election mediation efforts in 
Kenya  and  Zimbabwe,  which  were  encouraging  signs 
for  the  nurturing  of  durable  peace  and  a  stable 
environment for socio-economic recovery in Africa.  

Barely  three  weeks  ago,  heads  of  State  or 
Government,  who  came  together  here,  highlighted  the 
special  needs  of  Africa  and  the  attainment  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  as  high 
points  of  the  sixty-third  session. That  was  largely  due 
to  the  many  unmet  commitments  and  pledges  to  the 
continent  over  the  past  decade.  The  current  global 
economic meltdown and the skyrocketing costs of food 
and energy are seriously compromising the strides that 
conflict  and  post-conflict  societies  are  making  in  the 
areas  of  peace 
sustainable  development. 
Notwithstanding  those  difficulties  and  obstacles,  my 
delegation remains highly hopeful that the declarations, 
pledges  and  renewed  commitments  emanating  from 
those  high-level  discussions  will  be  translated  into 
concrete action by those leaders. 

My  delegation  has  consistently  reminded  this 
House  of  the  need  to  support  and  step  up  actions  and 
strategies that promote the prevention of conflict rather 
and 
A/63/PV.27
to 
support 
to 
additional 
strategies, 
community 
and  multidimensional 
implementation  with  regard 
than  engaging  in  expensive  peacekeeping  operations, 
which are often undertaken after massive destruction of 
lives  and  property  in  the  countries  concerned.  In  that 
regard,  we  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  appeal  to 
the 
the 
international 
development  of 
including 
mediation, early warning systems and other normative 
mechanisms  for  the  prevention  of  conflict.  I  wish  to 
further  appeal  for  the  strengthening  of  the  continent’s 
peacekeeping capability through the implementation of 
the  African  Union-United  Nations  Ten-Year  Capacity 
Building Programme, which aims at ensuring effective 
planning  and 
the 
complex 
peacekeeping 
operations involved. 
This  leads  me  to  the  issue  of  the  illicit  trade  in, 

and  transfer  of,  small  arms  and  light  weapons,  which 
remains  crucial  to  those  endeavours.  We  urge  the 
international  community  to  intensify  efforts  to  restrict 
arms  sales  and  arms  transfers  to  conflict  zones  by 
providing  support  for  the  Economic  Community  of 
West  African  States  Convention  on  Small  Arms  and 
Light  Weapons.  We  also  appeal  for  adherence  to,  and 
implementation  of, 
the 
Prevention, Control and Reduction of Small Arms and 
Light  Weapons,  as  well  as  stepped  up  support  for  the 
United  Nations  Regional  Centre 
for  Peace  and 
Disarmament in Africa. 

Experience  has  shown  that  peace  and  stability 
constitute vital components for development, and vice 
versa.  Members  may  also  agree  with  me 
that 
confronting  the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  light 
weapons 
is  a  prerequisite  for  effective  conflict 
prevention.  In  that  regard,  the  United  Nations  and  the 
international  community  should  work 
to 
strengthen  the  human  and  institutional  capacities  of 
Africa in order to complement the continent’s efforts to 
resolve  those  problems.  In  particular,  the  continent 
should  be  assisted  in  addressing  its  unsustainable 
external debt burden to enable it to generate and better 
reinvest its own resources to help itself. 

While recognizing the need for good governance 
to  create  conditions  conducive  to  lasting  peace,  my 
delegation  would  also  like  to  reiterate  the  need  to 
provide  predictable  and 
sources  of 
financing  and  to  ensure  market  access  through  the 
framework  of 
the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development. 
the  Nairobi  Protocol  for 
innovative 
together 
08-55233 

3 
to 
the 
We 

that 
the 
support 
attaches 
importance 
the  content  of 
A/63/PV.27 


In  conclusion,  on  behalf  of  the  Government  and 
the people of Sierra Leone, I would like to express my 
sincere gratitude to the Peacebuilding Commission, the 
Peacebuilding  Fund  and  the  wider  United  Nations  for 
their  continued  engagement  on  Sierra  Leone.  I 
encourage them to deepen their collaboration with my 
country,  especially  in  implementing  the  Sierra  Leone 
Peacebuilding Cooperation Framework. 
Mr.  Al-Najem  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 

delegation is pleased to participate in the discussion of 
this important item on the General Assembly’s agenda, 
The  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development 
international 
(NEPAD).  The 
community 
issue  of  Africa’s 
development  was  embodied  in  the  high-level  meeting 
held  on  22  September  2008,  with  the  participation  of 
heads  of  State  or  Government,  to  discuss  Africa’s 
development  needs  and  ways  to  overcome  challenges 
and  difficulties  hampering  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by  the  year 
2015. 

the  Political 
Declaration  issued  at  the  meeting  (resolution  63/1), 
particularly  the  renewed  commitment  by  the  heads  of 
State  and  Government  to  strengthen  their  support  for 
the  implementation  of  NEPAD  and  their  emphasis  on 
the 
importance  of  quickly  developing  sustained 
economic growth on a large scale. That is in addition to 
their  realization,  among  other  things,  of  the  need  to 
respond  to  Africa’s  special  needs  in  order  to  set  the 
pace for the timely achievement of the MDGs. 

Seven  years  have  elapsed  since  African  leaders 
adopted  NEPAD,  an  initiative  that  aims  to  achieve 
balanced  large-scale  growth  so  that Africa  can  reduce 
its  level  of  poverty  and  blend  better  into  the  world 
economy. 
We  are  hopeful  that  the  numerous  international 

conferences  and 
to  achieve 
sustainable development will help lay the foundation of 
partnerships  between  developed  and  developing 
nations.  We  also  hope  that  those  conferences  will 
contribute  to  the  growth  and  stability  of  economic 
relations, as well as provide a just and equitable basis 
for  international  trade,  in  which  each  side  bears  their 
respective  responsibilities  in  fulfilment  of  Africa’s 
special needs. 
NEPAD  has  firmly  established  a  principle  that 

Kuwait has always believed in, namely, that there is a 
resolutions  aiming 
4 

that  hinder  efforts 
close  connection  between  political  stability  and 
successful  development.  In  this  regard,  we  wish  to 
commend  the  efforts  of  African  States  to  incorporate 
the priorities of NEPAD into their national policies and 
development planning as well as their efforts to create 
a coherent institutional mechanism. 

We  also  commend  their  efforts  to  apply  the 
concepts  of  good  governance,  rule  of  law,  combating 
corruption and establishing transparency with a view to 
consolidating  democracy,  since  those  concepts  reflect 
directly  on  a  country’s  ability  to  achieve  security, 
stability and sustainable development. 

During the past months, the world has witnessed 
the  emergence  of  new  international  challenges  and 
threats 
to  achieve  sustainable 
development  in  numerous  countries.  Most  significant 
among them have been the increase in the price of food 
and  basic  commodities,  energy  prices,  disarray  in 
financial  markets  and  the  negative  effects  of  climate 
change.  The  danger  of  these  challenges  lies  in  their 
global impact, which transcends national borders.  
the 
recent  developments  will  put 

the 
international  community  behind 
in  achieving 
MDGs.  We  have,  indeed,  started  to  note  the  negative 
effects  of  these  challenges  on  the  African  continent, 
which  has  not  achieved  significant  progress  in  the 
eradication  of  poverty,  hunger  or 
in  combating 
dangerous  infectious  diseases,  such  as  HIV/AIDS  or 
malaria. These  recent  challenges  have  exacerbated  the 
suffering of the majority of African States. 
In  order  to  face  these  challenges,  the  State  of 

Kuwait  has  not  spared  any  effort  in  continuing  to 
provide 
developing 
countries, especially to countries in Africa, through its 
official  and  non-official  institutions.  This  assistance 
has  been  a  steady  part  of  Kuwait’s  foreign  policy, 
emanating  from  our  conviction  that  advancing  the 
economic  situations  of  developing  countries  and 
helping  them  achieve  their  development  goals  will  be 
beneficial  to  all  and  will  expand  the  horizons  of 
partnership  and  cooperation,  further  strengthening 
international trade and economic systems. 
development 
assistance 
These 
to 

Since its establishment in 1961, the Kuwait Fund 
for  Arab  Economic  Development  has  been  providing 
grants  and  loans  to  finance  infrastructure  projects  in 
many developing countries. The gross total amount of 
easy loans and grants has exceeded $12 billion and has 
benefited more than a hundred countries, 40 per cent of 
08-55233 
to 
numerous 
is 
contributed 
in  addition 
in  Riyadh,  dedicated 


which  are  African  countries.  Two  years  ago,  Kuwait 
contributed  $300  million  to  the  Islamic  Development 
Bank  for  combating  poverty  in  Africa.  The  Fund  has 
also 
rehabilitation 
programmes and is given credit for its participation in 
making  the  first  phase  of  the  programme  to  combat 
river  blindness  a  success,  with  a  total  contribution  of 
$100  million.  This 
to  Kuwait’s 
contributions  to  many  development  funds  in  Africa, 
such as the African Development Fund, the Arab Bank 
for  Economic  Development  in Africa  and  the African 
Development Bank. 

In  response  to  the  suffering  in  many  developing 
countries  resulting  from  difficult  economic  conditions 
in  particular  increases  in  food  and  energy  prices,  the 
State of Kuwait established the Decent Life Fund with 
a  capital  of  $100  million  to  develop  and  improve 
agricultural  production 
in  developing  countries. 
Kuwait also announced the donation of $150 million to 
the  fund  that  was  established  at  the  most  recent 
Summit  Conference  of  the  Organization  of  Petroleum 
Exporting  Countries 
to 
conducting research and studies in the fields of energy, 
environment and climate change. 

In  this  regard,  we  stress  what  was  mentioned  in 
the  Secretary  General’s  report  (A/63/206),  that  while 
the  recent  increase  in  food  prices  is  threatening  the 
progress  that  has  been  made  in  fighting  poverty,  it 
nonetheless offers an opportunity for African countries 
to  increase  their  spending  on  agricultural  and  rural 
development  to  10  per  cent  of  public  expenditure  in 
line  with  the  Maputo  Declaration  and  to  launch  an 
African  green  revolution  within  the  framework  of  the 
Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme.  It  can  also  provide  an  opportunity  for 
further regional integration. 

Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  make  the 
following  observations.  First,  it  is  of  vital  importance 
that  African  countries  make  more  efforts  to  promote 
this  initiative  on  a  global  scale  and  not  merely  focus 
their efforts on a number of donor States on a specific 
continent.  Secondly,  we  should  endeavour  to  create 
worldwide  awareness  in  order  to  assist  these  African 
countries,  as  well  as  to  incorporate  NEPAD  in  the 
structures  of  the African  Union,  provide  more  support 
for the private sector and increase awareness activities 
targeting civil society. 

This partnership is not a temporary operation, but 
rather  a  lasting  endeavour  that  requires  patience  and 
A/63/PV.27
cooperation 
and  help  Africa 
the  peaceful  atmosphere  needed 
constant evaluation. We welcome the leadership role of 
the  United  Nations  in  mobilizing  global  support  for 
this initiative. 

African  countries  have  exerted  noticeable  efforts 
to  achieve  stability,  so  as  to  encourage  the  donor 
countries  and  the  private  sector  to  provide  them  with 
the  needed  economic  and  technical  support.  It  is  time 
for  the  international  community  to  achieve  greater 
progress  in  fulfilling  its  commitments  and  for  the 
African  countries  to  take  the  necessary  steps  that  will 
lead  to  the  effective  implementation  of  the  numerous 
projects and programmes included in NEPAD in order 
to  create 
for 
development to thrive. 
Mr.  Liu  Zhenmin  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

The  United  Nations  high-level  meeting  on  Africa’s 
development needs held on 22 September evaluated the 
needs  and  challenges  of  African  development.  The 
Political  Declaration  (resolution  63/1)  adopted  at  the 
meeting  reflected  the  common  will  of  all  countries  to 
enhance 
achieve 
development at an early date. The United Nations high-
level  event  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  held  on  25  September  also  devoted  special 
attention to Africa’s achievement of the MDGs. 

Today, we are gathered once again to review the 
agenda item on African development. This review will 
give  us  a  more  comprehensive  understanding  of  the 
issue and put the Political Declaration on the fast track 
towards implementation. 
In  order  to  implement  the  political  declaration, 

the  key  is  to  remain  focused  and  to  do  that,  we  must 
listen 
to  African  voices,  respect  African  views, 
accommodate  African  concerns  and  support  Africa’s 
efforts  to  implement  its  own  programmes.  The  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  shows  African 
countries’ determination to gain strength through unity. 
The support of the international community should go 
hand in hand with the efforts of African countries.  

There  are  myriad  ways  to  provide  international 
support,  but  the  following  considerations  are  of  great 
importance:  first,  it  is  essential  to  deliver  on  the 
commitments of assistance to Africa. The international 
community,  the  developed  countries  in  particular, 
should  fully  honour  all  assistance  commitments  to 
Africa  and 
their  official  development 
assistance  to  0.7  per  cent  of  their  gross  national 
income. The developing countries should continuously 
increase 
08-55233 

5 

also 
eroded 
A/63/PV.27 

deepen South-South cooperation and strengthen mutual 
assistance with Africa. 

Secondly,  it  is  essential  to  effectively  address 
new  challenges.  In  recent  years,  climate  change,  the 
food  crisis,  financial  turbulences  and  rising  energy 
prices  have  not  only  increased  uncertainties  in  global 
economic  growth,  but  have 
the 
achievements  of African  countries  and  made  it  harder 
for  them  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. As  the  international  community  explores  ways 
to  respond  to  various  crises  and  new  challenges,  it  is 
important 
to  better  appreciate  African  countries’ 
concerns  and  desires  and  to  take  more  substantive 
action. 

Thirdly,  it  is  essential  to  help  African  countries 
build  their  capacity.  African  countries  have  made 
tremendous efforts to take development into their own 
hands  by  improving  their  governing  capabilities  and 
increasing their capacity and potential for independent 
development.  The 
international  community  should 
offer  African  countries  favourable  conditions  in  debt 
relief,  market  access  and  technology  transfer  to  help 
them overcome development obstacles. In the fields of 
global  economy  and  finance  and  trade,  it  is  important 
to provide African countries with an enabling external 
environment for their development. 

Fourthly,  the  United  Nations  should  continue  to 
give  priority  attention  to  Africa.  The  United  Nations 
has played an important role in urging the international 
community to assist Africa. It should continue its input 
in  terms  of  political  mobilization,  resource  allocation 
and  progress  monitoring  to  ensure  that  the  relevant 
international consensus is truly implemented.  

Peace  is  the  foundation  of  development,  and 
without  development,  peace  will  be  fragile.  The 
reduction and even the elimination of conflict in Africa 
are  indispensable  to  the  security  and  happiness  of  the 
African people. Over the past decade, with the support 
of 
international 
organizations, African countries have made tremendous 
efforts  to  promote  peace  and  stability.  The  United 
Nations  should  continue  to  play  an  active  part  in 
promoting dispute settlement through consultation and 
negotiations  between  the  parties  concerned  and  in 
safeguarding  and  maintaining  peace  and  stability  in 
Africa.  The  international  community  should  bear  in 
mind  its  overall  interest  in  Africa’s  stability  and 
prosperity  and  continue  to  help  African  countries 
subregional, 
regional, 
and 

develop  their  economies,  eradicate  poverty,  improve 
the  environment,  promote  social  progress  and  remove 
the root causes of conflicts and instability in Africa. 

  Mr. Cujba (Republic of Moldova), Vice-President, 
took the Chair. 

China  is  a  friend  and  partner  of Africa.  It  is  our 
strong  resolve  to  enhance  friendly  cooperation  with 
African  countries  and  to  take  concrete  measures  to 
support Africa in achieving peace and development. At 
the high-level meeting on Africa’s development needs, 
Foreign  Minister Yang  Jiechi  outlined  how  China  had 
strengthened  its  cooperation  with Africa  and  provided 
various  forms of assistance to African countries under 
the  framework  of  South-South  cooperation.  He  also 
expressed  China’s  readiness  to  take  continued  and 
effective measures to support African development and 
promote  a  new  type  of  strategic  partnership  between 
China  and  Africa.  We  will  continue 
to  provide 
assistance  and  support  to  African  countries  in  areas 
such  as  agriculture,  education,  health  care,  medical 
care and clean energy. We will also continue to support 
African countries in conflict prevention and settlement 
and peacebuilding. 

African  people  are  industrious  and  talented. 
Africa  is  a  promising  continent  with  huge  potential. 
China  is  ready  to  work  with  the  rest  of  the  world  for 
lasting peace, prosperity and development in Africa. 
(Philippines):  The  Philippines 

expresses  its  solidarity  with  the  statements  delivered 
by  the  representatives  of Antigua  and  Barbuda  and  of 
Thailand  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  and 
the  Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations, 
respectively.  Nonetheless,  the  Philippines  wishes  to 
dwell on some points. 

The  22  September  2008  high-level  meeting  on 
Africa’s  development  needs  and  the  25  September 
2008 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  provided  United  Nations 
Member  States  with  a  rare  opportunity  to  review  and 
revitalize 
to  Africa.  Many 
statements  of  support  and  commitment  were  made  at 
that time. His Excellency Secretary of Foreign Affairs, 
Dr.  Alberto  G.  Romulo  delivered 
the  Philippine 
statement  at  the  meeting  on  Africa’s  development 
needs and Her Excellency President Gloria Macapagal-
Arroyo  delivered  the  Philippine  statement  during  the 
round  table  on  poverty  and  hunger  at  the  high-level 
meeting on the MDGs. 
high-level  meeting 
Mr.  Davide
commitments 
their 
on 
6 

08-55233 
Those 
two  meetings  were  held  amidst 



the 
devastating  global  impact  of  climate  change  and  the 
food and energy crises. The spectre of another crisis — 
the financial  crisis — was not yet globally felt at that 
point.  Thereafter,  with  a  speed  beyond  imagining,  the 
financial  crisis  hit  the  international  financial  markets. 
Despite bailout strategies, its catastrophic effects have 
yet to be played out. What we are seeing right now are 
basically effects on the stock markets and the banking 
and  financial  sectors  of  our  economies.  We  are  not 
quite  sure  of  the  exact  follow-on  effects  the  financial 
crisis will have on other sectors of our economies, but 
the  broad  outlines  reveal  extremely  difficult  times 
ahead. That means that Africa will again bear the brunt 
of negative consequences. 
For  the  Philippines,  the  report  of  the  Secretary-

General  issued  in  relation  to  Africa’s  development 
needs (A/63/130) provides an excellent springboard for 
future  action.  The  Philippines  has  added  some 
observations regarding the recommendations contained 
in that document: we believe that with the uncertainty 
of  the  future  of  the World Trade  Organization  (WTO) 
Doha Round, Africa stands to suffer disproportionately 
as  most  vulnerable  to  global  imbalances.  We  must 
achieve a breakthrough in the Doha Round, especially 
in  the  reform  of  trade-distorting  agricultural  subsidies 
in the developed nations.  
In  the  meantime,  the  prescriptions  on  South-

South  cooperation  can  help  fill  the  gap  and  should  be 
augmented  with  triangular  cooperation.  The  outcome 
of  the  recent  twelfth  session  of  the  Intergovernmental 
Follow-up  and  Coordination  Committee  of  the  Group 
of  77  on  Economic  Cooperation  among  Developing 
Countries,  held  recently  in  Côte  d’Ivoire,  called  in 
particular for the adoption of a global platform for the 
South,  which  should  be  seen  in  the  context  of  next 
year’s United Nations High-level Conference on South-
South  Cooperation.  However, 
such  South-South 
initiatives  should  not  be  considered  as  substitutes  for 
aid commitments.  
The  recommendation  on  expanding  the  current 

debt  sustainability  framework 
include  middle-
income countries is a key element that the Philippines 
has  consistently  advocated  in  the  United  Nations.  In 
this  regard,  the  Philippines  has  proposed  a  debt-for-
equity in MDG projects initiative, as a means not only 
of reducing onerous debt burdens but also of attaining 
the MDGs. 
to 
08-55233 

A/63/PV.27
reform  of 
the 
they  relate 
Perhaps the most recent pronouncement regarding 

these  unsettling  events  and  how 
to 
developing  nations,  and  with  special  reference  to 
Africa,  takes  shape  in  the  Group  of  24  (G-24) 
ministerial  communiqué  of  10  October,  which  called 
for  “fundamental 
regulatory  and 
supervisory  framework  as  well  as  clearer  accounting 
rules and transparency”. The communiqué covers many 
aspects of reform and calls for immediate action, which 
are  echoed  in  the  halls  of  the  United  Nations  by 
developing  countries,  to  wit:  food  and  fuel  prices,  the 
Doha  Development  Round,  official  development 
assistance  commitments,  reform  of  the  Bretton Woods 
Institutions,  climate  change  and  next  month’s 
Financing for Development conference. 

the G-24 ministers  

With specific reference to Africa’s special needs, 
“welcomed  and  strongly  endorsed  an  additional 
chair  for  Sub-Saharan Africa  at  the  World  Bank 
Group’s  Board  by  adding  a  25th  Executive 
Director position, that would substantially reduce 
the  number  of  countries  represented  by  each 
elected  Executive  Director  from  the  region,  and 
hence reduce their burden.” 
in 
What  this  means  is  that  within  the  World  Bank,  the 
new position would allow more attention to be given to 
sub-Saharan  Africa’s  needs.  Furthermore, 
the 
context  of  financing  for  development,  G-24  Ministers 
stated:  “It  is  imperative  …  that  the  donor  community 
meets its commitment to double aid resources to Africa 
and  raise overall  aid  disbursements to  $130 billion by 
2010”. 

The  development  needs  of  Africa  are  in  great 
danger of being sidelined or even forgotten because of 
the  current  conspiracy  —  not  just  confluence  —  of 
crises  facing  us  all.  No  one  can  deny  or  cover  up  the 
fact  that  the  new  landscape  of  the  global  socio-
economic,  financial  and  natural  environment  is  being 
buffeted  by  tempestuous  forces.  As  a  result  of  this 
conspiracy,  it  is  difficult  to  grasp  a  clear  and  rational 
approach from the perspective of a single nation-State. 
We  must  use  the  resources  of  multilateralism  to 
provide a clear, rational and equitable way forward.  

The Philippines pledges to do whatever it can to 
help  alleviate  the  pain  and  suffering  and  to  share  the 
burdens  that  developing  countries,  and  especially  in 
Africa, must bear in the present and in the near future. 
Together,  as  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  inspired 
7 

that 
Mr.  Khan
(Pakistan):  At 
they  deserve  on 
A/63/PV.27 

by its goals and aspirations, strengthened by hope and 
faith and moved by love, we cannot afford to fail. We 
must prevail. 
the  outset,  my 

delegation  wishes  to  align  itself  with  the  statement 
made by the representative of Antigua and Barbuda on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

For  several  consecutive  years  now  the Assembly 
has  been  jointly  considering  the  progress  in  the 
implementation  of  and  international  support  for  the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD) 
and the implementation of recommendations contained 
in the report of the Secretary-General on the causes of 
conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable  development  in  Africa.  We  welcome  this 
practice;  it  is  part  of  the  United  Nations  effort  to 
spearhead  the  global  movement  to  highlight  Africa’s 
security  and  development  needs  and  to  give  them  the 
prominence 
the  global 
development agenda. 

The  international  community’s  resolve  to  renew 
its  attention  and  refocus  it  on  addressing  Africa’s 
development  needs  was  recently  manifested  in  the 
Assembly’s  high-level  meeting  on  22  September. 
Several  key  messages  came  out  of  the  high-level 
meeting.  First,  the  way  forward  for  meeting  Africa’s 
development needs requires more intense, coordinated, 
balanced 
to  effectively 
implement the development commitments made by the 
international  community  to  comprehensively  address 
all  challenges  to  Africa’s  development.  Secondly,  the 
commitment to address the special needs of Africa and 
to  strengthen  support  for 
implementation  of 
NEPAD was reaffirmed. Thirdly, it was recognized that 
Africa  is  particularly  challenged  on  account  of  the 
dangers  posed  by  new  and  old  threats,  including  the 
multiple  crises  of  food,  fuel  and  finance.  Fourthly,  in 
addition  to  urgently  fulfilling  all  official  development 
assistance  commitments,  particularly  for  Africa,  new 
and  additional  financial  resources  are  needed 
to 
address  adaptation  needs  arising  from  the  effects  of 
climate  change.  Fifthly,  sustained  and  more  intensive 
efforts  are  also  needed  to  achieve  long-term  debt 
sustainability. 
The two complementary reports of the Secretary-

and  A/63/212) 
the 
General 
(A/63/206 
recommendations  of 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals Africa  Steering  Group  present  a  comprehensive 
integrated  actions 
and 
and 
the 
In 
list 
this 
picture  of  the  progress  made  in  promoting  sustainable 
development and peace and security in Africa over the 
past  year.  The  reports  also 
the  formidable 
challenges that must be surmounted to consolidate the 
gains  and  positive  trends  and  to  make  the  progress 
irreversible.  

The  Secretary-General  has  also  rightly  called 
attention  to  the  challenges  and  constraints  in  the 
implementation  of  NEPAD. 
regard,  we 
particularly welcome the actions focused on supporting 
African regional and subregional organizations. 

The  Secretary-General  has  also  noted  that  the 
progress of the past few years could be offset by new 
threats  and  the  deepening  of  existing  crises.  There  is 
also  concern  that  the  financial  and  human  resources 
required to solve Africa’s multidimensional, interlinked 
problems will fall far short of what is needed. Clearly, 
the international community has to scale up its efforts 
in  order  to  meet  all  commitments  to  generate  the 
resources required for achieving the MDGs. 
Pakistan  strongly  feels  that  further  bolstering 

investment,  expanding 
trade  by  allowing  greater 
market  access  to  exports  from  Africa,  and  building 
capacity  and  human  resources  are  the  most  important 
tools  for  putting  Africa  on  a  fast  development  track. 
These, we believe, should be the three main pillars of a 
strategic partnership between Africa and the rest of the 
world.  

Pakistan  has  consistently  supported  the  political 
and  economic  aspirations  of  Africa.  We  support  the 
effective  and  early  implementation  of  NEPAD.  We 
have also actively supported and contributed to efforts 
to promote durable peace and sustainable development 
in Africa.  

to  supporting  United 
Nations  peace  efforts  in  Africa.  Our  contribution  to 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  in  Africa  has  taken  the 
form  of  a  contingent  of  nearly  10,000  troops,  which 
continues  to  be  one  of  the  largest  two  contingents 
deployed in Africa during the past decade.  
Pakistan  also  has  an  Africa  Plan  for  Trade 

Development,  with  bilateral 
today  reaching 
nearly  $1.8  billion  annually.  Furthermore,  we  also 
provide  bilateral  assistance  in  economic,  social  and 
technical  spheres  to  a  number  of African  countries  in 
the  context  of  South-South  cooperation.  In  particular, 
Pakistan  has  been  successfully  running  a  special 
is  committed 
Pakistan 
trade 
8 

08-55233 
banking, 
problems. 
factor  promoting  African  ownership 


technical  assistance programme for Africa since 1986. 
Hundreds of young African professionals from both the 
public and private sectors have received training under 
this  programme  in  different  fields,  including  public 
administration,  management, 
customs, 
accounting and diplomacy. 

We  are  in  the  process  of  further  expanding  the 
scope  and  scale  of  our  assistance  and  cooperation 
programmes  for  Africa.  Our  Prime  Minister  has 
conveyed  his  desire  to  help  Africa  replicate  our 
programmes that focus on the eradication of hepatitis C, 
provision of safe drinking water and low-cost housing 
schemes,  which  are  being  carried  out  as  his  special 
initiatives in Pakistan. 

I  wish  to  conclude  by  saying  that  the  challenges 
faced  by  Africa  are  colossal.  But  the  opportunities, 
means  and  resources  to  address  those  challenges  are 
also  immense.  NEPAD  presents  a  realistic  framework 
for  action.  The  African  Union  is  emerging  as  a 
dynamic 
in 
tackling  Africa's 
subregional 
organizations  in  Africa  are  also  playing  an  important 
role. We  are  hopeful  that  with  commensurate  political 
will  on  the  part  of  the  international  community,  in 
particular 
to  faithfully 
implement the commitments made, Africa can hope to 
realize its full economic and political potential. 
Mr. Al-Asmari (Saudi Arabia) (spoke in Arabic): 

My  delegation  is  honoured  to  extend  its  thanks  to  the 
President  of 
the 
Secretary-General 
this  meeting  on 
sub-items  (a)  and  (b)  of  agenda  item  57  and  item  43, 
dealing  with  cooperation  in  the  field  of  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  My 
delegation also supports the general statement made by 
the representative of Antigua and Barbuda on behalf of 
the Group of 77 and China. 
Development  is  one  of  the  most  important  goals 

that 
the  Kingdom 
the 
international  level.  The  Secretary-General’s  invitation 
to achieve development in Africa comes as the world is 
facing  difficult  times,  including  the  economic  crisis 
that  is  directly  affecting  the  economies  of  African 
States  and  development  in  that  continent.  Africa  has 
suffered  for  many  decades  from  socio-economic 
problems,  poverty,  unemployment  and  bad  health 
conditions, which require that we support development 
efforts to bring an end to the suffering of those States. 
the  General  Assembly  and 
the  developed  world, 
to  achieve  on 
for  holding 
trying 
to 
The 
in 
is 
A/63/PV.27
In 
the 
including 
to  address 
framework  of 
the  efforts  of 

the 
Government  of  Saudi  Arabia  to  help  poor  countries 
alleviate poverty in them, the Kingdom participated in 
the  Ministerial  Conference 
on  Middle-Income 
countries  hosted  by  Spain  on  1  and  2  March  2007  in 
coordination  with  DEASA.  The  Saudi  Fund  for 
Development allocated part of its assistance — 49 per 
cent  of  the  accumulative  financial  commitments  over 
the  course  of  the  period  1975  to  2006,  amounting  to 
$7.1  billion  —  to  combat  poverty  in  28  developing 
countries.  We  also  contributed  funds  through  the 
Islamic  Development  Bank  Fund 
the 
problems  of  poverty  and  its  effects.  The  Kingdom 
donated $1 billion to that fund. The Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia has made annual contributions of $25 million to 
development  programmes, 
the  African 
Development  Bank,  to  be  disbursed  over  five  years. 
The Kingdom is a member of the African Development 
Bank  and  supports  the  African  Development  Fund  as 
well as the Arab Development Bank. The Kingdom has 
pledged $18 million to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria  for  the  period  of  2008 
through 2010 at the rate of $6 million per year. We had 
already transferred $10 million to that Fund. 

Despite  the  fact  that  it  is  a  developing  country, 
my  country  continues  its  assistance  to  the  least 
developed  countries  (LDCs).  The  Kingdom  forgave 
more  than  $6  billion  of  debts  owed  to  it  by  LDCs.  It 
donated $500 million to the World Food Programme so 
that they can grapple with the spiralling prices of basic 
foodstuffs.  The  Kingdom  contributes  one  billion 
dollars  to  the  Fund  to  combat  poverty  in  the  Islamic 
world,  in  addition  to  contributing  to  the  capital  funds 
of  18 
institutions.  The 
contributions and non-refundable assistance as well as 
concessional  loans  submitted  by  Saudi  Arabia  in  the 
last  three  decades  exceeded  more  than  $90  billion, 
benefiting  86  developing  States.  That  amount 
represents  4  per  cent  of  our  gross  national  product, 
which  is  higher  than  the  rate  required  of  us  by  the 
United Nations.  

In  conclusion,  Saudi Arabia  is  keenly  conscious 
of  the  need  to  bolster  NEPAD  and  to  buttress  the 
implementation of international obligations to Africa in 
a  manner  conducive  to  achieving  lasting  peace  and 
sustainable development therein. 
Mr.  Mbuende  (Namibia):  It  gives  me  great 

pleasure  to  participate  in  the  debate  on  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa's  Development:  progress  in 
international 
financial 
08-55233 

9 

science 
technology, 
the  national, 
institutions  at 
communications 
A/63/PV.27 

implementation and international support. We associate 
ourselves  with  the  statements  delivered  earlier  at  this 
meeting by Antigua and Barbuda, and by Kenya at the 
26th meeting, on behalf of the Group of 77 and China 
and the African Group, respectively.  

The General Assembly is invited to take stock of 
the progress made in the implementation of the African 
development  agenda  through  the  joint  mechanism  of 
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa's  Development 
(NEPAD). We are, on the one hand, called to take stock 
of  what  Africa  and  Africans  have  done  through  their 
own 
regional  and 
continental  level  to  advance  the  African  development 
agenda.  This  is  of  crucial  importance  because  the 
development  of  Africa  is  in  the  first  instance  a 
responsibility of Africans themselves. 

African  countries  and  their  institutions  made 
progress  in  areas  such  as  infrastructure  development, 
agriculture,  health,  education,  environment,  information 
and 
and 
technology,  gender  mainstreaming  and  civil  society 
involvement.  Notwithstanding  that  progress,  there  is 
still  widespread  poverty  and  the  continent  is  not  on 
course  to  meet  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). 

The international community has recognized that 
Africa  has  special  needs  that  should  be  addressed 
jointly  with  development  partners.  In  that  regard,  we 
should also take stock of the international community’s 
support  for  Africa’s  development.  The  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  indicates  that  of  the  €60  million 
pledged for the Africa Water Facility only €19 million 
has been disbursed thus far. On the other hand, official 
development  assistance  (ODA)  to  Africa  provided  by 
the  Development  Assistance  Committee  declined  in 
real  terms  in  2006,  and  continued  its  downward  trend 
in 2007.  

The  situation  is  even  worse  when  it  comes  to 
individual African  countries,  and  more  so  with  regard 
to 
income. 
Furthermore,  members  of  the  G-8  are  off-track  in 
achieving  their  Gleneagles  commitment  of  doubling 
ODA  to Africa  by  2010  and  the  $60  billion  pledge  at 
the  2007  Heiligendamm  Summit  to  fight  HIV/AIDS, 
malaria,  tuberculosis  and  other  infectious  diseases  in 
Africa also remains unfulfilled. Overall, the support of 
the  international  community  for Africa’s  development 
is not encouraging. 
those  classified  as  being  of  middle 
structure 
economic 
industrialization. 
Its  contribution 

Namibia  believes  that  foreign  direct  investment 
can become a significant source of resource flow to the 
African  development  process.  To  that  end,  like  other 
African  countries,  Namibia  has  put 
in  place  an 
investment friendly environment characterized by good 
governance and generous incentives. That notwithstanding,
the  flow  of  foreign  direct  investment  has  not  been 
encouraging. In 2006 Africa accounted only for 2.7 per 
cent  of  global  flows  of  foreign  direct  investment. The 
flows of foreign direct investment in recent years were 
engendered  by  high  commodity  prices.  They  were 
concentrated on the extraction of raw materials for the 
markets of industrialized countries. It has not served to 
transform  the  basis  of  our  economy  through  added 
value  and 
to 
employment  has  been 
limited,  as  operations  are 
capital-intensive.  

More  deliberate  measures  have  to  be  taken  to 
ensure the transfer of technology, which can lead to the 
transformation  of 
and 
industrialization. Sustainable development is unthinkable 
without  such  developments.  In  that  regard,  well-
packaged official development assistance, leveraged by 
domestic  and  foreign  private  capital,  could  make  a 
significant  contribution  to  the  African  development 
agenda. 

the 
potential  to  attract  investments  that  could  lead  to 
economic  diversification  and  industrialization.  The 
lack of progress in trade negotiations, especially in an 
to  Africa  as 
area  of  such  critical 
agriculture,  perpetuates  underdevelopment  and 
is 
counterproductive to our efforts to fight poverty. 

We  are  faced  with  many  challenges  emanating 
from global crises, such as the current financial turmoil 
and  the  food  and  energy  crises,  which  threaten  to 
reverse the progress we have made to date. We cannot 
continue with an attitude of business as usual. We need 
to take bold measures to ensure that the burden of the 
financial  turmoil  is  not  transferred  to  Africa  and  the 
developing world at large. We need a crisis mitigation 
and  development  finance  package.  Such  a  package 
should  finance  all  critical  sectors  that  can  drive 
development.  Those  include  infrastructure,  agriculture 
and 
training, 
manufacturing, health, information and communication 
technologies and entrepreneurship development.  
Trade  and  greater  market  access  have 
importance 
education 
and 
the 
food 
security, 
10 

08-55233 
(Brazil):  At 
Mr.  Tarragô



Indeed,  it  was  the  political  will  and  resolve 
demonstrated  through  the  Marshall  Plan  that  helped 
Europe to recover after the Second World War. We are 
currently  witnessing  similar  resolve  in  the  United 
States  and  Europe  to  deal  with  the  financial  crisis 
through bail-outs and other measures. We would like to 
see  similar  commitment  and  passion  among  Africa’s 
development  partners  to  overcome  that  continent’s 
development challenges. 
the  outset,  my 

delegation  would  like  to  associate  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

Less  than  one  month  ago  in  this  House,  a  high-
level meeting on Africa’s needs took place just prior to 
the opening of the general debate of the current session 
of  the  General  Assembly.  A  few  weeks  ago,  we  also 
participated  in  the  high-level  meeting  on  the  Almaty 
Programme  of Action,  where  we  debated  the  benefits 
of  trade  in  the  promotion  of  the  economic  growth  of 
landlocked  developing  countries,  half  of  which  are  in 
Africa. 
The importance attached by Member States to the 

development of Africa is unquestionable. We all agree 
on  the  removal  of  the  impediments  that  stand  in  the 
way  of  the  realization  of  the  economic  potential  of 
African countries, and that that should be the subject of 
serious  commitments  by  all  of  us.  In  addition  to 
maintaining the momentum of those two other  events, 
today’s  meeting  provides  us  an  opportunity  to  take 
stock  of  our  commitments  and  of  the  international 
partnership  undertaken  with African  countries  through 
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD). 
In  our  view,  NEPAD  stands  out  vis-à-vis  other 

initiatives  in  that  it  emphasizes  the  leadership  and 
ownership  of  African  countries  in  their  respective 
development processes. That gives exceptional strength 
to  NEPAD.  If  well  managed  and  delivered,  it  can 
become  a  resounding  success  and  an  example  of 
international  cooperation.  We  also  view  it  as  an 
exceptional  contribution  to  the  maintenance  of  peace 
on the African continent. 

For  Brazil,  NEPAD  equals  partnership.  We  have 
understood the message and set about to establish close 
partnerships  with  many African  countries  while  using 
NEPAD’s  economic  and  political  objectives 
for 
guidance. Brazil views its reinforced cooperation with 
A/63/PV.27
impact  on 
international 
to 
inform 
during 
to  establish 
the  General  Assembly 
President  Lula’s 
visit 
African  countries  not  simply  as  a  partnership  for 
Africa,  but  a  partnership  with  Africa.  Brazilian 
cooperation with African countries is multifaceted and 
reflects 
the  diversity  of  national  situations  and 
capabilities.  Nevertheless,  my  delegation  wishes  to 
draw attention to four specific areas which can have a 
considerable 
the  continent’s  prospects, 
those  of  health,  agriculture,  energy  and 
namely, 
capacity-building. 

Brazil has been assisting many countries through 
HIV/AIDS  projects,  either  by  directly  donating  life-
saving  drugs  or  by  helping 
local 
infrastructure  to  prevent  and  deal  with  the  effects  of 
the disease. Moreover, we have started to integrate and 
coordinate  an 
technical  cooperation 
network  to  promote  the  transfer  of  technology  for  the 
production of antiretroviral drugs in Africa. I have the 
that 
pleasure 
tomorrow, 
to 
Mozambique,  Mozambican  authorities  will  inaugurate 
the  first  phase  of  a  plant  built  with  the  support  of 
Brazil  to  produce  antiretroviral  drugs,  which  we  hope 
will  benefit  not  only  that  country  but  also  all  of 
southern Africa. 

With  regard  to  agriculture  and  the  food  crisis 
situation,  my  delegation  is  very  pleased  to  recall  last 
year’s  establishment  in  Ghana  of  the  first  overseas 
office  of  Brazil’s  agricultural  and  livestock  research 
agency EMBRAPA, which has played a critical role in 
fostering  the  green  revolution  that  has  taken  place  in 
Brazil  over  the  past  30  years.  Our  cooperation  is 
demand-driven  and 
to  produce 
tropical  fruits,  cotton,  rice,  cashew  nuts  and  manioc, 
which  are  plants  of  great  relevance  to  many  countries 
in 
trilateral 
cooperation  in  Western  and  Central  Africa  between 
EMBRAPA and the International Fund for Agricultural 
Development,  with 
involvement  of  other 
development partners. 
In the field of energy, Brazil is also working with 

Africa  on  projects  for  the  production  of  clean  energy 
and  renewable  sources  of  energy,  namely,  sugar  cane-
based  ethanol  and  biodiesel.  The  soil  and  climate  in 
many parts of Africa are suitable to producing crops to 
be  used  for  such  energy  products. We  believe  that  the 
potential  economic  and  social 
impacts  of  such 
cooperation can be far-reaching and very positive. 
the  region.  We  are  also  envisaging 
includes  projects 
the 
08-55233 

11 

to 
objective 
achieving  NEPAD’s 
A/63/PV.27 


With regard to capacity-building, Brazil has been 
working with many countries in that very critical area 
for  development.  In  response  to  requests  by  the 
countries  concerned,  Brazil  is  planning  to  provide 
assistance to build professional training centres, first in 
Portuguese-speaking  African  countries  and  later  in 
other countries of the continent. 

Finally,  my  delegation  would  like  to  refer  to  the 
fact that Brazil is coordinating the work of the Guinea-
Bissau  configuration  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission. 
We  have  taken  on  that  coordination  as  part  of  our 
solidarity with a sister country and as a contribution by 
Brazil 
of 
consolidating peace on the African continent. 
Mr.  Lintini  (Zambia):  My  delegation  wishes  to 

congratulate the President on the able manner in which 
he is presiding over this session. 

My  delegation  fully  associates  itself  with  the 
statements  delivered  by  the  representative  of  Antigua 
and Barbuda, on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, 
and  the  representative  of  Kenya,  on  behalf  of  the 
African Group. 

We  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
reports  (A/63/206  and  A/63/212)  submitted  under 
sub-items (a) and (b) of agenda item 57, entitled “New 
Partnership  for  Africa's  Development:  progress  in 
implementation and international support” and “Causes 
of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable  development  in Africa”,  as  well  as  for  the 
detailed  note  contained 
in  document  A/63/219, 
submitted  under  agenda  item  43,  “2001-2010:  Decade 
to  Roll  Back  Malaria 
in  Developing  Countries, 
Particularly in Africa”. 

As we all know, the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  is  an  initiative  of  the African 
Union that provides a strategic framework for Africa’s 
development by promoting socio-economic  development 
and  encouraging  policy  measures  and  reforms  in  the 
areas  of  infrastructure,  agriculture,  health,  education 
and 
communication 
technology,  and  the African  Peer  Review  Mechanism, 
among others. In the widest context,  NEPAD is  at the 
heart  of  putting  Africa  on  the  global  agenda  and 
catalysing  the  involvement  of  African  institutions  in 
the  implementation  of  its  various  objectives  and 
programmes. 
information 
training, 
and 
to 
to 
on 
to 
food 
finding 
Zambia 
sustainable 
trade  and 
interconnect 
reduced  access 
fully  subscribes 

the  aims  and 
objectives of NEPAD. Earlier this year, Zambia signed 
the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme,  which  is  an  initiative  of  NEPAD  and  the 
African  Union  at  the  highest  policy-level  framework 
for  the  development  of  agriculture  in  Africa.  The 
Zambian  Government,  with  the  participation  of  key 
stakeholders  in  the  agricultural  sector,  has  agreed  on 
that  priority  Programme,  which  will  bring  about  the 
required higher growth in Zambia’s agricultural sector. 
With  a  view 
solutions, 
participants  under  the  Programme  have  agreed  to  pay 
particular  attention  to  the  escalating  costs  of  farm 
inputs,  especially  seeds,  fertilizers  and  fuel; 
the 
ensuing 
for  vulnerable 
populations  brought  about  by  rising  fuel  and  food 
prices; the increased use of food crops for biofuels; and 
the effects of climate change. 
Within  the  framework  of  NEPAD,  Zambia  has 

the  Zambia-Tanzania-Kenya 
been  working 
Interconnector Power Project, which will facilitate the 
interregional  power 
the 
Southern African Power Pool to the East African Power 
Pool,  thereby  facilitating  greater  regional  cooperation 
and integration. It is expected that, when the first phase 
of  the  project  is  completed,  in  2012,  it  will  facilitate 
the  transfer  of  some  200  megawatts  of  electric  power 
between eastern and southern Africa, with a further 200 
megawatts  coming  on  line  later  on,  thereby  bringing 
the total to 400 megawatts by 2014. Estimated to cost 
just  under  $800  million,  Zambia  is  seeking  financing 
for the project, which will benefit from the generation 
capacity currently being developed. 

At  this  point  I  would  like  to  focus  on  malaria, 
which continues to be the number one killer disease in 
several regions of the world, particularly in many parts 
of Africa, including my own country of Zambia. Since 
the inception of the Roll Back Malaria Partnership, the 
world  has  seen  the  advent  of  the  Global  Fund  and 
many  other  funds  and  efforts  to  fight  HIV/AIDS, 
tuberculosis  and  malaria.  The  world  has  also  seen 
growing  political  will  and 
financial 
increased 
commitments directed at controlling malaria.  
The  2006  malaria  control  survey  estimated  that 

an  annual  247  million  episodes  of  malaria  worldwide 
resulted in 881,000 fatalities, with women and children 
being the most vulnerable. Many developing countries 
where  malaria  is  endemic,  including  Zambia,  support 
all the efforts made by the international community in 
12 

08-55233 
for  access 


combating  malaria,  HIV/AIDS,  tuberculosis  and  other 
infectious diseases. 

the  Zambian  Government  has 
Since  2000, 
identified  malaria  control  and  prevention  as  an  urgent 
health  priority.  The  Government  has  consequently 
implemented  the  Roll  Back  Malaria  Strategy  at  the 
country level since 2001. The Strategy sets the target of 
achieving  60  per  cent  coverage 
to 
insecticide-treated  bed  nets  and  preventive  medicines 
by  2008.  As  stated  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General, other targets achieved by my country include 
relatively high ownership and use of insecticide-treated 
bed nets. In addition, indoor spraying and the provision 
of  preventive  and  life-saving  medicines  have  made 
Zambia a world leader in the fight against malaria. 

The  effective  implementation  of  those  positive 
intervention  programmes  has  resulted  in  saving  many 
lives.  That  has  been  possible  through  the  support  of 
partnerships  at 
the  global,  regional,  subregional, 
country  and  community  levels.  It  is  encouraging  to 
note  that  our  partners  have  continued  to  support  our 
national malaria strategy plan in order to accelerate the 
achievement  of  the  Abuja  targets,  and  indeed  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  That  has  contributed 
to  donor  confidence  in  the  implementation  of  the 
national malaria programme. 

As  a  result  of  those  interventions,  Zambia  has 
made 
and 
controlling  the  disease,  as  evidenced  in  the  malaria 
indicator survey of 2008, including the following. The 
prevalence  of  the  malaria  parasite  in  children  was 
reduced  by  50  per  cent  between  the  two  national 
malaria  surveys.  Moderate  to  severe  anaemia  was 
reduced  by  more  than  60  per  cent  between  the  two 
national malaria surveys. Between 2002 and 2007, the 
percentage  of  Zambian  households  with  at  least  one 
insecticide-treated mosquito net increased from 14 per 
cent  to  60  per  cent.  The  use  of  insecticide-treated 
mosquito  nets  has  risen  steadily,  from  6.5  per  cent  to 
38 per cent for children under 5 and from 5 per cent to 
40 per cent for pregnant women. More than 80 per cent 
of pregnant women have received at least one dose of 
preventive  medicine,  with  more  than  65  per  cent  of 
them having received two or more doses. Those results 
have been achieved thanks to the partnerships that the 
Ministry of Health has established. 

In  conclusion,  the  achievements  to  which  I  have 
referred  must  be  maintained.  Zambia  must  press  for 
in  preventing 
significant 
advances 
A/63/PV.27
(spoke 
at 
(Cuba) 
Ms.  Núñez  Mordoche
greater  successes.  We  need  to  redouble  our  efforts  so 
that  the  country’s  vision  of  a  malaria-free  nation  by 
2015 is attained. The realization of that vision will not 
be  possible  without  the  commitment  of  additional 
resources in order to respond to the challenges. In that 
regard,  we  urge  the  international  community  to  fulfil 
its  commitments  to  enable  us  to  meet  the  goals  and 
targets that have been set. 
in 

Spanish):  First  of  all,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
associate  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
representative of Antigua and Barbuda on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China. 

Prior  to  the  triumph  of  the  revolution  in  1959, 
Cuba’s  neocolonial  society,  which  was  subordinate  to 
the  interests  of  foreign  capital,  barely  recognized  its 
mixed  identity  or  the  African  heritage  that  is  deeply 
rooted  in  the  material  and  spiritual  life  of  the  nation. 
The  cry  for  freedom  from  the  Spanish  metropolis  that 
arose  on  10  October  1868  was  accompanied  by  a 
highly symbolic gesture. On the very day that Cubans 
took to the battlefield to fight for the independence of 
the 
island,  Carlos  Manuel  de  Céspedes  granted 
freedom to his slaves.  

the 
Triunvirato  in  Matanzas  and  at  the  El  Cobre  mines  in 
Santiago  de  Cuba  perpetuate  the  memory  of  the  rebel 
spirit  of  the  Lucumis,  Carabalis,  Congos,  Gangas, 
Mandingas,  Minas,  Bibis  and  Yorubas  who,  having 
been  torn  from  their  homelands,  refused  to  accept  the 
destiny  determined  for  them  by  the  colonizers  of  the 
time.  It  was  only  thanks  to  the  zeal  of  the  Cuban 
revolution 
that  concrete 
expression was given to what our national poet Nicolás 
Guillén  called  color  Cubano.  That  phrase  embodies 
both what we are and what we aspire to be. Africa is an 
inseparable  part  of  our  existence  and  of  our  island 
ethos. No one should therefore be surprised that Cuba 
has come to the Hall today to reiterate its commitment 
of unqualified support to the sister nations of Africa. 

The most profound internationalist convictions of 
the Cuban revolution have allowed our country to stand 
consistently  by  Africa  —  from  our  unconditional 
support for anti-colonialist struggles to our cooperation 
projects in numerous areas of the continent’s economic 
and  social  development. The  privilege  of  having  been 
able  to  make  our  humble  contribution  to  the  progress 
of  African  peoples  in  very  different  areas  has  been  a 
The  historical  monuments  placed 
to  build  a  new  society 
08-55233 

13 

the  New 
that 
the  region  faces 
in  meeting 
Partnership 
leader  recognized 
to  make  progress 
the  African  Union  —  which 
in  establishing 
A/63/PV.27 

source  of  honour  and  pride  for  us.  Today,  in  the 
framework  of  continental  integration,  Cuba  strongly 
for  Africa’s 
supports 
Development, 
is 
continuing 
its 
institutions  —  and  other  initiatives  conceived  by  and 
for Africa. 

My country has also pursued cooperation with the 
continent in its capacity as an observer member of the 
African Union practically from the very establishment 
of that important organization. To that end, we recently 
signed  a  comprehensive  memorandum  of  understanding 
between  our  Government  and  the  Commission  of  the 
African Union. We hope that it will soon bear fruit as 
regards  exchanges  and  cooperation  in  a  great  number 
of varied fields. 

At  the  recent  high-level  meeting  on  Africa’s 
development  needs,  world  leaders  reiterated  their 
assistance  commitments  to  the  continent.  Without 
exception,  every 
the  enormous 
obstacles 
the 
Millennium Development Goals and the importance of 
honouring the promises made, especially in the area of 
financing for development. If our small country, which 
faces  heightened  challenges  to  its  own  development 
from the unjust and criminal blockade imposed against 
us  for  almost  five  decades,  has  amply  demonstrated 
that  political  will  is  the  only  thing  needed  to  support 
the efforts of the continent, what could be achieved if, 
instead  of  empty  promises,  concrete  actions  were 
undertaken to benefit the region? 

As  in  the  past,  Cuba  will  continue  to  contribute 
its  human  capital  and  experience  to  work  with  many 
African countries and regions. More than 1,900 Cuban 
doctors  and  health 
in 
35 African  countries 
they 
provided  nearly  7  million  medical  consultations, 
presided  over  some  100,000  deliveries  and  performed 
almost  200,000  operations.  Moreover,  our  country  is 
pursuing  its  cooperation  with African  countries  in  the 
training  of  human  capital.  At  present,  2,253  young 
people  from  45 African  countries  are  studying  in  our 
universities  and  polytechnic  institutes.  To  date,  more 
than 32,000 young Africans have graduated in various 
specialties. 

Allow me to reiterate what was said by the First 
Vice-President of the Council of State and Ministers of 
the  Republic  of  Cuba,  who  headed 
the  Cuban 
technicians  are  working 
today.  In  2007  alone, 
delegation to the high-level meeting on Africa to which 
I have referred:  

“It  is  time  to  put  an  end  to  rhetoric.  Africa’s 
plight  will  not  be  resolved  by  condolences, 
lamentations  and  limited  charitable  aid  while 
fortunes are squandered in  the North on  luxuries 
and  extravagance.  There  is  a  need  for  new 
relations  of  solidarity  and  full  cooperation  with 
our African brothers.” 

The  peoples  of  Africa  understand  and  share  the 
ideals  of  justice  and  equity  that  must  prevail  in  the 
world.  To  that  end,  it  is  essential  to  establish  a  new 
international  order,  for  the  current  one  has  plunged 
80 per cent of the world’s population into poverty and 
hunger.  Our  commitment  to  working  tirelessly  to 
achieve  that  is  the  message  that  we  must  convey  to 
Africa and to the world. 
Mr. Badji (Senegal) (spoke in French): In taking 

the  floor  for  the  first  time  before  the  plenary  at  the 
sixty-third  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  would 
like  to  reiterate  the  congratulations  of  the  Senegalese 
delegation  to  the  President  and  to  all  members  of  the 
Bureau as well as our wishes to him for great success 
in discharging his duties. As affirmed from this rostrum 
by the President of the Republic, Mr. Abdoulaye Wade, 
he can count on the full support of the representatives 
of Senegal. 

The  joint  debate  that  brings  us  here  today  on 
agenda  items  57  (a)  and  43,  dealing  respectively  with 
progress  in  implementation  and  international  support 
of  and 
for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  and  with  the  Decade  to  Roll 
Back Malaria in Developing Countries,  Particularly in 
Africa, is occurring at a very special time. In fact, the 
debate at this sixty-third session has been replete with 
events  that  have  allowed  us  exhaustively  to  review 
Africa’s  needs  in  terms  of  development  and  to  assess 
the  performance  of  the  continent  with  regard  to  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  That  has 
allowed  us,  among  other  things,  to  identify  the  major 
obstacles, including malaria, that are hindering Africa’s 
progress as we approach 2015. 
While  the  two  agenda  items  under  discussion 

have already been thoroughly debated by our heads of 
State  and  Government,  that,  of  course,  in  no  way 
diminishes  our  interest  in  considering  the  two  reports 
that  have  been  submitted  by  the  Secretary-General  in 
documents A/63/206 and A/63/219. 
the  New  Partnership 
for 
14 

08-55233 
to  establish  a  high-speed 
The  great  green  wall,  as  explained  by 



The  report  on  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  concludes  with  an  observation  largely 
shared  by  my  delegation,  namely,  that  significant 
progress  has  been  made  in  the  implementation  of 
NEPAD. The  measures  taken  by Africa  in  the African 
Peer  Review  Mechanism  to  build  the  “great  green 
wall”  and 
fibre-optic 
connection among African States confirm that progress.  

Regarding  the African  Peer  Review  Mechanism, 
to  date,  29  African  countries  have  joined  it,  14  of 
which  are  quite  advanced  in  the  relevant  review 
process.  Our  satisfaction  is  all  the  greater  since,  with 
the  launching  of  the  Mechanism, Africa  has  passed  a 
critical stage in its efforts to strengthen the credibility 
of its institutions both internally and in the eyes of the 
international  community.  We  will  thus  be  able  to 
commit our  core  resources and the imagination of our 
children to the rectification of our economic situation, 
and no longer to war or social and political upheaval. 

the 
President of the Republic of Senegal in this very Hall a 
few weeks ago, constitutes a barrier that the continent 
has committed to erecting to stop the desert’s advance 
along  7,000  kilometres,  from  Dakar  to  Djibouti.  The 
innovative aspect of that NEPAD project is that each of 
the  countries  through  which  the  wall  passes  shall 
assume responsibility for building it on its territory by 
engaging  or  seeking  the  necessary  resources.  Senegal 
has already begun to implement its part in the project. 

the 
CyberAfrica  Committee  of  NEPAD  is  working  to 
establish  in  order  to  reduce  Africa’s  digital  divide  is 
another  good  example  of  the  sound  path  of  NEPAD, 
particularly 
African 
telecommunications  operators  and  large  African  and 
international investors.  
Those  three  examples  do  testify  to  progress,  but 

let  us  acknowledge 
there  have  been  many 
difficulties  that  may  ultimately  jeopardize  NEPAD’s 
chances  of  success. African  countries  note  on  the  one 
hand,  NEPAD’s  tendency  to  copy  the  programmes  of 
other  continental  bodies  instead  of  focusing  on  the 
eight  priority  sectors  that  have  been  selected;  and,  on 
the  other,  the  inoperative  nature  of  the  management 
structure of the implementation committee. 

Africa  has  been  well  aware  of  such  dangers  and 
has  responded  in  kind  by  convening,  on  15  April, 
summit  in  Dakar  on  reorienting  NEPAD  objectives. 
The  high-speed  fibre-optic  network 
synergizing 
small 
that 
that 
in 
A/63/PV.27
the 
that 
adopted 
is  great 
the  risk 
have  materialized, 
el-Sheikh,  Egypt,  which 
Thanks  to  the African  Union  summit  held  last  July  in 
Sharm 
the 
conclusions of the Dakar meeting, we can now say that 
NEPAD is once again back on track. 

With  respect  to  development  partners,  there  has 
also  been  no  lack  of  difficulties.  The  Secretary-
General’s report tells us that, for many NEPAD sectors, 
the  support  of  backers  is  still  being  assessed  in  terms 
of  pledges  to  invest  and  that,  in  cases  where  such 
commitments 
effective 
contributions  have  still  been  largely  below  what  was 
promised.  With  the  current  food,  fuel  and  financial 
crises, 
the  situation  will 
deteriorate,  but  we  hope  that  decisions  to  be  taken  at 
the  donors  conference  next  month  in Accra  and  at  the 
Doha Follow-up International Conference on Financing 
for Development will manage to avert the threat. 

However,  whatever  efforts  are  deployed  both  by 
Africa  and  in  terms  of  international  support,  only  an 
Africa free of pandemics, such as malaria, will be in a 
position  to  derive  full  benefit  from  the  opportunities 
offered by NEPAD. How could it be otherwise since, as 
the  World  Health  Organization 
report 
submitted by the Secretary-General tells us, 91 per cent 
of  881,000  malaria-related  deaths  in  2006  occurred  in 
Africa?  Along  with  its  heavy  toll  in  human  lives, 
malaria,  which  mainly  affects  children  less  than  five 
years  old  and  pregnant  women,  also  places  a  major 
burden  on  fragile  African  economies,  particularly  in 
terms of reducing productivity.  

In  such  a  context,  the  WHO  report  issues  an 
unappealable verdict in affirming that in Africa there is 
no  evidence  that  cases  of  malaria  and  malaria-related 
deaths  have  declined 
since  2006.  The  WHO 
conclusion, which Senegal endorses, is that in the final 
year  that  separates  us  from  the  end  of  the  decade,  we 
will  need  to  redouble  our  commitments  if  we  wish  to 
achieve the objective of ridding Africa of the burden of 
malaria by 2010. 

On the basis of its own experience, Senegal is of 
the view that the expansion of the Millennium Villages 
project  throughout  the  continent  could  provide  a 
critical contribution. 

Before concluding, I would like to commend the 
Secretary-General for the  quality of his reports on the 
items on our agenda for today.  
(WHO) 
08-55233 

15 
of 
and 
peace 
durable 
in  Developing  Countries,  Particularly 
A/63/PV.27 

Mr. Alemu (Ethiopia): First of all, I would like to 

join  previous  speakers  in  thanking  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  reports  covering  important  agenda 
items intertwined with the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  brought  before  us  for  our 
deliberation today. 

My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made by the representatives of Kenya on behalf of the 
African  Group  and  of Antigua  and  Barbuda  on  behalf 
of the Group of 77 and China. 
My  delegation  wishes  to  make  its  statement  on 

the  two  major  issues  being  considered  within  this 
cluster:  progress  in  implementation  and  international 
support  of  NEPAD  and  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the 
promotion 
sustainable 
development  in  Africa,  and  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back 
Malaria 
in 
Africa. Allow  me  to  present  our  perspectives  on  both 
issues. 

To  begin  with,  my  delegation  appreciates  the 
Secretary-General’s  report  under  agenda  item  60  (b), 
“New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development:  progress 
in implementation and international support: causes of 
conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable  development  in  Africa”,  as  contained  in 
document A/63/212. 
My  delegation  also  notes  with  appreciation  the 

efforts deployed by the Secretary-General, the Security 
Council,  the  concerned  United  Nations  departments 
and the international community at large to address the 
root  causes  of  conflicts  in  Africa.  My  delegation 
wishes  in  particular  to  express  its  satisfaction  and 
appreciation 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  to  African  countries  for 
building  peace  and  rehabilitating  economic  and  social 
services in post-conflict situations. 
As  clearly  indicated  in  NEPAD,  addressing  the 

root  causes  of  conflict, 
in  particular  social  and 
economic  problems,  is  a  matter  of  priority.  In  that 
regard, the African Union, under its peace and security 
architecture,  has  been  carrying  out  multifaceted 
activities  related  to  peace  with  a  view  to  helping 
African countries prevent and resolve conflicts. 

My delegation, in that connection, wishes to note 
with  satisfaction  the  encouraging  support  which  the 
African  Union’s  peacekeeping  forces  are  getting  from 
the  United  Nations.  African  peacekeeping  capacity 
support  provided  by 
for 
the 

that 
such 
coordination 
needs  to  be  further  strengthened  with  continued  all-
round support from the United Nations system. 

The African Union has been playing a major role 
in the prevention and mediation of various conflicts in 
Africa  with  a  view  to  ensuring  peace  and  security,  as 
well  as  creating  an  atmosphere  conducive  to  the 
achievement  of  sustainable  development  throughout 
the continent. 

The role of the African Union in that area must be 
further  coordinated  with  the  relevant  organs  of  the 
United  Nations,  particularly  the  Security  Council. 
Ethiopia  believes 
and 
cooperation between the African Union and the United 
Nations  are  indeed  a  matter  of  crucial  importance.  In 
that  regard,  the  United  Nations  needs  to  enhance  its 
support for the African Union’s conflict prevention and 
mediation  activities  through  technical  and  resource 
assistance. 
Ethiopia  wishes  to  draw  the  attention  of  this 

Assembly to  the statement contained in the Secretary-
General’s  report  in  paragraph  15  under  the  title 
“Ethiopia-Eritrea”,  which 
factual 
correction. The paragraph does not fully and correctly 
reflect the real context of the existing situation. 

Security Council resolution 1827 (2008), adopted 
on  30  July  and  cited  by  the  Secretary-General  in  this 
report,  does  not  include  the  phrase:  “failure  to  accept 
the rulings of the independent boundary commission”. 
Rather, the resolution actually states:  
needs 
some 
“...  regretting  that  Eritrea’s  obstructions  towards 
the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Ethiopia  and 
Eritrea  (UNMEE)  reached  a  level  so  as  to 
undermine the basis of the Mission’s mandate and 
compelled  UNMEE  to  temporarily  relocate  from 
Eritrea  …  and  recalling  the  Security  Council’s 
previous  condemnation  of  Eritrea’s 
lack  of 
cooperation”.  (Security  Council  resolution  1827 
(2008), fifth preambular paragraph)
My  delegation  would  therefore  like  to  request  the 
Secretary-General to take that into proper account and 
correct the paragraph in accordance with the resolution 
of the Security Council. 

I now turn to the other equally important agenda 
item,  as  reported  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his  note 
in document A/63/219. 
16 

08-55233 



Some  current  scientific  statistics  inform  us  that 
over 2,000 people die per day worldwide from malaria. 
More  worryingly,  however,  is  that,  even  as  we  speak, 
malaria  is  reported  to  kill  one  African  child  every 
30 seconds.  In  fact,  malaria  is  already  labelled  one  of 
the  three  top  killer  diseases  in  the  world  today.  It  is 
true that the majority of the world’s poor live in places 
where malaria and related socio-economic instabilities 
prevail.  As  a  result,  the  issue  has  kept  on  attracting 
worldwide  attention,  particularly  among  developing 
and  least  developed  countries  that  remain  the  most 
affected by that killer disease. 

Most  of  the  malaria-affected  African  countries, 
which are said to number approximately 42 and where 
malaria  has  reached  a  severe  chronic  stage,  are 
believed  to  have  virtually  no  access  to  and  low 
capacity to make effective use of the various medicines 
available to combat and roll back the disease. 

Ethiopia, like other malaria-endemic countries in 
Africa, bears the heaviest burden of the scourge. Fifty-
two  million  of  our  people  live  in  malaria-risk  areas  and 
are exposed to its widespread infection. About 75 per cent 
of  Ethiopian  territory  is  prone  to  malaria. Although  the 
prevalence of malaria is largely seasonal, it sometimes 
affects new places in the form of an epidemic. 

Cognizant of the severe negative socio-economic 
impact  of  malaria,  the  Government  of  Ethiopia  has 
adopted  a  national  strategy 
the  huge 
socio-economic  challenge  posed  by 
the  disease. 
Malaria  prevention  and  control  in  Ethiopia  are  guided 
by  a  five-year  strategic  plan  developed  within  the 
context  of  the  20-year  Health  Sector  Development 
Programme and are based on the 2010 and 2015 targets 
of 
the  Roll  Back  Malaria  movement.  Malaria 
prevention  and  control  is  also  an  integral  part  of  the 
Plan  for Accelerated  and  Sustainable  Development  to 
End  Poverty,  which  draws  on  and  feeds  into  the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals at 
the national level. 

In  order  to  effectively  counter,  steadily  control 
and irreversibly put an end to the enormous challenge 
and burden of malaria, the Government of Ethiopia has 
adopted responsive programmes and initiatives like the 
Malaria  Control  Support  Team  which,  as  an  example 
par excellence, is led by the Federal Ministry of Health 
and 
is  composed  of  relevant  governmental  and 
non-governmental  organizations,  as  well  as  concerned 
to  contain 
A/63/PV.27
bilateral  and  multilateral  partner  agencies  and 
societies.  

Moreover, over the past decade, the Government 
has carried out a national effort in two phases. The first 
five-year  strategic  plan,  which  covered  the  period 
2001-2005, was successfully completed. Over the past 
five  years,  the  task  of  malaria  control  has  been  the 
central  focus  of  the  country’s  comprehensive  health 
strategy.  The  second  five-year  plan,  which  covers  the 
period  2005-2010,  is  aimed  at  further  decreasing  the 
malaria burden by at least 50 per cent. 

Thanks to those proactive measures taken by the 
Government,  which  also  include  increased  malaria 
diagnosis  and  treatment,  the  proportion  of  infection 
and  mortality  rates  resulting  from  malaria  has  been 
significantly  reduced.  In  the  past  five  years,  the 
number  of  deaths  caused  by  malaria  has  also  been 
reduced,  as  have  the  prevalence  and  coverage  of  the 
disease.  The  number  of  patients  seeking  malaria 
treatment  has  decreased  by  67  per  cent.  Likewise,  the 
number of patients admitted to hospitals due to malaria 
has decreased by 54 per cent. 
Taken  together,  those  data  have  made  Ethiopia 

one  of  the  most  successful  countries  in  combating  the 
omnipotent  challenges  of  malaria,  as  indicated  by 
Professor  Jeffrey  Sachs  of  Columbia  University  at  the 
high-level  event  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  only  a  couple  of  weeks  ago  here  at  the  United 
Nations  as  part  of  this  sixty-third  session  of  the 
General Assembly. 
Against  the  background  of  such  encouraging 

developments,  however,  one 
to  be 
re-emphasized  before  this  Assembly  —  the  need  to 
further 
and 
collaboration  in  the  broad  endeavour  to  stop  and 
effectively control the alarming advance of malaria as a 
global threat to development. Even though the tireless 
efforts  of  Governments  at  their  respective  national 
levels  are  vital  to  the  achievement  of  the  desired 
success  in  that  field,  the  continued  assistance  of  the 
United  Nations  and  our  development  partners,  as  well 
as  other  concerned  stakeholders,  remains  of  crucial 
importance. 

In conclusion, on behalf of my delegation I would 
like  to  call  upon  all  stakeholders,  particularly  the 
the  various  pertinent 
developed  countries  and 
international  organizations, 
including 
the  United 
Nations,  to  increase  and  redouble  the  financial  and 
international 
thing  has 
strengthen 
solidarity 
08-55233 

17 

Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
A/63/PV.27 

technical assistance necessary to help further intensify 
the ongoing fight against malaria and to do more in the 
area  of  capacity-building  programmes  with  a  view  to 
uplifting  developing  and  least-developed  countries, 
particularly  those  on  the  worst  affected  continent, 
Africa, in the shared spirit of this Decade to Roll Back 
Malaria. 
in 

French):  First  of  all,  please  allow  me  to  congratulate 
the  Secretary-General  on  the  reports  that  he  has 
submitted to the General Assembly under items 57 (a) 
and  57  (b)  of  the  agenda  on  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD) (A/63/206) and on the 
causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace 
and  sustainable  development  in  Africa  (A/63/212). 
Within those  congratulations, I  wish to  include all the 
United  Nations  staff  who  work  night  and  day  for  the 
well-being of Africa.  

Cameroon  supports  the  statements  made  by  the 
representatives  of  Kenya  and  of Antigua  and  Barbuda 
on behalf of the Group of African States and the Group 
of 77 and China, respectively. 
The debate on the aforementioned items is taking 

place only a few weeks after the high-level meeting on 
Africa’s  development  needs  held  on  22  September 
2008.  I  need  hardly  mention  that  the  organization  of 
that special meeting on Africa was in itself proof of the 
mixed  results  of  the  declarations  of  good  intentions 
that  are  constantly  renewed  but  rarely  ever  made 
specific. Indeed, all recent research on the situation in 
Africa  agrees  that  the  continent  is  far  from  achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  and 
above  all  the  development  goals  agreed  upon  at  the 
international level.  
congratulate 

I 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  setting  up  the 
MDG  Africa  Steering  Group,  the  recommendations  of 
which have the benefit of highlighting our responsibilities. 
The  Group  advocates  mobilizing  $72  billion  per  year 
internationally  so  that  Africa  can  hope  to  achieve  the 
Millennium Development Goals in 2015. Fulfilling that 
recommendation  will  doubtless  mean  pursuing  and 
boosting courageous action in the field of development 
financing.  Indeed,  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
on NEPAD reminds us that official development assistance 
towards  Africa  has  actually  fallen  20.5  per  cent  between 
2006 and 2007. 
am  pleased 
Therefore, 
to 
the 
job  creation  and 
sector,  which  guarantees 
I  believe  it  important  to  stress  results-oriented 

management  and 
the  principles  of  predictability, 
harmonization  and  the  delinking  and  alignment  of 
assistance  with  the  priority  of  African  countries,  as 
defined  in  NEPAD.  It  is  also  highly  desirable  that  we 
adopt  an  innovative  sectoral  division  of  resources  in 
order  to  strike  the  right  balance  between  the  social 
sector, which is currently prioritized by donors, and the 
productive 
sustainable 
growth, 
improvement  of 
purchasing power. 

It  is  true  that  the  financial  crisis  affecting  the 
world  today  makes  the  possibility  of  any  immediate 
increase  in  resources  allocated  to  Africa  doubtful. 
However,  we  have  been  somewhat  reassured  by  the 
statements  of  Africa’s  development  partners  at  the 
current  debate  and  at  the  high-level  meeting  of 
22 September 2008. 

Furthermore,  international  support  for  NEPAD 
should not be limited to the volume and quality of aid. 
It  also  implies  the  creation  of  a  multilateral  trade 
system  that  is  fairer  and  thus  a  change  in  the 
architecture  of  international  trade.  An  increase  in  the 
share  of  African  countries  in  world  exports  could 
the  continent’s 
generate  substantial  resources  for 
development.  There 
improve 
conditions that would favour the flow of private capital 
towards Africa. 

We  know  that  an  increase  in  foreign  direct 
investment  is  conditioned  by  the  need  for  peace  and 
security.  In 
the  ever-
increasing assumption of  responsibility by the African 
Union,  subregional  organizations  and  countries  in 
peacekeeping  and  in  the  prevention  and  resolution  of 
conflict. 

We  also  note  the  support  of  the  United  Nations 
for  such  organizations  and  welcome  the  adoption  of 
Security Council resolution 1809 (2008), in which the 
Security  Council  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s 
proposal  to  set  up  an  African  Union-United  Nations 
panel of distinguished persons to consider in-depth the 
modalities  of  how  to  support  peacekeeping  operations 
in Africa. 

We  believe  that  particular  emphasis  should  be 
placed on conflict prevention that is less costly both for 
States  themselves,  as  well  as  for  international  and 
regional  organizations.  It 
that 
and 
Cameroon 
that  regard,  we  welcome 
in 
rationalization 
that  sense 
is  also  a  need 
to 
is 
supports 
the 
18 

08-55233 
in  our  Governments’ 
themselves.  That  requires 


strengthening  of  the  Department  of  Political  Affairs, 
aimed,  inter  alia,  at  providing  a  stronger  presence  on 
the  ground  and  intensifying  preventive  diplomacy  to 
manage  brewing  conflicts 
through  a  network  of 
regional bureaux in line with the desires expressed by 
countries. 

Cameroon,  like  other  countries  in  the  subregion 
of  Central  Africa  affected  by  a  variety  of  conflicts, 
believes  that  the  proposed  subregional  bureau  is  more 
necessary than ever in that part of the world. 
In  that  context,  we  believe  that  today’s  debate 

illustrates the need to take urgent action and once again 
gives  us  the  opportunity  to  reaffirm  that  the  primary 
responsibility for the well-being of African populations 
lies  with  Africans 
the 
adoption  of  realistic  policies  and  programmes,  good 
fighting  corruption  and  entrenching 
governance, 
democratic  values 
list  of 
priorities.  

African  countries  have  made  that  commitment 
within  the  framework  of  the  African  Union  and 
NEPAD. It is true that progress still needs to be made, 
but  the  results  obtained  to  date  are  substantial,  as 
confirmed by the reports under consideration.  

Cameroon  has  made  NEPAD’s  aims  its  own,  as 
reflected  in  the  drafting  and  implementation  of  our 
National  Poverty  Reduction  Strategy.  Many  actions 
have been undertaken, but I will just cite two examples 
in the fields of education and agriculture. 

In  the  field  of  education,  our  country  has  set  up 
two  national  and  regional  virtual  universities  in  the 
framework  of  South-South  cooperation.  We  have  also 
opened a regional agricultural college and set up a free 
university area within the framework of the Economic 
and Monetary Community of Central Africa.  

In  the  field  of  agriculture,  Cameroon  has  set 
border  markets  and  an  agricultural  bank  that  will 
facilitate  farmers’  access  to  credit  with  a  view  to 
increasing  production  and 
for 
agricultural  products 
creation  of 
subregional 
stockpiles.  With  our 
subregional partners and in the framework of NEPAD, 
we have embarked on a sizeable infrastructure plan to 
link up the countries of the subregion.  

On  the  other  questions  raised  in  the  documents 
before us, Cameroon would like to see the next reports 
funds, 
clearly  underscore 
the  efforts  made  by 
storage  capacity 
food 
security 
towards 
the 
A/63/PV.27
My  delegation 
programmes  and  specialized  agencies  to  follow  up  on 
the  directives  of  paragraph  28  of  resolution  57/7  of 
2002,  whereby  the  General  Assembly  requested  them 
to  strengthen  further  their  existing  coordination  and 
programming  mechanisms  as  a  means  of  enhancing 
support  to African  countries  in  the  implementation  of 
the New Partnership. It is also important to emphasize 
the specific actions undertaken by different institutions 
to  bolster  programmes,  administrative  structures  and 
budgetary priorities for Africa. 

What our continent truly needs is the cooperation 
of all its partners in building its capacities to manage, 
promote  and  support  sustainable  development  for  the 
well-being of Africans. 
Mr.  Ehouzou  (Benin)  (spoke  in  French):  My 

delegation  welcomes  this  debate  on  the  progress  in 
implementation  and  international  support  of  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD);  the 
causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace 
and  sustainable  development  in  Africa;  and  on  the 
2001-2010 Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing 
Countries, Particularly in Africa. 
the 

statements  made  by  the  representatives  of  Kenya  and 
Antigua  and  Barbuda  on  behalf  of  the African  Group 
and the Group of 77 and China, respectively. 
We  have  taken  note  of  the  Secretary-General’s 

reports  on  the  items  under  consideration.  They  are 
particularly  instructive  with  respect 
to  the  many 
actions  undertaken  by  Africa  with  the  support  of  the 
international  community  to  promote  the  establishment 
of  vital  infrastructure  for  its  social  and  economic 
development,  ensure  conflict  prevention  and  reinforce 
measures  taken  at  various  levels  to  build  peace  and 
accelerate recovery in post-conflict countries. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  that  genuine  synergy  has 
been  established  among  the  various  regional,  national 
and international actors in the pursuit, through coherent 
strategies, of objectives defined in various coordinating 
meetings  held  during  the  reporting  period.  We  agree 
with  the  Secretary-General  that  such  coordination 
should be strengthened, especially between the NEPAD 
secretariat,  the  African  Union  and  regional  economic 
communities in order to accelerate the achievement of 
infrastructure objectives called for under NEPAD. 

The  Secretary-General’s  exhaustive  report  on 
NEPAD  notes  ongoing  initiatives  in  all  areas  under 
itself  with 
associates 
08-55233 

19 
is 
to 
right 
to  help 
those  countries 
The  Secretary-General 
A/63/PV.27 

consideration.  We  are  pleased  with  the  resources 
mobilized, which should be freed up and appropriately 
utilized  to  stimulate  momentum  for  progress.  Such 
momentum  alone  will  allow Africa  to  meet  the  many 
challenges  it  faces  in  the  various  areas  covered  by 
NEPAD. We are pleased to note that, in all those areas, 
significant action is being taken to meet the objectives. 
We  note  that  even  Africa’s  external  debt  has  seen  a 
steady decline relative to export earnings  and the gross 
national product over the past 10 years. 

stress 
worrisome  situations  that  merit  special  attention  with 
respect  to  the  difficulties  encountered  by  countries  in 
achieving their objectives due to the upheavals related 
to  the  external  shocks  they  have  experienced.  The 
international community should consider taking special 
measures 
to  maintain  a 
sustainable long-term debt burden. 

It  is  regrettable  that  Africa’s  share  of  direct 
foreign investments has remained insignificant despite 
the  slight  increase  we  have  seen,  which  has  benefited 
only  a  few  countries  and  sectors.  Even  that  slow 
evolution  is  now  in  danger  of  being  derailed  by  the 
current  international  financial  crisis,  even  though 
Africa has made considerable efforts to implement the 
reforms  necessary 
investment 
environment. 

We  hope  that  voluntary  political  measures  are 
taken  by Africa’s  development  partners  to  consolidate 
the  anticipated  gains.  Promoting  the  participation  of 
Africa in international trade is, from that standpoint, a 
necessity.  We  welcome  measures  being  contemplated 
for  the  least  developed  countries  under  the  Enhanced 
Integrated  Framework  for  Trade-Related  Technical 
Assistance  through  substantial  contributions  to  the 
special Trust Fund for that instrument. 

Beyond such measures, we must ensure equity in 
the  economic  partnership  agreements  currently  being 
negotiated  between  the  different  regional  groups  in 
Africa,  which  will  allow  us  to  ensure  the  viability  of 
their 
are 
established  in  Africa’s  trade  with  the  outside  world 
must  help  to  create  a  new  model  on  the  basis  of 
reciprocal  advantage  and  of  promoting  economic 
rationality  compatible  with  the  challenges  that  remain 
before Africa. 
We  are  pleased  with  commitments  undertaken 

within  such  strategic  meetings  as  the  recent  Fourth 
economies.  Emerging 
countries 
improve 
that 
to 
the 

its 
for 
Conference 
International 
the  New  Partnership 
Tokyo 
on  African 
Development,  the  India-Africa  Summit,  the  Africa-
America  economic  summit  and  the  recent  Africa-
Turkey  summit.  Similarly,  my  delegation  supports  the 
recommendations made by the Secretary-General in his 
report  on 
for  Africa’s 
Development  to  promote  South-South  cooperation,  in 
particular  with  respect  to  oil-producing  countries, 
which  are  called  on  to  invest  more  of  their  sovereign 
funds  in  continental  infrastructure.  The  Secretary-
General  welcomes  the  growing  number  of  countries 
that are joining the African Peer Review Mechanism. 

Here, Benin is pleased to belong to that group of 
countries.  We  are  even  preparing  to  host,  in  Cotonou 
from  23  to  27  October  2008,  the  First  Extraordinary 
Summit of the African Peer Review Mechanism Forum 
in  order  to  consider  the  dossier  of  two  member 
countries.  The  Government  of  Benin  would  like  to 
thank  in  advance  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme,  a  strategic  partner  of  the  African  Peer 
Review  Mechanism  Forum, 
significant 
assistance  in  organizing  that  important  meeting.  It  is 
obvious  that  the  considerable  efforts  being  made  by 
Africa  to  honour  its  commitments  in  the  development 
partnership cannot have the sought-after effects unless 
donors commit the promised resources.  

In  that  regard,  we  are  concerned  about  the 
evolving  statistics  for  official  development  assistance 
(ODA). At the Group of Eight summit in Japan in July, 
industrialized  countries  confirmed  the  commitments 
they  undertook 
to  make 
sustained efforts to double ODA for Africa by 2010 by 
providing  an  additional  $25  billion,  in  order  to  bring 
the figure to 0.7 per cent of their gross national income 
(GNI)  by  2015.  However,  assistance 
from 
$104.4 billion,  0.31  per  cent  of  their  GNI  in  2006,  to 
$103.6  billion  in  2007,  0.28  per  cent  of  their  GNI, 
which is almost $1 billion less.  

In  fact,  we  have  encountered  a  considerable 
decline in the volume of assistance. Even the President 
of  the  World  Bank  is  concerned  and  emphasizes  that 
the  current  financial  crisis  has  already  had  nefarious 
effects on the financial commitments of rich countries. 
To  find  the  enormous  resources  required  to  rescue 
floundering  banks,  we  will  need  to  pool  savings  from 
the  rest  of  the  world.  That  will  mean  less  money  for 
development  financing,  as  was  rightly  noted  by  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Benin,  Mr.  Boni  Yayi, 
when  he  participated  in  the  high-level  meeting  on 
in  Gleneagles 
in  2005 
fell 
20 

08-55233 
to 
there 
promote 
resources 
recommended 


Africa’s  development  needs  held  on  22 September 
2008,  on  the  sidelines  of  the  general  debate  of  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-third session. 
Africa  needs  investment  to  sustain  growth  and 

reforms.  Without 
can  be  no 
development.  Reforms  already  offer  an  appropriate 
framework  and  environment  for  ensuring  exponential 
growth  of  resources  allocated  to  Africa.  The  crisis 
cannot be used to justify the decline in assistance. The 
decline  could,  however,  be  exacerbated  by  the  crisis, 
which is what we fear. Africa should not have to bear 
the burden of the financial crisis. We therefore call on 
the  rich  countries  to  do  their  utmost  to  meet  their 
commitments to Africa in a sustained fashion, applying 
the  measures 
the 
effectiveness of ODA in spite of the financial crisis.  

In  that  way,  we  will  maintain  the  momentum 
towards  overcoming  the  challenges  encountered  by 
Africa, as demonstrated by the difficulties cited in the 
Secretary-General’s  note  on  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back 
Malaria in Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa 
(A/63/219).  Those  difficulties  are  due  to  a  lack  of 
resources  to  accelerate  the  protection  of  populations 
from the pandemic. The Secretary-General’s note refers 
to  the  net  reduction  of  the  disease  in  low-income 
countries  that  have  been  able  to  distribute  a  large 
number  of  insecticide-treated  mosquito  nets  and  offer 
anti-malaria treatments. Those countries were thus able 
to  reduce  malaria-related  morbidity  by  50  per  cent 
between 2000 and 2007.  

Benin is making considerable efforts in that field. 
In  2007,  we 
to  distribute 
insecticide-treated  mosquito  nets  and  to  institute  a 
national day on 10 October. The campaign was recently 
launched  again  this  year  on  the  same  date.  The  free 
distribution  of  anti-malaria  mosquito  nets  and 
medication  primarily  targets  children  under  five  and 
pregnant  women.  Once  again,  we  need  significant 
resources to continue that thrust. 

Africa’s  mobilization  for  development  must  go 
hand  in  hand  with  a  proactive  conflict  prevention 
policy. My delegation welcomes the specific measures 
taken  at  various  levels  to  assist  United  Nations  action 
in  that  area.  Over  the  past  few  years,  the  United 
Nations  has  established  new  structures 
to  offer 
systematic  peacebuilding  and  mediation  support  to 
countries.  The  General  Assembly  recently  considered 
launched  a  campaign 
A/63/PV.27
to 
the  exhaustive  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the 
Peacebuilding Commission.  

Benin reiterates here its deep appreciation for the 
important  work  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund,  the  major  beneficiaries  of 
which  are African  countries  emerging  from  a  conflict 
or a deep crisis. From that perspective, we must pursue 
United Nations reform and we hope that the measures 
being  contemplated  to  strengthen  the  operational  and 
analytic  capacity  of  the  Secretariat’s  Department  of 
Political  Affairs  will  soon  come  into  effect.  The 
Mediation Support Unit and the on-call mediation team 
already  established  are,  in  and  of  themselves,  an 
encouraging  outline  of  the  reform,  which  an  African 
country  like  mine  can  only  welcome.  My  delegation 
will do its utmost to ensure its successful conclusion.  

The  Secretary-General’s  report  also  emphasizes 
measures  taken  by  the  United  Nations  specifically  to 
meet  the  needs  for  peace  and  security  in  Africa.  We 
welcome  actions  to  strengthen  the  capacities  of  the 
African  Union  and 
improve  coordination  and 
cooperation  with  subregional  organizations.  The  new 
peace and security architecture in Africa, established in 
strict conformity with the provisions of Chapter VIII of 
the Charter, must be strengthened and take its rightful 
place  within  the  collective  security  system  headed  by 
the Security Council. 

to 
institutional  support,  Benin 
welcomes  the  ongoing  improvement  of  the  strategic 
framework  for  conflict  prevention  and  resolution, 
which emphasizes the promotion of youth employment 
by  preparing  operational 
country  programmes, 
strengthening  education  and  training,  and  combating 
the  proliferation  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons  in 
order to put an end to the climate of violence afflicting 
a number of African countries. 

We  need  significant  investment  for  development 
and not for weapons for young bandits. Prioritizing the 
promotion of a culture of peace alongside UNESCO is 
a fundamental aspect of ongoing efforts.  

In  conclusion,  Benin  pleads  for  a  dedicated 
follow-up  of  measures  that  would  allow  Africa  to 
create 
and 
development. 
Mr.  Hart  (Nigeria):  Nigeria  highly  appreciates 

the  Secretary-General’s  complete  and  succinct  reports 
on  agenda  items  57  (a)  and  (b)  and  43,  now  under 
In  addition 
sustainable 
conditions 
peace 
for 
08-55233 

21 
through 
(a),  Africa, 
that,  as  per 
A/63/PV.27 

consideration,  and  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made  on  those  subjects  by  the  representatives  of 
Antigua  and  Barbuda  and  Kenya  on  behalf  of  the 
Group  of  77  and  China  and  the  African  Group, 
respectively. 

The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  no  doubt  remains  the  continent’s  home-
grown  model  and  symbol  of  self-help  and  of  a 
sustainable  development  flagship.  It  is  heartening  to 
the  Secretary-General’s  report 
note 
(A/63/206)  on 
the 
Programme,  has  made  some  degree  of  progress  in 
sectors  including  infrastructure,  agriculture,  health, 
education,  environment,  science  and 
technology, 
information and communication technology and gender 
mainstreaming  and  civil  society.  In  2007  and  2008, 
three  additional  countries  acceded  to  the African  Peer 
Review  Mechanism,  bringing  the  total  number  of 
member States that have signed up to 29. As of today, 
eight  more  countries,  including  Nigeria,  have  been 
peer-reviewed  —  a  sure  sign 
that  a  culture  of 
accountability,  transparency,  sincere  self-examination 
and other tenets of good governance are taking root in 
the continent. 

It is also heartening to note that the continent has, 
over the past year, continued to enjoy multilateral and 
bilateral debt relief to the extent that, by June 2008, 19 
African  countries  had  reached  the  Heavily  Indebted 
Poor  Countries  Debt  Initiative  completion  point  and 
also  benefited  from  the  debt  relief  package  of  the 
Multilateral  Debt  Relief  Initiative.  Also,  according  to 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and 
Development,  foreign  direct  investment  flows  to  the 
continent  rose  to  a  record  level  of  $53  billion. 
Furthermore,  13  African  countries  have 
launched 
Millennium  Villages,  a  step  in  the  right  direction 
towards the attainment of the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs). 

It  is  apparent  that  those  modest  achievements 
could not have been possible without the support of the 
international  community,  the  United  Nations  system 
and other development partners. Nigeria thanks Japan, 
the  European  Union,  South America  and  South-South 
countries,  such  as  China,  India  and  Turkey,  that  have 
hosted 
joint  development 
initiatives  as  well  as  to  boost  the  continent’s  overall 
development efforts.  
facilitate 
summits 
to 
item 57 


Nigeria further thanks the United Nations system 
for  its  unyielding  commitment  to  strengthening  the 
Regional  Consultation  Mechanism  in  Support  of  the 
African  Union  and  its  NEPAD  Programme,  including 
the  United  Nations  Ten-Year  Capacity-building 
Programme for the African Union (AU). Also, the 2007 
launching  of  the  MDG  Africa  Steering  Group  by  the 
Secretary-General readily comes to mind. 

With  regard  to  item  57  (b)  on  the  causes  of 
conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable  development  in  Africa,  it  is  indeed  heart-
warming  that  the  peacekeeping  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations, in collaboration with the AU or its subregional 
outfits, have helped to restore peace and order to most 
of the continent’s hot spots. Preventive  and mediatory 
efforts, such as those of the Mediation Support Unit of 
the  Department  of  Political  Affairs  working  with 
similar  bodies  such  as  the  African  Union  Panel  of 
Eminent  Persons,  have  in  recent  times  helped  to 
prevent  conflicts  from  festering  into  open  and  tragic 
sores  across  the  continent. Also  most  gratifying  is  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  which,  for  the  period 
under  review,  provided  invaluable  financial  and  other 
critical  support  for  countries  just  transiting  from 
peacekeeping 
and 
progress.  Nigeria  further  welcomes 
the  capacity-
building assistance extended to the AU by other United 
Nations agencies. 

The  year  2007  witnessed  a  decline  in  overseas 
development  assistance  to  Africa,  largely  due  to  the 
phasing  out  of  external  debt  relief. The  pledges  made 
in  2005  by  the  international  community  to  double  aid 
to the continent by 2010 with an additional $25 billion 
were  scarcely  redeemed.  While 
trade 
negotiations  have  largely  collapsed,  the  advanced 
economies continue to indulge in unfair trade practices, 
such  as  distorting  agricultural  subsidies, 
the 
detriment of poor African farmers.  

It  is  sad  that,  in  spite  of  the  Joint  European 
Union-Africa  Strategy  and Action  Plan  adopted  at  the 
European Union-Africa summit in Lisbon in 2007, the 
economic  partnership  agreements  between  the  two 
groups  have  made  little  progress. Also,  in  spite  of  the 
various inputs made to contain crises in the continent, 
the  basic 
for  durable  peace  and 
sustainable  development  are  yet  to  be  consolidated 
across  the  continent.  The  Security  Council  therefore 
continues  to  invest  over  60  per  cent  of  its  time  in 
Africa. 
towards  peace,  development 
requirements 
the  Doha 
to 
22 

08-55233 
As 
reports 
the  Assembly 
trade  practices  — 
is  already  aware, 
the  Secretary-General’s 



the 
aforementioned problems and challenges, coupled with 
the  current  worldwide  food,  energy  and  financial 
crises, have the potential to reverse or completely wipe 
out  the  moderate  development  gains  made  so  far  by 
Africa  through  NEPAD.  That  must  not  be  allowed  to 
happen.  It  is  on  that  score  that  Nigeria,  in  addition  to 
fully  endorsing  the  recommendations  and  conclusions 
in  documents 
in 
A/63/206  and  A/63/212,  once  again  urges 
the 
developed countries and other development partners to 
resist  the  temptation  to  see  debt  relief  as  a  substitute 
for official development assistance. 

Nigeria  stresses  the  imperative  need  to  develop 
and  sustain  the  political  will  to  revive  and  ensure  the 
successful  conclusion  of 
the  Doha  Round  of 
negotiations.  Unfair 
including 
distorting  agricultural  subsidies,  high  tariffs  and  the 
possible  recourse  to  protectionism  in  the  face  of  the 
current  rise  in  commodity  prices  and  the  financial 
crisis  —  must  be  robustly  resisted. Also,  the  ongoing 
negotiations  on  the  draft  outcome  document  of  the 
forthcoming  Follow-up  International  Conference  on 
Financing 
the 
Implementation  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus  must  be 
guided  by  commitment,  understanding  and  flexibility 
to meet development challenges, especially in Africa. 
Malaria remains a major killer disease in Africa. 

Its  impact  on  Africa’s  human  resource  capacity  is  a 
major  hindrance  to  the  attainment  of  the  MDGs,  and 
indeed  to  the  development  of  Africa.  Nigeria  is 
encouraged  by  the  international  response,  under  the 
leadership  of  the  United  Nations  system,  to  find  a 
durable solution. We are firmly committed to the goals 
of  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in  Developing 
Countries, Particularly in Africa. We also acknowledge 
the  work  of 
to  Fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria and the progress achieved so 
far,  especially  with  regard 
the  provision  of 
insecticide-treated mosquito nets and artemisinin-based 
therapy.  My  delegation  believes  that  the  efficacy  of 
those  strategies  could  be  boosted  by  giving  equal 
attention  to  the  prevention  approach  in  order  to  shore 
up the hope of achieving a malaria-free Africa. 

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  wishes  to  call  for 
the cooperation of all stakeholders. In that regard, it is 
imperative  that  all  hands  should  be  on  deck  to  show 
practical  care  for  the  needy  and  downtrodden  citizens 
of  the  world.  That  is  the  only  way  that  the  political 
for  Development 
the  Global  Fund 
to  Review 
to 
08-55233 

23 
concern 
as 
A/63/PV.27
to  put 
NEPAD 
is  glowing 
in  place  measures, 
the  Accra  Agenda 
recommendations  of 
declaration on Africa’s development needs adopted on 
22  September  2008  at  the  level  of  heads  of  State  or 
Government can be meaningful and achieved.  

testimony  of  Africa’s 
determination  to  take  its  destiny  in  its  own  hands  and 
to  shed  the  yoke  of  underdevelopment  and  of  being  a 
haven  for  crises  so  as  to  take  its  rightful  place  in  the 
comity  of  nations.  It  therefore  behoves  the  United 
Nations 
including  an 
elaborate monitoring mechanism, to review the full and 
timely  implementation  of  all  commitments  related  to 
the continent’s development. 
Mr.  Hamza  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania): 

Permit  me  at  the  outset  to  express  my  delegation’s 
appreciation of the due attention that the President has 
given to Africa since he assumed office. We are equally 
grateful  to  the  Secretary-General  for  putting  Africa 
high on the agenda of the United Nations. We welcome 
the 
the  Secretary-General’s 
Millennium Development Goals Africa Steering Group, 
the  political  declaration  on  Africa’s  development 
needs, 
for  Action  on  aid 
effectiveness  and  the  outcome  of  the  twelfth  United 
Nations Conference on Trade and Development. 

the 
statements  made  by  the  representative  of Antigua  and 
Barbuda, on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and 
by  the  representative  of  Kenya,  on  behalf  of  the 
African Group. 

The recent developments in the area of peace and 
security  in  Africa  are  encouraging.  As  noted  in  the 
report (A/63/212) of the Secretary-General, Africa has 
made  significant  achievements  in  the  reduction  of 
armed conflicts and civil wars in the past decade. It is 
notable 
to  consolidate  basic 
conditions  for  sustainable  peace  and  development. 
Likewise,  it  is  evident  that,  despite  the  progress 
highlighted  in  the  report, Africa  is  lagging  behind  on 
several fronts, including in the socio-economic area, as 
highlighted  at  the  recently  held  high-level  event  on 
Africa’s  development  needs  and 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 
The series of current global crises further point to 

a gloomy and challenging future. The rise in the price 
of  food  and  oil,  the  global  instability  of  financial 
markets and the negative impacts of climate change are 
causes 
regards  both 
development  and  political  stability.  More  traumatic 
that  Africa  has  yet 
My  delegation 
for  growing 
itself  with 
associates 

relative 
the  higher 
in  countries 
indicators 
A/63/PV.27 

still is the possibility that there will be a resumption of 
conflicts  as  the  result  of  the  failure  of  the  State  to 
deliver  peace  dividends  in  countries  emerging  from 
conflicts and the diminishing prospects for sustainable 
that  have 
development  and  stability 
recorded  positive  growth 
to 
prosperity and peace. 
Peace is an essential prerequisite for development 

take  off  and  become  sustainable.  The  more 
to 
sustainable  development  becomes, 
the 
prospects  for  stability  and  prosperity.  It  is  therefore 
logical that poverty, social deprivation and the lack of 
development are among the root causes of conflict and 
instability.  Other  causes  may  include  gross  violations 
of  human  rights,  socio-economic  inequality  and  the 
political marginalization of some groups in society. 

My delegation remains convinced that peace and 
stability in Africa will be nurtured and sustained if the 
conditions  for  development  and  growth  are  in  place. 
Once  that  is  achieved,  the  two  processes  become 
mutually  supporting  and  reinforcing.  Under  the  New 
Partnership 
(NEPAD), 
investment in human development and infrastructure to 
augment trade as an engine for growth is critical to the 
achievement  of  development  and  prosperity  in Africa. 
That  is  where  peace,  prosperity  and  stability  are 
anchored. 

African  Governments  have  therefore  taken  bold 
steps  in  creating  the  conditions  necessary  for  growth. 
In line with NEPAD, our Governments have committed 
to  work  towards  improving  governance,  harnessing 
democracy  and  maintaining  partnerships  between 
domestic  resources  and  external  development  inputs, 
such 
assistance,  debt 
cancellation and foreign direct investment. 

Conscious  of  the  need  for  ownership  of  the 
process  and  of  taking  primary  responsibility,  the 
African  Peer  Review  Mechanism 
(APRM)  was 
developed  as  a  tool  to  address  governance  deficits. 
Governance  issues  have  been  continuously  addressed 
through the APRM, and the results thus far are evident. 
To  date,  29  countries  have  acceded  to  the  Mechanism 
and  seven  countries  have  already  been  reviewed. 
Tanzania is in the advanced stages of preparation for its 
review.  That  is  an  example  of  what  Africa  has  been 
doing at the national and continental levels to promote 
conditions  conducive 
to  political  pluralism,  good 
for  Africa’s  Development 
as  official  development 
investments 
in 
that  would  create  conditions 
governance  and  the  rule  of  law  as  the  foundation  for 
public-private partnership in development. 

As  noted  in  the  reports,  African  Governments 
have struggled to sustain partnerships with multilateral 
donors  and  the  private  sector  to  secure  the  necessary 
resources for investment in infrastructure development 
and in the social sector, such as in the  areas of health 
and  education.  There  is  also  room  for  civil  society, 
non-governmental  organizations  and  philanthropic 
organizations  to  complement  development  initiatives 
by  Governments  and  their  bilateral  and  multilateral 
development partners. 

It  is  undisputed  that  the  role  of  donors  and 
multilateral  institutions  in  facilitating  and  financing 
development projects has been important in the strides 
that  we  have  made.  Debt  relief,  for  instance,  has 
resulted 
in  providing  African  Governments  with 
substantive resources to invest in health and education. 
However, 
the  critical  sector  of 
infrastructure 
for 
peacebuilding  and  sustainable  development  are  yet  to 
be  fully  explored  and  realized,  as  is  the  potential  for 
partnership in that critical area. 
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  stresses  the 

need 
to  embark  on 
appropriate  institutional  and  policy  reforms  to  attract 
private 
to  develop  private-public 
partnerships  for  financing  infrastructure  projects.  As 
much as we welcome the suggestion, we are also of the 
view  that  aid-for-trade  is  essential  to  enhancing  the 
trade  capacity  of  developing  countries.  The  reform  of 
the 
the  Doha 
Development  Round  is  an  overarching  necessity  in 
increasing 
in 
international trade. 

As  highlighted  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report, 
the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development  in Africa  demands  that  we  deal  with  the 
systematic causes of conflicts. In view of that premise, 
my  delegation  would  like  to  commend  the  steps  that 
have been taken by the Secretary-General in the areas 
of 
the 
establishment of the Mediation Support Unit. Likewise, 
we would like to underscore the institutional support in 
terms  of  capacity-building  provided  to  the  African 
Union and the regional security architecture in Africa. 
In line with the need to increase the role of good 

offices  in  mediation  and  to  strengthen  early  warning 
the  stake  of  developing  countries 
for  African  Governments 
and  mediation, 
regime  under 
international 
prevention 
including 
capital 
and 
trade 
24 

08-55233 
in 
is 
in  assisting 
the  secretariat  of 


mechanisms such as the APRM, it is important that due 
attention  be  given  to  peacebuilding  and  post-conflict 
reconstruction  to  help  countries  avoid  slipping  back 
into conflict a few years after the end of hostilities. In 
that  respect,  my  delegation  wishes  to  commend  the 
good  work  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  as 
reflected  in  its  annual  report  (A/63/92),  which  was 
recently  presented  and  debated 
the  General 
Assembly. 

We in the Great Lakes region of Africa are about 
to  enter  a  period  of  post-conflict  reconstruction 
following the entry into force of the Pact on Security, 
Stability  and  Development  in  the  Great  Lakes  Region 
on  21  June  2008.  In  that  respect,  my  delegation 
welcomes the involvement of the working group of the 
United Nations Inter-Agency Task Force for the Great 
Lakes  Region 
the 
International  Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  Region 
with technical aspects related to the implementation of 
the  programme  of  action  enshrined  in  the  Pact.  We 
would therefore like to take this opportunity to call for 
the continued support of the United Nations system and 
interested partners in financing reconstruction projects 
through  the  recently  established  special  fund  for 
reconstruction  and  development,  which 
to  be 
launched in near future. 

In conclusion, my delegation wishes to assure the 
General  Assembly  of  its  continuous  support  and 
cooperation  in  conflict  mediation  and  resolution  in 
Africa  in  search  of  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development on the continent. 
Ms.  Jahan  (Bangladesh):  Bangladesh  applauds 

the  Secretary-General  for  the  comprehensive  reports 
(A/63/206,  A/63/212  and  A/63/219)  before  us  today. 
We align ourselves with the statement delivered by the 
representative of Antigua and Barbuda on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China. 

The  challenges  that  Africa  faces  today  in  the 
areas of poverty, hunger, malnutrition, deadly diseases, 
the environment, peace and security are daunting. The 
current  global  food  crisis,  climate  change,  soaring 
energy  prices  and  volatility 
international 
financial markets are making the lives of Africans even 
more  difficult.  All  those  have  put  at  high  risk  the 
sustainability  of  the  hard-won  progress  achieved  in 
fighting hunger and malnutrition in the continent. 
In  recent  years,  African  countries  have  made 

some  significant  progress  in  the  economic  and  social 
the 
in 
A/63/PV.27
the 
immediately,  with 
fields,  as  well  as  in  promoting  democratic  processes 
the  New 
and  good  governance.  By  adopting 
Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD), 
African  countries  have  put  the  internationally  agreed 
development  goals  at  the  centre  of  their  development 
agenda.  The  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism  is  a 
concrete  sign  of  the  commitment  of African  countries 
to  good  governance.  There  has  also  been  progress  in 
the  area  of  conflict  resolution  and  in  bringing  about 
stabilization in a number of countries in Africa. A 2007 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  states  that  “Africa 
today  is  afflicted  by  far  fewer  armed  conflicts  than  it 
was  a  decade  ago”  (A/62/204,  para.  5).  As  Africa 
marches  ahead  to  address  its  own  challenges,  the 
international  community  has  a  moral  responsibility  to 
extend a firm hand of cooperation. 
Trade  is  critically  important  for  Africa.  The 

international  community  should  correct 
trade 
distortion  and  expand  trade  opportunities  for  African 
countries.  We  call  upon  major  economies  to  conclude 
the  Doha  negotiations 
full 
implementation of its development agenda and bearing 
in  mind  the  special  concerns  of  African  and  least 
developed countries (LDCs).  

We are also hopeful that the New Partnership for 
Development Act being considered by the Congress of 
the  United  States  will  pave  the  way  for  duty-free 
market  access  to  the  United  States  market  for  all 
products  from  all  LDCs.  Bangladesh  would  like  to 
work  closely  with  African  LDCs  to  ensure  that  that 
initiative 
is 
truly  non-discriminatory  and  pro-
development. 

We  are  deeply  concerned  that,  since  2005,  the 
ratio of official development assistance (ODA) to gross 
national income of developed countries has declined to 
0.28 per cent. That falls far short of the pledge made by 
the Group of Eight (G8) at Gleneagles to double aid to 
Africa  by  2010.  Conditionality,  unpredictability  and 
the earmarking of ODA are further key impediments to 
ensuring aid effectiveness. ODA for infrastructure and 
productive  sectors  is  important  to  stimulate  growth, 
generate  employment  and  reduce  poverty  in  Africa. 
the  Organization  for  Economic 
The  countries  of 
Cooperation 
to 
substantially  increase  their  ODA  to  deliver  on  the 
commitment made at the G8 summit at Gleneagles. 

The  external  debt  situation  remains  a  source  of 
serious concern for sub-Saharan Africa and LDCs. The 
and  Development  will 
need 
08-55233 

25 

Malaria 
in  LDCs, 
A/63/PV.27 

current  debt  relief 
initiative  has  been  slow  and 
inadequate,  in  particular  for  countries  not  part  of  the 
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative. There 
is  an  urgent  need  to  ensure  that  all  creditors,  and 
especially  private  creditors,  deliver  on  their  burden-
sharing obligations. 

is  a  complex  and  deadly  disease. 
Approximately  40  per  cent  of  the  world’s  population, 
living  mostly 
is  at  risk  of  malaria. 
Sub-Saharan  Africa  remains  the  hardest  hit  region, 
although  malaria  is  endemic  in  many  regions  of  the 
world.  In  countries  where  the  disease  is  particularly 
acute,  it  consumes  as  much  as  40  per  cent  of 
Government health budgets. That has a crippling effect 
on economic growth, welfare and development. 

We  congratulate  the  Secretary-General  on  his 
initiative  to  ensure  universal  coverage  for  malaria 
treatment  by  the  end  of  2010.  That  is  no  doubt  a 
significant  undertaking.  Successful 
research  and 
development  for  long-term  control  and  eradication 
efforts  will 
important.  The 
international community must also increase investment 
in  developing  new  and  improved  technologies  to 
control malaria, especially effective drugs, insecticides 
and  vaccines.  We  also  urge  developed  countries  to 
ensure  access  to  essential  malaria  medicines  through 
the transfer of technology. 

Bangladesh  has  been  an  active  and  ardent 
proponent  of  peace  and  development  in Africa.  There 
has  hardly  been  a  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
mission  in Africa  in  the  past  two  and  half  decades  in 
which  Bangladesh  has  not  participated.  Currently, 
around 10,000 Bangladeshis are working in 12 United 
Nations  peacekeeping  missions.  We 
send  our 
peacekeepers  even  to  the  highest  risk  areas. We  do  so 
in line with our deep commitment to the Charter of the 
critically 
remain 
United  Nations  and  in  a  spirit  of  solidarity  with  our 
African  brethren.  Our  blue-helmeted  soldiers  have 
been working shoulder to shoulder with our brothers in 
Africa to restore peace in that region. 

As  a  member  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission, 
Bangladesh  supports  the  Commission’s  development 
efforts  in  Burundi,  Sierra  Leone,  Guinea-Bissau  and 
the  Central African  Republic.  I  would  like  to  reiterate 
the firm commitment of the Government of Bangladesh 
to  further  strengthening  our  support  and  cooperation 
for the development of Africa by stabilizing peace and 
creating prosperity. 

Within  the  framework  South-South  cooperation, 
countries like Bangladesh can meaningfully contribute 
to  Africa’s  sustainable  development.  Over  the  years, 
Bangladesh  has  successfully  adopted  a  number  of 
innovative ideas for development, such as microcredit, 
non-formal  education  and  women’s  empowerment. 
Microcredit  has  now  been  replicated  in  around  100 
countries  across  the  world,  including  many  in Africa. 
The  Bangladesh  Rural  Advancement  Committee  and 
Grameen,  which 
largest 
non-governmental  organizations,  already  have  a 
presence  in  Africa.  We  remain  ready  to  share  our 
experiences  with  African  nations.  Despite  our  many 
and  varied  problems,  Bangladesh  has  succeeded  in 
outpacing  our  huge  population  growth,  generally  with 
agricultural  productivity.  Bangladesh  is  willing  to 
share  its  Green  Revolution  experiences  with  fellow 
LDCs, especially those in Africa.  

Africa’s development cannot be achieved without 
the  social  and  economic  emancipation  of  the  majority 
of  its  long-neglected  nations.  We  are  speaking  here 
today  to  address  that  challenge. We  must  not  falter  in 
our commitment to promoting the peace, development 
and prosperity of Africa.  
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m. 
two 
our 
are 
of 
26 

08-55233 
