
A/63/PV.22
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

22nd plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 8 October 2008, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 
are  turning  to  the  General  Assembly  to  convey  that 
request  to  the  Court,  in  fulfilment  of  its  powers  and 
functions under the United Nations Charter. 

is  highly 
This  non-confrontational  approach 
principled  and  legitimate.  It  will  serve  to  reduce 
tensions  in  the  region  and  facilitate  our  efforts  at 
reconciliation. 

The Republic of Serbia believes that sending this 
question to the Court would prevent the Kosovo crisis 
from serving as a deeply problematic precedent in any 
part  of  the  globe  where  secessionist  ambitions  are 
harboured. 
We also believe that the Court’s advisory opinion 

judicially 
would  provide  politically  neutral,  yet 
authoritative,  guidance 
still 
deliberating how to approach unilateral declarations of 
independence in line with international law. 

Lastly,  we  believe  that  recourse  to  the  Court 
would  strengthen  the  rule  of  law  in  international 
relations  and  make  the  proposed  course  of  action  a 
symbol  of  the  world  community’s  resolve  to  take  the 
United Nations Charter as its guide. 

Supporting this draft resolution would also serve 
to  reaffirm  a  fundamental  principle:  the  right  of  any 
Member State of the United Nations to pose a simple, 
basic question on a matter it considers vitally important 
to  the  Court.  To  vote  against  it  would  be  in  effect  a 
vote to deny the right of any country to seek — now or 
in  the  future  —  judicial  recourse  through  the  United 
Nations  system.  To  vote  against  it  would  also  mean 
to  many  countries 







The meeting was called to order at 10.25 a.m. 
to 
Agenda item 71 (continued) 
Request for an advisory opinion of the International 
Court of Justice on whether the unilateral 
declaration of independence of Kosovo is in 
accordance with international law 

  Draft resolution (A/63/L.2) 
 The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  give  the 
floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Serbia, His 
Excellency  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić, 
introduce  draft 
resolution A/63/L.2. 
Mr.  Jeremić  (Serbia):  It  is  my  honour  and 

pleasure  to  introduce  the  draft  resolution  proposed  by 
the  Republic  of  Serbia  contained 
in  document 
A/63/L.2. My presence here today as Foreign Minister 
of the Republic of Serbia signifies the importance that 
my country assigns to this issue. 

On 17 February 2008, the provisional institutions 
of  self-government  of  Serbia’s  southern  province  of 
Kosovo 
declared 
independence. Our democracy responded with maximal 
restraint.  We  ruled  out  the  use  of  force  and  the 
imposition  of 
the 
breakaway  province.  Serbia  decided  to  defend  its 
sovereignty and territorial integrity through diplomacy 
and international law. 

We have chosen to seek an advisory opinion from 
the International Court of Justice (ICJ)  on the legality 
of the unilateral declaration of independence. Today we 

and  Metohija 
unilaterally 
economic 
sanctions 
against 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-54101 (E) 
*0854101* 
international 
law, 
important 
the  proposal,  have  decided 
A/63/PV.22 

accepting that nothing can be done when secessionists 
in whichever part of the globe assert the uniqueness of 
their cause and claim exception to the universal scope 
of the international legal order. 

My country would like to extend our appreciation 
to  those  that,  while  not  currently  persuaded  of  the 
utility  of 
to  engage 
themselves  in  this  question,  acknowledging  that  our 
draft 
issues  of 
resolution 
international law. 
All  Member  States  have  on  numerous  occasions 

confirmed their confidence in the Court as the principal 
judicial organ of the United Nations. We must therefore 
have  full  confidence  that  the  Court  will  perform  its 
duty  in  an  exemplary  fashion  without  any  special 
directives. 

The  question  posed  is  amply  clear  and  refrains 
from  taking  political  positions  on  the  Kosovo  issue. 
The  Court’s  response,  in  the  form  of  an  advisory 
opinion,  will  be  based  on 
in 
accordance  with  the  Court’s  Statute  and  Rules  of 
Procedure.  Article  66  of  the  Statute  gives  a  clear 
indication  of  the  procedures  utilized  by  the  Court.  No 
additional  instructions  by  the  General  Assembly  are 
appropriate. 

We believe that the draft resolution in its present 
form  is  entirely  non-controversial.  It  represents  the 
lowest  common  denominator  of  the  positions  of  the 
Member States on this question, and hence there is no 
need for any changes or additions. Let us adopt it and 
allow the Court to act freely and impartially within the 
framework  of  its  competencies.  We  are  confident  that 
the  Court  will  know  what  to  do,  and  that  it  will  take 
into  account  the  opinions  of  all  interested  Member 
States and international organizations. We hold that the 
most prudent way to proceed today is to adopt our draft 
resolution  without  opposition,  in  the  same  way  that  it 
was  decided  at  the  General  Committee  to  include  this 
item in the agenda. 

The Republic of Serbia’s steadfast pursuit of this 
peaceful course of action is a demonstration of our firm 
commitment  to  the  international  system  that  we  have 
all helped to build. 

History  has  placed  the  problem  of  Kosovo’s 
unilateral  declaration  of  independence  before  us  all. 
The  choice  of  whether  to  act  through  law  is  upon  us. 
By  acting  concertedly 
in  support  of  our  draft 
addresses 

resolution, we will have come together to help restore 
the  sacrosanct  character  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, the document that binds us to one another as a 
world community of sovereign equals. And, by seizing 
the  present  moment,  we  will  have  begun  to  further 
enhance  the  enduring  benefit  and  honour  of  the 
founding principles of the United Nations. 
Sir  John  Sawers  (United  Kingdom):  Colleagues 

will  be  aware  of  the  letter  I  wrote  to  the  President  on 
1 October (A/63/461), enclosing a note of issues raised 
by  the  Serbian  request  for  the  General  Assembly  to 
seek  an  advisory  opinion  from  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  on  the  legality  of  Kosovo’s  declaration  of 
independence. 

Let  me  start  by  making  clear  that  the  United 
Kingdom  is  a  strong  supporter  of  the  International 
Court of Justice. We have for many years accepted the 
Court’s compulsory jurisdiction. We are one of only 65 
States with a current optional clause declaration, under 
article  36  (2)  of  the  Court’s  Statute,  giving  the  Court 
jurisdiction  over  a  wide  range  of  matters.  We  support 
the use of the Court by Member States to resolve their 
disputes and the right of United Nations institutions to 
seek  advisory  opinions  on  questions  affecting  the 
performance of their functions. 

Why,  it  might  be  asked,  are  we  now  raising 
questions about the Serbian request? The reason is that 
the Serbian request is primarily for political rather than 
legal  reasons.  It  is  designed  to  slow  down  Kosovo’s 
emergence as a widely recognized independent nation, 
playing  its  part  in  the  international  institutions  of  the 
world. Many  members of the United  Nations emerged 
into  independence  during  what,  at  the  time,  were 
controversial  circumstances.  These  circumstances 
normalize  over  time  and  the  clock  of  history  is  rarely 
turned back. Kosovo’s independence is and will remain 
a reality. The Government of Serbia will have to decide 
how it comes to terms with that reality. 

Kosovo’s independence has now been recognized 
by 22 out of 27 member States of the European Union, 
an organization that Serbia aspires to join. We too want 
to see Serbia  as a member  of the European Union. To 
that end, Serbia will need to work constructively with 
its  future  European  Union  partners 
to  maximize 
stability in the region, including in Kosovo, so that we 
can achieve our goal of bringing the whole region and 
its peoples to a stable and more prosperous future. 
2 

08-54101 
that  has 
in  1989 
recognized 



In Security Council debates on this issue, I have 
set out that the United Kingdom is confident in its legal 
position  as  a  State 
the 
independence  of  Kosovo  following  the  final  status 
process,  which  was  conducted  pursuant  to  Security 
Council resolution 1244 (1999). 

In  terms  of  the  draft  resolution  before  us,  my 
delegation  regrets  that  our  Serbian  colleagues  have 
declined to seek a consensual way forward. They have, 
on  the  contrary,  decided  to  push  this  draft  resolution 
through  the  General  Assembly  with  minimal  debate 
about the issues. That is not the custom in the General 
Assembly, and it is regrettable that Serbia has decided 
to pursue that course. In the light of our reservations on 
matters  of  both  substance  and  procedure,  the  United 
Kingdom will abstain on this resolution. 

If  the  resolution  is  adopted,  the  question  will 
need to be addressed against the background of the full 
context of the dissolution of Yugoslavia in so far as it 
affects  Kosovo,  starting  with  Belgrade’s  unilateral 
decision 
to  remove  Kosovo’s  autonomy 
through to events of the present day. 
Serbia complains about the unilateral declaration 

of Kosovo in February 2008. But it was Serbia that, in 
a  unilateral  move  of  its  own,  rendered  successful 
negotiations impossible. In November 2006, while the 
United  Nations  status  envoy  was  conducting  talks, 
Serbia  brought  forward  a  new  constitution 
that 
unilaterally  reasserted  control  over  Kosovo.  That 
constitution  was  narrowly  approved  by  a  referendum. 
But  well  over  a  million  Kosovo  Albanians,  people 
whom  Serbia  was  by  its  new  constitution  claiming  as 
its  own,  were  effectively  excluded  from  voting.  And 
the effect of the constitution was to tie the hands of the 
Serbian  negotiators  to  the  point  where  they  could  not 
even  accept  a  status-neutral  proposal  put  forward  by 
the European Union. 

That  status-neutral  proposal  in  December  2007 
represented the last chance for a negotiated settlement, 
and it was rejected by Serbia. So, in coordination with 
many  of  the  countries  most  closely  involved  in 
stabilizing  the  Balkans,  Kosovo’s  Assembly  declared 
Kosovo 
independent  on  17  February  2008.  The 
declaration  committed  Kosovo  to  full  implementation 
of the United Nations envoy’s Comprehensive Proposal 
for  the  Kosovo  Status  Settlement,  including  the  most 
communities 
extensive 
anywhere 
international 
for  minority 
together  with 
safeguards 
in  Europe, 
A/63/PV.22
to 
that,  without  prejudice 
supervision.  In  the  past  eight  months,  48  countries 
have  recognized  Kosovo  as  a  sovereign  independent 
State; and that number is set to grow. 

If  this  draft  resolution  is  adopted,  my  delegation 
invites  the  Court  to  proceed  in  accordance  with  the 
principle 
the  advisory 
opinion  being  sought,  all  parties  with  an  interest, 
including the Government of Kosovo, should be able to 
present arguments on an equal footing. 

My  Government’s  overwhelming  concern  in  its 
policy towards the Balkans over this last 18 years has 
been  to  provide  for  peace  and  stability  and  to  build  a 
basis  for  long-term  prosperity  in  the  region.  Those 
principles  continue  to  guide  us  today.  The  people  of 
Serbia  have  made  a  strategic  choice  in  their  recent 
election,  one  that  my  Government  welcomes. We  will 
do  what  we  can  to  facilitate  Serbia’s  integration  into 
Europe. We  will expect in return that the Government 
of Serbia will cooperate fully with the European Union 
in  achieving  stability  in  the  southern  Balkans  for 
generations  to  come.  Our  disagreement  with  Serbia 
over  the  tactics  that  it  is  adopting  on  this  particular 
issue  will  not  distract  us  from  our  strategic  objectives 
that  we  believe  are  widely  shared  and  advance  the 
interests of the people of the Balkans as a whole. 
Mr. Neritani (Albania): Each and every Member 

State  has  the  right  to  operate  within  our  current 
Charter-defined  system  and 
the  rules  of 
procedure, including  even  some loopholes, in order to 
clarify  an  issue,  solve  a  dispute  between  parties, 
remedy  a  situation  and/or  seek  an  opinion.  The 
International  Court  of  Justice  is  a  very  well  respected 
body in this regard and we strongly support it. 

This  institutional  right  comes  together  with  the 
responsibility  to  exercise  it  objectively  and  in  good 
faith.  This  nexus  becomes  more  relevant  because  the 
issue  at  hand  involves  all  of  us  as  Members  of  this 
institution.  The  sense  of  purpose  and  the  practical 
utility of this exercise must be based on that equation. 

Let  us  go  one  small  step  further. The  intentional 
reduction of the complex issue of Kosovo into a simple 
aspect, namely, the legal one, is an attempt to establish 
a situation outside of its context, cutting it away from 
its root causes. In other words, it attempts to establish a 
false connection between cause and effect. 

The  General  Assembly  deserves  the  truth  and 
information  that  are  known  on  the  subject.  Any 
to  use 
08-54101 

3 
In 
its 
known 
historical 
The 
involvement  of 
A  projected  prolongation  of 
A/63/PV.22 

intentional  attempt  to  conceal  the  facts  or  to  make  a 
presentation  based  on  half-truths  is  not  a  good-faith 
attempt  in  approaching  this  issue.  Our  institution’s 
competence  and  its  ability  to  take  ownership  of  this 
issue hinge on a fair approach to this question. 

the  General  Assembly 
membership  in  this  debate  must  have  a  purpose.  I 
believe that the General Assembly need not be engaged 
in  a  debate  aimed  at  meeting  certain  bars  in  the 
domestic  politics  of  a  particular  Member  State,  bars 
raised artificially because of very painful events in the 
recent past. 

the  Kosovo 
recognition process is not in and of itself a good reason 
and  a  bona  fide  purpose  for  engaging  the  General 
Assembly  membership  in  this  debate.  We  have  to  be 
engaged  and  resolve,  not  freeze  or  block,  certain 
developments that are proving to have a positive result 
on the ground for the present and the future. 

political 
and 
developments,  Kosovo  constitutes  a  unique  case. This 
is true for each and every  person that knows the facts 
on the ground and views them without any speculation 
or  bias.  For  the  sake  of  a  violent  and  non-consensual 
break-up of the former Yugoslavia, a biblical exodus of 
1 million Kosovar Albanians and thousands killed and 
disappeared,  including  into  mass  graves,  took  place 
only  nine  years  ago.  That  State-run  ethnic  cleansing 
enterprise  and  genocide  was  stopped  thanks  to  the 
international  community,  which, 
intervention  of 
entirely 
its 
declaration of independence. 

The  potential  engagement  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  (ICJ)  in  this  unique  case,  as  it  is 
presented  in  the  draft  resolution  before  us  —  that  is, 
out of context — and the offering of an opinion based 
upon an intentionally singled-out  element — the legal 
one  —  could  lay  the  groundwork  for  interpretations 
that could have wider latitude and scale of application. 
While not anything close to a theoretically established 
precedent,  this  would  reflect  a  top-down  approach. 
Kosovo in and of itself is not a precedent. Pushing the 
envelope  on  this  question  by  engaging  the  General 
Assembly  might  create  a  precedent,  although  a 
negative  one,  with  potentially  bad  applications 
elsewhere. 

“unilaterally  declared 
legally,  administered  Kosovo  until 
the  wording 
the  word 
technical  matter, 
On  another 
independence”: 

is 
logistically 
legal,  but  which 
We call upon other members to vote against draft 
“unilateral” is not a factual representation, but a biased 
interpretation.  The 
legal  act  of  declaration  of 
independence  may  have  different  qualifiers.  As  the 
General Assembly is discussing an issue to be referred 
to the ICJ, biased rhetoric that deviates from a factual 
representation  of  the  circumstances  on  the  ground  is 
not a good reflection on the competence of the General 
Assembly. 
We respectfully disagree with this attempt, which 

is 
in  essence  a 
manipulative attempt to stall the process of recognition 
of Kosovo and to cause as much detrimental effect on 
the  ground  as  possible.  We  believe  that  the  Balkans 
deserve  to  channel  these  enormous  energies  towards 
building  our  common  future  with  prosperity  for  all  of 
us.  Old  stereotypes  of  getting  even  are  outdated, 
everywhere. 

resolution A/63/L.2. 
Mr.  İlkin  (Turkey):  Peace  and  stability  in  the 

Balkans have always been of the utmost importance for 
Turkey. In line with this, we are determined to further 
our relations with all Balkan countries in all fields. In 
this context, we value the close relations we have with 
Serbia  and  believe  that  that  country’s  welfare  and 
stability  are  indispensable  to  the  well-being  of  the 
greater Balkan region and of Europe. 

At  the  same  time,  Turkey  has  historical  ties  and 
strong fraternal bonds with the Kosovar people. Turkey 
was  one  of  the  first  countries  to  have  recognized 
Kosovo, and it is our view that this recognition is also 
consistent  with  international  law.  In  fact,  48  countries 
have  recognized  Kosovo,  and  that  only  bolsters  that 
conclusion. 

We  understand  the  particular  reasons  that  have 
led  Serbia  to  seek  an  advisory  opinion  from  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  (ICJ).  However,  we  do 
not  think  that  this  will  help  achieve  the  desired  and 
immediately needed atmosphere of peace, stability and 
security in the Balkans. 

On  the  other  hand,  Turkey  strongly  supports  the 
ICJ  as  the  principal  judiciary  organ  of  the  United 
Nations. Therefore,  out  of  respect  for  the  ICJ, Turkey 
will not challenge the right of Serbia to have recourse 
to the ICJ and will not participate in the vote. 
Ms.  DiCarlo  (United  States  of  America):  After 

years  of  war,  post-communist  transition  and  deep 
4 

08-54101 


hardship  and  suffering,  the  people  of  the  Balkans, 
including  those  in  Serbia  and  Kosovo,  have  rejected 
the  destructive  nationalism  that  brought  them  such 
misery in the 1990s. They seek a future as integrated, 
prosperous citizens of Europe. 

Under the leadership of a democratically elected, 
multi-ethnic  Government,  the  Republic  of  Kosovo 
today  is  at  peace.  The  Government  in  Pristina  has 
scrupulously  followed the  comprehensive proposal for 
the  Kosovo  status  settlement  developed  by 
the 
Secretary-General’s Special Envoy. 

Kosovo  has  adopted  a  far-reaching  constitution 
and  has  enacted  41  pieces  of  legislation  to  implement 
the  comprehensive  proposal.  These  include  specific 
provisions  which  protect  the  rights  of  all  ethnic 
minorities as well as the religious and cultural heritage 
of the population. Kosovo’s Government has also acted 
with  vision  in  seeking  strong  relations  with  all  its 
neighbours, including Serbia. 

For  its  part,  Serbia  is  on  the  path  to  European 
integration,  having  recently  signed  a  Stabilization  and 
Association Agreement with the European Union. 

that  our 
common concern should be to focus our efforts to help 
shape  this  European  future  for  Serbia  and  Kosovo. 
Specifically,  we  are  extending  economic  and  political 
support  to  both  of  these  countries.  We  hope  they  will 
integrate 
international  markets  and 
structures,  which  will  guarantee  peace  and  prosperity 
for all of the region’s peoples. 

However, we do not think that the draft resolution 
proposed  by  Serbia  advances  that  goal.  Let  me  make 
clear that the United States offers its full support to the 
International  Court  of  Justice  (ICJ)  and  its  role  in 
providing 
appropriate 
circumstances. 

In  regard  to  the  specific  question  before  us,  on 
referring  the  declaration  of  independence  of  Kosovo 
Provisional  Institutions  of  Self-Governance  to  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  we  respectfully  suggest 
that  an  advisory  opinion  on 
is 
unnecessary  and  unhelpful.  Therefore,  the  United 
States will vote against referral. 

As  a  practical  matter,  Kosovo’s  independence  is 
irreversible.  Forty-eight  countries  have  recognized 
Kosovo as an independent State, including 22 of the 27 
members of the European Union. We are confident that 
The  United  States  firmly  believes 
this  question 
advisory 
opinion 
in 
further 
into 
A/63/PV.22
status.  After 
recognition  of  Kosovo’s  independence  by  an  ever-
increasing  number  of  States 
is  consistent  with 
international law. 

We do not think it appropriate or fair to the Court 
to ask it to opine on what is essentially a matter that is 
reserved  to  the  judgement  of  Member  States.  We  ask 
members  to  consider  the  potential  consequences  if 
other  Members  or  separatist  movements  within  their 
countries were to seize upon language, in any opinion 
the Court might render, to bolster their own claims for 
or against independence. 

Should this draft resolution go forward, the Court 
will,  understandably,  have  to  look  at  the  referred 
question  with  extreme  care,  taking  into  account  the 
particular  context  in  which  the  events  leading  to 
Kosovo’s  declaration  occurred.  Kosovo  must  be 
viewed within the context of the violent dissolution of 
the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s. The policies of that 
period  led  the  Security  Council  to  adopt  resolution 
1244  (1999),  which  authorized  the  United  Nations  to 
administer Kosovo and called for a political process to 
determine  Kosovo’s 
intensive 
negotiations, 
the  United  Nations  Special  Envoy 
recommended  to  the  Secretary-General  that  Kosovo 
become an independent State.  It is  also important that 
the Court hear from the States most directly interested 
in  this  matter  —  Serbia  and  Kosovo  —  on  an  equal 
basis, as well as from the many other States that can be 
expected 
the  Court’s 
consideration of the case. 

The  United  States  welcomes  and  supports  the 
remarkable  progress  made 
the  Balkan  region 
towards  building  stable,  multi-ethnic  democracies  and 
laying  the  groundwork  for  growth  and  development. 
Although  we  may  disagree  with  Serbia  on  the  issue 
before  us  today,  the  United  States  will  work  closely 
with  Serbia  and  all  other  countries  in  South-Eastern 
Europe to advance our shared vision of a Europe that is 
whole, free and at peace. 
Mr.  Heller  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  am 

grateful for the opportunity to express the legal opinion 
of the Government of Mexico on this important issue. 
Draft resolution A/63/L.2, submitted by Serbia, is 

based  on  the  prerogative,  conferred  on  the  General 
Assembly  in  Article  96  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, to request the International Court of Justice to 
give an advisory opinion on any legal question. 
to  make  contributions 
to 
in 
08-54101 

5 
A/63/PV.22 


Since the founding of the United Nations, Mexico 
has been a firm and constant promoter of the principles 
of  justice  and  international  law  enshrined  in  the 
Charter and of the International Court of Justice, which 
is  the  jurisdictional  body  par  excellence  for  the 
peaceful  resolution  of  disputes  arising  from 
the 
interpretation of international law. 

The rule of law, to which we, the members of the 
international community, are subject, is possible only if 
it is equipped with effective jurisdictional mechanisms 
for  the  peaceful  resolution  of  disputes  arising  from 
specific  interpretations  or  applications  of  international 
law. The International Court of Justice, as the principal 
judicial  organ  at  the  international  level,  makes  an 
invaluable contribution to consolidating the rule of law 
through its opinions on specific legal issues arising in 
the exercise of its advisory jurisdiction. 

The General Assembly, for its part, also plays an 
important  role  in  consolidating  the  rule  of  law  by 
entrusting  to  the  Court  —  and  thereby  strengthening 
it —  specific  legal  issues  on  which  there  is  some 
disagreement.  In  Mexico’s  opinion,  the  initiative  and 
the text of Serbia’s request for an advisory opinion are 
in  keeping  with 
in 
paragraph  2  of  article  65  of  the  Statute  of  the 
International  Court  of 
Justice.  Likewise,  draft 
resolution  A/63/L.2  fully  meets  the  requirements  set 
out  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  whereby  the 
General  Assembly  may  request  an  advisory  opinion 
from  the  International  Court  of  justice  on  a  specific 
legal question referred to it. 

will vote in favour of the draft resolution. 

the last speaker in the debate on this item. 

We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
A/63/L.2.  In  that  connection,  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of the Secretariat. 
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  of  General  Assembly 

and Conference Management): In connection with draft 
resolution  A/63/L.2,  I  wish  to  place  on  record  the 
following statement of programme budget implications 
on behalf of the Secretary-General, in accordance with 
rule  153  of  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the  General 
Assembly. 
the  General 

Assembly would decide, in accordance with Article 96 
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
In  the  light  of  all  those  considerations,  Mexico 
framework  established 
resolution  A/63/L.2, 
By  draft 
the 

in 
of  Kosovo 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  to  request  the 
International Court of Justice, pursuant to article 65 of 
the Statute of the Court, to render an advisory opinion 
on the following question: “Is the unilateral declaration 
of independence by the Provisional Institutions of Self-
Government 
accordance  with 
international law?” 

Should the draft resolution be adopted, the Court 
would  proceed  to  establish  the  scope  of  the  work 
arising from the request. Resources have been provided 
in  the  programme  budget  for  the  biennium  2008-2009 
for the Court to provide advisory opinions as requested 
by  organs  of  the  United  Nations  and  specialized 
agencies. It is anticipated, however, that, owing to the 
complexity  of  the  question  on  which  the  Court  is 
requested in the draft  resolution to render  an advisory 
opinion, adoption of the draft resolution is expected to 
give rise to additional resource requirements. 

On  the  basis  of  a  determination  by  the  Court  of 
the scope of work, a detailed statement of programme 
budget implications would be submitted to the General 
Assembly  for  its  consideration  during  its  present 
session. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  shall  now 

call  on  those  representatives  who  wish  to  speak  in 
explanation  of  vote  before  the  voting.  May  I  remind 
delegations  that  explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to 
10 minutes  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats. 
(Romania):  My  delegation 

would like to underline the following before the voting. 
Compliance  with international law is the very essence 
of our Organization and the matrix on which we strive 
to  build  international  peace,  stability  and  security. 
Draft  resolution  A/63/L.2  contains  a  question  that  is 
fully  in  line  with  the  simple  right  of  recourse  to 
international 
to  which  any  United  Nations 
Member is entitled to benefit under the Charter itself. 
Romania fully trusts the advisory opinions of the 

International  Court  of  Justice,  the  main  judicial  organ 
of  the  United  Nations,  a  prominent  promoter  and 
guardian  of  international  law.  We  are  absolutely  sure 
that  its  opinion  on  the  question  raised  in  the  draft 
resolution  will  assist  us  in  making  decisions  in  the 
future,  in  particular  when  fundamental  issues  such  as 
the sovereignty and territorial integrity are at stake. 
Mrs.  Miculescu
law, 
6 

08-54101 
In the light of those considerations, Romania has 



decided to vote in favour of draft resolution A/63/L.2. 
Mr. Mlynár  (Slovakia): Slovakia, as a  matter of 

principle,  respects  the  right  of  every  Member  State  to 
seek advisory opinions from the International Court of 
Justice  as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations  and  one  of  the  principal  organs  of  the  United 
Nations. In that context, Slovakia will vote in favour of 
the  General  Assembly  draft  resolution  submitted  by 
Serbia that is before us today. 
Mr. Arias  (Panama)  (spoke in Spanish):  Panama 

has  decided  to  vote  in  favour  of  draft  resolution 
A/63/L.2,  whereby 
the  General  Assembly  would 
request  an  advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  concerning  the  legality  of  the  unilateral 
declaration  of  independence  by  Kosovo,  because  we 
believe  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  We 
support  the  rule  of  law  and  believe  in  the  authority, 
capability and independence of the International Court 
of Justice. Panama is voting on the understanding that 
all  parties,  in  particular  the  authorities  of  Serbia  and 
Kosovo, will be given the opportunity to express their 
views before the Court. 

While  we  support  the  draft  resolution  being 
considered,  at  the  same  time  I  wish  to  make  it  clear 
that  our  support  does  not  affect  or  predetermine  the 
political decision that Panama may or may not take to 
recognize the independence of Kosovo. 
Mr.  Abdelaziz  (Egypt):  Egypt  believes  that  the 

agenda  item  in  question  should  be  considered  strictly 
within the legal and judicial context. Our view is based 
on the following considerations. 

First, every Member State has the right to request 
an  advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice and the General Assembly has the responsibility 
to  grant  that  request  in  accordance  with Article  96  of 
the  Charter.  Egypt  believes  in  the  importance  of  the 
legal  and  moral  values  of  the  Court’s  judgments  and 
opinions  and  the  important  role  it  has  to  play  in 
resolving 
the  needed 
objectivity,  independence  and  neutrality  in  a  manner 
that would enhance the rule of law at the international 
level. 
Secondly,  Egypt  is  committed  to  the  collective 

position  of 
(NAM) 
reflected in many NAM documents, the latest of which 
is  the  final  document  of  the  fifteenth  ministerial 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
international  conflicts  with 
A/63/PV.22
conference  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  held  in 
Teheran  from  27  to  30  July  2008,  in  which  the 
Movement 
“Invites  also  the  General  Assembly,  the  other 
organs of the United Nations and the specialized 
agencies  duly  authorized,  to  request  advisory 
opinions  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  on 
legal  questions  arising  within  the  scope  of  their 
activities”. 
It  is  clear,  in  our  opinion,  that  the  question  is  a  legal 
and  not  a  political  issue  and  thus  falls  within  the 
purview of the General Assembly in that regard. 

Thirdly,  strengthening  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations and in particular that of the General Assembly 
when  dealing  with  issues  related  to  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity, as two of the main principles of the 
United Nations Charter and of international law, entails 
recognition  of  the  pivotal  role  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the 
Organization.  The  General  Assembly  should  not  shy 
away from its responsibility to establish the necessary 
legal and judicial opinions in this case and in any case 
that entails a dispute in the application of the principles 
of  the  Charter  or  any  principles  of  international  law. 
Therefore,  Egypt  will  vote  in  favour  of  the  draft 
resolution  submitted  by  the  Republic  of  Serbia  in 
document A/63/L.2. 
Mr. Yáñez-Barnuevo (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): 

As  is  well  known,  the  Spanish  Government  believes 
that  respect  for  international  law  is  the  fundamental 
principle  governing 
the  actions  of  States  and 
international organizations, and in particular the United 
Nations,  in  the  context  of  their  international  relations. 
Spain  has  therefore  placed  that  fundamental  principle 
at the core of all its actions in the international arena, 
while  at  the  same  time  giving  the  United  Nations  an 
unparalleled leading role in that regard. 

the  Spanish 
that 
Government  attaches  great  importance  to  the  correct 
functioning of the principal organs of the Organization, 
including  the  General Assembly  and  the  International 
Court of Justice, and to interaction among those organs 
to  promote  the  achievement  of  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  United  Nations,  in  accordance  with 
the Charter. 

In that regard, we feel that, in the general interest 
of the Organization and the international community as 
is  also  well  known 
It 
08-54101 

7 
full 
and 
impartiality 
independence 
A/63/PV.22 

a whole, it would be advisable to provide the Assembly 
with an authorized opinion of the main judicial body of 
the United Nations on the  legal  aspects  of issues that, 
such  as  the  present  one  regarding  Kosovo,  have  been 
the object of diverse interpretations by Member States. 

Moreover, we believe that it will ultimately fall to 
this  Assembly  and  the  other  bodies  of  the  United 
Nations to draw the conclusions they deem appropriate 
concerning  the  advisory  opinion  that  the  International 
Court of Justice will pronounce at the proper moment, 
without, at this stage at least, drawing any preliminary 
conclusions  or  conditioning  in  any  way  the  actions  of 
the  main  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  which 
enjoys 
in 
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and 
its statutes. 

Therefore,  Spain  will  vote  in  favour  of  the  draft 
resolution submitted by Serbia, contained in document 
A/63/L.2. 
Mr. Mourikis (Greece): As a matter of principle, 

Greece believes that every State has the prerogative to 
request  an  advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  on  issues  of  importance  and  relevance  to 
international law. We would also like to stress that we 
recognize and respect the authority and competence of 
the Court to investigate issues of international law and 
express views and opinions on such topics. 
As  regards  the  draft  resolution  submitted  by 

Serbia  (A/63/L.2)  on  referring 
the 
unilateral  declaration  of  independence  by  Kosovo  to 
the International Court of Justice and request that it be 
examined 
in  accordance  with 
international  law, Greece is of the opinion that such  a 
request  is  based  on  international  law  and  practice  and 
we would like to express our support for it. 

We believe that the text of that draft resolution is 
based on the inalienable right of every State to seek the 
advice  and  opinions  of  the  most  relevant  juridical 
authority within the United Nations system through the 
approval of the General Assembly. 

resolution submitted by Serbia. 
Mr.  Ripert  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  On 

17 February  2008,  the  Assembly  of  Kosovo  declared 
the  independence  of  the  Republic  of  Kosovo.  That 
declaration of independence marked the end of a  very 
violent 
specific 
Therefore, Greece will vote in favour of the draft 
sequence  — 
historical 
issue  of 
legality 
the 
for 
its 

a 
the 
into  question 
that  conforms 
resolution  1244 
long  period  of 
dismemberment of the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s, 
followed  by 
international 
administration under the aegis of the United Nations. 

It  is  also  the  result  of  the  process  of  defining 
Kosovo’s  status,  which  was  provided  for  by  Security 
Council 
(1999).  The  common 
European  prospects  offered  to  Kosovo  and  to  Serbia 
are  also  a  very  specific  characteristic  of  the  situation. 
The independence of Kosovo is thus a sui generis case 
that  does  not  call 
issues  of 
sovereignty and territorial integrity that lie at the very 
core of international relations. 

In  such  conditions,  on  18  February  France 
decided  to  recognize  the  new  State,  as  have  22  of  the 
27  members  of  the  European  Union  since  then.  Since 
the  entry  into  force  of  the  Constitution  on  15  June, 
the  Republic  of  Kosovo  possesses  a 
moreover, 
legislative  framework 
to  European 
norms  and  values  and  provides  a  framework  for 
protecting all communities living in Kosovo. 

In  that  context,  France  marked  its  disagreement 
with Serbia’s draft resolution (A/63/L.2), which would 
request  an  advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  on  the  legality  on  the  declaration  of 
independence of Kosovo. France fully backs the Court, 
which  is  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations,  but  to  us  the  request  for  an  advisory  opinion 
proposed by Serbia is neither useful, since the situation 
of  independent  Kosovo  recognized  by  48  sovereign 
States  seems 
legal 
uncertainties,  nor  appropriate,  since 
it  does  not 
contribute  to  the  necessary  easing  of  tensions  and 
could  complicate  the  European  prospects  for  the 
western Balkans. 

voting. 

To  overcome  the  divisions  of  the  past,  Europe 
offered a European future to the people of the western 
Balkans.  France  remains  dedicated  to  that  basic  goal, 
which should be a priority for all. We remain especially 
resolved  to  help  Serbia  to  engage  on  the  path  of  a 
European  future.  The  integration  of  Serbia  into  the 
European  family  is  important  to  the  stability  of  the 
region. 

In  that  regard,  France  reiterates  its  belief  that 
Serbia can accelerate the progress of its rapprochement 
with  Europe.  It  recalls  that  the  European  Union  has 
In  those  conditions,  France  will  abstain  in  the 
to  be  devoid  of  any 
to  us 
the 
8 

08-54101 
the  Serbian  Government 


also  expressed  its  readiness  to  assist  Kosovo  in  its 
economic  and  political  development  by  providing  it 
with at a clear European prospect. 

Lastly, France wishes to underscore the European 
Union’s frequently reiterated resolve to play a lead role 
in  stabilizing  the  region,  particularly  through  the 
deployment  of  the  European  Union  Rule  of  Law 
Mission  throughout  Kosovo.  In  that  respect,  France 
encourages 
to  adopt  a 
constructive approach to the efforts undertaken by the 
European Union to contribute to peace and stability in 
the Western Balkans. 
Mr.  Hadjimichael  (Cyprus):  My  delegation  will 

vote  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution  contained  in 
document  A/63/L.2.  We  consider  that,  as  a  matter  of 
principle, it is the prerogative of every State to seek an 
advisory  opinion  from  the  International  Court  of 
Justice on matters that affect its vital interests and that 
pertain  to  the  fundamental  principles  of  international 
law. 

We  believe  that  the  unilateral  declaration  of 
independence  by  Kosovo’s  provisional  institutions  is 
an issue that merits legal clarity and that the Court can 
provide  valuable  guidance  to  States  thereon  through 
the exercise of its advisory function. 

Our  decision  to  support  the  draft  resolution 
before  us  is  based  on  and  forms  an  integral  part  of  a 
principled  policy  that  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  has 
consistently advocated. It derives from our support for 
the rule of law and the international legal order and our 
conviction  that  adherence  to  international  law  is  an 
indispensable  element  that  determines  the  conduct  of 
States in international relations. 

My  Government  will  continue  to  caution  against 
the  interpretation  of  international  law  according  to 
political  expediencies,  and  strongly  to  support  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes in accordance with the 
United  Nations  Charter,  including  through  the  tools 
provided therein. 
Mr. Natalegawa (Indonesia): Indonesia has been 

consistent  in  expressing  its  preference  for  the  path  of 
dialogue  and  diplomacy  in  resolving  the  question  of 
the  final  status  of  Kosovo.  That  principled  position 
remains. 

Indonesia has also been steadfast in upholding the 
rule  of  law  and  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  in 
governing  relations  among  States.  We  deem  it  of 
A/63/PV.22
is 
introduced  by  Serbia, 
the  Court  concerning 
paramount  importance  to  maintain  the  integrity  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter  and  international  law.  That 
principled position also remains. Paragraph 1 of Article 
96 of the Charter provides that “The General Assembly 
or  the  Security  Council  may  request  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  to  give  an  advisory  opinion  on  any 
legal question”. 

For  the  aforementioned  reasons,  Indonesia  will 
vote  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution  (A/63/L.2) 
currently  before  the  General Assembly  on  the  request 
for  an  advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  on  whether 
the  unilateral  declaration  of 
independence  of  Kosovo 
in  accordance  with 
international law. 
Mr. Malmierca Díaz (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 

Cuba supports the legitimate right of any Member State 
to  request  an  advisory  opinion  from  the  International 
Court  of  Justice.  The  draft  resolution  contained  in 
document  A/63/L.2, 
is  an 
expression of its legitimate right to request an advisory 
opinion  of 
the  unilateral 
declaration of independence by Kosovo.  
Cuba  believes  that  the  draft  resolution  is  in 

keeping with the purposes and principles of the Charter 
and  international  law.  The  draft  resolution,  moreover, 
is  consistent  with 
the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  concerning  the  relationship 
between  the  General  Assembly  and  the  International 
Court  of  Justice.  For  those  reasons,  Cuba  will  vote  in 
favour of draft resolution A/63/L.2. 
Mr.  Kumalo  (South Africa):  My  delegation  will 

vote  in  favour  of  draft  resolution  A/63/L.2.  The 
International  Court  of  Justice  is  an  organ  of  this 
Organization  and  my  delegation  has  full  confidence 
that its decision will be important and inclusive of all 
opinions. While  it  may  be  true  that  48  countries  have 
recognized Kosovo, it is also important to note that 144 
countries  of 
that 
decision. It is for that reason that we support the right 
of  the  Republic  of  Serbia  to  seek  the  advice  of  the 
International Court of Justice. 
Mr.  Oussein  (Comoros)  (spoke  in  French):  We 

have  every  confidence  in  the  impartiality  of  the 
International Court of Justice and the role it must play 
in  international  conflicts  to  preserve  the  primacy  of 
international  law.  The  Union  of  the  Comoros  is  also 
attached to the fundamental principle of respect for the 
territorial integrity of States and condemns any form of 
the  positions  adopted  by 
this  Assembly  have  not 
taken 
08-54101 

9 


In favour:

therefore  vote 
that  we  deem 
that  would  undermine 
A/63/PV.22 

secession 
the  fundamental 
principles  of  the  Organization.  The  Union  of  the 
Comoros  will 
in  favour  of  draft 
resolution A/63/L.2. 
Mr.  Ballestero  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

We  have  adopted  a  principled  position  of  respect  for 
the primacy of international law in conformity with the 
United Nations Charter. That is why we have supported 
and  continue  to  support  the  path  chosen  by  Serbia  on 
the issue of Kosovo.  
Everyone  is  aware  of  Costa  Rica’s  position  on 

Kosovo.  As  a  State  that  is  respectful  of  international 
law,  we  recognized  their  independence  and  have 
adopted  a  position 
legally  valid. 
However,  precisely  because  there  are  divergences  in 
legal interpretations of the situation, we are convinced 
that  an  advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  would  be  desirable  and  bring  clarity  to  the 
discussion.  

As a State that respects international law, we will 
vote in favour of draft resolution A/63/L.2. We believe 
that  the  advisory  opinion  will  certainly  assist  all 
Member States in making their own decisions. 
Mr.  Baghaei  Hamaneh  (Islamic  Republic  of 

Iran):  The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  would  like  to 
reaffirm  its  firm  commitment  to  and  high  respect  for 
the principles of the pacific settlement of disputes and 
the  rule  of  law  at  the  international  level,  as  embodied 
in  the  United  Nations  Charter.  My  delegation’s  vote 
today in favour of draft resolution A/63/L.2 should be 
regarded 
indication  of  our  principled 
commitment to that high principle. 
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  French): 

Algeria  firmly  supports  the  work  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  and  believes  in  the  primacy  of 
international  law  in  international  relations.  Moreover, 
draft  resolution  A/63/L.2  before  us  contains  no 
elements of a political or controversial nature. Algeria 
believes it to be the prerogative of any State to request 
an  advisory  opinion  of  the  Court,  in  conformity  with 
Article  96  of  the  Charter.  For  those  reasons,  Algeria 
will vote in favour of draft resolution A/63/L.2. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 

the  last  speaker  in  explanation  of  vote  before  the 
voting.  The  Assembly  will  now  take  action  on  draft 
resolution A/63/L.2.  

A recorded vote has been requested. 
an 
as 
A recorded vote was taken. 
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, 
Azerbaijan,  Belarus,  Bolivia,  Botswana,  Brazil, 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Cambodia,  Chile,  China, 
Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo,  Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican 
Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, 
Eritrea, Fiji, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, 
Honduras, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic 
Republic  of),  Jamaica,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Lesotho,  Liechtenstein,  Madagascar, 
Mauritius,  Mexico,  Montenegro,  Myanmar, 
Namibia,  Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway, 
Panama, 
Paraguay, 
Philippines,  Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Serbia,  Singapore, 
Slovakia,  Solomon  Islands,  South Africa,  Spain, 
Sri  Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname,  Swaziland,  Syrian 
Arab  Republic,  Timor-Leste,  United  Republic  of 
Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Viet  Nam, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe. 
Papua  New  Guinea, 
Against:

Albania, Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated 
States  of),  Nauru,  Palau,  United  States  of 
America. 
Abstaining:

Bahrain, 
Bahamas, 
Afghanistan,  Andorra,  Armenia,  Australia, 
Austria, 
Bangladesh, 
Barbados,  Belgium,  Belize,  Benin,  Bhutan, 
Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Cameroon,  Canada, 
Colombia,  Croatia,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Estonia,  Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany, 
Ghana,  Grenada,  Haiti,  Hungary,  Ireland,  Israel, 
Italy,  Japan,  Jordan,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malaysia,  Malta,  Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Morocco,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  New 
Zealand, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Poland, Portugal, 
Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Saint  Lucia,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Saudi  Arabia, 
Senegal,  Sierra  Leone,  Slovenia,  Sweden, 
Switzerland,  Thailand, 
former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Togo,  Trinidad  and 
Tobago, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, 
United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland, Vanuatu, Yemen. 
the 
10 

08-54101 




Draft  resolution  A/63/L.2  was  adopted  by 
77 votes  to  6,  with  74  abstentions  (resolution 
63/3). 
[Subsequently, 
the  delegations  of  Ecuador, 
Ethiopia,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic 
and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela advised 
the  Secretariat  that  they  had  intended  to  vote  in 
favour;  the  delegation  of  Tonga  advised  the 
Secretariat that it had intended to abstain.] 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  call  on  the 
I  now  call  on  representatives  who  wish  to  speak 

representative of Liberia on a point of order. 
Mrs.  Osode  (Liberia):  Liberia  voted  against  the 

draft  resolution;  I  repeatedly  pressed  the  red  button, 
but without result. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have  been 

informed by the Secretariat – which is so informing the 
representative of Liberia – that, in accordance with the 
provisions of Article 19 of the Charter, Liberia may not 
vote. 

Before giving the floor to speakers in explanation 
of vote, may I remind delegations that explanations of 
vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by 
delegations from their seats. 

in explanation of vote on the resolution just adopted. 

Sir John Sawers (United Kingdom): I regret the 
fact  that  the  vote  of  Liberia  could  not  be  counted.  It 
has been clear from the performance this morning that 
we  are  having  technical  problems  in  the  General 
Assembly and it would have surely been right to have 
taken 
technical 
problems  extended  to  the  vote  as  well  as  to  the 
speakers. 

In my statement in the debate, I set out a number 
of reservations on the part of the United Kingdom with 
regards  to  the  draft  resolution  which  has  just  been 
adopted.  Those  reservations  led  us  to  abstain  in  the 
voting,  notwithstanding  our  long-standing  support  for 
the International Court of Justice. 

It is striking that more Member States felt unable 
to support the resolution than voted in favour of it. We 
might  infer  from  this  that  we  are  far  from  alone  in 
having  deep 
reservations.  The  United  Kingdom 
welcomes  the  use  of  the  advisory  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court  in  appropriate  cases,  but  we  question  the  utility 
into  account 
the  fact 
those 
that 
A/63/PV.22
in 
to  ask 
For  all 
those  reasons, 
of  the  question  being  raised  by  Serbia.  An  advisory 
opinion cannot in itself determine Kosovo’s status. 

The position  of the United Kingdom reflects our 
conviction  that  implementation  of  the  comprehensive 
settlement  proposed  by  an  independent  Kosovo  under 
international  supervision  offers  the  best  chance  for 
Kosovo,  Serbia  and  the  region  to  achieve  peace, 
stability and prosperity. 

The  United  Kingdom  also  regrets  the  lack  of 
substantive  debates  within  the  General  Assembly  on 
the  draft  resolution,  including  on  the  context  and  the 
formulation  of  the  question  and  on  the  desirability  of 
signalling,  in  the  interest  of  fairness,  that  Kosovo 
should  be  allowed  to  present  its  arguments  to  the 
Court. 

the  United  Kingdom 
abstained in the voting on the resolution. Nevertheless, 
we  recognize  that  the  question  which  the  General 
Assembly  has  decided 
the  Court  raises 
significant issues of international law. We are confident 
of  our  legal  position  as  a  State  that  recognized  the 
independence  of  Kosovo  following  the  final  status 
process,  which  was  conducted  pursuant  to  Security 
Council resolution 1244 (1999). 
The  United  Kingdom  looks  forward  to  engaging 

constructively  with 
its 
considerations  of  those  important  issues.  In  parallel, 
we  look  to  Serbia  to  engage  constructively  with  the 
European Union on promoting stability in the region. 

Mr.  McNee  (Canada):  Let  me  begin  by  saying 
that Canada fully supports the role of the International 
Court  of  Justice  as  an  instrument  in  the  pacific 
settlement  of  disputes.  Canada’s  vote  today  is  not 
intended  to  detract  from  that  important  principle.  It  is 
our view, however, that the case raises highly political 
matters that are unsuitable for judicial review. 

Moreover, Canada is of the view that the referral 
put  before  us  in  resolution  63/3  and  the  frame  of 
reference  it  purports  to  set  for  the  International  Court 
of Justice are unlikely to result in an advisory opinion 
that  could  usefully  contribute  to  fostering  stability  in 
the  region. At  a  minimum,  the  resolution  would  have 
benefited  from  the  inclusion  of  additional  context  to 
reflect the unique circumstances of the case. For those 
reasons,  Canada  abstained 
the 
resolution. 
the  voting  on 
the  Court 
to  assist 
in 
08-54101 

11 

22 
on 
February 
reaffirms 
law,  fully 
justified  by 
A/63/PV.22 


Let me conclude by saying that Canada takes the 
view that, as a matter of basic fairness, Kosovo should 
be  given  the  opportunity  to  present  its  case  to  the 
Court. 
Mr.  Pereyra  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Peru 

recognized  Kosovo 
2008, 
understanding that in this case there is a set of peculiar 
humanitarian circumstances that make it unique. In that 
regard, Peru’s decision to recognize Kosovo constitutes 
a sovereign act of its foreign policy. In Peru’s view, the 
legality  of  Kosovo’s  independence  is,  in  the  light  of 
international 
the  peculiar 
circumstances that make this an exceptional case. 

Peru reiterates its firm commitment to respect the 
norms  and  principles  of  international  law  and,  in 
particular,  the  principle  of  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes.  Therefore,  Peru 
its  emphatic 
backing  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  as  the 
principal judicial organ of the United Nations, whether 
it is acting in its judicial capacity or whether recourse 
is made to it for an advisory opinion. 

In  the  current  case,  Peru  would  like  to  highlight 
that Article 96 of the Charter clearly establishes that it 
is within the competence of the General Assembly, the 
Security  Council  or  other  organs  or  specialized 
agencies  that  are  authorized  by  the  General Assembly 
to  request  advisory  opinions  of  the  Court  on  legal 
matters.  Thus,  Peru  respects  Serbia’s  right  to  place 
such a request before the General Assembly. Given the 
particular  circumstances  of  the  case,  the  relevance  of 
Kosovo’s  arguments  and  points  of  view  must  be 
considered. Lastly, Peru would, once again, emphasize 
that it will continue to act, in connection with this case, 
in  keeping  with  its  long  tradition  of  respect  for  the 
norms  and  principles  of  international  law,  specifically 
those that govern peaceful settlement of disputes. 

Mr.  Matussek  (Germany):  Germany  is  strongly 
committed to the  International Court of Justice  and to 
the  important  role  of  international  law  in  governing 
relations  between  States.  However,  any  action  by  the 
General  Assembly  should  contribute  to  the  aim  of 
advancing  a  just,  lasting  and  stable  settlement  in 
Kosovo and in the Western Balkans as a whole. It is in 
this spirit that Germany has approached the request for 
an  advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  on  the  specific  issue  raised  today  by  the 
Republic of Serbia. 
to 
In 
law 
to 
relevant 
international 

Again,  in  this  vein,  we  do  not  believe  that  the 
resolution we have just adopted will help advance this 
cause. Moreover, we remain doubtful that an advisory 
opinion of the Court would serve the stated purpose, in 
the  General  Assembly  on 
affording  guidance 
questions  of 
the 
performance  of  its  functions.  In  any  case,  Germany 
would trust that the Court will proceed according to the 
principle  of  fairness  and  will  be  hearing  arguments  as 
appropriate. At  the  same  time  and  out  of  this  respect 
for  this  Hall,  we  do  not  want  to  oppose  the  requests 
supported  by  a  considerable  portion  of  the  General 
Assembly’s  members.  It  is  for  these  reasons  that 
Germany has chosen to abstain on the resolution. 

Mr. Argüello (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): The 
pillar  of  the  United  Nations  system  is  international 
peace  and  security.  The  principal  organ  of 
the 
Organization  with  powers  in  this  area  is  the  Security 
Council. The whole of the collective security system is 
based on the fact that Members of the United Nations 
are  duty bound to abide by the relevant  resolutions of 
the Organization.  

the  case  of  Kosovo,  Security  Council 
resolution  1244  (1999),  for  which Argentina  voted  in 
the  affirmative,  establishes  clearly 
legal  and 
political parameters for the solution to the situation of 
the  Kosovar  minority 
the 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  Serbia,  as  well 
as  the  settlement  of  the  disputes  through  a  negotiated 
agreement  that  is  mutually  accepted  by  all  parties. 
Argentina  believes 
is  clear. 
Nevertheless, we join with the majority in agreeing to 
the request for an advisory opinion on this matter. 
Ms. Lintonen (Finland): The International Court 

of Justice plays a crucial role in the peaceful settlement 
of  disputes  and  in  the  promotion  and  application  of 
international 
considerable 
contributions  to  the  development  of  international  law, 
also through its advisory powers.  

recognized 
compulsory 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  since  1958  without  any 
reservations. We have actively participated in efforts to 
promote  wider  acceptance  of  the  Court’s  jurisdiction. 
We  have  also  supported  the  Secretary-General’s  trust 
fund  to  assist  States  in  the  settlement  of  disputes 
through the Court. Consistent support for the Court and 
the  rule  of  law  in  international  relations  is  an  integral 
part of Finland’s foreign policy.  
in  Serbia,  ensuring 
that  resolution 
has  made 
Finland 
law. 
that 
the 
It 
has 
the 
12 

08-54101 
important 
to 
that  Kosovo 
should  be  allowed 
Mr.  Goledzinowski 
the  potential  of  clarifying 



However, Finland has abstained in the vote on the 
resolution.  Our  abstention  is  related  to  the  subject  of 
the  resolution.  Finland  is  among  the  48  countries  that 
have  recognized  Kosovo.  While  we  do  recognize  that 
an advisory opinion on the subject of the request could 
have 
legal 
questions,  we  are  concerned  about  any  developments 
that may create uncertainty as to the status of Kosovo 
and  the  instabilities  in  the  region.  We  also  regret  that 
the  Assembly  has  not  decided  to  indicate,  in  the 
resolution, 
to 
participate in the proceedings. In order for the court to 
deliver  a  fully  reasoned  opinion  of  this  topic,  all 
relevant actors should be able to present arguments on 
the subject. 

(Australia):  Australia 
recognizes  the  right  of  every  State  to  raise  matters 
before  the  General Assembly  for  consideration  by  the 
Assembly. In particular, we respect the right of Serbia 
to  bring  this  request  for  an  advisory  opinion  from  the 
International  Court  of  Justice 
the  Assembly. 
Australia  is  a  strong  supporter  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the 
United  Nations  and  recognizes  that 
the  advisory 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  is  an  important  part  of  the 
international system established by the United Nations 
Charter. We  assess  the  merits  of  requests  for  advisory 
opinions on a case by case basis. In this case, we were 
not  convinced  of  the  merits  of  having  the  Court 
consider  this  question  and  Australia  was  therefore 
unable  to  support  this  resolution.  We  consider  that 
Kosovo  should  be  universally  recognized  as  an 
independent  State  in  the  interests  of  promoting  peace 
and stability in the region. An advisory opinion would 
serve only to delay efforts for peace and stability. 
What  is  important  now  is  that  the  international 

community,  in  particular  the  United  Nations  and  the 
European  Union,  continue  efforts  to  bring  about  a 
lasting  and  peaceful  future  for  Kosovo  and  the  region 
and  that  the  Serbian  Government  continues  to  engage 
with European and other parties in the interests of the 
stability  and  economic  development  of  the  region  and 
its own future peace, stability and prosperity. 
As the question is now being referred to the Court 

for  an  advisory  opinion,  we  considered  it  appropriate 
for Kosovo to be represented in the proceedings and to 
present  arguments  in  its  own  name.  We  would  like  to 
make  a  final  point.  In  responding 
to  Liberia’s 
intervention,  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
A/63/PV.22
(spoke 
Ms.  Blum 
indicated that Liberia cannot vote — at least that is the 
way  it  was  rendered  in  English.  I  think  it  should  be 
recorded that, in fact, Liberia did vote. The fact that the 
vote  was  not  registered  because  of  a 
technical 
difficulty is a matter of regret.  
in  Spanish): 
(Colombia) 

Colombia  has  asked  to  take  the  floor  to  explain  its 
abstention in the voting on resolution 63/3, introduced 
under  agenda  item  71,  concerning  the  request  for  an 
advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
on  whether  the  unilateral  declaration  of  independence 
of Kosovo is in accordance with international law.  

In so doing, I wish to underscore, first of all, the 
importance  that  Colombia  attaches  to  the  jurisdiction 
granted  by  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  to  the 
International Court of Justice to issue, upon request of 
the  General Assembly,  the  Security  Council  and  other 
bodies, advisory opinions on legal questions relating to 
the way in which they carry out their functions.  

As  a  country  that  is  respectful  of  international 
law, Colombia regards that function as a valuable tool 
for  the  work  of  the  Organization.  My  country’s 
abstention today, while recognizing that jurisdiction, is 
also the result of a close consideration of the historical 
circumstances  that  led  to  Kosovo’s  declaration  of 
independence.  
It  should  be  recalled  that  a  long  series  of  events 

since the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia led to 
instability  in  the  region  that  affected  Kosovo,  among 
others, necessitating sustained and broad efforts on the 
part of the United Nations, and the Security Council in 
particular,  to  promote  a  negotiated  settlement  among 
the parties.  

Colombia  has  absolutely  no  doubt  about  its 
recognition  of  the  independence  of  Kosovo.  At  the 
same time, my country takes the view that transparency 
and  compliance  with  the  existing  international  legal 
order  are  essential  and  that  the  International  Court  of 
Justice, by means of an advisory opinion, can make an 
appropriate contribution to that important issue. 
Mr.  Staur  (Denmark):  Denmark  is  a  strong 

supporter  of 
International  Court  of  Justice. 
Denmark  has  for  more  than  50  years  accepted  the 
Court’s compulsory jurisdiction under Article 36 of the 
Statute of the Court. We have been a party to a number 
of  contentious  cases  before  the  Court,  thereby  also  in 
practice  attesting 
in  a  rule-based 
to  our  belief 
the 
08-54101 

13 

A/63/PV.22 

international  legal  order  and  our  support  for  the 
principle  of  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  by 
international judicial bodies. Likewise, we believe that 
advisory  opinions  may  in  some  cases  be  an  important 
tool  for  the  relevant  parties  of  the  United  Nations  to 
seek clarification from the Court on legal questions.  

After careful consideration, however, we decided 
to  abstain  in  the  voting  on  the  Serbian  proposal 
regarding  an  advisory  opinion. We  did  so  because  we 
are not convinced of the utility of an advisory opinion 
in this case.  

Denmark, together with 47 other countries so far, 
has  recognized  Kosovo,  and  our  legal  position  on 
Kosovo’s independence is well known and quite clear. 
We  believe  that  stability,  development  and  economic 
integration in a broader European context are crucial to 
Kosovo  and  to  the  entire  region.  In  our  view,  those 
aims  are  best  served  through  a  common  effort  to 
address  the  real  issues  and  challenges  facing  the 
region.  While  Denmark  will,  of  course,  continue  to 
contribute to advancing prosperity and development in 
the  region,  we  are  not  convinced  that  the  coming 
proceedings  will  help  to  advance  a  forward-looking 
agenda focused on improving the everyday lives of the 
people in the western Balkan region. 

With  the  adoption  of  resolution  63/3,  we  expect 
that  the  proceedings  will  be  fair  and  comprehensive. 
We  believe  it  to  be  very  important  that  all  parties, 
including  Kosovo,  be  given  adequate  access  so  that 
they  can  present  their  views  before  the  Court  in  their 
own name, and we expect that that will be the case. A 
full  picture  of  the  complex  background  of  Kosovo’s 
independence must be presented to the Court. 

that 
requesting  an  advisory  opinion  from  the  International 
Court of Justice is acceptable and can serve to stabilize 
the  region,  even  if  there  are  also  sound  arguments 
against engaging the Court in a matter regarding a new 
State,  given  that  most  peoples  enter  statehood  under 
difficult and often turbulent circumstances.  

Nevertheless, we believe that the initiative taken 
by  the  Government  of  Serbia  has  the  better  potential 
over  time  to  bring  stability  to  the  region  and  to  its 
countries  into  European  institutions.  That  is  why  we 
have chosen to support the proposal by Serbia.  

Our  support  cannot,  however,  be  interpreted  as 
being  incompatible  with  Norway’s  recognition  of  the 
(Norway):  We  believe 
Mr.  Wetland
law  and 
international 
justice.  That 
Republic of  Kosovo as an independent State. We trust 
that  the  Court  will  proceed  according  to  established 
principles  of  judicial  fairness  and  will  be  hearing  and 
assessing  all  relevant  arguments  from  all  sides, 
including the Government of Kosovo. 

Mr. Maurer (Switzerland) (spoke in French): We 
have always been attached to the promotion of the rule 
of 
is  why 
Switzerland  has  supported  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  since  its  founding  and  considers  it  to  be  an 
important  instrument  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes.  Switzerland  is  also  committed  to  peace, 
stability and socio-economic development in the region 
at  issue.  The  present  request  for  an  advisory  opinion 
could  create  uncertainties  and  undermine  the  stability 
and economic development of the region.  

It is on the basis of those considerations that we 
decided  to  abstain  in  today’s  voting.  Switzerland 
decided to recognize the independence of Kosovo after 
having  carefully  examined  all  relevant  questions  of 
international  law.  We  are  therefore  convinced  that  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  after  having  considered 
all  the  aspects  at  issue,  will  rule  in  favour  of  the 
conformity  of  the  declaration  of  independence  of 
Kosovo with international law. We call on all interested 
parties  to  be  guided  by  their  political  and  economic 
future in Europe.  

Mr. Beck (Solomon Islands), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 

Mr.  García  González  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  El  Salvador  voted  in  favour  of  resolution 
63/3 concerning the request for an advisory opinion of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  on  whether  the 
unilateral  declaration  of  independence  of  Kosovo  by 
the  Provisional  Institutions  of  Self-Government  of 
Kosovo was in accordance with international law. 

El  Salvador  recognizes  the  option  available  to 
Member  States,  in  keeping  with  Article  96  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  to  request  an  advisory 
opinion  from  the  International  Court  of  Justice  as  a 
fundamental  element  of  international  law.  The  Court, 
in keeping with article 66  of its statute, shall issue an 
advisory  opinion  on  the  question  raised  in  order  to 
resolve  the  dispute  by  peaceful  means,  making  use  of 
the 
legal  and  political 
instruments for that purpose. 
international  community’s 
14 

08-54101 
regarding 
to  strengthen 
the  sovereignty  and 
jurisdiction.  We  reaffirm  our  commitment 
the  General  Assembly, 



In  view  of  the  juridical  differences  that  exist 
between  Member  States,  El  Salvador  has  supported 
today’s  initiative  and  trusts  in  the  value  of  the 
contribution that the International Court of Justice will 
be able to make to resolve such sensitive issues within 
the  framework  of  international  law  as  it  applies  to 
matters 
territorial 
integrity  of  States.  Similarly,  my  delegation  supports 
the role played by the General Assembly in the matter, 
since we feel that it is a juridical matter that falls under 
to 
its 
working 
in 
keeping  with  the  decision  of  the  heads  of  State  and 
Government adopted at the Millennium Summit. 
Mr.  Tow  (Singapore):  Singapore  is  sympathetic 

to the desire of the people of Kosovo for control over 
their  own  destiny.  It  is  undeniable  that  the  Kosovars 
have  endured  great  suffering  and  terrible  treatment  in 
the past. After the crimes committed against the people 
of  Kosovo 
the  early  1990s,  many  countries, 
including  Singapore,  expressed  sympathy  and  support 
for  some  form  of  autonomy  for  Kosovo.  However, 
Singapore  has  not, 
to  date,  supported  Kosovo’s 
unilateral  declaration  of  independence,  as  we  are 
concerned about the precedent that it could set in other 
parts  of  the  world.  Our  strong  preference  is  for  the 
issue 
resolved  peacefully  by  all  parties 
concerned.  

In  that  regard,  Singapore  voted  in  favour  of 
resolution  63/3  as  we  believe  that  this  is  a  highly 
complex  situation  and  that  there  is  value  in  clarifying 
the  interpretation  and  application  of  international  law. 
In that regard, the International Court of Justice is the 
appropriate  international  body  to  provide  an  advisory 
opinion  on 
legality  of  Kosovo’s  unilateral 
declaration of independence. 

Mr.  Hannesson  (Iceland):  Iceland  supported  the 
draft  resolution  (A/63/L.2)  submitted  by  Serbia.  In  so 
doing,  we  departed  from  the  position  of  some  other 
States 
recognized  Kosovo’s 
their  
independence.  We  do  nonetheless 
that, 
like  us,  have 
share 
in 
to  be 
the 
A/63/PV.22
viewpoints  in  respect  to  the  developments  that  gave 
rise  to  Serbia’s  proposal.  Iceland  voted  in  favour  of 
resolution  63/3  on  the  basis  of  the  fundamental 
importance  of  international  law,  especially  for  small 
States, and with full confidence in and support for the 
view  that  the  rules  and  principles  of  international  law 
should always govern the behaviour of States. 

The  Acting  President:  For  purposes  of 
clarification with respect to the voting, I wish to draw 
the  attention  of  the  General  Assembly  to  document 
A/63/350,  which  contains  a  letter  from  the  Secretary-
General  addressed  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  outlining  those  Member  States  that  are  in 
arrears under the terms of Article 19 of the Charter of 
the United Nations. I cite this document with respect to 
one  Member  in  particular,  in  relation  to  its  vote.  The 
General  Assembly  took  note  of  the  document  at  its 
1st meeting, on 16 September.  

I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Serbia to make a statement after the adoption 
of resolution 63/3. 
Mr. Jeremić (Serbia): Serbia believes that this is 

a  great  day  for  this  body  and  a  great  day  for 
international  law.  Serbia  wishes  to  thank  the  United 
Nations for having provided us with the opportunity to 
defend  our  case  and  to  ask  for  support  for  our  legal 
view in this Chamber. First and foremost, Serbia wants 
to  thank  the  countries  that  have  supported  resolution 
63/3.  We  wholeheartedly  thank  those  countries  that 
have  demonstrated  their  solidarity  with  a  course  of 
action 
the  very 
foundational  principles  of  international  law  and  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We  look  forward  to 
working constructively with the United Nations and all 
Member  States  regarding  the  process  to  determine  the 
future status of our southern province. 
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 

has concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 71.  
The meeting rose at 12.10 p.m. 
in  our  opinion,  upholds 
that 
08-54101 

15 
