
A/63/PV.53
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

53rd plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 18 November 2008, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .


(Nicaragua) 

In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Wolfe 
(Jamaica), Vice-President, took the Chair. 





The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m. 
Agenda item 48 
Follow-up to and implementation of the outcome  
of the 2002 International Conference on Financing 
for Development and the preparation of the 2008 
Review Conference 
  Report of the Second Committee (A/63/413) 


The  Acting  President:  If  there  is  no  proposal 
under  rule  66  of  the  rules  of  procedure,  may  I  take  it 
that  the  General  Assembly  decides  not  to  discuss  the 
report  of  the  Second  Committee  that  is  before  the 
Assembly today? 
It was so decided. 

The Acting  President:  Statements  will  therefore 

be  limited  to  explanations  of  vote.  The  positions  of 
delegations  regarding  the  recommendations  of  the 
Second  Committee  have  been  made  clear  in  the 
Committee  and  are  reflected  in  the  relevant  official 
records. 

May  I  remind  members  that  in  accordance  with 
General  Assembly  decision  34/401,  a  delegation 
should,  as  far  as  possible,  explain  its  vote  only  once, 
that  is,  either  in  the  Committee  or  in  the  plenary 
meeting,  unless  that  delegation’s  vote  in  plenary 
meeting  is  different  from  its  vote  in  the  Committee. 
We 
turn 
to 
take  action  on 
Before  we  begin 
Also,  explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  10  minutes 
and should be made by delegations from their seats. 

the 
recommendations contained in the report of the Second 
Committee, I should like to advise representatives that 
we are going to proceed to take a decision in the same 
manner as was done in the Committee. 

The  Assembly  has  before  it  five  draft  decisions 
recommended  by  the  Second  Committee  in  paragraph 
29 of its report. The Assembly will now take action on 
the  five  draft  decisions  one  by  one.  After  all  the 
decisions  have  been  taken,  representatives  will  again 
have an opportunity to explain their vote or position. 
I,  entitled 

“Arrangements and organization of work of the Follow-
up 
for 
Development  to  Review  the  Implementation  of  the 
Monterrey Consensus (Doha, 29 November-2 December 
2008)”. The Second Committee adopted draft decision I. 
May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise? 
Draft decision I was adopted (decision 63/509). 

The Acting President: Draft decision II is entitled 

“Provisional  rules  of  procedure  for  the  Follow-up 
International Conference on Financing for Development 
to  Review 
the  Monterrey 
Consensus  (Doha,  29  November-2  December  2008)”. 
The Second Committee adopted draft decision II. May I 
take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?  

Draft decision II was adopted (decision 63/510). 
International  Conference  on  Financing 
the  Implementation  of 
to  draft  decision 
first 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-60760 (E) 
*0860760* 
to 
of 
for 
Follow-up 
the  Implementation  of 
“Accreditation 
the 
A/63/PV.53 

The  Acting  President: Draft  decision  III  is 

entitled  “Provisional  agenda 
the  Follow-up 
International Conference on Financing for Development 
to  Review 
the  Monterrey 
Consensus  (Doha,  29  November-2  December  2008)”. 
The Second Committee adopted draft decision III. May 
I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?  
Draft decision III was adopted (decision 63/511). 

The  Acting  President:  Draft  decision  IV  is 

intergovernmental 
entitled 
International 
organizations 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  to  Review 
the  Implementation  of 
the  Monterrey  Consensus 
(Doha, 29 November-2 December 2008)”. The Second 
Committee adopted draft decision IV. May I take it that 
the Assembly wishes to do likewise?  
Draft decision IV was adopted (decision 63/512). 

The  Acting  President: Draft  decision  V  is 

non-governmental 
entitled 
organizations 
International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  to  Review 
the  Implementation  of 
the  Monterrey  Consensus 
(Doha, 29 November-2 December 2008)”. The Second 
Committee adopted draft decision V. May I take it that 
the Assembly wishes to do likewise? 
Draft decision V was adopted (decision 63/513). 

The  Acting  President: The  Assembly  has  thus 

concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 
48. 
“Accreditation 
the 
Follow-up 
of 
to 

draft 
resolution  A/63/L.26 
Inter-Parliamentary  Union  (IPU),  to  introduce  to  the 
Assembly 
entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Inter-Parliamentary Union”. 

The draft resolution highlights the important role 
world  parliaments  are  playing  in  international  affairs, 
as  well  as  in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations.  Special 
attention  is  given  to  the  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  IPU  for  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  peace  and  security,  conflict  prevention, 
gender  and  human  rights,  good  governance  and 
promotion  of  democracy,  and  of  social  and  economic 
development. 

In  order  to  bridge  the  implementation  gap  of 
various  United  Nations  decisions  and  resolutions  and 
to ensure greater democratization of the United Nations 
system,  it  is  important  to  engage  more  closely  with 
national  parliaments  and  parliamentarians  all  over  the 
world.  Such  engagement  would  provide  a  better 
understanding of parliamentarians on the importance of 
translating  international  commitments  into  national 
legislation and policies. 
Namibia  would  like  to  appeal  to  those  Member 

States  that  have  not  sponsored  this  important  draft 
resolution  to  do  so. We  hope  this  draft  resolution  will 
be adopted by consensus. 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

take a decision on draft resolution A/63/L.26. I wish to 
advise  the  General  Assembly  that  the  following  are 
additional  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution:  Albania, 
Andorra,  Armenia,  Australia,  Austria,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina, Brazil, Costa Rica, Croatia, El Salvador, 
Ethiopia,  Finland,  Germany,  Greece,  Guatemala, 
Guinea,  Iceland,  Indonesia,  Ireland,  Japan,  Kuwait, 
Lithuania,  Malta,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Montenegro,  the 
Netherlands,  Nicaragua,  Pakistan,  Panama,  Poland, 
Portugal,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  the  Republic  of 
Moldova, 
the  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda,  San 
Marino,  Serbia,  Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Sri 
Lanka,  Switzerland,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia, Togo, Turkey, Ukraine and Yemen. 

The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/63/L.26.  May  I  take  it  that  the Assembly 
decides to adopt A/63/L.26? 

resolution  A/63/L.26  was 
adopted 
Draft 
(resolution 63/24). 


Agenda item 114 (continued) 
Cooperation between the United Nations and 
regional and other organizations 
  (l)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 



the Inter-Parliamentary Union  

  Draft resolution (A/63/L.26)  

The Acting  President: Members  will  recall  that 
the Assembly  held  its  debate  on  agenda  item  114  and 
its  sub-items  (a)  to  (u)  at  its  36th  and  37th  plenary 
meetings, on 3 November 2008. 

Namibia to introduce draft resolution A/63/L.26. 
Mr.  Mbuende  (Namibia):  It  is  an  honour  for 

Namibia,  the  country  holding  the  presidency  of  the 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
2 

08-60760 
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 



representative of Pakistan. 
Mr.  Haroon  (Pakistan):  My  delegation  had 

wished  to  raise  a  point  in  connection  with  draft 
resolution  A/63/L.26;  unfortunately,  Sir,  you  did  not 
see me ask for the floor in time. 
In operative paragraph 4 of the draft resolution — 

and  this  is  a  minor  addition  from  the  developing 
countries’  point  of  view  —  we  would  have  requested 
the  phrase  “capacity-building, 
the 
development”, 
“democratic 
governance”. 

wish  of 
to  conclude 
consideration of sub-item (1) of agenda item 114? 
It was so decided. 

The Acting  President:  Before  proceeding  to  the 

next  agenda  item,  I  would  like  to  appeal  to  those 
Member States intending to submit draft resolutions on 
the remaining sub-items to do so as soon as possible. 
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
its 
the  General  Assembly 
insertion  of 
the  words 
after 




Agenda item 102 
Notification by the Secretary-General under Article 
12, Paragraph 2 of the Charter of the United Nations 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/300) 


The Acting President: As members are aware, in 
accordance with the provisions of Article 12, paragraph 
2,  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  and  with  the 
consent of the Security Council, the Secretary-General 
is mandated to notify the General Assembly of matters 
relative  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security  that  are  being  dealt  with  by  the  Security 
Council  and  of  matters  with  which  the  Council  has 
ceased to deal. 

In  this  connection,  the  General  Assembly  has 
before  it  a  note  by  the  Secretary-General  issued  as 
document A/63/300. 

document? 


wish  of 
consideration of agenda item 102? 

It was so decided. 
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
its 
May I take it that the Assembly takes note of that 
the  General  Assembly 
It was so decided. 
to  conclude 




A/63/PV.53


Agenda items 9 and 111 
Report of the Security Council (A/63/2) 

  Question of equitable representation on  
and increase in the membership of the  
Security Council and related matters 

The Acting  President:  I  shall  now  read  out  the 
following  on  behalf  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly: 

“As  members  know, 

‘early 
reform 
this  summer 

the 
historic renovation of the United Nations building 
got  under  way  under  the  Capital  Master  Plan. 
Asbestos,  poor  lighting,  faulty  ventilation,  leaky 
roofs, 
inadequate  security  and  dated  decor 
characterize the building. 

“Just  like  the  building,  the  institutions  are 
also  in  desperate  need  of  an  overhaul  —  that  is 
the real master plan. Today, we don hard hats and 
gleaming  new  shovels  —  I  am  ready  to  break 
ground. We are all ready to break ground. We are 
ready to assume our responsibilities and make the 
most  out  of  our  historic  opportunity 
to 
democratize the Security Council. 

voiced support for, and I quote: 
of 

“At  the  2005  World  Summit,  our  leaders 
Security  

Council — an essential element of our overall 
effort  to  reform  the  United  Nations  —  in 
order to make it more broadly representative, 
efficient  and  transparent  and  thus  to  further 
enhance  its  effectiveness  and  the  legitimacy 
and 
its  decisions.’ 
implementation  of 
(resolution 60/1, para. 153) 
“Our  leaders  thus  already  spelled  out  what 

the objective of Security Council reform is. What 
they  did  not  do,  of  course,  was  to  define  ‘early 
reform’. However, it would seem safe to say that 
they  did  not  mean  to  see  another World  Summit 
pass us by with the status quo intact. That is why 
we  must  move  swiftly  to  bring  out  the  hammer 
and  nails  and  rebuild  the  horseshoe  table.  The 
twenty-first century does not require a horseshoe 
table, but a circle-shaped one, with room for extra 
seats.  We  must  come  full  circle,  realizing  our 
founders’ vision of a Council with the legitimacy 
to  act  on  behalf  of  all  Member  States,  in 
accordance with Article 24 of the Charter. 
the 
08-60760 

3 

to 
courage 
“Thanks 
the  moral 

and 
diplomatic skills of many great men and women, 
many  of  them  here  in  the  room,  we  are  in  an 
excellent position to make change happen. 

“In  the  final  days  of  the  sixty-second 
session, members decided to take a decisive step 
towards  Security  Council  reform  by  launching 
intergovernmental  negotiations  during  the  sixty-
third  session.  Making  the  most  out  of  that 
achievement  would  be  a  centrepiece  of  any 
subsequent  General  Assembly 
presidency. 
However,  it  places  a  special  responsibility  on  a 
transformational  presidency 
like  mine  —  a 
presidency built around the imperative of a more 
democratic  United  Nations,  where  every  country 
counts. Members can count on me and also count 
on  Ambassador  Tanin,  whose  appointment  as 
the  Open-Ended  Working 
Vice-Chairman  of 
Group  and  as  Chairman  of 
the  upcoming 
intergovernmental  negotiations  was  universally 
applauded. Members can count on us to work our 
hearts out. 

“Each  and  every  one  of  us  stands  to  gain. 
Peace  and  security  cannot  be  maintained  by  a 
Security  Council  that  is  out  of  date  and  out  of 
touch. Let our reform effort therefore not run out 
of  time.  A  better  Council  cannot  wait  until 
tomorrow, if we want to have a better tomorrow. 

“So here we are today, poised for progress. 
The  platform  for  progress  is  decision  62/557. 
This decision is the ground beneath our feet and, 
as I have stressed both informally and formally, I 
intend to implement it both in letter and in spirit. 
That is why I guarantee the Open-Ended Working 
Group 
the 
upcoming  intergovernmental  negotiations  in  a 
positive  way  and  help  pave  the  way  towards 
them. That  effort  is  already  well  underway,  with 
meetings  both 
last  week  and  yesterday.  To 
maximize  the  chances  of  success,  I  will  shortly 
present  a  work  plan  for  the  Working  Group. 
Above  all,  the  plan  will  be  characterized  by 
ambition: ambition not to waste  a single minute; 
ambition  to,  if  possible,  finish  early,  before  the 
1 February deadline. 

“Whatever  happens  in  the  Working  Group, 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  will  start  at 
the very latest on 28 February 2009. However, it 
the  opportunity 
to  contribute 
to 
A/63/PV.53 






4 






the 
is  my  firm  belief  that  we  must  work  as  hard  as 
possible to be able to start as early as possible.  

“For  this  entire  enterprise  to  prosper,  one 
principle  in  particular  should  in  my  view  be 
respected: we should not reinvent the wheel. Over 
the  years,  members,  many  of  them  personally, 
have  been  quite  successful  at  paving  the  way 
towards 
intergovernmental  negotiations, 
culminating  in  decision  62/557.  Standing  on  the 
shoulders  of  giants,  we  can  deliver  on 
its 
promise. I look forward to hearing the remarks of 
members,  particularly  on  the  plans  to  contribute 
to  that  endeavour,  as  I  am  sure  members  will  to 
the best of their abilities. 

“However,  as  long  as  the  Council  remains 
unreformed,  we  need  to  make  an  extra  effort  to 
hold  it  to  account. Today,  the  General Assembly 
has  that  opportunity  and  I  have  encouraged 
Member  States  beforehand  to  use  this  debate 
especially  to  take  advantage  of  that  opportunity. 
Before us is the report of the Security Council. It 
is a factual account of the Council’s work during 
the  period  just  past:  219  formal  meetings,  58 
resolutions  and  50  presidential  statements.  The 
report  is  full  of  such  facts  and  figures  on  the 
Council’s  efforts 
its  mandate  of 
maintaining international peace and security. 

Kerim made the following observation: 


serious  concerns  were 
expressed  regarding  the  report  itself,  in 
particular 
lack  of  comprehensive 
evaluation  of  the  various  deliberations  of 
the  Council.  …  [M]any  participants  in  the 
debate  stressed  the  importance  that  the 
report  should  in  future  be  more  analytical 
and substantive.’ (A/62/PV.51, p. 14)  

“It  is  my  sincere  hope  that  we  will  not  let 
that  hold  us  back  in  our  debate  today,  either  in 
our  dialogue  with 
in  our 
evaluation of its work. If the report indeed lacks 
evaluation  and  analysis, 
the  Assembly 
should  make  its  own.  Nothing  less  is  expected 
from  a  General Assembly  that  wants  to  hold  its 
own  within  the  United  Nations  —  an  Assembly 
that truly engages the Council at the same time as 
it engages in self-renewal.  
“At the end of last  year’s  debate, President 
the  Council  or 
some 
fulfil 
then 
the 
to 
‘... 
08-60760 
to 
to 



to  bring  about 
congratulate  Father  Miguel 

“Next  to  Security  Council  reform,  this 
renaissance  of  the  General Assembly  constitutes 
another  crucial  component  of  that  real  master 
plan  I  mentioned  at  the  outset  of  my  statement: 
overhaul not only of the United Nations physical 
structure, but of its institutions as well; not of the 
exterior, but of the interior. Internal change is far 
more  difficult 
than  external 
change.  The  difference  is  like  that  between  an 
open-heart  operation  and  a  facelift:  the  open-
heart  operation  involves  opening  the  chest.  In 
other words, we face enormous resistance, but we 
can  also  expect  much  greater  rewards:  a  world 
body with a new lease on life.” 

I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  President  of  the 
Security Council, His Excellency Mr. Jorge Urbina, to 
introduce the report of the Security Council. 
Mr. Urbina (Costa Rica) (spoke in Spanish): On 

behalf of all members of the Security Council, I would 
like 
d’Escoto 
Brockmann  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  sixty-
third session of the General Assembly. It is our sincere 
hope that, under his leadership and with his experience, 
we  will  be  able 
the 
cooperation  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
General Assembly. 

In  my  capacity  as  President  of  the  Security 
Council for the month of November, it is my honour to 
introduce  the  annual  report  of  the  Council  to  the 
General  Assembly,  contained  in  document  A/63/2. 
Before turning to the report, I should like, on behalf of 
the Council, to thank the delegation of Viet Nam for its 
efforts in the preparation and completion of this report. 
In particular, we recognize its initiative to convene an 
informal meeting with the Council’s entire membership 
to  discuss  the  best  way  to  prepare  the  report,  with  a 
view  to  making  it  more  analytical,  balanced  and 
substantive. 

Over  the  past  few  years,  the  complexity  and 
multidimensional 
international 
situation  have  created  an  ever-increasing  demand  for 
United  Nations  activities  in  the  areas  of  conflict 
prevention,  mediation  and  resolution,  as  well  as 
peacekeeping and peacebuilding activities. Against this 
backdrop,  the  Security  Council  has  faced  increasingly 
complex  responsibilities  in  fulfilling  its  mandate  of 
maintaining international peace and security. 
increase  and  enhance 
character  of 
the 
A/63/PV.53
improve 
improvements  can  not  only 

In order to better reflect the fact that the role and 
activity of the Council have been extended in difficult 
circumstances,  the  quality  of  the  annual  report  being 
submitted  today  to  the  General  Assembly  should  be 
even  more  reliable  in  all  aspects.  We  believe  that  the 
gradual 
the 
perception  and  contribution  of  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  in  general  and  other  relevant  parties 
interested  in  what  the  Council  does,  but  that  they  can 
also  enhance  its  authority  and  efficiency  as  it  carries 
out its mandates. 

I am particularly pleased to inform the Assembly 
that  the  Council  is  paying  particular  attention  to 
requests  from  the  membership  regarding  its  working 
methods. There is still room for making improvements 
here, and we must do so in order to further the cause of 
transparency, access to the Council and accountability. 
However,  on  occasion  it  is  sometimes  easier  to  reach 
agreements than to explain how such agreements were 
actually reached. It would therefore be wise to consider 
in  depth  how  much  more  we  can  and  should  expect 
from the report of the Security Council in terms of its 
analytic capability. 

The  report  covers  the  Council’s  work  during  the 
period  from  1  August  2007  to  31  July  2008.  During 
this period, the Council adopted 58 resolutions and 50 
presidential statements. It held 219 formal meetings, of 
which  191  were  public.  In  addition,  there  were  18 
meetings  with 
troop-contributing  countries.  The 
Council also held 177 private consultations.  

The  introductory  part  of  the  report  that  we  have 
prepared  provides  insights  into  the  way  in  which  the 
Council  addressed  a  wide  array  of  issues  during  the 
course  of  another  year  of  intensive  work,  reflecting 
both  the  Council’s  achievements  and  situations  and 
circumstances in which it was unable to take action. In 
every case, we have endeavoured to reflect the general 
views expressed by Council members.  

With  regard  to  developments  in  conflicts  and 
disputes  in Africa, Asia,  Europe,  the  Middle  East  and 
the Balkans, the introduction elaborates on the regular 
briefings by the Secretariat, interventions by countries 
and  parties  concerned,  the  Council’s  communications 
with 
follow-up 
deliberations  and  actions  of  the  Council  to  respond  to 
situations under review.  

general 
A  large  part  of  the  introduction  is  devoted  to 
the  non-
troop-contributing  countries,  and 
issues,  ranging  from 
terrorism, 
08-60760 

5 
report 
Operations. 
Coordination 
The  body  of 
A/63/PV.53 

proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  the 
protection  of  civilians  in  armed  conflict,  children  and 
armed  conflict,  and  women  and  peace  and  security  to 
the  work  of  subsidiary  organs  of  the  Council,  such  as 
the sanctions Committees, the Informal Working Group 
on Documentation and Other Procedural Questions and 
the  Working  Group  of  the  Whole  on  United  Nations 
Peacekeeping 
and 
cooperation  with  the  other  principal  organs  of  the 
United Nations, as well as the evolving role of regional 
and 
subregional  organizations,  have  also  been 
highlighted as appropriate.  

is  essentially  a 
the 
compilation  of  the  documents  considered  or  issued  by 
the  Council.  These  documents  include  a  detailed 
account  of  the  meetings  held  by  the  Council,  the 
outcomes of those meetings when there were outcomes, 
and  the  documentation  that  served  as  a  basis  for 
meetings.  It  also  details  the  list  of  issues  that  were 
brought  to  the  attention  of  the  Council  but  that  were 
not  discussed  at  meetings  of  the  Council  during  the 
period covered in the report.  

I  would  like  to  point  out  that  the  format  of  the 
report  now  before  the  General  Assembly  corresponds 
to the provisions included in the note by the President 
of 
July  2006 
(S/2006/507),  in  order  to  ensure  that  the  report  prove 
more useful.  

In  conclusion,  on  behalf  of  all  Security  Council 
members,  I  thank  the  General  Assembly  for  this 
opportunity  to  inform  its  members  of  the  activities  of 
the  Council  over  the  past  year.  I  would  also  to  thank, 
on  behalf  of  the  Council,  the  Secretary-General  and 
Secretariat staff for their work, their invaluable support 
for  the  development  of  the  Council’s  activities,  and 
their  professionalism 
their 
in 
responsibilities  enabling 
its 
mandate. 

I would now like to make some comments in my 
capacity  as  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Costa 
Rica.  

In the recent chronicles of the Assembly’s history, 
I think that there are no precedents for a delegation as 
President-in-office 
speaking 
subsequently to make a comment on the annual report 
of the General Assembly in a national capacity. 
the  Security  Council  dated  19 
the  discharge  of 
the  Council 
the  Council 
to  fulfil 
of 

the 
the  achievements  and 

We  believe  that,  in  so  doing,  we  are  doing 
something new in the context of our search to improve 
the  working  methods  of  the  Council.  We  wish  to 
innovate in a way that can turn what has always been a 
routine  exercise  into  something  more  substantive.  We 
trust  that,  in  this  way,  we  can  make  a  contribution  to 
the  analysis  of  the  work  of  the  Council  in  the  period 
under review.  

For  Costa  Rica,  a  permanent  member  of  this 
General Assembly, the introduction of the annual report 
of the Security Council to the Assembly should not be 
a  mere  exercise  of  rhetoric,  nor  should  it  become  a 
mere  statement  of  facts.  A  true  consideration  of  the 
report  requires  an  analytical  and  critical  approach  to 
the work of the Council in the period under review, in 
observation of its mandate and its organic relationship 
to  the Assembly  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
the Charter of the United Nations.  

We believe that, despite the endeavours made and 
the  desire  to  include  in  the  introduction  to  the  report 
both 
situations  and 
circumstances in which the Council was unable to act, 
we  agree  with  the  assessment  made  by  the  Council 
itself to the effect that the report and its quality should 
improve  even  further.  We  wish  to  follow  the  good 
practice 
to  hold 
consultations  on  the  annual  report  with  members  in 
general, and we refer in particular to the meeting held 
to provide information on the preparation of the report 
as  its  presidency  came  to  an  end.  We  urge  the  States 
that  will  be  entrusted  with  that  task  in  the  future  to 
continue the improvement introduced by the delegation 
of Viet Nam.  

just 
submitted  by  the  Council  continues  to  be  limited  and, 
in  our  judgement,  descriptive  in  its  approach.  It  does 
not lift the veil of opacity shrouding Council action in 
the majority of cases.  
I  should  like  to  stress  that  it  is  important  and 

the  Security 
appropriate 
its 
Council’s  compliance  or  non-compliance  with 
Charter  mandates.  Specifically,  I  should 
to 
like 
highlight the Council’s repeated non-compliance with a 
mandate as essential as that set out in Article 26, as we 
will  have  the  opportunity  to  see  during  tomorrow’s 
Council debate. Of all the Charter’s Articles, including 
the  32  directly  related  to  the  Council,  Article  26  has 
implemented  by  Viet  Nam 
We  must  acknowledge 
report  assess 
the  report 
that 
that 
the 
6 

08-60760 
the  modification  —  and 


had a special characteristic over the years: it has been a 
dead letter.  

Although  the  Security  Council  must  address 
situations  representing  threats  to  international  peace 
and  security,  it  has  remained  silent  by  failing  to 
exercise  its  obligatory  powers  under Article  26  in  the 
area  of  arms  control  and  reduction.  This  repeated 
non-compliance  over  many  years  is  related  to  a 
mandate that goes to the very heart of the Organization 
and  represents,  we  believe,  a  shirking  of  duty.  The 
present  annual  report,  like  previous  ones,  makes  no 
reference  whatsoever  to  the  fact  that  the  Council  is 
unwilling  or  unable  to  carry  out  a  mandate  that  is 
currently in  force and is still not being  fulfilled under 
Article 26 of the Charter. 

Whereas Article  26  is  not  being  implemented  by 
the  Council, Article  25  is  not  being  complied  with  by 
various  States  that  refuse  to  accept  the  obligations 
arising from Council decisions. It would appear that in 
a  number  of  cases,  given  the  Council’s  difficulties  in 
ensuring  compliance  with  its  resolutions,  we  are 
witnessing 
the 
undermining  —  of  Article  25,  whereby  all  States 
agreed  to  accept  and  implement  Council  decisions. 
That  is  particularly  worrisome,  because  it  involves 
obligations  arising  from  resolutions  adopted  under 
Chapter VII. Therefore,  since  compliance  with Article 
25 is directly related to the Council’s effectiveness, this 
is  an  issue  that  should  be  analysed  in  depth  in  the 
annual report. 

Another  Charter  mandate,  while  of  a  more 
procedural  nature,  is  related  to  the  submission  of 
special reports in accordance with Articles 15 and 24 — 
articles  that  also  appear  to  have  fallen  into  disuse.  In 
this  Organization,  where  reports  on  the  most  diverse 
subjects proliferate, we have been unable to systematize 
the  submission  of  special  reports  on  issues  on  the 
Council’s  agenda  that  thus  merit  such  treatment.  We 
believe  that,  in  cases  such  as  those  involving  the 
imposition  of  sanctions  or  other  coercive  measures  or 
the  adoption  of  measures  for  general  implementation 
under  Chapter  VII  —  or  even  cases  in  which  the 
Council  cannot  achieve  the  necessary  consensus  or 
where the threat of the veto exists — it is appropriate to 
submit  special  reports.  In  our  view,  during  the  period 
under  review,  cases  such  as  Kosovo,  Zimbabwe  or  the 
Oil-for-Food  Programme, 
inter  alia,  would  have 
the  submission  of  special  reports  to  the 
merited 
Assembly. 
thus 
A/63/PV.53
Costa  Rica  has  been  keen 

to  seek  correct 
implementation of the provisions set out in Articles 31 
and  32  regarding  participation  by  members  of  the 
General  Assembly  in  Security  Council  debates  when 
their  interests  are  being  affected  or  when  they  are 
parties to a dispute being considered by the Council. In 
that connection, we have insisted on speaking after the 
States that are participating pursuant to Articles 31 and 
32, rather than before, as is the custom. We do not see 
the  logic  in  taking  a  position  and  then  listening  to  all 
the  information  and  the  positions  that  those  most 
directly affected consider it necessary to share with the 
Council. 
Although the report of the Council fails to assess 

the 
implementation  of  Articles  31  and  32,  we 
congratulate  the  delegation  of  Belgium  on  having 
compiled  information  that  has  enabled  us  to  see 
apparent improvement in that area. According to those 
data, during the second half of 2006, Council members 
spoke  before  invited  States  in  48.3  per  cent  of  the 
meetings held. That percentage increased to 73 in 2007 
and then fell to 26.5 in the first half of 2008. We hope 
that,  with  the  assistance  of  all  Council  members,  this 
volatile  figure  can  be  maintained  at  the  latter  lower 
number or further reduced.  

In that connection, we also consider it appropriate 
to assess the implementation of rule 48 of the Security 
Council’s  provisional 
rules  of  procedure,  which 
provides that “unless it decides otherwise, the Security 
Council  shall  meet  in  public”.  Once  again,  we  are 
basing  our  position  on  information  compiled  by  the 
Belgian  delegation,  which  indicates  that,  while  the 
Council met in private consultations 44 per cent of the 
time  during  the  second  half  of  2006,  that  percentage 
increased slightly to 45.5 in 2007 and then fell to 41.4 
in  the  first  half  of  2008.  Although  we  recognize  that 
not all Council deliberations can be held in public, we 
believe 
the 
exception, not the rule.  
Costa Rica sought to broaden the implementation 

of  rule  48  on  the  basis  of  the  principle  of  publicizing 
our  Council  presidency’s  programme  of  work.  We 
express  our  appreciation  for  the  support  received 
through the implementation of that measure by various 
elected  members,  in  particular  Panama  and  South 
Africa.  We  hope  that,  through  the  implementation  of 
this  principle  on  publicity,  those  subsequently  in  the 
presidency of the Council  will seek to consolidate the 
precedent.  
that  private  consultations  should  be 
08-60760 

7 
the  programme 
the  established  rules  should  be  followed 
A/63/PV.53 


I  wish  to  refer  briefly  to  the  matter  of  Iraq.  We 
would like to explain our position to the Assembly with 
regard  to  the  oil-for-food  programme,  given  that  the 
majority of the Assembly is opposed to it and that it has 
not  been  clearly  reflected  in  the  report.  Costa  Rica  is 
not  opposed  to  closing  the  programme,  but  we  think 
that 
in 
processing  the  pending  letters  of  credit  for  payment, 
that is, documentation should be presented attesting that 
the services or products were really received by Iraq.  

We  are  not  willing  to  repeat  the  mistakes  of  the 
past  made  by  the  Committee  established  pursuant  to 
Security Council resolution 661 (1990). Costa Rica has 
interrupted  the  no-objection  procedure,  through  which 
an attempt was made to end the programme without the 
relevant documentation being required. We find such a 
blind  conclusion  of 
inadmissible, 
particularly  if  we  take  into  account  the  failures 
mentioned  in  the  Volcker  report  with  regard  to  the 
changes  in  prices  and  services.  It  is  also  inadmissible 
in the light of the fact that many of the companies that 
still have payments pending were expressly questioned 
in that report.  

Given  these  doubts,  Costa  Rica  has  decided  to 
maintain  the  hold.  In  August,  we  distributed  a  note 
asking  the  Council  to  coordinate  with  the  Secretary-
General  in  order  to  ensure  that  the  conclusion  of  the 
oil-for-food  programme  would  be  carried  out  with  all 
due  prudence  in  order  to  avoid  new  criticism  being 
levelled against the United Nations. That has been the 
sole motive guiding our actions. Shortly afterwards, we 
sent a second note to the Secretary-General requesting 
information  on 
the  companies  and  people  with 
outstanding  invoices  to  compare  these  lists  with  the 
annexes of the Volcker report. We are still waiting for a 
reply to that request.  

Lastly,  as  an  elected  member  of  the  Security 
Council, we would like to shoulder the commitment to 
bring  to  the  Council’s  attention  those  improvements 
and suggestions that the Assembly recommends on the 
basis  of  its  consideration  of  the  annual  report  of  the 
Council.  I  wish  to  express  my  thanks  for  the  support 
that  we  have  received  and  to  reiterate  our  willingness 
to provide the Assembly with information we have on 
the Council’s business. 

The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His Excellency Mr. Bagudu Hirse, Minister of State for 
Foreign Affairs of Nigeria. 

respectively 

Mr. Hirse (Nigeria): On behalf of the delegation 
of  Nigeria,  I  have  the  honour  to  express  our  gratitude 
to Mr. Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann for scheduling this 
General Assembly debate  on the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related  matters,  pursuant  to 
the decision of our leaders in September 2005. 

It  has  always  been  the  view  of  Nigeria  that  the 
reform  of  the  United  Nations  would  not  be  complete 
without  a  fundamental  reform  of  and  increase  in  the 
size  and  the  composition  of  the  Security  Council  to 
reflect the current global realities, thereby enabling the 
Council to gain in stature and credibility and ensuring 
that  its  decisions  attract  the  wider  support  of  the 
international community. 

Africa’s position on Security Council reform has 
been well articulated in the decisions taken by African 
heads  of  State  and  Government  at  the  fifth  and  sixth 
ordinary  sessions  of  the  Assembly  of  the  African 
Union,  held 
in  Sirte,  Libyan  Arab 
Jamahiriya,  in  July  2005  and  in  Khartoum  in  January 
2006.  We  strongly  feel  that  it  would  be  a  great 
disservice  to  the  United  Nations  if  Member  States 
continued to prevaricate on this vital matter. 

While  Nigeria  respects  the  viewpoints  of  those 
Member  States  that  insist  on  the  need  for  consensus 
before  a  decision  is  taken  on  the  framework  and 
modalities of the reform, we equally recognize that, in 
the greater national interests of our respective peoples, 
the  search  for  consensus  should  not  inhibit  the  taking 
of  important  and  crucial  decisions.  It  is  essential, 
therefore,  that  in  the  interest  of  our  Organization  and 
its future we exert every effort to ensure a speedy and 
successful conclusion of the reform process. 
This may well entail some element of flexibility, 

but flexibility informed by a shared view that Council 
reform in all its aspects is long overdue. If we proceed 
along this path, Nigeria is confident that we will, in the 
immediate  future,  achieve  that  goal  and  thereby  not 
only rekindle the hopes and confidence of mankind in 
the  United  Nations,  but  also  prove  wrong 
the 
Organization’s  few  vocal  critics,  who  wrongly  argue 
that  Member  States 
individually  and  collectively 
cannot  rise  to  the  challenges  of  true  multilateralism. 
Let  us  therefore  send  forth  from  this  hallowed  Hall  a 
clear message of our common resolve not to let slip yet 
another opportunity to address this matter once and for 
all. 
08-60760 
8 

reform.  Nigeria  also  believes 



There  are  also  those  who  believe  that  States 
Members  of  this  Organization  should  be  content  with 
merely  tinkering  with  the  working  methods  of  the 
Security  Council  and  that  this  would  better  serve  the 
interests of the broader membership. Although the full 
implications  of  such  a  position  for  overall  United 
Nations reform have been the subject of discussions in 
informal consultations in the past, Nigeria considers it 
necessary  to  restate  that  this  approach  would  hardly 
address  the  fundamental  issue  of  inequity  that  the 
Council, as currently constituted, represents. 

Nigeria  strongly  believes  that,  in  the  pursuit  of 
the  objective  of  reforming  the  Security  Council, 
Africa’s legitimate aspirations should be addressed, as 
Africa is the only region without representation in the 
permanent  membership  category  of 
the  Security 
Council,  even  though  60  per  cent  of  the  issues 
addressed  by  the  Council  relate  to  the  continent.  We 
therefore  identify  with  those  Member  States  whose 
initiatives  boldly  and  substantially  take  into  account 
Africa’s  primary  interests  and  concerns  on  Security 
Council 
the 
permanent  membership  of  the  Council  should  reflect 
cultural and geographical diversity. 

Lastly,  Nigeria  is  encouraged  by  the  unanimous 
adoption  of  decision  62/557,  in  which  the  General 
Assembly 
intergovernmental 
negotiations should commence in the informal plenary 
of the Assembly not later than 28 February 2009. Our 
understanding  of  this  decision  is  that  the  Open-ended 
Working  Group  should  come  to  an  end  in  order  to 
allow intergovernmental negotiations to commence. We 
are  of  the  view  that  the  decision  to  be  reached  at  the 
end of the negotiations should be democratic in nature, 
respecting  consensus  as  an  ideal  but,  if  necessary, 
involve  a  majority  decision.  This  is  in  keeping  with 
both  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly 
and democratic principles. The Assembly cannot delay 
this matter any further. 
Mr.  Hackett  (Barbados):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak  on  behalf  of  the  14  States  members  of  the 
Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM) 
that  are  also 
members  of  the  United  Nations  on  agenda  item  9, 
“Report  of  the  Security  Council”,  and  item  111, 
“Question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters”. 
mandated 
that 
that 
A/63/PV.53
the  country  and  progressing 

At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank Ambassador 
Jorge Urbina, Permanent Representative of Costa Rica 
and  current  President  of  the  Security  Council,  for  his 
detailed  presentation  of  the  report  of  the  Council 
(A/63/2).  CARICOM  commends  the  members  of  the 
Council for the work that they have undertaken during 
the reporting period. 

The  work  of  the  Council  over  the  past  year 
covered virtually all regions of the world, although the 
principal  focus  continued  to  be  on Africa.  CARICOM 
would  like  to  thank  the  members  of  the  Council  for 
their  efforts  in  seeking  to  bring  peace  and  stability  to 
the  various  conflict  situations  around  the  world.  We 
welcome the attention that the Council has paid to the 
situation  in  Haiti  and  the  support  provided  to  the 
United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission 
in  Haiti 
(MINUSTAH).  The  extension  of  MINUSTAH’s 
mandate  will  provide  further  opportunity  for  the 
international  community  to  continue  to  support  the 
Haitian  political  leadership  and  the  Haitian  people  in 
rebuilding 
towards 
sustainable development. 

I would like to take this opportunity to thank the 
President  of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-second 
session,  His  Excellency  Srgjan  Kerim, 
the 
preparation  of  the  report  of  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group on Security Council reform that we have before 
us today. CARICOM continues to believe that Security 
Council  reform  needs  to  be  one  of  the  priority  issues 
that  should  be  addressed  by  the  current  session  of  the 
General Assembly. 

The  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  Document 
reflected the resolve of world leaders to reform several 
areas of the United Nations architecture, including the 
Security  Council.  Member  States  said  then  that  there 
must  be  a  constant  process  of  review,  reform  and 
renewal  of  the  Organization  so  that  it  can  remain 
relevant  to  the  continuously  changing  international 
climate.  This  led  to  the  creation  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  and  the  Human  Rights  Council,  the 
revitalization of the Economic and Social Council and 
a  number  of  management 
the 
administration  area.  It  is  of  great  disappointment  to 
CARICOM,  however,  that  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  the  main  organ  of  the  United  Nations  that  is 
primarily  responsible  for  achieving  global  peace  and 
security,  continues  to  elude  us;  for  world  leaders  also 
said  at  that  2005  Summit  that  early  reform  of  the 
Security Council is “an essential element of our overall 
initiatives 
for 
in 
08-60760 

9 

increase 
in 
Despite  a  nearly  four-fold 
A/63/PV.53 

effort to reform the United Nations in order to make it 
more broadly representative, efficient and transparent” 
(resolution 60/1, para. 153). 

the 
membership  of  the  United  Nations,  the  size  and 
composition  of  the  Security  Council  have  remained 
almost unchanged since its creation, albeit for a change 
in  size  in  the  membership  of  the  non-permanent 
members in 1965. Thus, 60 years after the founding of 
the  United  Nations,  the  composition  of  the  Security 
Council no longer reflects current political realities. 

We  commend  the  efforts  of  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly  at  its  sixty-second  session,  and  the 
members  of  his  task  force,  for  the  work  undertaken 
over  the  past  year  on  the  issue  of  Security  Council 
reform.  Those  efforts  were  focused  on  identifying 
concrete  elements  of  negotiables  that  could  form  the 
basis  for  intergovernmental  negotiations.  The  task 
force undertook extensive consultations, with a view to 
identifying these elements, and reflected them in their 
report.  We  believe  that  the  consultations  to  date  have 
provided  useful  references  and  relevant  ideas  that  can 
be  the  basis  for  intergovernmental  negotiations;  and 
with  the  mandate  from  the  2005  United  Nations 
Summit, and more recently General Assembly decision 
62/557  of  15  September  2008,  we  believe 
that 
intergovernmental  negotiations  should  begin  without 
much further delay. 

Indeed,  the  issues  of  modalities  and  framework 
for  the  intergovernmental  process  have  already  been 
settled, in our view, as outlined in decision 62/557. The 
framework  for  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  is 
the  informal  plenary  of  the  United  Nations  General 
Assembly,  with  all  of 
rules  and 
procedures of the Assembly, and the modalities are all 
the  positions  and  proposals  advanced  by  Member 
States. CARICOM countries stand ready to participate 
fully in these negotiations, with a view to achieving a 
successful outcome by the end of this session. 

regard,  CARICOM  member  States 
reiterate  their  belief  that  a  reformed  Security  Council 
should  have  an  increase  in  membership  in  both  the 
permanent  and  non-permanent  categories.  We  further 
believe  that  additional  permanent  members  should 
come from both the developed and developing worlds, 
and that arrangements for the increase in the number of 
non-permanent  members  should  allow  for  greater 
representation from small and island States. The use of 
the  attendant 
this 
In 
the  veto  should  be  limited  to  actions  taken  under 
Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter,  with  a  move  towards  its 
eventual  abolition.  We  also  believe  that  a  review 
mechanism  after  a  reasonable  period  of  time  will  be 
essential. 

Comprehensive reform of the Security Council is 
fundamentally  grounded  in  the  reform  of  the  working 
methods  of  the  Council.  Thus,  CARICOM  sees  the 
need  for  greater  transparency  and  openness  in  the 
working methods of the Council. More specifically, we 
suggest that there be more frequent open debates of the 
Security Council to allow for greater inclusiveness and 
participation  of  non-member  States,  for  such  open 
debates  provide,  we  believe,  national  and  regional 
perspectives  that  can  assist  the  Council  in  addressing 
effectively the crises and issues with which it is seized. 
We  also  believe  that  more  comprehensive  Council 
briefings  to  non-members  should  be  held  in  order  to 
keep all delegations fully informed of the activities of 
the Council.  

We are heartened that there is greater acceptance 
of  the  view  that  the  Security  Council  should  be 
accountable  to  the  General  Assembly.  In  this  regard, 
we again request that the reports of the Council to the 
General  Assembly,  such  as  the  one  presented  today, 
should  be  more  substantive  and  analytical, 
thus 
providing a basis for a more interactive and meaningful 
debate by the Assembly on the work of the Council. 

Achieving  success  in  these  intergovernmental 
negotiations  will  require  strong  commitment  on  the 
part  of  all  Member  States.  CARICOM  believes  that 
consultations  carried  out  over  the  past  15  years, 
particularly including the last two, provide the critical 
elements 
these 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  Thus,  it  should  be 
possible  to  start  intergovernmental  negotiations  quite 
soon.  Together  we  should  seek  to  create  a  reformed 
organ with an expanded membership that better reflects 
contemporary world realities, an organ that possesses a 
set  of  working  methods  which  are  formalized,  clear 
and 
for  greater 
accessibility  to  its  work  by  non-members.  This  we 
believe  will  make 
the  Council  more  broadly 
representative,  thereby  increasing  its  legitimacy,  and 
will make it a more effective body which is responsive 
to the views and needs of all Member States and has an 
enhanced  capacity  to  act  when  faced  with  threats  to 
peace and security. 
transparent  and  which  provide 
that  can  serve  as 
the  basis  for 
10 

08-60760 


Mr.  Soborun (Mauritius):  Once  again, I have  the 

honour  to  speak on behalf  of  the African Group  and  to 
commend  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
convening  today’s  meeting  to  discuss  the  report  of  the 
Security Council, under agenda item 9, and to consider 
the question of equitable representation on and increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  other 
related  matters,  under  agenda  item  111. Allow  me  also 
at  the  very  outset  to  thank  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jorge 
Urbina,  Permanent  Representative  of  Costa  Rica  and 
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  month  of 
November,  for  the  presentation  of  the  report  of  the 
Security  Council  (A/63/2).  Furthermore,  the  African 
Group associates itself with the statement to be made by 
the representative of Cuba on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement. 

The African  Group  appreciates  the  efforts  of  the 
Security  Council  in  peacekeeping,  peacebuilding  and 
the  maintenance  of  peace  and  security  in  conflict 
situations, particularly in Africa.  However,  once again 
it  is  noted  that  the  report  of  the  Council  is  more  a 
statement  of  events  in  chronological  order  than  an 
analytical  report  which  could  provide  an  opportunity 
for  Member  States  to  assess  the  strengths  and  failures 
of  the  Council  in  conflict  situations.  Moreover,  the 
Group  certainly  shares  the  growing  concern  about  the 
gradual  encroachment  by  the  Security  Council  on  the 
powers  and  the  mandate  of  the  General Assembly.  In 
this  context,  it  is  necessary  that  resolutions  51/193, 
58/126  and  59/313,  which  aim  at  facilitating  the 
Security  Council’s  accountability 
the  General 
Assembly,  are implemented without  any further delay. 
Furthermore,  the  Council’s  rules  of  procedure,  which 
still remain provisional after six decades, urgently need 
to  be  formalized.  In  addition,  closer  coordination 
among  the  Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly,  the 
Security Council and the Economic and Social Council 
can only augur well for the Organization. 

The global crises we are facing at present, such as 
the  energy  crisis,  food  crisis,  financial  crisis  and 
climate change, make it all the more necessary to effect 
the expeditious and meaningful reform of the Security 
Council  in  a  comprehensive  manner  which  takes  into 
account  representativity  and  the  geopolitical  realities 
of  the  twenty-first  century.  The  African  position, 
spelled  out  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte 
Declaration  on 
the 
Security Council, has been stated several times in this 
the  comprehensive  reform  of 
to 
08-60760 

11 
and 
constructive 
A/63/PV.53
the  General  Assembly 
This  African  position 
is 
body.  It  is  not  our  intention  this  morning  to  repeat  it 
again.  

Suffice  it,  however,  to  recall  that  the  African 
common  position,  as  spelled  out  in  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus, calls for no less than two permanent seats, 
with  all  the  prerogatives  and  privileges  of  permanent 
membership, including the right of veto, and also five 
non-permanent seats for Africa. Even though Africa is 
opposed in principle to the veto, it is of the view that, 
so  long  as  the  veto  exists  and  as  a  matter  of  common 
justice,  it  should  be  made  available  to  all  new 
permanent members of the Security Council.  

to  assert 
intended 
unequivocally  the  legitimate  claim  of  Africa  and  to 
ensure  that Africa  is  fully  represented  in  all  decision-
making  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  and  in  the 
Security Council in particular. 

The African Group welcomes the decision of the 
President of the General Assembly to commence in the 
informal  plenary  of 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  in  accordance  with 
Assembly  decision  62/577.  We  extend  our  fullest 
support  to  His  Excellency  Father  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann 
to  His 
Excellency Mr. Zahir Tanin, Permanent Representative 
of  Afghanistan,  as  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  behalf  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly.  I  would  like  to  once  again  bring  to  the 
attention of the General Assembly that, in paragraph 3 
of  the  decision  of  the  African  Union  contained  in 
document  Assembly/AU/Dec.184  (X),  the  53  African 
heads of State and Government directed  

“the  African  Permanent  Representatives  to  the 
United  Nations  to  participate  in  the  forthcoming 
intergovernmental negotiations on the basis of the 
Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration and 
to  report  to  the  Assembly  accordingly,  should 
they require further guidance”. 
That decision is almost a year old now. The next 

African  Union  summit  is  scheduled  for  January  2009. 
We  hope  that  at  that  time  the  African  Permanent 
Representatives  will  have  something  worthy  to  report 
on the reform of the Security Council, in particular on 
the 
intergovernmental 
negotiations, to their heads of State and Government. 

meaningful 
The  African  Group  looks  forward  to  starting  at 
intergovernmental 
this  endeavour  and  also 
commencement 
of 
the 
in 

(Cuba) 
in  compliance  with 
Mrs.  Núñez  Mordoche
A/63/PV.53 

negotiations 
the  unanimous 
General  Assembly  decision  62/577,  as  soon  as 
possible, but in no case later than 28 February 2009. 
(spoke 
in 

Spanish):  I  have  the  honour  to  address  the  General 
Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
(NAM).  First  of  all,  we 
thank  His  Excellency 
Ambassador  Jorge  Urbina,  Permanent  Representative 
of Costa Rica and President of the Security Council for 
the  month  of  November,  for  the  presentation  of  the 
report of the Security Council (A/63/2). 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  takes  note  of  the 
efforts undertaken to improve the quality of this year’s 
annual  report  and  to  submit  it  on  time  to  the  General 
Assembly. At  the  same  time,  the  Movement  reiterates 
that  much  more  should  be  done  with  regard  to  the 
content of the report. We  call on the Security Council 
to submit to the General Assembly comprehensive and 
analytical  annual  reports  which  evaluate  the  work  of 
the Council, including cases on which the Council has 
failed to take decisions, as well as the views expressed 
by its members during the consideration of the agenda 
items before it. 

We welcome as a positive step the holding of an 
informal  meeting  with  United  Nations  Member  States 
by the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, which held the 
presidency of the Security Council in July this year, as 
part  of the process of preparing the annual report. We 
call for more regular interactions in the future between 
the country holding the July presidency of the Council 
and  the  wider  membership  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
order  to  help  enhance  the  quality  of  the  reports.  We 
also  call  on  the  Security  Council  to  submit  special 
reports for the consideration of the General Assembly, 
pursuant  to  Article  15,  paragraph  1,  and  Article  24, 
paragraph 3, of the Charter of the United Nations. The 
Presidents  of  the  Security  Council  should  ensure  that 
their  monthly  assessments  are  comprehensive  and 
analytical  and  that  they  are  issued  in  timely  fashion. 
The  General  Assembly  could  propose  parameters  for 
drawing up such assessments. 
its 

concern 
continuing 
encroachment  by  the  Security  Council  on  issues  that 
clearly  fall  within  the  functions  and  powers  of  other 
principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations  and  their 
subsidiary  bodies.  The  Council  must  fully  observe  all 
Charter  provisions  as  well  as  all  General  Assembly 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
increasing 
reiterates 
over 
and 
the 
that  clarify 
We  call  on 
the  Presidents  of 
its  relationship  with 
the 
resolutions 
Assembly  and 
the  other  principal  organs.  Close 
cooperation  and  coordination  among  all  principal 
organs  is  indispensable  in  order  to  enable  the  United 
Nations to remain relevant and capable of meeting the 
existing, new and emerging threats and challenges.  

the  General 
Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the 
Security  Council  to  meet  regularly  to  discuss  and 
coordinate  among  themselves  issues  related  to  the 
agendas  and  programmes  of  work  of  the  respective 
principal organs that they represent. NAM also calls on 
the  Security  Council  to  take  fully  into  account  the 
recommendations  of  the  General Assembly  on  matters 
relating  to  international  peace  and  security,  consistent 
with Article 11, paragraph 2, of the Charter. 

The  Movement  remains  concerned  at  the  lack  of 
progress  in  the  General  Assembly  discussions  on  the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council.  The  discussions  have 
shown  that  while  there  has  been  a  convergence  of 
views  on  a  number  of  issues,  major  differences  still 
exist on many others. 
full 

The  Movement 
implementation  of  decision  62/557,  adopted  by  the 
General  Assembly  on  15  September  2008.  The 
Movement  expresses  its  full  support  for  the Assembly 
President in this process, as well as for His Excellency 
Mr.  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Afghanistan,  in  his  work  as  Vice-Chair  of  the  Open-
the 
ended  Working  Group 
chair  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  behalf  of 
the 
President of the General Assembly. 
NAM  reiterates  the  fact  that  the  reform  of  the 

Security  Council  should  not  be  confined 
the 
question of equitable representation on and an increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council.  It  should 
also address substantive issues relating to the Council’s 
agenda,  working  methods 
and  decision-making 
processes. 

In recent years, the Security Council has been too 
quick  to  threaten  or  authorize  enforcement  action  in 
some  cases  while  being  silent  and  inactive  in  others. 
Furthermore,  the  Council  has  increasingly  resorted  to 
Chapter  VII  of 
the  Charter  as  an  umbrella  for 
addressing  issues  that  do  not  necessarily  pose  an 
immediate  threat  to  international  peace  and  security. 
Instead  of  excessive  and  hasty  use  of  Chapter  VII, 
efforts should be made to fully utilize the provisions of 
forward 
looks 
and 
the 
as 
to 
to 
12 

08-60760 
in 
Sanctions 
imposed  by 


Chapters  VI  and  VIII  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes.  Chapter VII  should  be  invoked,  as  intended, 
as  a  measure  of  last  resort.  Unfortunately,  in  some 
cases  provisions  of Articles  41  and  42  have  been  too 
quickly  resorted  to  when  the  other  options  have  not 
been fully exhausted. 

the  Security  Council 
remain  an  issue  of  serious  concern  to  the  non-aligned 
countries.  In  accordance  with  the  United  Nations 
Charter,  the  option  of  imposing  sanctions  should  be 
considered only after all means for peaceful settlement 
of disputes under Chapter VI of the Charter have been 
exhausted  and  the  short-term  and  long-term  effects  of 
such  sanctions  have  been  analysed  in  detail.  The 
objectives  of  sanctions  should  be  clearly  defined  and 
the  period  of  their  imposition  should  be  specified. 
Sanctions should be based on tenable legal grounds and 
should be lifted as soon as the objectives are achieved. 

The Non-Aligned Movement considers that some 
improvements  have  been  made 
the  Council’s 
working methods. But they are clearly not enough and 
leave much room for improvement. The Council’s open 
debate  on  its  working  methods,  held  on  27  August 
2008, was a step in the right direction, almost 15 years 
after  the  last  such  debate  on  the  issue.  We  sincerely 
hope  that  it  will  be  the  first  step  towards  the  regular 
and  comprehensive  consideration  of  that  important 
issue within the Council, taking fully into account the 
views of countries not members of the Council. 

Transparency,  openness  and  consistency  are  key 
elements  that  the  Security  Council  should  observe  in 
all  of 
its  activities,  approaches  and  procedures. 
Regrettably, the Council has neglected those important 
factors  on  numerous  occasions.  The  Council  must 
comply with the provisions of Article 31 of the Charter, 
which  allow  any  State  not  a  Council  member  to 
participate  in  discussions  on  matters  affecting  it.  Rule 
48  of  the  Council’s  provisional  rules  of  procedure 
should be duly observed. Closed meetings and informal 
consultations should be kept to a minimum and held on 
an exceptional basis, as they were meant to be. 

It  is  the  position  of  NAM  that  the  objectives  of 
Security Council reform, which should be addressed in 
a  comprehensive,  transparent  and  balanced  manner, 
include  the  following.  The  Council’s  agenda  should 
reflect  the  needs  and  interests  of  both  developing  and 
developed  countries  equally,  in  an  objective,  rational, 
non-selective 
non-arbitrary  manner.  The 
A/63/PV.53
its 
enlargement  of  the  Council  must  lead  to  a  more 
democratic, more representative, more responsible and 
more  effective  Council.  The  Council’s  rules  of 
procedure,  which  have  remained  provisional  for  more 
than  60  years,  should  be  made  official  in  order  to 
improve 
transparency  and  accountability.  The 
decision-making  process  of  the  Council  should  be 
democratized,  including  by  limiting  and  curtailing  the 
use of the veto with a view to its eventual elimination. 

The  countries  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
requests  the  Security  Council  to  take  the  following 
immediate  actions  to  improve  its  working  methods.  It 
should  increase  the  number  of  public  meetings,  in 
accordance with Articles 31 and 32 of the Charter, and 
ensure that those meetings provide real opportunities to 
take  into  account  the  views  and  contributions  of  the 
entire  membership  of  the  United  Nations,  particularly 
of countries not members of the Council whose affairs 
the  Council  is  discussing. The  State  concerned  should 
be  more  closely  involved  in  the  Council’s  discussions 
of matters affecting it, in accordance with Article 31 of 
the  Charter. The  Council  should  ensure  that  the  views 
of  Member  States,  obtained  through  open,  thematic 
debates,  are  reflected  in  relevant  resolutions  and 
presidential  statements  that  the  Council  adopts  after 
the  current  practice  of 
such  debates, 
adopting 
statements 
without reference to such discussions. 

The Council should allow briefings by the special 
envoys or representatives of the Secretary-General and 
of  the  United  Nations  Secretariat  to  be  held  in  public 
meetings,  except 
in  exceptional  circumstances.  It 
should  further  strengthen  its  relationship  with  the 
Secretariat  and  troop-contributing  countries,  including 
through a sustained, regular and timely interaction. The 
Council  should  establish  its  subsidiary  organs  in 
accordance with the letter and spirit of the Charter and 
should  ensure  that  those  organs  function  in  a  manner 
that provides adequate and timely information on their 
activities to the general United Nations membership. In 
that  context,  it  should  guarantee  that  countries  not 
members  of  the  Council  have  access  to  subsidiary 
organs,  including  the  right  to  participate  in  their 
discussions, as appropriate. 

I  would  like  to  conclude  by  extending  our  best 
wishes for the success of the incoming members of the 
Security  Council: Austria,  Japan,  Mexico,  Turkey  and 
Uganda.  The  willingness  of  the  countries  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  to  engage  constructively  in 
resolutions  and  presidential 
instead  of 
and 
08-60760 

13 
like 
I  should 
A/63/PV.53 

consultations  and  negotiations  towards  democratizing 
the  Security  Council  as  an  effective  organ 
in 
maintaining 
international  peace  and  security  can 
always be counted on. 
Mr. Delacroix (France) (spoke in French): At the 

outset, 
the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Costa  Rica,  as  President  of  the 
Security  Council,  for  his  comprehensive  introduction 
of the Council’s annual report to the General Assembly 
(A/63/2).  My  delegation  would  also  like  to  thank  the 
delegation  of  Viet  Nam  for  its  excellent  work  in 
preparing  the  report.  We  would  like  to  emphasize  the 
quality  of 
the  report,  which  we  believe  meets 
legitimate and well-known expectations. 

Equally, I would like to set out France’s position 
with regard to Security Council reform. The President 
of  our  General  Assembly  has  made  it  one  of  the 
priorities of his mandate. The support of my delegation 
can  be  counted  on  to  ensure  that  together  we  achieve 
bold  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  the  central 
institution  for  United  Nations  actions  in  the  area  of 
peace and security. 
First,  naturally,  France  remains  committed  to 

continued  improvement  of  the  Security  Council’s 
working methods through enhanced transparency of the 
Council’s work and better interaction with non-member 
States,  without,  of  course,  questioning  its  autonomy. 
France  is  also  fully  committed  to  reforming  the 
composition  of 
its 
commitment on that point remains unswerving. As the 
President  of  the  French  Republic  said  before  the 
General Assembly on 23 September:  

the  Security  Council  and 

“The  world  of  the  twenty-first  century 
cannot  be  governed  with  the  institutions  of  the 
twentieth  century  ...  Let  today’s  major  Powers 
and  the  Powers  of  tomorrow  unite  to  shoulder 
together  the  responsibilities  their  influence  gives 
them in world affairs. 
“To all those who are hesitant, I wish to say 

that enlarging the Security Council and the G-8 is 
not just a matter of fairness, it is also a question 
of  effectiveness.  We  can  no  longer  wait  to  turn 
the G-8 into the G14 … 

international 
institutions  more  representative,  because  if  they 
are more representative they will be stronger, more 
effective and more respected.” (A/63/PV.5, p. 13) 
to  make  our 
“Let  us  act 


14 


to 
thank 

How  do  we  proceed  after  so  many  years  of 
discussions?  First,  we  must  bear  in  mind  that  the 
necessary  expansion  of  the  Security  Council  must  be 
aimed  at  strengthening  its  authority  and  effectiveness. 
That  is  why  we  are  in  favour  of  an  expansion  of  the 
Council  in  its  two  categories  of  membership,  with 
Germany,  Brazil,  India  and  Japan  as  new  permanent 
members and permanent representation for Africa.  

During  the  many  debates  on  the  topic,  a  great 
majority  of  delegations  have  expressed  clear  support 
for  an  expansion  of  the  Security  Council  in  its  two 
categories  of  membership  —  permanent 
and 
non-permanent.  That  point  is  important  and  must  not 
be forgotten. 

The  second  important  point  is  that  we  must 
acknowledge  that,  to  date,  none  of  the  proposals  for 
final  reform  has  gained  the  approval  of  two  thirds  of 
the  Member  States  of  the  General  Assembly,  a  legal 
requirement well known to all. That is why the idea of 
interim reform to overcome the current impediments is 
finding growing support. As is known, France and the 
United  Kingdom  have  expressed  their  readiness  to 
consider  an  interim  solution  that,  without  prejudice  to 
the end result, would enable us to move forward.  

Specifically,  we  are  open  to  considering  an 
interim solution that could provide for a new category 
of seats with a longer mandate than that of the current 
elected  members,  which  would  be  renewable.  At  the 
end  of  the  initial  phase,  it  could  be  decided  to  make 
those  seats  permanent.  That  option  should  duly  be 
taken  into  account  as  part  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations,  in  accordance  with  paragraph  (e)  of 
decision 62/577 of 15 September.  

In general, my delegation believes that we should 
promptly and fully consider the specific options within 
the  framework  of  the  upcoming  intergovernmental 
negotiations.  We  believe  that  the  decision  adopted  by 
the  General  Assembly  on  15  September  is  clear  and 
important.  

We should honour the agreement reached on that 
occasion  by  consensus  by  the  Member  States.  Its 
implementation  will  stand  as  a  test  of  the  credibility 
and  democracy  of  our Assembly,  which  we  all  value. 
Together,  we  have  taken  the  decision  to  set  out  the 
framework  for  our  work,  the  plenary  of  the  General 
for  opening 
Assembly, 
intergovernmental 
later 
than 
the  deadline 
no 
negotiations 
to  specify 
08-60760 


28 February  2009,  and  to  define  the  basis  for  the 
negotiations in line with the work conducted thus far. 

France  will  participate  in  discussions  within  the 
framework  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group,  which 
has  a  legitimate  place  within  our  joint  efforts. At  the 
same  time,  it  is  understood  that  the  Working  Group 
cannot  stand  as  a  precondition  and  cannot  impose 
preconditions  on  the  opening  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations,  and that  conditions may not be imposed, 
which  would  run  counter  to  the  General  Assembly 
decision of 15 September.  

Only in a climate of trust can we progress jointly 
and,  in  that  spirit,  we  support  the  action  of  the 
President of our Assembly. Moreover, we welcome the 
mandate  that  he  has  entrusted  to  us  and  we  wish  him 
every  success.  We  count  on  his  full  involvement  to 
provide  the  necessary  drive  for  our  work.  Security 
Council  reform  is  more  necessary  than  ever.  Thus, 
together  we  must  actively  continue  our  efforts  by 
avoiding any step that would lead to procrastination or 
division  within  the  General Assembly  on  fundamental 
reform  of  the  United  Nations.  Thus,  everyone  must 
assume  their  responsibilities.  Let  us  not  forget  that 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  requires  the  political 
commitment of the Member States at the highest level. 
I  have  just  reiterated  our  own  commitment,  and  I 
cherish  the  hope  that  it  will  be  shared  by  the  greatest 
number of Members possible so as to achieve effective 
reform.  
Ms.  Blum  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

would like to express our gratitude to the Ambassador 
of Costa Rica for introducing the report of the Security 
Council to the General Assembly (A/63/2) covering the 
period  of  August  2007  to  July  2008.  My  delegation 
also wishes to associate itself with the statement made 
by the Ambassador of Cuba on behalf of the Movement 
of Non-Aligned Countries. 

Following  up  that  work  requires  the  ongoing 
attention  of  the  Member  States.  Therefore,  it  is 
appropriate  that  the  Council  retain  and  further  the 
practice  of  organizing  briefing  sessions  so 
that 
non-member countries may be aware of the work of the 
Council  and  its  subsidiary  bodies.  More  frequent 
presentations of special reports by the Security Council 
would contribute to that goal. 

With regard to the content of the report presented 
on  this  occasion,  we  would  like  to  highlight  the  work 
of  the  delegation  of  Viet  Nam,  as  President  of  the 
A/63/PV.53
indispensable 
issues 
the 
Council in July 2008, in drawing up the introduction to 
the  document,  which  outlines  the  Council’s  work.  We 
also welcome the initiative of that delegation to inform 
non-Council member States on the process of preparing 
the  annual  report  to  the  General  Assembly.  We  urge 
that this becomes a regular practice.  

Colombia underscores how important it is that the 
report of the Security Council to the General Assembly 
not  be  a  mere  sequence  of  facts,  but  include  elements 
of  qualitative  and  analytical  information,  such  as  the 
criteria  used  by  the  Council  in  taking  decisions.  My 
delegation  observes  with  interest  the  increase  in 
interaction  between  countries  presiding  the  Security 
Council  and  other  member  States.  The  briefing 
sessions at the beginning of every month, in addition to 
providing 
for  keeping 
information 
included 
abreast  of 
the  monthly 
in 
programme  of  work  of 
the  Council,  provide  an 
opportunity 
to  establish  a  dialogue  and  express 
concerns to the country in the presidency. 

We  are  at  a  moment  of  great  importance  in  the 
history  of  our  Organization.  After  several  years  of 
debate,  next  February,  pursuant  to  decision  62/557 
adopted by this Assembly, we will launch a process of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  to  reform  the  Security 
Council.  We  have  reached  this  point  thanks  to  the 
constant  work  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on 
the  Question  of  Equitable  Representation  on  and 
Increase  in  the  Membership  of  the  Security  Council 
and Other Matters Related to the Security Council and 
that  of  the  Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  who 
have chaired that Group. We must take this opportunity 
to pursue progress, building on what has already been 
achieved. The reform process has become imperative in 
order 
inefficiencies 
affecting the workings of the Council.  

We  must  strive  for  a  comprehensive  reform  to 
make  the  Council  a  more  democratic,  representative, 
transparent,  efficient  and  accountable  organ.  In  its 
current configuration, the Council does not respond to 
today’s  realities.  Thus,  the  reform  should  take  into 
account  not  only  an  increase  in  the  membership  and 
composition  of  the  Council,  but  also  an  improvement 
in its working methods.  

Colombia  believes  that  only  the  category  of 
non-permanent  members  should  see  an  increase  in 
numbers.  Such  a  reform  would  be  in  accordance  with 
the  purpose  of  effectively  turning  the  Council  into  a 
to  correct 
the 
inequities  and 
08-60760 

15 

A/63/PV.53 

more democratic, representative and transparent organ. 
Retaining  permanent  membership  and 
the  related 
privileges  that  it  confers  on  a  few  countries  would  be 
to  the  detriment  of  the  participation  of  small  and 
medium-sized  States  in  the  Council.  It  would  also 
undermine  their  ability  to  influence  the  decisions  and 
actions  of  the  Council.  It  is  not  consistent  to  preach 
democratization  of 
the  Council  while  extending 
privileges to a few States.  

Colombia supports a balanced and fair reform of 
the  Council.  We  envision  a  Council  that  is  more 
equitable  in  terms  of  geographical  representation,  and 
in  which  all  States,  large,  medium  or  small,  and 
particularly those whose interests and hopes have been 
underrepresented, enjoy the same chances of becoming 
members of that organ. 

My  delegation  believes  that  it  is  of  paramount 
importance to continue improving the methods of work 
of  the  Council.  Any  progress  in  that  area  must  be 
aimed  at  greater  transparency  and  more  participation 
by member States in the activities and decisions of the 
Council. The Council should hold more frequent open 
meetings, thus allowing greater access to non-member 
States, particularly at meetings dealing with issues that 
affect  such  States  directly.  A  clear  and  predictable 
decision-making  process  is  also  essential  to  ensuring 
the  transparency  and  legitimacy  of  the  actions  of  the 
Security Council.  

Colombia  believes  that  the  Council  should  be 
able to avail itself of more democratic decision-making 
mechanisms.  My  country 
its  historic 
opposition to the veto and believes that any reform of 
the  Council  would  be  incomplete  without  a  thorough 
examination of options to curtail its use with a view to 
eventually abolishing it. In that regard, an initial option 
would  be  restricting  its  use  to  situations  pertaining  to 
Chapter  VII  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  Another 
possibility  would  be  to  establish  a  mechanism  to 
reduce  or  neutralize  the  use  of  the  veto  or  to  increase 
the threshold required for it to take effect.  

The coming weeks will be of great importance for 
the success of the intergovernmental process to start in 
February  2009.  In  this  context,  we  welcome  the 
decision  taken  yesterday  to  retain  the  functions  of  the 
Open-ended  Working  Group.  This  is  consistent  with 
the letter and the spirit of decision 62/557.  
If such processes are to be successful, they must 

be open and inclusive. If our aim is to democratize the 
reiterates 
Council, we must also employ democratic mechanisms 
in  the  reform  process.  In  that  spirit,  the  Open-ended 
Working  Group  must  undertake  a  detailed  analysis, 
including the goals of the reform, its guiding principles 
and the terms or procedures to be applied. It must also 
include  an  agreement  on  the  rules  for  negotiations, 
guaranteeing  open, 
transparent  and  participatory 
discussions. At the conclusion of the work undertaken 
by  the  Working  Group  during  this  preparatory  phase, 
we  believe  that  it  would  be  important  for  the  General 
Assembly to adopt a document to serve as a guideline 
for our work. 

Lastly,  Colombia  will  continue  to  promote  a 
reform of the Security Council that achieves a Council 
that responds to the interests and hopes of the various 
countries  and  regions  of  the  world  in  an  equitable 
fashion.  Members  can  rest  assured  of  our  continued 
participation and support in achieving this goal.  
Mr.  Abdelaziz  (Egypt):  Allow  me  to  start  by 

expressing my delegation’s gratitude for the President’s 
initiative to include the reform of the Security Council 
among the six main priorities of his presidency of the 
General Assembly at its sixty-third session and within 
his  initiative  for  the  democratization  of  the  United 
Nations,  in  particular  the  Security  Council.  I  would 
like to also express my deep appreciation to Mr. Srgjan 
Kerim,  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-second  session,  for  his  concerted  efforts  in 
pushing forward this important issue, which constitutes 
an  integral  part  of  the  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
United Nations.  

Allow me to also extend our sincere thanks to the 
representatives  of  Bangladesh,  Chile,  Djibouti  and 
Portugal  for  their  tremendous  efforts  in  their  capacity 
as  the  vice-chairpersons  of  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on 
and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of  the  Security 
Council  and  Other  Matters  Related  to  the  Security 
Council  during  the  previous  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  

As  my  delegation  stated  during  our  work  in  the 
Open-ended  Working  Group  and  our  consecutive 
discussions  of 
the  General 
Assembly, United Nations reform will not be complete 
without achieving Security Council reform in both the 
enlargement  of  its  membership  and  the  reform  of  its 
working  methods.  Such  a  reform  should  be  aimed  at 
rapidly  addressing  the  serious  historical  injustices 
this  agenda 
item 
in 
16 

08-60760 


committed  against  Africa,  due  to  the  lack  of  its 
representation  in  the  permanent  membership  category 
of the Security Council, and the negative impact of the 
continuation  of  this  situation  on  the  ability  of  the 
Council  to  deal  effectively  with  many  of  the  conflict 
situations in the African continent.  

In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to  associate  my 
remarks  with  the  remarks  made  by  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Mauritius,  Chair  of  the  African 
Group  for  the  month  of  November,  stressing  the 
African  common  position,  as  outlined  in  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus and the Sirte Declaration, calling for no less 
than two permanent seats, with all the prerogatives and 
privileges  of  permanent  membership,  including  the 
right  to  veto,  and  for  two  additional  non-permanent 
seats. 

There is no doubt that General Assembly decision 
62/557, adopted without a vote on 15 September 2008 
upon the recommendation of the Open-ended Working 
Group,  constituted  a  breakthrough  that  was  eagerly 
awaited by Africa and many other stakeholders — the 
agreement  to  start  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
on this important issue during the sixty-third session of 
the General Assembly. In order to ensure the success of 
those  intergovernmental  negotiations,  all  of  us  must 
abide by the letter and spirit of the delicate agreement 
reached  in  the  decision  through  difficult  negotiations 
on  all  procedural  and  substantive  aspects  of  dealing 
with the issue during the current session. 

Speaking  of  procedural  aspects,  and  specifically 
of  the  timelines  indicated  in  the  decision,  I  am 
confident 
long 
discussions  on  how  to  establish  the  correct  balance 
between  the  competence  of  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group  vis-à-vis 
the  General 
Assembly 
intergovernmental 
negotiations with a view to ensuring their success. The 
agreement on a timeline, as reflected in paragraphs (c) 
and  (d)  of  the  decision,  did  not  come  about  in  a 
vacuum.  It  came  as  a  result  of  consultations  on  an 
initial proposal to start intergovernmental negotiations 
not  later  than  the  end  of  December  2008,  which  was 
amended  to  start  those  negotiations  not  later  than  the 
end  of  April  2009,  until  we  settled  on  the  current 
formulation  of  starting  the  negotiations  not  later  than 
28  February  2009.  This  indicates  that  timing  in  itself 
was  an  essential  and  integral  factor  in  achieving  this 
important result.  
that  we  all  still  remember 
the  competence  of 
in  dealing  with 
those 
the 
A/63/PV.53
for 
the 
to 
and 
that 
reflects 
(c)  was 
sequencing 
in  preparation 
intentionally  moved 
The  sequence  of  the  paragraphs  was  another 

factor.  Paragraph 
initially  proposed  as 
paragraph (f), the second to last paragraph of the draft 
decision,  and  was 
through 
negotiations  to  become  (c),  just  before  paragraph  (d), 
which deals with the intergovernmental negotiations, in 
clear 
the  procedural 
precedence  of  the  work  of  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group 
intergovernmental 
negotiations. 

From a substantive point of view, this agreement 
on  a  specific  timeline  was  closely  linked  to  another 
agreement  on  the  substantive  side,  as  reflected  in 
paragraph  (c)  of  the  decision,  stating  that  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group  would  continue  to  address  the 
framework  and  modalities  in  order  to  —  and  I  stress 
this  —  prepare  and  facilitate  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations, and that the Chairman of the Open-ended 
Working  Group  would  present  the  results  of  these 
consultations  to  an  informal  plenary  meeting  of  the 
General Assembly no later than 1 February 2009.  

So we all agreed that the work of the Open-ended 
Working  Group  on  the  framework  and  modalities  is 
essential 
our 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  Therefore,  we  do  not 
see the need to enter again into a procedural debate on 
whether  intergovernmental  negotiations  could  start  in 
parallel  with  the  work  of  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group or not. Such a debate would only cast doubts on 
the  spirit  of  good  faith  and  mutual  respect  that  we 
agreed to adopt as a basis for our work in paragraph (d) 
of the decision and in the United Nations work at large. 
To  the  contrary,  we  should  allow  the  Open-ended 
Working  Group  all  the  time  it  needs  to  consider  the 
many  issues  related  to  the  framework  and  modalities 
and to present its Chairman’s report before the end of 
January 2009. 

Therefore,  we  congratulate  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly  for  his  wise  decision  to  cancel  the 
proposed  meeting  of  the  informal  plenary  of  the 
General  Assembly  on  this  issue  and  to  allow  full 
opportunity  to  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  to 
undertake its responsibilities properly. 

Turning  to  the  conduct  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations,  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (d)  are  very 
clear. They are: 

“to  commence  intergovernmental  negotiations  in 
informal plenary of the General Assembly during 
facilitating 
preparing 
08-60760 

17 
A/63/PV.53 


in 
and 
to  advance 
the  sixty-third  session  …  based  on  proposals  by 
Member States”. 

I  would  emphasize  that  last  part:  “based  on 
proposals  by  Member  States”.  We  all  agreed  that  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  cannot  start  unless  a 
proposal is submitted by a Member State — or a group 
of Member States, if they so wish — in clear exercise 
of  national  ownership 
full  governmental 
responsibility  for  the  proposals,  which  should  reflect 
an  exclusively  governmental  point  of  view, 
thus 
making  the  negotiations  truly  intergovernmental.  This 
clearly  excludes 
the  possibility  of  a  group  of 
representatives  presenting  any  proposals 
their 
personal capacity, as has happened in the past, or of the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  or  any  of  his 
facilitators or vice-presidents presenting a proposal, in 
full recognition of the need to preserve their neutrality 
and  impartiality  and  to  prevent  the  utilization  of  their 
high  offices 
the  positions  of  one 
stakeholder or another. 

From  Egypt’s  point  of  view,  there  are  many 
issues  that  require  consideration  in  the  Open-ended 
Working  Group  in  order  to  ensure  success  in  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  Those 
the 
conditions required to reach a solution that can garner 
the  widest  possible  political  acceptance  by  Member 
States,  as  required  in  paragraph  (d)  of  the  decision, 
duly taking into account that the language used in that 
paragraph is only a part of a wider agreement reflected 
in  paragraph  4  of  the  section  entitled  “Notions  on  the 
way forward” of the report of the Open-ended Working 
Group  on  its  work  during  the  sixty-first  session 
(A/61/47(Supp)).  That  report  was  approved  in  its 
entirety  without  a  vote,  so  there  was  agreement  and 
consensus on that part of the report.  

We  also  considered  the  relation  between  this 
provision  and  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the  General 
Assembly that could allow the adoption of a resolution 
on an issue of such seriousness and importance as the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  by  only  a  two-thirds 
majority,  thus  excluding  an  important  third  of  the 
membership  of  the  Organization.  One  third  of  the 
membership  could  well  exceed  the  membership  of  a 
complete regional group, such as the African Group or 
even the European continent. 

Other  issues  that  require  consideration  in  the 
Open-ended  Working  Group  is  how  to  manage  the 
negotiations  in  the  informal  plenary  meeting,  when  to 
include 
in 
the 
role 
it  will  play 
move from the informal plenary meeting to the formal 
plenary  meeting,  and  what  the  rules  are  that  would 
govern such a move. 
Furthermore,  the  Open-ended  Working  Group 

should  consider 
full 
implementation of paragraph (f) of the decision to help 
achieve  general  agreement  among  Member  States  in 
the consideration of all issues relevant to the question 
in  a  manner  that  could  help  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations achieve their objectives. Those objectives 
include ensuring that the results of our work will meet 
the  acceptance  that  would  ensure  easy  ratification  of 
the required amendments to the Charter. 

Improving  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council is also a matter of paramount importance. We 
have  to  continue  working  on  implementing  what  was 
agreed  upon  in  the  World  Summit  Outcome  to  make 
the Council more efficient, transparent and accountable 
and  to  further  enhance  its  effectiveness  and  the 
legitimacy and implementation of its decisions. 

Africa  accords  the  subject  of  improving  the 
working  methods  of  the  Security  Council  as  much 
importance  as  the  enlargement  of  the  Council  and  is 
certain  that  both  pillars  of  the  reform  of  the  Council 
are  indispensable  to  achieving  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council. This was reflected in the decision on 
the  topic  adopted  by  the  African  Union  Summit  in 
Sharm  el-Sheikh  in  July  2008,  when  African  leaders 
mandated  a  Committee  of  Ten  to  address  all  reform 
issues  of  the  United  Nations  system  and  present  a 
progress report to the next summit, to be held in Addis 
Ababa in February 2009. 

There  has  undoubtedly  been  some  improvement 
in  the  working  methods  of  the  Council,  but  these 
improvements  are  still  not  enough.  Reform  of  the 
Security  Council’s  working  methods  is  inevitable  and 
should be based on the need to achieve real balance in 
power  between  members  of  the  Council,  particularly 
between  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  members. 
The  time  has  also  come  for  agreement  on  permanent 
rules  of  procedure  to  replace  the  current  provisional 
rules  of  procedure  that  have  been  in  force  for  more 
than 60 years. 

We  fully  associate  ourselves  with  the  statement 
by the representative of Cuba, who spoke on behalf of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM).  In  particular,  he 
stated that the starting point in reforming the methods 
of  the  Council  is  that  the  Council  should  observe  the 
18 

08-60760 


institutional balance laid down in the Charter between 
the principal organs and should refrain from exceeding 
the  mandates  entrusted  to  it  under  the  Charter.  In  this 
regard,  the  Council  should  cease  encroaching  on  the 
competence  of  other  principal  organs  of 
the 
Organization,  particularly  the  General  Assembly  and 
the Economic and Social Council. 

Moreover,  Egypt  reiterates  its  support  for  the 
initiative of the Small Five Group aimed at improving 
the  working  methods  of  the  Security  Council.  This 
initiative  constitutes  an  appropriate  base  for  further 
efforts seeking to improve the working methods of the 
Council, particularly by restricting the use of the right 
of  veto  in  cases  of  genocide,  war  crimes  and  crimes 
against humanity, until we reach the stage in which this 
veto right can be finally abolished. However, until the 
veto  is  eliminated,  we  reiterate  that  it  should  be 
granted to all permanent members joining the Security 
Council within an expansion plan. 

Earlier  proposals  for  improving  the  working 
methods of the Security Council were submitted by the 
Non-Aligned Movement when Egypt was a member of 
the Security Council in 1996 and 1997. Moreover, the 
NAM  Summit  in  Havana  mandated  the  Permanent 
Representatives of the NAM countries in New York to 
work on a General Assembly draft resolution giving the 
Assembly  the  right  to  interfere  in  cases  where  the 
Security Council fails to take action despite a threat to 
peace and security owing to a lack of unanimity among 
its  permanent  membership. This  comes  in  conjunction 
with  the  mandate  given  to  the  African  Permanent 
Representatives  by  the  African  leaders  at  the  Sharm 
el-Sheikh  Summit  concerning  the  process  of  Security 
Council  reform,  and  that  is  why  Africa  insists  on 
having the veto right as one of the main elements of the 
reform of the Security Council. 

In  this  regard,  I  stress  that  improvement  in  the 
working  methods  of  the  Security  Council  should  not 
only be considered by the Informal Working Group on 
Documentation  and  Other  Procedural  Questions,  but 
also by the general membership of the Organization. 

As we consider the report of the Security Council 
to  the  General  Assembly,  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Costa  Rica  for  having 
presented the report. Last year, Egypt, like many other 
delegations,  regretted  that  the  annual  report  of  the 
Security  Council  lacked  analytical  depth  and  had 
limited  value  added  for  the  membership  at  large. 
A/63/PV.53
namely, 
peacekeeping, 
in 
reflect 
the  Council’s 
In  our  view, 
the 
those  related 
to 
issues  being  dealt  with 
Examining  this  year’s  report,  we  note  that  it  contains 
merely  a  comprehensive  overview  of  the  Council’s 
meetings, activities and decisions. The enumeration of 
the  meetings  and  documentation  in  the  report  reflects 
the  major  role  undertaken  by  the  Council  in  various 
fields, 
peacebuilding, 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security,  and  so 
forth. However, we  continue to believe  that the report 
could  better 
challenges, 
assessments and rationale during the reporting period. 

report  should  be  more 
explanatory  as  regards  the  positions  taken  on  the 
various 
the  Council, 
including the reasons behind the failure or inability of 
the Council to take decisive action in some situations, 
particularly 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  and  the  reasons 
behind  the  different  reactions  on  the  part  of  the 
Council,  whether  they  be  resolutions,  presidential 
statements,  press  releases  or  reports,  as  well  as  the 
criteria  followed  and  the  arguments  used  by  the 
Council to select its reaction in each case. 

In conclusion, I am confident that, under the able 
guidance of the General Assembly President and Vice-
President  Tanin,  we  will  reach  an  agreement  on  the 
reform and expansion of the Security Council, built on 
strengthening  the  principles  of  justice  and  equality  in 
rights  and  obligations,  which  would  enable 
the 
Security  Council  to  become  a  platform  for  democracy 
and transparency in dealing with the cases of Member 
States. 
Mr.  Natalegawa  (Indonesia):  We  welcome  the 

convening  of  this  joint  debate  on  the  two  related 
important issues. 
The  annual  Security  Council  report  (A/63/2), 

which  was  introduced  by  His  Excellency Ambassador 
Jorge Urbina, Permanent Representative of Costa Rica, 
in his capacity as President of the Security Council for 
the month of November, is an important component of 
the work of the Council. We thank Ambassador Urbina 
for his presentation of the report. 

My  delegation  also  commends  the  delegation  of 
Viet  Nam,  which  held  the  presidency  of  the  Council 
during 
the  consultations 
conducted  with  Member  States  during  the  preparation 
of  the  report,  and  we  hope  that  this  will  continue  to 
remain the practice in the future. 
the  month  of  July,  on 
08-60760 

19 
A/63/PV.53 


The  report  is  intended  to  fulfil  the  obligations 
stipulated  under  Article  24,  paragraph  3,  and  Article 
15,  paragraph  1,  of  the  Charter  and  forms  part  of  the 
Council’s  commitment  to  promoting  transparency  and 
accountability. 

The  report  illustrates  a  diverse  agenda  for  the 
Council.  During  the  period  under  review,  the  Council 
adopted  58  resolutions  and  50  presidential  statements. 
This prolific work is commendable. 

We recognize, however, the continued need for a 
more  comprehensive  and  analytical  report.  Such  a 
report  could  facilitate  a  better  and  more  in-depth 
understanding  of  the  context,  dynamics  and  nature  of 
the  issues  that  fall  under  the  purview  of  the  Security 
Council.  It  would  also  be  useful  for  United  Nations 
Members for the report also to include the status of the 
implementation of the Security Council’s decisions. 

The  urgent  need  for  reform  of  the  Security 
Council is beyond doubt. The Assembly’s Open-ended 
Working  Group  has  been  the  primary  vehicle  for 
promoting  that  objective.  Various  permutations  of 
Security  Council  reform  have  been  identified  and 
debated. Not least, the modalities for the discussion of 
such reform have been endlessly deliberated. So much 
so that there is very little that is new when it comes to 
reform  proposals.  However,  today,  we  stand  at  a 
potentially crucial juncture. 

intergovernmental 
next  February, 
negotiation in an informal General Assembly plenary is 
set  to  begin,  45  years  since  the  last  reform  of  the 
Council  in  1963.  In  sharp  contrast,  the  family  of 
nations  is  today  marked  by  greater  diversity  and 
pluralism.  This 
forces  of 
globalization  mean  that  the  Security  Council  is  today 
grappling  with  issues  far  more  complex  than  ever 
before  —  issues  that  test  a  common  understanding  of 
what  constitutes  a  threat  to  international  peace  and 
security  —  issues  that  demand  a  Security  Council 
speaking  with a single voice — and issues that  are so 
entwined and multifaceted that they require innovative 
solutions other than the tried and tested, including the 
application of “soft power”. 
is 

convinced  of  the  efficacy  of  the  democratic  response. 
At  the  national  level,  such  a  response  has  placed 
Indonesia  in  a  better  position  to  deal  with  the  myriad 
challenges  it  faces  as  a  nation. At  the  global  level,  a 
democratic  response,  in  the  form  of  a  reformed 
In  addressing  such  challenges,  Indonesia 
attendant 
and 
the 
By 
an 

Security Council, offers the promise of a Council able 
to  act  truly  on  behalf  of  a  United  Nations,  with 
legitimacy and effectiveness. 

No  single  country  can  work  alone  and  it  is 
increasingly evident that even the most powerful ones 
find  that  comprehensive  solutions  require  that  they 
work closely with other nations. There is, thus, a need 
for  substantive  change  in  the  composition  of  the 
Council. This  would  entail  additional  members,  either 
both permanent and non-permanent, or limited only to 
additional non-permanent members. 

What  is  most  important  is  that  the  Security 
Council  must  be  made  more  representative  of  the 
contemporary  world,  its  geographic  regions  and  the 
rich diversity of its constituencies. 

The  arguments  for  a  democratic  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  are  compelling. All  of  us  within  this 
Hall  subscribe  to  the  importance  of  Security  Council 
reform, yet, as the years of the reform process attest, it 
is  one  thing  to  agree  on  the  need  for  reform,  and 
another to agree on the nature of the reform. The list of 
proposals  is  extensive  and  varied,  each  with  its  own 
strong proponents pushing for acceptance, even if they 
push United Nations unity to a breaking point, not least 
of  which  are  proposals  which,  rather  conveniently, 
appear  to  fit  the  aspirations  of  their  advocates  to 
Council membership. 

Indonesia  believes  that  to  yield  tangible  results, 
we must strive to emphasize the collective interests of 
Member  States,  rather  than  engage  in  an  endless 
mutually  cancelling  pursuit  of  individual  national 
interests. After years of debate within the Open-ended 
Working  Group,  it  may  be  timely  to  accentuate 
consensus,  where  once  there  was  division  —  to  build 
bridges.  We  must  seek  the  common  elements  in  the 
various proposals that have been offered and recognize 
areas  where  there  may  be  convergence  of  views.  We 
should  appreciate  parties  which  have  exercised 
restraint  in  promoting  their  own  national  aspirations, 
choosing instead to emphasize the collective interest in 
reform of the Security Council. 

A perfect solution may be beyond us. However, it 
is  essential  that  we  strive  for  the  widest  political 
acceptance possible. Without a real sense of ownership 
and  representation  by  Member  States,  the  reform  of 
this  eminent  organ  will  hardly  achieve  its  stated 
objectives. 
20 

08-60760 



My  delegation  is  committed  to  reform  of  the 
Security Council. It wishes to position itself as part of 
the  solution  to  the  reform  process  and  not  to  the 
contrary.  Agreement  must  first  be  obtained  on  a 
reformed  Security  Council  and  how  a  reformed 
Council  would  be  constituted.  The  States  that  are  to 
serve on such a reformed Council — that is for a later 
decision, democratically decided. 
Mr.  Hoang  Chi  Trung  (Viet  Nam):  First  of  all, 

on behalf of the Vietnamese delegation, let me express 
our  deepest  thanks  to  His  Excellency  Ambassador 
Jorge  Urbina,  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Costa 
Rica  and  President  of 
the  Security  Council  for 
November, for presenting to the General Assembly the 
report on the Council’s activities (A/63/2). 

My  delegation  wishes  to  align  itself  with  the 
statement made by the representative of Cuba on behalf 
of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  on  two  important 
agenda  items,  relating  to  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council and the question of equitable representation on 
and increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and related matters. 
It  is  a  fact  that  the  workload  of  the  Security 

Council  is  increasing  every  year.  This  means  that 
international peace and security remain challenged and 
much  is  required  of  the  Council  to  discharge  its 
responsibilities. From a body that formerly met only a 
few times a month, the Council has become a body that 
holds hundreds of meetings a year. 

During  the  period  from  August  2007  to  July 
2008,  the  Council  held  219  formal  meetings  and 
177 consultations  of  the  whole.  On  the  ground,  in 
addition  to  17  operating  missions  mandated  by  the 
Security  Council, 
other 
peacekeeping  operations,  particularly  in  Africa,  is 
increasing  in  order,  to  strengthen  local  peacebuilding 
efforts. 
While  conflicts  and  deadly  violence  continue  to 

the  occupied 
take  place 
Palestinian territories and other regions, not to mention 
the  outbreak  of  new  ones  in  the  Balkans  and  the 
Caucasus,  United  Nations-led  peacemaking  efforts, 
including 
conflict 
prevention,  have  to  some  extent  yielded  encouraging 
tangible  outcomes,  helping  to  strengthen  peace  and 
stability  in  many  countries  in  various  regions  of  the 
world. 
Iraq,  Afghanistan, 
deployment 
preventive 
diplomacy 
and 
the 
of 
in 
A/63/PV.53
to 
intensify 
efficiency, 
transparency 
effectiveness, 
to  review  efforts 

Against this backdrop, we take note of the efforts 
made by the Security Council as well as the Secretariat 
to  fulfil  their  work,  especially  in  facilitating  the 
implementation  of  the  measures  stated  in  the  19  July 
2006 note of the President of the Council (S/2006/507). 
As  an  advocate  of  the  reforms  which  would  increase 
the 
and 
interaction of the United Nations system, including the 
Security  Council,  we  are  encouraged  by  the  positive 
developments to this end, particularly a growing trend 
towards  transparency  with  an  unprecedentedly  large 
number  of  open  meetings  held  by  the  Council  and, 
more  than  ever  before,  an  active  participation  by 
non-member States in the Council’s work. 

In  this  regard,  Viet  Nam  welcomes  the  open 
debate the Security Council held on 27 August 2008 to 
examine how to improve its working methods, as well 
as 
the  Council’s 
consultations  with 
the  broader  United  Nations 
membership  in  its  work,  including  the  drafting  of  its 
annual report to the General Assembly. 

We are fully convinced that more should be done 
to make the Council further accountable for its actions, 
as  expected  by  the  large  membership  of  the  United 
Nations. As  the  key  part  of  the  renewal  of  the  United 
Nations  system,  the  reform  of  the  Council  should  be 
further  expedited,  both  in  terms  of  its  representation 
and working methods. 

We  would  like  to  reiterate  our  position  that  a 
modern  Security  Council  must  be  more  representative 
and democratic with an enlargement in both permanent 
and  non-permanent  categories  of  membership.  At  the 
same  time,  a  greater  focus  should  be  placed  on 
improving the Council’s agenda, working methods and 
decision-making  process.  We  wish  to  underline  the 
view of the Non-Aligned Movement that transparency, 
openness  and  consistency  are  key  elements  that  the 
Council should observe. 

To  this  end,  we  are  in  favour  of  creating  more 
opportunities  for  United  Nations  members  to  express 
their  views  and  proposals  on  issues  of  which  the 
Council 
seized.  Frequent  consultations  with 
concerned  parties  would  also  do  much  to  help  ensure 
the greatest support for the Council. 

However,  transparency  must  not  be  exercised  at 
the  expense  of  overlapping  the  work  of  the  Council 
with that of other bodies such as the General Assembly, 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  the  United  Nations 
is 
08-60760 

21 

A/63/PV.53 

Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs 
and other agencies. This would weaken needed efforts 
at  coordination.  To  improve  its  efficiency,  besides 
pursuing  measures  to  streamline  its  work,  the  Council 
should  avoid  involvement  in  issues  which  do  not  fall 
within the purview of its mandate as stipulated by the 
Charter of the United Nations and should devote more 
effort to facilitating dialogue and mediation rather than 
abusing  sanctions  by  invoking  Chapter  VII  of  the 
Charter. 

It  is  high  time  for  Member  States  to  begin 
genuine  negotiations  on  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council. In support of decision 62/557, adopted by the 
General  Assembly  on  15  September,  my  delegation 
welcomes the determination of the Assembly President 
to push ahead the process of Security Council reform at 
the  current  session.  We  are  convinced  that  under  the 
President’s  wise  leadership,  the  United  Nations  will 
reap  fruitful  outcomes  on  the  path  ahead.  We  also 
extend our support to His Excellency Mr. Zahir Tanin, 
Permanent  Representative  of Afghanistan,  as  Chair  of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  are  looking 
forward to working closely with other members of the 
United Nations in this process. 

Finally,  I  should  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
express our most profound gratitude for the support of 
Member  States  that  we  enjoyed  in  carrying  out  our 
duties  as  President  of  the  Security  Council  during  the 
month  of  July,  in  particular  in  the  drafting  of  the 
current report of the Council. 
Mr. Takasu (Japan): At the outset, I would like to 

thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  for 
convening  today’s  plenary  meeting  to  discuss  the 
report  of  the  Security  Council  and  Security  Council 
reform. I would also like to extend my appreciation to 
Ambassador 
for 
introducing  the  report  in  his  capacity  as  President  of 
the Council for November. 

I  should  like  to  start  with  Security  Council 
reform. 
functioning, 
effectiveness  and  credibility  of  the  Council,  we  must 
urgently  reform  its  composition  to  reflect  today’s 
world,  not  the  world  of  yesterday,  and  to  address 
effectively  the  needs  of  the  twenty-first  century.  To 
achieve  that  goal,  it  is  essential  that  those  countries 
which bear major responsibility in the implementation 
of 
for 
international  peace  and  security  should  occupy 
Jorge  Urbina  of  Costa  Rica 
the  Security  Council 
the  decisions  of 
to  enhance 
In  order 
the 
to 
the 
and 
constructively 
important  and  historic  decision 
the  course  of  action  on  how 
this 
the  reform  process  from 
permanent seats on the Council. I would like to stress 
that the Security Council must be reformed through the 
expansion  of  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories. Only through such reform will the Council 
become more representative, effective and credible. 
The  genuine  desire  of  Member  States  to  realize 

meaningful  reform  of 
the  Security  Council  was 
manifested  in  the  unanimous  adoption  of  decision 
62/557  by  the  General  Assembly  on  15  September.  I 
welcome 
to 
advance 
the  stage  of 
consultations  that  had  continued  for  15  years  in  the 
Open-ended  Working  Group 
stage  of 
intergovernmental negotiations at the informal plenary 
of  the  General  Assembly.  That  decision  has  clearly 
determined 
the 
negotiations  will  be  launched  and  organized.  In  line 
with  this  decision,  we  should  proceed  speedily  to 
Japan  will  work 
intergovernmental  negotiations. 
actively 
towards 
achieving 
meaningful  reform  at  the  earliest  possible  date.  This 
will garner the widest possible political acceptance. 

The  functioning  of  the  Security  Council  should 
also  be  improved  by  enhancing  its  transparency  and 
accountability.  

The  quality  of  the  Security  Council’s  report  this 
year is vitally important. Its work during the reporting 
period was occupied predominantly by issues in Africa. 
The  introduction  of  the  report  provides  us  with  a 
comprehensive  overview  of  the  Council’s  work.  The 
report  contains  descriptions  of  Council  meetings  with 
the  core  message  of  each  briefing  and  the  reaction  of 
its  members.  With  more  detailed  information  in  the 
introduction,  we  appreciate  the  effort  which  has  been 
made to present a fair reflection of the Council’s work 
and 
to  strike  a  balance  between  analysis  and 
information.  The  report  is  also  candid  about  what  the 
Council was not able to achieve. It is important that it 
effectively  address  emerging  risks  and  threats  to 
international peace and security and speak in one voice 
in such situations. 

the 
reporting period is the interaction between the Council 
and 
the 
Commission 
its 
relationship with the Council has evolved and practices 
have  been  established,  such  as  regular  communication 
between the President of the Council and the Chair of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  As 
substantive  work, 
the  new  developments  during 
One  of 
began 
its 
22 

08-60760 


the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  with  the  participation 
of  the  chairs  of  the  country-specific  configurations  in 
the  relevant  Council  meetings.  Japan  welcomes  the 
further  development  of  such  practices  and  of  the 
relationship with the Peacebuilding Commission into a 
more concrete and substantial collaboration to support 
the work of the Council. 

Another  noteworthy  effort  was  the  organization 
of  the  informal  meeting  on  the  draft  report  of  the 
Council  before 
the  report  was  finalized.  It  was 
particularly useful for the Member States to reflect on 
matters of interest in the process of the preparation of 
the  report  of  the  Security  Council.  I  understand  that 
this was the first time this kind of consultation with the 
wider  membership  took  place  in  the  past  decade.  We 
are very grateful to Ambassador Minh of Viet Nam for 
proactively  addressing  the  concerns  expressed  earlier 
by Member States in the annual debate of the General 
Assembly. For further progress, I would like to suggest 
that  the  overview  part  of  the  introduction  elaborate 
briefly on the changing trends and significant events in 
the  work  of  the  Council,  any  improvement  in  the 
working  methods  and  discussions  on  cross-cutting 
operational and strategic issues in the Council. 

Improving  the  working  methods  of  the  Council 
continues to be a primary concern for both the Council 
and the General Assembly. The adoption of the note by 
the  President,  contained  in  document  S/2006/507, 
which  my  delegation  had  played  a  role  in  preparing, 
helped 
the 
responsibility  that  membership  entails.  We  saw  some 
improvements  in  this  regard.  The  types  of  meeting 
formats  have  been  clarified  and  the  number  of  public 
meetings has been substantially increased, in particular 
those  with  the  participation  of  the  countries  directly 
concerned.  Other  efforts  have  also  contributed  to 
increased  accessibility  of 
information  for 
non-Council members. 

the  Secretary-General  have 
reports  of 
become  more  concise  and  we  have  noted  efforts  to 
clearly  indicate  observations,  recommendations  and 
long-term strategies, as appropriate. For the purpose of 
substantive  discussion  in  the  Security  Council,  the 
timely distribution of the report is critically important. 

While these improvements are welcome, some of 
the  recommendations  contained  in  the  note  have  not 
yet been sufficiently implemented. The open debate of 
the Council on 28 August illustrated the achievements 
to  make  Council  members  aware  of 
timely 
The 
A/63/PV.53
transparent  and  comprehensive  review  of 
and shortfalls over the years. We hope the Council will 
undertake  follow-up  efforts  to  further  improve  its 
working methods. 

In conclusion, Japan, which is soon to become a 
member  of  the  Council,  will  make  every  effort  to 
enhance  the  accountability  and  transparency  of  the 
Security Council, as well as to advance the process of 
Security Council reform. 
Mr. Wolff (United States of America): On behalf 

of the United States, I would like to thank the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  for  helping  the  Assembly 
engage  in  a  constructive  dialogue  on  this  important 
issue.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Security  Council,  Ambassador  Jorge  Urbina  of  Costa 
Rica,  for  his  remarks  as  President,  introducing  the 
annual  report  of  the  Council.  This  report,  which  was 
capably drafted by the Vietnamese delegation, to whom 
we convey our gratitude, provides Member States with 
a 
the 
Council’s intensive work.  

As called for in decision 62/557, we look forward 
to  continuing  discussions  in  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group between now and the end of January so that all 
Member  States  can  prepare  the  path  forward  for  the 
launch  of  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council expansion no later than 28 February 2009. 
The United States is open to a modest expansion 

of 
the  Security  Council.  Only  an  expansion  of 
relatively small size will preserve the Council’s ability 
to  respond  quickly,  effectively  and  credibly  to  threats 
to  international  peace  and  security.  That  ability  is 
essential  for  the  Council  to  discharge  its  primary 
responsibility under the Charter for the maintenance of 
international peace and security, and it must guide our 
discussions on any Council expansion. 

that  qualified 
The  United  States  believes 
candidates for Security Council permanent membership 
must  have  demonstrated 
to  act  as 
responsible  stakeholders  in  addressing  global,  not  just 
local  or  regional,  challenges  to  peace  and  security. 
They must maintain strong commitments to democracy, 
human 
rights  and  non-proliferation  and  provide 
substantial  peacekeeping  or  financial  contributions  to 
the United Nations. As we have stated in the past, we 
believe  Japan  is  qualified  for  permanent  membership 
on those grounds, and we are willing to consider other 
nations as well. 
their  ability 
08-60760 

23 
are 
that 
pleased 
reason,  we 
A/63/PV.53 


Although  the  Charter  is  clear  on  the  two-thirds 
requirement for amendment of the Charter, we continue 
to  believe  that  it  is  politically  wise  and  important  to 
achieve  the  broadest  possible  support  for  Council 
expansion  to  ensure  that  no  significant  portion  of  the 
membership  is  alienated  by  the  result  and  that  it 
constitutes  an  improvement  over  the  status  quo.  For 
that 
decision 
62/557 includes the political goal of a solution that can 
garner  the  widest  possible  political  acceptance  by 
Member States. Achieving the widest possible political 
acceptance will greatly ease the ratification process by 
Member  States,  including  by  all  of  the  permanent 
members of the Council. 

The  United  States  strongly  believes  that  any 
reform of the Security Council must be undertaken in a 
manner  consistent  with  the  provisions  of  the  Charter 
and  as  part  of  a  comprehensive  effort  to  enhance  the 
effectiveness  of  the  entire  United  Nations  system, 
including areas that are clearly in much greater need of 
reform  than  the  Security  Council.  A  comprehensive 
package  must  include  reforms  in  other  areas,  such  as 
General Assembly  financing  and  decision-making. We 
have  yet  to  see  significant  movement  on  those  issues, 
and  we  urge  that  an  accelerated  parallel  process  be 
started  that  can  accompany  our  efforts  related  to  the 
Security Council. 
We  look  forward  to  hearing  the  views  of  other 

Member States and hope that we can all work together 
in a collaborative and collegial spirit to move forward 
to achieving our shared goal of United Nations reform. 
Mr.  Haroon  (Pakistan):  Pakistan  welcomes  the 

practice of holding this joint debate on two interrelated 
and  important  items  on  the  Assembly’s  agenda.  To 
begin, Sir, let me, through you, congratulate President 
d’Escoto Brockmann on assuming the Chair and thank 
him for all his efforts in bringing this matter before the 
membership  of  the  Assembly.  Let  me  also  thank 
Ambassador  Urbina  of  Costa  Rica  for  presenting  the 
Council’s  annual  report,  and  Ambassador  Le  Luong 
the  general 
Minh  of  Viet  Nam 
report.  Our 
membership 
appreciation  also  goes 
the  S-5 
countries  for  the  initiative  to  hold  an  open  debate  on 
working methods in the Security Council in August. 

With  responsibility  comes  accountability.  This 
debate  is,  first  and  foremost,  a  reaffirmation  of 
accountability  of  the  Security  Council  to  the  general 
for  consulting 
the  draft 
to  Belgium  and 
in  July  on 

tools 
are  but 
to  erode 
is  an  objective  assessment  of 
membership of the United Nations. The purpose of this 
accountability 
the 
Council’s  performance  in  carrying  out  its  primary 
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security,  a  responsibility  conferred  on  it  by 
the Member States sitting here and on whose behalf the 
Council acts. 

Not  only  the  Security  Council,  but  also  other 
organs  of  the  United  Nations  are  required  to  submit 
reports  to  the  General Assembly  for  its  consideration. 
These  Charter  provisions 
for 
accountability.  But  they  must  not  be  a  once-a-year 
phenomenon.  In  the  case  of  the  Security  Council,  the 
Charter  also  envisaged  special  reports  to  the  General 
Assembly,  which,  of  course,  we  have  not  had  the 
privilege of receiving. 

Since  the  Security  Council  is  in  continuous 
session,  the  exercise  of  accountability,  we  believe,  is 
also  continuous.  This  is  the  reality  with  which  the 
Council needs to come to terms. Business as usual will 
continue 
the  Council’s  credibility  and 
legitimacy. That is also the crux of the effort to reform 
the Council. 

Despite  its  shortcomings,  the  Council  is  doing 
important  work  in  promoting  peace  and  stability  in 
various  parts  of  the  world,  and  Pakistan  has  made  a 
tangible  contribution 
the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  The 
Council needs to do more to prevent conflict in the first 
place. It needs to devise and implement comprehensive 
strategies  and  should  work  more  closely  with  other 
United  Nations  bodies,  including,  specifically,  this 
Assembly and the Peacebuilding Commission. 

It  is,  however,  the  Council’s  poor  record  in  the 
handling  of  inter-State  conflicts  that  is  the  object  of 
most criticism and the reason for the loss of credibility. 
The  Council  does  not  deal  directly  with  some  of  the 
major  conflicts  and  threats  to  international  peace, 
security  and  harmony.  Some  major  issues  remain 
unsolved  due 
to  non-implementation  of  Security 
Council  resolutions,  such  as  the  Palestinian  and  the 
Jammu  and  Kashmir  issues.  In  the  conflicts  in  the 
Middle East, the Council’s role has been sidelined and 
viewed  mostly  as  ineffective  and  partisan.  If  the 
Council  were  to  do  its  job,  it  would  have  no  time  to 
even 
think  of  encroaching  on  mandates  and 
responsibilities of other United Nations organs. 
those  efforts 
for 
to 
24 

08-60760 
the  number  of 



Improvement  in  the  Council’s  working  methods 
and  more  transparent  and  democratic  decision-making 
are  long-standing  legitimate  demands  of  the  entire 
membership of the United Nations. Charter provisions, 
such as those in Articles 11, 15, 24, 31 and 32, and rule 
48 of the provisional rules of procedure, are not being 
implemented. 

Determination of the Council’s agenda depends to 
a  large  extent  on  the  positions  and  priorities  of  the 
permanent  members  and  major  powers.  There  is 
inaction  and  delay  in  the  Council,  even  in  the  face  of 
the  most  obvious  acts  of  aggression  and  breaches  of 
peace. On the other hand, sometimes there is proaction, 
even  interference,  in  the  internal  affairs  of  sovereign 
States.  The  Council  remains  a  closed  club,  controlled 
and orchestrated by the few. 

Most of the problems of the Council that we seek 
to redress through reform are related to the permanent 
members.  I  ask  delegates  here 
today,  will  not 
increasing 
individual  permanent 
members  render  the  Council  more  ineffective,  as  the 
interests  of  a  greater  number  of  permanent  members 
would  then  need  to  be  reconciled?  I  ask  whether  we 
can address these problems by enlarging the coterie of 
the 
the  democratic 
representation, the role and the influence of the general 
membership  in  the  Security  Council.  Logically,  the 
latter  is  the  right  and  the  only  feasible  approach.  The 
majority  of 
this 
approach, even though some have been made to believe 
otherwise and have been asked to state their case in the 
name of Council reform. We believe the views of two 
specific  groups  are  inimical  and  opposed  to  genuine 
reform as envisaged by the Member States. 

The first group is that of the permanent members 
of  the  Council  who  do  not  want  genuine  reform  and 
who believe in the status quo. In particular, they do not 
want  to  reform  the  use  of  the  veto,  which  over  six 
decades has been used for their interests. 

The  second  group  is  comprised  of  a  handful 
of countries  whose  goal  in  the  reform  exercise  is 
to promote  —  and  rightly  so,  as  far  as  they  are 
concerned  —  their  self-interest.  These  aspirants  to 
special  status  and  individual  privilege  in  fact  want  to 
become permanent members at any cost. Interestingly, 
they  are  also  in  the  forefront  in  criticizing  the 
permanent  members,  whose  power  and  influence  they 
claim to challenge. Paradoxically, however, they crave 
the  membership  should  support 
few  or  by 
strengthening 
join 
A/63/PV.53
is 
in 
ideas, 
is  obvious 
that 
reform 
exploring  new 
the  same  club.  It 
to 
the 
compromises and bargains involved in this grand game 
will  achieve  anything  but  reform  for  the  Security 
Council. Indeed, it may be inferred that the ambition of 
this group is in reality to block any substantial reform 
of the Council. 

But  others  have  moved  on  and  caused  their 
positions to evolve. Expansion in non-permanent seats, 
as we all know, is an option supported by all Member 
States  and  groups.  That  reform  is  among  the  few 
elements on which there is agreement, as noted by the 
Task  Force.  The  non-permanent  seats  provide  the 
maximum  and  the  most  equitable  opportunities  for  all 
Member  States  for  representation  on  the  Council. 
Many  Member  States  have  also  shown  interest  and 
flexibility 
including 
intermediate  options  involving  re-election  and  longer 
terms than the regular two-year terms. 

However, an approach which is truly reflective of 
new  realities  and  which  carries  strong  potential  in  the 
context  of  Security  Council 
regional 
representation. The Arab  States  for  example  call  for  a 
permanent Arab representation in any future expansion 
of  the  Council.  The  Organization  of  the  Islamic 
Conference (OIC) has demanded that any reform of the 
Council  must  ensure  adequate  representation  of  its 
member States. 
Then  we  have  the  African  position  on  regional 

representation.  While 
(G-4) 
countries have self-selected themselves, I congratulate 
the  African  Union  in  its  responsible  act  for  the 
selection  of  Africa’s  representatives  in  the  Council. 
The  members  of  the  G-4  say  that  they  support  the 
African  position,  but  why  then  are  they  not  willing  to 
accept  the  same  for  their  own  regions?  There,  the 
members of the G-4 are asking for permanent seats to 
be  allocated  to  the  regions  but  not  for  the  regions. 
Simply put, they want to have seats in the name of the 
regions but then occupy those seats themselves.  

No  wonder  that  while  Africa  is  united  on  its 
principled position, the approach of the G-4 has created 
serious rifts and divisions in Asia, the Group of Western 
European  and  other  States  and  the  Group  of  Latin 
American and Caribbean States. The Eastern European 
Group,  on  the  other  hand,  so  far  without  any  aspirant 
for permanent membership, is comfortably placed with 
its demand for an additional non-permanent seat, which 
will  be  available  for  all  the  countries  of  that  region.  I 
the  Group  of  Four 
08-60760 

25 

A/63/PV.53 

congratulate  the  members  of  that  Group  as  well,  for 
their excellent choice of approach. 

We  have  expressed  on  earlier  occasions  our 
understanding  for  the  principled  African  position, 
which  is  shared  by  the Arabs  and  Eastern  Europeans. 
We  believe  that  this  model  of  regional  representation, 
if  applied  to  all  other  regions,  could  garner  the 
reciprocal support of those regions, and thus promote a 
feasible compromise for all. 
The  challenge  is  how  to  reconcile  the  various 

that  only  a 
positions.  We  have  always  believed 
negotiated  solution  can  muster  the  widest  possible 
consensus required to bring about actual reform of the 
Security  Council.  That  approach  would  accommodate 
the  interests  and  positions  of  all  Member  States  and 
groups, and it would result in a strengthened and more 
effective United Nations. 
That is why we insist on a step-by-step approach 

in 
in  accordance  with  decision  62/557,  adopted 
September. To ensure success, we need to lay down the 
parameters and ground rules for transparent, open and 
effective  intergovernmental  negotiations.  That  is  a 
necessity  and  a  must.  Let  me  emphasize  that  that  is 
why the Uniting for Consensus group and others have 
proposed  that  in  accordance  with  decision  62/557,  the 
Open-ended Working  Group should carry out its work 
to  address  the  framework  and  modalities  in  order  to 
prepare 
intergovernmental 
negotiations to be held subsequently. We look forward 
to  engaging  with  all  Member  States  to  successfully 
complete  this  important  phase  in  the  coming  weeks. 
Having  participated  in  the  last  few  meetings  held  by 
the  previous  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  I 
would say to the representative of the United Kingdom 
today  that  all  members  of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus 
group,  which  has  been  working  for  consensus  in  the 
General Assembly,  are  well  aware  that  we  decided  to 
go  through  the  process  of  reaching  consensus  only 
because  it  was  in  the  interest  of  the  membership  at 
large,  and  because  it  would  be  beneficial  for  the 
organization  of  work 
to  establish 
modalities  that  would  be  likely  to  bear  fruit  when 
intergovernmental relationships were discussed. 
to  first  seek 
facilitate 
and 
the 
of 
the 
equitably 
contemporary 
representative, 

Once  the  negotiations  start  in  February,  we  will 
participate  constructively  and  will  make  substantive 
proposals  on  all  aspects  of  reform,  including  working 
methods and expansion of membership. Our proposals 
will  be  consistent  with  the  objectives  of  a  more 
democratic, 
transparent, 
effective  and  accountable  Council. They  will  conform 
to the principles of the sovereign equality of States and 
equitable geographical distribution. And that is the key 
point.  They  will  be  reflective  of  the  diversity  and 
pluralism 
international 
community. We seek a comprehensive reform — not a 
quick fix, which some want. 

Through negotiations, we shall work for a model 
that  is  responsive  to  the  substantial  increase  in  the 
number  of  developing  countries  in  the  United  Nations 
membership since the last expansion of the Council in 
the  1960s.  The  model  that  we  support  would  contain 
some of the following very important features.  

First,  the  model  would  provide  for  allocation  of 
seats  to  correspond  specifically  with  the  legitimate 
interest of the vast majority of small and medium-sized 
States  in  serving  as  Council  members.  Secondly,  it 
would  prioritize  regional 
individual 
interests.  Thirdly,  it  would  accommodate  the  positions 
of all Member States and regional and other groupings, 
including  in  particular Africa,  Eastern  Europe  and  the 
OIC/Arab States. Fourthly, the model will seek to build 
consensus within and among regions in order to achieve 
a stronger and more effective Security Council. Fifthly, 
it can have no place, however, for outdated concepts of 
permanency, individual privilege and special status. On 
the  contrary,  it  will  enhance  accountability  and  accord 
primacy to principles over power.  

This approach represents the only way to restore 
the authority, credibility and legitimacy of the Security 
Council, which are objectives we must all live up to in 
this  process  of  Security  Council  reform.  It  is  an 
approach that will protect and project and embrace the 
future  for  all  of  our  family  of  Member  States,  not 
through  the  double-speak  of  diplomacy  and  never-
never  land,  but  through  the  realization  of  where  their 
future lies. 
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. 
interests  over 
26 

08-60760 
