
A/63/PV.45
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

45th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 11 November 2008, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .


(Nicaragua) 
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Mbuende 
(Namibia), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 







Agenda item 65 (continued) 
Strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian 
and disaster relief assistance of the United Nations, 
including special economic assistance 
  (a)  Strengthening of the coordination of emergency 
humanitarian assistance of the United Nations 
  Reports of the Secretary-General (A/63/81, 
A/63/277 and A/63/348) 




  (b)  Special economic assistance to individual 





countries or regions 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/295) 
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.21) 


  (c)  Assistance to the Palestinian people 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/75) 

Mr.  Oosthuizen  (South  Africa):  My  delegation 

would like to express its appreciation for the reports by 
the  Secretary-General  provided  under  agenda  item  65, 
which  provide  a  useful  analysis  of 
the  specific 
challenges 
international 
humanitarian 
community faces today, as well as practical suggestions 
for  consideration  as  to  further  guide  our  deliberations 
within the General Assembly. 
that 
the 
to 
further  strengthen 

Recognizing  the  challenges  that  we  continue  to 
face  to  assist  vulnerable  communities  around  the 
world, allow me to thank the United Nations Office for 
the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs for the work 
done 
the  coordination  of 
humanitarian assistance in the United Nations. 

The  United  Nations  humanitarian  system,  like 
many  other  institutions,  is  faced  with  the  reality  of 
increasing  demands  within  the  ambit  of  rising  food 
prices,  increased  input  costs,  challenges  of  climate 
change  and  the  well-known  challenge  of  the  current 
financial crisis that is negatively affecting all Member 
States.  It  is  up  to  us  as  Member  States  to  continue  to 
show  our  commitment 
the  United  Nations 
humanitarian  community  and  to  ensure  its  success 
during these difficult times. 

The  recent  High-Level  Conference  on  World 
Food  Security,  which  was  held  in  Rome  during  June 
2008,  highlighted 
that 
developing countries are facing with regard to the high 
cost  of  food  and  how  this  impacts  on  feeding  their 
vulnerable people. The negative impact that high food 
prices  have  on 
the  budgets  of  humanitarian 
organizations,  such  as 
the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  (FAO)  and  the 
World  Food  Programme,  has  also  been  highlighted, 
which  in  turn  highlights  the  importance  of  donors 
fulfilling  their  commitments  to  contribute  in  a  timely 
and  adequate  manner 
these 
organizations. 
the  particular  challenges 
funding  of 
the 
to 
to 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-59952 (E) 
*0859952* 

A/63/PV.45 


Funding will always remain critical to ensure the 
effective  functioning  of  humanitarian  organizations. 
This  reality  was  recognized  by  Member  States  when 
they  adopted  resolution 60/124 of 15 December 2005, 
giving  birth  to  the  new  Central  Emergency  Response 
Fund (CERF), which has as one of its main objectives 
the  provision  of  funding  in  a  more  predictable  and 
timely  manner  to  ensure  that  early  action  would  be 
possible in an effort to reduce loss of life. Although the 
new Fund has only been in operation for the past few 
years,  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (document 
A/63/348)  highlights  the  various  successes  it  has 
already  achieved,  one  of  which  was  to  achieve  its 
aforementioned goal of providing assistance in a timely 
manner in order to reduce loss of life, a critical element 
in  the  provision  of  humanitarian  assistance.  The  fact 
that the Fund contributed substantially to the so-called 
under-funded  emergencies,  particularly  in Africa,  is  a 
welcome success for my delegation. 
As  one  of  the  original  contributors  to  the  Fund, 

South  Africa  will  support  the  appeal  made  by  the 
Secretary-General for continued and increased support 
to  the  Fund.  This  should  not  only  mean  financial 
support,  but  also  include  the  need  to  strengthen  the 
Secretariat  to  meet  the  challenges  associated  with  the 
functioning, management and oversight of the Fund. At 
the  same  time,  it  is  important  to  re-emphasize  that 
contributions  to  the  Fund  should  be  additional  to 
current  commitments  and  not  be  to  the  detriment  of 
resources  made  available  for  international  cooperation 
for development. 
However,  it  is  also  recognized  that  challenges 

within CERF still remain and will need to be addressed 
to ensure that the Fund will contribute more effectively 
to  the  workings  of  the  United  Nations  humanitarian 
system.  Solutions  need 
to  allow 
to  access  funding 
non-governmental  organizations 
quicker;  better  and  clearer  criteria  need 
to  be 
developed  for  resource  allocation;  quicker  methods  to 
obtain  approval  for  the  use  of  funds  and  better 
communication  to  allow  agencies  to  better  understand 
the  role  and  use  of  the  grant  facility  need  to  be 
developed.  This  requires  continued  involvement  by 
Member  States,  and  a  further  evaluation  of 
the 
effective  functioning  of  the  Fund  in  the  General 
Assembly will again be needed in the near future. 

What  the  current  financial  and  humanitarian 
crisis  also  highlights  is  the  critical  need  for  effective 
the  United 
partnerships  between  Member  States, 
to  be 
found 
humanitarian 
responses 
and 
to  enhance 
humanitarian 
organizations 
the  world.  These  partnerships,  under 
Nations 
and 
non-governmental  organizations  to  work  together  to 
ensure a coordinated approach to providing life-saving 
humanitarian  assistance  to  affected  communities  all 
around 
the 
leadership of national Governments, could also include 
the  engagement  of  regional  organizations  to  help 
improve 
standby 
capacities. 

It is important to recognize, however, that owing 
to the increase in the scope and severity of the impact 
of  humanitarian  emergencies,  many  developing 
countries do not have the capacity to deal with disaster 
preparedness,  risk  reduction  and  the  impact  of  these 
emergencies.  An  appeal  is,  therefore,  made  in  order 
that  the  United  Nations  system  and  the  international 
community  continue  to  play  their  important  role  in 
assisting  developing  countries 
their 
humanitarian capacities in addressing these challenges. 

My delegation will, therefore, actively engage in 
discussions  in  an  effort  to  contribute  to  the  collective 
wisdom  of  the  United  Nations  so  as  to  ensure  an 
increase  in  the  effectiveness  of  the  United  Nations 
system 
In 
particular,  it  remains  a  priority  for  my  delegation  to 
further the debate on the effective contribution that the 
cluster  approach  could  make  as  one  of  the  measures 
seeking  to  provide  better  leadership  and  prevent 
duplication  and  gaps  in  the  provision  of  humanitarian 
assistance. 

Also  recognizing  the  role  that  military  assets 
could  play  in  the  provision  of  disaster  relief,  it  would 
be 
the  effective  use  of 
internationally  recognized  guidelines  on  civil-military 
coordination,  in  full  respect  of  existing  humanitarian 
principles. 

South Africa  remains  cognizant  of  the  important 
role that parties to complex humanitarian emergencies 
can  play  in  ensuring  safe  access  to  humanitarian 
personnel  when  providing  assistance  to  vulnerable 
communities.  Rapid  and  unimpeded  passage  of 
humanitarian  personnel  and  relief  consignments  to 
affected  communities 
is 
essential, however, that humanitarian assistance should 
be  provided  in  a  manner  based  on  the  principles  of 
humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence, as 
enshrined  in  General Assembly  resolution  46/182  and 
other 
resolutions. 
to  provide  humanitarian  assistance. 
relevant  General  Assembly 
is, 
therefore,  critical.  It 
important 
to  promote 
2 

08-59952 
to 
like 
like 
conflicts 
comply  with 
the  world.  We  would 
In  conclusion,  South  Africa  would 


Furthermore,  my  delegation  remains  convinced  of  the 
need  to  protect  civilians  during  complex  humanitarian 
emergencies  and  calls  on  all  participants  to  address 
gender-based violence and make all possible efforts to 
ensure  that  adequate  measures  are  put  into  place  to 
prevent,  promptly  investigate  and  persecute  acts  of 
gender-based violence. 

In  this  regard,  South  Africa  would  also  like  to 
express  its  concern  about  the  increasing  number  of 
attacks against United Nations and other humanitarian 
personnel  around 
to 
commend the courage and commitment of those brave 
men  and  women  and  also  urge  all  parties  involved  in 
armed 
international 
humanitarian  law,  in  particular  their  obligations  under 
the Geneva Conventions and the Additional Protocols. 

to 
reiterate  its  commitment  to  continue  to  contribute  to 
the  effective  working  of  the  humanitarian  system, 
within  its  modest  means.  It  is  our  hope  that  the 
international community will be able to work together 
in  a  spirit  of  partnership  to  provide  assistance  better, 
faster,  more  predictably  and  in  a  better  coordinated 
manner,  that  will  also  take  the  needs  of  affected 
communities  into  consideration  and  not  be  based  on 
financial considerations alone. 
Mr.  Suarez  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation associates itself with the statement delivered 
yesterday on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

In line with General Assembly resolution 46/182, 
the  Government  of  Colombia  has  assumed  primary 
responsibility  for  and  the  main  role  in  the  initiation, 
organization,  coordination  and 
implementation  of 
humanitarian  assistance  within  its  territory.  The  State 
has  adopted 
for 
comprehensive  assistance 
into  account 
international  standards.  National  bodies,  with  significant 
technical capacity, coordinate the implementation of these 
policies  through  the  organization  of  actions  involving 
national, departmental and municipal authorities, with the 
participation  of  the  private  sector  and  civil  society.  I 
would  like  to  emphasize,  in  this  respect,  the  National 
Humanitarian Plenary, a coordination initiative led by the 
Presidential Agency for Social Action. Representatives of 
local  government,  international  humanitarian  assistance 
organizations 
organizations 
participate in that initiative. 
laws,  policies  and  programmes 
non-governmental 
take 
that 
and 
A/63/PV.45
its 
Likewise, 
Colombia 
implements 
strengthened 

Our country has faced natural disasters as a result 
of  its  location  in  the  tropics,  climate  change  and 
seismic  and  volcanic  phenomena.  In  order  to  deploy 
effective  responses,  both  the  National  System  and  the 
National  Plan  for  Disaster  Prevention  and  Response 
have  been  strengthened.  We  also  have  protocols  to 
guide the response from the presidency, ministries and 
the Public Force and guidelines for the formulation of 
emergency  sectoral  plans.  We  have  also  provided 
cooperation in this field to countries in Latin America 
and the Caribbean. 

solid 
humanitarian  response  policies  in  response  to  terrorist 
violence caused by illegal armed groups. The State has 
progressively 
comprehensive 
programmes for the assistance of displaced persons and 
other  victims  of  violence.  Priority  access  of  this 
population  to  State  social  services,  socio-economic 
stabilization  and  reparations  are  essential  components 
in those initiatives. I must stress that a budget close to 
$500 million is assigned each year for aid to displaced 
people. 

In  the  past  six  years,  the  number  of  violent 
incidents  has  declined  substantially,  thanks  to  the 
Democratic  Security  Policy 
the  massive 
demobilization  of  former  members  of  illegal  armed 
groups.  The  consolidation  of  security  is  a  decisive 
factor 
the  causes  of  humanitarian 
emergencies in Colombia. 

The  Secretary-General’s  reports  refer  to  several 
topics  that  deserve  special  attention.  With  regard  to 
disasters  associated  with  climate  change,  we  would 
highlight  the  role  of  international  cooperation  and 
technology  transfer  in  the  fields  of  adaptation,  the 
development  of  early  warning  systems  and 
the 
strengthening  of  national  preparedness  and  response 
capacities. 

With  respect  to  the  global  food  crisis,  short-, 
medium-  and  long-term  measures  and  joint  efforts  for 
solidarity 
international 
community as a whole, are essential to addressing that 
multidimensional problem. 
the  safety  of  humanitarian 

personnel,  coordination  and  dialogue  between  the 
United Nations and Governments are required in order 
to  identify  risks,  exchange  information  and  define 
protection measures that are more effective against acts 
of violence affecting humanitarian work. 
among  States 
in  mitigating 
With  regard 
and 
and 
the 
to 
08-59952 

3 

to 
time-critical  emergencies  and 
A/63/PV.45 


In  relation  to  funding,  Colombia  appreciates  the 
consolidation of the Central Emergency Respond Fund 
as an effective and flexible instrument that strengthens 
the  response 
to 
situations  where  assistance  has  been  under-funded  or 
where there is a lack of resources. 

Humanitarian  assistance  must  be  developed  in  a 
sustainable  process  aimed  at  rebuilding  the  social 
fabric  of  affected  communities.  In  this  respect,  an 
appropriate  transition  from  relief  to  development  is  a 
critical element in the design of policies and actions for 
humanitarian assistance.  

The  guiding  principles  set  out  in  resolution 
46/182  define  the  basic  framework  for  humanitarian 
assistance. The cooperation of the United Nations and 
other  actors  of  the  international  community  must  be 
provided  in  accordance  with  those  principles,  which 
include  humanity,  impartiality  and  neutrality,  while 
also  ensuring  adequate  coordination  with  the  national 
programmes and authorities of the affected States. That 
is  the  only  way  to  ensure  effectiveness,  coherence,  a 
better  response  and  a  more  efficient  use  of  resources. 
Colombia  will  remain  committed  to  promoting  and 
implementing that framework of action. 
Mr.  Petranto  (Indonesia):  Indonesia  welcomes 

the  continued  focus  by  the  General Assembly  on  this 
agenda item. I align Indonesia’s statement with that of 
Antigua and Barbuda on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China.  Allow  me  also  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for  the  comprehensive  reports,  which  give  a  detailed 
and  useful  account  of  efforts  to  enhance  international 
humanitarian responses. 

the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  has  suffered  severe 
setbacks.  Not  only  has  the  global  economy  been  less 
conducive  to  growth,  but  disasters  emanating  from 
human  and  natural  causes  have  compounded  their 
negative impacts. 
The  timely  provision  of  humanitarian  assistance 

has  therefore  become  more  essential  as  a  means  for  a 
rapid  response  for  the  victims  but  also  as  a  means  to 
help restore lives and development efforts. 

In that context, my delegation continues to believe 
that  an  effective  mechanism  should  be  put  in  place.  It 
should  be  demand-driven,  as  embodied  in  resolution 
46/182  of  19  December  1991.  That  resolution  rightly 
underlines  the  principles  of  neutrality,  humanity  and 
Development 
progress 
towards 
and 
in  order 
continually 
timely  responses 
in  many  countries 
impartiality and calls for full respect for the sovereignty, 
territorial integrity and national unity of States. 

Indonesia  would  also  like  to  emphasize  the 
importance  of  strengthening  the  role  of  the  Office  for 
the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. At the same 
time,  the  Central  Emergency  Respond  Fund  (CERF) 
has  been  an  important  component  in  providing  more 
predictable  and 
to  humanitarian 
emergencies.  Synergies  between  the  two  should  be 
strengthened 
enhance 
international humanitarian efforts. 

Indonesia  appreciates  the  independent  review  of 
the  CERF  commissioned  by  the  Secretary-General. 
While  the  Fund’s  operations  only  started  two  years 
ago, it has shown some encouraging results. Indonesia 
takes  note  that  the  Fund  has  been  more  effective  in 
enabling rapid mobilization of necessary funds for life-
saving  operations 
that  have 
experienced  sudden  disasters  and  conflicts.  The 
recommendations  of  the  review  have  been  noted  and 
should  be  further  discussed  with  key  stakeholders. 
Indonesia  looks  forward  to  actively  contributing  to 
those  discussions.  Let  us  not  forget  that  the  CERF 
relies on the commitment and contributions of Member 
States. We encourage the continued support of Member 
States to replenish the Fund. 

With  the  increasing  disasters  we  are  witnessing 
globally, there is still obvious room for improvement in 
coordination,  effectiveness  and  efficiency,  with  the 
objective  of  strengthening  partnerships  at  all  levels. 
Although  all  countries  should  undertake  appropriate 
measures  to  mitigate  the  impacts  of  disasters,  we 
cannot  deny  that  most  developing  countries  lack  the 
capacity  to  provide  swift  and  timely  relief  efforts  and 
conduct  rehabilitation  and  recovery  programmes  at 
later  stages.  Therefore,  we  also  believe  that  the 
international community, including the United Nations 
system  and  other  relevant  actors,  should  not  fail  to 
support  the  capacity  and  capability  of  developing 
countries  in,  among  other  areas,  developing  disaster 
preparedness plans. Indonesia itself has developed and 
tsunami  early 
is 
warning  system.  We  hope 
international 
community will support our initiative. 

On  behalf  of  the Association  of  Southeast Asian 
Nations and tsunami-affected countries, Indonesia will 
resolution  entitled 
also  be 
“Strengthening 
rehabilitation, 
today  an  Indonesian 
submitting  a  draft 
emergency 
launching 
to 
that 
the 
relief, 
4 

08-59952 
tsunami  disaster”  for 


reconstruction  and  prevention  in  the  aftermath  of  the 
Indian  Ocean 
the  General 
Assembly’s  consideration.  The  draft  resolution  builds 
on recent developments and lessons learned during the 
rehabilitation  and  reconstruction  phase  in  the  affected 
countries. Indonesia seeks the continued sponsorship of 
Member  States  of  the  draft  resolution,  which  will  be 
taken up for the last time at this year’s session. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General Assembly resolution 45/6 of 16 October 1990, 
I  now  call  on  Ms.  Christine  Beerli,  Vice-President  of 
the International Committee of the Red Cross. 
Ms.  Beerli  (International  Committee  of  the  Red 

Cross): In many places around the world — this week 
in particular, we are thinking of the dramatic situation 
in  eastern  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  —  the 
lives  of  countless  men,  women  and  children  continue 
to be ravaged by armed conflicts or other situations of 
violence.  Natural  disasters  are  occurring  more 
frequently.  A  scarcity  of  resources,  due  partly  to 
environmental  degradation  and  climate  change,  and 
rising  food  insecurity  imperil  livelihoods  that  are 
already fragile. All those factors contribute to poverty, 
migration  and 
increased  public  health  risks  and 
aggravate  the  humanitarian  consequences  of  armed 
conflict. 

The  activities  of  the  International  Committee  of 
the Red Cross (ICRC) are exclusively humanitarian. It 
works  throughout  the  world  to  protect  and  assist 
persons affected by armed conflict and other situations 
of violence. Its aim is to meet their most urgent needs 
without  discrimination  of  any  kind.  The  ICRC  is 
determined 
reliable,  effective  and 
predictable  organization  that  can  adapt  to  evolving 
humanitarian  situations  and  needs  —  an  organization 
whose  work  is  underpinned  by  a  strong  culture  of 
accountability,  first  and  foremost  to  the  affected 
persons themselves. 

Today,  humanitarian  action  is  carried  out  in 
highly  complex  and  sensitive  environments  and  faces 
many  challenges.  Gaining  and  maintaining  access  to 
persons 
in  need  of  protection  while  minimizing 
security  risks  is,  beyond  a  doubt,  our  top-priority 
concern in most operations. 

The level of  violence has  increased  considerably 
in many countries where the ICRC works, with serious 
humanitarian consequences for the civilian population. 
The  risks  of  the  rejection  and  instrumentalization  of 
remain  a 
to 
A/63/PV.45
its  staff 
to  carry  out 
The  ability  of 
humanitarian  staff  are  growing,  and  that  has  dramatic 
and dire consequences with regard to their safety. 

its 
humanitarian  tasks  safely  is  of  extreme  importance  to 
the ICRC. Safety is more than just an issue of physical 
protection; if  the ICRC is to operate in safety, it must 
have  acceptance. Acceptance  is  entirely  dependent  on 
the perception of the parties to an armed conflict, and 
of  those  whom  the  ICRC  assists,  with  regard  to  its 
exclusively  humanitarian  and  impartial  approach  and 
its  dissociation  from  any  kind  of  political  or  military 
agenda.  Impartiality  implies  that  assistance  will  be 
provided without any discrimination and will be based 
solely  on  assessed  needs.  Credible  neutrality  and 
independence require that we deliberately refrain from 
acting in any way or making any kind of statement that 
might be interpreted as taking sides or being associated 
with a specific agenda. Proximity to affected people is 
as essential to the ICRC as sustained dialogue with all 
actors in armed conflicts — no matter how they may be 
characterized  by  the  international  community  —  and 
with all those who are able to influence such actors. 

On the basis of its long experience in working in 
the area of armed conflict, the ICRC believes that it is 
its  exclusively  humanitarian,  neutral,  independent  and 
impartial  approach  that  allows  it  to  operate  in  places 
such as Afghanistan, Colombia and Darfur, to fulfil its 
humanitarian mandate in the North and South Caucasus 
and Pakistan, and to act as a neutral and humanitarian 
intermediary — for example, to facilitate the release of 
captured civilians. It considers that way of working to 
be the most effective and powerful tool at its disposal 
for  ensuring  access  to  people  and  acceptance  by  all 
parties.  Of  course,  that  rests  on  the  assumption  that 
belligerent  parties  trust  the  ICRC,  but  it  is  precisely 
such  trust  that  is  increasingly  difficult  to  build  and 
maintain,  as  various  stakeholders  are  calling  the  very 
foundations of humanitarian aid into question, which is 
yet  another  challenge  of  serious  concern  to  the  ICRC 
today. 

The  environment  for  humanitarian  action  has 
changed  dramatically  in  recent  years.  The  integration 
of  crisis  management 
tools,  combining  political, 
military, humanitarian and development objectives and 
activities,  is  an  inherent  feature  of  many  contexts 
today.  United  Nations  peace  support  operations  are 
increasingly  multifaceted;  their  mandates  range  from 
peace  maintenance  to  peace  enforcement  and  post-
conflict  recovery.  They  are  often  entrusted  with  the 
08-59952 

5 

effectiveness 
of 
that  has 
reasons.  That 
lose  some  of 
their  activities, 
sometimes  blurred 
A/63/PV.45 

task  of  both  protecting  civilian  populations  and 
facilitating  the  delivery  of  humanitarian  assistance. 
Unfortunately, 
the 
distinction  between  political  goals  and  humanitarian 
operations and between political or military actors and 
humanitarian organizations. 

Increasingly, political and military actors refer to 
humanitarian  principles  or 
those 
principles  are  being  acknowledged  is,  of  course,  a 
welcome  development,  but  we  should  recognize  that 
they  apply  mainly  to  the  activities  of  humanitarian 
organizations. When used by public authorities and the 
military 
term 
to  describe 
“humanitarian”  may 
its  essential 
attributes. The incorporation of humanitarian aid into a 
political  strategy  might  have  the  very  unwelcome 
consequence  that  parties  to  an  armed  conflict  and 
affected populations come to associate all humanitarian 
actors with political or military agendas. Furthermore, 
humanitarian  agencies  may  cease  to  be  regarded  as 
independent and neutral and thus no longer acceptable. 
The 
activities, 
particularly  in  gaining  access  to  persons  in  need  of 
assistance, may suffer. 

in 
States  have  an 
preventing  and  resolving  conflicts  and  in  creating 
sustainable  conditions 
to 
recover  after  conflict. Armed  and  security  forces  play 
an  equally  important  role  in  stabilizing  situations  and 
providing  security.  The  independence  of  humanitarian 
organizations  in  making  decisions  and  acting  must  be 
preserved  while  they  engage  in  appropriate  dialogue 
with  political  and  military  actors  for  humanitarian 
purposes. 

The  ICRC  deems  it  essential  that  political  or 
military action, including that undertaken under United 
Nations auspices, be conceived in such a way as not to 
erode  the  acceptability  of  humanitarian  action.  While 
there  are  situations  in  which  the  military  might  be 
needed  to  build  a  bridge,  drill  a  well  or  otherwise 
provide  logistical  means  to  bring  urgent  assistance  to 
those  in  need,  the  military  should  be  entrusted  with 
humanitarian  tasks  only  in  emergency  situations  in 
which  humanitarian  agencies  cannot  do 
job. 
Likewise,  humanitarian  agencies  should  resort  to  the 
use of military and civil defence capabilities only when 
no alternative is available.  
that  enable  populations 
important  political 
humanitarian 
the 
role 
the 
in 
responding 
The  ICRC  has  a 
legal  mandate  from 

the 
international  community  to  ensure  the  protection  of 
internally  displaced  persons  and  to  provide  them  with 
assistance  when  they  are  victims  of  armed  conflict. 
Displaced  persons  are  very  high  on  our  list  of 
operational  priorities.  The  ICRC  has  often  pointed  to 
the  need  to  design  flexible  response  strategies  to 
situations  of  internal  displacement.  Those  strategies 
would take into account the mandates and comparative 
strengths  of  the  actors  and  agencies  in  the  field. They 
would  also  be  adapted  to  fit  the  different  contexts  in 
which  internal  displacement  occurs. The  ICRC  cannot 
but  reiterate  its  wish  for  a  coordinated  approach  that 
succeeds in reconciling the ICRC’s specific identity as 
a strictly neutral and independent actor with a dynamic 
collaboration  with  United  Nations  agencies  and 
non-governmental  organizations 
to 
humanitarian needs on the ground. 

In situations  of armed  conflict or other violence, 
the ICRC, in addition to its own activities, coordinates 
the  international  relief  operations  undertaken  by  the 
International  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Movement. 
Every national Red Cross and Red Crescent society is 
committed,  together  with  the  International  Federation, 
to the fundamental principles of the Movement and to 
supporting  sister  organizations  dealing  with  crises  in 
their  countries  neutrally  and  impartially.  In  over  80 
countries  where  the  ICRC  is  currently  operational, 
national  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  societies  are  its 
primary  partners  for  humanitarian  action 
towards 
people in need. 
to 

However, 
efficient cooperation, in particular in the field, with all 
other  relevant  humanitarian  actors  that  are  effectively 
delivering  protection  and  assistance.  That,  of  course, 
includes  the  humanitarian  agencies  within  the  United 
Nations system. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General Assembly resolution 49/2 of 19 October 1994, 
I  call  on  the  observer  for  the  International  Federation 
of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.  
Mr.  Schulz  (International  Federation  of  Red 

Cross and Red Crescent Societies): Thank you, Sir, for 
giving me the opportunity to take part in this important 
debate on behalf of the International Federation of Red 
Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC).  
We  agree  that  the  increasing  frequency  and 

intensity  of  disasters,  as  described  in  the  Secretary-
remains  committed 
ICRC 
the 
6 

08-59952 
importantly, 


General’s  report  (A/63/277),  is  a  disturbing  trend  that 
requires  urgent  attention  both  in  terms  of  improving 
local,  national,  regional  and  international  response 
in 
capabilities,  and,  more 
terms  of 
addressing  disaster  risk  reduction.  That 
is  most 
apparent  when  considering  the  dramatic  impacts  of 
climate  change,  the  global  food  crisis,  the  recent 
financial turmoil and global economic decline. 

We are seeing the nature of international response 
operations  changing,  with  an  emerging  role  for 
regional  organizations  and  mechanisms  and 
the 
reluctance  of  some  countries  to  accept  unsolicited 
external  assistance.  Both  those  situations  occurred 
recently in Myanmar and presented the IFRC with the 
challenge  of  rapidly  developing  regional  Red  Cross 
and  Red  Crescent  mechanisms  that  could  match  and 
work  alongside  the  arrangements  being  designed  and 
put in place by Asian Governments. 

We have also observed that, in the delta region of 
Myanmar, international resources were not provided at 
the  levels  that  some  members  of  the  international 
community  considered  necessary.  It  was  quickly 
apparent to us that it is important for all concerned that 
as  clear  an  understanding  as  possible  be  available  of 
the coping mechanisms that can be and are being used 
in the affected area. 

Almost  15  years  ago,  in  May  1994,  the  global 
humanitarian  community  recognized  at  the Yokohama 
World Conference on Natural Disaster  Reduction that, 
while disasters are obviously related to hazards of one 
kind  or  another,  they  derive  their  force  from  the 
vulnerability  of  people  and  communities  to  those 
hazards.  That  underlines  the  urgency  to  increase  the 
humanitarian  capacity  to  respond  to  disasters  that 
cannot be avoided in the short term, while we likewise 
increase 
families, 
communities  and  countries  to  better  understand  and 
address the risks associated with climate change and to 
be better protected in the short and medium terms. 

The  current  negotiations  of  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  for  a  new 
agreement to be completed in Copenhagen in December 
2009  provide  a  welcome  and  necessary  opportunity  to 
strengthen the integration of climate risk management in 
overall  disaster  risk  management  and 
improve 
coherence with longer-term development processes. 
The  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Movement  has 

worked  closely  with  humanitarian  and  development 
the  capacities  of 
individuals, 
to 
A/63/PV.45
and 
organizations  in  the  United  Nations  system  and  with 
non-governmental  organizations  to  prepare  a  joint 
vision  for  the  upcoming  Poznán  Conference  of  the 
Parties  serving  as  the  meeting  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Kyoto  Protocol  on  how  existing  humanitarian  and 
disaster  risk  reduction  organizations,  policies  and 
measures  can  help  to  improve  people’s  resilience.  A 
further  step  in  that  process  is  to  establish  dialogue  at 
the national level among the humanitarian disaster risk 
reduction  sector,  climate  change  policymakers  and 
knowledge centres. 

The IFRC welcomes the Secretary-General’s call 
for a multi-year commitment to humanitarian funding. 
We are pleased that the call is not limited to the Central 
Emergency Response Fund (CERF), as that mechanism 
is not accessed by agencies beyond the United Nations 
International  Organization 
family 
for 
the 
Migration.  There 
is,  however,  a  clear  need  for 
predictable  humanitarian  funding  for  humanitarian 
actors  that  are  not  part  of  the  United  Nations  system, 
such as the IFRC and others. 

We  therefore  also  welcome  the  keen  willingness 
of  the  Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian 
Affairs 
IFRC  on 
humanitarian  funding.  That  dialogue  recognizes  that 
the  IFRC  Disaster  Response  Emergency  Fund  and 
United  Nations  CERF  are  complementary  funding 
mechanisms and both deserve donor support because of 
that complementarity. 

In  recent  years,  the  IFRC  has  spoken  of  the 
progress  of  its  work  under  the  heading  “International 
Disaster  Response  Laws,  Rules  and  Principles”.  This 
year, with great satisfaction we bring to the Assembly’s 
attention  the  adoption  of  the  Guidelines  for  the 
Domestic  Facilitation  and  Regulation  of  International 
Disaster  Relief  and  Initial  Recovery  Assistance  by 
States  and  national  societies  sitting  together  at  the 
thirtieth International Conference of the Red Cross and 
Red  Crescent  in  2007.  The  Guidelines  are  already 
helping  Governments  to  prepare  themselves  both  to 
enable  and  effectively  to  monitor  and  coordinate  the 
international assistance they request. 

Experience has shown that good planning in that 
area  can  greatly  reduce  technical  problems,  such  as 
restrictions  and  delays  in  customs,  visas,  transport 
permissions  and  tax  exemption  procedures,  that  can 
otherwise 
and 
effectiveness  of aid provided to stricken communities. 
initiate  dialogue  with 
seriously  undermine 
speed 
the 
to 
the 
08-59952 

7 
and 
key 

to  ensure 
A/63/PV.45 

It  also  empowers  Governments 
that 
international  assistance  is  of  appropriate  quality  and 
complements their own efforts to assist those in need. 

Realizing  that,  a  number  of  Governments  have 
already  begun  to  use  the  Guidelines  proactively  to 
examine  their  legal  preparedness  for  international 
relief.  Working  with  a  very  wide  range  of  partners, 
including the United Nations, specialized agencies, the 
Inter-Parliamentary  Union 
regional 
organizations,  the  IFRC  and  its  member  national 
societies  are  developing 
innovative  projects  and 
practical tools to support Governments in that task. 

As  pointed  out  by  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon in his report, this body can make an important 
contribution  by  promoting  the  active  attention  of  its 
members  to  the  issues  raised  in  the  Guidelines.  We 
were  very  pleased  that  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  saw  the  adoption  of  the  Guidelines  as  of 
significance  and  included  a  reference  to  them  in  its 
resolution 2008/36, and it is our hope that the General 
Assembly will share that view. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General Assembly resolution 47/4 of 16 October 1992, 
I  now  call  on  the  observer  for  the  International 
Organization for Migration. 
Mr.  Dall’Oglio  (International  Organization  for 

for 
Migration):  The 
Migration (IOM) is pleased to take the floor today with 
reference to the report of the Secretary-General entitled 
the  coordination  of  emergency 
“Strengthening  of 
humanitarian  assistance  of 
the  United  Nations” 
(A/63/81). 

The  great  number  of  serious  humanitarian  crises 
this year has resulted in the heightened vulnerability of 
poor  countries  that  have  been  exposed  to  the  negative 
interconnected  crises: 
impact  of  concomitant  and 
financial 
events, 
environmental degradation, volatile prices for food and 
energy and unacceptable levels of hunger, poverty and 
inequality. The magnitude of the challenges warrants a 
strengthening  of 
the  coordination  of  emergency 
humanitarian  assistance  in  a  collaborative  effort  with 
all stakeholders. 

As we approach the end of this challenging year, 
we would like to seize the opportunity to take stock of 
progress  made  and  draw  lessons  for  the  future  with 
International  Organization 
instability, 
climatic 
extreme 
together 
respect 
to  new  modalities  of  working 
promoted by the humanitarian reform process. 

Through greater predictability, accountability and 
a  more  deliberate  effort  to  build  partnerships,  IOM’s 
engagement  with  the  humanitarian  reform  process  has 
to  date  centred  around  enhanced  responsibilities  for 
vulnerable  migrants  and  displaced  persons,  which  we 
have assumed under the cluster approach. Through our 
cluster  lead  role  on  camp  coordination  and  camp 
management  in  situations  of  natural  disasters  and  our 
active engagement in a number of other areas, such as 
emergency shelter and early recovery, a new pattern of 
collaboration is emerging to deal with both emergency 
response as well as capacity development. 

The cluster approach supports national responses 
and 
fills  gaps  where 
international  support  and 
solidarity are needed. National Governments should be 
able to call upon any of the cluster leads as a partner in 
relevant sectors whenever appropriate. 

IOM  has  taken  an  active  role  within  the  Inter-
Agency  Standing  Committee  (IASC)  in  incorporating 
climate  change  into  the  humanitarian  agenda.  An 
increase  in  the  number  of  extreme  environmental  or 
climatic  events  and  the  resulting  internal  or  cross-
border displacement already present a challenge to the 
humanitarian  community,  while  the  frequency  and 
intensity  of  such  events  are  expected  to  rise  further. 
There is an urgent need to gain a better understanding 
of  the  important  linkages  between  what  can  be  called 
environmentally 
induced  migration  and  climate 
change,  with  special  attention  to  be  paid  to  the  most 
vulnerable countries, communities and individuals. 
Following  a  request  from  the  IASC,  IOM,  in 

coordination  with 
in 
cooperation  with  other  agencies,  is  carrying  out  a 
series  of 
and 
consultations  to  develop  appropriate  terminology  and 
typology on migration and displacement and to identify 
possible operational and analytical gaps in the context 
of the humanitarian response. 

Furthermore,  in  order  to  create  an  appropriate 
informal  framework  for  efficient,  coherent  and  cross-
cutting  cooperation  in  the  field  of  climate  change  and 
environmentally  induced  migration,  IOM,  together  with 
the  United  Nations  Environment  Programme,  United 
Nations  University  and  the  Munich  Re  Foundation,  is 
working  on  the  establishment  of  the  climate  change, 
environment  and  migration  alliance.  The  alliance  is 
inter-agency  meetings 
IASC  secretariat  and 
informal 
the 
8 

08-59952 
IOM 
strongly 
to 
security 
through 
the 
“Climate 
encourages 
in  Poznán 
change,  migration 


conceived  as  a  multi-stakeholder  global  partnership  of 
concerned  actors  representing  a  range  of  perspectives, 
including  environment,  migration,  development  and 
humanitarian assistance, and aims to promote awareness-
raising,  research,  policy  development  and  practical 
actions. 

the  multilateral 
negotiations  on  climate  change  to  take  account  of  the 
humanitarian  consequences  of  climate  change,  as  well 
as  the  need  to  manage  such  consequences  and  to 
protect  human 
systematic 
reduction  of  disaster  risks, 
including  emergency 
preparedness  and  reinforcement  of  response  and 
recovery  mechanisms  at  the  local,  national,  regional 
and  global  levels.  IOM  looks  forward  and  will  be 
contributing to a number of events at the Conference of 
the  United  Nations  Framework 
the  Parties 
Convention  on  Climate  Change 
in 
December, such as the side event led by the Office of 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees 
on 
forced 
and 
displacement: the new humanitarian frontier?”. 

On a different note, this year marks the two-year 
evaluation  of  the  Central  Emergency  Response  Fund 
(CERF),  which  has  become  a  valuable  tool  for  the 
humanitarian 
response 
activities, including those of IOM. Indeed, CERF has a 
relevance  and  usefulness  as  a  flexible  response 
mechanism  filling  an  important  gap  between  sudden 
emergencies  and  the  timely  availability  of  cash  flows. 
The  life-saving  criteria  of  CERF  received  substantial 
acknowledgement in the evaluation and we welcome a 
revisiting  of  the  criteria  to  recognize  the  particularly 
vulnerable  situations  of  certain  displaced  persons, 
including  stranded  migrants  who  require  humanitarian 
assistance. 

the 
IOM 
contributions it has received from CERF in the amount 
to date of some $37 million, which represents a critical 
mass of resources to jump-start operations in 61 crises. 
As  CERF  faces  competing  demands  from  the  adverse 
effects of climate change and the food crisis, we would 
welcome  Member  States  calling  for  an  increase  of 
additional  contributions  to  the  Fund  in  the  omnibus 
humanitarian resolution this fall. 

To  conclude,  IOM  is  committed  to  those  most 
vulnerable  in  times  of  crisis  and  remains  dedicated  to 
working  resourcefully  and  proficiently  with  our  IASC 
acknowledges  with 
community’s 
appreciation 
emergency 
A/63/PV.45
to 
for 
the 
network. We express here our deep appreciation to our 
partners,  and  in  particular  to  the  Emergency  Relief 
Coordinator  and  the  leadership  of  the  Office  for  the 
Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs 
their 
unwavering  commitment 
improvement  of 
humanitarian response capacities. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  in  the  debate  on  agenda  item  65  and  its 
sub-items (a) to (c). 

The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/63/L.21,  entitled  “Special  economic 
assistance for Yemen”. 

I should like to announce that since the tabling of 
the  draft  resolution,  the  following  countries  have 
become sponsors: Bangladesh, the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  Ecuador,  Indonesia,  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  Kyrgyzstan,  Madagascar,  Malaysia, 
Myanmar,  Pakistan, 
the  Philippines,  Tajikistan, 
Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia 
and the United States of America. 

draft resolution A/63/L.21? 

May  I  take  it  that  the Assembly  wishes  to  adopt 
resolution  A/63/L.21  was 
  Draft 
(resolution 63/20). 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 

representative of Yemen. 
Mr.  Al-Sulaimani  (Yemen):  On  behalf  of  the 

Republic  of  Yemen,  I  would  like  to  warmly  thank  all 
those  who  sponsored  and  supported  resolution  63/20 
entitled, “Special economic assistance for Yemen”. We 
thank the General Assembly for adopting the resolution 
by consensus. 
We  would  also  like  to  express  our  appreciation 

for the multifaceted assistance that has been granted by 
friendly and brotherly States, the donor community, the 
United  Nations  specialized  agencies, 
international 
financial  organizations  and  development  and  human 
relief  assistance  organizations.  We  hope  that  more 
technical  and  material  assistance  will  be  granted  to 
Yemen to help us to overcome the effects of the floods 
and  torrential  rains  that  have  struck  some  Yemeni 
provinces  as  well  as  to  rebuild  housing,  property  and 
infrastructure. 

We reaffirm that the relief efforts that have been 
made by my country and by civil society organizations, 
as  well  as  actions  and  policies  formulated  by  the 
adopted 

08-59952 

9 

A/63/PV.45 

national  Government  have  helped  to  mitigate  the 
devastating  material  and  psychological  effects  of  this 
natural disaster. Our means are limited and that is why 
we  hope 
international 
community. 
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 

has thus concluded its consideration of agenda item 65 
and its sub-items (a) through (c). 
for  assistance 
from 
the 




I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Agenda item 69 (continued) 
Report of the International Criminal Court 
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.19) 

The Acting  President:  Members  will  recall  that 

the  General Assembly  held  the  debate  on  this  agenda 
item at its 35th plenary meeting, on 30 October 2008. 

Netherlands to introduce draft resolution A/63/L.19. 
Mr. de Klerk (Netherlands): I have the honour to 

introduce,  under  agenda  item  69,  a  draft  resolution 
entitled  “Report  of  the  International  Criminal  Court” 
(A/63/L.19). 

In  addition  to  the  45  countries  mentioned  in 
document  A/63/L.19,  which  contains  the  text  of  the 
draft resolution, the following countries have indicated 
their wish to be included as sponsors of the resolution: 
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Andorra,  Antigua  and  Barbuda, 
Barbados,  Belize,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Burkina 
Faso,  the  Central  African  Republic,  Chile,  Colombia, 
Costa  Rica,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Dominica,  the  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Fiji, 
Gabon,  Gambia,  Georgia,  Guyana,  Iceland,  Jamaica, 
Japan, 
Lithuania, 
Madagascar,  Malawi,  Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Nauru, 
Niger,  Panama,  Paraguay,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  Senegal,  Serbia,  Sierra 
Leone,  South  Africa,  Suriname,  Switzerland, 
the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Uganda,  Uruguay  and  Zambia. 
This brings the total number of sponsors to 96. 
On 30 October, the President of the International 

Criminal  Court 
Judge  Philippe  Kirsch, 
presented  the  fourth  annual  report  of  the  ICC  to  this 
body. We  had  a  very  constructive  and  in-depth  debate 
then  and  there  is  no  reason  to  repeat  that  discussion 
here  today.  Allow  me,  though,  to  highlight  a  few 
elements. 
Lesotho, 
Liberia, 
Latvia, 
(ICC), 
to 
the  Secretary-General 
the  Rome  Statute  of 

The  establishment  of  the  Court  was  the  most 
significant development of the past decade in our long 
and  ongoing  struggle  to  eradicate  impunity.  In  the 
words  of 
in  his  statement 
marking the 10th anniversary of the Court on 17 July, 
“[T]he creation of the ICC is unquestionably one of the 
major  achievements  of  international  law  during  the 
past century”. 
In  that  regard,  we  will  continue  to  strive  for 

universal  adherence 
the 
International  Criminal  Court.  We  are  therefore  very 
pleased  to  welcome  the  countries  which  have  recently 
become State Parties to the Rome Statute — the Cook 
Islands,  Madagascar  and  Suriname  —  and  it  is  our 
sincere  hope  that  others  will  join  soon.  We  look 
forward  to  welcoming  many  more  States  as  parties  to 
the  ICC  by  the  2010  Review  Conference,  at  which 
States parties and non-States parties may participate, in 
accordance  with  the  Rome  Statute  and  the  rules  of 
procedure for the Review Conference. 

The International Criminal Court’s annual report, 
as well as the debate in the General Assembly just over 
a  week  ago,  underlined 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  plays  in  our  common 
multilateral system to end impunity and to establish the 
rule  of  law,  to  promote  and  encourage  respect  for 
human rights and to restore and maintain international 
peace  and  security.  It  is  our  firm  conviction  that 
sustainable peace cannot be achieved if perpetrators of 
the  most  serious  crimes  are  not  brought  to  justice. 
Peace  and  justice  are,  in  our  view,  complementary 
requirements. 
The President of the International Criminal Court, 

in  his  address 
(see 
A/63/PV.35),  stressed  the  fact  that  the  cooperation  of 
States, international organizations and civil society are 
essential  to  the  Court’s  functioning. This  is  especially 
the  case  in  relation  to  the  arrest  and  surrender  of 
accused  persons, 
the 
protection and relocation of victims and witnesses and 
the enforcement of sentences. 

We are pleased that the United Nations continued 
to assist the Court over the past year in its endeavours 
through 
the  Relationship 
Agreement.  We  also  welcome  the  assistance  provided 
so far by States parties and non-States parties and call 
on all States to continue to support the Court’s efforts 
in that regard. 
the  provision  of  evidence, 
the  General  Assembly 
important  role 
implementation 
the 
of 
to 
10 

08-59952 



Before  I  outline  the  three  main  objectives  of  the 
draft  resolution,  let  me  point  out  a  minor,  technical 
update. The first line of operative paragraph 14 of the 
draft  resolution,  should  read  “Notes  that  the  Review 
Conference to be held in 2010” instead of 2009. 

The  draft  resolution  before  us  serves  three  main 
objectives.  First,  it  seeks  to  provide  political  support 
for the International Criminal Court as an organization, 
for its mandate, for its aims and for the work it carries 
out.  Secondly,  it  seeks  to  underline  the  importance  of 
the  relationship  between  the  International  Criminal 
Court and the United Nations, which continues to grow 
stronger  on  the  basis  of  the  Relationship  Agreement. 
Lastly, it serves to remind States and international and 
regional  organizations  of  the  need  to  cooperate  with 
the International Criminal Court as it seeks to carry out 
its tasks. 

The  Netherlands  hopes  that  this  draft  resolution 
will  be  adopted  by  consensus  and  that  it  will  lead  to 
even  greater  support  for  the  International  Criminal 
Court in the fight against impunity and for its attempts 
to hold perpetrators of very serious crimes accountable 
for their actions. 
The Acting President: I should like to announce 

that Honduras has become a sponsor of draft resolution 
A/63/L.19. 
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 

A/63/L.19.  Before  giving  the  floor  to  the  speakers  in 
explanation  of  position  before  action  is  taken  on  the 
that 
draft  resolution,  may  I  remind  delegations 
explanations  of  vote  or  position  are 
to 
10 minutes  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats. 
Ms.  Willson  (United  States  of  America):  The 

concerns  of  the  United  States  about  the  Rome  Statute 
and International Criminal Court (ICC) are well known 
and  date  back  to  2000,  when  the  United  States  signed 
the  Rome  Statute  but  made  clear  that  it  would  not 
submit 
its 
fundamental  concerns  were  satisfied. Accordingly,  the 
United  States  cannot  join  the  consensus  on  this  draft 
resolution. 

Our  concerns  about  the  ICC  are  concerns  about 
means,  not  about  ends.  We  have  remained  steadfastly 
committed to promoting the rule of law and helping to 
bring  violators  of  international  humanitarian  law  to 
justice,  wherever  the  violations  may  occur,  and  have 
ratification  unless 
limited 
the  Statute 
for 
A/63/PV.45
continued  to  play  a  leadership  role  in  righting  these 
wrongs. Our actions over the last years with respect to 
the  Sudan  can  leave  no  doubt  about  the  strength  of 
these  commitments.  As  we  have  emphasized,  we 
cannot  ignore  the  terrible  crimes  that  have  occurred 
throughout  the  conflict  in  Darfur  and  the  massive 
human suffering the world has witnessed. 

We  underscore  once  again  that  we  respect  the 
right  of  other  States  to  become  parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute  and  have  asked  in  return  that  other  States 
respect  our  decision  and  our  right  not  to  become  a 
party. While respecting each other’s choices, there are 
practical  ways  in  which  the  United  States  and  the 
supporters  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  can 
work  together  to  advance  the  cause  of  international 
criminal justice. 

In this connection, we appreciate the inclusion of 
language in this year’s draft resolution that emphasizes 
the  importance  of  cooperation  by  States  parties  with 
States that are not parties to the Rome Statute and that 
notes that the upcoming review conference provides an 
opportunity to address the concerns of non-parties. 
At  the  same  time,  we  would  like  to  take  this 

opportunity  to  underscore  once  again  the  importance 
we  attach  to  rigorous  implementation  of  resolution 
58/318, which provides that 
“all  expenses  resulting  from  the  provision  of 
services,  facilities,  cooperation  and  any  other 
support  rendered  to  the  International  Criminal 
Court  or  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  to  the 
Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, 
including  under  any  arrangements  that  may  be 
otherwise  agreed  under  article  10  of 
the 
Relationship  Agreement,  that  may  accrue  to  the 
United Nations as a result of the implementation 
of  the  Relationship  Agreement  shall  be  paid  in 
full  to  the  Organization”  (resolution  58/318, 
para. 3). 
Mr. Ajawin  (Sudan):  Draft  resolution A/63/L.19 

contains  contentious  procedural  issues  regarding  the 
workings  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  we 
would  like  to  inform  this  Assembly  that  the  Sudan 
strongly dissociates itself from the draft for the various 
reasons  that  were  outlined  by  my  country  when  the 
report  of  the  activities  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court was tabled at the General Assembly last week. 
08-59952 

11 
through 
these 
indictments  will 
indictments  brought  by  him  against 
A/63/PV.45 


The  Sudan  views  with  serious  concern  that  the 
Court,  rather  than  being  faithful  to  the  wishes  of  the 
States  parties, 
its  Prosecutor  General, 
unfortunately, and in the absence of any accountability 
on  his  part,  chose  to  use  the  Court  as  a  tool  in  the 
hands of ulterior motives and as threat to my country’s 
peace  and  stability.  It  is  no  surprise  that  all  regional 
and  international  organizations  sharply  deplore  the 
recent 
the 
Sudanese  leadership  and  have  stated  in  a  single  voice 
that 
jeopardize  peace  and 
security in the Sudan and in the entire region. 
It  is  regrettable  that  the  Prosecutor  General 

intentionally  overlooked 
cardinal  principles  of 
international  law  and  the  law  of  treaties  and  chose  to 
target a Member State that is not  a party to the Rome 
Statute, overlooking, also, the immunity enjoyed by its 
head  of  State  under  the  relevant  laws  and  norms, 
repeatedly  confirmed  by  the  International  Court  of 
Justice. 
We  look  forward  to  the  States  parties  in  the 

forthcoming 
these 
blunders by the Prosecutor General. For this and other 
reasons,  the  Sudan  strongly  dissociates  itself  from  the 
draft  resolution  and  calls  on  the  President  to  ensure 
that its position is properly reflected in the record. 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

take  a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/63/L.19.  May  I 
take  it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft 
resolution A/63/L.19, as orally corrected? 

review  conference 
Draft  resolution  A/63/L.19,  as  orally  corrected, 
was adopted (resolution 63/21). 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on 

representative of Costa Rica. 
Mr. Urbina (Costa Rica) (spoke in Spanish): My 

delegation  has  requested  the  floor  in  order  to  make  a 
general  statement  regarding  agenda  item  69  following 
the adoption of the resolution. I take this opportunity to 
repeat  Costa  Rica’s  willingness  to  contribute  to  every 
effort aimed at strengthening the International Criminal 
Court, which is a young institution and one that is in its 
consolidation  phase.  The  108  countries  that  have 
acceded  to  or  ratified  the  Rome  Statute  are  under  the 
obligation to educate international public opinion as to 
the  importance,  for  the  civilized,  peaceful  coexistence 
of  nations  and  for  the  building  of  peace,  of  the 
existence  of  an  independent,  effective  and  legitimate 
rectifying 

the 
that 
in  order 
mechanism  to  help  heal  the  wounds  that  have  been 
inflicted on our collective memories for many decades 
and  which  often  stand  in  the  way  of  peaceful  and 
sustainable  development.  Only  our  ceaseless  efforts 
will be able to persuade those who still harbour doubts 
of the Court’s enormous potential to contribute, from a 
unique perspective and with a strong impact, towards a 
better world for the coming generations. 

In today’s world, riddled with crises, threats  and 
bad news, the International Criminal Court is an oasis 
of  hope.  We  know 
to  strengthen 
humankind’s  great qualitative progress, it is necessary 
first to overcome the great obstacles facing any attempt 
to  change  the  status  of  things  and  to  place  limits  on 
power.  There  always  has  been  and  always  will  be  a 
great  lack  of  understanding,  deeply  divided  interests 
and enormous loads of bad faith. For these reasons, no 
one should be surprised by the opposition to the Court 
from  powerful  interests  that  refuse  to  subject  their 
conduct  to  law.  Or  is  it  not  ancient  history,  always 
repeated,  that  those  who  are  drunk  with  power  and 
wealth  believe  with  vanity  that  their  conduct  is  above 
the law and far from the scrutiny of justice? 

We all know who are opposed to the International 
Criminal  Court,  and  why.  The  peoples,  their  hearts 
filled  with  hope,  have  acceded  to  the  Rome  Statute, 
and we know that we have the duty to defend the Court 
and  to  refute  the  weak  arguments  that  oppose  it,  to 
expose the bad faith and to educate international public 
opinion. 

Costa Rica is committed in this effort of civilized 
humanity by  the international community, insisting on 
building  a  future  on  the  solid  basis  of  justice.  Those 
who  seek  to  deform  the  face  of  the  Court,  those  who 
with bad intention  accuse it of being a political tool, a 
mechanism for domination or a tribunal that addresses 
African issues exclusively will not succeed. 

In this battle  the victors will be those of us who 
can demonstrate the independence of the Court and its 
intrinsic  value  in  the  fight  against  impunity  as  a  solid 
foundation  of  peace.  We  will  be  gracious  in  the 
struggle,  those  of  us  who  are  able  to  distinguish 
between  the  natural  mandate  of  the  Prosecutor  to 
investigate  crimes,  the  tireless  efforts  of  the  judges 
responsible  for  impartial  analysis  of  facts  brought  to 
their  attention,  and  the  implementation  of  norms 
accepted  by  all. We  will  be  victorious  in  the  struggle, 
those of us who are able to demonstrate, based on solid 
12 

08-59952 
those 
that 
is 
the  world.  Costa  Rica  understands 
arrest  warrants 


facts,  that  the  situations  submitted  to  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction  in  this  period  are  not  the  result  of 
arbitrariness  or  discrimination  but  of  the  unsolicited 
intent  of  the  referring  States  and  of  the  Security 
Council. 

I  will  conclude  by  recalling  that  there  are  still 
seven  outstanding  arrest  warrants,  some  three  years 
after  their  issuance.  We  are  not  ignoring  the  fact  that 
this situation endangers, every day, the confidence that 
peoples may have in the International Criminal Court. 
By  its  own  nature  the  Court  is  unable  to  arrest  those 
individuals; that is not the role of any court of justice 
the 
in 
enforcement  of 
the 
responsibility  of  States  and,  by  extension,  of  the 
international community. 

In  our  view,  therefore,  it  is  crucial  that  we 
implement  a  process  that  will  seriously  analyze  the 
problem of complying with the mandates of the Court. 
We must examine the broad array of tools available to 
the  international  community  to  achieve  its  purposes 
and to place some of those instruments at the service of 
the Court’s effectiveness, because its future depends on 
that effectiveness. 

Costa  Rica  will  align  its  efforts  with  those  of 
other  States  to  consolidate  the  international  system  of 
criminal  justice  so  as  to  enhance  its  efficiency  and  to 
sow  hope  for  a  solid  and  durable  peace  in  the  minds 
and hearts of the peoples who need this hope, for their 
progress. 

wish  of 
consideration of agenda item 69? 


The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
its 
the  General  Assembly 
It was so decided. 
to  conclude 

Agenda item 105 (continued) 
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments 
  (h)  Appointment of a member of the Joint 



Inspection Unit 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/108) 

The Acting President: As indicated in document 

A/63/108, the General Assembly is required, during the 
sixty-third  session,  to  appoint  a  member  to  fill  a 
vacancy  on  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit  that  will  arise 
A/63/PV.45
the 
to 
indicated 
Also,  as 
to  propose, 
the  expiration  of 
from 
term  of  office  on 
31 December 2009 of Mr. Tadanori Inomata, of Japan. 

As  also  indicated  in  the  same  document,  in 
accordance with article 3, paragraph 1, of the statute of 
the Joint Inspection Unit, the President of the General 
Assembly shall consult with Member States to draw up 
a list of countries — in this case, one country — which 
would  be  requested 
to  propose  a  candidate  for 
appointment to the Joint Inspection Unit. 

in  document  A/63/108, 
paragraph  4,  the  General  Assembly,  by  its  resolution 
61/238, decided that, beginning on 1 January 2008, the 
President  of  the  General Assembly,  when  drawing  up 
the  list  of  countries,  in  accordance  with  article  3, 
paragraph  1,  of  the  statute  of  the  Unit,  will  invite 
Member  States  to  submit  the  names  of  the  countries 
and  their  respective  candidates  simultaneously,  on  the 
understanding  that  the  candidates  submitted  would  be 
the  candidates  that  the  respective  Member  States 
intended 
the  extent  possible,  for 
appointment  by  the  Assembly,  in  accordance  with 
article 3, paragraph 2, of the statute. 
the  necessary  consultations,  I 

should  like  to  communicate  to  the  Assembly  the 
information  received  from  the  Chairman  of  the  Group 
of  Asian  States  that  the  Group  of  Asian  States  has 
endorsed Japan to propose a candidate for the vacancy 
from among the Asian States. 

In  accordance  with  article  3,  paragraph  1,  of  the 
statute of the Joint Inspection Unit and with resolution 
61/238  of  the  General Assembly,  Japan  has  submitted 
the  name  of  a  candidate  and  the  relevant  curriculum 
vitae 
relevant 
qualifications for the task. 

the  appropriate  consultations 
described in article 3, paragraph 2, of the statute of the 
Joint Inspection Unit, including consultations with the 
President of the Economic and Social Council and with 
the  Secretary-General  in  his  capacity  as  Chairman  of 
the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for 
Coordination,  I  will  submit the  name  of  the  candidate 
to the Assembly for appointment to the Joint Inspection 
Unit. 

consideration of sub-item (h) of agenda item 105. 
this  stage  of  our 
thus  concluded 
After  holding 
After  holding 
highlighting 
candidate’s 
We  have 
the 
08-59952 

13 

A/63/PV.45 


I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
Myanmar, who wishes to speak in exercise of the right 
of reply. 
Mr.  Myint  (Myanmar):  References  to  Myanmar 

have been made on some occasions in connection with 
cyclone Nargis, many months after the event. 
the 

representative  of  the  International  Committee  of  the 
Red  Cross  this  afternoon  under  agenda  item  65. 
Although  the  real  motivation  of  the  reference  is  not 
very  clear,  we  deem  it  necessary  to  inform  the 
Assembly  of  what  actually 
transpired  concerning 
cyclone Nargis. 
reference  was  made  by 
such 
One 
to 
the 
relevant 
the  catastrophe,  and 
In  fact,  the  Government  of  Myanmar  quickly 

responded 
international 
assistance  arrived  in  Myanmar  immediately  after  the 
cyclone by land, sea and air. The fact that the response 
of  the  Government  was  adequate  has  been  confirmed 
by 
international  organizations.  The 
international  community,  acting  through  the  United 
Nations,  could  work 
the 
Government of Myanmar. 

The creation  of the Tripartite Core Group — the 
TCG  —  which  comprises  Myanmar,  ASEAN  and  the 
United  Nations,  has  contributed 
the  smooth 
coordination  of  humanitarian  assistance  and 
joint 
planning for longer-term recovery and preparedness. 
The meeting rose at 4.30 p.m. 

in  partnership  with 
to 
14 

08-59952 
