
A/63/PV.49
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

49th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 13 November 2008, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 






In the absence of the President, Mr. Siles Alvarado 
(Bolivia), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m. 





to 
Mr.  Menon 
the  chairman  of 
Agenda item 45 (continued) 
Culture of peace 



  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/262) 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/127) 
  Draft resolutions (A/63/L.23 and 
A/63/L.24/Rev.1) 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I give 
the  delegation  of 

the  floor 
Singapore. 

(Singapore):  Globalization  has 
connected  us  all  together  more  closely  than  ever 
before. All over the world, people of different religions 
now  live  and  work  together  in  mixed  societies. 
Diversity  is  a  byword  both  religious  and  cultural, 
which  in  turn  raises  important  questions  about  how 
religions  and  cultures  can  and  should  interact.  We 
should consider ways to facilitate dialogue because the 
map  of  the  world  should  never  be  colour-coded  based 
on our different religious identities. 

In this regard, interreligious dialogue has become 
an  important  way  for  people  of  different  religions  to 
engage with one another and to build mutual trust and 
understanding.  The  roots  of  such  dialogue  can  be 
traced  back  to  the  late  nineteenth  century,  when  the 
to 
the  extent 
World’s Parliament of Religions was held in the United 
States.  The 
interreligious  movement  has  gathered 
momentum  since  then  and  has  become  increasingly 
important and relevant in recent years. 

Religion is a highly personal and spiritual matter. 
It can evoke the deepest responses and convictions of a 
person, 
that  perceived  differences 
sometimes become too difficult to bridge. Therefore, it 
is  understandable  that  some  peoples  and  communities 
may not be comfortable with the idea of interreligious 
dialogue  and  interaction.  Although  different  religions 
may  preach  similar  moral  standards  and  values, 
differences  between  religions  can  be  very  real  and 
distinct. However, in today’s world, where our lives are 
so deeply intertwined, we cannot afford to be ignorant 
of  one  another  or  to  have  enmities  between  different 
religions and cultures. As we get to know one another 
better,  we  not  only  appreciate  how  others  in  different 
religious  communities  encounter  the  divine,  but  also 
enhance our understanding of our own religions. In the 
process, we hope to widen the common ground that we 
all share in the development of all societies. 
Dialogue  is  clearly  important,  as  it  seeks  to 

engage  individuals,  build  relationships  and  deepen 
mutual 
to  be 
effective 
interreligious  and 
intercultural  sentiments,  dialogue  will  have  to  be 
accompanied  by  action.  Governments  have  an 
important role to play in this regard. Governments can 
and should initiate processes at the local level to bring 
together  key  partners  capable  of  establishing  links 
between religious leaders, so as to emphasize the value 
trust  and  understanding.  However, 
the  promotion  of 
in 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-60083 (E) 
*0860083* 
Singapore 
is  a  small 
A/63/PV.49 

of working together in harmony for mutual benefit. To 
do  this  sensitively  and  meaningfully,  we  need  to 
recognize the local realities of society, such as the trust 
that  people  have  in  their  Governments  to  be  impartial 
in their dealings with different ethnic communities. 

island  State  with  a 
population  of  approximately  4.84  million.  Ethnic 
Chinese  make  up  approximately  75  per  cent  of  the 
population,  Malays  make  up  about  14  per  cent  and 
Indians 9 per cent. The rest of the population consists 
of Eurasians and other ethnic groups.  

Singapore is also a multireligious country. While 
about  15  per  cent  of  the  population  has  no  religious 
affiliation,  the  majority  of  Singaporeans  are  followers 
of  various  faiths,  including  Christianity,  Buddhism, 
Islam, Hinduism, Sikhism and the Baha’i faith, among 
others.  

Notwithstanding  our  diversity,  race  and  religious 
relations  in  Singapore  today  are  generally  stable  and 
strong, with a good level of interreligious tolerance and 
respect.  This  is  no  mean  feat  and  is  the  result  of  the 
concerted  efforts  of  the  Singapore  Government  and  its 
people over almost three decades. For example, in 1990, 
Singapore’s  Parliament  passed  the  Maintenance  of 
Religious  Harmony  Act,  allowing  the  Government  to 
restrain  leaders  and  members  of  religious  groups  or 
institutions  from  carrying  out  any  act  that  could  cause 
feelings  of  enmity,  hatred,  ill  will  or  hostility  among 
different  religious  groups.  A  Presidential  Council  on 
Religious  Harmony  was  also  formed  under  the  Act  to 
advise 
the 
maintenance  of  religious  harmony  in  Singapore.  In 
2003, the Declaration of Religious Harmony was issued 
by the national bodies of all mainstream religious groups 
in  Singapore 
importance  of  and 
commitment  to  religious  harmony.  The  Inter-Religious 
Harmony  Circle  comprising  religious  representatives 
was subsequently formed to further enhance our efforts 
in the promotion of interreligious harmony. 

an  overarching 
governmental  effort  to  foster  unity  and  resilience 
among  various  communities  and  religious  groups  was 
established.  Called 
the  Community  Engagement 
Programme,  it  brought  together  stakeholders  from 
community  organizations,  businesses,  unions,  media, 
educational  institutions  and  religious  organizations  to 
take  up  the  responsibility  of  building  social  resilience 
and  communal  harmony. A  major  achievement  on  this 
the  Government  on  matters  affecting 
in  2006, 
to  affirm 
the 
More 
recently, 

of 
dialogue 
interreligious 
front  was  the  establishment  of  the  National  Steering 
Committee  on  Racial  and  Religious  Harmony,  which 
brings  together  apex  leaders  of  all  major  faith  and 
ethnic organizations to dialogue and exchange views.  
We are also seeing more ground-up initiatives in 

the 
promotion 
in 
Singaporean society. One example is a memorandum of 
understanding  signed  by  the  Young  Men’s  Christian 
Association  and  the  Singapore  Malay  Youth  Library 
Association  in  April  2006  to  enhance  interaction  and 
understanding  between  Christian  youths  and  their 
Malay peers. 

Efforts  to  promote  dialogue  are  only  one  side  of 
the  coin.  Singapore’s  approach  to  communal  harmony 
also  comprises  legislative  measures  against  those  who 
stir  up  and  provoke  racial  or  religious  intolerance.  In 
this  regard,  the  Singapore  Government  amended  the 
penal  code  in  2007  to  criminalize  acts  that  promote 
enmity between different religions or racial groups and 
are  prejudicial  to  the  maintenance  of  harmony  in 
society.  The  Singapore  Government  has  also  shown 
that  it  will  not  hesitate  to  mete  out  what  some  might 
consider  harsh  punishments  to  individuals  or  groups 
who  commit  acts  that  promote  feelings  of  ill  will  and 
hostility between different races and religions. In 2005, 
three  bloggers  were  sentenced  under  the  Sedition Act 
for  posting 
inflammatory  racist  comments  about 
Malays  and  Muslims  on  their  blogs.  The  conviction 
was necessary in order to send a strong message to all 
Singaporeans that acts that promote feelings of ill will 
and  hostility  among  different  races  and  religious 
communities  cannot  be  allowed  and  that  all  offenders 
will be dealt with accordingly. 

Singapore, of all countries, knows that peace and 
communal  harmony  are  hard  won.  The  lessons  of  the 
racial riots of the 1960s remain an indelible part of our 
history,  just  as  the  willingness  of  our  people  to 
embrace  the  diversity  of  ethnicities  and  religions 
continues 
to 
generation.  This  mutual  understanding  is  something 
that we have come to accept and treasure in Singapore, 
in  order  to  keep  our  small  multicultural  society 
cohesive and harmonious. 

We  have  also  learned  that  preserving  trust  and 
understanding  among  different  religious  communities 
requires a spirit of give and take. In respecting others, 
every religious group will be protected and assured of 
fair treatment in all aspects of life. This is an approach 
to  be  passed  on 
from  generation 
2 

08-60083 
initiative 
reaffirms 
Engaging 
interreligious  and 
the  emergence  of  various 


which is pragmatic and responsible and has worked for 
Singapore, as it allows every section of society to work 
together  as  partners  for  a  common  cause  and  to  build 
an equal and harmonious society. 

In this regard, my delegation is pleased to support 
the  efforts  spearheaded  by  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi 
Arabia  to  bring  about  this  plenary  discussion  on  a 
culture  of  peace.  This 
the 
importance of promoting interreligious dialogue as the 
way  towards  peaceful  coexistence  among  nations  and 
peoples.  My  delegation  also  notes  that  the  General 
Assembly  has  declared  2010  as  the  International Year 
for the Rapprochement of Cultures, and we pledge our 
support for the events that will be held in the course of 
the Year to further enhance efforts in that context. 

intercultural 
dialogue has never been more pertinent than in today’s 
increasingly  globalized  world.  Open  and  sustained 
dialogue,  as  well  as  respect  for  the  freedom  of 
expression  and  of  religious  belief,  are  fundamental  to 
our endeavour to promote a culture of peace. We have 
seen 
initiatives  and 
mechanisms  within  the  United  Nations  towards  this 
end. The task at hand is to ensure the synergy of these 
efforts  so  that  we  can  all  stand  on  common  ground  in 
promoting  the  development  of  human  society  and 
building a harmonious world. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give the floor to the chairman of the delegation of San 
Marino. 
Mr.  Bodini  (San  Marino):  I  wish  to  thank  the 

President  of  the  General Assembly  for  convening  this 
meeting, the Secretary-General for preparing the report 
on 
dialogue, 
understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace,  and  His 
Majesty King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Al Saud for his 
initiative to request this high-level meeting here in the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Republic  of  San  Marino  has  been  able  to 

preserve  its  independence  and  its  citizens’  freedom 
throughout the past 17 centuries only with the strength 
of  peaceful  tolerance:  tolerance  with  our  neighbours 
and  tolerance  among  our  own  people.  Tolerance  is  at 
the  core  of  all  religions.  We  embrace  the  statement 
made  yesterday  by  His  Majesty  the  King  of  Saudi 
Arabia:  
interreligious 
intercultural 
in 
and 
A/63/PV.49

powerful 
devastating 
armies  were 
intercultural  and 
the  Council  member  States, 
“Terrorism and crime are the enemies of ... every 
religion  and  every  civilization.  They  would  not 
have  appeared  except  for  the  absence  of  the 
principle of tolerance” (A/63/PV.46). 
During  the  last  year  of  the  Second  World  War, 

when 
our 
neighbours’ countryside and cities and decimating their 
civilian population, San Marino was able to shelter and 
feed  more  than  100,000  refugees  —  a  number  five 
times  larger  than  our  population  in  those  days  — 
without  distinction  as  to  their  political  and  religious 
beliefs. 
The Republic of San Marino is very conscious of 

the 
importance  of 
interreligious 
dialogue. Our Government, during its chairmanship of 
the  Committee  of  Ministers  of  the  Council  of  Europe, 
was at the forefront of debate on this topic. That debate 
generated  a  conference  on  the  religious  dimension  of 
intercultural  dialogue  in  Europe.  The  conference  was 
attended  by 
leaders 
belonging to the three major monotheistic religions and 
experts from civil society. 
We  are  very  pleased  that  this  very  important 

meeting  is  taking  place  here  in  the  General Assembly 
Hall.  More  than  ever,  our  General Assembly  must  be 
the engine room for generating bold new ideas in order 
to enable all of us to respond to old and new challenges 
of  our  world,  such  as  climate  change,  financial 
meltdown, economic depression, poverty, development, 
endemic disease and terrorism. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  the  chairman  of  the  delegation  of 
Azerbaijan. 
Mr. Mehdiyev (Azerbaijan): At the outset, allow 

me  to  express  my  Government’s  gratitude  and  sincere 
thanks to His Majesty King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Al 
Saud of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for the initiative 
to  request  this  high-level  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly on the culture of peace. This meeting indeed 
offers  a  timely  opportunity  to  exchange  views  and 
ideas  on 
interreligious  and 
intercultural dialogue, tolerance, mutual understanding 
and cooperation. 

Located at the geographic crossroads of the West 
and East, Azerbaijan has embraced various elements of 
both cultures  and civilizations. Indeed, in my country, 
where  various  faiths  and  religious  trends  have  been 
the  promotion  of 
08-60083 

3 
fought 
religion, 
rule 
against 
throughout  our  history, 
A/63/PV.49 

propagated 
relations  of 
tolerance  were  established  and  prevailed  among 
different communities. 

From  the  second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century, 
the capital of Azerbaijan, Baku, became the petroleum 
centre  of  the  region  and  beyond,  while  the  country 
amassed a mixture of languages, religions and cultural 
traditions.  In  1918,  Azerbaijan  established  the  first-
ever democratic republic in the East, with a multiparty 
parliament  and  a  coalition  Government.  During  the 
years  of  communist 
in  Azerbaijan,  which 
mercilessly 
remarkable 
religious  centres  were  destroyed  and  spiritual  values 
and traditions were subjected to systematic desecration 
and  oppression.  Ever  since  Azerbaijan  restored  its 
independence, equality before the law and the right to 
freedom  of  thought,  conscience,  religion  and  belief 
were  effectively  guaranteed  by  the  State  and  many 
mosques,  churches  and  synagogues  were  constructed 
and rehabilitated in the country. 

Nowadays,  Azerbaijan  shares  European  values 
and  is  an  inalienable  component  of  the  Euro-Atlantic 
security architecture. At the same time, Azerbaijan,  as 
part  of  the  Muslim  world,  shares  the  progressive 
heritage  and  spiritual  values  of  Islamic  culture  and 
civilization.  Such  an  advantage  gives  us  an  ample 
the  promotion  of 
opportunity 
interreligious 
and 
understanding, encourage ethnic and religious diversity 
and develop intercommunal links. 

has 
repeatedly  expressed  its  determination  to  act  as  a 
natural  bridge  consolidating  different  continents, 
cultures  and  civilizations  and  establishing 
the 
necessary  prerequisites 
the  promotion  of 
interreligious and intercultural dialogue. 

Thus,  being  convinced  of  the  crucial  role  that 
media  plays  in  shaping  public  opinion,  in April  2007, 
Azerbaijan  hosted  an  international  conference  on  the 
role  of  media  in  the  development  of  tolerance  and 
mutual  understanding.  As  an  active  member  of  the 
group  of  friends  of  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations, 
Azerbaijan  convened  in  November  2007,  with  the 
support  of  UNDP,  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the 
Islamic 
and  Cultural 
Organization, a high-level conference in the context of 
the  Youth  for  Alliance  of  Civilizations  initiative. 
Another important international gathering took place in 
background,  Azerbaijan 
to  contribute 
Educational, 
Against 
this 
Scientific 
and 
intercultural 
dialogue 
to 
for 

to 
efforts 
my country this June and was dedicated to the role of 
women in cross-cultural dialogue. 

We  look  forward  to  continuing  to  contribute  to 
peace and mutual understanding through the promotion 
of  a  dialogue  among  civilizations  and  cultures, 
including  by  holding  high-profile,  action-oriented 
events  that  would  bring  together  political  leaders, 
Governments, international organizations, civil society 
groups, religious communities and the media. 

Thus, Azerbaijan will host next month the Council 
of  Europe  conference  of  ministers  of  culture  on 
intercultural  dialogue  as  a  basis 
for  peace  and 
sustainable development in Europe and its neighbouring 
regions. Furthermore, Baku is being prepared to become 
the capital of Islamic culture for 2009. 

In  recent  years,  unacceptable  attacks  against 
Islam  in  some  countries  have  confirmed  the  vital 
necessity of joint efforts  and dialogue to counter such 
defamatory manifestations and misconceptions. 

We  fully  support  the  recommendations  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  importance  of  increasing 
educational 
remove  hate  messages, 
distortions, prejudice and negative bias from textbooks 
and other educational media, and of ensuring the basic 
knowledge  and  understanding  of  the  world’s  main 
cultures, civilizations and religions. 

background 
of  Azerbaijan’s 
principled approach to safeguarding its unity, diversity, 
cultural  heritage  and  spiritual  values,  there  has  been 
another  situation  in  our  immediate  neighbourhood 
based  upon  the  regrettable  policy  of  ethnic  and 
religious incompatibility. Thus, the practical realization 
of this policy resulted in destructive aggression against 
Azerbaijan  and  occupation  and  ethnic  cleansing  of  its 
territories. As a consequence, Azerbaijan has suffered, 
inter  alia, 
from  excessive  cultural  destruction. 
Numerous  historical,  cultural,  religious  monuments 
and works of art have been destroyed and plundered in 
the  occupied  territories  of  my  country.  Therefore,  the 
General  Assembly’s  consideration  of  the  agenda  item 
entitled  “The  situation  in  the  occupied  territories  of 
Azerbaijan”  plays  an  important  role  in  attracting  the 
attention  of  Member  States  to  the  illegal  practices  in 
the  occupied  territories  and  initiating  urgent  measures 
to put an end to them. 

meeting  will  make  a  valuable  contribution 
In  conclusion,  I  express  the  hope  that  this 
to 
Against 
the 
4 

08-60083 
religious 
(Mauritania) 
(spoke 
the 
stereotypes 
Mr.  Ould  Hadrami


and  misconceptions, 
to 
overcoming 
diminishing  hostility  and 
to  promoting  dialogue, 
understanding  and  mutual  respect  among  people  of 
different  cultural  and 
traditions.  I  am 
confident  that  the  tangible  results  of  this  meeting  will 
be a source of inspiration for all of us in our efforts to 
find creative solutions to the problems we are facing. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  the  chairman  of  the  delegation  of 
Mauritania. 
in 

Arabic):  On  behalf  of 
Islamic  Republic  of 
Mauritania,  allow  me  to  express  our  deep  thanks  and 
gratitude to the President of the Assembly for convening 
this all-important meeting. We also wish to express our 
appreciation to the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, 
His Majesty King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, for 
this  valuable 
initiative,  which  reflects  his  sincere 
commitment  to  promoting  the  culture  of  peace  and  the 
efforts  that  he  has  been  deploying  to  promote  cultural 
understanding among the peoples of the world. His most 
recent initiative was the convening, together with King 
Juan Carlos I of Spain, of the Madrid Interfaith Dialogue 
Conference, in July 2008. 

This  high-level  debate  of  the  General  Assembly 
acquires special significance in our world, as it comes 
amid  theories  of  the  inevitability  of  the  clash  of 
civilizations and cultures and ideas that seek to deepen 
the  differences  among  nations  and 
the 
foundations of peace and coexistence among peoples. 
Muslim  countries  attach  special  importance  to 

this  meeting  as  an  opportunity  to  project,  in  this 
universal forum, the true and noble message of  Islam, 
which is the message of tolerance. Indeed our Prophet 
says, in our holy tradition,  “I was sent  with a tolerant 
faith” and “Allah loves the tolerant faith of truth”. It is 
a  universal  message  that  is  addressed  to  mankind  and 
not to a single race, ethnic group or nation. In the Holy 
Koran, Allah Almighty  says  “We  have  sent  you  to  all 
mankind,  to  convey  to  them  glad  tidings  and  to  warn 
them of what will come” and “We have only sent you 
as  mercy  to  the  world”.  Islam  honours  mankind  as 
human beings and does not discriminate on the basis of 
colour,  sex  or  ethnicity:  “We  have  honoured  the 
children of Adam”. The Messenger of God stood to let 
a funeral procession go by. Someone said to him “The 
dead  one  is  not  a  Muslim”.  The  Messenger  of  God 
replied “Is he not a human being?” 
to  erode 
A/63/PV.49

This is the nature of Islam, a culture that is open 
to all cultures and civilizations. It interacts with them. 
Islam rejects cultural hegemony and respects the right 
of other religious minorities within its domain to freely 
practise  their  rites.  It  is  an  open  culture,  willing  to 
interact  with  other  cultures  and  civilizations  on  the 
basis of clear principles, including the following.  

First,  there  must  be  mutual  respect  between  all 
religions  without  any  denigration  of  the  beliefs  of 
others or defamation of their symbols. The Koran says 
“Do not insult those who do not invoke the message of 
God  so  that  they  will  not  insult  God”.  We  are  told  to 
refrain from aggression against others: “Allah does not 
forbid  you  from  befriending  those  who  did  not  attack 
you  or  expel  you  from  your  homes”.  We  must 
consolidate that which unites peoples and religions: “O 
people  of  the  scriptures,  come  to  a  world  that  is  just 
between us and you”. We are told to observe the rules 
of dialogue and respect for others: “Allah does not like 
the  public  mention  of  evil  except  by  those  who  have 
been  wronged”.  Moreover,  we  are  told  to  “argue  with 
people of scriptures in decency and with respect”. The 
Koran  tells  us  to  “deal  justly  with  all,  even  if  they 
disagree  with  us”,  exhorting  us  “when  you  judge 
between men, judge with justice, and if people aggress 
against  you,  remain  just  because  justice  is  close  to 
piety”.  
Islam recognizes the heritage of humanity and its 

progress  by  establishing  and  consolidating  noble 
values and high morals. As the Radith says, “I was sent 
to  uphold  and  complement  ethical  values”.  Thus, 
Muslims  believe  and 
revere  all  prophets  and 
messengers  of  God  who  came  before  them.  The  Holy 
Koran  says  that  “the  Messenger  has  believed  in  what 
was  revealed  to  him  from  his  Lord,  and  so  have  the 
believers; all believed in Allah and His Angels and His 
Books  and  His  Messengers,  saying,  we  make  no 
distinction between any of his Messengers”. 

If  dialogue  is  conducted  on  these  bases,  it  could 
lead  to  deepening  the  understanding  among  peoples 
and  promoting  human  values,  consolidating  social 
peace and security, and opening the door to combating 
injustice  and  aggression,  and 
the 
principles  of  truth,  justice,  respect  for  human  dignity 
and for all aspects of our environment, including flora 
and fauna. 

The dialogue among cultures and its contributions 
to  international  peace  is  hampered  by  several  factors, 
laying  down 
08-60083 

5 
Taking 
stereotypes 
Muslims  have  received 
the  declaration  made  at 
A/63/PV.49 

including unequal opportunities, disparate standards of 
living,  the  feeling  among  many  peoples  and  cultures 
that  they  are  marginalized  or  are  victims  of  exclusion 
and  double  standards,  unjust  policies,  the  negative 
attitudes  of  others  towards  issues  of  importance  to 
them,  preconceived 
and  dangerous 
generalizations  based  on  a  few  isolated  incidents  that 
represent deliberate attempts to obscure the truth while 
promoting falsehood. 

their  share  of  such 
attitudes and the image of their religion and culture has 
suffered as a result of such distortions. It is thus time to 
redress these wrongs and to give them justice. It is time 
to listen to them, to address their grievances and solve 
their  problems,  so  that  they  may  contribute  to  the 
realization of world peace that they deserve and so that 
they  may  actively  participate  in  the  dialogue  of 
cultures.  

the  World 
Conference  on  Dialogue  held  in  Madrid  and  its 
recommendations  as  a  solid  basis  for  various  cultures 
and  civilizations  to  agree  on  common  strategies  to 
serve  humanity,  we  take  special  note  of  the  following 
facts:  First,  diversity  of  cultures  and  civilizations  is  a 
sign  from  God,  and  it  should  be  a  cause  for  the 
humanity  to  progress.  Secondly,  dialogue  is  essential 
for  life,  as  it  is  important  to  know  others,  cooperate 
and communicate with them, in order to find the truth 
that  contributes  to  the  happiness  of  mankind. Thirdly, 
we  must  respect  monotheistic  religions,  beliefs  and 
symbols  and  must  condemn  any  attempts  to  denigrate 
or insult religious symbols or exploit religion to incite 
racial discrimination. Finally, all cultures and religions 
call 
the 
acknowledgment  that  they,  too,  have  a  right  to  peace 
and freedom. 

The  international  community  must  assume  its 
responsibilities  in  combating  extremism  and  terrorism 
by  addressing  misguided  ideological  and  political 
concepts as well as the economic and social imbalances 
that give rise to such phenomena. We should therefore 
adopt comprehensive integrated strategies based on an 
educational  and  cultural  approach 
that  renounces 
terrorism  and  encourages 
hatred,  extremism  and 
coexistence 
other 
civilizations. 

The  Islamic  Republic  of  Mauritania  which, 
throughout its history, has abided by the principles and 
communication  with 
for  peace, 
respect 
for  others 
and 

values of tolerance and was a link for fruitful contacts 
and  exchanges  between  different  cultures  and 
civilizations,  stands  ready  today  to  continue  that  role 
and  to  support  all  efforts  being  deployed  to  lay  down 
the  basis  for  a  culture  of  peace,  coexistence  and 
stability. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  the  chairman  of  the  delegation  of 
Malaysia. 
Mr.  Ali  (Malaysia):  I  wish  to  express  our 

appreciation  to  the  President  and  to  the  Custodian  of 
the  Two  Holy  Mosques,  His  Majesty  King  Abdullah 
bin Abdulaziz Al  Saud  of  Saudi Arabia,  for  the  effort 
taken  in  elevating  to  a  high-level  event  this  plenary 
meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  to  consider  agenda 
item 45, “Culture of peace”. This effort contributes to 
our  common  goal  of  building  a  culture  of  peace, 
tolerance and understanding, and builds upon previous 
initiatives  undertaken  by  the  United  Nations  on  this 
matter.  Malaysia  is  fully  supportive  of  efforts  at  the 
international level that are designed to generate greater 
understanding between cultures and civilizations. 
Our world continues to be besieged with conflicts 

among nations and among peoples, despite our world’s 
progress 
into  modernity  and  democracy.  Culture, 
ethnicity and religion are abused by some to highlight 
the  differences  among  us,  and  to  transform  these 
differences  into  divisions,  as  opposed  to  celebrating 
them as the beauty of the diversity among peoples. Yet 
the conflicts that these differences have spawned in our 
world today remain political in nature and reflect some 
of the socio-economic gaps in our globalized world. 

Malaysia  believes  that  we  need  to  be  mindful  of 
the  political  dimensions  vis-à-vis  the  divide  among 
societies  and  nations,  including,  in  particular,  conflict 
situations in different regions of the world and the need 
to  reach  final  and  just  solutions.  Although  there 
remains  disagreement  in  some  quarters,  it  cannot  be 
ignored 
intercultural  divides  are  very  much 
influenced  by  the  global  political  scene.  We  need  to 
address  these  political  root  causes  as  increased  access 
and exposure to images  and information can be  easily 
used  either  to  perpetuate  these  divides  or  to  help  to 
close them. 

Building a culture of peace is also aided through 
ensuring that people are free from the socio-economic 
wants  in  life  such  as  having  access  to  food,  shelter, 
education  and  decent  work,  as  well  as  stability  and 
that 
08-60083 
and 
6 



control over their own future. In this respect, we need 
to ensure that the right to development is pursued and 
made tangible, and that inequality gaps in income and 
opportunities among countries and within societies are 
overcome. 
Societies  in  general  tend  to  take  self-centred 

views  of 
themselves,  viewing  other  peoples  and 
cultures from the perspective of their own benchmarks 
and  philosophies  while  sometimes  imposing  their 
values  on  other  societies, 
thereby  creating  an 
atmosphere  of  acrimony  and  distrust  among  peoples. 
We  are  now  witnessing  a  dangerous  trend  in  the  form 
of  a  growing  schism  between  different  cultures  and 
religions  which,  if  not  addressed  properly,  could 
present  a  serious  threat  to  international  peace.  As  a 
multi-ethnic,  multicultural  and  multireligious  country, 
Malaysia  understands  very  well  the  challenges  the 
world would be confronted with if this dangerous trend 
is not reversed. 

We  are  witnessing,  inter  alia,  a  growing  rise  in 
the phenomenon of Islamophobia and its legitimization 
in political circles, in the sphere of public opinion and 
in  society  at  large.  This  phenomenon  is  the  result  of 
resurgent activities by political parties and associations 
established  on  the  basis  of  racist,  xenophobic  and 
perceived 
resulting 
defamation  of  religions  is  a  real  phenomenon,  and  we 
disagree with the notion that the defamation of religion 
is not an infringement of human rights. The defamation 
of  religion  constitutes  a  derogation  of  the  right  of 
belief, as it is inextricably linked to incitement to racial 
and  religious  hatred.  The  defamation  of  religion  and 
freedom  of  opinion  and  expression  are  not  mutually 
exclusive or incompatible. It is our view that the issue 
is  not  one  or  the  other,  but  ensuring  that  respect  for 
both can be balanced in conceptual as well as legal and 
the 
practical 
international  community  should  focus, 
instead  of 
debating  the  righteousness  of  one  as  opposed  to  the 
other. 
Initiatives  such  as,  inter  alia,  the  holding  of  this 

of 
high-level 
Civilizations  and 
Interfaith 
Cooperation  for  Peace  are  important  aspects  of  the 
the  promotion  of 
international  commitment 
intercultural, 
interreligious 
understanding and cooperation. Malaysia supports such 
initiatives  and  believes  that  the  positive  interaction 
among peoples of diverse cultures and values will help 
is  one  area  on  which 
intercivilizational  and 
the  Conference  on 
plenary  meeting, 
superiority.  The 
the  Alliance 
to 
ideological 
terms.  This 
A/63/PV.49
the 
civil 
society, 
thoughts 
ideas  and 
to  promote 
sustainable  economic  and 
to achieve the aim of preserving and promoting global 
peace  and  stability,  which  are  prerequisites  for  the 
promotion  of 
social 
development. 

While we have been fostering high-level dialogue 
for  the  past  two  days,  we  also  need  to  focus  our 
subsequent work on ensuring that this interaction flows 
to the local and grass-roots levels. We need to translate 
our 
into  practical  measures. 
Member  States,  the  United  Nations  system  and  civil 
society all have important and complementary roles in 
ensuring  that  that  can  become  a  reality.  Partnership 
with 
including  non-governmental 
organizations  and  the  private  sector,  will  greatly 
enhance  our  mutual  efforts  to  promote  intercultural, 
intercivilizational and interreligious understanding and 
represents  the  determined  will  of  the  international 
community to cooperate for peace. 

Over  the  past  few  years,  many  other  initiatives 
have  been  undertaken 
intercultural, 
intercivilizational  and  interreligious  dialogue.  These 
include  efforts  at 
international,  regional  and 
national  levels  —  sometimes  organized  and  convened 
by States, and sometimes by agencies within the United 
Nations  system  or  by  civil  society.  Those  efforts  are 
applauded  and  welcomed.  Malaysia  feels  that  the 
United Nations is the international body best placed to 
coordinate  such  efforts  and  that  it  can  play  a  leading 
role. 

As part of our intercultural, intercivilizational and 
interreligious  dialogue,  all  actors  need  to  ensure  that 
we increase the number of bridge-builders and focus on 
the values that we share. We need to approach dialogue 
with  mutual  respect  for  all  our  dimensions,  including 
ethnicity,  culture  and  religion,  as  well  as  for  various 
countries and nationalities. Once again, I wish to stress 
that political viewpoints should not cloud our common 
values. 

We  must  always  bear  in  mind  that  all  belief 
systems,  in  essence,  extol  the  virtues  of  tolerance  and 
peace;  that  each  and  every  society  must  develop  a 
democratic  system  that  suits  it,  while  retaining  its 
essential  principles;  that  labelling  creates  confusion 
rather than clarity and in some cases can be considered 
an  insult;  and  that  long-lasting  issues  that  continue  to 
plague  humanity  can  act  as  a  rallying  cause  for 
extremism  and  must  be  resolved  in  a  fair,  just  and 
balanced manner. 
08-60083 

7 

lies 
on 
and 
interreligious 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 
A/63/PV.49 

Malaysia  remains  convinced  that  the  culture  of 

peace 
in  mutual  understanding,  respect  and 
tolerance among religions, cultures and peoples. We, as 
members  of  this  body,  must  work  hand  in  hand  to 
achieve  that  goal  with  a  view  to  the  peace  and 
prosperity of our world. 

call on the representative of Ethiopia. 
Mr. Alemu (Ethiopia): First of all, my delegation 

wishes  to  congratulate  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly on the convening and the fruitful conduct of 
this high-level meeting on the culture of peace, which, 
as  many  previous  speakers  have  said, 
is  more 
important  than  ever  in  today’s  troubled  world.  My 
delegation  would  also  like  to  express  its  sincere 
appreciation 
to  His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  bin 
Abdulaziz Al  Saud  of  Saudi Arabia,  Custodian  of  the 
Two  Holy  Mosques,  for  having  personally  taken  the 
initiative to make it possible to convene this high-level 
dialogue 
intercultural 
understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace  at  a  very 
critical time, when mankind urgently needs to achieve 
better understanding and greater tolerance. 

I  also  wish  to  express  our  profound  appreciation 
and  satisfaction  regarding  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General 
item  under 
consideration.  Indeed,  the  report  presents  a  broad 
overview  of  the  various  major  activities  carried  out 
pursuant to resolution 62/90 over the past year. I shall 
briefly reflect on some of them in the light of the great 
significance  attached  to  this  agenda  item  by  the 
Government  of  Ethiopia  from  the  perspective  of  its 
own national policy.  

It  is  gratifying  to  note  that,  as  well  described  in 
the report of the Secretary-General, quite a number of 
encouraging  activities  have  been  carried  out  by 
UNESCO,  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  the  United 
Nations  Population  Fund,  the  Office  of  the  United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  the 
Department of Public Information and the Department 
of  Economic  and  Social  Affairs,  all  of  which  play 
direct  roles  in  implementing  the  agenda  under  review, 
with various focuses and mandates. Thus, the important 
activities  carried  out  by 
in 
facilitating 
and 
interreligious  dialogue  and  in  developing  concrete 
working  relationships  with  cultural  and  faith-based 
organizations 
roles  and  make 
those  major  actors 
that  play  useful 
(A/63/262)  on 
the  agenda 
intercultural 
and 
promoting 
the 
auspices, 
following 
contributions  in  that  area  are  truly  promising.  They 
inspire member countries to become further engaged in 
nurturing and enriching this crucial agenda with greater 
commitment and a shared vision. 

That  would  undoubtedly  provide  additional 
impetus  and  strength  to  the  burgeoning  achievements 
that  have  been  made  so  far  and  the  many  promising 
activities  that  are  still  in  the  pipeline  or  at  an  initial 
stage, not to mention the promise that it would hold for 
future  activities.  In  that  regard,  it  may  suffice  to 
consider  what  has  been  accomplished  within  the 
relatively  short  period  of  time  since  the  establishment 
of  the Alliance  of  Civilizations  in  2005  under  United 
Nations 
commendable 
initiatives  taken  by  the  Governments  of  Spain  and 
Turkey. 

It is indeed gratifying to learn that the Alliance — 
which  has  the  lofty  aim  of  improving  understanding 
and  cooperative 
relationships  among  States  and 
peoples across cultures and religions, coupled with the 
imperative  of  helping  to  counter  the  forces  that  fuel 
polarization  and  extremism  —  has  made  some  good 
progress,  which  quite 
the 
engagement  of  eminent  personalities  from  around  the 
globe. We  recognize  that  the  appointment  of  a  United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  to  direct  the  enormous 
task  and  the  development  of  a  detailed  and  action-
oriented  implementation  plan  in  various  appropriate 
fields  were  steps  taken  in  the  right  direction  to  fulfil 
the initiative’s paramount objectives. 

The  fast  increase  in  the  expansion  of  political 
support  around  the  Alliance  through  the  Group  of 
Friends  mechanism,  whose  membership  of  countries 
and  multilateral  groups  has  doubled  from  44  last  year 
to 88 this year, is in itself an example par excellence of 
the positive progress made in that regard. 

Likewise,  the  successful  convening  of  the  first 
Forum of the Alliance of Civilizations, in January 2008 
in  Madrid,  hosted  by  the  Government  of  Spain,  was 
truly  a  remarkable  step  in  the  right  direction.  My 
country,  Ethiopia  —  one  of  the  very  few  cradles  of 
human civilization — was honoured to take part in that 
grand 
high-level 
representation,  by  the  Government  and  the  Ethiopian 
Orthodox  Church.  We  enthusiastically  support  the 
outcome of that historic Forum and look forward to the 
upcoming  Second  Forum  of 
the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations,  which  the  Government  of  Turkey  has 
rightly  began  with 
Forum,  with 
two-pronged 
8 

08-60083 
its  peoples, 
is  home 
That 
to  more 
that  has  won  Ethiopia 


willingly promised to host in April 2009, and which is 
expected to attract even wider worldwide participation 
than its predecessor as a high-profile event. 
Ethiopia,  whose  strengths  as  a  nation  lie  in  the 

diversity  of 
than 
80 different  ethno-linguistic  groups  and  as  such  has 
rightly been described as a mosaic of cultures, beyond 
being the very cradle of mankind itself. Ethiopia is also 
known  as  an  ancient  common  home  of  the  three 
Abrahamic  religions;  Judaism,  Christianity  and  Islam, 
whose  followers  have  lived  together  in  harmony  and 
tolerance  for  millennia,  making 
the  country  an 
outstanding example of religious tolerance and, indeed, 
cohesion  through  its  unique,  age-old  blessing  of  unity 
in  diversity.  It  is  a  land  where  peoples  of  many 
religions  and  creeds  live  and  work  together  and 
understand  and  help  one  another  in  ideal  harmony. 
Indeed, it would not be an overstatement to say that is 
something 
respect  and 
admiration from far and wide. 

As members may know, history has recorded and 
will always remind us that Ethiopia — or Abyssinia or 
Al-Habasha  —  is  often  described  as  the  haven  of  the 
first  migration,  or  hegira.  For  Muslims,  Ethiopia  is 
synonymous  with  freedom  from  persecution  and 
emancipation  from  fear,  for  this  was  a  land  where  its 
Christian  king,  Negus  or Al-Najashi  —  whose  proper 
name  was  Ashsama  ibn  Abjar  —  was  a  person 
renowned  for  justice,  and  in  whose  kingdom  human 
rights were cherished. As recited in various Islamic and 
Ethiopian  literatures,  the  famous  Bilal  ibn  Rabah,  or 
Bilal  al-Habashi,  originally  a  non-Muslim  slave  from 
Ethiopia  who  lived  in  Mecca  during  the  time  of 
Prophet  Muhammad,  was  known  to  have  been  an 
important and trusted companion of the Prophet. And it 
was no coincidence that his native land, Ethiopia, was 
the country  chosen by the  Prophet when his followers 
needed protection and freedom from persecution.  

and 
accommodation has endured the test of time and events 
and  lives  on  to  further  strengthen  and  deepen  the 
bonds.  Indeed,  those  are  real  historic  instances  of 
dialogue and cooperation. Their key message, which is 
still valid in our times, is that we should all recognize 
the existence of heroes of faith who do not see or treat 
each other as adversaries, but instead capitalize on the 
closeness  of  each  other’s  faiths  and  seek  to  build 
bridges  instead  of  impassable  walls  based  solely  on 
cross-religious 
understanding 
A/63/PV.49
differences. That certainly applies equally with respect 
to all other religions and faiths. 

For  us  in  Ethiopia,  tolerance  and  respect  for 
different cultures, ethnicities and faiths is fundamental 
to  our  way  of  life.  Indeed,  we  even  consider  it  a 
question of survival, so as to make sure that the nation 
will continue to be united, as it has been throughout its 
long  history  and  so  that  it  will  continue  to  thrive  in 
unity and development, for the benefit of all. Nurturing 
mutual  accommodation,  understanding  and  respect 
among  peoples  of  different  cultures  and  faiths  has 
remained  engrained  in  our  own  traditions  as  a  nation. 
In  a  way,  that  is  the  whole  essence  of  what  we  have 
celebrated as the new Ethiopian third millennium over 
the  course  of  the  past  year,  both  at  home  and  abroad, 
cherishing it along with others worldwide. 

is  firmly 
The  Ethiopian  federal  constitution 
anchored  on  principles  including  that  of  according 
genuine recognition to and safeguarding the individual 
identities  and  rights  the  country’s  nationalities  and 
ensuring  their  full  participation  and  representation.  It 
also  enshrines  our  commitment  to  the  objective  of 
promoting unity in diversity. Thus, accommodating the 
diverse  identities  of  national  groups,  the  right  to 
self-determination  and  the  establishment  of  a  federal 
structure  that  effectively  devolves  power  to  the  grass 
roots  on  the  basis  of  those  principles  are  but  some  of 
the  major  remarkable  features  of  the  political  system 
now in place in Ethiopia. 

Thanks to the federal constitution, the peoples of 
Ethiopia  have  succeeded  in  further  entrenching  their 
age-old  tradition  and  culture  of  peace  and  peaceful 
coexistence  as  a 
tolerant  society,  embracing  and 
accommodating  all  sorts  of  differences  in  terms  of 
cultural identity and religious belief. As a token of that 
enduring  virtue,  a  national  Flag  Day  was  officially 
celebrated  this  year  for  the  first  time  in  the  country’s 
long history, to pay due tribute to the tricolour flag of 
the nation. The flag represents an eternal source of our 
country’s  strength  and  of  the  endurance  of  its  diverse 
peoples,  who  have  succeeded  in  surmounting  untold 
challenges for centuries, united as one and reaping the 
benefits  of  peace,  development,  tolerance  and  mutual 
cooperation — which is the case all the more so today. 

respect  and 
tolerance  extends  to  surrounding  areas  and  the  world 
beyond  the  natural  confines  of  the  country,  owing  to 
the  fact  that  the  principle  of  peaceful  neighbourliness 
innate  mutual 
Moreover, 
that 
08-60083 

9 

The  promotion  of 
A/63/PV.49 

and  coexistence  is  one  of  the  major  pillars  of  the 
federal constitution, and the foreign policy of Ethiopia, 
which  remains  a  hub  of  peace  and  cooperation  for 
mutual  benefit  and  for  development  in  our  region  and 
beyond. 

interactive  dialogue  and 
understanding  among  the  major  world  religions  and 
cultures  is  not  a  matter  of  choice  or,  as  His  Majesty 
King Abdullah of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan has 
aptly  put it,  not  a matter  of  luxury.  It is rather  a must: 
something to which we must all attach due significance. 
We  must  undertake  concerted  action  and  manifest 
sustained commitment, to realize our hope for a peaceful 
world,  where  tolerance,  respect  and  accommodation, 
rather  than  rejection  and  confrontation,  prevail  and 
where  misunderstandings  based  on  ignorance  and  fear 
among peoples no longer exist. 

Indeed,  the  popular  Holy  Koran  verse  that  was 
identically  recited  by  Their  Majesties  the  King  of 
Saudi Arabia  and  the  Emir  of  the  State  of  Kuwait,  as 
well  as  by  other  heads  of  Government  or  delegation 
who  spoke  after  them  at  this  gathering  yesterday  and 
today,  succinctly  sums  it  up.  And  as  its  counterpart 
from the Holy Bible counsels us to treat our brethren in 
the same way as we would wish to be treated by them, 
the  two  great  books  truly  complement  each  other  on 
this very fundamental point, as much as all other major 
religions and beliefs around the world would have it in 
their teachings. 
Finally,  as  a  staunch  believer  in  the  noble  cause 

of 
interreligious 
dialogue, 
understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace,  and  as  a 
sponsor of the draft resolutions presented for adoption 
by  Assembly  to  further  promote  this  cause,  I  would 
like  to  reassure  the  Assembly  that  Ethiopia  remains 
firmly committed and will continue to actively play its 
part  in  the  pursuit  of  this  paramount  global  initiative 
both at home and elsewhere, near and far, because the 
enormous  task  of  nurturing  the  culture  of  peace  is  a 
crucial common stake for us all. 

intercultural 
  Address by Mr. Gordon Brown, Prime Minister 
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister  of  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and 
Northern Ireland. 
and 



for 
I  admire 
Mr. Gordon Brown, Prime Minister of the United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
was escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr. Gordon  Brown,  Prime  Minister  of  the  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Brown  (United  Kingdom):  I  am  delighted 

that  so  many  leaders  who  have  served  the  world  with 
such  distinction  and  whom 
their 
statesmanship  have  assembled  from  every  faith  and 
every continent for this very special conference on the 
culture of peace and the power of dialogue. And I  am 
grateful  that  this  conference  is  being  held  under  the 
auspices  of  the  United  Nations  and  in  this  great  Hall 
where  so  many  declarations  and  decisions  that  have 
changed history have been pronounced. 
Let me pay tribute especially to King Abdullah of 

Saudi  Arabia,  a  man  of  great  faith  whose  leadership 
has  inspired  this  dialogue.  It  is  in  recognition  of  his 
work  and  that  of  the  Secretary-General,  whom  I  also 
applaud,  that  President  Bush,  the  King  of  Jordan,  the 
Emir of Kuwait, Presidents Peres, Zardari, Karzai and 
Halonen and Prime Minister Erdoğan and many, many 
more have addressed this forum yesterday and today. 
Never has such a global dialogue been so critical. 

Never  has  this  global  leadership  working  for  its 
success been so strong and so inspirational. And never 
have the global opportunities that might flow from this 
and  then  to  conflict,  division,  misunderstanding  and 
poverty  been  so  profound  and  so  necessary.  For  if  we 
believe  that  our  future  peace  and  security  lie  together 
rather than apart, lie in understanding not in isolation, 
lie  in  the  differences  that  we  acknowledge  and  that 
enrich  us  and  not  the  differences  that  divide  us,  then 
we  must  speak  to  people’s  values  and  speak  to  their 
beliefs. 
More  than  two  thirds  of  our  fellow  citizens  are 

followers of the major faiths, so we can be in no doubt 
about the power of faith to shape our world. And while 
it is not for politicians to lead that bringing together of 
faiths  —  that  can  ultimately  only  be  done  by  the 
leaders of faith communities themselves — we cannot 
successfully lead nations without it.  

the  greatest  of  social 
movements have been built on the strongest of ethical 
tells  us 
History 
that 
10 

08-60083 


foundations.  Two  hundred  years  ago,  was  it  not  men 
and  women  of  faith  and  religious  conviction  who 
successfully  campaigned  for  the  abolition  of  the  slave 
trade? They said that we could not be one world until 
slavery was ended. Fifty years ago, was it not men and 
women of conscience and religious faith who inspired 
the  civil  rights  movement  here  in  this  country  by 
saying  that  we  could  not  be  one  world  until  every 
single  citizen,  whatever  their  colour,  their  race  or 
background, enjoyed equal rights? 

And is it not men and women of conscience and 
religious conviction who say today, as we said here in 
this  General Assembly  only  a  few  weeks  ago,  that  we 
cannot  be  one  world  when  30,000  children  die 
unnecessarily every day from diseases we know how to 
cure, and that we must together respond to this poverty 
emergency  by  redoubling  our  efforts  to  meet  the 
Millennium Development Goals? 

This  is  the  power  of  faith,  to  forge  the  greatest 
possible coalition for the common good — not one that 
seeks  to  impose  uniformity  of  doctrine  or  culture,  but 
one  that  is  enriched  by  diversity,  united  by  shared 
values  and  empowered  by  a  common  commitment  to 
make our world a better place. 

Too  often  throughout  history,  people  have  seen 
the  foreigner  as  at  best  a  stranger  and  sometimes,  at 
worse,  an  enemy,  and  too  often  cultures  and  faiths 
appear to change at national borders as dramatically as 
fashion  and  language.  But  today  we  know  we  are  not 
and never can be moral strangers to each other, because 
we  find  that  through  each  of  our  heritages,  our 
traditions  and  faiths  runs  a  single  powerful  moral 
sense — a sense that we all share the pain of others, a 
sense 
in  something  bigger  than 
ourselves.  Christians  say,  “Do  to  others  as  you  would 
have  them  do  to  you”.  Judaism  says,  “Love  your 
neighbour as yourself”. Muslims say, “No one of you is 
a believer until he desires for his brother that which he 
desires for himself”. Buddhists say, “Hurt not others in 
ways that you yourself would find hurtful”. Sikhs say, 
“Treat  others  as  you  would  be  treated  yourself”. 
Hindus  say,  “The  sum  of  duty  is  do  not  unto  others 
which would cause pain if done to you”. 

Now call this the best angels of our nature, call it 
the light in man, call it the moral sense, call it, as the 
philosopher Adam Smith did, the moral sentiment. Call 
it  conscience  of  fostering  compassion.  Call  it  the 
global ethic, the irrevocable unconditional norm for all 
that  we  believe 
A/63/PV.49
areas  of  life,  for  families,  communities,  for  races, 
nations and religions: most of us accept that what you 
do not wish done to yourself, you do not do to others. 
It is the same sacred ideal at the ethical heart of all true 
religions  —  our  duty  to  others,  our  concern  for  the 
outsider, the sense that each of us is our brother’s and 
sister’s keeper.  

So to those who say that religion, and especially 
that  the  misunderstanding  and  intolerance  that  has 
often  existed  between  religions,  is  responsible  for 
many  of  the  problems  we  face  today,  I  say  we  will 
address these problems if we act upon that moral sense 
that is shared at the heart of all the great faiths of the 
world. 

We have a unique opportunity in this new global 
age,  in  what  is  an  interdependent  world,  to  act  upon 
that 
interdependence  and  make  a  partnership  by 
working  together  for  the  common  good.  And  what  is 
new  in  this  global  age  is  our  enhanced  ability  to 
communicate  with  each  other,  to  speak  to  each  other 
across continents. It was not so long ago that we would 
say, “If only people could communicate across borders. 
If only people could hear what their opponents have to 
say. If only they could speak with each other and find 
that  they  have  so  much  in  common,  then  the  world 
would be different”.  

But  today  most  of  these  barriers,  these  old 
barriers to communication, are being removed. We can 
now  communicate  with  each  other  across  frontiers, 
almost  instantaneously.  Through  the  Internet,  through 
texting  and  through  e-mailing,  there  are  hundreds  of 
thousands of social networks crossing the world; there 
are  millions  of  people  who  may  not  inhabit  the  same 
street but now inhabit the same Internet site. It is in the 
encounter  of  listening,  and  being  listened  to,  that  we 
discover  that  the  beliefs  we  have  in  common  are  so 
much greater than what has in the past driven us apart.  

We discover what Britain’s Chief Rabbi, Jonathan 
Sacks,  calls  the  dignity  of  difference  —  people,  he 
said, all made in the divine image, who find that they 
are possessed of a dignity and sanctity that transcends 
our  differences.  And  we  must  act  upon  our 
interdependence.  

Recently,  in  Abuja,  I  visited  a  run-down  and 
dilapidated  school,  where  children  were  sitting  either 
on the floor without a desk or three to a desk that had 
been  built  for  one.  Their  parents  told  me  that  a  few 
miles  away,  a  far  better  school,  a  far  better  equipped 
08-60083 

11 
Secondly, 
in 
But 
let  us  agree 
A/63/PV.49 

school,  offered  free  education.  But  the  great  facilities 
and  teachers  came  at  a  high  price,  because  they  were 
funded by an extremist group poisoning the children’s 
minds and attracting them to a life of terrorism. 

I believe it  falls upon us to ensure the  right to a 
decent education, free of extremism, for every child in 
the world. Think, if the achievement of this generation 
could  be  that  every  child  was  able  to  go  to  school  to 
gain  an  education  to  recognize  what  they  had  in 
common with other children, and I believe we could do 
that,  by  coming  together  and  spending  $10  billion  a 
year — $100 for each child. 

that  first,  we  should  do 
everything  to  fight  extremism  wherever  it  exists,  so 
that people understand the central tenets of their faiths 
and  the  rich  association  those  faiths  enjoy  with  each 
other. And  we  in  Britain  will  continue  to  step  up  our 
campaign,  working  with  other  countries,  to  separate 
decent young people from the pressures of divisive and 
extremist advocates of terrorism.  
the  values  of  different  faiths  are 

already  expressed 
joint  projects  and  common 
service. In Britain, we have Muslim Aid, collaborating 
with  the  United  Methodist  Committee  in  America  to 
respond to the needs of disaster victims in Asia. British 
Muslims working with American Christians to support 
Asian neighbours of all faiths and traditions gives us a 
glimpse of the potential of faith across our world.  

As  we  celebrate  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, so we should 
also see shared values through a shared commitment to 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms.  I  have  one 
other  proposal  about  how  shared  values  can  bring  us 
together:  40  years  ago,  the  United  States  created  the 
Peace  Corps  for  young  people  from  America  to  help 
the  world  and,  around  the  world,  many  countries, 
including  Britain,  have  their  own  Voluntary  Service 
Overseas organizations.  
But  in  this  new  global  age,  should  we  not 

celebrate the shared moral sense that is common to all 
cultures, all religions and all faiths by bringing young 
people  together  in  a  global  corps,  perhaps  a  global 
environmental  corps,  a  global  community  service 
corps,  a  global  peace  corps  and  a  global  medical  aid 
corps,  bringing  young  people  of  all  nationalities  and 
faiths  together  with  each  other  in  a  global  effort  that 
will  show  the  strength  that  comes  from  the  world’s 
young people acting together? 


Thirdly,  we  should  repeat  the  importance  that 
everyone who has spoken here attaches to peace in the 
Middle East and the creation of a Palestinian state side 
by  side  with  an  Israeli  State  that  has  its  security 
guaranteed.  We  in  Britain,  with  other  countries,  will 
continue  to  work  for  that  objective,  which,  I  believe, 
can be achieved by goodwill in the Middle East. 

At  this  unique  point  in  our  history,  when  the 
world  is  facing  the  first  financial  and  resources  crises 
of the new global age, the ability to come together and 
build shared solutions has never been more important. 

Let  me  send  out  the  strongest  message  that  the 
road  to  economic  ruin  in  the  past  has  been  following 
the  path  of  protectionism.  The  way  forward  is  not 
countries  working  in  isolation  from  or  against  each 
other, but countries cooperating together. I believe that 
as world leaders gathered in Washington this weekend, 
we  must  and  we  will  see  enhanced  cooperation  by 
Governments to deal with economic problems that are 
now  hitting  every  continent  in  the  world.  But  I  also 
believe  that  what  matters  is  a  clear  statement  coming 
from  this  conference  in  New York  that,  far  more  than 
the  cooperation  of  Governments,  the  cooperation  of 
peoples,  whatever  their  faith,  in  each  continent  of  the 
world  will  determine  whether  we  can  build  a  truly 
global society. 

I believe that if, through our continuing dialogue, 
we  can  come  to  recognize  our  common  ground,  the 
common ground on which we stand, whatever our faith 
traditions,  and  a  common  commitment  to  peace, 
freedom, prosperity, tolerance and respect — if we can 
mobilize a global movement around those shared goals, 
then the achievements can be momentous. Together, we 
can become the first generation to abolish illiteracy and 
give  every  child  the  chance  of  education.  We  can 
become the first generation to solve the climate change 
together.  We  can  become  the  first  generation  to 
eradicate  tuberculosis,  polio,  diphtheria,  malaria  and 
HIV/AIDS from the face of the Earth. 

We  can  become  the  first  generation  to  consign 
extreme  poverty  to  the  history  books  for  all  time.  We 
can  become 
to  do  so  by 
demonstrating by our actions what this conference has 
been  all  about  today,  that  the  greatest  social  changes 
are built from the strongest ethical foundations. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
first  generation 
the 
12 

08-60083 
crisis 
the  Two  Holy  Mosques, 
the  consequences  and  examine  possible 


and  Northern  Ireland  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr. Gordon Brown, Prime Minister of the United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
was escorted from the rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  the  chairman  of  the  delegation  of 
El Salvador. 
Mr.  García  González  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 

Spanish):  I  would  like  to  express  my  delegation’s 
appreciation  for  this  important  initiative  to  convene  a 
high-level plenary to examine the culture of peace and 
dialogue among cultures, civilizations and religions.  

We  would  like  to  thank  His  Majesty  King 
Abdullah  bin  Abdulaziz  Al  Saud  of  Saudi  Arabia, 
Custodian  of 
for  his 
courageous  and  timely  leadership  on  this  subject, 
especially against the background of the unprecedented 
multidimensional 
international 
community is facing and that forces us to reflect deeply 
joint 
on 
solutions  within 
renewed 
multilateralism  and  in  the  configuration  of  a  new 
multipolar world. 
El Salvador reaffirms its commitment to continue 

implementing 
the  Declaration  and  Programme  of 
Action  on  a  Culture  of  Peace,  which  are  the  strategic 
and programme base of the International Decade for a 
Culture of Peace and Non-violence for the Children of 
the World for the period 2001 to 2010. 

in 
acknowledging as a fundamental and inescapable issue 
that the basic root of all global crises lies in mankind’s 
denial of the universal principle of justice. 

The world in which we live is the only one, and 
therefore  we  live  and  prosper  as  one  in  harmony  and 
fraternal  dialogue  among  cultures,  civilizations  and 
religions, or we all face collective annihilation. Only a 
complete  and  orderly  reconstruction  of  the  current 
world economic and political system will bring justice 
and peace. We must be  aware  that without justice  and 
peace, the future will be truly bleak. We must therefore 
prepare  ourselves 
jointly 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the Millennium Development Goals. 
Also,  we  agree  with  other  delegations 
to  share  and  achieve 
framework 
the 
that 
the 
of 
A/63/PV.49
the  accuracy  of 
We  are  convinced  of 

In the opening statement, by the President of the 
General Assembly at this high-level plenary, he rightly 
pointed out that that multidimensional crisis could, and 
should,  become  a  joint  opportunity  to  adopt  the 
courageous  measures  necessary 
to  guarantee  new 
levels  of  coexistence  among  people  and  between 
ourselves and nature, so as to ensure a better world for 
this  and  future  generations.  He  also  said  that  we  are 
obviously lacking the political will to move from mere 
spoken  acknowledgement  to  the  adoption  of  specific, 
sustained  and  coordinated  measures  at  the  local  and 
international levels. In that regard, the United Nations 
has very fittingly set out a complex programme aimed 
at achieving a better world. 

the 
President’s  comments  and,  in  particular,  of  his  vision 
that  we  are  here  today  to  commit  ourselves  to 
harnessing  our  moral  strength  in  the  service  of  the 
goals  of  the  United  Nations  which,  at  the  end  of  the 
day,  are  for  the  benefit  of  our  own  peoples.  As  the 
Constitution  of 
the  United  Nations  Educational, 
Scientific and Cultural Organization reminds us, “since 
wars  begin  in  the  minds  of  men,  it  is  in  the  minds  of 
men that the defences of peace must be constructed”. 

We should agree that peace is not just the absence 
of conflict, but that it also involves a conscious effort 
of  creation  and  empowerment  in  the  minds  of  people. 
Therefore, from my country’s perspective, the concept 
of  a  culture  of  peace  is  closely  linked  to  the  active 
promotion  of  dialogue  and  alliance  among  cultures, 
civilizations  and  religions.  All  cultures,  civilizations 
and  religions  are  equal  and  therefore  have  the  duty  to 
promote  dialogue  to  support  values  and  principles 
promoting  the  culture  of  peace,  including  tolerance, 
respect  for  others,  mutual  understanding,  respect  for 
cultural diversity, and support for non-violence and the 
principles that support peaceful coexistence among all. 

the 
implementation  of  resolution  62/90  of  17  December 
2007  on 
interreligious  and 
intercultural  dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation 
for peace, and specifically welcomes the declaration of 
2010  as  the  International Year  for  the  Rapprochement 
of  Cultures.  We  are  convinced  that  meeting  our 
obligations  in  the  universal  promotion  and  respect  for 
all  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  constitute 
the  essential  basis  for  continuing  to  make  progress  in 
the collective commitment to peace.  
the  promotion  of 
El  Salvador 
committed 
remains 
to 
08-60083 

13 

A/63/PV.49 


We reaffirm the right to peace as one of the main 
pillars  of  all  universal  human  rights. We  acknowledge 
that  the  main  challenge  of  the  twenty-first  century  is 
extending  and  contextualizing 
the  meaning  of 
collective  security.  Hence,  deep-rooted,  consensual, 
democratic, efficient and effective reform is necessary 
to generate the mutual trust that will enable us to build 
peace on a solid and sustainable basis. 

In that context, we encourage the Security Council 
and the Peacebuilding Commission to join in the efforts 
of the General Assembly to promote a culture of peace 
and non-violence for the children of the world. We also 
salute  and  commend  the  active  participation  of  civil 
society,  including  non-governmental  organizations  and 
the private sector, in the promotion of activities aimed at 
the  culture  of  peace  and  non-violence,  and  especially 
their  awareness-raising  campaigns  on  the  culture  of 
peace around the world. 

Finally,  I  reiterate  the  political  will  of  the 
Government  of  El  Salvador  to  continue  to  actively 
promote the values and principles guiding the effective 
construction  of a  culture of peace to the benefit of  all 
of our peoples. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I give 

the  floor  to  the  chairman  of  the  delegation  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran. 
Mr.  Khazaee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran): At  the 

outset, 
the 
organization and convening of this important meeting. 
I  wish  to  begin  my  statement  by  reciting  some  verses 
of  the  Holy  Koran  that  are  relevant  to  the  subject  of 
our  deliberations  today.  First,  based  on  the  Koran’s 
teachings, all nations dwelling on Earth share the same 
origin and, in case of any disagreement or dispute, they 
should refer to divine rules. As it is said in the Koran, 
(spoke in Arabic) 
let  me  express  my  appreciation  for 
“Mankind  was  one  single  nation,  and Allah  sent 
messengers  with  glad  tidings  and  warnings;  and 
with  them  He  sent  the  Book  in  truth,  to  judge 
between people in matters wherein they differed”. 
(The Holy Koran, II:213)  
(spoke in English) 

Secondly,  there  is  no  distinction  and  discord 
among  the  messengers  of  God  and  they  all  delivered 
the same message to human beings. As it is said in the 
Koran,  
(spoke in Arabic) 
angels,  His  books, 
“Men  of  faith,  each  one  of  them  believeth  in 
Allah,  His 
and  His 
messengers. We make no distinction between one 
and  another  of  His  messengers”.  (The  Holy 
Koran, II:285) 
(spoke in English) 

Thirdly,  all  messengers  of  God  are  carriers  of 
truth  from Allah,  the Almighty,  to  the  people,  and  are 
their guides towards God. As it is said in the Koran, 
(spoke in Arabic) 
“He  is  He  who  sent  down  to  Thee,  in  truth,  the 
Book,  confirming  what  went  before  it;  and  He 
sent down the Torah and the Gospel”. (The Holy 
Koran, III:3) 
(spoke in English) 
As  a  result  of  Islamic  teachings  and  our  rich 

culture,  the  Iranian  people,  a  nation  deeply  rooted  in 
the history of mankind and one of the cornerstones of 
civilization,  have  always  respected  other  religions, 
nations and cultures. Although about 95 per cent of the 
Iranian  population  is  Muslim,  the  Constitution  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  has  bestowed  upon  the 
religious  minorities  in  my  country  equal  rights,  and 
even  in  some  instances  a  privileged  position,  and  the 
right to freely practise their religions. 

At  present,  Iranian  religious  minorities  are 
enjoying  the  equal  right  to  representation  in  our 
Parliament,  regardless  of  the  small  size  of  their 
population.  The  practical 
the 
Government  and  people  of  Iran  to  the  teachings  of 
Islam  and  the  provisions  of  the  Constitution  has 
resulted  in  shaping  constructive  coexistence  among 
Muslims,  Jews,  Christians  and  Zoroastrians.  As  a 
result,  all 
Iran  consider 
themselves  to  be  integral  parts  of  the  Iranian  nation 
and are playing a constructive role in their society and 
enjoying the  full freedom  to practise their religions in 
more  than  500  places  of  worship,  including  churches, 
synagogues and temples. 
the  noble  Islamic  principles  of 

respect for human diversity, the recognition of diverse 
sources  of  knowledge,  the  promotion  of  dialogue  and 
mutual  understanding,  genuine  mutual  respect 
in 
the  encouragement  of 
human 
courteous and civilized discourse based on reason and 
religious  minorities 
commitment  of 
in 
Inspired  by 
interchanges  and 
14 

08-60083 


logic, 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  has  greatly 
contributed  to  the  promotion  of  dialogue  at  the 
international level. 

My  country  is  well  recognized  for  its  widely 
supported  initiatives  in  favour  of  dialogue  among 
civilizations,  religions  and  cultures,  and  solidarity  for 
peace,  the  latter  of  which  was  proposed  by  the 
President  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  last  year. 
Moreover, as an important country in our region and in 
the Islamic world in general, and as representatives of 
the Shiite school of thought, we have been among the 
pioneers  of  inter-  and  intrafaith  dialogue  and  have 
participated in many such  events to  date. We consider 
such  dialogue  to  be  an  opportunity  and  the  proper 
approach  to  better  articulating  different  ideas,  visions 
and aspirations of and for human society and to taking 
advantage of the collective wisdom of humankind and 
avoiding conflict and violence. 

We believe that, in order to provide our societies 
with  more  humane,  safe  and  prosperous 
living 
opportunities, we must work together to bring about a 
greater  level  of  understanding  and  respect  among  the 
believers  of  divine 
In  our  collective 
endeavour, we should not lose sight of the principles of 
our divine religions calling on us to exercise tolerance, 
respect  and  compassion  for  those  who  belong  to 
religions  other  than  ours.  Islam,  like  other  divine 
religions, calls for tolerance and mutual respect among 
the  various  nations  and  groups  in  order  to  preserve 
cohesiveness and solidarity in human society. This call 
is for the enrichment of human dignity, which is deeply 
rooted in Islam and other divine religions, as well as in 
many cultures and civilizations. 

Since we are all in the same boat, it is necessary 
that  conditions  be  provided  for  every  passenger  to 
collaborate  in  enhancing  cooperation  to  nurture  peace 
and  harmony  among  different  religions,  cultures  and 
civilizations. Therefore,  dialogue  among  the  followers 
of  the  divine  religions  could  bear  the  fruits  of  peace 
and  friendship  if  it  is  undertaken  in  accordance  with 
the principles of equality and dignity of all parties and 
in good faith. In other words, all initiatives with a view 
to improving cooperation should encourage us to work 
to promote the essence and character of all religions — 
human dignity and integrity. 

We  are  of  the  view  that  this  noble  objective  can 
serve  as  a  shining  light  in  the  critical  situation  the 
world finds itself in today. In our highly interconnected 
religions. 
A/63/PV.49
To  ensure  a  satisfactory 
world,  if  global  challenges  are  to  be  confronted;  if 
hegemony,  domination,  aggression  and  bitter  conflicts 
are  to  be  avoided;  and  if  the  common  interests  of  all 
nations  are 
to  be  secured,  peaceful  coexistence 
guaranteed,  and  lasting  international  peace,  security, 
stability and harmony promoted, cooperation is not an 
option but a necessity. 

level  of  continued 
cooperation,  there  is  an  urgent  need  to  utilize  the 
potential  on  the  ground.  In  this  regard,  we  should 
attach  great  importance  to  dialogue  as  an  essential, 
efficient  and  cost-effective  way  to  bridge  the  gaps 
resulting  from  misunderstanding  and  misinterpretation 
and to promote mutual confidence and respect. 

All  divine  religions  call  for  the  peace,  welfare 
and salvation of all people without any distinction as to 
race,  colour,  sex,  language,  religion  and  political  or 
other  affiliation.  However,  throughout  world  history, 
there  have  been  examples  of  insults  to  or  other  abuse 
of  religious  values  that,  in  some  instances,  have  had 
long-standing  detrimental  effects  on  countries  and 
peoples  subjected  to  such  treatment.  In  today’s  world, 
certain  countries  and  regions  are  victims  of  unjust, 
inequitable,  partial  and  monopolized  propaganda  that 
continuously  distorts  the  facts  and  realities  relating  to 
them. 

We  express  our  deep  concern  that  Islam  and 
Muslims  are  frequently  and  wrongly  associated  with 
unjust  and  unfair  accusations,  such  as  human  rights 
violations  and  terrorism.  Similarly,  the  systematic 
negative  stereotyping  of  Islam  and  other  divine 
religions and the ridicule of religious personalities who 
are  respected  and  beloved  by  believers  of  those 
religions  are  sources  of  great  concern  for  the  world 
community, and especially for the Islamic nations. We 
regret that these measures have been undertaken under 
such  pretexts  as  the  war  on  terror  or  the  exercise  of 
one’s right to the freedom of expression. 

In this context, I would like to stress the essential 
need  for  all  people  to  live  up  to  the  responsibilities 
associated  with  the  rights  they  enjoy,  particularly  the 
right to freedom of expression. In line with our efforts 
to  promote  inter-  and  intrareligious  dialogue,  we 
should prevent any attempt to abuse religious, cultural 
and  racial  differences.  There  is  no  doubt  that  such 
abuses  sow  the  seeds  of  division,  animosity  and 
confrontation  among  our  nations.  It  is  clear  that  any 
resort  to  such  tactics  or  manoeuvres  in  our  current 
08-60083 

15 

A/63/PV.49 

interfaith  dialogue  would  lead  to  division  among  us 
and result in our failure to reach our desired goals. 

Unfortunately, a representative of a regime which 
in  its  short  history  has  been  marked  by  crimes  of 
aggression,  occupation,  assassination,  State  terrorism 
and  torture  against  the  Palestinian  people  under  the 
pretext of a false interpretation of a certain religion has 
tried  to  abuse  this  meeting  for  his  regime’s  narrow 
political  purposes.  Undoubtedly,  the  participation  of 
such  a  regime  here  not  only  fails  to  benefit  our 
common purpose, but also, as proved in this very Hall 
yesterday, allows it to try to disrupt the current process 
and divert our attention from our mandate. 

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
express its hope that, by promoting interfaith dialogue 
and  respect  for  cultural  values  and  civilizational 
specificities as a means of celebrating religions and the 
achievements  of  our  civilizations  as  the  common 
heritage  of  humankind,  the  international  community 
will  be  able  to  provide  the  appropriate  conditions  for 
ensuring the progress and well-being of humankind and 
to  build  an  equitable  new  international  order  founded 
on  inclusion,  participation,  mutual  understanding  and 
tolerance among peoples and nations. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I give 

the  floor  to  the  chairman  of  the  delegation  of  the 
Republic of Korea. 
Mr. Park In-kook (Republic of Korea): We live 

in  an  increasingly  complex  world  where  globalization 
and  collective  identities  are  intertwined  with  culture, 
tradition,  and  religion.  Over  time,  these  elements  are 
constantly being pulled closer together in both positive 
and negative ways.  

In the era of the Internet, global travel and instant 
satellite 
encountering 
increasingly  unfamiliar  surroundings  and  new  ideas. 
the 
Sometimes, 
take 
form  of 
traditions  and 
unexpected  skin  colours,  cultures, 
religions,  which  can  produce  anxiety  about 
the 
unknown. It is paradoxical that the era of globalization, 
which  is  supposed  to  enhance  mutual  understanding 
and  acceptance,  is  instead  increasing  intolerance  and 
discrimination. 

The  history  of  humankind  is  not  defined  by  the 
continuation  of  wars  and  conflict.  The  centrepiece  of 
human  history  is  the  culture  of  peace  and  coexistence 
among  members  of  society,  as  well  as  among 
transmissions,  people 
those  differences 
are 
including 
initiatives, 
results-oriented 
civilizations,  cultures  and  religions.  Thus,  we  have  to 
reject  any  entrenched  predispositions  towards  endless 
confrontation,  struggle  and  an  inevitable  clash  of 
civilizations.  Instead,  we  should  further  reaffirm  and 
cultivate the culture of peace, tolerance and acceptance 
throughout  society,  which  has  been  the  engine  of 
human history and prosperity. 

The  Republic  of  Korea  has  fully  supported 
international  efforts  to  advance  the  culture  of  peace 
among  nations  and  various  actors.  Those  efforts 
include  addressing  widening  rifts  between  societies, 
reaffirming  a  paradigm  of  mutual  respect  among 
peoples  of  different  cultural  and  religious  traditions 
and helping to mobilize concerted action to that end. In 
that  regard,  we  highly  appreciated  the  leadership  of 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  in  guiding  Member 
States  with  his  strong  sponsorship  of  and  support  for 
important 
the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations and the interfaith dialogue. As one of the 
members  of  the  Group  of  Friends  of  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations,  the  Republic  of  Korea  endorses  its 
innovative 
approaches 
accompanied by substantial programmes. 

Religion  is  an  increasingly  important  dimension 
of many societies and a significant source of values for 
individuals.  As  such,  religion  should  be  a  source  of 
peace. However, the exploitation or misuse of religion 
by ideologues has led to the misguided perception that 
religion  itself  is  a  root  cause  of  intercultural  conflict. 
In fact, no religion promotes violence, but all promote 
the ideals of compassion, respect for the dignity of life 
and the peace of humankind. 

Asia  has  enjoyed  a  long  tradition  of  harmony, 
inclusiveness  and  peaceful  coexistence.  Similarly, 
peaceful  coexistence,  beneficial  trade  and  reciprocal 
learning  have  been  hallmarks  of  the  relationship 
between  Christianity,  Islam  and  Judaism,  as  many 
leaders  of 
community  have 
emphasized in our meetings yesterday and today. That 
tradition of peaceful coexistence should be restored in 
order  to  make  the  world  safer.  In  that  regard,  we 
support  the  Madrid  Declaration  issued  by  the  World 
Conference  on  Dialogue  and look  forward  to  progress 
on  the  recommendations  of  the  Declaration  as  well  as 
strong leadership by religious figures. 

The Republic of Korea would like to share some 
of its views drawn from our own experience. First, my 
country has moved beyond colonization, civil war and 
international 
and 
the 
16 

08-60083 
society 
Korean 
is  also 


authoritarian  rule  to  achieve  full-fledged  democracy. 
From that experience, we have learned that democratic 
governance — which includes the essential elements of 
the promotion of human rights and the rule of law and 
a  commitment  to  pluralism  —  leads  to  an  enhanced 
level  of 
tolerance  and  respect  for  peoples  and 
civilizations different from our own.  

Secondly, adaptation to the changing environment 
and addressing existing and potential conflicts are key 
to  building  a  harmonious  society.  In  that  process  we 
have learned a variety of hard-won lessons that proved 
that  the  core  concept  of  a  harmonious  society  is 
diversity. We should not resist diversity or be afraid of 
it. Diversity is not a source of tension, but a source of 
dynamism  and  creativity.  By  promoting  diversity, 
accepting  differences  and  nourishing 
interactions, 
society  becomes  richer  in  culture  and  more  open  and 
flexible to change. 

rapidly  becoming 
multicultural, with a growing immigrant population. As 
part  of  efforts  to  fully  embrace  immigrants,  foster  a 
culture  of  acceptance  and  promote  diversity,  we  have 
introduced  various  initiatives,  including  multicultural 
festivals,  the  distribution  of  a  cultural  guidebook  for 
migrant  workers 
a 
multicultural family support centre. 

Thirdly,  the  concept  of  tolerance  should  be 
replaced  by  the  concept  of  inclusiveness.  Tolerance 
implies  that  those  who  should  be  tolerated  are  still 
among the minority or exist as outsiders. Instead, those 
with different religious or cultural backgrounds should 
be  accepted  as  full  members  of  any  society.  In  my 
country, Christianity, which was introduced only within 
the  past  few  generations,  has  now  become  one  of  the 
major  religions.  It  has  now  taken  deep  root  in  the 
values and ordinary lives of people on the street.  

A  more  recent  phenomenon  is  the  increasing 
number  of  followers  of  Islam.  A  Korea-Arab  Society 
has been established and new mosques are being built. 
Islamic  culture  is  contributing  to  the  diversity  and 
harmony  of  our  society.  Regardless  of  an  individual’s 
faith  or  cultural  background,  we  see  that  lasting 
harmony  and  peace  can  be  achieved  when  people  are 
included as insiders in society. 

My last point pertains to the global and regional 
dimension  of  intercultural  and  interfaith  dialogue  and 
cooperation. In order to address certain pressing issues, 
such  as  relations  between  Muslim  and  Western 
establishment  of 
and 
the 
A/63/PV.49
that 
religions, 
We  hope 
thereby  spreading 
the  scope  of  our  efforts 
truly  global;  and  efforts  at 
societies,  a  focused  approach  on  the  Mediterranean 
region  could  be  effective.  Similar  regionally  focused 
approaches  should  be  further  expanded,  taking  into 
account  the  regional  dimensions  of  different  regions, 
such as South Asia, East Asia and Latin America. Such 
regionally focused dialogue and cooperation should be 
seen as part of the comprehensive global scheme.  

to 
consolidate a culture of peace will embrace all cultures 
and 
the  values  of 
coexistence  and  mutual  prosperity  across  a  wide 
segment of humankind. In the long run, efforts should 
be 
intercultural  and 
interfaith dialogue and interaction should be pursued in 
every corner of the world. 

In  conclusion,  we  must  never  lose  sight  of  the 
fact that the history of humankind is based on peaceful 
coexistence  and  mutual  prosperity.  The  Republic  of 
Korea will continue to devote itself to that end. 
Ms.  Jahan  (Bangladesh):  Let  me  begin  by 

thanking  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
organizing  this  high-level  meeting  on  the  culture  of 
peace.  I  would  also 
to  convey  our  deep 
appreciation 
the  Two  Holy 
Mosques, His Majesty King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Al 
Saud,  for  his  instrumental  role  and  personal  initiative 
in holding this event. 

We  are  witnessing  a  growing  misunderstanding 
among  faiths,  religions  and  cultures  around  the  world 
today  that  not  only  threatens  interfaith  tolerance  and 
mutual respect but also the very prospects for peaceful 
coexistence.  This  meeting  therefore  provides  a  timely 
and  excellent  opportunity  to  share  our  thoughts  and 
further  consolidate  the  outcome  of  the  Madrid  World 
Conference  on  Dialogue.  We  are  confident  that  this 
initiative  will  complement  the  purposes  and  activities 
of the United Nations in the related fields. 

We are living in difficult times. The proliferation 
of  extremism  and  racism  has  assumed  disquieting 
dimensions.  Mistrust  of  and  prejudice  towards  the 
“other”  continue  to  persist.  New  manifestations  of 
intolerance  towards  vulnerable  groups,  ethnic  and 
religious minorities, immigrants, refugees and migrant 
workers  are  on  the  rise.  The  world  is  witnessing  an 
ominous  trend  of  derision  aimed  at  religious  symbols 
and  beliefs  and  the  misuse  of  religion  in  acts  of 
terrorism,  violence  and  coercion.  Defamation  of 
religions,  religious  stereotyping  and  incitement  to 
the  Custodian  of 
like 
to 
08-60083 

17 

the 
faiths, 
the  best  potential 
A/63/PV.49 

religious  hatred  are  disrupting  social  harmony  and 
triggering violations of human rights. 

The challenge before us today is to transform the 
wealth  and  diversity  of  civilizations,  cultures, 
religions,  traditions  and  customs  into  a  unifying  force 
rather  than  a  cause  for  division.  We  ought  to  take 
lessons from the setbacks of previous intercultural and 
interreligious dialogues that focused on the differences 
among 
religions  and  cultures.  They 
erroneously  attempted  to  fuse  them  together,  touching 
upon deeply entrenched values and sparking conflict. 

We believe that all faiths and religions convey the 
same  message  of  peace,  justice  and  human  solidarity. 
Our  approach  should  be  to  work  on  these  common 
denominators that unite us and build upon this premise 
of commonality. Followers of different faiths, religions 
and beliefs will have to sit together in fellowship, since 
in  such  frank  encounters  superficial  and  nominal 
differences  quickly  fade  away.  We  believe 
that 
dialogue  among  civilizations,  cultures  and  religions 
holds 
for  promoting  mutual 
understanding  and  the  creation  of  a  peaceful  world 
order. 

We  must  encourage  people-to-people  contacts  to 
bring down barriers and bridge gaps and differences. In 
this  context,  my  delegation  associates  itself  with  the 
Madrid  Declaration  of 
the  World  Conference  on 
Dialogue.  The  Declaration  will,  we  believe,  lend  a 
fresh  impetus  to  the  global  campaign  for  intercultural 
and  interreligious  dialogue.  We  deeply  value  and 
recognize the contribution of the World Conference on 
Dialogue  to  the  international  community’s  series  of 
initiatives  seeking  to  inculcate  a  culture  of  peace, 
tolerance,  understanding  and  respect  for  human  rights 
among various faiths, cultures and civilizations through 
dialogue. 

We therefore  strongly support and encourage the 
Muslim World League in its endeavour to realize these 
lofty  and  urgent  objectives.  In  fact,  Bangladesh 
welcomes  all  international  and  regional  initiatives 
aimed  at  promoting  cross-cultural  and 
interfaith 
harmony,  which  are  mutually  reinforcing.  Given  the 
multiplicity  of  such  initiatives,  we  would  like  the 
United  Nations  to  take  a  comprehensive  approach  to 
streamlining  them,  as  they  will  find  resonance  in 
strength and oneness in objective. 
The culture of peace is a set of values, attitudes, 

modes  of  behaviour  and  ways  of  life  that  rejects 
Language 
18 

08-60083 
We  wish 
to  express  our  gratitude 
violence  and  prevents  conflicts 
through  dialogue 
among individuals, groups and nations. We believe that 
a world order that is informed by a culture of peace is 
conducive to the attainment of our development goals, 
including the Millennium Development Goals. We see 
great  value  in  the  principles  of  tolerance,  respect  for 
diversity,  democracy,  and  understanding.  These  ideals 
were  endorsed  by  Member  States  in  the  Declaration 
and  Programme  of  Action  on  a  Culture  of  Peace  in 
1999. Bangladesh was privileged to steer that process. 

As  we  enter  the  eighth  year  of  the  International 
Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace  and  Non-Violence  for 
the  Children  of  the  World,  it  is  perhaps  the  time  for 
reflection,  new  thinking  and  making  an  assessment  of 
where we stand in terms of our commitment. We must 
set  targets  to  ascertain  progress  towards  creating 
peaceful societies, and we must strive towards that end. 

to  all 
stakeholders  who are  contributing to the promotion of 
a  culture  of  peace.  We  also  highly  appreciate  the 
ongoing  work  of  the  United  Nations  Educational, 
Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in the 
relevant fields and that of other involved organizations, 
both within and outside the United Nations system. We 
non-governmental 
are 
to 
organizations  and  civil  society. 
In 
this  pursuit, 
academics and the media also have an important role to 
play. We also need to involve youth in the process. 

Bangladesh  enjoys  a  commendable  track  record 
of  religious  freedom,  harmony  and  tolerance.  Our 
commitment  and  contribution 
to  United  Nations 
peacekeeping remain unrelenting. As a  member of the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  we  are  actively  engaged 
with  peacebuilding  responsibilities  in  strife-torn  parts 
of  the  world. We  believe  a  culture  of  peace  holds  the 
key to sustainable peace in post-conflict societies. 

I would like to take this opportunity to introduce, 
on  behalf  of  a  large  number  of  delegations,  the  draft 
resolution on the International Decade for a Culture of 
Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World, 
2001-2010, contained in the document A/63/L.23. Thus 
far,  114  Member  States  have  joined  us  in  sponsoring 
this  draft  resolution. We  earnestly  hope  that,  as  in  the 
past,  the  draft  will  again  enjoy  the  consensus  of  the 
United  Nations  membership.  This  year,  the  draft 
resolution contains two new elements. 
the  most  powerful 

instruments  for  preserving  and  developing  human 
is  one  of 
particularly 
thankful 
is  a 
Bangladesh 
traditional  sponsor  of 


heritage and identity. We believe that the promotion of 
mother tongues serves not only to encourage linguistic 
diversity  and  multilingual  education,  but  also 
to 
develop  better  awareness  of  linguistic  and  cultural 
traditions  throughout  the  world.  This  in  turn  inspires 
understanding,  tolerance  and  cross-cultural  dialogue 
and contributes to fostering a culture of peace. Out of 
this  conviction,  we  have 
incorporated  a  new 
preambular  paragraph,  the  fifteenth  such  paragraph, 
which  recalls 
the  proclamation  by  UNESCO  of 
21 February as the International Mother Language Day. 

the 
resolutions  on  interfaith  dialogue  and  cooperation  for 
peace. We  are also  a member of the  Group of Friends 
of the Alliance of Civilizations. We acknowledge their 
valuable  efforts  towards  the  promotion  of  a  culture  of 
peace  and  dialogue  at  all  levels.  The  other  new 
preambular  paragraph, 
sixteenth  preambular 
paragraph,  appreciates  the  ongoing  efforts  of  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations  and  the  Tripartite  Forum  on 
Interfaith Cooperation for Peace in promoting a culture 
of peace. 

In  conclusion,  please  allow  me  to  reiterate  our 
strong  support  for  the  abovementioned,  much-needed 
initiatives  that  aim  at  promoting  tolerance,  peaceful 
coexistence  and  exchange  among  the  world’s  nations 
and  civilizations.  Even  if  the  challenges  ahead  are 
considerable, we believe that interfaith dialogue can be 
a most effective method for bridging gaps and solving 
problems 
miscommunication, 
misrepresentation  and  defamation.  What  we  need  is  a 
dialogue 
the  Secretary-General 
underscored in this very same Hall yesterday. If we all 
join  such  projects  and  seriously  commit  ourselves  to 
our shared responsibilities, we will hopefully be able to 
ascertain  a  more  harmonious  world 
future 
generations. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  the  chairman  of  the  delegation  of 
Ukraine. 
Mr. Sergeyev (Ukraine) (spoke in French): At the 

outset,  allow  me  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the  States 
that initiated the inclusion of the item on the culture of 
peace  on  the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly.  What 
could  be  more  noble  than  attempts  that  “are  directed 
towards  respect  for  life,  for  human  beings  and  their 
rights,  the  rejection  of  violence  in  all  its  forms” 
(A/52/191,  annex)?  This  is  exactly  what  the  authors 
that  delivers,  as 
arising 
for 
the 
from 
A/63/PV.49
the  human  being 
drew our attention to 10 years ago in the documents on 
the culture of peace. 

We,  the  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  are  the 
bearers  of  different  cultures.  We  belong  to  different 
religious denominations, but what unites us is the fact 
that,  within  our  religions, 
is 
interpreted as a creation of God. Why does it happen in 
history, and why is it happening currently, that the life 
of  this  creature  of  God  is  destroyed  in  wars  and 
inter-ethnic  conflict?  Why  are  the  rights  of  this 
creature  of  God  superseded  by 
the  political  or 
economic  ambitions  of  certain  individuals,  groups  or 
political parties? 

Mr. Tanin (Afghanistan), Vice-President, took the 
Chair. 

It  is  certain  that,  when  the  life  or  rights  of  the 
human  being  are  attacked  by  another  human  or  group 
of individuals who are the same creatures of God, these 
actions  are  guided  not  by  the  values  of  the  grace  of 
God,  but  by  evil.  How  can  one  resist  the  evil  that,  in 
varying  forms,  poses  challenges  to  humanity?  The 
answer  is  partly  to  be  found  in  the  debates  on  the 
culture  of  peace  being  held  within  the  framework  of 
the  sixty-third  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  This 
interreligious  and  inter-ethnic  dialogue  must  serve  to 
foster tolerance, mutual understanding and solidarity. 
At  the  heart  of  all  United  Nations  programmes, 

the Millennium Development Goals in particular, must 
be  a  simple  human  being,  the  creation  of  God. 
intentions  will  be 
Otherwise,  noble  plans  and 
substituted 
soulless 
documents. The human being must be the first priority 
of all our undertakings. 

I consciously draw attention to this point because 
I represent a country that underwent a period of terrible 
existence  within  the  Soviet  bloc,  where  the  life  of  a 
human being was among the lowest priorities. Indeed, 
it  was  not  a  priority  at  all.  The  example  of  the 
Holodomor, our national tragedy of artificially created 
famine,  which  over  the  course  of  18  months  claimed 
some 6 to 10 million lives, is eloquent testimony to the 
utter neglect for the life of the human being in order to 
achieve political ambitions.  

I  often  cite  the  following  example,  because  it 
clearly  illustrates  the  inhuman  cruelty  of  the  principal 
perpetrator  of 
the  Soviet 
dictator.  This  is  how  Winston  Churchill  described  his 
the  Holodomor,  Stalin, 
perfectly  worded 
yet 
by 
08-60083 

19 

A/63/PV.49 

conversation  with  Stalin  regarding  the  agricultural 
policies  of  the  Union  of  Soviet  Socialist  Republics, 
which claimed millions of lives. Sir Winston Churchill 
asked Stalin: “Have the stresses of war been as bad to 
you  as  carrying  through  the  policy  of  the  collective 
farm?”  Stalin  answered,  “Oh,  no.  The  collective  farm 
policy  was  a  terrible  struggle  ...  10  millions  ...  It  was 
fearful ... It was absolutely necessary”. That is how, in 
the  twentieth  century,  without  war  or  revolution,  not 
only a single life, but millions of creatures of God were 
destroyed. The justification for this act was that it was 
absolutely necessary. 

If  such  cynical  destruction  of  human  beings  and 
disdain  for  their  right  to  live  are  not  to  reoccur,  we 
need  to  tell  the  truth  with  respect  to  such  crimes 
against humanity. Today, we should be grateful to those 
who  do  strive  for  development  and  the  promotion  of 
the  culture  of  peace.  We  commend  the  particular 
attention  that  they  give  to  specific  measures  at  the 
global, regional and subregional levels. 

We can only hope that such powerful activity will 
give us positive  and tangible outcomes that will serve 
to  bring  about  the  rapprochement  of  cultures,  to  build 
peace and to eradicate hatred among peoples. 

chairman of the delegation of Viet Nam. 
Mr.  Le  Luong  Minh  (Viet  Nam):  On  behalf  of 

the  delegation  of  Viet  Nam,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  convening  the 
second  high-level  dialogue  on 
interreligious  and 
intercultural understanding and cooperation for peace. I 
would  also like to thank the Secretary-General for his 
report  (A/63/262)  on  the  activities  carried  out  by  key 
United Nations entities in implementation of resolution 
62/90. 

My  delegation  commends  the  positive  measures 
undertaken over the past years within the framework of 
the United Nations in promoting the culture of peace in 
general, 
and 
intercultural  dialogue  in  many  parts  of  the  world  as  a 
means to achieve this goal, in particular. 

Viet  Nam  supports  the  approach  pursued  by 
United  Nations  bodies  and  mechanisms,  in  particular 
UNESCO,  the  United  Nations  Population  Fund,  the 
Department  of  Public  Information,  the  Office  of  the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, 
and  the  Department  of  Economic  and  Social  Affairs, 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
interreligious 
facilitating 
and 
in 
to  contribute 
shared  desire 
which advocates long-term measures focusing on, inter 
alia,  further  educating  younger  generations  in  the 
veneration of cultural and religious diversity. 

As  we  discuss  interreligious  and  intercultural 
understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace,  we  must  be 
reminded  that,  while  peace  is  the  premise  for  the 
solution  of  problems  —  such  as  hunger,  malnutrition, 
poverty,  and  racial  and  religious  discrimination  — 
affecting the lives of hundreds of millions of people in 
many  countries  and  societies  and  a  whole  array  of 
global  issues  facing  humankind,  such  as  climate 
change,  environmental  degradation  and  HIV/AIDS, 
peace  cannot  be  sustained  without  solving 
these 
burning problems. 

Interreligious and intercultural understanding and 
cooperation  thus  can  be  promoted  only  if  they  are 
based  on 
to 
strengthening  the  organic  relationship  between  peace 
and  development  and 
the  solution  of  problems 
affecting people of all faiths. 

We are deeply convinced that UNESCO and other 
United Nations bodies, with their pools of wisdom and 
expertise, should play the leading  role in coordinating 
Member States’ actions in promoting interreligious and 
intercultural understanding and cooperation. 

With a population of nearly 90 million, Viet Nam 
is  home  to  54  ethnic  groups,  each  endowed  with  its 
own  unique  culture.  In  Viet  Nam,  apart  from  the 
as  Buddhism, 
world’s  major 
Catholicism,  Protestantism  and  Islam, 
indigenous 
like  Cao-daism  and  Hoa-haoism  have 
religions 
approximately  two  million  followers  each. The  many-
thousand-year-long  history  of  the  Vietnamese  nation 
has  been  one  of  both  constant  interreligious  and 
intercultural  diversity  and  unity.  The  various  faiths 
have  not  only  coexisted  well  but  have  also 
strengthened  each  other,  as  required  by  the  historical 
contexts  of  our  struggles  for  survival  against  alien 
forces and harsh natural conditions.  
In the most difficult times, the Vietnamese people 

have  never 
interreligious  and 
intercultural  understanding,  cooperation  and  harmony 
for 
independence, 
sovereignty  and  peace.  Interreligious  and  intercultural 
hostilities are foreign to our tradition. 

Over  the  past  years,  our  country  has  adopted  a 
series  of  laws  and  policies  that  aim  at  protecting  the 
the  preservation  of  national 
religions, 
foster 
such 
the 
failed 
to 
20 

08-60083 
radio 
to  uphold 
in  13  minority 


nation’s  diverse  cultural  values  and  guaranteeing  the 
people’s  freedom  of  religion  and  belief.  Education 
syllabuses  have  been  developed  in  eight  minority 
languages,  a  special  television  channel  has  been 
opened  to  broadcast  in  10  minority  languages,  and 
thousands  of  programmes  have  been  aired  by  the 
national 
languages.  Great 
endeavours have been undertaken to help create scripts 
for many ethnic groups who for ages only had spoken 
languages. 

The Vietnamese constitution provides for freedom 
of  religion  and  for  equality  before  the  law  among  all 
religions. Most recently, the United Nations Vesak Day 
was  observed  in Viet  Nam,  with  some  5,000 Buddhists 
participating, 
the  philosophy  of  peace, 
harmony,  compassion,  non-violence,  tolerance  and  no-
self. The unprecedented candle-lighting event, involving 
20,000  people  from  all  religious  and  non-religious 
backgrounds  at  the  closing  ceremony  of  the  event, 
reaffirmed  the  earnest  aspiration  of  our  people  for  a 
world of peace and harmony. 

As  I  said  earlier,  interreligious  and  intercultural 
hostilities are foreign to the tradition of the Vietnamese 
nation. It is not unheard of for there to be attempts by 
certain individuals,  acting  on selfish political interests 
while disguising themselves in the cloak of religion, to 
carry out activities detrimental to the very fundamental 
foundations of a culture of peace. The culture of peace 
constitutes  public  order  and  the  guarantor  of  equality, 
in  both  rights  and  obligations,  for  all  religions  before 
the law, as well as the equality of all citizens before the 
law in both rights and obligations. 

In order to promote interreligious and intercultural 
understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace,  it  is  the  duty 
of  all  Member  States  to  ensure  that  such  attempts  to 
abuse  the  religious  freedom  we  all  cherish  and  to 
sabotage our shared peace is foreign to our cultures. 

chairman of the delegation of Chile. 
Mr.  Muñoz  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  should 

first  like  to  welcome  this  valuable  initiative  by  Saudi 
Arabia, which provides an opportunity for the General 
Assembly to consider the current state of the interfaith 
dialogue  on  the  basis  of  the  Madrid  Declaration 
adopted in July. 

This  debate  is  taking  place  a  few  weeks  before 
we  commemorate  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
A/63/PV.49
the  right 
recognizes 
to  freedom  of 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  which  is  the 
common  standard  of  achievement  for  all  peoples  and 
nations. Article  18  of  the  Declaration  establishes  that 
everyone  has 
thought, 
conscience and religion. That right includes freedom to 
change religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or 
in  community  with  others  and  in  public  or  private,  to 
manifest one’s religion or belief in a teaching, practice, 
worship  and  observance.  Another  provision  of  the 
Declaration,  namely,  article  19, 
that 
“Everyone  has  the  right  to  freedom  of  opinion  and 
expression”. Those  are  complementary  provisions  that 
are  at  the  centre  of  the  current  debate,  as  are  the 
equivalent provisions of the International Covenant on 
Civil and Political Rights. 
As  noted  by  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  freedom 

of  religion  or  belief  in  referring  to  the  relevant 
provisions  of  the  International  Covenant  on  Civil  and 
Political  Rights,  limitations  to  the  right  to  freedom  of 
expression  and  opinion  are  designed 
to  protect 
individuals against direct violations of their rights, and 
not to protect entities or belief systems. 

We  are  pleased  that  the  Madrid  Declaration 
recognizes 
the 
promotion  of  human  rights  as  a  principle,  as  well 
among the bases for building good relations among all 
peoples. 

We  believe  that  the  process  launched  in  Madrid 
complements  other  initiatives  introduced  under  the 
auspices of the United Nations, such as the Alliance of 
Civilizations and the process of the Tripartite Forum on 
Interfaith Cooperation for Peace. My country, Chile, is 
proud to participate in both initiatives. 

The  role  played  by  religion  in  the  human  rights 
discourse  has  acquired  new  relevance  in  recent  years. 
My  delegation  believes  that  that  role  is  derived  from 
the  recognition  that  human  rights  belong  to  the 
individual,  and  not  to  abstract  values  or  institutions. 
That  recognition  is  the  foundation  of  the  doctrine  of 
universal human rights. 

We are concerned about the approach that values 
religion  and  the  objects  of  worship  above  individual 
rights. In the event of a conflict, that may mean that the 
latter  are  subordinated  to  the  former  for  the  sake  of 
respect for a particular religion. A case in point is what 
is  called  defamation  of  religions.  We  believe  in  that 
approach,  but  it  too  could  undermine  the  liberating 
character claimed by every religion, and may also be in 
for  human  dignity  and 
respect 
08-60083 

21 

to 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
A/63/PV.49 

opposition  to  human  rights.  As  the  Human  Rights 
Committee  established  pursuant  to  the  International 
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights indicated in its 
General  Comment  No.  10,  restrictions  on  the  exercise 
of  human  rights  “may  not  put  in  jeopardy  the  right 
itself”. Restricting the freedom of expression cannot be 
the automatic reaction of authorities to isolated events 
affecting  a  particular  religion,  however  regrettable  or 
condemnable  those  events  may  be. What  is  ultimately 
needed  is  more  freedom  of  expression  and  more 
tolerance, and not less freedom of expression. 

We hope that initiatives such as today’s will serve 
to  build  bridges  and  provide  solutions  to  intercultural 
tensions  —  solutions  that,  in  this  anniversary  year, 
should  deepen  our  commitment 
the  cause  of 
universal human rights. 

chairman of the delegation of Italy. 
Mr.  Terzi  di  Sant’Agata  (Italy):  Allow  me  to 

express  the  appreciation  of  my  Government  for  the 
convening of this high-level meeting, and to thank the 
King of Saudi Arabia, His Majesty King Abdullah bin 
Abdulaziz Al Saud, for undertaking this initiative. 

Italy  endorses  the  statement  made  yesterday  by 
the special envoy of the President of France on behalf 
of  the  European  Union,  to  which  I  will  add  a  few 
comments. 

For  a  country  like  Italy,  located  at  the  centre  of 
the  Mediterranean,  dialogue  with  different  cultures, 
civilizations and religions is an essential element of its 
identity,  which  is  rooted  in  the  long  history  it  shares 
with  the  States  and  peoples  of  Europe  and  with  those 
on the southern shores of the Mediterranean. 
We  understand  the  importance  of  interreligious 

dialogue  and  the  vital  contribution  that  religions  and 
religious leaders can make to achieving United Nations 
goals,  such  as  in  the  areas  of  peacekeeping  and 
peacebuilding,  protecting  human  rights  and  promoting 
social and economic development. 

We should begin by reaffirming the independence 
of  religions  and  dialogue  among  them  from  any 
Government 
interference.  United  Nations  Member 
States  should  not  influence  the  contents  of  that 
dialogue, but they can certainly promote and facilitate 
it.  We  have  to  broaden  the  scope  of  our  discussions 
from interreligious dialogue to a wider, more complex 
intercultural  dialogue,  including  an  exchange  between 
Through  our  different 
different  religions,  creeds  and  philosophical,  ethical 
and  humanist  traditions.  The  objective  must  be  to 
enhance  mutual  understanding  and  to  welcome  the 
natural  existence  of  diversity.  Building  a  system  of 
tolerance and respect for others that rejects any violent 
abuse  of  power  paves  the  way  towards  the  culture  of 
peace, which is the subject of our debate in the General 
Assembly. 

The  debate  yesterday  and  today,  in  which  so 
many  heads  of  State  or  Government  took  part,  is 
eloquent  proof  of  the  great  potential  of  interreligious 
and intercultural dialogue in contributing to peace and 
to  the  settlement  of  even  the  most  complex  political 
disputes.  

faiths  and  deepest 
philosophical convictions, we must strive to recognize 
our human affinities and translate them into a message 
of peace. This is what I took personally from the words 
pronounced  yesterday  by  His  Majesty  the  King  of 
Saudi Arabia and by the President of the State of Israel, 
His Excellency Shimon Peres: the practical application 
of  a  culture  of  peace. As  President  Peres  said,  “when 
nuclear  weapons,  long-range  missiles,  indiscriminate 
terror  and  fanatical  incitement  determine  the  agenda, 
all of us have to change that agenda” (A/63/PV.46). 

The  tangible  and  effective  openness  to  dialogue 
and exchange that we all perceived yesterday and today 
does  not  only  convey  a  message  of  hope;  it  also 
constitutes  a  prerequisite  for  making  this  change  of 
agenda  possible  and  attaining  a  fair  and  lasting  peace 
in  the  Middle  East,  with  the  vital  contribution  of  all 
sides:  parties  to  the  conflict,  regional  States  and  the 
international community as a whole. 

Today,  the  path  to  reaching  a  solution  to  this 
conflict  is  clearer. As  His  Majesty  King Abdullah  bin 
Al  Hussein  of  Jordan  rightly  stated  yesterday,  “it  is  a 
political  conflict  and  it  demands  a  just,  negotiated 
solution 
for 
Palestinians and security and more regional acceptance 
for Israel” (A/63/PV.46). 

Italy, a founding member of the European Union, 
has  always  supported  the  significant  initiatives  on 
dialogue  between  cultures  and  religions  that  have 
originated within the United Nations. We are convinced 
supporters  of  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  which,  as 
the  Secretary-General  mentioned, 
gradually 
strengthening  its  effectiveness.  Italy  is  an  active 
member of the Group of Friends of the Alliance. 
that  brings  statehood  and 
freedom 
is 
22 

08-60083 
to 
joining 
look  forward 
Similarly,  we 



the 
consensus at the end of this meeting to adopt the draft 
resolution  (A/63/L.24/Rev.1),  on 
intercultural  and 
interreligious  dialogue  promoted  by  the  Governments 
of  Pakistan  and  the  Philippines.  I  would  like  to  thank 
them for this initiative. 

It  is  important,  however,  to  underline  that  any 
real  dialogue  between  cultures  and  religions  must  be 
underpinned  by  the  recognition  of  the  universality  of 
human  rights,  including  the  freedom  of  religion,  as 
enshrined in article 18 of the Universal Declaration of 
Human  Rights  and  in  articles  18  and  27  of  the 
International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights. 
Article 18 of  the Covenant states  clearly that freedom 
of  religion  not  only  means  freedom  to  adopt  and 
profess  a  belief  but  also  the  freedom  to  worship, 
individually or in groups, both publicly and privately. 

The  Republic  of  Italy,  having  experienced  the 
atrocities of the Second World War, was founded on the 
recognition  of  those  principles  and  values.  It  is  by 
virtue  of  that  foundation  that  we  cannot  turn  a  blind 
eye to events that touch the deepest chords of peaceful 
coexistence.  The  Italian  Parliament 
thus  recently 
approved guidelines that encourage the Government to 
remain  steadfast  in  the  fight  against  religion-based 
persecution and discrimination throughout the world. 

Religious  freedom  is  under  threat  in  many  parts 
of the world today. The United Nations must therefore 
focus  its  efforts  and  action  on  the  protection  and 
integrity of this fundamental right. One of the greatest 
threats to religious freedom is intolerance. We strongly 
support  the  annual  initiative  of  submitting  to  the 
General Assembly a draft resolution on that matter and 
we are  encouraged by the  fact that it has always been 
approved by consensus. 

I  would  like  to  highlight,  as  the  Secretary-
General  and  other  speakers  have  also  done,  the 
fundamental  role  of  youth  and  young  people  in 
dialogue between cultures. The success of any dialogue 
necessarily  and  especially  depends  also  on  young 
people. It is that belief that led my Government to set 
up  a  youth  forum  for  religious  and  cultural  dialogue 
with  the  purpose  of  encouraging  young  people  to  be 
leaders  in  supporting  policies  of  tolerance  among  the 
various religions and cultural traditions. 

chairman of the delegation of Albania. 
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
A/63/PV.49
Mr.  Neritani  (Albania):  It  is  my  honour  and 

privilege  to  address  this  high-level  meeting  of  this 
international  body  of  dialogue  and  negotiation  —  a 
forum in which every day  world affairs  are taken into 
consideration with the aim of making the world a better 
place  for  all  of  humankind.  It  is  a  particular  privilege 
to  represent  my  country  and  to  join  other  speakers  in 
addressing  this  very  sensitive  and  highly  important 
matter,  which  directly  affects  the  chances  for  world 
peace. 

We join other previous speakers in expressing our 
deep appreciation to His Majesty The Custodian of the 
Two  Holy  Mosques,  King  Abdullah  bin  Abdulaziz 
Al Saud of Saudi Arabia, for his initiative to hold this 
high-level meeting; to the Mr. President of the General 
Assembly,  and  to  the  Secretary-General,  as  well  as  to 
all the dignitaries who have given their support to the 
successful accomplishment of this meeting. 

Albania  is  a  small  country,  but  it  has  something 
great  to  offer  to  the  world:  its  own  example  of  the 
pivotal  role  that  cultural  tolerance  and  understanding 
can play in society. Throughout their history, Albanians 
have  always  proudly  demonstrated  acceptance  of  the 
other and respect for his or her beliefs, building thus a 
sanctuary  of  harmonious  coexistence  between  faiths. 
This  remarkable  attitude  of  the  Albanian  people  has 
been  visible  not  only  towards  each  other,  but  also 
towards  those  who,  in  difficult  times  of  persecution, 
have 
traditional  home  of 
acceptance  and  understanding  that  is  Albania.  I  refer 
here  to  the  unprecedented  example  of  those Albanian 
families, Muslim and Christian alike, who risked their 
own lives during the Second World War to shelter and 
protect hundreds of Jewish families from the horrors of 
the Holocaust. Even recently, during the 1999 Kosovo 
war, Albania opened its doors and hearts to over half a 
million  Kosovar  refugees  who  had  fled  the  campaign 
of ethnic cleansing waged by Milosevic’s military and 
paramilitary troops. 
Religion rests in the core of every civilization and 

as  such  affects  the  lives,  attitudes,  traditions  and 
behaviours  of  millions 
the  world. 
Therefore, respect for the religion and beliefs of others 
becomes  a  quintessential  element  in  building  and 
bridging new perspectives of peace. Unfortunately, the 
contrary is also true. Religion is very often misused by 
extremists  to  fuel  dangerous  fanatical  ideologies  or 
even  nationalistic  agendas  that  lead  to  confrontation 
and  war.  The  recent  history  of  our  Balkan  peninsula 
found  shelter 
throughout 
the 
in 
08-60083 

23 

to  bridge 
this  very  clearly.  For 
the  Alliance’s  Group  of  Friends  and 
A/63/PV.49 

demonstrates 
that  reason, 
building  upon  our  own  history,  social  texture  and 
geography,  Albania  as  a  country  at  the  crossroads 
between  East  and  West  has  made  interfaith  dialogue 
and  understanding  a  priority  for  development  and 
social stability.  

Albania  is  at  the  forefront  of  supporting  every 
initiative at the regional and international levels which 
aims to build understanding and trust among peoples of 
different  faiths  and  cultures.  As  an  active  member  of 
the  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  we  are  currently 
determined  to  foster  communication  and  interaction 
among 
to 
strengthen confidence in this initiative. Albania shares 
the  belief  of  the  partner  countries  in  the  Group  of 
Friends that the activity of the Alliance should serve as 
a  road  map  with  the  potential,  through  its  relevant 
approaches  and  concrete  projects, 
the 
artificially  created  divisions  between  West  and  East 
and North and South, and among different cultures and 
religions in contemporary societies. 

Our  national  strategy  on  intercultural  dialogue 
reflects  a  centuries-old  tradition  of  complete  harmony 
and  understanding  among  the  country’s  three  major 
confessions.  It  fully  complies  with  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights,  the  documents  of  the Alliance  of  Civilizations 
and  the  UNESCO  Convention  on  the  Protection  and 
Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. 

I  have  the  privilege  of  communicating  to  this 
Assembly  Albania’s  recent  initiative  to  convene  the 
Forum  of  Interconfessional  Dialogue  in  South-East 
Europe in January 2009, under the direct patronage of 
our  Prime  Minister  Berisha,  as  a  follow-up  to  a 
previous regional conference held in Tirana in 2004 in 
cooperation with UNESCO. We have high expectations 
for  the  Forum.  In  view  of  the  new  threats  and 
challenges  stemming  from  conflicts,  stereotypes  and 
interconfessional  prejudices,  Albania  can  render  its 
modest  contribution  to  conflict  resolution  by  sharing 
the successful model of Albanian society. 

As this high-level meeting has demonstrated over 
these  two  days,  it  is  possible  to  strengthen  our 
interfaith  and  intercultural  dialogue  on  a  global  level. 
We hope that we will be able to keep this momentum, 
and  Albania  pledges  its  full  contribution  in  this 
direction. 
(Belgium) 
if 
Mr.  Grauls
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 

chairman of the delegation of Belgium. 
in  French): 
(spoke 

Belgium  endorses  the  statement  made  by  Mr.  Alain 
Juppé on behalf of the European Union. The initiative 
of  His  Majesty  King Abdullah  bin Abdulaziz Al  Saud 
of  Saudi  Arabia,  the  Custodian  of  the  Two  Holy 
Mosques,  is  an  important  contribution  to  promoting 
peace  and  dialogue  among  religions,  beliefs  and 
cultures.  
Belgium  is  convinced  that  it  is  particularly  by 

pursuing  dialogue  that  we  can  fight  misunderstanding 
and prejudice. Our country is a melting pot of cultures, 
religions and beliefs. We therefore see on a daily basis 
the  wealth  that  this  diversity  brings  us.  But  this 
diversity  also  poses  challenges,  and  it  is,  inter  alia, 
through dialogue among all the components of society 
that Belgium is able to overcome them.  
In this context, the respect for freedom of religion 

and belief is fundamental. To be sure, dialogue among 
cultures and religions is possible only if the freedom of 
each person to choose what he or she wants to believe 
or  not  believe 
the  various 
dimensions  of  this  basic  freedom  —  that  is,  the 
freedom to have a religion or a belief, to not have one, 
or to change one’s religion or belief — are therefore of 
equal importance.  

To  be  effective,  this  dialogue  must  be  inclusive. 
All of the religions and beliefs must be involved in the 
dialogue,  without  hierarchy  or  discrimination.  This 
dialogue  must  also  allow  for  calm  discussion  among 
believers  and  non-believers.  In  the  same  spirit,  those 
who  belong  to  religious  minorities  must  be  protected. 
We note that people who do not share the belief of the 
majority too often face harassment and discrimination. 
It  is  the  responsibility  of  each  country  to  ensure  that 
everyone feels free and respected within their religious 
or philosophical choices.  
The  freedom  of  religion  and  belief  can  be  fully 

exercised  only 
rights  and 
fundamental freedoms are guaranteed. I am thinking in 
particular  of 
the  freedom  of  association  and  of 
expression. In the context of the sixtieth anniversary of 
the  adoption  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights, which we will commemorate on 10 December, 
it is essential to reaffirm that the universality of human 
rights  cannot  be  challenged.  This  is  indeed  a  unique 
is  accepted.  All  of 
the  other  human 
24 

08-60083 


opportunity  to  implement  the  obligations  that  the 
international community undertook in 1948.  

Article  2  of  the  Declaration  proclaims  that  no 
person  can  be  discriminated  against  because  of  their 
religion or any other opinion. It adds, in article 18, that 
every person has the right to freedom of thought, belief 
and  religion,  and  that  this  right  includes  both  the 
freedom to change religion or belief and the freedom to 
practise one’s religion or belief, alone or in community, 
both in public and in private.  
The  wise  authors  of  the  Universal  Declaration 

described  in  simple  but  clear  terms  the  fundamental 
obligations of States. These obligations are particularly 
meaningful  today.  What  may  have  seemed  natural  60 
years ago might not be so today. This is why we must 
continue  to  be  vigilant  and  to  continue  to  implement 
the  obligations  in  a  spirit  of  tolerance  and  openness 
through  a  dialogue  among  individuals  of  varying 
beliefs.  

To  be  truly  fruitful,  this  dialogue  must  allow  for 
true exchanges on the beliefs of each person. Religious 
pluralism  is  a  kind  of  wealth. This  wealth  also  means 
that the right to critique the beliefs of others, to discuss 
them and to dispute them must be guaranteed. We will 
not  reduce  tensions  by  preventing  the  expression  of 
differing  opinions.  On 
that 
expression  leads  to  incitement  to  religious  hatred,  it 
must be prohibited.  

Over the past two days of debate, we have heard 
a  number  of  calls  for  dialogue  between  religions  and 
cultures. However, it is just as important to encourage 
dialogue  within  these  religions,  beliefs  and  cultures. 
Religions and beliefs must indeed present opportunities 
for  exchange  and  communication,  and  not 
for 
imposition  or  constraint.  The  United  Nations  must  of 
course continue to encourage that dialogue, but it must 
do  so  while  preserving  the  independence  of  political 
and  religious  spheres.  The  dialogue  between  religions 
and 
political 
interference.  

Belgium  reaffirms  its  deep  commitment  to  the 
freedom of each person to be able to practise his or her 
religion  or  belief.  This  policy  is  actively  defended  by 
our  country,  which  not  only  recognizes  a  number  of 
religions  and  beliefs  and  subsidizes  them,  but  also 
ensures  that  no  one’s  rights  are  challenged  because  of 
their beliefs.  
continue  without 
the  other  hand, 
beliefs  must 
if 
A/63/PV.49
it  possible 
that 
to  reaffirm 
To  conclude,  Belgium  hopes 

In 2005, we created a commission on intercultural 
dialogue,  which  made  a  number  of  recommendations. 
The  aim  of  the  initiative  was  to  ensure  that  Belgium 
continues to be an open society, within which people of 
different cultures and ideas can cooperate in a climate 
of  openness  and  tolerance  while  adhering  to  the 
fundamental  values  of  our  Constitution  and  human 
rights.  Belgium  has  been  able  to  draw  a  distinction 
between  religious  matters  and  those  of  the  State  in  a 
harmonious  manner.  For  example,  it  has  taken  a 
number  of  measures  in  terms  of  education  and  access 
to jobs, and in particular offers students in primary and 
secondary  school  the  choice  between  a  course  on  a 
recognized  religion,  such  as  Islam  or  Judaism,  and  a 
course on secular ethics.  
today’s 

initiative  will  make 
that 
everyone  has  a  right  to  live  with  their  religious  and 
philosophical  choices  without 
fear  and  without 
constraint,  in  harmony  with  the  society  in  which  they 
are  living.  The  initiative  should  also  reassure  those 
who suffer under intolerance and discrimination due to 
their  religion  or  belief,  including  acts  of  violence  and 
intimidation,  which  continue  to  take  place  around  the 
world.  Education  and  dialogue  at  all  levels  of  society 
are  essential  to  bringing  about  greater  tolerance  and 
mutual  understanding  in  order  to  identify  what  brings 
human  beings  closer  together  rather  than  what  keeps 
them apart. 

representative of Nigeria. 

the 
Nigerian delegation, I congratulate the President of the 
General  Assembly  on  presiding  over  this  high-level 
meeting on interfaith dialogue under agenda item 45 on 
the culture of peace. 

I  also  congratulate  His  Majesty  King  Abdullah 
bin Abdulaziz Al Saud of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
on  initiating  this  meeting  aimed  at  deepening  the 
dialogue  among  cultures,  religions  and  faiths  in  order 
to  seek  solutions  to  the  myriad  problems  facing  the 
world. 
As  the  world  continues  to  shrink  into  a  global 

village  in  response  to  the  forces  of  globalization,  we 
are  faced  with  increasing  contact  among  peoples  of 
various  cultures,  races  and  religions.  Our  differences 
call for greater interaction through dialogue in order to 
bring  about  mutual  understanding,  without  which  we 
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
Mr.  Onemola  (Nigeria):  On  behalf  of 
08-60083 

25 

To 
fostering 
that  end, 
to  experience 
the  consequences  of 
A/63/PV.49 

will  continue 
ignorance. 

Nigeria  is  very  passionate  about  the  dividend  of 
peace.  It  is  perhaps  only  natural  that  we  should 
continue  to  encourage  the  promotion  of  a  culture  of 
peace,  not  only  because  we  are  a  multi-ethnic  and 
multireligious  society,  but  also  because  we  have 
learned  over  the  years  to  coexist  as  one  despite  our 
cultural,  linguistic  and  religious  diversity.  While  that 
may not be without its challenges, our country’s people 
have become the better for it by learning to accept one 
another  as  the  same  people,  despite  our  differences. 
Thus,  for  us,  Nigeria  is  an  embodiment  of  “unity  in 
diversity” — a slogan that has come to be appreciated 
by all Nigerians. 

the  Nigerian  Government  has 
established the Nigeria Inter-religious Council with the 
mandate  of  promoting  and 
tolerance, 
understanding and solidarity among the major religious 
groups in the country. Furthermore, many States of the 
Federation  have  established  similar  interfaith  councils 
with the deliberate objective of fostering tolerance and 
understanding.  Additionally,  we  have  established 
relevant  agencies  with  support  mandates  to  foster 
tolerance, understanding and solidarity. Those agencies 
the 
include 
the  National  Boundary  Commission, 
Border  Area  Development  Commission  and 
the 
National Orientation Agency. 

From our perspective, the strategy for building a 
culture  of  peace  should  focus  on  multifaceted  and 
broad  parameters, 
the  promotion  of 
understanding  one  another’s  ways  of  life,  devising 
means  to  resolve  ongoing  conflicts  to  prevent  them 
institutional 
from 
frameworks 
for  peace 
initiatives, and mobilizing resources at the national and 
regional levels for peace initiatives. 

We  also  believe  that  the  media  could  assist  by 
targeting  programmes  that  promote  peace,  religious 
tolerance and dialogue among all faiths with a view to 
preventing  the  defamation  of  religions  and  cultural 
values.  We  in  Nigeria  believe  that  it  is  possible  for 
peoples  of  all  faiths  to  coexist  in  peace  and  harmony. 
We hold dearly the right of every citizen to free speech, 
freedom  of  religious  practice  and  healthy  respect  for 
one another’s convictions. We therefore wish to call for 
continuous  meetings  of 
intra-faith 
organizations  and  for  the  periodic  organization  of 
developing 
capacities 
growing  worse, 
interfaith  and 
including 
relevant 
and 
26 

08-60083 
to 
rights, 
should 
human 
especially 
also  unite 
future.  We 
seminars  on  topical  issues  that  will  facilitate  the 
elimination  of 
intolerance,  disunity,  conflicts  and 
violence. 

The  promotion  of  peace  and  understanding 
through mutual dialogue, tolerance and respect for one 
another  requires  a  collective  effort.  It  is  therefore 
pertinent for all of us to join hands in this endeavour in 
order to propel our world towards a more peaceful and 
prosperous 
to 
de-emphasize  the  agents  of  strife  and  conflict  among 
us  as  we  pay  greater  attention  to  those  issues  that 
create a harmonious atmosphere, in order to guarantee 
for  all  the  peoples  of  the  world  their  full  and 
fundamental 
as  we 
commemorate  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  adoption 
of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 

We are convinced that our diversity has been put 
together  for  us  by  the  divine  Creator  for  our  benefit, 
and  not  for  our  destruction;  for  our  strength,  and  not 
for our weakness; for peace, and not for war. However, 
until  we  see  it  in  that  way,  it  will  continue  to  be  a 
negative force, rather than the positive one that we all 
talk about and desire. We need to make more effort to 
promote interfaith dialogue, as we believe that that will 
bring  about  an  understanding  of  our  differences  and 
enable us to tap into our rich cultural diversity. It will 
overcome  intolerance  and  hatred  and  all  false  notions 
about  our  various  ethnic,  cultural  and  religious 
affiliations  so  that  we  can  truly  live  together  in  an 
atmosphere of peace and love. 

In conclusion, let me share with the Assembly the 
concluding  remarks  made  by  my  country’s  first  Prime 
Minister  at 
the  General 
Assembly, on 7 October 1960, on Nigeria’s assumption 
of membership in this Organization:  

the  fifteenth  session  of 

“Just one week ago the clocks were striking 
midnight  and  Nigeria  was  on  the  threshold  of 
independence.  There  was  a  brief  ceremony  at 
which the leaders of three different faiths each said 
a  brief  prayer.  We  then  realized,  all  of  us,  that 
however  much  we  might  imagine  ourselves  to  be 
responsible 
to 
independence, we realize that, above all, there is a 
divine  Providence,  and  I  do  honestly  believe  that 
one  primary  essential  for  international  friendship 
and  cooperation is  for  each  man to  be true  to  his 
religious  beliefs  and 
the  basic 
principles  of  his  particular  creed.  It  may  be  that 
occasion 
reaffirm 
happy 
the 
for 


A/63/PV.49
the 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on 
then, when we hear the world crying out for peace, 
we  may  receive  the  inspiration  to  deal  with  these 
intractable  problems  and  be  able  really  to  devote 
all  our  resources  to  the  advancement  of  mankind 
by  applying  those  persistent  eternal  truths  which 
will  inevitably  persist  long  after  we  ourselves are 
utterly forgotten.” (A/PV.893, para. 202) 

We  note  the  scene  captured  by  Mr.  Gordon 
Brown,  Prime  Minister  of  the  United  Kingdom  of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, contrasting a poor 
school  with  a  well-to-do  school  in  Nigeria.  Let  me 
assure  all  members  that  there  are  no  institutions  in 
which religious extremists are bred in Nigeria.  

Nigeria stands ready to contribute to and support 
all efforts geared towards the development of a culture 
of peace.  

chairman of the delegation of Rwanda. 
Mr. Nsengimana (Rwanda) (spoke in French): At 

the  outset,  my  delegation  would  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  report  on  interreligious  and 
intercultural  dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation 
for peace (A/63/262) and his report on the International 
Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace  and  Non-Violence  for 
the Children of the World, 2001-2010 (A/63/127). My 
delegation also thanks His Majesty King Abdullah bin 
Abdulaziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia for his contribution 
to the holding of this high-level debate. 

The  subject  of  a  culture  of  peace  reflects  the 
ideals  embodied  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations: 
to save succeeding generations from the scourge and to 
fight  for 
just 
international  order  based  on  the  equal  respect  for  the 
dignity of all human beings. 

Whether these principles  arise from faith in God 
or  from  simple  humanism,  respect  for  them  by  all 
States  would  undoubtedly  bring  peace  and  security  to 
the  world.  Unfortunately,  the  reality  of  relations 
between  States  and  among  different  religions  and 
citizens of different civilizations, tribes and ethnicities 
appears throughout history to be rife with division and 
war.  We  think  not  only  of  the  wars  of  religion  in  the 
Middle  Ages,  but  also  of  our  day-to-day  lives  in 
present  times.  We  think  of  the  various  manifestations 
of  terrorism,  some  more  visible  than  others,  but  all 
detrimental to peace in the world. We think, within the 
the  creation  of  a  democratic  and 
is,  however,  an 
that  are  beneficial 
framework  of  the  application  of  international  law,  of 
discrimination and bias of different protagonists.  

I will give the Assembly an example of a case in 
which  Rwanda  is  still  a  victim.  Our  head  of  State 
protocol  was  arrested 
in  Germany  on  Sunday, 
9 November  2008,  while  on  an  official  trip,  on  the 
grounds  of  an  arrest  warrant  issued  by  France  that 
abused  the  principle  of  the  universal  jurisdiction, 
pursuant  to  a  politically  motivated  report  by  a  French 
judge.  The  principle  of  universal  jurisdiction,  like  the 
Vienna  Convention, 
instrument 
designed  to  guarantee  peace  and  order  in  the  world. 
This  example  clearly  shows  how  respect  for  human 
dignity  and  for  conventions  that  should  govern  our 
world could restore peace  and order in the world, and 
yet can be diverted in the service of the strong.  

That is why a high-level meeting on the culture of 
peace makes full sense within our Organization. This is 
an opportunity to recall that the Charter of the United 
Nations  has  solutions 
to  our 
diversity and that great cultures and great civilizations 
all  preach  dialogue,  tolerance  and  respect  for  human 
dignity,  and  that  international  conventions  regulate 
harmonious relations among peoples. 

If  we  fill  the  breach  of  these  divisions  with  the 
alliance of civilizations, religions and cultures, we will 
be able to respond to the founding ideals of the United 
Nations and for the progress of humanity. 

chairman of the delegation of Thailand. 
Mr.  Pramudwinai  (Thailand):  At  the  outset,  I 

wish to thank the President of the General Assembly at 
its  sixty-third  session  for  convening  this  landmark 
meeting.  I  would  also  like  to  extend,  on  behalf  of  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  the  Kingdom  of 
to  and  strong 
Thailand,  our  sincere  appreciation 
support  for 
the 
Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, His Majesty King 
Abdullah  bin  Abdulaziz  Al  Saud  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Saudi Arabia. Thailand also appreciates the active role 
of  President  Gloria  Macapagal-Arroyo  of 
the 
Philippines,  our  fellow  member  in  the  Association  of 
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).  
the  noble  objectives  and 

aspirations 
this 
meeting  and  is  ready  and  willing  to  do  whatever  we 
can  to  support  the  realization  of  these  objectives  and 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
that  have  been  expressed  during 
the  commendable 
leadership  of 
Thailand 
shares 
08-60083 

27 
throughout 
A/63/PV.49 

aspirations. Thailand is confident that this meeting will 
send  a  strong  and  unequivocal  message  to  all  corners 
of  the  world  that  world  leaders  are  united  in  the 
common  pursuit  of  mutual  respect  and  understanding, 
dialogue, tolerance, harmony and peaceful coexistence. 

Unity in diversity is what for many centuries has 
characterized  a  country  that  is  today  called  Thailand. 
Peaceful  coexistence  is  what  the  Thai  people  have 
grown  up  with  and  practised  in  their  daily  lives,  at 
times  subconsciously.  Because  of  its  openness  and  its 
strategic location between the Far East, South Asia, the 
Middle  East  and  the  West,  Thailand  has  long  been  at 
the  crossroads  of  civilizations,  cultures,  religions  and 
movements  of  people.  From  the  past  to  the  present, 
many  people  of  different  civilizations,  cultures  and 
religions  have  made  our  land  their  home,  where  they 
have  lived  peacefully  and  harmoniously  together  as 
Thais. 

Tolerance  is  also  a  part  of  who  we  are.  That  is 
why freedom to practise any religion or faith has been 
the  country’s 
consistently  guaranteed 
history.  Today,  while  Buddhism 
religion 
practised by the majority of the Thai people, there are 
also thriving communities of Thai people who practise 
Islam,  Christianity,  Hinduism,  Confucianism  and 
Sikhism. His Majesty the King of Thailand himself is a 
patron of all major faiths in the country. 
For many who have visited Thailand, the sight of 

Buddhist 
Islamic  mosques,  Christian 
churches, Hindu temples, as well as places of worship 
for Sikhism and Confucianism, all situated in the same 
vicinity  is  not  at  all  uncommon.  Nor  is  the  sight  of 
various cultural activities all year round that represents 
the  diversity  of 
the  Thai  nation.  Interfaith  and 
intercultural  dialogue  is  indeed  not  just  something  we 
envision; it is part of our way of life. But we know that 
we  cannot  take  this  unity  in  diversity  in  Thailand  or 
anywhere for granted, and we will not. 

Forces  unleashed  by  globalization  have  brought 
down  physical  barriers.  Globalization  driven  by  the 
advancement  of 
information  and  communication 
technology has revolutionized the way that we see, feel 
and  experience  each  other  as  a  part  of  the  human 
family.  We  are  now  closer  to  one  another  than  at  any 
time in human history.  

Yet, the very same forces that brought us so close 
together have also driven many of us so far from each 
other. Closeness and sameness sometimes create fear in 
temples, 
the 
is 

and 
those  who  have  distorted 
many  vulnerable  hearts  and  minds  —  fear  of  losing 
one’s  perceived  identity  in  the  face  of  globalization. 
Unequal  and  unjust  distribution  of 
the  fruits  of 
globalization has also bred a sense of alienation among 
the  have-nots.  This  fear  and  alienation,  real  or 
imagined, especially among youth, have been exploited 
by  those  who  harbour  hatred  and  intolerance  for  the 
other,  those  who  have  attempted  to  sow  the  seed  of 
discord  and  disharmony  in  the  soil  of  unity  and 
harmony, 
the 
compassionate  and  noble  teachings  of  religions  for 
their narrow self-serving interests. 

These  people  of  ill-will  want  to  divide  us.  They 
want to make the clash of civilizations a self-fulfilling 
prophecy.  But  they  will  not  succeed  because  we  will 
not  let  them.  It  is  important  that  we  do  all  we  can  to 
unite  when  they  want  to  divide,  to  reach  out  to  each 
other where they want to separate, and, together, bring 
the full force of compassion and common humanity to 
bear  on  those  who  preach  intolerance  and  the  “us 
versus them” paradigm. 

Unity,  harmony  and  compassion  have  to  be 
continuously  nurtured  and  strengthened.  Thailand  is 
committed  to  actively  promoting  unity,  harmony  and 
compassion  everywhere  in  the  world  because  we 
believe  that  success  in  one  part  will  contribute  to  the 
success  of  all,  for  we  are  part  of  the  same  human 
family.  We  have  been  involved  in  many  initiatives, 
ranging from those at the community level to those at 
the national, regional, cross-regional and global levels. 

For  example,  in  June  2008,  Thailand  hosted, 
together with the Netherlands, the Fourth Asia-Europe 
Meeting  (ASEM)  Interfaith  Dialogue  in  Amsterdam. 
The  Meeting  brought  together  participants  from  Asia 
and  Europe  to  meet  face  to  face  in  order  to  have  a 
“faith-to-faith”  dialogue.  Furthermore,  as  Chair  of  the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN), 
Thailand  will  continue  to  work  closely  with  our 
ASEAN  family  members  to  ensure  that  ASEAN  will 
continue to be a shining example of unity in diversity. 
We will also continue to participate actively in various 
meetings  within  the  framework  of  interfaith  dialogue 
and  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations.  In  2010,  Thailand 
will host the Third Asia-Middle East Dialogue with the 
aim  of  enhancing  mutual  understanding  and  fostering 
closer ties between East Asia and the Middle East. 

initiatives  as  mutually 
reinforcing, but we are also well aware of the fact that 
We  view  all 
those 
28 

08-60083 


the  extent  to  which  they  succeed  will  depend  on  how 
well  we  translate  ideas  and  wisdoms  into  concrete 
action for the benefit of our people on the ground. To 
that end, Thailand would like to highlight the following 
three key points. 

First, multi-stakeholder leadership at all levels is 
vital.  Political,  religious  and  community  leaders  have 
key  roles  to  play  in  promoting  and  reinforcing  unity, 
harmony  and  compassion.  Other  sectors  of  society, 
especially the media, should also be brought on board. 
All  of  us  should  do  all  we  can  to  ensure  that  the 
enhanced power of the media in  this globalized world 
is channelled towards positive endeavours in pursuit of 
understanding,  harmony  and  peace  among  various 
communities. 

Secondly, we should strive to disseminate correct 
interpretations  of  the  principles  and  teachings  of  our 
respective  religions  and  faiths,  while  also  promoting 
respect  for  other  religions  and  faiths.  Voices  of 
moderation, 
tolerance  and  compassion  should  be 
promoted.  So  far,  Thailand  has  been  working  closely 
with our friends in the region and beyond to encourage 
more  frequent  exchanges  of  religious  leaders  and 
scholars.  We  are  truly  grateful  to  all  our  friends  near 
and  far  for  their  cooperation.  We  are  particularly 
grateful to His Majesty King Abdullah bin Al Hussein 
of  the  Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan  for  graciously 
bringing  the  Amman  Message  to  Thailand  during  his 
visit to Thailand in 2005. We were also very pleased at 
last  year’s  visit  to  Thailand  by  Mr.  Mohamed  Sayed 
Tantawi,  the  Grand  Imam  of  Al-Azhar  of  Egypt.  We 
were  very  touched  by  his  message  of  peace,  tolerance 
and harmony. 

Thirdly, we must give all possible attention to our 
young people. We must instil love, compassion, mutual 
respect,  tolerance  and  non-violence  in  them  from  an  


A/63/PV.49
early  age.  That  can  be  done  through  both  formal 
education  and  extracurricular  activities.  We  must  do 
our  utmost  to  prevent  a  sense  of  alienation  from 
developing in the minds of our young people, because 
that will make them vulnerable to intolerant ideologies.  

As  for  those  who  have  been  alienated  and 
exposed  to  intolerance,  we  must  help  them  to  unlearn 
those  experiences  and  redirect  them  towards  a  right 
course  of  action.  In  that  regard,  Thailand  has  been 
promoting youth exchanges between various regions of 
the country and with other countries in various parts of 
the  world  in  order  to  widen  their  world  views  and 
promote mutual understanding and the  appreciation  of 
differences. On that note, we see much relevance in the 
global youth cause, as called for two hours ago by the 
representative of the United Kingdom, and stand ready 
to support that idea.  

Early  next  year,  Thailand  will  host  the  ASEM 
Interfaith  Cultural  Youth  Camp  Project,  which  will 
provide a forum for Asian and European young people 
to get to know one another and to engage in interfaith 
and intercultural activities. 
This  General  Assembly  meeting  is  a  powerful 

demonstration  of  global  leadership  that  will  certainly 
have profound implications. But it is not the end of the 
journey;  rather,  it  marks  a  new  chapter  in  the  global 
effort  to  foster  a  culture  of  peace  and  promote 
interfaith  dialogue.  The  challenge  for  us  is  to  convey 
this message of peace, unity, compassion, tolerance and 
harmony  to  all  houses,  classrooms  and  community 
centres  in  each  and  every  country,  for  when  our 
peoples share a passion for compassion, the culture of 
peace will prevail. 
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m. 


08-60083 

29 
