United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

47th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 12 November 2008, 3 p.m. 
New York 

A/63/PV.47
Official Records







President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m. 


Agenda item 45 (continued) 
Culture of peace 
Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/262) 

Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/127) 


Draft resolutions (A/63/L.23 and A/63/L.24/Rev.1) 
Address by His Eminence Mohamed Sayed Tantawi, 
Grand Imam of Al-Azhar of the Arab Republic  
of Egypt 

The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 
will  hear  a  statement  by  His  Eminence  Mohamed 
Sayed  Tantawi,  Grand  Imam  of Al-Azhar  of  the Arab 
Republic of Egypt. 

Mohamed  Sayed  Tantawi,  Grand 
Imam  of  
Al-Azhar  of  the  Arab  Republic  of  Egypt,  was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish): On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  the  Grand  Imam  of Al-Azhar,  His 
Eminence Mohamed Sayed Tantawi, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 

Grand  Imam  Tantawi  (spoke  in Arabic): When 
we  talk  about  the  culture  of  peace  in  Islam,  we  talk 
about  positive  dialogue  among  civilizations,  religions 
and  cultures,  and  about  realities  about  which  the  wise 
of all times and places concur.  


The first reality is that all peoples are created by 
God,  the  Most  Exalted,  out  of  one  substance,  for  the 
purposes of devoutly worshipping their Creator and of 
cooperating with each other in righteousness and piety, 
setting aside transgression and aggression. 

In  the  Koran,  God  —  praise  be  to  Allah  — 
emphasizes:    “O  mankind!  We  created  you  from  a 
single  pair  of  a  male  and  female,  and  made  you  into 
nations  and  tribes,  that  you  may  know  each  other”  
(The Holy Koran, XLIX: 13). The Almighty also says: 
“Be  dutiful  to  your  Lord,  Who  created  you  from  a 
single  person  and  from  it  created  its  mate  and  from 
them both created many men and women ...” (The Holy 
Koran, IV:1).

Muhammad — peace be upon him — says in this 
regard:  “You  all  belong  to  Adam,  and  Adam  is  from 
dust  …  No Arab  is  better  than  a  non-Arab,  except  by 
piety”. 

The second reality is that difference in beliefs and 
ideas is human nature, that beliefs are not traded, that 
each  individual  is  born  with  his  own  creed,  and  that 
there is no compulsion in religion. Compulsion will not 
produce true believers, but only lying hypocrites. God 
alone  is  the  one  who  calls  people  to  account  for  their 
beliefs. 
Many verses in the Koran reflect these concepts, 

among  which  is  God’s  saying  that  “There  is  no 
compulsion in religion”. The Most Exalted also told his 
Messenger,  the  Prophet  Muhammad,  peace  be  upon 
him: “... your duty is only to convey the message and 
on us is the reckoning”. 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-59939 (E) 
*0859939* 
is 
to  progress 
A/63/PV.47 


The  third  reality  is  that  difference  in  beliefs 
among  people  does  not  preclude  their  cooperation, 
mutual  understanding,  amity  or  exchange  of  benefits 
sanctioned  by  God Almighty.  Human  beings  are  civil 
by  nature  and  cannot  do  without  interaction  with 
others. 

States,  also,  cannot  do  without  cooperation  and 
interaction and exchange of interests with one another, 
particularly in our era, in which the world has become 
a  global  village,  mainly  owing 
in 
transportation  and  communications  through  science 
and know-how. 
Persistent  efforts  and  the  good  offices  of  the 

United  Nations  General  Assembly 
thus  continue 
unabated  to  promote  peace  and  security  in  the  world, 
reducing  frictions  and  differences  among  nations  and 
preventing conflicts and hatred among peoples. 

The  fourth  reality,  as  agreed  by  the  wise,  is  that 
the  divine  religions  revealed  by  God Almighty  to  his 
noble  Messengers  share  two  main  cornerstones.  The 
first  is  to  worship  God  alone  with  devotion  and  the 
second 
character.  Any 
disagreement  among  them  has  to  do  with  secondary 
issues, not the basic principles. 

As  this  is  the  case,  it  follows  that  due  respect 
ought to be paid to all honourable Messengers and that 
the  guidance  of 
should  be  pursued. 
Defamation of religions and assault on the honourable 
Messengers, therefore, do not emanate from sensibility, 
good nature or clear insight. 

The fifth reality, as agreed by the wise, is that the 
Good  Word  works  equally  with  friends  and  others.  It 
works  with  friends  because  it  adds  to  the  amity  and 
affability among them. God refers to His good servants 
by saying: “... and they are guided to goodly words and 
they are guided into the path of the God”. 

The good word also works with non-friends, as it 
serves  to  curb  their  anger  and  animosity.  On  this 
subject, God says: 

“Tell  my  servants  that  they  should  speak  that 
which  is  best;  because  Satan  verily  sows  a  state 
of conflict and disagreement among them; surely 
Satan  is  an  open  enemy  to  man.”  (The  Holy 
Koran, XVII: 53) 

The  sixth  reality,  as  agreed  by  the  wise,  is  that 
since  eternity  there  have  been  virtues  that  need  to  be 
to  maintain  noble 
religions 

two 
respected and vices that need to be avoided. The wise 
have  concurred  that  justice  is  a  virtue.  God  instructed 
by  saying:  “...  when  you  judge  between  people,  you 
judge with justice ...”. 

God also instructed by saying, “... and when you 
speak,  then  be  just,  though  be  it  against  a  relative...” 
God  instructed  in  testimony  saying:  “...  and  take  as 
witness 
just  persons  from  among  you,  and 
establish the testimony for God ...”  (The Holy Koran, 
LXV:2). 
The wise also agreed that injustice is a crime that 

leads  to  great  loss  in  this  world  and  in  the  hereafter. 
God  demonstrates  this  by  saying:  “These  are  their 
houses in utter ruin, for they were unjust ...”.  
All  divine  religions  and  human  minds  seek  the 

promotion of  justice  and the rejection of injustice, for 
there  can  be  no  peace  or  security  in  the  world  unless 
we exert our utmost effort to stand strong for the virtue 
of  justice  until  it  overwhelmingly  triumphs.  We  also 
need  to  stand  firmly  against  the  crimes  of  injustice 
until it is totally defeated. 

The  seventh  reality,  as  agreed  by  the  wise  of  all 
times  and  places,  is  that  consolidating  security  and 
peace in any State is a blessing that leads to prosperity 
and  increased  production,  thereby  creating  happiness 
and ensuring more affluence and progress. 

When Abraham, peace be upon him, left his wife, 
Hajar,  and  his  son,  Ismail,  in  holy  Mecca,  the  blessed 
lands, he asked God: “My Lord, make it a secure town 
and  provide  its  people  with  fruits,  such  of  them  as 
believe in God and the last day ...”. 
The wise have also agreed to reject terrorism and 

the  spreading  of 
aggression  against  people  and 
through  annihilation  and 
mischief 
destruction of State institutions. The wise have agreed 
that  this  kind  of  terrorism  is  a  religious  and  worldly 
tragedy.  It  is  a  religious  tragedy  because  it  explicitly 
violates  the  provisions  of  divine  laws  that  call  for  the 
safeguarding  of  human  life,  people’s  property,  their 
dignity and all their rights from all violations, and that 
consider the murder of one person as unjust and bad as 
the slaughtering of all people. 
In this respect God says: 

“...  whoever  slays  a  person,  unless  it  is  for  a 

murder  or  for  spreading  mischief  in  the  land,  it 
would be as if he slew all  humans; and  whoever 
land 
the 
in 
2 

08-59939 


saves  a  life,  it  would  be  as  though  he  saved  the 
lives of all humans ...” (The Holy Koran, V:32). 

Terrorism  is  a  worldly  tragedy  because  terrorists 
attempt to tear apart a nation’s unity, destroy a nation’s 
wealth  and  economy  and  create  national  discord  and 
spread  horror  and  disruption  wherever 
they  go. 
Undoubtedly, whoever does this is, in fact, committing 
a  crime  against  his  or  her  nation,  for  which  they 
deserve the harshest of penalties. 

It is therefore incumbent upon us all, each in our 
respective  fields,  and  it  is  the  duty  of  the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council, being the greatest 
citadels  for  peace,  to  stand  together  as  one  in  the 
defence  of  security  and  curbing  aggression  and  the 
fight against terrorism. 

The  eighth  reality,  as  agreed  by  the  wise  of  all 
times  and  places,  is  that  the  most  appropriate  way  to 
settle  conflicts  and  disputes  among  people  is  with 
constructive  dialogue.  By  that,  I  mean  dialogue  that 
has  noble  goals  and  reasonable  criteria.  Those  who 
moderate  such  dialogue  must  have  positive  insights, 
sound  judgement,  clear  intentions  and  firm  resolve  so 
they can address difficulties with utmost patience. If a 
dialogue  is  to  be  held  on  religious  grounds,  it  must 
focus  on  saving  the  oppressed,  assisting  the  needy, 
promoting  virtues  and  overcoming  vice.  Accordingly, 
every  effort  must  be  made  to  help  our  brothers  in 
Palestine to fully realize all their rights.  

The ninth reality is that every State has a distinct 
culture,  just  as  the  East,  the  West,  the  South  and  the 
North  have  their  own  cultures.  The  East  should  take 
what  it  considers  most  appropriate  from  Western 
civilization and vice versa, and the same applies to the 
South  and  the  North.  We  believe  in  cooperation, 
complementarity  and  harmony  among  civilizations, 
and  we  disagree  with  those  who  believe  in  the  clash, 
repulsion,  incongruity  and  animosity  among  cultures 
and civilizations. 
We  support  the  decisions  and  recommendations 

resulting from the World Conference on Dialogue, held 
on  18  July  2008  by  the  Muslim  World  League  under 
the  auspices  of  His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  Bin 
Abdulaziz  Al  Saud,  Custodian  of  the  Two  Holy 
Mosques, and His Majesty King Juan Carlos of Spain. 
In  that  regard,  we  believe  that  the  practical  measures 
proposed  by  His  Majesty  the  Custodian  of  the  Two 
Holy  Mosques  will  enable  us 
to  attain  all  our 
objectives.  
A/63/PV.47

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the Grand Imam 
of  Al-Azhar  of  the  Arab  Republic  of  Egypt  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

His  Eminence  Mr.  Mohamed  Sayed  Tantawi, 
Grand Imam of Al-Azhar of the Arab Republic of 
Egypt,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 

The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 
will now hear an address by the former Prime Minister 
and  Special  Envoy  of  the  President  of  the  French 
Republic,  who  will  also  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
European Union. 

Mr.  Alain  Juppé,  former  Prime  Minister  and 
Special  Envoy  of  the  President  of  the  French 
Republic, was escorted to the rostrum. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have  great 
pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Alain Juppé, 
former  Prime  Minister  and  Special  Envoy  of  the 
President  of  the  French  Republic,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the General Assembly. 
Mr. Juppé (France) (spoke in French): Today, it 

is a great joy and honour for me to address the General 
Assembly on behalf of Mr. Nicolas Sarkozy, President 
of  the  French  Republic,  who  is  also  current  President 
of  the  European  Union  and  whom  I  am  mandated  to 
represent  at  this  plenary  meeting  of  the Assembly  on 
interreligious dialogue. 

On behalf of France, I should like at the outset to 
thank  His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  Bin  Abdulaziz  Al 
Saud  of  Saudi  Arabia,  Custodian  of  the  Two  Holy 
Mosques,  who  has  undertaken 
the  commendable 
initiative to promote interreligious dialogue on several 
occasions  in  recent  months.  The  process  launched  in 
Mecca in June is enabling us to exchange views on this 
crucial issue today in New York within the framework 
of the General Assembly.  
Through  his  initiative,  His  Majesty  intended  to 

invite  believers  to  find  sources  of  unity,  rather  than 
division,  in  their  respective  faiths  and  to  take  an 
enlightened  view  of  all  creeds,  guided  by  mutual 
respect.  We  cannot  fail  to  congratulate  him  on  that. 
Holding  regular  meetings  among  representatives  of 
framework  of  an 
various 
interreligious  dialogue  based  on 
trust  encourages 
tolerance with a view to peace. Such an approach helps 
to  raise  awareness  about  the  ongoing  problem  of  acts 
religions  within 
the 
08-59939 

3 

it 
is 
A/63/PV.47 

of violence that, while perpetrated in the name of faith, 
only besmirch what they believe they are exalting.  

Interreligious  dialogue  should  thus  enable  us  to 
reduce  misunderstanding  and  bridge  the  gap  between 
civilizations,  whose  religions  can  be  an  essential 
element of identity. France unreservedly supports such 
dialogue, first of all because our own experience since 
the  Revolution  of  1789  has  caused  us  to  develop  a 
concept  of  secularism  aimed  solely  at  promoting 
peaceful coexistence among all beliefs and non-beliefs 
within  the  national  community.  From  the  French 
perspective,  if  interreligious  dialogue  does  not  retreat 
into  exclusion, 
the  useful  and  welcome 
international  extension  of  a  national  asset  that  is 
viewed  positively  by  the  vast  majority  of  French 
citizens and of those whom they welcome on their soil.  

France also supports this initiative because one of 
the ongoing goals of French diplomacy — in particular 
since the attacks of 11 September 2001 — has been to 
prevent a whole range of factors from working together 
to give substance to the idea of a clash of civilizations. 
We  formally  dispute  that  idea,  whose  self-fulfilling 
nature  could  have  disastrous  consequences 
for 
international peace. 

The  States  members  of  the  European  Union,  on 
whose  behalf  I  should  now  like  to  speak,  have  paid 
particular  attention 
initiative. 
Throughout their history, Europeans have had the often 
and 
bloody 
interdenominational  hatred.  They  have  chosen 
to 
encourage  intercultural  and  interreligious  dialogue, 
which promotes human knowledge and understanding. 
The  notions  of  tolerance,  peacebuilding  and  peace 
consolidation lie at the heart of the European identity, 
as  they  enable  people  to  organize  themselves  into 
political collectives that respect the religious, spiritual 
and  philosophical  identities  of  all  parties.  That  is  the 
message  that  Europe  conveys  within  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations,  which  was  launched  at  the  initiative  of 
Spain  and  Turkey  and  whose  objectives  we  fully 
support.  
While  we  believe  that  faith  is  a  matter  of 

individual 
are 
convinced that religious communities can play a major, 
if  not  essential,  role  in  promoting  dialogue,  fraternity, 
solidarity and peace. Interreligious dialogue must be as 
broad as possible. It must be able to bring together not 
only 
religions,  but  also 
representatives  of  all 
choice,  Europeans 
to  His  Majesty’s 
religious  wars 
experience 
identity 
and 
of 
religion 
listening 
law  and 
international 
representatives  of  all  spiritual,  philosophical  and 
humanistic  traditions  in  all  their  diversity  and  their 
many aspects. 

As  we  prepare  to  commemorate  the  sixtieth 
anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights,  respect  for  the  universal  values  and  principles 
of human rights is an essential pillar on which to build 
and strengthen interreligious dialogue. The recognition 
of  unrestricted  religious  freedom  in  all  its  aspects, 
including the right to change religions or to develop a 
spiritual  or  humanistic  approach  other  than  religious 
belief, is an essential element of such dialogue. 
In order to engage in dialogue, one must also be 

capable  of 
to  opposing  views  or  even 
criticism. Recognizing the right to express oneself and 
to  accept  differing  opinions 
is  another  essential 
element  of  dialogue.  Freedom  of 
is 
inconceivable without freedom of expression, even if it 
is sometimes used to deride; it is a condition sine qua 
non  for  interfaith  dialogue.  The  only  limits  on  such 
freedom  are 
the  spirit  of 
responsibility, which should be the guiding principle of 
every  human  being  who  is  convinced  of  the  supreme 
interest  of  peace,  whether  it  be  the  internal  peace 
required by every society or peace among nations. 
Lastly,  this  dialogue  should  be  free  from  all 

political 
the 
responsibility of the religious authorities, believers and 
representatives 
and 
humanistic 
political  movement, 
association  or  organization  has  the  right  to  shape  the 
debates  or  endorse  the  conclusions  of  any  interfaith 
dialogue. 
or 
intergovernmental authorities should simply be to help 
create an environment in which such dialogue can take 
place. 

Speaking  again  in  my  national  capacity,  I  would 
like to emphasize that France is particularly committed 
to  continuing  this  interfaith  dialogue.  His  Majesty  the 
King  of  Saudi  Arabia 
the  French 
President’s  views  and  convictions  on  this  matter.  He 
expressed them at the basilica of Saint John Lateran, in 
Rome,  and  reiterated  them  in  Riyadh  in  his  speech 
before the consultative council on 14 January, in which 
he said:  


“It is not religious sentiment in itself that is 
dangerous, but rather when this sentiment is used 
to  commit  new 
as  regressive  political 
Interfaith  dialogue 
traditions.  No 
is  aware  of 
governmental 
philosophical 
involvement. 
spiritual, 
tool 
is 
of 
The 
role 
of 
4 

08-59939 


A/63/PV.47
barbarities.  Do  all  of  these  excesses,  all  of  these 
abuses,  mean  that  we  should  condemn  religion? 
Certainly not. Such a cure would be worse than the 
disease.  Religious  sentiment  can  no  more  be 
condemned  on  account  of  fanaticism  than  national 
sentiment  can  be  condemned  on  account  of 
nationalism.” 

As  everyone  knows,  in  France,  churches  and  the 
State are separate entities. Regardless of their personal 
views,  our  national  authorities  do  not  express 
preference for one faith over another. They respect all 
faiths and are committed to ensuring that everyone can 
freely  choose  to  believe  or  not  and  can  practice  their 
faith  in  a  dignified  manner.  We  respect  those  who 
believe  in  heaven  just  as  much  as  those  who  do  not, 
and  we  strive  to  ensure  that  each  person  —  whether 
Jewish,  Muslim, 
Catholic,  Protestant,  Orthodox, 
Buddhist,  Baha’i, 
freethinker, 
freemason or rationalist — feels happy to be living in 
France,  feels  free  and  feels  that  their  beliefs,  values 
and origins are respected. 

It  is  those  very  principles  that  guide  France’s 
work  in  the  international  arena  and  that  guide  my 
speech  today.  I  am  of  course  aware  of  the  wide 
diversity  of  perspectives,  cultures  and  beliefs  around 
the world, but it is my view that the best way to limit 
the  conflict  that  arises  between  them  is  for  public 
authorities,  while  carefully  promoting  mutual  respect 
between  different  faiths  and  the  necessary  interfaith 
dialogue, to deliberately avoid becoming involved in a 
matter  that  is,  above  all,  about  the  exercise  of  an 
individual freedom. 
agnostic, 
atheist, 



  Address by Mr. Deleita Mohamed Deleita, 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Djibouti 

The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 
will now hear an address by the Prime Minister of the 
Republic of Djibouti. 

Mr.  Deleita  Mohamed  Deleita,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Republic  of  Djibouti,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have  great 
pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Deleita 
Mohamed  Deleita,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Djibouti,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
for 
issues 
the  most  crucial 

Mr.  Deleita  (Djibouti)  (spoke  in  French):  It  is 
with  genuine  pleasure  and  a  tremendous  sense  of 
honour  that  I  take  the  floor  today  before  this  august 
Assembly and that my country rises to the challenge of 
the  generous  invitation  of  His  Majesty  King Abdullah 
Bin  Abdulaziz  Al  Saud,  Custodian  of  the  two  Holy 
Mosques,  in  order  to  participate  in  this  high-level 
meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the  culture  of 
peace  through  dialogue  among  religions  and  cultures, 
the importance and prospects of which no longer need 
to  be  demonstrated.  Allow  me,  first  of  all,  your 
Majesty, to transmit to you the distinguished greetings 
of your brother, His Excellency Ismael Omar Guelleh, 
President of the Republic of Djibouti, who, for reasons 
beyond his control, is not able to be here beside you to 
participate in this important meeting. 

The  culture  of  peace,  which  has  been  on  the 
General Assembly’s agenda since its fiftieth session, is 
today  one  of 
the 
international  community.  We  are  gratified  by  and 
support  this  unprecedented  initiative  of  His  Majesty 
King  Abdullah  Bin  Abdulaziz  Al  Saud,  Custodian  of 
the two Holy Mosques, as it takes place after the World 
Conference  on  Interreligious  Dialogue  initiated  in 
cooperation with King Juan Carlos  I of Spain, held in 
July 2008 in Spain. These initiatives seek to establish a 
dialogue between Islam, Christianity, Judaism and any 
other  belief  or  philosophy.  They  demonstrate  courage 
and a strong political will to contribute in a meaningful 
and constructive manner to reconciling people through 
promoting dialogue among cultures and religions.  
This  is  an  important  dialogue.  It  should  serve  to 

convey  a  genuine  image  of  religion,  and  of  ours  in 
particular, by means of dialogue in order to counter the 
misunderstandings  that  are  spreading  throughout  the 
world.  Islam,  which  is  a  religion  of  peace,  is  today 
identified and associated with international terrorism, a 
barbaric phenomenon. We see today that this scourge is 
one  of  the  most  manifest  obstacles  to  dialogue  and 
peaceful  coexistence  among  peoples.  Clearly,  this  is  a 
global  phenomenon  and  it  requires  an  organized  and 
concerted  international  effort.  We  must  confront  this 
scourge together in a serious manner and with a sense 
of responsibility, justice and equity.  

While  we  are  convinced  that  we  must  work  to 
combat  terrorism  in  all  its  aspects  and  tackle  it  at  the 
root,  we  must  also  work  to  overcome  this  phobia  of 
anything relating to Islam. That attitude is on the rise, 
and  it  is  undermining  a  genuine  perception  of  our 
08-59939 

5 

to  overcome 
A/63/PV.47 

religion  and  its  principles  of  peace,  tolerance  and 
compassion.  We  must  do  all  we  can  to  prove  that  the 
recent accusations of violence and terrorism attributed 
to Islam are not justified.  

We  must,  finally,  explain  that  the  Holy  Koran 
advocates  peace  and  not  violence  or  war.  It  advocates 
tolerance and not fanaticism. It advocates love and not 
hatred. It advocates coexistence and respect for others.  

Today,  humanity  is  suffering  from  a  loss  of 
values and from great confusion about ideas. We are in 
a  difficult  phase.  Intolerance,  distrust  and  suspicion 
prevail  among  communities  and  peoples.  What  is 
causing  this  and,  more  importantly,  what  can  we  do? 
We  can  say  here  that  the  main  cause  is  ignorance. 
Ignorance  is  what  creates  fear  of  others. Allow  me  to 
underscore the importance of dialogue and education in 
combating  that  phenomenon.  Education  and  dialogue 
remain, in my opinion, the most important weapons in 
the  struggle 
the  vicious  circle  of 
ignorance  and  of  the  distortion  of  religious  messages 
and concepts.  

This  is  a  permanent  challenge,  which  every 
society and every citizen must face. Education and the 
culture  of  peace  must  become  a  constant  concern 
within  our  societies,  because  this  is  what  will  lead  to 
mutual 
an 
for 
constructive dialogue.  

Every  society  has  multiple  identities  today.  We 
now  understand  that  the  concept  of  diversity  is 
the  common 
indispensable.  Cultural  diversity 
heritage  of  mankind  and 
the 
Convention  on  the  Protection  and  Promotion  of  the 
Diversity of Cultural Expressions bears witness to that 
fact. 

That plurality of identities is an asset from which 
we  should  draw  pride  and  profit  and  which  in  turn 
fosters  an  openness  toward  other  cultures,  enabling 
mutual  enrichment.  In  this  context,  tolerance  takes  on 
its  full  meaning,  implying  recognition  of  the  respect 
for all cultures and their equal dignity and, at the same 
time,  rejection  of  and  fight  against  extremism  and 
terrorism.  This  is  why  we  are  convinced  that  the 
culture  of  peace  is  the  ideal  avenue  to  bring  about 
understanding  and  cooperation  among  people  in  order 
to attain peaceful coexistence among nations and that it 
is  the  best  way  of  strengthening  understanding  and 
bringing peoples together. This is also why we believe 
that  dialogue  must  be  multiple  and  diverse  and  that  it 
the  adoption  of 
prerequisite 
essential 
respect, 
is 
there 
the  diversity  of  cultures, 
must be carried out not only at the State level, but also 
and crucially at the regional and local levels in all parts 
of the world. A return to moral and religious values is 
an  absolute  necessity,  as  human  beings  cannot  live 
without  values,  which  can  provide  protection  against 
all sorts of deviation. 

I  am  gratified  by  the  increasing  recognition  of  the 
value  of  the  culture  of  peace  as  a  horizontal  instrument 
that  can  help  us  build  and  strengthen  bridges  among 
civilizations  and  religions.  It  is  our  responsibility  to 
inform  the  peoples  of  the  whole  world,  community  by 
community, that differences are not and must not be the 
source of conflict and confrontation. Of course, we do not 
all believe in God in the same way; of course, we do not 
serve  God  or  worship  God  in  the  same  way,  but  that 
reality does not mean that we should become opponents. 
Beyond 
remain 
fundamental  values  that  are  universal  and  are  conveyed 
by all cultures, religions and philosophies, values such as 
moral integrity in speech and action, solidarity, tolerance 
and the search for virtue and wisdom. 

If we want this historic meeting to be a success, it 
is  imperative  that  we  concentrate  on  the  common 
foundations that unite us, that is to say, the belief in the 
noble  principles  and  high  moral  values  that  constitute 
the  essence  of  every  religion.  I  am  profoundly 
convinced that all religions, intended initially to guide 
and  improve  human  action,  must  never  serve  as  a 
pretext for the dissemination of hate and violence.  

of 
new  means 
communications, all information is spread immediately 
throughout 
increasingly 
interdependent, and our fates continue to become more 
intimately  linked.  This  new  reality,  which  is  entirely 
different  from  the  centuries  of  experience  of  our 
ancestors  and  our  countries,  should  lead  us  to  step up 
our  efforts  to  preserve  and  protect  peace  and  to 
advocate  for  tolerance  and  respect  for  others.  More 
than  ever,  we  must  reaffirm  the  common  universal 
values  that  are  the  foundation  of  our  existence.  More 
than  ever,  we  must  respect  the  diversity  of  people, 
beliefs and cultures and devote ourselves to the values 
of  tolerance.  More  than  ever,  we  must  seize  and 
cultivate  every  opportunity  for  dialogue  in  order  to 
resolve  and  avoid  any  misunderstanding  about  our 
differences.  It  is  by  this  means  alone  that  we  may 
distance  ourselves  from  the  spectre  of  the  clash  of 
civilizations  and  that  we  may  achieve  a  responsible 
dialogue among civilizations.  
the  world.  We 
globalization 
With 
and 
are 
6 

08-59939 
Mr. Beck (Solomon Islands), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 
In conclusion, I would say that we are today at a 

in  our  history.  The  path  of 
decisive  crossroads 
integration  seems  difficult; 
it  demands  unfailing 
political  commitment  and  will  and  intense  effort, 
marked  by  patience  and  respect.  However,  it  is  only 
together  and  in  solidarity,  speaking  with  one  and  the 
same  voice,  that  we  will  be  able  to  achieve  our 
objectives.  
It is vital that we adopt strong, common positions 

against  common  threats,  against  the  forces  of  evil, 
injustice  and  tyranny,  while  working  with  hope  and 
optimism  to  build  a  better  future,  where  the  spirit  of 
generosity  and  solidarity,  as  well  as  the  values  of 
morality and virtue, may reign.  

To that end, we encourage the General Assembly 
to  support  and  to  endorse  the  conclusions  of  the 
Madrid World Conference on Dialogue, which strongly 
promote a culture of peace. May God help us and guide 
our steps. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  Djibouti  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr.  Dileita  Mohamed  Dileita,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Republic  of  Djibouti,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
The Acting President: The Assembly will hear a 

statement  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kassym-Jomart 
Tokayev, Chairman of  the  Senate of the Parliament of 
Kazakhstan. 

Mr.  Kassym-Jomart  Tokayev,  Chairman  of  the 
Senate  of  Kazakhstan,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum. 

The  Acting  President:  I  have  the  pleasure  to 
welcome the Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament 
of  Kazakhstan,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kassym-Jomart 
Tokayev. I invite him to address the General Assembly. 

(Kazakhstan):  Kazakhstan 
welcomes  and  supports  the  initiative  of  His  Majesty 
the  King  of  Saudi  Arabia  to  convene  this  important 
forum  at  the  United  Nations.  We  have  no  doubt  that 
such a universal organization as the United Nations has 
a pivotal role to play in ensuring peace, understanding 
and  international  security.  The  high  representatives  of 
to 



Mr. 
Tokayev 
08-59939 

A/63/PV.47
Nations  will  never  give  up 
various  States  and  regions  that  have  come  together  in 
this Hall are motivated by the noble idea of holding an 
open  dialogue  among  cultures  and  religions.  Our 
common  goal  is  simple  and  clear:  to  build  a  more 
secure and stable world. 

The current situation in our world is complex and 
controversial.  We  in  Kazakhstan  hear  with  sincere 
regret the news of new victims of terrorism, wars and 
conflicts arising from xenophobia, religious intolerance 
and  civilization’s  contradictions.  At  the  same  time, 
global challenges disregard racial, ethnic and religious 
differences.  The  threats  they  pose  affect,  to  the  same 
extent, all nations and peoples striving to live in peace 
and understanding, to make the world a better place for 
the  sake  of  our  children  and  to  ensure  for  them  a 
brighter future. Global challenges bring about the need 
for  a  large-scale  global  dialogue  on  the  issues  of 
intercultural  and  interfaith  understanding.  There  is  no 
alternative 
to  mutual  understanding,  respect  and 
tolerance.  The  time  has  come  for  statesmen  and 
religious leaders to come together. We will be unable to 
protect the world from violence and chaos unless joint 
efforts are undertaken. 

their  historical, 
spiritual  and  cultural  identities.  That  is  a  right  and 
natural  development.  Every  culture,  not  to  mention 
religion, has a legitimate right to freely exist and to be 
mutually respected. That is why, while recognizing and 
welcoming the variety of cultures, we should facilitate 
in  every  possible  way  the  modern  world’s  evolution 
towards  a  universal  civilization  based  on  common 
values  of  freedom,  tolerance  and  understanding.  The 
notion of unity in diversity is extremely relevant in the 
modern world. 

As a nation where many ethnic groups and faiths 
have  successfully  coexisted  for  centuries,  Kazakhstan 
stands  ready  to  contribute  to  the  development  of  the 
global  dialogue  of  religions  and  cultures.  Kazakhstan 
has  historically  been  a  place  of  interaction  of  great 
civilizations. A spirit of openness  and cooperation has 
always  been  a  part  of  the  traditions  and  mentality  of 
our  people.  Kazakhstan  is  the  home  country  of  an 
outstanding  thinker  of  the  Orient,  al-Farabi,  and  an 
Islamic  enlightener,  Ahmed  Yasawi.  The  remains  of 
Father  Sebastian,  beatified  by  the  Russian  Orthodox 
Church, are also in my country. A Jewish sacred place, 
the  grave  of  a  Lubavitcher  Rabbi,  is  located  on  our 
territory.  Ancient  Buddhist  temples  still  exist  on  our 
boundless  land.  Many  ethnic  groups  were  exiled  to 
7 

passed 
Recently, 
the  Parliament 
A/63/PV.47 

Kazakhstan  during  the  totalitarian  regime  and  all  of 
them found the shelter and hospitality of Kazakhs.  

Now,  in  a  new  historical  reality,  these  ethnic 
groups  have  become  the  backbone  of  the  unique 
institution  that  is  our  Assembly  of  the  People  of 
Kazakhstan. The Parliament of Kazakhstan has passed 
a  law  granting  special  status  to  this  organization  as  a 
centre for the interaction of all ethnic groups living in 
our country. The Assembly has been given an exclusive 
right  to  appoint  its  representatives  as  delegates  to  the 
Mazhilis, the lower chamber of the Kazakh Parliament. 

national 
legislation  on  the  freedom  of  faith  and  of  religious 
organizations. This  legislation  has  been  improved  and 
amended  to  comply  with  international  standards  and 
experience  drawn  from  practices  abroad.  Since  our 
independence, only 17 years ago, 1,500 mosques, over 
170  Orthodox  parishes,  more 
than  30  Catholic 
churches,  20  synagogues  and  over  1,000  houses  of 
prayer  and  Protestant  missions  have  been  built  in  our 
country. 
Since  2003,  our  new  capital,  Astana,  has,  upon 

initiative  of  President  Nursultan  Nazarbayev, 
the 
hosted  two  summit  meetings  of  the  Congress  of 
Leaders  of  World  and  Traditional  Religions.  This 
forum has become a unique Central Asian platform for 
dialogue among world religions. I would like to ask the 
representatives of the international community to offer 
their support to the third Congress of Leaders of World 
and Traditional Religions, which is to be held on 1 and 
2  July  next  year  in  Astana,  this  time  with  the 
participation of the United Nations. 

The  title  of  the  upcoming  Congress,  recently 
approved  by  its  secretariat,  is  “The  role  of  religious 
leaders in building a world of tolerance, mutual respect 
and  cooperation”.  We  will  be  delighted  to  welcome 
representatives 
religious 
communities  of  countries  from  around  the  world  as 
guests of the Congress. 

We  believe  that  these  Congresses  hosted  by 
Kazakhstan  do  not  contradict,  but  rather  complement, 
similar  forums  held  in  other  States.  In  this  respect, 
Kazakhstan  appreciates  the  efforts  of  Russia,  Saudi 
Arabia, the Philippines, Qatar, Japan, Greece, Italy and 
other  States  to  promote  interfaith  and  intercultural 
dialogue. 
of  Governments 
and 
to 
of 
and 
through 
representatives 
take  concrete  actions 
Kazakhstan  will  chair 

Our country has joined the group of friends of the 
Alliance of Civilizations initiated by the Governments 
of  Turkey  and  Spain.  We  will  do  our  utmost  to 
strengthen cooperation with the Alliance. 

As  was  proposed  by  our  head  of  State,  the 
General Assembly declared 2010 to be an International 
Year for the Rapprochement of Cultures. We call upon 
countries 
their 
national programmes to achieve positive results in this 
important interaction. 
Kazakhstan  is  also  planning  to  host  a  global 

forum on spiritual accord and dialogue among cultures. 
Last  month,  a  ministerial  forum  entitled  “Common 
World:  Progress  through  Diversity”,  which  brought 
together  the  Ministers  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  over  50 
States 
international 
organizations,  was  held  in  our  country.  This  meeting 
was  an  early  tangible  result  in  implementation  of  our 
initiative  to  promote  dialogue  between  the  Muslim 
world and the West. 

the  Organization  for 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE)  in  2010 
and the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC) 
in  2011.  In  preparation  for  its  OSCE  chairmanship, 
Kazakhstan  has  adopted  a  special  programme  entitled 
“The Path to Europe”, which outlines specific tasks for 
broad  interaction  with  the  European  countries  and 
institutions  in  the  economic,  political  and  cultural 
fields.  At  the  same  time,  as  a  secular  State  with  a 
predominantly  Muslim  population,  Kazakhstan  has 
voiced  its  commitment  to  the  ten-year  Programme  of 
Action of the OIC. 

Kazakhstan  has  been  consistently  involved  in 
strengthening  the  interaction  of  various  cultures  and 
civilizations,  as  well  as 
in  promoting  active 
cooperation  within  international  organizations  in  that 
area.  Our  national  experience  has  shown  that  there  is 
both an opportunity and a need for the rapprochement 
of different cultures and religions on a global scale. At 
the  same  time,  Kazakhstan  has  demonstrated  the 
practical  value  of 
to 
ensuring  and  enhancing  the  social  and  economic 
progress of States. 

Finally,  I  would  like  to  thank  Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  and  President  of  the  General Assembly 
Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann  for  the  timely  and  wise 
decision  to  hold  this  meeting,  which  will  undoubtedly 
the  rapprochement  process 
8 

08-59939 


be  an  important  landmark  in  promoting  the  ideas  of 
cooperation and dialogue. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the Chairman of the Senate 
of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Kassym-Jomart  Tokayev,  Chairman  of  the 
Senate  of  the  Parliament  of  the  Republic  of 
Kazakhstan, was escorted from the rostrum. 



  Address by Mr. Salam Fayyad, Prime Minister 
of the Palestinian National Authority 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
the 
the  Prime  Minister  of 

hear  an  address  by 
Palestinian National Authority. 

Mr.  Salam  Fayyad,  Prime  Minister  of 
the 
Palestinian  National  Authority,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum. 
 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Salam  Fayyad,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Palestinian  National Authority,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
Mr. Fayyad (Palestine) (spoke in Arabic): At the 

outset,  I  wish  to  express  our  deep  appreciation  to  the 
President for convening this important meeting. We are 
pleased  and  honoured  to  see  him  presiding  over  the 
sixty-third  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  would 
also  like,  on  behalf  of  His  Excellency  President 
Mahmoud Abbas,  to  express  our  deep  gratitude  to  the 
Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, His Majesty King 
Abdullah  Bin  Abdulaziz  Al  Saud,  King  of  Saudi 
Arabia, for his noble and continued efforts in spreading 
the  culture  of  tolerance  and  understanding  among 
religions  and  for  launching  the  international  initiative 
to promote dialogue among religions and cultures. 

I come to this Assembly  from the  land  of divine 
messages  to  mankind,  the  land  of  Palestine,  where 
tolerance  has  been  rooted  in  the  history  of  the 
Palestinian Arab people. Following in the footsteps  of 
the  Prophets  that  walked  that  blessed  land  and  on  the 
basis  of  complete 
the  spiritual, 
civilizational and cultural heritage of Palestine that has 
embraced  tolerance  and  coexistence  among  religions 
over  the  centuries,  the  Palestinian  Arab  people  — 
Muslims and Christians — has preserved the culture of 
the  historical 
tolerance  and  coexistence,  despite 
faithfulness 
to 
A/63/PV.47
and 
international 
joint  efforts 
injustice  that  has  been  imposed  on  them  for  over  60 
years. Indeed, the Palestinians have responded to every 
call  to  prayer  from  every  mosque,  church,  and  temple 
with a hymn of compassion, love and peace. 

I  come  to  this  Assembly  from  Jerusalem  and 
Bethlehem,  cities  of  peace  and  love,  which  have 
embraced  and  nourished  coexistence  throughout  the 
ages,  and  whose  people  suffer  today  from  the  pain  of 
isolation and the cruelty of siege, walls, discrimination, 
and  from  the  destruction  of  their  homes  and  even  the 
confiscation of their cemetery lands. They look to this 
Assembly to bring an end to the shackles of occupation 
and injustice that have brought nothing but hatred, fear, 
intolerance and mistrust. 

Our  world  is  still  suffering  from  all  forms  of 
religious  extremism  and  racial  discrimination  and 
foreign  occupation,  which  are  the  causes  of  hatred, 
extremism, intolerance and bigotry, which are contrary 
to  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  which  calls  for 
to 
strengthen 
provide 
relations 
capacities  for  building  an  exemplary  human  society. 
That, in turn, requires the expansion and deepening of 
dialogue  and  its  affirmation  as  a  civilized  means  for 
cooperation, security, peace and well-being.  

Despite  the  passing  of  more  than  63  years  since 
the  adoption  of  the  Charter’s  call  for  tolerance, 
coexistence  and  peace  on  earth,  many  peoples 
throughout  the  world  continue  to  suffer  from  the  pain 
of  irrational  and  irresponsible  practices  and  policies, 
which  are  governed  by  a  sense  of  the  arrogance  of 
power and racial, religious or ethnic superiority.  

On  the  other  hand,  the  forces  of  good  in  all 
religions  have  always  challenged  those  calling  for 
extremism, confrontation and superiority. The forces of 
good  have  succeeded  in  many  cases  in  confronting 
those abhorrent phenomena and have contributed to the 
success  of  the  model  of  coexistence,  thus  helping  to 
maintain international peace and security and promote 
friendly relations among nations and peoples based on 
mutual  respect  for 
the  equal  rights  of  peoples, 
including the right to self-determination. 
this  noble 

importance  of 
initiative 
for 
religious  tolerance  as  represented  by  the  mosaic  of 
human diversity and necessitated by the sum of human 
experience,  which  has  proven  that  civilizations  have 
for  dialogue  among 
religions  and 
Therein 
lies 
the 
08-59939 

9 
between 
civilizations, 
cultures 
among 
religions, 
cultures 
to  preserve 
A/63/PV.47 

not  arisen  in  human  history  without  having  interacted 
with other civilizations. 
The President returned to the Chair. 


That  is  what  has  enabled  humanity  to  formulate 
the  common  value  of  coexistence,  which  calls  for 
freedom  and  equality  among  all  human  beings, 
regardless of their race, religion or culture, and for the 
establishment of justice and peace in the world. Indeed, 
tolerance  and  coexistence  among  religions 
is  a 
prerequisite  for  human  life  and  coexistence  among 
human beings. 

this  noble  human 
In  order 
prerequisite,  which  all  religions  have  called  for,  we 
must promote and deepen dialogue aimed at achieving 
peace  among  human  beings,  avoid  conflicts,  suppress 
all acts of aggression and arrogance, ensure respect for 
the  differences 
and 
civilizations,  and  encourage  the  quest  for  positive 
interaction 
and 
religions. 

It is incumbent on all Member States, collectively 
and  individually,  to  work  hard  under  the  aegis  of  the 
United  Nations 
to  uphold  mutual  respect  among 
religions,  to  maintain  the  right  to  religious  belief  and 
human  dignity,  and  to  consolidate  full  equality  of 
rights  through  the  promotion  of  a  culture  of  tolerance 
and understanding. 

The  only  means  to  achieve  this  is  through 
dialogue in a framework of international relations, and 
by addressing the root causes that fuel intolerance and 
extremism  in  all  their  forms.  We  must  also  work  to 
raise communities based on real religious tolerance and 
non-discrimination of religion, race, colour and gender. 

the 
phenomenon  of  the  defamation  of  religions  and  their 
symbols  and  to  those  who  claim  the  inevitability  of  a 
clash  of  civilizations.  There  must  be  a  cessation  of 
defamation and stereotypical caricatures of peoples. 

In  this  context,  we  emphasize  the  importance  of 
the  Mecca Appeal  issued  by  the  International  Islamic 
Conference for Dialogue, held in June 2008 under the 
auspices  of  the  Custodian  of  the  Two  Holy  Mosques, 
His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  Bin  Abdulaziz  Al  Saud, 
and  the  Madrid  Declaration  of  the  World  Conference 
on Dialogue of July of this year. 
respond  decisively 
We  must  also 
to 


The  international  community  is  faced  with  an 
overall responsibility and a great challenge to respond 
firmly  to  all  the  abhorrent  phenomena  that  undermine 
coexistence. It must formulate policies and approaches 
that ensure compliance with covenants and treaties and 
which will  relegate this dark side of human history to 
the dark  and  painful past,  rather than have it continue 
to  threaten  our  present  and  future.  There  can  be  no 
choice  but  to  overcome  those  abominable  phenomena 
and  their  promoters  and  put  an  end  to  them,  because 
the  consequences  of  failure  would  be  catastrophic  for 
the future of all humankind. 

As  we  speak  about  religious  tolerance,  we  must 
speak  about  Jerusalem,  the  city  of  peace,  the  land  of 
prophets,  the  first  of  the  two  qiblas,  and  the  third 
holiest shrine in Islam, the place of the ascension of the 
Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, and the place 
of the resurrection of Jesus Christ, peace be upon him. 

The  Holy  City  has  suffered  from  occupation  for 
over  forty-one  years.  During  this  time,  it  has  been 
subjected to a series of practices and violations aimed, 
in  essence,  at  altering  its  character  and  status.  Some 
examples  of  this  are  the  harassment  of  its  Palestinian 
inhabitants,  as  well  as  of  Muslims  and  Christians, 
attempts  to  force  them  to  abandon  Jerusalem,  and  the 
imposition  of  a  fait  accompli  on  the  ground  that 
threatens  the  prospects  of  achieving  an  agreement  on 
the final status of the Holy City. 

The Security Council, the General Assembly and 
other organs have adopted numerous resolutions on this 
topic,  all  of  which  have  reaffirmed  that  any  measures 
taken  by  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  to  impose  its 
laws,  jurisdiction  and  administration  on  occupied 
Jerusalem  are  illegal,  null  and  void  and  have  no 
validity whatsoever. Those resolutions have also called 
for  the  cessation  of  all  violations  of  the  sanctity  of 
Jerusalem. 

Regrettably,  however,  none  of  those  resolutions 
have been respected or implemented. On this occasion, 
we  therefore  emphasize  that  any  situation  where  holy 
places  are  being  violated  or  where  one  group  or 
religion  attempts  to  impose  control,  regardless  of  the 
pretext,  is  unacceptable.  Continued  silence  in  the  face 
of such an unjust situation threatens the foundations of 
religious tolerance and serves only to escalate conflict 
and create more intolerance and hatred. 
This  makes  it  imperative  for  the  international 

community  to  give  Jerusalem  and  its  inhabitants  the 
08-59939 
10 

this 
issue.  Such 


protection they deserve, to address all illegal practices 
that  contravene  the  principles  of  justice  and  rules  of 
international  law,  as  well  as  to  provide  protection  for 
the  city  and  its  unique  spiritual,  religious  and  cultural 
status,  as  envisaged  in  the  relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions  on 
support  will 
undoubtedly  ease  tensions,  fears  and  hatred,  while 
encouraging  dialogue  towards  the  achievement  of  the 
desired goals of freedom, peace and tolerance. 

Nothing that has been said from this rostrum or in 
any  other  forum  about  Jerusalem  can  change  the 
historical fact that East Jerusalem has been an occupied 
Palestinian  territory  since  5  June  1967  or  can  obviate 
the  necessity  of  applying  relevant  resolutions  of 
international legitimacy, particularly with regard to the 
Israeli  withdrawal  from  the  city  and  the  rest  of  the 
occupied Palestinian territories. 

The choice of the Palestinian people, as affirmed 
and detailed in the 1988 Palestinian Peace Initiative, is 
that  East  Jerusalem  is  the  capital  of  the  future 
independent  Palestinian  State.  The  Palestinian  people 
thus  expect  the  international  community  to  provide 
urgent  and  effective  assistance  to  put  an  end  to  the 
occupation  and  to  enable  them  to  exercise  their 
legitimate rights, at the forefront of which is the right 
to establish their independent State with East Jerusalem 
as its capital with the 1967 borders. This will pave the 
way  for  ending  intolerance,  hatred  and  racism  and  is 
the  key  to  peace,  security  and  stability  throughout  the 
region. 

Such an achievement will ensure freedom for all 
peoples  of 
to 
permanently  and  freely  reach  the  holy  places.  This  is 
what  the  Palestinian  people,  Muslims  and  Christians, 
have  been  accustomed  to  throughout  history  and  they 
look  forward  to  its  continuation  for  the  benefit  of  all 
believers of all monotheistic religions. 

This  is  a  commitment  made  by  the  Palestinian 
people  in  the  1988  Declaration  of  Independence,  as 
well  as  in  the  constitutional  principles  governing  the 
work  of  the  Palestinian  National Authority. Today,  we 
renew this commitment before you. 
The  walls  of  the  old  city  in  East  Jerusalem 

encompass  the  minarets  of  Al-Aqsa  Mosque  and  the 
bells  of  the  Church  of  the  Nativity  and  these,  along 
with  every  stone,  rock  and  corner  in  its  streets  and 
quarters, 
the  city’s 
enormous  capacity  for  hosting  coexistence  among 
the  summation  of 
and  nationalities 
represent 
religions 
all 
A/63/PV.47
that 
solution 
received 
land  and  water  resources, 
civilizations and cultures and is a source of hope for its 
inhabitants in ending the occupation. 

Do  not  let  this  hope  —  amid  the  pleas  of  Um 
Kamel Al-Kurd for the restoration of her home, which 
was  confiscated  by  the  settlers  —  or  the  hope  of  all 
mothers  in  the  Holy  City  diminish.  This  is  our 
responsibility. 

The suffering of the Palestinian people continues 
unabated, in terms of displacement, exile, confiscation 
of 
the  unprecedented 
escalation  of  settlement  activities,  their  subjugation  to 
settlers’  terrorism  and  the  imposition  of  severe  siege, 
particularly  on  the  Gaza  strip,  where  the  freedom  of 
more  than  1.5  million  people  is  curtailed. This  reality 
jeopardizes  international  efforts  to  establish  peace  on 
the  basis  of  the  two-State  solution  along  the  1967 
borders,  a 
international 
consensus  support  and  the  economic,  political  and 
moral endorsement of the international community.  

This  requires  intervention  to  ensure  that  all 
parties  implement  United  Nations  resolutions  and 
adhere to the principles and foundations of justice and 
the  provisions  of  international  law.  I  am  sure  that 
Member 
and 
repercussions  of  inaction,  not  only  as  it  affects  the 
Palestinian and Israeli peoples, but also as it concerns 
the  whole  region,  as  well  as  international  peace  and 
security.  That  which  must  also  be  understood  is  what 
the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  provides  in  terms  of  broad 
prospects  to  end  the  conflict  in  our  region  and  to 
achieve peace, security and harmony. 

This  matter  should  prompt  us  all  to  step  up  our 
efforts  and  to  make  a  serious  commitment  to  settling 
this  decades-long  conflict,  to  putting  an  end  to  the 
longest occupation in modern times and to enabling our 
people to realize our right to self-determination and to 
establish  our 
independent  State,  with  Al-Quds  
Al-Sharif  as  its  capital,  on  the  basis  of  the  1967 
borders. This would pave the way for real possibilities 
for  cooperation  and  coexistence.  It  would  consolidate 
the principles of tolerance and close this tragic chapter, 
thus  enabling  our  people  to  build  its  own  future  and 
actively  contribute  to  the  progress  and  prosperity  of 
humankind. 

When a  representative of Palestine spoke for the 
first  time  from  this  rostrum,  he,  the  late  President 
Yasser  Arafat,  raised  an  olive  branch,  a  symbol  of 
peace in the land of peace. The olive branch is deeply 
understand 
results 
States 
the 
08-59939 

11 

A/63/PV.47 

rooted  in  our  land  as  a  symbol  of  coexistence  and 
tolerance.  Today,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  to  this 
General  Assembly  his  message  as  included  in  the 
Declaration  of  Independence  of  the  State  of  Palestine. 
In  two  days  from  now,  we  will  commemorate  that 
Declaration,  which  was  drafted  by  the  late  great  poet 
Mahmoud Darwish, the poet of Palestine and humanity, 
whose  body  was  embraced  by  the  soil  of  Palestine  as 
he  was  bid  farewell  by  old  and  young  people  of 
Palestine  as  a  symbol  of  our  nationalism  and  national 
culture. 

I  reaffirm  here  and  now  that  the  people  of 
Palestine, Muslims and Christians alike, aspire to peace 
and  justice  and  are  committed  to  the  principles  of 
peaceful  coexistence.  We  will  continue 
to  work 
responsibly and, to the extent possible, with all nations 
and peoples to achieve a lasting peace based on justice 
and  respect,  a  peace  in  which  humankind’s  potential 
will  flourish  to  build  and  achieve  everyone’s  well-
being  and  prosperity,  where  competition  will  enhance 
the creativity of life and where there will be no fear of 
tomorrow,  because  we  believe  that  tomorrow  will 
bring,  above  all,  safety  for  those  who  follow  justice 
and not its opposite. 

In conclusion, I wish to assure this Assembly that 
we  will  continue  to  make  every  effort  to  move  from 
being a victim of history to a participant in its making, 
for  the  benefit  of  humankind  and  for  the  broader 
prospects  of  humanity.  We  are  confident  that  this 
Assembly will assist us in our endeavour. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 
the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the Palestinian Authority for the statement 
he has just made. 

the 
Mr.  Salam  Fayyad,  Prime  Minister  of 
Palestinian  Authority,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 

The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
floor  to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Elizabeta  Kancevska-
Milevska,  Minister  of  Culture  of  the  former Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia. 

Ms.  Kanceska-Milevska  (the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia):  Allow  me  to  begin  by 
thanking you, Sir, for convening this high-level plenary 
meeting  of  the  General  Assembly.  The  significant 
participation  of  dignitaries  demonstrates  the  ongoing 
desire  to  promote  dialogue  and  cooperation  among 
important 
role 
and  playing 
religions and cultures. To this end, I would also like to 
thank  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi Arabia  for  initiating  this 
gathering 
an 
in 
strengthening our joint efforts. 

Last  September,  from  this  same  rostrum,  I  said 
that the core of the cultural tradition of the Republic of 
Macedonia lies in its openness towards other cultures. 
Its  international  cooperation  is  thus  oriented  towards 
promoting the values of its heritage. Despite a number 
of  challenges,  I  trust  that  the  Republic  of  Macedonia 
may 
serve  as  an  excellent  example  of  how 
intercultural,  inter-ethnic  and  interreligious  dialogue 
and understanding can be maintained and promoted  at 
the  national  level.  I  am  deeply  convinced  that  the 
sharing of experiences and learning from each other is 
our obligation, and this multilateral gathering provides 
the  best  framework  to  spread  this  message  —  a 
message for the culture of peace. 

In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to  inform  the 
Assembly  that  last  year  in  Ohrid,  the  Republic  of 
Macedonia  hosted  the  World  Conference  on  Dialogue 
among  Religions  and  Civilizations.  The  Conference, 
which  gathered  together  hundreds  of  political  and 
religious  leaders  and  intellectuals  from  around  the 
world, provided an opportunity to openly discuss how 
to  generate  further  political  will  to  eliminate  common 
stereotypes  among  different 
misconceptions  and 
religions  and  cultures.  This 
includes  continuous 
education 
that  are 
common  to  all  religions  and  cultures  and  establishing 
new  channels  of  communication  and  dialogue.  The 
declaration 
the  Conference  was 
communicated  as  an  official  document  of  the  sixty-
second  session  of  the  General  Assembly  under  the 
agenda item entitled “Culture of peace”. The follow-up 
Conference  will  be  held  in  2010,  and  we  expect  a 
strong involvement of all who are present here. 

significant  World 
Conference in the Republic of Macedonia represented a 
follow-up  to  several  important  regional  forums  and 
conferences  held  in  our  country.  These  included  a 
South-East European Regional Forum of heads of State 
on Dialogue Among Civilizations, held in August 2003 
in  Ohrid  under 
the  auspices  of  President  Boris 
Trajkovski and co-presided by the Director-General of 
UNESCO, Mr. Koïchiro Matsuura, in the framework of 
the United Nations and UNESCO Decade for dialogue 
among 
conference  on  Balkan 
interreligious dialogue held in May 2006 in Ohrid; and 
in  fundamental  human  values 
The  convening  of 
that 
civilizations; 
a 
adopted 
at 
12 

08-59939 


the Third  Ministerial  Conference  on  Cultural  Heritage 
in  South-Eastern  Europe  on  the  topic  “A  Bridge 
towards a shared future”, convened in cooperation with 
the UNESCO Regional Bureau for Science and Culture 
in November 2006 in Ohrid. 

I  also  wish  to  stress  the  importance  that  the 
Republic  of  Macedonia  attaches  to  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations.  We  became  a  member  of  the Alliance’s 
Group of Friends in April 2007. 
All of us present here are  aware that we need to 

to  deal  with  all 
strengthen  our  political  action 
divisions,  exclusions  and  deviations  from  the  United 
Nations  Charter,  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights  and  other  fundamental  instruments  related  to 
human  rights,  and  to  promote  our  diversity  into  an 
effective tool of conflict prevention and peacebuilding. 
I  therefore  wish  to  reaffirm  our  appreciation  and 
support  for  the  objective  of  the Alliance  to  contribute 
to bridging polarization between societies and cultures. 

I would like to emphasize that respect for cultural 
diversity is at the core of the activities of the Ministry 
of  Culture  and  in  the  Office  for  the  protection  of 
cultural  heritage,  along  with 
their  cultivation, 
presentation and development. Our annual programmes 
on  culture  and  the  law  of  culture,  which  have  a  civic 
dimension,  are  a  good  way  to  promote  that  goal.  It  is 
only  through  open  and  ongoing  dialogue  established 
under the full and mutual respect for diversity and the 
values of others that peace can be preserved, common 
aspirations  realized  and  the  highest  ideals  of  the 
modern world followed. 

treasures  and 
Cultural  diversity 
advantages,  because  diverse  cultural  traditions  have 
great  creative  and  artistic  potential. At  the  same  time, 
they 
peace,  mutual 
understanding  and 
respect.  The  guarantee  and 
accomplishment  of  the  cultural  rights  and  equality  of 
national  and  ethnic  groups  in  each  country  are  a 
guarantee  of  stability  and  sustainable  development  of 
society.  That  is  why  the  Republic  of  Macedonia 
adopted  UNESCO’s  important  Convention  on  the 
Protection  and  Promotion  of  the  Diversity  of  Cultural 
Expressions,  and  we  are  marking 
sixtieth 
anniversary  of 
the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights    with  several  activities. 
The Republic of Macedonia has decided to co-sponsor 
the  draft  resolution  proposed  by  the  Philippines  and 
Pakistan, as it has done previously with similar texts.  
the  adoption  of 
instruments 
represents 
represent 
the 
of 
A/63/PV.47
and 
network 
partnership 

Let  me  conclude  by  expressing  our  confidence 
that the deliberations we are holding today will mark a 
significant  step  forward  in  our  common  endeavour  to 
achieve our objectives by identifying ways and means 
forward  and  by  bringing  together  and  building  an 
effective 
of  major 
stakeholders. 

Culture is an area to which great attention should 
be  devoted  and  it  must  not  be  neglected  under  any 
circumstances.  The  Government  of  the  Republic  of 
Macedonia  devotes  great  attention  to  culture  and  the 
processes  connected  to  it  in  our  country,  and  devotes 
great  energy  and  means  towards  its  improvement  and 
development. We are working on increasing the interest 
in  our  national  cultural  values  and 
interests  by 
establishing  an  efficient  financial  system  based  on  a 
strong  foundation  that  includes  criteria,  priorities  and 
principles based on the European standards. 

The  cultural  policy  of  the  Government  of  the 
Republic  of  Macedonia  is  based  on  the  political, 
economic, social and human development processes of 
the  country  and  is  fully  consonant  with  its  global 
policies. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  E. Ahamed,  Minister  of  State  for 
External Affairs of India. 
Mr.  Ahamed  (India):  I  am  deeply  honoured  to 

represent  India  at 
important  meeting.  India 
welcomes  the  initiative  of  the  Custodian  of  the  Two 
Holy  Mosques,  His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  Bin 
Abdulaziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia, to promote a high-
level  interfaith  dialogue.  In  the  context  of  today’s 
challenges,  His  Majesty’s 
spread 
understanding  and  goodwill  among  the  peoples  of  the 
world is both very timely and highly commendable. It 
will  enable  us  to  better  work  together  in  a  genuine 
partnership for a peaceful and equitable global order. 
Just as a genuine partnership is based upon better 

such  better 
understanding, 
understanding  are  built  on  goodwill,  tolerance  and 
receptivity  to  differing  viewpoints. A  true  partnership 
derives from a willingness to engage with each other in 
a dialogue based upon equality and mutual respect. 

In India, we strive in our daily lives in a million 
different  ways  to  practice  such  a  dialogue  of  equals. 
That is an indispensable part of the process of building 
our  nation  as  a  shared  endeavour.  Such  a  dialogue  is 
foundations  of 
effort 
this 
to 
the 
08-59939 

13 
the  great 
Islam, 
the 
teachings  of 
For  millennia, 
A/63/PV.47 

more  than  merely  a  conversation  over  issues  of 
importance  —  it  lies  at  the  very  core  of  our  national 
existence. 

Indian  subcontinent  has 
provided  shelter  to  countless  strands  of  religious  and 
philosophical  thought  and  it  is  very  much  part  of  our 
historical  tradition  to  accept  all  religions  and  spiritual 
experiences as true and valid. India is the birthplace of 
Hinduism, Buddhism, and the Sikh and the Jain faiths; 
while 
Judaism, 
Christianity  and  Zoroastrianism  quickly  found  fertile 
ground on our shores. Today, every one of the world’s 
major religions has a home in India, making it a nation 
of unparalleled diversity. 

Thus,  Islam  has  flourished  on  our  subcontinent 
for  over  1,300  years,  and  modern-day  India  has  150 
million members of the ummah. Put another way, today 
approximately  one  in  10  Muslims  worldwide  is  an 
Indian.  Christianity,  too,  came  to  our  shores  shortly 
after  its  birth  in  the  holy  lands.  Indeed,  the  Christian 
tradition  reached  India  well  before  it  reached  most 
other  parts  of  the  world.  Similarly,  the  Jewish  and 
Zoroastrian  people  have  an  ancient  history  of  having 
freely and peacefully practiced their faith in India. 

Interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue  is  not 
new to India. The first philosophical dialogue between 
India  and  the  West  goes  back  to  the  time  of  ancient 
Greece. As Islam found a home in India, it became part 
of the dialogue of our civilization. From that dialogue 
came  new  philosophic  ideas,  as  well  as  an  entire 
structure  of  Indo-Islamic  culture.  Not  only  is  that 
culture  represented  in  the  historical  record  of  the  art 
and architecture of our subcontinent; it also flourishes 
today in numerous spheres. 
The quest for dialogue also found an echo in the 

life  and  works  of  the  father  of  our  nation,  Mahatma 
Gandhi,  who  viewed  receptivity  to  other  cultures  and 
traditions as a source of strength and cohesion for any 
society. To quote the Mahatma,  

“I  do  not  want  my  house  to  be  walled  in  on  all 
sides  and  my  windows  to  be  stuffed.  I  want  the 
cultures  of  all  the  lands  to  be  blown  about  my 
house as freely as possible”. 

The  historical  tradition  of  dialogue  in  India  has 
drawn upon respect for knowledge and a willingness to 
question,  as  well  as  a  desire  to  learn.  Thus,  for 
instance, the Buddha urged his followers not to accept 

the 
ideas 
his beliefs without questioning them. That philosophic 
tradition  of  questioning 
is  based  on  our 
recognition  of  the  consequences  of  allowing  belief  to 
become  blind  faith.  It  finds  expression  even  in  the 
Indian Constitution, which declares our  nation to be  a 
secular  republic  and  simultaneously  underlines  the 
freedom of both religion and faith, as well as the duty 
of the State to inculcate a scientific temper among the 
people. 

While faith and belief sustain us in our search for 
answers  to  existential  questions,  in  our  daily  lives  we 
also  recognize 
importance  of  science  and  a 
scientific  temper,  rational  and  liberal  social  practices, 
and  economic  growth  and  productivity  to  help  us 
improve  the  lives  of  our  people.  It  is  for  that  reason 
that  newly  independent  India  valued  factories  and 
universities  as  much  as  it  did  its  places  of  worship, 
seeing them as the temples of modern India. 

The  State  that  I  hail  from  in  India,  Kerala,  is  an 
outstanding  example  of  the  tradition  of  promoting 
dialogue  and  understanding  that  is  to  be  found  in  my 
country. Throughout the ages, Kerala has witnessed the 
peaceful comingling of different cultures and religions. 
Kerala  was  the  State  where Arab  Muslim  traders  first 
arrived as messengers of the Islamic faith. The village 
of  Methala,  near  the  city  of  Cranganore  in  Kerala, 
hosts  the  first  mosque  to  be  built  in  the  Indian 
subcontinent,  the  Cheraman  Juma  Masjid.  It  was 
constructed around A.D. 629, during the lifetime of the 
Holy Prophet, peace be upon him.  

in  A.D.  52,  
Our  history  also  records 
St.  Thomas,  one  of  the  13  apostles  of  Christ,  brought 
Christianity  to  Kerala,  landing  on  its  shores  in  a  ship 
owned by a Jewish merchant. The ship docked at a port 
which was home to a large trading settlement of Jewish 
and  other  people,  including  from  Rome,  Syria  and 
elsewhere.  Indeed,  it  was  in  Kerala,  too,  that  the 
Jewish  people  built  what  is  now  one  of  the  oldest 
synagogues  in  the  world.  Today,  the  population  of 
Kerala  is  almost  equally  divided  among  Hindus, 
Muslims and Christians. 

Dialogue  among  different  cultures  and  religions 
is also important because it is precisely in the absence 
of  such  dialogue  and  understanding  that  intolerance, 
bigotry and violence flourish. 

This  is  one  reason  why  extremist  ideologies, 
violence and terrorism have grown in a world in which 
we  seem  to  be  moving  away  from  dialogue  and 
that, 
14 

08-59939 
resources 
and  much-needed 
In  India,  we  are  disturbed  by 


understanding. There can be no disputing the fact that 
terrorism,  which  is  a  manifestation  of  extremism, 
intolerance  and  violence,  is  the  antithesis  of  all 
religions.  All  acts  of  extremism  and  intolerance  run 
counter  to  the  central  teachings  of  any  religion,  as  all 
faiths  are  based  on  the  universal  values  of  peace, 
goodness and humanity. No religion condones violence 
or the killing of human beings. 

the  rise  of 
intolerance worldwide. We are troubled by the increase 
in  resources,  financial  and  otherwise,  that  are  being 
made  available  to  violent  and  intolerant  groups  that 
misuse religion to justify and propagate their extremist 
agendas. The  effort  to  counter  such  tendencies  diverts 
attention 
from 
development  efforts  in  a  country  like  ours.  Moreover, 
the  destructive  activities  of  such  groups  can  have 
potentially  serious  consequences  to  social  stability, 
peace and tranquillity. 

It is therefore increasingly urgent that the nations 
of  the  world  come  together  to  tackle  such  evils. 
Modern  societies  cannot  and  should  not 
tolerate 
extremism  and  violence.  Those  who  consciously  or 
unconsciously  abet  extremism  and  terrorism  would  be 
well  served  to  remember  that  these  are  monsters  that 
may not readily go away. 

We need to send out a clear message emphasizing 
the importance of tolerance for the faiths and beliefs of 
others.  The  United  Nations  Charter  states  that  the 
peoples  of  the  United  Nations  are  determined  to 
practice tolerance and live together in peace. We need 
to emphasize the responsibility of Member States to do 
all  in  their  power  to  promote  tolerance  and  respect. 
Eventually,  however,  we  will  need  to  build  a  larger 
platform  based  upon  tolerance,  which  emphasizes  the 
fundamental equality of all cultural traditions, religions 
and faiths, and the essential truth that all human beings 
are equal before their creator. 

The world is home to such a diversity of faith and 
culture  that  proactive  dialogue-based  initiatives  are 
essential 
to  ensure  better  understanding  between 
peoples.  Such  dialogues  should  expand  mutual 
comprehension  and  reduce  misunderstandings  and 
misgivings.  Indeed,  they  should  aim  to  celebrate  the 
infinite diversity that makes up our world. 

I  would  like  to  conclude  with  a  quotation  from 
the  revered  saint  and  social  reformer  of  Kerala,  Sri 
A/63/PV.47
Narayana  Guru.  In  a  message  to  the  All  Religious 
Conference held in 1924, he stated that: 

“This  great  Parliament  of  religions  makes  it 
abundantly  clear  that  the  ultimate  goal  of  all 
religions  is  the  same,  so  there  is  no  need  for 
followers  of  different  religions  to  indulge  in 
mutual conflict.” 

The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on 
His Excellency Mr. Carlos Morales Troncoso, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Dominican Republic. 

Mr.  Morales  Troncoso  (Dominican  Republic) 
(spoke  in  Spanish): First  of  all,  I  would  like  to 
congratulate those who have promoted today’s meeting 
in  this  forum,  where  all  conflicts  between  belligerent 
national  groups  or  between  nations  come 
to  be 
discussed,  on  the  subjects  of  dialogue  and  the  culture 
of peace. We would especially congratulate the head of 
the  Spanish  Government, 
José  Luis  Rodríguez 
Zapatero,  for  his  idea  of  the  alliance  of  civilizations 
and  for  having  presided  over  the  first  forum  on  this 
subject. 

I would also like to thank the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia, in the person of King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz 
Al  Saud,  for  his  proposal  to  convene  interreligious 
dialogue,  and  this  Organization  for  holding  this  event 
and  for  having  given  the  greatest  attention  to  the 
subject of the dialogue among civilizations since it was 
put forth more than 10 years ago. 

General  Ban  Ki-moon 
Representative for the Alliance of Civilizations. 

To  our  mind,  there  is  no  doubt  that  the  peaceful 
world  to  which  we  aspire  will  be  an  achievable  goal 
only  when  those  subjects  dominate  all  agendas  for 
debate among neighbours, countries, Governments and 
the governed, leaders and the followers of all religions 
and among the representatives of all cultures. 
If  we  live  in  a  world  of  conflicts,  we  must  look 

for  the  reason  in  our  having  abandoned  the  culture  of 
dialogue  or  in  our  erroneous  conceptualization  of  its 
use  or  objectives.  We  often  see  groups  undertaking 
dialogue for purposes that it cannot serve, as a strategy 
for  domination  or  as  a  pretext  for  imposing  their  will 
on their interlocutors.

Dialogue  is  not  the  imposition  of  our  beliefs, 
points  of  view  or  culture  on  others.  Dialogue  is  the 
We  also  welcome  the  initiative  of  Secretary-
a  High 
to  designate 
08-59939 

15 

they  became  Members  of 
A/63/PV.47 

most  effective  of  the  efforts  at  understanding  for  the 
establishment  and  strengthening  of  relationships  of 
cooperation,  tolerance,  and,  above  all,  mutual  respect. 
Dialogue  provides  a  means  of  examining  our 
differences, sharing ideas, breaking down mistrust and 
promoting  the  togetherness  that  arises  from  accepting 
the diversity characteristic of all human beings. 

That  is  why  we  should  not  only  engage  in 
dialogue here, but also promote it as a way to solve the 
problems we face as individuals or nations, in a world 
so  interconnected  that  the  most  geographically  distant 
conflicts always resonate on a global scale. 

Promoting dialogue means fighting for respect for 
human  dignity  and  human  rights,  since  the  state  of 
peace  —  to  which  we  all  aspire  —  is  one  in  which 
human beings live in conditions of justice and respect 
for  their  fundamental  rights.  If  we  promote  dialogue 
and  achieve  a  culture  of  peace,  all  our  nations  will 
fulfil  one  of  the  greatest  responsibilities  that  they 
undertook  when 
this 
Organization: the commitment to nothing less than the 
peaceful settlement of all conflicts. 
All  of  us  recognize  the  calamitous  fact  that 

conflict,  like  fire,  must  always  spread.  All  of  us 
recognize the calamitous fact that conflicts, like natural 
disasters,  tend  to  cause  death,  to  destroy  nations’ 
productive  resources,  to  paralyse  economies  and  to 
plunge  nations  into  insecurity  and  despair.  That  is  a 
reality  that  we  witness  daily  and  see  repeated  almost 
habitually,  aggravating  political,  economic,  social  or 
environmental  situations  that  already  impose  untold 
hardship and suffering on various peoples.  

How  fortunate,  then,  that  promoting  dialogue  is 
one  of  the  central  points  on  our  agenda.  We  are 
convinced that it is only through dialogue that we can 
hope to achieve the ideal of living in a world of peace. 
Why?  we  all  ask  ourselves.  Because  dialogue  will 
always bring us closer together, enable us to hear what 
others  have  to  say  and  help  us  to  understand  the 
reasoning  of  others,  to  understand  them  and  to  accept 
them  as  they  are.  Understanding  and  acceptance  will 
lead to coexistence, and coexistence will always enable 
us to live in peace. 

It  does  not  matter  if  the  religions  that  bring  us 
closer  to  God  ritualize  the  practice  of  their  faiths  in 
different ways or use different holy books. Ultimately, 
we are all members of one family, the human race, and 
God  the  Creator  is  only  one.  We  know  that  there  are 
supports 
16 

08-59939 
religious 
also  exclusivist 
fundamentalisms  whose 
proponents  act  out  of  the  conviction  that  only  they 
have  a  monopoly  on  transcendent  spiritual  truths. 
However,  religion,  which  is  the  means  through  which 
every  human  being  communicates  with  God, 
is 
inherently  opposed  to  discrimination,  violence,  hate, 
hostility and conflict.  

Mr. Beck (Solomon Islands), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 

Who can claim to speak truthfully if he says that 
he  loves  God  and  hates  his  brother?  My  country,  the 
Dominican Republic, trusts that the World Conference 
on Dialogue will be as fruitful as its promoters hope it 
will be and that it will become the harbinger of an era 
of  understanding,  cooperation,  compassion  and  peace 
that will lead us to a world in which liberty and justice 
prevail over all things.  

While  such  a  world  would  be  without  violence, 
discrimination and conflict, however, it would not be a 
world of stillness or one in which all of us would find 
ourselves  in  a  permanent  state  of  contemplation.  As 
history  has  shown,  human  beings  are  always  fighting. 
That  is  why  we  wish  to  conclude  by  repeating  the 
words  of  the  illustrious  Latin  American  intellectual 
Germán Arciniegas, who proposed that if there is to be 
peace, it must always be an active peace. 
The  Acting  President: I  now  call  on  Her 

Excellency  Ms.  Carina  Christensen,  Minister  for 
Culture of Denmark. 
Ms. Christensen (Denmark): First of all, I would 

like to thank the President of the General Assembly for 
convening this important meeting. I would also like to 
thank the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for promoting the 
initiative  of  this  important  event.  Denmark  highly 
appreciates  efforts  to  foster  interfaith  dialogue.  The 
attendance  of  an  impressive  number  of  participants  at 
today’s meeting demonstrates the commitment of many 
nations to its objectives. 

The Danish Government places great emphasis on 
increasing  intercultural  dialogue  and  understanding  in 
order to ensure the dynamic and peaceful development 
of  international  relations.  Interreligious  dialogue  is  an 
integral  and  indispensable  part  of  that  effort.  The 
Danish  Government 
several 
interfaith  dialogue  initiatives  in  Denmark  as  well  as 
abroad.  Denmark  is  actively  taking  part  in  the  Asia-
Europe  Meeting  Interfaith  Dialogue  process  and 
therefore 
to 
to 
rights, 
the 
rights  of 
including 
to  organize  an 
Denmark  attaches  particular 


attended  the Asia-Europe  meeting  held  in Amsterdam 
in June. The Danish Government also actively supports 
various interfaith dialogue initiatives led by the Danish 
Church.  This  summer,  a  delegation  from  Afghanistan 
made  an  interfaith  dialogue  visit  to  Denmark,  and 
Danish  churches  helped 
Iraqi 
reconciliation conference in Denmark in February.  

importance 
to 
promoting  dialogue  among  young  people.  In  today’s 
ever-changing  world,  we  need  to  consider  carefully 
what  we  are  conveying 
future  generations. 
Education  is  perhaps  the  single  most  efficient  path 
towards the peaceful handling of cultural and religious 
diversity. 

Education  should  place  stronger  emphasis  on 
commonly  shared  values,  such  as  tolerance;  mutual 
understanding; respect for cultural, ethnic and religious 
diversity;  the  protection  and  promotion  of  universal 
human 
religious 
minorities;  and  adherence  to  non-violence  and  the 
principles  of  peaceful  coexistence.  For  that  reason, 
the  Copenhagen 
Denmark  was  proud 
Conference: 
Intercultural 
for 
Understanding  and  Dialogue” 
in  October.  The 
Conference  was  organized  and  sponsored  by  an 
international  and  national 
impressive  group  of 
organizations  committed 
the 
Conference,  including  UNESCO,  the  Organization  of 
the  Islamic  Conference, 
the  Islamic  Educational, 
Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization,  the Arab  League 
Educational,  Cultural  and  Scientific  Organization,  the 
Council 
the  Anna  Lindh  Euro-
Mediterranean  Foundation  for  the  Dialogue  between 
Cultures, 
for  Culture  and 
Development and the Alliance of Civilizations. 

One of the three main themes of the Copenhagen 
Conference  was  exactly  how  to  combat  stereotypes 
about religions and beliefs in our educational systems. 
And  we 
expert 
recommendations  stemming  from  the  Conference  will 
serve as an inspiration for practitioners throughout the 
world, as we hope today’s meeting will do too. 

It  is  important  that  we,  as  responsible  leaders, 
promote  tolerance  and  mutual  understanding  to  avoid 
conflict  and  hatred  between  peoples  just  because  they 
have  different  cultures,  different  beliefs  and  look 
different. If not we, who else? 
the  Danish  Centre 
the  objective  of 
of  Europe, 
“Education 
to  host 
sincerely 
hope 
that 
the 
A/63/PV.47
Mr.  O’Brien
(Australia):  Nothing 

When it comes to building bridges across cultures 
and religions, Denmark attaches the highest importance 
to the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights as well 
as  other  international  human  rights  conventions.  The 
setting  today  reminds  us  that  principles  such  as  the 
freedom  of  expression  and  the  freedom  of  religion  or 
belief  should  be  the  basis  of  all  initiatives  aimed  at 
promoting intercultural and interfaith dialogue. 

The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His  Excellency  The  Honourable  Kerry  O’Brien, 
Senator  and  member  of  the  Joint  Standing  Committee 
on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Trade of Australia. 

is  more 
important  to  our  future  and  to  the  well-being  of  our 
respective peoples than encouraging a global culture of 
peace. Australia  is  committed  to  the  proactive  pursuit 
of peace and understanding, including through a range 
of  policies  and  initiatives  that  encourage  positive 
relations  between  and  among  peoples.  In  this  respect, 
Australia  continues  to  attach  great  importance  to 
interfaith cooperation as a means of promoting mutual 
respect,  understanding  and  tolerance  among  different 
religions and cultures across our region. 

Rudd, said:  

“Some  say  there  is  no  place  for  faith  in  the 
twenty-first  century.  They  are  wrong.  Some  say 
that  faith  is  the  enemy  of  reason.  They  are  also 
wrong,  because  faith  and  reason  are  great 
partners  in  our  human  history  and  in  our  human 
future.” 

For the United Nations, this is a historic day. To 
have the leaders of different faiths coming together to 
talk  about  the  need  to  utilize  these  different  beliefs 
towards  a  better  world  is  an  occasion  that  will  be 
remembered.  The  challenge  now  is  to  transform  this 
into real outcomes affecting people’s lives. 

the 
Philippines  and  of  President  Arroyo  herself  today  in 
promoting  the  United  Nations  Ministerial  Meeting  on 
Interfaith  Dialogue  and  Cooperation  for  Peace,  which 
seeks  to  enhance  understanding  among  civilizations, 
cultures and religions. Australia has now been accepted 
as  a  member  of  the  Dialogue  and  looks  forward  to 
participating fully in its future meetings. 
Australia also commends the role played by King 

Abdullah  of  Saudi  Arabia  and  King  Juan  Carlos  of 
Earlier this year, Australian Prime Minister Kevin 
We  warmly  welcome 
leadership  of 
the 
08-59939 

17 

to 
In  addition 
these  processes,  Australia 
A/63/PV.47 

Spain  in  promoting  the  inaugural  world  interfaith 
dialogue in Madrid from 16 to 19 July 2008. That event 
brought together nearly 300 religious leaders, scholars, 
clerics and representatives from many major faiths, and 
we welcome those who have come here today to New 
York as well. 

The  resulting  declaration  on  interfaith  dialogue 
from Madrid embodies powerful themes — the idea of 
a  dialogue  of  civilizations,  the  common  values  and 
ethics  of  religions  and  humanity,  and  the  fundamental 
importance  of  respect,  tolerance  and  understanding  — 
that resonate with the hope of people around the world 
to live peacefully in harmony. 

Australia is an active supporter of the Parliament 
of  the  World’s  Religions,  one  of  the  largest  interfaith 
gatherings in the world. Through the periodic meeting 
of the world’s spiritual and religious communities, that 
process aims to foster interreligious understanding and 
cooperation.  In  2009,  Melbourne  will  host  the  next 
meeting of the Parliament. 

is 
committed to the work of the United Nations Alliance 
of  Civilizations,  and  joined  its  Group  of  Friends  in 
2007. The Alliance  of  Civilizations  is  an  international 
initiative  to  combat  extremism  by  promoting  cross-
cultural  and  religious  understanding  with  a  focus  on 
projects  in  the  areas  of  media,  youth,  education  and 
migration.  In  January  2008,  Australia  welcomed  the 
opportunity  to  attend  the  inaugural  Annual  Forum  of 
the  Alliance  in  Madrid.  Australia  and  the  European 
Union co-hosted a Youth Interfaith Forum in Australia 
in December 2007 in recognition of the important role 
young people need to play in furthering peace.  

At a regional level, Australia has taken a lead role 
in fostering interfaith cooperation through the Regional 
Interfaith  Dialogue,  a  process  which  we  co-sponsor 
with Indonesia, New Zealand and the Philippines. The 
dialogue  aims  to  bring  people  from  diverse  faith 
groups  together  in  order  to  promote  understanding 
between  communities  in  the  region  and  to  focus  the 
attention  of  religious  leaders  on  their  potential  role  in 
strengthening  moderate 
their 
communities. 

The  diverse  mix  of  religions  and  cultures  in 
South-East  Asia  means  that  the  region’s  leaders  are 
uniquely  placed  to  build  trust  and  understanding 
between various religious and ethnic groups. But while 
Governments can and should play an important role in 
voices  within 
18 

08-59939 
among 
cultures 
can 
it 
is 
in  which 
the  same 
to  hosting 
together 
to  share 
the  platform 
leaders  come 
token,  however, 
for  participation 
facilitating  dialogue  and  understanding,  it  is  religious 
leaders themselves who are best placed to work within 
their  communities  to  build  bridges  at  a  community 
level.  By 
the 
responsibility of all those in the community, including 
political  decision  makers,  to  apply  a  values-based 
dialogue to all their activities. 

The  Regional  Interfaith  Dialogue,  through  the 
strong support of regional Governments, has done this 
faith  and 
by  providing 
community 
their 
experiences. Australia  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
Governments  of  Indonesia, 
the  Philippines,  New 
Zealand  and  Cambodia,  which  have  hosted  the  first 
four  Regional  Interfaith  Dialogues.  Australia  looks 
forward 
the  fifth  Regional  Interfaith 
Dialogue in 2009. 

While  the  development  of  these  regional  and 
international  initiatives  has  been  enormously  positive, 
Australia  is  also  working  domestically  to  strengthen 
social cohesion by enhancing respect, ensuring fairness 
and  creating  opportunities 
in 
community  life.  It  is  not  just  between  nations  or  even 
between  communities  within  those  nations  that  we 
must  foster  peace  and  understanding,  but  within  those 
communities as well. 

Australia’s national action plan to build on social 
cohesion,  harmony  and  security  aims 
to  build 
community  resilience  against  the  threat  extremism 
through 
and 
intercultural  education  in  schools,  community  cultural 
development  and sporting activities, and human rights 
and anti-discrimination education. Over 150 initiatives 
have been supported through the programme, including 
the  establishment  of  a  National  Centre  of  Excellence 
for Islamic Studies. 

The promotion of intercultural understanding and 
social  harmony  is  of  critical  importance  for  this  and 
future  generations.  Australia 
to 
continuing 
interfaith  dialogue  and 
community  cohesion,  both  domestically  and  with  our 
international  partners.  Through  this  process,  we  hope 
to  engender  an  enduring  global  culture  of  peace, 
tolerance and diversity. 

What  is  happening  here  today  cannot  simply  be 
left to stand on its own. We must show how a broader 
understanding 
address 
longstanding  international  disputes  and  differences, 
its  work  on 
looks 
forward 
initiatives 
promoting 
interfaith 
the  delegation  of 
to  God’s  will  may  be  a 
that  spirit,  we  particularly  welcome 
today 
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
the  Libyan  Arab 


internal  conflicts  and  the  oppression  of  the  weak  and 
powerless. 

It  is  encouraging  to  hear  world  leaders  today 
address  this  forum  from  a  values-based  perspective. 
However, as Dietrich Bonhoeffer, a German pastor and 
theologian, who paid with his life for standing against 
the  Nazi  State  and 
the  Holocaust,  once  said, 
“obedience 
religious 
experience, but it is not an ethical one until it issues in 
actions which can be socially valued”.  
the 

President  of  Israel’s  positive  statement 
in 
relation  to  the  Arab  peace  initiative  as  “a  serious 
opening  for  real  progress”.  We  hope  this  opportunity 
will  be  seized  and  endorsed  by  all.  But  one  word  of 
warning:  the  fanatics  standing  against  us,  spreading 
hate,  will  not  be  easily  deterred.  Those  of  us 
advocating the way of peace must demonstrate that we 
are even more determined. 

chairman  of 
Jamahiriya. 
Mr.  Ettalhi  (Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  At 
the  General 
Assembly 
entitled 
“Promotion of interreligious and intercultural dialogue, 
understanding and cooperation for peace” and affirmed 
in  paragraph  1  of 
that:  “mutual 
understanding  and  interreligious  dialogue  constitute 
important  dimensions  of 
among 
civilizations  and  of  the  culture  of  peace”.  This  was 
reaffirmed  at  the  sixty-second  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  in  resolution  62/90.  The  Assembly  also 
“High-level 
adopted 
Dialogue 
Intercultural 
Understanding and Cooperation for Peace”. 

In accordance with this significant trend and with 
the  continuing  concern  of  the  United  Nations  in  this 
area,  we  welcome  the  convening  of  this  high-level 
meeting  today.  We  are  convinced  that  there  is  a 
pressing  need 
the  dialogue  between 
religions and cultures and to pursue this dialogue as a 
tool  to  implement  the  goals  of  the  United  Nations,  as 
enshrined in the United Nations Charter and reaffirmed 
by the 2005 World Summit Outcome. 

At  the  outset,  we  would  like  to  commend  the 
great efforts made in this regard by the United Nations, 
resolution  61/269, 
Interreligious 
its  sixty-first  session, 
that  resolution 
the  dialogue 
resolution 
adopted 
to 
intensify 
61/221, 
In 
on 
entitled 
and 
A/63/PV.47
in  particular  by  the  United  Nations  Educational, 
Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization  and  several 
regional  and  subregional  organizations.  Particular 
praise  is  due  to  the Alliance  of  Civilizations,  initiated 
by  the  Governments  of  Turkey  and  Spain  under  the 
auspices  of  the  United  Nations.  We  believe  that  these 
two  countries,  by  dint  of  their  history  and  geography, 
are  well-qualified  to  play  an  influential  role  in  the 
dialogue between religions, civilizations and cultures. 

We  believe  that  the  world  is  now  in  a  critical 
stage,  at  which  it  is  imperative  that  we  come  to  an 
objective  and  true  understanding  of  each  other.  Over 
the  past  three  decades,  since  the  end  of  the  cold  war, 
we  have  witnessed  significant  events  —  which  I  will 
not  mention  here  —  that  have  led  to  many  distorted 
ideas,  and  elements  of  the  distant  past  are  coming  to 
the fore once more.  
Unfortunately,  that  has  influenced  the  political 

actions  of  some  people, 
in  violence, 
destruction  and  untold  suffering  in  many  parts  of  the 
world.  We  must  recognize  first  and  foremost  that  the 
principle victim — though not the only one — of those 
events  and  the  reactions  to  them,  particularly  after  
11  September  2001,  has  been  Islam  and  Muslims  in 
general. Regrettably, this is not the first time in history 
that 
result  of 
misunderstandings,  misconceptions  or  prejudiced 
propaganda,  but 
this  decade  has  witnessed  an 
unprecedented intensification of Islamophobia. Perhaps 
the first Observatory report of the Organization of the 
Islamic  Conference,  presented  at  the  eleventh  session 
of  the  Islamic  Summit  Conference  in  Dakar,  gives  us 
the  clearest  and  most  honest  assessment  of  this 
phenomenon. To quote that report: 

Islam  has  been 
targeted  as  a 
resulting 
is 
the 
issue 
relations 

“One of the major issues facing present day 
international 
of 
Islamophobia. Islamophobia has existed since the 
time  of  inception  of  Islam.  However  in  recent 
years,  the  phenomenon  has  assumed  alarming 
proportions and has indeed become a major cause 
of concern  for the Muslim world.  Defamation of 
Islam  and  racial 
in 
western  societies  are  on  the  rise.  The  Muslim 
world  is  particularly  concerned  because,  while 
the  overwhelming  majority  of  Muslims  strictly 
adhere  to  the  principles  and  teachings  of  peace 
and  tolerance  and  are  against  any  form  of 
terrorism  or  extremism  in  Islam,  these  vested 
groups  of  Islamophobes  are  giving  a  negative 
intolerance  of  Muslims 
08-59939 

19 
A/63/PV.47 


portrayal  that  Islam  and  Muslims  are  supportive 
of terrorism and extremism.” 
Islam 
is  dialogue. 
We  acknowledge  the  words  of  a  Moroccan 
This is one of the bitter facts that we should recognize 
as we launch this dialogue. The report of the Secretary-
General (A/63/365) provides further evidence of this. 
We  believe,  as  we  meet  today,  that  the  key  to 

is  a 
mutual  understanding 
continuous  invitation  to  dialogue.  Documents  such  as 
the  report  of  the  high-level  working  group  of  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations,  issued  in  November  2006, 
the  Amsterdam  declaration  on  interreligious  dialogue 
and  the  Astana  declaration,  issued  in  October  2008, 
provide  new  ideas  that  should  be  considered  and 
represent  efforts 
that  deserve  encouragement  and 
support.  We  welcome  all  of  these  initiatives  and  call 
for their continuation. 

researcher, who said: 

“The  causes  of  tension  and  conflict  are  not 
cultural  differences,  as  long  as  they  are  simply 
value  systems  and  visions  for  the  world  and  for 
lifestyles.  Instead,  they  are  hegemony  and  the 
wish to dominate.” 

The  causes  of  tension  and  conflict  in  the  world 
today  arise  from  the  fact  that  there  are  people  who 
want  others  from  other  civilizations  and  cultures  to 
become carbon copies of them. In practice, this means 
a  rejection  of  dialogue  and  a  quest  for  domination, 
which can lead only to further tension in international 
relations  and  is  inconsistent  with  the  spirit  of  serious, 
constructive dialogue. 

Lastly, beginning in the 1980s, Libya was among 
the  first  countries  to  host  numerous  meetings  for 
dialogue  between  religions,  and  we  appreciate  all 
initiatives  and  efforts  to  further  and  deepen  the 
dialogue. We issue a sincere call for the acceptance of 
diverse  beliefs  and  respect  for  such  diversity.  Libya 
believes  that  it  is  of  the  utmost  importance  to  gain 
understanding  of  other  religions  so  as  to  deepen  our 
understanding  of  social  and  humanitarian  realities. 
Such  knowledge  can  lay  the  foundation  for  mutual 
understanding, 
and 
cooperation,  so  that  we  may  create  a  world  in  which 
peace can be built on justice and progress. 

chairman of the delegation of Guatemala. 
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
constructive 
coexistence 
the  convening  of 
Mr.  Rosenthal  (Guatemala)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

My  delegation  welcomes 
this 
important  dialogue  to  promote  and  implement  the 
Programme  of  Action  on  a  Culture  of  Peace  and  to 
foster  dialogue  and  cooperation  between  religions  and 
cultures. 

In  thanking  the  presidency  for  organizing  this 
meeting,  we  wish  to  express  our  appreciation  to  King 
Abdullah  Bin  Abdulaziz  Al  Saud  for  his  important 
initiative,  reflected,  among  other  things,  in  the  event 
celebrated in Madrid last July and now in this meeting, 
aimed  at  promoting  a  dialogue  between  religions  and 
cultures.  This  initiative  undoubtedly  will  encourage 
nations  to  come  together  in  the  best  spirit  of  the 
Charter  of  our  Organization  and  of  the  Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights. It also complements the 
UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity, 
which affirms that, as a value indissolubly linked with 
respect  for the individual,  intercultural  dialogue is the 
best guarantor of peace. 

I come from a country where we are too familiar 
with the tragic outcome of intolerance, be it the result 
of  ethnic,  religious,  social  or  ideological  differences. 
One of the pillars of the peace accords that put an end 
to  almost  four  decades  of  fratricidal  conflict  was  the 
creation 
and 
multilingual society. This determination, which shapes 
our  domestic  policies,  also  orients  our  foreign  policy.  
That  is  why  we  attach  such  value  to  the  recent 
initiative  of  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi Arabia  to  promote 
dialogue  and,  in  a  different  context,  to  contribute  to  a 
firm, just and lasting peace in the Middle East. 

The  culture  of  peace  is  without  a  doubt  a  strong 
tool  that  should  be  disseminated  en  masse,  which 
requires  strengthening  education.  It  is  for  this  reason 
that,  in  the  Programme  of  Action  on  a  Culture  of 
Peace,  it  is  the  first  measure  we  need  to  promote 
among the eight spheres of action identified. We must 
begin by eliminating lies that incite hatred, distortions, 
prejudice  and  negative  bias  in  school  textbooks  and 
other  written  educational  material.  The  objective  of 
promoting  respect  for  different  religions  and  cultures 
must be incorporated into the message of these books. 
Education  must  be  at  the  service  of  understanding, 
tolerance, mutual respect and coexistence. 

On  the  other  hand,  our  religious  and  cultural 
diversity must be considered as a valuable asset of our 
societies and an engine for development and progress. 
a  multi-ethnic, 
pluricultural 
of 
20 

08-59939 
In 
implement 
to  promote  and 
equality  between  men 
the  area  of  education,  we  reaffirm 


In  my  own  country,  the  peace  accords  contain  very 
concrete  provisions  that  defend  the  Mayan  cosmology 
and protect Mayan sacred sites. 

In our delegation’s opinion, closely linked to the 
first  sphere  of  action  that  I  mentioned  earlier  is  the 
need  to  update  and  revise  education  and  cultural 
policies  to  reflect  a  human  rights-based  approach, 
guarantee 
and  women, 
encourage  democratic  participation,  and  promote 
understanding, tolerance and solidarity so that all these 
spheres  of  action  impact  favourably  on  sustainable 
economic  and  social  development,  with  respect  for 
cultural diversity. 

that 
UNESCO  must  be  the  lead  agency  within  the  United 
Nations  system 
the 
Programme  of  Action  on  a  Culture  of  Peace.  The 
General  Assembly  has  recognized  that  this  should  be 
the  fundamental  expression  of  its  mandate  as  the 
coordinator of the International Decade for a Culture of 
Peace and Non-violence for the Children of the World 
(2001-2010).  The  decade  should  not  end  in  2010,  but 
should  become  a  way  of  life  in  peace  and  without 
violence. 

Cultural diversity has rightly been elevated to the 
category of common heritage of humanity; it is a living 
heritage, and therefore renewable, as established by the 
UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity, 
the  adoption  of  which  was  a  clear  example  of  our 
categorical  rejection  of  any  thesis  that  predicts  an 
inevitable  clash  of  cultures  and  civilizations.  In  this 
context, we appreciate the fact that in June of 1996, our 
Nobel  Peace  Prize  laureate,  Rigoberta  Menchú  Tum, 
was appointed UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador for the 
promotion  of  a  culture  of  peace,  in  recognition  of  her 
struggle  for  ethnic  minorities  and  indigenous  peoples 
and  for  her  dedication  to  the  ideals  and  objectives  of 
the  Organization.  The  adoption  of  the  United  Nations 
Declaration  on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples  also 
paid tribute to the inherent value of human diversity. 

Guatemala  has  also  supported  initiatives  such  as 
the  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  the  Tripartite  Forum  on 
Interfaith  Cooperation  for  Peace  and  the  Manifesto 
2000  for  a  Culture  of  Peace  and  Non-violence,  which 
has already been signed by over 75 million persons. All 
of those initiatives and the groups that head them are a 
testament  to  the  importance  of  dialogue,  the  rejection 
of the abuse of religions by extremist groups fomenting 
A/63/PV.47
thank 
I  also 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
racism,  discrimination,  xenophobia  and  all  related 
forms  of  intolerance. As  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-second  session  said,  “Unless 
religions are part of the solution, they will continue to 
be part of the problem” (A/62/PV.19, p. 44). 

Finally,  we  believe  that  21  May,  declared  World 
Day  for  Cultural  Diversity,  and  21  September,  the 
International  Day  of  Peace  Day,  should  be  better 
acknowledged  so  that  their  celebration  can  serve  to 
disseminate  knowledge  about  other  cultures,  thus 
paving the path towards peace and security throughout 
the world without discrimination of any type and with 
justice and equality. As the Culture of Peace Manifesto 
2000  states,  we  can  “transform  —  all  together  —  the 
culture of war and violence into a culture of peace and 
non-violence”. 

representative of Switzerland. 
Mr.  Maurer  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

wish  to  thank  the  President  for  having  convened  this 
meeting. 
the  Secretariat  and  all 
stakeholders involved in the excellent preparations for 
this debate. 

What  do  we  mean  when  we  say  dialogue?  To 
begin with, it means something that only has meaning 
and  purpose  if  it  creates  a  relationship  among  people 
who think differently. We must understand dialogue as 
an  exercise  that  consists  of  negotiating  with  people 
who  do  not  share  the  same  values  as  we  do.  That 
dialogue  drives  transformation  because  it  changes  the 
way  a  person  perceives  and  interacts  with  others.  It 
changes the political dynamic. 

Next, to engage in dialogue, one must be able to 
give and to receive; there must be something to give to 
the other person. That means knowing one’s own origin 
and  it  means  understanding  how  our  history  and 
geography have shaped us. In order to have a dialogue, 
one  must  have 
to  receive  without 
believing  that  you  represent  the  high  point  in  history 
and  without  seeking  to  return  your  interlocutor  to  the 
straight and narrow path. Anyone who believes that he 
or  she  is  the  sole  possessor  of  truth,  goodness  and 
beauty is not capable of dialogue. 

Throughout  its  history,  Switzerland  has  learned 
that  peaceful  coexistence  among  various  cultures 
requires  the  shared  determination  to  focus  on  what 
the  humility 
08-59939 

21 
A/63/PV.47 

unites  us  in  practice,  rather  than  on  what  separates  us 
ideologically.  

We  have  learned  and  continue  to  learn  to  live 
with  cultural  and  religious  differences.  We  have  thus 
developed a pragmatic political culture focused on the 
well-being  of  our  citizens.  Democratic  referendums, 
the  protection  of  minorities  as  well  as  the  ongoing 
search  for  compromise  have  been  instruments  crucial 
to the unity of our country.  

peaceful 
coexistence lies with each State and each citizen. That 
responsibility begins at home. It cannot be delegated or 
replaced by international dialogue among religions, or 
as  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  said  this 
morning at the 46th plenary meeting,  
(spoke in English) 

“we are not gathered here to talk about religion or 
theology ... We are here today to pledge to place 
our  reserves  of  moral  strength  at  the  service  of 
the goals of the United Nations”. 
responsibility 
of 
The 
primary 

interreligious or intercultural tensions and seeks to find 
practical solutions to such differences.  

Today,  we  must  be  unified  in  our  efforts  and 
share  the  responsibility  to  work  together,  in  spite  of 
and because of our differences, to make our world a better 
world.  Basically,  it  was  a  humanitarian  message  —  a 
message  of  humanity  —  which  gave  birth  to  modern 
Switzerland  and  continues  to  provide  the  essence  of 
our  foreign  policy  which  we  pursue  from  within  the 
Organization. 
The  Acting  President: I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency Mr. Jan Henningsson, Senior Adviser of the 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Sweden. 

Mr.  Henningsson  (Sweden)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
On behalf of the Government of Sweden, I wish at the 
outset to warmly welcome this commendable and noble 
initiative  undertaken  by  His  Majesty  King  Abdullah 
Bin  Abdulaziz  Al  Saud.  No  one  doubts  that  future 
historians  will  consider  these  two  days  devoted  to 
dialogue among cultures as a dialogue of good faith in 
favour  of  peace.  We  all  know  that  this  commendable 
meeting  within  the  United  Nations  General Assembly 
was the result of the laudable initiative and appreciated 
efforts taken by others working within the realm of the 
possible and practical.  

I  should  like  to  tell  you  of  a  very  important 
project,  namely,  a  cooperative  effort  by  the  United 
Nations  and  religious  organizations  in  the  form  of  a 
dialogue  that  was  established  last  month  in  Istanbul 
under the guidance of Ms. Thoraya Ahmed Obaid, the 
Executive  Director  of  the  United  Nations  Population 
Fund.  

In addition, we could refer to a UNESCO project, 
“The  Image  of  the  Other”,  which  is    integrated  into 
school  curriculums,  particularly 
in  European  and 
Arabic  school  books.  This  project  has  been  going  on 
for  four  years  now  and  is  being  carried  out  in 
cooperation  with  the  League  of  Arab  States  and  a 
certain number of European partners. 

We  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  voice 
our  profound  appreciation  for  the  efforts  made  by  the 
United  Nations  aimed  at  restoring  trust  among  the 
peoples  of 
through 
encouraging  initiatives  that  stem  from  the  Muslim 
world. 
in  particular, 
the  world, 
(spoke in French) 

The  job  of  ensuring  respect  for  religious  and 
cultural diversity is not just a question of political will. 
It  is  part  of  the  broader  context  of  the  smooth 
functioning  of  the  rule  of  law  and  the  principles  that 
govern  it:  non-discrimination,  freedom  of  expression, 
freedom  of 
thought  and  freedom  of  religion  or 
conviction.  

We appreciate the fact that religious and political 
leaders  are  talking  with  each  other  and  trying  to 
understand  each  other,  however  within  the  context  of 
our  policy  of  promoting  human  rights  and  peace, 
Switzerland  has  noted  that  dialogue  among  religious 
leaders  has  rarely  led  to  success.  For  that  reason,  we 
conduct  not  intercultural  or  interfaith  dialogues,  but 
political  dialogues  that  due  to  their  nature,  involve 
religious or cultural factors. Those dialogues take place 
with  political  actors  —  even  those  who  may  have 
religious  convictions  or  be  vested  with  religious 
authority  —  that  have  de  jure  or  de  facto  political 
responsibility.  In  that  manner,  Switzerland  supports 
processes  to  transform  conflicts  in  which  religious 
factors are intermingled. 

Accordingly,  Switzerland  gives  it  full  support  to 
the  initiative  for  an  Alliance  of  Civilizations.  The 
initiative takes into account the political dimension of 
22 

08-59939 
The  Acting  President: I  now  call  on  His 
the 



Excellency  Mr.  Frank  Majoor,  chairman  of 
delegation of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 
Mr.  Majoor  (Netherlands):  The  Netherlands 

Government  welcomes  this  opportunity  to  address  the 
contribution  of  interreligious  dialogue  to  achieving  a 
culture of peace.  

I  would  like  to  align  myself  with  the  statement 
delivered by Mr. Alan Juppé on behalf of the European 
Union  (EU).  Indeed,  the  EU  has  been  built  on  the 
culture  of  peace  after  years  of  war,  built  on  a  set  of 
values and ways of life that reject violence and prevent 
conflict  through  dialogue  and  negotiation.  The  EU 
presidency mentioned three important characteristics of 
fruitful interreligious dialogue. 

Let  me  add,  on  behalf  of  my  delegation,  three 
remarks.  First  of  all,  we  should  not  forget  that 
interreligious  dialogue  is  just  one  of  many  forms  of 
dialogue.  As  stated  in  the  1981  Declaration  on  the 
Elimination  of  all  Forms  of  Intolerance  and  of 
Discrimination  Based  on  Religion  or  Belief:  “religion 
or belief, for anyone who professes either, is one of the 
fundamental  elements  in  his  conception  of  life.”  I 
would  like  to  emphasize  here  the  words  “one  of”. 
People have multiple identities. They may be Christian, 
but they are also men or women. They may be Muslim, 
but  their  cultural  background  can  be Arabic  or  Malay. 
They  may  be  Hindu,  but  they  are  also  artists  or 
journalists.  In  other  words,  interreligious  dialogue, 
important as it is, is only one form of dialogue. 
As is advocated by the Alliance of Civilizations, 

we  should  also  welcome  dialogue  on  the  basis  of 
political,  social,  economic  and  cultural  identities.  All 
these different forms of dialogue together  will help in 
advancing a culture of peace. 

the  Netherlands  Government  has 
facilitated interreligious dialogue on several occasions. 
This  year,  the  fourth  Asia-Europe  Meeting  Interfaith 
Dialogue was held in Amsterdam. Participants had very 
useful  discussions  on  interfaith  dialogue  and  poverty-
reduction,  on  religious  education,  on  communications 
in the digital world and many other subjects. 

the  practical  aspects  of 
dialogue.  Thus,  on  the  first  day  of  the  meeting, 
participants visited a number of projects in Amsterdam 
where  people  with  different  religious  and  belief 
The  focus  was  on 
Secondly, 
tendencies 
and 
It 
08-59939 

23 
A/63/PV.47
the 
that  basis, 
their  support 
for  human 
support  human 
Interreligious  Conference  “Faith 
backgrounds  worked  together  to  improve  the  lives  of 
many in Amsterdam. 

Very often, dialogue that goes hand-in-hand with 
practical  forms  of  cooperation  is  more  effective.  In 
working together with others, people get connected and 
discover  that  despite  different  religious  backgrounds, 
they may have, or actually have, a lot in common. They 
will  find  that  most  religions  share  a  number  of 
universal  concepts  and  that  these  concepts  do  not 
rights  and 
conflict  with,  but 
fundamental  freedoms.  On 
it  appears 
possible  to  establish  and  maintain  alliances  to  bridge 
gaps and to really work together. 
In  the  same  spirit,  the  Netherlands  Government 

supports 
in 
Human  Rights”,  which  is  being  organized  by  a  Dutch 
non-governmental  organization,  Justitia  et  Pax,  and 
will  be  held  in  the  Peace  Palace  in  The  Hague  on  
10  December.  The  organizers  hope  that  religious 
leaders,  representing  many  different  religions  and 
beliefs  around  the  world,  will  sign  a  declaration 
expressing 
rights  and 
especially  for  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights. 

The  Netherlands  Government  is  pleased  to  note 
that the Universal Declaration has become a source of 
inspiration, not only for Governments, but also for our 
societies  at  large,  and  we  are  looking  forward  to  the 
celebration of the sixtieth anniversary of this milestone 
Declaration, both in this Hall and in The Hague. 
The  third  point  I  wanted  to  broach  is  that 

Governments  are  facing  huge  challenges:  economic, 
social and environmental, to name just a few. The time 
has  past  when  Governments  alone  could  solve  all 
current  problems.  We  need  the  help  of  many  parts  of 
our  societies.  We  need  the  help  of  business,  of  youth 
and, indeed, of religious or belief communities. 

We  see  such  communities  first  and  foremost  as 
groups of individuals. In our legal system, both at the 
national  and  international  levels,  we  deal  with  the 
rights  and  freedoms  of  individuals. An  individual  can 
raise her or his voice and explain his or her position.  

However, it would not be possible to point to the 
authoritative  voice  on  behalf  of  religion.  Every 
religion,  even  if  it  has  the  hierarchical  system,  has 
different 
is 
impossible for a judge to determine whether the rights 
interpretations. 

A/63/PV.47 

of  a  religion  or  belief,  per  se,  have  been  violated. 
Whom should he or she turn to in order to find out? 

The Netherlands Government, therefore, does not 
support  calls  for  the  legal  protection  of  religions  or 
beliefs as such. We should, however, protect the rights 
and  freedoms  of  individual  believers,  by  making  sure 
that they can manifest their freedom or belief freely. 

For  the  same  reasons,  the  Government  of  the 
Netherlands  is  sceptical  about  establishing  at  the 
United Nations a new advisory body of representatives 
of the religious movements in the world. How would it 
work? Its work fits within the larger framework of the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations.  Who  is  going  to  determine 
which  religious  movements  should  be  represented? 
And  who  is  going  to  decide  who  will  be  representing 
any  religious  movement?  Considering  that  the  United 
Nations does not make any distinction between religion 
or  belief,  how  do  we  define  belief  in  this  context? To 
what extent can we hear the voices of those who have 
no  religion  at  all?  There  are  so  many  practical 
difficulties that my Government fears that, in the end, 
the  setting  up  of  such  body  will  produce  more 
problems than it will be able to solve. 

Interreligious dialogue is important,  especially if 
it  includes  many  religions  or  beliefs,  does  not  lead  to 
exclusion  of  others  and  is  always  seen  as  part  of  a  

In 
this 
respect, 
broader  context  of  dialogue  between  peoples  with 
different  identities.  I  hope  and  trust  that  religious 
leaders  will  continue  their  efforts  to  make  their 
dialogue  inclusive  and  practical  so  that  the  objectives 
of  the  United  Nations  will  be  promoted  by  such 
initiatives.  

the 
Netherlands  welcomes  a  number  of  initiatives  taken 
this  past  year,  and  it  hopes  that  they  will  prove  to  be 
inclusive,  practical  and  durable.  The  Government  of 
the Netherlands will continue to facilitate interreligious 
dialogue,  bearing  in  mind,  in  the  words  of  Mr.  Juppé, 
that 
the 
responsibility  of  religious  authorities,  of  the  believers 
and  the  representatives  of  spiritual  and  humanist 
traditions. 
interreligious  dialogue 
the  Government  of 
the 
itself 
is 


Programme of work 
The  Acting  President:  Before  adjourning  the 

meeting,  I  would  like  to  inform  members  that  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Bolivia,  His  Excellency 
Evo Morales Ayma will address the General Assembly 
on Monday, 17 November, at 12.30 p.m. in the General 
Assembly Hall.  
The meeting rose at 5.55 p.m. 
24 

08-59939 
