
A/63/PV.32
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

32nd plenary meeting 
Monday, 27 October 2008, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .


(Nicaragua) 

In the absence of the President, Mr. Nsengimana 
(Rwanda), Vice-President, took the Chair. 



The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 




Agenda item 80 (continued) 
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/276) 

  Draft resolution (A/63/L.6) 

Mr.  Ali  (Malaysia):  I  join  others  in  thanking 

Mr. Mohamed  ElBaradei,  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for  his 
presentation  to  the  General  Assembly  of  the  annual 
report of the Agency for 2007. It was a year of notable 
success for the Agency in its efforts to ensure that the 
benefits of nuclear technology were shared globally for 
economic and social development. 
My  delegation  shares  the  concern  of  the  IAEA 

the  Agency’s  Technical  Cooperation  Fund 
that 
continues 
the  pressing  needs  of 
developing  countries.  In  this  regard,  my  delegation 
reiterates the need for the IAEA to ensure an equitable 
balance  between  the  three  pillars  of  its  mandate: 
nuclear  applications,  particularly  through  technical 
cooperation;  nuclear  safety  and  security;  and  nuclear 
verification.  This  is  especially  important  with  the 
emerging  convergence  of  a  global  nuclear  energy 
renaissance with the need to ensure the efficient use of 
nuclear  power  while  also  addressing  nuclear  safety, 
lag  behind 
to 
in 
of 
these 
important 
security  and  the  verification  of  nuclear  weapons 
non-proliferation safeguards by the IAEA. 

The  emerging  global  food  crisis  requires  the 
attention  of  the  IAEA  in  collaboration  with  the  Food 
and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations 
(FAO).  In  view  of  the  proven  benefits  of  nuclear 
technology  applications 
food  production  and 
agriculture,  my  delegation  supports  the  continued 
operation  of  the  FAO-IAEA  Joint  Division  and  looks 
forward to progress in dealing with the crisis with the 
assistance 
international 
organizations. 

It is in that spirit that my delegation looks forward 
to  the  new  three-year  IAEA  Technical  Cooperation 
Programme  cycle,  which  puts  emphasis  on  food  and 
agriculture, human health, natural resources and nuclear 
power,  in  line  with  growing  demand  for  technical 
cooperation  for  both  peaceful  non-power  and  power 
applications  of  nuclear  technology  from  developing 
member  States.  Towards  this  end,  resources  for  the 
management  of  technical  cooperation  for  development 
under IAEA Major Programme 6 must be increased. 

With  regard  to  the  call  for  the  establishment  of 
appropriate  mechanisms  to  ensure  that  the  resources 
for  the  Fund  are  sufficient,  assured  and  predictable, 
Malaysia  supports  the  idea  of  changing  the  status  of 
contributions  to  the  Fund  from  voluntary  to  more 
obligatory  for  all  IAEA  member  States.  Nevertheless, 
Malaysia  fully  supports  the  call  to  employ  hedging 
mechanisms  to  protect  against  the  erosion  of  the 
Fund’s  value  owing  to  currency  fluctuations.  We  also 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-57118 (E) 
*0857118* 

to 
for 
recipient  States 
A/63/PV.32 

support  the  establishment  of  appropriate  criteria  for 
setting Fund targets in order to avoid the unfavourable 
experience that recipient member States currently have 
to  go  through  in  negotiating  Fund  targets.  In  order  to 
encourage  more 
provide 
extrabudgetary  contributions  to  the  IAEA  in  line  with 
the  concept  of  shared  responsibility  —  such  as  those 
made  to  projects  under  the  Regional  Cooperation 
Agreement  for  Research,  Development  and  Training 
related to Nuclear Science and Technology in Asia and 
the  Pacific  —  Malaysia  calls  on  the  IAEA  to  exempt 
such contributions from programme support costs. 

For  its  part,  Malaysia  has  consistently  honoured 
its obligations to contribute on time and in full to both 
the regular budget and Fund of the Agency, in addition 
to  making  extrabudgetary  contributions 
the 
Regional  Cooperation Agreement. As  a  member  State 
that  has  benefited  from  the  Technical  Cooperation 
Programme, Malaysia has also, in return, supported the 
Programme  and  other  IAEA  activities  through  in  kind 
contributions,  by  providing  experts  and  fellowship 
training  opportunities  to  other  member  States  and  by 
hosting various Agency activities. 

In this regard, my delegation wishes to thank the 
IAEA  and  to  put  on  record  our  appreciation  of  the 
IAEA  Technical  Cooperation  Department’s  continuing 
support  for  the  implementation  of  IAEA  technical 
cooperation  projects  and  various  other  activities  in 
Malaysia,  including  the  trust  shown  to  Malaysia  in 
allowing  it  to  continue  hosting  the  IAEA  Postgraduate 
Educational  Course  in  Radiation  Protection  and  the 
Safety of Radiation Sources. My delegation also wishes 
to  express  our  gratitude  to  other  member  States  that 
have  shown  interest  in  the  course,  which  has  attracted 
candidates from not only within our region but beyond. 

With  regard  to  the  application  of  full-scope 
safeguards to all nuclear activities in the Middle East, 
Malaysia  regrets  that  there  has  been  no  progress  on 
consultations  on 
the  establishment  of  a  nuclear-
weapon-free  zone  in  that  region.  In  this  regard, 
Malaysia  wishes  to  reiterate  the  need  for  a  prompt 
establishment of such a zone, as recognized in relevant 
United  Nations  resolutions.  Malaysia  views  with 
serious  concern  the  fact  that  certain  nuclear  facilities 
and  materials  in  the  Middle  East  are  not  subject  to 
IAEA  comprehensive  safeguards.  Thus  Malaysia  calls 
on Israel to join the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of 
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  to  refrain  from  engaging  in 
nuclear military activities and to unconditionally open 
their 
international 
On 
the 
jeopardizing 
or 
its  nuclear  facilities  and  activities 
all 
to  IAEA 
inspections and safeguards in order to clarify the extent 
of  its  past  and  present  nuclear  activities.  Only  then 
could  the  goal  of  establishing  a  nuclear-weapon-free 
zone in the Middle East be achieved. 

My  delegation  firmly  believes  that  the  future  of 
the IAEA should be based on the fundamental bargain 
underlying the NPT, in particular, the inalienable right 
of  all  the  States  parties  to  the  Treaty  to  develop, 
research,  produce  and  use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes  without  discrimination  and  in  conformity 
with  articles  I,  II  and  III  of  the  NPT.  That  approach 
should  encompass  the  need  to  respect  the  choice  and 
decision  of  each  country  with  regard  to  the  range  of 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  that  they  wish  to 
undertake  without 
respective 
national 
cooperation 
policies 
agreements  and  arrangements  for  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear energy and its fuel cycle. 

Another  fundamental  principle  is  for  developed 
Member  States  to  promote  the  satisfaction  of  the 
legitimate  needs  for  nuclear  energy  of  developing 
countries by allowing them to participate to the fullest 
extent  possible  in  the  transfer  of  nuclear  equipment, 
materials  and  scientific  and  technological  information 
for  peaceful  purposes  with  a  view  to  achieving  the 
greatest  possible  benefit,  and  by  applying  relevant 
aspects of sustainable development to their activities. 

issue  of  nuclear  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation,  Malaysia  firmly  believes  that  any 
concern that any party may have on such matters can be 
best  addressed 
through  multilaterally  negotiated, 
universal, 
non-discriminatory 
agreements.  Malaysia  also  firmly  believes  in  the  need 
for 
control 
arrangements to be transparent and open to participation 
by  all  States,  and  to  ensure  that  they  do  not  impose 
restrictions  on  access  to  the  material,  equipment  and 
technology 
required  by 
developing countries for their continued development. 

It is also a matter of extreme importance that the 
IAEA  secretariat  be  allowed  to  maintain  and  enhance 
its  impartiality  and  professionalism,  particularly  in 
carrying  out 
its  safeguards  verification  activities. 
Malaysia  strongly  rejects  any  attempt  by  any  party  to 
its 
including 
politicize 
the  IAEA, 
Technical  Cooperation  Programme, 
as 
that 
is 
tantamount to a violation of the statute of the IAEA. 
for  peaceful  purposes 
nuclear  weapon 
non-proliferation 
the  work  of 
comprehensive 
and 
2 

08-57118 
complete 
and 
in 
those  of 
terms  of 
the  Agency’s  mandate 



In  parallel,  there  is  also  a  need  for  nuclear-
weapon States and all States that are not parties to the 
NPT  to  exercise  greater  political  will  in  favour  of 
irreversible 
general, 
nuclear 
disarmament, as called for under the Treaty. 

At the operational level, Malaysia firmly believes 
in the need for the IAEA to sustain a proper balance of 
emphasis  between  the  three  pillars  of  its  mandate  on 
peaceful  applications  of  nuclear  technology,  including 
technical  cooperation, nuclear  safety  and security, and 
nuclear  weapon  non-proliferation  safeguards  and 
verification. In that regard, Malaysia does not see any 
need  to  impose  any  new  or  additional  legally  binding 
safeguards  obligation  on  NPT  States  parties  as  a 
prerequisite for the peaceful use of nuclear technology 
beyond 
the  Comprehensive  Safeguards 
Agreements and the Model Additional Protocol. 

In order to preserve the relevance of the IAEA to 
the  needs  of  its  developing  member  States,  renewed 
attention should be directed to the promotional aspects 
of 
technical 
cooperation.  In  view  of  the  respective  obligations  of 
member States concerning IAEA safeguards, Malaysia 
rejects  any  approach  that  would  have  the  effect  of 
granting  a  right  for  the  IAEA  secretariat  to  exclude 
certain  technologies  from  the  Agency’s  Technical 
Cooperation Programme. 
Malaysia  believes  that  any  notion  of  a  global 

nuclear  order  should  not  worsen 
the  dichotomy 
between  developing  and  developed  member  States  by 
endorsing  an  emerging  regime  of  nuclear  technology 
suppliers and recipients on top of an existing regime of 
nuclear-weapon States and non-nuclear-weapon States. 
That  is  especially  important  in  the  current  period, 
where  more  developing  States  need 
to  develop 
legitimate  peaceful  nuclear  power  programmes  to 
ensure  their  energy  security  and  long-term  sustainable 
development. 

Malaysia  further  believes  that  any  initiative  to 
develop  any  multilateral  approach  to  the  nuclear  fuel 
cycle and fuel supply assurances should not create such 
a  new  regime  of  nuclear  technology  haves  and  have-
nots. Malaysia firmly believes that the establishment of 
any  such  multilateral  approach  or  regime  should  be 
based  on  extensive,  comprehensive  and  transparent 
consultation between all interested parties and member 
States,  and  that  all  decisions  should  be  taken  by 
consensus. 
A/63/PV.32
role 
in  addressing 

Finally,  Malaysia  would  like  to  express  once 
again  its  appreciation  to  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei, 
Director General of the IAEA, as well as to the IAEA 
secretariat  for  their  significant  and  valuable  work  in 
fulfilling  the  three  pillars  of  the  Agency’s  mandate. 
Malaysia  pledges  its  full  support  to  the  IAEA,  as  one 
of  the  organizations  of  the  United  Nations  system,  so 
that it may continue to uphold and maintain its central 
and  universal 
the  enormous 
challenges ahead. 
Mr.  Takasu  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  express 

Japan’s  appreciation  to  the  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA), 
Mr. Mohamed  ElBaradei,  for  having  submitted  the 
Agency’s annual report. 

The  IAEA  plays  a  crucial  role  in  maintaining 
peace and promoting global prosperity. It disseminates 
the  benefits  of  nuclear  technology  for  humanity.  It 
verifies  non-proliferation.  It  provides  services 
to 
developing  countries.  Those  functions  are  becoming 
increasingly important. 

Japan  has  been  making  significant  contributions 
to  the  IAEA  as  a  member  of  its  Board  of  Governors 
since  its  foundation  and  also  as  a  lead  country  in 
promoting  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy.  Japan 
adheres  to  the  three  non-nuclear  principles  and  is 
committed 
the  IAEA  safeguards 
system by sharing its advanced safeguards technology. 
The  scientific  knowledge  and  technology  acquired  by 
Japan 
is  shared  with  many  developing  countries 
through the IAEA Technical Cooperation Programme. 

Nuclear  energy  provides  great  capacity  and 
potential  for  ensuring  a  reliable  and  clean  energy 
supply.  The  value  of  nuclear  energy  has  been 
rediscovered  in  our  common  efforts  to  combat  global 
warming.  In  the  recent  years  of  the  so-called  nuclear 
renaissance,  a  growing  number  of  countries  are 
expressing  their  interest  in  introducing  or  expanding 
nuclear power programmes. 

Nuclear power programmes must be developed in 
the most secure way and strictly for peaceful purposes. 
It is vitally important that non-proliferation safeguards, 
nuclear  safety  and  nuclear  security  —  in  other  words, 
the “three S’s” — be ensured. The role of the IAEA is 
therefore  becoming  ever  more  important.  Earlier  this 
year,  an  international  initiative  proposed  by  Japan  on 
three  S’s-based  nuclear  energy 
infrastructure  was 
launched at the Hokkaido Toyako summit of the Group 
to  strengthening 
08-57118 

3 

The 
A/63/PV.32 

of Eight. In cooperation with the Agency, Japan would 
like  to  take  measures  to  follow  up  that  initiative  and 
expand support to those countries planning to start up 
nuclear power generation. 

As  the  only  country  that  has  endured  atomic 
bombings,  Japan  is  determined  to  continue  to  work 
strenuously for the elimination of all nuclear weapons. 
As  part  of  such  efforts,  Japan,  together  with  many 
sponsors,  has  just  presented  a  draft  resolution  on 
nuclear  disarmaments  to  the  current  session  of  the 
General Assembly. 

The 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
will provide another important opportunity. The second 
session of the Preparatory Committee, held in April to 
May this year, was more substantive than that held last 
year,  and  it  successfully  adopted  a  procedural  agenda. 
We  hope  that  the  third  session  will  be  productive  and 
that  it  will  pave  the  way  to  a  successful  Review 
Conference. 

International  Commission  on  Nuclear 
Non-proliferation  and  Disarmament,  established  this 
year  by  Japan  and  Australia,  has  commenced  its 
activity  by  holding  its  first  meeting  in  Sydney  last 
week.  We  hope  that  the  Commission  will  also  make 
meaningful  contributions  to  the  success  of  the  2010 
Review Conference. 

Nuclear  non-proliferation  must  be  verified 
through  the  internationally  credible  and  objective 
safeguards system. Japan has made every effort to earn 
international  confidence  in  its  extensive  activities  by 
fully  cooperating  with  the  IAEA  and  maintaining  a 
high  level  of  transparency. As  a  result,  the  IAEA  has 
that  Japan’s  nuclear  programmes  are 
concluded 
exclusively  for  peaceful  purposes.  The 
integrated 
safeguards system has now been implemented in Japan 
and  the  world’s  first  site  level  integrated  safeguards 
approach  was  introduced  last  month  for  facilities, 
including  a  reprocessing  plant,  in  the  most  efficient 
manner. 

The  nuclear  development  undertaken  by  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  is  a  threat  to 
the  peace  and  security  not  only  of  Japan,  but  also  of 
East  Asia  and  the  entire  international  community.  It 
represents  a  serious  challenge  to  the  NPT  regime.  In 
the Six-Party Talks, the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea has not yet agreed to a concrete framework of 
verifications. 
Iran  has, 
that 

The  establishment  of  an  effective  verification 
framework  by  the  Six-Party  Talks  is  essential  for  the 
denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula.  By  first 
striving  towards  an  expeditious  agreement  of  such  a 
framework,  Japan  will  continue  to  actively  work 
towards the peaceful resolution of nuclear issues within 
the framework of the Six-Party Talks. 

regrettably,  continued  and  even 
expanded  its  uranium  enrichment-related  activities, 
despite  repeated  calls  by  the  international  community. 
In order to remove concerns and to gain the confidence 
of  the  international  community,  Iran  has  to  fully 
cooperate with the Agency and respond sincerely to the 
requirements set forth by the relevant IAEA Board and 
Security  Council  resolutions.  Japan  continues  to  work 
towards  a  peaceful  and  diplomatic  resolution  of  the 
issue. 

The vital missions of the IAEA continue to grow. 
I assure the Assembly that Japan will continue to play a 
leading  role  in  contributing  to  the  work  of  the  IAEA 
with  its  experience  and  knowledge.  Japan  has  fielded 
Ambassador  Yukiya  Amano,  the  former  Chairman  of 
the Board of Governors of the IAEA, as a candidate to 
be  the  next  Director  General  of  the  IAEA.  I  strongly 
urge members’ support for his candidacy. 

(Philippines):  The  Philippines 
welcomes the report introduced by the Director General 
of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and 
recognizes  the  importance  of  the Agency. At  the  same 
time, the Philippines agrees with the Director General’s 
assessment that the Agency is at a crossroads. Since it 
was  founded  some  50  years  ago,  the  IAEA  has  helped 
member  States  achieve  their  development  goals  and 
contributed  to  international  peace  and  security.  The 
world today faces a complex web of challenges, such as 
the  fluctuating  and  unpredictable  cost  of  fossil  fuel, 
climate change, food and financial crises and a political 
environment 
the  relevance  and 
effectiveness  of  the  Agency.  The  Philippines  believes 
that,  for  the  Agency  to  move  forward  to  meet  the 
challenges and opportunities of the coming decades, an 
enabling environment for a reinvigorated global nuclear 
order is necessary. 

The Philippines foresees a renaissance of nuclear 
energy  over  the  next  two  decades  that  will  be  an 
overarching force that will create opportunities as well 
as  challenges  for  member  States  and  the  IAEA  itself. 
Driven by fluctuating fossil fuel prices and the fact that 
impinges  on 
Mr.  Gatan
4 

08-57118 
the 
Philippines 
supports 
immense  benefits 
radioactive  waste  management, 


this  energy  source  is  finite  and  harmful  to  the 
environment,  many  countries  are  increasingly  turning 
to nuclear energy. 

Given  that  development,  there  must  be  training 
for a new generation of human resources; the design of 
reactors 
that  are  safe,  secure,  economical  and 
proliferation-resistant;  an  assured  supply  of  nuclear 
fuel; 
including 
disposal;  effective  and  quick  radiological  emergency 
response system; and public acceptance. Towards those 
ends, 
strengthened 
cooperation at the regional and international levels. 

The  Philippines  is  also  of  the  view  that  the 
peaceful uses of nuclear energy — specifically the use 
of  nuclear  power,  which  can 
to  sustained 
development  —  provide 
for 
developing  countries.  In  that  regard,  the  Philippines 
Government  is  reassessing  the  possibility  of  using 
nuclear power as one of the sources of energy to meet 
the  ever-growing  demands  from  our  energy  sector, 
brought about by a robust and growing economy. 

Enlarging the contribution of nuclear applications 
is important not only for their contributions to the well- 
being  of  humanity,  but  also  for  the  concept  of  the 
universality  of  benefits 
to  member  States.  The 
Philippines  believes  that  an  expansion  of  the  mandate 
of the Agency in that regard will strengthen the support 
of the developing countries for the IAEA. We reiterate 
the  critical  role  of  the  Agency’s  safeguards  and 
nuclear 
verification 
non-proliferation.  The  Philippines  commends 
the 
efforts  of  the  Director  General  and  the  Secretariat  in 
that regard. 

The  Philippines  and  the  IAEA  have  expansive 
links  in  other  areas  of  technical  cooperation,  and  that 
partnership  has  accomplished  much 
terms  of 
increasing  industrial  productivity,  the  irradiation  of 
food  exports,  access  to  clean  drinking  water  and 
addressing other environmental challenges. 

The  Philippines  and  the  IAEA  also  cooperate  in 
the  important  field  of  cancer  therapy  through  the 
Programme of Action for Cancer Therapy (PACT). The 
Philippines  is  pleased  that  the  Agency  made  that  a 
priority  activity,  given  the  rise  in  number  of  cancer 
patients,  particularly  in  the  developing  world.  That 
collaboration with PACT will lead to enhanced cancer 
training capabilities in the region in the context of the 
regional cancer training network. The Philippines urges 
activities 
ensuring 
lead 
in 
in 
A/63/PV.32
In  closing, 
let  me  reiterate 
member  States  to  continue  to  support  the  Programme 
through additional contributions. 

The  Philippines  commends  the  achievement  of 
the Agency in its comprehensive programme to combat 
the  risk  of  nuclear  terrorism  and  to  assist  Member 
States  in  strengthening  their  nuclear  security.  The 
Philippines  appreciates  the  Agency’s  assistance  in 
starting its nuclear security programme. 

As  more  countries  look  to  the  possibility  of 
adding  nuclear  power  to  satisfy  their  ever-increasing 
energy needs and as demand for technical cooperation 
from  developing  countries  continues  to  increase  to 
meet development needs, the Agency must continue to 
play  its  vital  role  in  enabling  developing  countries  to 
use  science  and  technology  for  development  and  for 
maintaining international peace  and security. Needless 
to say, the IAEA can do so only with a renewed sense 
of  cooperation  and  strong  partnerships  with  Member 
States. 

the  continuing 
cooperation  and  commitment  of  the  Philippines  to  the 
IAEA  as  we  meet  the  challenges  and  opportunities  of 
the twenty-first century. 
Mr.  De  Figueiredo  (Angola):  Allow  me  to  join 

previous  speakers 
in  congratulating  Mr.  Miguel 
d’Escoto Brockmann on his election to preside over the 
sixty-third session of the General Assembly. 

I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
express our appreciation to the Director General of the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and  the 
Agency’s secretariat for the comprehensive 2007 annual 
report, through which  we have learned  more  about the 
activities  carried  out  by  the  Agency  in  the  past  year 
under  the  three  pillars  of  its  mandate:  technology, 
safety,  and  security  and  verification.  The  2007  annual 
report  confirms  that  the Agency’s  activities  are  central 
to  the  maximization  of  the  use  of  nuclear  technology 
for socio-economic development and for preventing its 
misuse for non-peaceful purposes. 

The  Republic  of  Angola  attaches  paramount 
importance to the Technical Cooperation Programme of 
the  IAEA,  as  it  considers  it  to  be  an  efficient  tool  for 
the use of nuclear science and technology for peaceful 
purposes.  It  contributes  to  the  solution  of  problems  in 
areas such as human and animal health, agriculture and 
food, 
industry,  groundwater  management,  energy 
production and the environment. In that connection, the 
08-57118 

5 

in 
A/63/PV.32 

Angolan  Government  has  noted  with  appreciation  the 
the  Agency’s  Technical 
information  contained 
Cooperation Report 2007, indicating that 122 member 
States  and  territories  benefited  from  the  technical 
assistance  provided  by  the  IAEA  in  the  year  2007. 
Thirty-seven  African  countries  benefited  from  that 
assistance in the same year, with the Agency’s support 
essentially  concentrated  on  human  health,  agriculture 
and food. 

The  eradication  or  control  of  cancer,  sleeping 
sickness,  HIV/AIDS,  malaria,  tuberculosis  and  pest 
insects  is  one  of  the  important  preconditions  for  the 
reduction  of  extreme  poverty  and  hunger  by 
50 per cent by 2015, as foreseen by the United Nations. 
In  that  regard,  the  Government  of  Angola  strongly 
supports the Agency programme for the application of 
the sterile insect technique in member States to combat 
the  tsetse  fly.  Research  with  a  view  to  utilizing  that 
technique  against  anopheles,  locusts  and  other  pest 
insects should be intensified. 

The cooperation with the African Union and other 
pertinent  regional  and  international  institutions  aimed 
at  harmonizing  all  efforts  in  conformity  with  the 
African 
and 
Trypanosomosis  Eradication  Campaign  should  be 
strengthened. 

The partnership between the IAEA and the Food 
and Agriculture Agency  of  the  United  Nations  (FAO) 
has  successfully  resulted  in  a  strengthening  of  the 
capacity to apply nuclear technology in key agriculture 
projects. That includes the efficiency and sustainability 
of  land  and  water  management;  breeding  new  crops 
with  special  qualities  and  adapted 
to  marginal 
environments; 
improving  animal  production  and 
health;  controlling  insects  that  are  major  pests  for 
plants  and  livestock;  and  increasing  food  safety  while 
facilitating 
into 
consideration  all  the  aforementioned  benefits  deriving 
from  that  partnership,  the  Government  of  Angola 
expresses  its  deep  concern  about  the  intention  of  the 
FAO to terminate that valuable  cooperation at the end 
of  this  year,  and  appeals  to  both  organizations  to 
review the issue. 

With  the  support  of  the  Agency,  the  Angolan 
Government  is  implementing  eight  national  projects 
and  participating  in  15  regional  ones.  The  national 
projects  deal  with  the  establishment  of  the  first 
radiotherapy  centre  in  the  country;  the  introduction  of 
international 
Pan-African 
Union’s 
Taking 
Tsetse 
trade. 
in 
the 
in 
for 
For 
cycle, 
testing 
2009-2011 
the  capital, 
in  several  hospitals 
nuclear  medicine  techniques  in  clinical  practices; 
veterinary drug residue monitoring; isotope techniques 
to  study  the  effect  of  bio  and  inorganic  fertilizers; 
mutation  breeding;  and 
the  establishment  of  a 
non-destructive 
industrial 
laboratory 
applications. 

In  2007,  Angolan  technicians  benefited  from 
scientific  visits  and  research  grants  abroad.  In  that 
context,  special  mention  is  to  be  made  of  the  field  of 
ionizing radiation. The regulation of its use for medical 
purposes 
the 
inspection of various health-care centres in the country 
and  the  installation  and  use  of  X-ray  equipment  and 
other  radioactive  sources  oriented  towards  industrial 
radiography  have  greatly  contributed  to  providing 
better  assistance  to  the  population.  My  Government 
wishes  to  strengthen  its  cooperation  with  the  Agency 
on  matters  concerning 
radiotherapy  and  nuclear 
medicine in order to strengthen the National Oncology 
Centre. 

the  Angolan 
Government  seeks  support  for  the  implementation  of 
seven  projects 
the  areas  of  nuclear  physics, 
agriculture,  human  health,  water  resources,  industrial 
applications  and 
radiation  protection.  Four  have 
already  been  selected:  the  establishment  of  a  phase  II 
laboratory  for  teaching  nuclear  physics;  strengthening 
national  capability  in  medical  physics;  strengthening 
national capability in the prevention, maintenance and 
repair  of  scientific  instruments  and  nuclear  medicine 
equipment;  and  national 
regulatory  control  and 
occupational radiation protection programmes. 

With  regard  to  the  implementation  of  the  IAEA 
safeguards,  the  Angolan  Government  recognizes  the 
right  of  all  States  to  make  full  use  of  nuclear 
technology 
applications  without 
discrimination  and  in  conformity  with  the  Agency’s 
statute. 

To conclude,  the Government of the Republic of 
Angola  recommends  the  approval  of  the  report  of  the 
IAEA by the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Alemu  (Ethiopia):  It  is  a  profound  honour 

and pleasure to address this Assembly on behalf of my 
delegation on the important agenda item before us for 
consideration  in  this  plenary  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly  today.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  at  the 
outset to express my deepest appreciation and gratitude 
to  the  Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic 
scientific 
and 
6 

08-57118 
its 
for 
submitted 
for  adoption 
fiftieth  anniversary  with 


Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  Mr.  Mohammed  ElBaradei, 
for his informative report on the work of the Agency. 

I also wish to thank the Secretary-General for his 
note  (A/63/276)  transmitting  the  report  of  the Agency 
to the General Assembly. I am very confident that both 
documents  will  make  a  useful  contribution  to  an 
informed  consideration  of, 
in  particular,  draft 
resolution  A/63/L.6, 
in 
connection with the agenda item now being discussed. 

As we all know, the IAEA has been working for 
the  realization  of  the  “Atoms  for  Peace”  vision  since 
the  day  of  its  establishment.  It  is  indeed  gratifying  to 
recall that the Agency and its Director General won the 
2005  Nobel  Peace  Prize 
their  outstanding 
contribution  to  global  peace  and  security.  We  felt  a 
modest  sense  of  satisfaction  at  seeing  the  Agency 
celebrate 
such  a 
magnificent achievement.  
As a founding member of the IAEA, Ethiopia has 

always  attached  and  will  continue  to  attach  great 
significance  to  the  maintenance  of  global  peace  and 
security, all the more so in connection with the specific 
area upon which the Agency is entrusted and mandated 
to focus. 

As  regards  the  use  of  nuclear  energy,  I  am 
pleased  to  inform  this  gathering  that  Ethiopia  is 
engaged in a number of national and regional projects 
applying nuclear techniques with the aim of addressing 
various  socio-economic  development  problems  in  the 
areas  of  agriculture,  human  health,  water  resource 
management, energy planning, non-destructive testing, 
nuclear  instrumentation  and  radiation  protection.  The 
country is pursuing a focused approach in areas of high 
relevance  to  promoting  socio-economic  development 
objectives. 

Our  biggest  technical  cooperation  project  with 
the IAEA is aimed at eradicating the tsetse fly from the 
25,000  square  kilometres  in  the  southern  Rift  Valley 
area of Ethiopia. Initiated in 1997, the project uses the 
sterile  insect  technique  (SIT)  as  part  of  an  integrated 
pest  management  approach.  It  is  still  of  the  highest 
priority  in  Ethiopia’s  technical  cooperation  with  the 
Agency,  particularly  since  over  240,000  square 
kilometres  of  fertile  agricultural  land  in  the  western 
and  southern  parts  of  the  country  are  infested  by  five 
different 
transmit 
trypanosomiasis. 
species  of 
tsetse 
A/63/PV.32
of 
fly 
the 
reduced 
existing 
The  project  includes  three  major  components: 

suppression 
population, 
establishment  of  a  centrally  operated  sterile  insect 
production  plant,  and  a  field  operation  to  control  and 
eradicate the fly population using SIT technology. The 
suppression  activities  have  already 
the 
prevalence  of  trypanosomiasis  among  the  livestock  in 
the  treated  area.  A  tsetse  fly-breeding  and  irradiation 
facility  in  Addis  Ababa  was  officially  inaugurated  in 
February  2007,  and  the  first  pilot  release  of  sterile 
tsetse  flies  was  successfully  carried  out,  with  the 
encouraging result of a 95-per-cent survival rate two to 
three weeks after release. 

The  project  has  made  significant  progress  with 
the  support  of  the  IAEA,  the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization  and  the  OPEC  Fund  for  International 
Development, as well as with generous assistance from 
the  Governments  of  the  United  States  of America  and 
China. The African Development Bank and the United 
Nations Trust Fund for Human Security, funded by the 
Government  of  Japan,  have  also  joined  our  efforts  to 
make  that  model  project  a  success  story  in  Africa, 
where  about  37  countries  are  believed  to  have  been 
seriously  affected  by  the  problem.  We  are  greatly 
encouraged  by  the  firm  commitment  of  all  those 
international  organizations  and  development  partners 
to  continue  to  support  the  efforts  of  the  Ethiopian 
Government, for which we remain sincerely grateful. 

Ethiopia’s  technical  cooperation  activities  with 
the  Agency  in  the  areas  of  human  health  and  water 
resource  management  have  also  resulted  in  a  modest 
national  infrastructure  for  the  application  of  nuclear 
medicine,  radiotherapy  and  isotope  hydrology.  The 
country recently acquired a new cobalt machine, with a 
new  source, 
through  a  cost-sharing  arrangement 
between  the  Agency  and  the  Government  to  help 
improve  the  only  radiotherapy  centre  still  serving  the 
country’s more than 77 million people. 

Some  preliminary  data  indicate  that  only  about 
400  cancer  patients  out  of  an  estimated  115,000  new 
cancer  cases  per  annum  are  treated  by  means  of 
radiotherapy. That clearly shows the inadequacy of the 
services in that critical area of concern. For that reason 
the  Government  of  Ethiopia,  in  collaboration  with  the 
IAEA,  has  developed  an  action  plan 
to  extend 
radiotherapy  and  nuclear  medicine  services  to  five 
hospitals  located  in  different  parts  of  the  country.  We 
therefore  call  on  all  our  development  partners  to  step 
up  their  generous  technical  and  financial  support  to 
fly 
that 
08-57118 

7 
to  generate  useful 
A/63/PV.32 

help us implement the action plan and save the lives of 
thousands of people dealing with cancer through well-
equipped  and  expanded  radiotherapy  and  nuclear 
medicine services in the country. 

In  addition,  our  technical  cooperation  with  the 
IAEA  to  apply  isotope  techniques  in  managing  our 
water  resources  has  enabled  us  to  build  some  basic 
capacity 
isotopic  data.  The 
establishment  of  an  isotope  hydrology  laboratory  at 
Addis  Ababa  University  and  a  national  groundwater 
database  system,  as  well  as  training  the  necessary 
personnel, constitute some of the major strides made so 
far  in  laying  the  basic  infrastructure  for  an  Ethiopian 
groundwater resources programme, which is part of the 
Government’s  15-year  water  sector  development 
programme. 

The  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  (FAO) 
has  shown  some  promising  steps  towards  enhancing 
the relevance and efficiency of its activities, including 
through  its  Joint  Division  with  the  IAEA,  which  is 
important for developing and least developed countries 
in particular. The Joint FAO/IAEA Division of Nuclear 
Techniques 
in  Food  and  Agriculture  has  been 
especially instrumental in creating synergy between the 
two  organizations  and,  from  our  perspective, 
in 
supporting  our  efforts  to  eradicate  the  tsetse  fly  and 
trypanosomiasis. Ethiopia believes that any measure to 
terminate 
Joint  FAO/IAEA  Division  would 
adversely  affect  that  synergy,  with  a  shared  objective 
of  contributing  to  the  maintenance  of  global  food 
security. We therefore call for the reinforcement of that 
useful 
global 
organizations. 

We also firmly believe that provision of adequate 
and predictable resources to the Agency’s programmes 
and,  more 
importantly,  balanced  distribution  of 
resources  to  the  Agency’s  safeguards,  nuclear  safety 
and technical cooperation activities need to be ensured. 
The Technical Cooperation Programme plays a crucial 
role  in  transferring  nuclear  technology  to  developing 
member States of the Agency. 

As the IAEA is expected to increase its efficiency 
and effectiveness in nuclear verification, nuclear safety 
and technology transfer, Ethiopia realizes the Agency’s 
need 
laboratory  and  computation 
facilities  and  to  enhance  its  management  information 
system,  so  as 
its  competence  and 
independence. In line with that, implementation of the 
to  maintain 
to  upgrade 
partnership 
between 
the 
the 
two 

to 
auditor’s 
recommendation 
ratification  and 
implementation  of 
external 
adopt 
International  Public  Sector  Accounting  Standards  and 
an  Agency-wide  information  system  for  programme 
support  needs 
to  be  adequately  addressed  and 
supported by Member States. 

Ethiopia believes that promoting the peaceful use 
of  nuclear  programmes  would  have  manifold  benefits 
for  all  member  States  and  humanity  at  large.  In  that 
regard, 
the 
additional protocol to the safeguards agreement and the 
modified  small  quantities  protocol  would  help  to 
enhance  the  verification  process  by  the  IAEA  as  the 
competent  global  authority  mandated 
to  do  so. 
However,  in  addition  to  all  that,  universal  application 
of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  is  truly  critical  to  ensuring  global  peace  and 
security. 

As  one  of  the  founding  members  of  the Agency, 
Ethiopia  is  cognizant  of  its  responsibility  to  control 
radioactive and other nuclear materials and to promote 
the peaceful use of nuclear applications for global and 
regional security. Moreover, as an outgoing member of 
the  IAEA  Board  of  Governors,  Ethiopia  has  also  had 
the  honour  and  pleasure  of  serving  member  States  of 
the Agency  to  its  level  best  in  that  capacity.  We  wish 
the  incoming  members  of  the  Board  of  Governors 
every  success  and  assure  them  of  our  continued 
cooperation and commitment to the lofty ideals of the 
Agency. 

Ethiopia has ratified the Comprehensive Nuclear-
Test-Ban  Treaty  and  the  Pelindaba  Treaty  on  the 
African  Nuclear-Weapon-Free  Zone. We  have  done  so 
on  the  basis  of  our  long-standing  commitment  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
and,  ultimately,  to  a  nuclear-threat-free  world.  In  that 
regard,  it  is  important  to  underscore  that  nuclear 
non-proliferation  efforts  can  lead  eventually  to  a 
nuclear-threat-free  world  if,  and  only  if,  they  are 
complemented  by  genuine  disarmament  measures  by 
all nuclear-weapon States. 

In conclusion, allow me to reiterate our profound 
thanks and appreciation to the IAEA, in particular to its 
governance  and  leadership,  for  their  dedication  to 
strengthening  crucially  essential  technical  cooperation 
activities between the Agency and my country. I would 
also  like  to  reassure  the  Assembly  that,  apart  from 
abiding  by  its  international  obligations  as  a  member 
State, Ethiopia will continue to do its utmost to further 
its 
8 

08-57118 
A/63/PV.32
the 
to 
takes 
reaffirm 
this  opportunity 
far  made  generous  contributions 


enhance  the  positive  spirit  of  cooperation  with  the 
Agency and with our development partners, who have 
thus 
to  our 
development endeavours in this particular field. 
Mr.  Pramudwinai  (Thailand):  It  is  with  great 

appreciation  that  the  delegation  of Thailand  took  note 
of  the  2007  annual  report  of  the  International Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  (see  A/63/276).  Having  just 
completed  our  term  as  a  member  of  the  Agency’s 
Board  of  Governors  for  the  period  2006  to  2008, 
Thailand 
its 
continued  support  for  the Agency’s  indispensable  role 
in  promoting  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  and 
strengthening  the  non-proliferation  regime.  Thailand 
believes  that  the  IAEA’s  role  in  enhancing  human 
security and the capacity of Member States to achieve 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
should  be 
accentuated. 

Over the years, nuclear applications in the fields 
of  human  health  and  agriculture  have  been 
the 
hallmarks  of  partnership  between  Thailand  and  the 
IAEA.  My  delegation  commends 
the  Agency’s 
Programme  of  Action  for  Cancer  Therapy  and  its 
recently formalized partnership with the World Health 
Organization,  which  is  geared  towards  preventing 
cancer and reducing cancer rates in developing nations. 
We  also  support  the  Joint  FAO/IAEA  Division  of 
Nuclear Techniques in Food and Agriculture. Thailand 
sees the merit of continuing the FAO/IAEA partnership 
with a view to responding to the demands and needs of 
Member States vis-à-vis food safety and food security. 

For  developing  countries  to  reap  the  benefits  of 
nuclear 
Technical 
Cooperation  Programme  remains  the  key  component. 
On  our  part,  we  have  maintained  active  collaboration 
with the Agency in various capacity-building activities. 
We will continue to do so in the years to come.  

Thailand  believes  that,  as  the  Agency  charts  its 
future  course  in  the  so-called  global  nuclear  order, 
effective management of the Agency will be crucial to 
enable it to respond adequately to various proliferation 
challenges.  We  believe  that  it  is  important  for  the 
Agency  to  be  provided  with  sufficient,  assured  and 
predictable  resources  to  do  its  job.  In  that  regard,  my 
delegation  commends  the  Director  General’s  initiative 
to establish the Commission of Eminent Persons on the 
future of the Agency. We take note of the report of the 
Commission,  which  will  be  an  important  contribution 
the  Agency’s 
technology, 
Strengthening 
zones 
should 
(ASEAN), 
for 
be  welcomed 
the  Treaty  on 
implementation  of 
in improving the work of the Agency between now and 
2020, and beyond.  

Regarding  another  area  of  the  global  nuclear 
order, Thailand wishes to mention our proposal, along 
with  that  of  the  countries  of  the  Association  of 
Southeast  Asian  Nations 
the 
establishment  of  the  South Asian  nuclear-weapon-free 
zone. We support the establishment of nuclear-weapon-
free  zones  in  all  regions  of  the  world.  Any  possible 
forum  for  an  exchange  of  experiences  on  nuclear-
weapon-free 
as 
constructive.  The  efforts  of  Mongolia  in  hosting  the 
meeting  of  the  focal  points  of  all  regional  nuclear-
weapon-free  zones 
in  April  2009  are  highly 
commendable. 

the  nuclear  non-proliferation 
regime  is  a  common  and  shared  responsibility  of  the 
international  community.  Thailand  is  fully  committed 
to 
the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT).  We 
underscore the role of the IAEA as the sole multilateral 
authority  for  safeguards  and  verification.  We  also 
the  effectiveness  and 
support  efforts 
efficiency  of 
system, 
including 
the  Agency’s  comprehensive  safeguards 
agreements  and  additional  protocols.  As  we  approach 
the  convening  of  the  third  session  of  the  Preparatory 
Committee  for  the  2010  NPT  Review  Conference, 
which  is  to  be  held  in  New  York  next  year,  my 
delegation  hopes  that  the  deliberations  will  lead  to 
further  progress  on  substantive  issues.  In  that  regard, 
Thailand 
international 
community will further step up its efforts to honour its 
NPT 
nuclear 
non-proliferation and the nuclear disarmament fronts. 

the  Director 
General’s  report  to  the  Board  of  Governors  on  the 
implementation  of  safeguards  in  the  Islamic  Republic 
of  Iran  throughout  the  past  year.  While  we  fully 
support the inalienable  right of every  NPT State party 
to  develop  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes,  we 
must  ensure  that  that  right  is  pursued  in  accordance 
with the obligations under the NPT, the comprehensive 
safeguards  agreements  and  the  additional  protocols. 
Thailand looks forward to a peaceful settlement of the 
Iran  nuclear  issue.  We  urge  all  parties  concerned  to 
stay  the  course  of  diplomacy  and  to  refrain  from 
confrontation. 
to  enhance 
the  Agency’s 
is  also  hopeful 
My  delegation 
takes  note  of 
commitments, 
safeguards 
that 
the 
on 
both 
the 
08-57118 

9 

A/63/PV.32 


On  the  recent  developments  in  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Thailand  expresses  its 
support for the ongoing dialogue within the framework 
of  the  Six-Party  Talks  aimed  at  achieving  long-term 
peace  and  stability  on  the  Korean  Peninsula.  We 
welcome  the  progress  made  towards  the  full  and 
balanced  implementation  of  the  2005  Joint  Statement. 
On  our  part,  Thailand  will  continue  to  work  closely 
with  our  partners  in  the  ASEAN  Regional  Forum  to 
contribute  to  progress  in  the  complete  and  verifiable 
denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. 

We commend the IAEA’s role as a cornerstone of 
the  global  non-proliferation  regime  and  join  other 
members  of  the  international  community  in  praising 
the Agency’s  annual  report,  which  not  only  reflects  a 
track  record  of  accomplishments  but  also  provides  a 
realistic outlook of where future challenges lie. In that 
regard,  Thailand  reiterates  its  full  confidence  in  the 
integrity,  impartiality  and  professionalism  of  Director 
General Mohamed ElBaradei and the IAEA secretariat 
in continuing that important work. 
Mr.  Kyslytsya  (Ukraine): At  the  outset,  I  would 

like to congratulate the new member States joining the 
International Atomic  Energy Agency  (IAEA),  namely, 
the Sultanate of Oman, the independent State of Papua 
New Guinea and the Kingdom of Lesotho. I wish them 
every  success  in  their  work  at  the  Agency.  The 
enlargement  in  the  Agency’s  membership  is  evidence 
of the growing prestige of that organization. 

Ukraine is satisfied with the fact that the Agency 
has continued to act in accordance with the three main 
pillars  of  its  activity,  that  is,  technology,  safety  and 
verification. Ukraine, which has 15 operational units at 
four nuclear power plants, fully recognizes the role of 
the Agency  in  developing  nuclear  power  applications. 
Nuclear  power  will  remain  an 
important  energy 
component  providing  for  the  economic  security  of  the 
State  from  a  middle-  and  long-term  perspective,  as 
envisaged  in  Ukraine’s  energy  strategy  for  the  period 
until 2030. 

The Technical Cooperation Programme continues 
to be one of the principal mechanisms for carrying out 
the  Agency’s  basic  mission.  In  2007,  Ukraine  hosted 
eight  regional  and  interregional  events  within  the 
framework  of  the  Programme.  Their  topics  reflected 
both  Ukraine’s  considerable  expertise  and  its  needs 
with  regard  to  the  dissemination  of  knowledge  and 
training  in  the  field  of  nuclear  safety  and  security.  In 
to 
resolve 
that  challenge 
to 
range  of  projects  on 
the  decommissioning  of 
that  regard,  I  would  like  to  mention  the  fact  that 
Ukrainian experts took an active part in the work of the 
Agency’s Safety Standards Committees. 

We welcome the Agency’s activities in the area of 
nuclear safety. Of particular importance for Ukraine in 
that  field  are  the  problems  of  radioactive  waste 
management  during 
the 
Chernobyl nuclear power plant and the transformation 
of  the  shelter  object  into  an  ecologically  safe  system. 
The  Agency  continues  to  provide  assistance  in  the 
remediation  of  the  affected  territories  in  Ukraine. The 
results  of  the Agency’s  recent  activities  in  those  areas 
laid the groundwork for the United Nations Action Plan 
on Chernobyl to 2016, which was prepared this year by 
the  Inter-Agency  Task  Force  on  Chernobyl.  We  hope 
that  the  attention  devoted  to  the  Chernobyl  issue  will 
not decrease, since further joint efforts are required in 
order 
the  entire 
international community.  
Ukraine notes with satisfaction that, last year, the 

Agency  completed  a 
the 
harmonization  of  safety  assessment  processes  and  the 
demonstration of safety during the decommissioning of 
nuclear  facilities.  Of  the  32  nuclear  reactors  being 
dismantled around the world, 4 are in Ukraine, and we 
benefit from the lessons learned in that regard. 

We  welcome  the  fact  that,  last  year,  the Agency 
continued  to  develop  projects  in  the  area  of  human 
health.  In  particular,  Ukraine  would  like  to  emphasize 
the  importance  of  the Agency-initiated  Programme  of 
Action  on  Cancer  Therapy,  from  which  my  country 
also benefits. In 2007, the Agency provided assistance 
aimed  at  improving  nuclear  security  arrangements 
through the Integrated Nuclear Security Support Plans, 
in  which  Ukraine  also  actively  participated. 
In 
particular,  the  Agency  continued  to  strengthen  border 
in  many  Member  States  by 
control  capabilities 
providing 
instruments  and  by 
training  hundreds  of  people  in  the  area  of  nuclear-
security-related responsibilities. 

I  would  like  to  note  with  appreciation  that,  in 
2007,  the  Agency  continued  its  efforts  to  develop 
nuclear 
fuel  supply  assurances.  Ukraine,  which 
possesses sufficient deposits of uranium, looks forward 
to participating in future consortiums and to providing 
uranium  ore  to  meet  relevant  needs.  We  are  open  to 
international  cooperation  in  that  area.  As  a  potential 
uranium  exporter,  Ukraine  welcomes  the  formulation 
radiation-detection 
10 

08-57118 
to  reaffirm 
Ukraine  wishes 
We  highly  value 
low-enriched  uranium 


by  the Agency  last  year  of  draft  best  practices  in  the 
areas  of  radiation  management,  health  and  safety, 
waste  and  the  environment  and  related  regulatory 
aspects of uranium mining. 

We  appreciate  the  Agency’s  support  for  the 
process  of  converting  research  reactors  from  highly 
enriched  uranium 
fuel. 
Ukraine  fully  supports  that  programme  and  took  an 
active  part  in  repatriating  highly  enriched  uranium  to 
its country of origin.  
the  Agency’s  International 

Project  on  Innovative  Nuclear  Reactors  and  Fuel 
Cycles.  Last  year,  Ukraine  decided  to  provide  the 
project with a cost-free expert. 
its  support  for 

activities to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of 
the  safeguards  system  and  welcomes  the  Agency’s 
efforts to prevent the diversion of nuclear energy from 
peaceful  uses  to  military  purposes,  to  detect  covert 
weapon activities and to reduce the risk of nuclear and 
radiological terrorism. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  our  great 
appreciation for the efforts of Mr. Mohamed ElBaradei, 
Director  General  of  the  Agency,  and  of  the  Agency’s 
secretariat  to  strengthen  international  cooperation  in 
the area of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, which 
were  demonstrated  last  year.  Through  its  nuclear 
power,  nuclear  applications  and  technical  cooperation 
programmes,  the  Agency  continues  to  meet  global 
challenges  and  to  assist  member  States  in  addressing 
issues  such  as  energy  supply,  nuclear  safety,  human 
health,  food  security,  water  availability,  resource 
conservation and environmental protection. 

Finally, I wish to state that Ukraine fully supports 
draft  resolution  A/63/L.6,  entitled  “Report  of  the 
International Atomic Energy Agency”. 
Mr.  Kim  Bonghyun  (Republic  of  Korea):  My 

delegation  would  like  to  express  its  appreciation  to 
Mr. Mohamed  ElBaradei,  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for  his 
comprehensive briefing on the Agency’s broad range of 
activities. We are pleased to take note of the Agency’s 
recent  achievements  in  the  fields  of  nuclear  energy, 
nuclear 
and 
verification,  as  described  in  the  annual  report  of  the 
IAEA for 2007 (see A/63/276). 
applications, 
security 
to 
safety 
and 
A/63/PV.32

The Republic of Korea underlines the importance 
of the IAEA in promoting the safe, secure and peaceful 
uses of nuclear science and technology, and we would 
like to reaffirm our commitment to cooperate with the 
Agency in all areas of its activities. 

My  delegation  also  commends  the  recent  report 
entitled  Reinforcing  the  Global  Nuclear  Order  for 
Peace  and  Prosperity:  The  Role  of  the  IAEA  to  2020 
and  Beyond.  In  our  view,  that  report  was  timely,  and 
the  global  nuclear  system  should  be  consolidated  and 
reinforced  in  order  to  address  the  new  opportunities 
and  challenges  arising  from  the  expanded  use  of 
nuclear  energy.  The  IAEA,  with  its  expertise  and 
professionalism, should continue to play a crucial role 
in  supporting  the  nuclear  renaissance  in  the  coming 
years. 

In that regard, my delegation would like to touch 
upon  some  issues  that  we  consider  relevant  to  the 
future work of the IAEA. 

First,  the  universalization  of  the  comprehensive 
safeguards agreement and the additional protocol is an 
essential means to improve the current safeguards and 
verification  regime.  We  would  like  to  call  upon  those 
States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  conclude  such 
agreements  and  bring  them  into  force  without  delay. 
The  additional  protocol  should  become  a  verification 
standard,  as  recent  events  have  suggested  that  the 
comprehensive  safeguards  agreement  alone 
is  no 
longer  adequate  in  enabling  the  Agency  to  fully 
implement its mandate. 
Secondly,  the  Republic  of  Korea  attaches  great 

importance 
issue  of  a  new  multilateral 
framework for guaranteeing the supply of nuclear fuel. 
Any  new  mechanism  should  provide  economical, 
reliable  and  equitable  access  to  nuclear  fuels,  while 
limiting proliferation risks. As a major user of nuclear 
energy, 
to 
participate  in  and  make  positive  contributions  to  the 
relevant discussions on that issue. 

the  most 
imminent  threat  to  the  peace  and  security  of  the 
international  community. The Nuclear Security Report 
2008,  in  our  view,  contains  very  useful  information 
that  will  assist  State  and  non-State  actors  alike  in 
addressing  certain  aspects  of  that  grave  issue.  We 
recognize  the  important  role  of  the Agency  as  a  focal 
point 
the  enhancement  of  nuclear 
security  at  both  the  national  and  the  international 
the  Republic  of  Korea  will  continue 
terrorism  remains 
Thirdly,  nuclear 
in  facilitating 
the 
to 
08-57118 

11 
of 
nuclear 
resolution  of 
non-proliferation 
reached  a  consensus  on 
A/63/PV.32 

levels.  The  Agency’s  experiences  should  be  shared 
with other international organizations and with relevant 
global initiatives. 
The expanded use of nuclear energy requires the 

strengthening 
and 
heightened  security  measures  as  never  before.  In  that 
regard, my delegation would like to emphasize that the 
peaceful 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  nuclear  issue  is  vital  to  securing 
lasting  peace  and  prosperity  on  the  Korean  peninsula 
and  in  North-East  Asia.  My  delegation  would  like  to 
reiterate  that  the  framework  of  the  Six-Party  Talks 
remains  the  most  effective  tool  for  resolving  the 
nuclear  issue  related  to  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea.  

Since  last  June,  we  have  witnessed  ups  and 
downs  with  regard  to  that  issue.  The  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea submitted a declaration of 
its nuclear programme in June of this year and, at the 
heads  of  delegation  meeting  of  the  sixth  round  of  the 
the 
Six-Party  Talks,  held 
participants 
full 
implementation of the second-phase actions and agreed 
to establish a verification mechanism and a monitoring 
mechanism within the Six-Party Talks process. 
We  welcome  the  Six-Party  Talks  being  brought 

back  on 
the  recent  agreements  on 
verification,  the  subsequent  United  States  action  to 
remove  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
from  the  list  of  State  sponsors  of  terrorism,  and  the 
resumption of disablement measures by the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  We  hope  that  the  next 
round of Six-Party Talks will be held as soon as possible 
and that a verification protocol will be concluded among 
the  six  parties  for  verifying  the  completeness  and 
correctness  of 
the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. 

My delegation would like to highlight the IAEA’s 
continued essential role in the verification process. As 
the Six-Party Talks process proceeds, my Government 
will continue to work closely with all parties concerned 
to resolve the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s 
nuclear issue  in a peaceful  manner, and trusts that the 
international  community  will  continue  to  render  its 
valuable support in the denuclearization process. 
in  French): 

Mr. President,  my  delegation  would  like  to  thank  you 
for having convened this meeting to consider the report 
the  declaration  submitted  by 
last  July, 
the 
track 
through 
Mr.  Zinsou
(Benin) 
(spoke 
in  Beijing 

in 
increase 
the  challenges  now  confronting 
of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). It 
would  like  to  voice  its  appreciation  to  the  Director 
General  of  the  Agency  for  having  given  a  most 
impressive  statement  this  morning  and  for  having 
highlighted 
the 
international community in the area of the exploitation 
of nuclear energy in the present context. 

One  thing  particularly  struck  us. The  acquisition 
of  the  technological  capacity  for  uranium  enrichment 
and the isolation of plutonium makes the countries that 
benefit  from  cooperation  with  the  Agency  potential 
nuclear-weapon  States,  given  the  ease  with  which 
nuclear  material  can  be  diverted  to  military  purposes. 
That  observation  is  all  the  more  concerning  since  the 
growing  demand  for  energy  is  prompting  a  nuclear 
renaissance  and  consequently  an 
the 
number of countries that wish to have access to nuclear 
energy as a way to meet their needs. 

Access to nuclear energy is an inalienable right of 
all  sovereign  States.  Nevertheless,  it  is  important  that 
the  international  community  be  endowed  with  the 
means  to  prevent  an  exponential  increase  in  nuclear-
weapon  States.  It  is  therefore  necessary  to  strengthen 
the  authority  of 
to  ensure  unfailing 
monitoring  of  nuclear  energy  production  activities 
through more binding methods of preventing the misuse 
of existing production capacity for military purposes. 

We support the proposal of the Agency to create a 
multilateral fissile material bank to ensure the ongoing 
supply of fissile fuel to all existing nuclear installations 
or  those  yet  to  be  built,  free  from  political  influence. 
The inability of the IAEA to provide assurances on the 
nuclear  activities  of  States  without  an  additional 
protocol  or  the  various  other  factors  that  ensure  the 
perceived  security  of  States  offer  no  effective 
guarantee regarding access to nuclear weapons. 

In  our  view,  there  is  a  need  to  encourage  the 
creation and transfer of a technology for nuclear energy 
production  that  does  not  directly  confer  the  capability 
of acquiring nuclear weapons. European countries have 
stated  over  the  last  few  years  that  they  are  making 
progress in that direction, and that deserves the support 
of the international community. 

The  Agency  should  become  further  involved  in 
research  to  widen  the  technological  gap  between  the 
capacity  to  use  nuclear  energy  peacefully  and  that  to 
produce  nuclear  weapons.  Generally  speaking,  Benin 
supports  the  recommendations  of  the  Commission  of 
the  Agency 
12 

08-57118 
level.  The 
strengthen 
to  non-State  actors 


Eminent Persons convened by the Agency to secure the 
use of nuclear energy for peaceful ends while reducing 
the  risks  of  proliferation,  which  are  now  at  an 
unacceptable 
international  community, 
however,  must  also 
the  multilateral 
mechanism  for  the  settlement  of  disputes  concerning 
nuclear  materials.  The  role  of  the  Agency  in  that 
respect is critical. 

A  second  major  challenge  that  emerges  from  the 
Agency’s annual report is the exacerbation of the risks 
of  proliferation 
in  situations 
involving the spread of registered fissile materials. The 
fact that in an impressive number of cases the theft of 
fissile materials has never been resolved exposes us to 
terrible danger. 

The  international  community  should  strengthen 
its  capacity  to  monitor  fissile  materials  and  to  locate 
and  ensure  the  recovery  of  stolen  materials.  To  that 
end, there is a need to make full use of the potential for 
cooperation  and  exchange  of  information  offered  by 
resolution  1540  (2004)  on  the  non-proliferation  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  to  non-State  actors.  All 
States must understand and be aware of the risks linked 
to that phenomenon and strive to identify a systematic 
policy of prevention. The creation of a global network 
for cooperation and the exchange of information would 
strengthen  the  effectiveness  of  those  means  which  the 
United Nations is using to move forward in that area. 

We  encourage  efforts  to  promote  the  use  of 
nuclear  energy  for  the  purposes  of  development,  in 
particular in the areas of agriculture and health. Those 
are  purposes  highly  beneficial  to  humanity  that  will 
help us to meet existential challenges. 

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  will  support  the 
draft  resolution  to  be  adopted  on  the  report  of  the 
Agency. 

the last speaker in the debate on this item.  

Before  giving  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  who 
wishes to speak in explanation of position on the draft 
resolution,  I  remind  delegations  that  explanations  of 
vote  or  position  are  limited  to  10  minutes  and  should 
be made by delegations from their seats. 
(Democratic  People’s 

Republic of Korea): The delegation of the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea wishes to stress its position 
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
Mr.  Sin  Song  Chol 
A/63/PV.32
with  regard  to  draft  resolution  A/63/L.6,  entitled 
“Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency”.  

As  described  in  the  International Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA) report and resolution GC(52)/RES/14, 
cited in the draft resolution before us, the Agency has 
not yet abandoned its prejudiced and unfair position on 
the nuclear issue of the Korean peninsula. 

The  nuclear  issue  that  we  are  talking  about  here 
is a direct product of the hostile policies of the United 
States  of  America  towards  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  and  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  is  still  designated  by  the  United 
States as a target for a pre-emptive nuclear strike. 

In  spite  of  those  undeniable  facts,  the  IAEA  has 
persistently ignored the root causes of the nuclear issue 
and  disregarded  the  honest  and  sincere  efforts  of  the 
Government  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  to  settle  the  issue.  Worse  yet,  the  Agency 
attempted  to  infringe  upon  the  sovereignty  of  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  insisting  on 
special  inspections  in  our  country  in  concert  with  the 
United States, which generated the nuclear issue. That 
biased  and  unjust  attitude  of 
IAEA  only 
complicated  the  process  of  attempting  to  resolve  the 
nuclear issue. 

Unless  the  IAEA  takes  an  impartial  position 
towards the settlement of the problem, in keeping with 
its assigned mission, no measures taken or resolutions 
adopted  by  the  IAEA  will  help  to  resolve  the  nuclear 
issue.  That  has  been  vividly  demonstrated  throughout 
the process of attempting to resolve the nuclear issue.  

As a result of those considerations, the delegation 
of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea strongly 
rejects  resolution  GC(52)/RES/14,  adopted  at 
the 
General Conference of the IAEA. The delegation of the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  will  closely 
monitor  the  future  stands  and  activities  of  the  IAEA 
vis-à-vis the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula. 

The  Government  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea is consistent in its position that the 
nuclear  issue  should  be  resolved  peacefully  through 
dialogue  and  negotiations. As  is  well  known,  there  is, 
on  the  one  hand,  the  19  September  2005  Joint 
Statement,  which  was  agreed  by  the  six  parties  at  the 
Talks  and  welcomed  by  the  international  community, 
and,  on  the  other,  the  principle  of  action  for  action, 
which  constitutes  a  criterion 
its 
for  assessing 
the 
08-57118 

13 
like 
to  conclude 
The  delegation  of 
the  denuclearization  of 
the  denuclearization  of 
A/63/PV.32 

implementation.  To  date,  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  has  faithfully  honoured  all  of  its 
commitments  under  every  agreement  reached  by  the 
six  parties  at  the Talks,  including  the  Joint  Statement, 
in  conformity  with  the  principle  of  action  for  action, 
and  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  will 
continue  to  do  so.  If  the  other  parties  at  the  Talks  do 
the same by faithfully fulfilling their own obligations, 
the process of denuclearizing the Korean peninsula will 
advance smoothly.  

the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  would 
its 
explanation  of  position  by  disclosing  Japan’s  true 
mindset  regarding  the  nuclear  issue.  Although  it  is  a 
party  to  the  Talks  and  loudly  pretends  that  it  is 
interested 
the  Korean 
peninsula,  Japan  tends  to  be  negative  and  insincere 
regarding  the  resolution  of  the  nuclear  issue.  Indeed, 
that  attitude  is  a  deliberate,  ill-natured  move  to 
hamstring 
the  Korean 
peninsula.  

As  we  have  witnessed  on  various  occasions 
during  the  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly, 
most  countries,  in  speaking  about  the  nuclear  issue, 
welcome the recent agreement between the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea and the United States  and 
express  the  hope  that  the  Six-Party  Talks  will  make 
progress.  But  Japan  has  been  unique  in  exposing  its 
stereotypes, 
complaining 
wherever  and  whenever  opportunities  to  do  so  are 
provided.  

It  is  already  widely  known  that  Japan  is  a  very 
disruptive  country  that  is  trying  at  any  cost  to  avoid 
meeting  its  obligations  and  that  has  only  created 
artificial  obstacles  in  the  process  of  the  Six-Party 
Talks. What  now  concerns  Japan  is  that,  if  the  hostile 
policies  of  the  United  States  towards  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  are 
the 
denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula  is  realized 
and lasting peace and stability is achieved in the region 
of North-East Asia, Japan will no longer have a pretext 
for fulfilling its ambition to reinvade the region. Even 
now,  the  only  thing  that  Japan  wants  to  do  is  reclaim 
the sacred territory of Korea by reviving its militaristic 
ghosts and disregarding the devastation wrought by its 
large-scale  past  crimes  against 
tremendous  and 
humanity, 
rather 
than 
its 
commitments under the agreements reached at the Six-
Party Talks.  
sincerely  honour  all 
terminated, 
assigning 
blame 
and 
in 

The  delegation  of 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 

the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  firmly  believes  that,  if  Japan  had 
been  excluded from  the process  of  the  Six-Party Talks, 
much greater and better progress would have been made 
by now in the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula.  
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 

the only speaker in explanation of position. 

The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/63/L.6. Before proceeding to take action on 
the draft resolution, I should like to announce that, since 
its  introduction,  the  following  countries  have  become 
sponsors:  Albania,  Angola,  Armenia,  Australia,  Belize, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Canada, 
Colombia,  Costa  Rica, 
the  Dominican  Republic, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  Estonia,  Ethiopia,  India,  Iraq,  Ireland, 
Japan,  Kazakhstan,  Latvia,  Liechtenstein,  Malta, 
Monaco,  Montenegro,  New  Zealand,  Nigeria,  Panama, 
Peru, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, 
Romania,  the  Russian  Federation,  Serbia,  Singapore, 
Slovenia,  Spain,  Switzerland,  Turkey  and  the  United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.  

draft resolution A/63/L.6?  

Draft 
(resolution 63/6). 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  shall  now 

call  on  those  representatives  who  wish  to  speak  in 
exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  members 
that,  in  accordance  with  General  Assembly  decision 
34/401, statements in exercise of the right of reply are 
limited 
to  10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats. 
Mr. Okuda (Japan): My delegation would like to 

exercise its right of reply in response to the explanation 
of  position  made  by 
the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.  

the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  that  Japan  is  insincere  in  pursuing 
the  settlement  of  the  denuclearization  issue  of  the 
Korean  peninsula  is  entirely  groundless,  and  we  are 
certainly strongly opposed to that statement. The claim 
by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  that 
Japan seeks to become a military Power is totally false, 
and  we  categorically  reject  that  allegation.  In  fact,  it 
was  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  that 
created  a  great  threat  to  peace  and  security  in  North-
East Asia when it announced that it was carrying out a 
resolution  A/63/L.6  was 
The  allegation  of 
representative  of 
adopted
the 
14 

08-57118 
Mr.  Sin  Song  Chol 


nuclear  weapons  test  and  launching  ballistic  missiles. 
The  Security  Council  made  it  clear  in  its  resolutions 
1695  (2006)  and  1718  (2006),  which  it  adopted 
unanimously,  that  those  acts  constituted  a  clear  threat 
to  international  peace  and  security.  The  sanctions 
imposed on the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
have the backing of the entire international community. 
In order to remove the military threat it has created, the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea must continue 
to  make  efforts  towards  full  implementation  of  the 
joint  statements  of  the  Six-Party  Talks  of  September 
2005. And  the  statement  that  our  delegation  made  on 
the  draft  resolution  earlier  today  remains  valid,  which 
is  to  say  that  the  nuclear  development  undertaken  by 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is a threat 
to the peace and security, not only of Japan but also of 
East Asia and the entire international community. And, 
therefore,  in  order  to  solve  this  issue,  Japan  will 
continue to very sincerely pursue the settlement of this 
problem. 
(Democratic  People’s 

Republic  of  Korea)  (spoke  in  French): The  delegation 
of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea believes 
that the Japanese delegation has not yet understood or 
grasped the thrust of the statement that we made as an 
explanation of position before the vote. In fact, it is our 
duty  to  make  known  to  the  international  community 
what  the  attitude  of  Japan  is  to  this  nuclear  problem. 
For  that  purpose,  my  delegation  would  like  to  simply 
mention  some  specific  cases  that  show  clearly  and 
accurately  how  Japan  is  trying  in  vain  and  futilely  to 
halt  the  process  of  the  denuclearization  of  the  Korean 
peninsula. 
(spoke in English) 

Japan  is  now  behaving  very  shamelessly  in 
insisting that it will not fulfil its commitment to make 
economic  compensation  as  agreed  upon  by  the  six 
parties at the Talks. Japan has never tried to implement 
the issues discussed and agreed upon by the six parties 
but has instead conducted hectic diplomacy to persuade 
the United States not to cross the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  off  its  list  of  State  sponsors  of 
terrorism.  Unfortunately,  these  efforts  ended  with  an 
official 
the  United  States 
by 
Government, 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  forever  from  the  list.  By  insisting 
that  it  will  not  participate  in  the  aforementioned 
economic 
deliberately 
neglecting  and  disturbing  the  October  3  agreement.  It 
announcement 
removing 
compensation, 
Japan 
is 
A/63/PV.32
of  Korea 
is the  ulterior intention of Japan to  create hurdles and 
complexities  in  the  path  of  the Talks  at  any  cost,  in  a 
bid  to  block  resolution  of  the  issue  and  steadily  put 
strain on the situation on the Korean peninsula.  

The  Japanese  delegation  has  also  mentioned  the 
Security  Council  resolution,  which,  I  would  like  to 
remind  every  delegation  present  in  this  Hall,  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic 
has 
categorically  rejected.  In  order  to  understand  the 
motivation  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea to reject that resolution, it is very important for 
everyone  gathered  here  to  understand  what  is  at  the 
root of that so-called resolution. I would like to remind 
all delegations that that Security Council resolution is a 
product  of  the  hostile  United  States  policy  toward  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  That  is  why 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has 
categorically 
it 
considers  a  product  of  United  States  anti-Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea policies.  
Mr. Okuda (Japan): I will be very brief. I would 

like to draw the attention of the Members of the United 
Nations  to  the  statement  that  was  just  made  by  the 
delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea,  in  which  it  was  stated  that  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  rejected  —  I  repeat, 
rejected  —  the  Security  Council  resolutions,  which 
were adopted unanimously. And I think this says much 
about  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s 
sincerity on this issue. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): May I take it 

that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude 
its consideration of agenda item 80? 

resolution,  which 
It was so decided. 
rejected 
that 


Agenda item 105 
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments 
  (g)  Appointment of members of the Committee  



on Conferences 

  Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/107) 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  As  indicated 

in  document  A/63/107,  since  the  terms  of  office  of 
Burundi,  El  Salvador,  France,  Lesotho,  Malaysia,  the 
Philippines  and  the  Russian  Federation  will  expire  on 
31  December  2008,  it  will  be  necessary  for  the 
08-57118 

15 

A/63/PV.32 

President  of  the  General Assembly  to  appoint,  during 
the current session, seven members in order to fill the 
resulting  vacancies.  These  members  will  serve  for  a 
period of three years, beginning on 1 January 2009.  

After  consultations  with  the  Chairmen  of  the 
Groups  of  African  States,  Asian  States,  Eastern 
European  States  and  Western  European  and  other 
States,  I  have  appointed  the  Congo,  France,  Malaysia, 
the  Russian 
Mozambique, 
Federation  as  members  of 
the  Committee  on 
Conferences  for  a  period  of  three  years,  beginning  on 
1 January 2009.  

note of these appointments? 
It was so decided. 

The President (spoke in Spanish): Regarding the 

remaining vacant seat to be filled by a Latin American 
or  Caribbean  State, 
to  hold 
consultations with that regional Group. 
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  takes 
the  Philippines  and 
I  will  continue 
We  have 

consideration of sub-item (g) of agenda item 105. 
thus  concluded 
this  stage  of  our 



turn 
to  agenda 
Agenda item 109 
Implementation of the resolutions of the  
United Nations 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now 
item  109  entitled 
“Implementation  of  the  resolutions  of  the  United 
Nations”.  It  is  my  understanding  that  there  is  no 
request  to  consider  this  item  at  the  present  session. 
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  defer  consideration  of  this  item  to  the 
sixty-fourth session and to include it in the provisional 
agenda of the sixty-fourth session? 


concludes of our consideration of agenda item 109. 
The meeting rose at 4.50 p.m. 
It was so decided. 
The  President
in  Spanish):  This 
(spoke 
16 

08-57118 
