
A/63/PV.54
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

54th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 18 November 2008, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 







  In the absence of the President, Mr. Salgueiro 
(Portugal), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 



Agenda items 9 and 111 (continued) 
Report of the Security Council (A/63/2) 

  Question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security 
Council and related matters 
Mr.  Almansoor  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

First of all, I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on the 
way  in  which  you  have  been  steering  the  work  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  general  debate  of  the 
Assembly.  We  also  wish  to  thank  Ambassador  Jorge 
Urbina,  Permanent  Representative  of  Costa  Rica  and 
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  month  of 
November,  for  his  comprehensive  presentation  of  the 
annual report of the Security Council, which appears in 
document A/63/2. 

This is a significant opportunity for us to discuss 
items 9 and 111 of the agenda on the annual report of 
the  Security  Council  and  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related  matters.  Those  two 
items  enjoy  special  attention  on  the  part  of  the  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations,  given  the  link  that 
exists between them. As we noted in earlier years, the 
annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  provides  a 
comprehensive account of the activities of the Council 
and the issues that it has discussed throughout the year. 

to  understand 
It also includes the number of meetings held, whether 
formal  open  meetings  or  consultations,  as  well  as  the 
number of resolutions adopted by the Council.  

However,  as  in  earlier  years,  the  report  does  not 
analyse the Council’s work and the issues on which it 
has  not  been  able  to  make  progress,  such  as  the 
Palestinian  question.  We  need 
the 
reasons for that failure if  we are to  find solutions and 
understand  why  the  Council  did  not  perform  as  it 
should  have.  Undoubtedly,  that  would  be  useful  for 
everyone  concerned.  We  need  to  study  those  reasons 
and  work  together  to  assist  the  Council  in  finding 
solutions  to  those  matters  and  other  issues  on  its 
agenda. 
Discussion  of  the  two  items  also  serves  to 

strengthen 
the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council,  so  that  together 
those  two  organs  can  promote  and  strengthen  the 
values and principles of the United Nations in the best 
possible way.  

leaders 
recognized  the  importance  of  Security  Council  reform 
as an essential factor in all current efforts to reform the 
United  Nations.  They  committed 
to 
reforming  the  Security  Council  as  soon  as  possible  so 
as  to  make  it  more  representative,  efficient  and 
transparent  and  enhance  its  effectiveness  and  the 
legitimacy  of  its  resolutions.  In  order  to  achieve  that 
goal,  world  leaders  expressed  their  support  for  the 
reforms  being  undertaken  to  improve  the  Security 
Council’s  working  methods,  inter  alia  through  the 
the  2005  World  Summit,  world 
relationship  between 
themselves 
the 
At 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-60929 (E) 
*0860929* 

A/63/PV.54 

participation  of  non-member  States  in  debates  on 
matters on the Council’s agenda. 

In  that  regard,  we  need  to  work  together  with 
goodwill, in  order to  achieve tangible results that will 
obtain  wide  support  and  agreement.  We  should  not 
forget  that  Security  Council  reform  is  an  integral 
element  in  enhancing  the  entire  work  of  the  United 
Nations and its effectiveness in its mission to tackle the 
current  issues  and  crises.  The  annual  report  of  the 
Security Council indicates that there are more issues on 
its agenda than ever and, notwithstanding the fact that 
the Council tries to play the important role entrusted to 
it by the United Nations Charter, the many issues on its 
agenda  subject  it  to  constant  pressure  in  addressing 
those responsibilities. That has a negative effect on the 
quality  and  depth  of  its  discussions  and  on  the 
decision-making process itself.  

Given those circumstances, I believe that we need 
to  be  cautious  in  discussing  new  topics,  particularly 
those  that  do  not  represent  a  threat  to  international 
peace  and  security.  We  reaffirm  the  importance  of 
respecting the competence of United Nations organs, as 
set out in the Charter. The Security Council should not 
take  up  issues  that  are  within  the  purview  of  other 
organs  of  the  United  Nations,  which  would  constitute 
interference  in  the  competence  of  other  organs  of  this 
Organization.  We  should  reaffirm  the  importance  of 
cooperation  and  coordination  among 
the  various 
United  Nations  organs,  which  would  enhance  our 
ability  to  tackle  the  current  challenges.  Thus,  we 
should  hold  regular  meetings  involving  the  Presidents 
of the General Assembly, the Security Council and the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  to  examine  ways  of 
ensuring 
their  coordination  and  preventing  any 
encroachment on the competence of other bodies. 

Fair  representation  in  the  Security  Council  and 
the  expansion  in  its  membership,  as  well  as  other 
related matters, are a priority for my delegation. There 
have been attempts to consider those issues, involving 
the  Open-Ended  Working  Group  on  Security  Council 
Reform,  established  by  General  Assembly  resolution 
48/26.  However,  it  is  plain  that  those  efforts  have  not 
yielded  any  practical  results.  Therefore,  we  should 
work together in a creative and open spirit, in order to 
reach  an  agreement  satisfactory  to  everyone  and 
supported by everyone. 

serve 
Thus, we need to launch consultations that would 
intergovernmental 
a  basis 
later 
for 
as 
the  Vice-President  of 
the  current  position  of 
negotiations. According to the draft report of the Open-
ended  Working  Group  on  the  Question  of  Equitable 
Representation  on  and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  Other  Matters  related  to  the 
Security  Council  (A/AC.247/2008/Rev.2),  which  was 
introduced  by 
the  General 
Assembly, there is general agreement that the Security 
Council  membership  needs 
to  be  adjusted  and 
balanced, because its representation does not reflect the 
current  situation  in  the  world.  We  equally  need  to 
expand the Council and reform its working methods.  

The  process  of  reforming  the  Security  Council 
should  be  comprehensive,  taking  into  account  all 
related issues. In that context, we support the principle 
of  enlarging  the  Security  Council  in  keeping  with  fair 
and  democratic  geographical  representation,  in  the 
permanent and non-permanent categories alike, so as to 
enable  all  countries  to  be  represented  fairly,  which 
would  reflect 
the  States 
Members  of  the  Organization.  There  needs  to  be  a 
permanent  seat  for  Arab  States  to  be  rotated  among 
them, as is done within the League of Arab States. 

We should use the provisions of Chapters VI and 
VIII  of  the  Charter  to  settle  disputes  peacefully. 
Recourse  to  Chapter  VII  should  not  be  excessive  but 
should  be  a  last  resort  after  all  other,  peaceful  means 
have been tried. Recourse to Articles 41 and 42 is often 
undertaken  quickly  before  available  peaceful  means 
have been exhausted. 

It  is  extremely  important  to  limit  the  use  of  the 
veto, and I believe there is a possibility of writing off 
the  right  of  veto  through  a  positive  vote.  There  are 
some  Member  States  that  feel  that  the  right  of  veto 
should be abolished through a two-thirds majority vote 
of the General Assembly. That is part of the reform of 
the  working  methods  of  the  Security  Council  and 
would  function  to  make  it  more  open  and  transparent, 
given  the  greater  participation  of  non-member  States 
and  in  particular  States  concerned  in  the  issues  under 
consideration.  
The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  hopes  that  Security 

Council 
in  a  manner 
commensurate  with  the  challenges  facing  us  in  the 
modern  world.  We  hope  that  the  enlargement  of  the 
Council  will  serve 
the  democratic 
representation  of  all  Member  States,  both  large  and 
small. We hope that we will be able to reach a middle-
ground  solution  that  can  be  applied  so  that  all  States 
to  guarantee 
reform  will 
take  place 
2 

08-60929 


will see their hopes and aspirations taken into account 
by the Council. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian): Each year all United Nations Member States 
are given an opportunity to debate together the results 
of the work of the Security Council, as reflected in its 
annual  report,  presented  today  on  behalf  of  the  entire 
Council by its President, Mr. Jorge Urbina, Permanent 
Representative  of  Costa  Rica.  Such  a  transparent 
discussion is very important.  
In  that  context,  we  wish  to  thank  the  delegation 

of  Viet  Nam,  which  completed  the  main  task  of  the 
preparation and organization of the report. We believe 
that the report is an overall and objective reflection of 
the dynamics of the work of the Council over the past 
year.  The  very  fact  that  the  Council,  as  in  previous 
years,  actively  dealt  with  important  contemporary 
problems  shows  that  the  international  community,  and 
the Council members themselves, have done justice to 
the  inalterable  and  unique  principle  of  the  legitimacy 
of  Council  decisions,  which  is  at  the  heart  of  the 
process  of  settling  problems  relating  to  international 
peace and security. 

We  also  note  that  in  the  year  ending,  positive 
developments  are  continuing  in  the  practice  of  the 
working  methods  of  the  Council,  including  more 
judicious  openness  in  its  activities. As  can  be  seen  in 
the  statistics  in  the  report,  there  was  more  of  that 
compared with last year. In the work of the Council it 
is  essential  to  maintain  a  reasonable  balance  between 
transparency and effectiveness, with the understanding 
that  the  main  purpose  is  to  build  up  the  Council’s 
potential  to  meet  its  Charter  prerogatives  to  maintain 
international peace and security. 
In that context, Russia, as a permanent member of 

the  Council,  advocates  increased  effectiveness  of  its 
work, 
the  Council  a  more 
representative  character.  However,  attempts  in  that 
regard must not affect the Council’s effectiveness. That 
is one of the main issues in our approach to the matter 
of Council reform.  

Russia’s  position  in  that  regard  is  well  known. 
We  favour  preserving  a  compact  Council  composition 
and  are  convinced  that  it  would  be  counterproductive 
to  bring 
the 
prerogatives  of 
the  Council’s  current  permanent 
members, including its veto institution. 
including  by  giving 
infringe  upon 
that  would 
ideas 
in 
A/63/PV.54
so-called 
to  enlarge 
reasonable  option 
including 

We also fully support the notion that the formula 
for  Council  reform  must  ensure  the  broadest  possible 
support  by  Members  of  the  Organization,  at  any  rate, 
by  more  than  the  legally  required  two-thirds  majority 
of  the  votes  in  the  General  Assembly.  The  proposed 
reform  models  still  do  not  enjoy  predominant  support 
in the United Nations. An attempt to sell those plans by 
bringing  them  to  a  vote  would  inevitably  polarize  the 
General Assembly. Even if one of the drafts did garner 
the two thirds of the votes required by the Charter, the 
Council would hardly become more authoritative in the 
eyes  of  the  minority  who  disagreed,  which  would 
certainly include some influential States. Therefore, the 
significance of a formally more representative Council 
would  be  cancelled  out  by  its  diminished  prestige  in 
international affairs. That would be unacceptable. 

We are prepared to continue the painstaking work 
to  bring  together  approaches  to  selecting  the  optimal 
model of a future Security Council composition and to 
look  at  any 
the 
membership, 
transitional 
decision,  if  it  is  based  on  the  broadest  agreement 
within the United Nations. 

Our common task is to lay the foundation for the 
further  strengthening  of  the  authority  and  potential  of 
the Security Council as the main body in the area of the 
maintenance of peace and international security. Thus, 
we  all  have  a  large  responsibility  to  ensure  that 
insufficiently  thought  out  steps  to  reform  the  Council 
do not lead to polarization and division in the ranks of 
Member States and thus, instead of their strengthening, 
to a weakening of the United Nations and the Security 
Council,  thereby  complicating  efforts  on  other  reform 
tracks in the Organization. 

In that context, we attach great significance to the 
preparatory  work  to  agree  on  the  format  and  the 
modalities 
intergovernmental 
negotiations,  which,  in  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the 
General  Assembly  decision  62/557  of  15  September, 
we are to complete in the Open-ended Working Group 
before  initiating  the  talks.  At  the  last  meeting  of  the 
Open-ended  Working  Group,  a  number  of  delegations 
suggested  developing  a  road  map  for  its  work  in  the 
upcoming pre-negotiation period. We believe that idea 
deserves support.  

Our  delegation  is  open  to  a  further  constructive 
exchange  of  views  within  the  Open-ended  Working 
upcoming 
the 
the 
of 
08-60929 

3 

to 
the 
access 
Council 
the  General  Assembly  and 
A/63/PV.54 

Group  with  all  delegations,  in  the  time  left,  until 
commencement of intergovernmental negotiations. 
Mr. Terzi di Sant’Agata (Italy): I am grateful to 

the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  convening 
this meeting of the General Assembly, which allows us 
to  discuss  the  critical  matter  of  how  to  make  the 
Security  Council  more  effective,  representative  and 
democratic. As representative of an elected member of 
the  Security  Council,  I  would  also  like  to  thank 
Ambassador  Urbina  and Ambassador  Le  Luong  Minh 
and  commend  them  on  the  annual  report  presented 
today (A/63/2). The Council presidency is working for 
greater  openness  and  transparency,  a  goal  we  fully 
support.  That  brings  me  to  the  great  effort  done  in 
improving  working  methods.  The 
Permanent 
Representative of Costa Rica, in his presentation at the 
53rd meeting, stated that we must “further the cause of 
transparency, 
and 
accountability”. 
To  this  I  would  add  redressing  the  imbalance 

between 
the  Security 
Council.  Areas  for  improvement  include  fuller  access 
to  the  Security  Council,  better  and  more  regular 
communications  from  the  Council  to  the  general 
membership,  more  thematic  debates  in  the  General 
Assembly, more detailed annual reports to the General 
Assembly,  more 
frequent  and  substantial  public 
meetings  and  a  system  to  prevent  overlap  and  assure 
transparency in the subsidiary bodies. 

As we read in the report presented today, we see, 
in the Council’s daily efforts to address threats to peace 
and  security,  growing  attention  being  paid  to  conflict 
prevention and mediation, to the protection of civilians 
in peacekeeping operation mandates and to the issue of 
protecting human rights as a contribution to security.  

I shall now  focus my comments on the  report of 
the  Open-ended  Working  Group  (A/62/47),  looking 
first  at  matters  of  procedure  and  then  at  matters  of 
substance. 

Together  with  a  significant  group  of  countries, 
Italy  has,  for  three  years  now,  been  a  promoter  of  the 
Uniting  for  Consensus  idea.  We  believe  that  reforms 
that  amend  the  Charter,  alter  binding  agreements  on 
peace  and  security  and  modify  or  create  key  United 
Nations  bodies  can  only  become  a  viable  reality  if 
every  Member  State  has  ownership.  The  most 
important reforms in the history of the United Nations 
have  been  approved  by  consensus  or  by  an 
supreme  body 
overwhelming  majority.  Let  me  give  the  Assembly  a 
few  examples:  the  creation  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
the Ad Hoc Committee and the Preparatory Committee 
on  the  Establishment  of  an  International  Criminal 
Court and the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. 

In  short,  every  major  diplomatic  initiative  to 
substantially  modify  existing  institutional  frameworks 
has  been  preceded  by  general  agreements  to  convene 
preparatory groups, on the clear understanding that all 
relevant  decisions  would  be  taken  by  consensus.  So 
how can we possibly imagine restructuring the Security 
Council  — 
charged  with 
safeguarding  international  peace  and  security  —  in 
such a way as to have it remain at the service of a mere 
handful of Member States? 

At  the  beginning  of  the  current  session  of  the 
General Assembly, the Security Council reform process 
entered  a  new  phase  with  the  adoption  of  decision 
62/557 of 15 September 2008, which established aims, 
a  procedure  and  a  sequence.  The  task  of  the  Open-
ended Working Group at this juncture is clear, namely, 
the 
to 
modalities  so  as 
the 
intergovernmental negotiations in the informal session 
of  the  General Assembly.  But  those  negotiations  have 
to  be  prepared  urgently  in  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group,  which  needs  to  map  out  clear  rules  and 
procedures  so  as  to  guarantee  a  fair  and  level  playing 
field.  That  will,  in  turn,  guarantee  objective  and 
that  are 
impartial 
and 
inclusiveness 
characterized 
transparency.  What  we  propose, 
in  short, 
is  a 
democratic platform to reach a democratic result. 

Turning  now  to  matters  of  substance,  the  report 
of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  and  its  annexes 
provide a wide variety of perspectives on the exercise. 
In the annexes, there is a constant refrain on the need 
to consider the regional dimension in Security Council 
reform,  such  as  in  the  letters  addressed  by  the 
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  (OIC),  the 
Arab  Group  and  the  facilitators’  report.  The  Security 
Council itself has acknowledged the importance of that 
dimension by holding a meeting on the role of regional 
and  subregional  organizations  in  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  The  African  Union, 
the  European  Union  and  the Association  of  Southeast 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
framework  and 
facilitate 
immediately  address 
to  prepare  and 
openness, 
the 
the 
by 
4 

08-60929 
all 
the 
and 
that 
those 
small  States 


Asian  Nations  are  examples  of  regional  organizations 
that  are  engaged  in  close  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations.  The  General  Assembly  has  just  adopted  a 
resolution  on  cooperation  with  the  League  of  Arab 
States  and  is  currently  discussing  one  on  cooperation 
with the OIC. 

That is the world of international relations in the 
twenty-first  century.  That  reality  must  be  adequately 
reflected  in  the  balance  of  the  Security  Council. 
Regional  seats,  for  example,  would  assure  better 
representation  of 
interests  and  ownership  of 
developing  countries,  small  island  developing  States, 
other 
are 
underrepresented  —  in  other  words,  the  vast  majority 
of  the  membership,  which  is  underrepresented.  It  is 
also  the  very  same  majority  that  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Cape Verde  referred  to  yesterday  in 
the  Open-ended  Working  Group  in  speaking  clearly 
against the arrogance of the few. We are now aware of 
the  complexity  of  that  process.  Nevertheless,  to  enact 
Security Council reform that does not address the issue 
of  regional  representation  would  be  to  miss  a  great 
historic opportunity. 

Some  countries  are  proposing  the  mere  addition 
of  national  permanent  seats  in  one  variant  or  another. 
Do we think that such a reform would really make the 
Council  more  representative  and  effective?  In  my 
opinion,  reform  centred  on  national  permanent  seats 
would  be  more  divisive  for  the  membership  and 
provoke national rivalries. 

Every  country  counts.  We  must  not  perpetuate  a 
Security  Council  of  the  few.  We  want  a  new  Security 
Council  in  which  every  country  can  recognize  itself 
and feel a sense of ownership. 
Mr.  Frommelt  (Liechtenstein):  We  are  grateful 

for this opportunity to comment on the report (A/63/2) 
of  the  Security  Council  before  us  today.  We  are  also 
grateful  for  the  efforts  made  by  Viet  Nam  during  its 
presidency  of  the  Council  to  produce  a  report  that  is 
more  satisfactory.  We  are  aware  of  the  magnitude  of 
the effort required to achieve even modest results.  

We continue to believe that there is a need for in-
depth  consideration  of  the  Council’s  activities  and  a 
genuine  political  analysis  of  its  work.  Given  that  this 
debate  is  the  one  opportunity  for  non-members  of  the 
Council to comment on its work, it might be useful to 
have informal summaries of these debates drawn up by 
the President of the General Assembly. In addition, we 
A/63/PV.54
may want to explore formats for analytical discussions 
outside of the United Nations proper. 

In  considering  the  report  of  the  Council  we  are 
also assessing the relationship of the Council with the 
other  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular  the 
General  Assembly.  Liechtenstein  is  a  member  of  the 
Small Five Group (S-5). We therefore believe that the 
Charter requires accountability of the Security Council 
for  its  decisions  vis-à-vis  the  rest  of  the  membership. 
In  the  almost  three  years  of  its  existence,  the  S-5 
Group has engaged  with the Council in  a constructive 
manner  and  has  strived  for  enhanced  legitimacy  and 
effectiveness  of  the  Council,  as  decided  at  the  2005 
World Summit.  

We  believe  that  the  relationship  between  the 
Council  and  the Assembly  leaves  much  to  be  desired, 
but we also believe that improving that relationship is 
not a one-way street. A Security Council that fulfils its 
functions  in  an  effective  manner  and  in  accordance 
with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations is in the interest of the membership as a 
whole.  We  also  believe  that  we  can  strengthen  the 
Security Council and the Assembly in parallel, and that 
both  are  needed.  The  Charter  did  not  create  an 
antagonistic  or  competitive  relationship  between  the 
two organs, and we must not do so now. 

The open debate that the Council held in August 
on  its  working  methods,  upon  the  suggestion  of  the 
S-5, was a landmark event and the first of its kind since 
1994.  Participation  was  strong  and  the  debate  was 
characterized by an open and constructive spirit on all 
sides.  That  was  an  encouraging  development  that  we 
hope  will  be  followed  up  by  further  progress  on 
working  methods,  including  in  the  framework  of  the 
Council’s Informal Working Group on Documentation. 
The  Council 
systematic 
implementation  of 
it  has 
previously  decided  on  and  design  mechanisms  that 
ensure  consistent  application  of 
those  measures, 
irrespective  of  the  circumstances  and  of  the  presiding 
officer of the Council. 
At  the  same  time  there  is,  of  course,  room  for 

further  and 
the 
legitimacy  and  effectiveness  of  the  Council.  In  our 
view,  it  is  particularly  through  the  targeted  inclusion 
and involvement of non-members that the Council can 
further improve its decision-making and the quality of 
its work. 
innovative  measures 
reform  measures 
to  enhance 
focus  on 
should 
the 
the 
08-60929 

5 
Our  proposal  was 
A/63/PV.54 


One  area  where  we  have  requested  for  years  the 
enhanced  involvement  of  States  affected  by  Council 
decisions, but not members of the Council, is the area 
of  targeted  sanctions.  During  the  reporting  period,  we 
have proposed, together with a number of like-minded 
States,  the  establishment  of  a  panel  of  experts  to 
review decisions on the listing and delisting of persons 
in the framework of the Al-Qaida and Taliban sanctions 
regime (see A/62/891). 

the  product  of  almost 
18 months  of  preparations  and  consultations  and  was 
submitted to the Council in time for the renewal of the 
relevant  resolution  at  the  end  of  June  2008.  The 
Council adopted resolution 1822 (2008) without taking 
into account our suggestions. More importantly though, 
there  was  no  consultation  process  between  Council 
members  and  the  proponents  of  a  review  panel,  even 
though  we  consistently  reached  out  to  the  Council  in 
this respect. 

The decision subsequently made by the European 
Court of Justice in the Kadi case amply  illustrates the 
due  process  problems  of  the  current  sanctions  regime. 
We  will  continue  to  work  towards  an  improvement  of 
this  sanctions  regime  and  hope  for  a  more  positive 
response of the Council on future occasions. This is a 
fine  example  of  an  external  effort  to  enhance  the 
credibility  and  thus,  effectiveness,  of  the  Council’s 
work. 

We  also  hope  for  inclusive  discussions  of  the 
Council  on  other  issues  where  non-members  are 
affected,  such  as  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC). We welcome the presidential statement that the 
Council adopted in June 2008 as a follow-up to its first 
referral  of  a  situation  to  the  Court  in  resolution  1593 
(2005).  We  believe  that  all  matters  related  to  the 
Statute and the application of its provisions should also 
be subject to a discussion open to States parties of the 
Rome  Statute  as  well  as  any  other  interested  State. 
Likewise,  we  hope  for  an  informative  discussion  on 
issues 
tribunals 
established by the Council that could have a bearing on 
the work of the ICC, including its budget. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  offer  a  few  comments  on 
Security  Council  reform,  the  other  aspect  of  this  joint 
debate. Our comments on the Council’s report illustrate 
our focus on working methods, in accordance with the 
2005 World Summit Outcome Document. We continue 
to believe that the General Assembly has a direct  role 
in  connection  with 
the  ad  hoc 

and responsibility in this area that flows directly from 
the United Nations Charter. 

Ideally,  we  see  a  complementary  function  for 
conceptual  texts  such  as  the  S-5  draft  resolution  of 
2006 
on  Security  Council  working  methods 
(A/60/L.49)  or  the  presidential  note  of  the  Council 
from  the  same  year  (S/2006/507)  on  practices  and 
measures to serve as guidance for the Council’s work, 
and  the  practical  application  and  implication  of  such 
measures.  We  see  much  promise  and  very  concrete 
value in these efforts and will continue to pursue them 
together  with  our  S5  partners  as  well  as  other  States 
interested  in  this  work,  including  those  serving  as 
members of the Council. 

At the same time, we will of course continue our 
engagement  on  the  issue  of  enlargement.  In  this 
connection, we hope that you, Sir, and your team will 
be  able  to  establish  a  negotiating  process  on  the  basis 
of  the  decision  taken  in  September  that  will  lead  to  a 
solution to be adopted by the largest possible political 
consensus. 
Mr.  Matussek  (Germany): At  the  outset,  let  me 

thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
convening  this  meeting.  Much  has  been  said  on  the 
report  of  the  Security  Council  and  the  issues  of 
Security  Council  reform  today,  so  please  allow  me  to 
focus  my  intervention  entirely  on  the  question  of 
equitable  representation 
the 
in,  and 
membership of the Security Council. 

Last  Tuesday  and  yesterday  afternoon,  we 
discussed  Security  Council  reform  in  the  Open-ended 
Working  Group.  I  am  pleased 
this 
discussion in the General Assembly today. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  now  that  Member  States 
are  committed  to  reforming  the  Security  Council.  As 
has  been  clearly 
shown,  and  decision  62/557 
documents  this,  Member  States  are  also  ready  and 
willing  to  enter  into  intergovernmental  negotiations. 
Germany  is  very  much  looking  forward  to  these 
negotiations,  which  we  had  hoped  would  be  launched 
in  the  General  Assembly  on  Friday  this  week.  We 
regret yesterday’s announcement, to “take the meeting 
off  the  agenda”,  as  put  forth  by  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly. 

This  is  all  the  more  regrettable,  as  this  decision 
had  been  taken  even  before  all  the  speakers  inscribed 
on the speakers list in the Open-ended Working Group 
increase  of, 
to  continue 
6 

08-60929 
Not 
last  week, 
the  approaching 


meeting  could  be  heard.  Thus,  and  to  no  surprise,  an 
observer  of  yesterday’s  discussion  in  the  Open-ended 
Working Group would find it very hard to name but a 
few  voices  that  supported  the  postponement  of  the 
21 November meeting. 

ideas  have  been 
just  since 
presented  in  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  the 
question on how best to facilitate the fast-approaching 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  But  let  us  be  frank. 
The  potential  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  to 
bring us closer to any result has been widely exhausted 
over  the  last  15  years.  Against  this  backdrop,  we 
cannot  see  much  added  value  in  a  timetable  for 
intensive  discussions  in  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group  as  proposed  by  Mexico  and  other  members  of 
the Uniting for Consensus group. 

So  let  me  underline  what  is  most  important  and 
what  we  should  be  all  clear  about.  The  format  and 
modalities  of 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  are  already  determined  by  our  decision 
62/557.  For  these  format  and  modalities,  the  informal 
plenary of the Assembly and the rules of procedure of 
the  General  Assembly  plus 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  is  listed  in  decision 
62/557 under section (e). All this will ensure that every 
single  Member  State  can  fully  participate  in  the 
process.  No  one  will  be  left  behind,  no  one  will  be 
excluded. 

I remain confident that under the wise leadership 
of our colleague from Afghanistan, Ambassador Tanin, 
these negotiations will allow us to take a decisive step 
forward  and,  when  the  time  is  ripe,  the  General 
Assembly  plenary  will  give  us  a  framework  for 
decision-making:  the  widest  possible  agreement  for  a 
sound  reform  that  corresponds  to  the  needs  and 
challenges of the twenty-first century. 

I  will  now  say  a  word  on  substance.  We  still 
believe  that  the  G4  proposal  would  be  the  best  way 
forward.  We  are,  as  I  have  mentioned  before,  open-
minded  and  do  not  rule  out  a  two-step  approach  to 
achieve  this.  But  what  we  must  bring  about  is  real 
change.  
So,  before  we  take  the  next  step,  let  me  recall 

what  it  is  that  we  are  striving  for.  Our  aim  is  a  more 
legitimate  Council.  What  we  want  is  not  just  a  larger 
Council; what we want is a different Council, one that 
will  be  more 
transparent,  more 
representative,  more  effective  and  more  reflective  of 
legitimate,  more 
the  basis 
for 
A/63/PV.54
today’s political realities. It is not enough to add more 
two-year seats or similar half-measures. 
Mr.  Maurer  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

thank  the  Security  Council  for  having  submitted  its 
annual report (A/63/2) and welcome its introduction to 
the  General  Assembly  by  our  colleague  from  Costa 
Rica. 

As  in  previous  years,  the  tableau  is  mixed.  On 
one hand, we recognize that some improvements have 
been  made,  both  in  the  preparation  and  in  the  content 
of the report. On the other hand, we continue to believe 
that  the  report  could  better  reflect  the  Council’s 
challenges, assessments and rationale during the period 
under consideration in the report. On the positive side, 
I  would  like  to  state  how  much  we  appreciated  the 
initiative  of  the  Permanent  Representative  from  Viet 
Nam,  who,  during  his  presidency  of  the  Security 
Council,  convened  an  informal  meeting  on  25  July 
2008  to  give  States  non-members  of  the  Council  an 
opportunity to express their views before the definitive 
completion  of  the  report.  We  hope  that  this  initiative 
will  be  taken  up  again  by  future  Presidents  of  the 
Council  and  thus  become  a  standard  practice.  Over 
time,  such  meetings  may  contribute  to  reducing  the 
disparity  that  currently  exists  between  the  collective 
expectations  of  Member  States  and  the  report  of  the 
Security Council. 

Furthermore,  we  recognize  that  this  year  the 
introduction is more detailed and that it gives a better 
idea of the involvement of the Council, from a regional 
as well as the thematic points of view. We are of course 
aware of the difficulties of producing a report that goes 
beyond 
the  simple  enumeration  of  the  Council’s 
activities  and  meetings.  Nonetheless,  there  is  much 
potential  for  making  the  report  more  analytical  and 
pertinent for the general Membership. In particular, we 
would  appreciate  a  deeper  reflection  on  the  execution 
and  implementation  of  resolutions,  as  well  as  on  the 
obstacles  to  their  implementation.  It  would  also  be 
helpful for the Council to underline the links that exist 
between 
regional  and  country-specific 
problems.  Finally,  it  would  be  opportune  for  the 
Council  to  examine  the  emerging  challenges,  such  as 
the  recent  judgment  of  the  Court  of  Justice  of  the 
European  Communities  on  the  review  of  the  internal 
lawfulness  of  European  Community  measures 
to 
implement sanctions. 
thematic, 
08-60929 

7 

A/63/PV.54 


Why do we need more analysis and transparency? 
Numerous  Member  States  are  among  the  principal 
donors  and  contributors  of  troop  contingents.  All 
Member  States  are  obliged  to  implement  coercive 
measures.  Having  to  implement  measures  without 
having  participated  in  their  elaboration  requires,  as  a 
minimum,  transparency.  We  owe  that  to  our  citizens 
and  to  our  national  legislative  assemblies,  as  we  need 
to  explain  to  them  how  contributed  funds  are  being 
spent  and  why  they  should  work  to  enforce  Council 
decisions nationally. 

In  adopting  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome 
Document,  we  committed  ourselves  to  reforming  the 
Council  without  delay.  However,  after  another  three 
years of discussions in the context of the Open-Ended 
Working Group, what we have achieved on the subject 
of  enlargement  is  disappointing.  As  long  as  this 
question is addressed through a defensive approach and 
with  a  zero-sum  game  mentality,  we  will  go  nowhere. 
If we truly want to reform, we must all exercise a more 
flexible spirit of compromise and seek options that are 
advantageous  for  all.  In  this  context,  Switzerland 
believes  that  the  establishment  of  a  third  category  of 
seat  could  be  a  viable  option.  It  could  bridge  the  gap 
between  the  various  positions  on  the  subject  of 
enlargement.  Such  an  approach  does  not  prejudge  the 
final  results  of  reform  efforts  but  enables  us  to  take  a 
step  forward.  If  we  are  not  capable  of  showing  more 
flexibility,  we  will  not  be  able  to  emerge  from  the 
current impasse. That is why we welcome the decision 
of 
to 
intergovernmental  negotiations  during  this  sixty-third 
session. We will engage constructively in this process, 
which must be transparent and inclusive. 

Switzerland,  like  its  partner  countries  in  the 
Small  Five  Group  (S-5),  has  focused  primarily  on  the 
question  of  reforming  the  working  methods  of  the 
Security  Council. That  must  be  an  integral  part  of  the 
reform process but must not be taken hostage by other 
considerations;  the  improvement  of  working  methods 
must  take  place,  regardless  of  whether  we  reach 
agreement on how to expand the Council.  

to  welcome 
specifically  the  public  debate  held  by  the  Security 
Council  on  27 August  2008. The  S-5  Group  sincerely 
hopes  that  that  debate  will  not  be  a  unique  event  but 
that it will trigger a process leading us to further action 
in 
Informal  Working  Group  on 
Documentation  and  Other  Procedural  Questions  and 
the  General  Assembly 
this  context,  I  would 
the  Council’s 
commit 
like 
In 
to 
thus 
is  vital 
that 
requires 
the  sustained 
the  Council  pursue 
the  Council  presidency 
implementation  of  both 
favour  new  exchanges  with  States 
will 
non-members of the Council.  

We  recognize  the  practical  improvements  made 
by  several  presidencies,  notably: 
the  access  of 
non-member States to certain Council meetings; timely 
announcements of upcoming events; and, in particular, 
briefings  by 
for  States 
non-members  of  the  Council  at  the  beginning  of  the 
month.  It 
the 
implementation  of  its  presidential  note  of  July  2006 
(S/2006/507), to which I would like to add, as another 
important  document,  the  report  of  the  Arria  Formula 
meeting  held  by 
the  Slovakian  delegation  on 
13 December  2007  and  published  under  document 
S/2007/784.  The 
these 
interaction  of 
documents 
Council  members  with 
non-members,  while 
non-members  must  also  remain  engaged  and  actively 
use  the  platforms  for  interaction  that  the  Council 
offers. 

The  specific  proposals  of  the  S-5  Group  on 
Security  Council  working  methods  are  well  known.  I 
will thus mention only one issue that  has gained  even 
more  significance  since  our  debate  of  last  year:  the 
development  of  equitable  and  clear  procedures  in  the 
current  sanctions  regimes,  in  particular  with  regard  to 
listing and delisting. The recent judgment of the Court 
of  Justice  of  the  European  Communities  emphasizes 
how  important  it  is  to  resolve  this  issue.  While  we 
recognize that Security Council resolution 1822 (2008) 
has 
the  right 
direction,  we  believe  that  the  essential  underlying 
problem, 
independent  review 
mechanism  for  delisting  decisions,  has  not  yet  been 
solved. 

Our  efforts  are  motivated  by  the  desire  to 
strengthen  the  sanctions  regime  and  to  enhance  the 
effectiveness  and  legitimacy  of  the  Security  Council. 
Failure  to  find  a  credible  solution  with  regard  to  the 
right to due process threatens to erode support for the 
Council’s  actions  and  endanger  cooperation  in  the 
future. 

Further  improvements  in  the  Council’s  working 
methods are in the interest of Council and non-Council 
members  alike.  Not  only  would  they  secure  more 
transparency  and  a  better  inclusion  of  all  Member 
States in the Council’s work, they would also serve the 
the  absence  of  an 
important  measures 
introduced 
in 
8 

08-60929 
an 


Council’s interests by conferring greater authority upon 
its decisions. 

In  our  view,  the  continuous  improvement  of  the 
Council’s  working  methods  has 
additional 
advantage. It is a confidence-building measure that can 
help to create an environment that is more conducive to 
progress on the enlargement issue. 
Mr. Mansour (Tunisia) (spoke in French): First, 

allow  me  to  thank  you,  Sir,  for  the  way  in  which  you 
are  conducting  this  debate.  I  would  also  like  to  thank 
the  representative  of  Costa  Rica,  the  President  of  the 
Security Council for this month, for his presentation of 
the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/63/2), 
which  was  submitted  to  the  General  Assembly  in 
keeping  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  United 
Nations Charter.  

My  delegation  would  like  to  address  the  two 
agenda items under consideration in the plenary today, 
namely,  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  to  the 
General  Assembly  and 
the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Council.  I  would  like  to  make  the  following 
comments. 

First,  concerning  the  Security  Council’s  annual 
report, for most Member States, and in particular those 
that  are  not  members  of  the  Council,  the  General 
Assembly’s  consideration  of  the  annual  report  of  the 
Council  is,  as  everyone  is  aware,  the  sole  opportunity 
to  evaluate  in  depth  the  activities  of  that  body  and  to 
identify  the  measures  that  need  to  be  taken  to  bring 
about  the  necessary  improvements  in  its  working 
methods.  

Once  again  this  year,  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council  consists  of  a  compilation  of  decisions  and 
resolutions  adopted  and  a  rather  factual  description  of 
the  work  of  the  Council.  We  have  thus  not  yet  come 
much  closer  to  the  recommendations  suggested  by 
Member  States  for  an  analytical  annual  report.  In  the 
same  spirit,  I  would  recall  that  the  General Assembly 
had suggested to the Council that it periodically submit 
special  thematic  reports  on  topics  of  international 
interest. To date, no such report has been submitted.  

Regarding the workings of the Council during the 
period  under  consideration,  the  Council  has  held  a 
significant  number  of  thematic  debates,  in  which  an 
even larger number of States have participated. In this 
context,  it  is  still  useful  to  strengthen  the  regular 
A/63/PV.54
the  report  and 
mechanisms  of  consultation  among  the  presidents  of 
the  various  United  Nations  organs  so  as  to  avoid  any 
encroachment  on  or  interference  in  the  respective 
jurisdictions  of  those  bodies  during  these  thematic 
debates. 

My  delegation  recognizes  the  significant  volume 
of  work  carried  out  by  the  Security  Council  in  the 
period  covered  by 
in  particular 
concerning  hotbeds  of  tension  in  Africa  and  other 
regions  of  the  world.  We  also  take  note  of  the  field 
visits  carried  out  by  members  of  the  Council  so  as  to 
better  appraise  situations  affecting  international  peace 
and  security  and  requiring  urgent  action  by  the 
Council. 

In  short,  the  consideration  of  the  report  of  the 
Security  Council  shows  that  that  body  has  acted 
resolutely  to  address  a  large  number  of  conflicts 
around  the  world,  and  this  is  likely  to  strengthen  the 
authority  and  the  role  of  the  body  in  the  maintenance 
of international peace and security.  

However, the efforts of the Council still fall short 
of expectations in the Middle East. Frustration with the 
repeated inability of the Council to get further involved 
in settling the Palestinian question and in honouring its 
responsibilities in this area casts a threatening shadow 
over the region and reflects poorly on the authority of 
the Council itself.  

We  are  convinced  that  much  still  remains  to  be 
done  in  order  to  make  the  functioning  of  the  Council 
more transparent, thus ensuring that all delegations, in 
particular  those  having  items  on  the  agenda  of  the 
Council, have access to information.  
the  question  of 

to 
equitable  representation  on  and 
increase 
the 
membership of the Security Council, allow me first of 
all to pay tribute to your predecessor, Sir, the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-second  session, 
and his facilitators, for the contribution that they made 
to the issue that we are now discussing. My delegation, 
in this context, welcomes the understanding reached by 
member States on 15 September 2008 on the report of 
the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  the  Question  of 
Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase 
the 
Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters 
that 
Related 
understanding,  we  decided 
informal 
plenary  meetings  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-third 
session, not later than 28 February 2009, and to embark 
the  Security  Council.  Through 
Secondly,  with 
respect 
in 
in 
to 
to  undertake 
08-60929 

9 
through  an  enlargement 
that 

intergovernmental  negotiations  based  on 
A/63/PV.54 

on 
the 
proposals  of  Member  States  in  an  open,  inclusive  and 
transparent  manner  so  as  to  identify  a  solution  that 
might command the broadest possible political support 
among Member States. 

As we await the implementation this year of that 
understanding under your guidance, Sir, and that of the 
representative  of  Afghanistan,  who  was  appointed  to 
facilitate  the  task  of  Member  States  in  this  regard, 
allow me to make the following comments. 
The Security Council should reflect the economic 

and  political  realities  of  today’s  world.  It  should  be 
endowed with the necessary legitimacy to act on behalf 
of  the  international  community  in  carrying  out  its 
mandate,  which  is  entrusted  to  it  by  the  Charter. 
Likewise,  my  delegation  believes  that  the  purpose  of 
any  reform  of  the  Security  Council  should  be  to 
strengthen equitable representation on that body and its 
credibility and efficiency. Those objectives can only be 
achieved 
includes 
developing countries. Similarly, the size of the Council 
as it is restructured should reflect all the sensibilities of 
the international community.  

In  this  regard,  Tunisia  continues  to  support 
energetically  the  position  of  the  African  Union,  as 
reflected  in  the  African  common  position  on  the 
question  of  Security  Council  reform. At  their  Summit 
held  in  Addis  Ababa  at  the  beginning  of  this  year, 
African  heads  of  State  and  Government  agreed  to  a 
clear-cut  mandate  for 
the  African  representatives 
accredited to New York so that they could take part in 
the intergovernmental negotiations on Council reform.  

We  believe  that  we  must,  without  further  delay, 
remedy the longstanding injustice that has deprived the 
African  continent  of  a  permanent  presence  in  the 
Security Council. This injustice has persisted since the 
creation of the United Nations, as everyone, I am sure, 
knows.  We  will  support  any  approach  that  will  give 
developing countries in general and Africa in particular 
the place that they deserve on the Council. 

In  conclusion,  if  the  Security  Council  is  to 
continue  to  enjoy  the  trust  of  States  and  of  world 
public  opinion,  it  must  prove  that  it  is  capable  of 
effectively tackling the most difficult issues and that it 
can  become  more  representative  of  the  international 
community  as  a  whole  so  as  to  be  better  reflective  of 
the realities of today’s world. 
10 

in  Article  24  of 
Ms.  Bethel  (Bahamas):  Allow  me  to  join  other 

speakers  in  extending  my  appreciation  to Ambassador 
Jorge  Urbina  of  Costa  Rica,  in  his  capacity  as  current 
President  of  the  Security  Council,  for  his  presentation 
of  the  report  of  the  Security  Council,  contained  in 
document A/63/2. 

The  Bahamas  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
made  by  the  Representative  of  Barbados  on  behalf  of 
the  Caribbean  Community and  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  outline  some  national  concerns  and 
comments. 

As  in  previous  years,  the  report  before  us  today 
clearly  illustrates  an  increasing  volume  and  scope  in 
the Security Council’s activities, making for a full and 
time-consuming  agenda  in  its  ongoing  efforts  to 
oversee  and  maintain  international  peace  and  security, 
as  mandated 
the  Charter.  My 
delegation  continues  to  urge,  however,  that  these 
reports  be  more  analytical  and  substantive  in  nature, 
presenting  a  reflective  assessment  of  the  Council’s 
activities for the period under consideration. 

As  in  previous  years,  a  large  proportion  of  the 
Security  Council’s  activities  focused  on  bringing 
resolution  to  a  number  of  conflict  and  post-conflict 
situations,  particularly 
in  Africa.  We  once  again 
commend  the  Council  for  its  focus  in  this  area, 
especially in the light of the undeniable nexus between 
peace,  security  and  development,  and  the  need  to 
ensure that Africa makes significant strides towards the 
achievement  of  internationally  agreed  development 
goals,  including  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
the target date for which is fast approaching. 

In his statement in the general debate two months 
ago  (see  A/63/PV.11),  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Commonwealth of the Bahamas, the Right Honourable 
Hubert Ingraham, noted with satisfaction the continued 
engagement  of 
the  United  Nations  Stabilization 
Mission  in  Haiti  (MINUSTAH).  He  also  urged  the 
continued  extension  of  the  Mission’s  mandate  until 
such  time  as  the  foundations  for  peace,  security  and 
development  were  firmly  established  in  our  sister 
Caribbean  nation  and  the  complexity  of  challenges 
confronting that country could be effectively addressed 
so  that  its  people  could  enjoy  the  fruits  of  economic 
development, human rights and justice for all.  

We  were  heartened  by  the  Council’s  adoption  of 
resolution  1780  (2007)  during  the  period  covered  by 
this report, extending the mandate of MINUSTAH for a 
08-60929 
for 
the 
that 
imperative 


full  year,  and  its  adoption  of  resolution  1840  (2008) 
this past month, which made for  similar provisions.  It 
is  absolutely 
international 
community continue to provide Haiti with the required 
assistance  and  support 
its  stabilization  and 
reconstruction  in  the  months  and  years  ahead.  The 
setback  suffered  by  the  Haitian  people  recently  in  the 
wake  of 
tropical  storms  and  hurricanes  starkly 
illustrates  the  tenuous  and  precarious  situation  in  that 
country.  I  would  take  this  opportunity  to  extend,  once 
again,  our  condolences  to  the  people  and  Government 
of  Haiti  on  the  loss  of  life  and  the  destruction  of 
property  that  ensued  from  those  natural  disasters  and 
on the recent collapse of the school in Petionville. 

The  Bahamas  unequivocally  condemns  terrorism 
in all its forms and manifestations and remains keenly 
interested in and supportive of the work of the various 
counter-terrorism  bodies  of  the  Security  Council.  We 
continue  to  urge,  however,  increased  coordination  in 
their efforts and the provision of technical assistance to 
those  States  who  require  it  for  the  implementation  of 
counter-terrorism  measures  adopted  by  the  Security 
Council  and  to  meet  reporting  obligations  under  the 
various  resolutions.  This  can  often  pose  a  daunting 
challenge  to  many  small  States  with  serious  capacity 
deficiencies, such as the Bahamas. We would therefore 
encourage  the  Council  to  continue  its  efforts  to 
coordinate  much-needed  assistance  to  States  in  all 
aspects  of  their  counter-terrorism  obligations,  in  our 
collective fight against this scourge. 

In tandem with the report of the Security Council, 
we are also, appropriately, considering the report of the 
the  Question  of 
Open-ended  Working  Group  on 
Equitable  Representation  on 
in 
Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters 
Related to the Security Council, contained in document 
A/62/47. 

As  stated  on  numerous  previous  occasions,  the 
Bahamas believes it is vital that all Member States with 
the capacity to serve on the Security Council be given 
an  opportunity  to  do  so.  We  therefore  feel  that  the 
expansion  of  the  membership  of  the  Council  in  both 
categories  is  appropriate  and  long  overdue.  A  truly 
representative Council must more equitably reflect the 
current  membership  of  the  Organization,  allowing 
developing  countries, 
including  small  developing 
States, to play a greater role in its activities. 
Increase 
and 
A/63/PV.54
for 
the  start  of 

Another equally important challenge is the reform 
of  the  Council’s  working  methods.  Many  Member 
States,  the  Bahamas  included,  continue  to  place  great 
emphasis  and  importance  on  modifying  the  working 
methods of the Council as a means of making the body 
more transparent, inclusive, accountable and effective. 

The Bahamas welcomes the Open-ended Working 
Group’s  call 
intergovernmental 
negotiations in informal plenary of this current General 
Assembly  session,  as  articulated  in  decision  62/557. 
We  believe  that  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  all 
aspects  of  Council  reform  is  the  next  important  step 
and  the  only  way  forward  in  advancing  this  process, 
and my delegation looks forward to participating fully 
in that exercise, which we hope will begin very shortly. 
Mr. Benmehidi (Algeria) (spoke in French): First 

of all, I would like to thank Ambassador Jorge Urbina 
of Costa Rica, President of the Security Council for the 
month  of  November,  for  introducing  the  report  of  the 
Council to the General Assembly (A/63/2).  

This  document  is  exhaustive  and  reflects  the 
importance of the Council’s activities during the period 
under  review.  Nevertheless,  it  remains  narrative  and 
factual  and  is  still  lacking  the  necessary  analytical 
dimension.  

In considering Council agenda items, one realizes 
that questions of peace and security in Africa continue 
to  occupy  a  significant  portion  of  the  deliberations  of 
the  Council,  with  the  largest  number  of  consultations, 
public  meetings  and  other  missions  devoted  to  that 
issue. There  are two  facts that we can infer from this. 
First,  the  situation  in  Africa  is  of  a  specific  nature. 
Many  regions  there  are  prone  to  instability  and 
tensions, which are sometimes structural in nature, thus 
requiring  the  attention  of  the  international  community 
and  of  the  Council  in  particular.  Secondly,  there  is  an 
obvious  link  between  questions  of  development  and 
recurring  flashpoints  and  conflicts  on  the  continent, 
which  implies  the  need  for  a  sustained  effort  to 
strengthen cooperation for development in Africa.  
As  we  consider  the  Council  report,  we  are 

the  situation, 
confronted  by 
the 
especially 
the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  In  spite  of  the 
deployment  of 
the  United  Nations  Organization 
Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
(MONUC),  which  is  the  largest  current  peacekeeping 
mission  of  the  United  Nations,  the  fragile  situation  in 
the  deterioration  of 
humanitarian 
situation, 
in 
08-60929 

11 

A/63/PV.54 

the  country  has  shown  once  again  the  importance  of 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
African Union.  

In this context, we note the progress made in such 
cooperation in terms of the settlement of conflicts and 
peacekeeping 
in  Africa.  This  cooperation  under 
Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter  has  brought  about  a 
number  of  joint  initiatives  and  increased  coordination 
for several years now. There has been the establishment 
of  common  projects  and  mechanisms,  such  as  the 
appointment of joint special envoys and the launching 
of  hybrid  missions,  such  as  the African  Union-United 
Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID).  

The  commitment  of  the  African  Union  has  also 
materialized  through  the  deployment  of  the  African 
Union  Mission  to  Somalia  in  order  to  create  the 
conditions  for  the  return  of peace  and  stability  in  that 
country.  The  Security  Council  must  now  decide  on  a 
priority  basis,  as  it  is  committed  to  doing,  on  the 
deployment of a peacekeeping mission in Somalia. My 
delegation  would  like  to  emphasize  that  maintaining 
peace  and  international  security  is  within  the  purview 
of  the  Council. The African  Union  cannot  support  the 
settlement  of  conflicts  and  peacekeeping  in Africa  on 
its  own 
resources,  which  are 
the  necessary 
substantial, are not provided. 

the  sixtieth 
As  we  commemorate 
anniversary  of  Al-Nakba,  which  has  condemned  the 
majority  of  Palestinians  to  exile  since  1948,  the 
Security  Council  to  date  has  not  managed  to  redress 
this  historical 
the 
implementation  of  its  resolutions  on  Palestine  and  the 
Middle  East. This  is  the  largest  failure  of  the  Council 
and  of 
its 
establishment. 
The  same  is  true  of  Western  Sahara,  where  the 

decolonization  process 
remains 
stymied, and where the United Nations Mission for the 
Referendum  in Western  Sahara  (MINURSO)  has  been 
reduced to the observation of a ceasefire in force since 
1991. The Security Council must now refocus its action 
on the original mandate for establishing MINURSO — 
in other words, on the organization and supervision of 
a  referendum  of  self-determination  allowing 
the 
Saharan people to freely decide their future. 

in 
Security Council deliberations must remain an ongoing 
objective of all United Nations Member States and, in 
the  United  Nations 
to  achieve  greater 
in  general  since 
and  provide 
transparency 
this  year 
injustice 
territory 
Efforts 
that 
for 
in 
if 
the 
My 
this 
seek 
should 
delegation 
emphasizes 
to  correct 
particular, of  Council members themselves. Moreover, 
questions  before  the  Council  should  be  restricted  to 
those within the Council’s authority, without impinging 
on  that  of  other  bodies,  in  particular  the  General 
Assembly and the Economic and Social Council. 

In a world marked by profound change, and with 
ever  more  complex  problems  and  crises,  the  current 
Council membership reflects the realities of the world 
as it was in 1945 — namely, that the majority of States 
now  Members  of  the  Organization  were  at  that  time 
under colonial domination. The projected reform of the 
Council 
lack  of 
representation  in  the  Council  in  the  size  and  in  the 
category  of  permanent  members,  where  Africa  has 
suffered an historical injustice. 

valuable 
contribution  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on 
Council  reform,  which,  in  rejecting  hasty  decisions, 
has  precluded  the  original  imbalance  from  getting 
worse, which would be to the detriment of developing 
countries, in particular those in Africa. 

We  welcome  progress  made  in  the  Working 
Group,  and  we  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  pursuing 
discussions  in  the  Group  to  prepare  the  format  and 
modalities 
intergovernmental 
negotiations on Council reform. 
In  this  respect,  Algeria  reaffirms  its  willingness 

to  work  with  all  delegations  to  advance  the  reform 
process  in  the  Council  and  is  firmly  committed  to  a 
negotiating  process  with  clear  and  well-prepared 
contours. 

reiterate  our 
commitment  to  the  aspirations  of  Africa  expressed  in 
the African common position endorsed in the Ezulwini 
Consensus — namely, that Africa should get no fewer 
than two permanent seats with the right of veto, as well 
as two new non-permanent seats. 
Sir John Sawers (United Kingdom): I would like 

to  thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
convening  this  important  debate  and  to  thank  my 
colleague, the Permanent Representative of Costa Rica, 
for his comments on the report of the Security Council, 
which  he  gave  in  his  capacity  as  President  of  the 
Council this month and on behalf of all members of the 
Council, including, of course, the United Kingdom. My 
thanks  also go to the Permanent Mission of Viet  Nam 
for leading the work, with the Secretariat, in producing 
Finally,  we  would 
upcoming 
like 
the 
of 
to 
12 

08-60929 
to  reiterate 
the  opportunity 
Our  ever-increasing 


what  I  hope  all  members  will  consider  as  a  very 
comprehensive report on the work of the Council over 
the last 12 months. 

As my colleague from Costa Rica highlighted, the 
debate  on  the  Security  Council  working  methods  on 
27 August  saw  broad  consensus  on  the  need  for  the 
Council,  and  indeed  all  organs  of  the  United  Nations, 
to  do  more  to  ensure  that  they  work,  not  just 
effectively,  but  also  transparently.  It  was  clear  from 
that  debate  that  many  would  like  to  see  further 
discussion about the annual report, and we shall listen 
carefully to the views expressed today in that regard. 
On  the  question  of  Security  Council  reform,  I 

welcome 
the  United 
Kingdom’s  support  for  the  reform  process.  Today’s 
discussions  come  as  we  enter  a  new  phase  in  the 
process,  with  intergovernmental  negotiations  starting 
in this session of the General Assembly. I think that is 
the  clearest  indication  yet  of  our  collective  desire  to 
achieve  concrete  progress 
towards  agreement  on 
Security Council reform. 

the 
global risks and responsibilities we  all share highlight 
the  need  for  strong,  representative  and  effective 
international  institutions. As  my  Prime  Minister  noted 
in his statement in this Hall in September, we have an 
opportunity to reframe the international architecture to 
make  it  fit  for  the  challenges  facing  us  in  the  twenty-
first century. The United Nations is at the heart of that 
architecture, and we continue to believe that reform of 
the  major  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  including  the 
Security Council, is an indispensable part of that effort. 

The United Kingdom’s position on the substance 
of  Security  Council  reform  is  well  known.  We  will 
continue  to  support  reforms  that  lead  to  a  Security 
Council  that  is  more  representative  of  today’s  global 
realities  and  that  is  no  less  effective  or  capable  of 
taking  the  tough  decisions  needed  to  tackle  the  many 
threats  to  peace  and  international  security  that  the 
Council deals with. 

The  United  Kingdom  is  fully  committed  to  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  which,  we  believe, 
should be conducted in an open and transparent manner 
that  will  build  confidence  and  foster  trust  among  the 
membership.  We  will  engage  constructively  in  those 
negotiations,  with  the  aim  of  securing  a  model  of 
reform that will garner the widest possible support. We 
to  an 
should  continue 
interdependence  and 
to  give  serious 
thought 
A/63/PV.54
for 
reform  process  and 
intermediate  solution,  if  that  proves  to  be  a  rallying 
point for the great majority of the membership. 

The  global  financial  crisis  has  thrown  the  need 
for  reform  of  the  international  architecture  into  stark 
relief.  It  has  shown  the  need  for  a  fresh  look  at  the 
effectiveness  of  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions.  The 
Group of Twenty Summit on Financial Markets and the 
World Economy last weekend gave a clear lead in this 
regard  on  how  to  respond. The  reform  of  the  Security 
Council needs to keep pace with that process. 
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reiterating  the 

support  of  the  United  Kingdom  for  the  Security 
Council 
the  continuing 
leadership of the President of the General Assembly on 
this important issue. 
Mr. Al Oyaidi (Saudi Arabia) (spoke in Arabic): 

Allow  me  to  express  our  gratitude  to  the  President  of 
the General Assembly for his efforts in presiding over 
this  sixty-third  session.  We  are  confident  that  his 
efforts  will  lead  to  success.  I  also  wish  to  thank  his 
predecessor  for  the  vital  service  rendered  to  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-second  session.  I  wish, 
too, to express our gratitude to Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon  for  the  efforts  he  has  exerted  towards  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  at  a 
time of great changes, challenges and threats facing the 
world. 

The  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  supports  the 
principle  of  equitable  geopolitical  representation  on 
and  increase  in  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories of  membership in the Security Council. We 
also  support  the  request  of  the  Arab  Group  and  the 
Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC) to have 
a  permanent  seat  in  the  Council,  since  their  States 
constitute  30  per  cent  of 
the  United  Nations 
membership. 
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia feels that Member 

States  have  both 
and  professional 
responsibility  to  show  the  sincere  political  will  that 
could  contribute  to  determining  the  just  and  decisive 
role that the United Nations should play in the current 
global  changes  and  challenges  facing 
the  world 
through the implementation of the 2005 World Summit 
Outcome.  It  should  not  be  selective,  and  it  must  shun 
narrow  national 
into 
consideration current changes and developments in the 
international  community  at  present,  so  that  security, 
that  do  not 
a  moral 
interests 
take 
08-60929 

13 
in  order 
to  guarantee  efficiency, 
A/63/PV.54 

stability, prosperity and justice for all Members can be 
achieved. 

The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia stresses the need to 
continue  efforts  towards  realizing  Security  Council 
reform 
justice, 
transparency and credibility, as this would enhance the 
Council’s credibility and its ability to deal with all that 
hampers  the  realization  of  international  peace  and 
security.  The  Kingdom  of  Saudi Arabia  is  also  of  the 
view  that  the  right  of  veto  should  be  used  in  a  just 
manner  that  protects  rights,  administers  justice,  helps 
the  weak  and  punishes  aggressors  who 
threaten 
international peace and stability. It should not be used 
in a negative manner that hampers justice and rewards 
aggressors  who  continue 
their  aggression  and 
oppression  with  impunity  within  the  framework  of 
narrow  interests  that  neither  respect  justice  nor  the 
principles  and  rules  upon  which  the  Organization  was 
established.  
That,  indeed,  is  what  has  aggravated  the  Middle 

East  problem,  which  has  so  greatly 
threatened 
international  peace  and  stability. All  this  is  due  to  the 
negative, unilateral and rogue utilization of the veto in 
a manner that hampers the implementation of Security 
Council 
the  Council’s 
credibility  and  prestige  before  international  public 
opinion and the international community.  

In  conclusion,  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia, 
which  has  participated  in  these  consultations  and  will 
participate  in  the  forthcoming  meeting  to  realize  the 
objective of Security Council reform, hopes that these 
consultations  will  attain  a  result  that  is  satisfactory  to 
all parties and in a manner that serves the international 
community. That requires a distinctive role and special 
efforts  by  the  Council’s  permanent  members. We  look 
forward 
sincere 
contribution  in  a  manner  that  would  realize  the 
objectives that we seek from these reforms. 
Mr.  McNee  (Canada):  Canada  welcomes  this 

opportunity to share views on the annual report of the 
Security  Council  (A/63/2),  and  to  address  once  more 
the important subject of Security Council reform. 
The  Security  Council  has  a  central,  and  indeed 

growing, role in leading collective responses to today’s 
security  challenges.  With  110,000  military,  police  and 
civilians  deployed 
support  operations 
worldwide, the decisions of the Council affect the daily 
lives  of  millions  of  people  around  the  world.  The 
rational,  mature  and 
resolutions  and 
in  peace 

to  notice 
report  of  the  Security  Council  makes  it  clear  that  the 
complexity,  variety  and  volume  of  Council  business 
continue  to  expand  at  a  dramatic  pace.  Working  in 
cooperation  with  regional  organizations,  the  United 
Nations  has  made  great  strides  in  making  peace 
operations  a  more  effective  international  tool  for 
saving lives and assisting democratic transformation in 
places as diverse as Afghanistan and Haiti. 

We  commend  the  Council,  the  Secretariat,  and 
above all, the peacekeepers and all those who serve the 
United  Nations  in  the  field  for  their  tireless  efforts. 
Nevertheless,  those  who  follow  the  work  of  the 
Council  cannot  fail 
that  peacekeeping 
missions  are  under  strain.  In  critical  theatres,  United 
Nations forces are overdeployed and overstretched, and 
too  often  underresourced,  at  times  with  tragic  results, 
as  we  have  seen  even  today  in  the  Sudan  and  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo. 

A growing Security Council agenda, coupled with 
increasing  stress  on  existing  missions,  presents  a 
fundamental challenge to the work of the Council and 
for all those who have a stake in an efficient and well 
functioning  system  of  collective  security.  Above  all, 
the numerous obligations laid out in this year’s report 
of  the  Security  Council  serve  as  a  stark  reminder  of 
how much is at stake in the design and functioning of 
the international security architecture. 

Comprehensive  Security  Council  reform  remains 
a  critical  component  of  the  larger  United  Nations 
reform  agenda.  In  September  of 
the 
membership  took  an  important  decision  to  launch 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform no later than February next year. Ensuring that 
we all use this opportunity to make genuine progress is 
an  urgent  priority,  and  one  which  deserves  our  full 
attention. 

What kind of Council does Canada seek through 
reform?  A  Council  that  is  more  representative  of  the 
world’s  regions,  more  transparent  in  its  operations, 
more  accountable  to  the  Member  States  whom  it 
serves,  more  responsive  to  contemporary  challenges, 
and  more  legitimate  in  its  composition  and  more 
effective in its performance. 

Allow me to put on record again Canada’s strong 
support for an enlargement of the Security Council that 
will  make  it  more  representative  and  therefore  more 
legitimate.  It  is  particularly  important  that  we  address 
the underrepresentation of Africa on the Council.  
this  year, 
reduces 
to 
their 
14 

08-60929 
through 
equality 
principles 
democracy, 
of 
in  other  words, 



But  Canada  believes  that  any  enlargement  can, 
and  should,  be  achieved  in  a  manner  compatible  with 
and 
the 
accountability  — 
the 
expansion  of 
the  Council’s  elected  membership. 
Otherwise  expansion  will  not  enhance,  but  rather 
diminish, the authority of the Council. For this reason, 
while  we  support  enlarging  the  Council,  Canada 
remains opposed to the idea of adding new permanent 
seats. 

Let  me  emphasize  that  this  position  is  not 
grounded in opposition to any of the declared aspirants. 
Rather, it reflects a belief that the establishment of new 
permanent  seats  undermines  the  very  principles  of 
fairness,  equality  and  democracy,  which  are 
the 
foundations of accountability. 

We  oppose  the  establishment  of  new  permanent 
seats  because  we  believe  fundamentally  that  such  a 
course  would  detract  from  the  General  Assembly’s 
important  oversight  role.  Ultimately,  accountability  to 
the  membership  cannot  be  ensured  without 
the 
discipline  of  regular  elections.  Before  the  general 
membership  makes 
on 
composition, it is important to take a sober second look 
at the logic underpinning the case for permanent seats.  

It has often been argued that new permanent seats 
are  needed  because  elected  members  cannot  be 
effective in relation to the Permanent Five, who enjoy 
the  benefits  of  longevity  and  the  veto.  We  disagree. 
Indeed,  the  history  of  the  Security  Council  is  replete 
with  the  accomplishments  of  its  elected  members.  In 
recent  years,  elected  members  have  led  the  way  in 
breaking  new  ground  on  thematic  issues  of  direct 
relevance  to  peacekeeping  mandates.  Resolutions  on 
issues such as the protection of civilians, children and 
armed  conflict,  and  women  and  peace  and  security, 
stand  as  testaments  to  the  contribution  of  elected 
members,  and  remain  to  guide  the  Council’s  actions 
long  after  those  elected  members  who  drafted  them 
have left the Council. 

It  has  also  been  argued  that  the  addition  of  new 
permanent  seats  is  a  component  of  a  legitimate 
Security Council. While Canada agrees that legitimacy 
is tied in part to Council composition, we believe that 
that is best achieved by ensuring the broadest possible 
representation  of 
regions,  not  by 
permanently  extending  the  privileges  and  prerogatives 
enjoyed by a few to a few more. The debate on Council 
determination 
the  world’s 
final 
a 
A/63/PV.54
to 
to 
remains 
complex 
to  focus  on  Council  composition 
composition 
and  has  many 
dimensions, but we believe that with goodwill there is 
scope for progress during the sixty-third session. 
In  the  meantime,  the  General  Assembly  cannot 

afford 
the 
exclusion  of  other  important  dimensions  of  Security 
Council reform. Canada’s view is that the legitimacy of 
the Council is tied at least as much to the quality of the 
decisions it takes as to who takes those decisions. For 
instance,  are  wars  prevented  and  halted  by 
the 
Council?  Where  they  are  not,  are  civilians  protected? 
Are perpetrators held accountable after the fact? In the 
eyes of the world’s most vulnerable, these are the real 
tests  of  the  Council’s  legitimacy.  For  this  reason, 
Canada believes that Council effectiveness should be at 
the centre of the debate on Council reform. 

There  are  three  key  areas  where  change  will 
increase  the  Council’s  effectiveness,  and  all  are  well 
within our grasp. First, the Council’s working methods 
should  be  improved  to  enhance  transparency,  widen 
participation of the broader membership, and limit the 
use  of  the  veto.  Secondly,  the  Council  should  manage 
its agenda in a manner that allows for prompt attention 
to  emerging  crises  before  conflicts  erupt,  for  example 
through  the  fulfilment  of  its  Chapter  VI  prevention 
function. Importantly, the Council must ensure a more 
effective management of existing deployments. 

Thirdly,  the  Council  must  work  to  update  its 
normative  framework  in  order  to  ensure  it  is  better 
equipped to meet the demands of the evolving security 
environment and the changing nature of armed conflict. 

The Security Council has made important strides 
in  improving  its  working  methods  in  recent  years, 
resulting  in  a  body  that  is  now  more  open.  However, 
more needs to be done. We commend the Council on its 
increased  briefings  to  Member  States  over  the  past 
years, particularly on the monthly programme of work, 
which  has  proven  to  be  very  useful.  But  this  practice 
should become a systematic one. 

increase 
consultations with the broad membership, for example 
by  making  more  frequent  and  systematic  use  of 
informal exchanges, and by increasing the regularity of 
substantive  briefings  for  Member  States,  including  on 
the work of subsidiary bodies. 

contributing 
consultations  with 
Canada  also  urges 
countries,  major 
the  Council 
stakeholders 
troop-
and 
particular, 
In 
08-60929 

15 
ideas 
to 
the  Council’s  consideration  of 
A/63/PV.54 

financial  contributors  should  be  strengthened,  so  that 
their  input  can  be  taken  into  account  prior  to  the 
establishment or renewal of a mission. 

We  would  encourage  the  Council  to  expand  and 
deepen the practice of public and open debates, which 
allow  the  membership  to  contribute  their  perspectives 
and 
the 
international peace and security agenda. 

The  Council  would  also  benefit  from  a  serious 
consideration  of  the  use  of  the  veto.  We  all  know  the 
inhibiting  effect  that  the  veto  —  or  even  the  threat  of 
the  veto  —  can  have  on  Council  deliberations.  There 
have been several regrettable occasions in recent years 
when  the  spectre  of  the  veto  had  the  effect  of 
dampening  debate  and  delaying  much  needed  action. 
But the veto is not, and was never meant to be, a tool 
for  avoiding  debate  on  certain  issues.  For  that  reason, 
Canada  believes  that  any  use  of  the  veto  should  be 
publicly  explained  and  justified.  We  also  strongly 
believe  that  the  veto  has  no  place  in  deliberations  on 
situations  of  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  and 
war  crimes  and  urge  the  five  permanent  members  to 
commit  to  voluntary  restrictions  on  its  use  in  these 
situations. 
(spoke in French) 

Canada  believes  that  these  and  other  changes  to 
the  Council’s  working  methods  could  significantly 
enhance 
its 
legitimacy,  and  we  encourage  the  Council  to  consider 
adopting such measures in the months ahead. 

In this regard, Canada reiterates its strong support 
for  the  earlier  proposal  of  Singapore,  Costa  Rica, 
Jordan, Switzerland and Liechtenstein (the Small Five) 
for  a  draft  General  Assembly  resolution.  This  text 
merits  serious  consideration  not  just  in  the  context  of 
Council  enlargement  discussions  but  also  in  its  own 
right. 

Canada  also  believes  more  could  be  done  to 
manage  ongoing  obligations  of  the  Council.  The 
Security  Council  cannot  meet  the  test  of  effectiveness 
if it does not consider the full range of current crises or 
if it does not respond to them in  a timely way. At the 
same  time,  the  United  Nations  is  overstretched. There 
is  an  urgent  need  to  consider  how  to  better  manage 
both  the  growing  demand  for  Council  action,  and  the 
real  operational  constraints  the  Organization  faces.  In 
this  regard,  Canada  urges  the  Council  to  consider 
its  effectiveness  and, 
in  so  doing, 

that 
Finally,  Canada  believes 
developing  guidelines  for  entry  and  exit  strategies,  as 
called for in the Brahimi  report (A/55/305) and in the 
report  of 
former  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan, 
entitled “No exit without strategy” (S/2001/394). 

the  Council’s 
legitimacy can be improved by updating its normative 
framework  to  reflect  modern  realities. A  case  in  point 
is the protection of civilians in armed conflict. Canada 
believes  it  important  to  deepen  the  protection  of 
civilians and related norms and to operationalize them 
to ensure that the international community continues to 
move  from  principle  to  practice.  The  Council  has 
demonstrated that real progress can be made, but there 
is important work still to be done. Protecting civilians 
requires  continued  Council  engagement  and  vigilant 
monitoring  and  follow-up  in  those  instances  where 
resolutions  have  included  clear  language  on  civilian 
protection. In this regard, Canada urges the Council to 
implement  the  provisions  of  the  relevant  resolutions, 
including resolutions 1265 (1999) and 1674 (2006) on 
the  protection  of  civilians  in  armed  conflict,  and 
resolution 1325 (2000) on women, peace and security. 

It  is  important  that  the  Council  be  able  to 
demonstrate  the  political  will  and  capacity  to  draw 
upon the full range of levers at its disposal towards this 
end, including through the use of effective monitoring 
and accountability mechanisms. 

Where  there  is  unfinished  business,  this,  too, 
needs to be addressed. In this regard, we note that three 
years  ago  the  former  Secretary-General  made  a  series 
of  pragmatic  and  balanced  proposals  concerning  the 
use  of  force.  Adoption  of  these  proposals  is  long 
overdue,  and  we  urge  the  Council  to  do  so  without 
delay. 
Lastly, as we move forward with a broader United 

Nations  reform  agenda,  we  must  ensure  that  Security 
Council reform is at the forefront of our consideration. 
The  need  for  change  in  relation  to  both  enlargement 
and effectiveness of the Security Council is urgent, and 
the time for progress is now. 

This  means  early  action  in  the  areas  of  the 
Council’s working methods, normative framework and 
agenda  management,  in  addition  to  the  important 
question  of  its  composition.  Where  early  action  is 
possible, leading to tangible results for Member States, 
we  should  take  advantage  of  this  opportunity  as  a 
means of building momentum and confidence towards 
resolving the question of composition. 
16 

08-60929 
transparency, 
accountability 


In doing so, we must be guided by the principles 

of  democracy, 
and 
representation  as  the  cornerstones  of  building  a  more 
effective  Security  Council.  Canada  looks  forward  to 
working  constructively  with  Member  States  on  these 
important issues in the months ahead. 
Mr. Liu Zhenmin (China) (spoke in Chinese): As 

Member  States  debate  the  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Security Council (A/2008/2), at the sixty-third session 
of  the  General Assembly,  they  will  once  again  realize 
that  the  Security  Council  has  gone  through  another 
busy and challenging year. Over the past year, covering 
areas  from  Afghanistan  to  Haiti,  from  the  Balkans  to 
the  outer  Caucasus,  from  the  Middle  East  to  Africa, 
from  combating  terrorism  to  preventing  proliferation, 
the  Security  Council  has  continued  its  unremitting 
efforts  for  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security and has, to a certain extent, achieved success. 

The  Council  has  also  worked  hard  to  explore 
ways to improve its work, to increase its transparency 
and to enhance its interaction with others. Article 24 of 
the Charter stipulates that United Nations 

the  Security  Council 
“Members  confer  on 
primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security, and agree that in 
carrying  out  its  duties  under  this  responsibility 
the Security Council acts on their behalf.” 

While  entrusting  the  Security  Council  with  such 
responsibility, Member States expect it to undertake its 
responsibilities boldly and to be accountable, and they 
closely follow the Council’s daily performance as their 
gauge  in  deciding  whether  that  body  is  fulfilling  its 
duty, as entrusted to it by the United Nations Charter. 

China has always maintained that the purpose of 
the  Security  Council  is  not  to  serve  the  interests  of  a 
small  number  of  countries,  but  rather  to  serve  the 
common interests of all Member States. It only has the 
obligation to work hard, but no right to be complacent. 
Faced  with  the  profoundly  changing  international  and 
regional  situations  and  the  problems  of  war  that  are 
still inflicting suffering on certain regions, the Council 
should  continue  to  put  forth  its  best  efforts  in  its 
endeavours.  As  a  permanent  member  of  the  Security 
Council, China will continue to put forth its best effort. 

It  is  true  that  the  members  of  the  Council  work 
very hard; however, it is undeniable that there are large 
gaps  between  the  performance  of  the  Council  and  the 
A/63/PV.54
to 
their 
expectations  of  the  Governments  and  peoples  of 
Member States. 

Some  international  peace  and  security  problems 
have been on the Council’s agenda for many years and 
remain  unresolved.  Non-Council  members 
still 
encounter difficulties in accessing and participating in 
the  Council’s  work.  The  Council’s  responses  and 
actions are not always prompt or adequate. Sometimes, 
the  opinions  of  States  have  not  been  given  due 
attention.  
Some issues that do not, in essence, fall into the 

realm  of  the  Council’s  mandate  have  been  repeatedly 
submitted to the Council, and there often arise disputes 
among  Council  members  as 
relevance. 
Undoubtedly, there is still much room for improvement 
in the Council’s work.  

The  two  topics  that  are  being  debated  at  this 
meeting, the work of the Council and the reform of the 
Council,  are  closely  related.  The  work  of  the  Council 
has reflected the challenges faced by that body, but, at 
the  same  time,  has  exposed  the  problems  therein. 
Those issues can only be addressed through necessary 
and visible reform. The Security Council must adapt to 
the  current  international  situation,  which  has  changed 
profoundly. 

The  first  major  change  can  be  seen  in  this  Hall. 
Over  the past 60 years, the membership  of the United 
Nations  has  expanded  close  to  fourfold  and  a  large 
number of small and medium-size developing countries 
have joined the United Nations and become the major 
force  of  the  United  Nations  family.  This  reality  has 
also  changed  the  political  environment  of  the  United 
Nations 
regional 
organizations,  as  well  as  regional  cooperation,  have 
greatly  progressed  and  have  become  one  of  the  major 
characteristics of post-war international relations. 

Regional  methods  for  maintaining  international 
peace  and  security,  which  were  envisioned  in  Chapter 
VIII  of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  have  become  a 
reality  and  are  a  pillar  of  multilateralism.  Equally 
important  is  the  fact  that,  although  there  exist  some 
unreasonable  and  unjust  phenomena  in  international 
relations, democratization and rule of law have become 
an irresistible historical trend. Multilateral cooperation 
has  become  a  natural  choice  of  States  to  cope  with 
common challenges. 
system.  At 
same 
time, 
the 
08-60929 

17 

in 
the 
in 
its 
Faced  with 
representation, 
reasonable  Council 
this  profound  change 
A/63/PV.54 


the 
international situation, people have all the more reason 
to  question  the  logic  of  keeping  the  structure  of  the 
Security Council the same for decades. They have good 
reason to request that the Security Council increase its 
size,  democracy  and  transparency  and  to  expect  a 
reformed Council to serve them better. 
China  firmly  supports  the  implementation  of 

necessary  and 
reforms.  The 
primary issue of this reform is, I will say once again, to 
find  a  balance 
including 
geographic, by increasing its membership. Any reform 
should give priority to increasing the representation of 
the  African 
the  developing  countries,  especially 
countries.  Only  by  so  doing  can 
long-term 
structural defect of the Security Council be corrected. 

I would like to reiterate here that any reform plan 
that does not have the potential support of the African 
countries will not have the support of China. Reform of 
the  Council  must  reflect 
internationally  accepted 
standards  of  democratization  and  the  rule  of  law. The 
reform  should  ensure  that  smaller  countries  will  have 
increased  opportunities  to  participate  in  the  Council’s 
decision-making  in  a  more  substantive  way  and  make 
the  smaller  countries  truly  feel  that  the  Security 
Council  is  an  institution  committed  to  helping  them 
solve problems.  

Additionally, we must enhance the accountability 
of  the  Council  to  Member  States  and  ensure  that  the 
work  of  the  Security  Council  always  gives  expression 
to  the  common  desire  of  the  vast  majority  of  the 
Member States.  

Reform of the Council is a major event involving 
the common interests of 192 Member States. Decision 
62/577,  adopted  in  the  last  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  demonstrated 
the 
Member States, who are making greater efforts towards 
reform. 
to  be 

launched  next  February,  will  provide  an  important 
opportunity  for  reform.  We  are  now  at  a  key 
crossroads, and during the negotiations Member States 
will have the opportunity to comprehensively examine 
the  challenges  and  problems  faced  by  the  Security 
Council in order to produce a meaningful reform plan. 

Experience  has  showed  us  that  reform  of  the 
Security Council is not a simple game of numbers. Nor 
intergovernmental  negotiations, 
the  determination  of 
The 
Mr.  Bahuguna
can  it  be  completed  overnight.  Member  States  must 
reach  the  widest  possible  agreement  through  in-depth 
consultations. We have taken note that the President of 
the  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly  has 
already  convened  two  meetings  of  the  Open-ended 
Working Group on the Security Council. It is our hope 
that  the  Member  States  can  make  full  use  of  the  time 
we now have and actively participate in the discussion 
in  the  Group  and  achieve  results,  so  as  to  lay  a  solid 
foundation for the intergovernmental negotiations. 
the 
(India):  We  welcome 

opportunity to participate in this joint debate on agenda 
item  9  entitled  “Report  of  the  Security  Council”  and 
agenda  item  111  entitled  “Equitable  representation  on 
and increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and other related matters”. 

We  thank  the  delegation  of  Costa  Rica  for 
introducing  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council 
for the period August 2007 to July 2008 (A/63/2). 

My  delegation  notes  that  the  report  remains  a 
largely statistical compilation of events, a bland listing 
of meetings and outcome documents. In our view, such 
a  report  must  include  an  analysis  of  the  issues  on  the 
Council’s 
concerning 
international  peace  and  security  that  are  before  the 
Council, such as the Middle East, cannot be dismissed 
by simply noting that, despite seven attempts presented 
by various delegations over 12 months, “… the Council 
was  not  able  to  reach  the  unanimity  needed  for  it  to 
take any action …”. The reasons why the Council was 
unable to reach an agreement needs to be shared. 

The  report  reveals  that  only  half  of  the  formal 
meetings,  as  well  as  consultation  sessions  of  the 
Council,  were  held  in  open  format.  This  itself  is 
indicative  of  a  need  for  greater  transparency  in  the 
Council’s 
lists 
resolutions and statements adopted, the report does not 
indicate how  often non-Council members immediately 
concerned  by  any  particular  issue  were  consulted. 
Perhaps  the  report  does  not  bring  to  the  larger 
membership  an  analytical  survey  of  the  activities  of 
this important organ because the Council itself remains 
its  working  methods 
insufficiently  representative, 
remain  non-inclusive  and 
its  activities 
remain 
extremely opaque. 

Like  others,  we  are  convinced  that  the  only 
remedy  is  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  involving  expansion  in  its  permanent  and 
functioning.  Further,  although 
agenda.  Pressing 
issues 
it 
18 

08-60929 
It 
is 
to  enhance 
the  participation  of 
self-evident 


non-permanent  categories  of  membership. There  are  a 
few who argue that an expansion in the non-permanent 
category alone would suffice. 

That is unrealistic and has been proved wrong by 
history.  We  should  not  forget  that  we  expanded  the 
Security  Council 
in  1965,  with  only  additional 
non-permanent  members,  but  the  problems  of  the 
Council  have  only  grown  worse.  Non-permanent 
members have not been able to implement their ideas, 
to  prevent  the  Council’s  encroachment  into  areas 
beyond  its  competence  under  the  United  Nations 
Charter,  to  improve  its  decision-making  process,  to 
ensure  full  compliance  with Articles  31  and  32  of  the 
Charter, 
troop-
contributing  countries  in  decision-making  or  even  to 
improve  the  access  and  participation  of  non-members, 
especially small States. And that has not been for lack 
of trying on the part of many non-permanent members. 
Thus,  electing  non-permanent  members  has  failed  to 
ensure the accountability of the Council. 
change 
and 
real 

that 
improvement  can  come  only 
induct  new 
if  we 
permanent  members,  on  the  basis  of  the  principles  of 
election  and  subsequent  accountability  to  the  wider 
membership through an appropriate review mechanism, 
while  ensuring  permanent  institutional  memory  with 
new  points  of  view  and  fresh  resources  in  order  to 
ensure optimal decision-making and its translation into 
action.  Without  an  expansion  of 
the  permanent 
membership, the real problems cannot even begin to be 
addressed,  nor  can  the  political  culture  even  begin  to 
be  transformed. Attempts  to  portray  an  interim  model 
as a solution are inherently flawed. Such a model could 
simply  add  to  numbers  without  addressing  the  issues 
and, in effect, would be the worst of both worlds. 

Let  me  reiterate  our  demand  for  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  including  the  following  elements: 
expansion 
the 
non-permanent  categories;  equitable  geographical 
representation;  greater  representation  for  developing 
countries,  including  better  access  for  small,  island, 
landlocked  and  other  vulnerable  States;  adequate 
representation 
for 
countries with economies in transition; comprehensive 
improvements in the working methods; and a provision 
for a review mechanism. 

decision  62/557,  adopted  by 
In  that  context,  we  welcome  the  unanimous 
the  Assembly  on 
for  developed  countries  and 
permanent 
in 
both 
the 
and 
A/63/PV.54
15 September  2008.  That  decision  clearly  recognizes 
the futility of further consultations in the format of the 
Open-ended  Working  Group.  It  is  unambiguous  in 
providing for the commencement of intergovernmental 
negotiations  in  the  informal  plenary  of  the  General 
Assembly  based  on  proposals  by  Member  States  and 
within  a  defined  time  limit.  Further,  the  phrase  “so 
far”,  used  in  paragraph  (d)  of  the  decision  —  which 
deals  with  the  commencement  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations  —  makes  it  abundantly  clear  that  the 
negotiating  process  is  not  bound  to  take  into  account 
any  further  activity  within  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group  after  15  September  2008.  In  the  extremely 
unlikely event that the Working Group would produce 
useful  results,  these  could  be  considered  as  inputs  in 
the negotiating process. 

In  terms  of  decision  62/557,  there  have  to  be 
intergovernmental negotiations in the informal plenary 
of the General Assembly on the basis of the proposals 
of  Member  States.  The  framework  is  the  formal 
plenary,  and  the  modality  is  the  proposals  of  Member 
States.  Those  proposals  are  well  known  and  are 
contained  in  the  resolutions  submitted,  the  statements 
made and the letters written to the presidency since at 
least 2005. If further refinements are to be negotiated, 
that  would  be  done  in  the  informal  plenary  of  the 
General  Assembly,  as  in  any  other  negotiation.  Thus, 
we  reject  the  proposal,  presented  by  Mexico,  for  a 
schedule  of  meetings  of  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group,  purportedly  to  discuss  the  objectives  of  the 
reform,  the  nature  of  the  agreement  and  the  guiding 
principles,  rules,  nature,  agenda  and  terms  of  the 
negotiations.  Those  issues  are  not  relevant  to  the 
Working  Group,  serve  only  to  obstruct  and  delay  the 
commencement of negotiations and violate the mandate 
set out in decision 62/557. 

the  Open-ended 
Working Group, the President of the General Assembly 
indicated  that  the  informal  plenary  meeting  of  the 
Assembly for the commencement of intergovernmental 
negotiations  would  probably  not  be  held  on 
21 November  2008.  We  are 
that 
development,  especially  since  commencement  of  the 
negotiations  on  that  date  had  been  supported  by  an 
overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States  and  was  in 
line with decision 62/557. Well over two thirds  of the 
Member  States  whose  representatives  spoke  yesterday 
were  sceptical  as  to  the  future  utility  of  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group.  Let  me  reiterate  that,  through 
At  yesterday’s  meeting  of 
intrigued  by 
08-60929 

19 

is 
the 
that 
chief 
A/63/PV.54 

decision  62/557,  we  had  all  agreed 
the 
commencement of negotiations was not conditional on 
the future work of the Open-ended Working Group. We 
look  forward  to  the  early  convening  of  the  informal 
plenary  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  for  the 
commencement  of  negotiations  in  accordance  with 
decision 62/557. 
Mr.  Tarragô  (Brazil):  The  fact  that  we  gather 

every year in this Hall to consider the annual report of 
the Security  Council should not make us lose sight of 
the  political  meaning  and  relevance  of  that  task.  The 
General  Assembly 
deliberative, 
policymaking  and  representative  organ  of  the  United 
Nations. It is by virtue of that authority that we review 
the work undertaken by the Council. In the process, all 
of  us  —  the  entire  membership  and  those  who  act  on 
its  behalf  —  gain  with  regard  to  matters  pertaining  to 
the maintenance of international peace and security. 

The  report  before  us  (A/63/2)  can  be  examined 
from  several  angles.  Here,  I  will  focus  briefly  on  the 
aspect  of 
transparency  and  access.  Among  other 
statistics,  the  document  presents  the  number  of  public 
meetings and the number of closed consultations of the 
whole  held  during  the  reporting  period.  That  is  not 
irrelevant and warrants two comments. The first is that 
the  inclusion  of  such  statistics  is  noteworthy  in  itself, 
since it constitutes one parameter — albeit not the most 
important  one  —  by  which  to  gauge  the  Council’s 
openness  to  non-members.  The  second  observation  is 
that  the  comparison  of  the  data  for  2006-2007  with 
those  for  2007-2008  reveals  a  welcome  improvement 
in  the  ratio  between  public  meetings  and  closed 
consultations.  That  trend  is  to  be  encouraged,  as  is 
another  positive  development  that,  although  it  did  not 
occur during the reporting period, must be mentioned: 
the  holding  of  a  public  meeting  in  August  to  discuss 
the implementation of the note by the President of the 
Security  Council  (S/2006/507)  related  to  working 
methods.  We  all  hope  that  the  Council  will  not  need 
another 14 years to have further debate on the issue. In 
these  gestures,  Brazil  recognizes  an  effort  to  achieve 
greater transparency. 
However,  that  is  far  from  enough.  Some  of  the 

full 
truly 
implementation  of  Articles  31  and  32  of  the  Charter, 
access  for  non-members  to  subsidiary  organs  and 
meaningful 
troop-contributing 
countries  and  other  interested  parties  —  have  not  yet 
been taken. Robust yet realistic reform of the Council’s 
significant  measures  — 
consultations  with 
such 
as 
in 
in 
lead 
increase 
through  an 
the  building 
imbalances.  Therefore, 
working methods will be facilitated by an expansion of 
the  Council,  which,  once 
is  made  more 
representative,  will  be  more  amenable  to  greater 
transparency  and  to  access  by  non-members.  A  more 
democratic  structure  will  surely 
to  more 
democratic practices. 

That  leads  me  to  comment  on  the  relationship 
between democratization of the United Nations — one 
of  the  priorities  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  that  we  fully  support  —  and  Security 
Council  reform.  Some  believe,  and  others  want  us  to 
believe,  that  true  democracy  would  come  to  the 
Council 
the  number  of 
non-permanent  members  only.  But  simply  adding 
non-permanent  members  to  the  Council  would  not 
solve  the  problem  of  the  loss  of  its  representativeness 
and of the legitimacy of its decisions, which has been 
observed  over  the  years.  It  would  only  accentuate  the 
present 
the  Council  must 
necessarily  count  on  the  permanent  contribution  of 
countries whose presence in the international scene has 
become  more  decisive 
and 
implementation of the required decisions. 

Brazil favours the expansion of the organ in both 
categories: of permanent and non-permanent members. 
Democratic  reforms  in  the  Council  are  only  possible 
through the addition of permanent members committed 
to  making  it  more  transparent  and  accountable.  With 
the clout that permanent membership can bring — fully 
legitimized  by  a  very  demanding  electoral  and 
ratification  process  in  the  General  Assembly  —  such 
new members can be effective agents of change. They 
will do so through the vote and the persuasion of other 
permanent Council members. 

to 
the  mere  addition  of 
non-permanent  members, 
though 
purportedly 
democratic, is in fact a way to preserve the status quo, 
since those members, by definition, can only contribute 
to the decision-making process for a limited period of 
time.  Worse  still,  it  would  distort  even  more  the 
proportion  in  the  Council  between  permanent  and 
non-permanent  members. As  they  say  in  French,  plus 
ça change, plus ça reste la même chose. This is neither 
what the world needs nor what the majority of Member 
States wants. 

Another  important  aspect  of  the  meaningful 
reform  we  need  relates  to  the  nature  of  an  expanded 
Security  Council.  We  want 
to  be  both  more 
To  restrict  reform 
it 
it 
20 

08-60929 
To  demand  consensus  or  support  close 


representative  and  more  effective  than  today.  In  order 
to  achieve  such  goals,  balancing  the  composition  is 
crucial. On the one hand, we need a more diverse set of 
countries and, on the other, we need a larger core group 
of  countries  prepared  and  willing  to  take  up  the 
accrued  responsibilities  associated  with  the  task  of 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security. That  can 
be done through the kind of reform proposed by Brazil 
and  many  others  from  all  regions,  including  small 
States. Small States, unlike what some would like us to 
believe, know very well what they will gain: improved 
representation in and better access to the Council. With 
genuine reform, not only will they be more likely to be 
elected  as  non-permanent  members  but  they  will  also 
have  partners  in  the  Council  in  their  efforts  for  more 
participation. 

to 
consensus to achieve Security Council reform is to put 
the  bar  at  such  a  high  level  that  it  would  give  a 
minority  an  actual  right  of  veto  in  this  matter.  We 
disagree with that position, as it is an attempt to hinder 
the  modernization  of  the  United  Nations  and  risks 
pushing  the  Organization  into  irrelevance,  thereby 
posing a risk to peace and security. 

Reform cannot wait. Just as the current financial 
crisis  shows,  the  international  machinery  for  global 
governance  does  not  fully  respond  to  the  needs  of 
today. The Security Council is one of the key pieces of 
that  machinery.  We  should  not  delay  any  longer  the 
starting  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  without 
conditions,  on  the  basis  of  Member  State  proposals 
which,  I  stress,  have  already  been  formally  presented. 
The  opponents  of  genuine  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  will  keep  trying  to  procrastinate. Attempts  to 
undo  our  decision  of  September 
through 
discussions — procedural only in appearance — should 
not be allowed to prevail since this is not what the vast 
majority of delegations wants. What they want is actual 
negotiation  soon  so  that  we  move  more  quickly  and 
engage in the necessary effort to bridge our substantive 
differences  to  the  greatest  extent  possible.  They  are 
ready. We are ready. 
Ms.  Al-Ajeel  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  my  country’s  delegation,  I  would  like  to 
express  my  deep  gratitude  and  appreciation  to  the 
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  this  month,  the 
Permanent Representative of Costa Rica, for presenting 
the  report  of  the  Council  to  the  General  Assembly 
last 
A/63/PV.54
The 
item  on 
items  on 
the  agenda  of 
the  question  of 
(A/2008/2),  which  indicates  a  noticeable  increase  in 
the volume of the Council’s work in the past year. 

Ms.  Ochir  (Mongolia),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

We also align ourselves with the statement of the 
representative  of  Cuba  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  and  we  extend  our  congratulations  to  the 
new  non-permanent  Council  members,  Japan,  Turkey, 
Austria,  Mexico  and  Uganda,  on  their  election  for  the 
2009-2010 period.  

equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  other  matters  related  to  the 
Security  Council  is  considered  one  of  the  most 
important 
the  General 
Assembly. However, the question of the reform of the 
Security  Council  remains  in  limbo  in  the  general 
debates of the Assembly despite the passing of 14 years 
since the adoption of the General Assembly resolution 
to  establish  an  open-ended  working  group  to  consider 
the issue of equitable representation and increase in the 
Council’s  membership. Although  Member  States  have 
agreed in principle on the need for change and reform, 
the  working  group  has  been  unable  to  date  to  reach 
agreement on the substance of the required changes. 

In  any  case,  we  cannot  ignore  the  fact  that 
progress  was  made  in  the  discussions  of  the  group,  in 
particular  concerning  the  working  methods  of  the 
Security  Council,  where 
is  almost  general 
agreement on many of the measures and proposals that 
need to be introduced. 

We  cannot  but  commend  this  improvement  and, 
in  this  context,  we  welcome  the  general  agreement  to 
initiate  intergovernmental  negotiations  in  a  general 
informal meeting of the General Assembly during this 
current session to help realize the ideas that have been 
the  subject  of  numerous  discussions  over  many  years 
and  in  the  hope  that  consensus  can  be  reached  on 
solutions that will strengthen the role and effectiveness 
of the Security Council. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  agreement  on  any  of  the 
issues related to the question of expansion and reform 
of  the  Security  Council  during  the  consultation  phase 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  must  result  in  a 
general  agreement  to  guarantee  genuine  reform  of  the 
Council  that  would  attain  the  approval  and  support  of 
the  general  membership, 
its 
facilitating 
there 
thus 
08-60929 

21 

in 
the  composition  of 
A/63/PV.54 

implementation.  This  process  must  also  give  due 
consideration  to  transparency,  good  intentions  and  the 
avoidance of any individual moves aimed at achieving 
narrow individual interests. 

The  position  of  the  State  of  Kuwait  on  the  issue 
of  Security  Council  reform  is  based  on  the  following 
main principles:  

The  State  of  Kuwait  supports  the  reform  and 
activation  of  all  United  Nations  bodies,  foremost 
among  which  is  the  Security  Council,  in  order  to 
enable it to carry out its main function of maintaining 
international  peace  and  security  as  mandated  by  the 
Charter.  Any  change 
the 
Council’s  membership  should  not  affect  its  capability 
and  efficiency  in  taking  the  decisions  necessary  to 
confront  international  threats  and  dangers,  but  should 
rather  lend  more  legitimacy  and  credibility  to  the 
Council’s decisions. 
With  regard  to  reforming  and  improving  the 

working  methods  of  the  Council  and  improving  its 
relations with other main bodies of the United Nations, 
such  as  the  General Assembly  and  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council,  we  support  all  proposals  aimed  at 
lending  more  transparency  and  clarity  to  the  work  of 
the Council and easing the flow of information to and 
from Member States. We also support the need to fully 
respect  the  functions  and  competence  of  the  other 
principal organs of the United Nations, particularly the 
General Assembly, as well as to define the role of the 
Council  when  discussing 
threaten 
international peace and security. 

We  emphasize  the  need  of  the  Council  to  adopt 
permanent  rules  of  procedures  to  enhance  and  codify 
its procedures and working methods.  

The  State  of  Kuwait  supports  maintaining  the 
mechanism of electing the non-permanent members of 
the  Council, 
accordance  with  Article 23, 
paragraph 2,  of  the  Charter  as  this  allows  a  greater 
chance  for  the  group  of  small  countries,  to  which  we 
belong,  to  become  members  of  the  Council  and 
participate in its work. We see a need to put limits and 
controls on the use of the right of veto, such as limiting 
its  use  to  matters  that  fall  under  Chapter  VII  of  the 
Charter. 

Should  agreement  be  reached  on  the  number  of 
new  non-permanent  seats,  the  distribution  of  these 
seats  among  the  regional  groups  must  take  into 
issues 
that 
in 
various 
include 
In  order 
could 
by 
situations 
presented 
consideration the significant increase in the number of 
Member States in the Asian Group. 

Finally,  we  reiterate  our  support  of  all  efforts  to 
strengthen  the  performance  of  the  Security  Council, 
and  hope  that  a  consensual  agreement,  satisfactory  to 
all  sides,  will  be  reached  —  an  agreement  that 
guarantees that the Council will carry out its functions 
as provided by the Charter with no obstacles. 
Mr. Dapkiunas (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): We 

are grateful to the Security Council for the report on its 
work (A/63/2), but we have to note that this report still 
amounts only to a compilation of its various activities 
and thus, to a large extent, is a statistical journal. 

We are convinced that the majority of delegations 
would like to receive an analytical document from the 
Council  that  would  contain  an  in-depth  analysis  of 
various  hotspots.  Such  an  analysis  of  specific 
several 
international 
viewpoints, 
interested 
delegations. 

to  have  a  concise  articulation  of 
positions in the reports, delegations  could be assigned 
a  common  text  platform.  This  would  allow  for  a 
standard  approach  to  reflect  differing  positions  and 
assessments. We  would  suggest  that  member  States  of 
the Council examine this proposal. 

We would also call on delegations of the Council 
to look carefully at the proposal that was set out in the 
statement  by  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  on  the  need 
to  increase  the  quality  of  the  monthly  assessment 
reports  furnished  by  Council  presidencies.  These 
reports  should  be  analytical  in  nature  and  be  prepared 
more promptly.  
The  work  of  the  Council  is  distinguished  by  the 

variety  of  different  activities  and 
items.  Each 
presidency  tries  to  update  the  themes  of  Council 
meetings to make them more complete and substantive. 
To  a  large  extent,  we  support  having  meetings  on 
topical questions in order to elicit prompt responses to 
contemporary  threats  and  challenges  in  the  area  of 
international  peace  and  security,  rather  than  including 
items  on  the  agenda  dictated  mostly  by  national 
priorities in foreign policy. 

We still call on the Council not to go beyond its 
competence  by  broadening  its  agenda  and  considering 
issues  not  within  its  scope.  The  Council’s  areas  of 
competence are clearly set out in the Charter. 
22 

08-60929 
for 
and 
and 
on 
the 
issue 
decision 
62/557, 
if 
there 
conducting 
take  place 
are  obvious 
These  negotiations  must 



Today we are discussing Security Council reform 
in  new  conditions,  the  General  Assembly  having 
adopted 
of 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  Belarus  supported  the 
work of the  Open-ended Working Group. In our view, 
the  Group  has  conducted  painstaking  work  to  achieve 
progress  in  defining  a  concrete  formula  for  reform  of 
Council  membership.  We  believe  that  this  Group  has 
not  yet  exhausted  its  possibilities  to  advance  Council 
reform and that it should determine the framework and 
conditions 
intergovernmental 
negotiations. 

in  an 
environment  of  increased  trust  among  Member  States 
and  a  careful  search  for  balanced  approaches  to 
Council  reform.  We  must  not  force  the  negotiating 
process 
significant 
disagreements  among  different  groups  of  countries 
calling for various reform models. 

A  new  Council  membership  formula  must  not 
divide  Member  States;  on  the  contrary,  it  should,  to  a 
large  extent,  bring  them  together  for  joint  work  to 
counter  global  threats  and  challenges  in  the  area  of 
international  security.  Council  reform  must  first  and 
foremost be effectuated in such areas as increasing the 
numerical  membership 
improving  working 
methods. 

We  believe  that  the  Council  should  remain  a 
compact  and  capable  body,  one  able  to  promptly  and 
effectively respond to emerging threats to international 
peace  and  security.  Concerning  enlargement  of  the 
Council, Belarus continues to call for one more elected 
Eastern  European  member  as  a  non-permanent 
member. 
Under  the  current  Council  membership  formula, 

there  is  insufficient  representation  of  African,  Asian 
and  Latin  American  States.  There  must  be  better 
representation  for  small  and  medium-size  States  as 
well as developing countries. 

Belarus believes we must focus as much attention 
on the Council’s methods of work as it does on issues 
of membership enlargement. Recently, there have been 
some  positive  changes  such  as,  first  and  foremost,  on 
increasing  the  openness  of  the  Council’s  work.  For 
example, 
initial 
programmes  of  work,  preliminary  announcements  in 
the  Journal  on  scheduled  official  meetings  and 
are 
consultations, 
there  has  been  publication  of 
briefings 
States 
for 
that 
A/63/PV.54
its 
sphere  of  competence  and 
non-members  and  open  meetings.  These  methods  of 
work  have  become  Council  practice  and  we  welcome 
them. 

We are convinced that the question of methods of 
work involves more than establishing internal rules of 
procedure for the Security Council. A key precondition 
for  improving  the  work  of  the  Council  is  creating  an 
atmosphere  of  self-discipline  and  responsibility  in 
determining 
in 
eliminating  double  standards  in  decision-making  on 
important decisions. 
Ms.  Alzhanova  (Kazakhstan):  My  delegation 

would  like  to  thank  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Costa  Rica,  current  President  of  the  Security  Council 
for  presenting  to  the  Assembly  the  comprehensive 
report on the work of this principal organ of the United 
Nations (A/63/2). 
We  are  pleased  to  note  some  progress  in  the 

the  Council’s  working  methods. 
improvement  of 
Discussion of the annual report of the Security Council 
at the General Assembly, following its presentation by 
the  permanent  representative  of  Viet  Nam  last  July, 
turned out to be a historic moment in the improvement 
of  Security  Council  cooperation  with  the  General 
Assembly. 

We  welcome  the  fact  that,  in  recent  years,  the 
Security  Council  has  taken  measures  to  ensure  its 
openness to non-members.  Open thematic debates  and 
interactive  briefings  are  now  held  more  frequently. 
That  is  a  positive  development  in  the  work  of  the 
Council  and  we  must  encourage  its  efforts  to  take 
further steps in that direction. 

We  believe  that  issues  recently  debated  in  the 
Security  Council  such  as  the  non-proliferation  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
the  protection  of 
civilians  in  conflict  situations;  children  and  armed 
conflicts;  and  women,  peace  and  security,  still  rank 
high  on  the  international  community’s  agenda  and 
require further effort. 

We  take  positive  note  of  the  fact  that  matters  of 
coordination and collaboration of the Security Council 
with  other  United  Nations  bodies  and  regional  and 
subregional 
regularly 
discussed. In this regard, we fully support the practice 
of  open  debates  in  the  United  Nations  with  the 
cooperation of regional and subregional structures for a 
organizations 
being 
are 
08-60929 

23 

In 
and 
important 
complicated 
peacekeeping 
peacebuilding 
the  realities  of 
A/63/PV.54 

more  profound  understanding  of 
individual Member States. 

During the reporting period, the Security Council 
maintained its busy agenda on Africa, the Middle East, 
Europe,  Afghanistan  and  other 
issues. 
Certain  progress  has  been  achieved.  Regrettably, 
however, we note that the Council sometimes failed to 
react  adequately  to  serious  challenges  that  directly 
threatened international peace and security — Kosovo 
and  Georgia  being  two  particular  cases  in  point.  On 
these  issues,  the  Council  presented  itself  as  unable  to 
agree  even  on  press  statements,  let  alone  on  the 
development  of  a  common  position  on  certain  aspects 
of  critical  importance  for  the  entire  international 
community. 

a 
and  multidimensional 
international  environment,  there is vivid evidence that 
the  United  Nations  role  in  conflict  prevention  and 
mediation, 
is 
increasingly  in  demand.  To  adequately  address  new 
challenges  and  threats  to  international  peace  and 
security  that  could  be  easily  brought  on  by  global 
crises, the Security Council needs to approach issues in 
a different way. 

My delegation would like to express its gratitude 
to  the  President  of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-
second  session  and  to  the  four  facilitators  —  the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Bangladesh,  Chile, 
Djibouti and Portugal — for the report that was finally 
approved  by  consensus  on  the  last  day  of  the  session 
(A/62/47). The  report  embraces  the  progress  achieved 
so far, in particular during the Group’s 2006 and 2007 
sessions,  as  well  as  the  positions  and  proposals  of 
Member States. A 15-year deadlock was broken by the 
historic  decision  62/557,  which  opened  the  door  to 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  substance  of 
Council  reform.  We  should  not  miss  this  chance  for 
change,  so  that  we  can  have  a  more  representative, 
legitimate  and 
transparent  United  Nations  body 
responsible  for the maintenance of international peace 
and security. 
equitable 

representation  of  Member  States 
the  Security 
Council  could  strengthen  the  Council’s  ability  to 
effectively  face  the  challenges  of  the  twenty-first 
century  and  to  play  its  role  in  the  settlement  of  crisis 
situations. Asia, Africa  and  Latin America,  as  well  as 
developing countries, should have wider representation 
Kazakhstan 
reiterates 
that 
in 
the 
in 
the 
the 
to 
the 
takes 
latter, 
A  very 
light  of 
Kazakhstan 
reform.  As 
strong  position 
in the Security Council and should be directly involved 
in the resolution of international problems. 

that 
expansion  of  the  Security  Council  should  be  made  in 
both  categories,  permanent  and  non-permanent  seats; 
nevertheless, our country is exploring different options 
of agreeing on a way forward. 

In conclusion, my delegation would like to make 
an appeal to Member States to conduct the negotiations 
in a spirit of cooperation in the quest for a compromise 
in  order  to  speed  up  the  process  of  reforming  the 
United Nations as a whole and the Security Council in 
particular, for the sake of peace and development. 
Mr.  Davide  (Philippines):  I  would  like  to  begin 

by  thanking  the  President  for  convening  this  plenary 
meeting  for  a  joint  debate  on  agenda  item  9,  on  the 
report of the Security Council, and agenda item 111, on 
Security  Council 
the 
Philippines commends and salutes the President for his 
special interest in Security Council reform, particularly 
in 
theme  of  his  presidency: 
democratization of the United Nations. 

impartial  and  objective 
reassessment  and  review  of  the  fundamentals  relating 
to  or  affecting  the  Security  Council  —  especially  on 
the  patent 
its 
membership  vis-à-vis  the  developing  small  Member 
States,  the  exercise  of  its  powers  including  abuse  or 
misuse of the veto power, its decisions, resolutions and 
actions  and  its  working  methods  —  readily  discloses 
that 
fully 
democratized. It is asserted, and quite correctly, in the 
report  of  the  Austrian  Initiative  2004-2008  that  the 
Security  Council  is  “legislator,  judge  and  executive” 
(A/63/69,  annex,  para.  3).  Definitely,  when  one  body 
acts  as  such,  democracy  and  the  rule  of  law  are, 
unfortunately, sacrificed, to say the least. 

I thank His Excellency Ambassador Jorge Urbina 
of  Costa  Rica  for  introducing  the  annual  report  of  the 
Security  Council  (A/63/2)  and  congratulate  the  Costa 
Rican presidency for its stewardship of the Council for 
the current month of November. 

I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  pay 
tribute  to  the  efforts  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Srgjan 
Kerim, President of the General Assembly at its sixty-
second session, and the members of his task force, the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Bangladesh,  Chile, 
the  Security  Council  needs 
the  composition  of 
imbalance 
judicious, 
to  be 
24 

08-60929 


Djibouti  and  Portugal,  for  their  patience,  dedication 
and  hard  work,  which  paved  the  way  for  and  opened 
the  door  to  the  commencement  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  through  the 
adoption by the General Assembly in the last hours of 
the sixty-second session of the recommendations of the 
Open-ended  Working  Group  on  Security  Council 
reform,  now  embodied,  as  amended, 
in  General 
Assembly decision 62/557. 

As  regards  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council,  while  the  format  has  remained  the  same,  my 
delegation  has  noticed  small  changes  in  some  of  the 
narratives, which, no doubt, indicate an effort to make 
the  report  more  insightful  and  not  just  documentary. 
Nonetheless,  the  Security  Council  might  consider 
looking at other options for improving its report to the 
General  Assembly,  including  its  format,  to  make  it 
more comprehensive, informative and analytical. In its 
present form, the annual report is not actually a report, 
according  to  the  true  meaning  of  the  word.  My 
delegation maintains its view, expressed earlier during 
the  27 August  2008  Security  Council  open  debate  on 
working  methods  (see  S/PV.5968),  that  the  Council 
should  take  note  of  how  the  repertoire  of  the  practice 
of  the  Security  Council  presents  information  and 
should  consider  combining  or  merging  the  annual 
report and the repertoire. 
As  regards  the  ongoing  process  on  Security 

Council  reform,  my  delegation  reaffirms 
its  full 
support for General Assembly decision 62/557, which I 
mentioned  earlier.  That  decision  clearly  outlines  the 
steps 
preliminary 
conduct  of 
intergovernmental 
connection 
therewith,  my  delegation  highlights  two  crucial  dates: 
1 February and 28 February 2009. The first of February 
is  the  deadline  fixed  in  paragraph  (c)  of  the  decision 
for the submission by the Open-ended Working Group, 
through its Chairman, of the report on its consultations 
on 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  The  twenty-eighth  of 
February  is  the  latest  date  for  the  commencement  of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  as  mandated  in 
paragraph (d) of the decision.  
With  those  two  time  limits  in  mind,  the  Open-

ended Working Group must now begin its work so that 
it can submit its report to the General Assembly on or 
before  the  first  day  of  February  2009,  so  that  the 
informal  plenary  of  the  General  Assembly  can  start 
than 
intergovernmental 
to 
leading 
negotiations. 
and  modalities 
negotiations 
framework 
the 
In 
later 
not 
the 
for 
A/63/PV.54
not 
later 
negotiations 
28 February 2009. Collective political will and utmost 
cooperation in good faith must be mustered to keep to 
the  timetable.  Yesterday,  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group  held  its  second  meeting.  I  hope  it  can  make 
faster progress.  

My  delegation,  however,  would  like  to  reiterate 
its  view,  expressed  during  the  final  three  meetings  of 
the  Group  at  the Assembly’s  sixty-second  session  and 
yesterday  in  the  second  meeting  of  the  same  Group, 
that  the  submission  of  the  Working  Group’s  report, 
under  paragraph  (c)  of  the  decision,  is  not  a  sine 
qua non  for  the  commencement  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations.  While  my  delegation  would  prefer  the 
Open-ended Working Group to come up with its report 
within  the  time  limit,  its  refusal  or  failure  to  do  so 
should not prevent the General Assembly, the superior 
body,  from  commencing,  in  informal  plenary,  the 
intergovernmental 
than 
28 February 2009. 

In  short,  the  Open-ended  Working  Group,  as  a 
mere creature of the General Assembly, cannot hold the 
latter  hostage.  In  the  New  Testament  we  find  these 
words: “no slave is above his master” (The Holy Bible, 
Matthew, 10:24). Students of law are familiar with the 
maxim  that  the  stream  cannot  rise  higher  than  its 
source. This view should not, however, be used by the 
Open-ended  Working  Group  as  an  excuse  for  not 
working  hard  enough.  The  Group  should  not  stain  or 
blemish  itself  with  failure  and  go  down  in  history  in 
ignominy. 

Concerning  the  substantive  aspects  of  Security 
Council  reform,  my  delegation  reiterates  its  position, 
articulated  many  times  before,  that  reform  of  the 
working  methods  of 
least 
controversial  element,  is  immediately  achievable  and 
must  be  considered  and  adopted  forthwith.  In  its 
statement  during  the  Security  Council  open  debate  on 
27 August 2008, the Philippines mentioned that, in its 
working  methods,  now  principally  condensed  in  its 
provisional  rules  of  procedure,  the  Security  Council 
must  strictly  adhere 
to  democratic  practices  and 
procedures,  observe  due  process  and  guarantee 
fairness, justice and equity to all concerned. 

Among  the  essential  elements  of  these  guiding 
principles  are  accountability,  fidelity  to  the  trust 
reposed in it by Member States pursuant to Article 24 
of the Charter of the United Nations, predictability and 
transparency. 
the  Council 
the 
is 
08-60929 

25 
proposals 
or 
submitted 

resolutions 
A/63/PV.54 


With  those  elements  in  mind,  my  delegation  has 
made  the  following  recommendations,  which  it  now 
wishes to reiterate: first, the word “provisional” should 
be  deleted  from  the  title  of  its  rules  of  procedure; 
secondly,  rule  37  should  be  amended  to  grant  those 
States non-members of the Security Council which are 
under the Council’s scrutiny the right to be present and 
heard during all proceedings in regard to such scrutiny 
and  in  any  incident  which  may  arise  from  such 
proceedings. 

Thirdly,  rule  38  should  be  amended  to  enable 
draft 
by 
non-Security Council Member States to be considered, 
acted  upon  and  voted  upon  by  the  Security  Council 
without the requirement of a request from a member of 
the  Council.  Fourthly, 
the  number  of  meetings, 
including  informal  meetings,  should  be  increased  in 
order to hear the views of Member States. 

Fifthly, full information should be provided to all 
Member  States  on  issues  deliberated  by  the  Council. 
This  can  be  accomplished  by  means  of  the  Council’s 
annual  report  by,  inter  alia,  indicating  within  it  how 
members of the Council voted and justified their votes 
and  by  explaining  why  permanent  members  of  the 
Council exercised a veto when that was the case.  

Finally, periodic reports or substantive summaries 
should  be  released  by  the  Council  to  the  General 
Assembly on matters with which the Council is seized 
during  the  course  of  each  year,  given  that  its  annual 
report  deals  with  matters  considered  during 
the 
preceding year. 

On  the  issue  of  enlargement  of  the  Council’s 
membership, my delegation fully supports the proposal 
to  enlarge  both  categories  of  membership,  permanent 
and  non-permanent,  based  on 
the  principles  of 
equitable geographic or regional distribution reflecting 
the  increase  in  United  Nations  membership  over  the 
years. That may demand the application of the rule of 
proportional  allocation  or  require  balance  due  to 
contemporary geopolitical realities.  

As  the  world’s  model  of  a  fully  functioning, 
participatory  democracy  whose  Charter  affirms  the 
equal  rights  of  nations  large  and  small,  the  United 
Nations  should  have 
that  reflect  and 
genuinely give life to that ideal. It would not only be a 
contradiction  in  principle  and  a  factual  anomaly,  but 
also  a  gross  injustice  and  a  cruel  inequality  and 
inequity, if the character and status of the membership 
institutions 
responsibility 
of  the  Security  Council,  one  of  the  United  Nations 
principal organs tasked with the maintenance of peace 
and  security  were  to  perpetuate  one  or  all  of  these 
anomalies. 

Further  to  the  adherence  to  and  application  of 
democratic  principles  in  the  United  Nations,  Security 
Council reform proposals should also include ways and 
means  to  curtail  the  exercise  of  special  privileges 
reserved  for  a  few  in  order  to  lessen  and  remove 
discrimination against the vast majority of the general 
membership. A specific issue is the veto in its current 
form.  My  delegation  looks  forward  to  a  judicious 
restriction  of  its  use  through:  first,  disallowing  its  use 
in  cases  of  genocide,  war  crimes  and  crimes  against 
humanity;  and  secondly,  disallowing  its  use  if  the 
permanent member concerned is a party to an act under 
scrutiny  or  is  involved  in  a  conflict  of  interest 
situation.  

We  may  also  establish  mechanisms  to  override 
the  veto.  In  this  connection,  Member  States  should 
never  forget  that  under  Article  24  of  the  Charter,  for 
the  purpose  of  ensuring  prompt  and  effective  action, 
Member  States  conferred  on  the  Security  Council 
primary 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  Whether  this  be 
viewed  as  a  surrender  of  part  of  the  Member  States’ 
sovereignty,  as  discussed  on  page  449  of  volume  1  of 
the  second  edition  of  Bruno  Simma’s  The  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations.  A  Commentary,  or  as  a  mere 
delegation of powers, the fact remains that both may be 
withdrawn  and  a  veto  may  be  overridden  by  the 
General Assembly  should  the  exercise  of  that  veto  be 
ultra vires. These are just and valid proposals to ensure 
the application and faithful observance of the principle 
of sovereign equality of all Member States as set out in 
Article 2, paragraph 1, of the Charter. 

There  is  yet  one  more  aspect  of  reform,  still  in 
the area of democratization in the Security Council. It 
is  the  patent  and  palpable  discrimination  against 
Member States which are not members of the Security 
Council in the matter of the elections of Judges of the 
International Court of Justice, contrary to the principle 
of  sovereign  equality  of  all  Member  States  solemnly 
enshrined in the Charter. In the election  of the Judges 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  the  members  of 
the Security Council are each given two votes: one, as 
General Assembly  members  and  a  second,  as  Security 
Council  members.  There  exists  no  valid  and  logical 
reason  for  this  discrimination.  This  situation  could 
for 
26 

08-60929 


even create a greater evil  whereby  a mere majority  of 
the 15 members of the Council may influence the final 
results of the elections in the General Assembly. This is 
an anomaly which should be corrected.  

It  should  be  noted  that  in  the  elections  to  the 
Security  Council  itself,  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council, the Human Rights Council and other bodies in 
the  United  Nations  system,  each  Member  State  has 
only one vote. Worse yet, despite the criteria provided 
for in the Statute of the International Court of Justice, 
which  prescribe  only  qualifications  in  Article  2  and 
representations of the main forms of civilization and of 
the  principal  legal  systems  of  the  world  in  Article  9, 
the permanent members of the Security Council always 
occupy  a  seat  on  the  International  Court  of  Justice, 
resulting  in  and  perpetuating  a  gross  imbalance  in  the 
world  court. Why  give  the  permanent  members  of  the 
Security  Council  such  a  special  privilege  which  could 
result  in  a  continuing  violation  of  the  representation 
requirements? 

Reforming the Security Council is akin to taking 
medicine  for  a  chronic  malady.  We  can  no  longer 
postpone it or pretend to do something about it because 
the  systemic  sickness  is  already  affecting  the  whole 
Organization. My delegation prays that the Open-ended 
Working  Group  of  the  General Assembly  will  remain 
on  course  and  comply  seriously  with  the  duties  and 
responsibilities  with  which  it  was  charged  by  General 
Assembly decision 62/557 and abide faithfully with the 
time  limits  prescribed  therein.  We  expect  intensive 
discussions,  consultations  and  negotiations.  The 
Philippines  will  do  its  part  to  contribute  with  heart, 
mind  and  soul  to  the  birth  of  a  reformed  and 
democratic  Security  Council  before  the  end  of  the 
sixty-third session. 
Mr. Sajjadi (Islamic Republic of Iran): I wish to 

begin  by  extending  our  thanks  to  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  for  convening  this  meeting  on  the 
report of the Security Council to the General Assembly 
(A/63/2). I also thank the Permanent Representative of 
Costa Rica, the Council’s President for November, for 
having presented the report to the General Assembly. 

transparency,  accountability  and 
fairness are the key requirements on which the Security 
Council  should  base  its  approach  to  discharging  its 
Charter-mandated  responsibilities.  To 
the 
transparency  of  its  work  and  improve  its  working 
methods, 
into 
the  Council  should  seriously 
Impartiality, 
increase 
take 
A/63/PV.54
in 
I  have 
those  vital  areas 
consideration the relevant provisions of the Charter as 
well  as  the  resolutions  which  clarify  its  relationship 
with  the  General  Assembly  and  other  organs  of  the 
United Nations. 
One  more  year  has  elapsed  with  no  significant 

improvements 
just 
enumerated.  Moreover,  the  reporting  practice  of  the 
Security Council  and the  contents of its report remain 
as in the past. The report at hand, like those of previous 
years, refers only to cases where the Council has taken 
action  while  it  clearly  fails  to  address  the  Council’s 
inaction in cases where it should have acted promptly. 
The  crimes  committed  against  the  Palestinian  people 
by  the  Israeli  regime,  which  remains  the  most  serious 
threat  posed  to  regional  and  international  peace  and 
security, are examples of the Council’s failure to act.  

There  may  be  differing  views  among  Member 
States regarding how to enlarge the Security Council or 
how  to  proceed  in  order  to  achieve  that  goal.  There 
may  also  be  divergent  approaches  to  the  question  of 
whether to merely add non-permanent members to the 
Security  Council’s  composition  or 
to  add  both 
permanent and non-permanent members. But there are 
no differences among Member States regarding the fact 
that  the  Council  is  certainly  not  responding  to  the 
needs,  concerns  and  realities  of  the  world  today  and 
should  therefore  be  reformed,  both  in  its  working 
methods and in its decision-making processes, as well 
as  in  its  composition  and  structure. We  all  know  that, 
as  it  stands  today,  the  Security  Council  is  one  of  the 
most  anachronistic  international  bodies  and  that  it 
requires urgent comprehensive reform in order to meet 
today’s needs and requirements. 

We  have  noted  that  over  the  past  few  years, 
mostly  as  a  result  of  the  deliberations  in  the  General 
Assembly’s  Open-ended Working  Group,  certain  steps 
have  been  taken  to  improve  the  Council’s  working 
methods.  The  Security  Council’s  open  debate  on 
27 August  2008  (see  S/PV.5968),  in  which  issues 
related to Council reform were addressed, was another 
important  step  in  that  regard.  However,  it  is  common 
knowledge 
the 
overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States,  genuine 
transparency and real changes in the Council’s working 
methods and decision-making processes have yet to be 
achieved. 

In  the  period  under  review,  we  continued  to 
witness numerous instances in which the Council failed 
that,  despite 
appeals  of 
the 
08-60929 

27 

A/63/PV.54 

to  carry  out  its  responsibilities  vis-à-vis  non-member 
States. Those instances included, inter alia, a continued 
increase  in  the  number  of  the  Council’s  informal 
consultations, far beyond the exception that they were 
intended to be; the Council’s disregard for Article 31 of 
the Charter by refusing to allow non-Council members 
to participate in discussions on matters affecting them 
and  their  interests;  denial  of  the  right  of  the  countries 
concerned to brief the Council regarding their positions 
on  issues  directly  affecting  their  national  interests; 
selective  notification  about  Council  meetings;  failure 
to  convene  regular  daily  briefings;  and  denial  of  the 
right  of  reply  to  countries  against  which  allegations 
were  raised  during  Council  meetings 
in  certain 
formats. Those are  but a few of the shortcomings that 
must be effectively addressed if the Council’s working 
methods are to undergo meaningful reform. 

Even the content of the annex to the note by the 
President of the Security Council (S/2006/507), which 
recommends certain steps — modest and inadequate as 
they are — aimed at improving the Council’s working 
methods, has not been fully implemented. For instance, 
despite the requirement set out in paragraph 42 of that 
document, which calls for consultation by the Council 
with  

“the  broader  United  Nations  membership,  in 
particular  interested  Member  States,  including 
countries  directly 
specifically 
affected  ...  when  drafting,  inter  alia,  resolutions, 
presidential statements and press statements”,  
involved  or 
the  general  membership  and  even 
the  countries 
concerned are, in many cases, kept totally uninformed 
about  the  negotiations  on  resolutions  or  statements 
directly affecting them, let alone asked to express their 
views on the Council’s outcome documents. 

the same document, which stipulates that  

Yet  another  example  relates  to  paragraph  29  of 
“when  non-members  are  invited  to  speak  to  the 
Council,  those  who  have  a  direct  interest  in  the 
outcome  of  the  matter  under  consideration  may 
speak prior to Council members”.  
However,  on  many  occasions, 
the  Council  has 
refrained  from  giving  the  countries  concerned  the 
chance to speak before a vote and instead has allowed 
them to speak only after a decision has been taken by 
the Council  and members  have made their statements. 
Hence, less and less do the Council’s decisions reflect 
as 
the 
in  which 
that  have  hurt 
Security  Council’s 
the  General  Assembly, 
the  wishes  and  views  of  all  United  Nations  Member 
States.  Not  only  that,  but,  in  many  cases,  these 
decisions do not even represent the true opinions of the 
Council’s own membership. 
Whereas,  in  accordance  with  the  United  Nations 

Charter, 
chief 
deliberative, policymaking and representative organ of 
the United Nations, is entrusted primarily with the task 
of  the  progressive  development  and  codification  of 
international law, we have been witnessing an alarming 
trend 
the  Security  Council  has  been 
increasingly  involved  in  law-making  and  norm-setting 
practices. That is a disturbing trend that runs counter to 
the  letter  and  spirit  of  the  Charter  and  that  should  be 
checked and reversed. Unnecessary and quick resort to 
Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter  and  the  threat  or  use  of 
sanctions  in  cases  in  which  no  action  has  even  been 
necessary  are  other  issues  of  concern  to  the  general 
membership 
the  credibility  and 
legitimacy of the Council’s decisions. 

Moreover,  as  rightly  noted  by  the  representative 
of Cuba in his statement on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement, 
increasing 
encroachment  on  the  prerogatives  of  other  principal 
organs  of  the  United  Nations  —  particularly  the 
General  Assembly  and 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  —  and  their  subsidiary  bodies,  as  well  as 
technical  bodies  such  as  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency,  is  also  of  particular  concern  to 
Member States.  

A case in point is the imposition on the Security 
Council by certain permanent Council members of the 
consideration of the peaceful nuclear programme of the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran.  During  the  period  under 
review,  and 
in  a  politically  motivated  move 
orchestrated  by  a  few  of  its  permanent  members,  the 
Council took a number of other unjustifiable and unfair 
measures  against  the  peaceful  nuclear  programme  of 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran.  We  believe  that  the 
Council’s 
nuclear 
programme run counter to the provisions of the United 
Nations  Charter  and  are  unwarranted.  Iran’s  nuclear 
programme  is  absolutely  peaceful  and  cannot  be 
characterized as a threat to peace by any stretch of law, 
fact  or  logic.  Therefore,  it  does  not  fall  within  the 
Council’s purview. 

the 
We  believe 
Security  Council  can  be  achieved  only  by  addressing 
that  meaningful  reform  of 
Iran’s 
peaceful 
the 
actions 
on 
28 

08-60929 
the  General  Assembly  proceeds 


the  aforementioned  shortcomings  and  dealing  in  a 
serious and meaningful manner with the question of the 
underrepresentation  of  developing 
and  Muslim 
countries in the Council.  
Before  concluding,  I  wish  to  stress  that,  as  the 

President  of 
in 
carrying  out  the  difficult  but  important  task  bestowed 
upon  him  —  that  of  moving  forward  the  process  of 
Security  Council  reform  —  he  will  always  find  us 
beside  him,  offering  our  sincere  help  and  constructive 
support. 
Mr.  Heller  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  wish 

to  begin  by  noting  that  Mexico  views  favourably  the 
improvements reflected in the introduction to the report 
that the Security Council is presenting this year to the 
General  Assembly  (A/63/2),  improvements  that  are 
oriented  towards  an  analysis  of  the  work  of  the 
Council’s work and are not confined to description. We 
are  particularly  grateful  to  the  representative  of  Costa 
Rica,  Ambassador  Urbina,  for  introducing  the  report, 
and also to the members of the delegation of Viet Nam 
for  their  efforts  in  this  regard.  As  we  have  stated  on 
earlier  occasions,  we  believe  that  that  should  be  the 
thrust of the report of the Security Council, in order to 
enable  the  General  Assembly  to  effectively  evaluate 
the Council’s activity.  

However,  in  spite  of  the  progress  noted,  the 
report  as  a  whole  continues  to  suffer  from  the  defects 
that, year after year, have been pointed out by various 
delegations and that call into question the usefulness of 
this  exercise.  In  effect,  the  compilation  of  data  and 
documents  published  by  the  Security  Council  in  this 
report  greatly  restricts  the  discussion  and  analysis  of 
the  Council’s  activities,  making  this  tool  a  descriptive 
document  that  offers  little  scope  for  constructive 
participation by Member States.  

The  defects  seen  in  this  report  result  from  the 
working methods of the Security Council, which do not 
clearly  establish  the  direction  that  the  report  should 
take  and  which,  unfortunately,  foster  its  descriptive 
nature. Traditionally, the Council has been reluctant to 
inform 
its  actions. 
However,  the  very  existence  of  this  report  and  its 
recent  evolution  towards  being  a  more  analytical 
document cause us to think that  over time the general 
will will succeed in imposing itself over the traditional 
opacity  that  has  prevailed  in  the  Council. As  we  have 
stated  on  many  occasions, 
the 
the  General  Assembly  about 
strengthening 
A/63/PV.54
Assembly 
would 
finally 
facilitate” 
negotiations 
in 
transparency of the Council and the link between it and 
the Assembly will be among Mexico’s objectives as it 
begins  its  membership  in  the  Council  in  the  near 
future.  

Beyond the analysis of the content of the report, 
this  opportunity  also  enables  us  to  evaluate  the 
question of the reform of the Security Council through 
the activities of the Open-ended Working Group on the 
Question  of  Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase 
in  Membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  Other 
Matters Related to the Security Council. As a result of 
the complex discussions that took place during the last 
few  days  of  the  sixty-second  session,  Member  States 
decided to give a significant impetus to this important 
reform  by  agreeing  that  at  its  sixty-third  session  the 
General 
begin 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  reform  of 
the 
Security Council.  

This  compromise,  arrived  at  by  means  of  a 
common  effort 
to  achieve  a  consensus  solution, 
enabled us to establish a clear sequence for the start of 
intergovernmental 
conditions 
acceptable  to  all.  By  means  of  decision  62/557,  the 
Member  States  agreed  that  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group  would  continue  to  carry  out  its  functions  in 
order to establish the framework and modalities for the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  in  order  to  —  and  I 
quote  from  paragraph  (c)  of  the  decision  —  “prepare 
(see  A/62/47, 
and 
para 23 (c)).  Later,  the  Chairperson  of  the  Working 
Group  will  present  the  result  of  these  consultations  to 
the Assembly, thus preparing the way for the beginning 
of intergovernmental negotiations in February 2009 in 
an informal meeting of the General Assembly. 

We  are  certain  that  that  historic  decision  and 
respect  for  the  calendar  contained  in  it  will  help  to 
achieve  reform  that  is  truly  representative  of  the 
general will and that will embody the broadest possible 
political agreement among the parties. 

Mexico is firmly committed to this process and to 
the  need  to  begin  these  negotiations  in  a  climate  of 
trust  and  mutual  respect,  and  without  arrogance.  For 
this  reason, 
the 
Republic  of  Korea,  we  have  proposed  a  timetable  for 
the  upcoming  meetings  of  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group  that  aims  at  facilitating  discussions  on  the 
principles  and  proceedings  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations,  with  a  view 
firm 
those  negotiations 
the  delegation  of 
to  achieving  a 
together  with 
08-60929 

29 

A/63/PV.54 

agreement  on  their  parameters. We  are  convinced  that 
respect for the sequence embodied in decision 62/557, 
as  noted  yesterday  by  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly,  will  make  it  possible  for  us  to  achieve 
Security  Council  reform  that  will  genuinely  represent 
the interests of all Member States.  

Security  Council  reform  is  a  matter  of  vital 
importance  for  the  reform  of  this  Organization,  and  it 
should  be  understood  within  its  broadest  objectives. 
My  delegation  will  therefore  promote  comprehensive 
reform  of  the  Council  that  improves  its  working 
methods, efficiency and effectiveness, with the goal of 
improving the system of collective security and giving 
it  greater  legitimacy,  always  taking  into  account  the 
broadest  possible  political  agreement  among 
the 
parties.  

In  order  to  achieve  that  objective  and  forge  a 
Council  that  is  truly  representative  of  contemporary 
global  balances,  Mexico  favours  expansion  in  the 
category  of  non-permanent  members  of  the  Council, 
which  would  make  it  possible  for  a  larger  number  of 
States  to  participate  in  the  Council,  particularly  small 
States  and  those  that  have  never  taken  part  in  the 
Council’s  work.  In  a  similar  vein,  we  believe  that  an 
increase  in  the  number  of  permanent  seats  would 
generate  fresh  inequalities  and  discrimination  within 
the Organization and would affect the effectiveness of 
the work of the Council. 

Democratization  and  accountability  are,  for  my 
delegation, fundamental elements in any reform of the 
Security  Council,  always  upholding  an  equitable 
geographical  distribution  of  the  States  participating  in 
that  body.  Therefore  we  continue  to  be  in  favour  of 
introducing  the  principle  of  re-election,  which  would 
guarantee a more frequent presence of those States that 
are most ready to play an active role in the items on the 
Council’s agenda and, in parallel, would help to ensure 
accountability  on 
the  non-permanent 
members.  

We are embarking on a new phase in the history 
of reform, and we should welcome it with commitment 
the  Open-ended 
and  with  caution.  The  work  of 
Working  Group 
the  framework  and 
modalities  for  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  that 
will  begin  shortly  will  be  fundamental  if  we  are  to 
achieve successful reform. 

Mexico  is  committed  to  reform  of  the  Security 
Council, and we assure the Assembly once again of our 
full readiness to participate in the consultations that the 
presidency  may  consider  necessary  and  to  cooperate 
the  part  of 
to  establish 
to  speak 
A  representative  has  requested 
I call on the representative of Morocco. 
Mr. Chabar (Morocco) (spoke in French): Given 
the  Assembly’s 
lateness  of 
with a constructive and purposeful spirit in the design 
of a process that will enable us to move forward at this 
definitive moment for the future of the Organization. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  in  the  debate  on  the  agenda  item  for  this 
meeting.  We  shall  continue  the  debate  on  this  item 
tomorrow morning at 10 a.m.  

in 
exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  I  remind  the Assembly 
that  statements  made  in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply 
are limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and 
to five minutes for the second intervention and should 
be made by delegations from their seats. 


the 
the  hour,  I  beg 
indulgence. I will not be very long.  

Once  more,  Algeria  has  given  us  a  deliberately 
biased  and  narrow  viewpoint  on  the  question  of  the 
Sahara.  This  time,  that  viewpoint  borders  on  the 
ridiculous,  proceeding  as  it  does  with  a  deliberately 
selective  reading  of  the  situation,  which  itself  has  its 
roots  in  the  bad  faith  that,  unfortunately,  we  are 
accustomed to from that neighbouring country. 

On  the  question  of  the  Sahara,  my  delegation 
would like to recall that the Security Council has been 
working  on 
three 
fundamental  and  substantive  resolutions.  First,  the 
Council took note of the autonomy proposal submitted 
by  Morocco  and  welcomed  the  serious  and  credible 
efforts  that  my  country  has  made  to  develop  that 
proposal. Secondly, the Council called on the parties to 
engage  in  substantive  negotiations  in  order  to  bring 
about  a  negotiated  political  settlement  of 
their 
differences.  Thirdly,  the  Council  called  on  the  parties 
to exhibit realism and a spirit of  compromise in order 
to  achieve  progress  towards  a  final  solution  of  this 
regional dispute.  

We  are  pleased  that  the  General  Assembly, 
through  resolution  62/116  of  2007  and  now  Fourth 
Committee  draft  resolution  A/C.4/63/L.7,  shares  the 
same approach as the Security Council and adheres to 
the  recommended  path  to  solve,  once  and  for  all,  the 
regional dispute that has lasted too long. My delegation 
would  also 
the  current 
dynamic — which has been very much triggered by the 
Moroccan  proposal,  in  spite  of  the  neighbouring 
country  —  has  led  to  four  rounds  of  negotiations  and 
issue  and  has  adopted 
this 
like 
to  emphasize 
that 
30 

08-60929 


consequently  to  a  process  that  is  now  being  fully 
supported by the international community. 

We have reached a critical point in the treatment 
of  this  issue  by  the  United  Nations.  The  international 
community has the political and moral duty to support 
it  and  encourage  it  fully,  because  it  concerns  the 
stability of a region that is confronted today with new 
threats, such as terrorism. My country remains actively 
involved  in  the  search  for  a  political  solution  to  this 
dispute, 
accordance  with  Security  Council 
resolutions,  the  tenor  of  which  is  now  shared  by  the 
General Assembly. 
in 
A/63/PV.54

With that in view, we hope that Algeria will desist 
once  and  for  all  from  the  duplicity  that  has  always 
marked its position in this regional dispute. We believe 
that trying to blunt every serious chance of settlement 
is  not  the  best  way  to  achieve  the  solution  so  sought 
after by the international community. It is not a way to 
bring about a Maghreb reconciled with itself and ready 
to  take  up  the  challenges,  which  today  are  democracy 
and the building of a space of shared prosperity. That is 
the appeal that the Kingdom of Morocco makes today 
to Algeria. 
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.  
08-60929 

31 
