
A/63/PV.42
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

42nd plenary meeting 
Monday, 10 November 2008, at 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .


(Nicaragua) 
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 




Agenda item 114 (continued)
Cooperation between the United Nations and 
regional and other organizations 
  (n)  Cooperation between the United Nations and 


take  great  pleasure 
the  representative  of 
the League of Arab States 
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.20) 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  give  the 
the  Libyan  Arab 
to 


floor 
Jamahiriya to introduce draft resolution A/63/L.20. 
Mr.  Ettalhi  (Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  Mr.  President,  I 
in 
congratulating  you  for  the  second  time  on  your  wise, 
effective  conduct  of  this  sixty-third  session  of  the 
General  Assembly.  On  behalf  of  my  country,  the 
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, in its capacity as Chairman of 
the Arab Group for the month of November 2008, and 
on  behalf  of Algeria,  Bahrain,  the  Comoros,  Djibouti, 
Egypt,  Iraq,  Jordan,  Kuwait,  Lebanon,  Mauritania, 
Morocco,  Oman,  Qatar,  Saudi  Arabia,  Somalia,  the 
Sudan,  the  Syrian Arab  Republic,  Tunisia,  the  United 
Arab  Emirates  and  Yemen,  I  have  the  honour  of 
introducing  draft 
entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
League of Arab States”. 

The  draft  resolution  emphasizes  the  need  to 
strengthen cooperation between the United Nations and 
other  organizations  and  specialized  agencies  of  the 
United  Nations  system  and  the  League  of Arab  States 

resolution  A/63/L.20, 
in  order  to  achieve  the  common  goals  of  the  two 
organizations.  It  also  requests  the  Secretariat  of  the 
United  Nations  and  the  General  Secretariat  of  the 
League of Arab States, within their respective fields of 
competence,  to  intensify  further  their  cooperation  for 
the realization of the purposes and principles embodied 
in the Charter of the United Nations, the strengthening 
of  international  peace  and  security,  economic  and 
social  development,  disarmament,  decolonization, 
self-determination  and  the  eradication  of  all  forms  of 
racism and racial discrimination. 

Draft  resolution  A/63/L.20  also  calls  upon  the 
specialized  agencies  and  other  organizations  and 
programmes  of  the  United  Nations  system  to  increase 
their  cooperation  with  the  League  of Arab  States  and 
its  specialized  organizations  in  the  priority  sectors  of 
energy,  rural  development,  desertification  and  green 
belts,  training  and  vocational  education,  technology, 
environment,  information  and  documentation,  trade 
and  finance,  water  resources,  development  of  the 
agricultural sector, empowerment of women, transport, 
communications and information, promotion of the role 
of the private sector and capacity-building.  

It  also  encourages  periodic  consultation  between 
representatives of the Secretariat of the United Nations 
and  of  the  General  Secretariat  of  the  League  of Arab 
States in order to strengthen coordination mechanisms 
between the two organizations. 

We  hope  that  the  draft  resolution  will  enjoy  the 
support of all delegations, and we are sure that it will 
be  adopted  by  consensus,  because  it  seeks  greater 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-59517 (E) 
*0859517* 

May  I  take  it  that  the  General Assembly  decides 
A/63/PV.42 

international  cooperation  towards  achieving  the  goals 
of the United Nations, in accordance with the text and 
spirit of the Organization’s Charter. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will now take a decision on draft resolution A/63/L.20. 

Before  proceeding  to  the  vote,  I  should  like  to 
announce  that,  since  the  introduction  of  the  draft 
resolution, Bosnia and Herzegovina has joined the list 
of sponsors. 

to adopt draft resolution A/63/L.20? 

Draft 
(resolution 63/17). 
The  President (spoke in Spanish): May I take it 

that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude 
its consideration of sub-item (n) of agenda item 114? 


in  Spanish):  Before 
proceeding  to  the  next  agenda  item,  I  would  like  to 
appeal  to  those  Member  States  intending  to  submit 
draft resolutions on the remaining sub-items of agenda 
item 114 to do so as soon as possible. 
It was so decided. 
The  President
resolution  A/63/L.20  was 
adopted 
(spoke 





Agenda item 17 
The situation in Afghanistan 

  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/372) 

  Draft resolution (A/63/L.17) 

The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
floor  to  the  representative  of  Germany  to  introduce 
draft resolution A/63/L.17. 
Mr.  Matussek  (Germany): As  in  previous  years, 

Germany  has  the  honour  to  introduce  today  the  draft 
resolution on the situation in Afghanistan (A/63/L.17). 
The  draft  resolution  is  the  result  of  several  weeks  of 
intensive  consultations  in  the  General Assembly.  First 
of all, I would like to thank all the delegations involved 
for  their  constructive  input  and  their  never-ending 
spirit of cooperation. 
We  fullу  support  the  statement  that  will  be 

delivered  by  the  French  presidency  of  the  European 
Union. However, as facilitator, Germany would like to 
highlight the following aspects.  
and 
The 
the  very 
development 
reconstruction 

of 
Afghanistan  is  at  the  heart  of  the  efforts  of  the 
international  community.  Our  common  objective  is  to 
help  to  improve  the  everyday  lives  of  Afghans.  By 
adopting  the  draft  resolution  by  consensus  we,  the 
members  of  the  General  Assembly,  can  once  again 
emphasize  our  solidarity  with  the  Afghan  people  and 
send a strong message of support for the efforts of the 
international  community  to  help  the  Afghan  people 
rebuild  their  country  and  develop  their  democratic 
society after devastating years of Taliban terror. 

Seven  years  ago,  Afghanistan  was  a  country 
where  the  population  generally  did  not  have  access  to 
basic  health  services,  where  human  rights  were 
violated  and  where  women  were  denied  access  to 
education or public office. Against that background, we 
can  clearly  acknowledge 
important  and 
encouraging achievements of the Afghan Government, 
supported  by  the  international  community.  Today, 
85 per  cent  of  the  Afghan  population  has  access  to 
medical  treatment;  roads,  schools,  bridges  and  water 
infrastructure  have  been  built  or  reconstructed;  and 
large  parts  of  the  country  have  been  successfully 
cleared  of  landmines.  To  all  those  who  want  to 
question  the  successes  achieved  in  Afghanistan,  our 
answer  is:  Every  strip  of  land  that  is  cultivated  by  a 
farmer again, every child that can attend school again, 
every new hospital and every kilometre of new road is 
a small victory of humanity. 

The  Paris  Declaration  provides  the  strategy  and 
road  map  for  the  renewed  and  strengthened  efforts  of 
the  Government  of  Afghanistan  and  the  international 
community in facing the remaining challenges. And we 
stress  the  importance  of  the  Paris  commitments  being 
translated  into  concrete  political  action  in  a  timely 
fashion. 

We  strongly  support  the  concept  of  increasing 
Afghan  ownership  in  all  aspects  of  governance,  as 
exemplified  in  the  launch of  the Afghanistan  National 
Development Strategy, and we would like to recall that 
the Afghanistan Compact will remain the agreed basis 
of  our  work.  Germany  clearly  welcomes  the  leading 
role  of  the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in 
Afghanistan 
Special 
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General,  Kai  Eide,  in 
coordinating the international civilian effort. 

I would like to underline the need to ensure that 
UNAMA is adequately resourced to fulfil its extended 
(UNAMA) 
and 
the 
of 
2 

08-59517 
has 
the  umbrella  of 


mandate.  Germany 
supported  UNAMA 
substantially from its inception and we will continue to 
do so. On the part of the Afghan Government, we see a 
need  for  further  efforts  to  improve  governance  across 
the  board.  We  encourage  the  Afghan  Government  to 
take  further  decisive  action  in  combating  terrorism, 
drug  production  and  trafficking,  including  precursors 
to drugs, and corruption and to continue the reform of 
the  justice  sector  in  order  to  be  able  to  continue  to 
meaningfully improve the human rights situation. 

In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  recent  decisions 
of  the  Afghan  Government  reflecting  the  invigorated 
political will to strengthen the fight against corruption, 
build  up  the  Afghan  National  Police  and  enhance 
economic growth through rural development.  

Germany  is  strongly  committed  to  continuing  its 
comprehensive  support  of  the  international  efforts 
under 
the  United  Nations.  My 
Government recently increased its development aid for 
Afghanistan to a total of approximately €170 million in 
2008, representing an increase of €30 million. Also, the 
funds for humanitarian aid and humanitarian demining 
have been significantly increased in 2008 to more than 
€15 million.  

In  light  of  the  imminent  food  crisis,  we  have 
made  available  additional  funds  at  short  notice. 
Germany  decided 
its 
personnel  for  the  International  Security  Assistance 
Force  (ISAF)  to  4,500  soldiers  —  an  increase  of 
1,000 soldiers.  At  the  same  time,  we  are  ready  to 
double  the  number  of  German  police  officers  in  the 
framework  of  the  European  Union  Police  Mission  in 
Afghanistan 
to 
reinforce the Mission. 
The  international  community  is  appalled  by  the 

significant increase in the number of attacks against aid 
workers, convoys and facilities, as stated in the recent 
report  of  the  Secretary-General.  As  reflected  in  the 
draft  resolution,  we  share  great  concern  about  the 
number  of  civilian  casualties,  mainly  because  of  the 
increased  violent  and  terrorist  activity  of  the  Taliban, 
Al-Qaida and other extremist and criminal groups and 
their asymmetric tactics. ISAF has taken the necessary 
steps  to  minimize  the  risk  of  unintended  civilian 
casualties and has installed procedures for after-action 
review. We recognize the need for continued efforts by 
the  international  forces  to  avoid  civilian  casualties 
during military operations.  
the  Union’s  efforts 
substantially 
line  with 
increase 
to 
in 
the 
A/63/PV.42
to 
the 
road 
security 
improve 
towards  peace, 
living  conditions 

Intensified and improved regional cooperation in 
all fields will be key to the success of all international 
assistance 
in 
Afghanistan. We would like to take the opportunity to 
encourage  all  regional  partners  to  continue  their 
initiatives towards improved regional cooperation in all 
fields. 

Last  but  not  least,  I  would  like  to  express  my 
sincere gratitude to all the women and men involved in 
the  work  on  the  ground  in Afghanistan,  whether  they 
be  security  personnel,  humanitarian  aid  workers, 
diplomats  or  others.  They  serve  in  order  to  help  to 
create a better future for the people of Afghanistan and 
for all of us. They deserve our greatest respect. 

In conclusion, I would like to extend my heartfelt 
thanks  to  my  colleague Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  and 
his  Minister  Counsellor,  Erfani  Ayoob,  for  their  trust 
and  friendship  and  for  the  excellent  cooperation  we 
have  been  privileged  to  encounter,  and  not  only  in 
recent  days.  May  Afghanistan  successfully  continue 
down 
and 
development.  The  upcoming  elections  will  be  an 
important step for their country. 
The  General  Assembly’s  approval  of  the  draft 

resolution 
the 
international  community remains willing and prepared 
to actively assist the Afghan delegation and its country 
in that endeavour. 
Mr. Tanin (Afghanistan): It is a great honour for 

me  to  address  the  Assembly  on  the  occasion  of  the 
consideration  of  the  annual  resolution  on  the  situation 
in Afghanistan. I would like to thank the delegation of 
Germany  for  their  dedicated  work  in  drafting  and 
negotiating  the  draft  resolution  before  us  (A/63/L.17) 
and to convey my gratitude for the support of all of its 
sponsors. With  the  draft,  their  voices  have  spoken  out 
in  renewed  solidarity  with  a  stronger,  more  peaceful 
Afghanistan. 
than  seven  years  since 

international forces entered our country. With so much 
time  having  passed,  and  with  so  much  focus  on 
particular  complexities,  we  may  sometimes  lose  sight 
of 
in 
Afghanistan. 

in 
Afghanistan  to  prevent  the  malady  of  terrorism  from 
infesting  a  nation  and  the  world.  We  are  here  to 
the  original  noble  purpose  of  our  work 
that  noble  purpose?  We  are 
today  will  be  a  clear  sign 
It  has  been  more 
What 
is 
that 
08-59517 

3 

sanctuaries 
A/63/PV.42 

proclaim  together  that  never  again  will  the  Taliban 
regime have control of a country and crush the hopes, 
dreams and lives of its own people. Never again should 
Al-Qaida  have 
in  Afghanistan  and 
elsewhere to project its extremist terror with the aim of 
killing thousands of innocent people across the world. 

We are also here so that the region and the world 
can  enjoy  the  new  wealth  and  prosperity  of  a  stable 
Afghanistan  that  can  offer  new  avenues  for  economic 
cooperation  and  trade  routes.  We  are  here  so  that  a 
strong  Afghanistan  can  serve  as  an  example  of  a 
democratic Islamic country that can unite communities 
and peoples of all faiths and cultures. 

Let  us  carry  that  original  purpose  as  the  torch 
lighting  the  way  against  the  dark  challenges  that  lie 
before  us 
today.  Those  challenges  are  critical. 
Terrorists  are  committing  increasingly  brutal  acts, 
killing  teachers,  aid  workers  and  families.  Terrorist 
activities  also  have  an  increasingly  strong  correlation 
with crime and narcotics. In addition, the Government 
of  Afghanistan  faces  serious  obstacles  in  its  quest  to 
fight  corruption,  hold  elections,  build  a  strong  justice 
sector  and 
increase  economic  development.  Most 
importantly,  a  food  shortage  is  threatening  more  than 
8 million Afghans this coming winter, which is only a 
few weeks away. 

Simultaneously,  the  world  is  facing  the  worst 
financial and credit crisis since the Second World War. 
Just as terrorism poses a threat without boundaries, the 
financial squeeze is affecting us all. While Afghanistan 
is 
international 
ramifications, there is also a tightening of resources. It 
seems that we must do more with less. 

To meet that challenge, we in Afghanistan need to 
embark  on  a  smart  and  sustainable  strategy  that  can 
harness our resources most effectively. Such a strategy 
must always be guided primarily by the interests of the 
people of Afghanistan and have as its foremost goal the 
creation of a self-sustaining nation. The strategy should 
have the following components. 

First, Afghan ownership should increase at every 
level  and  in  every  dimension.  The  Afghan  National 
Army and National Police must increase in number and 
in strength for Afghans to protect Afghans. To that end, 
the Government of Afghanistan has ambitious goals to 
increase  training,  develop  a  comprehensive  reform 
strategy  and  expand  the  size  of  our  army  to  134,000 
fighting  serious  challenges  with 
to 
to 
troops by the year 2010. To meet those goals, we need 
continued international support. 

In  addition,  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  is 
fighting  corruption  through  the  reorganization  of  its 
ministries,  the  work  of  an  Independent  Directorate  of 
Local Governance and the launching of  a High Office 
of  Oversight 
to  combat  corruption.  International 
support for those Government initiatives would allow it 
to  improve  the  delivery  of  national  services  to  the 
Afghan people. 
The  Government  of  Afghanistan  also  aims  to 

increase  Afghan  ownership  of  reconstruction  and 
development  efforts.  While  international  support  is 
necessary  to  strengthen  our  agricultural  sector,  create 
new infrastructure projects and sources  of energy, and 
find  new  areas  for  local  economy,  we  hope  that 
international  support  will  increasingly  be  delivered 
through 
the  framework  provided  by  our  Afghan 
National Development Strategy. 
Furthermore,  the  upcoming  elections  are  a  most 

important  opportunity 
increase  ownership  of 
Afghanistan  by  qualified  Afghans.  Fair,  credible  and 
timely  elections  are  essential 
strengthening 
legitimacy  and  creating  a  self-sustaining Afghanistan. 
However, security is the main precondition for holding 
elections.  The  Government  of  Afghanistan  is  hoping 
for  the  support  of  the  international  community  in  its 
efforts to provide that security. 

The  ingredients  of  a  political  solution  to  the 
situation  in  Afghanistan  must  involve  the  Afghan 
people and their communities. In order for any talks for 
reconciliation  and  the  peace  process  to  be  successful, 
we  must  win  the  confidence  of  the Afghan  people  by 
including them substantively in the process. 

should 
refocus  on  the  overall  security  of  the  Afghan  people. 
The  Government  of  Afghanistan  recognizes  the  need 
for  increased  international  troops  to  quell  today’s 
insecurity.  To  ensure  that  the  increase  in  international 
involvement  would  effectively  protect  the  Afghan 
people,  we  should  ascertain  that,  first,  international 
troops in Afghanistan should expand their focus. Their 
goal  must  go  beyond  the  targeting  of  the  Taliban;  the 
goal should be to protect the comprehensive security of 
the  Afghan  people.  Moreover,  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan  urges  that  any  increase  in  deployment  of 
troops  be  accomplished  through  further  collaboration 
with  the  Government.  Thirdly,  international  troops 
international 
involvement 
Secondly, 
4 

08-59517 
In  addition, 
in  Afghanistan  (UNAMA) 


need  to  review  the  problem  of  civilian  casualties. 
Although the Taliban are the reason for the majority of 
civilian casualties, the international forces for their part 
can do more to reduce the risk of civilian casualties. To 
build a self-sustaining Afghanistan, the people must be 
able to trust their Government and its allies to protect 
their lives and their families. 

the  Government  of  Afghanistan 
deeply  appreciates  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations 
Assistance  Mission 
to 
address the human development component of security. 
Its  mandate  of  delivering  aid  more  effectively  is  an 
enormously  important  one  at  this  time  of  limited 
resources.  But  in  order  for  Kai  Eide  and  UNAMA  to 
accomplish that task, the financial resources they need 
to  operate  effectively  must  be  addressed  by  Member 
States. In turn, the Government of Afghanistan pledges 
to continue to work collaboratively with UNAMA. 

Thirdly, a re-emphasis on regional partnerships is 
necessary. The  challenges Afghanistan  faces  today  are 
regional  challenges.  The  Taliban  and  Al-Qaida,  the 
movement  of  refugees  and  the  narcotics  trade  are 
transborder  problems.  Moreover,  regional  solutions 
promise great regional benefits in the areas of security, 
trade, energy, infrastructure and more positive people-
to-people relationships. Thus, we should strive together 
to find regional solutions to our shared challenges. Our 
first priority is the relationship Afghanistan shares with 
our  friends  in  Pakistan. They  suffer  equal  harm  at  the 
hands  of  the  Taliban  and  Al-Qaida.  To  fight  the 
terrorists  who  would  kill  our  people,  we  must  work 
together 
sanctuaries.  The 
Government  of  Afghanistan  increasingly  recognizes 
that the only lasting peace is one that is forged together 
with  our  allies  in  the  region. Thus,  the  support  of  the 
international  community  for  such  regional  efforts  is 
essential. 

At  this  time  of  great  challenge,  there  is  also 
reason  for  great  hope.  Over  the  past  seven  years,  we 
have  taken  some  significant  steps  forward.  We  have 
health 
built 
and 
telecommunications 
infrastructure.  We  are  making 
progress on human rights and the rule of law. Even as 
we  speak,  we  are  seeing  a  breakthrough  in  counter-
narcotics efforts.  

As we stated in October, the Taliban is fighting a 
war  of  perception.  Its  goal  is  to  persuade  the Afghan 
people  that  the  international  community  is  failing, 
eliminate 
schools, 
clinics, 
roads 
to 
their 
A/63/PV.42
in 
conveyed  by  news 
especially  at  this  time  of  transition  following  the 
elections in the United States. To counter that, we must 
be  equally  vigilant  in  demonstrating  our  successes  to 
the  Afghan  people.  We  know  that  there  are  two 
Afghanistans:  one 
reports 
broadcasting  only  the  atrocities;  another  experienced 
by  millions  of  Afghans  building  daily  lives  in  peace. 
Let  us  not  forget  this  second Afghanistan.  Our  efforts 
are not in vain and we are making progress. 
Today is also a day of great hope because there is 

a  new  beginning 
two  of  Afghanistan’s  most 
important  allies.  With  Pakistan’s  new  President,  His 
Excellency Mr. Asif Ali Zardari, we are witnessing the 
first moves towards collaboration and cooperation that 
we  hope  will  lead  to  peace  and  security.  With  the 
United States, we welcome the recent historic election 
and  look  forward  to  working  with  the  President-elect, 
Mr.  Barack  Obama.  We  appreciate  the  continued 
support of the United States in Afghanistan. 

Today is a most important day. We have reminded 
ourselves of the original noble purpose of our work in 
Afghanistan. Success in Afghanistan is as vital today as 
it was seven years ago. And, in the context of a global 
financial crisis, we have identified the components of a 
smart and sustainable strategy to harness our resources 
most effectively. 

For  our  part,  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  is 
fully  and  absolutely  dedicated  to  creating  a  stronger 
Afghanistan.  Every  international  commitment  made 
today  to  meeting  the  objectives  of  today’s  draft 
resolution  will  be  matched  twofold  by  efforts  on  the 
part  of  our  Government.  In  the  upcoming  months,  let 
us  together  have  the  courage  to  determinedly  and 
resolutely  walk  the  path  towards  a  self-sustaining, 
peaceful, prosperous and democratic Afghanistan. 
Mr. Ripert (France) (spoke in French): I have the 

honour  to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
European  Union.  Croatia,  Albania,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina,  Iceland,  Moldavia,  Montenegro,  Serbia, 
Turkey  and  Ukraine  align 
this 
declaration,  the  detailed  text  of  which  has  been 
distributed. I will limit myself to making a few points. 

The  annual  resolution  of  the  General  Assembly 
on the situation in Afghanistan is an opportunity for the 
its  unanimous 
international  community 
commitment 
stable, 
prosperous and democratic Afghanistan. We understand 
the scale of the challenges that must be met in order to 
the  consolidation  of  a 
themselves  with 
to  show 
to 
08-59517 

5 

in 
It 
specifically 
coordination 
is  embodied  by 
the 
is  essential 
A/63/PV.42 

achieve  those  objectives.  This  is  the  time  not  to  lose 
heart,  however,  but  for  patient  and  determined  action. 
We  thank  the  German  delegation,  the  principal  author 
of  the  draft  resolution  before  us  (A/63/L.17),  which 
was  able  to  achieve  a  consensus  that  reflects  the 
international community’s resolve.

The  United  Nations  plays  a  leading  role  in 
Afghanistan,  which 
the  Special 
Representative of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kai Eide, 
who  enjoys  the  full  support  of  the  European  Union. 
The United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan 
(UNAMA)  has  been  entrusted  with  an  enhanced 
of 
mandate, 
international  assistance. 
that  all 
international actors actively support that role. We must 
also  give  UNAMA  adequate  financial  and  human 
resources. 

The  developments  of  recent  months  present 
mixed results. We have seen real progress, in particular 
in the continued strengthening of the Afghan  National 
Army,  in  the  economic  area  and  in  the  fight  against 
narcotics  trafficking.  However,  there  also  continue  to 
be several  areas of  concern: the security situation, the 
risk  of  a  humanitarian  crisis  and  the  human  rights 
situation.  The  problem  of  good  governance  remains  a 
challenge  that  will  require  increased  efforts.  We  are 
also  concerned  about  the  issue  of  civilian  casualties. 
Let us not forget that the vast majority of those victims 
is  caused  by  the  indiscriminate  violence  of  terrorists 
and  extremists.  Nonetheless,  the  European  Union  is 
aware of the need for international forces to vigorously 
pursue efforts to avoid all civilian casualties.  

The  difficulties  of  the  situation  should  not, 
however,  obscure  the  progress  made  over  the  past 
seven years in the economic and social sectors as well 
as  in  the  consolidation  of  democratic  institutions. The 
Afghan  people  clearly  expressed  their  choice  for 
democracy  and  stability  in  2004  and  2005.  We  are 
ready 
the  Afghan 
authorities in preparation for the elections in 2009 and 
2010. 
We  share  the  sense  of  urgency  expressed  by  the 

Secretary-General 
(A/63/372).  The 
international  community  and  Afghanistan  have  a 
strategy, defined in London in 2006 and now continued 
in  the Afghan  National  Development  Strategy,  as  well 
as  a 
International 
Conference  in  support  of Afghanistan  held  in  Paris  in 
to  provide  strong  support 
road  map  developed  at 
in  his 
report 
to 
the 
To 
through 
implement 
It  contributes 
June  2008.  The  road  map  is  based  on  a  renewed 
partnership  centred  on  mutual  commitments  to  better 
take into account the specific needs of the population.  

those  commitments,  decisive 
measures  must  be  taken  rapidly,  not  only  by  the 
international  community  but  also  by 
the  Afghan 
authorities. The Afghan authorities will need to assume 
an  increasing  share  of  the  responsibility  and,  to  that 
end,  they  must  step  up  efforts  to  improve  governance 
and fight corruption. 
Afghanistan and the United Nations can count on 

the  unwavering  commitment  of  the  European  Union, 
which is the second largest financial contributor to the 
reconstruction  of  Afghanistan. 
in 
particular to building the capacity of the Afghan police, 
particularly 
the  European  Union  Police 
Mission  in  Afghanistan  (EUPOL),  which  will  be 
significantly  strengthened.  EUPOL  acts  in  full  respect 
of the leading role taken by the Afghan authorities and 
in close cooperation with the other international actors.  

With regard to the military situation, 25 member 
countries  of  the  European  Union  participate  in  the 
International  Security  Assistance  Force 
(ISAF). 
Together, 
total  ISAF 
contingent.  They  renewed  their  commitment  at  the 
NATO summit in Bucharest. 
I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the  courage  and 

determination  of  the  soldiers  who  are  fighting  in  our 
name,  often  at  the  cost  of  their  lives.  I  would  like  to 
express my condolences to the Spanish Government, to 
the victims and to the families of the two soldiers who 
died  in  an  attack  on  Sunday.  I  would  also  like  to 
recognize  the  work  of  all  humanitarian  personnel,  of 
both 
the  United  Nations  and  non-governmental 
organizations,  who  operate  in  increasingly  dangerous 
conditions and who also often risk their lives.  

If a solution to the challenges facing Afghanistan 
is to be sustainable, it must be political. To that end, we 
must  develop  a  comprehensive  approach  based  on  a 
better  integration  of  civilian  and  military  efforts.  The 
European  Union  encourages  the  development  of  a 
national political dialogue with as broad a participation 
as  possible  at  all  levels.  That  dialogue  should  be 
conducted in full respect of the Constitution and under 
the leadership of Afghan authorities.  

intrinsically 
linked to the stability of the region. In that regard, we 
they  compose  half  of 
in  Afghanistan 
Stability 
is  also 
the 
6 

08-59517 
the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan, 


welcome the strengthening of the cooperation between 
Afghanistan and its neighbours against such threats as 
terrorism and drug trafficking. 

The  European  Union  noted  with  interest  the 
peace jirga between Pakistan and Afghan officials held 
on 27 and 28 October. The European Union expresses 
its  support  for  that  hopeful  process.  The  European 
Union also marks its appreciation for the efforts by the 
Pakistani authorities to deny access to their territory to 
terrorist  groups  targeting  Afghanistan  and  encourages 
both countries to step up their cooperation. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  the 
resolute commitment of the European Union in support 
of  the  efforts  of  the  Afghan  people  so  that  they  may 
attain  peace,  security  and  development  as  soon  as 
possible. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian): It is a great honour for me to speak on behalf 
of  the  States  members  of  the  Shanghai  Cooperation 
Organization (SCO), namely, the People’s Republic of 
China, 
the  Kyrgyz 
Republic,  the  Russian  Federation,  the  Republic  of 
Tajikistan and the Republic of Uzbekistan. 

Our  countries  maintain  long-standing  and  close 
relations  with  Afghanistan.  One  of  the  important 
priorities  of  the  activities  of  the  SCO  is  to  provide 
assistance  in  developing  Afghanistan’s  new  statehood 
and  to  establish  sustainable  democratic  institutions  in 
that  country.  As  close  neighbours  of  Afghanistan,  we 
are of course concerned about the serious problems and 
challenges  that  State  faces  today,  as  they  adversely 
affect  the  situation  in  the  region.  The  continuing 
deterioration  of  the  military  and  political  situation  in 
Afghanistan and the increasing rise in drug trafficking, 
transborder  organized  crime  and  other  threats  call  for 
concerted action by the international community. 
The  member  States  of  our  Organization  have 

been 
and 
multilaterally,  in  efforts  to  help  provide  security  and 
stability  on  the  territory  of  Afghanistan  and  to  assist 
with  its  social  and  economic  reconstruction.  We  will 
continue  to  use  the  organization’s Afghanistan  contact 
group and other mechanisms to halt threats emanating 
from the territory of that country. 

The security situation remains a source of serious 
concern,  given  the  intensified  terrorist  activity  by  the 
Taliban,  Al-Qaida  forces  and  other  extremists.  The 
bilaterally 
involved, 
actively 
both 
A/63/PV.42
leaving  open 
scale of terrorist attacks in Kabul and other regions of 
the  country  and  the  increasingly  frequent  attacks  on 
humanitarian  personnel  and  United  Nations  staff 
members  are  evidence  of  aggression  by  radical  forces 
who  are  striving  to  gain  power  and  who  are  ready  to 
sacrifice  the  lives  of  peaceful  civilians  in  order  to 
achieve their goals and gain control over the country. 

In that context, we believe it is essential that we 
not  reverse  the  policy  of  isolating  extremist  leaders, 
especially  those  who  are  on  the  sanctions  list  of  the 
Security  Council  Committee  established  pursuant  to 
resolution  1267  (1999),  while 
the 
opportunity for rank-and-file Taliban members who are 
not  tainted  by  military  crimes  to  return  to  peaceful 
lives. It is only on the basis of that understanding that 
the process of national reconciliation can be effective. 

We  pay  special  attention  to  combating  drug 
trafficking, which has become one of the main sources 
of  financing  terrorist  activities.  Increasingly,  terrorists 
and  drug  dealers  coordinate  their  activities  closely. At 
the  same  time,  unfortunately,  international  efforts  to 
combat  the  illicit  production  of,  and  trafficking  in, 
drugs  from 
territory  of  Afghanistan  remain 
ineffective.  The  large-scale  production  of  drugs  in 
Afghanistan  poses  a 
the  entire 
international community.  

In that context, we think it important to intensify 
antidrug  efforts  both  on  the  territory  of  Afghanistan 
itself  —  including  the  destruction  of  drug  crops,  the 
introduction  of 
prosecution  of  drug  dealers, 
alternative  agricultural  crops  and  efforts 
to  curb 
unemployment — as well as around it, by setting up a 
system  of  antidrug  and  financial  security  belts,  with  a 
coordinating  role  for  the  United  Nations  and  with  the 
involvement of neighbouring countries. It is not just by 
intercepting  drug  shipments  that  we  will  achieve  our 
goals, but also by tightening control over transnational 
money  transfers  derived  from  the  proceeds  of  illicit 
drug  trafficking,  money  laundering  and  other  criminal 
activities, including the financing of terrorism. 

SCO  States  believe  that  it  is  necessary  for  the 
International  Security Assistance  Force  (ISAF),  which 
is  deployed  in  Afghanistan  under  a  Security  Council 
mandate, 
task  of 
countering 
in, 
Afghan  drugs  —  of  course,  in  cooperation  with  the 
Government  of  Afghanistan  and  neighbouring  and 
other  concerned  countries. 
that 
the  production  of,  and  smuggling 
to  pay  more  attention 
important 
threat 
real 
to 
the 
It 
is 
the 
to 
the 
08-59517 

7 
involved 
in 
providing 
interested 
assistance 
and  other 
A/63/PV.42 

resolution 1833 (2008), which was recently adopted by 
the  Security  Council,  focuses  the  efforts  of  ISAF  on 
strengthening  cooperation  with  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan 
stakeholders, 
including  regional  ones.  Given  the  close  link  between 
terrorist  activities  and  drug  production,  ISAF’s  efforts 
will not be fully effective without combating the drug 
threat. 

We  are  continuing  our  joint  efforts  to  establish 
close  interaction  with  other  interested  countries  and 
international  and  regional  organizations  to  establish  a 
broad partnership network to counter terrorist and drug 
threats.  We  are  making  practical  preparations  for  a 
special  conference  on  Afghanistan,  to  be  convened 
under  the  aegis  of  the  SCO,  to  discuss  joint  efforts 
aimed  at  countering  terrorism,  illicit  drug  trafficking 
and  organized  crime.  We  hope  that  that  initiative  will 
be  supported  by  the  United  Nations  and  all  the  States 
actively 
to 
Afghanistan. 

We share the Secretary-General’s opinion that the 
civilian  population  of  Afghanistan  must  be  afforded 
protection  not  only  from  terrorists  but  also  from  the 
unintended  consequences  of  the  operations  of  the 
coalition  forces.  Incidents  involving  civilians,  which 
have  become  more  frequent  recently,  are  undermining 
the  trust  of  the  local  population  in  the  international 
efforts  in  Afghanistan.  It  is  essential  that  ISAF  take 
measures to prevent the deaths of peaceful civilians as 
a result of the indiscriminate or excessive use of force, 
including bombings.  

In that regard, we should like to emphasize once 
again  that  there  is  no  alternative  to  the  crucial  need 
enshrined in the Security Council’s recent resolution to 
comply with international humanitarian law to prevent 
the  loss  of  life  among  the  civilian  population. That  is 
an extremely important goal in the context of the long-
term 
stabilization  of  Afghanistan,  which  was 
reaffirmed  both  by  the  Afghan  leadership  and  by 
United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan. 

that 
effectively  settling  the  situation  in  Afghanistan  and 
resolving 
the 
country’s  Government  will  be  impossible  without  an 
integrated  approach  on  the  part  of  the  international 
community  led  by  the  United  Nations.  Nor  will  it  be 
possible without giving Kabul greater independence in 
resolving  domestic  problems.  First  of  all,  conditions 
the  serious  problems  now 
SCO  member  States 
convinced 
facing 

by 
the 
projects 
implementing 
socio-economic 
must  be  created  to  allow  the  Afghan  Government  to 
independently  provide  security  on  the  territory  of  the 
country.  Of  particular  importance  in  that  regard  is  the 
establishment  of  genuinely  operational  national  armed 
forces and law enforcement agencies that are equipped 
with modern weapons. 

The  situation  in  Afghanistan  cannot  be  resolved 
by  purely  military  means.  Durable  peace  and  stability 
in  Afghanistan  will  be  impossible  to  achieve  without 
the economic recovery of the country. The steps taken 
in the area of security must be backed by real measures 
aimed  at 
reconstruction  of 
Afghanistan.  In  that  regard,  we  intend  to  further 
develop  our  diversified  cooperation  with Afghanistan, 
the 
including 
for 
socio-economic  recovery  and  development  of 
the 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.  

It is essential to respect the national and religious 
values and the centuries-long customs and traditions of 
the  multi-ethnic 
and  multireligious  people  of 
Afghanistan  and,  on  that  basis,  bring  together  the 
belligerent forces in Afghanistan. 
SCO  member  States  support  the  draft  resolution 

(A/63/L.17) on Afghanistan prepared by a large group 
of  sponsors.  We  hope  that  its  adoption  by  consensus 
will  be  conducive  to  stepping  up  the  efforts  of  the 
international community in Afghanistan. 
Mr.  Martirosyan  (Armenia)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

It  is  a  great  honour  for  me  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
States  members  of  the  Collective  Security  Treaty 
Organization 
(CSTO),  namely,  Armenia,  Belarus, 
Kazakhstan, 
the  Russian 
the  Kyrgyz  Republic, 
Federation, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. 

Since  the  overthrow  of  the Taliban, Afghanistan, 
with  the  help  of  the  international  community,  has  had 
considerable  success  in  the  areas  of  nation-building 
and  strengthening  democratic 
the 
country.  At  the  same  time,  the  country  continues  to 
face  serious  threats  and  challenges  in  the  area  of 
security.  The  military  and  political  situation  in  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Afghanistan  continues  to  be  a 
source  of  considerable  concern  for  the  international 
community, and in particular for the member States of 
the CSTO. 

Taliban  and Al-Qaida extremists have intensified 
their  efforts  to  combat  Government  and  international 
community  forces  in  the  country.  They  periodically 
institutions 
in 
are 
8 

08-59517 
it 
to 
the 
support 
is  essential 
civilians  who 


control  regions  of  the  country,  where  they  establish 
parallel  government  structures.  The  activities  of  the 
terrorists  are  organized,  with  the  Taliban  actively 
employing  suicide  bombings  and  kidnapping 
to 
terrorize 
legitimate 
Government.  

It  is  clear  that  efforts  to  involve  so-called 
moderate  Taliban  in  Government  structures  have  not 
led  to  concrete  results.  Moreover,  those  extremists 
have used that opportunity to strengthen their positions 
in  Government  in  several  of  provinces.  The  resulting 
situation  raises  doubt  about  the  entire  notion  that  it  is 
possible  to  achieve  anything  by  being  friendly  with 
extremists.  We  believe 
isolate 
extremists, especially those on the sanctions list of the 
Security  Council  Committee  established  pursuant  to 
resolution 1267 (1999). 

Despite the reduction in the cultivation of poppy 
recorded this year and the decreased volume of opiates 
produced,  the  situation  with  regard  to  the  production 
of,  and  trafficking  in,  drugs  in  the  territory  of 
Afghanistan continues to be very serious. Cooperation 
between  drug  producers  and  terrorist  groups  has 
intensified,  especially  in  the  south-western  part  of  the 
country.  We  believe 
full-fledged 
socio-economic  reconstruction  of  Afghanistan  and 
coordinated  efforts  by  the  international  community  to 
combat illegal drug trafficking will make it possible to 
put an end to the drug trade, which is a main source of 
financing for terrorists.  

We  are  in  favour  of  comprehensive  international 
cooperation to achieve the goals of the final declaration 
of 
the  Moscow  Ministerial  Conference  on  Drug 
Trafficking  Routes  from  Afghanistan.  That  would 
entail establishing antidrug and financial security belts 
around  Afghanistan.  Of  course,  we  must  also  ensure 
the full implementation of Security Council resolution 
1735 (2006), especially with respect to individuals who 
support  terrorist  groups.  Countering  the  large-scale 
production  and  distribution  of  heroin  produced  in 
Afghanistan  will  only  be  possible 
the 
establishment of an international system to effectively 
control the trafficking in that illegal substance. 

Mr.  Swe  (Myanmar),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

The  member  States  of  the  CSTO  reiterate  the 
need  to  fully  implement  Security  Council  resolution 
1817 (2008), and we are prepared to work towards that 
that  only 
through 
the 
A/63/PV.42
In 
illegal 
trafficking 
in  drugs  and 
the  context  of 
in 
end.  The  CSTO  has  considerable  experience 
combating 
their 
precursors  in  Afghanistan.  Operation  Channel,  which 
became  a  standing  effort  in  September  of  this  year,  is 
one  of  the  most  successful  and  effective  examples  of 
CSTO cooperation in addressing the international drug 
trade.  Participation  in  Operation  Channel  has  grown 
every  year.  In  addition  to  the  member  States  of  the 
CSTO, this year’s Operation included several observer 
States,  such  as  Azerbaijan,  China,  Estonia,  Latvia, 
Lithuania,  Mongolia,  Poland,  Turkmenistan,  Ukraine 
and  the  United  States  of  America.  For  the  first  time, 
representatives  from  law  enforcement  agencies  from 
Romania  and  Syria  also  participated,  as  did 
representatives from the Organization for Security and 
Cooperation  in  Europe  and  the  Eurasian  Group  on 
Combating  Money-Laundering  and  the  Financing  of 
Terrorism.  

the  Operation,  effective 
mechanisms  have  been  established  in  recent  years  to 
combat  drug  trafficking  along  northern  routes  from 
Afghanistan  to  Europe.  As  a  result  of  the  2008 
Operation,  security  agencies  of  CSTO  member  States 
seized  about  11.5  tons  of  drugs,  including  1  ton  of 
heroin, 4.5 tons of hashish, more than 11 kilograms of 
cocaine and 40 kilograms of synthetic drugs.  

The  work  to  strengthen  antidrug  buffers  should 
be  complemented  by  efforts  to  establish  financial 
security  belts  around  Afghanistan.  The  idea  is  to 
strengthen  control  over  transnational  movements  of 
cash flows generated by illegal drug trafficking, money 
laundering  and  other  transnational  criminal  activities 
aimed, among other things, at financing terrorism. 
Stabilizing  the  military  and  security  situation  in 

Afghanistan 
accomplished  without 
coordinating the efforts of the international community 
under the auspices of the United Nations. Members of 
the CSTO are ready to provide support for the nation-
building  efforts  in  Afghanistan.  In  particular,  we  are 
prepared  to  provide  support  in  the  area  of  regional 
cooperation 
in  such  areas  as  security,  economic 
reconstruction and combating drug trafficking.  

We  also  think  it  is  important  to  utilize  the 
potential  of  Afghanistan’s 
to 
implement projects to rebuild the energy and transport 
infrastructure of the country.  
Comprehensive cooperation between Afghanistan 

and  the  countries  of  the  region  could  be  an  important 
regional  partners 
cannot 
be 
08-59517 

9 

the 
that 
lives  of 
to  equip 
structures, 
the  efforts  of 
A/63/PV.42 

element  in  finding  an  overall  solution  to  the  conflict. 
We  believe 
international 
community to stabilize the situation in Afghanistan and 
combat  the  terrorist  and  extremist  threats  emanating 
from  the  country  will  only  be  successful  if  the 
conditions  are  established 
the  Afghan 
Government  with  the  independent  capacity  to  provide 
security  on  its  territory.  Of  particular  importance  in 
that regard is the establishment of operationally viable 
national  armed  forces  and  law  enforcement  agencies 
with modern equipment.  

Efforts  to  improve  the  security  situation  in  the 
region must be bolstered by efforts by the international 
community  to  create  economic  opportunities  and  jobs 
for  the  people  of  Afghanistan,  especially  its  young 
people.  First  and  foremost,  stabilizing  the  situation  in 
strengthening 
Afghanistan  can  be  achieved  by 
Government 
rebuilding 
the  economy, 
the  most  acute  social  problems  and 
addressing 
improving 
the 
the  Afghan  people.  The 
members  of  the  CSTO  will  continue  to  contribute  to 
that effort. 
Mr.  Ettalhi  (Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke  in 

Arabic): As we mark the seventh anniversary of the fall 
of  the  backward  Taliban  regime  in Afghanistan  —  an 
event  that  raised  hopes  among  the Afghan  people  for 
the  dawning  of  a  new  era  that  would  end  years  of 
isolation  and  war  and  bring  about  security  and 
prosperity  to  the  country  —  the  situation  in  that 
country, unfortunately, does not lead to the conclusion 
that many of the dreams of the Afghan people have by 
and  large  been  achieved,  according  to  the  report 
contained  in  document  A/63/372.  This  is  due  to 
numerous factors, including the increased  activities  of 
the  Taliban  movement  and  other  armed  groups  that 
oppose the Afghan Government, the weakness of State 
institutions and the Government’s inability to meet the 
basic socio-economic needs of the Afghan people in a 
State  whose  economy  is  based  primarily  on  the 
production and sale of drugs. 

The  report  also  emphasizes  that  conditions  have 
deteriorated  radically  since  the  fall  of  the  Taliban  in 
2001 and that civilian casualties resulting from military 
action have risen to 1,445 during the first eight months 
of 2008, an increase of 39 per cent as compared to the 
same  period  in  2007.  Of  particular  concern  is  the  fact 
that 40 per cent of those deaths were the result of raids 
carried  out  by 
forces 
supporting  the  Afghan  Government.  That  has  taken 
international 
forces  and 
it 
the 
instead, 
requires, 
the  domestic  and 
and 
the  Assembly  have  also  heard 
place  despite  all 
international 
criticism, appeals and declarations calling for taking all 
necessary  measures  to  protect  civilians  and  to  foster 
confidence  among  Afghan  citizens, 
the  Afghan 
community. 
Government 
international 
Members  of 
the 
statement by the Afghan President in that regard. 

That  situation  leads  me  to  the  conclusion  that  a 
solution  to  the  problem  requires  a  comprehensive 
approach  that  is  not  based  on  air  raids  and  force  to 
achieve  stability; 
first  and 
foremost, comprehensive national reconciliation among 
the entire Afghan people, as called for  time and again 
by  President  Hâmid  Karzai,  and  by  the  loya  jirga 
before  him.  Reconciliation  should  include  parallel 
development  efforts  to  provide  the  socio-economic 
conditions  that  will  ensure  lives  of  dignity  for  the 
people  of  Afghanistan  without  resorting  to  illegal 
means  to  survive,  including  through  drug  trafficking. 
That  would  contribute  to  the  fight  against  corruption 
and  militancy  while  helping  to  restore  confidence 
among the people and meet their basic needs. Turning a 
blind  eye  to  a  situation  will  not  change  it.  Security, 
stability,  peace  and  prosperity  in Afghanistan  will  not 
be 
national 
reconciliation  that  includes  all  Afghan  groups  and 
factions. Were the attainment of peace possible through 
weapons  and  military  operations,  it  would  have  been 
achieved long ago in Afghanistan. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  express  its  grave 
concern over the crisis faced by the Afghan people as a 
result  of  drought  and  the  rising  cost  of  food.  We  fear 
that  the  worsening  international  financial  crisis  will 
aggravate the food crisis in Afghanistan as is the case 
in  other  developing  countries.  We  join  the  Secretary-
General  in  calling  on  the  international  community  to 
respond positively to the appeal launched by the Vice-
President  of  the  Republic  of  Afghanistan  and  the 
United  Nations  for  $404  million  to  address  the  crisis. 
We  hope  that  the  implementation  of  the  Afghan 
National Development Strategy will be stepped up and 
that the financial pledges made at the Paris Conference 
held last June will be honoured.  
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  published 

last  March  (A/62/722)  referred  to  cases  of  torture  and 
ill  treatment  of  detainees,  including  allegations  of 
long-term  arbitrary  detention  in  facilities  run  by 
international  forces. The  report  also  indicated  that  the 
United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan 
achieved  without 
comprehensive 
10 

08-59517 
that  connection,  we  hope 


(UNAMA) was unable to assess those allegations. His 
most  recent  report  (A/63/372)  makes  no  mention  of 
any progress in that respect and states that the situation 
remains the same and that prisoners in Afghanistan are 
in a serious state of neglect. My delegation would like 
to  express  its  grave  concern  about  the  situation  of 
prisoners in Afghanistan. We call for respect for human 
rights, international law and international humanitarian 
law. 

Despite  the  situations  to  which  I  have  referred, 
there is no doubt that progress has been made in many 
areas  —  especially  with  regard  to  mine  clearance, 
combating  the  drug  trade,  and  basic  infrastructure. 
However,  despite  the  international  commitments  and 
efforts made, there are, nevertheless, shortcomings that 
we  must  address  in  order  to  identify  their  causes  and 
sources. 

In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  emphasize  the 
need to provide UNAMA with the necessary resources 
and  expertise  to  carry  out  the  expanded  mandate 
entrusted  to  it  by  Security  Council  resolution  1806 
(2008).  In 
that  donor 
countries  will  honour  their  pledges  made  at  the  Paris 
Conference.  UNAMA  must  have  the  resources  needed 
to carry out its responsibilities and mandate, especially 
with  regard  to  credibly  supporting  and  protecting  the 
electoral process. In that connection, we would like to 
emphasize  that  the  success  of  those  elections  depends 
both  on  the  preparations  and  the  participation  of  all 
groups and factions within Afghanistan. 
Mr.  Haroon  (Pakistan):  Today  is  indeed  an 

auspicious day, as the world gathers to speak on a topic 
that for long has been ignored and has not received its 
due  share  of  world  attention.  I  speak  of  the  ongoing 
war  and  travesty  in  Afghanistan  for  the  past  30  to 
35 years and  the unimaginable pain and suffering of a 
nation that has largely been reported only in by-lines in 
the  international  media.  I  would  like  to  explain  why  I 
feel so strongly about the situation in Afghanistan. 

Pakistan  has  had  a  very  long  relationship  with 
that part of the world. It is not a relationship that was 
borne  out  of 
is  a 
relationship  with  the  Indian  subcontinent  as  a  whole, 
stretching  its  vast  dominions  under  Hinduism  and 
Buddhism,  from  the  Volga  to  the  Strait  of  Ceylon. 
Islam  came  much  later.  It  is  in  that  vast  region, 
especially in Central Asia, that the people of the Indian 
subcontinent  in  fact  reciprocated  cultural  ties  with 
the  creation  of  Pakistan.  It 
A/63/PV.42
peoples  over  many  millennia.  As  such,  it  is  not  just 
Pakistan  but  the  Indian  subcontinent  that  shares  not 
only  a  great  relationship  but  also  great  empathy  with 
the people of Afghanistan.  

For  the  past  35  years,  Pakistan  has  had  a  deeply 
rooted  common  destiny  with Afghanistan  specifically. 
It is a little-known fact that, if one tries to sum up the 
expenditures  that  Pakistan  has  had  to  bear  in  sharing 
with  its  brethren  from  Afghanistan,  one  might  be 
amazed to know that, with more than 3 million Afghan 
refugees incurring food costs for more than 33 years in 
Pakistan  at  roughly  1  dollar  per  day  per  person,  the 
sum comes to $35 billion so far. As food is 50 per cent 
of  people’s  daily  expenses,  one  would  have  to  add 
another  50  per  cent  for  education,  health  and  many 
other things, and the total sum is over $72 billion spent 
in  that  period  of  time.  If  one  takes  the  capital 
expenditure  of  housing  and  many  other  such  things, 
one  can  practically  double  that  figure  again.  Over 
$150 billion  has  been  spent  over  many  years,  but  at  a 
tremendous cost to a nation like Pakistan. Participants 
might  be  amused  to  know  that  Pakistan  has  a  gross 
domestic  product  of  about  $150  billion  a  year,  and 
$150  billion 
is  what  we  spent  or  shared  with 
Afghanistan over these many years. 

That  is  why  we  share  a  common  destiny.  Peace 
and  stability  in  the  one  country  is  a  sine  qua  non  for 
peace  and  stability  in  the  other.  We  are  deeply 
committed to a peaceful and stable environment in the 
region,  which  is  necessary  for  prosperity  and  the 
development  of  our  two  peoples.  It  is  with  this 
perspective  that  we  participate  in  this  debate,  and  I 
must  tell  the  Assembly  that,  as  my  mother  is  an 
Afghan,  I  also  participate  with  a  share  of  Afghan 
blood. 

The  achievement  of  durable  peace,  stability  and 
development in Afghanistan is a shared objective of the 
international  community.  The  success  of  international 
efforts  in  Afghanistan  is  critical  for  regional  and 
international  peace  and  security.  A  peaceful  and 
prosperous  Afghanistan  is,  first  and  foremost,  in  the 
best  interest  of,  not  only  Pakistan,  but  the  world.  Let 
me  inform  the  Assembly  that,  other  than  our  Afghan 
brothers,  no  country  or  people  has  suffered  more  than 
Pakistan  has  from  the  direct  consequences  of  the 
decades of conflict and instability in Afghanistan.  

Pakistan has hosted the largest refugee population 
in the world since the 1980s. We have endured political 
08-59517 

11 

A/63/PV.42 

insecurity and the social, economic and environmental 
consequences of the protracted war in Afghanistan and 
the  presence  of  vast  numbers  of  refugees  in  Pakistan, 
which  manifests  itself  today  in  the  faces  of  the 
Al-Qaida  and  Taliban  elements  that  cross  the  border 
into  Pakistan  and  encourage  the  same  on  our  side  of 
the border. 

Pakistan’s  contribution  and  sacrifice  in  the  fight 
against  terrorism  are  unmatched.  The  Assembly  must 
know  by  now  that  over  10,000  troops  have  been 
committed by Pakistan to United Nations peacekeeping 
efforts  and  that  we  are  the  largest  contributors  in  this 
field. The Assembly will be amazed to know, however, 
that we also have 110,000 troops on our Afghan border 
trying  to  prevent  that  vast  war  from  spilling  over  into 
other  parts  of,  not  only  Pakistan,  but  also  our 
neighbours towards the Arabian Sea and our neighbour, 
India.  This  contribution  is  one  that  is  funded  totally 
through  our  own  financial  arrangements  and  coffers 
and  one  that  has  cost  us  dearly,  having  brought  us  to 
the  brink  with  the  severe  financial  difficulties  we  are 
facing today.  

The  backlash  has  been  most  severe  in  Pakistan. 
As  a  result  of  our  role  in  the  counter-terrorism 
campaign,  the  security  environment  on  our  side  has 
deteriorated  sharply.  Thousands  of  innocent  civilians 
have  fallen  victim  to  terrorism  in  Pakistan,  and, 
sensitive  to  the  sentiments  of  our  people,  the  new 
democratic  Government  is  striving  to  bring  about  a 
national consensus in order to confront  and defeat the 
terrorists.  

in 
Afghanistan  demands  reciprocal  cooperation  based  on 
goodwill,  respect  for  each  other’s  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity,  and  mutual  commitment  not  to 
allow our respective territories to be used against each 
other. As  President  Zardari  has  said,  we  cannot  allow 
our  territory  and  our  sovereignty  to  be  violated  by 
these people.  

Security  cooperation  is  only  one  aspect  of  our 
multidimensional relationship with Afghanistan, which 
is  now  being  further  strengthened  and  encouraged  by 
various measures that I would like to name. First of all, 
it  was  recently  decided  to  upgrade  bilateral  relations 
with  Afghanistan  and  to  regularly  hold  a  strategic 
dialogue at the Foreign Minister level.  
in 

October —  a  Jirgagai  or  Mini  Jirga  —  which 
Secondly,  Pakistan  hosted 
international  efforts 
Our  support  for 
a  meeting 
the 
the 
the 
projects 
Fourthly, 
Pakistan-Afghanistan 
unanimously  adopted 
Islamabad  Declaration, 
setting forth a number of important decisions that will 
help  increase  cooperation  between  the  two  peoples  of 
our nations. 

Thirdly, the trilateral meeting in which President 
Karzai,  Prime  Minister  Gilani  and  Prime  Minister 
Erdogan  participated  on  30  October 
in  Istanbul 
underlined  the  commitment  to  the  continuation  of  the 
process. We greatly appreciate the positive, sincere and 
constructive  contribution  of  Turkey,  which  is  an 
exemplary  role  model  in  the  context  of  efforts  to 
promote regional cooperation. 

Joint 
Economic Commission is expected to meet in Kabul in 
November.  Preparations  are  under  way  for  the  third 
Regional  Economic  Cooperation  Conference  on 
Afghanistan to be held in Islamabad in January 2009.  

Despite  its  own  problems,  Pakistan  continues  to 
help  the  reconstruction  efforts  in Afghanistan.  Of  our 
total  commitment  of  $320  million,  $130  million  have 
already  been  utilized  in  various  socio-economic  and 
infrastructure 
in  Afghanistan.  Despite 
shortages  of  wheat  in  Pakistan,  we  are  providing 
50,000  tons  of  that  staple  at  a  preferential  rate  to  our 
friends and neighbours in Afghanistan. Meanwhile, we 
continue  to  host  over  2  million  refugees  in  our  own 
country at enormous continuing cost to ourselves.  

the  Secretary-General 
(A/63/372)  presents  a  mixed  picture  and  an  overall 
deterioration  of  the  situation  in  Afghanistan.  The 
challenges  are  daunting  but  not  insurmountable.  They 
require an integrated and holistic response. There is no 
quick  fix.    It  is  clear  that Afghanistan  cannot  address 
these  challenges  on 
its  own.  It  needs  sustained 
engagement  and  commitment  from  the  international 
community.  Afghanistan  has  made  considerable 
progress  in  recent  years.  It  is  now  imperative  to 
consolidate this position and foundation.  
To  ensure  effectiveness  and  success,  such  a 

strategy  must  be  built  around  and  pursued  with  full 
Afghan  ownership.  Capacity-building  in  all  fields  and 
at  all  levels  has  to  be  an  essential  element  of  this 
strategy. The report of the Secretary-General points out 
serious  gaps  and  shortfalls  in  this  regard  that  must  be 
addressed. 

Lack  of  security  remains  a  major  problem  and 
concern. Security has to be addressed in all its aspects, 
The  recent  report  of 
12 

08-59517 
the 
issues  of 
committed 
to  working 
cooperative 
several 
steps, 
Control  of 
the 
reconciliation, 
threats  posed  by 
efforts  based  on 


including 
the  Taliban  and 
Al-Qaida insurgencies, lingering warlordism, factional 
rivalries,  criminal  and  other  illegal  armed  groups,  as 
well  as  the  increasingly  strong  nexus  with  the  drug 
trade.  It  is  obvious  that  these  problems  are  primarily 
rooted  in  Afghanistan  and  have  to  be  addressed 
accordingly. Besides, security cannot be detached from 
the  wider 
improved 
governance,  development  and  reconstruction.  This 
myriad of challenges requires a collective effort based 
on cooperation and responsibility shared by all. 

international  border  between 
Afghanistan and Pakistan is also a joint responsibility. 
Pakistan  has  proposed 
including 
capacity-building,  intelligence  sharing  and  matching 
military  measures  that  can  be  taken  by  all  sides  to 
promote 
shared 
responsibility  and  the  avoidance  of  unilateral  actions, 
in  order  to  more  effectively  address  the  security 
challenge. We are determined to carry out our part. We 
remain 
together  with 
Afghanistan  and  the  international  forces  towards  that 
objective. The Tripartite Commission continues to play 
an  important  role,  and  should  be  fully  utilized  in  that 
regard.  
The international community should also address, 

the  worsening  humanitarian 
on  an  urgent  basis, 
is  particularly 
situation 
aggravated  by  rising  food  prices.  In  the  battle  for 
hearts  and  minds,  the  freedom  from  want  is  equally 
essential as the freedom from fear, which unfortunately 
is  also  being  impacted  negatively  by  the  unjustified 
and rising toll of civilian casualties in Afghanistan. 

region, using incentives and peace dividends. 

Genuine national reconciliation is also crucial for 
the success of Afghan and international efforts to bring 
peace and stability to the country. Winning the support 
of  the  peaceful  majority  is  essential  to  isolate  and 
break the insurgency. We support reconciliation efforts 
by  Afghans  and  others  as  part  of  the  comprehensive 
approach.  
The  United  Nations  has  a  central  role  in  the 

international  efforts 
in  Afghanistan.  The  United 
Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan has a well-
defined  mandate.  We  support  the  efforts  of  Special 
Representative Kai Eide in implementing that mandate, 
enhancing  overall 
particularly  with 
We need to build peace in Afghanistan region by 
in  Afghanistan,  which 
A/63/PV.42
which 
the 
of 
presents 
situation 
(A/63/L.17), 
overview 
stability  and  prosperity 
coordination  for  more  robust  and  delivery-oriented 
support. 

We agree with the observations of the Secretary-
General that success will eventually depend on the full 
implementation of the commitments undertaken by the 
international  community  with  regard  to  Afghanistan. 
His  recommendation  to  bring  about  a  political  surge 
strikes  the  right  cord.  It  underlines  the  need  to  look 
beyond  the  military  option  which,  although  necessary, 
is  not  the  sole  solution.  In  our  view,  that  should  be 
complemented  by  a  surge  in  economic  development 
and  reconstruction.  A  huge  developmental  effort  is 
required to turn the situation in Afghanistan around. 

We are grateful to the delegation of Germany for 
once  again  coordinating  our  work  on  this  year’s  draft 
resolution 
a 
comprehensive 
in 
Afghanistan.  Pakistan  is  pleased  to  be  a  sponsor  the 
draft  resolution,  which  we  hope  will  be  adopted  by 
consensus. 
Only through mutual cooperation and support can 

we  achieve  peace, 
in 
Afghanistan and the region. Pakistan’s interest in, and 
commitment  to,  that  objective  is  clear  and  resolute. 
Along  with Afghanistan,  Pakistan  will  be  the  primary 
beneficiary of peace in Afghanistan. It will enable us to 
restore  calm  in  our  frontier  regions.  It  will  enable  the 
dignified and sustainable repatriation of the remaining 
millions  of  Afghan  refugees.  Strategically,  it  will 
enable  our  two  countries  to  serve  as  the  hub  for  the 
interregional trade, transit and energy corridor with our 
Indian  neighbour,  which  can  provide  a  major  boost  to 
our objectives of peace and economic development. We 
are  determined  to  spare  no  effort  to  achieve  those 
objectives  for  the  peace  and  prosperity  of  our  people 
and  our  region,  and  specifically 
the  people  of 
Afghanistan. 
Mr. Al-Mutairi  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 

country’s  delegation  wishes  to  convey  to  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  its  gratitude  for  his  sincere 
efforts  to  achieve  success  and  ensure  security  and 
stability in Afghanistan. We also wish to commend the 
efforts  of  his  Special  Representative  for  Afghanistan 
and  those  of  all  United  Nations  staff  in  the  country, 
who  continue  to  carry  out  their  work  under  difficult 
and  increasingly  dangerous  conditions  and  whose 
bravery  and  commitment  have  been  fundamental  to 
achieving progress on the ground in Afghanistan. 
regard 
to 
08-59517 

13 

that  have  destroyed 
that 
provides  water, 
A/63/PV.42 


We would also like to thank the representative of 
Germany,  who  introduced  draft  resolution  A/63/L.17 
concerning  the  situation  in Afghanistan.  The  draft,  of 
which  my  delegation  is  a  sponsor,  emphasizes  the 
fundamental  and  neutral  role  that  the  United  Nations 
plays in fostering peace and stability in Afghanistan by 
leading  the  efforts  of  the  international  community 
there. 
Afghanistan  has  suffered  from  the  scourge  of 

the  basic 
several  wars 
infrastructure 
electricity, 
transportation  and  communications  services  to  the 
general public. Those wars have also severely affected 
the  education,  health  and  agricultural  sectors,  to  say 
nothing  of  the  enormous  loss  of  life  among  Afghan 
civilians, foreigners and humanitarian relief workers. 

Given that 2008 has been the worst year since the 
beginning  of  military  operations,  the  humanitarian 
situation 
in  Afghanistan  has  become  dangerously 
worse.  Acts  of  violence  are  taking  place  in  almost 
every  part  of  the  country.  International  forces  are 
facing  a  real  dilemma,  given  that  the  goals  of  the 
military  campaign  had  been  to  eliminate  the  Taliban 
and  Al-Qaida  movements,  help  Afghanistan  complete 
the  process  of  political  transformation  and  provide 
support  to  the  Government  and  people  of Afghanistan 
in  their  effort  to  rebuild  their  country  and  strengthen 
the foundations of constitutional democracy. However, 
seven years after the beginning of the campaign, what 
has  been  achieved  to  date  is  far  less  than  what  was 
hoped for.  

Nevertheless,  we  do  not  deny  that  there  have 
been  some  achievements,  in  particular  as  regards 
efforts  at  demining,  developing  the  national  army  and 
police  forces,  reforming  the  judiciary,  expanding  the 
rule of law and combating drugs. However, the pace of 
that progress continues to be slow in the light of recent 
developments in Afghanistan. 

Having  reviewed  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
(A/63/372) concerning the situation in Afghanistan, the 
State  of  Kuwait  expresses  its  concern  about  the 
deteriorating  situation  in  the  country.  The  challenges 
there are far greater than what the Afghan Government 
can face on its own, in particular given the succession 
of  crises  that  have  resulted  in  the  Government  losing 
control over a substantial area of its national territory, 
thereby  providing  rebel  groups  with  an  opportunity  to 
return  to  them,  and  new  reports  of  an  increase  in  the 
to 
influence  of  those  groups  in  the  southern  and  eastern 
parts of the country. 

Afghanistan  is  suffering  as  a  result  of  long-
standing  difficult  conditions.  The  security  situation 
continues  to  deteriorate,  especially  given  the  increase 
in the killing and kidnapping of innocent civilians, who 
have become easy targets for terrorist groups. Not long 
ago, in September, a suicide attack killed two medical 
doctors and their driver while they worked as part of a 
campaign 
inoculate  children  against  polio.  In 
addition,  20  Afghan  and  foreign  soldiers  were  killed 
last week in a suicide attack by the Taliban movement 
in the province of Wardek, south of the Afghan capital. 
In  that  regard,  the  State  of  Kuwait  condemns  the 
escalation of violence and suicide attacks, which have 
led  to  an  increase  in  the  number  of  victims  among 
civilians,  the  Afghan  National  Police,  Afghan  and 
international  aid  organizations  and  others  working  in 
the area of humanitarian assistance. 

Humanitarian  needs  rose  to  a  new  level  in  the 
course of the past year in Afghanistan, especially given 
the shortage of food due to drought and the global rise 
in food prices. The State of Kuwait urgently appeals to 
all  Member  States, 
and 
non-governmental  organizations  to  quickly  provide  as 
much  assistance  as  they  can  to  Afghanistan.  We  also 
call  on  States  to  adhere  to  the  decisions  of  the  Paris 
Conference  of  donor  countries,  held  in  June  2008  to 
focus  on  a  national  strategy  for  the  development  of 
Afghanistan. 
In  that  connection,  we  wish  to  refer  to  Kuwait’s 

in 
contributions 
the  building  of 
Afghanistan.  The  Kuwaiti  Fund 
for  Economic 
Development  has  granted  a  $30  million  loan  for  that 
purpose,  in  fulfilment  of  the  pledge  it  made  at  the 
Tokyo  donor  conference.  Of  that  amount,  $15  million 
has  been  allocated  to  rehabilitation  of  the  Kandahar-
Speen  Bwaldak  road  and  the  other  $15  million  to  the 
Afghanistan  Reconstruction  Trust  Fund.  The  Kuwait 
Red  Crescent  Society  has  also  provided  more  than 
$6.5 million in assistance over the past five years, and 
other  domestic  organizations  and  charities  have 
continued to provide aid. 

Finally,  we  hope  that  the  United  Nations  will 
continue its efforts to provide assistance to the Afghan 
Government with a view to the consolidation of peace 
and stability in Afghanistan. 
the  United  Nations 
to 
infrastructure 
14 

08-59517 
Thus,  as  both 


Mr.  Yerrannaidu  (India):  Let  me  begin  by 

expressing  India's  appreciation  for  the  scheduling  of 
this discussion on a subject of great significance for us, 
our region and the world. I commend the efforts made 
by  the  delegation  of  Germany  in  coordinating  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  that  led  to  this  annual 
General  Assembly  draft  resolution  on  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan. We are happy to continue to be a sponsor 
of  the  draft  resolution,  which  is  traditionally  adopted 
by consensus. 

This  draft  resolution  is  arranged  around  a  few 
central  themes. Thus,  the  operative  section  of  the  text 
begins  with  issues  relating  to  security  and  follows  up 
with paragraphs on governance, human rights, the rule 
of  law,  economic  and  social  development,  counter-
narcotics  efforts  and,  finally,  coordination  issues.  It 
therefore accords with our perspective on the substance 
of the challenge that the international community faces 
in  Afghanistan.  A  similar  perspective  is  borne  out  in 
the latest report of the Secretary-General (A/63/372) on 
the  scale  of  the  challenges  and  difficulties  that  beset 
our efforts to assist Afghanistan. 

the 
Secretary-General's  report  before  us  underscore,  the 
escalation in the number of asymmetric attacks in areas 
cleared of the Taliban and Al-Qaida is deeply worrying. 
Civilians, humanitarian workers, international staff and 
diplomatic  personnel  —  including  our  Mission  in 
Kabul  —  have  been  attacked.  While  we  correctly 
condemn  the  perpetrators  of  those  savage  acts,  the 
ultimate  responsibility  lies  with  those  who  support, 
finance  and  empower  the  Taliban, Al-Qaida  and  other 
terrorist and criminal groups. Their acts of violence are 
callous  and  brutal  but  not  mindless,  since 
they 
deliberately  aim  to  weaken  the  resolve  of  the Afghan 
people  and  the  international  community.  In  fact, 
however, the increase in the number of random acts of 
violence 
the 
desperation of terrorist groups in seeking to transform 
strategic defeat into tactical advantage. 

It is for that reason that we need to pay attention 
to  the  signals  that  we  are  sending  through  our  actions 
and  messages.  Not  only  must  we  avoid  inadvertently 
giving terrorists and their supporters comfort; we must 
also  ensure 
the 
complexity  of  the  challenge  is  not  mistaken  for  a 
weakening  of  our  collective  will  to  win  this  war.  It  is 
also important that we ensure that we do not accord the 
terrorists  parity  with  the  legitimate  Government  of 
the  draft  resolution  and 
targeting  civilians  only 
legitimate  concern  at 
illustrates 
that  our 
A/63/PV.42
to 
the 
something 
the  central  challenge 
Afghanistan  or  with  the  international  community  that 
acts  in  support  of  it.  Most  of  all,  however,  it  is 
essential that we focus on ensuring that our message is 
clear  and  unequivocal  — 
that  we 
occasionally  neglect  in  the  annual  General  Assembly 
draft resolution on Afghanistan. It is in that sense that 
we  commend  the  effort  made  this  year  to  sharpen  the 
focus of the text on several key messages. 

To India, the central thrust of the message that we 
see in this draft resolution is very clear: our support for 
and  commitment 
in 
Afghanistan is unshaken. We will not be diverted from 
the task of helping the people of Afghanistan to bring 
back to their nation peace, order, stability, governance 
and  development  based  on  the  traditionally  moderate 
and  inclusive  culture  of  Afghanistan.  We  may  differ 
individually  in  prioritizing  and  selecting  strategies  for 
achieving  that  goal,  but  there  should  be  no  mistaking 
the  collective  determination  of 
international 
community to achieve the larger goal. 

From that standpoint, therefore, the road ahead is 
very clear. India believes that there is no alternative but 
to  work  to  simultaneously  implement  a  three-pronged 
strategy  in  Afghanistan.  One  element  of  that  strategy 
must  be  security,  for,  without  security,  neither  the 
people of Afghanistan nor our own citizens can hope to 
see  a  peace  dividend  after  decades  of  strife  in 
Afghanistan.  While  we  accept  the  argument  —  which 
seems  to  be  made  more  regularly  of  late  —  that 
Afghanistan cannot be secured through military means 
alone,  the  converse  is  also  true:  without  a  robust 
military  effort,  we  cannot  secure Afghanistan  through 
any  other  means  either.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  India 
sees  a  need  for  much  closer  alignment  between  the 
consistent  application  of  force  wherever 
terrorist 
groups  are  present  and  the  attainment  of  the  political 
objectives of our efforts in Afghanistan. 

A second element must be enhancing governance 
capacities  in  Afghanistan  in  order  to  ensure  that  our 
Afghan  partners  will  have 
the 
resources to chart their own course, whenever the time 
to do so comes. Developmental efforts are an important 
part  of  that,  because  any  long-term  strategy  for 
stabilizing  Afghanistan  must  be  predicated  upon  the 
creation  of  impetus  on  the  ground,  building  upon 
ground  cleared  through  military  measures.  Here  too, 
we must collectively ensure better coordination of our 
collective  efforts  in  support  of  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan.  To  begin  with,  we  must  make  a  greater 
the  capacity  and 
08-59517 

15 

A/63/PV.42 

effort  to  offset  the  humanitarian  challenge  posed  by 
drought, climatic hardship and food scarcity. 

The third element is ensuring that Afghanistan is 
at peace within its region and vice versa. Without that, 
we  cannot  hope  to  stabilize  Afghanistan  solely  from 
within.  This  includes  but  is  not  limited  to  regional 
economic  cooperation.  Afghanistan's  entry  into  the 
South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation and 
its  membership  in  other  regional  groups  are  aimed  at 
revitalizing its historical linkages with the countries of 
its region. The central challenge remains to ensure that 
programmes  developed  within  regional  mechanisms 
are implemented. That includes overcoming barriers to 
effective overland trade and transit and to the operation 
of  mechanisms  to  deal  with  the  challenges  posed  by 
drug trafficking, cross-border terrorism and so on. This 
is particularly true in the southern and eastern regions, 
where  narcotics  production 
remains  an  endemic 
problem. Unless robust security measures are followed 
by  a  larger  strategy  of  crop  substitution  and  securing 
market access for farmers, we cannot expect long-term 
success in countering the production of narcotics in the 
region. 

In the context of the regional aspect, I should like 
to  reaffirm  India's  national  commitment  to  assisting 
Afghanistan  in  this  complex  moment  in  its  transition. 
We  do  so  not  only  because  of  the  long  historical  and 
cultural  ties  between  our  peoples  and  the  excellent 
relationship  that  our  two  countries  enjoy,  but  also 
because  history  has  shown  us  that  regional  prosperity, 
security  and  progress  are  indivisible.  Therefore,  our 
consistent  effort  has  been  to  design  our  assistance 
programmes  in  a  manner  that  focuses  upon  bringing 
development benefits both to the local level and to the 
larger, national level. 

Not  only  has  India  recently  announced  an 
increase in its commitment to Afghanistan,  amounting 
to  $1.2  billion,  but  we  are  also  pleased  to  have 
completed  the  construction  of  the  Zaranj-Delaram 
highway  in  western  Afghanistan.  It  is  one  of  three 
major  infrastructure  projects  India  is  undertaking  in 
Afghanistan,  the  others  being  a  large  hydroelectric 
project and a large power-transmission project. Another 
project  of  considerable  symbolic  value  for  us  is  the 
construction  of  a  parliament  building  in  Afghanistan. 
We hope to begin construction later this month. 

In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  come  back  to  the 
message  of  our  draft  resolution.  For  India,  it  is 
tend 
to 
replicate 
our 
the 
draft 
before 
us 
(A/63/L.17).  Given 
Mr.  Okuda
(Japan):  Japan  welcomes 
important that the clarity of our message not be diluted 
by adding excessive expectations based on efforts that 
ultimately 
national 
socio-economic models in an inappropriate setting. We 
need  to  remind  ourselves  that  we  cannot  realistically 
resolve  all  of  Afghanistan’s  problems  at  once.  Given 
the  challenge  that  faced  us  a  little  over  seven  years 
ago,  we  should  recognize  that  progress  will  continue, 
but sector by sector and piece by piece. 

Patience  and  perseverance  are  essential  for  the 
long-term  success  of  our  investment,  alongside  a 
willingness to listen to those whom we seek to help. It 
is  for  that  reason  that  an  Afghan-led  process  of 
prioritization of tasks remains essential. 
this 

opportunity  to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
situation in Afghanistan.  
We  are  pleased  to  be  a  sponsor  of  the  draft 

the 
resolution 
challenging  situation Afghanistan  faces  today,  it  is  of 
particular  importance  to  demonstrate  the  unity  of  the 
international  community  in  supporting Afghanistan  by 
adopting 
consensus. 
Appreciation  is  also  due  to  our  colleagues  of  the 
German  delegation,  who  led  the  consultations  on  the 
draft resolution. 
We  all  know  that  the  situation  in  the  country  is 

difficult,  and  that  those  who  oppose  the  democratic 
Government  are  trying  to  plant  fear  and  doubt  in  the 
minds  of  the Afghan  people,  but  let  me  highlight  the 
progress  that  Afghanistan  has  achieved  in  the  past 
seven years.  

The economy has grown steadily, with an annual 
growth rate of approximately 10 per cent over the past 
five  years.  In  five  years,  the  number  of  students 
enrolled in school has soared from less than 1 million 
in 2001 to more than 5.6 million. Children’s access to 
health services has significantly improved. Six million 
children have received polio vaccinations to date. Such 
progress  could  not  have  been  achieved  without  the 
resolve of the Government and people of Afghanistan, 
with the assistance of the international community. 

undermine 
community,  will  continue 
Afghanistan 
prosperity. 
We should not and will not give in to attempts to 
international 
the 
firmly 
stand  by 
for  stability  and 
that  progress.  We, 
to 
its  endeavours 
in 
resolution 
by 
16 

08-59517 
to 
in 
is 
for 
tribute 
the  countries  participating 
the  United  Nations.  We  support 



At  the  same  time,  we  must  squarely  face  the 
challenges  on  the  ground.  Security  is  the  foremost 
concern,  as  candidly  described  in  the  most  recent 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/63/372).  We  are 
pleased to note that the capacity of the Afghan National 
Army has been enhanced, and congratulate it on taking 
over  responsibility  for  the  security  of  Kabul.  We  also 
pay 
the 
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) and the 
Operation  Enduring  Freedom  coalition 
their 
dedication in the fight against terrorism. 

It is also true that the problems cannot be solved 
by  military  means  alone.  We  have  advocated  the 
necessity  of  a  holistic  approach  to  addressing  the 
various  challenges  Afghanistan  faces.  The  goals  of 
security,  governance  and  development  cannot  be 
achieved independently of each other. 
At  the  centre  of  international  efforts  in  the 

country 
the 
implementation  of  UNAMA’s  priorities,  and  in  that 
connection,  Japan  also  supports  the  strengthening  of 
the  Mission’s  structure  so  that  it  can  better  meet  the 
expectations of the Afghan people and the world. 
Special 

Representative 
for 
Afghanistan, for his dedication in leading the Mission. 
Mr. Eide provided a useful outline of his goals for the 
next  six  months  in  his  most  recent  briefing  to  the 
Security  Council.  We  thank  him  for  that  and  will 
support him in achieving those goals. 
For  its  part,  Japan  has  been  fully  committed  to 

contributing  to  the  nation-building  of  the  country.  In 
the  area  of  assistance  for  reconstruction,  for  example, 
Japan  has  disbursed 
its  pledged  contribution  of 
$1.45 billion.  We  were  glad  to  see  the  completion  of 
the  construction  of  the  Kabul  International  Airport 
Terminal Building, welcomed by the Afghan people at 
a  ceremony  held  just  last  week.  Japan  made  an 
additional  pledge  of  $550  million  at 
the  Paris 
Conference,  bringing  its  total  pledged  assistance  to 
$2 billion. 

On  the  security  side,  Japan  is  pleased  to  have 
been  the  lead  country  in  the  process  of  disbanding 
illegally armed groups, which we strongly believe has 
made a significant difference in improving the security 
situation. We  have  also  been  participating  in  the  fight 
against  terrorism  by  replenishing  the  fleet  of  the 
commend  Mr.  Kai  Eide, 
Secretary-General 
We 
of 
the 
A/63/PV.42
the 
take 
including 
the  Afghan  Government.  We 
Operation  Enduring  Freedom  coalition  in  the  Indian 
Ocean. 

Even  with  the  continued  commitment  of  the 
international  community,  much  rests  on  the  shoulders 
of 
the  recent 
reshuffle of the cabinet as a demonstration of President 
Karzai’s resolve to address the issues more effectively. 

While  supporting  the  Government’s  efforts  to 
promote  national  reconciliation,  we  hope  that  issues 
such  as  governance,  corruption,  reform  of  the  police 
force  and  the  Ministry  of  the  Interior,  and  counter-
narcotics  will  be  effectively  dealt  with 
in  a 
strengthened Government. 

The  most  important  events  ahead  in  the  political 
calendar  are  the  elections  in  2009  and  2010.  Voter 
registration  has  begun  smoothly  and  that  is  a  good 
launching  pad  for  the  holding  of  legitimate  elections. 
Thorough  preparations, 
successful 
completion  of  voter  registration,  are  necessary  so  that 
the Government’s commitment to holding the elections 
as planned will be carried out. 

The importance of the regional dimension cannot 
be  overemphasized.  We  welcome  the  recent  active 
dialogues  among  Afghanistan  and  neighbouring 
countries. We also welcome the recent fruitful visit of 
the  Foreign  Minister  of  Afghanistan  to  Pakistan,  as 
well as the trilateral meeting of leaders of Afghanistan, 
Pakistan and Turkey.  
Regarding  our  own  efforts  in  that  area,  Japan 

appreciates 
the  General 
Assembly  draft  resolution  for  the  Group  of  Eight’s 
initiatives.  We  hope  that  the  implementation  of  the 
initiatives will contribute to regional efforts to stabilize 
and develop the border area. 

In  conclusion,  allow  me  to  reiterate  Japan’s 
unwavering  commitment  to  fulfilling  its  role  for  the 
future  of Afghanistan. Afghanistan  will  remain  one  of 
our focuses at the United Nations. 
Mr. Al Habib (Islamic Republic of Iran): I wish 

to  extend  our  thanks  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
latest report on the situation in Afghanistan (A/63/372). 
We  also  thank  him  and  his  Special  Representative,  as 
well as the personnel of the United Nations Assistance 
Mission in Afghanistan, for their steadfast commitment 
to  and  unwavering  support  for  peace,  stability  and 
development in Afghanistan. 
the  encouragement 
in 
08-59517 

17 

the  people  and 
the  presence  of  extremist  and 
A/63/PV.42 

In  the  past  several  years,  many  commendable 

efforts  have  been  made  by 
the 
Government of Afghanistan in rebuilding their country, 
taking  their  destiny  into  their  own  hands,  establishing 
democratic 
institutions  and  developing  a  vibrant 
political  system,  and,  indeed,  fighting  terrorism  and 
extremism in the country. 

Also, much has been accomplished in areas such 
as  economic  growth,  education,  health,  infrastructure-
building, rural development and capacity-building. The 
Afghan people and Government deserve our collective 
admiration  for  all  the  achievements  they  have  made 
thus far. They also need the continued support of all of 
us while they move forward in their journey towards a 
stable, secure and prosperous Afghanistan. 

Despite  all  the  accomplishments  however,  much 
remains to be done and serious challenges are yet to be 
tackled. As  the  report  at  hand  indicates,  we  are  today 
facing  a  mixed  picture  in  Afghanistan.  Afghanistan 
seems  to  be  at  a  crossroads  again.  Given  the  threats 
that 
in 
Afghanistan  has  posed  to  international  peace  and 
security  in  the  past  —  a  threat  that  still  exists  —  the 
whole world has no doubt that it has a vital interest in a 
stable,  secure  and  prosperous  Afghanistan  and  in  an 
Afghanistan free from terrorism and extremism.  

Extremists  and  terrorists  will  spare  no  effort  to 
explore and misuse any signs or missteps by some that 
could in any way be misinterpreted as a weakening of 
the 
to  help 
Afghanistan 
terrorism  and 
extremism. Unfortunately, certain countries have made 
statements  or  taken  steps  that  give  rise  to  such 
concerns  on  the  part  of  the  Afghan  people  and 
Government, as well as the world community. That is a 
matter  of  grave  concern  and  may  only  bring  a  new 
phase of extremism to the region. 

In our view, the insecurity in Afghanistan can be 
best  addressed  by  strengthening  the  autonomy  and 
integrity of the Afghan national security forces and by 
expediting  full  national  ownership  by  Afghans  of  the 
security  of  their  country.  Moreover,  capacity-building, 
training,  education,  the  development  of  important 
sectors  and  ensuring  that  ordinary  Afghans  feel  the 
results  of  the  help  and  support  of  the  international 
community  in  their  day-to-day  lives  could  help  to 
improve the overall situation in Afghanistan. 
fight  against 
community's 
international 
terrorists 
resolve 
its 
in 
if 
is 
and 
the  part  of 
international  community 
that  menace,  yet  more 

Unfortunately,  the  cultivation  and  production  of 
and  traffic  in  narcotic  drugs  in  Afghanistan  continue 
unabated.  They  not  only  affect  the  security  and 
development of Afghanistan, but pose serious threats to 
the  region  and  the  world  at  large. We  have  noted  and 
welcome  the  efforts  made  by  the Afghan  Government 
in  countering 
resolute 
endeavours  need  to  be  made  both  by Afghanistan  and 
the 
to 
the  world 
effectively rid itself of that daunting challenge. 

As  various  reports  by  relevant  United  Nations 
bodies  and  agencies  attest,  throughout  the  past  three 
decades  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  has  fought  a 
deadly and costly war against drug traffickers — a war 
that has cost our nation the lives of about 4,000 of its 
great  and  brave  law-enforcement  personnel,  while 
another  12,000  have  been  maimed.  We  expect  more 
support  and  determination  on 
the 
international community as we continue that fight with 
utmost seriousness. 

The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  has  also  been 
actively  participating  in  the  reconstruction  process  of 
Afghanistan.  Road 
construction, 
manpower 
training, 
and 
humanitarian  services  are  but  a  few  of  the  important 
contributions  we  have  made 
regard. 
Furthermore, we have shouldered a huge burden during 
the  past  three  decades  by  hosting  millions  of  our 
Afghan  brothers  and  sisters.  Throughout  all  those 
years,  those  Afghan  nationals  have  been  enjoying 
educational  and  welfare  facilities  in  Iran  and  have 
benefited from the same subsidies that our own people 
enjoy.  Our  country  is  today  hosting  about  2  million 
Afghan  nationals,  half  of  whom  are  living  in  our 
country  illegally.  We  expect  more  assistance  and 
efforts from the international community in the process 
of  helping  Afghan  nationals  to  return  to  their  home 
country in a more timely manner. 

I wish to conclude by stressing that, as in the past 
several years, the Afghan people and Government will 
always  find  us  at  their  side,  offering  our  sincere  help 
and support as they continue their difficult but valuable 
and  necessary  journey  towards  peace,  stability  and 
prosperity. 

I  also  wish  to  thank  the  delegation  of  Germany 
for  its  efforts  in  the  preparation  of  and  negotiating 
process  on 
resolution  on  Afghanistan 
(A/63/L.17). 
electricity 
the  draft 
projects 
railroad 
that 
in 
18 

08-59517 
the  resolution  receive 


Mr.  Khalilzad  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United  States  is  pleased  to  co-sponsor  the  draft 
resolution (A/63/L.17) reaffirming the solidarity of the 
international  community  with  Afghanistan.  We  thank 
the  German  delegation  for  its  hard  work  in  ensuring 
that 
the  broadest  possible 
support.  The  draft  resolution  underscores  the  leading 
role  that  the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in 
Afghanistan  (UNAMA)  is  playing  as  the  central 
coordinator for all civilian international assistance and 
for  ensuring  that  such  assistance  is  coordinated  with 
the Afghans and with the military efforts.  

The United States commends the work of Special 
Representative  Kai  Eide  and  the  UNAMA  staff.  We 
call on Member States to join us in supporting a surge 
in UNAMA’s capabilities. We urge the Secretariat and 
Member States to do everything in their power to give 
Mr.  Eide  the  support  and  resources  that  he  needs  to 
carry  out  his  very  important  mission.  We  must  find 
ways to allow him to hire the people he needs and get 
them  on  board  immediately,  not  months  from  now. 
Mr. Eide,  in  turn,  needs  to  use  those  capabilities  and 
the  promising  relationships  he  has  built  with  the 
Afghans  and  with  the  international  community  to 
develop targets, plans and timelines for achieving each 
of the major tasks of his mandate. 

The United States is gravely concerned about the 
humanitarian  conditions  in Afghanistan.  The  situation 
is worsening and many lives are in jeopardy, both from 
possible  food  shortages  and  from  extreme  cold 
weather.  The  United  States  is  the  largest  donor  to 
Afghanistan,  financially  and  in  kind. We  are  prepared 
to  do  more.  We  urge  Member  States  to  respond  to 
Afghan  Government  and  United  Nations  appeals  to 
avoid  a  worsening  humanitarian  situation  this  winter. 
Preparations  for  winter  should  aim  at  assisting  needy 
Afghans  in  dealing  with  food  shortages  and  cold 
weather. 

The security situation in Afghanistan has become 
more  challenging  as  the  number  of  anti-Government 
incidents have increased and the Taliban has continued 
to  wage  deadly  attacks  on Afghan  security  forces,  the 
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) and the 
civilian  population.  The  Afghan  people  face  an 
increasingly  vicious  campaign  of  violence  and 
intimidation  by  Al-Qaida  and  extremist  Taliban.  We 
appreciate the sacrifices so many countries are making 
to help Afghanistan. Just yesterday, two Spanish ISAF 
A/63/PV.42
in 
the  areas  of 
We  hope 
that 
the 
recent  changes 
in  preparing  for 
soldiers  were  reportedly  killed  in  a  suicide  attack  in 
Herat province. 

Despite the security challenges, the United States 
believes  that  success  can  be  achieved  in Afghanistan. 
Success  requires  that  the  Government  in  Afghanistan 
implement  its  National  Development  Strategy,  making 
tough  decisions  and  implementing  agreed  policies 
specifically 
local  governance, 
combating  corruption,  enforcing  the  rule  of  law, 
achieving economic development, and pursuing robust 
counter-narcotics and reform of the police forces. 

the 
in 
Government  can  assist  with  making  progress  with 
regard to those goals. We welcome and, indeed, believe 
it  crucial  that  Afghan  security  forces  take  increasing 
responsibility for protecting the Afghan people as their 
capabilities grow and as conditions warrant. 

President  Karzai  has  committed  his  Government 
to  holding  elections  in  2009.  That  is  very  important. 
We  welcome  UNAMA’s  efforts  to  support  the Afghan 
Government 
the  elections.  Last 
Wednesday,  the  second  phase  of  the  voter  registration 
got  under  way.  It  is  imperative  that  the  international 
community  redouble  its  efforts  to  ensure  credible 
elections.  We  call  on  the  Afghan  Government  to 
maintain  its  commitment  to  carrying  out  the  elections 
as  scheduled  in  order  to  further  instil  a  culture  of 
representative,  democratic  Government  in  the  country 
and to sustain international support. 

to 
underscore the importance of the role of the country’s 
neighbours. The  recent  election  of  a  new  Government 
in  Pakistan  provides  an  opportunity  for  increased 
cooperation  between 
two  countries  against 
terrorists  and  extremists  who  threaten  Afghanistan, 
Pakistan  and,  indeed,  the  world.  The  agenda  for 
regional cooperation is clear: no sanctuaries for hostile 
forces,  no  use  of  extremists  and  terrorists  to  advance 
intelligence-sharing,  precluding 
national 
regional 
encouraging 
reconciliation, 
into 
regional 
regional  economy. 
Progress  on  those  fronts  is  crucial  to  Afghanistan’s 
stability  and  development.  Both  the  Afghan  and  the 
Pakistani  Governments  need  international  support  to 
resist extremists and terrorists. 
The  United  States  deeply  regrets  the  accidental 

loss  of  civilian  lives,  and  we  do  not  take  that  issue 
For  Afghanistan’s  success,  I  would 
integrating  Afghanistan 
institutions  and 
geopolitical 
rivalry, 
like 
the 
interests, 
and 
the 
08-59517 

19 
improve 
coordination 
to  prevent 
to 
in  operations 
to  prevent  civilian  casualties  and 
A/63/PV.42 

lightly. We share the Secretary-General’s grave concern 
over  the  issue  of  civilian  casualties.  I  want  to  assure 
Member States that we will do everything in our power 
to  ensure  that  ISAF  and  Operation  Enduring  Freedom 
take every precaution to prevent civilian casualties. We 
have  intensified  our  efforts  with  the  Government  of 
and 
Afghanistan 
communication 
future 
incidents,  and  our  military’s  Central  Command  has 
issued  guidance  to  United  States  forces  to  continue  to 
take  steps 
to 
acknowledge them when they occur. 

At the same time, we should not lose sight of the 
fundamental cause of this increase in casualties, clearly 
spelled  out  in  the  Secretary-General’s  recent  report 
(A/63/372).  The  Taliban  and  other  anti-Government 
elements are waging a systematic campaign of violence 
and  intimidation  against  civilians.  They  deliberately 
target  civilians  and  use  them  as  shields  and,  as  the 
report  points  out,  the Taliban  is  increasingly  resorting 
to  asymmetric  attacks  on  population  centres,  aid-
related targets and non-governmental organizations.  

Last  June,  the  international  community  endorsed 
the  Afghanistan  National  Development  Strategy,  and 
there was an unprecedented level of pledges. Those are 
clear  signs  of  our  determination  to  help  Afghans 
succeed.  As  Afghans  do  their  part,  donors  must  also 
follow through on their commitments. 
In  closing,  it  is  clear  that  Afghanistan  faces 

challenges.  Those 
significant 
challenges  should  serve 
renew 
commitment to Afghanistan’s success — by making the 
necessary  changes  and  adjustments  —  on  the  part  of 
Afghanistan  and  the  international  community.  The 
United  States  is  committed  to  doing  so  and  remains 
firmly 
success. 
to  Afghanistan’s 
Afghanistan’s success is the world’s success. 
(Norway):  Norway  welcomes 

today’s  draft  resolution  on  Afghanistan  (A/63/L.17). 
The  broad  support  it  enjoys  sends  an  important 
message  that  we  are  united  and  committed  to  helping 
Afghanistan build a democratic country and to helping 
heal the wounds inflicted by decades of war and terror. 
At  the  Paris  Conference  in  June,  a  great  number 

of  us  pledged 
renew  our  partnership  with 
Afghanistan,  and the Afghan Government promised to 
step  up  its  fight  against  corruption  and  narcotics.  On 
long-term 
that  occasion,  Norway 
Mr.  Wetland
reaffirm  and 
difficulties 
committed 
reaffirmed 
and 
to 
its 
to 

is 
covered 
The  first 
(UNAMA).  A 
in  Afghanistan 
commitment  by  pledging  €500  million  for  the  time 
period 
by 
the  Afghanistan  National 
Development Strategy. 

How can we here at the United Nations make an 
immediate difference, now and for the future? I would 
answer by focusing on three particular issues. 
the  United  Nations  Assistance 

Mission 
grave 
responsibility  has  been  placed  on  the  United  Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  and  on  Special 
Representative  Kai  Eide.  They  have  been  called  upon 
to lead the international civilian effort in Afghanistan. 
At  Paris,  we  pledged  substantial  resources  to  really 
assist  the Afghan  Government.  Now,  expectations  are 
high. The people of Afghanistan are waiting to see the 
results that would justify our rhetoric in Paris. 

But  many,  alas,  have  yet  to  experience  the 
benefits of development or to see hope on the horizon. 
True,  we  see  important  improvements,  not  least  with 
regard  to  school  enrolment,  for  girls  in  particular  but 
also  for  boys,  and  with  respect  to  public  health.  But 
other  sectors  are  lagging  behind,  and  development  is 
also uneven between the regions. We must let ourselves 
be  coordinated  by  UNAMA,  and  we  must  ensure  that 
UNAMA  and  Kai  Eide  have  the  necessary  resources 
and  sufficient  qualified  personnel 
those 
expectations. 

That  may  require  some  practical  adaptation  of 
rules  and  regulations  regarding  budgets  and  staffing. 
The General Assembly will consider UNAMA’s budget 
later  next  month,  and  we  urge  all  Member  States  to 
provide UNAMA with the necessary resources to carry 
out 
the 
Secretariat to cut red tape and to speed up the process 
of putting qualified people in the field. 

Secondly,  we  need  to  focus  on  the  humanitarian 
situation. The people of Afghanistan are facing a harsh 
winter. The consequences of the global food crisis are 
being  felt,  and  are  compounded  by  drought.  That  is 
why we must assist the Government of Afghanistan in 
alleviating  the  serious  humanitarian  situation.  Norway 
its  humanitarian  support 
has 
significantly,  also 
the 
establishment of the new United Nations Office for the 
Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  (OCHA)  office 
in  Kabul.  We  take  it,  moreover,  that  OCHA  will 
quickly  assume  its  responsibility  for  humanitarian 
coordination, in close cooperation with UNAMA. 
its  strengthened  mandate.  We  also  urge 
in  relation 
facilitating 
increased 
to  meet 
recently 
to 
20 

08-59517 
to 
renewed 
commitment 



Thirdly,  we  must  focus  on  the  elections.  The 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  is  advising 
the Afghan Government on how to register voters and 
inform them about the election, and it is doing so with 
great  skill  and  creativity.  Of  the  more  than  820,000 
voters  registered  in  the  first  phase  of  the  process, 
women  make  up  38  per  cent,  which  is  a  high  figure, 
given  that  those  initial  regions  are  the  most  difficult 
ones  to  access.  The  broad  participation  of  women  is 
heartening and bodes well for the election. In order to 
consolidate  Afghan  democracy,  it  is  vital  that  the 
elections  take  place  according  to  plan  in  September 
2009 and in 2010. Norway has committed resources to 
the  registration  process,  and  we  will  also  support  the 
holding  of  elections.  Consolidating  democracy  also 
requires  improving  the  rule  of  law  and  respect  for 
human  rights.  The  recent  changes  in  the  Afghan 
Government  —  and  there  was  one  even  today  — 
demonstrate 
fighting 
corruption and improving security. 

Let  me  conclude  by  paying  my  respects  to  the 
men and women on the ground and to those who paid 
with  their  lives  so  that  others  may  live.  We  owe  it  to 
them  and  to  millions  of  others  to  ensure  that  the 
Taliban will never again be able to terrorize the Afghan 
people. 
Mr.  Hill  (Australia):  Australia  welcomes  the 

opportunity  to  endorse  draft  resolution  A/63/L.17,  on 
Afghanistan,  and  to  reaffirm  our  commitment  to 
continuing  international  efforts  to  help  build  a  more 
secure  and  stable Afghan  State.  We  do  so  against  the 
background  of  continuing  sacrifice  on  the  part  of  the 
Afghan  people  and  international  forces,  and  today  we 
pay  tribute  in  particular  to  the  Spanish  soldiers  who 
lost their lives last weekend. 
On a brighter note, we have seen important steps 

taken 
renewed 
commitments  and  comprehensive  political-military 
plan  adopted  by  International  Security  Assistance 
Force  (ISAF)  partners  at 
in 
Bucharest  in April  and  the  important  outcomes  of  the 
Afghanistan  Review  Conference  in  Paris  in  June.  We 
take  this  opportunity  to  commend  again  the  efforts  of 
France,  Afghanistan  and  the  United  Nations  to  bring 
the  Review  Conference  together  and  to  launch  the 
Afghanistan  National  Development  Strategy.  We  note 
the 
that 
countries  participated 
Conference,  pledging  over  $20  billion 
the 
Development Strategy, and that the Strategy provides a 
this  year,  most  particularly 
the  NATO  summit 
around  80 
in 
to 
the 
A/63/PV.42
that 
threat 
There 
is  no  question 
sound  framework  for  planning  for  Afghanistan’s 
national development needs over the next five years.  

But  we  must  be  realistic  about  the  enormous 
challenges  facing  Afghanistan  and  its  international 
partners  and  recognize  the  fact  that,  without  basic 
security, much of what is needed, such as building the 
Afghan  people’s  capacity  to  manage  their  own  affairs 
and  creating  conditions  for  economic  and  social 
development, will not be realized. 
the  Taliban-led 

to  sustained 
insurgency  remains  a  serious 
progress and to the Afghan people. It is determined to 
prevail  not  on  the  battlefield,  but  by  sapping  the 
resolve  and  public  support  of  Afghanistan  and  its 
friends for our sacrifices through fear and intimidation 
of the Afghan civilian population. 

We  also  know  of  the  insurgents’  tactics  to 
manipulate  and  disseminate  information  to  discredit 
and  our  efforts.  Australia,  like  others,  continues  to 
deeply  regret  civilian  casualties  that  arise  from  the 
actions of international forces, but we have strict rules 
of engagement to minimize those risks and processes to 
review  and  ensure  that  our  actions  comply  with  those 
rules.  Our  enemies,  in  contrast,  have  no  moral  issue 
with using civilians as shields or instruments of terror. 

international  community  clearly  has  a 
responsibility  to  the Afghan  people,  as  recognized  by 
numerous  United  Nations  resolutions,  to  prevent  the 
return to rule of the violent ideology that bred hatred, 
brutalized  women  and  fostered  only  extreme  poverty 
and 
rights.  Equally 
important,  we  all  have  a  responsibility  to  our  own 
people  to  prevent  the  Taliban-led  insurgency  from 
re-establishing  safe  havens  for  terrorist  groups  that 
seek to export violence across the globe. 

Australia  is  proud  to  be  part  of  the  group  of 
approximately 40 countries contributing forces to assist 
Afghans  in  fighting  the  Taliban-led  insurgency  and 
international 
including  Al-Qaida.  Those 
terrorists were behind attacks as far apart as New York 
and Indonesia, including the attacks in Bali that killed 
202  people,  including  many  of  my  countrymen  and 
countrywomen.  

Australia is committed. With 1,100 troops, we are 
the  largest  non-NATO  contributor  to  ISAF.  We  have 
also  committed  over  $600  million  in  development 
assistance  to Afghanistan  since  2001.  We  will  subject 
repression  of  basic  human 
terrorists, 
The 
08-59517 

21 

in 
relation 
to  support 
A/63/PV.42 

our  commitment  to  annual  review  against  the  mission 
we have set for ourselves. We welcome the fact that the 
Special Representative of the Secretary-General has set 
out before the Security Council some achievable goals 
for  UNAMA  over  the  next  six  months.  We  support 
UNAMA  and  look  forward  to  being  constructive  in 
consideration of its budget in the Fifth  Committee for 
additional  resources  to  allow  it  to  fulfil  its  mandate, 
particularly 
for  election 
preparations. 

Australia’s stabilization and reconstruction efforts 
in Afghanistan are concentrated in Oruzgan province in 
the  South  of  the  country,  where  we  are  working  in 
partnership  with  the  Afghan  Government  and  the 
Netherlands, which we praise for their partnership. Our 
reconstruction  task  force  has  built  schools,  provided 
basic  training  in  trades  such  as  carpentry,  and  has 
rebuilt  bridges  and  irrigation  systems.  While  positive, 
those  are  only  small  steps.  Oruzgan  demonstrates  the 
critical need for a coherent and integrated military and 
civilian  strategy  that  provides  the  basis  to  secure  and 
sustain  progress.  And  that  is  equally  true  in  other 
provinces of the country. 

We  know  that  there  needs  to  be  much  greater 
focus  on  building  Afghanistan’s  capacity  to  take 
responsibility for security, which will enable important 
reconstruction and development activity to take place. I 
am  pleased  to  state  that  Australia’s  first  operational 
mentor and liaison team is currently establishing itself 
in  the  province  and  will  soon  be  actively  training  and 
mentoring Afghan military units.  

There  also  needs  to  be  greater  focus  on  more 
effective  coordination  of  civilian  efforts  in  relief, 
rebuilding 
a 
comprehensive  political-military  strategy.  And  we 
believe  that  the  United  Nations  has  a  strong  role  to 
play in pursuing that objective.  

We  very  much  value  the  work  and  efforts  of  the 
Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  and 
the  UNAMA  team,  in  particular  in  their  lead  role  in 
coordinating  international  donor  activity  in  support  of 
the  Afghan  Government.  We  know 
the  difficult 
circumstances in which they work. We are pleased that 
a special allowance was introduced for them. Australia 
is committed to working with the Secretariat and other 
Member  States  to  ensure  that  UNAMA  is  capable  of 
fulfilling the demanding role we have set it. 
activity  within 
governance 
and 
role 
The  challenges  ahead  are 
We also reiterate our support for President Karzai 

and  Afghan  parties  committed 
to  strengthening 
Afghanistan’s institutions. The next two years will see 
the crucial tests of further elections and we call on all 
to assist in ensuring that those elections are conducted 
in a secure, free and fair fashion. We can be certain that 
those utterly opposed to the Afghan people making up 
their  own  minds  will  do  all  they  can  to  disrupt  the 
elections. They must be prevented from doing so.  

Australia also takes this opportunity to praise the 
new  Government  of  Pakistan  for  its  recent  efforts  to 
improve  relations  with  the  Afghan  Government.  The 
Taliban poses a common threat and both countries must 
work together to address it. We also note the valuable 
and  constructive 
that  Afghanistan’s  other 
neighbours  can  play  to  promote  and  support  Afghan 
stability, in particular in areas such as border security, 
trafficking and counter-narcotics. 

substantial,  but 
collectively  we  can  meet  them.  To  do  so  will  require 
our  continued  commitment  and  cooperation.  We 
support  the  draft  resolution  and  we  are  proud  to  have 
co-sponsored it. 
Mr. McNee (Canada): At the outset, I would like 

to 
express 
deep 
condolences  regarding  the  Spanish  soldiers  who  gave 
their lives in Afghanistan this weekend. 

resolution 
(A/63/L.17)  and  we  would  like  to  thank  the  German 
delegation  for 
in  facilitating 
negotiations on it. Canada is proud to have contributed 
to efforts to draft the draft resolution. We are pleased to 
co-sponsor  its  passage  today.  Its  adoption  will  be  a 
testament  to  the  ongoing  strength  of  the  partnership 
between the international  community and Government 
of  Afghanistan. 
It  also  affirms  our  collective 
commitment to a safe, secure and stable Afghanistan. 

strengthened 
leadership  the  United  Nations  has  provided  this  past 
year, with a sharpened mandate for the United Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in Afghanistan  (UNAMA)  to  lead 
the  coordination  of 
the 
appointment  of  Kai  Eide  as  Special  Representative  of 
the Secretary-General. Initial progress has already been 
made.  Canada  welcomes  the  efforts  of  the  UNAMA 
and  the  Government  of Afghanistan  to  restructure  the 
Joint Coordination and Monitoring Board to make it a 
more efficient and more decisive instrument. 
the  Canadian  Government’s 
international  efforts  and 
its  excellent  work 
Canada  welcomes 
today’s  draft 
acknowledges 
Canada 
the 
22 

08-59517 
insurgency, 
to  grow 



UNAMA’s  role  in  Afghanistan  is,  after  all,  to 
shape  and  focus  our  collective  efforts.  However,  the 
United  Nations  is  not  a  solitary  actor  —  it  is  only  as 
empowered  as  Member  States  allow  it  to  be.  Member 
States  must  ensure  that  it  has  the  financial  resources 
and the political support required to do its job. 

The  international  community  has  much  to  learn 
from  the Afghan  people  who  continue  to  demonstrate 
remarkable resilience and determination. In the face of 
the  Afghan  National  Army 
a  fierce 
continues 
in  numbers,  capacity  and 
professionalism. 

With  the  support  of  the  International  Security 
Assistance Force (ISAF), this Afghan institution is now 
able  to  lead  a  growing  number  of  operations  — 
something  unthinkable  just  a  year  ago. And  just  over 
two  months  ago, Afghan  security  forces  assumed  lead 
security responsibility for Kabul from ISAF — a proud 
and significant achievement. 

Canada  welcomes  Afghanistan’s  ratification  of 
the  United  Nations  Convention Against  Corruption  in 
August of this year, meeting one of the benchmarks of 
the Afghanistan Compact. While much still needs to be 
done,  Canada  is  also  encouraged  by  the  creation  in 
June  of  this  year  of  the  High  Office  for  Oversight  for 
the  implementation  of  the  National  Anti-Corruption 
Strategy. 

Canada  remains  committed  to  working  with 
Afghans  and  the  international  community  to  help 
rebuild  Afghanistan.  This  past  year,  Canada  further 
increased  its  development  commitment,  pledging  an 
additional  $600  million.  This  brings  Canada’s  total 
assistance  contribution  to  $1.9  billion  over  a  ten-year 
period. This is, of course, in addition to our continued 
military engagement in Kandahar Province. 

Canada has also announced its commitment to the 
repair  of  the  Dahla  Dam  and  its  irrigation  system  in 
Kandahar  Province.  Once  completed,  this  dam  will 
provide a secure irrigation water supply to the majority 
of  the  people  of  Kandahar  Province,  as  well  as  create 
the  potential  to  revitalize  agriculture  in  the  province 
and  provide 
to 
Kandaharis. 

Canada’s  polio  eradication  programme  will  see 
the  immunization  of  an  estimated  7  million  children 
across Afghanistan. 
thousands  of  much  needed 
jobs 
A/63/PV.42
to 
the 
facilitating 
Canada 
is 
also 
committed 
to 
to  national 
level 
stability.  Canada 
therefore  welcomes 
the  resolution’s  call 

increasing 
development  programming  in  Kandahar.  At  the  same 
time,  at  least  half  of  Canadian  funding  will  be 
dedicated 
initiatives,  such  as 
strengthening vital national institutions, rebuilding the 
Afghan  National  Police, 
justice  and  corrections 
systems. 

Canada  is  committed  to  supporting  free,  fair, 
secure,  Afghan-led  elections  in  2009  and  2010  and 
echoes 
international 
community  to  continue  to  provide  sustained  support 
and financial assistance. 

With  voter  registration  currently  underway,  the 
Afghan  people  are  commencing  their  second  electoral 
process  in  recent  times.  This  is  a  crucial  step  in  the 
establishment of democracy in Afghanistan. 
(spoke in French) 

As the Secretary-General noted in his September 
report  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan  (A/63/372), 
Afghanistan’s  neighbours  and  regional  partners  play  a 
crucial  role  in  promoting  Afghanistan’s  development 
and 
the 
resolution’s  emphasis  on  regional  cooperation  as  an 
effective  means  to  promote  security  and  development. 
Canada has been working to build cooperation between 
Afghanistan 
technical 
discussions  among  border  management  officials.  We 
are  also  very  supportive  of  the  Afghanistan-Pakistan 
Joint  Peace  Jirga  process  and  congratulate  the  two 
countries on the recent meeting of the Jirgagai. 

The  progress  we  have  seen  must  not  blind  us  to 
the  harsh  reality  that  these  gains  are  precarious. 
Security has deteriorated in some parts of Afghanistan 
adversely  affecting  our  governance  and  development 
efforts  and  ambitions.  Rising  global  food  prices  have 
not  spared  Afghanistan,  while  drought  and  a  failed 
harvest  are  compounding  food  shortages  across  the 
country. 
These are the immediate and pressing concerns of 

Afghans.  For 
reason,  Canada  has  named 
humanitarian  relief  among  its  priorities.  In  doing  so, 
we  are  making  clear  to  the  Afghan  people  that  the 
international 
to 
supporting  them.  But  it  is  action  and  change,  not 
words, that will convince them. 
(New  Zealand):  New  Zealand 

welcomes progress made in Afghanistan since this time 
and  Pakistan, 
community 
remains 
Ms.  Banks
this 
committed 
08-59517 

23 

to 
be 
justify 
allowed 
ratification  of 
A/63/PV.42 

last year and  is pleased  once  again to be a sponsor of 
draft resolution A/63/L.17, prepared and introduced by 
Germany. 

We  congratulate  the  Government  of Afghanistan 
on its efforts to improve the situation, including in the 
areas  of  security,  drug  control,  justice  sector  reform, 
gender  equality  and  local  governance.  We  welcome 
Afghanistan’s 
the  United  Nations 
Convention  against  Corruption  and  encourage  the 
Government  to  continue  to  fight  corruption,  which  it 
has  acknowledged  as  an  impediment  to  progress  in 
Afghanistan. 

Although  there  has  been  positive  progress  in 
Afghanistan,  the  overall  situation  remains  of  major 
concern with ongoing insurgent attacks and a continued 
high 
level  of  opium  production.  New  Zealand 
condemns the insurgent attacks which often jeopardize 
the lives of innocent civilians. 
These  extreme  security  challenges  must  not, 

however, 
continuing 
infringements  of  fundamental  human  rights,  including 
access to justice, the right to due process and freedom 
of expression. 

We  thank  Afghanistan’s  neighbours  for  their 
positive  efforts  to  help  improve  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan.  We  encourage 
to 
coordinate  their  efforts  with  those  of  the  rest  of  the 
international  community 
to  stabilize  Afghanistan. 
Otherwise, 
these  efforts  at  stabilization  will  be 
undermined by cross-border activities. 

The  NATO  summit  in  Bucharest  earlier  in  the 
year  reviewed  the  situation  in  Afghanistan  and  put 
forward  a  plan  aimed  primarily  at  improving  the 
security  situation. At  the  summit,  New  Zealand  Prime 
Minister, Helen Clark, highlighted the importance of a 
comprehensive,  multipronged 
covering 
security,  governance  and  development  interventions, 
with  a  rebalancing  of  effort  towards  governance  and 
development.  The 
emphasizes 
reconciliation. 
The  international  community  needs  to  increase 

non-military 
assistance.  The  Paris  Conference 
outcomes  addressed  development  priorities  articulated 
in 
the  new  Afghanistan  National  Development 
Strategy. 

commitments 
We  encourage  all  nations  to  implement  the 
the 
they  have  made 
to  continue 
approach 
approach 
improve 
them 
also 
to 
is 
the 
the 
the 
New 
international 
centrepiece  of 
Zealand  welcomes 
circumstances  in  Afghanistan.  It  is  essential  that  the 
required  resources  are  made  available  so  that  the 
Afghanistan  that  Ambassador  Tanin  spoke  about  this 
morning can become a reality — an Afghanistan where 
people can rebuild their lives in peace.  

improved 
coordinating  role  of  the  United  Nations  through  the 
strengthening of the United Nations Assistance Mission 
in  Afghanistan.  That  will  enhance  the  efficiency  and 
effectiveness  of 
community’s 
assistance.  We  fully  support  the  work  of  Special 
Representative Kai Eide, and we note the progress that 
he has made within a short period of time.  

New Zealand looks forward to the holding of free 
and fair elections in 2009 and 2010 as building blocks 
for  democracy  in  Afghanistan.  Since  2001,  New 
Zealand  has  made  a  substantial  commitment  to  the 
international  effort  to  restore  peace  and  security  in 
Afghanistan.  Our  Provincial  Reconstruction  Team  in 
Bamyan  province 
that 
commitment. 

In  closing,  I  should  like  to  acknowledge  the 
efforts and sacrifices made by all those nations that are 
working 
the  Government  of 
Afghanistan and to join others in expressing sympathy 
on the loss of the lives of two Spanish soldiers over the 
weekend.  
Mr. Towpik (Poland): At the outset, I would like 

to associate myself with the statement delivered by the 
representative  of  France  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union. Permit me to make a few additional comments 
from the Polish perspective on this important and vital 
issue for the international community.  

I  wish  to  begin  by  thanking  the  delegation  of 
Germany  for  its  significant  effort  in  facilitating  the 
consultation process that resulted in the draft resolution 
before  us. 
the  annual  debate  on 
Afghanistan  is  the  best  opportunity  to  underline  the 
prominent  role  that  the  United  Nations  plays  in  the 
process 
and 
reconstruction.  The  coordinating  role  of  the  United 
Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) 
and the activities undertaken by Mr. Kai Eide, Special 
Representative of the Secretary-General, enjoy our full 
support  and  respect.  Let  me  also  convey  our  sincere 
condolences  to  our  Spanish  friends.  We  share  their 
grief on the loss of the lives of the Spanish soldiers in 
Afghanistan.  
in  partnership  with 
In  addition, 
stabilization 
country’s 
that 
of 
24 

08-59517 
for 
the 
to 
Force 
security, 
in  2006 
to  1,600 
take 
to 
stability 
in  Afghanistan  are 
Security  Assistance 



Poland  strongly  believes  that  the  engagement  of 
the international community in Afghanistan should and 
would facilitate the creation of conditions in which the 
Afghan  authorities  would  be  able 
full 
responsibility 
and 
development of their country. That is the main purpose 
of  our  presence  in  the  country.  Bearing  that  in  mind, 
Poland  also  decided  to  increase  its  engagement  in  the 
stabilization  and  reconstruction  process  within  the 
International 
from 
100 troops 
troops  at  present. 
Moreover,  in  October  this  year,  Poland  took  over  the 
responsibility  for  the  security  situation  throughout 
Ghazni province. 
In our view, the most important challenges to the 

the 
international  community 
following.  First  is  the  stabilization  of  the  security 
situation.  We  still  have  major  concerns  related  to  the 
security  situation  in  Afghanistan,  and  we  continue  to 
do  our  utmost  to  address  them.  The  creation  of 
conditions  conducive 
the  development  of  a 
prosperous  country  with  effective,  well-functioning 
and  transparent  Government  structures  is  the  best 
strategy  for  stabilizing  Afghanistan.  For  that  reason, 
Poland  contributes  actively  to  the  development  of 
Provincial  Reconstruction 
in 
Afghanistan. We plan to gradually increase our civilian 
engagement  in  the  activities  of  the  PRT  in  Ghazni 
province. 

Secondly,  we  must  address  the  humanitarian 
situation. We cannot ignore the increase in the number 
of  the  serious  humanitarian  challenges  ahead  of  us  or 
the need for the international community and donors to 
face  them  in  order  to  meet  their  commitments  in  that 
field.  Moreover,  in  the  context  of  worrisome  news 
concerning  the  social  and  living  standards  of  the 
to 
Afghan  population,  we  must  focus  on  ways 
effectively 
assistance. 
Humanitarian capacity must be enhanced, especially in 
the  light  of  the  threat  posed  by  the  food  crisis.  Since 
2002, 
the  Polish  Government  has  been  actively 
involved  in  providing  humanitarian  assistance  to  the 
Afghan people, and in 2004 Afghanistan was included 
on Poland’s list of priorities in the Asian region in the 
field  of  humanitarian  aid.  In  2008,  Polish  official 
development  assistance  to  Afghanistan  amounted  to 
more than $3 million. 
Thirdly, we need better coordination of activities, 

especially among UNAMA, ISAF, the European Union 
humanitarian 
distribute 
(PRTs) 
Teams 
A/63/PV.42
in 
its 
the 
and 
support 
in  order 
reconstruction 
improved 
Pakistan. 
Police  Mission  in Afghanistan  and  other  international 
actors involved in Afghanistan. 

Fourthly and finally, let me stress the importance 
of  regional  cooperation.  There  is  an  urgent  need  to 
develop  such  cooperation 
to  stabilize 
Afghanistan.  In  that  context,  I  would  like  to  welcome 
relations  between 
and  commend 
Afghanistan 
The 
international 
community should continuously support both countries 
in their efforts to combat extremism and terrorism. The 
efforts  of  the  Tripartite  Commission  —  including 
ISAF,  Afghanistan  and  Pakistan  —  in  the  Afghani-
Pakistani  border  zone 
should  contribute  more 
substantially to the achievement of that goal. 

Afghanistan  will  need  our  significant  and 
continuous 
and 
stabilization  efforts  for  some  years  to  come.  At  the 
same  time,  we  should  try  to  develop  programmes  and 
initiatives  that,  in  a  long-term  perspective,  would 
enable the Afghan people to take full responsibility for 
the  peaceful  and  prosperous  development  of  their 
country and their region. 
Mr.  Ali  (Malaysia):  First  of  all,  let  me  express 

my  delegation’s  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  report  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan  as 
contained  in  document A/63/372.  The  report  provides 
useful  observations  on  efforts  to  bring  peace,  security 
and  stability  to  Afghanistan.  We  would  also  like  to 
express  our  appreciation  to  Mr.  Kai  Eide,  Special 
Representative 
for 
Afghanistan, for his valuable work and to the members 
of 
in 
Afghanistan (UNAMA) for their dedication in carrying 
out 
their  responsibilities  despite  a  difficult  and 
challenging situation. 

We  also  congratulate  the  Government  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Afghanistan  on  the  successful 
launching  of  the  Afghanistan  National  Development 
Strategy at the Paris Conference held on 12 June 2008, 
which,  together  with  the  pledged  support  of  the 
international community at the Conference, provide the 
road  map  and  the  means  for  national  efforts  to  bring 
long-term security and prosperity to Afghanistan. 

My  delegation  takes  note  of  the  Secretary-
General’s overall assessment that Afghanistan is facing 
an ever-more-challenging situation. We note with deep 
concern  the  marked  deterioration  of  the  security 
situation  resulting  from  insurgent  attacks  that  are 
the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission 
Secretary-General 
the 
of 
08-59517 

25 

in 
the 
efforts 
success 
resulting 
bring  much 
that  wilfully 
reconstruction 
We  are  equally  concerned  at 
from  military 
A/63/PV.42 

spreading into more sensitive areas and the deployment 
of asymmetrical tactics in those attacks. The increasing 
violence is a matter of concern for all, as security is the 
major  factor  making  it  possible  to  carry  out  urgently 
needed humanitarian relief work and efforts to achieve 
long-term 
and 
socio-economic  development  of 
the  country.  The 
actions  by  the  insurgents  will  definitely  retard  the 
Government’s 
needed 
to 
development to those areas. 

In  a  similar  vein,  we  are  deeply  concerned  with 
the  high  number  of  civilian  casualties,  which  is  in  no 
way acceptable. In the first eight months of 2008 alone, 
we  note  that  UNAMA  recorded  1,445  civilian  deaths, 
which represents a 39 per cent increase over the same 
period  last  year.  We  condemn  the  cowardly  terrorist 
acts  perpetrated  by  the  insurgents  and  other  extremist 
groups 
target  civilian  populations, 
including humanitarian aid workers. 
the  civilian 

casualties 
actions  by 
pro-Government  forces.  We  note  from  the  report  that 
during 
first  eight-month  period  of  2008, 
393 deaths,  or  27  per  cent  of  civilian  deaths,  were 
attributed to air strikes by pro-Government forces. We 
share 
that  civilians 
should  be  protected  at  all  times  from  any  form  of 
danger,  particularly  from  grave  injury  or  death,  not 
only  from  terrorist  acts  and  insurgency,  but  also  from 
the  unintended  consequences  of  pro-Government 
military  operations.  We  therefore  call  on  and  urge  all 
parties  to  ensure  the  protection  of  these  civilians,  as 
required  under  international  humanitarian  and  human 
rights laws. We also call on the relevant authorities to 
continually  review  their  rules  of  engagement  and 
procedures  in  this  regard  in  order  to  ensure  the 
protection of civilian lives.  

Another issue of concern is the narcotics situation 
in Afghanistan, in view of the nexus between the drug 
trade  and  the  activities  of  the  insurgents  and  criminal 
groups  that  finance  terrorism  and  corruption.  My 
delegation is encouraged by the reported albeit modest 
decrease  in  both  poppy  cultivation  area  and  opium 
production.  We  note  that  opium  production  is  now 
confined to only seven provinces where the insurgents 
remain very active, out of a total of 34 provinces where 
such production took place previously. 
the  Secretary-General’s  view 
the 
task 
trade 
success 
the  opium 
the  monumental 
the  demand  side  of 
in  counter-narcotics  efforts 
With  regard  to  counter-narcotics  efforts,  we 

recognize 
that  remains  for 
Afghanistan if it is to eradicate the drug trade, in view 
of the insurgency and the task of providing alternative 
livelihoods  to  poppy  growers.  In  addition,  counter-
narcotics  officials  and  enforcers  are  constantly 
threatened  and  intimidated  by  corrupt  officials  and 
traffickers.  

From the report, we learn that some 77 members 
of the eradication force were killed this year, a six-fold 
increase  over  the  casualties  from  last  year.  While 
efforts appear to be being taken at the country level to 
further ensure success in the counter-narcotic efforts in 
Afghanistan, the international community also needs to 
curtail 
in 
Afghanistan,  including  by  reinvigorating  international 
efforts  to  clamp  down  on  the  drug  route  going  out  of 
Afghanistan.  The  adoption  of  Security  Council 
resolution  1817  (2008)  to,  inter  alia,  curtail  the 
diversion  and  trafficking  of  precursors  from  exporting 
countries  to  Afghanistan  and  neighbouring  countries 
should, if implemented thoroughly,  contribute towards 
greater 
in 
Afghanistan. 

Security  challenges  in  Afghanistan  are  as  much 
the  cause  as  well  as  the  result  of  the  socio-political 
situation in the country. The resolution of the situation 
will  require  an  integrated  and  concerted  civilian  and 
military 
are 
insufficient  when  it  comes  to  addressing  the  root 
causes  of 
the 
Government  should  also  work  to  improve  its  delivery 
systems,  the  quality  of  its  governance  and  its  respect 
for  human  rights  in  order  to  foster  credibility  and 
galvanize  support 
initiatives. 
Furthermore,  an  all-inclusive  national  reconciliation 
process  is  needed  to  avoid  the  marginalization  of  any 
groups.  My  delegation  is  encouraged  by  the  efforts 
undertaken  by 
this 
direction. 

For  far  too  long  now,  Afghanistan  has  been 
saddled  with  many  daunting  challenges  that  have 
placed  its  people  in  a  very  precarious  situation.  The 
time should come soon for Afghanistan to be raised out 
of this hardship, which will only be possible if there is 
continued support and assistance from the international 
community.  For  Malaysia’s  part,  we  reiterate  our 
commitment  to  cooperate  and  work  closely  with 
Afghanistan  and,  where  appropriate,  with  other 
the  Afghan  Government 
approach.  Military 
the  problem.  At 
itself  and 
the  same 
actions 
alone 
time, 
for 
its 
in 
26 

08-59517 


members  of  the  international  community.  We  will 
continue to extend assistance to Afghanistan under the 
Malaysian technical cooperation programme to develop 
the much needed human capital in the various fields of 
Afghanistan’s development. 
Mr. İlkin (Turkey): Turkey aligns itself with the 

statement  made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
France  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union.  However, 
given  the  importance  we  attach  to  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan,  I  would  like  to  make  a  few  additional 
remarks in my national capacity. 

At the outset, allow me to express our satisfaction 
with  the  draft  resolution  that  the  General  Assembly 
intends to adopt this afternoon (A/63/L.17). We see this 
draft  resolution  as  a  balanced  document  that  reflects 
both the progress made and the challenges remaining in 
Afghanistan.  It  also  builds  upon  and  complements  the 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/63/372),  which 
depicts  the  situation  in  a  realistic  manner  and  offers 
helpful  suggestions  for 
the  road  ahead.  We  are 
therefore proud to sponsor the draft resolution, and we 
thank  Germany  for  facilitating  a  broad  consensus 
around it. 

First  of  all,  we  are  as  committed  as  ever  to 
helping  Afghanistan  build  a  secure,  stable  and 
prosperous  country.  Turkey  shares  unique  ties  with 
Afghanistan,  so  our  commitment  to  see  this  country 
thrive and prosper is indeed deep-rooted. On the other 
hand,  as 
to 
reconstruction efforts go, I kindly refer participants to 
the  note  annexed  to  the  text  of  my  speech,  which 
includes the inventory of our security and development 
assistance. 
Secondly,  we  are  not  at  all  pessimistic  about  the 

continuing 
prospects 
challenges,  mainly  in  the  security,  counter-narcotics 
and  governance  fields,  we  are  also  aware  of  the 
progress  being  made  on  many  fronts.  The  statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  the  European  Union 
touched  upon  many  of  these  heartening  achievements, 
and I would like to emphasize them once again. 

Accordingly,  we  urge  everyone  concerned  not  to 
be discouraged by some temporary setbacks, which are 
only inevitable in a war-torn country like Afghanistan. 
We  must  always  bear  in  mind  the  ultimate  objective 
that  led  us  into  Afghanistan  in  the  first  place.  Of 
course,  the  responsibility  to  achieve  this  ultimate 
objective rests, first and foremost, on the shoulders of 
far  as  our  concrete  contributions 
in  Afghanistan.  Despite 
A/63/PV.42
in 
community. 
The 
fulfil 
international 
leadership  of 
their  endeavours 
this  momentum  and  effectively 
the Afghan people and their Government. And, indeed, 
they  have  a  long  way  to  go.  However,  some  of  the 
recent measures taken by the Government, including a 
number  of  very  encouraging  steps  in  the  fight  against 
corruption,  give  us  additional  reasons  to  be  hopeful. 
We thus call upon the Government to continue to build 
upon 
the 
legitimate expectations of the Afghan people. 

At  this  point,  I  would  also  like  to  acknowledge 
the importance of the national political dialogue, which 
has  recently  gained  renewed  impetus  in  the  country, 
and  we  express  our  hope  for  it  to  yield  the  desired 
results,  namely,  for  a  meaningful  reconciliation  under 
the  ownership  and 
the  Afghan 
Government. 

Thirdly,  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
Afghanistan  need  and  deserve  the  full  support  of  the 
international  community 
to 
transform their country. In this regard,  we are pleased 
to see the United Nations assuming a more active and 
central  role  in  coordinating  and  steering  the  efforts  of 
the 
Special 
Representative’s  focused  and  committed  leadership  to 
this  end  merits  particular  commendation.  It  is  now 
imperative 
and 
organizational  improvement  into  practical  progress  on 
the  ground,  while  furnishing 
the  United  Nations 
Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) with the 
necessary resources. In this context, it is of paramount 
importance  that  we  increase  the  effectiveness  of  our 
humanitarian and development assistance in a way that 
will  enable  the  ordinary  people  to  feel  the  positive 
impact in their daily lives. We should also heed the call 
of  the  Secretary-General  for  a  political  surge  and 
deliver it in the form of a policy surge that will win the 
hearts and minds of the Afghan people. That becomes 
particularly  important  at  this  time  with  the  increasing 
numbers 
the 
responsibility  for  this  unfortunate  phenomenon  rests 
mainly with the terrorists and extremists. Furthermore, 
the approaching winter, which brings the risk of a new 
humanitarian crisis, also compels us to be vigilant and 
responsive.  
So,  as  our  immediate  target,  we  should  all  exert 

every  effort  to  make  the  next  four  to  six  months  until 
next spring a period of fulfilled promises and tangible 
things, 
benefits 
improved 
for 
achieving  that  goal.  We  are  thus  pleased  to  see 
for  Afghanistan.  Among  other 
regional  cooperation 
is 
imperative 
of 
civilian 
casualties, 
although 
this 
conceptual 
to 
translate 
08-59517 

27 

A/63/PV.42 

emerging  a  new  environment  of  dialogue  and 
cooperation between Afghanistan and Pakistan. For our 
part, we are committed to contribute in every possible 
way  to  this  promising  relationship,  including  through 
the 
trilateral  cooperation  process  between  our 
countries,  which  recently  had  its  second  summit 
meeting in Istanbul. 

In  conclusion,  I  will  recap  very  briefly.  We  are 
moving in the right direction, but the road ahead is still 
full of challenges. Therefore, we need to be even more 
watchful  and  resolute.  There  is  no  doubt  that  the 
Afghans  themselves  should  be  in  the  driving  seat. 
However,  it  is  also  imperative  that  the  international 
community continue to act in a spirit of partnership and 
with  a  long-term  vision  and  commitment.  Turkey  is 
ready and willing to do its fair share in this regard. 

speaker in the debate on this item.  
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
the  General  Assembly 

wish  of 
consideration of agenda item 17? 

The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. 

It was so decided. 
the 
The  General Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision 

on  draft  resolution  A/63/L.17.  I  should 
to 
announce  that  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution 
following  countries  have  become 
sponsors: Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, Cambodia, 
El  Salvador,  Eritrea,  Ethiopia,  Kuwait,  Madagascar, 
Mauritania,  Palau,  Paraguay,  Qatar,  Seychelles,  Sri 
Lanka, Thailand, Togo and the United Arab Emirates. 

draft resolution A/63/L.17? 

May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
resolution  A/63/L.17  was 
Draft 
(resolution 63/18). 
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
its 
to  conclude 
like 
adopted 
28 

08-59517 
