
A/63/PV.26
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

26th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 15 October 2008, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 
international  community  in  our  support  for  their 
development. As the global financial crisis deepens, so 
does  my  concern  that  our  commitments  may  be 
undone.  That  would  be  an  unforgivable  reversal  and 
bring  shame  on  all  of  us.  While  it  is  understandable 
that  political  concerns  and  financial  constraints  at 
home  might  make  us  waiver,  we  must  keep  in  mind 
that  this  planet  is  our  home  and  that Africans  are  our 
brothers and sisters. We cannot, as so often in the past, 
look away. 
It is unpopular for politicians to say such things, 

but we have reached a point when real belt-tightening, 
and  even  painful  sacrifices,  are  required.  It  is  also 
necessary  that  those  sacrifices  be  shared  by  all  of  us 
without exception. 

During the general debate we had an opportunity 
to  hold  a  high-level  debate  on  Africa’s  development 
needs  and  reviewed  the  status  of  implementation  of 
various  commitments. 
the 
declarations  of  world  leaders,  who  often  passionately 
appealed  to  all  of  us  to  deliver  despite  the  darkening 
horizon.  By  the  time  we  meet  at  Doha  at  the  end  of 
November  to  consider  financing  for  development,  the 
full brunt of the financial storm will be upon us. Let us 
take  every  opportunity,  including  our  review  today  of 
the  encouraging  progress  being  made  within 
the 
the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
framework  of 
Development, 
and 
to 
determination to weather that storm together. 

Mr. Olago Owuor (Kenya): I have the honour to 
speak  on  behalf  of  the  African  Group.  The  African 
I  was  heartened  by 
solidarity 
reiterate 
our 




The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m. 








Agenda items 57 (continued) and 43 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress 
in implementation and international support 
  (a)  New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and international 
support 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/206) 

  (b)  Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/212) 

2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa 

  Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/219) 

The President (spoke in Spanish): Members will 
recall that the Assembly held its high-level meeting on 
the  theme  “Africa’s  development  needs:  state  of 
implementation  of  various  commitments,  challenges 
and the way forward” under agenda item 57 at the 3rd 
and 4th plenary meetings, on 22 September 2008. 
(spoke in English) 

Before  we  hear  from  speakers  in  the  debate,  I 
would  like  to  reiterate  my  mantra,  which  the  General 
Assembly is coming to know well, namely, that we are 
now  deep  into  a  global  economic  crisis  and  that  we 
must  reinforce  our  efforts  to  protect  our  dear  brothers 
and  sisters 
the 

in  Africa  from  any  retreat  by 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-55210 (E) 
*0855210* 
thankful 
to 
entitled, 
item  57, 
respectively, 
the  Secretary-General 
A/63/PV.26 

Group  associates  itself  with  the  statement  to  be  made 
by the representative of Antigua and Barbuda on behalf 
of  the  Group  of  77  and  China.  The African  Group  is 
also 
for  his 
submission of the two reports (A/63/206 and A/63/212) 
under  consideration  under  sub-items  (a)  and  (b)  of 
agenda 
“New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development:  progress  in 
implementation and international support” and “Causes 
of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable  development  in Africa”,  as  well  as  for  his 
note  (A/63/219)  submitted  under  agenda  item  43, 
entitled,  “2001-2010:  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in 
Developing  Countries,  Particularly 
in  Africa”. 
However, we wish to  note that the world has  changed 
significantly  since  the  publication  of  those  reports 
owing to dynamics in the global economy, particularly 
the current financial crisis in developed countries. 
In that context, the African Group welcomed the 

the  political  declaration  on  Africa’s 
adoption  of 
development  needs  by  heads  of  State  or  Government 
on  22  September  2008.  The  declaration  is  a  clear 
undertaking  at the highest  political level to strengthen 
support for the implementation of the New Partnership 
for Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  which  is Africa’s 
overarching framework for sustainable socio-economic 
development.  It  is  also  important  to  point  out  that  the 
declaration  came  at  a 
time  when  all  economic 
indicators  showed  that  globalization  and  the  global 
partnership for Africa’s development had yet to deliver 
Africa’s poor from dehumanizing poverty and hunger. 
community 

undertook  to  reinvigorate  and  strengthen  the  global 
partnership  of  equals  based  on  our  common  values, 
mutual  accountability,  shared  responsibility  and  the 
determination  to  collectively  act  for  our  common 
future  and  to  mobilize  the  resources  required  to 
eradicate  poverty,  hunger  and  underdevelopment  in 
Africa.  We  believe  that  the  main  objective  of  that 
undertaking  is  to  turn  existing  commitments  into 
concrete actions. 

It  is  important  to  see  Africa’s  development 
against the backdrop of the weakened global economy 
resulting from the energy crisis, food and oil price rises 
and the current financial crisis in developed countries. 
They are contributing to the adverse impact on growth 
and  the  economic  prospects  of  all African  economies, 
with the potential for severe consequences for the least 
developed countries in the continent. 
Furthermore, 
international 

if 
leaders 
Through  NEPAD,  African 

The  evident  slowdown  in  global  growth,  the 
danger posed by the current high commodity prices and 
the  possibility  of  entrenched  long-term  effects,  the 
diminished  access  to  finance  for  investment  and  the 
erosion  of  the  balance  of  payments  positions  of  many 
countries  threaten  to  undermine  the  policy  gains  we 
have made over the past decade. That is likely to push 
millions  across  the African  continent  over  the  poverty 
line. 

In  view  of  the  foregoing,  Africa’s  growth  is 
projected  to  slow  down  in  2008.  The  growth  outlook 
for  Africa  may  worsen 
the  global  economy 
experiences  a  protracted  slowdown.  It  is  therefore 
essential  that  the  international  community’s  policy 
actions be aimed at supporting NEPAD’s objectives of 
improving  economic  infrastructure  and  creating  an 
enabling environment for investment and growth. 

have 
committed themselves to consolidating democracy and 
good  governance  and  to  implementing  sustainable 
socio-economic  development  programmes.  NEPAD 
adopted  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
as the centrepiece of Africa’s development agenda. The 
United  Nations  system  as  a  whole  is  mandated  to 
coordinate  programmes  of  action  on  the  continent 
within  the  framework  established  by  NEPAD.  At  the 
country level, the MDGs also inform the framework for 
national  policy  and  planning. The Africa  Peer  Review 
Mechanism is being rolled out, providing a framework 
for  sharing  best  practices  on  the  continent. Assistance 
and  support  from  the  donor  community  are  important 
for the long-term success of NEPAD. 
Recent  reports  suggest  that Africa  is  off-track  in 

meeting 
the  MDGs.  Africa’s 
achievement  of  the  MDGs  will  require  rising  above 
current  crises  and 
to 
substantially  accelerate  progress.  There  is  an  urgent 
need to scale up support to African countries to enable 
them to achieve the MDGs. Action is especially needed 
to  identify  precise  areas  of  need  in  accordance  with 
Africa’s  own  development  strategies.  Commitments 
must  continue  to  be  translated  into  concrete  action,  in 
particular  in  the  areas  of  development  and  poverty 
eradication.  In  that  respect  the  report  of  the  MDG 
Steering Group provides recommendations on how the 
challenges of achieving the MDGs can be met. 

We take note of the Secretary-General’s progress 
report  on  the  implementation  of  the  recommendations 
taking  proactive  action 
targets  set  by 
the 
the 
2 

08-55210 
and 
sustainable  development 
The  African  Union  has  pledged 


on the causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace 
in  Africa 
(A/63/212). The causes of conflict in Africa are many. 
They include extreme poverty, weak State institutions, 
poor  management  of  natural  resources,  failure  to 
protect fundamental human rights and increased threats 
related to climate change. 

to  address 
conflict and political instability in Africa, with the aim 
of  achieving  a  conflict-free  Africa  by  2010.  The 
African Union Peace and Security Council continues to 
play an important role in the prevention and resolution 
of  conflicts  in  the  continent.  We  therefore  welcome 
efforts  by  the  United  Nations  to  collaborate  with  the 
African  Union  with  a  view  to  building  and  enhancing 
the Union’s peacekeeping capacity. 

The  African  Union  endeavours  to  address  the 
challenges  facing  member  States  emerging  from 
conflict.  Post-conflict  reconstruction  and  development 
are  among  the  tools  of  the African  Union  designed  to 
curb  the  severity  and  repeated  nature  of  conflicts  in 
Africa and to bring about sustainable development. The 
African  Union’s  post-conflict 
reconstruction  and 
development also endeavour to complement the United 
Nations  Peacebuilding  Commission’s  work 
in 
identifying  States  that  are  at  risk  of  becoming  failed 
States  by  providing  timely  help  to  such  States  and 
peoples,  and  hence  contribute  towards  lowering  the 
rate  at  which  war-torn  countries  may  relapse  into 
conflict.  Post-conflict  reconstruction  and  development 
stress 
post-conflict 
reconstruction strategies that are established within and 
by communities and States themselves. 

The  African  Group  commends  the  Secretary-
General 
the  Assembly 
the 
comprehensive 
the  World  Health 
Organization  on  the  efforts  to  contain  and  reverse  the 
spread  of  malaria  in  Africa  (A/63/219).  Since  the 
beginning of the Decade to Roll Back Malaria, we have 
witnessed  significant  progress  by  the  international 
community and African Governments themselves. The 
partnerships  have  been  broadened  and  have  involved 
all  stakeholders  and  concerned  communities.  Special 
thanks  go  to  development  partners  for  their  continued 
support in that regard. 

the 
international community, needs to display unequivocal 
political  will  to  operationalize  and  implement  the 
The  United  Nations, 
together  with 
transmitting 
long-term 
nature 
report 
the 
of 
for 
to 
by 
A/63/PV.26
to 
the  United  Nations 
the  global  partnership 
commitments  made  to  enhance  the  global  partnership 
for  Africa’s  development.  It  is  important  that,  in 
accordance  with  the  political  declaration  on  Africa’s 
development  needs, 
should 
formulate,  by  the  Assembly’s  sixty-fifth  session,  a 
monitoring  mechanism  to  review  the  implementation 
of  all  commitments  related  to  Africa’s  development, 
building  on  existing  mechanisms,  in  order  to  ensure 
that  Member  States  continue 
to  be  seized  with 
addressing  Africa’s  special  needs.  That  is  essential  if 
the United Nations is to fulfil its mandate to achieve an 
equitable,  integrated,  coordinated  and  comprehensive 
approach 
for  Africa’s 
development  to  create  a  better  life  for  the  millions  of 
people in Africa. That is the least we can expect from 
the United Nations, and indeed from all of us. 
Mr. Delacroix (France) (spoke in French): I have 

the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union 
(EU).  The  candidate  countries  of  Turkey  and  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; the potential 
candidates  and  members  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association Process Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
Montenegro  and  Serbia;  and  Ukraine,  the  Republic  of 
Moldova, Armenia  and  Georgia  align  themselves  with 
this statement.  

As  you  have  requested,  Mr.  President,  my 
statement will address both agenda item 57, regarding 
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD),  and  agenda  item  43,  on  the  fight  against 
malaria, which primarily pertains to Africa.  

Regarding  Africa’s  development,  as  underscored 
at  the  high-level  meeting  on  Africa’s  development 
needs,  which  culminated  in  the  political  declaration 
adopted  on  22  September  (resolution  63/1),  much 
progress  has  been  achieved,  in  terms  of  institutional 
organization,  with  the  development  of  the  African 
Union,  and  in  economic  terms.  Nevertheless,  the 
challenges 
remain 
particularly  important.  NEPAD,  whose  ambition  is  to 
provide a road map for the renaissance of Africa, is, in 
our  view,  a  key  instrument.  We  are  all  committed  to 
contributing  actively  to  its  implementation  in  all  its 
dimensions. 

The  European  Union  welcomes  the  pace  of 
reviews  being  carried  out  by  the African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism 
the 
implementation  of  action  plans  developed  subsequent 
to  those  reviews  is  of  major  importance;  it  will  be  at 
the  continent  still 
(APRM).  The 
follow-up 
faces 
that 
to 
08-55210 

3 

to 
the 
levels 
information 
environment, 
A/63/PV.26 

the  core  of  the  Africa-EU  Partnership  on  Democratic 
Governance  and  Human  Rights.  The  concept  of  equal 
rights  should  allow  women  to  participate  fully  in  all 
aspects  of  economic,  social  and  political  life.  In  that 
regard,  the  European  Union  supports  the  current 
African  Union  efforts  to  protect  the  rights  of  women 
and  takes  note  of  the  proposals  submitted  by  the 
NEPAD Gender Task Force, which aim to bring about a 
number  of  changes 
the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism. 

NEPAD  is  also  called  to  reinforce  its  action,  by 
means  of  regional  integration  initiatives,  to  promote 
Africa’s  economic  and  social  development,  alongside 
security  and  good  governance.  The  European  Union 
has  noted  the  progress,  highlighted  in  the  Secretary-
General’s  report  (A/63/206),  that,  with  the  support  of 
the  international  community,  has  been  achieved  at 
national  and  regional 
in  numerous  areas, 
including infrastructure, agriculture, health, education, 
training, 
and 
communication  technologies,  science  and  technology, 
gender  equality,  participation  by  civil  society,  and  the 
African  Peer  Review  Mechanism.  The  European 
Union,  in  the  spirit  of  partnership,  will  remain  firmly 
committed to the implementation of NEPAD. 

The European Union supports the ongoing efforts 
to strengthen the cooperation between NEPAD and the 
African  Union.  Inter-institutional  cooperation  is  very 
important  among  regional  organizations,  especially 
between  the  Commission  of  the  African  Union  and 
NEPAD. The European Union notes with great interest 
and  supports  the  actions  undertaken  on  10  June  in 
Addis  Ababa  by  Mr.  Jean  Ping,  Chairperson  of  the 
Commission  of  the  African  Union,  with  a  view  to 
better  integration  between  the  African  Union  and 
NEPAD.  The  current  crises  and  climate  change  make 
consistency in actions between NEPAD and the African 
Union  particularly  necessary.  Finally,  the  European 
Union  encourages  NEPAD  to  step  up  its  efforts  to 
combat HIV/AIDS. 

The European Union is fully and unambiguously 
committed  to  stand  by  the  African  continent,  as 
demonstrated  by  the  adoption  of  the  Joint  EU-Africa 
Strategy  in  Lisbon  in  December  2007.  Today  the 
implementation  of  that  strategy  is  actively  pursued  in 
all  areas.  The  European  Union  is  Africa’s  principal 
development partner. Sixty-two per cent of bilateral aid 
allocated  at  the  regional  level  by  the  European  Union 
the  prevention  and 
went to Africa, and the European Union has reaffirmed 
its complete commitment to Africa.  

As  stressed  in  the  2005 World  Summit  Outcome 
document (resolution 60/1), development, human rights 
and  peace  and  security  are  inextricably  linked  and 
inseparable.  The  search  for  peace  on  the  African 
continent is therefore another of the European Union’s 
priorities,  as  demonstrated  by  its  commitment  to  help 
in 
resolution  of  conflicts, 
peacekeeping and reconstruction. Under the framework 
of  the  African  Peace  Facility,  €250  million  were 
transferred  to  support  the  African  peace  and  security 
architecture  between  2005  and  2007.  The  European 
Union has promised an additional €300 million for the 
period from 2008 to 2010. The European Union is also 
ready to help Africa through the European Union force 
(EUFOR). 

The  recent adoption of resolution 62/275, on the 
causes of conflicts and the promotion of durable peace 
and  sustainable  development  in  Africa,  has  enabled 
progress.  The  European  Union  remains  committed  to 
dealing with the causes of conflict and contributing to 
a lasting peace in Africa.  
I  would  now  like  to  focus  my  observations  on 

in 
2001-2010:  Decade 
Developing  Countries,  Particularly 
in  Africa.  At 
present,  malaria  affects  approximately  40  per  cent  of 
the  world’s  population,  and Africa  is  particularly  hard 
hit.  Of  the  105  countries  afflicted  by  this  scourge, 
45 are  in  Africa.  It  is  first  and  foremost  a  human 
tragedy,  causing  more  than  800,000  deaths  each  year, 
91  per  cent  of  which  are  in  Africa.  It  is  the  leading 
cause  of  death  among  young  children  in  sub-Saharan 
Africa. But the consequences of this epidemic go well 
beyond  that;  it  is  a  handicap  for  the  development  and 
stability  of 
that 
$12 billion  of  the  African  gross  domestic  product  is 
lost annually to malaria. The fight against malaria must 
therefore be considered a global emergency in order to 
defeat poverty. 

The  report  transmitted  by  the  Secretary-General 
(A/63/219)  gives  reason  for  hope,  as  it  highlights  the 
progress  made  in  eradicating  the  disease.  A  net 
reduction  in  malaria  has  been  recorded  in  certain 
regions,  sometimes  as  much  as 
countries  and 
50 per cent.  Those  reductions  have  been  seen 
in 
Eritrea,  Rwanda,  South  Africa,  Namibia,  Swaziland 
and  Zanzibar.  This 
that  a  strategy 
to  Roll  Back  Malaria 
the  continent. 
is  estimated 
is  evidence 
It 
4 

08-55210 
the  countries  of 


combining anti-vector measures, particularly the use of 
insecticide-treated  mosquito  nets,  and  the  use  of 
treatments is effective and produces visible and lasting 
results.  

The  European  Union  is  aware  of  the  logistical 
and, above all, economic obstacles that  often confront 
countries in the implementation of those measures. The 
European Union strongly supports the activities of the 
Global Fund  to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria 
and  UNITAID  —  the  International  Drug  Purchase 
Facility  —  which  have  enabled  considerable  progress 
in  the  provision  of  long-lasting  insecticide-treated 
mosquito nets and ACT, artemisinin-based combination 
therapy.  Contributions  from 
the 
European  Union  and 
the  European  Commission 
account  for  60  per  cent  of  the  Global  Fund.  The 
European Union would like to pay tribute to the role of 
the Roll Back Malaria Partnership, which is essential to 
the coordination of international action against malaria. 

The  European  Union  is  fully  committed  to  the 
fight against the scourge of malaria and determined to 
continue  its  efforts.  The  results  observed  in  certain 
countries  demonstrate  that  the  eradication  of  the 
pandemic 
reach.  We  can  attain 
Millennium Development Goal 6 of controlling malaria 
and reversing current trends between now and 2015. To 
achieve  that,  mobilization  must  be  global,  bringing 
together  Governments,  international  organizations,  the 
private  sector  and  civil  society. We  must  continue  our 
efforts. Our attention should be focused on vulnerable 
populations and in particular on children and pregnant 
women, on whom the continent’s future depends. 
Mr. Pramudwinai (Thailand): I have the honour 

to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  member  States  of  the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN): 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Cambodia,  Indonesia,  the  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Malaysia,  Myanmar, 
the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Viet Nam. 

Africa’s  challenge  is  the  world’s  challenge.  The 
successful  development  of  Africa,  with 
total 
population  of  over  920  million  people,  will  be  a 
success  for  us  all.  Now  is  the  critical  time  for  the 
development of Africa. We are standing at the midpoint 
for  the  realization  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  Only  seven  years  are  left  before  the 
2015 MDG deadline, but the challenges ahead are still 
daunting. According to the Secretary-General’s reports 
on 
the  subject,  despite  strong  overall  economic 
is  within  our 
its 
A/63/PV.26
have 
undermined 
performances  recently  in  many  African  countries,  not 
one  is  on  track  to  achieve  all  of  the  MDGs.  Food,  oil 
and financial crises, climate change, unfulfilled official 
development  assistance  (ODA)  commitments  and  the 
stalled  Doha  Round 
their 
development efforts. 

There  is  still  hope,  however.  Thanks  to  the 
leadership  and  resolve  of  African  leaders  and  their 
peoples, 
there  are  clear  signs  of  progress.  The 
international  community  must  build  on  those  positive 
developments  and  redouble  its  efforts  to  help African 
countries  tackle  the  formidable  challenges  they  are 
facing.  The  United  Nations  and  its  relevant  agencies 
can play a greater role in that endeavour. 

The  emphasis  for  the  international  community 
should be on forging and strengthening partnership for 
mutual  benefit  rather  than  on  creating  dependence. 
Thus, Africa’s determination to be in charge of its own 
development and to work with development partners in 
an atmosphere of respect and equality — as embodied 
in  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD) — should be given strong support.  
The  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 

(ASEAN)  supports  the  determination  to  implement 
NEPAD.  ASEAN 
it 
mobilizes and strengthens cooperation among regional 
organizations.  That  synergy  has 
to 
generate positive and dynamic development outcomes. 
ASEAN  will  also  continue  to  support  NEPAD  as  a 
coherent  and  concerted  framework  for  engaging 
Africa’s  development  issues.  As  part  of  that  thrust, 
ASEAN urges the international community to build on 
the  momentum  created  by 
the  recent  high-level 
meeting  to  address  Africa’s  development  needs,  held 
on  22  September  2008  in  New  York.  The  political 
declaration  adopted  at  the  end  of  that  meeting  has  all 
the  answers  on  how  best  to  respond  effectively  to 
Africa’s development needs. All that is needed is for us 
to  honour  commitments  already  made  and  to  turn 
words  into  deeds.  In  that  context,  ASEAN  welcomes 
the mechanism formulated at the high-level meeting to 
review  the  full  and  timely  implementation  of  all 
commitments related to Africa’s development needs. 

Asia’s  strong  support  for  Africa’s  development 
should  come  as  no  surprise  since  we  have  a  long 
history  of  fraternity  between  us. The  first Asia-Africa 
summit was held in Bandung, Indonesia, and gave birth 
to  the  “Bandung  Spirit”  of  solidarity,  friendship  and 
supports  NEPAD  because 
the  potential 
08-55210 

5 
that 
the  need 
leaders  recognize 
they  acknowledge 
in  November  2002.  At 
the  eighth  ASEAN  summit 
A/63/PV.26 

cooperation  between  Asia  and  Africa.  The  Spirit  was 
reaffirmed by the participation of then-President Thabo 
Mbeki of South Africa on behalf of the African Union 
at 
in  Phnom  Penh, 
Cambodia, 
that  meeting, 
President  Mbeki  not  only  recalled  the  historical  roots 
of  cooperation  between  Asia  and  Africa,  but  also 
commended  ASEAN  for  its  South-South  cooperation 
programmes. 
The  bonds  of  fraternity  are  strong  because 

ASEAN 
they  share  much 
common  ground  with  African  aspirations.  On  that 
basis, 
for  greater 
interaction  between  ASEAN  and  the  African  Union. 
Leaders  also  agreed  to  take  steps  to  promote  stronger 
ties  between Asia  and Africa,  including  by  convening 
an  ASEAN-NEPAD  conference.  That  desire  took  on 
the  form  of  a  process  activated  by  the  Asia-Africa 
Subregional  Organizations  Conference.  The  process 
was  initiated  in  Bandung,  Indonesia,  in  2003.  The 
second  Conference  was  held  in  Durban,  South Africa, 
in 2004. 

In 2005, the Asia-Africa summit held in Bandung 
to  mark  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  Bandung  Spirit 
launched  the  New  Asia-Africa  Strategic  Partnership. 
The  Partnership  is  rooted  within  a  framework  calling 
for  political  solidarity,  economic  cooperation  and 
improved  sociocultural  relations.  As  an  expression  of 
collaboration  between  southern  countries,  it  should 
enjoy 
the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme’s  Special  Unit  for  South-
South Cooperation. 

While  African  countries  are  forging  closer  ties 
among  themselves, ASEAN  is  also  transforming  itself 
into 
community 
designed to integrate South-East Asia. In that process, 
ASEAN  will  continue  to  function  as  an  outward-
looking  organization  with  an  agenda 
stressing 
beneficial global partnerships, including close working 
relationships with Africa. 

A  strong  foundation  has  already  been  laid  for 
such ties with Africa. ASEAN countries have paved the 
way  through  many  partnership  projects  with  African 
countries.  Today,  policymakers,  development  actors 
and  experts  in  various  fields  from  ASEAN  countries 
are  working  hand  in  hand  with  their  counterparts  in 
many  African  countries  in  areas  such  as  human 
resources  development, 
capacity-building,  public 
rules-based,  people-oriented 
full  support  of 
the 

health, infectious diseases, food security, fisheries and 
agricultural development. 

ASEAN  is  keen  to  explore  other  avenues  of 
partnership  with  Africa.  As  developing  countries 
ourselves, ASEAN  countries  understand  the  nature  of 
the  challenges  facing  African  countries.  We  are 
therefore willing to share with our African partners the 
experiences  and  lessons  we  have  learned  in  tackling 
development  challenges,  many  of  which  resemble 
development  challenges  that  African  countries  are 
currently  facing.  Other  forms  of  partnership,  such  as 
trilateral partnership, should also be further encouraged 
to  maximize  the  synergetic  potential  of  partnership 
between  ASEAN,  Africa  and  donor  countries 
in 
response to Africa’s development needs. 

ASEAN  believes  that  the  sound  and  sustainable 
development  of  any  country  or  region  requires  a 
favourable international environment if it is to succeed. 
The  development  of  Africa  is  no  exception.  That  is 
why ASEAN  has  been  following  the  gathering  global 
financial  storm  very  closely.  We  ASEAN  countries 
learned  through  our  own  painful  experience  in  the 
1990s that a major financial crisis can spawn multiple 
crises  with 
the 
development  of  nations  near  and  far.  Therefore, 
ASEAN  calls  upon  all  parties  concerned  to  work 
together  to  arrest  the  current  downward  spiral  and 
prevent panic in the world economy. 

ASEAN  urges  its  development  partners  to  take 
steps  to  ensure  that  the  current  crisis  in  the  world 
financial  market 
impact 
development  partnerships  or  hinder  assistance  for 
developing  countries,  including  in  Africa.  Donors 
should not let the current financial crisis distract them 
from  their  commitments  to  scale  up  and  reverse  the 
decline  in  ODA  disbursement  in  the  next  few  years. 
Steps should also be taken to improve the effectiveness 
of  ODA  in  support  of  the  national  development 
strategies adopted by African countries. 

ASEAN  believes  that  integral  to  international 
development  cooperation  is  the  operation  of  an  open 
and  fair  global  trading  system.  The  need  for  such  a 
system  has  never  been  greater  or  more  urgent, 
especially  in  the  area  of  agricultural  commodities. 
Those  products  make  up 
the  main  exports  of 
developing countries in Asia, Africa and other parts of 
the  world.  We  therefore  call  on  all  parties  concerned 
consequences 
far-reaching 
adversely 
does 
not 
for 
a 
6 

08-55210 
to  you,  Sir, 
Mr.  Talbot  (Guyana):  As 


not only to promptly resume the Doha Round, but also 
to conclude it. 

Now is the time for each of us to show leadership 
and for all of us to provide collective leadership. We all 
know what is required for Africa to achieve the MDGs: 
all we need to do is work together to make it happen. 
ASEAN  is  ready  to  do  so  and  looks  forward  to 
strengthening its partnership with Africa in all areas of 
mutual benefit. 
the  first 

statement  to  be  made  on  behalf  of  the  Caribbean 
Community (CARICOM) in the plenary of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-third  session,  permit  me  to 
convey 
the  felicitations  of  all  of 
CARICOM  on  your  election  to  guide  the  important 
deliberations of this session and to express to you our 
best wishes for a successful tenure. 

I  am  especially  pleased  to  address  the  theme  of 
today’s  debate  —  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  —  on  behalf  of  the  14  States 
members  of  CARICOM  that  are  Members  of  this 
Organization.  The  Caribbean  is  umbilically  linked  to 
the  African  continent  by  strong  bonds.  It  is  a  link 
established through the horrors of the Middle Passage, 
nurtured 
the  struggle  against  colonialism  and 
apartheid,  and  today  sustained  by  a  sense  of  shared 
purpose and common destiny. CARICOM is pleased to 
renew  its  solidarity  with  Africa’s  quest  for  durable 
peace,  sustainable  development,  the  strengthening  of 
democracy  and  the  guarantee  of  full  enjoyment  by  all 
its  citizens  of  their  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms. 

The  high-level  meeting  on Africa’s  development 
needs, held on 22 September 2008, took account of the 
state  of  implementation  of  various  commitments,  the 
challenges  encountered  and  the  way  forward,  and 
adopted  a  Political  Declaration  (resolution  63/1). That 
meeting,  having  followed  others  including  the  Fourth 
Tokyo 
on  African 
Development, sustained the considerable attention that 
the international community has rightly been devoting 
to Africa.  
Africa and its partners have taken several actions 

to  ensure  progress  in  the  implementation  of  national 
and  subregional  development  plans  and  strategies. 
Most 
is 
crystallized  and  coordinated  within  the  ambit  of  the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development,  which  is 
however,  Africa’s 
response 
International 
Conference 
in 
notably, 
this 
is 
A/63/PV.26
framework 
that  strategic 
the  continent’s  overarching  framework  for  socio-
economic development. CARICOM has observed with 
much  interest  the  steps  that  have  been  taken  to 
implement 
for  Africa’s 
development. 

Africa’s  quest  is  beset  by  myriad  challenges, 
including those related to inadequate infrastructure and 
industrialization  and  to  a  lack  of  requisite  human  and 
institutional  capacities.  The  continent  needs  to  see 
substantially  increased investments  in  those  areas  if  it 
is  to  ensure  a  firm  basis  for  sustained  growth  and 
report  of 
sustainable  development.  As 
the 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  Africa 
Steering  Group  notes,  the  region  has  grown  by  some 
3.6  per  cent  per  year  during  periods  of  accelerated 
growth  but,  conversely,  has  shrunk  by  2.7  per  cent 
during periods of growth collapse. In addition, growth 
volatility  in  sub-Saharan  Africa  is  some  five  times 
higher  than  that  observed  in  low-  and  middle-income 
countries  generally,  as  shown  by  the  coefficient  of 
variation  of  GDP  growth  per  capita.  CARICOM 
therefore  underscores  the  urgency  of  finding  solutions 
to Africa’s major challenges. 

Africa  will  no  doubt  feel  some  of  the  effects  of 
the  current  financial  crisis,  which  has  cast  a  pall  over 
the  prospects  of  the  world  economy.  Its  traditional 
markets are at stake. And the threat of a further cutback 
in official development assistance (ODA) is now a real 
prospect  as  many  developed  countries  struggle  to 
safeguard  their  financial  and  banking  systems  from 
collapse.  The  crisis  now  serves 
to  poignantly 
underscore  our  global  and  mutual  interdependence.  In 
the  wake  of  the  food  crisis  and  high  oil  prices,  the 
financial crisis is also a stark reminder that the policies 
of  systemically 
important  countries  have  serious 
impact on the fortunes of States far and wide, not least 
those of the African continent. 

A  special  responsibility  therefore  devolves  on 
developed  countries  to  ensure  that  their  policies,  both 
domestic and foreign, contribute to peace, stability and 
prosperity in the world. In our view, that entails greater 
coherence  across various policy domains, including in 
financial, 
trade,  development  and  environmental 
policies.  CARICOM  underscores  that,  as  expressed  in 
the 22 September Declaration, all commitments to and 
by  Africa  to  comprehensively  address  the  special 
development  needs  of 
the  continent  should  be 
effectively implemented and given appropriate follow-
up by the international community and by Africa itself. 
08-55210 

7 
possible 
if 
Considerable 
are 
translates 
gains 
community 
A/63/PV.26 


While Africa is not currently on track to achieve 
the 2015 MDG targets, it is also evident that, at current 
rates, the commitment to double aid to Africa by 2010, 
as  articulated  at  the  Group  of  Eight  Summit  in 
Gleneagles,  will  also  not  be  fulfilled.  Although  the 
international  community  has  provided  support  for 
Africa’s  development,  that  assistance  needs  to  be 
substantially  increased  and  made  more  effective.  In 
some  cases,  support  programmes  have  not  been 
adequately  tailored  to  the  needs  and  specificities  of 
individual  African  countries.  It  is  therefore  essential 
that  all  ODA-related  commitments  by  developed 
countries  be  fulfilled  to  improve  the  prospects  for 
achieving the MDGs in Africa. 
the 

its  many 
international 
commitments  into  actions. Africa’s  debt  sustainability 
challenges  must  also  be  tackled  coherently  and  its 
international  trade  facilitated  and  promoted,  including 
through  regional  integration,  greater  integration  into 
the  global  economy  and  the  fulfilment  of  our  global 
commitment  to  a  well-functioning,  rules-based,  open, 
non-discriminatory  and  equitable  multilateral  trading 
system  that  is  supportive  of  sustainable  development. 
In addition, given the importance of agriculture in the 
development of the continent and in order to cope with 
the current food crisis, African countries should strive 
to  meet  the  Maputo  Declaration  target  of  devoting 
10 per  cent  of  public  expenditure  to  agricultural  and 
rural  development 
initiating  a  green  African 
revolution  and  should  be  strongly  supported  by  the 
international community in that endeavour.  

to  face  formidable 
challenges  in  consolidating  the  basic  conditions  for 
peace  and  development.  CARICOM  applauds Africa’s 
successes in that area, even as we observe its setbacks 
with concern, conscious of the devastating human and 
economic  toll  of  armed  conflict  and  absolute  poverty. 
Greater  attention  must 
therefore  be  focused  on 
eliminating  the  combination  of  internal  and  external 
factors that engender conflict and stymie development. 
We  also  support  Africa’s  efforts  to  improve  both 
economic  and  political  governance  and  to  strengthen 
mechanisms 
inclusion  and 
empowerment  of  all  segments  of  society  —  including 
civil  society,  women  and  girls,  communities  and 
households — in political and development processes. 
Like Africa, CARICOM believes that good governance 
provides 
the  foundation  for  peace,  security  and 
Indeed,  Africa  continues 
the  participation, 
in 
for 

it 
prosperity. In that context, we have noted with interest 
the  design  and  implementation  of  the  Peer  Review 
Mechanism as a worthy instrument in that regard. 

Perhaps  the  most  salient  of  the  lessons  learned 
from  the  high-level  meeting  on Africa’s  development, 
held  in  September,  was  the  recognition  that  Africa  is 
capable of, and has dedicated much effort to, resolving 
the  challenges  it  faces.  Nonetheless,  those  endeavours 
must be supported and complemented by efforts on the 
part of the international community.  
The  Africa  Steering  Group  report  makes  clear 

that the full implementation of appropriate policies can 
produce verifiable development results that can help to 
ensure  the  effective  use  of  domestic  and  external 
resources and, inter alia, lay the foundation for robust 
economic  growth.  Africa  provides  a  barometre  of 
international 
overall  development  progress.  The 
community  must  utilize 
is  as  a  window  of 
opportunity. 

In that regard, success stories on the achievement 
towards  individual  Goals  across  a  range  of  countries 
show  that  rapid  progress  can  be  made  when  sound 
domestic  policies  are  matched  with 
substantial 
technical  and  financial  support  from  the  international 
community. CARICOM applauds the leadership shown 
by  African  countries 
their  major 
challenges  and  in  charting  the  way  forward  for  the 
region  in  the  context  of  the African  Union,  as  well  as 
through other national and subregional approaches. 
CARICOM  has  followed  with  great  interest  the 

the 
creative  efforts  of 
development  of  new  institutional  arrangements. Those 
efforts  are  geared  to  accelerate  integration  on  the 
continent  in  order  to  enable  Africa  to  better  take  its 
rightful  place  in  the  world  and  to  strengthen  relations 
with  its  diaspora.  As  shown  by  the  visit  of  an  East 
African  delegation  to  the  CARICOM  secretariat  just 
last  week,  there  is  much  scope  for  exchanges  of  our 
development  and  other  experience  in  the  ambit  of 
South-South cooperation. 

In  closing,  CARICOM  calls  on  the  international 
community  to  significantly  enhance  its  support  for 
Africa’s  development  through  NEPAD.  We  also  look 
forward  to  working  with  our  brothers  and  sisters  of 
Africa  to  further  strengthen  institutional  mechanisms 
for  collaboration between Africa  and the Caribbean in 
support  of  mutual  development  objectives. Africa  will 
ever  find  in  CARICOM  a  staunch  supporter  for  the 
the  African  Union 
in  addressing 
in 
8 

08-55210 
The 
in 
in 
and 
the 
full 
peace 
required 
for 
progress 
sustained 
of  Africa 
Secretary-General 
The  Constitutive  Act  of 


continued 
implementation of its aspirations. 
Mr.  Christian  (Ghana):  Ghana  associates  itself 

with  the  statement  made  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group and the Group of 77 and China. 

appropriately 
has 
described  the  development  challenges  of  Africa  as  a 
development  emergency.  We  are  aware  that  the  basic 
conditions 
and 
development have yet to be adequately consolidated on 
the  continent.  Poverty,  weak  State  institutions,  poor 
management of natural resources, the failure to protect 
human rights and threats related to climate change are 
still persistent. 
the  African  Union 

acknowledges  that  conflicts  in  Africa  constitute  a 
major impediment to its socio-economic development. 
In  addition  to  unfortunate  historical  legacies,  African 
leaders  have  also  come  to  terms  with  the  fact  that  the 
impoverishment of the continent has been partly due to 
shortcomings 
the  policies  pursued  by  many 
countries in the post-independence era. 

This  was  the  state  of  affairs  on  the  continent 
when  the  Secretary-General  wrote  his  seminal  report 
“The  causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable 
peace  and 
in  Africa” 
(A/52/871). Considerable progress has been made since 
that report first appeared in 1998. Today, the number of 
African countries afflicted by conflicts is fewer than it 
institutional 
was  a  decade  ago.  The 
effectiveness 
responding 
through 
peacekeeping,  especially  by  Africans  themselves,  has 
been  a  major  factor  in  containing  violent  conflicts  on 
the continent. 

The  new  generation  of  African  leaders,  in  their 
determination  to  change  course,  adopted  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  as  a 
strategic  development  framework  to  address  the  many 
development  challenges  facing  the  continent  and  its 
populations.  NEPAD  establishes  the  conditions  for 
sustainable  development  by  ensuring  peace  and 
security,  building  democracy  and  good  governance, 
engendering  policy  reforms and increased investments 
in  priority  sectors,  and  mobilizing  resources  for 
development. Furthermore, the leaders have committed 
themselves  to  actively  promoting  human  rights,  the 
rule of law and the consolidation of democracy by, for 
sustainable  development 
to  conflict 
improved 
A/63/PV.26
economic 
international 
instance,  subscribing  to  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism. 

However,  as  African  countries  embark  on  that 
journey, they continue to face daunting challenges that 
are  beyond  their  control.  Factors  such  as  the  current 
global  financial  crisis,  the  stalled  Doha  Development 
Round  of  trade  negotiations  and  a  general  lack  of  a 
conducive 
environment 
continue  to  impede Africa’s  development  efforts  both 
directly and indirectly. 
Many African countries have pledged to increase 

their  health  budgets 
to  15  per  cent  of  public 
expenditure so as to fight diseases such as HIV/AIDS, 
malaria, tuberculosis and other infectious diseases, but 
to  date,  only  a  few  countries  have  reached  that  goal. 
That  is  because  the  chronic  financial  and  institutional 
constraints  facing  most  African  countries  have  been 
aggravated  by  the  brain  drain  that  has  resulted  in  the 
already 
few  doctors,  nurses  and  other  health 
professionals,  trained  with  meagre  resources,  leaving 
in  droves  in  search  of  better  conditions  of  service 
abroad. The brain drain has also affected professionals 
and skilled personnel in other sectors of the economy, 
thereby  depriving  the  affected  countries  of  much-
needed human capital for development. 

it 
unacceptable  that  currently  over  1.4  million  Ghanaian 
children  do  not  go  to  school. To  redress  the  situation, 
the  Government  is  making  heavy  investments  at  all 
levels of the country’s education system. For instance, 
Ghana launched educational reforms to put the country 
in  a  better  position  to  achieve  the  targets  under
Millennium  Development  Goal  (MDG)  2.  A  cornerstone
of  the  reforms  is  the  introduction  of  a  free  and 
compulsory 
from 
kindergarten  through  primary  school  to  junior  high 
school. 

We  are  using  various  mechanisms,  such  as  a 
capitation  grant  and  school  feeding  programme,  to 
boost  enrolment.  Special  attention  is  paid  to  girls’ 
education and, on the average, the rate of enrolment of 
the  girl  child  has  surpassed  her  male  counterpart.  To 
attain  its  goals  and  achieve  quality  education,  the 
Government  is  working  tirelessly  to  improve  the 
conditions  of  service  of  Ghanaian  teachers,  including 
retraining  and  upgrading  their  professional  skills,  in 
addition  to  appreciable  increases  in  the  levels  of  their 
remuneration. 
the  area  of  education,  Ghana 
education 
universal 
basic 
finds 
In 
08-55210 

9 

improve 
to  health  care, 
A/63/PV.26 


So far, the results of our efforts have been mixed. 
There is still resistance to enrolment due, among other 
things,  to  cultural  and  economic  factors.  There  are 
wide  disparities  in  access  to  education  between  the 
various regions and also between urban and rural areas. 
The uneven distribution of access appears to have been 
aggravated  by  our  high  birth  rate  as  well  as  by  rapid 
urbanization. We are also faced with the challenges of 
inadequate  and  obsolete 
facilities,  poor 
training 
logistics and a host of other problems. 

Despite  existing  challenges  in  the  health  sector, 
Ghana continues to strive to meet the targets in MDGs 
4,  5  and  6.  Through  the  National  Health  Insurance 
Scheme,  which  has  taken  off  and  is  still  being 
improved,  the  Government  aims  to  increase  public 
access 
the  quality  and 
efficiency  of  health  care  delivery,  as  well  as  improve 
and increase programmes of education on curative and 
preventive  health-care.  Ghana  has  also  managed  to 
institute  free  medical  care  for  expectant  women  to 
encourage  more  women  to  make  use  of  modern 
medical facilities, reduce their exposure to unqualified 
traditional birth attendants and thereby promote overall 
reproductive health. 

Although  our  efforts  have  resulted  in  some 
appreciable reduction in child mortality, Ghana will not 
find  it  easy  to  meet  the  targeted  rate  of  reduction  by 
2015  due  to  the  limited  access  to  health  facilities, 
including the wide doctor-patient ratio and the general 
problem  of  retaining  health  personnel  that  the  nation 
has been facing for some time now. 

We are counting on the continued support of our 
development partners to meet the shortfalls in funds for 
the  education  and  health  sectors,  which  have  far 
reaching impacts on the other MDGs. The Government 
is working with agencies such  as UNESCO, UNICEF, 
the World  Health  Organization,  the  United  Kingdom’s 
Department  for  International  Development,  and  the 
United  States  Agency  for  International  Development, 
among  other  bilateral  partners,  to  complement  its 
efforts. 

Malaria  remains  one  of  the  deadliest  diseases  in 
Africa,  killing  more  than  1  million  people  each  year, 
mostly  children  and  pregnant  women.  Although  the 
disease is widespread, it does not enjoy the high profile 
visibility of other issues of similar scale and impact. In 
Ghana, malaria is prevalent throughout the country and 
is responsible for over 40  per  cent of outpatient visits 

to  provide 
leaders  signed 
and  approximately  20  per  cent  of  deaths  in  children 
under five years. 

In  recent  years,  several  African  countries  have 
made  commitments  to  bringing  malaria  under  control. 
In  2000,  44  African 
the  Abuja 
Declaration committing their countries to work towards 
a  50  per  cent  decrease  in  malaria  deaths  in Africa  by 
2010.  Those  efforts  have  been 
supported  by 
development partners through such programmes as the 
Global Fund  to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria 
and  the  President’s  Malaria  Initiative  launched  by  the 
United  States  Government 
financial 
resources to African countries to fight malaria. A recent 
United  Nations  report  confirmed  that  more  African 
children  were  getting  insecticide-treated  bednets  and 
being treated for malaria. 

There  is  concern,  nonetheless,  that  most African 
nations remain off track in reaching the goal of halting 
and reversing the incidence of the disease. It is in that 
light  that  we  laud  the  initiative  of  Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  to  end  malaria  deaths  by  2010.  The 
initiative  is  a  bold  but  achievable  one,  given  the 
necessary  leadership,  commitment  and  will  to  fight 
malaria.  It  is  imperative  that  we  work  together  to 
realize  the  vision.  Eliminating  malaria  deaths  will 
remove  a  major  barrier  to  economic  development  and 
provide  significant  momentum  towards  reaching  at 
least four of the MDGs. We are already midway to the 
2015  deadline  set  for  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs. 
Therefore, the urgency of the Secretary–General’s call 
to action cannot be overstated. 

  Mr. Salgueiro (Portugal), Vice-President, took the 
Chair. 

Africa  is  endowed  with  natural  resources  that 
represent a vast potential that can be harnessed for the 
continent’s  development.  We  recognize  that,  with  the 
right  combination  of  sound  domestic  policies  and  the 
timely  fulfilment  of  long-standing  pledges  of  support, 
the story of the Continent could be different in 2015. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian): The gradual socio-economic development of 
the  African  Continent  is  necessary  to  effectively 
address global threats and challenges, including in the 
area of security. Russia fully supports the efforts of the 
international  community  to  turn Africa  into  a  zone  of 
active  partnership  and  to  establish  conditions  on  the 
continent 
sustainable 
development.  We  are  firmly  committed  to  meeting 
and 
conducive 
to  peace 
10 

08-55210 


international  obligations  to  assist  Africa,  especially 
with  respect  to  the  attainment  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  the  implementation 
of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD).  

We  are  grateful  to  the  Secretary-General  for  the 
substantial  reports  on  the  achievements  of  NEPAD 
(A/63/206 and A/63/212) and will continue to view that 
initiative  as  a  main  channel  for  the  countries  of  the 
continent in attaining the MDGs. NEPAD is universally 
recognized  as  a  platform  for  interaction  with  Africa 
and  an  important  reference  point  for  the  international 
community’s  consideration  of  international  assistance 
to  the  continent  in  the  framework  of  the  United 
Nations, the Group of Eight and its Africa Partnership 
Forum. 

Russia welcomed the holding on 22 September of 
the General Assembly’s high-level meeting on Africa’s 
development  needs.  The  political  declaration  adopted 
at the meeting reflects the resolve of Member States to 
strengthen  and  intensify  international  cooperation  to 
find  a  long-term  solution  to  Africa’s  development 
needs.  The  priority  task  now  is  for  all  countries  to 
effectively  honour 
they  have 
undertaken. 
As  the  meeting  confirmed  yet  again,  the African 

continent 
the 
international community in the context of attaining the 
MDGs.  We  welcome  the  commitment  of  leaders  of 
African  countries  to  attaining  the  MDGs. We  note  the 
progress  in  a  number  of  areas,  such  as  the  positive 
momentum  towards  achieving  children’s  access  to 
basic  education  in  sub-Saharan  Africa.  At  the  same 
time,  there  is  a  serious  lag  in  attaining  the  MDGs  in 
such  areas  as  the  reduction  of  mother  and  child 
mortality 
the  eradication  of  HIV/AIDS, 
guaranteed health care and others. 

favoured  a  global 
partnership 
reliable 
mechanisms 
the 
continent  and  of  strengthening  regional  stability. 
Meeting the special needs of Africa, especially helping 
to  overcome  poverty, 
is  a  priority  of  Russian 
international development policies. For many decades, 
our  country,  prompted  by  the  principles  of  solidarity 
and  equal  partnership,  has  provided  considerable 
assistance  to  African  States.  Our  help  has  allowed  a 
number of states to resolve serious economic problems 
in 
for  sustainable  development  on 
the  special  attention  of 
Russia  has  consistently 
interest  of  creating 
the  commitments 
requires 
rates, 
the 
A/63/PV.26
is 
A  key 
task  at 
this  stage 
and to lay the basis for subsequent industrialization. As 
a  responsible  development  partner,  Russia  is  actively 
reviving its donor potential and will continue to make a 
significant  contribution  to  the  international  efforts  to 
render comprehensive assistance to Africa.  

We  are  playing  a  leadership  role  in  debt  write-
offs  to  the  countries  of  the  continent.  In  the  past  two 
years  alone,  Russia  has  cancelled African  debts  to  the 
tune of $10 billion, almost double the general total of 
cancellations. At the same time, we are increasing our 
contributions  to  international  development  programmes.
We have voluntarily contributed a total of $40 million 
to  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and 
Malaria. Our country has set aside $20 million to fight 
malaria and $18 million to eradicate polio once and for 
all.  Most  of  that  assistance  has  been  directed  to  the 
African continent.  

to  encourage 
investment  in  the  infrastructure  of  African  countries, 
especially  in  the  cross-border  context.  With  our  help, 
Africa is carrying out a number of investment projects. 
Major Russian companies are working in Angola, Côte 
d’Ivoire,  Guinea,  Nigeria,  Gabon,  South  Africa, 
Algeria, Libya and Egypt. A very useful mechanism in 
support  of  investment,  entrepreneurial  investment  and 
innovative  activities  in  Africa  is  the  NEPAD  Africa 
Fund  to  finance  measures  to  improve  the  investment 
climate.  It  also  serves  to  encourage  investment  in 
small-  and  medium-sized  enterprises  and  to  develop 
the microfinancing system.  

form 
partnerships  to  enhance  the  efficiency  of  Africa’s 
financial 
the  priority  areas  of 
cooperation are the diversification of and expansion of 
access to financial services for the poor, and increasing 
the transparency and absorptive capacities of recipient 
Governments. 

The  problem  of  hunger  and  providing  food 
remains  one  of  the  main  socio-economic  challenges 
facing almost all the countries of the continent. We feel 
that  the  Rome  Declaration  and  the  Comprehensive 
Framework  for  Action  prepared  by  the  High-Level 
Task  Force  on  the  Global  Food  Security  Crisis  can 
serve  as  a  solid  basis  for  strengthening  the  efforts  of 
the international community in that area.  

In  terms  of  the  global  food  crisis,  it  is  more 
important  than  ever  to  adopt  measures  to  enhance 
African agriculture on the basis of three key activities: 
sector.  Among 
supported 
initiative 
Russia 
the 
to 
08-55210 

11 

African 
initiatives  and 
A/63/PV.26 

the selection of more efficient crops; the expansion and 
improvement  of  irrigation;  and  the  active  introduction 
of modern agricultural technology and the rational use 
of  chemical  fertilizers.  Support  for  such  work  comes 
the  NEPAD/African 
from  national 
Union 
Comprehensive 
Agriculture 
Development Programme.  

Another  key  issue  in  providing  for  a  prosperous 
future  for  the  African  continent  is  the  settlement  and 
prevention of armed conflict. We are convinced that, in 
order to provide more stable peace on the continent, it 
is  necessary  first  and  foremost  for  the  Africans 
themselves  to  take  active  positions.  We  welcome  the 
active work of the African  Union to create an African 
standby  force  and  early  warning  systems.  We  also 
welcome  the  dialogue  between  the  Security  Council 
and  the  Peace  and  Security  Council  of  the  African 
Union on resolving acute crisis situations. 

It  is  important  to  adopt  measures  to  counter 
illegal  armed  formations,  promote  good-neighbourly 
relations,  strengthen  cooperation  on  border  security, 
seal  borders  against  the  spread  of  conflicts  and  the 
transfer of weapons and mercenaries, and end the gross 
violations  of 
law  and 
impunity for crimes against humanity. 

As a permanent member of the Security Council, 
Russia  is  making  a  significant  contribution  to  the 
international community’s development of policies and 
practical  measures  on 
the 
strengthening  of  peace  and  security  in  the  region.  We 
participate  in  all  United  Nations  operations  in Africa. 
We  have  recently  expanded 
training  for  African 
peacebuilding  troops  and  law  enforcement  officers. 
This  year,  through  the  specialized  training  institutions 
of  the  Ministry  of  the  Interior,  we  plan  to  train 
350 staff members of African interior ministries.  

the  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  potential  and  to  assist African  countries 
in post-conflict stabilization, as of this year the Russian 
Federation has decided to make annual contributions of 
$2 million to the Peacebuilding Fund.  

We shall continue to work purposefully to put in 
place  effective  sustainable  development  models  in 
Africa  while  strengthening  regional  stability  and 
helping  a  number  of  countries  in  numerous  areas  to 
solve other urgent problems facing the continent. 
international  humanitarian 
to  strengthen 
Seeking 
related 
issues 
to 
the  particular  backdrop  of 
The  General  Assembly  also  addressed 
Mr. Benmehidi (Algeria) (spoke in French): This 

year,  the  General  Assembly’s  consideration  of  items 
relating  to  peace  and  development  in Africa  is  taking 
place  against 
the 
international  community’s  growing  interest  in  crucial 
questions  relating  to  the  African  continent  and  the 
world’s  current  economic  and  financial  situation.  On 
22  September  2008,  the  General  Assembly  held  a 
timely  high-level  meeting  on  the  theme  “Africa’s 
development needs: state of implementation of various 
commitments,  challenges  and  the  way  forward”.  That 
event  was  an  opportunity  to  focus  the  international 
community’s  attention  on Africa’s  problems  and  once 
again  to  address  the  problems  of  and  impediments  to 
Africa’s  genuine  social  and  economic  development.  It 
was  also  an  opportunity  for  representatives  of  the 
international  community,  and  especially 
those  of 
developed  countries,  to  renew  their  commitment  to 
providing the necessary support to Africa. 
the 

particular  situation  of  the  African  continent  in  that 
regard  during  the  high-level  meeting  on  the  midterm 
review  of  the  progress  made  in  the  implementation  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  On  that 
occasion,  it  was  clearly  recognized  that,  if  nothing 
changes  fundamentally  between  now  and  2015,  at  the 
current  pace  most  African  countries  will  not  achieve 
the Goals by the target date.  
Moreover, this year’s debate is taking place in an 

international 
the 
multifaceted financial,  energy, food and  climate crises 
being  experienced 
the  world.  Africa 
appears to have been doubly penalized by those crises. 
On  the  one  hand,  it  is  the  continent  least  prepared  to 
deal  with  them,  due  to  the  overall  level  of  the 
continent’s  development;  on  the  other,  it  is  at  risk  of 
suffering  negative  repercussions  in  terms  of  the  level 
of development assistance provided to Africa.  

Algeria,  which  was  among  the  first  African 
countries  to  promote  the  New  Partnership  for Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD), would like to emphasize both 
the  importance  of  that  innovative  framework  and  the 
new  tool  it  offers  the  continent  for  dealing  with  its 
foreign  partners.  Following  the  many  laudable  but 
structurally  deficient  initiatives  launched  since  the 
1980s,  NEPAD  has  brought  to  bear  an  innovative 
approach  to  development  and  cooperation  in  Africa. 
NEPAD,  a  framework  longed  for  and  developed  by 
guiding 
Africans 
characterized  by 
environment 
themselves, 
throughout 
effective 
an 
is 
12 

08-55210 
as 
to  draw 
integrated 
NEPAD  was 


mechanism 
the  attention  of  Africa’s 
development partners to the major issues of concern to 
the  continent.  In  essence,  NEPAD  embodies  Africa’s 
desire  to  ensure  its  own  prosperity  and  economic  and 
social  development,  its  determination  to  mobilize  the 
continent’s resources and potential, and its readiness to 
promote  substantial  partnerships  commensurate  with 
the challenges.  

NEPAD  relies primarily on Africa’s national  and 
regional  potential  and  responds  to  needs  and  desires 
identified by Africans themselves. Given the enormous 
task  and  scope  of  the  challenges  ahead,  NEPAD  also 
constitutes a call by Africa to its partners to assist the 
continent in its efforts to endow itself with the means, 
infrastructure and resources — in a word, the necessary 
conditions — to join the world economy, which is the 
only  way  to  ensure  lasting  social  and  economic 
development. 

into  African  Union 
structures at an extraordinary summit held in Algiers in 
2007. One of the main decisions of that summit was to 
establish  a  continent-wide  NEPAD  authority,  referred 
to 
the 
implementation committee comprised of NEPAD heads 
of State  continues to be the highest political decision-
making  body, 
the  development  agency  will  be 
responsible  for  developing  and  implementing  specific 
NEPAD projects. It will thereby serve as the principal 
interlocutor for foreign partners. 

the 
(A/63/206) 
Secretary-General  under  the  relevant  agenda  item 
points out both the scope of the programmes launched 
under NEPAD and the importance of the progress that 
has  been  made.  It  also  emphasizes  the  need  for 
increased involvement by the international community 
in  that  new  partnership.  Whether  in  the  areas  of 
infrastructure,  health  or  education,  considerable 
progress  has  been  made  in  recent  years  thanks  to  the 
implementation  of  regional  infrastructure  projects  in 
Africa. Those  projects,  which  are  being  carried  out  in 
more  and  more  countries,  are  helping,  among  other 
things, to increasingly integrate African economies and 
to develop thriving African markets. 
Ambitious  projects  have  been  launched  in  the 

agricultural  sector  since  2006, 
the 
multinational  agricultural  productivity  programme 
designed  to  promote  the  exchange  of  experiences  and 
knowledge  with  partners  and  the  allocation  by  all 
agency.  Although 
a  development 
submitted  by 
in  particular 
report 
The 
A/63/PV.26
for 
as 
the 
such 
Algeria 
reiterates 
environment, 
the  debt  of 
its  appreciation 
significant.  They 
the  most  heavily 
member States of at least 10 per cent of their national 
budgets  to  agricultural  development.  In  that  way,  key 
sectors 
information 
technology and scientific research have benefited from 
sustained  attention  at  the  regional  level  in  Africa.  As 
we  have  seen,  such  projects  involve  all  economic  and 
social  sectors,  where  the  needs  are  great  and  where 
delays  are  especially 
require 
considerable financing, that African economies, despite 
average annual growth of 6 per cent, cannot provide. It 
is currently estimated that $72 billion will be required 
for  several  consecutive  years  in  order  to  truly  reverse 
the trend and ensure Africa’s economic development.  

the 
contributions of many partners whose commitment and 
efforts,  along  with  those  of  African  countries,  have 
made a difference on the ground. Such resolute efforts 
have  continued  for  some  10  years  in  an  attempt  to 
alleviate 
indebted 
countries,  especially  in  Africa.  By  the  end  of  2007, 
Africa’s global debt, which in the late 1990s was about 
$274 billion, stood at $243 billion. More important yet, 
in the same period, the rate of indebtedness of African 
countries  dropped  from  212  per  cent  to  23.1  per  cent. 
Nevertheless,  we  must  do  everything  possible  to 
prevent  a  return  to  the  cycle  of  indebtedness  of  the 
1980s and 1990s, which devoured the meagre resources 
of  African  countries  and  completely  obliterated  the 
chances of growing their economies.  

However,  the  situation  is  not  the  same  with 
regard  to  official  development  assistance  (ODA).  Far 
short of reaching the target of 0.7 per cent of the gross 
national income of donor countries, in real terms there 
has  been  a  consistent  drop  in  ODA  year  after  year.  In 
some instances, significant amounts of ODA have been 
allocated  to  debt  remittances  which,  by  definition,  do 
not  directly  contribute  to  financing  development.  The 
downward  trend  was  further  confirmed  in  2007,  when 
ODA  for  Africa  decreased  by  20  per  cent  to  $35 
billion, compared to $44 billion in 2006. 

Those figures and trends need to be seen against 
the  backdrop  of  the  conclusions  of  the  MDG  Africa 
Steering Group established by the Secretary-General to 
“galvanize 
for  Africa’s 
development  and  catalyse  the  efforts  of  the  Group  of 
Eight and the main multilateral institutions working in 
the domain”. The Secretary-General has, indeed, stated 
that the Group’s work helped to determine that, at this 
international 
support 
08-55210 

13 
Africa’s 
share 
is  also 
in  world 
trade  has 
low  figure 
A/63/PV.26 

stage, $72 billion a year would be necessary to achieve 
the MDGs by 2015. 

fallen 
continuously  in  recent  years  and  is  now  at  less  than 
2 per  cent.  While  that  illustrates  the  weakness  of 
African economic investment in international markets, 
the 
the  result  of  significant 
agricultural  subsidies  provided  by 
the  developed 
countries  for  their  exports.  African  countries  are  also 
requesting  concrete  measures  to  be  implemented  to 
ensure 
the  access  of  African  goods,  consisting 
primarily  of  agricultural  products,  to  the  markets  of 
developed countries under normal conditions.  

The  consideration  of  issues  relating  to  NEPAD 
and African development would remain incomplete if it 
did  not  take  into  account  the  need  to  ensure  and 
promote  viable  and  durable  peace  throughout  the 
continent.  We  cannot  insist  often  enough  on  the  fact 
that  no  real  development  can  occur  without  an 
environment  of  peace  and  stability.  African  countries 
and  their  continental  organization,  the African  Union, 
have  made  an  unprecedented  effort  to  adapt  and  to 
strengthen  African 
and 
peacekeeping capabilities. That commitment and effort, 
which  have  benefited  from  assistance  from  foreign 
partners  and the United  Nations, has been reflected in 
the  structuring  and  establishment  of  institutional  and 
operational means for increasingly effective action; the 
establishment  of  operational  capabilities  that  can  be 
mobilized  and  deployed  throughout  the  continent;  and 
the  strengthening  of  the  mechanisms  and  instruments 
of  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  and  other 
partners  in  the  framework  of  conflict  prevention  and 
peacekeeping.  However,  all  of  those  projects  continue 
to require greater contributions from the partners. 
At a time of digital revolution and unprecedented 

development 
the 
globalized  economy,  the  world  must  work  to  full 
capacity and use all means at its disposal to take on the 
multiple  challenges  and  crises  that  threaten  it.  In  that 
context,  instead  of  being  a  burden,  Africa  could  and 
should be a major agent for development. It would then 
cease to be part of the problem and become an integral 
part of the solution. 
Mr. Mansour (Tunisia) (spoke in French): At the 

outset,  I  am  pleased  to  express  my  delegation’s 
appreciation  for  the  very  enriching  introduction  with 
which the President opened this joint debate devoted to 
technology  and 
information 
prevention 

that 
schedule 
the  move 
for  achieving 
the  economic  and  social  situation  in  Africa,  and 
particularly  to  international  support  for  the  New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). 

Before  discussing  certain  points  of  special 
interest to Tunisia, I wish to associate myself fully with 
the statement made by the representative of Kenya, on 
behalf  of  the  African  Group,  and  that  to  be  made 
shortly by the representative of Antigua and Barbados 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.  

The growing interest in Africa of the international 
community and the United Nations system in particular 
can  be  explained  by  two  facts.  On  the  one  hand,  the 
African continent has been affected by the scourges of 
poverty,  conflict  and  pandemics  which,  to  a  large 
extent,  explains  why  it  has  clearly  fallen  behind  the 
agreed 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). On the other hand, Africa 
is  a  continent  on 
is  assuming 
responsibility  for  its  own  affairs  and  moving  forward 
politically  and  economically  at 
the  national  and 
regional  levels  in  order  to  look  after  itself  and  to  pull 
through.  The  high-level  debate  held  recently  on 
Africa’s  development  needs  addressed  the  state  of 
affairs in Africa and stressed two main points.  

First,  Africa’s  needs,  constraints,  priorities  and 
objectives  are  well  known  by  its  partners  and  by  the 
actors  in  the  international  community. The  problem  is 
at the level of the implementation of the commitments 
undertaken.  My  delegation  takes  this  opportunity  to 
join other countries in calling for the establishment of a 
follow-up  mechanism 
  mandated 
the 
implementation  of  commitments 
the 
development  of  Africa,  including  those  listed  in  the 
political  declaration  adopted  at  the  close  of  the  high-
level meeting. 

Secondly,  Africa  is  the  only  continent  whose 
progress  remains  below  the  level  required  to  achieve 
the MDGs and has been far more severely affected than 
others  by  the  food  and  energy  crises. Africa  therefore 
faces  a  double  handicap  that  threatens  to  compromise 
the progress achieved. 
The  sixth  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the 

for 
implementation  of  and 
NEPAD 
(A/63/206)  offers  a  mixed  assessment, 
simultaneously  optimistic  and  dubious  of  the  impact 
and  scope  of  progress  achieved.  On  the  one  hand,  it 
shows 
towards 
African  development,  albeit  one  that  is  not  strong 
the  existence  of  new  momentum 
to  evaluate 
to  advance 
international  support 
conflict 
in 
14 

08-55210 
to  honour 
Additionally, 


enough  to  be  lasting.  On  the  other  hand,  it  urges  the 
continent’s  development  partners 
their 
commitments in this area more purposefully.  

In his report, the Secretary-General advocates the 
strengthening  of  national  and  regional  capacities  to 
implement  NEPAD  and  to  ensure  consistency  and 
coordination  between  national  development  plans  and 
NEPAD priorities, as well as between African countries 
and regional development agencies. 

the  Secretary-General  calls  on 
Africa’s  development  partners  to  create  an  innovative 
mechanism to coordinate their activities in the area of 
aid,  trade  and  debt  sustainability.  In  that  context, 
however, we fear that if the current trend continues, the 
Group of Eight will not be able to fully implement the 
commitment  it  undertook  at  the  Gleneagles  summit  in 
2005  to  double  its  assistance  to  Africa  by  2010  to 
approximately  $50  billion  annually.  The  MDG  Africa 
Steering  Group,  created  by  the  Secretary-General  to 
serve  as  a  catalyst  for  international  efforts  to  help 
Africa,  concluded  that  the  full  achievement  of  the 
MDGs  in  Africa  by  the  2015  deadline  will  require  a 
yearly  sum  of  $72  billion.  The  Doha  Follow-up 
International  Conference  will  be  an  important  stage, 
even a turning point, to consolidate gains and to launch 
a  new  process 
that 
connection,  my  delegation  stresses  the  specific  needs 
of Africa in  financing  for  development, particularly  at 
this time of crisis.  

Despite  Africa’s  resolve  to  look  after  itself  by 
adopting restructuring plans; despite the progress made 
in 
the 
development of many countries for so long; and despite 
the 
the 
international agenda, Africa is still far behind in terms 
of  the  timetable  for  achieving  the  MDGs.  That  is 
unlikely to help Africa to accelerate its integration into 
the  world  economy  and 
lasting 
development  and  the  gradual  settlement  to  conflicts. 
Peace will always be precarious and reversible without 
a  favourable  economic  environment  and  genuine 
development prospects.  

The  Secretary-General’s  ambitious  goal  of 
achieving  a  conflict-free  Africa  by  2010  continues  to 
depend on a  certain level  of economic  growth, human 
development and political stability, which a number of 
African  countries,  especially  the  poorer  ones,  will  not 
be  able  to  achieve  without  the  help  of  all  their 
to  finance  development.  In 
it  constitutes  a  priority 
settling  disputes 
thereby  ensure 
jeopardized 
that  have 
fact 
that 
for 
A/63/PV.26
development  partners.  In  that  context,  we  salute  the 
efforts of the African Union, in particular its Peace and 
Security  Council,  since  the  prevention,  management 
and  resolution  of  conflict  and  post-conflict  situations 
are,  among  others,  preconditions  for  the  achievements 
of the MDGs and a NEPAD priority. 

To  that  end,  the  Peace  and  Security  Council 
should  be  strengthened  in  material,  political,  legal, 
normative  and  institutional  terms.  Structured,  targeted 
and  coordinated  cooperation  between 
the  African 
Union and the United Nations could strengthen African 
capacities  to  prevent  conflict  and  to  maintain  and 
consolidate  peace.  Furthermore,  we  commend  the 
efforts  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  which  are  a 
true  asset  from  which  Africa  can  benefit,  as  our 
continent is the theatre of 75 per cent of all conflict and 
post-conflict situations.  

In  addition  to  poverty  and  conflicts,  Africa 
suffers  from  the  ravages  of  pandemics,  in  particular 
malaria  and  HIV/AIDS  —  scourges  whose  repercussions
severely  affect  human  resources  and  prospects  for 
development. While the report of the Secretary-General 
on malaria certainly describes a situation that gives us 
reasons  for  hope,  the  road  ahead  remains  long  in 
meeting one of the major MDG targets: halting malaria 
by  2015. As  the  efforts  and  the  progress  made  in  that 
regard  have  not  been  able  to  bring  about  a  lasting 
reversal  of  the  current  trend,  the  scourge  continues  to 
rage, particularly in Africa. Let us pay closer attention 
to  its  ravages,  which  will  require  effective  joint 
mobilization efforts.  
Mr.  Sumi  (Japan):  It  is  a  great  pleasure  and 

honour  to  address  the  Assembly  today  to  discuss  the 
very 
to  African 
development. Before I begin, I would like to take this 
opportunity  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  and  his 
staff for their diligent work in consolidating the reports 
that we have received. 

African  development  is  one  of  the  most  urgent 
priorities  for  the  world  and  the  United  Nations  today. 
The  22  September  high-level  meeting  on  Africa’s 
development 
needs 
the 
momentum  needed 
the  various 
commitments made to and by Africa and also served as 
a  forum  for  the  international  community  to  hear  the 
views  of  African  leaders  on  that  subject.  Throughout 
the round tables, many expressed the view that private 
investment  and  infrastructure  development  were  of 
to  follow  up  on 
important  agenda 
items  relating 
successfully 
increased 
08-55210 

15 
In 
those 
through 
enhanced 
focus  more 
implementing 
commitments, 
specifically  on 
A/63/PV.26 

critical  importance.  The  same  view  was  expressed  at 
the  Fourth Tokyo  International  Conference  on African 
Development (TICAD IV) in May and at the Group of 
Eight (G8) Hokkaido Toyako Summit in July. 

We have heard the voices of African leaders, and 
now  it  is  time  for  us  to  respond.  For  its  part,  Japan 
pledged the following at TICAD IV: first, to double its 
official  development  assistance  (ODA) 
to  Africa; 
secondly,  to  proactively  and  flexibly  provide  up  to 
$4 billion in soft loans; and thirdly, to work to double 
Japanese  private  investment  in  Africa  over  the  next 
five years. Our ODA will focus on the priority areas of 
infrastructure  development,  including  in  the  area  of 
agriculture;  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs);  and  combating  climate  change.  Loans 
will 
infrastructure 
development 
public-private 
partnerships  with  a  view  to  improving  the  investment 
climate in Africa. 

the 
Government of Japan aligns its priorities with those set 
by  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development, 
believing  that  the  Partnership  reflects  the  genuine 
needs  of  Africa.  In  the  area  of  infrastructure,  those 
needs are articulated in the Short-term Action Plan; in 
the  agricultural 
the 
Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme.  That  reflects  Japan’s  respect  for  the 
principles  of  ownership  and  partnership,  which  it 
regards  as  essential  to  the  promotion  of  sustainable 
development in Africa. 

As  Mr. Yoshiro  Mori,  Special  Envoy  and  former 
Prime Minister of Japan, stated at the opening plenary 
meeting  held  on  22  September,  the  Government  of 
Japan is steadily implementing the commitments that it 
made  at  TICAD  IV  and  has  already  dispatched  joint 
public-private missions for the promotion of trade and 
investment  to  12  African  countries.  Furthermore,  the 
Japan-United  Nations  Development  Programme  Joint 
Framework 
to  Address 
Climate  Change 
to  which  Japan  has 
contributed $92.1 million, is in the process of receiving 
concrete proposals for projects to be undertaken. 

In  order  to  ensure  that  the  desired  accelerated 
growth  will  benefit  and  empower  individuals  and 
communities  and  not  aggravate  social  and  economic 
disparities, the principle of human security needs to be 
taken  into  consideration  in  the  implementation  of 
for  Building  Partnership 
they  are  set  out 
in  Africa, 
field, 
in 

to 
includes 
those  relating 
policy  measures,  especially 
the 
achievement  of  the  MDGs.  Japan  stands  ready  to 
provide  just  such  support  to  the  efforts  made  by  the 
nations  of Africa  in  areas  including  education,  health 
and community development. 

We  also  received  another  vital  message  from 
Africa’s  leaders  —  there  is  an  essential  linkage 
between peace and development. Japan, as Chair of the 
Peacebuilding Commission, is committed to providing 
a range of assistance to post-conflict countries, which, 
we  hope,  will  better  enable  them  to  avoid  relapsing 
into violence and instead achieve a durable peace. We 
have  already  taken  steps  to  that  end  by  extending 
support to training centres for peacekeeping operations 
in Africa, and other assistance will follow. 

The progress  that we make in fulfilling  all those 
commitments will be closely monitored via the TICAD 
Follow-up  Mechanism,  which 
annual 
ministerial  follow-up  meetings.  The  importance  of 
follow-up  was  mentioned  by  almost  every  African 
leader  last  week,  and  the  Government  of  Japan  stands 
ready  to  monitor,  follow  up  on  and  assess  the  steps 
taken  to  honour  the  commitments  made  not  only  by 
Japan,  but  by  all  relevant  stakeholders  represented  at 
TICAD IV. 

Regarding  agenda  item  46,  I  would  like  to 
express  my  sincere  appreciation  for  the  Secretary-
General’s  report  entitled  “2001-2010:  Decade  to  Roll 
Back Malaria in Developing Countries,  Particularly in 
Africa”  (A/63/219)  and  for  the  World  Malaria  Report 
2008, recently issued by the World Health Organization 
(WHO). My delegation was pleased to learn from those 
reports that the number of deaths attributed to malaria 
has declined in several African countries and that a few 
of  those  countries  have  even  managed  to  cut  such 
deaths 
the  measures 
the  reports 
recommended  by  WHO.  In  addition, 
showed 
resulted 
funding 
in 
accelerated access to malaria interventions, such as the 
provision of bednets and medicines, in 2006. 

Nevertheless,  my  delegation  notes  with  concern 
that  the  number  of  malaria  cases  worldwide  is  still 
estimated to be as high as 247 million for 2006 and that 
children under five remain by far the most likely to die 
of the disease. We also note that in Africa, only 3 per 
cent  of  children  in  need  have  access  to  artemisinin-
based combination therapy, which is recommended by 
WHO. 
implementing 
in  half  by 
increases 
that 
in 
16 

08-55210 
and 
systems  contributes 
disease-specific  measures 



In  July,  G8  leaders  met  on  the  occasion  of  the 
Hokkaido  Toyako  summit,  hosted  by  the  Government 
of Japan. It was there that the G8 leaders agreed on the 
importance of ensuring that a comprehensive approach 
the 
embodying 
strengthening  of  health 
to 
achieving  all  the  health-related  MDGs  by  focusing  in 
particular  on  the  capacity-building  of  health  workers. 
The Toyako Framework for Action, which was set forth 
by the G8 health experts, includes principles for action; 
sets  out  actions  to  be  taken  in  the  area  of  health, 
drawing  on  the  expertise  of  international  institutions; 
and  provides  for  the  establishment  of  a  follow-up 
mechanism  for  monitoring  progress  in  meeting  the 
commitments made.  
My delegation recognizes the positive impact that 

the  efforts  of  a  number  of  stakeholders  have  had.  I 
refer  in  particular  to  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  to  which  Japan  pledged  an 
additional $560 million earlier this year. My delegation 
also  welcomed  the  Global  Malaria  Action  Plan  and 
other  outcomes  announced  at  the  2008  Millennium 
Development Goals Malaria Summit that took place on 
25  September  on  the  initiative  of  Mr.  Ray  Chambers, 
the Secretary-General’s Special Envoy for Malaria. 

G8 leaders also agreed to focus on promoting the 
expansion  of  access  to  long-lasting  insecticide-treated 
nets, with a view to providing 100 million nets through 
bilateral and multilateral assistance, in partnership with 
other stakeholders by the end of 2010. I would note in 
this  regard  that  a  number  of  African  countries  have 
expressed  great  appreciation  for  one  such  net,  the 
Olyset  net,  made  by  Sumitomo  Chemical.  This  net  is 
made in Africa, and Japan hopes that both the net itself 
and 
to  sustainable 
development in Africa. 

In  closing,  my  delegation  would  like  to  reaffirm 
Japan’s  readiness  to  contribute  constructively  and 
concretely  to  the  development  of  an  Africa,  that  will 
realize  its  vast  potential,  a  truly  vibrant  Africa  a 
continent of hope and opportunity. 
Mr. Abdelaziz (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): At the 

outset,  I  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
Secretary-General for his reports on progress achieved 
in  the  implementation  of  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD) (A/63/206) and on the 
implementation  of  the  recommendations  contained  in 
his report on  the causes of conflict and  the promotion 
its  production  will  contribute 
A/63/PV.26
We  meet 
today 
of durable peace and sustainable development in Africa 
(A/63/212)  and  for  transmitting  the  report  on  the 
Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries, 
Particularly in Africa (see A/63/219). 

I  would  also  like  to  align  myself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Kenya  on 
behalf  of  the  African  Group  and  the  statement  to  be 
made by the representative of Antigua and Barbuda on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

in  exceptional  economic 
circumstances,  with  a  growing  number  of  crises, 
related to food, energy, international financial markets, 
and  climate  change.  There  is  no  doubt  that  it  is  the 
African  continent  that  will  be  the  most  adversely 
affected  by  this  series  of  developments.  This  is 
particularly  true  as  most  of  its  countries  are  far  from 
achieving 
internationally  agreed  development 
goals,  including  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). 

What  makes  the  situation  worse  is  that  our 
African  continent  is  home  to  the  largest  number  of 
least  developed  countries  whose  development  efforts 
will  be  hampered  by  these  crises,  at  a  time  when  we 
two  high-level  meetings,  one  on 
have  convened 
Africa’s  development  needs 
the 
implementation  of  MDGs,  with  the  goal  of  increasing 
financial assistance directed to Africa. 

The  international  community,  particularly  the 
developed  countries,  and  the  international  financial 
institutions,  must 
that 
these  exceptional 
corresponds 
developments  and  their  negative  repercussions  on 
African States. Undoubtedly, the implementation of the 
political  declaration  on  Africa’s  development  needs 
(resolution 63/1), along with the proposals put forward 
by our leaders at the high-level meeting on the MDGs, 
constitute  a  strong  basis  to  build  on  in  this  context. 
This  is  further  strengthened  by  the  decisions  taken  at 
the  eleventh  African  Union  Summit,  held  in  Sharm 
el-Sheikh,  which 
the 
for 
comprehensive  development  of  Africa  and 
for 
supporting the implementation of NEPAD. 
There is no doubt that the starting point lies in the  

scrupulous 
implementation  of  agreements  reached 
aimed  at  establishing,  by  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  a  follow-up  mechanism  to  review 
the  implementation  of  development  commitments  to 
Africa. Egypt has long called for such a mechanism as 
therefore  act  at  a  speed 
and  one  on 
the  pace  of 
road  map 
the 
to 
form  a 
08-55210 

17 

and 
that 
stresses 
technology, 
A/63/PV.26 

a vital basis for evaluating the fulfilment of each side’s 
commitments. 

From this perspective, I would like to recall that 
African  countries  have  taken  major  strides  towards 
implementing  their  NEPAD  commitments  in  various 
infrastructure,  health,  agriculture, 
fields,  such  as 
communications 
education, 
information 
technology,  science  and 
implementing 
in  particular, 
sound  economic  policies,  and, 
the 
establishment  and  operation  of 
the  African  Peer 
Review  Mechanism,  which  now  comprises  29 African 
States.  This  demonstrates 
the  continent  has 
achieved real progress in the areas of good governance, 
respect for human rights and promoting democracy in a 
cooperative  context.  That 
the  African 
commitment  towards  development,  peace  and  human 
rights as a basis for progress. 

On the other hand, we see industrialized countries 
of the Group of Eight lagging behind in achieving the 
goal  of  doubling  their  assistance  to  Africa  by  2010. 
The  continent’s  overall  share  of 
foreign  direct 
investments  remain  low,  and  continues  to  be  confined 
to a limited number of States and sectors. 

In  addition,  the  failure  to  reach  an  agreement  in 
the Doha Development Round is unfortunate at a time 
when  Africa’s  share  of  international  trade  is  a  mere 
2 per cent. While we welcome the progress achieved by 
the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt  Initiative 
and the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative, we note that 
progress  remains  slow.  This  highlights  the  need  for 
new and innovative sources to finance the development 
of  African  States,  particularly  in  the  light  of  the 
exceptional  economic  circumstances  that  we  face 
the  Follow-up 
today.  There 
International 
Financing 
for 
Development,  to  be  held  in  Doha  at  the  end  of 
November,  will  provide  a  window  of  opportunity  to 
emphasize all mutual agreements in this regard. 

This  brings  me  to  the  important  role  played  by 
the United Nations in support of Africa’s development 
efforts.  We  call  for  strengthening  that  role  in  parallel 
with  the  positive  role  already  being  played  by  the 
African  Union,  regional  organizations  and  institutions 
such as the African Development Bank, the Economic 
Commission  for  Africa,  as  well  as  with  the  crucial 
efforts  made  at  the  subregional  level,  through African 
economic groupings. We look forward to reflecting all 
of 
this  year’s 
is  no  doubt 
Conference 
the  outcomes  of 
these  efforts 
that 
on 
in 
to 
the 
Egypt 
through 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund 
its 
the  need 
development-related  meetings,  with  a  view 
to 
addressing  more  effectively  the  development  needs  of 
the continent. 

Egypt  supports  the  steps  taken  by  the  United 
Nations,  over  the  past  year,  in  cooperation  with  the 
African  Union  to  address  conflicts  in  Africa,  through 
preventive  diplomacy,  mediation  and  good  offices. 
Such  commendable  efforts  have  led  to  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  internal  disputes  that  erupted  in  Kenya 
and  in  Zimbabwe,  and  to  stabilizing  the  various  other 
conflict situations in Africa. 

Along  the  same  lines,  Egypt  supports  United 
Nations  and  African  Union  peacekeeping  efforts  in 
several African  countries,  including  through  our  large 
military  contribution  to  the  African  Union-United 
Nations  Hybrid  Operation 
in  Darfur  (UNAMID). 
backs 
Moreover, 
Peacebuilding 
Commission’s  efforts 
in  Burundi,  Sierra  Leone, 
Guinea-Bissau  and  the  Central  African  Republic  and 
those  of 
finance 
three-window 
peacebuilding  projects 
architecture.  We  affirm 
to  enhance 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
African Union on peacebuilding issues along the lines 
of  existing  cooperation  in  the  fields  of  peacekeeping 
and the peaceful settlement of disputes. 

I  commend  the  existing  cooperation  between  the 
United Nations Security Council and the African Union 
Peace  and  Security  Council  and  applaud  the  two 
Councils  for  holding  a joint meeting in April 2008,  at 
which  they  exchanged  views  on  the  situations  in  the 
Sudan, Somalia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
and Côte d’Ivoire. 

the 
Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries, 
particularly  in  Africa,  there  has  been  success  in 
bringing the number of malaria-free countries to 93. A 
tangible reduction in infection rates was also achieved 
in  a  number  of  other  countries. This  was  the  result  of 
programmes  being  implemented  in  cooperation  with 
the  United  Nations 
relevant  bodies, 
international  financial  institutions,  non-governmental 
organizations,  civil  society  and  the  private  sector  as 
well  as  to  the  increase  in  available  funding  for  such 
programmes.  However,  the  continuing  spread  of  the 
disease 
the  need  for 
continued  support  and  sustainability  of  funding  in 
order to cut the mortality rate by half by 2010, with a 
in  109  countries  reaffirms 
the  Millennium  Summit 
launched 
Since 
and 
its 
18 

08-55210 
it 
Parallel 
such  as 
techniques 
to  national  capacity-building, 


view  to  cutting  mortality  by  75  per  cent  by  2015. 
Almost half of the world’s population is still threatened 
by  malaria,  which  kills  more  than  800,000  people  a 
year, most of whom reside in low-income countries and 
91  per  cent  of  whom  live  in Africa,  which  retains  the 
highest risk level worldwide. 

These  facts  underline  the  dire  need  to  support 
efforts to revamp the economic, educational and health 
infrastructure  in  developing  countries.  There  is  also  a 
serious  need  to  transfer  the  technical  knowledge 
necessary  to  support  these  efforts  and  ensure  early 
diagnosis, treatment and prevention of disease through 
the  participation  of  all  stakeholders.  This  approach 
entails  intensifying  national  awareness  campaigns  and 
implementing  prevention  and  treatment  programmes. 
Most  countries,  especially  those  in  Africa,  cannot 
succeed  in  these  tasks  alone.  We  should  take  into 
consideration 
spraying  and 
immunization.  
is 

imperative 
to  concentrate  on  enhancing  regional 
capacities  to  confront  the  cross-border  aspects  of 
malaria.  That  was  one  of  the  motivations  behind  the 
decision  taken  at  the  African  Union  summit  held  in 
Sirte  in  2005,  based  on  an  Egyptian  initiative  that 
called for  establishing an African Centre to encourage 
cooperation  and  exchange  of  knowledge  in  combating 
the  disease.  The  centre  would  be 
linked  with 
specialized centres in this field at the continent level. 

It is also imperative in this regard to resolve the 
trade-related  aspects  of  intellectual  property  rights 
attaching 
to  malaria  medications  and  vaccines 
in  circulation  or  being  developed.  The 
currently 
international 
its 
responsibility  so  as  to  ensure  the  effectiveness  of 
efforts 
its 
resurgence. In that way, we would realize our common 
goals, particularly MDG6, by the targeted date, and in 
all States without exception. 
Mr.  McNee  (Canada):  Canada  is  pleased  once 

again to join this important debate on Africa. The past 
year  has  seen  great  changes  in  the  global  economic 
situation.  We  have  seen  commodity  prices  rise  to 
historic highs, then fall. We have seen instability in the 
financial  and  stock  markets,  as  well  as  double-  and 
triple-digit  inflation  in  food  prices.  These  challenges 
are in addition to others such as climate change and the 
enduring peace and security problems of the continent. 
to  eliminate  malaria  and 
community  must 
the  risk  of 
shoulder 
A/63/PV.26
an 
requiring 
is  meeting 
the  MDGs 
is 
agreed 
the  MDGs,  and  Canada 
to  reach  $5  billion  by  2010  and, 

At  the  midpoint  to  2015,  it  is  clear  that,  while 
there has been some progress, much remains to be done 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
to  achieve 
(MDGs).  Achieving 
shared 
a 
responsibility 
approach, 
continuous efforts and sustained partnerships.  
Canada is doing its part to help Africa’s efforts to 

its 
achieve 
international 
commitments.  We  are  doubling  our 
assistance 
in 
particular,  we  are  meeting  our  commitment  to  double 
aid  to  Africa,  increasing  it  to  $2.1  billion  this  year. 
Canada is also untying all its food aid and will untie all 
its development assistance by 2012, consistent with the 
Paris  Declaration  on Aid  Effectiveness  and  the Accra 
Agenda for Action. Untying aid will make Canada’s aid 
more  effective  and  help  Canada  do  its  part  in  this 
global development challenge. 

Canada  has  made  important  contributions  to  the 
achievement of the MDGs, particularly in the areas of 
food security, child health and education. For example, 
Canada  has  committed  itself  to  increasing  its  annual 
bilateral  support  for  basic  education  in  Africa  from 
$100  million  to  $150  million  by  2010.  Over  the  past 
five  years,  Canada’s  support  to  education  in  Africa 
helped  over  6  million  children,  half  of  them  girls,  to 
attend school in our partner countries.  
Development  must  also  proceed  in  the  private 

sphere.  Canada 
in 
demonstrating  how  natural  resources,  managed  in  a 
sustainable  way,  can  provide  broad  economic  and 
social  benefits  without  adversely  affecting 
the 
environment.  Canadian  companies  working  in  Africa 
are committed to being good corporate citizens, and the 
Canadian  Government  expects 
to  be  good 
corporate citizens. 

Canada  initiated  the  African  Mining  Partnership 
with African  nations  to  deal  with  the  crucial  issues  of 
governance,  sustainable  development  of  communities, 
human resource skills and institutional capacity, and to 
provide  basic 
requirements  such  as  water  and 
sanitation, primary health care and education. 
success  and  partnerships  are 

underpinned  by  effective  democratic  governance 
networks.  Canada’s  assistance  includes  strengthening 
democratic institutions and practices, such as electoral 
and 
the 
legislative  systems. 
Development 
focused  on 
is  one  of 
the  world 
leaders 
them 
It 
is 
08-55210 

19 
Through 
individual 
A/63/PV.26 

engagement  of  both  civil  society  and 
citizens, particularly women, in the political process. 

the  establishment  of  a  Democratic 
Transitions Fund, Canada is working to respond better 
to crises affecting young democracies and to strengthen 
international  stability  through  support  of  democratic 
governance.  The  main  objective  of  Canada’s 
democracy support efforts abroad is to strengthen core 
democratic  elements  that  give  citizens  a  greater  say 
over  the  institutions  and  decisions  that  affect  their 
lives.  These  core  elements  are  electoral  systems, 
parliaments,  civil  society,  independent  media  and 
political parties. 

Canada’s support for the running of free and fair 
elections  over  the  past  decade  has  included  initiatives 
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ghana, Mali, 
Mozambique,  Nigeria,  Tanzania  and  Zambia.  We  are 
encouraged by the increase in free and fair elections in 
Africa but note at the same time that there have been, 
in the past year, a few examples of defective electoral 
processes that have thrown societies into turmoil. As a 
result, precious time, attention and resources have been 
consumed and lives have been lost and shattered due to 
these events. 

In the light of what occurred in the past year, and 
looking forward to electoral processes in other African 
nations,  Canada  urges  the  Governments  of  Africa  to 
fulfil the promise made to their citizens at the African 
Union  summit  in  January  of  last  year  when  they 
adopted  the African  Charter  on  Democracy,  Elections 
and Governance. 

Canada  is  proud  to  be  continuing  its  work  with 
African partners in support of the New Partnership for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  and  the African  Peer 
Review  Mechanism  (APRM).  Canada  is  encouraged 
that  these  will  be  integrated  into  the  workings  of  the 
African Union. Canada was the first contributor to the 
APRM  Trust  Fund.  We  recently  committed  another 
$5 million  to  help  enable  progress  in  encouraging 
adherence to democratic governance principles through 
self-monitoring and peer monitoring. The past year has 
seen  another  two  countries  sign  onto  the  APRM.  We 
look forward to the integration of this mechanism into 
the African Union, leading to even more commitments. 
(spoke in French) 

Canada  acknowledges  the  significant  progress 
made  in  improving  the  peace  and  security  situation  in 

Africa,  while  we  note  that  many  challenges  remain. 
Canada  commends  the African  Union  for  progress  on 
the  development  of  the  African  Peace  and  Security 
Architecture  and  is  prepared  to  work  with  partners 
towards  the  realization  of  the  African  Standby  Force 
training  and  implementation  plan  in  line  with  the 
principles  of  African  leadership  and  ownership.  In 
support of this effort, Canada announced a contribution 
of $10.3 million for capacity-building  work for police 
peacekeeping  in  Africa  and  for  the  development  of 
African peacekeeping centres of excellence. 

My  country  is  currently  part  of  the  international 
effort to end the suffering of the populations of Darfur 
in  the  Sudan.  Moreover,  both  diplomatically  and 
financially,  we  are  at  the  frontlines  of  efforts  to 
promote  sustainable  peace.  The  seriousness  of  the 
deteriorating  humanitarian  situation  in  that  region, 
coupled with the ongoing impasse in the peace process, 
is  a  source  of  deep  concern.  In  that  regard,  Canada 
calls on all parties to the conflict to halt hostilities and 
human  rights  violations  —  which  to  date  have  been 
carried out with impunity — protect civilians, facilitate 
humanitarian  operations  and  the  deployment  of  the 
African  Union-United  Nations  Hybrid  Operation  in 
Darfur  and  support  the  work  of  the  United  Nations-
African Union Joint Chief Mediator. 

Since  2006,  my  country  has  made  a  very 
substantial contribution — totalling $477 million — to 
peace  and  to  meeting  basic  human  needs  throughout 
the  Sudan.  Canada  is  actively  participating  in  efforts 
aimed at the full implementation of the Comprehensive 
Peace Agreement. In line with the Agreement, elections 
are  to  be  held  in  2009.  I  wish  to  underscore  the  need 
for those elections to be free and fair. 

The  recent  renewal  of  confrontation  and  activity 
by opposing forces in the eastern Democratic Republic 
of the Congo has almost completely dashed the hopes 
for  peace  and  stability  engendered  by  the  Nairobi 
communiqué, the Goma agreements and the entry into 
force  of 
the  Pact  on  Security,  Stability  and 
Development  in  the  Great  Lakes  Region.  We  urge  all 
parties to respect State authority and the commitments 
made. 
In  conclusion,  along  with  our African  partners,  I 

would 
the 
achievements  of  the  past  year.  Nevertheless,  we  must 
not forget the challenges that emerged during the same 
year, namely, the rise in the price of foodstuffs, market 
to  express  our  satisfaction  over 
like 
20 

08-55210 
in  particular  by  honouring 


instability  and  electoral  problems,  all  of  which  add  to 
the ongoing difficulties faced by peace and security on 
the  continent.  It  is  worth  noting  once  again  that  the 
achievement  of  the  MDGs  is  a  joint  responsibility. 
Canada  will  contribute  to  solving  the  problems  facing 
Africans, 
the  crucial 
commitment of doubling assistance to the continent. 
Mr. Natalegawa (Indonesia): At the outset, allow 

me to associate myself with the statement made by the 
representative of Thailand on behalf of the Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  and  with  the  one  to  be 
made by the representative of Antigua and Barbuda on 
behalf of the G77 and China. 

Indonesia  would  like  to  commend  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  report  (A/63/206)  submitted  under  the 
agenda  item  on  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD). It is very encouraging to learn 
from  the  report  that  noteworthy  progress  has  been 
made  by  many  African  countries  in  the  area  of 
development. That progress is especially commendable 
given the persistent challenges facing the continent. 
There  is  no  denying  that  a  gentle  breeze  of 

and 
change 
peacebuilding  are  emerging  in  areas  where  there  was 
once  only  conflict.  The  wheel  of  development  is 
beginning  to  rotate  in  an  unrelenting  manner  on  the 
continent.  The  results  of  recent  initiatives  augur  well 
for  Africa’s  future.  Development  and  peace  are  now 
merging  to  create  conditions  for  sustained  progress. 
That is due in no small part to the role being played by 
the  United  Nations.  The  work  of  the  United  Nations 
Peacebuilding  Commission  in  supporting  peace  as  a 
prerequisite 
is 
commendable.  
Indonesia  believes  that  the  private  sector  should 

also  play  a  role  in  providing  both  financial  and 
non-financial 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission.  To  that  end,  earlier  this 
year,  Indonesia  facilitated  the  establishment  of  a  task 
force by the Commission’s Organizational Committee. 
The task force focused on tangible ways by which the 
Commission  will  be  able  to  strengthen  the  private 
sector’s engagement in post-conflict peacebuilding. 
With  peace,  African  countries  will  be  able  to 

pursue 
the  New 
Partnership  for Africa’s  Development, Africa’s leaders 
and  peoples  are  seeking  integration  into  the  global 
economy. That vision for the continent is an important 
their  development.  Through 
across  Africa.  Peace 
development 
is  blowing 
sustainable 
for 
support 
for 
the 
efforts  of 
A/63/PV.26
step. 
Indonesia 
implemented.  However, 
progressive 
therefore  welcomes 
NEPAD’s role as a catalyst for change. It is the means 
whereby  Africa  will  experience  peace  and  security, 
democracy, good governance and capacity-building and 
improve its macroeconomic development frameworks. 

On the whole, international development support 
for Africa is intensifying, but the pace for such support 
must be accelerated. There are signs that that is already 
beginning  to  take  place.  International  initiatives,  such 
as  debt  relief  and  cancellation  and  aid-for-trade,  are 
being 
the  magnitude  of 
Africa’s  development  challenges  demands  ever-
increasing support and commitment. The public health 
threat from HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and other 
communicable  diseases  has  not  diminished.  Africa’s 
high child mortality rate needs to be reduced. Poverty, 
the  lack  of  investment  and  infrastructure  development 
and  low  productivity  all  obstruct  development.  They 
undermine  the  continent’s  capacity  to  achieve  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

With the current global financial, food and energy 
crises, as well as climate change, Africa finds itself at a 
great  disadvantage  in  pursuing  the  MDGs.  To  change 
its  fate,  the  international  community  needs  to  support 
Africa  in  the  same  way  it  did  Europe  after  the  two 
world wars.  

Global  partnership  and  international  support  are 
imperative.  They  must  allow  Africa  to  maximize  its 
potential and use its domestic resources for growth and 
development. 
Bilateral  and  triangular  cooperation,  as  well  as 

South-South  cooperation,  are important in that  regard. 
Through  public-private  and  private-private  partnerships,
Africa’s  creative  capacities  must  be  expanded. 
International  support  must  also  include  financing  for 
the  successful  implementation  of  various  domestic 
initiatives. 

Other  mechanisms  can  contribute  to  Africa’s 
development  as  well.  Accordingly,  Asia  and  Africa, 
with  Indonesia  and  South  Africa  as  co-chairs,  have 
been  deepening  their  special  historical  relationship. 
The solidarity of the 1955 Asia-Africa Conference held 
in  Bandung,  Indonesia,  has  been  renewed  under  the 
New Asian-African  Strategic  Partnership  (NAASP)  of 
2005. That is the foundation of our regions’ closeness. 
Through  the  Partnership,  Indonesia  has  built  a  solid 
base  for  extensive  cooperation.  In 
the  field  of 
agriculture  and  food  security,  Indonesia  has  assisted 
08-55210 

21 

and 
science 
technology 
A/63/PV.26 

with  capacity-building.  Appropriate  technology  has 
been  transferred  and  we  are  currently  working  with  a 
number  of  countries  in  Africa  to  develop  rice  fields, 
with seed varieties that suit the continent’s weather and 
farming conditions. 

Along with the Strategic Partnership, use is being 
made  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement’s  Centre  for 
South-South Technical Cooperation in Jakarta to assist 
and  support Africa  in  catching  up  in  the  development 
race. Indonesia is also providing support and technical 
in  areas  such  as  education,  poverty 
cooperation 
alleviation, 
and 
microfinancing. 

Our  ultimate  goal  is  to  put  Africa  on  track  for 
achieving the MDGs. Ensuring that Africa succeeds in 
its development must continue to be a matter of global 
concern.  That  success  will  contribute 
to  global 
economic  growth,  peace  and  security.  Consequently, 
there  must  be  no  slackening  of  support  for  Africa’s 
progress. Should that happen, the current development 
momentum will quickly lose power. But not only must 
international  support  be  consistent,  it  must  also  be 
adequate and sustainable. At all times, the development 
paradigm on the continent must be specific to African 
particularities and benefit from African leadership. 
Mr.  Kumalo  (South  Africa):  My  delegation 

wishes to associate itself with the statements made by 
the  representative  of  Kenya  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group  and  by  the  representative  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 
the 

thank 
Secretary-General for his three reports on the items we 
are  discussing  today,  namely,  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD) (A/63/206), causes of 
conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable  development  in Africa  (A/63/212)  and  the 
Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries, 
Particularly in Africa (A/63/219). 
We  come  here  today  overshadowed  by  major 

crises  that  have  a  direct  impact  on  the  African 
continent — high food prices, the scarcity of food and 
high fuel prices, as well as the uncertainty in the global 
financial system. All of these are intertwined and pose 
a threat not only to the achievement of NEPAD, but to 
all the progress we have seen in the past few years. 

High food prices cut directly into the incomes of 
the  poorest  and  reduce  the  resources  available  to  feed 
Also,  my  delegation  wishes 
to 
also 
strain 
in 
turn, 
Increased  prices 
the  coherence  and  consistency  of 
our  people. 
the 
commitments  African  Governments  have  made  to  the 
social security, education and health care of our people. 

Moreover,  the  uncertainty  in  the  international 
threaten  or  even 
financial  system  will, 
undermine 
the 
financial  and  trading  systems  and  their  support  of 
development.  This  has  made  the  mobilization  of 
resources more difficult, thereby raising the spectre of 
unsustainable  debt  once  again,  haunting  heavily 
indebted poor countries in Africa. 

The global community needs to take urgent action 
in  support  of  NEPAD  to  ensure  that  the  economic 
development  gap  between  Africa  and  developed 
countries does not increase further. This is important in 
order  to  make  certain  that  the  impact  of  developed 
countries’  monetary  policies,  trade  policies  and,  in 
particular, trade distorting subsidies do not place extra 
financial and economic burdens on Africa. 

We  must  thus  take  a  holistic  approach  to  the 
interconnected  national,  international  and  systemic 
challenges of financing for development, one which is 
gender-sensitive and people-centred, particularly in the 
context of Africa’s development. 

Collective  and  coherent  action  is  needed  in  each 
interrelated area, involving all stakeholders in an active 
partnership  to  ensure  the  success  of  NEPAD.  More 
than ever before, Africa needs the global community to 
display  the  unequivocal  political  will  to  urgently 
operationalize and implement all commitments made to 
Africa. 

It  is  clear  that,  despite  all  the  actions  and 
commitments by the African countries and institutions, 
the main constraint remains the lack of resources, be it 
financial  or  otherwise.  It  is  therefore  evident  that  for 
NEPAD 
true 
partnership  between  Africa  and 
international 
community. 

In  order  for  us  to  succeed,  the  United  Nations 
must,  in  accordance  with  the  political  declaration  on 
Africa’s  development  needs,  adopted  at  the  beginning 
of 
the  sixty-third  session,  consider  a  monitoring 
mechanism 
timely 
implementation of all commitments related to Africa’s 
development no later than in the sixty-fifth session. 
the  Secretary-

General’s  report  on  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the 
My  delegation  concurs  with 
to  become  a 
to  succeed, 
it  needs 
review 
the 
to 
the 
full 
and 
22 

08-55210 
of 
durable 
peace 
to 
and 
poverty 
strategy 
political 
conflict, 
instability, 


promotion 
sustainable 
development  in  Africa.  The  African  Union  has  made 
substantial  progress  in  conflict  prevention  on  the 
continent. It is now up to the international community 
to  press  forward  with  increased  dedication,  together 
with  African  regional  organizations,  to  assure  lasting 
peace  and  development  in  the  face  of  growing  global 
challenges and crisis. 

From  an  African  perspective,  the  overarching 
objective of Africa’s NEPAD process of renewal is the 
African renaissance, a move to break the vicious cycle 
of 
and 
underdevelopment  and  to  underpin  the  continent’s 
capacity to defend and advance its own interests in the 
global  arena.  The  key  building  blocks  of 
this 
include  greater  unity  and 
renaissance 
solidarity, acceleration of political and socio-economic 
integration and increased international support. 

The African  Union  has  taken  full  ownership  and 
responsibility  for  peace  and  security  on  the  African 
continent.  We  have  developed  a  continental  security 
architecture, established an African Standby Force and 
articulated  a  wide  range  of  underpinning  norms  and 
values, all aimed at conflict prevention, resolution and 
post-conflict reconstruction. 

However, if Africa is to succeed in the peace and 
security  sector,  a  global  partnership  will  also  be 
necessary.  The  role  of  the  international  community 
must  be  aimed  at  supporting African-owned  priorities 
for conflict prevention, conflict management and post-
conflict situations. 

Without  peace  and  security,  the  so-called  threats 
to Africa,  such  as  poverty,  disease  and  illiteracy,  will 
remain  unchecked.  This  points  to  the  need  for  a 
stronger  development 
international 
community’s  approach.  The  building  structures  for 
peace  and 
their 
socio-economic  and  political  aspects.  After  all,  both 
the causes and consequences of conflict and instability 
in Africa are clearly linked to global developments and 
relations in the international arena. 

Finally, my delegation wishes to touch briefly on 
agenda  item  43,  including  the  report  of  the  World 
Health Organization (WHO) on rolling back malaria in 
developing  countries,  especially 
(see 
A/63/219). South Africa is one of the signatories of the 
Abuja  Declaration,  in  which  we  committed  ourselves 
to reducing malaria morbidity and mortality by 50 per 
security  have 
incorporate 
in  Africa 
focus 
in 
the 
A/63/PV.26
than 
the  decrease 
cent  by  the  year  2010. Although  some  may  argue  that 
we  have  already  achieved  this  target,  rolling  back 
malaria  encompasses  more 
in 
morbidity  and  mortality.  As  this  year’s  theme  to 
commemorate  World  Malaria  Day,  25  April  2008, 
suggested,  malaria  is  a  disease  without  borders  and  it 
therefore  becomes  crucial  to  form  partnerships  in 
combating it. 
It is the conviction of my delegation that the fight 

against  malaria  can  be  won,  by  destroying 
the 
mosquitoes that cause the disease. As the WHO report 
notes,  the  aims  of  the  global  fight  against  malaria  are 
not only to reduce the burden of the disease in endemic 
areas, but  also to reduce  and confine the geographical 
extent  of  malaria-endemic  areas  in  the  world.  This 
entails  the  elimination  of  malaria  from  countries  and 
localities  where  this  is  feasible.  We  are  committed  to 
doing that. 
Mr. Swe (Myanmar): First of all, I wish to thank 

the  Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive  report 
(A/63/206)  under  sub-item  (a)  of  agenda  item  57,  on 
for  Africa’s  Development 
the  New  Partnership 
(NEPAD).  My  delegation 
the 
successful  implementation  of NEPAD is central to the 
achievement of sustainable development for Africa. 

the 
statements  made  by  the  representative  of Antigua  and 
Barbuda  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  and 
by  the  representative  of  Thailand  on  behalf  of  the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations. 
Six  years  ago,  the  General  Assembly  adopted 

resolution  57/2,  entitled  “United  Nations  Declaration 
on  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development”, 
demonstrating  the  international  community’s  support 
for  Africa’s  home-grown 
initiative.  The  special 
development needs of Africa were recognized at many 
major United Nations conferences and summits and at 
the recent high-level meeting held to address that issue. 

The  international  community  must  give  due 
recognition  to  the  efforts  made  by  African  countries. 
They  have  taken  firm  ownership  and  leadership  of 
NEPAD.  They  have  firmly  set  priorities;  they  have 
taken  initiatives,  individually  and  collectively;  and 
they  have  carried  out  administrative,  civil  service, 
economic and judiciary reforms to bring about change 
on  the  continent  and  to  strive  for  sustainable  growth 
and development. 
My  delegation 
is  convinced 
itself  with 
associates 
that 
08-55210 

23 

A/63/PV.26 

During  the  past  four  years,  Africa  has  achieved 

record  economic  growth.  In  2007, 
the  continent 
registered  a  gross  domestic  product  growth  rate  of
5.8 per cent. However, the decline in official development 
assistance (ODA), the rise in food and fuel prices, the 
recent financial crisis and the impact of climate change 
threaten to reverse the progress achieved. 

Africa  is  a  continent  full  of  dynamism  and 
potential.  However,  in  the  face  of  new  and  growing 
challenges, the continued strong support of the United 
Nations  system  and  the  international  community  will 
be  necessary 
to  make  poverty  eradication  and 
development  in  Africa  a  reality.  The  international 
community  must  help  Africa  to  help  itself.  In  that 
regard,  I  should  like  to  explore  a  few  areas  in  which 
international  support  would  significantly  help Africa’s 
development.  

Trade  plays  an  important  role  in  promoting 
economic  growth.  Despite  the  fact  that  Africa,  with 
more  than  920  million  inhabitants,  represents  12  per 
cent of the world’s population, its share of international 
trade is only 2 per cent. The promotion of an equitable 
and  fair  multilateral  trading  system  would  go  a  long 
way in promoting Africa’s trade prospects. Agricultural 
subsidies, tariff and non-tariff barriers and other trade-
distorting  measures  must  be  eliminated  to  expand 
market  access 
to  African  products.  A  successful 
conclusion  of  the  Doha  Round  with  the  development 
dimension  at  its  core  is  also  necessary  to  improve 
Africa’s trade prospects. 

The decline in ODA in recent years constitutes a 
development 
for  many  developing 
countries, particularly those in Africa, which must rely 
on  ODA  for  many  of  their  development  projects.  We 
call  on  Africa’s  development  partners 
fully 
implement 
international 
conferences  and  the  pledge  made  at  Gleneagles.  The 
Secretary-General’s  proposal  that  external  financing 
for Africa be increased to $72 billion annually deserves 
our fullest support. 

Debt  sustainability  is  essential  for  growth  and 
crucial  to  the  success  of  Africa’s  efforts  to  eradicate 
poverty  and  achieve  development.  Currently,  sub-
Saharan Africa is the only region to see a real reduction 
in debt under the Highly Indebted Poor Countries Debt 
Initiative  and  the  Multilateral  Debt  Relief  Initiative. 
Debt relief should therefore be provided to all African 
countries  that  carry  heavy  debt  burdens.  Moreover, 
commitments  made 
impediment 
to 
at 
the 
The 
from 
to  achieve 
debt relief should be fully financed through additional 
resources. 

It  is  vitally  important  that  the  international 
community provide Africa with financial and technical 
support  in  strategic  areas  such  as  agriculture,  trade, 
infrastructure  development,  health  and  education. 
Africa  will  need  to  address  the  challenges  posed  by 
HIV/AIDS. An intellectual  property rights regime that 
is  flexible  enough  to  provide  the  general  public  with 
much-needed  affordable  medications  would  greatly 
benefit Africa’s fight against HIV/AIDS. 
Climate change can have a negative impact on the 

efforts  of  developing  countries 
the 
Millennium Development Goals. African countries will 
need climate change financing to assist their adaptation 
and  mitigation  efforts.  Here  again,  it  must  be  stressed 
that  financing  for  responses  to  climate  change  should 
be additional support in terms of resources and should 
not  detract 
implementation  of  other 
development priorities. 
recent  high-level  meeting  on  Africa’s 

the 
development  needs  and  high-level  event  on 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
enabled 
international  community  to  renew  its  commitment  to 
Africa’s  development.  The  primary  responsibility  for 
Africa’s  development  rests  with African  countries.  To 
that end, African leaders have taken bold initiatives to 
take  charge  of  their  own  destiny.  However,  without 
strong  support  from 
international  community, 
Africa’s  path  to  development  would  be  a  long  and 
winding  one.  Africa  needs  our  fullest  support.  The 
international community must not fail Africa. 
Mr.  Dapkiunas  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

Belarus  welcomes  the  significant  increase  in  the 
General  Assembly’s  focus  on  development  in  Africa. 
Less than a month after the high-level event on Africa’s 
development needs, we are once again discussing how 
we can undertake joint efforts to enable the citizens of 
the African continent to believe in a better tomorrow.  

Belarus is convinced that the future of humankind 
will depend upon our determination and our capacity to 
resolve the problems of the global systemic order that 
are  now  facing  Africa.  If  we  succeed,  we  will  create 
great  momentum  for  the  development  of  the  entire 
international  community;  if  we  fail,  the  maturity  of 
human civilization will be called into question.  
the 
24 

08-55210 
increasing 
the  Third 
the  Granting  of  Independence 



While  Belarus  is  quite  distant  from  Africa,  we 
have long felt our spiritual closeness to the fate of the 
continent  and  promoted 
its  development.  Nearly 
50 years  ago,  Belarus  was  among  the  sponsors  of  the 
Declaration  on 
to 
Colonial Countries and Peoples, which proclaimed the 
need to put an end to colonialism. Later, we selflessly 
opened  the  doors  of  our  universities  to  students  from 
Africa  and  began  to  participate  in  the  social  and 
economic development of a number of African States.  

Belarus, while not yet a donor, is prepared to do 
much for African countries. We are currently proposing 
to  make  educational  and  technological  investments  in 
Africa and to share our experience in the area of food 
security.  At 
International  Ministerial 
Conference  on  the  State  of  Middle  Income  Countries, 
held  in  Namibia  in  August,  I  served  as  a  Vice-Chair 
and as keynote speaker for its energy segment.  

In  a  number  of  African  countries,  Belarus  has 
launched joint ventures to produce modern automobiles 
and  tractors  based  on  Belarusian  technology  and  is 
considering 
in  related 
infrastructure  projects.  At  the  same  time,  we  are 
concerned that, at the present rate, we will not be able 
to double development assistance to Africa by 2010, a 
pledge  made  at  the  Group  of  Eight  summit  held  at 
Gleneagles. We join in the many appeals to developed 
countries  to  take  concrete  measures  to  honour  that 
important commitment. 

Moreover, in our joint work to resolve the global 
crises, we are paying priority attention to the needs of 
the  African 
encountering 
considerable  difficulty  in  its  efforts  to  counter  the 
negative  effects  of  climate  change,  regardless  of  the 
fact  that  it  has  the  lowest  levels  of  greenhouse  gas 
emissions. Africa’s vulnerability clearly lies in its food 
security.  The  continent  represents  barely  two  per  cent 
of  overall  international  trade,  but  it  is  encountering 
serious  economic  problems  as  a  result  of  the  current 
financial crisis. 

In  that  regard,  we  call  on  the  relevant  United 
Nations  bodies  to  study  in-depth  the  discrepancy 
between  the  cost  of  goods  from Africa  when  they  are 
brought  by  major  transnational  companies  and  when 
they  are  sold  on  world  markets.  We  feel 
that 
corrections  in  that  process  could  be  one  of  the  most 
important  steps  towards  the  establishment  of  a  just 
world economic order.  
continent.  Africa 
its  participation 
is 
A/63/PV.26
in 
to 
stressed 
infrastructure,  as 

We must also better trust the African countries to 
choose the ways and means of settling their continent’s 
problems.  The  African  Union’s  mandate  to  maintain 
regional peace and stability must be strengthened. The 
Security  Council  needs  to  find  practical  ways  to 
expand  the  role  of  the  African  Union,  especially  by 
supporting its Peace and Security Council.  
We  recognize  the  vital  need  to  invest  broadly  in 

energy 
the  New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). In that 
respect, it is also important actively to promote the use 
of  renewable  sources  of  energy,  clean  energy  and 
effective  energy-saving  processes.  We  hope 
that 
African countries will play an active role at this session 
of the General Assembly in thematic discussion on the 
need  for  all  States  to  seek  energy-saving  technologies 
and  the  use  of  alternative  and  renewable  energy 
resources. 

The role of African countries in resolving urgent 
problems  within  their  own  system  is  critical.  In  that 
connection,  we  note  that  we  are  encouraged  that  the 
African  Union  has  decided  to  make  contributions  to 
help advance work on a comprehensive plan of action 
to  fight  traffic  in  persons.  We  welcome  the  decision 
taken  at 
launch 
negotiations  on  the  comprehensive  plan.  Belarus  has 
advocated the idea of such a plan for several years, and 
we  are  ready  to  work  practically  together  with  the 
African countries to make it a reality. 

We  also  wish  to  invite  our  African  partners  to 
consider  the  feasibility  of  working  with  the  United 
Nations  system,  above  all  on 
the 
attainments  of  NEPAD,  on  a  long-term  coordinated 
Africa-United  Nations  strategy  for  action  along  the 
lines of the joint Africa-European Union strategy. Such 
a  strategy  would  enable  the  development  on  a  global 
level  of  a  vector  for African  development  that  would 
have a positive impact on the coordination of work to 
assist the peoples of the continent.  
Mr.  Taha  (Sudan)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  My 

delegation  associates  itself  with  the  statements  to  be 
made by the representative of Antigua and Barbuda on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  by  the 
representative  of  Kenya  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group. 
Africa  has  made  considerable  progress  since  the 

beginning  of 
the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  The 
the  African  Union  summit 
implementation  of 
the  basis  of 
the 
08-55210 

25 

A/63/PV.26 

Partnership demonstrates the will and the commitment 
of the African countries to put the continent on the road 
to economic and social development by controlling its 
own  development  actions. Today,  halfway  through  the 
timeline  towards  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by  2015,  Africa  is  the 
only  continent  suffering  from  major  obstacles  to  its 
efforts  to  combat  poverty  and  want.  Therefore,  the 
international  community  must  mobilize  its  efforts  to 
help  Africa  to  implement  effectively  all  parts  of 
NEPAD  and  all 
its  commitments  under  NEPAD 
without delay. 

The high-level meeting of the General Assembly 
on  22  September  was  held  to  address  the  particular 
needs  of  African  development  and  to  assess  the 
implementation of commitments and the challenges of 
the  future.  It  represented  an  important  step  towards 
strengthening  NEPAD.  The  political  declaration 
concerning  the  specific  needs  of  Africa  stresses  the 
commitment  of  heads  of  State  and  Governments, 
Ministers  and  the  various  delegations  at  the  United 
Nations to the particular needs of Africa, as reflected in 
the  Millennium  Declaration, 
the  United  Nations 
Declaration  on  NEPAD  and  the  Monterrey  Consensus 
adopted  at  the  International  Conference  on  Financing 
for  Development,  and  the  Outcome  Document  of  the 
2005  World  Summit.  All  of  those  instruments  were 
designed  to  strengthen  the  international  partnership 
between countries on the basis of common values and 
the mobilization of human, technological and financial 
resources 
and 
underdevelopment  in  Africa.  They  all  reflect  the 
commitments we have entered into. 

Extensive  consultations  are  under  way  on  the 
draft  final  document  of  the  Follow-up  International 
Conference on Financing for Development, introduced 
by 
in 
accordance  with  resolution  62/187,  in  preparation  for 
the Doha Conference to be held from 29 November to 
2 December  2008,  seven  years  after 
the  historic 
Conference held in Monterrey, Mexico.  

We therefore call on the international community 
to  implement  all  of  its  commitments  to  eradicate 
poverty,  to  strengthen  sustainable  development,  and 
create equitable and inclusive world economic systems 
to  respond  to  the  needs  of  developing  countries, 
especially in Africa, and enhance their integration into 
the international markets.  

Developed countries should end their agricultural 
subsidies,  especially  since  the  MDG  Africa  Steering 
the  General  Assembly 
the  President  of 
poverty, 
hunger 
fight 
to 
In 
of 
that  context, 
Regional  organizations  working 
that  such  subsidies  undermine 
that  would 
Group  emphasizes 
agricultural  development,  a  process 
facilitate economic reform throughout the world.  

to  establish 
lasting  peace  in  Africa  play  a  key  role,  especially  in 
post-conflict  countries.  I  appeal  to  all  for  the  full 
implementation  of  the  10-year  plan  for  capacity-
building  of  peacekeeping  forces  in  Africa  and  to 
strengthen  regional  consultation  mechanisms,  in  order 
to  effectively  support  the  African  Union  and  its 
established programmes in the context of NEPAD.  

Despite  current  progress,  such  efforts  remain 
inadequate for low-income countries. Today, there is a 
need  to  expand  assistance  for  the  heavily  indebted 
countries  and  to  alleviate  multilateral  debt  in  order  to 
help those countries perform optimally when taking on 
the challenges that lie ahead. 

the  official  development 
assistance  (ODA)  provided  to  Africa  is  still  lagging 
behind the pledges of 2005 to raise it to $25 billion by 
2010.  Despite  the  fact  that  some  donor  countries, 
the  Commission  on  Sustainable 
members 
Development,  have  established  definite  plans 
to 
provide  further  aid  to Africa,  many  others  have  yet  to 
honour their commitments. We emphasize here that the 
quality  of  such  assistance  is  just  as  important  as  the 
quantity.  We  also  stress  that  the  instability  and  the 
fluctuation  of  assistance  is  a  dangerous  problem  for 
Africa.  
The  creation  of  a  peaceful  environment  is  a  sine 

qua  non 
social 
development. We have broad experience in the field of 
durable  peace  in  the  Sudan,  and  the  wealth-sharing 
measures we have adopted are essential elements of the 
three  peace  agreements  we  have  signed.  Perhaps  the 
Sudan’s 
inter-African  mechanisms  has 
cleared  the  way  for  various  Government  agencies,  as 
well  as  all  stakeholders,  civil  society  and  the  private 
sector,  to  implement  the  aforementioned  mechanisms 
in  order  to  strengthen  the  role  of  women,  democracy, 
accountability and the rule of law.  

Approximately  half  of  the  world’s  population  is 
exposed  to  malaria.  In  2006,  3.3  billion  individuals 
suffered  from  the  disease,  of  whom  1  million  have 
already died. The majority of the Sudanese population 
is  in  danger  of  infection  from  malaria.  There  are 
7 million  cases  of  the  disease  per  year,  from  which 
there  are  35,000  deaths.  Scientific  studies  in  this  area 
emphasize  the  negative  effects  of  climate  change  on 
the  rate  of  incidence,  given  that  high  temperatures 
joining  of 
economic 
ensuring 
and 
for 
26 

08-55210 
The  slackening  of 
the  world  economy, 


extend  the  lives  of  the  mosquitoes  that  carry  this 
disease,  directly  affecting  the  social  and  economic 
development  of  the  country.  The  Sudan  has  therefore 
created  a  national  strategy  to  fight  malaria,  creating  a 
special entity to strengthen the means of controlling the 
spread  of  the  disease,  thus  enabling  better  prevention 
and treatment.  
the 

increase  in  food  prices  and  climate  change  are  all 
factors  that  prevent  us  from  attaining  concrete  results 
in  implementing  NEPAD  and  in  the  fight  against 
malaria. Those factors jeopardize our ability to achieve 
the MDGs by 2015. Thus, real determination and clear 
leadership  are  needed  on  the  part  of  our  development 
partners and the African countries themselves in order 
to  introduce  meaningful  reforms  to  the  debt  and 
international  trade  systems,  to  facilitate  access  to  the 
World Trade Organization by developing countries, and 
to  increase  ODA.  All  such  action  must  be  calibrated 
with the national ownership and development plans of 
developing  countries,  while  honouring  in  a  timely 
manner  the  commitments  that  have  been  undertaken. 
The  responsibility  for  development  is  a  collective 
responsibility based on a just international partnership.  
Mr.  Raja  (India):  India’s  first  Prime  Minister, 

Jawaharlal  Nehru, 
the  Asia-Africa 
Conference  at  Bandung  in  1955,  described  Asia  and 
Africa  as  “sister  continents”.  That  vision  of  India  and 
Africa, with our shared historical experience of fighting 
colonialism  and  multidimensional  backwardness,  and 
our  common  journey  with  a  common  destination, 
remains at the centre of India’s links with Africa.  
India,  which  hosted  the  first-ever  India-Africa 

Partnership  Forum  Summit  in  New  Delhi  in  April 
2008,  is  therefore  extremely  pleased  to  participate  in 
today’s discussion on the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD).  

We  would  like  at  the  outset  to  take  note  of  the 
high-level meeting on the theme “Africa’s development 
needs:  state  of  implementation  of  various  commitments,
challenges and the way forward”, held in New York on 
22  September  2008.  We  would  like  to  take  particular 
note  of  paragraph  39  of  the  political  declaration 
adopted at the meeting which stated, inter alia, that,  
speaking  at 
“All  commitments  to  and  by  Africa  should  be 
effectively  implemented  and  given  appropriate 
follow-up by the international community and by 
Africa  itself.  We  underscore  the  urgency  of 
finding  solutions  to  Africa’s  major  challenges.” 
(resolution 63/1, para. 39) 
A/63/PV.26
and 
and 
called 
technology 
information 
for  urgent 
in  areas  such  as 

India  would  also  like  to  echo  the  call  of  the 
Chairman of the African Union, made at that meeting, 
that Africa deserves special attention. The strides being 
made  by  Africa 
infrastructure, 
agriculture,  health,  human  resources  development, 
science 
and 
communications technology are evident. They are also 
portents that indicate the awakening of a giant that will 
immutably  transform  the  international  political  and 
economic order.  

The  Secretary-General,  in  his  report  entitled 
“New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development:  sixth 
consolidated  progress  report  on  implementation  and 
international  support”  (A/63/206),  provides  details  of 
the  progress  made  in  the  various  priority  areas  of 
NEPAD and analyses the response of the international 
community  in  support  of  NEPAD. We  are  particularly 
concerned, in the light of the political declaration, that 
he  has 
implementation  of 
international  commitments,  including  a  reversal  in  the 
decline  of  development  assistance.  We  endorse  the 
reminder by the Chairman of the African Union of the 
moral  obligation  of  the  international  community  to 
assist Africa in pulling itself out of the poverty trap.  

India has always been committed to elevating its 
special  engagement  with  Africa  into  an  enduring 
partnership.  We  have  a 
long-standing,  close  and 
multilayered  relationship  with  Africa  based  on  our 
abiding  commitment  to  working  with  the  continent  to 
fulfil  its  aspirations.  Our  partnership  encompasses 
priority  sectors  integral  to  the  development  goals  of 
Africa in the twenty-first century. A vibrant India and a 
resurgent  Africa  are  witnessing  an  intensification  of 
relations  and  a  growing  convergence  of  interests  in 
their  common  quest  for  sustainable  economic  growth 
and development.  
the  Africa-India 

Framework  for  Cooperation,  adopted  by  India  and 
Africa earlier this year, highlight our shared vision and 
world view. The Delhi Declaration is based on equality 
and  mutual  respect.  The  Framework  of  Cooperation, 
adopted at the summit, outlines the priority areas of our 
future  engagement.  Taken  together,  they  provide  a 
sound 
intensification  of  our 
engagement in the years to come.  

India  is  committed  to  working  together  with 
Africa  in  accordance  with  the  continent’s  priorities. 
Areas  of  cooperation 
include  capacity-building, 
agriculture,  infrastructure  development,  health  and 
food  security  and  technology  cooperation.  India  also 
The  Delhi  Declaration  and 
foundation 
for 
the 
08-55210 

27 

railways, 
on 
science, 
the 
enhancement  of 
the 
including 
education, 
A/63/PV.26 

announced 
available 
concessional  lines  of  credit  for Africa  to  $5.4  billion. 
India sincerely aspires to a long-term partnership with 
Africa and is therefore investing in building economic 
infrastructure, 
information 
technology, telecommunications and power.  

For India, capacity-building in Africa has been an 
area  of  priority.  Since  1964,  through  the  Indian 
Technical  and  Economic  Cooperation  Programme, 
India  has  worked  with  Africa  to  place  thousands  of 
African  students  in  professional  institutions  in  India 
under  scholarship  schemes.  Over  15,000  African 
students  are  currently  studying  in  Indian  universities 
and colleges. India will, over the next five to six years, 
undertake,  on  a  grant  basis,  projects  in  critical  areas 
focusing 
information 
technology,  agriculture  and  renewable  energy.  India 
now  offers  a  substantially  higher  number  of  training 
slots and has also doubled long-term scholarships. We 
have allocated $500 million to that purpose.  

The  Pan-African  e-Network  Project  is  a  shining 
example  of  the  India-Africa  partnership.  India  has 
gifted  a  satellite  dedicated 
in 
sub-Saharan  Africa  to  help  bridge  the  digital  divide. 
The  Project  is  fully  financed  by  the  Government  of 
India  and  was  launched  from  Addis  Ababa,  with  a 
satellite  hub  in  Dakar.  It  links  major  universities  in 
different 
Indian 
universities and centres of excellence in India, and also 
links  major  hospitals  in  Africa  with  super-specialty 
hospitals in India. Thirty countries have already joined 
the  Project  to  provide  quality  tele-education  and  tele-
medicine.  

The  Secretary-General,  in  his  report  on  NEPAD, 
has called for the long-overdue successful outcome of 
the  Doha  Round  of  multilateral  trade  negotiations 
encompassing a development dimension. At the India-
Africa  Partnership  Forum  Summit,  India  and  Africa 
decided  to  work  together  with  the  World  Trade 
Organization  on  pressing  global  issues  of  shared 
interests  and  concerns,  such  as  the  issue  of  cotton 
subsidies. India has made a unilateral announcement of 
duty-  and  quota-free  market  access  to  goods  from 
34 least  developed  countries  in Africa.  That  will  spur 
economic  activity  in  manufacturing,  particularly  for 
African  small  and  medium-sized  enterprises,  by 
allowing  them  enhanced  market  access  to  one  of  the 
fastest-growing economies in the world.  
regions  of  Africa  with  major 
to  e-connectivity 
terrorism,  combating  diseases, 

India, like Africa, has been affected by the global 
economic  slowdown,  the  international  economic  and 
financial crisis, and higher food and oil prices. Those, 
as  well  as  issues  such  as  climate  change,  the  reform 
and  democratization  of  international  institutions,  the 
fight  against 
the 
eradication of hunger and poverty and the promotion of 
pluralism  and  democracy,  are  all  on  our  common 
agenda.  

Africa’s  fight  against  malaria  —  which  is  dealt 
with  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/63/219), 
transmitting  the  World  Health  Organization’s  report 
and entitled “2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria 
in  Developing  Countries,  Particularly  in  Africa”  — 
remains  an  uphill  task.  Although  there  are  signs  that 
some  progress  might  be  taking  place,  it  is  a  fact  that 
resources  and  access  to  treatment  remain  inadequate 
and  there  is  no  evidence  of  a  decline  of  malaria  in 
Africa.  The  appearance  of  resistant  falciparum  strains 
is a matter of particular concern.  

While  a number of preventive measures, such  as 
the  distribution  of  treated  mosquito  nets,  are  being 
undertaken,  it  also  remains  a  fact  that  the  developing 
world’s  ability  to  combat  public  health  crises  of  that 
nature requires fundamental changes in the intellectual 
property  regime.  The  Doha  Declaration  enshrines  the 
principle  that  trade  rules  on  patents  are  not  as 
important  as  public  health.  Access  to  medicines  is  a 
fundamental part of the right to health. It is a matter of 
regret that this principle remains more in the realm of 
theory than practice.  

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  state  that  it  is  our 
firm conviction that success in achieving the objectives 
of  NEPAD  depends  on  an  African-led  and  Africa-
developed  agenda.  With  the  rich  human  and  natural 
resources  available  in  Africa  and  the  commitment  of 
Africa’s leaders to achieving the objectives of NEPAD, 
success  can  be  achieved  if  NEPAD  receives  the 
dedicated  support  of  the  international  community  in 
realizing the African dream. 


Programme of work 
The Acting President: I wish to inform members 

that, at the request of the sponsor, the consideration of 
item 113, “Multilingualism”, which was scheduled for 
Monday, 20 October, has been postponed to a later date 
to be announced.  
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
28 

08-55210 
