
A/63/PV.41
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

41st plenary meeting 
Friday, 7 November 2008, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 
the expectations of the world’s peoples. But we should 
keep  in  mind  the  astonishing,  and  I  would  say 
shameful, fact that the current annual budget for United 
Nations  peacekeeping  is  approximately  $5.6  billion, 
which  represents  one  half  of  1  per  cent  of  global 
military  spending.  That  mad  asymmetry  dooms  our 
best intentions. 

As  I  speak,  the  United  Nations  Organization 
Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
(MONUC) is in crisis. The reports of violence against 
civilians  in  the  conflict  zones  highlight  a  terrifying 
campaign  of  sexual  attacks  against  girls  and  women 
that may be unprecedented in its scale and brutality. It 
is  estimated  that  MONUC  has  one  peacekeeper  for 
each 10,000 civilians in the conflict areas. That makes 
MONUC’s  mandate  impossible  to  fulfil.  That  glaring 
example  serves  to  remind  us  that,  despite  our  best 
intentions,  the  bitter  reality  of  the  conflicts  in  many 
countries  dwarfs  the  ability  of  peacekeepers  to  fulfil 
their  mandates.  The  conflicts 
the  Democratic 
Republic  of 
the  enormous 
the  Congo  point 
importance of finding political solutions to large-scale 
conflicts  and  the  need  to  redouble  efforts  to  resolve 
them through broadly orchestrated diplomatic means. 

There  are  other  peacekeeping  operations  that  are 
of  smaller  scale  but  must  nevertheless  be  resolved.  In 
Western  Sahara,  for  example, 
the  decolonization 
process  has  been  stalled  since  the  United  Nations 
Mission  for  the  Referendum  in  Western  Sahara  was 
deployed  to  monitor  the  ceasefire  and  organize  a 
referendum  in  1991.  Despite  the  best  efforts  of  the 
diplomatic  community, the territory  remains occupied. 
in 
to 






The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m. 


to  mark 
of  United  Nations 
Commemorative meeting for the sixtieth anniversary 
of United Nations peacekeeping 
Agenda item 31 
Comprehensive review of the whole question of 
peacekeeping operations in all their aspects 
  Draft resolution (A/63/L.16) 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  General 

Assembly,  under  agenda  item  31,  will  now  hold  a 
the 
commemorative  meeting 
sixtieth 
anniversary 
peacekeeping 
operations, in accordance with the decision taken at its 
2nd plenary meeting and pursuant to resolution 62/273 
of 11 September 2008. 
(spoke in English) 

this  commemorative 
meeting  of 
the 
peacekeeping work of the United Nations over the past 
60  years.  I  wish  to  join  representatives  of  regional 
groups  and  the  host  country  in  highlighting  the 
remarkable  history  of  peacekeeping  operations  and 
celebrating  the  partnership  with  the  United  Nations 
system that has evolved over the decades. 

Today’s  peacekeeping  operations  —  all  20  of 
them,  requiring  more  than  110,000  personnel  —  are 
characterized  by 
their  unprecedented  scale  and 
complexity. They  remain  a  key  measure  of  the  ability 
of the United Nations to meet its Charter mandate and 
the  General  Assembly  marking 
I  am  pleased 
to  open 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-59274 (E) 
*0859274* 
those 
areas 

among 
Because 
different 
a  peacekeeping  mandate 
A/63/PV.41 

I  am  personally  concerned  about  the  human  rights 
abuses taking place, and I have requested that the High 
Commissioner for Human Rights release his report that 
was completed in 2006. In that regard, I offer to make 
myself available to assist all parties in any way I can to 
help resolve that long-standing issue, which risks being 
forgotten by the international community. 

is  not 
specifically  spelled  out  in  the  Charter,  that  essential 
work  has  had  to  evolve  as  innovative  partnerships 
nurtured by different organs of the United Nations. The 
interaction 
of 
responsibilities of the United Nations is a dynamic that 
I  have  chosen  to  highlight  during  the  sixty-third 
session of the General Assembly. 

In  that  regard,  the  Security  Council,  the  General 
Assembly and the Secretariat enjoy a close partnership 
that  has  grown  and  responded 
to  ever-changing 
circumstances  over 
the  decades.  That  partnership 
remains  central  to  whatever  successes  and  failures  we 
have  encountered  and  to  the  improvements  that  we 
wish to make in our peacekeeping efforts. 
We  celebrate  the  broad  participation  in  troop 

contribution by industrialized and developing countries 
alike.  That  broad-based  participation  helps  to  assure 
the  credibility  of  each  intervention.  The  principles  of 
neutrality,  transparency  and  universality  lend  them 
their legitimacy and must be treasured and defended by 
all  of  us.  The  slightest  abuse  of  those  principles  is 
immediately  noted  and  the  damage  to  the  legitimacy 
and credibility of our efforts is difficult to repair. 

The  restructuring  of  peacekeeping  operations, 
arising  from  catastrophic  failures  in  the  1990s  and 
highlighted  in  the  groundbreaking  Brahimi  report  of 
2000, should enhance our ability to identify, coordinate 
and sustain increasingly complex operations. 

The  General  Assembly  has  the  responsibility  to 
ensure  that  operations  are  equipped  with  the  tools 
needed  to  fulfil  their  mandates.  But,  almost  without 
exception,  they  are  still  being  sent  into  harm’s  way 
with insufficient resources at their command. It makes 
sense that troop-contributing countries have more of a 
say in determining the  resources required to minimize 
the  risk  and  maximize  the  chances  of  success  of  the 
operations their troops are committed to. Indeed, troop-
contributing  countries  should  be 
the 
earliest  stage  when  the  Security  Council  mandates  an 
operation,  and  later  in  any  changes  in  the  mandate  as 
involved  at 
to 
this 
join 
intended 
the  delicate  and  dynamic 
I now give the floor to Deputy Secretary-General 
they  are  required. That  closer  involvement  will  create 
more  reality  checks  to  ensure  that  operations  are  well 
conceived and administered from the outset. 

Let  us  reaffirm  our  determination  to  strengthen 
that  very  special  United  Nations  partnership  so  that  it 
can  maintain 
interplay 
between  military,  political  and  financial  realities  to 
make  peacekeeping  operations  effective.  But  just  as 
importantly,  let  us  always  focus  on  ways  to  bring 
nations together to solve problems that will make those 
operations the rare exception in the years to come. 

Asha-Rose Migiro.  
The  Deputy  Secretary-General:  The  Secretary-

important 
General  had 
commemoration,  but,  as  the  General  Assembly  may 
know,  he  is  in  now  Nairobi  attending  an  emergency 
meeting on the Democratic Republic of the Congo. His 
mission there aptly illustrates the importance of United 
Nations peacekeeping operations. 

Sixty  years  ago,  the  Security  Council  dispatched 
a small group of international military observers to the 
Middle  East.  Their  task  was  to  supervise  an  uneasy 
ceasefire  between  the  new  State  of  Israel  and  its 
neighbours.  That  first  peacekeeping  mission  was  an 
experiment that the founders of the United Nations had 
not foreseen. The model proved to be a great success. 

Peacekeeping  has  now  evolved  into  one  of  the 
cornerstones  of  international  diplomacy.  The  presence 
of  peacekeepers  sends  a  powerful  signal  that  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  are  working  together 
for  solutions  in  the  best  spirit  of  the  Organization’s 
Charter.  Today,  there  are  more  than  100,000  United 
Nations  peacekeepers  deployed  in  18  missions  across 
the globe. That scale is unprecedented. 

Peacekeeping operations have also had to evolve 
to  meet  the  changing  nature  of  conflict.  Beyond 
monitoring ceasefires, today’s peacekeepers have wide-
ranging  mandates. They  help  post-conflict  societies  to 
rebuild.  They  nurture  democratic  governance.  They 
protect  civilians,  disarm  ex-combatants,  supervise 
elections and strengthen institutions. 

But  the  evolution  of  peacekeeping  has  not  come 
without  cost.  The  United  Nations  has  learned  some 
hard  lessons.  Perhaps  above  all,  we  have  seen  that 
peacekeepers will not succeed in building true security 
if there is no peace to keep. 
2 

08-59274 
one 
of 
remains 
operations 



Peacekeeping  is  not  the  right  tool  for  every  job. 
We  can  play  a  valuable  role  in  accompanying  a 
political  process,  but  we  cannot  substitute  for  one. 
Where  there  is  a  viable  political  process,  we  can 
confront  potential  spoilers.  Where  there  is  none,  we 
cannot, and should not, fight a war. Our experiences in 
Bosnia  and  Somalia  in  the  early  1990s  proved  that 
point.  Darfur  confronts  us  with  a  similar  challenge 
today. 

The United Nations provides a system for sharing 
the  costs  and  responsibilities  of  peacekeeping  among 
its Member States. Indeed, the cost effectiveness of our 
peacekeeping 
the 
Organization’s  key  attributes.  United  Nations  troop 
deployments  are  less  expensive  than  those  of  most 
comparable  organizations  or  national  militaries. 
Moreover, the annual peacekeeping budget — currently 
about $7 billion — is a tiny fraction of world military 
expenditures. 

Peacekeepers operate in some of the most austere 
and  challenging  environments.  They  do  what  other 
people either  cannot or  will not do in order to protect 
people  at  risk.  That  courageous  spirit,  that  solidarity 
with  other  human  beings,  is  crucial  to  sustaining  the 
United  Nations.  Peacekeepers  need  our  support.  They 
need  clear  and  achievable  mandates.  They  need  the 
political  will  and  material  resources  of  our  Member 
States. 

With that support, great feats are possible. In the 
streets  and  alleyways  of  Cité  Soleil  in  Port-au-Prince, 
people  no  longer  live  in  fear  of  the  once-notorious 
gangs.  That  is  just  one  example  of  how  peacekeepers 
are  giving  people  all  over  the  world  a  chance  to  live 
free from the scourge of conflict. 
As  we  look  back  on  the  60-year  history  of 

peacekeeping,  let  us  be  proud  of  what  has  been 
accomplished.  Let  us  pay  tribute  to  the  more  than 
2,500  peacekeepers  and  other  personnel  who  have 
given their lives while serving the United Nations. Let 
us pledge to face the challenges ahead with real, long-
term resolve. Now more than ever, the world needs the 
blue  helmets,  and  the  blue  helmets  need  the  world’s 
support. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on 

the  representative  of  Mauritius,  who  will  speak  on 
behalf of the Group of African States. 
A/63/PV.41
since 
tremendous  accomplishments 
Mr.  Soborun  (Mauritius):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak  on  behalf  of  the African  Group  on  the  occasion 
of  the  commemoration  of  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of 
United Nations peacekeeping.  

Peace  is  vital  in  all  walks  of  life.  Suffice  it  to 
add,  therefore,  that  peacekeeping  is  considered  a 
flagship  activity  of  the  United  Nations,  helping  to 
restore  peace  and  stability  and  bringing  hope  to 
millions  of  people  in  various  conflict-affected  regions 
around  the  world.  United  Nations  peacekeeping  has 
achieved 
its 
inception  as  a  United  Nations  concept  under  which 
troops were — and still are — deployed not for war but 
to provide a foundation for lasting peace. In so doing, 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  has  proved  itself  as  an 
important tool to ensure that the primary responsibility 
for the maintenance of international peace and security 
rests with the United Nations. 

The  African  Group  seizes  this  opportunity  to, 
first,  renew  the  Group’s  commitment  to  the  principles 
governing  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations, 
such  as  the  consent  of  the  parties  and  the  non-use  of 
force  except  in  self-defence  and  impartiality.  Those 
basic  principles,  which  have  guided  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations  over  the  last  five  decades 
without  controversy,  still  remain  relevant  and  should 
be preserved.  

Secondly,  we  would  like  to  reaffirm  that  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations  should  be  provided 
with  the  necessary  political  support,  clearly  defined 
and  achievable  mandates,  adequate  capabilities, 
logistical and financial resources and exit strategies. 

Thirdly,  we  reaffirm  Africa’s  commitment  to 
assume its share of responsibility for peacekeeping for 
the maintenance of international peace and security. 

Fourthly,  we  express  Africa’s  appreciation  to 
United  Nations  and African  Union  peacekeepers,  who 
continue  to  contribute  towards  ensuring  that  peace  is 
preserved  and  consolidated  and  that  civilians  are 
protected in situations of conflict. 

Fifthly, we reiterate our full support for all efforts 
and  measures  aimed  at  promoting  the  safety  and 
security of United Nations peacekeeping personnel. 

Sixthly,  we  condemn  the  threats  and  attacks 
perpetrated  against  peacekeepers  and  reaffirm  that  the 
best  assurance  against  risks  are  well-planned  and 
clearly  mandated  missions  that  are  not  deployed  in  a 
08-59274 

3 
the 
is  either 
the  political  process 
A/63/PV.41 

void  or  where 
non-existent or compromised. 

Seventhly,  we  underscore  the  importance  of  the 
zero-tolerance  policy  to  ensure  that  misconduct  by 
peacekeepers, including sexual abuse and exploitation, 
is  prevented  and  that  justice  is  served  against  those 
found guilty of such violations. 

We  would  also  like  to  express  our  satisfaction 
that  the  United  Nations  and  African  Union  have 
deployed  considerable  efforts  to  build  a  genuine 
partnership  for  peace  in  Africa,  in  accordance  with 
Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter,  under  which  Africa  has 
undertaken  to  develop  its  capacity  to  provide African 
peacekeeping  where  needed  on  the  continent.  In  that 
regard,  the  African  Group  looks  forward  to  United 
Nations  support  to  strengthen  African  peacekeeping 
capabilities  and  emphasizes 
importance  of 
continued  implementation  of  the  joint  action  plan  for 
United Nations support in the short, medium and long 
term. 
The  African  Union,  for  its  part,  continues  to 

develop  and  consolidate 
its  peace  and  security 
architecture,  which  includes  the  Peace  and  Security 
Council,  the  African  Standby  Force,  the  Continental 
Early Warning  Mechanism  and  the  Panel  of  the Wise. 
The African Group seizes this opportunity to convey its 
appreciation to all its partners who have supported the 
process  for  establishing  that  architecture.  We  wish  to 
reiterate  the  African  Union’s  call  on  the  international 
community  to  lend  its  full  support  to  addressing 
outstanding  challenges  in  view  of  their  consolidation 
and full operationalization. 

to 
The  African  Group 
strengthen efforts towards addressing the root causes of 
conflict,  such  as  poverty,  in  order  to  enhance  the 
success  of  peacekeeping  and  build  a  comprehensive 
approach  to  the  restoration  of  peace  and  security  in 
situations of conflict. 
several  peacekeeping 

operations,  continues  to  bear  its  fair  share  of  United 
Nations  peacekeeping,  along  with  its  own  initiatives 
and efforts. It continues to be among the leading troop 
contributors,  providing  sustained  support  to  United 
Nations peacekeeping for more than 50 years. 

In conclusion, we would like to extend our fullest 
support  to  all  the  brave  men  and  women  serving  in 
peacekeeping  operations. We  also  pay  tribute  to  those 
Africa,  which  hosts 
the  need 
reiterates 

interrupt 
in  order 
these  proceedings 
in  commemoration  of 
peacekeepers  who  have  lost  their  lives  in  the  line  of 
duty  while  serving  in  peacekeeping  operations.  Last 
but  not  least,  we  would  also  like  to  express  our 
profound  appreciation  and  thanks  to  all  the  troop-
contributing countries. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I would like to 

briefly 
to 
recognize the presence, among us here in this Hall, of 
the representatives of the military forces who carry out 
their  peacekeeping  duties  on  the  ground  on  behalf  of 
the  United  Nations.  They  face  great  challenges  on  an 
almost  daily  basis.  I  ask  them  to  rise  and  I  invite 
Member  States  to  give  them  a  well-deserved  round  of 
applause. 

I  now  call  on  the  representative  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of Asian States. 
Mr.  Khazaee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I  have 

the  honour  to  speak  today  on  behalf  of  the  Asian 
Group.  Allow  me  to  begin  by  expressing  our  high 
honour  and  great  satisfaction  at  being  able  to  attend 
this  ceremony 
the  60th 
peacekeeping 
anniversary 
operations.  It  represents  the  sentiment  that  inspires  us 
all  as  we  consider  the  important  role  those  operations 
have  played  in  our  collective  pursuit  of  international 
peace and security. 

Since  the  inception  of  the  first  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  mission  in  1948,  hundreds  of  thousands 
of troops have taken part in over 60 field missions, and 
more  than  2,500  soldiers  and  civilians  have  lost  their 
lives in those operations. Lessons learned from various 
peacekeeping  operations  over  the  years  can  provide 
useful guidance for all concerned. Although the United 
Nations record on peacekeeping operations is one with 
many ups and downs, it is evident that those operations 
changed dramatically in terms of scale and scope after 
the cold war. 
Success in recent years has increased the demand 

for  United  Nations  peacekeeping.  United  Nations 
peacekeeping operations are now widely recognized in 
the international community as the flagship activity of 
the  Organization  and  have  been  assigned  more 
complex and multidimensional tasks in recent years. At 
the same time, it has been quite a challenging task for 
the United Nations to ensure effective, timely and fully 
resourced  deployments 
the  necessary 
of  United  Nations 
to  establish 
4 

08-59274 
personnel 
uniformed 


operational capacity in order to carry out the assigned 
mandates. 

It  is  a  matter  of  great  pride  for  us  that Asia  has 
always  played  an  important  role  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations  since  their  inception.  It  will 
continue to do so in the future. Asia is one of the major 
contributors  to  peacekeeping  operations  under  the 
auspices of the United Nations. As of 31 March 2008, 
six Asian countries were among the top 20 contributors 
of 
to  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations  and  provided  more  than  50 
per cent of that personnel. Moreover, five Asian States 
were  among  the  top  10  contributors  of  uniformed 
personnel  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations 
and three of them were at the top of the list, providing 
more  than  40  per  cent  of  the  personnel.  That  is  the 
most tangible contribution by Asia to the maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security. Asia  also  plays  an 
important role in financing peacekeeping operations. 

The  evolution  of  peacekeeping  operations  has 
provided  us  with  new  opportunities  for  deeper  and 
more  meaningful  changes  and  responses 
the 
management of conflicts. It has also been the subject of 
intensive  and  serious  discussions  concerning  the  level 
of  its  efficiency  in  addressing  conflict  situations.  The 
Asian  Group,  while  reiterating  its  full  support  for 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations,  wishes  to 
stress  that  the  United  Nations  is  a  universal  body 
entrusted  with  the  primary  responsibility  for  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  and 
that  peacekeeping  operations  should  strictly  observe 
the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter. 

We  reiterate  that  respect  for  the  basic  principles 
of  peacekeeping,  such  as  the  consent  of  the  parties, 
impartiality  and  the  non-use  of  force  except  in  self-
defence,  is  essential  to  the  success  of  peacekeeping 
missions.  We  also  emphasize  that  respect  for  the 
principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity and political 
independence of States and of non-intervention in matters 
that  are  essentially  within  the  domestic  jurisdiction  of 
any  State  is  crucial  to  common  efforts  —  including 
peacekeeping  operations  —  to  promote  international 
peace  and  security.  Moreover,  we  believe  that  the 
highest  priority  should  be  accorded  to  the  safety  and 
security of United Nations peacekeeping personnel. 

In  conclusion,  the  Asian  Group  would  like  to 
reserve  its  highest  respect  for  all  the  brave,  devoted 
women  and  men  who  have  served  in  United  Nations 
to 
A/63/PV.41
On  29  May  2008,  we  marked 
Mr. Jurica (Croatia): I have the honour to speak 
peacekeeping  operations  over 
the  years.  We  pay 
homage  to  those  who  lost  their  lives  to  bestow  peace 
and tranquillity on millions of people living in the most 
testing  and  dangerous  conditions.  We  remember  them 
today  with  sadness  in  our  hearts  and  we  honour  their 
supreme  sacrifice  in  the  cause  of  peace. We  pray  that 
their souls may rest in peace. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on 

the representative of Croatia, who will speak on behalf 
of the Group of Eastern European States. 

on behalf of the Group of Eastern European States. 

The  Group  of  Eastern  European  States  has  been 
and  continues  to  be  strongly  committed  to  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  activities.  Members  of  our 
Group have consistently been among troop contributors 
to  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions,  with 
national  contingents  coming  from  Group  member 
States providing a significant percentage of the overall 
military  strength  of  the  Organization’s  peacekeeping 
personnel. 

the  60th 
anniversary  of 
first  peacekeeping  mission 
established by the Security Council. In the days since, 
a further 63 peacekeeping missions were established by 
the  Security  Council,  in  which  hundreds  of  thousands 
of  participants  from  scores  of  countries  have  taken 
part. 

Today,  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions 
continue to  enjoy the wide participation of the United 
Nations membership. More then 110,000 peacekeepers 
from 119 countries are currently deployed in missions 
worldwide. For its part, the Group of Eastern European 
States  would  like  to  commend  all  States  from  all 
regional  groups  that  have  contributed  their  military, 
police  and  civilian  personnel 
to  peacekeeping 
operations throughout the world over the past 60 years. 

United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  have 
proven to be a useful and effective tool at the disposal 
of the international community for addressing some of 
the  world’s  most  daunting  challenges  to  peace  and 
security. 
Secretary-General, 
“peacekeeping has developed into a flagship enterprise 
of  our  Organization”.  During  the  past  six  decades, 
United  Nations  peacekeepers  have  saved  countless 
lives,  prevented  wars  and  eased  tensions  in  numerous 
crisis areas around the world. To those affected by war 
quote 
the 
To 
the 
08-59274 

5 

the 
growing 
emphasis  within 
the  protection  of 
A/63/PV.41 

and  its  atrocities,  the  presence  of  United  Nations 
peacekeepers has offered hope and the conviction that 
they have not been abandoned. 

Deployed  to  some  of  the  most  dangerous  places 
on  Earth,  United  Nations  peacekeepers  have  on 
numerous  occasions  proven 
their  bravery  and 
dedication to the cause of peace. That is why the safety 
and security of all United Nations personnel, including 
peacekeepers, should remain a priority. We condemn in 
the  strongest  terms  the  killing  of  and  targeted  attacks 
on  United  Nations  peacekeepers  and  all  acts  of 
violence against them. 

At  the  heart  of  every  peacekeeping  operation 
remains  the  protection  of  civilians.  We  therefore 
welcome 
the 
Organization  on 
those  most 
vulnerable  in  armed  conflict,  notably  women  and 
children. 
Today,  in  this  body,  we  are  also  paying  special 

tribute to the more than 2,500 peacekeepers who have 
given their lives in the cause of peace over the past 60 
years. Their ultimate sacrifice is  a reminder  of human 
willingness  to  fight  the  destructive  forces  of  armed 
conflict. 

Allow  me  to  conclude  by  stating  that  United 
Nations peacekeeping  activities will  continue to  enjoy 
the active support of the States of the Eastern European 
Group. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on 

the representative of Chile, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States. 
Mr. Muñoz (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): I have the 

honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Latin 
American and Caribbean States and, in that capacity, to 
associate our region with this tribute to United Nations 
peacekeeping  operations  as  we  commemorate  their 
sixtieth anniversary.  
Peacekeeping  operations  have  proved  to  be  an 

important tool enabling the United Nations to meet its 
primary 
the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. Indeed, peacekeeping 
operations are currently the most important activity of 
the Organization aimed at restoring peace and stability 
and  providing  support  and  hope  to  millions  of  people 
living  in  areas  affected  by  conflict  in  the  world.  This 
commemoration  provides  an  opportunity  to  renew  the 
commitment  of  my  Group  to  the  basic  principles  of 
responsibility 
for 
in 
the 
tradition  of  participating 
peacekeeping.  We  emphasize 
importance  of 
universal participation in United Nations peacekeeping 
operations. 
Over  the  past  60  years,  peacekeeping  operations 

have  grown  considerably 
in  number,  scope  and 
composition. They  are  staffed  by  over  110,000  people 
from  118  countries.  The  military  personnel  who 
traditionally staffed those missions have been joined by 
police forces, civilians and volunteers. 

The commitment of the Group of Latin American 
and  Caribbean  States  to  that  process  has  been  strong 
from  the  outset.  The  countries  of  the  region  have  a 
long-standing 
those 
missions through the provision of human and material 
resources.  Indeed,  the  region  is  one  of  the  main  troop 
contributors. 

The  Group  appreciates  the  contribution  made  by 
peacekeeping  operations  to  the  peace  and  stability  of 
the  region.  Today,  that  contribution  is  manifest  in  the 
work  of  the  United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission  in 
Haiti.  In  that  connection,  the  Group  stresses  the 
importance  of  not  only  ensuring  security  but  also 
contributing  to  the  development  of  the  country,  with 
the aim of achieving a stable and lasting peace. 

There has been a huge increase in the number of 
peacekeeping  operations.  As  a  result,  the  capacity  of 
the Organization to adapt its structures to the increase 
in operations and staffing must be reinforced. In order 
to  deal  with  that  new  reality,  the  Organization  has 
launched,  as  we  all  know,  a  series  of  reforms.  The 
Group  is  involved  in  that  task,  as  shown  by  its 
the 
constructive  participation 
reform  of 
Department  of  Peacekeeping  Operations  and 
the 
creation of the Department of Field Support. 

In  addition,  the  Group  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  States  understands  that,  if  the  response  to 
those  challenges  is  to  be  effective,  we  must  improve 
coordination  and 
the  various 
entities  involved,  such  as  the  Secretariat,  the  Special 
Committee  on  Peacekeeping  Operations,  the  troop-
contributing  countries  and  the  Security  Council.  Such 
coordination  must  precede  decision-making  processes 
in  order  to  achieve  effective  operation  deployments 
and 
implementation  of 
mandates. 

In that connection, we should like to mention the 
meeting  between  Mr. Alain  Le  Roy,  Under-Secretary-
interaction  between 
the  successful 
facilitate 
the 
in 
6 

08-59274 
To 
the  Secretariat 
the  Group  also  fully  supports 


for  Peacekeeping  Operations;  Under-
General 
the 
Secretary-General  Ms.  Susana  Malcorra  of 
Department  of  Field  Support;  and 
the  Fourth 
Committee, at which an interactive dialogue took place 
on the new challenges facing peacekeeping operations. 
We would like to continue and strengthen that dialogue 
and  Member  States. 
between 
Furthermore, 
the 
Organization’s  zero-tolerance  policy  and  its  strategy 
for victim support and assistance. 

The  Group  believes  that  the  men  and  women 
serving  in  a  peacekeeping  operation  are  its  most 
valuable resource. We therefore support all efforts and 
measures  to  promote  the  safety  and  protection  of  the 
staff  so  that  they  can  perform  their  noble  work.  The 
Group  reaffirms  that  the  best  way  of  ensuring  the 
safety of the staff of peacekeeping operations is to have 
well-planned  missions  that  are  deployed  in  places 
where  the  basic  conditions  for  their  completion  are 
met. At the same time, the Group condemns all acts of 
violence  against 
staff  of  United  Nations 
the 
peacekeeping operations. 

in 
peacekeeping  operations  who  perished  in  the  line  of 
duty,  the  Group  pays  a  most  heartfelt  and  profound 
tribute and thanks them for having helped to save lives 
by giving their own in that noble task. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  give  the 

floor  to  the  representative  of  Iceland,  who  will  speak 
on behalf of the Group of Western European and other 
States. 
Mr.  Hannesson  (Iceland):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak on behalf of the Group of Western European and 
other States.  

This  year  marks  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of 
United Nations peacekeeping. Today’s commemorative 
meeting  underlines  that  milestone,  and  we  warmly 
welcome the draft resolution and declaration submitted 
for  the  consideration  of  the  General Assembly  on  this 
occasion. 

United  Nations  peacekeeping  is  a  unique  and 
dynamic  tool  that  continues  to  be  among  the  key 
instruments 
in 
discharging  its  responsibility  under  the  Charter  in  the 
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security. 
During those six decades, peacekeeping has developed 
into the flagship activity of the United Nations, helping 
the  over  2,400  men  and  women 
the  Organization 
available 
to 
A/63/PV.41
to  restore  peace  and  stability  and  bringing  hope  to 
millions of people in conflict zones around the world.  

Indeed,  the  blue  helmet  worn  by  peacekeepers 
has  become  a  tangible  symbol  of  the  United  Nations 
for  the  most  vulnerable.  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
also  symbolizes  the  solidarity  of  the  international 
community  by  bringing  together  nations  from  various 
regions  and  cultures  to  help  other  nations  recovering 
from  the  scourges  of  war.  Today,  more  than  half  of 
Member States contribute personnel to United Nations 
peacekeeping operations; of course, all Member States 
contribute  financially  to  peacekeeping  efforts.  As  we 
speak,  the  United  Nations  has  more  than  110,000 
dedicated  men  and  women  deployed  in  peacekeeping 
operations around the world. 

From a rather modest enterprise, which started in 
1948  with  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations 
Truce  Supervision  Organization,  peacekeeping  has 
evolved  into  the  large  and  complex  multidimensional 
peace operations that we know today. As the nature of 
conflicts  has  changed,  peacekeeping  has  adapted 
accordingly. Current peacekeeping operations involve a 
multitude  of  tasks  to  ensure  an  effective  United 
Nations  response  to  the  needs  and  expectations  of 
countries and populations affected by conflict, and thus 
help  pave 
for  sustainable  peace  and 
development.  We  must  continue  to  build  on  past 
successes, learn from the challenges we have faced and 
keep strengthening this uniquely valuable instrument. 

invaluable 
contribution  of  the  hundreds  of  thousands  of  men  and 
women  who  have 
as  United  Nations 
peacekeepers  in  more  than  60  peacekeeping  missions. 
Over  those  six  decades,  more  than  2,400  men  and 
women have lost their lives serving the cause of peace 
under  the  United  Nations  banner.  The  Group  of 
Western  European  and  other  States  reaffirms 
its 
commitment to United Nations peacekeeping in honour 
of their memory. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 

floor  to  the  representative  of  the  United  States  of 
America, who will speak on behalf of the host country. 
Mr.  Khalilzad  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United  States  welcomes  this  opportunity  to  recognize 
and salute the many contributions and sacrifices made 
by the military, police and civilian personnel who have 
served  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations 
throughout  the  world  over  the  past  60  years.  Their 
Today  we  pay 
the  way 
tribute 
served 
the 
to 
08-59274 

7 
and 
The 
role 
instrument 
A/63/PV.41 

dedication  has  been,  and  continues  to  be,  the  living 
embodiment  of  the  profound  commitment  of  the 
nations  of  the  world  to  seek  common  ground  and  to 
cooperate  so  that  all  people  everywhere  can  be  safe 
from the scourge of war. 

The  Security  Council  authorized  the  first  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  mission  in  1948.  Sixty  years 
later, United Nations peacekeepers have been deployed 
to all corners of the world. We have seen the success of 
those  deployments  in  peacekeeping  missions  ranging 
from Sierra Leone to Guatemala to Mozambique. From 
the  beginning,  the  United  States  has  been  a  steadfast 
partner  in  supporting  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations  as  a  key 
in  maintaining 
international peace and security. 

tasks  of  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  have  evolved  over  the  past  six  decades. 
Today  United  Nations  peacekeepers  have  broader  and 
more  diverse  responsibilities  than  ever  before.  We 
recognize that the causes of conflict must be addressed 
from  the  very  beginning  and  that  our  common  job  is 
increasingly  to  support  the  creation  of  conditions  for 
sustainable peace. 

We  welcome  the  steps  taken  under  the  able 
leadership of Secretary-General Ban by the Secretariat 
to  reform  and  restructure  and  provide  adequate 
resources  for  the  ever-growing  and  unprecedented 
demand  for  complex  peacekeeping  operations.  There 
has been great progress in recent years.  

Peacekeeping  professionals  deserve  the  highest 
praise  for  their  dedication  and  willingness  to  shoulder 
that  heavy  responsibility.  Many  have  given  their  lives 
to  serve  the  cause  of  peace.  We  honour  them  and  we 
remember them. 
The  United  States  shares  the  concerns  of  the 

international 
the 
vulnerability  of  civilians  who  find  themselves  in  the 
midst  of  conflict  through  no  choice  or  fault  of  their 
own.  Women  and  children  are  particularly  vulnerable 
in  those  situations.  The  protection  of  civilians  is  now 
specifically included in half of the mandates of current 
peacekeeping  operations.  While  the  need  for  that 
protection is clear, how to achieve that goal is our most 
pressing collective challenge. 

The United States looks forward to continuing the 
close  cooperation  we  have  enjoyed  with  our  fellow 
Member States and with the professionals of the United 
community  with 
regard 

The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
Nations  as  we  work  together  to  strengthen  and  foster 
peace. 

floor to the representative of Morocco. 
Mr.  Sahel  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  As  we 

meet today to commemorate the sixtieth anniversary of 
peacekeeping  operations  —  under  a  negotiated  format 
and  in  accordance  with  the  rules  of  procedure  —  we 
have been surprised by, and we condemn, the violation 
of  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly 
represented  by  your  statement,  Mr.  President,  on  the 
issue  of  the  Sahara.  This  is  neither  the  place  nor  the 
time  to  discuss  it,  especially  in  the  flagrantly  partisan 
terms you have used, Mr. President.  
This also involves an erroneous assessment of an 

ongoing  political  process  under  the  Security  Council 
that  has  the  support  of  the  international  community. 
Your  partisanship,  Mr.  President,  is  based  on  an 
inaccurate  perception  of  the  nature  and  scope  of  the 
political  differences.  We  are  perplexed  by  it.  That  is 
certainly not the best way to help the parties to arrive 
at a mutually acceptable political solution to a regional 
political  dispute.  For  its  part,  my  country  has  not  lost 
sight of the purpose of this meeting, whose success we 
have spared no effort to ensure. As  a  country that  has 
contributed troops to peacekeeping operations for more 
than 50 years, we honour the memory of the men and 
women who have sacrificed their lives to the cause of 
world peace. 

the last speaker for this commemorative meeting. 

We  shall  now  proceed  to  the  vote  on  draft 
resolution A/63/L.16,  entitled  “Sixtieth  anniversary  of 
United Nations peacekeeping”. I should like to inform 
the  Assembly  that  the  following  delegations  have 
become  sponsors  of  this  draft  resolution:  Belarus, 
Israel,  Malta,  Monaco,  Paraguay, 
the  Russian 
Federation and Serbia.  

draft resolution A/63/L.16?  

(resolution 63/16). 
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have thus 

concluded  this  commemorative  meeting  marking  the 
sixtieth  anniversary  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
resolution  A/63/L.16  was 
adopted
Draft 
to 
8 

08-59274 

(spoke 
the 


The General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of 
its consideration of agenda item 31. 

that,  at 
Programme of work 
The  President 
in  Spanish):  Before 

adjourning  this  meeting,  I  would  like  to  inform 
members 
the  sponsors, 
consideration of agenda item 12, “Prevention of armed 
conflict”, 
for  Monday, 
10 November,  will  be  postponed  to  a  later  date  to  be 
announced. 

additions to the programme of work have been made  
I  would  also  like  to  inform  members  that  some 
request  of 
scheduled 
originally 
A/63/PV.41
for Monday morning, 10 November 2008. The General 
Assembly will resume consideration of agenda item 69 
entitled  “Report  of  the  International  Criminal  Court”, 
and  sub-item  (n)  of  agenda 
item  114,  entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
League of Arab States”, in order to take action on draft 
resolutions  A/63/L.19  and  A/63/L.20,  respectively.  At 
the  same  meeting,  the  Assembly  will  also  take  up 
sub-item 
entitled 
“Appointment  of  a  member  of  the  Joint  Inspection 
Unit”. 
The meeting rose at 11.15 a.m. 

agenda 
item 
105, 
(h) 
of 
08-59274 

9 
