
A/63/PV.29
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

29th plenary meeting 
Monday, 20 October 2008, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Miguel D’Escoto Brockmann . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 
through 
the  achievement  of 
the  recommendations  of 
entitled  “2001-2010:  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa” (A/63/219). 

Regarding  progress  in  implementation  of  and 
international  support  for  NEPAD,  Rwanda  welcomes 
the  adoption  of  the  political  declaration  (resolution 
63/1)  at  the  conclusion  of  the  high-level  meeting  on 
Africa’s development needs on 22 September 2008, as 
well  as 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals Africa  Steering  Group. We  firmly 
believe  that,  if  implemented,  they  offer  Africa  a  way 
forward in addressing the many challenges we face. 

Rwanda  is  committed  to  addressing  her  peculiar 
development challenges under the umbrella of NEPAD 
and 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  other  internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  and  we  have  undertaken  a 
number of initiatives to realize those commitments. 

Mr. Siles Alvarado (Bolivia), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 

Rwanda  places  information  and  communication 
technology  (ICT)  at  the  heart  of  its  development 
strategy.  The  Kigali  protocol,  signed  in  Kigali  on 
29 August 2006,  is  the  protocol  on  the  policy  and 
regulatory  framework  for  the  NEPAD  ICT  broadband 
infrastructure network. The protocol came into force on 
13 February 2008 and will guide the implementation of 
the  NEPAD  ICT  broadband  infrastructure  network, 
comprised  of  Uhurunet  —  the  submarine  segment  — 
and Umojanet — the terrestrial segment — in order to 
provide  quality  and  affordable  telecommunications 
connectivity to Eastern and Southern Africa and to the 




The meeting was called to order at 10.25 a.m.  





Agenda items 57 and 43 (continued) 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress 
in implementation and international support 
  (a)  New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and international 
support 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/206) 

  (b)  Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/212) 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/219) 
Mr.  Nsengimana

2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa 


(Rwanda):  My  delegation 
associates  itself  with  the  statements  made  by Antigua 
and  Barbuda  at  the  27th  meeting  and  Kenya  at  the 
26th meeting  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China 
and the Group of African States, respectively. 
I  would  like  to  extend  my  gratitude  to  the 

Secretary-General  for  his  reports  on  progress 
in 
implementation  of  and  international  support  for  the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD) 
the 
(A/63/206),  and 
promotion 
sustainable 
development  in  Africa  (A/63/212),  and  for  his  note 
the  causes  of  conflict  and 
durable 
peace 
and 
of 





This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-55671 (E) 
*0855671* 
them 
the 
towards 
towards 
to  enable 
interconnecting 
improving  education  on 
Information  Society  Partnership 
A/63/PV.29 

rest  of  the  African  continent.  This  network  will  be  a 
major  step 
the  African 
continent  and  helping  to  bridge  the  digital  divide. We 
therefore urge those countries that have yet to ratify the 
Kigali protocol to do so to ensure its implementation. 

The NEPAD e-Schools Demonstration Project — 
the  Demo  —  aims  to  equip  African  schools  with 
appropriate  ICT,  equipment  and  apparatus  to  ensure 
that  African  youth  graduate 
from  primary  and 
secondary  schools  with  the  relevant  skills  and  to 
contribute 
the 
continent  by  introducing  appropriate  ICT  through 
training and by providing appropriate digital content to 
all  African  schools 
to  function 
effectively  in  the  information  society  and  knowledge 
economy.  The  e-Schools  Demo  is  being  implemented 
through 
for 
Africa’s  Development  (INSPAD),  and  under  INSPAD 
leadership,  two  companies  —  Cisco  and  Microsoft  — 
have formed a consortium in support of Rwanda. 

Rwanda’s  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism 
(APRM)  country  review  report  was  published  in 
November  2005.  Since 
then  we  have  registered 
tremendous  progress  in  all  the  focus  areas  of  the 
APRM. 

On  democracy  and  good  political  governance, 
Rwanda has conducted successful elections at the local 
and  national  levels,  and  after  our  recently  concluded 
parliamentary  elections  women,  for  the  first  time  in 
history,  hold  56  per  cent  of  the  parliamentary  seats, 
leading  not  only  Africa  but  the  world.  We  have  also 
registered  significant  progress  in  decentralization  and 
in reform of the judicial sector. 

On  economic  governance  and  management, 
Rwanda is now fully compliant with the best practices 
for  budget  transparency.  We  remain  committed  to  a 
zero-tolerance  policy  on 
and  have 
established  institutions  to  enforce  that  policy.  There 
has  been  significant  progress  in  corporate  governance 
through 
in 
socio-economic  development  through  our Vision  2020 
and  second-generation  Economic  Development  and 
Poverty Reduction Strategy. 

The  progress  Rwanda  and  Africa  have  made  in 
implementing  their  commitments  under  NEPAD  is 
there for all to see. However, that progress risks being 
eroded by the food, energy and economic crises, all of 
which  impact  on Africa  far  more  than  they  do  on  any 
legislation 
corruption 
enacting 
corporate 
and 

the 
and 
decisively 
trade  and 
to 
through 
investment  are  Africa’s 
other  continent.  It  is  therefore  imperative  that  the 
those  crises 
international  community  respond 
promptly 
full 
implementation of the political declaration on Africa’s 
development  needs  (resolution  63/1)  and  of 
the 
recommendations  of  the  MDG Africa  Steering  Group. 
However, 
true 
guarantors for economic and social development, and it 
is critical that the Doha Development Round resume to 
ensure  that Africa  plays  its  rightful  role  in  the  global 
trading system. 

Concerning causes of conflict and the promotion 
of  durable  peace  and  sustainable  development  in 
Africa,  Rwanda  welcomes  the  various  initiatives  that 
have  been  undertaken  by  the  international  community 
to prevent conflict in Africa. We particularly welcome 
the  partnerships  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
African  Union  to  prevent  and  respond  to  conflict  in 
Africa.  I  wish  to  emphasize  that  Rwanda  strongly 
believes that prevention remains the best and preferred 
method to promote peace and sustainable development 
in Africa. 

The Secretary-General’s report (A/63/212) paints 
an optimistic picture of the situation in the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, and we would very much wish 
to share his optimism. However, as recent events have 
shown,  the  situation  remains  far  from  optimistic.  The 
failure comprehensively to address the threat posed by 
the  genocidal  forces  of  the  Forces  démocratiques  de 
libération  du  Rwanda  and 
the  ex-Forces  armées 
rwandaises/Interahamwe  to  the  people  of  Rwanda  and 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as set out in the 
Nairobi  communiqué  and 
in  Security  Council 
resolution  1804  (2008),  has  led  to  the  perpetuation  of 
conflict.  We  therefore  call  upon  the  international 
community to ensure that the United Nations Observer 
Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and 
the  Government  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo implement their commitments, as set out in the 
Nairobi  communiqué  and  Security  Council  resolution 
1804 (2008). 

Rwanda  welcomes  the  partnerships  that  regional 
organizations  have  forged  with  the  United  Nations  on 
peacekeeping  operations,  in  particular  the  African 
Union-United  Nations  Hybrid  Operation  in  Darfur. 
Rwanda  remains  firmly  committed  to  its  role  as  a 
major troop contributor to that force. 
2 

08-55671 

priced 
actions: 
the  report 
transmitted  by 
of  moderately 


(spoke in French) 

With  regard  to  the  2001-2010  Decade  to  Roll 
Back Malaria in Developing Countries,  Particularly in 
Africa, 
the  Secretary-
General’s  note  (A/63/219)  shows  the  progress  made, 
especially  in  Africa,  in  the  struggle  to  eliminate 
malaria.  

The World Malaria Report indicates that Rwanda 
has managed to reduce the cases of malaria by 66 per cent 
over  a  six-year  period.  By  2012,  we  aim  to  reach  the 
preliminary  phase  of  eradicating  that  disease,  which 
means  that  we  will  then  have  less  than  one  case  of 
confirmed malaria per 1,000 inhabitants. Our progress 
has  been  possible  particularly  as  a  result  of  the 
following 
the  promotion  of  massive 
distribution 
long-lasting 
insecticide-treated  mosquito  nets,  prompt  and  specific 
treatment through appropriate artemisinin combination 
therapy  — ACT  —  medicines,  the  implementation  of 
home-based management of fever by community health 
workers,  control  of  the  disease  through  campaigns  of 
indoor  spraying  of  homes,  an  increase  in  the  use  of 
health  services,  and  an  increase  in  the  number  of 
individuals with health insurance. 

eradicate the disease in Rwanda and Africa. 
Mr.  Terzi  de  Sant’Agata  (Italy):  First  of  all,  I 

should like to thank the representative of France for his 
statement on behalf of the European Union, with which 
I fully agree. I also wish to thank the Secretary-General 
for  his  comprehensive  report  on  the  New  Partnership 
for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) (A/63/206).  

In  its  capacity  as  incoming  President  of  the 
Group  of  Eight  (G8),  Italy  has  taken  note  of  the  call 
made  by  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  — 
which was reiterated by Kenya on behalf of the African 
Union  and  by  many  other  colleagues,  including  the 
representative of Rwanda, who just spoke — to prevent 
the  current  turbulence  in  world  markets  from  pushing 
Africa’s needs off the radar screen of the international 
community. Let me reassure the Assembly that we will 
do everything in our power to that end. Indeed, this is 
the  time  for  the  G8  to  relaunch  its  partnership  with 
Africa and to act as a catalyst for renewed efforts at all 
levels in support of NEPAD. 

The  United  Nations  is  the  natural  and  necessary 
place where our efforts should be coordinated and our 
Rwanda  remains  fully  committed  to  the  fight  to 
A/63/PV.29
like 
that,  at 
to  recall 
strategies defined, in full accordance with the vision of 
the  African  membership.  The  High-Level  Meeting  on 
Africa’s  development  needs  was  a  very  significant 
opportunity.  I  would 
the 
G8 Summit  held  in  Genoa  seven  years  ago,  Italy 
proposed an Africa Action Plan that was later approved 
at  the  G8  Summit  held  in  Kananaskis,  Canada.  The 
plan  is  focused  on  the  very  same  objectives  that 
NEPAD is pursuing: an Africa free of conflicts, hunger 
and violations of human rights.  

A collective commitment to targeted action in the 
areas of aid and trade was widely requested by African 
leaders during the High-Level Meeting. Italy intends to 
convey that sense of urgency at the 2009 G8 Summit. 
The elements emerging from this debate will therefore 
be  equally  and  duly  reflected  in  our  proposals  for  the 
Summit. 

We have taken careful note of the expectation in 
Africa for enhanced resource flows. Indeed, improving 
the  quality  of  assistance  is  a  key  priority.  Governance 
in Africa is improving at both the national and the local 
levels.  At  the  same  time,  assistance  should  become 
better  coordinated  and  more  predictable;  it  should  be 
less  bound  to  conditions.  We  should  seek  greater 
harmonization 
avoiding  useless 
duplication.  The  High-Level  Forum  held  in  Accra 
underscored  the  depth  of  those  concerns.  After  the 
Rome,  Paris  and  Accra  declarations,  we  see  next 
November’s Doha Conference as a key opportunity for 
further progress in those areas.  

The  goal  of  a  conflict-free  Africa,  set  by  the 
heads of State and Government of the African Union, is 
equally  strategic.  Our  common  denominator  should 
remain  the  promotion  of  African  ownership  in  the 
maintenance of peace and security on the continent. 

My  Government  is  committed  to  supporting 
strengthened African  institutions  in  the  areas  of  early 
warning, 
peacekeeping, 
peacebuilding  and  post-conflict  reconstruction.  The 
10-year  capacity-building  programme  for  the  African 
Union should be seen as a keystone of the cooperation 
between the United Nations and regional organizations, 
such as the European Union, that are active in Africa. To 
that end, my Government has contributed €40 million to 
the African Peace Facility. 

Action in the field should be supported by a clear 
political  vision.  That  is  why  the  decision-making 
process at the United Nations should respect and act on 
among  donors, 
diplomacy, 
preventive 
08-55671 

3 

and 
the  main 
the  Council 
A/63/PV.29 

the principle of African ownership, which we recognize 
for  regional  and  subregional  organizations  in  Africa. 
As  an  elected  member  of  the  Security  Council,  my 
country  is  committed  to  abiding  by  that  principle. We 
believe  that  further  improvement  in  the  cooperation 
between 
regional 
stakeholders would constitute a strong asset in ensuring 
concrete results in the area of crisis management. The 
joint  meeting  held  on  16  April  2008  between  the 
United  Nations  Security  Council  and  members  of  the 
African  Union  Peace  and  Security  Council  was  a 
significant step in that process. 

Nevertheless,  the  sustainability  of  our  policies 
will depend on our success in tackling the root causes 
of 
instability.  Combating  extreme  poverty,  youth 
unemployment, and environmental degradation, as well 
as  pandemics  such  as  malaria,  which  undermine 
Africa’s human resources, is a truly collective interest. 
It  is  therefore  essential  that  each  member  of  the 
international  community  be  fully  committed  to  facing 
those challenges. 
Mrs.  Aitimova  (Kazakhstan):  At  the  outset,  my 

delegation  would  like  to  express  its  support  for  the 
political  declaration  (resolution  63/1)  adopted  on 
22 September 2008  on  the  occasion  of  the  High-Level 
Meeting  on  the  theme  “Africa’s  development  needs: 
state  of 
implementation  of  various  commitments, 
challenges  and  the  way  forward”.  The  Declaration 
reaffirms  the  belief  of  Member  States  in  a  prosperous 
future  for  Africa  in  which  the  core  human  values  of 
dignity and peace are fully enshrined. 

Kazakhstan  supports  the  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations and of the international community as a whole 
to  mobilize  resources  for 
implementation  of 
programmes  and  projects  within  the  framework  of  the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD), 
which  is  considered  a  central  agenda  in  the  field  of 
development  for  the  continent.  We  also  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  establishing  the  Office  of  the 
Special  Adviser  on  Africa  to  leverage  international 
support for NEPAD. 

Substantial  progress  has  been  made  globally  in 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
and  other 
internationally  agreed  goals.  However, 
Kazakhstan notes with regret that, as we approach the 
midpoint  for  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  specified  in  2000,  Africa  remains  the  only 
continent that is lagging behind on every Goal, despite 
the 
in 
improvement 
a very encouraging recent rise in the rate of economic 
growth  and  overall 
the  policy 
environment on the continent. 

Acknowledging  the  leading  role  of  the  United 
Nations  in  the  implementation  of  NEPAD,  we  believe 
that the Organization and its structural divisions should 
reconsider their approach to the distribution of funds in 
order  to  strengthen  their  support  for African  countries 
in  their  efforts  to  achieve  the  MDGs  by  the  specified 
deadline. The recent rise in food prices is putting great 
pressure  on  African  economies  and  threatening  to 
unravel  hard-won  progress  in  fighting  hunger  and 
malnutrition. However, the crisis also offers a window 
of  opportunity  for  increasing  needed  expenditures  in 
the  area  of  agriculture  and  to  remove  the  obstacles  to 
an open trading system for agricultural commodities to 
benefit African countries. 

As  a  landlocked  country  facing  trade  problems, 
we understand Africa’s difficulties in overcoming trade 
barriers  that  hinder  the  export  of  produce  to  the 
international  markets  and 
raw  production-related 
export. As reflected in the recent outcome document of 
the High-Level Meeting on the midterm review of the 
Almaty  Programme  of  Action 
(resolution  63/2), 
Africa’s  infrastructure  needs  must  be  addressed  in  a 
regional manner if countries are to reap the benefits of 
economies of scale, to develop intra-African trade and 
to enhance competition in the global economy. In that 
regard, 
the  Doha  Round  of  negotiations  should 
determine the trade preferences to be granted to Africa 
in order to accelerate its development. 

As  a  country  with  an  economy  in  transition  and 
large deposits of natural resources, Kazakhstan is very 
well aware of the problems faced by African countries 
seeking  to  enter  the  system  of  international  economic 
relations. In that regard, Kazakhstan fully supports the 
efforts of the Group of Eight and other donor countries 
to  ease  the  debt  burden  through  both  multilateral  and 
foreign  direct 
bilateral  means,  and 
investment 
the  expansion  of 
capacities,  the  diversification  and  development  of 
regional markets and the creation of a highly qualified 
human resources pool. 

We  believe  that  the  primary  responsibility  for 
achieving  development  goals  remains  with  African 
Governments,  which 
tremendous 
leadership  in  recent  years.  However,  in  order  to 
that  would  enable 
to  promote 
shown 
have 
4 

08-55671 
of 
cooperation 
South-South 


achieve  the  MDGs,  external  public  financing  for 
development must be raised to $72 billion per year. 

In  that  regard,  my  delegation  is  concerned  about 
the decrease in official development assistance (ODA) 
to Africa  in  recent  years  and  believes  that  the  United 
Nations  should  be  playing  a  critical  role  in  achieving 
the Goal that addresses partnership development and in 
ensuring that donor countries fulfil their commitments 
on the attainment of the MDGs, especially in Africa. At 
the same time, it is important not only to increase the 
volume  of  external  resources  but  also  to  improve  aid 
quality in alignment with countries’ priorities. 

It  is  with  great  satisfaction  that  we  acknowledge 
the active cooperation that has been taking place in the 
context 
between 
developing countries and middle-income countries. We 
believe  that  such  cooperation  will  enable  Africa’s 
development  to  make  progress.  For  our  part,  as  a 
country  that  could  overcome  its  crisis  stemming  from 
its  economy  in  transition,  we  are  ready  to  cooperate 
with  countries  from  the  African  continent  within  the 
South-South  cooperation 
framework  and  provide 
technical  assistance  in  the  financial  and  agricultural 
sectors,  the  training  of  experts  and  the  diversification 
of the economy. 

Taking  into  consideration  the  unstable  situation 
on  the  continent  that  hinders  well-rounded  human 
development,  we  support  the  proposals  to  expand  the 
Security  Council  to  provide  the  maximum  number  of 
seats  to  African  States  in  order  to  encourage  greater 
involvement  by  those  countries  in  the  resolution  of 
peace and security issues. 

In  conclusion,  we  hope  that,  in  fulfilling  its 
commitment  to  the  continent  that  is  appropriately 
named  the  cradle  of  humankind,  the  international 
community  will  join  efforts  to  help  the  peoples  of 
Africa in their quest for a decent life. 
Mr.  Gioia  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United  States  congratulates  the  members  of  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  on 
their 
the 
implementation  of  programmes  that  are  enhancing 
good  governance  and  economic  growth  across Africa. 
We remain a staunch supporter of NEPAD and believe 
that its activities are central to fulfilling the vision that 
each generation should do better than the one before it, 
in freedom, prosperity and security. 
performance 
continued 
solid 
in 
A/63/PV.29
for  Africa’s 
investment,  support 
areas  of  plant  breeding 
Along  with  good  governance, 

infrastructure 
development  and  creating  the  conditions  for  sustained 
private 
farmers 
remains  central  to  achieving  poverty  eradication  and 
the  fulfilment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  As  the  Assembly  knows,  the  African  Union 
and President Bush hosted a meeting of global leaders 
from  business,  foundations  and  non-governmental 
organizations  to  help  contribute  to  promoting  food 
security  by  identifying  commitments  to  partnerships 
along the agricultural value chain.  
In response to the Africa Union’s commitment to 

fast 
the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture 
track 
Development Programme (CAADP), the United States 
has  pledged  to  work  to  tackle  the  key  barriers  to  the 
implementation  of  the  Programme.  In  addition  to 
President  Bush’s  $5.5  billion  commitment  to  combat 
hunger  and  promote  agricultural  development,  United 
States private-sector leaders have also responded. 

Monsanto  has  announced  that  it  is  investing 
around  $3  million  per  day,  or  over  $1  billion  a  year, 
mainly 
and 
biotechnology, to develop better corn, cotton, soybeans 
and  vegetable  seeds.  John  Deere  is  focused  on  the 
expansion  of  appropriate 
farm  equipment  and 
technologies to significantly improve productivity with 
reduced  tillage.  Land  O’Lakes  partners  with  farmer 
groups  and  cooperatives  in  Africa  to  improve  the 
incomes  of  poor  small  farmers  and  produce  higher 
quality  and  more  affordable  dairy  products 
for 
consumers.  The  Gates  Foundation  is  working  with  a 
wide  range  of  partners,  seeking 
the 
complete agricultural value chain — from planting the 
highest quality seeds and improving farm management 
practices  to  bringing  crops  to  market  —  and  has 
committed  more  than  $900  million  to  help  small 
farmers 
their 
productivity and incomes. 

Already,  the  Millennium  Challenge  Corporation 
(MCC), founded in 2004, has made more than half its 
total  grants  of  $5.5  billion  in  agricultural  and  rural 
development,  with  $1.7  billion  going 
to  African 
agriculture 
alone.  The  Millennium  Challenge 
Corporation has also announced a collaborative venture 
between it and the Alliance for a Green Revolution in 
Africa. 

supporting 
to 
the  NEPAD  Comprehensive  Africa 
in  Africa  and  South  Asia  boost 
The  United  States 
remains  committed 
in 
the 
to  enhance 
08-55671 

5 

A/63/PV.29 

Agriculture  Development  Programme.  We  support  the 
CAADP in six countries that are meeting their pledges 
and  through  the  Initiative  to  End  Hunger  in  Africa, 
which  provides  assistance  in  three  areas:  science  and 
technology, linking producers to markets and reaching 
out to the vulnerable. Our support for the CAADP over 
a  five-year  period  is  approximately  $200  million  per 
year. 

I  would  like  to  update  the  General Assembly  on 
progress made under President Bush’s Malaria Initiative 
(PMI).  In  2005,  we  pledged  more  than  $1.2  billion 
through 2010 for 15 of the hardest hit African countries. 
The  PMI 
is  partnering  with  host  Governments, 
non-governmental  organizations  and  faith-based  and 
community  groups  to  create  access  for  the  poorest  of 
the  poor  to  indoor  residual  spraying  to  keep  deadly 
mosquitoes  at  bay,  distribute 
insecticide-treated 
bednets  and  provide  preventive  malaria  treatment  for 
expectant mothers during their pregnancies.  

The  PMI  also  provides  capacity-building  for 
national  implementation  strategies. After  two  years  of 
implementation,  I  can  say  that  the  PMI  is  making  a 
significant  impact.  For  example,  in  Zanzibar,  the 
percentage  of  children  who  tested  positive  for  malaria 
dropped from 20 per cent in 2005 to less than 1 per cent 
today.  The  United  States  has  also  become  the  largest 
contributor — $2.5 billion so far — to the Global Fund 
to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. 

Finally,  we  thank  the  Secretary-General  and  the 
members of the Secretariat who have provided us with 
the 
on 
implementation  and  international  support  for  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development.  In  that  regard, 
we  urge  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
to  continue  and  enhance  their  support  in  the  field  for 
African  States  and  the  implementation  of  NEPAD 
programmes. 

In  sum,  as  shown  by  our  commitment  to  the 
African  people  in  the  areas  of  agriculture  and  the 
treatment  and  prevention  of  malaria,  as  well  as  in  our 
many other initiatives to assist sub-Saharan Africa, the 
United  States  continues  to  stand  with  our  African 
partners  in  achieving  lasting  poverty  eradication  and 
the promise of a better life for all. 
(Malawi):  Let  me  begin  by 

expressing  my  delegation’s  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  report  on  the  progress  achieved  in  the 
implementation  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Mr.  Matenje
(A/63/206) 
progress 
report 
the 
on 
6 

08-55671 
including 
tackle  difficult  political 
Development  (NEPAD)  (A/63/206);  his  report  on 
implementation  of  the  recommendations  contained  in 
the report on the causes of conflict and the promotion 
of durable peace and sustainable development in Africa 
(A/63/212); and his note transmitting the report on the 
Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries, 
Particularly in Africa (A/63/219).  

My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered  by  the  representative  of  Kenya  on  behalf  of 
the African Group and by the representative of Antigua 
and Barbuda on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

The reports before us indicate that there are many 
positive  developments  taking  place  in  Africa.  The 
launch  of  the  African  Union  and  its  socio-economic 
development  programme  NEPAD;  increased  African 
leadership  in  resolving  conflicts  on  the  continent;  a 
growing  commitment  to  people-centred  development 
and  regional  integration;  and  an  increased  willingness 
to  discuss 
and 
socio-economic  questions  through  the  African  Peer 
Review  Mechanism,  and 
the  necessary 
to  make 
reforms: these are all positive trends.  
Despite  those  positive  trends,  Africa  still  faces 

challenges,  including  rising  food  and  energy  costs, 
climate  change,  the  failure  of  the  Doha  Development 
Round  and  the  collapse  of  international  financial 
markets.  Furthermore,  due 
to  deepening  poverty, 
current  economic  gains  being  achieved  on 
the 
continent  and  in  individual African  countries  have  yet 
to  be  translated  into  the  visible  wealth  necessary  to 
eradicate poverty, particularly among the poorest, who 
live  on 
the 
commitments  for  achieving  the  NEPAD’s  objectives 
are  fulfilled  urgently  and  in  full,  Africa  in  general  is 
unlikely 
agreed 
development 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  within  the  agreed  time 
frames. 

It  is  therefore  no  wonder  that  at  the  high-level 
meeting on Africa’s development held on 22 September 
2008, many African leaders issued a call to address the 
urgent  need  to  promote  international  trade,  foreign 
direct  investment  and  infrastructure  development  in 
Africa, 
the  agriculture,  health  and 
transport  fields  and  in  combating  climate  change. 
Malawi supports that call.  

various 
For  its  part,  Malawi  is  currently  implementing 
an 
than  1  dollar  a  day.  Unless 
to  meet 
goals, 
the 
including 
internationally 
agricultural 
initiatives, 
including 
in 
and 
less 
and 
that 
river 
the  Zambezi 


agricultural  subsidy  programme 
targeted  at  poor 
smallholder farmers, with a view to achieving food and 
nutrition  security  and  fighting  poverty  and  hunger  at 
the  national  level.  Malawi  is  also  developing  green 
belts  along  its  rivers  and  lakes  in  order  to  increase 
agricultural  production  to  support  its  predominantly 
agro-based  economy.  Malawi  hopes 
such 
initiatives will enable us to achieve MDG 1. 

In an effort to reduce transport costs and promote 
access to international trade, Malawi, Mozambique and 
Zambia  have  submitted  a  project  to  NEPAD  and  the 
Southern African Development Community (SADC) to 
open  a  water  channel  along  the  Shire  river  in  Malawi 
and  Mozambique 
in 
Mozambique,  Zambia  and  Zimbabwe  to  the  Indian 
Ocean port of Chinde in Mozambique. We believe that 
the  Shire-Zambezi  Waterway  Project  constitutes  an 
urgent  solution  to  the  transport  challenges  faced  by 
Malawi, Zambia and the hinterland of Mozambique in 
accessing international trade. This is an example of the 
urgent  solutions  to  Africa’s  development  challenges 
envisaged in  paragraph 39 of the Political Declaration 
on Africa’s  development  adopted  at  the  conclusion  of 
the  high-level  meeting  on  Africa’s  development  held 
on  22  September  2008  (resolution  63/1).  Malawi 
welcomes 
that  Declaration. 
Accordingly, we look forward to receiving the support 
of  the  international  community  in  implementing  the 
Shire-Zambezi Waterway Project. 

In this regard, we join those who have  called on 
the  industrialized  countries  to  fulfil  their  NEPAD 
commitments 
development 
assistance and make it available as soon as possible to 
developing  countries.  We  also  call  for  an  early 
resumption  and  conclusion  of  the  Doha  Development 
Round in order to give developing  countries  equitable 
access to international trade and enable them to create 
the  wealth  that  is  so  badly  needed  to  reduce  poverty. 
We  hope  that  the  Follow-up  International  Conference 
on  Financing 
the 
Implementation  of 
the  Monterrey  Consensus  will 
present an opportunity for the international community 
to resolve the deadlock over the trade talks. 
Malawi recognizes that economic development in 

Africa  cannot  be  achieved  without  genuine  peace  and 
security.  Accordingly,  we  welcome 
the  progress 
achieved  so  far  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations  to  prevent  new  conflicts  and  resolve  existing 
ones  in  Africa.  We  also  commend  the  efforts  of  the 
for  Development 
to  Review 
adoption 
increase 
official 
the 
of 
to 
A/63/PV.29
in 
to  play 
its  part 
including 
Peacebuilding  Commission  to  foster  sustainable  peace 
and  security  in  conflict-afflicted  areas  in  Africa. 
Malawi  will  continue 
the 
maintenance of peace and security as evidenced by its 
participation in United Nations peacekeeping missions 
on the continent and beyond. 

Malaria continues to be one of the greatest threats 
to  Africa’s  development.  Its  devastating  effects  are 
compounded by tuberculosis and HIV and AIDS, which 
affect  millions  of  people.  It  is  a  major  public  health 
problem  in  Malawi  and  remains  the  most  common 
cause  of  illness  and  death  among  children  under 
5 years  of  age  and  expectant  women.  Malaria  alone 
accounts for  40 per  cent of outpatient  consultations  at 
most  health  facilities  in  the  country.  To  address  the 
problem,  the  Malawi  Government  is  implementing  a 
Malaria Strategic Plan, which it formulated in line with 
the  Roll  Back  Malaria  Initiative.  Under  that  plan,  the 
Government  has  intensified  the  fight  against  malaria 
through  measures 
the  distribution  of 
insecticide-treated bednets, particularly to mothers and 
children  under  5,  and 
the  prompt  and  effective 
treatment  of  malaria  within  24  hours  of  the  onset  of 
illness. It is expected that 97 per cent of all households 
in our country will have at least one bednet by 2015. 

the 
distribution  of  insecticide-treated  bednets  are  most 
welcome, we believe that fundamental reforms must be 
made  to  the  Agreement  on  Trade-Related  Aspects  of 
Intellectual  Property  Rights  with  a  view  to  making 
malaria,  tuberculosis  and  HIV  drugs  readily  available 
and  affordable  in  Africa.  In  addition,  cross-border 
initiatives should be intensified in order to make Africa 
a malaria-free continent. 

In  conclusion,  Malawi  appreciates  the  support  it 
receives 
its 
development  partners,  including  the  United  Nations 
and  its  institutions,  the  Global  Fund  and  President 
Bush’s Malaria Initiative. We also welcome the Global 
Malaria Action Plan announced by Mr. Ray Chambers, 
the  Special  Envoy  of 
the  Secretary-General  for 
Malaria. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 

accordance  with  General Assembly  resolution  49/2  of 
19  October  1994,  I  now  call  on  the  observer  for  the 
International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Crescent Societies. 
While  preventive  measures 
fight  against  malaria 
from 
such 
the 
as 
in 
08-55671 

7 

the  Republic  and  others 

In Mali, as an effort to combat food insecurity in 
the  Goundam  Circle  area,  the  Mali  Red  Cross  has 
helped  to  improve  the  prospects  of  43,000  people  in 
the  area  and  has  given  communities  a  new  sense  of 
purpose and hope.  

In Burundi, as part of a three-year organizational 
development  project,  30,000  volunteers  have  been 
trained  in  order  to  ensure  that,  by  the  end  of  the 
project,  elected  village  committees  will  be  supporting 
the  provision  of  community  services  in  more  than 
2,700 villages. The project has the generous support of 
the  President  of 
in 
Government,  who see it  as a crucial step in Burundi’s 
development.  

The  IFRC’s  malaria  programmes,  with  long-life 
insecticide-treated  nets  —  more  than  12  million  of 
which  have  been  distributed 
in  malaria-endemic 
countries  since  2002  —  have  been  instituted  with  a 
wide  range  of  partners,  and  their  results  have  been 
truly  remarkable  in  terms  of  reducing  mortality  and 
restoring  community  confidence.  Our  Global Alliance 
on HIV is a paradigm for returning Africa to the good 
health and prosperity that its people so richly deserve. 
These  are  not  just  programmes  for  public  health,  but 
essential ingredients in development programming.  
Those  examples  are  partnerships  at  work  for 

Africa’s 
IFRC’s 
commitment  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
We  are  taking  this  debate  further  ourselves.  The 
seventh Pan-African Conference of Red Cross and Red 
Crescent Societies is convening in Johannesburg as we 
speak, bringing together 53 African National Societies 
and  observers  from  around 
including 
Governments  and  the  United  Nations  itself.  It  is  our 
hope  to  dedicate  ourselves  to  a  new  partnership  stage 
under  the  slogan  “Together  for  action  in  Africa”.  We 
look  forward  to  presenting  the  outcomes  of  that 
important  meeting  and  today  express  our  sincere 
appreciation  to  the  Government  and  the  Permanent 
Mission of South Africa for their consistent support for 
our objectives. 

The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 
call on the observer of the Observer State of the Holy 
See. 

Mr. Bené (Holy See): Unfortunately, the Permanent 
Observer  of  the  Holy  See  Mission  is  not  able  to  be 
here, and I am making this statement on his behalf.  
development, 
the  world, 
reflecting 
the 
The 
people 
further 
Therefore, 
vulnerable. 
(MDGs)  would 
Those  multidimensional 
aggravate 
political  will 
A/63/PV.29 

Ms.  Ritola  (International  Federation  of  Red 

Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies):  The  International 
Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies 
(IFRC)  is  honoured  to  take  the  floor  in  this  important 
annual debate. 

The  IFRC’s  approach  to  African  development 
starts  from  communities.  We  believe  that  sustainable 
development  efforts  should  be  based  on  enabling  the 
poor  and  the  vulnerable  to  better  handle  current  and 
future  risks.  Empowering  communities  and  making 
them the centre of action is at the heart of the IFRC. 

Today, Africa is facing a development emergency, 
accumulated  by  the  ongoing  food  and  energy  crises, 
climate  change  and  the  growing  intensity  of  natural 
disasters. 
challenges 
contribute  to  the  increasing  risk  potentials  and  make 
more 
The 
and  more 
the  Millennium  Development 
non-achievement  of 
Goals 
those 
vulnerabilities. 
and 
commitment are as essential for human development as 
a successful pro-poor outcome in Doha. 
Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies,  as 

auxiliaries  to  their  public  authorities  and  with  a 
presence virtually everywhere in the African continent, 
have  a  unique  capacity  to  work  with  Governments  to 
strengthen communities and drive development.  

is  crucial, 
particularly  in  mobilizing  millions  of  trained  and 
respected  volunteers  to  raise  awareness  on  health  and 
disaster  risks,  to  promote  good  community  practices 
and  to  support  improved  access  to  water  and  food 
resources. Our approach is consistent with the view of 
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  of  the  importance  of  partnership-building. 
No  Government  or  organization  alone  can  make  a 
significant  difference  to  the  challenges  confronting 
Africa.  The  value  of  partnerships  cannot  be 
overestimated, and they must also involve communities 
in order to be truly effective. 

The  IFRC  has  responded  to  the  food  crisis  by 
launching a five-year strategic food security framework 
with  15  National  Societies  in  southern  Africa.  The 
purpose is to scale up our efforts in the area of national 
food  security  programming  and  to  provide  at  least  20 
per  cent  of  the  most  vulnerable  populations  with 
longer-term  food  security  support  to  enhance  their 
resilience.  
role  of  National  Societies 
8 

08-55671 
reduced 
in  Developing  Countries,  Particularly 



My delegation is grateful for the extensive report 
of the World Health Organization (see A/63/219) on the 
implementation  of  General  Assembly 
resolution 
62/180,  entitled  “2001-2010:  Decade  to  Roll  Back 
Malaria 
in 
Africa”,  and  notes  both  the  challenges  in  combating 
that disease and the progress made thus far. 

The  General  Assembly’s  recent  decision  to  give 
greater attention to developing countries, especially in 
Africa,  is  a  positive  step  in  the  right  direction, 
particularly  because  it  recognizes  that  malaria  can  be 
substantially 
through  public  awareness, 
education and the committing of resources to research 
and treatment. Given that, over the past 15 years, there 
has  been  an  increased  prevalence  of  the  disease  — 
which  could  well  double  the  death  rate  over  the  next 
20 years  —  it  is  imperative  that  the  international 
community work together to fight this pandemic. 

Each  year,  between  300  million  and  500  million 
people  contract  malaria,  which  kills  more 
than 
1 million  people,  with  at  least  one  death  occurring 
every  30  seconds.  According  to  the  World  Health 
Organization,  90  per  cent  of  such  deaths  occur  in 
sub-Saharan  Africa,  and  the  majority  of  victims  are 
children  under  5  years  of  age,  with  nearly  3,000 
children  dying  every  day  in  that  region.  Furthermore, 
the  next-largest  group  of  victims  is  composed  of 
pregnant  mothers.  Malaria  remains  a  major  threat  to 
human security. Because of the cost of prevention and 
treatment,  those  who  live  in  poverty  are  those  most 
susceptible to this serious disease. 

individuals, 
especially  skilled  health  personnel,  are  working  in 
primary health centres and through various faith-based 
organizations  in  many  of  the  most  affected  areas  to 
care  for  and  properly  treat  those  who  have  been 
infected.  These  providers,  who  often  go  unnoticed, 
perform  heroic  acts  of  service  by  caring  for  those  in 
need. 

Our focus in addressing this disease must remain 
on research, prevention and treatment. We know that a 
reduction  in  malaria  transmission  is  achieved  through 
prevention  of  mosquito  bites  and  control  of  the 
mosquito  population.  From  that  perspective,  it  seems 
opportune to recall the Abuja Declaration, which calls 
for,  among  other 
the  development  of 
mechanisms  to  facilitate  the  provision  of  reliable 
information 
various 
A  great  number  of  committed 
decision-makers 
things, 
to 
at 
A/63/PV.29
control 
in  order 
appropriate 
levels 
to  devise 
to  enable  health 
and 
epidemiological 
authorities 
surveillance strategies. 

Individuals  must  be  able  to  receive  affordable, 
safe  and,  where  necessary,  free  diagnostic  testing  and 
drugs.  Proper  diagnosis  is  available,  and  infected 
individuals  can  make  a  full  recovery  if  provided  with 
adequate  means.  Efforts  should  be  made  so  that 
appropriate  treatment  is  accessible  to  those  who  are 
suffering. 
Resources  must  continue  to  be  allocated  to 

ongoing research into the development of new, safe and 
cost-efficient  vaccines,  as  well  as  medicines  to  treat 
those infected. Success in such endeavours will not fail 
to  translate  into  a  gradual  reduction  in  the  overall 
number of infections. 

In  particular,  my  delegation  calls  attention  to 
positive efforts to assist those in need. One is reminded 
of  the  importance  of  educating  families  and  helping 
them to care for their loved ones who have contracted 
malaria.  Many  Catholic  organizations  are  deeply 
involved 
that  field,  with  wide  and  directed 
campaigns. Furthermore, they train community groups 
to  educate  parents  and  caregivers  of  young  children 
infected with malaria. 

Notwithstanding other serious infectious diseases 
such  as  HIV/AIDS  and  tuberculosis,  which  demand 
equal  attention,  our  efforts  on  malaria  cannot  be 
sidelined.  Clearly,  the  global  community  must  remain 
committed to fighting all diseases that threaten human 
lives and security. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 
have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  debate  on  these 
items. 
The President returned to the Chair. 


The  President: Our  debate  has  been  wide-
ranging  and  informative  and  has  served  to  sustain  the 
momentum within the Assembly to build understanding 
and support for Africa’s development. 
I was particularly reassured by the emphasis that 

speakers  gave 
international 
financial  environment  in  which  we  are  working  and 
within  which  Africa  is  struggling  to  find  its  rightful 
place  in  the  world.  Speakers  cautioned  that  the  global 
financial  crisis  that  is  unfolding  must  not  undermine 
the  deteriorating 
in 
to 
08-55671 

9 
The 
in 
the  Pacific 
solidarity  expressed  by 
A/63/PV.29 

the funding, the technical cooperation and the opening 
of markets in the North that Africans are counting on. 

industrialized 
countries,  particularly  by  representatives  of  Europe, 
and the developing countries in Latin America and the 
Caribbean  and  Asia  and 
regions, 
underscores  the  strong  commitment  that  has  been 
reinforced  by 
the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development 
framework.  South-South 
(NEPAD) 
cooperation  is  stronger  than  ever.  The  representatives 
from Africa  have  been  clear  about  taking  the  leading 
role 
the  complex  process  of  bringing  good 
governance, peace and security and development to all 
Africans  through  regional  and  national  initiatives 
inspired in no small part by NEPAD. 

NEPAD, it is pointed out, has created an effective 
leadership  process  for  engaging  development  partners 
on issues such as international trade arrangements, debt 
relief  and  official  development  assistance  (ODA). 
Speakers  have  noted  that  progress  will  accelerate 
significantly  if  G8  countries  reverse  the  decline  in 
ODA and keep their promise to double ODA to Africa 
by 2010. 

Additionally,  as  recommended  by  the  Secretary-
General’s  report,  African  countries  should  allocate 
more 
towards  NEPAD  priorities  and 
encourage  private-sector  participation  in  partnership 
projects,  particularly  those  public-private  projects  for 
infrastructure.  There  were  also  recommendations  to 
launch  an African  green  revolution  and  improve  both 
economic  and  political  governance 
the 
increasingly 
Review 
Mechanism,  an  innovation  that  is  recognized  for 
creating  an  enabling  environment 
in  matters  of 
governance and accountability. 

The  Secretary-General’s  report  on  the  causes  of 
conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable  development  in  Africa  points  out  that 
Africa  has  made  sustained  efforts  to  promote  peace, 
deepen  its  commitment  to  democratic  processes  and 
good governance over the past 10 years. 

The African  Union’s Peace and Security Council 
and other structures at the regional level are playing an 
increasing  role  in  mediating  disputes  between  and 
within African countries. These mechanisms have also 
enabled  Africans  to  address  the  terrible  problems 
relating  to  the  proliferation  of  small  arms  and  light 
weapons. 
resources 
effective  African 
Peer 
through 


Still,  our  debate  reminds  us  of  the  enormous 
complexity  of  the  problems  facing  Africa.  Today  we 
have  given  special  attention  to  the  report  on  the 
campaign against malaria, which is of direct concern to 
half of the world’s people. The stark fact is that 91 per 
cent of the deaths from that disease are in Africa. It is 
imperative  that  donors  sustain  the  funding  required  to 
cut  this  mortality  rate  in  half  by  2010  and  meet  the 
related objectives within the Millennium Development 
Goal (MDG) framework. 

Our  debate  must  be  seen  in  the  broader  and 
ongoing  context  of  the  General  Assembly’s  special 
concern  for  Africa.  It  closely  follows  the  high-level 
meeting  on  Africa’s  development  needs  held  on 
22 September  and  the  High-level  Event  on  the  MDGs 
held on 25 September, which focused again on Africa. 
We  will  deepen  the  process  at  the  Doha  Review 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  at  the  end 
of November. 
Clearly  the  deteriorating  international  financial 

environment  highlights 
the 
international  community  to  develop  a  comprehensive 
strategic plan that addresses both the unresolved causes 
of continuing violent conflict on the continent and the 
need  for  a  proactive  approach  to  new  issues  as  they 
emerge.  As  President,  I  am  committed  to  work  with 
Member States to promote such an effort. 

With  each  opportunity,  we  stand  witness  to  the 
emergence of new African leaders who are working to 
ensure  that  Africa’s  development  benefits  Africans 
first. We clearly support this new paradigm. I think the 
Deputy Permanent Representative of China put it very 
clearly  when  he  stated  that  we  must  listen  to African 
voices,  respect  African  views,  accommodate  African 
concerns  and  support Africa’s  efforts  to  implement  its 
own  programmes. This  is  our  collective  responsibility 
and  it  is  gratifying  to  know  how  seriously  it  is  being 
taken. 
(spoke in Spanish) 

The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration  of  agenda  item  57  and  its  sub-items  (a) 
and (b) and agenda item 43. 
the  urgent  need  for 

10 

08-55671 






Agenda item 106 
Follow-up to the commemoration of the two-
hundredth anniversary of the abolition of the 
transatlantic slave trade 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/213) 

  Draft resolution (A/63/L.5) 

The President (spoke in Spanish): I would like to 

make some remarks regarding our consideration of this 
agenda  item.  The  abolition  of  the  transatlantic  slave 
trade in 1808 seems to have happened  long ago, but I 
believe  most  of  us  appreciate  the  importance  of 
bringing  this  historic  event  to  the  attention  of  the 
General Assembly and the world. 
The  abolition  of  the  slave  trade,  which  criss-

crossed  the  Atlantic  from  Africa  to  Europe,  Latin 
America and North America for hundreds of years, did 
not actually end slavery. However, it was an important 
step  towards  this  ban,  marking  one  of  the  early 
decisions by the international community to join forces 
to  combat  the  brutal  and  enormously  lucrative  slave 
trade. 

It  is  a  tragedy  that  the  slave  trade  and  slavery 
itself  continue  to  have  deep,  though  largely  invisible, 
effects on our world today. 

This year, on 25 March, the International Day of 
Remembrance  of  the  Victims  of  Slavery  and  the 
Transatlantic  Slave  Trade  was  commemorated  for  the 
first 
time.  I  have  always  been  an  advocate  of 
forgiveness  and  reconciliation.  But  the  slave  trade 
constitutes  one  of  those  horrendous  crimes  against 
humanity  that  many  Africans  have  been  generous 
enough to forgive but that none of us, anywhere in the 
world, should forget. 

The  slave  trade,  it  is  widely  recognized,  was  an 
institution  that  not  only  devastated  a  continent  but 
poisoned  the  roots  of  societies,  young  and  old,  by  its 
corrosive  presence.  We  all  continue  to  suffer  the 
consequences  of  that  exploitation  —  obviously,  some 
of us much more than others. 

In virtually all societies around the world, slavery 
remains  with  us,  often  invisible  and  tolerated  on  an 
international scale. 

Slavery was a socio-economic model that treated 
people like goods, a system of social relations based on 
domination  and  the  denigrating  treatment  of  people, 
A/63/PV.29
through  Africa  and 
one  of  the  worst  forms  of  discrimination  and  social 
exclusion.  Transatlantic  slavery  was  for  centuries  a 
scourge  in  the  world.  Millions  lost  their  lives  in  the 
long  march 
the  subsequent 
transatlantic  crossing.  Millions  were  exploited  under 
brutal  conditions,  and  on  their  shoulders  and  lives  an 
alien  society  was  built  that  excluded  them  and  denied 
them their status as human beings. 

Sixty  years  ago,  in  1948,  the  General Assembly 
proclaimed in article 1 of the Universal Declaration of 
Human  Rights  that  “All  human  beings  are  born  free 
and equal in dignity and rights” and in article 2 that: 
to  all 
is  entitled 
“Everyone 
the  rights  and 
freedoms  set  forth  in  this  Declaration,  without 
distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, 
language, religion, political or other opinion ... or 
other status.”  
in  1955,  the  Convention  on  Slavery 
Years  later,  in  2001,  we  adopted  the  Durban 
Afterwards, 
entered into force. 

Declaration, which stated that  
the  slave 
trade, 
including 
xenophobia 
the 
“slavery  and 
transatlantic slave trade, were appalling tragedies 
in  the  history  of  humanity  not  only  because  of 
their  abhorrent  barbarism  but  also  in  terms  of 
their  magnitude,  organized  nature  and  especially 
their  negation  of  the  essence  of  the  victims,  and 
[we]  further  acknowledge  that  slavery  and  the 
slave  trade  are  a  crime  against  humanity  and 
should  always  have  been  so,  especially  the 
transatlantic slave trade and are among the major 
sources  and  manifestations  of  racism,  racial 
discrimination, 
related 
intolerance,  and  that  Africans  and  people  of 
African  descent,  Asians  and  people  of  Asian 
descent  and  indigenous  peoples  were  victims  of 
these  acts  and  continue  to  be  victims  of  their 
consequences”. 
The  adoption  of  all  these  instruments  was  the 

imperial 
fruit  of 
domination  from  peoples’  minds  and  from 
legal 
systems and to finally recognize that human rights are 
for everyone. 

On  this  commemoration  of  the  abolition  of 
slavery,  we  must  recognize  that  the  rich  countries 
established  the  foundations  of  their  economies  in  the 
sweat  and  lives  of  millions  of  African  slaves.  States 
titanic  struggles 
to  eradicate 
and 
08-55671 

11 

in 
In 
the 
that 
regard 
to 
systems 
infamy.  We  must  ask 
think  of  different  ways 
same  with 
neocolonialism, 
the  nineteenth  century  and  even 
A/63/PV.29 

must  not  be  content  with  removing  slavery  from  their 
legal  systems;  we  must  identify  new  forms  of  slavery 
and  combat  them  and  eradicate  them  from  the  planet. 
We  must  do 
their 
consequences: 
of 
discrimination, economic inequalities and the demands 
of multilateral organizations to hand over reserves and 
natural  resources  as  interest  payments  on  an  immoral 
external debt. 

the 
twentieth  century,  many  laws  on  the  abolition  of 
slavery  provided  compensation  for  slave  owners. 
Today,  States  must 
to 
compensate  for  the  cultural,  economic  and  social 
outrages  committed  against  African  countries.  Plans 
and  coherent  strategies  are  needed  for  material,  moral 
and ethical compensation. We cannot limit ourselves to 
monetary  reparation,  because  it  is  not  a  question  of 
paying and forgetting. We must never forget and return 
to 
forgiveness  and 
consciously acknowledge the damage done by one part 
of humanity. Accepting it by the other part should not 
be a passive acceptance, but active and transformative. 
As  the  people  of Africa  say  today,  they  would  like  to 
be  the  creators  and  protagonists  of  their  own  political 
models and of their human and liberating development. 

I  now  call  on  the  representative  of  Guyana  to 
introduce draft resolution A/63/L.5. 
Mr. Talbot (Guyana): I have the honour to speak 

on  behalf  of  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM) 
group  of  countries  at  the  United  Nations,  along  with 
the African Group and other Member States sponsoring 
this 
today  draft 
resolution  A/63/L.5,  entitled  “Permanent  memorial  to 
and  remembrance  of  the  victims  of  slavery  and  the 
transatlantic slave trade”. 

The  draft  resolution  before  us  today,  which  is 
essentially  procedural  in  nature,  seeks  to  address 
developments that have taken place since the adoption 
of resolution 62/122 last December. Two years ago, we 
acknowledged  in  this  very  Hall  that  slavery  and  the 
transatlantic slave trade represent one of the low points 
in  the  history  of  humanity.  We  recalled  the  forced 
removal of more than 18 million people, over a period 
of  500  years,  from  Africa  to  the  Americas,  including 
the Caribbean, the United States, Brazil and other parts 
of Latin America, as well as to Europe. 
introduce  for  adoption 
text, 
to 
to 
to 
linked 
annual 
remembrance  day, 

We  recall  that  25  March  has  been  designated  as 
an  annual  International  Day  of  Remembrance  of  the 
Victims  of  Slavery  and  the  Transatlantic  Slave  Trade, 
beginning  in  2008.  In  that  context,  on  behalf  of  the 
States  members  of  CARICOM,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General for the update provided in his report 
(A/63/213)  on  activities  held  earlier  this  year  to 
commemorate  the  anniversary  of  the  abolition  of 
slavery  and  the  transatlantic  slave  trade.  We  look 
forward  to  collaborating  with  you,  Mr.  President,  the 
Secretary-General  and 
the  Department  of  Public 
Information  for  similar  commemorative  activities  on 
25 March 2009.  

The  significance  of  that  date  is  of  historic 
proportions, since some 200 years ago on that date the 
final  reward  was  granted  to  the  abolition  advocates 
when  their  untiring  efforts  led  to  the  passage  in  the 
British  Parliament  of  the  act  for  the  abolition  of  the 
transatlantic  slave  trade  in  the  British  Empire,  and 
subsequently  the  end  of  slavery  throughout  the  world. 
The 
the 
accomplishment  of  the  abolitionists,  will  serve  as  a 
valuable  complement 
the  existing  UNESCO 
International  Day  for  the  Remembrance  of  the  Slave 
Trade and its Abolition, whose date of 23 August aptly 
recognizes  the  historically  important  contribution  of 
the  slaves  of  Haiti  themselves,  who  rose  up  in 
resistance 
their  own 
emancipation. 
In 2001, the international community gathered in 

South  Africa  for 
the  World  Conference  Against 
Racism,  Racial  Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and 
Related  Intolerances,  which  was  held  under 
the 
auspices of the United Nations and subsequently issued 
what 
the  Durban 
Declaration. We  view  the  permanent  memorial  project 
in a wider context, as a partial fulfilment of paragraph 
101 of the Durban Declaration, which, inter alia, calls 
upon 
the 
memory  of  the  victims  of  slavery.  Consequently,  we 
have  sought  in  the  third  preambular  paragraph  to 
reaffirm the commitment made by States in 2001. 

We  cannot  help  but  recall  the  horrific  and 
dehumanizing  nature  of  slavery  and  the  slave  trade, 
whereby  the  captives  were  forced  into  detention  and 
transported as human cargo, packed into the foul holds 
of ships as mere chattels and taken across the Atlantic 
to  the  so-called  New  World.  They  were  emasculated, 
sold  and  robbed  of  their  culture,  and  their  skins  were 
to  slavery  and  engineered 
international  community 
is  commonly 
to  honour 
referred 
to  as 
the 
12 

08-55671 
represents  — 


branded  by  hot  irons  and  imprinted  with  the  label  of 
their  owners.  Those  horrific  images  still  jolt  the 
conscience,  recalling  and  reinforcing  the  depths  of 
man’s inhumanity to man. For that reason, we thought 
it  fitting  to  stress  in  the  fourth  preambular  paragraph 
the  importance  of  educating  and  informing  future 
generations about the causes, consequences and lessons 
of the transatlantic slave trade and slavery. 

The  permanent  memorial  will  stand  as  an 
acknowledgement of one of the most horrific tragedies 
of modern history that is  often  forgotten. It will stand 
as a reminder of the struggle against and triumph over 
the  enslavement  and  dehumanization  of  a  single  race 
over five centuries for economic gains and the legacy it 
has  left  behind;  hence  the  theme  “acknowledging  the 
tragedy,  considering  the  legacy,  lest  we  forget”.  We 
regard  the  placement  of  that  memorial  at  the  United 
Nations  as  a  significant  symbol  of  what 
this 
Organization 
the  promotion  and 
preservation  of  the  dignity  and  worth  of  all  human 
beings,  which  are  principles  central  to  the  United 
Nations Charter. 

In  view  of  the  importance  of  the  permanent 
memorial  to  humankind  and  the  universal  nature  of 
such a monument, we believe that it should be erected 
in a place of prominence that would be accessible not 
only to the representatives of this house, but to all who 
visit  the  United  Nations.  We  have  therefore  sought  to 
clarify  the  language  used  in  the  previous  resolution, 
which  referred  to  the  halls  of  the  United  Nations. 
Indeed,  it  is  the  widely  held  view  that  a  place  of 
prominence at the United Nations, easily accessible to 
representatives, United Nations staff and visitors, such 
as the plaza at the visitors’ entrance, would be a more 
appropriate  location  for  a  monument  of  such  great 
significance. In such a setting, the memorial will truly 
be accessible to all people and all nations. 
Through  the  draft  resolution,  the  Assembly  will 

endorse 
the  committee  of 
interested  States,  referred  to  in  operative  paragraph  2, 
the  permanent  memorial  project.  The 
to  oversee 
committee 
is  being  drawn  from  all  geographical 
regions  of  the  United  Nations.  Importantly,  the  States 
members of the Caribbean Community and the African 
Union  are  playing  a  primary  role  in  advancing  the 
work  of  the  committee  and  Jamaica  has  already  been 
elected  to  serve  as  its  Chairman.  Additionally,  the 
committee, given its inclusive nature, collaborates with 
the  establishment  of 
A/63/PV.29
non-State  partners,  such  as  the  Secretariat,  UNESCO, 
the Schomburg Center and civil society representatives. 
Mr. Siles Alvarado (Bolivia), Vice-President, took 

the Chair. 

A voluntary fund, the Permanent Memorial Fund, 
established in keeping with resolution 62/122, has been 
set  up  under  the  custody  of  the  Permanent  Mission  of 
Jamaica  towards  the  realization  of  the  memorial. 
However,  in  the  interest  of  further  transparency  and 
accountability, it is proposed that the wider committee 
oversee  the  Fund. At  the  same  time,  the  committee  is 
seeking  to  explore,  with  the  Secretariat,  methods  of 
ensuring enhanced transparency and accountability for 
the management of the Fund in a manner that would be 
acceptable to all Member States. 

In  response  to  enquiries  about  the  budgetary 
implications  arising  from  the  adoption  of  the  draft 
resolution,  let  me  say  categorically  that  there  are  no 
such implications for the permanent memorial project. 
It is our hope that the permanent memorial will become 
a  reality  through  the  generous  contributions  given 
voluntarily  by  Member  States,  as  well  as  any  fund-
raising  activities 
the 
committee.  On  behalf  of  the  group  of  CARICOM 
States, 
to  acknowledge  with 
appreciation  contributions  and  pledges  towards  the 
Fund already received from Member States, while also 
encouraging Member States and other interested parties 
to join in that important effort. 

We would also like to place on record our sincere 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General,  the  Secretariat 
and  members  of  the  Committee  for  their  invaluable 
support,  technical  advice  and  assistance  towards  the 
implementation of the permanent memorial project. 

racial  discrimination  and  prejudice 
continue to cast a destructive stain on societies across 
the  globe,  and 
the 
transatlantic  slave 
trade  and  slavery  are  clearly 
established; hence, the call to action by States.  

It  is  in  that  context  that,  in  paragraph  6,  we 
reiterate  the  request  contained  in  resolution  61/19  of 
28 November  2006  for  Member  States  that  have  not 
already  done  so  to  develop  educational  programmes, 
including through school curricula, designed to educate 
and inculcate in future generations an understanding of 
the  lessons,  history  and  consequences  of  slavery  and 
the slave trade. 
that  may  be  organized  by 
the  roots  and 
linkages  with 
I  wish 
therefore 
Racism, 
08-55671 

13 
to  mobilize, 
the 
transatlantic  slave 
A/63/PV.29 


We welcome the report of the Secretary-General, 
which provides an update on the Secretariat’s activities 
to establish, for the first time, an educational outreach 
programme 
inter  alia,  educational 
the  subject  of 
institutions  and  civil  society  on 
commemorating 
trade  and 
slavery.  We  believe  that  this  will  help  to  address  the 
ignorance and knowledge gap, primarily among young 
people, in understanding the impact and consequences 
of  slavery  and  the  slave  trade.  Through  the  draft 
resolution,  the  General  Assembly  would  request  that 
the  Secretary-General, 
in  collaboration  with  and 
building  upon  the  work  undertaken  by  UNESCO 
through the Slave Route Project, continue the outreach 
programme  to  inculcate  future  generations  with  an 
understanding of the causes, consequences and lessons 
of  the  transatlantic  slave  trade  and  to  inform  them  of 
the dangers of racism and prejudice. 

The  General  Assembly  would,  by  its  consensus 
adoption  of  this  important  draft  resolution,  recognize 
the  continuing  impact  of  slavery  and  the  horrific 
transatlantic slave trade on the African diaspora and its 
descendants,  many of whom are in the Assembly Hall 
today.  That  has  added  significance  as  we  prepare  to 
celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of the adoption of the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights later this year. 
It will engage in a practical and deliberate educational 
outreach  programme  with  a  view  to  addressing  the 
dangers  of  racism  and  prejudice  that  continue  to 
threaten  the  full  realization  of  all  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms. 
In  conclusion,  the  CARICOM  group  of  Member 

States  sincerely 
the  many  sponsors  and 
supporters  of  the  current  draft  resolution  and  now 
invites  the  General  Assembly  to  give  its  unequivocal 
support  to  its  adoption  with  a  view  to  bringing  to  a 
successful conclusion the process begun in 2006 in this 
our United Nations. 
is 

pleased  to  render  its  support  to  the  important  draft 
resolution  before  us  today  (A/63/L.5)  at  a  time  when 
we  are  both  introducing  and  taking  action  on  it  in  the 
Assembly.  At  the  outset,  we  wish  to  convey  our 
sincerest  appreciation  to  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM)  group  of  countries  for  the  initiative  and 
efforts that have allowed all of us to reflect on our past 
deeds,  our  amazing  ability  to  endure  and  overcome 
immense adversity, and the collective action that led to 
Mr.  Muita  (Kenya):  The  African  Group 
thanks 

tolerated,  condoned  and  allowed 
the  demise  of  the  most  immoral  and  dehumanizing 
aspect of history. 

On  behalf  of  the  States  members  of  the African 
Group,  I  also  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
the  update  provided  in  his  report  on  activities  held 
earlier this year to commemorate the anniversary of the 
abolition  of  slavery  and  the  transatlantic  slave  trade. 
We  look  forward  to  working  with  the  President,  the 
Secretary-General  and 
the  Department  of  Public 
Information  on  similar  commemorative  activities  next 
year. 

On 25 March 1807, Britain legally abolished the 
slave  trade  and  formally  brought  to  a  close  the  most 
horrific  experiences  man  has  ever  known. That  action 
was thereafter separately replicated by other Powers of 
the time. Notwithstanding that seemingly noble action, 
slavery  was 
to 
continue  in  practice  a  long  time.  Man  continued  to 
enslave fellow man, treating him like personal property 
and thereby robbing him of all his dignity. The process 
of  fighting  for  rights  and  taking  back  human  dignity 
was  characterized  by  profound  risk,  danger  and 
sacrifice. It took collective efforts and great courage to 
fight against and defeat slavery. With our discussion on 
this  subject,  humanity  is  turning  a  page  on  a  very 
painful past indeed. Useful lessons are discernible from 
those actions, which took place in not so distant a past. 
Besides  the  abolitionists,  the  unsung  heroes  are  the 
slaves themselves. 

We  face  many  challenges  today.  We  can  draw 
inspiration  from  those  who  rallied  against  the  slave 
trade  and  slavery 
two  centuries  ago. 
Collective  efforts  worked  before  and  we  believe  that 
they are the surest way to address our challenges. The 
draft  resolution  is  proposing  the  construction  of  a 
permanent  memorial  at  the  United  Nations  as  a 
permanent reminder of man’s inhumanity to his fellow 
man  and  as  an  injunction  against  such  a  horrendous 
institution ever being allowed to manifest itself in our 
society again. 

The permanent memorial dedicated to the victims 
of the transatlantic slave trade and slavery can never be 
an atonement for the wretched suffering of humankind, 
but  is  just  a  token  of  appreciation  to  all  those  heroes 
who  stood  steadfastly,  who  pitted  their  lives  against 
injustice, who opposed slavery and fought for freedom, 
as well as those who fell victim to cruel and inhuman 
treatment  meted  out  against  them  by  unscrupulous 
just  over 
14 

08-55671 


profiteers,  slave  masters  and  unjust  societies.  The 
permanent  memorial  will  serve  to  remind  us  of  the 
heroic  actions  of  the  slaves,  abolitionists  and  the 
numerous  unheralded  men  and  women  of  conscience 
who stood up to be counted in the face of grave danger 
and adversity. 

The  permanent  memorial  will  be  a  memory,  a 
history,  a  journey  through  a  difficult  time,  a  reminder 
of  the  atrocities  of  the  Middle  Passage,  the  cruel 
transatlantic  journey  and  the  seasoning  camps.  The 
memorial  will  also  be  an  educational  resource  and  a 
statue of lifelong learning. It will be a reconstruction of 
the  past  in  order  to  mould  the  future.  It  will  be  a 
constant reminder of the vulnerability of humanity. 

The permanent memorial will also be a reminder 
of the challenges that we continue to face today. Vices 
such as racism, xenophobia and discrimination, all akin 
to  slavery,  have  begun  rearing  their  ugly  heads  again. 
There  have  been  incidences  of  bias,  incitement  to 
hatred  and  hate  crimes  in  our  societies. We  are  called 
upon  to  firmly  stand  up  to  and  reject  any  and  all 
notions  of  supremacy  or  supremacist  ideology.  We 
have to guard against the danger of slipping back into 
barbarism. 

By  adopting  the  draft  resolution,  we  shall  point 
out the importance of gaining a better understanding of 
the  slave  trade  and  slavery  in  general.  We  shall  be 
committing  ourselves  to  ensuring  that  information 
relating to the slave trade and slavery is available and 
disseminated  to  all  segments  of  society,  particularly 
through institutions of learning, so that they can join in 
the  efforts  to  promote  a  cohesive  international  society 
based on knowledge and understanding of our history. 
By encouraging learning about slavery, we shall reduce 
the danger of making the same mistakes in the future. 

The construction of the permanent memorial will 
require  resources  and  we  invite  the  international 
community  to  join  in  the  endeavour  and  donate 
generously so that we may preserve our memory. Those 
would be resources put to good use. I urge us to heed 
the  wise  words  of  the  Nigerian  Nobel  Laureate 
Professor Wole Soyinka when he stated that “a people 
who  do  not  preserve  their  memory  are  a  people  who 
have  forfeited  their  history”.  Let  us  give  new  impetus 
to the words “never again”. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  reiterate  the  African 
Group’s  support  for  the  draft  resolution  and  for  the 
construction of a permanent memorial in honour of all 
A/63/PV.29
the  victims  of  the  slave  trade,  the  brave  abolitionists 
and  the  collective  international  efforts  that  led  to  the 
abolition  of  the  slave  trade  and  slavery.  I  urge  all 
Member  States  to  support  the  adoption  of  the  draft 
resolution. 

Mr.  Wolfe  (Jamaica):  My  delegation  wishes  to 
associate  itself  with  the  statements  made  by  the 
representatives  of  Guyana  on  behalf  of  the  14  States 
Members  of  the  Caribbean  Community  and  of  Kenya 
on  behalf  of  the  54  members  of  the African  Group  of 
countries. 

It  is  an  honour  and  privilege  for  me  to  speak  on 
agenda item 108, “Follow-up to the commemoration of 
the  two-hundredth  anniversary  of  the  abolition  of  the 
transatlantic  slave  trade”.  It  is  a  well  known  fact  that 
my own region’s history is deeply rooted in the legacy 
of  slavery,  having  been  colonized  first  by  the  Spanish 
in  the  1500s.  Thereafter,  most  Caribbean  countries 
remained under British colonial rule for more than 300 
years.  During  the  colonial  period,  our  region’s  ports 
witnessed the arrival of numerous vessels transporting 
hundreds  of  thousands  of Africans  across  the Atlantic 
to  fortify  the  labour-intensive  market  created  by  the 
then-ruling British plantocracy. 

It  took  the  international  community  almost  200 
years  to  acknowledge  slavery  and  the  slave  trade  as 
crimes against humanity. We have been asked why we 
bother  to  rehash  an  event  that  happened  so  long  ago. 
But for us, the people of the Caribbean and of Africa, 
200  years  is  really  not  very  long  ago. As  descendants 
of those who lived and died during those 500 years, it 
remains  our  solemn  obligation  to  ensure  that  their 
memories are honoured and that their suffering is never 
forgotten. 
It  should  also  be  recalled  that  among  the  most 

pernicious legacies of slavery and the slave trade is the 
existence  of  apartheid  and  racism,  which  remained 
entrenched in southern Africa until towards the end of 
the  twentieth  century.  Those  scourges  were  uprooted 
only thanks to the indomitable spirit and struggle of the 
peoples  of  the  entire  African  continent  to  break  free 
from  the  dehumanization  and  hardship  which  they 
faced. 

Consequently, it is with a sense of duty and deep 
humility  that  we  seek  to  honour  the  memories  of  our 
ancestors who were brought to the Caribbean region as 
a  result  of  the  transatlantic  slave  trade.  We  firmly 
that  was 
believe 
the  permanent  memorial 
that 
08-55671 

15 

A/63/PV.29 

mentioned  by  the  Chair  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
and endorsed by the General Assembly last year should 
be viewed as a tangible source of hope and a means of 
remembrance  of  the  struggles  to  break  free  of  the 
hardships faced under colonial rule. 

I take this opportunity to express appreciation to 
the  members  of  the  committee  that  was  established  to 
oversee 
the  permanent  memorial  project  and  for 
electing  Jamaica  as  Chair  and  temporary  custodian  of 
the  voluntary  fund.  We  thank  the  committee  for  the 
confidence it has bestowed on us and we will strive to 
fulfil the objective of executing the project in the most 
effective  and  efficient  manner.  I  make  this  point  to 
highlight  the  fact  that,  with  the  adoption  of  the  draft 
resolution  before  us  today,  we  seek  to  broaden  the 
latter responsibility so that the committee will oversee 
the  fund  while  it  seeks  to  explore  with  the  Secretariat 
methods  of  ensuring  enhanced 
transparency  and 
accountability for its operation in a manner that would 
be acceptable to all Member States. 

With members’ indulgence, I also wish to express 
sincere  appreciation  for  the  kind  generosity  of  the 
Governments of those countries that have already made 
donations  to  the  Permanent  Memorial  Fund.  We  are 
thankful  for  the  show  of  solidarity  in  acknowledging 
the legacy of this dark period of history. In that regard, 
I  wish  to  publicly  thank  the  following  countries: 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Australia,  Belize, 
Botswana, Brazil, India, Indonesia, Haiti, Luxembourg, 
Mozambique, Namibia, Portugal, Qatar, Saint Kitts and 
Nevis,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Suriname, 
Syria,  Turkey  and,  of  course,  my  own  country, 
Jamaica.  We  envisage  that  other  countries  will  follow 
in  their  footsteps  in  making  contributions  to  the 
Permanent Fund. 

In  closing,  I  would  also  like  to  make  special 
mention of those countries from which we have so far 
received  pledges:  Denmark,  the  Netherlands,  Spain 
and, of course, the United Kingdom. 

Finally,  I  took  forward  to  collaborating  with  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Secretary-
General,  the  Department  of  Public  Information  and 
other  Member  States  in  the  preparatory  activities  to 
mark the annual commemorative event on 25 March in 
honour  of  the  anniversary  of  the  abolition  of  slavery 
and the slave trade. 

in 
Spanish): The transatlantic African slave trade was one 
Mrs.  Núñez  Mordoche
(Cuba) 
(spoke 
16 

of  the  greatest  tragedies  in  the  history  of  humankind 
and  the  most  serious  violation  of  human  rights  ever 
committed in terms of its scale and duration. Between 
1450 and 1850, some 12 million African men, women 
and children were torn from their homes, sold as slaves 
and  forced  to  cross  the  Atlantic  Ocean  from  their 
countries  of  origin  to  the  American  continent.  Many 
millions  more  perished  en  route.  For  each  slave 
transported  and  sold,  three  died.  More  than  60,000 
voyages  were  necessary.  Considered  by  many  as  the 
largest  human  deportation  in  history,  the  transatlantic 
slave  trade  had  an  irreversible  effect  on  the  enslaved 
African  population  because,  with  the  exception  of 
some  small  groups,  millions  of  Africans  were  never 
able to return to their country of origin. 
However,  the  crime  of  imposed  deportation  was 

not  enough.  The  slave  trade  was  accompanied  by 
strong racist ideology. Black people were classified as 
inferior  beings,  frequently  as  animals.  They  were 
considered  to  have  no  rights  under  the  law  and  were 
therefore treated legally as objects.  

In  Cuba,  deep  traces  of  that  sordid  chapter 
remain.  During  the  sixteenth,  seventeenth,  eighteenth 
and  nineteenth  centuries,  approximately  1.3  million 
Africans  were  forcibly  transported  to  Cuba  to  be 
enslaved  on  plantations  and  in  services  of  various 
types.  During  the  colonial  period  in  our  country, 
Africans  and  their  descendants  alike  suffered  the 
ravages of racism, discrimination, a total lack of rights 
and  marginalization  even  after  slavery  was  prohibited 
in  the  second  half  of  the  1880s.  Unfortunately,  Cuba 
was not the only country in the American continent that 
was  a  victim  of  the  transatlantic  slave  trade.  Stories 
similar  to  Cuba’s  were  re-enacted  throughout  nearly 
the entire American continent and the Antilles. 

The so-called triangular slave trade was part and 
parcel  of  the  bloody  exploitation  and  impoverishment 
of  the  African  continent  and  the  cruel  discrimination 
that  African  descendents  in  the  western  hemisphere 
suffered  for  years. The  inhuman  business  of  the  slave 
trade  was  profitable  only  for  the  colonial  metropoles 
that  started,  developed  and  maintained 
it  over 
centuries.  It  had  disastrous  consequences  for  the 
economic  development  of  the  only  affected  areas,  in 
particular in the African continent, which was plunged 
into  several  centuries  of  economic  backwardness  and 
political  disorder  that  continued  with  the  formal 
colonization of the so-called scramble for Africa of the 
nineteenth century. 
08-55671 
to  any 



Paradoxically,  nowadays  many  purport  to  be 
unaware  of,  justify  or,  worse  still,  erase  that  sad 
chapter from our history. The opposition of the former 
colonial  metropolises 
formula  aimed  at 
honouring  an  historical  debt  to  those  who  endured 
slavery over centuries has become entrenched.  

Those who amassed huge fortunes at the expense 
of the slaves’ sweat and blood, and plunged our nations 
into  the  disastrous  consequences  of  monoproduction 
and monocrop economies cannot wash their hands now 
of their dark past by means of a self-induced historical 
amnesia  in  the  midst  of  a  neoliberal  globalization 
whereby  the  rich  —  the  very  same  as  those  of  times 
past  —  have  grown  ever  richer  and  our  nations  have 
been reduced to exclusion and impoverishment. 

Cuba  attaches  great  importance  to  the  United 
Nations endeavours to combat racism and xenophobia, 
and  particularly  the  actions  agreed  at  the  World 
Conference  against  Racism,  Racial  Discrimination, 
Xenophobia  and  Related  Intolerance  held  in  Durban, 
South Africa, in August and September 2001, to focus 
due attention on the needs of the victims of slavery, the 
slave  trade,  servitude  imposed  on  indigenous  peoples 
and colonialism, as well as their descendants. 

tight  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade  imposed  by  the 
United States Government for more than four decades, 
Cuba  has  developed  and  will  continue  to  develop 
cooperation  programmes  with  African,  Caribbean  and 
other third world sister nations as part of a joint effort 
to reverse the consequences of the slave trade and other 
sad moments of colonialism and neocolonialism. 

We  will  continue  to  insist  that  slavery  and  the 
transatlantic  slave  trade  be  declared  crimes  against 
humanity  and  that  the  descendants  of  the  victims  of 
those criminal practices, colonialism and the genocidal 
exploitation  of 
the 
reparations  and  compensation  they  deserve  as  an 
outstanding measure of historical justice. 

two-hundredth 
anniversary  of  the  abolition  of  the  transatlantic  slave 
trade is also an opportunity to remember contemporary 
forms  of  slavery: 
in  persons,  forced 
prostitution,  forced  labour  in  slave  conditions  and  the 
use of children in international drug trafficking. Those 
forms continue to flourish today, mostly as the result of 
discrimination,  social  exclusion  and  vulnerability, 
which are all exacerbated by poverty. The international 
indigenous  peoples  be  given 
The  commemoration  of 
Despite  being  subject 
trafficking 
to  a 
the 
A/63/PV.29
and 
that 
Today, 
fact.  Their 
commemoration 
community  must  be  aware  of 
eradication is a goal for all of us. 
Mr. Chabar (Morocco) (spoke in French): At the 

outset, and as this is the first time I take the floor in the 
plenary, allow me to congratulate Mr. Miguel d’Escoto 
Brockmann  on  his  accession  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-third session and on the 
initiatives  he  has  undertaken  to  mobilize  Member 
States to confront the challenges of today. His wisdom 
and his erudition will be precious assets in uniting and 
bringing  together  the  international  community  on  its 
path towards a safer, fairer and more human world. He 
may rest assured of our delegation’s support. 

The  Kingdom  of  Morocco  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Kenya  on 
behalf  of  the  African  Group,  and  wishes  to  add  the 
following comments. 

remembrance 
combine  as  the  General Assembly  prepares  to  adopt  a 
beacon  draft  resolution  at  the  initiative  of  the  States 
members  of  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM) 
on the creation of a permanent memorial to the victims 
of slavery and the transatlantic slave trade. 

that 
decision,  whereby  the  international  community  speaks 
in  one  voice  against  collective  amnesia  regarding  one 
of  the  most  sinister  episodes  of  human  history  during 
which,  over  four  centuries,  millions  of Africans  were 
deported  to  the  new  world  and  reduced  to  slavery,  a 
lucrative  trade  that  contributed  to  the  development  of 
the Americas  and  Europe. According  to  estimates,  the 
different  phases  of 
trade 
deprived 25 to 30 million individuals of their freedom, 
without  counting  the  17  million  who  died  on  ships 
plying the Atlantic Ocean.  

On  this  solemn  occasion,  we  remember  with 
emotion  the  tenacious  struggle  of  abolitionists  whose 
names  remain  indelibly  etched  in  the  stone  of  the 
pantheon  of  history:  Toussaint  Louverture,  Frederick 
Douglass,  William  Wilberforce,  Harriet  Tubman  and 
Victor Schoelcher. 

The  creation  of  a  permanent  memorial  to  the 
victims of slavery will offer States Members and staff 
of  and  visitors  to  the  United  Nations  a  place  and  a 
symbol  that  invites  them  to  reflect  on  the  historical 
roots, the modus operandi and the consequences of the 
The  Kingdom  of  Morocco  welcomes 
transatlantic  slave 
the 
08-55671 

17 

it 
Beyond 
remembrance, 
the  duty  of 
A/63/PV.29 

inexcusable  tragedy  of  slavery  and  the  transatlantic 
slave trade. 

is 
fundamental  to  raise  awareness  of  the  upheavals  that 
the  trade  of  souls  brought  upon  the  various  people 
concerned.  The  slave  trade,  as  a  large-scale  forced 
migration,  also  led  to  cultural  exchanges  that  deeply 
marked habits, beliefs, social relations and knowledge 
on several continents.  

The  cultural  footprint  of  the  victims  of  slavery 
and  the  slave  trade  connects  fields  as  varied  as 
knowledge  and  the  arts,  oral  patrimony,  musical 
genres,  philosophy  and 
literature.  Slaves  were 
necessarily  the  vectors  of  a  civilizational  legacy  that 
resulted in the fusion of cultures from Europe, Africa, 
the Indian Ocean, the Caribbean and the Americas. 

The  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  by  commemorating 
“the  greatest  tragedy  of  human  history  in  scale  and 
duration”,  in  the  words  of  the  French  historian  Jean-
Michel  Deveau,  wishes  to  readdress  the  intellectual 
legitimization of slavery and its ideological basis in the 
doctrinal  formulation  of  anti-black  identity  and  its 
legal organization through the Code Noir of 1685. 

The international community has a sacred duty to 
deconstruct  racial  prejudice  and  to  fight  ideologies  of 
hatred  of  the  other  and  intolerance.  Of  course,  those 
objectives  involve  the  promotion  of  dialogue  between 
cultures, 
religions  and,  more  broadly  speaking, 
civilizations.  Thus,  Morocco  participates  actively  in  a 
the  Alliance  of 
number  of 
Civilizations,  and  untiringly  works 
to  promote 
internally and internationally such values as tolerance, 
dialogue and respect for others. 

Such values are not accidental; they are the result 
of the millennial history of Morocco, which embodies 
overlapping  and  enmeshing  African,  Arab,  European 
and Andalusian identities. 

We invite all States to contribute to the financing 
of  the  memorial,  which  we  wish  to  see  serve  as  a 
permanent 
the 
exploitation of the other, racism and historical amnesia. 
As an African State, the Kingdom of Morocco calls for 
a  tightening  of  the  bonds  between  Africa  and  its 
diaspora  and  for  the  promotion  of  a  relaxation  of 
tensions  and  reconciliation  with  others,  through  an 
objective and uncompromising reflection on the impact 
rejection  of 
initiatives, 
testimony 
including 
to  our 
in 
rights 
is  before 
the  history  of  humanity: 
resolution  A/63/L.5,  which 
of  this  tragedy  on  Africans  and  their  transatlantic 
descendants. 
Mr.  Christian  (Ghana):  My  delegation  aligns 

itself with the statement made by the representative of 
Kenya  on  behalf  of  the  African  Group  in  support  of 
draft 
the 
Assembly. 

Ghana  attaches  great  importance  to  this  draft 
resolution  and  is  pleased  to  be  a  part  of  this  initiative 
which  acknowledges  one  of  the  worst  violations  of 
human 
the 
enslavement  and  dehumanization  of  people  of African 
descent over hundreds of years. 

We  express  our  appreciation  to  the  Caribbean 
Community  (CARICOM)  for  leading  the  initiative  to 
erect  in  a  place  of  prominence  in  the  corridors  of  the 
United  Nations  a  permanent  memorial  in  honour  of 
those sons and daughters of Africa who perished in the 
Middle  Passage,  in  resistance  to  slavery  or  as  a  result 
of  the  indignities  and  alienation  they  suffered  in  the 
New  World.  In  this  regard,  we  once  again  pledge  our 
support for the establishment of a permanent memorial 
fund to bring the project to fruition. 

significant 
contribution towards our global efforts to carry out the 
action plan adopted in 2001 at the Durban Anti-Racism 
Conference aimed at eradicating the scourge of racism, 
xenophobia  and  discrimination.  Indeed,  the  placement 
of  this  monument  at  the  United  Nations  will  reaffirm 
and  attest  to  what  our  noble  Organization  stands  for: 
the  promotion,  protection  and  preservation  of  the 
dignity and worth of all peoples. 

We  should  all  follow  up  to  ensure  that  the 
necessary  resources  for  effective  fulfilment  of  this 
project  are  made  available  through  our  generous 
contributions  so  that  the  preparations  may  proceed  as 
planned. 

support for this important draft resolution. 
Mr.  McMahan  (United  States  of America): This 

debate  is  indeed  a  fitting  reminder  of  a  despicable 
practice  that  devalued  human  life  and  dignity. After  a 
civil  war  that  sought  to  reconcile  the  words  and 
concepts  that  gave  birth  to  our  republic  with  a  brutal 
reality  of  a  largely  agrarian  society  fuelled  by  the 
blood  and  sweat  of  human  bondage,  the  thirteenth 
amendment  to  the  United  States  Constitution  was 
In  conclusion,  Ghana  wishes  to  reiterate  its 
The  memorial  will  make 
a 
18 

08-55671 
While 
the 
to 
transatlantic 


adopted  on  6  December  1865,  officially  abolishing 
slavery in the United States of America.  

trade  ended 
slave 
centuries  ago,  a  contemporary  form  of  slavery  thrives 
today under a different name: trafficking in persons, or 
human trafficking. Like the early slave traders, today’s 
traffickers  use  many  of  the  same  tools:  kidnapping, 
fraud, threats and beatings, all aimed, just as in earlier 
centuries,  at  forcing  men,  women  and  children  into 
labour and sexual exploitation.  
Trafficking  is  a  crime  that  respects  no  borders. 

Each  year,  an  estimated  800,000  men,  women  and 
children are trafficked across international borders, and 
millions  of  others  are  trafficked  within  their  own 
countries.  And  in  virtually  every  country  around  the 
world,  including  the  United  States,  men,  women  and 
children  are  held  in  domestic  servitude,  forcibly 
exploited  for  commercial  sex  and  coerced  to  work  in 
factories  and  sweatshops.  In  some  countries,  children 
are  forcibly  recruited  as  soldiers.  These  forms  of 
human trafficking are in fact modern-day slavery. 

The  United  States  has  taken  a  broad  range  of 
actions  to  halt  these  practices,  because  we  strongly 
believe it is the right thing to do. We remain committed 
to  recognizing  the  abolition  of  the  transatlantic  slave 
trade,  commemorating  its  victims  and  reversing  its 
harms. We are proud to be in a position to co-sponsor 
the  draft  General  Assembly  resolution  regarding  a 
permanent  memorial  to  the  victims  of  slavery  and  the 
transatlantic slave trade, which we are about to adopt. 
Mr.  Rogachev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian): At the outset, allow me to extend the Russian 
Federation’s  gratitude 
the 
countries  of  the  Caribbean  Basin  for  their  draft 
resolution  entitled,  “Permanent  memorial 
to  and 
the 
the  victims  of  slavery  and 
remembrance  of 
the 
transatlantic  slave 
(A/63/L.5),  which 
Russian  Federation  co-sponsors.  We  consider 
the 
attention  devoted  to  this  problem  by  the  United 
Nations to be entirely justified.  

As  is  well  known,  our  Organization  was  born  in 
response  to  the  horrors  that  afflicted  the  world  during 
the  years  of  the  Second  World  War. And  even  though 
that  war  and 
trade  were 
separated by 150 years, the underlying causes of those 
two  historic  events  are  very  similar.  Here  we  are 
referring  to  a  perverted  concept  that  claims  that  one 
group  is  allegedly  superior  to  another.  It  seems 
the  delegations  of 
transatlantic  slave 
trade” 
the 
A/63/PV.29
especially  important  to  us  that  the  draft  resolution 
include  provisions  regarding  the  raising  of  awareness 
about  the  causes  and  consequences  of  the  slave  trade 
and  the  lessons  to  be  drawn  from  its  legacy.  We  are 
convinced  that  the  current  generation  and  those  to 
come  should  not  forget  about  this  tragic  chapter  of 
humankind’s history. 

It  is  not  often  that  the  United  Nations  addresses 
historical  wrongs.  Indeed,  Member  States  focus  first 
and  foremost  on 
the  most  pressing  and  current 
problems.  Here,  however,  we  have  an  example  of  a 
case where a historical event is of a global scale; where 
its  effects  can  be  seen  on  the  course  of  humankind’s 
history  and  it  will  continue  to  have  a  clear  impact  on 
our present and future. 
Ms. Bethel (Bahamas): I would like first of all to 

align  myself  with  the  statement  made  by  Guyana  on 
behalf  of  the  Caribbean  Community  and  Common 
Market (CARICOM) member States. It was just about 
two years ago that the CARICOM member States, with 
the  proud  co-sponsorship  of  numerous  countries, 
including 
those  from  our  ancestral  home  Africa, 
ushered  through  the  General  Assembly  the  resolution 
that established the basis for the commemoration of the 
two-hundredth  anniversary  of  the  abolition  of  the 
transatlantic  slave 
that 
resolution was indeed historic and, as was noted at the 
time,  its  mission  would  be  to  erect  a  bridge  spanning 
two hundred years across the seas and lands of Africa, 
Europe, the Americas and the Caribbean. 

The  legacy  of  the  slave  trade  highlights,  among 
other things, the capacity in all of us to take principled 
action,  to  speak  out  against  injustice  and  to  conquer 
living,  surviving,  advancing  and 
victimization  by 
forgiving, 
even 
seemingly 
insurmountable  odds.  Looking  at  the  lives  of  the 
people  enslaved  for  centuries  in  the Americas  and  the 
Caribbean  teaches  us  much  about  the  capacity  of 
human beings to strive and be hopeful, even under the 
most  dehumanizing  conditions.  The 
triumph  over 
slavery  is  a  testimony  to  the  human  spirit,  which  can 
emerge  from  the  harshest  victimization,  exploitation 
and  oppression,  with  remarkable  joy,  creativity  and 
inventiveness. 

The  indelible  etchings  of Africa  on  every  aspect 
of  our  life  in  the  Caribbean  are  the  bedrock  of  our 
sustenance as a people and will always be the source of 
our  creativity  and  perseverance.  On  the  stage  of 
trade.  The  adoption  of 
face 
the 
of 
in 
08-55671 

19 

as 
an 
A/63/PV.29 

history,  ours  has  not  always  been  a  joyful  and 
triumphant lot, and yet we participate here today in this 
world  body  with  utmost  pride  and  determination,  the 
same  pride  and  dogged  determination  that  served  to 
ensure  the  survival  of  our  forebears  even  under  the 
most  cruel  and  dire  of  circumstances.  The  depths  of 
their  humanity,  the  unyielding  core  of  their  spiritual 
home,  have  become  the  wellspring  of  our  undying 
vision  of  a  peaceful  world  that  is  at  once  hopeful, 
diverse,  tolerant  and  forward  looking  —  essential 
elements  that  must  underpin  the  future  in  order  to 
ensure the survival of humankind. 

Last  year,  in  order  to  help  inculcate  in  future 
generations knowledge about the causes, consequences 
and  lessons  of  slavery,  as  well  as  to  inform  of  the 
dangers  of  racism  and  prejudice,  the  sixty-second 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  adopted  resolution 
62/122,  designating  25  March 
annual 
International  Day  of  Remembrance  of  the  Victims  of 
Slavery  and 
the  Transatlantic  Slave  Trade.  Our 
watchword must forever be, lest we forget. 

For the same compelling reasons, the Bahamas is 
greatly heartened by the progress made in the ongoing 
campaign  to  establish  a  permanent  memorial  here  at 
the  United  Nations  to  the  victims  of  slavery  and  the 
transatlantic  slave  trade,  in  acknowledgement  of  that 
tragedy and in consideration of its legacy. As a sponsor 
of  draft  resolution  A/63/L.5,  we  wish  to  express  our 
appreciation  to  the  Permanent  Mission  of  Jamaica  for 
the  pivotal  role  it  has  played  in  moving  the  process 
forward,  to  reiterate  our  sincere  appreciation  to  all 
those who have contributed to that undertaking and to 
express  our  hope  that  many  more  will  support  that 
noble  and  worthy  project.  I  am  pleased  to  report  that 
the Government of the Bahamas has made a pledge to 
the fund that will be forthcoming in short order. 
Mr.  Vishvjit  P.  Singh  (India):  I  am  pleased  to 

participate in the general discussion on the agenda item 
entitled “Follow-up to the commemoration of the two-
hundredth  anniversary  of 
the 
transatlantic slave trade”. I thank the Member States of 
the  Caribbean  region  for  bringing  that  important  item 
on  to  the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  firmly 
support  the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of 
Guyana on behalf of the Caribbean States. 

Former  Indian  Prime  Minister  Jawaharlal  Nehru 
called  slavery  and  the  transatlantic  slave  trade  an 
infinite 
is 
the  abolition  of 
the  Swahili 
tragedy.  In 
language, 
it 
lives.  Had 
remember  our  own 
sometimes referred to as Maafa, meaning holocaust or 
great  disaster.  It  is  often  overlooked  that  the  tragic 
crime  of  the  transatlantic  slave  trade  and  slavery 
extended over more than five centuries. Scholars have 
estimated  that  during  that  period  the  Atlantic  slave 
trade  led  to  the  loss  of  at  least  50  million  potential 
African 
that  not  happened,  Africa’s 
population  in  1850  would  have  been  100  million 
instead of 50 million. The horror of the Middle Passage 
is  unique;  during  which,  without  food  and  basic 
amenities,  at  least  one  sixth  of  those  transported  died 
in loneliness, darkness and trauma. 
India shares the pain and suffering of the affected 

countries.  We 
tragedy  of 
colonialism  and  the  export  of  indentured  labour.  The 
racism  that  was  an  inevitable  dimension  of  slavery 
became part of the rationale for colonialism. There was 
a  boomerang  effect.  Nazism  was  simply  that  racism 
applied  within  Europe.  As  the  great  Caribbean  poet 
Césaire  said,  the  poison  was  slowly  distilled  into  the 
veins  of  Europe,  and  Nazism,  before  engulfing  the 
whole  edifice  of  Western  civilization  in  its  reddened 
waters, had oozed and trickled from every crack. 

We  welcome  the  resolution  adopted  by  the 
General Assembly two years ago on the abolition of the 
transatlantic  slave  trade  and  the  General  Assembly’s 
decision to commemorate that in the United Nations by 
convening  a  special  meeting  of  the  General Assembly 
on  26  March  2007.  I  would  also  like  to  welcome  the 
Secretary-General’s 
the 
programme of educational outreach on the transatlantic 
slave trade and slavery. 
We  are  honoured  to  co-sponsor  this  year’s  draft 

to  and 
resolution  entitled  “Permanent  memorial 
remembrance  of 
the 
transatlantic  slave  trade”. A  permanent  memorial  will 
symbolize that colossal tragedy and remain before our 
eyes as a permanent remembrance to stir us to thought 
and  action.  We 
the  Caribbean  Community 
countries  in  requesting  that  Member  States  contribute 
to that memorial and adopt that draft resolution. 

have heard the last speaker in the debate on this item. 
(spoke in English) 

take  action  on  draft 
resolution  A/63/L.5,  I  should  like  to  announce  that, 
since  the  introduction  of  the  draft  resolution,  the 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 
the  victims  of  slavery  and 
Before  proceeding 
(A/63/213) 
report 
join 
on 
to 
20 

08-55671 
I now call on the representative of Cape Verde on 


following  countries  have  become  co-sponsors  of  the 
draft  resolution:  Belgium,  Bolivia,  Bulgaria,  China, 
Colombia,  Croatia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Greece, 
Honduras,  Iraq,  Japan,  Lichtenstein,  the  Federated 
States  of  Micronesia,  Monaco,  New  Zealand,  Papua 
New  Guinea,  the  Russian  Federation,  Samoa,  Serbia, 
Slovenia,  Thailand,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia, Turkey,  the  United  States  of America  and 
Uruguay. 
(spoke in Spanish) 

a point of order. 
Mr.  Lima  (Cape  Verde)  (spoke  in  French):  The 

draft  resolution  that  we  are  about  to  adopt  is  an 
important  draft  resolution,  as  we  have  seen  from  the 
statements of the various representatives who took the 
floor on this issue.  

Personally, I cannot understand that all Africa can 
be  represented  only  by  this  month’s  Chairman  of  our 
Group. I request that all the States of Africa be listed as 
sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution,  and  not  only  be 
represented by the Chairman of the African Group. I do 
not  understand  the  decision  that  has  led  to  this  draft 
resolution,  which  is  of  fundamental  importance  to  all 
Africa,  being  limited  to  being  sponsored  only  by  this 
month’s Chairman of the African Group.  
The Acting President: The Assembly takes note 

of the clarification made by the representative of Cape 
Verde. 
A/63/PV.29
(spoke in Spanish) 

The  Assembly  will  now  take  action  on  draft 
resolution  A/63/L.5,  entitled  “Permanent  memorial  to 
and  remembrance  of  the  victims  of  slavery  and  the 
transatlantic  slave  trade”.  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/63/L.5? 

  Draft resolution A/63/L.5 was adopted (resolution 
63/5) 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): May I 

take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General Assembly  to 
conclude its consideration of agenda item 108? 

It was so decided. 



and 
the  Political  Declaration 
Programme of work 
The President in the Chair 

The President (spoke in Spanish): May I inform 

members that consideration of agenda item 41 entitled 
“Implementation of the Declaration of Commitment on 
HIV/AIDS 
on 
HIV/AIDS”, scheduled for Monday, 3 November 2008, 
has  been  deferred  to  a  subsequent  date  that  will  be 
announced  in  due  course.  May  I  also  bring  to  the 
attention of members that document A/INF/63/4/Rev.1 
has been published. It contains a revised version of the 
General  Assembly  programme  of  work  and 
the 
schedule  for  plenary  meetings  for  the  period  from 
22 October to December 2008. 

of 
items 
A/INF/63/4/Rev.1 are open. 
The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m. 


I should also like to remind members that the lists 
speakers 
document 
listed 
for 
in 
08-55671 

21 
