
A/63/PV.31
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

31st plenary meeting 
Monday, 27 October 2008, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 






Agenda item 80 
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/276) 

  Draft resolution (A/63/L.6) 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now  invite 

Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  Director  General  of  the 
International Atomic  Energy Agency,  to  introduce  the 
report  of  the  Agency  for  2007,  which  has  been 
transmitted to the General Assembly by the note by the 
Secretary-General contained in document A/63/276. 
Mr.  ElBaradei  (International  Atomic  Energy 

Agency): We meet at a time of heightened anxiety and 
insecurity  in  the  world.  The  global  financial  crisis  is 
hitting rich and poor countries alike, but the poorest of 
the  poor  —  the  so-called  bottom  billion  —  are 
particularly vulnerable. Concern about the proliferation 
of  nuclear  weapons  and  the  possibility  of  extremist 
groups  getting  hold  of  nuclear  or  radioactive  material 
has not diminished in the 12 months since I last spoke 
to the General Assembly.  

The  work  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA)  is  at  the  nexus  of  development  and 
security.  In  that  context,  I  will  give  the Assembly  an 
update  on  the  Agency’s  work  over  the  past  year  and 
highlight  some  of  the  challenges  that  need  to  be 
addressed. 
thousands  of  people 

The  Agency’s  work  in  technical  cooperation  is 
sometimes seen — wrongly — as an adjunct to our real 
work  in  nuclear  safety,  security  and  non-proliferation. 
That  is  unfortunate.  Technical  cooperation  should  not 
be  seen  as  part  of  a  political  balance  between  the 
development  and  other  activities  of  the  Agency.  Our 
role  as  a  development  agency  is  as  important  as 
anything else we do. To that end, we have established 
effective partnerships with agencies such as the World 
Health  Organization  and  the  Food  and  Agricultural 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations.  Thanks  to  those 
partnerships,  many 
receive 
radiation therapy for cancer, grow higher-yielding food 
crops and have access to clean drinking water. 
In  the  past  year,  the  surge  in  global  food  prices 

has pushed millions of people deeper into poverty and 
hunger.  That  clearly  increases  the  importance  of  the 
work  done  by  the  IAEA  to  boost  food  supplies  and 
combat  pests  and  animal  diseases.  In  some  areas,  the 
IAEA role is unique. For example, the best technology 
for  mapping  water  resources  cannot  be  deployed 
without 
involves  nuclear 
techniques. 

A  recent  World  Bank  report  showed  that  some 
1.4 billion people in the developing world live on less 
than  $1.25  per  day.  The  number  of  poor  people  in 
sub-Saharan  Africa  has  nearly  doubled  since  1981  to 
around 380 million. The international community has a 
responsibility  to  ensure  that  those  people  and  others 
like  them  are  not  cut  off  from  technologies  that  will 
accelerate  economic  development  and  help  to  ensure 
that their basic needs are met. 
IAEA  because 
the 
it 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-56886 (E) 
*0856886* 
A/63/PV.31 


Energy  is  the  engine  of  development.  Nearly 
every aspect of development requires reliable access to 
modern  energy  services. The  global  energy  imbalance 
remains  dramatic.  The  developed  countries  that  make 
up  the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development  consume  electricity  on  average  at  a  per 
capita rate of 8,600 kilowatt-hours per year — roughly 
170  times  more  than  is  consumed  in  Africa.  It  is 
understandable 
that  many  developing  countries, 
therefore, should see nuclear power as a key source of 
the energy they need to lift their people out of poverty. 

Nuclear  power  is  undergoing  something  of  a 
renaissance. That is a remarkable development. Just 10 
years  ago,  nuclear  power  had  stopped  growing  in  the 
developed  countries  and  its  future  globally  looked 
uncertain as fears about safety were predominant. Now 
it  is  seen  as  offering  part  of  the  solution  to  surging 
global  demand  for  energy,  uncertainty  about  energy 
supply  and  concern  about  climate  change.  In  the  past 
two  years,  some  50  Member  States  have  expressed 
interest  in  considering  the  possible  introduction  of 
nuclear  power  and  asked  for Agency  support.  Twelve 
of  those  countries  are  actively  preparing  to  introduce 
nuclear  power.  Increased  demand  for  assistance  has 
been particularly strong from developing countries. 

There  are  now  439  nuclear  power  reactors 
operating in 30 countries and the number of new plants 
under  construction  stands  at  36.  The  IAEA  advises 
countries  considering 
introduction  of  nuclear 
power,  helping  them  to  identify  their  options  and  the 
best  energy  mix  for  them.  To  ensure  that  newcomers 
use nuclear energy efficiently, safely, securely and with 
minimal  proliferation  risk,  we  impress  upon  them  the 
need to plan properly, to build the human resources and 
infrastructure,  to  establish  independent  and  effective 
regulators and to adhere to international safety, security 
and  non-proliferation  instruments.  We  offer  advice  in 
drafting  national  nuclear  legislation  and  we  train 
regulators and operators. 
the  primary 

all,  we 
responsibility  to  ensure  safety  and  security  lies  with 
the  countries  concerned.  However,  we  also  make  the 
companies and countries that supply the equipment and 
expertise aware of their responsibility. That is because 
failures  of  either  safety  or  security  can  have 
consequences stretching well beyond national borders, 
as  the  Chernobyl  accident  demonstrated.  Recipients 
and suppliers alike of nuclear technology owe a duty of 
care to the world at large. 
Above 
the 
stress 
that 


Overall, safety is much better than it was 10 years 
ago,  but  vulnerabilities  remain.  We  can  never  be 
complacent  about  safety.  A  single  nuclear  accident 
anywhere  in  the  world  could  undermine  the  future  of 
nuclear energy everywhere, so it is in all our interests 
to  ensure  that  the  highest  safety  standards  be  upheld 
everywhere. 

One  implication  of  a  nuclear  renaissance  is  the 
spread of nuclear material to many more countries. That 
naturally  increases  the  risk  that  nuclear  material  could 
be diverted to make nuclear weapons. It is worth noting 
that  countries  that  master  uranium  enrichment  and 
plutonium separation become de facto nuclear-weapons-
capable  States.  That  means  they  have  the  ability  to 
develop  nuclear  weapons  in  a  very  short  time  if  they 
walked  out  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  or  managed  to  do  so  in  a 
clandestine manner. That is clearly too narrow a margin 
of  security.  Those  countries  may  genuinely  have  no 
intention  today  of  ever  making  nuclear  weapons,  but 
that can change in a short time if their perception of the 
risks  to  their  national  security  changes.  And  as  we 
know, security perceptions can change very rapidly. 

That  is  why  we  need  to  think  seriously  about 
some form of multinational control over the fuel cycle. 
It  should  provide  assurance  that  every  country  that 
wants  nuclear  energy  and  is  in  compliance  with  its 
safeguards  obligations  has  guaranteed  access  to  a 
supply  of  nuclear  fuel  that  will  not  be  interrupted  for 
political  reasons.  I  first  made  that  proposal  five  years 
ago. Several ideas have been put forward since then on 
developing  a  new,  multilateral  framework  for  the 
nuclear  fuel  cycle.  That  could  be  done,  obviously,  in 
different ways, but, I believe that any such framework 
must be global and non-discriminatory. 

The  ideal  scenario,  in  my  opinion,  would  be  to 
start  with  a  nuclear  fuel  bank  under  IAEA  auspices. 
Then  we  should  agree  that  all  new  enrichment  and 
reprocessing  activities  should  be  placed  exclusively 
under  multilateral  control.  Ultimately,  all  existing 
facilities  should  also  be  converted  from  national  to 
multilateral  control.  That  is  a  bold  agenda  and  it  is 
clearly  not  going  to  happen  overnight,  but  bold 
measures, including controlling the spread of sensitive 
nuclear  technology,  are  vital  if  we  are  ever  going  to 
halt  the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons  and  succeed 
in  eliminating  them  altogether.  However,  make  no 
mistake — any mechanism that smacks of inequality or 
dependency will never get off the ground. 
08-56886 
2 

requires 
technology, 
timely  access 
Effective  nuclear  verification 



The  possibility  of  terrorists  obtaining  nuclear  or 
other  radioactive  material  remains  a  grave  threat. The 
number  of  incidents  reported  to  the Agency  involving 
the  theft  or  loss  of  nuclear  or  radioactive  material  is 
disturbingly  high  —  nearly  250  in  the  year  to  June 
2008 alone. Equally troubling is the fact that much of 
that material is not subsequently recovered. Sometimes 
material is found which had not been reported missing. 
The  Agency  helps  countries  improve  their  border 
controls,  strengthen  the  physical  protection  of  nuclear 
material  and  radioactive  sources,  and  enhance  nuclear 
security  at  major  public  events,  such  as  the  Beijing 
Olympic Games this summer. 

four 
essential  elements:  adequate  legal  authority,  state-of-
the-art 
to  all  relevant 
information,  and  sufficient  human  and 
financial 
resources.  Despite  some  progress,  we  still  have 
shortcomings  in  all  four  areas.  With  respect  to  legal 
authority,  it  has  been  over  10  years  since  the  Model 
Additional Protocol was approved by the IAEA Board 
of  Governors.  Of  the  163  States  with  safeguards 
agreements,  only  88  now  have  additional  protocols  in 
force — not much more than half. 

It is also disconcerting that 30 States party to the 
Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  have  not  even 
brought 
their  required  comprehensive 
safeguards agreements with the Agency. As I have said 
repeatedly, without safeguards agreements, the Agency 
cannot  provide  any  assurance  about  a  State’s  nuclear 
activities,  and  without  additional  protocols  we  cannot 
provide  credible  assurances  regarding  the  absence  of 
undeclared nuclear material and activities. 

Concerning the technological aspect of our work, 
to  take  just  one  example,  we  remain  uncomfortably 
dependent in our verification work on satellite imagery 
and  environmental  sampling  analysis  provided  by 
Member  States.  We  clearly  need  a  minimum 
independent capability to ensure our credibility. 

the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  briefly 
withheld access to the Yongbyon nuclear facilities from 
our inspectors, who had been monitoring and verifying 
the shutdown of the facilities. Access was subsequently 
restored  following  an  agreement  between  the  United 
States and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
on  a  verification  protocol.  I  naturally  still  hope  that 
conditions  can be  created  for the Democratic People’s 
the  authorities  of 
this  month, 
into  force 
Earlier 
A/63/PV.31
to 
Iran 
clarify 
to  clarify  outstanding 
Republic  of  Korea  to  return  to  the  NPT  soon  and  for 
the  resumption  by  the  Agency  of  comprehensive 
safeguards. 

Mr. Salgueiro (Portugal), Vice-President, took the 
Chair. 
Six  years  have  elapsed  since  the  Agency  began 

Iran’s  nuclear  programme. 
working 
Substantial  progress  has  been  made  under  a  workplan 
agreed  with 
issues, 
including, importantly, the nature of Iran’s enrichment 
activities.  The  Agency  has  been  able  to  continue  to 
verify the non-diversion of declared nuclear material in 
Iran. 

However,  I  regret  that  we  are  still  not  in  a 
position to achieve full clarity regarding the absence of 
undeclared nuclear material and activities in Iran. That 
is  because  the  Agency  has  not  been  able  to  make 
the  alleged  studies  and 
substantive  progress  on 
associated  questions  relevant 
to  possible  military 
dimensions to Iran’s nuclear programme. 

I  reiterate  that  the  Agency  does  not  in  any  way 
seek  to  pry  into  Iran’s  conventional  or  missile-related 
military  activities.  Our  focus  is  clearly  on  nuclear 
material 
that 
arrangements  can  be  developed  which  will  enable  the 
Agency to clarify the  remaining issues  while ensuring 
that Iran’s legitimate right to protect the confidentiality 
of  sensitive  information  and  activities  is  respected.  I 
therefore  urge  Iran  to  implement  all  the  transparency 
measures 
the 
exclusively peaceful nature of its nuclear programme at 
an early date. That will be good for Iran, good for the 
Middle East region and good for the world. 

I  have  often  expressed  concern  that  the  Agency 
lacks sufficient legal authority and adequate  resources 
to  do  its  job  properly.  Last  year,  I  appointed  an 
independent  Commission  of  Eminent  Persons 
to 
examine  our  work  and  make  recommendations  for  the 
future  of  the  Agency  up  to  2020  and  beyond.  The 
Commission,  chaired  by  the  former  President  of 
Mexico,  Ernesto  Zedillo,  produced  its  report  earlier 
this  year.  Its  recommendations  make  compelling 
reading. I will highlight a few of them. 

First,  the  Commission  says  that  the  Agency, 
working  with  supplier  and  donor  States,  should  help 
“newcomer”  States  to  put  in  place  the  necessary 
infrastructure  to  launch  nuclear  energy  programmes 
to  build  confidence 
activities. 
confident 
required 
and 
I 
am 
in 
08-56886 

3 

that 
arrangements, 
covering 
everything 
to  help  ensure 
the  Commission  proposes 
A/63/PV.31 

safely,  securely  and  peacefully.  The  Agency  should 
also give high priority to establishing multilateral fuel 
cycle 
from 
assurance of supply of nuclear fuel to waste disposal. 

Secondly,  the  Commission  says  our  Technical 
Cooperation  Programme,  focusing  on  using  nuclear 
applications in food and agriculture, human health and 
natural  resources,  needs  to  be  significantly  expanded. 
Technical  cooperation  funds  continue  to  lag  well 
behind the pressing needs of developing countries. 
Thirdly,  in  order  to  help  address  the  threat  of 

nuclear  terrorism,  the  Commission  urges  Member 
States 
to  negotiate  binding  agreements  —  not 
voluntary,  as  at  present  —  to  set  effective  global 
nuclear  security  standards  and  to  give  the Agency  the 
resources  and  authority 
they  are 
implemented. 

the 
Fourthly, 
Agency should lead an international effort to establish 
a global nuclear safety network, also based on binding 
agreements.  Countries  should  submit  to  mandatory 
international nuclear safety peer reviews. 

Fifthly, the Agency’s safeguards activities should 
be strengthened. That means better tools, more human 
and financial resources, as well as more legal authority. 
On safeguards, I should note that nuclear disarmament, 
the  core  of  the  NPT,  has  been  on  the  back  burner  for 
far  too  long.  As  the  Commission  says,  “States  must 
recommit  to  the  vision  of  a  world  free  of  nuclear 
weapons”.  The  Commission  notes  that,  naturally,  the 
IAEA is not the lead agency for nuclear  disarmament, 
but 
towards 
disarmament,  or  the  lack  of  it,  deeply  affects  the 
IAEA’s non-proliferation mission”. 

The sums of money proposed by the Commission 
of  Eminent  Persons  for  measures  to  enhance  the 
Agency’s effectiveness are very modest. But this is not 
just  about  money.  The  Agency  does  not  work  in  a 
vacuum.  Political  commitment  to  the  goals  of  the 
Agency  needs  to  be  renewed  at  the  highest  level  to 
encourage  the  transfer  of  nuclear  technology  to  the 
developing  world,  to  enhance  safety  and  security,  to 
strengthen 
to 
accelerate the process of nuclear disarmament. 

Furthermore, the problems facing the world in the 
nuclear arena are plain for all of us to see. The Agency 
can  do  much  to  address  them  if  given  the  authority, 
non-proliferation 
it  rightly  points  out 
that  “progress 
and, 
naturally, 
to 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on 
technology  and  resources.  Much  more  than  the  future 
of  the  Agency  is  at  stake.  We  are  talking  about 
international  development  and security,  and ultimately 
about  the  sort  of  world  we  want  to  leave  to  our 
children. 
the 

representative  of Algeria  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/63/L.6. 
Mr. Benmihidi (Algeria): Allow me at the outset 

to welcome Mr. Mohamed ElBaradei, Director General 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA), 
and  to  extend  to  him,  on  behalf  of  the  Algerian 
delegation,  our  sincere  thanks  for  the  introduction  of 
the  annual  report  of  the  work  of  the Agency  for  2007 
and  for  the  valuable  information  he  provided  on  the 
activities of the Agency during the period covered. 

I would like to take this opportunity to commend 
the  work  of  Mr.  ElBaradei  at  the  head  of  the Agency 
and to pay tribute to the tireless efforts he has deployed 
during  his  mandate  and 
the  actions  he  has 
conducted, in particular, those aiming at achieving the 
goals  and  aspirations  of  all  Member  States 
in 
promoting the principle of the peaceful use of nuclear 
energy. 

The  Algerian  delegation  is  deeply  honoured  to 
hold  the  chairmanship  of  the  Agency’s  Board  of 
Governors  for  this  year.  In  that  capacity,  I  have  the 
honour  to  introduce  the  draft  resolution  contained  in 
document A/63/L.6.  I  would  thank  all  sponsors  listed 
in  that  document  and  in  the  addendum,  which  will  be 
issued  later.  I  would  also  like  to  say  that  the  list  of 
sponsors is still open. 

The draft resolution submitted for the Assembly’s 
consideration  reflects  a  broad  consensus  among  the 
member  States  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA), reached during earlier consultations in 
Vienna. It is a simple, concise and factual text based on 
resolution  62/2,  which  the  Assembly  adopted  by 
consensus  at  its  sixty-second  session.  The  proposed 
resolution takes note of the annual report of the IAEA 
and  the  resolutions  adopted  by  the  Agency’s  General 
Conference,  held  in  Vienna  from  29  September  to 
4 October  2008.  It  reaffirms  the  Assembly’s  strong 
support  for  the  indispensable  role  of  the  Agency  in 
encouraging the development and practical application 
of  atomic  energy  for  peaceful  uses  and  in  technology 
transfer  to  developing  countries,  as  well  as  in  nuclear 
safety,  verification  and  security.  It  also  appeals  to 
4 

08-56886 
As 
in 
the  past, 


Member  States  to  continue  to  support  the  work  of  the 
Agency. 

It  is  my  hope  that  the  General  Assembly  will 
adopt the draft resolution without a vote, as it did in its 
previous session. 
Mr. De Rivière (France) (spoke in French): I am 

honoured  to  take  the  floor  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union  and  Croatia  and Albania.  The  European  Union 
would  like  to  congratulate  the  Secretariat  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and 
Mr. Mohamed  ElBaradei,  its  Director  General,  for  the 
Agency’s excellent work in the course of the past year. 
We  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Director  General  for 
his report on the activities of the IAEA in 2008. 
The  European  Union  member  States  are  pleased 

with  the  outcome  of  the  52nd  General  Conference  of 
the  IAEA,  held  in  Vienna  from  29  September  to 
4 October  2008,  particularly  with  the  resolutions  and 
decisions that were adopted there. 

the  European  Union  has 
co-sponsored  the  draft  resolution  on  the  report  of  the 
IAEA (A/63/L.6) and we support its content. The draft 
resolution, co-sponsored by more 41 countries, reflects 
a  broad  agreement  among  the  member  States  of  the 
IAEA.  We  sincerely  praise  the  efforts  made  by  the 
Chair of the Board of Governors of the IAEA, and we 
hope  that  the  draft  resolution  will  be  adopted  by 
consensus, as was the case last year. 

the  IAEA  Statute  — 
verification,  safety  and  nuclear  applications  —  are 
more  topical  than  ever,  with  nuclear  proliferation 
building  up  throughout  the  world.  As  a  result,  the 
European  Union  attaches  great  importance  to  the 
content  of 
they  contribute 
significantly  to  promoting  peace  and  security  in  the 
world. 

The European Union reaffirms its full support for 
the  work  carried  out  by  the  Agency  in  serving  the 
objectives of peaceful nuclear cooperation and nuclear 
safety.  The  IAEA  remains  the  best  qualified  forum  to 
ensure  responsible  use  of  the  inalienable  right  to  the 
peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy.  We  also  acknowledge 
that  it  plays  a  crucial  role  in  the  field  of  nuclear 
verification at the global level. That role is all the more 
vital,  as  the  world  is  currently  facing  very  disturbing 
proliferation crises. 
those  pillars,  because 
The 
three  pillars  of 
08-56886 

A/63/PV.31

With  respect  to  nuclear  safety,  we  would  like  to 
mention  once  again  the  Agency’s  Nuclear  Security 
Fund, which the European Union consistently supports. 
We  invite  all  States  to  commit  to  contribute  to  that 
Fund without delay. 

The general safeguards agreements and additional 
protocols  of  the Agency  constitute  the  standard  in  the 
area of verification. The European Union believes that 
they  are  prerequisites  to  an  effective  and  credible 
safeguards  system.  All  member  States  of  the  IAEA 
must honour all their obligations with respect to those 
safeguards agreements.  

The European Union is also working to make the 
additional protocol a condition for the export of nuclear 
materials. Additional protocols have been in force since 
May 2004 in all member States of the European Union. 
We  urge  all  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  ratify 
that protocol without delay. Adhering to that instrument 
is, indeed, one of the crucial ways to verify that States 
parties have respected their obligations under article III, 
of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons.  Equally,  we  call  on  all  States  that  have  not 
yet  done  so  to  sign  and  implement  without  delay  their 
respective 
safeguards  agreements  and  additional 
protocols, because those two instruments strengthen the 
international  non-proliferation  regime. They  contribute 
to  the  safety  of  all  States  and  increase  the  confidence 
necessary  for  international  cooperation  with  a  view  to 
the exclusively peaceful use of nuclear energy. 
In that regard, the European Union is pleased that 

implementation  of 
the  additional  protocol  and 
transparency  measures  that  go  beyond  that  instrument 
has  allowed  the  IAEA  to  conclude  that  there  are  no 
longer  any  pending  issues  concerning  verification  in 
Libya and that inspections there can continue routinely. 

Through our joint action within the framework of 
the  European  Union’s  collective  security  and  foreign 
policy,  we  support  the  Agency’s  nuclear  verification 
and safety activities. We also support the strengthening 
of  legislative  competence  and  national  regulations  for 
the  implementation  of  international  instruments  on 
nuclear safety and on verification of nuclear materials 
and other radioactive matter. 

Strengthening  the  ability  of  States  to  detect  and 
fight  the  illicit  trade  in  nuclear  materials  and  other 
radioactive  matter 
is  another  significant  area  of 
cooperation  between  the  European  Union  and  the 
Agency. The safety and security of radioactive sources 
5 
The  Agency  must  continue 
A/63/PV.31 

and  the  role  of  the  Code  of  Conduct  adopted  by  the 
General  Conference  of  the  Agency  in  2003  are  of 
particular  importance  to  us  all.  That  is  why  the 
European Union has made a commitment to respect the 
Code, in accordance with the European directive on the 
control of high-activity sealed radioactive sources and 
orphan  sources.  The  European  Union  urges  all 
countries  to  declare  their  willingness  to  respect  the 
Code and to implement the instructions for the import 
and export of radioactive sources. 

The Agency continues to play a fundamental role 
in  the  global  fight  against  nuclear  terrorism  and  the 
spread  of  nuclear  weapons.  It  is  important  for  the 
members of the Agency to recognize the true value of 
its impartial expertise. 

The  European  Union  regrets  that  more  than  100 
States  have  yet  to  sign  additional  protocols  and  to 
implement them. We urge those States to do so without 
delay. 

to  contribute 
resolutely  to  reducing  all  risks  linked  to  nuclear 
activity, both from the point of view of safety and the 
international  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.  In  that 
regard,  the  European  Union  believes  that  it  is  time  to 
develop practical measures with respect to multilateral 
approaches  to  the  fuel  cycle.  Balanced  multilateral 
mechanisms  would  significantly  contribute  to  meeting 
the  concerns  of  beneficiary  countries  concerning  the 
safety  of  supply  by  facilitating  access  to  nuclear  fuel 
and associated services, by reducing the need to invest 
in  complex  and  expensive  cycle  technologies  and  by 
reducing concerns with respect to nuclear proliferation 
and safety.  

is  currently  carefully 
considering  the  possibility  of  making  a  financial 
contribution to the ambitious nuclear fuel bank project 
under the auspices of IAEA. The EU would like to take 
this  opportunity  to  thank  the Agency  for  its  efforts  in 
creating  a  more  peaceful  and  safer  world  and  would 
like to reaffirm its full support. It is our great pleasure 
to once again this year sponsor the draft resolution on 
the Agency’s report. 
in 

Spanish): It is an honour for me to speak on behalf of 
the  Common  Market  of  the  South  (MERCOSUR) 
member  and  associated  States:  Argentina,  Brazil, 
Bolivia,  Chile,  Colombia,  Ecuador,  Paraguay,  Peru, 
Uruguay and Venezuela.  
Mr.  De  Macedo  Soares  (Brazil)  (spoke 
Additionally, 
the  EU 

to 
like 
thank 

MERCOSUR  member  and  associated  States 
would  like  to  thank  the  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA), 
Mr. Mohammed  ElBaradei,  for  his  presence  and  his 
presentation  of  the  main  aspects  of  the  Agency’s 
activities.  We  would 
the  Algerian 
delegation  for  its  presentation  of  the  draft  resolution 
(A/63/L.6) on the Agency’s report. We would also like 
the  successful 
to  express  our  satisfaction  with 
conclusion  of 
the  Presidency  of 
the  Board  of 
Governors  by  Chile,  one  of  the  MERCOSUR  member 
and associated States. 

The  IAEA  constitutes  a  fundamental  multilateral 
forum dedicated to the promotion of the peaceful uses 
of  atomic  energy.  Our  countries  highly  appreciate  the 
Agency  and  the  efforts  undertaken  to  define  its  future 
activities.  In  this  connection,  MERCOSUR  member 
and associated States would like to thank the Director 
General for the creation of the Commission of Eminent 
Persons,  charged  with  the  task  of  analysing  the 
evolution  of  the  needs  and  circumstances  that  will 
affect the work and functions of the Agency until 2020 
and beyond. 

The  Commission  constitutes  a  valuable  initiative 
that  can  contribute  to  a  better  understanding  of  the 
future challenges of the Agency and the issues that will 
need to be discussed by member States, which continue 
to be the ones responsible for determining the priorities 
of the Agency’s future activities. 

The  report  tackles  issues  of  different  nature  and 
complexity, and its suggestions will undoubtedly be of 
great  use  in  the  analysis  and  discussions  among 
member States about the role of the Agency until 2020. 
We take note of the increasing importance attributed by 
the  Agency’s  report  to  its  safeguards  activities.  We 
consider  that  such  activities  constitute  one  of  the 
statutory  pillars  and  should  not  serve  to  weaken  the 
promotional functions of the Agency. 

MERCOSUR  member  and  associated  States  are 
concerned about compliance by all States parties to the 
Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  (NPT)  with  their 
obligations  in  the  fields  of  nuclear  disarmament, 
nuclear  non-proliferation  and 
the  promotion  of 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy.  In  this  context,  we 
underline  the  inalienable  right  of  States  to  develop 
nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes  in  accordance 
with article IV of the NPT. 
6 

08-56886 
to 
the 
We 
recognize 
importance  of 



Allow me to stress that any intent to redefine the 
delicate balance of rights and obligations contained in 
the Treaty, and, in so doing, to question the legitimacy 
of  member  States’  aspirations 
technological 
development  for  exclusively  peaceful  purposes  may 
contribute to a weakening of the system that the Treaty 
has created and that enjoys general acceptance. 

MERCOSUR  member  and  associated  States 
express full support for the authority of the Agency as 
the competent body to verify compliance on the part of 
member States with their obligations under safeguards 
agreements.  

In  connection  with  the  so-called  assurances  of 
supply of nuclear fuel  and  the Agency’s  potential role 
in that regard, we believe the issue still requires a deep 
analysis by all member States. It is imperative that this 
concept not weaken the rights enshrined in the NPT nor 
disturb the delicate balance of the Treaty. 
technical 

cooperation  and  assistance  in  the  multilateral  field 
through  active  participation  in  the  IAEA  Technical 
Cooperation  Programme 
the  Cooperation 
Agreement  for  the  Promotion  of  Nuclear  Science  and 
Technology in Latin America and the Caribbean, under 
the presidency of Argentina since last September. 

We also recognize with satisfaction the efforts of 
the Agency and member States aimed at strengthening 
international  cooperation  in  the  field  of  nuclear  and 
radiological  security,  transport  and  management  of 
waste.  In  particular,  we  would  like  to  highlight  the 
progress  achieved  in  the  various  activities  aimed  at 
the 
maintaining  and 
information  and 
for 
nuclear  radiological  safety  and 
the  national  and 
in  charge  of  radioactive 
regulatory 
sources. 

We  also  underline  the  efficacy  of  the  IAEA 
verification  system  as  an  instrument  to  assure  the 
international  community  of  the  peaceful  purposes  of 
nuclear  programmes.  Without  prejudice,  we  consider 
that  efforts  to  improve  the  efficiency  of  safeguards 
should continue, with the help of member States. 

Allow  me  to  make  special  mention  of  the 
common  system  of  accounting  and  control  applied  by 
the  Brazilian-Argentine  Agency  for  Accounting  and 
Control  of  Nuclear  Materials,  as  well  as  the  valuable 
cooperation between this Agency and the IAEA. At the 
increasing  security,  such  as 
telecommunication  networks 
infrastructure 
and 
A/63/PV.31
is 
the 
Given 
fundamental 
We  believe 
bilateral  level,  we  welcome  the  letter,  dated  3  March 
2008, sent by Argentina and Brazil to the IAEA on the 
peaceful uses of nuclear energy. 

the  medium-term  projections  of  a 
substantial  increase  in  the  use  of  nuclear  electric 
energy  and  cognizant  of  the  fact  that  access  to  viable 
sources  of  sufficient  energy 
to 
development, we support the efforts undertaken by the 
IAEA to strengthen activities related to nuclear science 
and  technology  and  their  growing  contribution  to  the 
resolution  of  key  issues  for  member  States  in  vital 
areas  such  as  agriculture,  food,  human  health,  energy 
production,  management  of  water 
resources  and 
environmental protection. 

Similarly,  we  note  the  work  of  the Agency  with 
regard  to  the  renewed  interest  in  nuclear  electric 
energy,  and  we  support  efforts  to  ensure  that  all 
developments  in  that  field  are  accessible  to  all  those 
interested in nuclear energy. 

long-term  management  and 
disposal  of  spent  fuel  and  waste  continues  to  be  a 
challenge in light of the growing use of nuclear electric 
energy and the increase in the spent fuel inventory. We 
recognize  the  efforts  of  the  secretariat  on  the  options 
for  the  final  geological  disposal  of  high-level  waste, 
long-lived waste and spent fuel. 
To conclude, allow me to express our support for 

IAEA  efforts  to  combat  nuclear  and  radiological 
terrorism and for the activities of the Agency aimed at 
the  universal  application  of 
legal 
instruments  on  the  physical  protection  of  materials  in 
nuclear installations and radioactive sources. 
Ms.  Chabau  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Cuba 

considers  that  the  technical  cooperation  activities  of 
the  International Atomic  Energy Agency  (IAEA)  play 
an  essential  role,  since  they  enable  the  application  of 
nuclear technologies and sciences to benefit social and 
economic development. 

The  Agency’s  technical  cooperation  pillar  must 
be  strengthened  and  given  the  necessary  resources, 
unconditionally and in accordance with its priority. The 
Programme of Action for Cancer Therapy, for instance, 
is  evidence  of  the  benefits  of  nuclear  technology  in 
important areas for people. Such programmes must be 
given 
their  effective 
implementation. 
the  necessary  resources  for 
international 
08-56886 

7 
for 
the 
under 
IAEA 
important 
A/63/PV.31 


Nuclear technologies are applied in Cuba in vital 
areas,  namely  public  health  care,  agriculture,  food, 
hydrology and environmental protection. That explains 
our  strong  commitment  to  the  promotion  of  IAEA 
technical cooperation activities. 

Last year, Cuba met its financial obligations with 
respect  to  the  IAEA  Technical  Cooperation  Fund  on 
time  and  in  full.  Over  90  per  cent  of  our  national 
projects  were  implemented,  and  our  country  provided 
30 international experts and 11 professors. 
The  priority  Cuba  accords  to  cooperation  among 

developing countries is evidenced by our participation 
in Coordinated Research Programmes and the Regional 
Cooperative  Arrangements 
the  Promotion  of 
Nuclear Science and Technology in Latin America. 
Cuba’s commitment and capacity to participate in 

actions 
technical 
cooperation  pillar  are  adversely  affected  as  a 
consequence  of  the  illegal  and  criminal  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade  that  the  United 
States  Government  has  imposed  on  Cuba  for  nearly 
five  decades.  According  to  conservative  calculations, 
as  of  December  2007  the  blockade  has  resulted  in 
losses of over $93 billion for Cuba.  

As a result of this criminal policy, it continues to 
be  difficult  for  our  country  to  acquire  the  very 
important equipment and reagents needed for technical 
cooperation  projects.  Likewise,  the  visas  for  Cuban 
specialists 
from 
participating  in  the  IAEA  technical  meetings  that  take 
place in the United States. 

All  the  fields  in  which  the  IAEA  acts  under  its 
mandate are important and an adequate balance among 
them must be kept. Cuba rejects any attempt to favour 
the rest of the Agency’s pillars to the detriment of the 
technical  cooperation,  which  needs 
stable  and 
predictable resources. 

Cuba will actively participate in the consideration 
of  the  report  on  the  role  of  the  IAEA  up  to  2020  and 
beyond.  We  are  convinced  that  the  elaboration  of  the 
Agency’s vision for the future has to be the outcome of 
a  comprehensive  and  deep  analysis  process,  which 
includes the active participation of all member States. 

Our  country  rejects  any  attempt  to  use  nuclear 
fuel  supply  as  a  means  of  political  or  economic 
coercion or as a mechanism to establish the monopoly 
of  a  few  countries  over  the  distribution  of  such  fuel. 
are  denied 
to  prevent 
them 

that 
reaffirm 
importance 
Cuba  attaches  great 
Likewise, we oppose any attempt to impose safeguards 
obligations  on  some  States  that  go  beyond  their  legal 
commitments. 

to  radiation 
safety.  We  continue,  in  our  country,  to  develop  the 
required  infrastructure  and  to  train  the  necessary  staff 
in  this  field.  Our  country  is  proud  of  its  results 
concerning  non-proliferation,  reflected  in  the  report 
submitted to the IAEA Board of Governors in March. It 
is  important  to  highlight  that  —  merely  4  years  after 
Cuba signed the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty, full-
scope  safeguards  agreements  and  an  additional 
protocol  —  we  find  ourselves  in  a  small  group  of 
47 countries in which the IAEA secretariat did not find 
any  diversion  of  declared  nuclear  material  nor  any 
indication  of  non-declared  nuclear  material  or 
activities. 

the  Agency’s  verification 
We 
activities  must  be  carried  out  in  an  impartial  and 
unbiased  manner.  All  attempts  to  put  pressure  on  or 
improperly interfere with verification activities, which 
jeopardize 
the  efficiency  and  credibility  of  such 
activities, must be rejected. Verification must preserve 
its essentially technical character. 

that  only 
unconditional  dialogue  based  on  equality  and  mutual 
respect  will  lead  to  the  solution  of  the  so-called  Iran 
nuclear case. The inalienable right of States, including 
Iran,  to  use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes, 
without  discrimination  and  in  accordance  with  their 
respective legal obligations, must be strictly respected. 
The IAEA is the only relevant authority that can verify 
the  fulfilment  of  the  obligations  undertaken  under  the 
safeguard agreements of member States. 
Notwithstanding  the  proclaimed  end  of  the  cold 

war,  there  are  some  25,000  nuclear  weapons  in  the 
world,  10,200  of  which  are  ready  for  immediate  use. 
Nuclear weapons upgrading programmes have not been 
halted.  Instead  of  supporting  nuclear  disarmament, 
which is and must continue to be the highest priority in 
the  field  of  disarmament,  we  see  the  promotion  of 
stockpiling  arms  and  wasting  money  on  new  weapons 
and  weapons  systems.  The  mere  existence  of  nuclear 
weapons  and  doctrines  based  on  their  possession  and 
use,  poses  a  serious  danger  to  international  peace  and 
security. 
Cuba  rejects  the  selective  implementation  of  the 

NPT.  Issues  related  to  nuclear  disarmament  and  the 
conviction 
reaffirms 
Cuba 
its 
8 

08-56886 
like 
energy 
is 
essential 
horizontal 
sources  of 
to  express  my  gratitude 


peaceful use of nuclear energy must not continue to be 
disregarded  while 
non-proliferation 
flourishes.  I  would  like  to  close  by  reiterating  Cuba’s 
full support for the important work of the IAEA in the 
promotion  of  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  in  a 
secure way. 
Mr.  Khazaee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  At  the 

outset,  I  would 
to 
Mr. ElBaradei,  Director  General  of  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), for his valuable efforts 
and for the insightful report to the General Assembly on 
the main activities of the Agency during the year 2007.  
As  he  rightly  mentioned,  access  to  reliable  and 

adequate 
for 
development. The demand for energy around the world 
has  been  growing  significantly  in  the  past  decade  and 
will  continue  to  do  so  in  the  future.  As  a  renewable 
source of energy, nuclear energy provides an attractive 
and  appropriate  option  for  many  countries.  Nuclear 
power  would  not  only  help  to  meet  the  increased 
demand  for  energy,  but  would  also  serve  as  a 
climatically  benign  source  of  energy.  That  has  led  a 
substantial  number  of 
in  particular 
developing countries, to embark upon planning for the 
construction  of  nuclear  power  reactors  as  well  as 
significant expansions in their existing programmes. 

As  Mr.  ElBaradei  also  mentioned,  a  nuclear 
renaissance is on the horizon. In this context and given 
the mandate and scientific capabilities of the IAEA, the 
Agency  has  a  special  mandate  in  relation  to  the 
management  and  strengthening  of  civilian  use  of 
nuclear  power.  Efforts  to  strengthen  those  technical 
cooperation  activities  of 
the  Agency  aimed  at 
improving  the  capabilities  of  developing  countries  in 
nuclear  energy  production  as  a  component  of  their 
energy mix should be pursued as a matter of priority. 

The  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons (NPT) has reaffirmed the important objective 
of  the Agency  and  recognized  the  inalienable  right  of 
all  NPT  States  parties  to  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
energy. Under article IV of the NPT, States parties have 
undertaken to facilitate the fullest possible exchange of 
equipment,  materials  and  scientific  and  technological 
information  for  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy.  In 
fact,  the  inalienable  right  of  all  NPT  States  parties  to 
nuclear  technology  for  peaceful  purposes,  without 
discrimination,  constitutes  one  of  the  three  major 
pillars 
founded. 
upon  which 
the  NPT 
countries, 
is 
A/63/PV.31
Notwithstanding  such  requirements,  cooperation  by 
developed countries, the main suppliers of nuclear high 
technology, with developing nations has remained at an 
unsatisfactory level. 

In fact, nuclear cooperation between suppliers and 
recipients has been beset by restrictions, obstacles  and 
disruption. Instead of promoting cooperation, a nuclear 
haves  club,  replete  with  discrimination  and  lack  of 
transparency, has been created, inter alia, to hamper the 
access  of  NPT-party  developing  countries  to  nuclear 
power technology under the pretext of non-proliferation 
concerns. To remedy this shortcoming, the IAEA could 
and should play a decisive role by vigorously pursuing 
a  balanced  and  non-discriminatory  application  of  the 
provisions  of  the  NPT  and  the  IAEA  safeguards. 
Attempts to politicize the work of the IAEA, including 
its technical cooperation programme, are in violation of 
the IAEA Statute and will only impede the ability of the 
Agency  to  carry  out  its  responsibilities  in  an  orderly 
fashion. 

The application of safeguards is among the main 
functions of the Agency. While great efforts have been 
made  by  the  Agency  to  apply  and  promote  the 
universality  of  the  safeguards  to  all  relevant  nuclear 
activities,  it  is  distressing  that  some  members  of  the 
Agency  have  yet  to  conclude  their  Comprehensive 
Safeguards Agreements.  We  call  on  all  such  members 
to  fulfil  their  obligations  at  the  earliest  possible 
opportunity. 

Furthermore,  there  is  a  dangerous  trend  at  work 
that seeks to move away from preserving the NPT and 
ensuring  its  universality.  Under  that  trend,  those  who 
have  chosen  not  to  accede  to  the  NPT  are  not  only 
subject to no pressure to do so, but are also encouraged 
and  rewarded  in  various  ways  including  through 
nuclear cooperation. As an example, the Zionist regime 
has  been  allowed  to  acquire  a  sizeable  stockpile  of 
nuclear weapons in the volatile Middle East region and 
to  defy  the  will  of  all  regional  States  and  the 
international community to turn the Middle East into a 
nuclear-weapon-free zone. 

I note the concerns raised today by Mr. ElBaradei 
on  the  security  aspects  of  the  issue  and  the  possible 
diversion 
into 
weaponization programmes. In this regard, I would like 
to  emphasize  the  major  concern  there  is  about  the 
nuclear activities of countries that are not party to the 
NPT and have nuclear weapons programmes. However, 
activities 
peaceful 
nuclear 
of 
08-56886 

9 

A/63/PV.31 

we  should  be  cautious  against  creating  the  impression 
that  membership  in  the  NPT  as  a  non-nuclear-weapon 
State  may  be  an  impediment  to  the  peaceful  use  of 
nuclear technology. 

I  would  like  to  make  some  points  regarding  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran’s  peaceful  nuclear  program. 
Iran, as a party to the NPT, considers the development 
of  nuclear  technology  for  peaceful  purposes  to  be  its 
inalienable  right  and  has  thus  invested  extensive 
human  and  material  resources  in  the  field  of  nuclear 
power.  This  policy  is  based  on  long-term  planning 
aimed  at  meeting  the  growing  energy  needs  of  the 
country.  As  we  have  stressed  time  and  again,  Iran’s 
nuclear  programme  has  been,  is  and  will  remain 
completely  peaceful.  All  reports  issued  by  the  IAEA 
since  November  2003  bear  witness  to  the  peaceful 
nature  of  the  Iranian  nuclear  programme  and  the 
Agency  has  repeatedly  reaffirmed  that  it  has  not  seen 
indications  of  diversion  of  nuclear  material  to  nuclear 
weapons or other nuclear explosive devices. As a result 
of Iran’s proactive cooperation and full transparency in 
the  implementation  of  the  work  plan  agreed  between 
Iran  and  the  IAEA  in  the  summer  of  2007,  all 
outstanding safeguard implementation issues have been 
resolved  and  closed,  as  indicated  by  Mr.  ElBaradei 
today.  Naturally,  according  to  the  modality  agreed  in 
the  work  plan 
IAEA  document 
INFCIRC/711,  the  implementation  of  safeguards  in 
Iran must become normalized. In that regard, the IAEA 
secretariat’s observance of the mutual understanding as 
reflected in the agreed work plan is key.  
What  have  been  characterized  as  alleged  studies 

are  nothing  but  fabricated  documents  given  to  the 
Agency by a certain country. They have nothing to do 
with 
the 
implementation of the safeguards agreement regarding 
nuclear  activities.  In  the  meantime,  Iran  has  been 
denied  originals  or  even  copies  of  documents  relating 
to those allegations. As a gesture of good faith, to the 
extent  possible,  we  have  already  provided  the  IAEA 
with our assessments of alleged studies.  

Without  a  doubt,  rather  than  stemming  from 
so-called proliferation concerns, the move to bring the 
Iranian  nuclear  file  to  the  Security  Council  and  the 
intention  of  the  sponsors  of  resolutions  adopted  thus 
far  have  emanated  from  their  ulterior  motives  and 
narrow  national  considerations  in  order  to  deprive  the 
Iranian  people  of  their  inalienable  rights.  In  that 
regard, the demand for the suspension of enrichment is 
issues  emanating  from 
the  verification 
recorded 
in 
to 
hold 
inalienable  right 
in  contravention  of 
illegal,  ultra  vires  and 
the 
provisions  of  the  NPT.  The  Iranian  nation  will  never 
accept illegal demands. 

The President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, in 
his address to the General Assembly on 23 September 
2008, reiterated that the Iranian nation is for dialogue. 
By  presenting  various  offers,  including  its  proposed 
package for constructive negotiations to the 5+1 Group 
in  May  2008,  Iran  has  already  demonstrated  its  firm 
determination 
negotiations  without 
preconditions  to  find  solutions  to  issues  arising  from 
the unjust and prejudicial  approach of certain Powers. 
The 5+1 Group has yet to provide its response to Iran’s 
proposed package. The policy of a few Powers to insist 
on suspension as a precondition for negotiations bears 
zero  relation  to  reality  and  is  an  irrational  and  failed 
policy.  Instead  of  applying  economic  leverage  and 
political  pressure,  a  solution  that  is  based  on  reality, 
common concerns and obligations should be pursued as 
a viable alternative. 

Finally,  the  people  and  the  Government  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  are  determined  to  exercise 
their 
technology  for 
peaceful purposes  and to build on their  own scientific 
advances in developing various peaceful aspects of that 
technology, 
Iran’s 
commitment  to  its  obligations  under  the  NPT  is 
steadfast.  We  ask  nothing  more  than  to  exercise  our 
inalienable rights.  
Mr.  Baum  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  my  delegation,  I  would  like  to  thank 
Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  and  all 
the  staff  of  the  Agency’s  secretariat  for  the  excellent 
work they have done in the past year. The latest annual 
report  (see  A/63/276)  is  a  testament  to  the  excellent 
quality  and  scope  of  their  work.  We  express  our  full 
support  for  the Agency. We  are  pleased  to  once  again 
be  a  sponsor  of  the  draft  resolution  (A/63/L.6)  on  the 
IAEA’s annual report. We hope that the draft resolution 
will, as usual, be adopted by consensus. 

The IAEA is currently at a crossroads, to employ 
the  word  used  by  Mr.  ElBaradei  at  the  opening  of  the 
Agency’s 
in 
September  of  this  year.  That  word  is  fully  justified 
given  two  important  developments  that  have  emerged 
since  the  last  session  of  the  General Assembly,  which 
we wish to refer to by way of illustration. 
fifty-second  General  Conference 
to  nuclear 
including 
cycle. 
the 
fuel 
10 

08-56886 
to  waive 



First,  the  report  of  the  Commission  of  Eminent 
Persons on the future of the agency, headed by former 
Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo, which is known as 
the  20/20  report,  stressed  the  fact  that  progress  in  the 
area  of  nuclear  disarmament  is  essential  to  advancing 
the guarantee agenda. 

Secondly,  the  decision  by  the  Nuclear  Suppliers 
Group 
the  application  of  generalized 
guarantees as a condition for nuclear cooperation with 
India  undoubtedly  creates  new  challenges  with  regard 
to  the  application  of  the  IAEA  system  of  generalized 
guarantees,  including  the  Additional  Protocol.  It  is 
necessary  to  acknowledge  that  the  non-proliferation 
regime as we know it has reached a turning point and 
that  we  must,  without  further  delay,  initiate  a  process 
of reflection in order to establish the appropriate basis 
to  achieve  the  goal  of  a  universal  non-proliferation 
regime. 

My delegation believes that those two aspects are 
closely  linked.  We  must  be  careful  to  ensure  that 
certain  recent  developments  do  not  further  complicate 
the increasing challenge faced by the IAEA because of 
the balance that it must preserve between its activities 
in the area of cooperation on civil nuclear technology, 
on  the  one  hand,  and  its  activities  to  control  the 
peaceful  use  of  nuclear  technology,  on  the  other. 
Switzerland, which is currently a member of the IAEA 
Board  of  Governors,  will  continue  to  strongly  support 
the Agency as its carries out its mission. 
Mr.  Dapkiunas  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

Belarus,  which  was  present  at  the  founding  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  very 
actively  supports  the  Agency’s  activities.  We  are 
satisfied that the Agency has become a highly regarded 
and  cautious  organization  that  strives  to  ensure  that 
nuclear  energy  is  used  in  the  safest  possible  manner 
and  for  exclusively  peaceful  purposes.  The  Agency 
also  works  actively  to  resolve  a  set  of  pressing 
international  problems.  Its  activities  are  characterized 
by a high degree of professionalism.  

Belarus  reiterates  its  consistent  position  with 
regard  to  the  need  to  strengthen  the  Agency’s  status. 
We believe that global trends in the areas of energy and 
economic  development  require  a  further  strengthening 
of  the  role  of  the  IAEA.  In  order  to  ensure  its 
sustainable  economic  development,  Belarus  took  the 
decision to build its first nuclear power plant. That was 
preceded  by  a  long,  in-depth  and  comprehensive 
A/63/PV.31
the  IAEA 
in 
importance 
to 
implement  a 
to  establishing 
analysis.  The  need  to  ensure  energy  security,  reduce 
carbon emissions and increase trust in safety indicators 
regarding  the  operation  of  nuclear  power  plants,  as 
well  as  the  economic  advantages  and  competitiveness 
of  nuclear  energy,  were  all  factors  that  had  an  impact 
on our decision to develop a peaceful national nuclear 
programme. 

Work  is  currently  under  way  in  Belarus  to 
establish  and  improve  the  necessary  capacity  and 
infrastructure 
large-scale  nuclear 
energy  project.  We  are  drafting  and  adopting  nuclear-
energy-related legislation and improving the structures 
that  regulate  nuclear  and  radiological  safety.  Work  is 
also  under  way  to  select  a  site  for  the  construction  of 
the nuclear power plant.  
Belarus  is  keen  to  establish  the  closest  possible 

cooperation  with 
implementing  our 
national nuclear programme. We believe that the active 
technical  and  expert  cooperation  provided  by  the 
Agency to States implementing nuclear programmes is 
of  critical 
the  basic 
foundations  for  the  safe  utilization  of  nuclear  energy 
throughout  the  world.  Belarus  gives  priority  attention 
to nuclear safety issues. We are especially interested in 
international  cooperation  in  the  area  of  the  safe  and 
reliable  operation  of  nuclear  facilities,  including  the 
management  of  radioactive  sources  and  spent  nuclear 
fuel.  

More  than  anyone  else,  we  in  Belarus  are  aware 
of the possible consequences of the lack of appropriate 
safety  mechanisms  in  the  operation  of  nuclear  power 
plants.  Belarus  has  suffered  more  than  any  other 
country in the world as a result of the worst man-made 
disaster of the twentieth century, which occurred at the 
Chernobyl  nuclear  power  plant.  Belarus  intends  to 
continue to cooperate closely with the IAEA on issues 
pertaining  to  the  rehabilitation  of  areas  that  were 
contaminated in the Chernobyl disaster. We expect the 
Agency to participate actively in the implementation of 
the United  Nations Action Plan on Chernobyl to 2016 
and  in  the  Decade  of  Recovery  and  Sustainable 
Development of the Affected Regions.  

Belarus  does  not  intend  to  limit  itself  to  the 
development  of  nuclear  energy.  We  have  decided  that 
independence  from  any  single  source  in  the  operation 
of  any  system  —  from  financial  systems  to  energy 
systems — makes it possible to avoid crises, including 
global ones. We are resolute supporters of diversifying 
08-56886 

11 
to 
an 
and 
sources 
establish 
supplies, 
including 
international 
A/63/PV.31 

energy 
by 
mainstreaming  alternative  technologies  and  renewable 
sources of energy. That is one of the foundations of the 
policy  of  responsible  international  cooperation  in  the 
area of energy championed by Belarus. 

There is a need to ensure fair access by all States 
to energy conservation technologies that are clean and 
economically  rational  and  that  exploit  new  sources  of 
energy through a global United Nations mechanism to 
regulate  the  process.  In  that  regard,  during  the  course 
of  this  session  of  the  General Assembly,  we  intend  to 
hold a thematic debate on ensuring access by all States 
to  energy  conservation  technologies  and  the  use  of 
alternative  and  renewable  sources  of  energy  while,  of 
course,  taking  into  account  the  issue  of  intellectual 
property rights.  

It is clear that there is a need for a comprehensive 
approach to the energy crisis. That is why we welcome 
the decision of Mr. ElBaradei, Director General of the 
IAEA, 
energy 
organization. We share the view regarding the need for 
coordinated  efforts  in  the  area  of  energy  and  related 
fields,  such  as  socio-economic  development,  climate 
change and poverty reduction. 
One of the core functions of the IAEA’s activities 

is 
to 
nuclear 
non-proliferation  regime  established.  Belarus  believes 
that,  while  taking  into  account  the  provisions  of  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT)  and 
IAEA,  existing 
international mechanisms must work together to ensure 
equal  and  non-discriminatory  access  by  all  interested 
States  to  the  benefits  of  nuclear  energy.  We  cannot 
agree to a practice whereby the readiness to cooperate 
in  the  area  of  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  is 
used  by  developed  States  as  a  way  to  exert  political 
pressure  on  developing  States. We  believe  that  such  a 
peaceful nuclear bludgeon should not be used in cases 
where Governments comply with their commitments in 
the area of non-proliferation.  

In  current  circumstances,  given  the  new  threats 
and challenges facing the international community, the 
role  of  the  NPT  and  that  of  the  IAEA  as  the  sole 
international  organization  established  to  ensure  the 
necessary  balance  between  the  development  of  the 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  and  compliance  with 
the  regime  established  by  the  Treaty  is  increasingly 
important.  Belarus  attaches  great  importance  to  the 
the  Statute  of 
international 
strengthen 
the 
the 

to 
the 
related 
to  non-proliferation 
improve  and  strengthen 
Agency’s  work 
effectiveness of its efforts in the area of safeguards.  

By signing an additional protocol to its safeguards 
agreement  in  2005,  my  country  once  again  reaffirmed 
its commitment to the principles of the non-proliferation 
of  nuclear  weapons  and  the  strengthening  of  the 
Agency’s  authority  in  that  area.  We  also  recognize  the 
role  of  the  international  export  control  regime.  We  in 
Belarus  have  established  an  effective  national  system 
for  exports  control.  As  a  member  of  the  Nuclear 
Suppliers Group, Belarus strictly abides by the Group’s 
Guidelines on the supply and control of products.  

We  believe  that  the  international  community’s 
non-proliferation  efforts  must  be  complemented  by 
concrete  steps  in  the  area  of  nuclear  disarmament  and 
by  the  establishment  and  development  of  confidence-
building  measures  between  nuclear  and  non-nuclear 
States. At  the  same  time,  we  base  our  policies  on  the 
usefulness  of  a  comprehensive  and  realistic  approach 
to  processes 
and 
disarmament.  In  that  regard,  we  should  bear  in  mind 
that one of the most important goals of those processes 
is  to  establish  a  sound  basis  for  enabling  States  to 
exercise  their  right  to  peaceful  nuclear  activities  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  NPT  and  the 
Statute of the IAEA. 

In  conclusion,  we  wish  the  Agency  and  its 
Director  General  every  success  in  their  multifaceted 
efforts  in  the  area  of  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy. 
Mr.  Gumbi  (South  Africa):  South  Africa  would 

also  like  to  congratulate  the  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  for  the 
Agency’s  annual  report  (see  A/63/276)  for  2007.  The 
report  shows  that  the  Agency’s  activities  are  still 
relevant  and  vital  to  enhancing  the  use  of  nuclear 
energy  for  economic  and  social  development  and  in 
preventing  its  diversion  to  non-peaceful  uses.  The 
the  Agency’s 
report  also 
determination 
enlarge 
the 
contribution of atomic energy to health and prosperity 
throughout  the  world  in  a  professional,  efficient  and 
responsible manner. 

My  delegation  would  also  like  to  thank  the 
representative of Algeria, in its capacity as Chairperson 
of  the  IAEA  Board  of  Governors,  for  introducing  the 
draft resolution contained in document A/63/L.6 for the 
Assembly’s usual consensus adoption. 
instils  confidence 
accelerate 
in 
and 
to 
12 

08-56886 
to 
the  publication  by 
innovative  approaches 



South Africa concurs with the observation of the 
Agency regarding the central role of nuclear power at a 
time of a growing shortfall in energy and rising fossil 
fuel  prices.  It  is  encouraging  that,  in  making  that 
observation,  the  Agency  has  been  equally  mindful  of 
the  need  to  continue  to  seek  innovative  technologies 
aimed  at  ensuring  the  long-term  sustainability  of 
nuclear  power  through  the  International  Project  on 
Innovative Nuclear Reactors and Fuel Cycles (INPRO). 
South  Africa  has  gained  much  from 
its  active 
participation  in  INPRO,  which  has  proven  to  be  a 
useful  forum  for  studying  innovative  nuclear  energy 
systems  and  associated  requirements.  South  Africa 
welcomes 
the  Agency  of 
recommendations  on  INPRO  methodology  for  the 
evaluation  of  different 
innovative  nuclear  energy 
systems. South Africa is certain that more benefits will 
accrue  from  INPRO’s  second  phase,  which  will  focus 
on 
infrastructure  and 
institutional  development 
for  countries  beginning 
nuclear power programmes and on the establishment of 
its  members.  My 
collaborative  projects  between 
delegation  also  commends 
the 
Generation IV International Forum and the role played 
by  that  initiative  in  research  activities  on  six  next-
generation nuclear energy systems. 

South  Africa  believes  that  the  Agency’s  role  in 
creating  an  enabling  environment  for  applications  of 
nuclear  technology  —  including  as  regards  plant 
breeding  for  greater  food  security,  the  sterile  insect 
the  effective 
technique 
management  of  water  and 
life-saving  medical 
procedures — constitutes a creative contribution to the 
improvement  of  living  standards  and  the  achievement 
of the Millennium Development Goals. 
With regard to the food and agriculture sector, my 

delegation  would  like  to  encourage  the  Agency  to 
continue  to  assist  Member  States  with  tools  for  rapid 
diagnosis  and  protocols  for  animal  disease  early 
warning systems, as well as the provision of training to 
increase 
the  use  of  nuclear  and  nuclear-related 
molecular  diagnostic  technologies.  South  Africa  has 
noted  with  appreciation  that  the  Agency’s  technical 
cooperation  and  coordinated  research  projects  in  the 
area of agriculture and food production supported more 
than 60 Member States in 2007. 

My  delegation  likewise  looks  forward  to  greater 
cooperation  between  the  Agency  and  South  Africa’s 
citrus  industry  in  the  fight  against  the  false  codling 
the  activities  of 
insect  pests, 
to  control 
A/63/PV.31
in 
into 
in 
security 
supports 
advancing 
isotope  hydrology 
the  Agency’s  activities 
moth  by  integrating  the  use  of  the  sterile  insect 
technique  with  other  control  tactics.  My  delegation 
also  welcomes  the  progress  made  by  the  Agency  in 
examining  the  feasibility  of  using  the  sterile  insect 
technique against the malaria-transmitting mosquito. 

Like  many  other  developing  countries,  South 
Africa  is  very  much  aware  of  the  instrumental  role  of 
water 
socio-economic 
development.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  my  delegation 
fully 
the 
management of water resources, including its efforts to 
bring 
the  mainstream  of 
national  and 
international  water-resources-related 
programmes.  

South  Africa  believes  that  human  health  is  yet 
another  important  area  where  the  applications  of 
nuclear  technology  play  an  important  role.  In  that 
connection, my delegation welcomes the strengthening 
of collaboration between the Agency, the World Health 
Organization, UNICEF and other partners in the area of 
nutrition and cancer. South Africa strongly supports the 
Agency’s  programme  of  action  on  cancer  therapy,  as 
more than 40 per cent of all cancers can be prevented 
and  more  than  30  per  cent  can  be  cured  if  detected 
early and treated. 

Although  the  Agency’s  annual  report  for  2007 
states  that  the  nuclear  industry  has  continued  to 
demonstrate a high level of safety and security around 
the world, South Africa believes that nuclear safety and 
security  is  an  important  area  that  deserves  continuous 
serious  attention.  It  is  a  cause  of  concern  that  in  the 
period  under  review  there  was  slow  progress  in  the 
number of accessions to and ratifications of the various 
safety  conventions,  which  are  important  in  improving 
safety performance and raising public confidence. 

those  shortcomings,  my  delegation 
welcomes  the  Agency’s  publication  of  new  safety 
requirements  and  guides,  as  well  as  the  use  of  safety 
services  to  support  the  wider  application  of  those 
standards.  My  delegation  also  commends  the  Agency 
for  its  activities  in  the  areas  of  the  control  of 
radioactive  sources,  the  management  of  radioactive 
waste  and  decommissioning,  radiation  protection  for 
patients,  incident  and  emergency  preparedness  and 
response,  and  civil  liability  for  nuclear  damage.  With 
regard  to  nuclear  security,  my  delegation  encourages 
the Agency  to  continue  its  good  work  to  enhance  the 
security of nuclear and other radioactive material. 
Despite 
08-56886 

13 
tools 
to 
instrumental 
the  appropriate 
A/63/PV.31 


South  Africa  agrees  that  the  threat  of  nuclear 
terrorism  is  one  of  the  major  challenges  facing  the 
world  today.  The  issue  of  protecting  against  nuclear 
terrorism is important to South Africa, especially as we 
may  draw  from  the  Agency’s  expertise  and  require 
equipment in the overall security measures to be put in 
place for the soccer world championship to be held in 
South Africa in 2010. 
My  Government  shares  the  Agency’s  view  that 

safeguards  and  verification  are 
in 
facilitating the peaceful use of nuclear applications for 
development.  However,  additional  work  still  needs  to 
to  be  continuously 
be  done.  The  Agency  needs 
equipped  with 
instil 
international  confidence  in  the  fact  that  declared 
nuclear  material  around  the  world  is  fully  accounted 
for  and  that  the  IAEA  is  able  to  verify  that  nuclear 
capabilities are being used for peaceful purposes only, 
as well as to provide assurances regarding the absence 
of undeclared nuclear materials and activities. 

South  Africa  believes  that  it  is  incumbent  upon 
all  States  to  build  confidence  and  provide  assurances 
that  nuclear  capabilities  are  being  used  for  peaceful 
purposes only. In that connection, my delegation urges 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran to heed the calls regarding the 
actions 
the 
implementation  of  their  NPT  safeguards  agreements 
with  the  Agency.  South  Africa  also  calls  on  member 
States to increase their cooperation with the Agency in 
dealing with the illicit network of nuclear proliferation 
activities. 

South  Africa  recognizes  the  indispensable  role 
that  the  additional  protocol  can  play  as  a  further 
measure  to  provide  the  necessary  confidence  and  the 
desired  assurances  that  member  States  apply  their 
nuclear  technology  solely  for  peaceful  purposes  and 
that  no  declared  or  undeclared  material  is  diverted  to 
weapons  programmes.  Inasmuch  as  the  additional 
protocol is voluntary, South Africa believes that it is an 
important  confidence-  and  security-building  measure 
that  continues  to  play  an  essential  role  in  creating  a 
conducive  environment  for  nuclear  disarmament  and 
nuclear non-proliferation. But it should not be used as 
a condition of supply for nuclear material. 
It would be remiss of my delegation to conclude 

its  statement  without  reference 
the  Agency’s 
Technical Cooperation Fund. South Africa believes that 
they  must  undertake  with  regard 
to 

Over 
the  Agency’s  Technical  Cooperation  Fund  deserves 
urgent and decisive action. The Fund is a statutory and 
political  commitment  that  needs  to  be  realized.  The 
Agency’s 
technical  cooperation  projects  constitute 
important  building  blocks  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  to  implement  the  projects  of 
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development, 
especially in the areas of water security and combating 
disease, hunger and poverty. 

the  years,  developing  countries  have 
repeatedly  stressed  the  need  for  the  funding  of  the 
Agency’s  cooperation  projects 
to  be  sufficient, 
predictable  and  assured.  They  have  also  stressed  the 
need to increase the technical cooperation budget, as it 
is  clearly  insufficient.  South  Africa  believes  that  the 
time has arrived to conclusively correct the mistake of 
the  past  50  years  by  incorporating  the  funding  of 
technical cooperation projects into the regular budget. 

As  we  have  done  in  the  past,  I  would  like  to 
conclude  my  statement  by  reiterating  South  Africa’s 
strongly  held  view  that  continuous  and  irreversible 
progress  in  nuclear  disarmament  and  other  related 
nuclear arms control measures remains fundamental to 
the  promotion  of  nuclear  non-proliferation.  The 
systematic  and  progressive  elimination  of  all  nuclear 
weapons  and  the  assurance  that  they  will  never  be 
produced again remain the only guarantee against their 
use. That should remain our goal. Nuclear disarmament 
and nuclear non-proliferation are two sides of the same 
coin  and  are  mutually  reinforcing.  The  verifiable  and 
irreversible  elimination  of  nuclear  weapons  would 
prevent  their  use,  irrespective  of  whose  hands  they 
were in. That would effectively curb their proliferation, 
because you cannot proliferate what you do not have. 
Mr. Orkeldeen (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): At the 

outset,  I  should  like  to  express  my  gratitude  to 
Mr. Mohamed  ElBaradei,  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for  his 
the  Agency’s  annual  report  (see 
introduction  of 
A/63/276)  for 
the  consideration  of 
the  General 
Assembly.  I  should  also  like  to  thank  him  for  the 
information  it  contains  about  the  Agency’s  plans  and 
programmes  of  action 
technical 
cooperation  to  promote  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy  and  maintain  the  international  nuclear  safety 
and security facilities. All of that attests to the growing 
role  of  the  Agency  as  regards  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear energy and development. 
the  area  of 
in 
to 
14 

08-56886 
importance 
The  Sudan  attaches  special 
The  delegation  of  Sudan  underscores 



to 
technological  nuclear  applications  in  the  area  of  food 
security and the use  of state-of-the-art technologies to 
control  insects  and  manage  hydrological  resources, 
both  of  which  are  necessary  components  in  the 
development  of  irrigation  and  large-scale  agricultural 
projects.  We  therefore  hope  that  we  will  continue  to 
enjoy  cooperation  with  UNICEF  in  the  fields  of 
education  and  agriculture  and  with  the  World  Health 
Organization in those areas. The Agency’s assistance to 
States in carrying out their development projects serves 
to complement those efforts. We hope that the Agency 
will  continue  to  expand  its  sanitation  projects  on  the 
regional  and  continental  levels  to  combat  insects  that 
carry  infectious  diseases  such  as  malaria,  so  that  the 
continent  can  combat  such  deadly  diseases  and 
promote its social and economic development, as well 
as the MDGs. 

the 
inalienable right of peoples and States to engage in the 
use  of  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes  without 
discrimination.  We  also  underscore  the  principle  that 
States  must  refrain  from  politicizing  the  vital  role  of 
the  Agency  lest  they  damage  its  credibility.  On  the 
basis  of  that  principle,  we  would  like  to  see  those 
issues  addressed  in  a  fair,  equitable  manner  through 
dialogue  and  negotiations  in  order  to  find  appropriate 
solutions.  

Sudan  would  like  to  underscore  its  support  for 
peoples’ aspirations to turn certain regions of the world 
into  nuclear-weapon-free  zones,  which  is  one  of  the 
fundamental  principles 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace 
security.  Unfortunately, 
although for decades now it has striven to achieve that 
objective,  the  Middle  East  is  far  from  that  goal. 
Unfortunately,  Israel,  the  only  State  that  possesses 
nuclear weapons in the region, has, to date, refused to 
place  its  nuclear  programme  under  IAEA  safeguards 
and  has  disregarded  all  appeals  by  the  international 
community  to  comply. A  commitment  by  Israel  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
and  its  Additional  Protocol  would  strengthen  the 
maintenance of peace in the region.  
My  country’s  delegation  welcomes  the Agency’s 

efforts  on  the  African  continent.  We  welcome  the 
increased  budget  for  fighting  disease  and  for  medical 
support  in  that  field.  We  call  upon  the  Agency  to 
devote additional resources to the fight against disease 
for 
and 
A/63/PV.31
Having  reviewed 
the  annual  report  of 
and  poverty  throughout  the  world  and  the  African 
continent in particular.  
Mr.  Alazemi  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

General  Assembly  is  discussing  today  an  important 
item  on  its  agenda  that  is  closely  associated  with  the 
principles  on  which  the  United  Nations  was  founded, 
namely,  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security. 

the 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the State 
of  Kuwait  expresses  its  most  sincere  appreciation  to 
the  Director  General  of  the  Agency,  Mr.  Mohamed 
ElBaradei,  and  all  his  staff  for  the  efforts  they  have 
made  and  for  their  tireless  work  to  achieve  the 
objectives  and  aspirations  of  the  world’s  peoples  and 
States  by  strengthening  the  principles  of  the  peaceful 
use of nuclear energy for the good of humanity. 

We  also  convey  our  thanks  and  gratitude  to  the 
Permanent Representative of Algeria for introducing to 
the General Assembly the draft resolution on the report 
of  the  IAEA  for  the  year  2007  (A/63/L.6),  for  which 
my country will vote. 

The State of Kuwait, since it joined the Treaty on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  on 
15 August 1986, has concentrated on cooperation with 
the Department of Technical Cooperation of the IAEA 
and on the implementation of a set of projects dealing 
with  building  its  own  capacities  and  establishing 
special laboratories to measure the level of radioactive 
isotopes found in Kuwait’s water and soil. On the basis 
of its belief in the vital importance of training qualified 
national  professionals  in  the  fields  of  protection  from 
nuclear  radiation  and  the  safe  handling  of  radioactive 
materials,  my  country  took  the  initiative  of  hosting 
regional  workshops  in  cooperation  with  the  IAEA. 
Moreover,  it  continues  to  send  trainees  to  attend 
training courses held at IAEA headquarters. 

Through  its  Technical  Cooperation  Programme, 
the  Agency  plays  a  key  role  in  the  exchange  and 
transfer  of  nuclear  information  and  know-how  to 
member States, in particular developing countries. The 
programme  aims  at  facilitating  the  use  of  nuclear 
science  and  related  technologies  and  at  meeting,  in  a 
sustainable manner, the economical and social needs of 
member  States  through  the  safe  use  of  nuclear  power 
for  food  production,  health  care,  water  resource 
management and environmental protection. 
08-56886 

15 

a 
and 
achieving 
deterioration, 
crop  outputs 
A/63/PV.31 


In that context, we endorse what was contained in 
the  annual  report  of  the  Agency  for  2007  concerning 
enhancing  the  capabilities  of  the  member  States  in 
applied  nuclear  technologies.  Such  technologies  are 
aimed  at  removing  obstacles  to  achieving  sustainable 
food security through the use of technology to remedy 
sustainable 
soil 
intensification  of 
livestock 
production,  combating  pests  by  using  sterile  insect 
technology,  improving  the  quality  and  safety  of  food 
and consolidating the efforts of the Agency to achieve 
sustainable food security. That is particularly important 
in  the  light  of  the  international  food  crisis  that  most 
States are witnessing. 

The  vital  and  important  role  of  the  IAEA  in 
preventing  the  use  of  nuclear  power  for  military 
purposes and in promoting its exploitation for peaceful 
purposes  in  the  safest  possible  ways  can  only  be 
fulfilled through the concerted efforts of all States. The 
Supreme Council of the Gulf Cooperation Council has 
therefore  recommended  that  its  member  countries 
conduct a study to create a joint programme on nuclear 
technology  for  peaceful  purposes  in  accordance  with 
international standards and regimes. 

We  would  also  like  to  note  that  it  is  unfortunate 
that,  although  the  Agency  has  called  on  some  States 
with advanced nuclear capabilities and activities to join 
the  NPT  and  implement  the  IAEA  comprehensive 
safeguards,  those  calls  have  gone  unheeded,  with 
negative effects for international peace and security. 

In  that  context,  the  goal  of  achieving  peace  and 
stability  in  the  Middle  East  region  will  never  be 
accomplished  as  long  as  Israel  remains  the  only 
country  in  the  region  that  refuses  to  subject  its 
facilities 
regime.  That 
represents  a  key  obstacle  to  achieving  universality  for 
the NPT and seriously impedes the strengthening of the 
NPT regime. If that irregular situation persists, it could 
encourage  other  States  in  the  region  to  seek  the 
possession of nuclear weapons or to manufacture them, 
citing the Agency’s laxity in dealing with the countries 
that refuse to subject their installations to inspection. 

In view of the intransigence of the Israeli position 
on 
that  matter,  we  call  upon 
international 
community  to  pressure  Israel  to  join  the  NPT  and 
subject  all  of  its  nuclear  facilities  to  the  safeguards 
regime of the IAEA. We affirm the right of all States in 
the  region  to  obtain  the  technology,  know-how  and 
IAEA  safeguards 
the 
the 
to 
the 
the 
full, 
framework  of 
implementation  of 
related 
needed  expertise  to  use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes  within 
relevant 
international conventions, thus making the Middle East 
region,  including  the  Gulf  area,  free  from  nuclear 
weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. 

As regards the development of the Iranian nuclear 
issue  and  proceeding  from  our  conviction  of  the  need 
to respect international legitimacy and the principle of 
pursuing a peaceful resolution to conflicts, the State of 
Kuwait calls upon the friendly Islamic Republic of Iran 
to  continue  its  cooperation  with  the  IAEA  with 
transparency,  in  order  to  dispel  the  fears  and  doubts 
surrounding  the  nature  of  its  nuclear  programme, 
address  all  outstanding  issues  and  give  diplomatic 
efforts  time  to  reach  a  peaceful  solution  through  a 
demonstration of flexibility, wisdom and responsibility 
by all parties concerned. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  my 
country’s  hope  that  the  international  community  will 
continue its support for the IAEA in its work to ensure 
the 
all 
non-selective 
international  agreements 
to  disarmament, 
including the NPT, with its three main pillars: nuclear 
disarmament, non-proliferation and the peaceful use of 
nuclear energy. 
Mr. Wang Qun (China) (spoke in Chinese): The 

Chinese delegation would like to thank Mr. ElBaradei, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA),  for  the  report  (see A/63/276)  on  the 
work  of  the  Agency  in  2007.  We  appreciate  the 
enormous  efforts  and  important  role  of  the Agency  in 
promoting  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  and 
preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons. 

Over  the  past  year,  the Agency  has  come  a  long 
way in promoting the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. 
The Agency has provided assistance to member States 
through  its  nuclear  power,  nuclear  applications  and 
technical 
address 
challenges  they  encounter  in  the  areas  of  energy 
supply,  food  security  and  environmental  protection. 
Positive progress has been made in those areas.  

Meanwhile, the Agency has also played a pivotal 
role  in  safeguarding  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
material  and 
the 
proliferation of nuclear weapons. China appreciates the 
positive role of the Agency in facilitating the peaceful 
resolution of the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula 
and  the  Iranian  nuclear  issue.  Over  the  past  year,  the 
in  preventing 
facilities  and 
programmes 
cooperation 
to 
16 

08-56886 
and 
and 
applications 
to  promote 
infrastructure 


Agency  has  applied  safeguards  in  over  160  countries 
and  worked  actively 
the  signing  of 
additional  protocols  and  implement  the  integrated 
safeguards framework. 

The  international  momentum  to  develop  nuclear 
power  is  today  very  strong.  How  to  promote  the 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  by  member  States 
while  preventing  the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons 
is  an  important  issue  that  has  a  bearing  on  the  future 
orientation of the Agency. China is of the view that the 
role  and  function  of  the Agency  should  be  adequately 
enhanced.  

First,  it  is  essential  that  the  expertise  of  the 
Agency should be further enhanced so that it can better 
assist  member  States  in  establishing  their  nuclear 
power 
in 
accelerating  the  pace  and  broadening  the  scope  of  the 
peaceful uses of nuclear energy.  
Secondly,  the  Agency  should  work  further  to 

strengthen  its  nuclear  safety  regulatory  system  and 
continue to assist member States to establish sound and 
effective nuclear security systems.  

Thirdly,  the  Agency  should  continue  to  address 
verification issues in an impartial and balanced manner 
and work to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of 
its  safeguards  system,  so  as  to  further  promote  the 
universality  and  effectiveness  of 
the  Additional 
Protocol. 

supported  and 
participated  in  the  Agency’s  technical  cooperation 
programmes.  We  enjoy  close  cooperation  with  the 
Agency and the relevant member States. I am happy to 
recall the very fruitful cooperation on nuclear security 
between China and the Agency during our preparations 
for the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games. The Agency sent 
qualified  experts  to  China  to  provide  advice  and 
training.  It  also  provided  China  with  much-needed 
nuclear detection equipment. In May of this year, in the 
wake  of 
that  struck 
Wenchuan  in  China’s  Sichuan  province,  through  its 
technical cooperation programme the Agency provided 
radioactive  material  detection  equipment  and  relevant 
training.  That  played  an  important  role  in  post-quake 
search  operations  using  radioactive  sources.  The 
Chinese  Government  wishes  to  express  its  sincere 
thanks to the Agency for all those efforts. 
China  has  always  actively 
the  devastating  earthquake 
A/63/PV.31
I 
the 
take  great  pleasure 
IAEA.  We  appreciate 

As  always,  China  will  support  the  Agency  and 
will continue to work with other member States and the 
secretariat to ensure that there is further progress in the 
Agency’s work. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian): 
in  welcoming 
Mr. Mohamed  ElBaradei,  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  and  in 
thanking  him  for  introducing  the  Agency’s  annual 
report. 
For over 50 years, the Agency has been the global 

centre  of  cooperation  in  the  field  of  the  peaceful  uses 
of nuclear energy. Russia has consistently championed 
promoting  the  Agency’s  role  and  standing.  We  will 
continue to actively support the multifaceted activities 
of 
the  efforts  of 
Mr. ElBaradei, to whom the Agency owes a great deal 
of its success. 
We  believe  that  further  improving  the  IAEA’s 

activities  should  be  based  on  a  balanced  approach  to 
the  implementation  of  all  its  mandated  functions.  We 
believe  that  the  main  task  for  the  near  future  is  to 
establish  the  conditions  under  which  all  States  parties 
to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  (NPT)  can  freely  and  fully  make  use  of  the 
benefits  of  nuclear  energy  in  conformity  with  the 
requirements of the nuclear non-proliferation regime. 

An  example  of  successful  cooperation  is  the 
Agency’s  International  Project  on  Innovative  Nuclear 
Reactors and Fuel Cycles, which has been implemented 
on Russia’s initiative since 2000. We highly appreciate 
its  results,  the  heightened  international  prestige  it  has 
its 
acquired  and 
implementation  and  development.  We 
to 
continue  to  support  that  project,  including  through 
financial means. 

The  Russian  Federation  regards  issues  related  to 
ensuring  access  to  nuclear-fuel-cycle  services  and 
resolving  the  problem  of  spent  nuclear  fuel  and 
radioactive waste management as key to the large-scale 
development of nuclear energy. It is very clear that the 
Agency  has  a  central  role  in  promoting  multilateral 
approaches, and we will actively support the Agency in 
that  regard.  We  are  ready  to  work  with  all  interested 
States  to  define  and  harmonize  initiatives  as  regards 
multilateral approaches to the nuclear fuel cycle, where 
that  is  feasible  and  possible.  We  have  therefore 
consistently  implemented  the  Russian  initiative  to 
the  new  positive 
in 
intend 
trends 
08-56886 

17 
to 
consider 
approaches 
uranium 
enrichment 
harmonized 
A/63/PV.31 

establish a global nuclear energy infrastructure, which 
will  enable  us  to  ensure  equitable  access  to  nuclear 
energy  for  all  interested  parties  in  strict  compliance 
with  the  provisions  of  the  regime  established  by  the 
NPT.  
To achieve the goals set out in that initiative,  an 

international 
centre  was 
established jointly with the Republic of Kazakhstan in 
2007 in the Russian Federation at the federal Angarsk 
Electrolytic  Chemical  Plant.  We  are  grateful  to  the 
IAEA  for 
its  favourable  assessment  of  Russia’s 
initiative, in  particular as  regards the  establishment  of 
the international centre, which is open for participation 
by  third-party  States  without  any  political  conditions. 
At  present,  procedures  are  being  finalized  for  the 
accession  of  Armenia  and  Ukraine.  In  January  2008, 
the  IAEA  was  officially  informed  about  the  inclusion 
of  the  centre  on  the  list  of  Russian  nuclear  fuel-cycle 
facilities that can be covered by IAEA safeguards. 

Given the number of ideas that exist with regard 
to  ensuring  fuel  supplies,  it  is  clear  that  the  time  has 
come 
to 
establishing  such  guaranteed  fuel  supplies. The  vision 
of  what  those  principles  should  be  was  presented 
during  the  fifty-second  session  of  the  IAEA  General 
Conference. We believe that it is necessary to build up 
the capabilities of the Agency as the only international 
body  with  the  requisite  authority  to  assess  States’ 
compliance with their obligations in the area of nuclear 
non-proliferation.  

One of the Agency’s effective instruments in that 
field  is  the  additional  protocol  to  the  safeguards 
agreement. In the future, the additional protocol stands 
to  become  a  universal  norm  for  verifying  compliance 
by  NPT  States  parties  with  their  obligations  and  an 
essential  new  standard  in  the  field  of  nuclear  export 
control. We intend to continue assisting the Agency in 
reinforcing  the  IAEA  safeguards  system,  including 
through  our  national  programme  of  scientific  and 
technological support safeguards. 

Russia ratified its Additional Protocol in October 
2007.  We  hope  that  all  the  States  that  have  not  yet 
acceded  to  that  important  instrument  —  first  and 
foremost, 
significant  nuclear 
activities  or  possessing  significant  stockpiles  of 
nuclear materials — will do so as rapidly as possible. 
Today,  one  of  the  most  important  factors  in 

ensuring  the  national  security  of  an  individual  State 
those  engaged 

improve 
Initiative 
and  the  international  community  as  a  whole  is  the 
ability to respond in an adequate and timely manner to 
the threat of nuclear terrorism. In that respect, we note 
the  valuable  contribution  of  IAEA  experts  to  the 
implementation  of  the  Global  Initiative  to  Combat 
Nuclear  Terrorism.  The 
significantly 
enhances  and  complements  IAEA  activities  in  the 
framework  of  the  implementation  of  the  Agency’s 
Nuclear  Security  Plan  for  2006-2009.  We  intend  to 
further 
the  parametres  for  our  practical 
cooperation in that field, including in terms of resource 
support. 

We  back  the  IAEA’s  active  cooperation  with  the 
United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  and  other 
international  organizations  and  structures  on  the  issue 
of  countering  the  threat  of  nuclear  terrorism.  The 
Russian  Federation  has  ratified  the  amendment  to  the 
Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Materials. We  call  upon  States  that  have  not  yet  done 
so  to  promptly  sign  and  ratify  both  the  International 
Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  Acts  of  Nuclear 
Terrorism  as  well  as  the  Convention  on  the  Physical 
Protection of Nuclear Material and its amendment. 

One  of  the  three  pillars  on  which  all  IAEA 
activity  is  based  is  ensuring  nuclear  and  radiation 
safety. We welcome the efforts of the Agency to assist 
States 
in  establishing  and  strengthening  national 
regulatory systems in that field. We intend to continue 
to lend effective support to IAEA efforts to strengthen 
international  cooperation  in  the  field  of  nuclear  and 
radiation  safety,  the  safe  transport  of  nuclear  and 
radioactive  materials,  and 
the  management  of 
radioactive waste. 

We attach great importance to the implementation 
of technical cooperation projects related to the removal 
of  highly  enriched  uranium  from  Soviet-designed 
research  reactors.  In  2007,  the  Russian  Federation 
provided  technical  assistance  in  the  removal  of  fuel 
from Viet Nam, Poland and the Czech Republic. 

Russia intends to assist Ukraine in improving the 
safety  of  the  Chernobyl  nuclear  power  plant  site  and 
accelerating the start of the facility’s decommissioning. 
We  will  allocate  $17  million  for  that  purpose  to  the 
Nuclear  Safety  Account  and  the  Chernobyl  Shelter 
Fund. 
An  important  area  of  the  Agency’s  activities  is 

implementation  of 
the  Technical  Cooperation 
the 
Programme.  The  Russian  Federation  has  been  and 
in 
18 

08-56886 


intends to continue to pay its voluntary contributions to 
the  IAEA Technical  Cooperation  Fund  in  full. We  are 
in  favour  of  preserving  the  current  mechanism  for 
financing the Technical Cooperation Fund on the basis 
of  contributions  paid  by  member  States  in  national 
currencies,  the  amount  of  which  is  assessed  under  the 
United  Nations  scale  in  accordance  with  existing 
practice. 

The  Russian  Federation  intends  to  assist  the 
Republic  of  Armenia  in  improving  the  safety  of  the 
Armenian nuclear power plant. We plan to provide that 
assistance within the framework of the IAEA Technical 
Cooperation Programme and to allocate $10 million to 
that end. 

I reaffirm our support  for the draft resolution on 
the IAEA report (A/63/L.6). As a sponsor of the draft, 
Russia  attaches  great  importance  to  the  work  of  the 
Agency and is confident that it will be continued in the 
future  in  the  interests  of  strengthening  international 
security. 
Mr. Abdelaziz (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): I wish 

to  begin  by  welcoming  the  report  (see  A/63/276) 
introduced by the Director General of the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and  its  contents, 
reviewing  the  wide  range  of  important  and  diverse 
activities of the Agency in 2007. 
I also wish to confirm our absolute confidence in 

the effective ability of the Agency to perform its task in 
promoting a balanced focus on the three main pillars of 
its activities: technology, safety and verification. 

Mr.  Wolfe  (Jamaica),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.

The  year  2007  marked  the  completion  of  five 
decades  since  the  establishment  of  the  IAEA,  during 
which  it  contributed,  inter  alia,  to  the  implementation 
of comprehensive safeguards regimes, the enhancement 
of nuclear safety and security standards, and increased 
use of safe nuclear energy. Accordingly, in 2007, some 
439  nuclear  reactors  provided  15  per  cent  of  the 
world’s  electricity,  while  dozens  of  others  were  either 
under construction or in the planning phase. 
its 

establishment,  convinced  of  its  role  in  enhancing 
international  peace  and  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
technology 
the  development 
aspirations  of  developing  countries  and  address 
international needs in a large array of fields. 
IAEA  since 
Egypt  has 
that  serve 
supported 
in  areas 
the 
A/63/PV.31
of 
in 
to 
facilitate 
regime 
in  order 
safeguards 
comprehensive 
Since it was entrusted with the establishment and 

management 
for 
non-nuclear-weapon  States,  the  importance  of  the 
Agency’s role has grown even further. All States of the 
Middle  East  have  thus  realized  the  central  importance 
of  acceding  to  the  IAEA  comprehensive  safeguards 
regime,  except  for  Israel,  the  only  State  that  remains 
outside  the  regime,  despite  the  adoption  at  the  2003 
IAEA  General  Conference  of  a  resolution  entitled 
“Application of IAEA safeguards in the Middle East”, 
calling  upon  Israel  to  join  the  IAEA  comprehensive 
safeguards 
the 
establishment  of  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the 
Middle  East  and  to  enhance  regional  stability  and 
confidence-building. 
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  presence  of  nuclear 

facilities  not  subject  to  the  safeguards  regime  and  not 
complying  with 
international  safety  or  security 
standards  in  the  Middle  East  is  a  matter  that  calls  for 
an  effective  regional  and 
international  response, 
especially  since  the  absence  of  international  oversight 
of such facilities threatens the security and stability of 
the entire region. 

We  appeal  to  countries  that  have  not  recognized 
the importance of Arab calls for the IAEA to seriously 
address  Israel’s  nuclear  capabilities  to  reassess  their 
unconstructive 
the 
consideration  of  a  draft  resolution  of  such  importance 
at  the  IAEA  General  Conference.  That  trend  was 
confirmed  again  at  the  2008  session  and  will  further 
complicate the crisis and increase nuclear threats in the 
Middle  East,  and  eventually  weaken  the  role  of  the 
Agency itself. 
It  is  important  to  prove  by  practical  means  the 

sincerity  of 
in  our 
statements  to  the  General  Assembly  and  its  First 
Committee, for the central role played by the IAEA in 
the  field  of  verification.  Such  practical  means  could 
include  providing 
the  financial 
resources it needs and strengthening its legal authority 
through  the  universalization  of  the  comprehensive 
safeguards 
to  demand 
additional  commitments  from  States  to  strengthen  its 
verification capabilities. 

At  a  time  when  developing  countries’  need  is 
growing  for  clean  and  inexpensive  energy  sources  to 
address  their  development  plans  and  promote  their 
socio-economic situations, Egypt sees a crucial role for 
the  support,  often  reiterated 
the  Agency  with 
thus  allowing 
preventing 
approach 
regime, 
it 
08-56886 

19 
transfers 
facilitating 
technology 
in  effectively 
that 
the  universality  of 
A/63/PV.31 

the  Agency  in  widening  the  horizons  of  sustainable 
development  and 
the 
satisfaction  by  non-nuclear-weapon  States  signatories 
to the NPT of their growing nuclear energy needs. That 
should  proceed  in  a  context  that  secures  them  the 
inalienable right to the peaceful use of nuclear energy, 
as provided for in article IV of the NPT. 

The importance of the IAEA’s role has increased 
even  further  as  the  international  community  continues 
to  witness  qualitative  and  quantitative  limitations  on 
nuclear  energy-related 
from 
developed  to  less  developed  countries.  It  is  indeed 
regrettable  that  efforts  continue  to  impose  unjustified 
restrictions  on  the  acquisition  by  non-nuclear-weapon 
States  of  the  necessary  material  and  technology  to 
develop their peaceful nuclear programmes, on the one 
hand, while on the other, current efforts are being made 
to facilitate the acquisition by non-NPT member States 
of  nuclear  technologies  and  materials  exceeding  those 
which  have  ever  been  granted  to  non-nuclear-weapon 
such  an  approach 
States.  Egypt  believes 
significantly  endangers 
the 
comprehensive  safeguards  regime  and  undermines 
efforts  to  avoid  politicizing  it  in  a  manner  that 
jeopardizes its validity and value and the feasibility of 
the NPT itself. 
In  that  context  and  despite  the  fact  that  nuclear-

their  nuclear 
weapon  States  have  not 
disarmament  obligations  under  the  NPT,  the  1995 
package of the Review  and Extension Conference and 
the  Final  Document  of  the  2000  Review  Conference, 
those  States  and  others  that  enjoy  nuclear  protection 
under  them  are  still  working  to  impose  additional 
commitments  on  non-nuclear-weapon  States  in  the 
form of additional safeguards. They are doing so while 
ignoring 
the  voluntary  nature  of  any  additional 
international  commitment  beyond  the  comprehensive 
safeguards  regime,  as  well  as  the  logical  inevitability 
of 
IAEA’s 
comprehensive safeguards system prior to any attempt 
to change the system in a discriminatory manner. 
Through  2007  and  up  until  now,  the Agency  has 

continued 
legal  and 
operational  dimensions  of  a  number  of  current 
proposals  on  nuclear  fuel  assurances  based  on  a 
multilateral approach to the nuclear fuel cycle. Egypt’s 
position  is  in  line  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
Director  General  of  IAEA  in  his  June  2007  report  to 
the  Board  of  Governors,  to  the  effect  that  there  is  no 
the  universality  of 
to  consider 
achieving 
technical, 
fulfilled 
the 
the 

the 
financial 
increasing 
the  NPT 
that  benefit  from 
right  guaranteed  by 
basis  for  assuming  that  multilateral  approaches  to  the 
nuclear  fuel  cycle  should  in  any  way  restrict  free 
national choices in that regard, in accordance with the 
inalienable 
to 
non-nuclear-weapon  States  without  restrictions  to  that 
right. 

Egypt  reiterates  its  interest  in  supporting  the 
activities  of  the  Agency  in  the  area  of  technical 
cooperation  with  ourselves  and  other  developing 
countries 
technical  cooperation 
programmes for the use of nuclear technologies in the 
sectors  of  health,  agriculture,  food,  water  resources, 
radioactive isotopes and irradiation. In that context, we 
reiterate our belief in the importance of enhancing the 
role of the Agency in the area of technology transfer by 
securing  and 
resources 
allocated for technical cooperation activities, given that 
such activities represent a  main pillar of the Agency’s 
key area of activities under its statute. 

Taking into consideration the role of the Agency 
as  the  international  multilateral  forum  in  applying  the 
highest  safety  standards  to  nuclear  energy  reactors, 
Egypt, as a State seeking nuclear energy on its route to 
development,  cooperates  with  the  Agency  in  that 
regard.  That  cooperation  includes  assessing  energy 
requirements  and  technical  advice  with  regard  to  the 
safe and effective development of national capabilities 
in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. We look forward 
to the continued support of the Agency for our efforts 
in that area. 

Finally,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our 
particular  appreciation  to  the  staff  of  the Agency  and 
Director  General  Mohamed  ElBaradei 
the 
outstanding and balanced role he has played in leading 
the Agency  since  he  assumed  his  post  in  1997.  I  also 
wish  to  express  our  gratitude  for  the  results  achieved 
under his responsible leadership in terms of developing 
that most sensitive and important international body. In 
that  regard,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  that  Egypt  will 
continue to support the Agency in all possible ways in 
order to preserve the value that the entire international 
community  attaches  to  its  balanced  role  and  to  the 
contribution 
to  security,  stability, 
scientific advancement and welfare. 
Mr.  Chow  (Singapore):  Singapore  joins  other 

members  of  the  General  Assembly  in  thanking  the 
Director  General  and  his  dedicated  staff  for  the 
comprehensive 
their 
(see  A/63/276)  and 
it  makes 
report 
that 
for 
20 

08-56886 
In 
the  future  of 


excellent work. That is testimony to the leadership and 
skills  of  the  Director  General.  We  would  like  to 
reaffirm  our  full  support  for  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  as  the  global  focal  point  for 
nuclear  cooperation,  in  line  with  its  three  pillars  of 
technology, safety and security and verification. 

The year 2007 marked the fiftieth anniversary of 
the  founding  of  the  IAEA,  which  was  a  concrete 
expression  of  the  international  community’s  hopes  for 
and  aspirations  to  “atoms  for  peace”.  After  five 
decades  of  important  progress,  the Agency’s  activities 
remain  vital  in  advancing  the  peaceful  applications  of 
nuclear  science  and  technology  for  economic  and 
social  development. 
that  context,  Singapore 
welcomes  the  Agency’s  initiative  to  reflect  on  the 
challenges  and  opportunities  that  it  will  face  in  the 
years to come. The recent work of the Commission of 
Eminent  Persons  on 
the  Agency 
constitutes  a  timely  exercise  to  review  how  the  three 
pillars  of  nuclear  safety,  nuclear  technology  and 
nuclear  verification  can  be  strengthened.  To  that  end, 
Singapore  extends  its  full  support  to  the  Agency  and 
stands ready to work with all stakeholders. 

At  a  time  when  nuclear  energy  is  becoming 
increasingly  attractive  as  an  alternative  source  of 
energy for a growing number of countries, the IAEA’s 
primary  role  of ensuring the peaceful, safe  and secure 
use of nuclear energy has gained renewed importance. 
At the end of 2007, a total of 34 nuclear power plants 
were under construction around the world. I understand 
from  the  Director  General’s  recent  statement  that  that 
number  has  increased  to  36.  The  increased  interest  in 
the  use  of  nuclear  power  is  notably  centred  in  Asia, 
corresponding  to  the  region’s  rapid  economic  growth 
and accompanying rise in energy demand. 

Under  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons,  States  have  the  sovereign  right  to 
develop  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  means.  At  the 
same  time,  there  is  also  a  grave  responsibility  to 
carefully  consider  safety  and  security  issues  that  arise 
the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy.  The 
from 
Chernobyl 
the 
profound  and 
long-term  detrimental  consequences 
resulting  from  a  serious  nuclear  power  plant  accident. 
The impact on the affected people and the surrounding 
economies  continues  to  be  felt  today. We  should  heed 
that lesson because the world can ill afford a repeat of 
Chernobyl. 
is  a  solemn  reminder  of 
tragedy 
A/63/PV.31
are 
locating  nuclear 

Unfortunately,  despite  advancements  in  science 
and  technology  and  the  introduction  of  earthquake-
proof  designs  for 
today’s  nuclear  power  plants, 
accidents  can  still  happen.  The  Kashiwazaki-Kariwa 
nuclear power plant and the earthquake of 16 July 2007 
provide  a  stark  reminder  of  how  accidents  can  occur. 
Fortunately,  the  nuclear  power  plant  was  designed  to 
withstand  shocks  above  its  recommended  seismic 
threshold.  That  helped  to  avert  a  potentially  serious 
nuclear  disaster.  In  that  case,  Japan’s  responsible 
approach to design safety was commendable.  
However, we can never afford to be complacent, 

especially  when  more  States 
considering 
developing  nuclear  energy  as  an  alternative  source  of 
energy. States undertaking such nuclear options should 
not  neglect  or  compromise  the  safety  of  their  people 
and  the  neighbouring  region.  Plant  designs  and  site 
locations  in  particular  should  be  carefully  considered. 
For  example, 
reactors  within 
earthquake  zones  or  active  volcanic  areas  can  be 
potentially deadly. The effects of a nuclear accident are 
transboundary  and  can  affect  the  region  at  large.  It  is 
therefore imperative that regional safety concerns also 
be  taken  into  serious  consideration  when  new  nuclear 
power plants are planned and built. 

At  the  twelfth  summit  of  the  Association  of 
Southeast Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  held  in  Cebu,  the 
Philippines,  ASEAN  leaders,  acknowledging  that  the 
region needed to explore alternative sources of energy, 
tasked  officials  to  look  into  a  regional  nuclear  safety 
regime. The  leaders  again  reaffirmed  their  decision  to 
forge ASEAN-wide cooperation to establish a regional 
nuclear  safety 
the  ASEAN 
Declaration  on  Environmental  Sustainability  at  the 
thirteenth ASEAN summit.  

IAEA  can  play  an 
instrumental role in helping our region to adopt a set of 
common norms and best practices that are in line with 
international standards for the design of nuclear power 
plants  and  nuclear 
technology  management  and 
development.  Regional  safety  and  security  regimes 
under  the  IAEA  auspices  can  be  critical  in  helping 
States to develop capacity based  on the IAEA’s safety 
protocols  and  standards.  Singapore  will  continue  to 
work  closely  with  the  IAEA  and  regional  partners  to 
develop  and  promote  a 
framework  of 
collaboration  and  cooperation,  as  well  as  to  adopt  the 
best practices in that field. In that way, the region can 
take  a  constructive  and  responsible  step  forward  in 
regime  by  signing 
We  believe 
regional 
that 
the 
08-56886 

21 

to 
further 
cooperation 
the 
A/63/PV.31 

fostering  a  culture  of  safety  among  nuclear  regulators 
and operators. 

Looking ahead, we believe that it is also timely to 
examine  the  future  role  of  the  IAEA.  A  number  of 
important  recommendations  made  by  the  Commission 
of  Eminent  Persons  are  worth  considering.  They 
include  the  further  harmonization  of  regional  nuclear 
standards,  a  move  on  the  part  of  countries  from 
voluntary to mandatory international peer reviews, and 
compulsory  inspections  to  assess  compliance  with 
nuclear  standards  in  order  to  help  increase  safety 
worldwide and enhance public confidence. 

In conclusion, Singapore would like to express its 
continued support for the important work of the IAEA 
in the areas of the peaceful uses of nuclear technology, 
safety and security, and verification. We strongly urge 
all  States  —  especially 
those  with  outstanding 
obligations  and  issues  —  to  cooperate  fully  with  the 
IAEA 
strengthen 
and 
confidence-building  as  part  of 
international 
community’s  efforts  to  enhance  global  peace  and 
security.  
Mr.  Natalegawa  (Indonesia):  On  behalf  of  the 

Indonesian delegation, I would like first to express our 
appreciation  to  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA), for his presentation of the 2007 annual report 
of the IAEA (see A/63/276). His tenure has come at a 
time of complex global challenges. Our gratitude goes 
to  him  for  his  long  years  of  excellent  service  and 
steadfast  efforts,  which  have  seen  the Agency  grapple 
with  those  challenges  in  an  effective  manner  while 
preparing to meet future ones. 

Among  the  greatest  achievements  of  the  IAEA 
are  its  contributions  in  advancing  human  progress  in 
nuclear 
socio-economic 
development and maintaining world peace and security. 
We  would 
to  express  our  sincere 
appreciation  for  the  role  that  the  Agency  has  long 
played  in  promoting  nuclear  technology  for  peaceful 
purposes under the three pillars of its mandate. 
Indonesia  attaches  great  importance  to  technical 

the  Agency,  which  contributes 
cooperation  with 
significantly  to  development  in  Member  States.  But  it 
is our obligation to ensure that the IAEA has sufficient, 
guaranteed  and  predictable  resources  for  its  activities. 
For its part, Indonesia has been supportive of technical 
cooperation  activities  and  has  consistently  paid  its 
applications, 
promoting 
therefore 
like 
It 
to 
face 
it  can 
share  of 
strengthen 
including 
that  regard,  we  value 
the  Technical 
target, 
imperative 
the  Agency  — 
targets  of 
annual 
the 
Cooperation  Fund.  For 
the  Fund’s  2009 
Indonesia has pledged the amount of $100,000. 

In  our  view,  the  current  funding  system  for  the 
Fund,  which  relies  on  voluntary  contributions,  is 
neither fair nor capable of meeting the essential needs 
of  Member  States,  especially  developing  countries.  In 
order to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of its 
technical cooperation, the IAEA should pursue a more 
balanced  distribution  of  its  budget  in  order  to  reflect 
the  equal  importance  of  the  Agency’s  three  pillars, 
thereby  maintaining  a  balance  among  its  various 
statutory activities. 
the 

remains 
effectiveness  of 
its 
performance  in  technical  cooperation  activities  —  so 
that 
the  challenges  of  changing 
circumstances and the diverse needs of Member States. 
In 
the  Director  General’s 
initiative  to  establish  the  Commission  of  Eminent 
Persons  to  reflect  upon  the  nature  and  scope  of  the 
Agency’s programme until 2020 and beyond. We share 
the hope that the report will trigger discussions among 
Member  States  so  that  its  recommendations  will 
contribute  to  the  achievement  of  development  goals 
and  will  enhance 
the  Agency’s  credibility  and 
effectiveness.  

Indonesia  has  long  been  a  strong  supporter  of 
promoting  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes,  and 
the IAEA has a large  and  active technical cooperation 
programme 
Indonesia  greatly 
commends 
in  areas  of  vital 
importance, such as food and agriculture, including its 
work  to  enhance  the  capacity  of  Member  States  to 
ensure  sustainable  food  security  and  productivity 
through  the  application  of  nuclear  techniques.  The 
reinvigoration  of  agriculture  and  support  for  research 
on  a  variety  of  technologies,  including  better-adapted 
crop varieties and agriculture techniques, are key. It is 
within  the Agency’s  mandate  to  contribute  strongly  to 
those  global  efforts  to  alleviate  food  shortages  by 
helping  to  implement  all  technological  and  scientific 
resources available within its capacity.  
Bearing  in  mind  that  the  major  health  issues  of 

our 
concerted 
time, 
international  cooperation,  we  also  support  the  IAEA’s 
Programme  of  Action  for  Cancer  Therapy.  The 
Programme  has  played  a  growing  role  in  international 
country. 
the  Agency’s  work 
in  my 
require 
such 
as 
cancer, 
22 

08-56886 
is 
in 
in 
the 
IAEA 
interested 
in  benefiting 
that 
the  developing  world. 
from 
the 
important 


efforts  against  cancer 
Indonesia 
cooperation  with 
Programme. 

It is positive to note that the IAEA has increased 
international awareness about the future role of nuclear 
energy  in  tackling  the  grave  challenge  of  climate 
change.  We  are  pleased  that  the  Nuclear  Technology 
Review  2008  highlighted  the  results  of  the  thirteenth 
session  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
held  in  Bali,  Indonesia,  last  December,  which  charted 
the  way  for  what  will,  we  hope,  be  an  effective 
post-2012  Kyoto  agreement  on  climate  change.  The 
Review  rightly  indicated  that  the  Conference  had 
marked  a  step  forward  in  managing  risks  related  to 
global climate change. 

We  commend  the  work  of  the  International 
Project  on  Innovative  Nuclear  Reactors  and  Fuel 
Cycles  (INPRO).  Indonesia,  as  a  member  of  INPRO, 
continues to support its activities to meet global energy 
demands  and  to  promote  sustainable  economic  and 
social development.  
to  strengthen 
the 

international  nuclear 
regime,  we  have 
participated  actively  in  the  Asian  Nuclear  Safety 
Network  (ANSN).  It  has  played  an  important  role  in 
promoting  nuclear  safety  networks  and  contributes  to 
the  nuclear  safety  activities  of  Asian  countries.  We 
encourage other countries in Asia to join ANSN, which 
is the sole network for promoting nuclear safety in the 
region.  We  encourage  the  Agency  to  continue  its 
support for the regional nuclear safety activities carried 
out within the framework of ANSN. 
Indonesia,  as  an  archipelagic  State,  continues  to 

support 
to  strengthen 
cooperation  and  coordination,  to  address  the  potential 
for  accidents  or  incidents  during  the  transportation  of 
spent fuel and high-level nuclear waste and radioactive 
materials  by  sea,  and  to  thwart  possible  dangers  to 
human  health  in  and  the  environment  of  the  transit 
countries.  We  share  the  view  that  the  expansion  of 
nuclear  power  will  create  opportunities  as  well  as 
challenges  and  that  we  need  to  find  a  solution  with 
regard to spent-fuel management and waste disposal in 
order to ensure the sustainable development of nuclear 
energy. 
the  efforts 
safety 
the  efforts  of 
As  part  of 
IAEA 
the 
A/63/PV.31
of 
the 
part 
global 
that  progress  on 

Nevertheless, it is important that the measures to 
strengthen  nuclear  security  not  hamper  international 
cooperation  in  the  field  of  peaceful  nuclear  activities, 
the exchange of nuclear material for peaceful purposes 
and the promotion of peaceful uses of nuclear energy. 

Indonesia continues to support the Agency’s work 
to  strengthen  the  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of  the 
safeguards  system.  The  safeguards  system  is  both  a 
fundamental 
nuclear 
non-proliferation  regime  and  an  essential  element  in 
the  pursuit  of  nuclear  disarmament.  My  delegation  is 
pleased  to  state  that  as  a  party  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and  to 
the  Treaty  on  the  South-East  Asia  Nuclear-Weapon-
Free  Zone, 
Indonesia  has  put  a  comprehensive 
safeguards  agreement  and  an  additional  protocol  into 
force,  and  has  implemented  integrated  safeguards  in 
collaboration with the Agency. However, we share the 
concern 
the  universalization  of 
safeguards  agreements  and  additional  protocols  has 
been slower than expected. The universalization should 
be  applied  equally,  to  both  non-nuclear  and  nuclear-
weapon States. 

Indonesia  attaches  great  importance  to  the  NPT 
and hopes that, in the future, the parties will be able to 
formulate a consensual text that could be recommended 
for  adoption  at  the  2010  Review  Conference.  At  the 
Conference, 
their 
commitment 
and 
non-proliferation  and  intensify  their  efforts  to  realize 
the 
in  a  balanced, 
comprehensive  and  non-discriminatory  manner.  The 
Agency should prepare, and should be ready to respond 
to the technical needs of verification for future nuclear 
disarmament.  Since  nuclear  non-proliferation  and 
nuclear  disarmament  are  mutually  reinforcing,  the 
Agency  should  not  cover  only  verification  in  the 
context  of  both 
fulfilment  of  non-proliferation 
commitments. 
We  are  of  the  view  that  the  creation  of  a 

multilateral  fuel  cycle  arrangement  that  would,  inter 
alia,  guarantee  the  security  of  the  nuclear  fuel  supply, 
would  provide  a  complementary  mechanism 
for 
strengthening the existing non-proliferation regime and 
should  be  discussed  in  a  non-discriminatory  and 
inclusive  manner.  The  objectives  and  modalities  to 
establish  such  arrangements  should  not  terminate  or 
restrict  the  right  of  each  State  to  develop  nuclear 
technology. 
renew 
disarmament 
countries 
nuclear 
three  pillars  of 
the  NPT 
all 
to 
should 
08-56886 

23 

A/63/PV.31 


For  a  long  time  now,  the  General  Conference  of 
the  IAEA  has  devoted  attention  to  the  situation  in  the 
Middle  East.  Sadly,  however,  there  has  been  no 
progress  in  the  efforts  to  establish  a  nuclear-weapon-
free zone in the Middle East. We are concerned by that 
situation, and we stress the demand that Israel place all 
its  nuclear  installations  under  Agency  safeguards  and 
accede  to  the  NPT,  as  it  has  already  been  called  upon 
to  do  by  a  number  of  resolutions  of  the  General 
Assembly and the General Conference of the IAEA.  

Indonesia  appreciates  the  overall  contribution  of 
the  IAEA,  despite  the  difficulties,  in  making  progress 
in  the  implementation  of  safeguards  agreements  in 
some countries.  

To  conclude,  my  delegation  would  like  to  stress 
that  Indonesia  is  deeply  committed  to  the  cause  of 
nuclear energy for peaceful purposes and fully supports 
the  work  of  the  IAEA.  Challenges  that  confront  us 
should  be  met  through  concerted  and  concrete  actions 
in  which  all  Member  States,  working  together,  must 
bear their responsibility. Strengthening the Agency is a 
shared  interest  and  a  commitment  for  all  States 
members  of  the  Agency.  We  believe  that  further 
constructive  debate  among  the  member  States  is 
imperative  to  ensure  that  demands,  concerns  and 
priorities,  particularly 
the  developing 
countries, are duly addressed. 
Mr. Tarar (Pakistan): The delegation of Pakistan 

would  like  to  begin  by  expressing  its  appreciation  for 
the  annual  report  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA) (see A/63/276) and the efforts made by 
the  Agency  and  its  Director  General,  Mr.  Mohamed 
ElBaradei, in that regard. 

The  IAEA’s  role  as  the  world’s  focal  point  in 
promoting  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  assumes 
greater significance in view of the fast-growing global 
demand  for  energy  and  the  shortage  of  fossil  fuel 
reserves,  as  well  as 
the  diverse  challenges  of 
environmental  impacts  and  proliferation.  The  IAEA 
can  make  a  significant  contribution  in  meeting  the 
needs  and  challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century  by 
ensuring  equitable  access 
to  nuclear  materials, 
technology and equipment for peaceful purposes. 

In order to ensure the realization of every State’s 
right to the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, there is a 
need  to  develop  universal  and  non-discriminatory 
criteria  for  international  cooperation  in  the  peaceful 
including  nuclear  power 
uses  of  nuclear  energy, 
those  of 
in 
to 
the  General  Assembly  at 
generation.  In  this  regard,  principles  should  be  placed 
interests.  A 
above  expediency  and  commercial 
non-discriminatory  approach 
the  promotion  of 
civilian  nuclear  cooperation  would  help  reinforce 
confidence  and  credibility  in  the  IAEA  safeguards 
system and strengthen the non-proliferation regime. 

In the context of peaceful uses of nuclear energy, 
it  would  be  pertinent  to  recall  the  words  of  United 
States  President  Eisenhower,  who  in  his  “Atoms  for 
Peace”  address 
its 
470th plenary meeting, in 1953, stated the following: 

“It  is  not  enough  to  take  this  weapon  out  of  the 
hands  of  the  soldiers.  It  must  be  put  into  the 
hands  of  those  who  will  know  how  to  strip  its 
military casing and adapt it to the arts of peace.” 

It  is  imperative  to  place  the  “Atoms  for  Peace” 
paradigm, the founding spirit of the IAEA, at the centre 
of  any  future  vision  for  the Agency. That  can  only  be 
ensured  through  maintaining  balance  between  the 
promotional  activities  of  the  Agency  and  its  work  in 
the  areas  of  verification,  nuclear  safety  and  security. 
We  should  not  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that  the  IAEA’s 
statutory  mandate  in  the  areas  of  verification,  safety 
and  security  is  aimed  at  facilitating  the  pursuit  of  the 
primary objective of the Agency, namely the promotion 
of peaceful uses of atomic energy. 
It  is  essential  that  the  IAEA,  as  one  of  the  most 

efficient  technical  organizations  in  the  United  Nations 
system,  maintain  focus  on  its  technical  promotional 
character. The promotional activities of the Agency are 
best reflected in its Technical Cooperation Programme. 
This  dynamic  process  of  technical  assistance  has 
brought about tangible benefits to developing member 
States. 

Pakistan  has  been  one  of  the  major  beneficiaries 
of  the  Agency’s  Technical  Cooperation  Programme. 
The  Agency  has  made  a  valuable  contribution  to  the 
development  of  our  peaceful  nuclear  programme.  We 
would  like  to  express  our  deep  appreciation  to  the 
Department  of  Technical  Cooperation  for  achieving  a 
high  rate  of  implementation,  and  for  its  excellent 
programme delivery. 

For  our  part,  we  have  made  —  and  remain 
prepared  to  continue  to  make  in  the  future  —  our 
contribution 
the  Agency’s  promotional 
activities,  by  sharing  our  experience,  offering  training 
placements  and  providing  the  services  of  experts.  As 
towards 
24 

08-56886 
Pakistan  has  developed 


one  of  the  Agency’s  earliest  member  States,  Pakistan 
has  long  been  a  strong  advocate  of  promoting  and 
harnessing nuclear technology for  peace, progress  and 
prosperity for all.  

the  entire  range  of 
nuclear fuel cycle facilities. We now have two nuclear 
power  plants  in  operation,  while  a  third  is  under 
construction.  We  have  plans  to  establish  a  uranium 
conversion  and  enrichment  facility  to  cater  for  the 
needs  of  our  nuclear  power  plants.  As  announced 
already,  Pakistan  intends  to  place  that  facility  under 
IAEA  safeguards.  We  look  forward  to  the  IAEA’s 
assistance  in  the  completion  of  our  nuclear  power 
generation plan, including assistance in exploration and 
prospecting  for  uranium  in  the  country,  so  that  this 
clean  source  of  power  production  is  exploited  to  the 
maximum  possible  extent  in  the  place  of  reliance  on 
fossil fuels. 

Parallel  to  the  development  of  the  nuclear  fuel 
cycle,  an  extensive  programme  for  the  application  of 
nuclear  technology  and  radioisotopes  in  agriculture, 
hydrology and the medical and industrial sectors is also 
under way in Pakistan. 
its  atomic  energy 

development 
always 
recognized  that  nuclear  safety  and  security  in  both 
national and international contexts is a vital objective. 
Although  the  Pakistan  Nuclear  Regulatory  Authority 
(PNRA)  was  established  as  an  independent  body  in 
2001, the genesis of the physical protection of nuclear 
facilities  and  security  of  nuclear  and  radioactive 
materials  goes  back  decades  to  when  safety  and 
security  were  internally  managed  by  the  Pakistan 
Atomic Energy Commission.  
In  the  area  of  nuclear  security,  Pakistan  has 

always  strived  to  follow  the  existing  international 
standards. The IAEA document INFCIRC/225, entitled 
“The  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear  Material  and 
Nuclear  Facilities”,  though  a  voluntary  guidance  for 
member States, has been used as a basis for inspection 
and enforcement in Pakistan. We are also following the 
guidance  contained  in  the  IAEA  Code  of  Conduct  on 
the Safety and Security of Radioactive Sources and are 
participating in the IAEA’s Illicit Trafficking Database. 

the  Pakistan  Nuclear 
Regulatory  Authority  (PNRA)  mandates  that  body  to 
ensure  that  appropriate  measures  for  the  physical 
protection of nuclear installations and nuclear materials 
programme,  Pakistan 
the  foundation  of 
Since 
has 
A/63/PV.31
Since  June  2006, 
are taken by all licensees. It also requires the Authority 
to  ensure  enforcement  of  regulations  prohibiting 
unauthorized access to, possession of or use of nuclear 
and  radioactive  material  and  facilities  containing  such 
materials. 

Since its establishment, the Authority has adopted 
a  body  of  regulations  and  upgraded  those  that  already 
existed  to  bring  them  into  line  with  international 
standards on nuclear safety and security.  

the  Authority  has  been 
implementing the national nuclear security action plan 
in Pakistan. The Pakistan Nuclear Regulatory Authority 
has  used  IAEA  safety  standards  as  the  basis  for 
national  regulations  to  regulate  nuclear  installations 
and  facilities.  The  Authority  has  established  fruitful 
cooperation with the Agency and we deeply appreciate 
valuable  assistance  received  from  the  Agency  in  the 
areas of nuclear safety and security. However, we urge 
the Agency  to  work  out  ways  and  means  to  facilitate 
transfers  of  safety-related  technology.  We  also  urge 
States  with  advanced  nuclear  technology  to  move 
beyond emphasizing the significance of nuclear safety 
and  security  and  to  take  steps  to  remove  unjustified 
restrictions  on  transfers  of  related  technology  and 
equipment in order to promote the objective of nuclear 
safety and security worldwide. 

I  would  like  to  conclude  by  placing  on  record 
Pakistan’s  commitment  to  nuclear  non-proliferation. 
track  record  on  IAEA  safeguards  has  been 
Our 
immaculate  and  we  have  always 
fulfilled  our 
obligations. We have effective controls in place on the 
export  of  goods,  technologies  and  facilities  related  to 
nuclear  weapons  and  their  delivery  systems.  These 
controls  meet  existing  international  standards.  On  the 
basis  of  our  moral  and  political  commitment  to  its 
objectives, we believe that the global non-proliferation 
regime  must  be  strengthened  by  the  application  of  its 
norms 
in  a  non-selective,  non-discriminatory  and 
equitable manner. 
Mrs.  Aitimova  (Kazakhstan):  At  the  outset,  let 

me thank International Atomic Energy Agency Director 
General  Dr.  Mohamed 
his 
comprehensive  report  and  his  statement  on  the  recent 
major  developments  regarding  the  activities  of  the 
Agency. 

We  welcome  the  outcome  of  the  fifty-second 
General  Conference  of  the  Agency  held  in  Vienna 
between  29  September  and  4  October  2008,  including 
ElBaradei 
for 
The 
law  establishing 
08-56886 

25 

its  activities 
A/63/PV.31 

the  approval  of  the  Sultanate  of  Oman,  Kingdom  of 
Lesotho and Papua New Guinea for membership of the 
Agency. We also welcome States that became members 
of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in 
2007,  namely,  Bahrain,  Burundi,  Cape  Verde,  Congo 
and Nepal. 

The  IAEA  annual  report  for  2007,  which  marks 
50 years of the Agency’s indispensable and outstanding 
work,  indicates  that  the  Agency  is  continuing  to 
develop 
in  many  areas  of  nuclear 
technology  of  great  interest  and  importance  to  the 
human  community.  We  wholeheartedly  support  the 
need for the Agency to expand technical cooperation in 
the  application  of  nuclear  technology  in  the  areas  of 
food, agriculture, medicine and natural resources.  

Today,  we  are  going  to  adopt  the  annual  draft 
resolution reaffirming the strong support of the General 
Assembly  for  the  indispensable  role  of  the  IAEA  in 
“encouraging  and  assisting 
the  development  and 
practical  application  of  atomic  energy  for  peaceful 
uses,  in  technology  transfer  to  developing  countries 
and 
in  nuclear  safety,  verification  and  security” 
(A/63/L.6,  para.  3).  Indeed,  the  role  and  goals  of  the 
Agency,  which  serves  as  one  of  the  main  instruments 
of the nuclear-weapon non-proliferation regime, cannot 
be  overestimated.  Unfortunately,  the  conflicts  and 
threats in that area have not diminished.  

The international community had failed to resolve 
disarmament and non-proliferation issues owing to the 
absence of consensus. The IAEA should play a leading 
role  under  the  three  pillars  of  its  mandate  to  monitor 
the  technology,  safety  and  verification  of  nuclear  use 
among  nations.  We  support  the  strengthening  of  the 
Agency’s  function  as  a  non-proliferation  watchdog, 
verifying  the  production,  possession,  use  and  import 
and export of all nuclear material. 

As  a  member  of  the  Agency,  Kazakhstan  is 
undertaking  effective  measures  to  implement  of  its 
obligations  to  strengthen  the  non-proliferation  regime, 
including the Additional Protocol to the Agreement on 
the Application of Safeguards between Kazakhstan and 
the IAEA. We are interested in deepening cooperation 
with  the  Agency  to  meet  our  intention  to  increase 
uranium production under strict IAEA control. 

indicates,  continuing 
population  growth  and  longer  human  lifespan  are 
creating  challenges  for  energy  supply.  The  ongoing 
crises  and  disruption  in  energy  security  create  a 
report 
IAEA 
the 
As 
In 
which 
envisions 
the  world’s 
development, 
the  29  nuclear 
tons  of  uranium. 
tons;  compared  with 
growing  demand  for  nuclear  energy.  The  latest  IAEA 
projections  estimate  that  global  energy  consumption 
will grow by 53 per cent by 2030, with 70 per cent of 
the  growth  coming  from  developing  countries,  where 
17  of 
reactors  currently  under 
construction are located. 

Kazakhstan  possesses  approximately  19  per  cent 
of  the  world’s  explored  uranium  reserves,  which  is 
around 1.5 million tons. In 2007 uranium production in 
Kazakhstan  was  6,637 
the 
5,281 tons  produced  in  2006,  this  represents  a  growth 
rate  of  25.7  per  cent.  In  2008,  we  plan  to  produce 
approximately  9,600 
that 
perspective,  we  plan  to  bring  annual  production  of 
natural  uranium  to  more  than  15,000  tons  by  2010, 
making  Kazakhstan 
leading  uranium 
producer. 

Taking  those  facts  into  account,  the  Government 
of Kazakhstan adopted a national programme of atomic 
energy 
the 
intensification  of  cooperation  with  the  IAEA  and  its 
member States. With the expansion of nuclear activities 
in Kazakhstan, the Government is planning to create a 
special  authority  to  coordinate  national  programmes 
for the peaceful use of atomic energy. 

Kazakhstan  is  actively  implementing  the  new 
edition  of  the  Code  of  Conduct  on  the  Safety  and 
Security  of  Radioactive  Sources.  Projects 
for 
strengthening  controls  on  ionizing  radiation  sources 
and  on  safe  and  secure  management  of  strong  sources 
are  being  successfully  implemented.  Instruments  have 
been  prepared  to  introduce  the  national  register  of 
sources  of  ionizing  radiation  and  an  inventory  of 
radioactive  sources  on  Kazakhstan’s  territory  is  being 
carried  out.  In  implementing  these  and  other  similar 
programmes,  we  are  thankful  for  the  support  and 
effective  assistance  of  the  IAEA  and  countries  taking 
part in the projects. 

During  the  IAEA  General  Conference  in  Vienna 
this  year,  we  organized  an  exhibition  on  Kazakhstan’s 
renunciation  of  nuclear  weapons, 
the  seventeenth 
anniversary of the closing of the Semipalatinsk nuclear 
test site and the role of our country in strengthening the 
non-proliferation and nuclear material control regimes. 
That  event  also  reflected  Kazakhstan’s  nuclear-fuel-
cycle capacity through the examples of the work being 
done  at  the  Ulbinsk  plant  and  at  the  research  reactors 
of  the  National  Nuclear  Centre,  as  well  as  our 
26 

08-56886 
for 
its  partners 
in  Almaty,  and 
the  groundwork 
launched  at  Astana,  and 


cooperation  with  foreign  companies  in  the  production 
of innovative and export-oriented materials. 

From  18  to  22  May  2009,  Kazakhstan  will  host 
the IAEA International Conference  on  Remediation  of 
Land Contaminated by Radioactive Material/Residues. 
We  also  welcome  the  IAEA’s  readiness  to  work 
together  with 
in  drafting  a  study, 
Kazakhstan:  a  Country  Profile  on  Sustainable  Energy 
Development. 
With  the  support  of  our  Government,  the  joint 

company  Nuclear  Technology  Park  has 
stock 
commenced  operations  in  Kurchatov.  It  is  expected  to 
lay 
the  development  of 
applications  for  the  peaceful  uses  of  atomic  energy, 
including  nuclear  power.  Last  year,  a  heavy-ion 
accelerator  was 
the 
construction  of  the  Kazakhstan  tokamak  for  materials 
testing is currently under way in Kurchatov; the project 
is  moving  towards  the  fabrication  and  installation  of 
basic  equipment.  A  nuclear-medicine  centre  is  being 
planned 
is  also 
supported by the Government. 
We welcome the conclusion, set out in the report 

under  consideration,  that  in  2007  the  nuclear  industry 
continued  to  demonstrate  a  high  level  of  safety  and 
security 
the  world.  Kazakhstan,  while 
continuing to combat the nuclear threat, recognizes the 
right  of  any  nation  to  develop  nuclear  technology  for 
peaceful purposes under strict international controls, in 
particular 
IAEA.  The  Agency’s 
comprehensive  safeguards  agreements  and  additional 
protocols  constitute  its  current  verification  standards. 
We  call on States  that have not yet brought into  force 
their 
IAEA  safeguards  agreements  or  additional 
protocols to do so in an expeditious manner. 

We  must  find  ways  to  resolve  the  conflict 
situations that have recently arisen. Such means should 
not  infringe  on  the  right  of  countries  to  technological 
development or hamper their access to knowledge and 
should  restore  the  confidence  of  the  international 
community with regard to peaceful nuclear activities.  

Kazakhstan  is  taking  measures  to  strengthen 
border  radiation  monitoring  and  to  further  upgrade  its 
system  for  combating  the  illicit  trafficking  of  nuclear  
its  construction 
those  of 
around 
the 
A/63/PV.31
and  other  radioactive  materials.  We  have  joined  the 
Global  Nuclear  Energy  Partnership 
initiative  and 
signed  a  Statement  of  Principles  during  the  second 
ministerial  meeting  of 
the  Partnership,  held  on 
16 September 2007 in Vienna. Our country fully agrees 
with the main principles of the Global Partnership and 
its  vision  of  nuclear  energy  cooperation  aimed  at  the 
safe  and  secure  expansion  of  civilian  nuclear  energy 
for peaceful  purposes. We believe that  the Partnership 
provides  new  momentum  for  the  development  of 
national nuclear and energy industries.  

Kazakhstan  fully  complies  with  all  commonly 
accepted  norms  in  its  export  control  policy.  As  a 
member of the Nuclear Suppliers Group, our country is 
taking  effective  measures  to  meet  its  obligation  to 
strengthen  the  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.  A 
system  for  combating  illicit  nuclear  trafficking  has 
been established and is being improved on a day-to-day 
basis. At the  same time,  we call for thorough scrutiny 
of  any  new  restrictions  on  the  transfer  of  nuclear 
technologies,  with  a  view  to  avoiding  unjustified 
barriers to peaceful atomic development. 

Mindful  of  the  potential  threat  posed  by  highly 
enriched materials, the Ministry of Energy and Mineral 
Resources  of  Kazakhstan  has  adopted  a  five-year 
programme  to  convert  the  VVR-K  research  reactor  to 
low-enriched  fuel.  The  safe  decommissioning  of  the 
BN-350  fast  breeder  reactor  in  Aktau  is  also  in 
progress.  

reaffirm 
Kazakhstan’s full support for the activities of the IAEA 
in  accordance  with  article  II  of  the  Agency’s  statute, 
which states, “The Agency shall seek to accelerate and 
enlarge  the  contribution  of  atomic  energy  to  peace, 
health and prosperity throughout the world”. 
In  conclusion, 
should 
like 
to 
I 


Programme of work 
The Acting President: I wish to inform members 

that the consideration of agenda item 104 (a), “Election 
of  twenty  members  of  the  Committee  for  Programme 
and  Coordination”,  scheduled  for  today,  Monday, 
27 October 2008, has been postponed to a later date to 
be announced. 
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
08-56886 

27 
