
A/63/PV.33
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

33rd plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 29 October 2008, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .


(Nicaragua) 
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 






Agenda item 19  
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/93) 

  Draft resolution (A/63/L.4) 

Mr. Ashe (Antigua and Barbuda): It is an honour 

for me to speak on behalf of the Group of 77 and China 
in the General Assembly on agenda item 19, “Necessity 
of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba”. 

The heads of State and Government of the Group 
of 77 and China have repeatedly condemned the use of 
economic  coercive  measures  designed 
to  prevent 
countries  from  exercising  their  right  to  decide  their 
own  political,  economic  and  social  systems,  and  have 
called  on  all  countries  not  to  recognize  unilateral 
extraterritorial 
imposed 
sanctions on other States and foreign companies. 

Our  heads  of  State  and  Government  have  also 
recognized that the embargo has caused and continues 
to  cause  a  high  degree  of  economic  and  financial 
damage,  which  has  had  a  negative  impact  on  the 
welfare  and  well-being  of  the  people  of  Cuba.  The 
Group  reiterates  its  call  upon  the  Government  of  the 
United States to put an end to the embargo. 
laws  enacted 
that  have 
The  embargo  against  Cuba  contravenes 

The  promulgation  of  such  acts  not  only 
undermines  the  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  and  international  law,  but  also 
severely  threatens  freedom  of  trade  and  investment. 
The Group urges the United States to effect change in 
its dealings with the Republic of Cuba in a meaningful 
way by ending the embargo. 

The  Group  is  committed  to  working  towards  a 
better  world  for  all  in  which  nations,  large  and  small, 
coexist  peacefully.  The  achievement  of  such  peaceful 
coexistence  among  nations  requires  adherence  by  all 
nations to the rule of law, including international law. 

the 
fundamental  norms  of  international  law,  international 
humanitarian  law,  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and  the  norms  and  principles  governing  peaceful 
relations  among  States.  Its  continued 
imposition 
violates  the  principles  of  the  sovereign  equality  of 
States  and  of  non-intervention  and  non-interference  in 
each other’s domestic affairs. 

We  believe  that  the  replacement  of  the  embargo 
with diplomatic dialogue and cooperation will promote 
meaningful 
and  partnership  between 
countries  whose  destinies  are  linked  by  history  and 
geography. 
Considering the impact that the embargo has had 

on  everyday 
the 
overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States  are  here 
today in support of the draft resolution on the necessity 
of  ending  it.  The  Group  of  77  and  China  will  again 
support the draft resolution before us today and would 
the  Cuban  people, 
exchange 
life  of 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-57511 (E) 
*0857511* 
economic 
sanctions, 
their 
renews 
unilateral 
sovereignty, 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
A/63/PV.33 

urge all Member States in good conscience to join us in 
that endeavour. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): Before giving 

the  floor  to  the  next  speaker,  I  would  like  to  propose 
that the list of speakers for the debate on this item be 
closed.  
It was so decided. 

Mr.  Abdelaziz  (Egypt):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak today on behalf of the 118 States Members of the 
United  Nations  that  are  members  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement. 

its 
commitment  to  defending,  preserving  and  promoting 
the Charter of the United Nations and international law. 
We refrain from recognizing, adopting or implementing 
extraterritorial or unilateral coercive measures or laws, 
including 
other 
intimidating  measures  and  arbitrary  travel  restrictions 
that  seek  to  exert  pressure  on  non-aligned  countries, 
threatening 
independence  and 
freedom of trade and investment, and that prevent them 
from exercising their right to decide, by their own free 
will, their own political, economic and social systems. 

flagrant 
violations  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
international law and the multilateral trading system, as 
well  as  the  norms  and  principles  governing  friendly 
relations among States. In that regard, the Non-Aligned 
Movement  opposes  and  condemns  such  measures  or 
laws and their continued application. The Movement is 
also  persevering  in  its  efforts  to  effectively  reverse 
them  and  urges  other  States  to  do  likewise,  as  called 
for by the General Assembly and other United Nations 
organs.  Once  again,  the  Movement  requests  States 
applying  such  measures  or  laws  to  revoke  them  fully 
and immediately. 

The Non-Aligned Movement reaffirms that under 
no  circumstances  should  people  be  deprived  of  their 
own  means  of  subsistence  and  development.  The 
Non-Aligned  Movement  further  expresses  its  concern 
at  the  continued  imposition  of  such  measures,  which 
inhibit the well-being of the population of the affected 
countries and create obstacles to the full realization of 
their  human  rights.  In  accordance  with  international 
law,  the  Movement  supports  the  claim  of  affected 
States, including the targeted States, for compensation 
for  the  damage  incurred  as  a  consequence  of  the 
Such  measures  or 
laws  constitute 

rejects 
As  reaffirmed  by 
the  embargo  against  Cuba  and 
implementation of extraterritorial or unilateral coercive 
measures or laws. 

the  heads  of  State  and 
Government  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  at  their 
Summit  Conference  held  in  Havana  in  September 
2006, we once again call upon the Government of the 
United  States  of  America  to  put  an  end  to  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba,  which,  in  addition  to  being  unilateral  and 
contrary  to  the  United  Nations  Charter,  international 
law  and  the  principle  of  good-neighbourliness,  is 
causing huge  material losses and economic damage to 
the people of Cuba. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  reiterates  its  deep 
concern over the widening of the extraterritorial nature 
of 
the 
reinforcement  of  the  measures  adopted  by  the  United 
States  Government  aimed  at  tightening  the  embargo 
and  all  other  recent  measures  carried  out  by  the 
Government of the United States against the people of 
Cuba.  The  Movement  reiterates  that  those  measures 
constitute  a  violation  of  Cuba’s  sovereignty  and  a 
massive violation of the human rights of its people. 

In  conclusion,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  once 
again  urges  strict  compliance  with  resolutions  47/19, 
48/16,  49/9,  50/10,  51/17,  52/10,  53/4,  54/21,  55/20, 
56/9, 57/11, 58/7, 59/11, 60/12, 61/11 and 62/3, on the 
necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba. 
Allow  me  to  say  a  few  words,  before  closing, 

about  my  dear  friend  and  colleague,  Ambassador 
Rodrigo  Malmierca 
Permanent 
Representative of Cuba to the United Nations, who will 
be  leaving  us  at  the  end  of  this  week.  I  would  like  to 
express  my  appreciation  as  a  member  of 
the 
Non-Aligned Movement Troika and the appreciation of 
all  the  members  of  the  Movement  for  his  extensive 
efforts  and  for  his  able  leadership  as  Chair  of  the 
Movement over the past two years. I wish him all the 
best in his future endeavours. 
Mr. Talbot (Guyana): On behalf of the 14 States 

members  of  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM) 
that  are  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  I  have  the 
honour  to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba.  
Díaz, 
the 
2 

08-57511 



CARICOM aligns itself with the statement made 
by the representative of Antigua and Barbuda on behalf 
of the Group of 77 and China and the representative of 
Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

At  the  outset,  CARICOM  would  like  to  express 
its  concern  and  solidarity  with  the  people  of  Cuba  as 
they struggle to rebuild in the aftermath of Hurricanes 
Gustav,  Hanna  and  Ike,  which  battered  the  island  and 
our  region  in  quick  succession.  Indeed,  it  is  in  these 
times  of  natural  disaster  and  national  crisis  that  the 
fundamental unjustness of the embargo is brought into 
sharpest  relief.  Cuba’s  safety,  advance  preparedness 
and  pace  of  recovery  are  compromised  by 
the 
embargo’s  many  direct  and  indirect  effects.  When 
viewed in the light of Cuba’s own sacrifice and selfless 
assistance  to  other  States  in  times  of  crisis,  such  an 
embargo seems particularly ill conceived. 

The punitive  embargo is of particular  concern to 
CARICOM,  which  shares  a  history,  culture  and 
brotherhood with the people of Cuba. Cuba is the most 
populous State of the Caribbean region and an integral 
part of the pan-Caribbean process. Caribbean ties with 
Cuba  have  historical  significance,  cemented  by  years 
of  active  cooperation  at  various  levels.  The  member 
to  maintain  close 
States  of  CARICOM  continue 
relations  with  Cuba 
range  of 
programmes  of  cooperation  in  areas  including  trade, 
health  care, 
resource 
development.  Our  future  regional  development  is,  in 
many  ways,  reliant  upon  our  collective  advancement 
and progress. In that context, we view the embargo not 
just  as  a  punitive  act  against  Cuba,  but  as  an 
impediment to our shared regional development. 

This year’s report of the Secretary-General on the 
necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America  against  Cuba  (A/63/93),  as  previous  reports 
on 
an 
overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States  that  share  a 
common  perspective  on 
the  continued  unilateral 
embargo against Cuba. 

CARICOM  member  States  continue  to  reiterate 
their  unequivocal  opposition  to  the  imposition  of  the 
embargo,  which  has  been 
the 
overwhelming majority of the international community 
for  the  past  16  consecutive  years.  The  unilateral 
imposition  of  extraterritorial  laws  on  third  States  is 
contrary  to  both  the  letter  and  the  spirit  of  the  United 
infrastructure  and  human 
through  a  wide 
repudiated  by 
the  matter, 
responses 
outlines 
from 
A/63/PV.33
inability  of  Cuba 
Nations Charter, and the embargo itself runs counter to 
the  principles  of  multilateralism,  international  law, 
sovereignty  and  free  trade  that  this  body  traditionally 
champions. 

CARICOM States therefore reaffirm the positions 
of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement in opposing such unilateral actions, and we 
maintain the position that constructive engagement and 
peaceful  negotiations  remain 
the  only  acceptable 
means for advancing long-term peace and stability. 
The  significant  effect  of  the  embargo  on  the 

Cuban  economy  continues  to  be  of  great  concern  to 
CARICOM, and the humanitarian impact on the people 
of Cuba, especially in the area of health care and food, 
is  saddening.  The 
to  acquire 
necessary  medical  equipment,  spare  parts  and  latest-
generation medicines because of the embargo continues 
to  affect  the  health-care  system,  where  treatment 
remains free of charge to the Cuban people.  

With  the  strengthened  and  more  frequent  storms 
and  hurricanes  brought  on  by  climate  change  and 
Cuba’s  geographic  susceptibility 
those  natural 
disasters, the unacceptable humanitarian impact of the 
embargo  becomes  even  more  acute.  It  is  remarkable 
that, even as Cuba struggles with its recent unfortunate 
string  of  natural  disasters,  it  continues  to  assist  other 
nations  in  the  developing  world,  starting  with  its 
immediate  Caribbean  neighbours.  Thousands  of 
CARICOM  students  have  attended  Cuban  universities 
without  charge,  thousands  have  received  free  surgical 
operations  and  medical  assistance 
in  Cuba,  and 
thousands  more  have  been  treated  in  their  home 
countries  by  Cuban  doctors  and  nurses.  We  have 
benefited  from  technical  expertise,  capacity-building 
programmes, infrastructural assistance and the selfless 
generosity  of  the  Cuban  people.  The  people  of  Cuba 
have threatened no one, and neither the embargo nor its 
deleterious  side  effects  have  prevented  them  from 
continually  extending  a  hand  of  friendship  and 
solidarity, even across ideological divides. 

Given Cuba’s peaceful, generous and cooperative 
international  stance,  it  should  not  be  isolated  or 
excluded 
in 
and 
hemispheric  processes.  CARICOM 
its 
unwavering  support  for  the  right  of  the  Cuban  people 
to  self-determination  and  to  the  beneficial  pursuit  of 
their social and economic development in a manner of 
their own choosing.  
regional 
reiterates 
participation 
from 
to 
08-57511 

3 

The 
imposed 
embargo 
state  of 
against  Cuba 
A/63/PV.33 


is 
increasingly  anachronistic  and  serves  no  useful 
purpose  in  the  twenty-first  century.  It  has  only  served 
to  preserve  a 
two 
tension  between 
neighbouring  countries  and 
to  generate  concern, 
disquiet and discomfort throughout the Caribbean. 

CARICOM  States  continue  to  enjoy  friendly 
relations with both Cuba and the United States. Those 
two neighbours, a mere 90 miles apart, have produced 
great  scholars,  scientists  and  global  leaders.  The  two 
countries  possess  proud  and  noble  histories  and  are 
populated  by  friendly,  open  and  loving  peoples.  We 
call  for  a  new  beginning  between  the  Governments  of 
those two great nations — one large and one small — 
akin  to  similar  initiatives  taken  for  negotiation  of  far 
more difficult issues of international relations between 
States  Members  of  this  Organization.  We  can  only 
imagine  the  positive  outcome  of  a  rapprochement 
between them based on the purposes and principles of 
the United Nations Charter.  

It  is  against  that  background  that  CARICOM 
States  support  the  draft  resolution  on  the  necessity  of 
ending the economic, commercial and financial embargo 
by the United States, contained in document A/63/L.4. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Mr.  President,  it  is  an 
honour  to  speak  for  the  first  time  in  this  forum  under 
your leadership.  

Last  October,  184  Member  States,  in  this  forum, 
voted  in  favour  of  draft  resolution  A/62/L.1,  entitled 
“Neccessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba” — a nearly unanimous rejection 
by  the  international  community  of  the  interventionist 
policy against the fraternal people of Cuba. 

Ever  since  its  first  resolution  on  this  topic, 
resolution 47/19, was adopted, on 24 November 1992, 
the Assembly has been adopting systematically, and by 
an overwhelming majority resolutions that demand that 
the Government of the United States of America put an 
end  to  its  hostile  policy  against  Cuba.  The  United 
States Government, however, has repeatedly disdained 
the  majority  will  of  the  General  Assembly  and  has 
refused  to  hear  the  clamour  throughout  the  world 
against  the  embargo. That  is  one  of  the  many  reasons 
that  amply  justify  the  pressing  need  to  reform  the 
United Nations so that the resolutions of this Assembly 
are welcomed and respected by all States. 
the 

The enduring embargo against Cuba runs counter 
to  the  spirit  of  our  times.  It  is  an  obstacle  to  the 
creation  of  an  international  order  based  on  peace  and 
coexistence  among  all  nations.  The  embargo 
is 
undeniably  a  criminal  mechanism  that  is  designed  to 
crush,  through  hunger  and  disease,  a  dignified  people 
that  has  bravely  and  with  determination  exercised  its 
right to freedom and independence. For more than four 
decades, 
imperialist  Government  has  been 
flagrantly  violating  the  human  rights  of  the  Cuban 
people,  including  the  right  to  life,  health,  food  and 
education.  It  has  been  violating 
the  norms  and 
principles  of  international  law  that  govern  relations 
among States, as well as the letter and the spirit of the 
Charter of the United Nations. 
Over the past year, the embargo against Cuba has 

intensified  and  its  extraterritorial  implementation  has 
expanded. To  deny  medicine  and  food  to  a  country  in 
the context of an odious sanctions regime is a violation 
of 
the 
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the 
Crime of Genocide.  

Mohandas  Gandhi,  in  his  work  “Non-Violence: 
The  Greatest  Force”,  set  out  his  thinking,  which  is  as 
relevant now as it was then. The great herald of peace 
and permanent leader of the people of India said:  
is  proscribed 
international 
law  and 
in 
is  a  criminal  punishment 
“An armed conflict between nations horrifies us. 
But the economic war is no better than an armed 
conflict.  This  is  like  a  surgical  operation.  An 
economic war is prolonged torture.” 
The economic, commercial and financial embargo 

against  Cuba 
imposed 
systematically on the Cuban people with no distinction 
as  to  age,  sex,  religion  or  social  status.  In  the  context 
of  the  devastating  human  toll  and  material  damage 
caused by hurricanes Gustav and Ike, the implications 
of  the  embargo  take  on  more  unjust  and  immoral 
connotations. Despite the embargo, the people of Cuba 
and  their  Government,  faithful  to  the  principles  of 
solidarity and humanism, have maintained cooperation 
and  solidarity  with  many  developing  countries, 
including  my  own,  particularly 
the  areas  of 
education and health.  

The embargo against Cuba is rejected not only by 
the  Cuban  people,  but  also  by  a  majority  of  world 
public  opinion,  including  within  the  United  States. To 
this  effect,  we  welcome  constructive  rapprochement 
and  positive  dialogue  which  the  European  Union  has 
in 
4 

08-57511 
We 
reiterate  our  support 
for 
the  Common  Market  of 


initiated  with  no  conditions  of  any  type  and  with 
respect  for  the  sovereignty  of  the  Cuban  people.  We 
therefore  appeal  for  the  embargo  against  Cuba  to  be 
lifted immediately and unconditionally. 

The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  firmly 
rejects  the  unilateral  implementation  of  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  measures  against  Cuba  that 
affect  the  development  of  international  trade  and  that 
constitute  an  offensive  extraterritorial  application  of 
one country’s domestic legislation against another. 
the  General 

Assembly  resolutions  that  call  for  an  end  to  the 
embargo against Cuba. We support, in that context, the 
positions  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the  statement  soon  to  be 
delivered  by 
the  South 
(MERCOSUR), all of which condemn the embargo on 
Cuba,  as  it  is  in  violation  of  the  provisions  of  the 
United Nations Charter.  

We hope that, on this occasion, the overwhelming 
majority of countries will once again raise their voices 
against a measure that is an affront to a people that has 
since  1958  been  flying  with  dignity  the  flags  of 
freedom, sovereignty and self-determination.  

Venezuela  will  therefore  vote  in  favour  of  the 
draft  resolution  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba”. 
Mr.  Heller  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  For 

17 consecutive  years,  the  Government  of  Mexico  has, 
in this forum, expressed its rejection of the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba,  and 
today  it  once  again  reiterates  its  opposition  to  the  use 
of coercive actions not supported by the Charter of the 
United Nations. 

the  Cuban 
Therefore, 
Government submitted a draft resolution to the General 
Assembly to put an end to the embargo imposed by the 
Government  of  the  United  States  of America,  Mexico 
has  repeatedly  voted  in  favour  of  the  resolutions 
adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  on  the  matter.  My 
Government  has  also  shared  with  the  international 
community  its  firm  opposition  to  the  extraterritorial 
application 
contravene 
of 
international law. 
The  Government  of  Mexico  has  maintained  that 

position in the various agencies of the United Nations, 
since  1992,  when 
national 
laws 
that 
A/63/PV.33
system  supported  by  the  fact  that  the  United  States 
embargo  against  Cuba,  a  unilateral  policy  that  has 
lasted 
for  almost  half  a  century,  contravenes 
international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, has severe humanitarian consequences that are 
in  open  contradiction  to  its  founding  objectives  and 
furthermore  constitutes  a  renunciation  of  diplomacy 
and dialogue as ideal ways to resolve conflicts between 
States. 

For all those reasons, my delegation reiterates its 
firm  opposition  to  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial embargo against Cuba, which has affected its 
population  in  a  silent,  systematic  and  cumulative 
manner. 

The  overwhelming  outcry  of  the  international 
community  against 
this  sort  of  unilateral  action 
reminds  us  that  any  kind  of  political,  economic  or 
military sanctions imposed upon States can derive only 
from  decisions  or  recommendations  of  the  Security 
Council  or  the  General  Assembly  of  the  United 
Nations. 

Several  agencies  and  entities  of  the  United 
Nations  system  address  the  negative  impact  that  the 
embargo  has  on  the  economic  and  social  development 
of Cuba. The resulting destruction tangibly affects the 
economic, commercial and financial transactions of the 
country  and  has  negative  repercussions  on  sensitive 
sectors  such  as  food,  health  and  construction,  all  of 
which  have  a  direct  impact  on  the  lives  of  the  Cuban 
people. 
All  of  those  effects  not  only  have  repercussions 

for  third  countries,  since  they  cannot  interact  with 
Cuba in many economic and social activities, but also 
are aggravated in the  context of natural disasters such 
as the highly destructive storms that occurred this year, 
hurricanes Gustav and Ike. 

The  Government  of  Mexico  reiterates  its  firm 
position  against  national  laws  that  are  imposed  on 
other countries and violate international law. 

In  that  context,  and  in  order  to  counteract  the 
economic,  political  and  diplomatic  isolation  of  Cuba, 
the  Government  of  Mexico  has  supported  Cuba’s 
integration into all the regional integration mechanisms, 
thus  promoting  economic  and  commercial  exchanges, 
cooperation and development. On 23 October 1996, the 
Mexican  State  passed  the  Law  on  the  Protection  of 
Commerce  and  Investments  from  Foreign  Policies  that 
08-57511 

5 

A/63/PV.33 

Contravene  International  Law.  The  law  prohibits  any 
acts that affect commerce or investment if those acts are 
a result of the extraterritorial application of the laws of 
foreign countries. 

At  the  bilateral  level,  Mexico  is  also  promoting 
political,  economic  and  commercial  contacts  with 
Cuba. An  example  of  that  is  the  third  meeting  of  the 
Cuba-Mexico  Permanent  Mechanism  for  Information 
and  Political  Consultation,  held  in  March  2008,  in 
which  both  Governments  committed  themselves  to 
promoting existing bilateral mechanisms in the areas of 
migration,  drug  trafficking,  commerce  and  industrial 
development, shipping, agriculture and fishing, foreign 
trade,  tourism,  health  and  development.  The  meeting 
was  also  instrumental  in  establishing  mechanisms  to 
promote economic relations through the dispatching of 
business  missions  and  the  revision  of  agreements  on 
economic  complementarity  and  the  promotion  and 
reciprocal  protection  of  investments  between  the  two 
countries. 

focusing  on  dialogue  and  consultation, 
By 
Mexico and Cuba have managed to strengthen their ties 
of  cooperation  and  understanding.  That  has  led  to  a 
relationship  based  on  mutual  respect,  as  evidenced  by 
the  signing  of  an  agreement  on  restructuring  Cuba’s 
debts  to  Mexico  in  March  2008.  The  agreement  was 
appended to the existing regulatory framework of each 
country  and  mutually  satisfactory  to  both  parties, 
helping to stimulate the development of economic and 
trade relations benefiting the two countries. 

In  that  context,  we  should  also  mention  the 
signing of the memorandum of understanding between 
Mexico  and  Cuba  to  secure  legal,  orderly  and  safe 
migratory 
countries.  The 
memorandum was signed during a visit by the Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  Felipe  Pérez  Roque,  to 
Mexico  City  on  20  October.  It  will  help  to  ensure 
migrants’  safety,  discourage  undocumented  migration 
and combat more effectively the trafficking in persons. 

That  relationship,  which  is  based  on  mutual 
respect, was indeed validated through Foreign Minister 
Pérez  Roque’s  visit  to  Mexico  City  only  a  few  days 
ago.  During  his  meeting  with  President  Felipe 
Calderón,  both  noted  the  positive  state  of  relations 
between  the  two  countries.  Besides  being  reflected  in 
the  structure  of  the  bilateral  institutional  mechanisms, 
that relationship is furthered by the increase in bilateral 
trade, which are shows great promise. During the first 
flows  between  both 
eight  months  of  this  year,  bilateral  trade  increased  by 
nearly  80  per  cent  as  compared  to  the  same  period  in 
2007.  That  reinforces  the  firm  historical  ties  between 
Mexico and Cuba, which are sustained in a climate of 
renewed  confidence,  taking  into  consideration  the 
purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the 
United Nations. 

On  that  basis,  through  bilateral  dialogue  and  in 
the  relevant  regional  and  international  forums  and 
mechanisms,  Mexico  has  promoted  opportunities  for 
cooperation  and  respectful  dialogue,  as  demonstrated 
recently  through  the  first  ministerial-level  political 
dialogue between the Rio Group and Cuba, held at the 
beginning  of  the  current  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  During  that  dialogue,  both  sides  stressed 
their  interest  in  discussing  relevant  topics  on  the 
regional and international agenda. 

The Government of Mexico bases its bilateral and 
multilateral  relationships  on  the  general  principles  of 
international  law  that  regulate  peaceful  and  civilized 
coexistence  among  sovereign  States.  Those  principles 
have  retained  their  solidity  and  continuity  in  the 
relations between Mexico and Cuba. Mexico reaffirms 
today  that  international  law  is  the  mechanism  for 
resolving disputes between States and that observing it 
and  respecting  the  rules  and  principles  that  govern 
coexistence  among  nations,  as  well  as  respectful 
dialogue,  irrespective  of  asymmetries  or  differences, 
are 
for  overcoming 
differences  among  States  and  securing  a  climate  of 
international peace. 

From  our  own  experience,  we  know  well  that 
societies  evolve  and  change  according  to  their  own 
circumstances  and  not  as  the  result  of  arbitrary 
measures  imposed  from  outside.  In  virtue  of  all  those 
considerations,  Mexico  will  once  again  support  the 
resolution  that  has  been  presented  under  the  item  at 
this session.  
(Viet  Nam):  For 

the  General  Assembly  has 
16 consecutive  years 
debated 
the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba. The Assembly 
is  meeting  again  today  to  discuss  the  same  issue 
because  despite  the  strong  appeal  of  the  international 
community for it to end, the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States against 
Cuba continues.  
the  necessity  of  ending 
Mr.  Le  Luong  Minh
the  necessary 
instruments 
6 

08-57511 
to 
States’ 
unilateral 
The  United 



The  resolutions  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States against Cuba which the Assembly 
has  adopted  with  near  unanimity,  have  never  been 
implemented.  We  fully  align  ourselves  with 
the 
statements  made  by  the  delegates  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda and of Egypt on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China and the Non-Aligned Movement, respectively, in 
that connection. 

economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba 
represents  a  violation  of  international  law,  including 
international laws relating to the freedom of trade and 
navigation  and  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs 
of  States.  It  runs  counter  to  universally  recognized 
norms governing relations between sovereign countries 
regardless of their political systems and their choice of 
a  path  of  development  and 
the  fundamental 
principles, purposes and spirit enshrined in the Charter 
of the United Nations.  

The  prolonged  and  intensified  embargo  imposed 
by  the  United  States  against  Cuba  has  caused  serious 
economic and trade damage worth scores of billions of 
United States dollars not only to Cuba, but also to other 
countries  desirous  of  conducting  their  normal  and 
mutually  beneficial  economic,  financial  and  trade 
relations with that peace-loving country. It has inflicted 
tremendous  hardship  and  suffering  on  the  Cuban 
people,  particularly  women  and  children.  While  the 
Government  and  people  of  Cuba  strive  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals, 
that  unjustifiable 
unilateral  embargo  affects  their  efforts  to  accomplish 
the very goals that leaders of the world adopted at this 
Assembly eight years ago. 

Viet  Nam  is  against  the  imposition  of  any 
coercive,  unilateral  and  extraterritorial  economic, 
commercial  or  trade  embargo  by  one  country  against 
another. We believe that disputes among States should 
and  can  be  resolved  through  peaceful  dialogue  and 
negotiations on the basis of equality, mutual respect for 
each  other’s  independence  and  sovereignty,  and  the 
principle  of  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
States. We demand that the United States put an end to 
the  unilateral  embargo  against  Cuba,  the  continuation 
of  which  serves  no  other  purpose  than  to  intensify 
tension between the two neighbouring countries and in 
the  region  and 
to  regional  and 
international  peace  and  security  and  the  interests  of 
friendly relations among peoples. 
is  a  disservice 
A/63/PV.33
the  principles  of 

Viet Nam reaffirms its support for and solidarity 
with the Government and people of Cuba. We will join 
the efforts of the international community to help them 
overcome the consequences of the embargo. Viet Nam 
will again vote in favour of the draft resolution. 
Mr.  Mohamad  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 

delegation  would  like  to  extend  to  you,  Sir,  our 
warmest  thanks  and  appreciation  and  to  applaud  your 
wise  leadership  of  the  proceedings  of  the  current 
session of the General Assembly. We greatly appreciate 
your  efforts  to  spread  the  spirit  of  fraternity,  equality, 
justice,  cooperation  and  respect  for  peoples  to  choose 
and to reject hegemony and the law of force.  

For the seventeenth consecutive year, an item on 
the necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba is on the agenda of the General 
Assembly.  Throughout  those  years,  the  Assembly,  by 
adopting  the  draft  resolutions  presented  to  it,  has 
demonstrated its complete rejection of those unilateral 
sanctions and their extraterritorial negative effects that 
run  counter 
international 
legitimacy. 

The General Assembly is once again considering 
the  item  amid  an  increasing  awareness  on  the  part  of 
the  international  community  and  its  rejection  of  the 
dangerous  and  unjustifiable 
the 
sanctions. The continuous support for the resolution — 
year  in  and  year  out  —  explicitly  demonstrates  the 
rejection  by 
the 
unilateral  imposition  of  the  embargo  on  Cuba,  due  to 
its blatant violation of the basic rules and principles of 
international law, the provisions of the United Nations 
Charter  and  the  international  instruments  and  norms 
governing 
commercial, 
financial 
relations among States.  

The long suffering of the Cuban people as a result 
of the embargo serves as an appeal to the international 
community to take a stand once again this year against 
those  unjust  sanctions 
international 
legitimacy.  Those  unilateral  measures  have  had  a 
severe impact on the Cuban people, depriving them of 
basic necessities and causing considerable losses in the 
various  fields  of  economic  and  social  development  to 
the brotherly  Republic of  Cuba for over 40 years. My 
delegation  takes  a  firm  stand  against  those  unjust 
unilateral sanctions, which have also been imposed on 
my  country  and  on  other  countries.  We  wish  here  to 
international  community  of 
imposition  of 
economic 
threaten 
that 
to 
the 
and 
08-57511 

7 

to 
the 
achieve 
A/63/PV.33 

express  our  full  solidarity  with  Cuba  and  against  the 
policies  of  exclusion  and  the  imposition  of  hegemony 
on other people. 

We  are  confident  that  the  overwhelming  vote  of 
the  General  Assembly  will  support  the  desire  of  the 
international  community 
the  noble 
humanitarian  principles  contained  in  the  Charter.  The 
draft  resolution  under  consideration  serves  in  its 
symbolic  value  as  an  important  message  from  the 
international community, rejecting the folly of force. 
Mr.  Kumalo  (South  Africa):  May  I  begin  by 

associating  my  delegation  with 
statements 
delivered by the representative of Antigua and Barbuda 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  by  the 
representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement. 

On  New  Year’s  Eve  2009,  we  will  mark  the 
fiftieth anniversary of the Cuban revolution. In honour 
of  that  day  we  must  pay  tribute  to  former  President 
Fidel  Castro,  who  led  the  revolution  for  the  self-
determination  of  the  Cuban  people.  Yet  three  years 
after the Cuban victory led by Comandante Fidel, Cuba 
was  hit  with  a  unilateral  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  on  it  by  its  neighbour,  the 
United States of America. That means that the majority 
of Cuban citizens have known no other life than a life 
under  coercive  economic  measures.  But  despite 
everything,  the  Cuban  people  have  survived.  For  that 
reason  we  begin  today  by  welcoming  the  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Cuba, whose presence at the debate 
is an indication of the importance  we  all attach to the 
issue. 

Throughout  the  unilateral  embargo,  which  has 
lasted over 48 years, the Cuban people have responded 
by  extending  a  hand  of  friendship  and  solidarity  to 
other  people  around  the  world.  For  instance,  it  is  not 
unusual  to  find  Cuban  doctors  and  Cuban  nurses  in 
many  parts  of  Latin  America  and  Africa.  Cuba’s 
outstanding work in the areas of health, education and 
biotechnology 
international 
community.  Also,  through  its  bilateral  cooperation 
projects,  Cuba  is  greatly  assisting  many  developing 
countries  —  including  mine  —  in  addressing  skills 
shortages  by  deploying  Cuban  professional  workers 
and trainers in a myriad of areas. 

Perhaps  more  importantly,  Cuba  has  supported 
the struggles for freedom and justice around the world. 
For  instance,  in  Southern  Africa  we  have  recognized 
is  recognized  by 
the 
including 
international 
to  our  own 
Cuba’s  contribution 
freedom  and 
democracy in our subregion. The role that Cuba played 
in  South  Africa’s  own  liberation  history  was  duly 
recognized  this  year  when  Southern Africa  celebrated 
the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  battle  of  Cuito 
Cuanavale,  which  was  a  decisive  turning  point  in  the 
struggle against apartheid and led to the independence 
of Namibia and South Africa. 

South Africa has consistently opposed all aspects 
of  the  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba for fundamental reasons that go 
beyond the solidarity we share with the Cuban people. 
South  Africa  is  a  country  committed  to  working 
towards  a better world for  all in which  all nations, no 
matter  how  large  or  small,  coexist  peacefully.  The 
achievement  of  such  peaceful  coexistence  among 
nations requires adherence by all nations to the rule of 
law, 
law  and  respect  for 
territorial integrity. 

South  Africa  views  the  continued  imposition  of 
an  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  as  a 
violation of the principles of the sovereign equality of 
States  and  of  non-intervention  and  non-interference  in 
one other’s domestic affairs. South Africa has therefore 
repeatedly  joined  the  vast  majority  of  Member  States 
and  countries  in  expressing  its  disagreement  and  its 
opposition  to  all  aspects  of  the  economic,  commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba. 

We are guided by the basic norms of international 
law  and  conduct  and  our  principled  support  for  the 
need  to  eliminate  coercive  economic  measures  as  a 
means  of  achieving  political  and  economic  goals. 
South  Africa  believes  that  constructive  dialogue  can 
foster mutual trust and understanding and can engender 
harmony and peaceful coexistence between nations. 

My delegation believes that the presence of such 
a large number of Member States in this Hall today and 
their  participation  in  the  deliberations  are  indications 
of 
to  unilateral  extraterritorial 
measures.  We  are  here  to  express  our  firm  opposition 
to coercive economic measures as a means of exerting 
pressure on developing countries, as such measures are 
contrary 
international 
humanitarian  law,  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  the 
norms  and  principles  governing  peaceful  relations 
among States. 
their  opposition 
international 
to 
law, 
8 

08-57511 
the  majority 
in 
join 
in  supporting 
South  Africa  will 
this  morning 


the 

Assembly 
the  draft 
resolution  before  us.  We  do  so  because  this  relentless 
and unilateral action has caused untold suffering to the 
people  of  Cuba.  We  believe  that  the  overwhelming 
majority of Member States present today will join us in 
support  for  the  Cuban  people.  It  is  a  clear  indication 
that  the  time  has  come  for  the  embargo  to  be  lifted, 
thereby  ending  the  untold  suffering  of  the  Cuban 
civilian  population,  who  are  bearing  the  brunt  of  this 
injustice. 

Finally,  Mr.  President,  with  your  permission, 
since  I  will  not  be  able  to  join  the  celebrations  in 
Havana on New Year’s Day, allow me to just say “Viva 
Cuba! Viva Comandante Fidel!” 

Mr.  Liu  Zhenmin  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 
The Chinese delegation supports the statement made by 
the representative of Antigua and Barbuda on behalf of 
the Group of 77 and China. 

For more than 10 years, the Cuban delegation has 
denounced each and every year from the podium of the 
General Assembly the sustained economic, commercial 
and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba,  which  has  had 
serious  consequences  for  its  social,  economic  and 
environmental  development.  The  embargo  has  had  an 
extensive impact on Cuba, especially in compromising 
the  right  to  the  survival  and  development  of  the  most 
vulnerable  groups  in  Cuba,  such  as  women  and 
children, and has gained broad sympathy and attention.  

For  16  consecutive  years,  the  General Assembly 
has each year adopted a resolution by an overwhelming 
majority,  urging  all  countries  to  comply  with  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  principles  of 
international  law  by  repealing  or  invalidating  all  laws 
and  measures  with  extraterritorial  effects 
that 
compromise 
the  sovereignty  of  other  States  and 
undermine the legitimate rights and interests of entities 
those 
and 
countries  and  affect 
trade  and 
navigation.  Regrettably,  however, 
long-term 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba imposed by its rich neighbour is still in place. 
In today’s world, although international relations 

are not yet democratized, dialogue, communication and 
harmonious 
the 
mainstream  of  international  relations.  Mutual  respect 
and  equality  among  countries  are  becoming  important 
the  age  of 
issues  of 
the  freedom  of 
the 
international  consensus.  In 
coexistence  have 
individuals  under 
the 
jurisdictions  of 
emerged 
as 
A/63/PV.33
its  right 
to  give  up 
the  basic  norms  governing 
economic  globalization,  exchanges  and  cooperation 
among  countries  on  an  equal  footing  represent  the 
trend  of  our  times.  Dialogue  on  an  equal  footing  and 
friendly  consultation  are  the  best  way  to  resolve  any 
differences and disputes. The international community 
has the right to raise serious concerns over the embargo 
and  sanctions  suffered  by  Cuba  over  the  years  and  to 
request the country concerned to end the embargo and 
sanctions. 

The embargo and sanctions against Cuba not only 
harm  the  interests  of  Cuba  and  many  other  countries, 
but  also  run  counter  to  the  principles  of  democracy, 
freedom,  the  rule  of  law  and  human  rights.  First,  the 
practice of attempting to force another country, through 
embargo  and  sanctions, 
to 
independently choose its own path of development and 
even to overthrow its Government constitutes a serious 
violation of the purposes and principles of the Charter 
and 
contemporary 
international relations. Such practice has nothing to do 
with promoting democracy and freedom.  

Secondly,  the  embargo  and  sanctions  imposed 
against Cuba are extraterritorial in nature and therefore 
in  violation  of  international  law  and  can  by  no  means 
promote democracy and freedom in any country. They 
are  opposed  by  all  countries  and  run  counter  to  the 
principle of trade liberalization.  

Thirdly, the embargo and sanctions have seriously 
obstructed  and  constrained  the  efforts  of  the  Cuban 
people  to  eradicate  poverty,  improve  their  living 
standards,  pursue  economic  and  social  development 
and achieve the Millennium Development Goals. They 
undermine the right of the Cuban people to subsistence 
and development. The international community is now 
facing the serious challenge of a global food crisis and 
the  ensuing,  worsening  problems  of  hunger  and 
malnutrition,  which  make  the  embargo  and  sanctions 
more unreasonable than ever. 

The  Chinese  Government  always  maintains  that 
countries should develop their  relations in compliance 
with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  and 
work  to  promote  democracy  and  the  rule  of  law  in 
international relations. We believe that the right of each 
country to choose its own social system and the path of 
development should be respected. Differences between 
States  should  be  resolved 
through  dialogue  and 
cooperation  on  the  basis  of  equality  and  mutual 
respect. 
08-57511 

9 
and 
financial 
A/63/PV.33 


In view of all that, the Chinese Government calls 
for  the  lifting  of  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  country  concerned 
against Cuba at an early date. It is our hope that there 
will  be  dialogue  rather 
than  confrontation,  and 
engagement  and  exchanges  rather  than  embargo  and 
sanctions.  We  hope 
the  country  concerned  will 
implement  the  relevant  resolution  of  the  General 
Assembly  without  delay.  China  therefore  supports  the 
draft  resolution  submitted  by  Cuba  under  the  current 
agenda item. 
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  French): 

Allow me at the outset to associate my delegation with 
the statements made by the representatives of Antigua 
and Barbuda on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, 
and of Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

Algeria  wishes  to  express  once  again  its  serious 
concern  regarding  the  continuation  of  the  economic, 
commercial 
embargo  unilaterally 
imposed  for  nearly  half  a  century  now  by  the  United 
States  of  America  against  Cuba.  Algeria  reiterates  its 
appeal for the lifting of the embargo against the Cuban 
people, under which 70 per cent of Cuban citizens were 
born. 

Algeria considers that the economic, commercial 
and  financial  embargo  of  Cuba  is  a  violation  of  the 
principles  of  sovereign  equality  of  States  and 
non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  States,  and 
also  violates 
to 
the  right  of 
development and sovereignty. 
The  extraterritorial  nature  of  the  legislation  of 

one  State  seeking  to  impose  unilateral  sanctions  on 
another constitutes a denial of the principles enshrined 
in the Charter and runs counter to international law. 

Algeria  wishes  to  reaffirm  its  adherence  to  the 
position adopted by the fourteenth summit of the Non-
Aligned Movement held in September 2006 in Havana, 
and to that adopted during the Second South Summit in 
June  2005  in  Doha,  both  of  which  rejected  coercive 
economic  measures  and  extraterritorial  laws  imposed 
on  developing  countries,  and  called  on  the  United 
States to lift the embargo against Cuba. 

In  renewing  its  appeal  to  the  United  States  of 
America  to  lift  its  embargo  against  Cuba,  which  has 
been  continuously  rejected  by  a  growing  number  of 
countries 
the 
overwhelming majority of Member States are in favour 
the  Cuban  people 
the  Assembly, 
indicating 
that 
in 

of  lifting  that  embargo,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
indicate  that  it  will  vote  in  favour  of  the  draft 
resolution A/63/L.4. 
Mr. Al Habib (Islamic Republic of  Iran): At the 

outset, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for 
his report under agenda item 19, “Necessity of ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America  against 
Cuba”  (A/63/93).  My  delegation  associates  itself  with 
the statements made by the representatives of Antigua 
and Barbuda on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, 
and of Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

The  content  of  resolution  62/3,  which  was 
supported  by  184  votes  in  its  favour  last  year,  clearly 
reflects  the  position  of  the  international  community 
towards  the  long-standing  embargo  against  Cuba.  My 
delegation  reiterates  its  belief  that  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba  runs 
counter to the principle of international law governing 
relations  among  States  and  contradicts  the  letter  and 
spirit  of  the  Charter,  which  calls  for  promoting 
solidarity,  cooperation  and  friendly  relations  among 
nations. 

Such  measures  continue  to  have  an  adverse 
impact on the living conditions and human rights of the 
Cuban people and will hamper the efforts of the Cuban 
Government  to  achieve  the  internationally  agreed 
development 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  In  that  context,  the  embargo  is 
hampering  the  efforts  of  the  Cuban  Government  to 
eradicate  poverty  and  hunger  and  to  promote  health 
and  education,  which  are 
the 
to 
achievement of economic and social development. 
Paragraph  101  of  the  Johannesburg  Plan  of 

that 
Implementation 
“States  should  cooperate  to  promote  a  supportive  and 
open international economic system that would lead to 
economic  growth  and  sustainable  development  in  all 
countries”.  Paragraph  102  of  the  same  document  calls 
upon States to refrain from any unilateral measure that 
contravenes  international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  and  impedes  the  full  achievement  of 
economic and social development by the population of 
the  affected  countries, 
in  particular  women  and 
children. 

Nowadays,  resorting  to  unjustifiable  coercive 
economic measures against other States on the basis of 
the 
political  observations 
is  not  acceptable 
(A/CONF.199/20) 
indispensable 
stipulates 
including 
goals, 
to 
10 

08-57511 
The 
community. 


international 
extraterritorial 
application  of  domestic  laws,  such  as  the  Helms-
Burton  Act  and 
the  D’Amato  Act,  creates  an 
antagonistic environment in international relations and 
adversely  affects  world  peace  and  security.  Such 
political  acts  with  economic  implications  continue  to 
restrict the investment, trade, employment, technology 
transfer and prospects for economic growth not only of 
the targeted countries, but also of third-party countries 
dealing with the affected country. 

There is no doubt that the blockade is in violation 
of  the  internationally  agreed  principles  governing 
relations  among  States,  such  as  the  sovereign  equality 
of States, non-intervention in their internal affairs and 
freedom  of  international  trade  and  navigation.  In 
previous  statements,  my  delegation  has  repeatedly 
stressed that unilateral coercive economic policies and 
measures should be regarded as major impediments to 
the  international  community’s  pursuit  of  its  common 
causes  and  interests.  Such  measures  have  negative 
impacts  on 
the  promotion  of  cooperation  and 
partnerships  that  are  necessary  to  create  a  favourable 
environment,  to  the  benefit  of  all  at  the  international 
level. 

The  reports  of  the  Cuban  Government  on  the 
impacts of the embargo imposed on it  clearly indicate 
that  such  unilateral  coercive  measures  have  been 
conducive  to  furthering  disparities  in  the  areas  of 
health,  economy,  education  and 
trade, 
tourism, civil aviation and even cultural activities. The 
adoption  of  17  consecutive  resolutions  up  to  2007  by 
the General Assembly is the wise and laudable reaction 
of  the  international  community  to  such  unacceptable 
measures.  They  call  upon  all  States  to  refrain  from 
applying such laws and measures and to take the steps 
necessary  to  repeal  or  invalidate  them  as  soon  as 
possible. The reason is clear. Resorting to an embargo 
as a tool to achieve political objectives undermines the 
collective  efforts  of  Member  States 
to  achieve 
economic  growth  and  sustainable  development  at  the 
national, regional and international levels. 

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  wishes  to  express 
its  sincere  hope  that  those  Member  States  that  still 
continue  to  apply  unilateral  coercive  economic  laws 
and  measures  take  the  steps  necessary  to  repeal  or 
invalidate them at the earliest opportunity.  
Mr. Shukla (India): We associate ourselves with 

the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Antigua 
training, 
A/63/PV.33
is  deliberating 
and  Barbuda  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  in  his 
capacity  as  its  Chair.  We  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  report  (A/63/93)  on  the  agenda  item  under 
consideration today. 
This  is  the  seventeenth  successive  year  that  this 

Assembly 
the  46-year  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  on  Cuba.  In  its 
deliberations, the Assembly has repeatedly rejected the 
imposition of laws and regulations with extraterritorial 
impact  and  all  other  forms  of  coercive  economic 
measures. The General Assembly has also called upon 
all States to respect their obligations under the United 
Nations Charter and international law and to repeal and 
invalidate  laws  and  measures  that  have  extraterritorial 
affect on the sovereignty of other States, the legitimate 
interests of entities or persons under their jurisdiction, 
and the freedom of trade and navigation. 

Despite  repeated  calls  by  the  General Assembly, 
its resolutions remain unimplemented, in contravention 
of  world  opinion.  The  embargo,  particularly 
its 
extraterritorial aspects, continues to remain in force. In 
particular,  domestic  United  States  laws,  such  as  the 
Cuban  Democracy Act  of  1992  and  the  Helms-Burton 
Act of 1996, have enhanced the extraterritorial reach of 
the  embargo  by  encompassing  foreign  companies,  as 
well  as 
subsidiaries  of  United  States 
companies,  doing  business  with  Cuba  or  Cuban 
entities.  We  support  the  categorical  rejection  by  the 
international  community  of  domestic 
laws  with 
extraterritorial impact. 

its 
embargo, 
extraterritorial effects, is adversely affecting the Cuban 
people  and  the  development  efforts  of  the  country. 
Health  care  is  particularly  affected  due  to  access 
controls  on  critical  medical  equipment,  medicines, 
technologies  and  diagnostic  aids,  apart  from 
the 
enhanced  cost  of  supplies.  In  that  regard,  Cuba’s 
efforts  to  provide  assistance  to  fellow  developing 
countries as part of South-South cooperation have also 
borne  the  brunt  of  the  embargo,  making  that  another 
unexpected  indirect  negative  extraterritorial  impact  of 
the embargo. 

Various  other  areas  of  the  Cuban  economy  have 
also  been  adversely 
impacted.  Those  have  been 
elaborated upon in the report of the Secretary-General 
by  various  United  Nations  entities.  For  example,  the 
United  Nations  Resident  Coordinator  in  Havana  has 
noted 
the  embargo 
the  negative 
particularly 
through 
that 
impact  of 
foreign 
The 
08-57511 

11 
Despite 
Further, 
the  embargo, 
the  embargo  seriously  affects 
A/63/PV.33 

permeates  the  social,  economic  and  environmental 
dimensions  of  human  development  in  Cuba,  severely 
affecting  the  most  vulnerable  socio-economic  groups 
of the Cuban population.  

the 
implementation  of  projects  and  programmes  of  the 
United Nations system in Cuba, including the travel of 
United  Nations  staff.  The  Economic  Commission  for 
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  has  stated  that  the 
embargo  significantly  affects  the  standard  of  living  of 
Cuban  citizens.  The  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Trade  and  Development  states  that  the  extraterritorial 
impact  is  considerable  owing  to  significant  United 
States interests in transnational corporations. 

the  United  States  of 
America continues to be a major source of imports for 
Cuba,  insofar  as  the  United  States  Trade  Sanctions 
Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000 permits. 
That  only  serves  to  confirm  the  potential  for  trade, 
commerce  and  investment  between  those  countries. 
The  embargo  also  has  considerable  detrimental  effect 
on United States trade and business opportunities. The 
various  efforts  in  the  United  States  to  relax  or  lift  the 
embargo  indicate  the  substantial  interest,  particularly 
in  the  business  sector,  in  unhindered  access  to  the 
Cuban market or contact with Cuba. We therefore look 
forward  to  the  lifting  of  sanctions  and  the  embargo 
against Cuba. 

Before  concluding,  I  should  like  to  reiterate 
India’s  opposition  to  unilateral  measures  by  countries 
that  impinge  on  the  sovereignty  of  another  country, 
including  attempts  to  extend  the  application  of  a 
country’s  laws  extraterritorially  to  other  sovereign 
nations. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  We  welcome  the  participation  in  today’s 
discussion  of  Mr.  Felipe  Pérez  Roque,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba.  We  wish  to  express  our 
gratitude 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  report 
contained  in  document  A/63/93,  which  reflects  the 
unanimous  and  unequivocal  objection  of  Member 
States 
the  unilateral  and 
extraterritorial  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
blockade against Cuba. 

resolution 
(A/63/L.4)  introduced  under  the  agenda  item  has  not 
changed.  Our  country  shares 
the 
overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States,  which 
Russia’s  position  on 
imposition  of 
the  view  of 
the  draft 
to 
to 
the 

resolutely condemns the United States embargo against 
Cuba and calls for its end. Since 1994, Russia has been 
supporting  resolutions  to  that  effect  at  sessions  of  the 
General Assembly  and  has  consistently  adhered  to  the 
position  that  it  is  inadmissible  to  carry  out  unilateral 
measures  of  an  extraterritorial  nature  in  international 
relations. 

On  17  October  2008,  an  appeal  was  adopted  by 
the  parliament  of  Russia,  the  State  Duma  of  the 
Russian  Federation,  entitled,  “To  the  parliaments  of 
United  Nations  Member  States  and 
international 
parliamentary  organizations  concerning  the  necessity 
of  ending  the  economic  embargo  against  the  Republic 
of Cuba and helping the Republic of Cuba to eliminate 
the devastating effects of natural disaster”. The appeal 
emphasizes  that  “the  continuing  economic  blockade 
against  the  Republic  of  Cuba  is  an  act  of  crude 
pressure  by  the  United  States  of  America  against  a 
sovereign State”. 

The  continuing  commercial,  economic  and 
financial  blockade  of  Cuba  by  the  United  States  is 
counterproductive and out of step with the spirit of the 
times in which we live. It is a remnant from the days of 
the  cold  war  that  is  hampering  the  establishment  of  a 
new  and  just  world  order  in  accordance  with  the 
Charter of the United Nations and international law. 

We  are  convinced  that  putting  an  end  to  the 
embargo  and  normalization  of  United  States-Cuba 
relations in general would help to improve the situation 
with regard to Cuba and help to further integrate Cuba 
into regional and global processes. The continuation of 
the blockade is also incompatible with the efforts now 
under way to reform the United Nations, for it ignores 
the  unanimous  view  of  Member  States  regarding  the 
need  to  work  together  to  implement  the  principles 
underpinning our efforts to abandon confrontation and 
embrace cooperation based on respect for the rights of 
nations 
their  political, 
economic and social systems. 

Cuba  was  badly  hit  by  Hurricane  Gustav  at  the 
end  of  August  2008.  The  Russian  Federation  gave  a 
helping hand and continues to assist in eliminating the 
consequences of that natural disaster. We are convinced 
that  putting  an  end  to  the  embargo  and  strengthening 
to 
international  efforts 
the 
rehabilitation 
economy  would 
significantly  alleviate  the  situation  in  the  affected 
areas. 
to  choose  for 
the  Cuban 
in  general 
themselves 
support 
of 
12 

08-57511 



Guided  by  the  fundamental  principles  of  the 
Charter  with  regard  to  the  inadmissibility  of  any 
discriminatory  measure  or  interference  in  the  internal 
affairs of States, Russia will continue its policy to vote 
in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution  calling  for  an  end  to 
the blockade. 
Mr.  Gaspar  Martins  (Angola):  The  Angolan 

delegation  associates  itself  with  the  statements  made 
by the representative of Antigua and Barbuda on behalf 
of the Group of 77 and China and by the representative 
of Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

Each  year  for  16  consecutive  years,  the  General 
Assembly has adopted a resolution urging all countries, 
in compliance with the United Nations Charter and the 
principles  of  international  law,  to  retract  all  laws  and 
measures  with  extraterritorial  effects  that  compromise 
the  sovereignty  of  other  States,  undermine 
the 
legitimate  rights  and  interests  of  entities  and  persons 
under  jurisdiction  of  those  States  and  affect  the 
freedom of trade and navigation. 

Regrettably,  however,  the  long-term  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba 
imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America  is  still  in 
place. In this era of economic globalization, exchanges 
and cooperation among countries on an equal footing is 
the  trend  of  our  times.  Normal  economic,  commercial 
and financial ties among countries are therefore in the 
interest  of  all  and  are  by  no  means  a  favour  done  by 
any one country to others. 

The General Assembly has before it the report of 
the  Secretary-General  (A/63/93)  containing  replies 
from  Member  States  and  organs  and  agencies  of  the 
United  Nations  system  on  the  implementation  of  the 
pertinent  General Assembly  resolutions  calling  for  an 
end to the embargo. According to that report, there has 
been  no  improvement,  i.e.  action  to  end  the  embargo, 
during all these years. The existing sanctions have been 
applied  with  vigour,  and  the  embargo  measures  have 
continued  to  have  a  serious  impact  on  Cuba,  causing 
enormous  social  and  material  loss,  economic  damage, 
hunger,  and  disease  to  the  people  of  Cuba,  while 
simultaneously  affecting 
their 
relations with Cuba. 

the  embargo 
threatens  the  sovereignty  of  States  and  the  legitimate 
interests  of  persons, 
and 
companies  under  their  jurisdiction,  as  well  as  the 
freedom  to  establish  economic,  commercial,  financial 
The  extraterritorial  policy  of 
third  countries 
in 
entities, 
institutions 
A/63/PV.33
and scientific and technical relations with the Republic 
of  Cuba  and  thus  affects  their  social  and  economic 
development.  For  that  reason,  we  are  of  the  view  that 
the issue we are addressing today is important, not only 
for Cuba but  also for all members  of the international 
community.  That  view  has  been  expressed  by  a 
majority of Member States year after year. 

The  United  States  of  America  has  imposed  the 
economic,  financial  and  commercial  embargo  against 
Cuba for too long. The embargo does not benefit either 
of the two countries. On the contrary, it serves only to 
maintain a level of tension in the region and, above all, 
it  has  been  causing  the  severe  suffering  of  the  Cuban 
people,  a  situation  which  has  been  exacerbated  by 
climatic  changes  and  more  particularly  during  the 
hurricane season and hurricanes Gustav and Ike of this 
year. 

The  embargo  goes  against  the  very  core  of  the 
United Nations Charter, as well as all of the principles 
of  cooperation  and  dialogue  among  States, 
laws 
governing international trade and related conventions. 

By  adhering  to  the  principles  enshrined  in  the 
United  Nations  Charter  and  the  spirit  of  all  relevant 
resolutions  adopted  by  the  General  Assembly,  we 
reaffirm our commitment to the norms of international 
law  by  supporting  the  need  to  eliminate  coercive 
economic  measures  as  a  means  of  political  and 
economic persuasion. 

the  General 
Assembly  at  debates  is  a  good  measure  of  the 
importance  of  the  issue  on  the  agenda.  In  that 
connection,  I  wish  to  warmly  greet  and  welcome  the 
presence  of  Mr.  Pérez  Roque,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Cuba. 

the 
debate  on  the  question  of  the  embargo  imposed  on 
Cuba  by  the  United  States  and  vote  overwhelmingly 
year  after  year  against  that  embargo,  which  is  a  clear 
indication  of  the  injustice  and  unpopularity  of  the 
United States measure. 

In  view  of  the  above,  the  Angolan  Government 
supports  draft  resolution A/63/L.4  submitted  by  Cuba 
under  the  current  agenda  item,  since  the  embargo 
contravenes  international  law  and  flagrantly  violates 
the  sovereign  equality  of  States  and  the  principles  of 
non-intervention  and  non-interference 
in  domestic 
affairs. 
Delegations  participate  very  actively 
Attendance  by  delegations  of 
in 
08-57511 

13 

of 
the 
ending 
“Necessity 
A/63/PV.33 

Mr. Kapambwe (Zambia): Earlier in the day, the 

representatives  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda  and  Egypt 
made  statements  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China  and  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  respectively. 
My  delegation  wishes  to  associate  itself  with  both 
those statements. 

My delegation would like to thank the Secretary-
General for his report contained in document A/63/93, 
entitled 
economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  of  America  against  Cuba”.  The  report 
reiterates  the  position  of  the  General  Assembly  over 
the years to the effect that the embargo imposed by the 
United  States  of America  against  Cuba  hurts  innocent 
people in Cuba. 

Last  year,  and  indeed  in  previous  years,  Zambia 
was  among  the  overwhelming  majority  of  States 
Members of the United Nations that voted in favour of 
General  Assembly  resolution  62/3,  calling  for  the 
lifting of the embargo. 

Zambia  has  consistently  expressed  concern  over 
the  continued  economic  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  against  Cuba,  not  only  because  it  is 
unjust towards the people of Cuba, but also because its 
unilateral and extraterritorial effects are a breach of the 
international  principles  of  free  trade  and  navigation 
espoused by the United Nations. 

in  favour  of  draft 
Zambia  will  again  vote 
resolution A/63/L.4,  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  by  the 
United  States  of  America  against  Cuba”.  Our  vote  is 
based on our firm commitment to strengthen universal 
respect for international law in the conduct of all forms 
of  relations  among  sovereign  States  and  our  belief  in 
the  sanctity  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
further  believe  that  differences  between  the  United 
States of America and Cuba should be resolved through 
dialogue and negotiation. 
Zambia  reaffirms  its  appeal  to  the  international 

community to support the call for the immediate lifting 
of  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba. 
Mr. Godard  (United  States  of  America):  The 

position  of  the  United  States  on  this  draft  resolution 
(A/63/L.4) is well known. Each of the States Members 
of  the  United  Nations  has  the  sovereign  right  to 
conduct  its  own  trade  with  another  country  as  it  sees 
fit,  subject  only  to  the  treaty  obligations  it  has  freely 
undertaken.  

As  a  bilateral  issue  relating  to  the  efforts  of  the 
United  States  to  mitigate  the  impact  of  the  repressive 
policies  of  the  Cuban  Government  towards  its  own 
people,  we  believe  it  is  highly  inappropriate  that  the 
General Assembly of the United Nations consider that 
resolution.  As  we  have  noted  in  the  past,  at  various 
times many other States or regional groups have taken 
actions  to  restrict  their  exports  to  and  imports  from 
other States for a variety of reasons. There is no doubt 
that  Member  States  represented  here  today  would 
vigorously  defend  their  right  to  determine  their  own 
national trade policy if it were called into question. 

Cuba asserts that the economic sanctions imposed 
by  the  United  States  on  the  Cuban  Government  cause 
serious damage to the welfare of the Cuban people. In 
fact,  as  we  have  conclusively  demonstrated  since  the 
General  Assembly  first  began  debating  this  draft 
resolution in 1992, the trade policy of the United States 
towards Cuba is carefully designed to allow the Cuban 
people  access  to  food  and  humanitarian  goods,  but  to 
limit  the  ability  of  Cuba’s  repressive  Government  to 
benefit and consolidate power through its authoritarian 
control over the Cuban economy. Above all, our trade 
policy  seeks  to  keep  away  from  Cuba’s  leaders 
resources  that  they  would  use  to  strengthen  their 
repressive political and economic system.  

Indeed,  the  American  people  remain  the  largest 
providers of  humanitarian  aid to the Cuban people. In 
2007, the American people provided $240.5 million in 
private  humanitarian  assistance.  That  was  in  the  form 
of  gift  parcels  filled  with  food  and  other  basic 
necessities  to  the  tune  of  $179.4  million.  Also,  there 
were non-agricultural humanitarian donations of $20.6 
million and medical donations of $40.5 million.  

In  addition  to  offering  Government  assistance, 
the United States has increased existing authorizations 
for 
United 
non-governmental 
organizations 
of 
humanitarian assistance, including in the form of cash 
donations, to help address the basic needs of the Cuban 
people. We have already authorized over $10 million in 
private cash donations.  

In  2008,  the  United  States  has  been  especially 
sensitive  to  the  plight  of  the  Cuban  people  in  light  of 
the  devastation  suffered  throughout  the  Caribbean. 
Cuba has suffered great damage from hurricanes Gustav 
States-based 
amounts 
provide 
larger 
to 
14 

08-57511 


and  Ike  since  the  end  of August.  Some  assistance  has 
been  delivered  through  non-governmental  relief  and 
humanitarian organizations, but more is needed to help 
the  Cuban  people,  and,  under  those  extraordinary 
circumstances,  the  United  States  Government  stands 
ready to provide that assistance. 

On  four  separate  occasions,  the  United  States 
Government  has  offered  to  provide  the  Cuban  people 
with  up  to  $5  million  in  emergency  humanitarian 
assistance for those in dire need. On 3 September 2008, 
the  United  States  Government 
issued  a  disaster 
declaration  in  response  to  the  damage  caused  by 
Hurricane  Gustav  and  made  available  an 
initial 
$100,000  in  cash  relief  assistance  to  humanitarian 
organizations working in Cuba.  

The  United  States  Government  also  offered  to 
provide a humanitarian assessment team — something 
we  usually  do  in  such  instances  —  to  assist  in 
producing  rapid  emergency  assessments  of  health, 
sanitation, water, shelter and food supply to help in the 
organization of the relief effort. That offer was rejected 
by the Cuban Government. 
In  the  wake  of  the  damage  caused  by  Hurricane 

Ike,  the  United  States  Government  set  aside  an 
additional  $200,000 
relief 
organizations  and  reiterated  our  offer  to  provide  a 
humanitarian  assessment 
the  Cuban 
Government rejected our offer.  

On 13 September of this  year,  as information on 
the  extensive  damage  from  the  hurricanes  became 
known,  the  United  States  Government  offered  a  relief 
package  of  roughly  $5  million  that  included  an 
unconditional  offer  of  humanitarian  assistance 
to 
benefit 135,000 Cuban hurricane victims and continued 
assistance  to  non-governmental  organizations.  For  the 
third time, the Cuban Government rejected our offer. 

the  United  States 
Government  offered  unconditionally  to  provide  relief 
supplies  directly  to  the  Cuban  Government  at  a  value 
of  approximately  $5  million.  Those  supplies  are 
composed of family emergency shelters and household 
kits  that  could  assist  up  to  48,000  Cubans  affected  by 
the  hurricanes.  The  Cuban  Government  has  not 
responded to that offer of assistance. 

As  is  well  known,  United  States  law  permits  the 
sale  of  medicine,  medical  supplies  and  agricultural 
products  to  Cuba.  Indeed,  the  United  States  is  Cuba’s 
On  19  September  2008, 
for  non-governmental 
team.  Again, 
A/63/PV.33
top supplier of food. United States producers exported 
$448 million in agricultural products to Cuba in 2007. 
Since Hurricane Ike struck on 7 September, the United 
States has licensed $396 million in agricultural sales to 
Cuba.  Lumber,  an  important  construction  material,  is 
included  in  the  category  of  agricultural  sales.  The 
United  States  has  authorized  $53  million 
in 
humanitarian  donations  by  United  States  entities  to 
hurricane victims, including building materials to help 
storm  victims  to  repair  their  homes.  We  have  also 
authorized  gift  parcel  consolidators  to  export  $124 
million in gift parcels to Cuba. 

Despite that clear demonstration of United States 
interest  in  the  welfare  of  the  Cuban  people,  Cuban 
officials, including the chief of mission in Washington, 
Jorge  Bolaños  Suárez,  continue  to  make  outrageous 
statements  about  the  nature  of  the  United  States 
sanctions. It is indicative of the lack of interest that the 
Castro regime has in the well-being of its own people 
that  it  would  refuse  sincere  offers  of  assistance, 
choosing instead to prolong their suffering as a pretext 
for  proposing  draft  resolutions  such  as  the  one  on 
which we will vote today. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  remind  the  Assembly  that 
the  real  reason  that  the  Cuban  economy  is  in  terrible 
condition  and  that  so  many  Cubans  remain  mired  in 
poverty  is  that  Cuba’s  regime  continues  to  deny  its 
people their basic human and economic rights. Indeed, 
one  Latin  American  observer  described  Cuba  as  an 
“undeveloping”  country  thanks  to  the  policies  of  the 
Castro  regime  that  have  turned  it  from  one  of  the 
region’s  most  prosperous  economies  into  one  of  its 
poorest.  We  again  invite  Member  States,  as  we  have 
done  consistently  in  debating  this  draft  resolution  in 
past  years,  to  reject  the  false  arguments  of  the  Cuban 
Government  and  to  focus  on  effecting  a  transition  in 
Cuba  that  would  restore  its  people’s  fundamental 
rights. 
Mrs. Rubiales de Chamorro (Nicaragua) (spoke 

in  Spanish):  As  this  is  the  first  time  that  I  have 
addressed the General Assembly at its present session, 
I wish to express my deepest satisfaction at seeing you, 
Sir,  an  example  of  the  dignity  of  our  people,  leading 
our  deliberations.  We  know  that  your  commitment  to 
peace and justice will guide our work. As always, you 
have Nicaragua’s full support with a view to success in 
your efforts.  
08-57511 

15 

that 
solidarity 
characterizes 
A/63/PV.33 


Nicaragua  aligns  itself  with  the  statements  made 
by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  and  by  the  representative  of 
Antigua and Barbuda on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China. 

Once  again,  we  are  meeting  as  a  result  of  the 
imperative  need  to  put  an  end  to  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade  imposed  by  the 
Government  of  the  United  States  of  America  against 
the  heroic  and  generous  people  and  Government  of 
Cuba,  and  the  General  Assembly  will  adopt  a  draft 
resolution  calling  for  an  end  to  that  criminal  and 
inhumane  blockade.  It  has  been  amply  demonstrated 
that  no  one  in  the  world  supports  that  measure.  It  is 
truly  sad  to  see  that  the  Government  of  a  people  as 
generous as the people of the United States is capable 
of being so mean-spirited and greedy as to try to crush 
the  spirit  of  independence,  self-determination  and 
internationalist 
the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Cuba  —  a  spirit  that 
they will never give up.    

What  suffering  in  human,  social,  economic  and 
cultural terms has been caused to the Cuban people by 
these policies of the Government of the United States! 
This  blockade  and  this  suffering  must  end. We  cannot 
allow a country to continue to manipulate international 
law and the Charter of the United Nations according to 
its  whim.  How  many  more  draft  resolutions  will  the 
General Assembly  have  to  adopt  to  put  an  immediate 
end to this criminal blockade? 

Cases  such  as  this  lead  us  to  think  about  the 
imperative need to make General Assembly resolutions 
binding  and  mandatory,  so  that  we  can  truly  promote, 
defend  and  deepen  democracy  and  its  values  in  our 
great  House,  the  United  Nations  family.  No  argument 
that  the  United  States  of  America  can  use  will  ever 
justify 
this  aggression  against  and  violation  of 
international  law,  the  norms  of  coexistence  among 
nations,  international  freedom  of  trade  and  navigation 
and  the  United  Nations  Charter  itself,  which  all  of  us 
claim to defend and respect. 

Nicaragua condemns in the strongest terms those 
policies  of  pressure  and  blackmail.  It  was  not  so  long 
ago that Nicaragua was a victim of the same policy of 
blockade  and  blackmail,  including  external  military 
aggression, by the Government of the United States of 
that  era.  Once  again,  we  express  our  unconditional 
solidarity with the Government and the people of Cuba 
to 
immediate  end 
and  demand  an 
this  criminal 
blockade.  We  reiterate  that  disputes  between  States 
must  be  addressed  through  dialogue  and  negotiation, 
without  any  preconditions  and  on  an  equal  footing 
between the parties involved.  

Despite this  blockade, and the  restrictions that it 
imposes,  there  is  no  people  that,  at  times  of  need  or 
disaster, has not received the disinterested aid, support 
and humanitarian assistance of all those Cuban doctors, 
teachers  and  technicians,  who  live  among  our  people, 
sharing  our  hopes  and  dreams  for  a  more  humane 
world.  

We  await  the  moment  when  good  sense  and 
intelligence  will  prevail,  when  we  will  become 
witnesses  to  a  genuine  change  that  will  redress  these 
obsolete  policies  that  do  not  contribute  to  peace, 
development  or  strengthening  good 
relationships 
among peoples. 
In  recent  months,  American  media  have  been 

reporting about an historic opportunity in the society of 
that  country,  referring  to  change.  We  hope  that  the 
change,  about  which  so  much  has  been  said,  will  be 
positive change, similar to what is happening in Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean.  We  hope  that  these 
changes  will  support  development,  respect  for  the 
sovereign  decisions  of  our  peoples  and  that,  once  and 
for  all, 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo against Cuba will be lifted.  

We  wish  to  express  our  affection,  respect  and 
admiration  for  the  five  Cuban  patriotic  heroes,  who 
have served ten years in maximum security prisons in 
the United States. We demand the immediate release of 
these five heroes, who sacrificed themselves to defend 
their homeland and combat the terrorism that is exerted 
against the Cuban people. 

to  recognize 
Commandante Fidel as one of the greatest fighters for 
peace and solidarity of our days. The light of hope that 
was 
the  Cuban  revolution  can  never  be 
extinguished by this infamous blockade. 
the 

Grenadines):  Saint  Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines 
associates itself with the statements made on behalf of 
the  Caribbean  Community 
the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the  Group  of  77  and 
China. 
In  conclusion,  we  would 
Mr.  Gonsalves
(Saint  Vincent 
lit  by 
like 
and 
(CARICOM), 
16 

08-57511 



The year 2008 marks the seventeenth consecutive 
year  that  the  United  Nations  is  considering  a  draft 
resolution  on  this  topic  (A/63/L.4).  Seventeen  years 
ago, this draft resolution seemed to be an apt postscript 
to a troubling chapter in world history. The Berlin Wall 
had come down two years earlier, the Union of Soviet 
Socialist  Republics  had  been  dissolved  and 
the 
so-called  Iron  Curtain  had  been  lifted.  The  cold  war 
logic of dividing the world into competing spheres and 
separating  ideological  foe  from  friend  by  blockades, 
walls  and  embargoes  was  giving  way  to  a  realization 
that  every  nation  is  closely  interconnected,  and  to  a 
commitment to link our societies and markets together 
through  globalization,  trade  and  tighter  coordination. 
Regional  cooperation  and  integration  flourished  and 
accelerated, in the European Union, the African Union, 
the  North American  Free  Trade Agreement  (NAFTA), 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), 
the  Common  Market  of  the  South  (MERCOSUR)  and 
CARICOM, to name but a few. 

Today,  17  years  later,  globalization  —  for  better 
and  for  worse  —  has  taken  hold,  and  the  world 
recognizes  the  fundamental  interconnectedness  of  our 
markets, our economies, our commercial interests and, 
indeed, our peoples. We are one global village, with a 
singular  mission  of  eliminating  artificial  barriers 
between and among one another. 
The developments of the last 17 years, therefore, 

give  inexorable  rise  to  the  question:  why  is  Cuba  still 
the subject of a cold war embargo, when the cold war 
itself  has  long  since  ceased  to  exist?  Seldom  has  a 
more  ill-conceived,  illogical  and  illegal  measure  been 
applied  so  punitively,  and  for  so  long  to  a  people  so 
wholly undeserving of such punishment. 

Saint Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  wishes  to  take 
this  opportunity  to  extend  its  most  profound  and 
heartfelt  gratitude  to  the  people  of  Cuba,  who  have 
graduated over 200 Vincentian university students and 
who are currently playing host to 150 more, and whose 
surgeons  performed  operations  on  over  3,000  patients 
who  required  the  care  of  ophthalmologists.  Quite 
literally, they brought sight to the blind. We would like 
to thank Cuba for her doctors, who bring medical care 
and expertise to rural areas of our country, and for her 
engineers  and  architects  and  workers,  who  are 
currently  assisting  us  in  the  construction  of  a  hospital 
and an international airport.  
A/63/PV.33

As  far  wealthier  nations  and  institutions  have 
looked  askance  at  our  developmental  struggles  and 
offered only dubious prescriptions, platitudes and trite 
clichés, the Cuban people  have  rolled up their sleeves 
and  given  freely  of  themselves  in  a  manner  that  has 
touched the hearts and souls of the Vincentian people. 

The  United  States  of America  has  the  sovereign 
right to trade with whom it chooses, and Saint Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines  would  not  presume  to  advise  any 
State with regard to its bilateral trading arrangements. 
However,  the  extraterritorial  application  of  domestic 
law is a violation of our Charter and a contravention of 
the  underpinnings  of  our  modern  notions  of  global 
trade and international relations. It does violence to the 
rights  of  self-determination  and  sovereign  equality. 
Further,  the  member  States  of  CARICOM  —  all 
staunch friends of the United States — also suffer from 
this  embargo,  because  it  affects  Cuba’s  considerable 
potential  as  the  largest  and  most  populous  Caribbean 
island to act as an economic engine for the region, and 
engenders unnecessary tension in our peaceful waters. 

The  economic  fate  of  Cuba  and  the  wider 
Caribbean  cannot  be  subject  to  the  whims  of  local 
pressure  groups,  no  matter  their  relative  influence. 
Domestic 
the 
inalienable  rights  of  over  11  million  Cubans  or  create 
exceptions 
the  bedrock  principles  of  our 
international community and our market systems. 

The  specific  ideological  divides  that  drove  this 
embargo  no  longer  apply.  Today,  Western  Europe  is 
buying oil piped in from Russia and shipped from Iran. 
The  United  States  is  one  of  China’s  largest  trading 
partners,  and  the  capitals  of  unfettered  laissez-faire 
capitalism  are  now  embracing  nationalizations  and 
other massive state interventions in their free markets. 
The  old 
to  become 
meaningless. As  an  ideological  tool,  the  embargo  is  a 
relic of a bygone era. 

This  embargo  has  not  blockaded  Cuban  culture, 
the undeniable power of which has enriched the shores 
of  south  Florida  and  the  world. This  embargo  has  not 
contained  Cuba’s  peerless  athletic  brilliance,  which 
thrills the world in countless competitive forums. This 
embargo  has  not  thwarted  Cuba’s  standing  in  the 
marketplace  of  ideas,  where  it  competes  on  an  equal 
persuasive  footing  with  others. And  this  embargo  has 
not curtailed the Cuban generosity of body and spirit to 
which the poor and struggling peoples of Africa, Asia, 
lines  have  so  blurred  as 
outweigh 
considerations 
cannot 
to 
08-57511 

17 

A/63/PV.33 

Latin America and the Caribbean can eloquently attest. 
It has only caused the unnecessary suffering of a proud 
and  noble  people,  who  are  nonetheless  neither  bowed 
nor broken by what is an increasingly indefensible act. 

Indeed, there is troubling anecdotal evidence that 
ideological  zealots  and  washed-up  terrorists  seek  to 
exploit the existence of this embargo to suit their own 
nefarious  designs.  Cuba, 
the  victim  of  modern 
terrorism  as  far  back  as  the  Cubana Airlines  bombing 
in  1976,  and  the  United  States,  cruelly  and  tragically 
attacked  as  recently  as  11  September  2001,  have 
common cause in the fight against terrorism, and both 
have  heroic  patriots  standing  guard,  at  home  and 
abroad,  to  protect  their  nations  against  such  savagery. 
In a world united in the war on terrorism, the embargo 
cannot stand  as a flickering flame to which the moths 
of barbarism are drawn. 

once said: 
José  Martí,  the  apostle  of  Cuban  independence, 

“Like  stones  rolling  down  hills,  fair  ideas 
reach  their  objectives  despite  all  obstacles  and 
barriers.  It  may  be  possible  to  speed  or  hinder 
them, but impossible to stop them.” 
The  necessity  of  ending  this  embargo  is  a  fair  idea 
whose time has come. It has been hindered by 17 years 
of obstacles thus far, but its inexorable path to fruition 
is  undeniable.  Let  us  dally  no  longer  in  the  dusty 
corners  of  historical  recriminations.  Let  us  instead 
agree collectively that it is time to change, to move on 
with  our  globalized,  multilateral,  multicultural, 
multipolar experiment, to look to the future with hope 
and to correct this historical travesty. 
Mr. Iddi (United Republic of Tanzania): For the 

last  16  consecutive  years,  this  Assembly  has  been 
calling  for  an  end  to  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  against  Cuba.  It  is  unfortunate  that 
all the calls of this body have been to no avail. Today, 
for  the  seventeenth  time,  the  delegation  of  Tanzania 
joins others in renewing the appeal for the expeditious 
lifting of the embargo against Cuba.  

We  align  ourselves  with  the  statements  made  by 
the  representatives  by Antigua  and  Barbuda  on  behalf 
of the Group of 77 and China and by Egypt on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  in 
document  A/63/93,  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
that 
including 
by  the  United  States  of  America  against  Cuba”.  The 
responses  from  Member  States,  as  reflected  in  the 
Secretary-General’s  report,  clearly  show 
the 
international community does not support the embargo 
and that it is sympathetic to the plight of the people of 
Cuba. 

My  delegation  is  seriously  concerned  by  the 
negative effect of the embargo on the social, economic 
and  environmental  dimensions  of  human  development 
in  Cuba.  The  embargo  is  severely  affecting  the  most 
vulnerable  socio-economic  groups  of 
the  Cuban 
population,  as  was  seen  during  the  recent  hurricanes 
Gustav  and  Ike,  when  there  was  no  consideration  for 
humanitarian  support.  We  are  further  concerned  that 
the  embargo  severely  affects  the  implementation  of 
United Nations projects and programmes in Cuba. It is 
ironic  that  that  is  happening  when  the  international 
community  is  trying  to  meet  internationally  agreed 
development 
goals, 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

Thus  the  need  to  end  the  embargo  against  Cuba 
should  be  viewed  not  only  against  the  backdrop  of 
politics and power, but also on moral and humanitarian 
grounds.  It  is  our  conviction  that  lifting  the  embargo 
would  help  not  only  to  alleviate  the  socio-economic 
conditions and suffering of the Cuban people, but also 
to  promote  dialogue,  understanding  and  good-
neighbourliness 
hence, 
development, peace and security. 

remain 
cannot 
indifferent to the suffering of the people of Cuba. Our 
shared  history  and  collective  experience  have  shown 
that,  in  comparison  to  cooperation  and  dialogue, 
isolation, the embargo and unilateralism have not been 
effective.  Thus  we  feel  there  is  a  need  to  encourage 
dialogue  between  the  United  States  of  America  and 
Cuba.  We  also  need  to  explore  other  approaches 
beyond  passing  resolutions,  so  as  to  persuade  the 
United  States  of  America  to  lift  the  embargo  against 
the Government of Cuba and its people. 

its 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation 
sympathy for the people  and the Government of Cuba 
and, in solidarity with other Member States, joins them 
in calling for an end to the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed on Cuba. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Felipe  Pérez  Roque,  Minister 

reiterates 
This  Assembly 
afford 
to 
among 
States 
and, 

18 

08-57511 
the  devastating  passage  of 


for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of  Cuba,  to 
introduce draft resolution A/63/L.4. 
Mr.  Pérez  Roque  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Mr. President  —  dear  Father  Miguel  d’Escoto  —  I 
would  like  once  again  to  welcome  your  election  and 
your  presence  at  this  debate.  You  are  the  incarnation 
here today of the voice of the people, the voice of the 
humble. You can rely on Cuba, Father.  

As in every year since 1992, we appear before the 
General Assembly  to  call  for  the  lifting  of  the  illegal 
and unjust blockade imposed by the Government of the 
United  States  against  Cuba  for  the  past  almost  50 
years. Seven out of every ten Cubans have spent their 
entire  lives  under  that  irrational  and  worthless  policy 
that  attempts,  with  no  success,  to  bring  our  people  to 
their  knees.  The  blockade  is  older  than  Mr.  Barack 
Obama and everyone in my generation. 

The vote that is going to take place within a few 
minutes  is  occurring  in  very  special  circumstances, 
after 
two  powerful 
hurricanes  through  Cuba,  when  we  are  just  six  days 
away  from  the  United  States  elections  and  against  the 
background  of  a  profound  international  economic 
crisis, to which none of our countries is immune. 

The  more  than  500,000  homes  and  thousands  of 
schools  and  health  institutions  affected,  a  third  of 
cultivated land devastated and severe destruction of the 
electrical  and  communications  infrastructure,  among 
other damage, are the result of natural phenomena that 
have  never  been  seen  before  and  that  are  proof  of  the 
effects  of  climatic  changes  on  the  countries  in  the 
Caribbean. 

The loss of human lives was minimal because of 
the enormous effort made earlier by the authorities and 
the  people,  enabling  the  evacuation  of  and  protection 
for 3.2 million people in safe locations. After all, it was 
Cuba,  and  not  New  Orleans  at  the  time  of  hurricane 
Katrina.  Despite  the  heavy  damage  and  devastation 
caused  by  the  hurricanes,  no  sick  person  in  Cuba 
lacked  medical  assistance. All  Cuban  children  and  the 
30,000  young  people 
from  125  countries  with 
scholarships to study in our universities are at this very 
moment attending their classes. Not one person was or 
will be neglected. 

On behalf of the Government and people of Cuba, 
I  would  like  to  express  our  deep  thanks  to  all  those 
who,  in  one  form  or  another,  demonstrated  their 
A/63/PV.33
solidarity  with  and  support  for  Cuba  at  that  dramatic 
juncture.  To  date,  we  have  received  help  from  64 
countries. 

In  contrast  to  the  extensive  solidarity  received 
and  the  affirmation  made  here  this  morning  by  the 
representative of the Government of the United States, 
to  which  I  shall  reply  in  good  time,  that  Government 
responded  with  its  customary  cynicism  and  hypocrisy. 
It refused to respond to our request that we be allowed 
to  buy  food  and  essential  materials  for  reconstruction 
with private credits from American companies — even 
for  six  months.  On  the  other  hand,  it  attempted  to 
orchestrate a blatant propaganda campaign in which it 
tried to accuse our Government of not looking after its 
people. 

As  for  Cuba,  it  has  acted  in  keeping  with  its 
traditional  principled  positions.  We  cannot  accept 
so-called  assistance  from  those  who  have  intensified 
the  blockade,  sanctions  and  hostility  against  our 
people.  Cuba  has  not  asked 
the  United  States 
Government for any gifts. We have simply asked to be 
allowed to make purchases. 
Once  again,  the  Bush Administration  is  lying  to 

the  international  community.  It  is  lying  when  it 
declares  that  it  granted  licences  for  $250  million  in 
agricultural  sales  to  our  country  after  the  hurricanes. 
Food sales have existed since 2001 and are not — as in 
the attempted explanation just made here — the result 
of  a  decision  made  after  the  devastating  hurricanes  to 
help  Cuba.  Food  sales  have  existed  since  2001. 
Acquiring  such  products  is  possible  only  under  strict 
measures  of  supervision  and  after  a  complicated  and 
bureaucratic process of granting licences, case by case, 
by  the  numerous  institutions  of  the  United  States 
Government. Cuba, moreover, has to pay in cash and in 
advance.  The 
the  United  States 
Government is continuously setting up more obstacles 
in order to limit those purchases. 

If  the  United  States  Government  was  really 
concerned  about  the  well-being  of  the  Cuban  people, 
the  only  moral  and  ethical  act  would  be  to  lift  the 
blockade  imposed  on  my  country  in  violation  of  the 
most elemental regulations of international law and the 
United Nations Charter. 

To  give  an  idea  about  the  magnitude  of  the 
impact  of  the  blockade  policy  on  the  Cuban  people, 
just in economic terms, it would enough to say that in 
reality 
is 
that 
08-57511 

19 
and 
economic, 
commercial 
Hurricanes  are  natural  phenomena 
A/63/PV.33 

one  year  it  almost  equals  the  estimated  total  damages 
caused by hurricanes Gustav and Ike. 

that  are 
aggravated  by  climate  changes  and  global  warming. 
Unfortunately, they cannot be avoided. The blockade is 
a  genocidal  and  illegal  policy.  Unlike  the  hurricanes, 
the American authorities are able to put an end to this 
policy  and  spare  the  Cuban  people  their  prolonged 
suffering. 

financial 
The 
blockade  imposed  by  the  United  States  Government 
against Cuba is the main obstacle to both the recovery 
of  the  Cuban  people  after  the  hurricanes  and  our 
economic  and  social  development.  Very  conservative 
estimates  reveal  that  direct  accumulated  damages 
caused  by  the  blockade  exceed  $93  billion,  almost 
twice our gross domestic product. At the current value 
of the dollar, that equals no less than $224.6 billion. It 
is  not  difficult  to  imagine  all  that  Cuba  could  have 
achieved if, over these almost 50 years, it had not been 
subjected to that brutal economic war on a global scale. 

In  open  contempt  of  the  expressed  will  of  the 
international community and of 16 consecutive General 
Assembly  resolutions,  the  United  States  Government 
tougher 
during 
economic  sanctions  against  Cuba. 
intensified 
persecution against activities of Cuban companies and 
those  of  other  countries  and  unleashed  a  mad  hunt 
against  our 
transactions, 
including when we were trying to make our payments 
to  United  Nations  bodies.  Its  malice  has  reached  such 
an extent that it blocks Internet sites that have links to 
our country. 

On  the  other  hand, Washington  has  increased,  to 
unprecedented levels, its financial and material support 
for actions to overthrow Cuban constitutional order. To 
that end, it has approved an additional $46 million for 
internal subversion in Cuba and another $39 million to 
maintain  the  illegal  radio  and  television  broadcasts 
against our country. Those funds alone are eight times 
greater  that  the  so-called  donation  offered  to  Cuban 
people after the hurricanes. In a report drawn up by the 
Government  Accountability  Office  of  the  American 
Government,  published 
is 
explicitly  recognized  that  of  the  20  programmes  of 
sanctions  applied  to  different  countries,  the  blockade 
against  Cuba  constitutes  an  ensemble  of  economic 
this  past  year  adopted  new  and 
in  November  2007, 
international 
It 
financial 

for 
and 
report  of 
equipment 
The  broad  and  documented 
sanctions  that  are  the  most  extensive  of  any  ever 
imposed by the United States. 

the 
Secretary-General  (A/63/93)  with  the  contribution  of 
118 countries and 22 international bodies and agencies, 
relieves  me  from  insisting  here  on  the  examples  that 
prove  that  there  is  no  aspect  of  Cuba’s  economic  or 
social  life  that  is  not  affected  by  the  American 
blockade,  from  the  impossibility  of  gaining  access  to 
consumables 
paediatric 
cardiovascular surgery or for the tomography essential 
to  modern  oncology  to  the  persecution  by  fines  and 
imprisonment  of American  citizens  travelling  to  Cuba 
and  even  of  travel  agencies  that  promote  such  travel, 
the  United  States  Government  ought  to  explain  to  the 
Assembly  why  it  considers  Cuban  children  who  are 
suffering from heart disease to be enemies. Every year, 
the  representatives  of  the  Government  of  the  United 
States lie to the Assembly when they repeat that such a 
blockade does not exist, that their measures are not the 
main  causes  of  the  shortages  and  suffering  that  the 
Cuban  people  have  suffered,  and  continue  to  suffer, 
over the course of these years. 
The blockade is not exclusively a bilateral matter 

the  United  States.  The 
between  Cuba 
extraterritorial  application  of  American 
laws  and 
persecution  of  legitimate  interests  of  companies  and 
citizens of third countries — countries represented here 
in this Assembly — is a subject which concerns all the 
States assembled here. 

The blockade also flagrantly violates the rights of 
the American people. It crushes their freedom to travel, 
sanctified in the very Constitution of the United States. 
In recent years, the Treasury Department has toughened 
its  strict  policy  of  refusing  licences  for  religious, 
professional,  cultural  and  student  exchanges  between 
the  American  and  Cuban  peoples.  Moreover, 
the 
blockade  impedes  normal  relations  between  Cubans 
residing in the United States and their relatives in Cuba. 

Shortly,  a  new  President  will  be  elected  in  the 
United States. He should decide whether he will admit 
that  the  blockade  is  a  failed  policy  that  is  steadily 
causing  greater  isolation  and  discrediting  his  country, 
or if he will stubbornly and cruelly persist in trying to 
wear out the Cuban people through hunger and disease. 

From this podium, I repeat that the United States 
will  never  be  able  to  vanquish  the  Cuban  people. 
Neither  blockades  nor  hurricanes  will  be  able  to 
and 
it 
20 

08-57511 


discourage us. No human or natural force will be able 
to subjugate the Cubans. By way of an example, there 
are those five Cuban heroes, fighters against terrorism, 
who  have  already  spent  a  decade  of  unjust  and  cruel 
imprisonment in American jails and who are a symbol 
of  the  determination  of  our  people  to  defend  their 
liberty and independence with dignity. 

I  am  grateful  to  the  speakers  who  preceded  me 
for their words of solidarity and encouragement to the 
Cuban people. I thank them for defending the right of 
Cubans,  which  today  is  also  the  right  of  every  people 
represented  here,  and  for  upholding  the  Charter  and 
international law.  

I reject word for word the remarks made here by 
the representative of the United States Government. To 
him I say that those representatives of the United States 
Government in this Hall should feel a sense of shame. 
They  are  alone,  in  the  greatest  and  deepest  isolation. 
The world supports our small defiant island. I want to 
make  it  clear  that  we  are  not  anti-American.  We  are 
anti-imperialist.  We  do  not  profess  hatred  for  the 
American  people,  nor  a  spirit  of  revenge.  We  see  the 
American people also as a victim, like us, of the illegal 
and  absurd  policy  of  their  Government.  Something 
other than power and military strength is needed. They 
should have figured that out by now. Moral authority is 
needed.  

It  is  true  that  the  United  States  has  strength,  but 
we  have  reason.  It  has  no  arguments.  Every  year,  it 
repeats  the  same  series  of  irrelevant  and  unconnected 
ideas, but we have all the valid arguments. They appear 
in the documents that have been circulated today and in 
our words. Its Secretary of State is not at this Assembly 
not only out of arrogance, but because she has nothing 
to  say.  Fear  and  shame  also  feature  in  that  decision. 
The United States threatens. We never threaten. We ask 
for  support  from  this  Assembly  with  respect  and 
chivalry.  It  uses  lies. We  use  the  truth.  It  is  punishing 
our children, our elderly and our sick. We do not blame 
its  people.  Its  people  are  also  a  victim.  We  offered  it 
our  doctors  and  their  expertise  to  save  lives  and 
alleviate  suffering  at  the  time  of  hurricane  Katrina.  It 
did not allow us to send them. One day it will have to 
answer for that decision.  
Its President will be leaving office in a few days. 

He 
tightened 
to 
inconceivable limits. He took the economic war against 
us  to  a  schizophrenic  level.  He  threatened  us  with 
against  Cuba 
the 
embargo 
A/63/PV.33
regime change, yet he  will leave without achieving it. 
He is the tenth to leave office repeating the same failed 
illegal  policy.  It  is  true  that  the  United  States  and  its 
policy need to change. It is true that “We need change”. 
It  is  also  true  that  we  need  to  change  the  world  in 
which we live, one of demands and blackmail, and we 
need to build a world in which the rights of all peoples 
are  respected.  I  affirm  that  “You  cannot  fool  all  the 
people  all  the  time”,  as  the  great  Abraham  Lincoln 
asserted, whom our people also respect and pay tribute 
to. 

The United States has said that its policy is very 
well  known,  and  that  is  true.  It  has  said  that  it  is 
defending  the  right  to  trade  between  countries  that 
wish to do so. Its policy is very well known, but what 
is not understood is why it maintains that policy when 
it is rejected universally and by its own people. It can 
decide not to trade with a country, but it does not have 
the  right  to  persecute  its  own  businessmen  because 
they  want  to  trade  with  or  invest  in  Cuba,  let  alone 
persecute  businessmen  of  other  countries  under  the 
Helms-Burton law or other extraterritorial legislation.  

It  asks  the  Assembly  not  to  consider  the  draft 
resolution  that  Cuba  has  put  forward  (A/63/L.4). 
Before 
the 
importance  and  need  to  consider  this  draft  resolution 
and to adopt it, because what is at stake here is not just 
Cuba’s right, but the right of all.  

The  United  States  has  talked  about  a  dance  of 
millions. It has repeated many figures — millions that 
it supposedly has offered. It is true that it offered us $5 
million  four  times  and  we  refused  it,  because  our 
dignity  cannot  be  bought  for  $5  million,  or  for  $500 
million,  or  for  $5  billion  or  for  $500  billion.  That  is 
what  we  said, if  that  is  what  they  had  in  mind.  It  has 
said that the words of Ambassador Jorge Bolanos, chief 
of  the  Cuban  Interests  Section  in  Washington,  are 
unacceptable.  Here  I  say  once  again,  word  for  word: 
the  embargo  is  a  genocidal,  illegal  policy  and  should 
be  lifted  immediately,  respecting  the  cry  that  has 
already been endorsed 16 times by this Assembly. 

Finally,  I  would  like  to  convey  the  feeling 
currently  rousing  our  people  and  our  island. They  are 
closely  following  this  debate. When  my  son  was  born 
in  1995,  this Assembly  had  already  voted  against  the 
United  States  blockade  against  Cuba.  Now  my  son  is 
13 years old. When my daughter was born in 2000, this 
Assembly  had  already  voted  eight  times  against  the 
the  General  Assembly,  we 
insist  on 
08-57511 

21 
A/63/PV.33 

embargo.  Now  my  daughter  is  eight  years  old.  How 
much  longer  will  Cuban  children  and  young  people 
have  to  wait  for  justice?  How  long  will  the  Cuban 
people,  who  have  received  the  unanimous  support  of 
this  Assembly,  have  to  wait  before  their  rights  are 
recognized and justice is done? How much longer will 
North American  young  people  have  to  run  the  risk  of 
being  fined  or  jailed  because  they  want  to  come  to 
Cuba, visit our universities and meet our students? For 
how  much  longer  will  it  be  considered  a  crime  for  a 
citizen  of  a  third  country,  one  of  the  countries 
represented here today, to try to trade with or invest in 
Cuba?  How  much  longer  will  there  be  an  attempt  to 
subjugate, through hunger and disease, children such as 
mine,  who  live  in  Cuba  and  dream  and  believe  that  a 
better  world  is  possible,  a  world  in  which  the  dignity, 
independence and self-determination of all peoples are 
respected?  

The representative of the United States has asked 
this Assembly  not  to  support  our  draft  resolution.  We 
respectfully call upon all members to support Cuba, to 
support  our  rights  and  to  support  our  draft  resolution. 
On  behalf  of  the  Cuban  people,  who  have  proved  a 
thousand 
their  heroic  nature,  who,  despite 
adversity,  have  not  been  and  will  not  be  defeated  and 
whose hope and happiness has not been embargoed or 
extinguished, I once again call on the solidarity of this 
Assembly.  On  behalf  of  the  Cuban  people,  who  put 
their faith in the decision that members must make in a 
few moments, I ask that members vote in favour of the 
draft  resolution  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba”. 

the last speaker in the debate on this item.  

resolution  A/63/L.4.  A 
requested. 

In favour:

The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
recorded  vote  has  been 
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
A recorded vote was taken. 
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua 
and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Australia,  Austria,  Azerbaijan,  Bahamas,  Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Botswana,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria, 
Burkina  Faso,  Burundi,  Cambodia,  Cameroon, 
Canada,  Cape  Verde,  Central  African  Republic, 
times 

Chad,  Chile,  China,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo, 
Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus, 
Czech  Republic,  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea,  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo, 
Denmark,  Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican 
Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  Equatorial  Guinea, 
Eritrea,  Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France, 
Gabon,  Gambia,  Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana, 
Greece,  Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-
Bissau,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Honduras,  Hungary, 
Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic 
of),  Iraq,  Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Jordan, 
Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kiribati,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan, 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Latvia, 
Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia,  Libyan  Arab 
Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, 
Madagascar,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali, 
Malta,  Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal,  Netherlands, 
New  Zealand,  Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts 
and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Sao  Tome  and 
Principe, 
Serbia, 
Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, 
Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname,  Swaziland, 
Sweden,  Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab  Republic, 
Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic 
of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad 
and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan, 
Tuvalu,  Uganda,  Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates, 
United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland,  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uruguay, 
Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian 
Republic  of),  Viet  Nam,  Yemen,  Zambia, 
Zimbabwe 
Saudi  Arabia, 
Senegal, 
Israel, Palau, United States of America 
Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of) 
Draft  resolution  A/63/L.4  was  adopted  by  185 
votes to 3, with 2 abstentions (resolution 63/7). 
Against: 

Abstaining: 


22 

08-57511 
like 
just  adopted,  I  would 



The President (spoke in Spanish): Before giving 
the  floor  to  speakers  in  explanation  of  vote  on  the 
resolution 
to  remind 
delegations that explanations of vote are limited to 10 
minutes and should be made by delegations from their 
seats. 
Mr.  Lacroix  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 

the honour to speak on behalf of the European Union. 
The  candidate  countries  Croatia  and 
the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  the  countries  of  the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates Albania and Montenegro, the country of the 
European  Free  Trade  Area  Iceland,  member  of  the 
European  Economic Area,  as  well  as  Ukraine  and  the 
Republic  of  Moldova,  align  themselves  with  this 
explanation of vote. 

Mr. Siles Alvarado (Bolivia), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 
The  European  Union  believes  that  the  United 

States  trade  policy  towards  Cuba  is  fundamentally  a 
bilateral  issue.  Nonetheless,  the  European  Union  and 
its  member  States  have  clearly  expressed 
their 
opposition  to  the  extraterritorial  extension  of  the 
United  States  embargo,  as  contained  in  the  Cuban 
Democracy Act  of  1992  and  the  Helms-Burton Act  of 
1996. 
The European Union cannot accept that unilateral 

measures  imposed  by  the  United  States  on  specific 
countries  limit  the  Union’s  economic  and  commercial 
relations  with  third  countries,  in  this  case  Cuba. 
Therefore, in November 1996, the Council of Ministers 
of the European Union adopted a regulation and a joint 
action  to  protect  the  interests  of  natural  or  legal 
persons  resident  in  the  European  Union  against  the 
extraterritorial  effects  of 
the  Helms-Burton  Act, 
prohibiting compliance with that law. 

Moreover,  on  18  May  1998,  at  the  European 
Union-United States summit held in London, a package 
was agreed that included waivers to titles III and IV of 
the  Helms-Burton  Act;  a  commitment  by  the  United 
States  Administration  to  resist  future  extraterritorial 
legislation of that kind; and rules of conduct in order to 
protect investments. The European Union continues to 
urge  the  United  States  to  implement  the  commitments 
it undertook under the 18 May 1998 agreement. 

The  European  Union’s  policy  towards  Cuba  is 
clear  and  was  set  out  in  a  common  position  in  1996. 
A/63/PV.33
recovery 
economic 
sustainable 
The  objective  of  the  European  Union  in  its  relations 
with  Cuba  is  to  encourage  a  peaceful  transition 
process,  led  by  the  Cuban  people,  to  a  pluralist 
democracy,  respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms, 
and 
improvement  in  the  living  standards  of  the  Cuban 
people. 
The President returned to the Chair. 


While  reaffirming  the  validity  of  the  common 
position  of  1996,  this  past  June  the  European  Union 
decided  to  lift  the  restrictive  measures  against  Cuba 
and  propose  a  dialogue  without  preconditions  to  the 
Havana  authorities,  based  on  reciprocity  and  non-
discrimination.  The  Cuban  Government  accepted  the 
offer,  and  a  ministerial  political  dialogue  session  was 
held in Paris on 16 October. The dialogue addressed all 
the issues of common interest, including human rights, 
an  area  in  which  Europeans  expect  concrete  action 
from  the  authorities  in  Havana.  In  addition,  the 
European  Union  will  continue  its  dialogue  with  civil 
society and the democratic opposition. 

In  recent  months,  the  human  rights  situation  in 
Cuba  has  seen  a  few  positive  developments:  Cuba’s 
signing  of  the  International  Covenant  on  Civil  and 
Political  Rights  and  the  International  Covenant  on 
Economic,  Social  and  Cultural  Rights;  the  visit  of  the 
United Nations Special Rapporteur on the right to food 
and the possibility of visits from other rapporteurs; and 
the  commutation  of  death  sentences 
to  prison 
sentences. 
However, the human rights situation in Cuba has 

not  fundamentally  changed,  despite  a  decrease  in  the 
number  of  political  prisoners  and  acts  of  harassment. 
The  Cuban  Government  continues  to  deny  its  citizens 
internationally  recognized  civil,  political  and  economic 
rights  and  freedoms.  The  European  Union  once  again 
urges  the  Cuban  Government  to  release  unconditionally 
all political prisoners. That is one of the major priorities 
of the Union’s policy concerning Cuba. In particular, the 
European  Union  expressed  utmost  concern  about  the 
deteriorating  health  of  several  political  prisoners  who 
are  members  of  the  group  of  75  political  prisoners 
detained  since  March  2003,  and  calls  upon  the  Cuban 
authorities to release them immediately. The European 
Union also reiterates its call on the Cuban Government 
to  grant  freedom  of  expression  and  free  access  to 
information. 
08-57511 

23 

A/63/PV.33 


The Cuban Government’s achievements in health 
care  and  education  are  undermined  by  its  restrictions 
on  civil,  political  and  economic  rights.  Domestic 
Cuban economic policy and the economic, commercial 
and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States 
seriously  hamper  the  economic  development  of  Cuba, 
negatively  affecting  the  standards  of  living  of  the 
Cuban people. 

With  regard to the United  States of America, we 
express our rejection of all unilateral measures against 
Cuba,  which  are  contrary  to  the  commonly  accepted 
rules of international trade. We reaffirm our belief that 
the  lifting  of  the  United  States  trade  embargo  would 
help open Cuba’s economy, to the benefit of the Cuban 
people. With regard to Cuba, the European Union urges 
the Cuban authorities to bring about real improvements 
in all the fields I have mentioned. 

For  all  of  those  reasons,  and  in  spite  of  the 
serious  criticisms  arising  as  a  result  of  Cuba’s  human 
rights  record,  the  European  Union  unanimously  voted 
in favour of the resolution just adopted. 
Mrs.  Viotti  (Brazil)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 

the  honour  of  taking  the  floor  on  behalf  of  the 
Common  Market  of  the  South  (MERCOSUR)  and 
associated States: Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, 
Ecuador,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Uruguay,  the  Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela and my own country, Brazil. 

As  in  past  years,  the  MERCOSUR  States  parties 
and  associated  States  voted  in  favour  of  the  draft 
resolution  proposed  by  the  Cuban  delegation,  as  we 
believe  that  the  embargo  against  that  country  is  in 
violation  of  international  law  and  is  contrary  to  the 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
embargo  has  previously  been  condemned  here  in  the 
United  Nations  and  in  other  forums  and  international 
organizations  such  as  the  Organization  of  American 
States, the Latin American Economic System, the Latin 
American Summit and the Rio Group summits.  
The  position  of  MERCOSUR  is  based  on  the 

broader  principle  of  defending  multilateralism,  non-
intervention  and  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes, 
which  are  the  fundamental  principles  of  diplomacy  in 
South  America.  The  embargo  against  Cuba  is  not  in 
line  with  the  rules  of  the  World  Trade  Organization, 
which  regulate  international  trade  through  agreements 
that are binding for its members. 
this 
to  promote 
In  voting 
in 

MERCOSUR  member  States  and  associated 
States  condemn  the  application  of  unilateral  coercive 
measures that impede free trade, that cause irreparable 
damage  to  the  well-being  of  peoples  and  that  obstruct 
the processes of regional integration. MERCOSUR and 
its  associated  States  reject  as  a  matter  of  principle 
unilateral and extraterritorial measures. That is another 
reason  why  we  voted  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution 
proposed by the Cuban delegation.  

resolution, 
favour  of 
MERCOSUR  and  its  associated  States  reiterated  their 
commitment to multilateralism as a legitimate tool for 
dispute  settlement  between  States  and  an  effective 
instrument 
international  cooperation, 
human  rights,  security  and  understanding  among 
peoples. 
Mrs.  Phommachanh  (Lao  People’s  Democratic 

Republic):  The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic 
associates  itself  with  the  statements  made  by  the 
representative of Antigua and Barbuda on behalf of the 
Group  of  77  and  China  and  by  the  representative  of 
Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.  
The Lao People’s Democratic Republic reiterates 

its opposition to the continued unilateral imposition of 
the economic, commercial and financial embargo upon 
the Republic of Cuba by the Government of the United 
States 
its 
extraterritorial implications, is in direct violation of the 
principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter. 
Furthermore, it continues to cause untold suffering and 
hardship  for  the  Cuban  people  and  to  hinder  Cuba’s 
progress in terms of socio-economic development. 

The adoption of the relevant resolutions with the 
overwhelming support of the General Assembly for 16 
consecutive 
international 
community’s rejection of unilateral coercive economic 
measures  in  general  and  to  the  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba  in  particular. The 
resolution 
the 
friendship 
international 
community  with  the  Cuban  people  and  calls  for  the 
immediate  and  unconditional  lifting  of  the  embargo 
against Cuba. 

The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  believes 
in  the  importance  of  resolving  differences  between 
countries through peaceful dialogue and negotiation on 
the  basis  of  equality  and  mutual 
for 
the  Lao  People’s 
sovereignty. 
just  adopted  once  again  confirms 
and 
of  America.  The 
embargo,  with 
In 
that 
respect, 
solidarity  of 
the 
years 
indicates 
the 
respect 
24 

08-57511 
in 
to 
the  resolution  run  counter 


Democratic  Republic  reaffirms  its  continued  support 
for the General Assembly’s resolutions on this item and 
voted in favour of the resolution just adopted. 
Mrs.  Wahab  (Indonesia):  The  delegation  of 

Indonesia recognizes the importance of the Assembly’s 
having  adopted  resolution  63/7,  which  deals  with  the 
necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  against  Cuba.  In  addressing  this 
issue, Indonesia aligns itself with the statements made 
by the representative of Antigua and Barbuda on behalf 
of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  by  the  Permanent 
Representative of Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement.  

Indonesia voted in favour of the resolution, as we 
consistently  and  strongly  believe  that  the  actions 
highlighted 
the 
principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations and the right of peoples to life, well-being and 
development  without  distinctions  of  any  kind. 
Indonesia  is  in  full  agreement  with  the  rest  of  the 
international community on this issue. We urge an end 
to  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
against Cuba. 
the 

overwhelming majority of Member States in voting  in 
favour  of 
just  adopted,  entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba”. 

Myanmar adheres to the five principles of peaceful 
coexistence,  which  are  the  cornerstone  of  our  foreign 
policy.  It  is  our  strong  belief  that  peace,  security  and 
stability  can  be  promoted  only  through  mutual  respect, 
peaceful coexistence and non-interference in the internal 
affairs of other countries. 

The  embargo  imposed  on  Cuba  not  only  runs 
counter to the purposes and principles enshrined in the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  it  also  violates  the 
fundamental  principle  of  the  sovereignty,  equality  and 
right  to  development  of  the  peoples  of  all  nations. 
Furthermore,  the  promulgation  and  application  by  the 
United  States  of  extraterritorial  laws  and  regulations 
that  affect 
the 
legitimate  interests  of  entities  or  persons  under  their 
jurisdiction  and  freedom  of  trade  and  navigation 
violate universally accepted principles of international 
law. 
the  sovereignty  of  other  States, 
(Myanmar):  Myanmar 
Mr.  Swe
joined 
the 
resolution 
A/63/PV.33
the 
the  call  by 
is  once  again  discussing 
My  delegation  strongly  feels  that  the  United 

States  should  heed 
international 
community and immediately put an end to the embargo 
against  Cuba.  The  embargo  does  not  in  any  way 
promote  peace  and  stability  in  the  region  but  instead 
has serious negative impacts on the social, political and 
economic  development  of  the  people  of  Cuba.  My 
delegation therefore voted in favour of the resolution.  
Mr.  Rachkov  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  The 

General  Assembly 
the 
question  of  the  imposition  on  Cuba  of  an  economic, 
commercial and financial embargo. Once again, here in 
this  Hall,  we  have  seen  virtually  unanimity  regarding 
the  necessity  of  ending  the  embargo  and  lifting  the 
restrictions,  which  are  damaging  the  vital  interests  of 
the people of Cuba and are indeed inhumane.  
Belarus  opposes  the  sanctions  and  the  unilateral 

coercive  measures 
imposed  against  Cuba.  The 
sanctions are particularly inappropriate at a time when 
humankind  is  grappling  with  a  number  of  global 
problems. The  financial  crisis,  the  resulting  decline  in 
economic development and the fact that the sustainable 
development  of  States  is  increasingly  dependent  on  a 
wide  range  of  factors,  from  building  a  just  system  of 
international  trade  to  overcoming  climate  change, 
means  that  we  must  jointly  face  these  challenges  and 
counter  them.  In  this  new  global  context,  there  is  no 
place  for  unilateral  sanctions.  By  voting  in  favour  of 
the  resolution  just  adopted,  we  are  calling  on  the 
United States to put an end to the embargo against the 
Republic  of  Cuba,  an  embargo 
that  has  been 
condemned by the international community. 
Ms.  Espinosa  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 

would like to state very briefly that we align ourselves 
with the statements made on behalf of the Group of 77 
and  China, 
the 
Common Market of the South and associated States.  

My  delegation  voted  in  favour  of  the  resolution 
on  the  necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America  against  Cuba,  in  keeping  with  the  principles 
of international law, the United Nations Charter and the 
recommendations adopted by the General Assembly.  

The  Government  and  the  new  constitution  of 
Ecuador condemn the imposition of unilateral coercive 
measures,  reject  the  threat  or  use  of  force  to  solve 
disputes  and  defend  the  principles  of  multilateralism, 
the  peaceful  settlement  of 
non-intervention  and 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and 
08-57511 

25 

Despite 
repeated  appeals  by 
A/63/PV.33 

disputes.  With  that  vote,  Ecuador  would  like  to 
reiterate  its  commitment  to  defending  those  principles 
and  express  its  solidarity  with  the  people  of  Cuba, 
whose  most  basic  rights  are  being  violated.  Ecuador 
appeals  to  our  common  reason  and  intelligence  to  put 
an end to the blockade against Cuba. We feel that it is 
not  only  a  violation  of  international  law  but  also  an 
attack  on  the  human  rights,  dignity,  freedom  and 
happiness of the Cuban people.  
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 

Arabic): My  delegation too would like briefly to echo 
the  statements  made  by  the  representative  of  Antigua 
and  Barbuda  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China 
and  the  representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement.  The  text  of  our  complete 
statement  will  be  available  to  delegations;  I  will  now 
deliver a summary of that text.  

the  General 
Assembly  over  the  past  16  consecutive  years,  the 
Government  of  the  United  States  of America  has  thus 
far  done  nothing  to  comply  with  the  wishes  of  the 
international community. It deliberately and stubbornly 
maintains its  misguided position, disregarding the just 
demands  of  the  international  community.  In  addition, 
the  authorities  of  the  United  States  of  America  have 
introduced  new  measures  to  tighten  the  blockade 
against Cuba, a sovereign and independent State.  
The  behaviour  of  the  United  States  and  the 

the 
measures 
independence, 
territorial 
integrity  of  Cuba  and  constitute  a  direct  threat  to  the 
stability  of 
to 
international peace and security.  

In accordance with its jurisdiction, the Assembly 
is duty-bound to take the necessary measures to put an 
end  to  the  economic  sanctions,  the  embargo  and  the 
antagonistic  policies  of  the  United  States  against  its 
immediate  geographical  neighbours  and  against  other, 
more distant, States.  

In  that  connection,  my  delegation  hopes  that  the 
embargoes  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against  Cuba  and  against  numerous  other  States, 
including  my  country,  the  Syrian Arab  Republic,  will 
be  lifted.  We  also  hope  that  the  United  States  of 
America  will  respect  the  voice  of  the  international 
community as expressed here in the Assembly and that 
the  institutions  and  other  entities  of  that  country  will 
abide by the wishes of the international community in 
the  region  and  a  blatant 
taken  are  detrimental 
sovereignty,  unity 
it  has 
threat 
to 
and 
of 
towards 
the  mechanisms 
Successive  United  States  policies  since 
full. We therefore voted in favour of the resolution just 
adopted.  

It  was  striking  to  note  Israel’s  anomalous  vote 
against  the  resolution  just  adopted,  which  was  backed 
by  the  overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States. 
Israel’s  vote  against  the  overwhelming  majority  is 
proof that it, too, pays no heed to international law and 
is  part  of  an  isolated  minority  in  the  international 
community. Israel’s vote was highly detrimental to the 
United States of America.  
the 

imposition of the unjust blockade on Cuba have used a 
variety  of  creative  means  to  violate  international  law. 
These have taken on dangerous dimensions, due to the 
inconsistency 
governing 
in  dealing  with  misguided 
international  relations 
United  States  policies 
the  peoples  and 
countries  of  the  world.  An  inability  to  make  use  of 
established  accountability  mechanisms  does  not  mean 
that  history  will  fail  to  hold  the  United  States  of 
America responsible for its misguided decisions, which 
are  in  violation  of  international  law.  These  include 
military invasions of States; changing Governments by 
force;  fabricating  internal  disturbances  in  countries  to 
pressure 
their  Governments;  arming  aggressors; 
imposing  unjust  blockades  and  unilateral  economic 
sanctions  against  States;  conducting 
trials  and 
establishing  mobile  prisons  and  detention  centres 
outside 
law;  and 
committing  flagrant  acts  of  aggression  against  the 
borders  of  other  States,  including  my  country,  the 
Syrian Arab Republic.  

The  question  is:  are  those  misguided  American 
practices in conformity with the noble principles of the 
founding  fathers  and  past  leaders  of  the  United  States 
of America, such as George Washington, John Adams, 
Abraham  Lincoln  and  Woodrow  Wilson?  I  leave  the 
answer to be given by American officials. 
Mrs.  Juul  (Norway):  Norway  considers  the 

United  States 
to  be 
fundamentally  a  bilateral  issue.  We  support  sanctions 
when they are adopted by the international community 
through the United Nations. But we cannot support the 
extraterritorial extension of unilateral measures against 
a  third  country.  Therefore,  we  cannot  accept  that 
unilateral  measures  imposed  by  the  United  States 
should determine Norway’s relations with Cuba.  
the  framework  of 
against  Cuba 
international 
embargo 
26 

08-57511 
Norway 
is  encouraged  by 



some  positive 
developments  in  the  area  of  human  rights  in  Cuba. 
Cuba  recently  signed  the  International  Covenants  on 
Civil and Political Rights and on Economic, Social and 
Cultural Rights. The visit of the United Nations Special 
Rapporteur  on  the  right  to  food  is  a  positive  step. We 
particularly  welcome 
the  commutation  of  death 
sentences to prison sentences.  

Nevertheless,  Norway  remains  concerned  about 
the protection and promotion of human rights in Cuba. 
We also reiterate our call on the Cuban Government to 
grant  freedom  of  expression  and  free  access 
to 
information.  

Norway  does  not  consider  isolation  to  be  an 
appropriate  response  to  the  developments  in  Cuba. 
More can be achieved through a constructive dialogue 
with  the  Government  of  Cuba.  Moving  forward, 
Norway intends to contribute to such a dialogue. 

previous years — for the resolution just adopted. 
Mr.  Butagira  (Uganda):  As  it  has  consistently 

done in the past, my delegation voted in favour of the 
resolution  opposing  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  against  Cuba. It has  gone beyond  a 
bilateral matter. The embargo is unjustified. It has had 
an adverse impact on the people of Cuba for too long.  

Furthermore,  we  do  not  support  unilateral 
measures  with  extraterritorial  application,  which  we 
believe  are  inconsistent  with  the  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  international  law  and 
humanitarian law. 

heard the last speaker in explanation of vote. 

Once  again  we,  the  international  community,  the 
entire  world,  the  representatives  of  “we  the  peoples”, 
in whose names the United Nations was founded, have 
expressed  our  rejection  of  the  illegal  and  criminal 
blockade  imposed  on  Cuba,  a  heroic  country  of  
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have now 
For  those  reasons,  Norway  just  voted  —  as  in 
A/63/PV.33
unfailing  solidarity.  We  have  also  heard  many 
statements  of  respect  and  appreciation  for  our  brother 
Fidel Castro and all his noble people.  

As President of the General Assembly, it is up to 
me,  inter  alia,  in  all  times  and  in  all  places  to  defend 
the  letter  and  the  spirit  of  our  Charter,  taking  into 
account  the  fact  that  the  cause  of  peace  obliges  all  of 
us to respect and enforce respect for the principles and 
standards set out in the Charter. There is nothing more 
counter  to  the  spirit  and  letter  of  the  Charter  than  the 
blockade  maintained  by  the  United  States  against 
Cuba. The blockade against Cuba, which has so rightly 
been repudiated and condemned with a unanimity from 
which it seems only the aggressor is excluded, must be 
ended once and for all.  

In view of recent events in Cuba and the damage 
caused  by  Hurricane  Ike,  which  hit  the  island  right 
after  Hurricane  Gustav,  maintaining  that  blockade,  in 
addition to all that has been said already on the subject, 
is clearly  an  act  of  extreme cruelty. Cuba deserves all 
our respect, our love and our solidarity.  

I pray that our dear brothers and sisters who have 
insisted  on  maintaining  that  criminal  blockade  against 
Cuba at all costs will find within themselves the moral 
strength to set themselves free from this unwholesome 
stubbornness and will then be able to put an immediate 
end to the blockade.  

is  undeniably  a  hero  of 
international solidarity, and to all the wonderful people 
of  Cuba,  I  express  our  unwavering  respect  and 
solidarity.  We  will  do  everything  possible  —  and 
impossible — to ensure that the overwhelming opinion 
manifested  here  in  the  United  Nations  is  no  longer 
flouted. Viva Cuba! 

to conclude its consideration of agenda item 19?  

The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m. 

May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly 
It was so decided. 
To  Fidel,  who 
08-57511 

27 
