
A/63/PV.48
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

48th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 13 November 2008, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 
includes 
order to ensure lasting success, such political efforts at 
all  levels  require  the  support  of  a  culture  of  peace 
within  our  societies,  as  well  as  among  States. 
Achieving  this  culture  of  peace  requires  the  efforts  of 
the  forces  that  hold  our  societies  together.  That 
especially 
religious  beliefs  and  other 
worldviews. 

His  Majesty  the  King  of  Saudi  Arabia  was 
therefore  right  to  ask  what  contributions  religions  can 
make to a culture of peace.  

We  can  find  impressive  examples  throughout 
history  and  up  to  our  own  time  of  people  in  all 
religions  who,  through  their  belief  in  an  almighty 
creator, a just judge or a merciful father, were inspired 
to  perform  great  acts  of  humanity  and  to  show 
compassion  and  love  to  their  fellow  human  beings, 
especially  those  in  need.  At  the  same  time,  in  all 
religions  we  find  examples  of  how  they  are  abused  in 
claims  to  political  power  and  even  of  how  they  have 
claimed absolute political power for themselves. 

Even  when  religious  convictions  are  misused  to 
justify hate and violence, general suspicion of a certain 
religion,  or  of 
is  not 
appropriate.  For  example,  if  Islamist  terrorists  and 
extremists distort their religion, that in no way justifies 
any kind of Islamophobia.  

What  is  needed  in  response  to  such  misuses, 
however,  is  the  willingness  of  religions  to  engage  in 
self-critical 
reflection  on  such  distortions.  This 
willingness  must  also  assure  that  there  is  no  room  for 
condescending arrogance towards those of other faiths. 
religious  beliefs  at  all, 






The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 



Agenda item 45 (continued) 
Culture of peace 





  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/262) 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/63/127) 
  Draft resolutions (A/63/L.23 and 
A/63/L.24/Rev.1) 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  give  the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hermann  Gröhe,  Minister 
of  State  and  Special  Envoy  of  the  Chancellor  of  the 
Federal Republic of Germany. 

Mr. Gröhe (Germany): On behalf of the Federal 
Government of Germany, I wish to underline the great 
importance  we  attach  to  fostering  a  culture  of  peace. 
We therefore welcome the convening of this summit. I 
should like to express my full support for the statement 
of  the  European  Union  delivered  at  the  47th  meeting 
by Alain Juppé on behalf of the French presidency. 

Achieving  and  safeguarding  peace  and  security, 
making  a  life  in  freedom  and  dignity  possible  for  all 
people — these goals constitute the core of the United 
Nations  mandate.  They  have  not  become  any  less 
significant  in  2008.  On  the  contrary;  today  they  still 
require us to do everything in our power to reach them. 

The  past  years  have  shown  again  and  again  that 
national  and  international  conflicts  demand  more  than 
just  national,  intergovernmental  or  international  peace 
efforts, though those are and will remain necessary. In 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-60077 (E) 
*0860077* 

in 
A/63/PV.48 

It can pave the way  for mutual ethical  conviction that 
lays  the  foundation  for  common  service  to  peace, 
justice and the preservation of creation. 

Consider what people of different religious faiths 
could  contribute  to  a  culture  of  peace  if  they  were 
aware,  for  example,  that  the  golden  rule  of  treating 
others as you would like to be treated can be found in 
nearly  identical  language  among  the  teachings  of  the 
great Greek philosophers as well as of the philosophers 
of the Age of Enlightenment, just as it can be found in 
Confucianism,  Buddhism  and  Hinduism, 
the 
Talmud,  the  Christian  Gospels  and  in  the  Islamic 
hadith collection.  

We  have  a  common  ground  for  assuming  our 
common  global  responsibility.  At  the  same  time, 
differences  do  not  have  to  be  denied.  The  conviction 
that  we  all  share  more  or  less  the  same  beliefs  is  not 
necessary  for  us  to  be  able  to  respect  each  other  or 
other cultures and religions. Our readiness to treat each 
other  respectfully  proves  itself  precisely  in  those 
moments when we are aware of the differences in our 
convictions  and  can  clearly  name  them  and  yet  still 
view each other as equals. 

“All  human  beings  are  born  free  and  equal  in 
dignity  and  rights.”  Today  we  are  still  committed  to 
this  principle,  taken  from  Article  1  of  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  In  consequence,  those 
committed to universal human dignity, those who want 
to  engage  religious  communities  and  believers  of 
different  faiths,  as  well  as  adherents  to  non-religious 
worldviews,  for  a  culture  of  peace  must  embrace 
freedom  of  thought,  conscience  and  religion,  as  laid 
out in Article 18 of the Universal Declaration. 

Recognizing the significance of religious freedom 
in  no  way  implies  that  other  human  rights  are  less 
important.  When  the  State  exerts  strict  control  over 
religious services, the prayers of the faithful, religious 
education  of  children  or  charitable  actions, 
that 
expresses the totality of its claim to power even in the 
most personal aspects of everybody’s life.  

All  people  must  enjoy  freedom  of  religion.  The 
principles  of  freedom  and  equality  forbid  people  of  a 
certain  faith  or  culture  from  arbitrarily  limiting  the 
freedom of those who think differently.  

It  is  also  unacceptable  to  put  the  equal  dignity 
and  the  equal  rights  of  women  in  question  on  the 
ground of religious or ideological doctrine.  

Time  and  again,  religious  feelings  have  been 
offended  worldwide.  I  myself,  as  a  Christian,  have 
shared  the  bitter  experience  of  my  religious  feelings 
being offended. However, those violations never justify 
violence.  The  rule  of  law  and  respect  for  others’ 
freedom  of  thought  must  also  prevail  in  such  difficult 
situations.  We  cannot  accept  religious  intolerance 
towards  those  who  think  differently.  We  commit 
ourselves 
to  constantly  fight  any  form  of  anti-
Semitism.  

Freedom of religion necessarily includes freedom 
of choice. A person must be free to decide if she or he 
wants  to  profess  a  certain  faith.  This  includes  that 
every  person  has  the  right  to  convert  to  another  faith. 
Thus  it  is  unacceptable  that  laws  in  some  countries 
even  today  threaten  those  who  want  to  convert  with 
death.  

It  is  time  to put  an  end  to  the  harassment,  terror 
and murder that force members of religious minorities 
to flee their homes and countries. Freedom of religion 
is about the individual’s freedom to practice her or his 
religion or worldview, alone or with others, publicly or 
privately.  And  it  is  necessarily  about  the  right  of 
religious communities to organize themselves freely, to 
serve their members and to contribute to all aspects of 
public  life.  In  doing  so,  they  will  play  an  important 
role for a culture of peace. 
The diversity of world cultures and religions is a 

feature 
that  has  marked  human  development. 
Considering  worldwide  migration  and  globalization, 
regions  that  are  shaped  by  only  one  religion  are  the 
exception.  Multiculturalism  and  mutlireligiosity  are 
often a reality. 

to 
confirm  or  preserve  one’s  own  identity  exists.  In  this 
situation,  it  is  more  vital  than  ever  to  provide  young 
people  in  particular  with  the  basics  of  a  culture  of 
peace  and  the  understanding  that  all  people  have  the 
right to equality and freedom. There is a need to make 
young  people,  and  ourselves,  aware  of  the  silent 
harbingers  of  discrimination and  religious intolerance, 
of how prejudice is stirred up or of how entire groups — 
those with a different skin colour or different beliefs — 
are stigmatized.  
Respect  for  one  another  and  interest  in  one 

another  must  be 
interreligious 
dialogue.  Treating  one  another  respectfully  does  not 
have to exclude a search for truth. However, what must 
the  understandable  desire 
the  basis  for  an 
Simultaneously, 
2 

08-60077 


be  ruled  out  is  forcing  one's  own  beliefs  on  others 
through  violence.  In  recent  decades,  there  have  been 
numerous initiatives for intercultural and interreligious 
dialogue  in  our  societies,  between  States  and  at  the 
level  of  the  United  Nations.  Politics  can  and  should 
support such initiatives. 

At  its  core,  however,  this  dialogue  —  and  this 
also  includes  our  understanding  of  religious  freedom  — 
must  be  developed  within  the  religious  communities 
themselves.  What  we  need  is  the  commitment  of 
religious  communities,  not 
the  creation  of  new 
structures or institutions at the political level, whether 
as  part  of  the  United  Nations  or  in  other  multilateral 
forums. 

For  decades  now,  important  things  have  been 
happening  in  dialogues  among  religious  communities. 
Jews, Christians and Muslims have learned much from 
and  about  one  another  in  these  sometimes  painful 
debates.  The  increased  participation  of  other  religious 
traditions  —  not  least  the  great  religious  traditions  of 
Asia — would certainly be welcome in these dialogues. 

When people can profess their faith without fear, 
especially if they belong to a religious minority, when 
religious  communities  have 
to 
participate  in  shaping  human  interaction  in  freedom 
and  when  all  people  —  regardless  of  their  faith  or 
world view — enjoy mutual respect for their worth, we 
will  know  that  we  are  moving  towards  a  culture  of 
peace. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdulkarim  Al-Eryani,  former 
Prime Minister and Special Adviser to the President of 
the Republic of Yemen. 
Mr. Al-Eryani  (Yemen)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It  is 

truly historic and highly significant that this high-level 
meeting  is  being  held  within  the  framework  of  the 
General  Assembly  to  strengthen  the  culture  of  peace 
and  dialogue  among  representatives  of  cultures  and 
religions 
the 
Organization is the most appropriate forum in which to 
promote  dialogue  among  religions  and  cultures.  As 
former  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  has  said,  the 
United  Nations  is  truly  an  Organization  that  can 
harmonize cultures and religions and a forum in which 
peoples  can  meet  and  share  the  benefits  of  such 
dialogue  with  their  cultures  and  societies,  which 
enables them to truly flourish.  
their  diversity.  Undoubtedly, 
the  opportunity 
in  all 
A/63/PV.48
a 
among 
culture  of  dialogue 

This meeting has been convened to reaffirm that a 
gathering  of  cultures  and  human  beliefs  reflects  the 
diversity  of  human  civilization.  That  is  why  this 
meeting  is  so  important,  because  it  is  aimed  at 
promoting 
all 
representatives of cultures and religions throughout the 
world.  This  meeting  also  has  a  particularly  historic 
aspect, because it was conceived in the city of Mecca, 
towards which the eyes of more than a billion Muslims 
turn  every  day.  Here,  I  should  like  to  refer  to  the 
historic  initiative  launched  by  King  Abdullah  Bin 
Abdulaziz  Al  Saud  of  Saudi  Arabia.  This  meeting 
follows the Madrid Conference that was held in July of 
this  year.  Both  initiatives  were  undertaken  by  the 
Muslim  World  League  under 
the  auspices  and 
leadership of the Saudi King.  

Indeed,  the  call  of  Mecca  is  an  appeal  for 
dialogue based on the Islamic faith, which encourages 
us  to  come  to  God  on  the  basis  of  a  constructive 
dialogue, because, as God told us, you have your faith 
and  I  have  mine.  This  call  from  Mecca  is  a  tradition 
found 
in  all  religious  beliefs  and  philosophical 
traditions  throughout  the  world:  human  societies  are 
called upon to engage in dialogue, which, in fact, is a 
prerequisite for human progress.  

The Madrid Declaration, adopted as the outcome 
of the meeting held by the Muslim World League under 
the  leadership  of  the  Saudi  King,  reaffirmed  that 
equality  should  prevail  among  all  men  and  women  in 
the diversity of their cultures and faiths. That is one of 
the lessons of the Koran and a prerequisite for human 
progress. Respect for others, for the cultures of peoples 
and for their freedom to govern themselves is the basis 
of  all  human  relations.  It  is  a  teaching  found  in  all 
religions  and  cultural  traditions,  and  it  enables  us  to 
exchange  information  and  knowledge,  which  can  lead 
to happiness throughout the world.  
We Muslims, who base our world view on ijtihad, 

which  is  a  truly  exegetical  effort  to  understand  the 
world  and  the  other,  believe  that  the  Western  world 
must  revise  all  of  its  concepts  and  notions  about 
Muslims  and  the  Muslim  world.  According  to  Roger 
Jaroudi  there  must  be  a  cross-fertilization  among 
civilizations and a genuine dialogue, in which all seek 
to understand the other without preconditions. 

Today,  more  than  ever  before,  we  sorely  need  a 
culture of peace based on dialogue that will overcome 
misunderstanding.  No  one  has  a  monopoly  on  truth; 
08-60077 

3 

A/63/PV.48 

indeed,  to  believe  that  is  to  turn  one’s  back  on  truth. 
The  tearing  down  of  the  Berlin  Wall  and  the  terrorist 
events of 11 September 2001 spread fear in the Western 
world  about  the  emergence  of  a  new  enemy  called 
Islam. That  belief  is  born  of  mutual  ignorance,  which 
has  spread  imaginary  fears  based  on  the  false  notion 
that a clash of civilizations is unavoidable. To believe 
in  a  clash  of  civilizations  is  to  forget  that  Islam  was 
cross-pollinated  with  Greek  culture  and  disseminated 
it,  thus  fostering  well-being  for  humanity  as  a  whole 
and helping to inspire the renaissance in Europe. That 
was  a  historic  era,  which  opened  up  new  horizons  for 
humanity.  

It  is  our  duty  and  responsibility,  both  within  the 
United  Nations  and  through  bilateral  or  multilateral 
channels,  to  truly  promote  genuine  dialogue  among 
cultures  and  beliefs.  We  must  promote  such  dialogue 
by  every  means  at  our  disposal.  Yemen  and 
Switzerland  have  made  their  contribution  in  this  area 
by  holding  symposia  at  which  illustrious  academic 
figures are invited to speak.  

Finally, we would like to appeal for the adoption 
of measures to be followed up by an expert committee 
comprising representatives of all religions, cultures and 
civilizations. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Theodoros  Kassimis,  Deputy 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Greece. 
Mr.  Kassimis  (Greece):  I  am  truly  pleased  to 

commend, today, in this forum, Saudi Arabia’s current 
initiative on interreligious dialogue, launched under the 
auspices of His Majesty King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz 
Al Saud.  

Greece  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered 
by Mr. Alain Juppé, Special Envoy of the President of 
the French Republic, on behalf of the European Union. 

For Greece, this is very much a vindication of our 
own policies  in this field, as we were among the very 
first countries in the West to open concrete channels of 
communication  and  dialogue  with  the  Muslim  world, 
even  before  the  Second  World  War.  Such  dialogue  is 
maintained  at  many 
levels.  As  a  State,  Greece 
maintains  numerous  and  well-established  bilateral 
contacts  and  is  a  party  to  many  multilateral  forums 
within  the  United  Nations  system,  in  the  European 
Union and in specific activities, such as the Alliance of 
Civilizations. 
thanks 
together  with  freedom  of 

However, it is at the level of institutions of faith 
that  Greece  and  the  Greek  world  enjoy  a  truly 
privileged position, thanks to the crucial role played in 
both  ecumenical  and  interreligious  dialogue  by  the 
ancient churches of the Greek world. Indeed, although 
most  of  them  are  incorporated  under  the  laws  of  the 
lands in which they are established, they are very much 
at the root of modern Greek culture and civilization. 

Such  a  background  was  essential  to  the  Greek 
world’s  establishment  of  a  leading  position  in  the 
dialogue  with  Islam  and  Judaism, 
to  a 
continuous  interaction  with  both  religions  for  almost 
2,000 years, the lack of colonial baggage in its history 
and  a  deep  understanding  of  and  respect  for  the 
mentality of the peoples of the area. 

At  the  same  time,  we  are  well  aware  of  our 
position  in  the  Western  world.  Democracy  is  very 
much  Greece’s  own  contribution  to  European  and 
Western  civilization  and  the  early  Greek  world  was  a 
major contributor to the fashioning of Roman law and 
Christian ethics. We thus cherish the community of our 
values,  along  with  other  societies  that  have  been 
formed in the same ethical and philosophical matrix. 

We also know that we hold most of these values 
in  common  with  our  Muslim  and  Jewish  partners  and 
neighbours.  In  this  context,  the  Saudi  initiative  on 
interfaith  dialogue  is  most  welcome. We  look  forward 
to a close and fruitful collaboration in this context, one 
in which Greece and Europe will contribute what they 
have  achieved  over  the  years,  especially  in  defining 
human rights and in incorporating them into their legal 
systems.  Indeed,  we  consider  freedom  of  religion  and 
worship, 
thought  and 
expression,  to  be  at  the  very  foundations  of  our 
philosophy  on  life  and  on  the  position  of  mankind  in 
the universe. 
to 

embark  on  a 
large-scale  campaign  for  religious 
education.  We  need  to  inform  our  peoples  about  the 
true  message  of  our  respective  religions. We  live  in  a 
materialistic  era,  in  which  some  are  attempting  to 
uproot the eternal and universal values of our societies. 
This  has  provided  an  opportunity  to  certain  forces  to 
violently alter the values of faith and to substitute them 
with messages of hate and division. There is, however, 
no  religion,  no  religious  figure,  nor  any  sacred  script 
that  preaches  hatred  among  people.  On  the  contrary, 
the divine commandment common to all our faiths is a 
Apart  from  dialogue,  however,  we  need 
4 

08-60077 
through 
their  own 
their  games, 


message  of  love,  solidarity,  peaceful  coexistence  and 
respect  for  all  people  on  Earth.  This  has  to  be  the 
message  of  our  dialogue,  and  it  is  with  this  message 
that our children should be brought up. 

Eighteen  months  ago,  in  an  attempt  to  build 
bridges  of  peace  and  cooperation  in  our  region,  we 
launched an initiative called “Building the future”. We 
organized a summer camp in Greece for children aged 
12  to  14  from  Egypt,  Jordan,  Palestine,  Israel  and 
Greece.  Twenty  children  from  each  of  these  countries 
participated.  Boys  and  girls,  Muslims,  Jews  and 
Christians,  lived  together  for  three  weeks. We  did  not 
allow anyone to poison them with false messages. We 
left  them  by  themselves,  armed  with  the  religious 
beliefs they had from their parents, their pure souls and 
their passion to enjoy life. These children developed a 
dialogue  of 
the 
traditional dances of their homelands, the artwork that 
they crafted together and the happiness that showed on 
their  faces.  The  outcome  of  their  dialogue  could  be 
seen  when  the  time  came  to  bid  farewell  and  is 
reflected in the letters sent by their parents. 

Our  dialogue  here  is  a  more  difficult  one.  We 
have  to  fight  the  forces  of  hatred  and  division.  I  am 
certain  that  if  we  all  pull  together  and  believe  in  this 
common  cause,  we  will  emerge  as  victors  for  world 
peace, solidarity and mutual understanding, so that we 
may  be  able  to  prove  what  our  respective  faiths  teach 
us: that we all are children of the same God.  
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miguel  Abdón  Saguier, 
Senator  and  member  of  the  Commission  of  External 
Relations  and  International Affairs  of  the  Republic  of 
Paraguay.  
Mr.  Saguier  (Paraguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 

are  pleased  to  be  here  as  further  testimony  of  the 
importance 
its  Government 
attribute to the culture of peace. 
Paraguay  would  like  resolutely  to  uphold  the 

noble  mission  of  the  United  Nations  and  its  Members 
in achieving a broad and in-depth understanding among 
the  different  cultures. That  is  why  we  enthusiastically 
support initiatives of dialogue among different peoples, 
Governments and religions. 

Humankind, unique in its origin and diverse in its 
cultural  manifestation,  has,  by  means  of  dialogue,  its 
only way to try to overcome the injustice and violence 
that  my  country  and 
A/63/PV.48
that 
form  an 
fact  what 
is  obscuring 
they  are  doing 
the  cultural  and 
that  demean  it.  Dialogue  has  as  a  starting  point 
acceptance of the other, even if that “other” is different 
than myself, not only that the “other” may live but live 
together,  not  only  that  the  “other”  may  exist  but 
coexist.  Unlike  dialogue,  in  violence  there  is  no 
acceptance, but only the attempt to eliminate the other. 
Dialogue  can  take  place  only  if  we  accept,  or 

tolerate, 
even  better 
religious 
that  distinguish  each  people,  each 
characteristics 
national  society, 
integral  part  of 
humankind. 

To  avoid  misunderstandings  that  can  lead  to 
tragic  consequences,  it  is  essential  to  understand  that 
suicidal indifference towards bloody  and premeditated 
incidents  —  which  in  most  cases  mean  that  the 
innocent  pay  for  the  sinners  —  is  not  tolerance.  The 
protagonists,  the  fanatics,  want  to  show  by  means  of 
violence the supposed strength of their demands, when 
in 
the 
justification of their grievances. 

Justifiably,  the  Spanish  philosopher  Fernando 
Savater  says  that  fanaticism  is  in  no  way  strength  of 
conviction, but, quite the contrary, panic in the face of 
possible  contamination  by  what  is  different.  The 
fanatic  cannot  bear  to  live  among  those  who  think 
differently for fear of discovering that he is not so sure 
of  what  he  says  he  believes.  Thus,  Nietzsche 
determined  that  fanaticism  was  the  only  strength  of 
will of which the weak are capable.  

A  number  of  leaders  pointed  out  here  yesterday 
that religion was not the cause of violence, specifically 
terrorism,  but  rather  the  pretext  of  those  who  corrupt 
the faith of their peoples for political ends. In that way, 
they  claim  that  it  is  only  the  end,  not  the  means  that 
matters,  trying  to  obscure  the  fact  that  the  means 
determine  the  end.  History  teaches  us  that  those  who 
gain power through violence will always have to resort 
to violence to maintain that power. That is not the path 
towards  humanist  ethics  or  religious  piety,  whatever 
the religion, be it called Christianity, Judaism, Islam or 
any other. 

When we speak of tolerance, we cannot forget the 
Catholic belief set out in the resolutions of the Second 
Ecumenical  Council  of 
the 
encyclicals  of  John  Paul  XXIII  and  Paul  VI,  which 
present  us  with  the  profound  and  thought-provoking 
ideas that even those who are mistaken still retain their 
human dignity.  
the  Vatican  and 
in 
08-60077 

5 
that 
this 
We  cannot  conclude 
text  provided  by 
d’Escoto  Brockmann; 
Mr.  Koumura  (Japan)  (spoke 
A/63/PV.48 


Paraguay  and  its  Government,  deeply  imbued 
with  humanist  ideas,  pledge  their  support  for  the 
initiative  before  us  today  (A/63/L.24/Rev.1),  in  the 
hope 
important  high-level  meeting  will 
achieve practical results for all nations of the world in 
the  search  for  cooperation,  understanding,  justice  and 
peace which are so essential for the moral and material 
progress of all our nations. 

this  statement  without 
expressing our gratitude to His Majesty, the Custodian 
of 
the  Two  Holy  Mosques,  King  Abdullah  Bin 
Abdulaziz  Al  Saud;  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly;  Miguel 
and 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  this  important 
initiative that has brought us together today. 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Masahiko  Koumura, 
Special Envoy of the Prime Minister of Japan. 
in  Japanese; 

English 
the  delegation):  I  am 
honoured,  Sir,  to  have  the  opportunity  to  address  you 
today  as  the  Special  Envoy  of  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Japan, Mr. Taro Aso, and on behalf of the Government 
of Japan. 

We  are  gathered  here  today  at  this  high-level 
meeting  of  the  General Assembly  on  dialogue  among 
religions  and  civilizations  in  response  to  the  strong 
initiative  taken  by  the  Custodian  of  the  Two  Holy 
Mosques,  King  Abdullah  bin  Abdul  Aziz  Al-Saud  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia.  Japan  welcomes  the 
convening  of  this  meeting,  just  as  it  welcomed  and 
attached great importance to the Muslim dialogue, held 
in  Mecca  in  June,  and  the  World  Conference  on 
Dialogue, held in Madrid in July. 

In  January  1999,  as  Foreign  Minister  of  Japan,  I 
made  a  speech  in  Ramallah  entitled:  "Building  a  New 
Bridge between Japan and the Middle East toward the 
Twenty-First Century". I urged then that we profit from 
the lessons we learned during the century that was just 
coming  to  a  close,  filled  as  it  had  been  with  war  and 
conflict,  and  make  the  twenty-first  century  a  time  of 
peace  and  prosperity.  Instead,  in  the  decade  that  has 
passed since I was in Ramallah, what we have seen in 
the Middle East and too many other regions around the 
world  is  more  conflict  and  incidents  that  have  only 
served to heighten tensions. 


Such  disorder,  strife  and  conflict  have  many 
causes. Tremendous efforts have been made to address 
them in the United Nations and other forums. Yet, if we 
are  ever  to  succeed  in  devising  better,  more  durable 
solutions, it will be because the parties concerned and 
the  international  community  have  the  political  will  to 
do  so.  It  will  be  because  we  choose  to  engage  in 
dialogue  over  violence.  Certainly,  it  is  impossible  to 
resolve a conflict unless each party first recognizes the 
other’s  existence  and  demonstrates  respect  for  their 
ethnicity, culture and religion. 

We need also to take into account the impact that 
globalization has had on the world. Through the rapid 
expansion of trade and the development of information 
and  communication  technologies,  the  daily  lives  of 
many people have been made easier. At the same time, 
globalization  has  removed  many  of  the  barriers  that 
earlier  separated  groups  with  different  identities  and 
different  ways  of  life.  As  they  now  confront  one 
another,  conventional  authority  and  order  are  being 
shaken. New tensions are piled on old, a situation that 
can  be  expected  to  continue  until  a  new,  more  stable 
order is established. 

We  have  an  obligation  now  to  pool  our  wisdom 
so  as  to  maximize  the  benefits  of  globalization  and 
minimize the harm it can do. People who face a crisis 
of  identity  are  vulnerable.  When  a  small  band  of 
extremists  succeeds  in  inciting  even  the  slightest 
friction  among  ethnic  or  religious  groups,  the  fires  of 
distrust and hatred are stoked, and yesterday’s peaceful 
neighbours  suddenly  become  wary  of  one  another,  or 
worse.  We  should  not  regard  differences  in  culture  or 
ideology as handicaps. Far from it; they are assets that 
can infuse a society with creativity, causing it to flower 
and  endow  its  members  with  greater  tolerance,  and 
even appreciation, of what each has to offer. For this to 
happen,  however,  greater  political 
is 
required. 

Equally pressing in confronting the global issues 
of our time, the nations and regions of the world must 
work  in  concert,  in  a  firm  and  courageous  manner,  to 
secure  the  common  interests  of  humankind,  which 
extend  far  beyond  petty  differences.  This  is  clearly 
how  we  must  confront  the  current  financial  crisis, 
which is unprecedented in scale. In contrast to the dark 
era  nearly  80  years  ago,  when  the  Great  Depression 
plunged the nations of the world into the Second World 
War,  today  we  know  that  we  need  to  coordinate  the 
leadership 
6 

08-60077 


policies we adopt if we are to surmount this challenge 
and end the vicious spiral of financial turmoil. 

On the issue of climate change, the leaders of the 
G-8  said  at  the  Hokkaido  Toyako  Summit  earlier  this 
year that they shared the long-term objective of cutting 
greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50 per cent by the 
year 2050. They understood that failure to do so would 
lead to even more global warming and deal a massive 
blow to humankind and the environment of the planet 
that is our home. 
The  same  can  be  said  about  the  Millennium 

Development Goals. We know that the first victims of 
natural  disasters  and  conflicts,  no  matter  where  in  the 
world they occur, are always the poor. Leaving behind 
those  who  are  weak  and  vulnerable  makes  a  society 
unstable  and  impedes  the  progress  of  the  reforms  for 
which we have promised to work. 

With  this  in  mind,  Japan  has  been  striving  to 
make  the  most  effective  use  of  official  development 
assistance  and  other  tools  to  assist  the  nations  and 
regions of the world to promote stability and prosperity 
through  efforts  such  as  those  being  made  to  create  a 
“corridor of peace and prosperity”. Japan has also been 
extending  cooperation  in  such  areas  as  education,  the 
development  of  human  resources  and  helping  women 
to live independent lives. 
We  know  that  in  the  course  of  human  history 

there  have  been  long  periods  during  which  peoples 
whose  identities  reside  in  their  different  cultures, 
religions  and  ethnicities  have  coexisted  peacefully. 
Tolerance,  religious  symbiosis  and  coexistence  have 
been  the  norm  among  followers  of  Islam  and  in  the 
societies  of  the  Middle  East  in  general.  In  Asia, 
whether 
in  India,  China  or  elsewhere,  different 
religions have managed for much of history to exist in 
proximity  to  one  another  without  the  eruption  of 
conflict. For its part, Japan has benefited since ancient 
times  from  the  products  of  the  civilizations  of  China 
and India. Japan has also absorbed the fruits of Western 
culture, including universal values such as freedom and 
democracy.  

Precisely because Japan’s unique culture assumed 
its  present  form  in  this  manner,  it  knows  the  value  of 
dynamic  exchange  and interaction with  other  cultures. 
Japan,  therefore,  intends  to  contribute  actively  to 
dialogue  and  the  promotion  of  harmony  among  the 
religions  and  civilizations  of  the  world.  It  is  already 
cooperating  with  Islamic  countries  in  conducting  the 
A/63/PV.48
dialogue  among  civilizations  between  Japan  and  the 
Islamic  world  and  we  shall  continue  to  engage  in 
exchanges of this kind. 

In  closing,  let  me  once  again  express  my  deep 
appreciation to King Abdullah for the initiative he has 
taken and salute the conviction and courage shown by 
all  those  who  have  supported  it.  I  hope  that  at  this 
meeting  we  shall  reaffirm  our  determination  and 
commitment  to  take  strong,  joint  action  and  ensure 
solidarity and peaceful coexistence among the peoples 
of the world. 


Address by Mr. George W. Bush, President of the 
United States of America 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by the President of the United 
States of America. 

Mr.  George  W.  Bush,  President  of  the  United 
States of America, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  George  W. 
Bush, President of the United States of America, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Bush:  Laura  and  I  are  pleased  to  be 

back here at the United Nations, and I am grateful for 
the  opportunity  to  once  again  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
I  want  to  thank  King  Abdullah  of  Saudi  Arabia 

for  his  leadership  and  for  convincing  us  all  to  come 
together 
the 
participants  who  recognize  the  transformative  and 
uplifting power of faith.  

One  of  my  core  beliefs  is  that  there  is  an 
Almighty  God,  and  that  every  man,  woman  and  child 
on the face of this Earth bears His image. Many years 
ago,  faith  changed  my  life.  Faith  has  sustained  me 
through the challenges and the joys of my Presidency. 
And faith will guide me for the rest of my days. 

I  know  many  of  the  leaders  gathered  in  this 
Assembly  have  been  influenced  by  faith,  as  well.  We 
may  profess  different  creeds  and  worship  in  different 
places,  but  our  faith  leads  us  to  common  values.  We 
believe God calls us to love our neighbors, and to treat 
one  another  with  compassion  and  respect.  We  believe 
to  speak  about  faith.  I  appreciate 
08-60077 

7 
strongly 
supported 

The  United  States 
the  American  people 
A/63/PV.48 

God  calls  us  to  honour  the  dignity  of  all  life,  and  to 
speak  against  cruelty  and  injustice.  We  believe  God 
calls  us  to  live  in  peace,  and  to  oppose  all  those  who 
use His name to justify violence and murder. Freedom 
is God’s gift to every man, woman, and child, and that 
freedom includes the  right  of all people  to worship  as 
they see fit. 

Sixty  years  ago,  members  of  the  United  Nations 
General  Assembly  acknowledged  this  truth  when  we 
adopted  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights. 
The  Declaration  proclaims  that  everyone  has  the  right 
to choose or change religions, and the right to worship 
in private or in public. 

the 
adoption  of  the  Universal  Declaration.  In  fact,  the 
American  delegation  was  led  by  a  former  First  Lady, 
Eleanor  Roosevelt.  When  we  voted  for  the  Universal 
Declaration, 
reaffirmed  a 
conviction  that  dates  back  to  our  earliest  days.  Our 
nation  was  founded  by  people  seeking  haven  from 
religious  persecution.  The  First  Amendment  of  our 
Constitution guarantees the free exercise of religion for 
all. And through the generations, our nation has helped 
defend the religious liberty of others — from liberating 
the  concentration  camps  of  Europe  to  protecting 
Muslims  in  places  such  as  Kosovo,  Afghanistan  and 
Iraq.  

Today, the United States is carrying on that noble 
tradition by making religious liberty a central element 
of  our 
foreign  policy.  We  have  established  a 
Commission  on  International  Religious  Freedom  to 
monitor  the  state  of  religious  liberty  worldwide.  We 
strongly encourage nations to understand that religious 
freedom  is  the  foundation  of  a  healthy  and  hopeful 
society.  We  are  not  afraid  to  stand  with  religious 
dissidents  and  believers  who  practise  their  faith,  even 
where it is unwelcome.  

One  of  the  best  ways  to  safeguard  religious 
freedom  is  to  aid  the  rise  of  democracy.  Democratic 
Governments  do  not  all  look  alike.  Each  reflects  the 
history and traditions of its own people, but one of the 
defining  features  of  any  democracy  is  that  it  makes 
room  for  people  of  all  backgrounds  and  all  faiths. 
Democracies  allow  people  with  diverse  views  to 
discuss their differences and live in harmony.  

The  expansion  of  democracy  also  represents  the 
most  promising  path  to  peace.  People  who  are  free  to 
express  their  opinions  can  challenge  the  ideologies  of 
hate. They can defend their religious beliefs and speak 
out  against  those  seeking  to  twist  them  to  evil  ends. 
They can prevent their children from falling under the 
sway  of  extremists  by  giving  them  a  more  hopeful 
alternative.  

Over the past eight years, I have been privileged 
to see how freedom and faith can lift up lives and lead 
the  world 
towards  peace.  I  remember  clearly  a 
congregation  in  the  State  of  Kansas  in  my  country 
whose  members  stayed  together  and  prayed  together, 
even  when  a  tornado  had  torn  down  their  church.  I 
have seen faithful caregivers on the continent of Africa 
who take AIDS patients given up for dead and restore 
them to health. I have seen mothers across the Middle 
East  whose  faith  leads  them  to  dream  of  a  better  and 
more  peaceful  future  for  their  children  —  a  dream 
shared by mothers all around the world.  

I  appreciate  every  nation  participating  in  today’s 
dialogue. Through dialogue, we can draw closer to the 
day  when  our  prayers  for  freedom  and  peace  are 
answered  and  every  person  on  Earth  enjoys  the  rights 
and dignity granted by an Almighty God.  
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  United  States  of America  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made. 

Mr.  George  W.  Bush,  President  of  the  United 
States of America, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Asif Ali Zardari, President of the 
Islamic Republic of Pakistan  
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Pakistan. 

Mr.  Asif  Ali  Zardari,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Pakistan,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Asif  Ali 
Zardari, President of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.

President  Zardari: We  stand  at  a  critical 
crossroads  as  we  gather  in  this  great  Hall  of  the 
nations. We hope that we have the opportunity to start 
8 

08-60077 


afresh  and  rebuild  a  better  world  for  our  children  to 
prosper. 

Yet,  we  still  confront  a  dangerous  world  of 
confrontation  and  terror,  threatening  to  provoke  the 
clash  of  civilizations  that  this  dialogue  was  instituted 
to prevent. There remain those in this world who thrive 
in  chaos,  drawing  power  by  pitting  thought  against 
thought,  faith  against  faith  and  people  against  people. 
That was surely not the  world that man was  gifted by 
our  God.  For  the  children  of  Ibrahim,  the  world  was 
meant  to  be  a  meeting  ground  of  civilizations,  ideas 
and human dignity. 

As  the  elected  representative  of  180  million 
Pakistanis  suffering  from  that  menace  of  hatred,  I 
reject  those  who  would  divide  us  and  rally  around 
those  who  would  unite  us  as  creations  of  the  one  and 
only God. I take that inspiration from my elder brother, 
a man of wisdom and action, the Custodian of the Two 
Holy  Mosques,  His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  Bin 
Abdulaziz Al  Saud.  I  commend  and  congratulate  him 
on  having  the  courage  and  vision  to  convene  this 
meeting on interfaith dialogue. Many men talk change. 
He brings it about.  

In taking that initiative, His Majesty has, in fact, 
revived the great Islamic tradition of reconciliation and 
inclusion.  I  find  that  this  worthy  act  stems  from  His 
Majesty’s  wisdom,  which  is  leading  his  great  country 
today  on  the  path  of  progress,  while  following  the 
fundamentals of our religion.  

the 
Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  to  build  its  first  modern 
university  for  women,  designed  to  be  the  world’s 
largest  female  centre  of  higher  education.  That  may 
surely  be  considered  a  historic  milestone  for  the 
empowerment  of  women  in  the  Kingdom  and  the 
Muslim  world.  On  the  other,  His  Majesty  is  the  first 
Saudi  leader  to  have  travelled  to  the Vatican,  opening 
dialogue between the two largest religions of our time. 
His  Majesty  effectively 
the  foundations  for 
bringing the followers of different religions and beliefs 
closer to one another at the Madrid Conference. 

As His Majesty’s tireless efforts yield results and 
a galaxy of world leaders gather here today because of 
His  Majesty’s  initiative,  it  is  important  for  me  to 
recognize  and  acknowledge  his  noble  contribution  to 
the  cause  of  human  unity  and  dignity.  I  wish  to  thank 
the Assembly and  His Majesty for  all he has done for 
us.  
the  one  hand,  wisdom  has  guided 
laid 
On 
A/63/PV.48

For  me  and  for  the  nation  of  Pakistan,  our 
participation  today  at  this  event  represents  more  than 
just  an  honour.  For  us,  it  is  a  personal  opportunity  to 
advance the message of a moderate, modern and loving 
Islam,  which  guided  the  work  of  our  beloved  leader, 
Shaheed Mohtarma Benazir Bhutto, who sacrificed her 
life  for  the  cause  of  tolerance  and  dialogue  and  the 
avoidance of a clash of civilizations. That message is a 
central element of the Madrid Declaration, and thus  it 
is especially fitting that we join together with Members 
today to continue the work for which she gave her life.  
Mr. Siles Alvarado (Bolivia), Vice-President, took 

the Chair. 

I  come  here  as  the  representative  of  the  180 
million people of a country that was created with deep 
ties to Islam, but from the very first days, in the vision 
of our founder the Quaid-i-Azam, was dedicated to the 
tolerance of the Holy Koran. Islam is tolerant of other 
religions and cultures and of dissent. Allah tells us over 
and  over  again,  through  the  Holy  Koran,  that  he 
created  people  of  different  views  and  perspectives  to 
see  the  world  in  different  ways  and  that  diversity  is 
good,  natural  and  part  of  God’s  plan.  The  Koran’s 
message  is  open  to  the  full  participation  of  all  people 
in 
it  encourages 
knowledge and scientific experimentation. 

Islam  is  grounded  in  the  past  and  reaches  out  to 
the  future  and  one  of  its  central  guiding  principles  is 
the  reason  we  engage  here  today.  Islam  accepts  as  a 
fundamental  principle  the  fact  that  humans  were 
created within different societies and religions and they 
will  remain  different.  In  the  words  of  the  Holy  Book, 
“If  your  Lord  had  pleased  He  would  certainly  have 
made people a single nation, and they shall continue to 
differ” (The Holy Koran, XI:118). 

Our  world  is  home  to  people  of  many  religions 
and  creeds  and  they  are  all  worthy  of  respect.  All  of 
God’s creations deserve a better life in which the basic 
rights to food, education, shelter and the protection of 
their  families  is  guaranteed. Above  all,  it  is  the  basic 
dignity  as  human  beings  that  must  be  universally 
recognized and respected. 
In his last sermon on the occasion of his last hajj, 

the Holy Prophet of Islam  — may peace be upon him  — 
said:  “You  are  all  children  of  Adam,  and  Adam  was 
created  from  clay.  You  are  all  equal”.  Throughout 
recorded  history,  the  enemies  of  peace  have  often 
invoked  faith  as  an  instrument  of  creating  disunity. 
their  societies  and 
life  of 
the 
08-60077 

9 

A/63/PV.48 

King  Abdullah,  in  his  wisdom,  has  condemned  those 
who  would  use  religion  to  advance  a  rigid  and 
extremist  political  agenda.  He  has  said  that  religion 
must be  a bridge bringing  nations together, not  a wall 
keeping  nations  apart.  It  is  therefore  critical  that  we 
undertake the task of building upon faith as a means of 
finding common ground between different nations and 
civilizations.  

It  was  that  principle  that  prompted  Pakistan  and 
the Philippines to be the original sponsors of resolution 
62/90,  entitled  “Promotion  of 
interreligious  and 
intercultural  dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation 
for  peace”.  So  as  we  gather  here  to  move  forward 
towards those goals, let us not talk of what divides us, 
but rather of what unites us as the creation of the same 
god. 

I  come  from  a  country  where  the  struggle  for 
Islamic  principles  of  gender  equality,  tolerance  and 
reconciliation  has  brought  us  to  the  centre  of  the 
international stage. It is a measure of that struggle that 
the  first  woman  ever  elected  Prime  Minister  of  a 
Muslim country was from Pakistan. It is a measure of 
that  struggle  that  twice  my  late  wife  and  leader 
Shaheed  Mohtarma  Benazir  Bhutto  led  the  country  as 
Prime Minister. Following in her footsteps, we made a 
woman  Speaker  of  the  Parliament,  again  for  the  first 
time  anywhere  in  the  Muslim  world.  And  in  coming 
generations, we hope to have a woman as president and 
head of State.  

In  following  the  true  spirit  of  Islam,  the  great 
leader  of  my  country  Shaheed  Mohtarma  Benazir 
Bhutto  fought  and  laid  down  her  life  advocating 
dialogue  and 
tolerance  and  opposing  extremism. 
Indeed,  the  last  act  of  our  great  leader  was  to  write  a 
book entitled Reconciliation, which that was published 
after her assassination. In it, she rejected the so-called 
clash  of  civilizations as  an attempt to twist the values 
of a great and noble religion. In her last words, she lays 
out a political vision of reconciliation that must guide 
us  in  the  days  and  years  ahead.  Those  views  are  the 
guiding  principles  of  the  newly  elected  democratic 
Government  of  Pakistan.  Her  example  continues  to 
lead us today, not only in Pakistan, but in every corner 
of the world.  

In  her  honour,  let  us  unite  to  create  a  world  of 
tolerance and an end to bigotry. Let us unite to create a 
world  of  understanding  and  respect.  Let  us  unite  to 
to 
injustices  against  Muslims.  Indeed, 
build  a  world  of  peace  and  stability.  Let  us  unite  to 
create the world of reconciliation for which she died.  

To  me,  there  is  nothing  more  un-Islamic  than 
discrimination. There  is  nothing  more  un-Islamic  than 
violence  against  women.  Above  all,  there  is  nothing 
more  un-Islamic  than  terrorism  —  the  killing  of 
innocent  men,  women  and  children  —  a  crime 
expressly prohibited in the text of all holy books. 

Unfortunately,  at  a  time  when  most  Muslims  are 
advocating  interfaith  dialogue,  we  are  also  witnessing 
events that frustrate our call for dialogue. We hear hate 
speeches  across  countries  and  regions  in  which  Islam 
as a religion is attacked. Hate speech against Islam also 
leads 
the 
delusional fear of Islam has been rising. This is exactly 
what the terrorists had hoped to provoke. Those in the 
West  who  accept  that  are  falling  into  the  trap  of  the 
terrorists.  The  delusional  fear  of  our  religion  has 
created a new form of discrimination and is giving rise 
to new tensions. 

Let  us  translate  the  dynamic  messages  of  our 
respective  religions  for  the  good  of  humanity  and  not 
to  create  strife.  Let  us  turn  the  message  of  hope 
embodied in our faiths into living and practical reality. 
To  that  end,  I  propose  consensus  on  an  international 
agenda  wherein  hate  speech  aimed  at  inciting  people 
against  any  religion  is  unacceptable  and  injustice  and 
discrimination  on  the  mere  basis  of  one’s  faith  are 
discouraged; not only in words but through meaningful 
actions.  Bigotry  manifested  in  Islamophobia  and  anti-
Semitism must be combated. Dialogue and not discord 
between  civilizations  and  faiths  must  be  encouraged. 
Nations  with  little  resources  that  are  caught  in  the 
crossfire  of  extremism  should  be  strengthened  and 
aided by the international community. 

Let  us  not  isolate  people;  let  us  engage  people. 
Violence  is  an  act  of  desperation.  Let  us  commit 
ourselves  to  eliminating  the  root  causes  of  extremism 
and terrorism, giving all people in all societies renewed 
faith in their countries, in their laws and in the futures 
of  their  children.  Let  us  hit  the  causes  of  the  terrorist 
menace, not condemn its innocent victims. To us, Islam 
is about social justice and the emancipation of men and 
women.  As  such,  we  reach  out  to  all  of  God’s 
creations.  

Islam  is  about  serving  the  Muslim  masses  by 
ending  poverty  and  backwardness  and  building  peace 
and  tolerance.  As  such,  we  reach  out  to  all  of  God’s 
10 

08-60077 


creations. Islam is opening the doors of knowledge for 
each and every citizen. As such, we reach out to all of 
God’s creations. 

We  must  also  commit  resources  to  dialogue  and 
international  cultural  understanding.  In  Pakistan,  we 
have  already  created the Benazir Democracy Institute. 
We  have  created 
the  Shaheed  Benazir  Bhutto 
Foundation 
to  expressly  promote  and  encourage 
dialogue,  inclusion  and  exchange.  We  should  be 
encouraging  the  successor  generation  —  those  who 
will lead after us — to use education and exchange not 
only  to  adapt  to  modernity,  but  to  use  modernity  and 
technology to change the world. 

the  nation’s  young  people  and 

international  exchanges  of  students,  scholars  and 
intellectuals are part of our dream of reconciliation. On 
occasion of this meeting, we dedicate ourselves to this 
dream. We do so for the children of our children; we do 
so for a better tomorrow; and we do so to leave behind 
a world better than the one we found. This meeting on 
interfaith  dialogue  must  be  the  beginning  of  a  new 
journey  for  our  nations,  in  the  immortal  word  of  my 
beloved wife, a journey of reconciliation. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan  for  the  statement  he 
has just made. 

The President returned to the Chair. 
Educating 
Mr.  Asif  Ali  Zardari,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Pakistan,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 



  Address by Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Turkey 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will now hear as address by the Prime Minister of the 
Republic of Turkey. 

Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, Prime Minister of the 
Republic of Turkey was escorted to the rostrum. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have  great 
pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Recep 
Tayyip  Erdoğan,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Turkey,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
Mr. Erdoğan (Turkey) (spoke in Turkish; English 

text provided by the delegation): I extend my heartfelt 
A/63/PV.48
in 
the 
greetings to all. We are gathered here today to consider 
one of the most sensitive issues facing our world. I am 
greatly  honoured  to  be  able  to  address  the  Assembly 
from this rostrum on the interfaith dialogue initiated by 
my brother, His Majesty the King of Saudi Arabia. It is 
a matter of pride and joy for me to be here today. 

The  participation  of  so  many  heads  of  State  and 
Government in this high-level meeting has justified the 
personal interest that His Majesty the King has taken in 
the  issue  of  interfaith  dialogue.  Naturally,  we  are  all 
aware of the underlying cause that has brought together 
such a distinguished gathering. 

This  cause,  or  phenomenon,  if  you  will,  is  the 
alarming  level  of  polarization,  lack  of  understanding 
and  discrimination  prevalent 
international 
community. The precise nature of the steps to be taken 
in order to ensure respect for diversity, and their level 
of success, will have a profound effect on the character 
of international relations in the decades to come. 

It  is  evident  that  the  behavioural  norms  of  20th 
century are now out of date and that, in these modern 
times, our world faces numerous new risks and threats. 
Terrorism, 
the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction, illicit trafficking and organized crime have 
assumed global dimensions. While enormous advances 
have  been  achieved  in  production  and  prosperity,  we 
cannot  claim  that  this  prosperity  has  been  shared 
equitably or that our world has become a safer place in 
which  to  live.  In  light  of  the  tragic  experiences  we 
have all had to endure, I would maintain that either we 
are all secure, or none of us is secure. 

This  is  especially  true  in  the  case  of  terrorism.  I 
take this opportunity to emphasize the following point 
in particular. We should now put an end to perceptions 
of  “good”  terrorists  and  “bad”  terrorists,  and  avoid 
providing  refuge to terrorists of  “others”. Terrorism is 
crime  against  humanity,  regardless  of  its  source, 
pretext or ambition. We believe that if a person slays a 
man, it will be as if he had slain the whole of mankind, 
and that if a person saves a man from death, it will be 
as if he had saved the whole of mankind. 

The risks and threats I mentioned earlier require, 
international  cooperation  and  solidarity  today  more 
than  ever.  Unfortunately,  we  have  not  achieved  much 
success  in  displaying  common  political  will  against 
these challenges. We have so far failed to overcome the 
polarization,  lack  of  understanding  and  discrimination 
08-60077 

11 
launched 
in 

A/63/PV.48 

prevalent  in  the  international  community.  We  need  to 
achieve greater progress in that direction. 

We  should  all  note  with  satisfaction  the  steady 
increase in the number of individuals who perceive the 
need  for  respect  for  diversity  and  therefore  wish  to 
launch  new  initiatives  or  to  contribute  to  existing 
efforts and endeavours. We thus welcome the initiative 
that my dear friend and brother, His Majesty the King 
of  Saudi  Arabia,  has 
the  field  of 
theological dialogue. I wish to thank him again for his 
efforts. 

Our  theologians  participated  in  the  meeting  of 
Muslim  scholars  held  in  Mecca  in  June  2008  and  the 
subsequent  World  Conference  on  Dialogue  co-hosted 
with Spain in Madrid in July 2008. This initiative will 
no  doubt  make  a  major  contribution  to  the  ongoing 
efforts for dialogue between faiths and cultures. 

I believe that the exchange of views taking place 
as part of this high-level  meeting yesterday and today 
should be considered as an indication of the heightened 
international  community.  Other 
sensitivity  of 
initiatives 
in 
individual 
examples  of  the  growing  acknowledgement  of  this 
message  and  the  greater  acceptance  of  the  fact  that 
polarization and confrontation are detrimental. I note in 
particular 
and 
intercultural  dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation 
for  peace  pursued  by  Pakistan  and  the  Philippines,  as 
well  as  the  forum  organized  by  Kazakhstan  on  the 
theme “Common world: progress through diversity”. 
Owing  to  its  special  geographic  location,  rich 

history and cultural heritage, Turkey feels an additional 
sense  of  responsibility  in  this  process.  The  former 
President  of  Portugal,  Mr.  Jorge  Sampaio,  has  been 
appointed  High  Representative  of 
the  Secretary-
General  for  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  while  the 
Group  of  Friends  set  up  at  the  United  Nations  has 
continued to grow. 
The  Alliance  of  Civilizations  today  includes  

78 countries  and 13 international organizations. These 
achievements are an indication of the growing support 
of  the  international  community  for  the  principles  and 
aims of the Alliance. The Alliance has proved that the 
fundamental  values  that  bring  us  together,  such  as 
democracy, human rights and rule of law, are stronger 
than our cultural differences. 
the 
this  field  also  represent 
the  promotion  of 
interreligious 
for 
respect 
reflect  a  moderate  and 

We  need  the  contribution  of  all  the  existing 
initiatives  in  this  field  in  order  to  limit  the  potential 
danger  posed  by  extremists. We  should  work  together 
to ensure the success of these initiatives. I regard these 
efforts  as  mutually  reinforcing  and  complementary, 
rather than competing, endeavours.  

The Alliance of Civilizations will seek to enhance 
its  contribution  under  the  umbrella  of  the  United 
Nations  and  work  to  ensure  that  official  policies  and 
statements 
responsible 
approach.  

Through their national strategies, members of the 
Group  of  Friends  will  endeavour  to  inform  their  own 
public  opinion  on  the  aims  of  the  Alliance  and  to 
remedy the current shortfalls in dialogue by developing 
projects,  especially  in  the  fields  of  youth,  media, 
education and migration. 

In  this  vein,  one  of  the  most  pressing  issues 
concerns  the  compatibility  of  freedom  of  expression 
and 
religious  beliefs.  Freedom  of 
expression is one of the indispensable elements of our 
civilization  and  the  foundation  upon  which  the  other 
freedoms  rest,  together  with  freedom  of  faith.  What  I 
have  in  mind  here  is  not  the  right  to  criticize  or  to 
question  —  the  right  to  question  is  sacred  in  free 
societies.  However,  we  regret  to  see  that  there  is 
sometimes  a  very  thin  line  between  freedom  of 
expression  and  provocative  attitudes  calling 
for 
discrimination  and  even  glorifying  violence.  Such 
recent developments as the cartoon crisis, for instance, 
are  sometimes  too  provocative  to  be  explained  within 
the context of freedom of expression. 

We  are  under  an  absolute  obligation  to  reflect 
upon  the  impact  of  such  expressions  within  different 
cultures,  religions  and  regions.  Only  then  can  we 
achieve  a  better  understanding  of  one  another.  By 
respecting each other’s sensitivities we therefore avoid 
making  the  mistake  of  branding  as  “the  other”  those 
who are merely different.  

I should also point out that, for global peace, we 
also  need  to  resolve  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict  and  to 
stabilize  Iraq  in  a  sustainable  framework.  We  need  to 
live  together. We  need  to  respect  one  another. That  is 
what I believe. Conflict is easy, whereas reconciliation 
is  difficult.  I  firmly  believe  that,  through  our  genuine 
and determined efforts, we will choose and succeed in 
the difficult option. 
12 

08-60077 
from 
location 



I  wish  to  conclude  my  statement  by  inviting 
participants  here  today  to  the  summit  that  will  be 
organized  in  Istanbul  in  2009.  Participants  may  be 
aware  that  the  second  forum  of  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations will be held on 2 and 3 April 2009 in the 
city  of  Istanbul,  which  embraces  two  continents  and 
three  monotheistic  faiths.  I  will  be  honoured  to  host 
participants in Istanbul and to provide the opportunity 
to  continue  our  deliberations  at  a 
that 
overlooks  the  Bosphorus.  I  would  like  once  more  to 
thank  my  dear  brother,  the  King  of  Saudi Arabia,  for 
initiating  this  gathering.  I  would  also  like  to  wish  the 
Assembly the greatest success and extend it my deepest 
respect and salutations.  
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Turkey for the statement he 
has just made. 

Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, Prime Minister of the 
Republic  of  Turkey,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum. 

The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Francisco  Javier  Rojo,  President  of  the  Senate  of 
the Kingdom of Spain. 
Spanish): 

Mr. President, it is a great honour for me to accept your 
invitation  to  participate  in  this  General  Assembly 
debate  on  the  agenda  item  “Culture  of  peace”,  which 
provides us with an excellent opportunity to exchange 
views regarding the fundamental issues for coexistence 
and understanding among our societies. 

I  would  also  like  to  express  our  profound 
gratitude  to  King  Abdullah  of  Saudi  Arabia,  whose 
impetus  given  to  this  plenary  meeting  has  brought 
together  numerous  heads  of  State  and  Government  as 
well as other eminent personalities. 
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 

delivered  yesterday  by  France  on  behalf  of 
the 
European  Union.  I  would  now  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  share  with  the  Assembly  some  of  the 
recent  experiences  and  views  of  Spain  in  relation  to 
this topic that has brought us together here. 

great 
importance to all the initiatives undertaken to promote 
dialogue and understanding among the world’s peoples, 
cultures and religions. We share the concern about the 
growth  of  intolerance  in  all  its  aspects,  and  in  that 
The  Spanish  Government 
Mr.  Rojo
attaches 
(Spain) 
(spoke 
in 
A/63/PV.48
in 
framework 
regard,  we  support  Saudi  Arabia’s  endeavour  for 
progress  to  be  made  through  dialogue,  in  mutual 
understanding  among  peoples,  contributing  to  the 
elimination  of  extremism  and  radical  and  violent 
attitudes that can emerge within any community. 
The initiative of the Philippines and Pakistan fits 

into 
this 
favour  of  promoting 
intercultural and interreligious dialogue, understanding 
and cooperation for peace. 

Spain was pleased to receive the request by King 
Abdullah of Saudi Arabia for Madrid to host the World 
Conference  on  Dialogue  last  July.  We  were  honoured 
by  this  choice  because,  as  His  Majesty  King  Juan 
Carlos I stated, Spain constructed its democracy based 
on  tolerance,  mutual  respect  and  coexistence.  At  the 
Madrid  Conference,  a  great  number  of  representatives 
belonging  to  different  religions  met,  recalled  the 
objectives of the United Nations, and praised dialogue 
as  an  ideal  means  to  reach  a  better  understanding  in 
human  relationships  as  well  as  peaceful  coexistence 
among  nations.  It  is  our  fervent  hope  that  this  noble 
effort  in  interreligious  dialogue  will  be  fruitful  and 
foster the desired continuity. 

Spain is a non-confessional State in which, on the 
basis  of  freedom  of  all  religions  and  beliefs,  there  is 
separation  of  Church  and  State. This  does  not  prevent 
the development of dialogue and collaboration between 
the Government and the different creeds, because it is 
based  on  mutual  respect.  Furthermore,  and  to  a  great 
extent due to the phenomenon of immigration, Spanish 
society is undergoing a growing diversification, which 
is reflected in a renewed interest by my country in all 
those  initiatives  aimed  at  resolving  the  challenges 
raised by diversity, both inside and outside our borders. 

The  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  created  in  2005 
within  the  United  Nations  following  the  initiative  of 
the  heads  of  Governments  of  Spain  and  Turkey,  has 
been  a  clear  reflection  of  this  concern.  Its  main 
objective 
in  a  practical  manner 
understanding  and  cooperation  among  States  and 
peoples  of  all  cultures  and  religions  within 
the 
framework  of  the  principles  and  values  of  the  Charter 
of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights. 
is  a  political 

The  Alliance  of  Civilizations 
initiative  of  preventive  diplomacy 
that,  as  was 
expressed  yesterday  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his 
statement  before  this  Assembly,  aspires  to  overcome 
to  promote 
is 
08-60077 

13 

to 
relating 
increase 
interference 
in  projects 
religions,  with  no 
that  unfortunately  cause  an 
A/63/PV.48 

conflicts  stemming  from  misperceptions  of  different 
cultures  and 
in 
interreligious dialogue as such, which properly belongs 
to the representatives of the confessions themselves. 

In  a  first  phase,  the  Alliance  has  focused  its 
efforts in exploring the root causes of the polarization 
of  cultures  and  societies  throughout  the  world  and  in 
proposing  practical  recommendations  to  counteract 
forces 
in 
radicalism and extremism, which can lead to violence. 

With the appointment by the Secretary-General of 
Mr.  Jorge  Sampaio  as  High  Representative  for  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations,  a  second  stage  begins,  the 
cornerstone  of  which  is  the  development  of  an  action 
plan  for  2007-2009.  The  plan  includes  a  group  of 
specific  measures 
four 
fundamental  areas:  youth,  media,  education  and 
migration. 
The  first  forum  of  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations 

was held in Madrid on 15 and 16 January 2008, and it 
brought together more than 500 participants, including 
political  leaders  and  representatives  of  Governments 
and international organizations, as well as members of 
various  groups  of  civil  society,  including  religious 
communities and media and business leaders. 
The report submitted to the Secretary-General by 

the  Alliance  of 
the  High  Representative 
Civilizations,  Mr.  Sampaio,  and  distributed  to  the 
General Assembly in document A/63/336, contains the 
results  of  the  first  Madrid  forum  as  well  as  the  main 
activities of the Alliance during its first year of work. 

is  achieving 
significant progress and I am convinced that the second 
forum  to  be  held  in  April  2009  in  Istanbul  will 
constitute  a  fundamental  milestone  in  the  important 
road ahead. Furthermore, the great number of countries 
and  organizations 
that  are  actively  participating 
highlights the fact that States and civil society wish to 
promote  all 
for  dialogue  and 
cooperation  that  foster  understanding  and  tolerance 
among our peoples. 

Consequently,  I  am  confident  that,  in  the  near 
future, the General Assembly will be able to renew its 
support  and  impetus  to  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations 
and  to  its  important  activities.  I  am  convinced  that  it 
will  strengthen  the  values  of  dialogue,  understanding 
The  Alliance  of  Civilizations 
initiatives 
those 
for 
as 
such 
initiatives 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
and cooperation necessary for the progressive building 
of a real culture of peace in the world. 

floor to the chair of the delegation of Brazil.  
Mrs.  Viotti  (Brazil):  I  wish  to  congratulate  the 

Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, His Majesty King 
Abdullah  Bin AbdulAziz Al  Saud,  for  his  initiative  to 
convene this high-level meeting. Building a culture of 
peace  through  dialogue  among  civilizations,  cultures 
and religions is a concrete way of giving effect to the 
principles  and  purposes  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights.  I  also  welcome  the  significant  contributions 
made by a number of Member States to such dialogue 
through 
the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations,  in  which  Brazil  is  particularly  active. 
Those  initiatives  complement  each  other.  The  United 
Nations  is  well  placed  to  help  establish  synergies 
among them.  

As we all know, the relations among cultures and 
religions  have  a  long  history,  a  history  with  bright 
spots  and  somber  moments, 
that  of  human 
existence  itself.  The  task  before  us  today  is  to  help 
build  on  that  history  so  as  to  bring  about  enhanced 
understanding,  mutual 
cooperation. 
Achieving  such  a  goal  has  become  an  imperative  in  a 
world that is not only globalized but also populated by 
increasingly diverse societies.  

In  several  countries,  multiculturalism  is  not  a 
choice  but  a  reflection  of  either  complex  historical 
processes  or  evolving  social  structures.  Long-term 
stability in those countries can only be achieved in an 
environment  of  peaceful  coexistence  of  different 
cultural  backgrounds.  Their  ultimate  success  as 
societies  depends  on  their  ability  to  progressively 
integrate all citizens into a larger whole, richer than the 
sum of its original parts. 

A similar logic should prevail at the international 
level.  The  multiplicity  of  cultures  certainly  poses 
challenges.  However,  once  the  community  of  nations 
values  cultural  diversity  as  a  sign  of  collective 
strength, 
those  challenges  will  be  more  easily 
overcome. This is a task for which the United Nations 
seems particularly well prepared. 

Building  peace  through  religious  tolerance  and 
inter-faith  dialogue  is  also  an  imperative  in  an  age 
marked 
religious 
secularism 
respect 
both 
like 
and 
and 
by 
14 

08-60077 
liberties 
is  not 
role 
to  play 
Balancing  civil 


fundamentalism. The foundations of such dialogue rest 
on  deep-rooted  values  shared  by  all  religions:  the 
pursuit  of  peace  and  virtue,  human  solidarity  and  the 
fundamental  dignity  of  each  and  every  individual. 
Today  all  creeds  are  also  united  in  their  refusal  to  be 
misused  as  political  tools  or  as  an  excuse  to  justify 
violence  and  extremism,  and  in  their  willingness  to 
overcome  past  prejudices  and  deepen  their  mutual 
understanding. 

Mr. Yáñez-Barnuevo (Spain), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 
States  have  a 
that  Governments  can  make 

in  supporting 
interreligious  dialogue  and  cooperation.  By  upholding 
the  freedoms  of  thought,  expression  and  religion, 
Governments  help 
to  create  an  environment  of 
tolerance  and  understanding.  By  attaching  equal 
importance  to  these  fundamental  freedoms  and  by 
acting accordingly, public authorities show that liberty 
and the respect for religion can and must be reconciled. 
the  only 

contribution 
the 
harmonious  coexistence  of  faiths.  They  should  also 
address the underdevelopment and social exclusion that 
often  compound  conflicts  among  faithful  of  different 
religions.  It  is  no  secret  that  extremists  of  all  kinds, 
including  religious  extremists,  thrive  where  material 
destitution  and  hopelessness  fuel 
intolerance  and 
violence. 

Such  beliefs  rest  on  Brazil's  experience  as  a 
nation  and  as  a  society.  Ethnic,  cultural  and  religious 
diversity  lie  at  the  very  heart  of  our  national  identity. 
We  know  by  experience  that  respect  for  diversity 
enriches and strengthens us. We know that the peaceful 
coexistence  of  populations  from  all  continents,  each 
with its cultural and ethnic background, and of people 
of  different  faiths  have  progressively  instilled  in  our 
national 
for 
accommodating  those  different  from  ourselves  and  an 
aversion  to  all  kinds  of  extremism.  Communities  of 
Jewish  and  Arab  descent,  for  example,  have  always 
lived  and  live  today  side  by  side  in  harmony  in  our 
country. This experience reinforces our strong support 
for  the  rights  of  the  Palestinians  to  self-determination 
and 
sovereign  State, 
geographically  coherent  and  economically  viable, 
living  side  by  side  with  Israel,  within  secure  and 
recognized borders. 
independent 
inclination 
character 
a 
strong 
to 
an 
and 
to 
A/63/PV.48
of  mutual 
relationships 

Other important contributions to a solid culture of 
peace  in  Brazil  are  the  historic  progress  in  reducing 
poverty and social inequality and our sustained efforts 
to  improve  basic  and  secondary  education.  We  are 
convinced  that  more  prosperous  and  educated  citizens 
are less prone to intolerance and extremism. President 
Lula instituted 21 January as the National Day Against 
Religious Intolerance as a way to further strengthen the 
and 
existing 
respect 
understanding  among  different  creeds  and 
their 
followers in our country. 

The key concepts of respect for human rights and 
fundamental  freedoms  and  promotion  of  development 
and social inclusiveness form the foundation of a world 
where civilizations, cultures and religions can flourish 
peacefully  side  by  side  and  cooperate  for  the  good  of 
all. Let us all renew our commitment to those powerful 
ideals and translate them into concrete action. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  the  chairman  of  the  delegation  of 
Tunisia. 
Mr.  Mansour  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 

would like to express our delegation’s sense of pride in 
participating  in  this  high-level  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly held under agenda item 45, entitled “Culture 
of  peace”,  which  today  deals  with  the  question  of 
interfaith  dialogue.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  express 
my  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
Nations for his report (A/63/262) on interreligious and 
intercultural  dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation 
for  peace  and  the  important  information  it  contains 
about  various  regional  and  international  activities  and 
initiatives in the areas of dialogue among religions and 
cultures.  
I  must  also  express  profound  appreciation  and 

gratitude  to  the  Custodian  of  the  Two  Holy  Mosques, 
His Majesty King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, for 
his initiative in convening this significant meeting. And 
I am grateful to the President of the General Assembly 
for the attention and significance he has accorded this 
event. 

two  decades  has 
witnessed  a  drastic  and  unprecedentedly  fast-paced 
transformation that has created new balances of power, 
new  concepts  and  new  challenges  that  cannot  be 
ignored.  Observing  the  events  that  have  taken  place 
since the early 1990s, one  is stunned by some strange 
points of view that theorize about conflict, the clash of 
The  world  over 
the  past 
08-60077 

15 

to 
and 
behaviour 
fair  solutions 
find  mutual  and 
A/63/PV.48 

civilizations,  the  end  of  history,  and  selectivity  in 
dealing  with  different  cultures.  All  of 
this  way 
followed  by  events  that  precipitated  many  violent 
reactions  which  escalated  and  provoked  feelings  of 
hatred and bigotry. These sentiments were exploited by 
extremists on both sides and were used to incite strife, 
hatred  and  the  rejection  of  the  other  and  to  advocate 
extremism  and  the  use  of  religion  as  a  pretext  for 
violence and terrorism. All these developments, in our 
view,  amount  to  a  qualitative  setback  on  the  path  of 
human progress. 
In addition, the spread of tension and conflict, the 

inability 
for 
outstanding international issues, including the question 
of Palestine, as well as the profoundly unfair imbalance 
in the economy, the sciences and modern technologies, 
place international relations in a position of uncertainty 
and causes great concern and creates mistrust and lack 
of  confidence.  This  compels  us  to  think  about  new 
ways  for  rapprochement  among  States,  peoples  and 
individuals  and  requires  creating  a  new  code  of 
conduct 
in 
these 
transformations and challenges. 

Tunisia  is  very  attentive  to  the  question  of 
interfaith  dialogue.  This  is  based  on  our  belief  that 
world  peace  can  be  built  only  on  dialogue,  tolerance 
and  understanding  and  that  all  countries,  civilizations 
and religions teach tolerance and are more than capable 
of  contributing  to  the  development  of  mutual  human 
values,  which  can  act  as  a  strong  tool  in  bringing 
together  nations  and  peoples  and  in  helping  them 
overcome their disputes and difficulties. Achieving this 
noble  objective  requires  that  we  remain  open  to  each 
other,  that  we  avoid  prejudging  or  holding  one-
dimensional  views,  eschew  intolerance,  bigotry  and 
attempts  to  distort  and  slander  under  the  pretext  of 
freedom of expression. 

Faced  with  these  new  challenges,  it  is  important 
for  everyone  to  join  together  to  sensitize  international 
public  opinion  and  turn  it  away  from  the  escalating 
waves  of  violence  and  extremism,  thus  encouraging  it 
to  conduct  a  frank  dialogue  —  one  that  rejects  close-
mindedness and the exclusion of others. 

Because  we  believe  that  the  inability  of  the 
individual  to  take  advantage  of  knowledge  provides 
fertile ground for extremism and bigotry, Tunisia began 
a  reform  process  in  the  early  1990s  in  its  school 
curricula  and  has  implemented  a  number  of  measures 
line  with 
and 
the 
its  efforts 
to 
those  of 
in  all 
Alongside 
cooperation 
the  vales  of 
religions  and 
regions  and  continents. 
reform  measures,  under 
the  culture  of  dialogue  as 
in family, societal and media reform to emphasize and 
strengthen 
tolerance,  dialogue  and 
coexistence  to  build  a  firm  foundation  of  thinking 
about behaviour. Among other measures taken, we are 
proud  of  the  constitutional  reform  we  implemented  in 
the  principles  of 
2002,  which  has  strengthened 
tolerance 
in 
our  Republic’s 
Constitution.  

the 
leadership  of  President  Zine  El  Abidine  Ben  Ali, 
Tunisia  has  added 
the 
international  community  to  strengthen  understanding 
to 
among  peoples,  cultures  and 
strengthen 
the  best 
framework to renounce the heritage of misconceptions, 
hatred  and  racism.  We  have  carried  out  a  number  of 
new  initiatives  and  approaches,  including  the  1995 
Carthage  Compact  for  Tolerance,  in  cooperation  with 
UNESCO,  and  the  creation  in  2001  of  the  Ben  Ali 
Chair for Dialogue among Civilizations and Religions — 
an  academically  endowed  post  designed  to  provide 
sufficient  intellectual  ground  to  support  peace  and 
development 
In 
the  Republic’s 
December  1972  we  also  created 
International  Prize  for  Islamic  Studies  to  enrich  new 
interpretive thinking in our religion. Another initiative, 
created in May 2005, was the Tunisia forum for peace, 
in  cooperation  with  the  General  Secretary  of  the 
Organization of the Islamic Conference. In June 2005, 
we  established  a  Centre  for  Study  and  Research  for 
Competitive  Dialogue 
and 
religions,  followed  by  the  Declaration  of  Tunisia  for 
the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  in  February  2006  at  the 
end  of  an  international  seminar  that  was  organized  in 
cooperation  with  the  Islamic  Educational,  Scientific 
and Cultural Organization. 

Tunisia will continue supporting these initiatives, 
based on its deep belief in the need to unite the efforts 
of  all  in  order  to  consolidate  the  culture  of  dialogue, 
openness and tolerance. 

We  note  with  appreciation  a  growing  awareness 
of  the  importance  of  dialogue  locally,  regionally  and 
internationally; but we also see that such dialogue can 
be  fruitful  only  if  all  parties  keep  it  honest,  credible 
and noble. In order for our dialogue to remain balanced 
and fruitful, we must support and activate international 
organizations and exert greater efforts to deal with the 
causes  of  tension  and  strife,  including  the  elimination 
through  a  new 
of  poverty  and  marginalization 
among  Civilizations 
16 

08-60077 
and 
religions 


momentum  for  the  mechanisms  of  cooperation  among 
States,  such  as  the World  Solidarity  Fund,  established 
by  General  Assembly  resolution  57/265  in  2002.  The 
2005 World  Summit  called  for  its  activation  so  that  it 
could  help  in  combating  poverty,  thereby  eliminating 
the  growing  gap  among  nations  and  the  deepening 
sense of frustration and exclusion. 

Today  we  are  in  great  need  of  overcoming  the 
bipolarity  and  duality  of  conflict  between  East  and 
West,  North  and  South.  We  must  get  rid  of  the 
misunderstandings 
that  have  accumulated  among 
nations  and  acknowledge  the  human  dimension  of  all 
cultures, 
civilizations.  We  must 
acknowledge  that  the  security,  stability  and  prosperity 
of  States  is  itself  the  security  and  prosperity  of  the 
entire world. We must deepen the universal aspects of 
our  thinking,  behaviour  and  relations  with  others, 
regardless  of  the  specific  details  of  our  faiths  or 
cultures  so  that  humankind  can  remain  united  in 
dialogue,  cooperation,  understanding  and  solidarity  as 
it confronts the common challenges and risks that face 
us all. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  the  chairman  of  the  delegation  of 
China. 
Mr.  Zhang  Yesui  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

The  Chinese  delegation  supports  the  initiative  of  the 
President of the General Assembly to hold a high-level 
plenary  discussion  under  the  agenda  item  entitled 
“Culture of peace”, in response to the initiative by His 
Majesty  King  Abdullah  of  Saudi  Arabia.  We  are 
convinced  that  this  debate  will  help  further  interfaith 
and intercultural dialogue and cooperation and enhance 
mutual  understanding  and  harmonious  coexistence 
among Member States. 

Religious  and  cultural  diversity  is  an  asset  of 
human  society  and  an  important  driving  force  for 
social  development,  cultural  exchange  and  world 
peace. In today’s world, global problems present more 
pronounced  challenges,  such  as  terrorism,  climate 
change, food and the energy and finance crises, which 
pose grave threats to human development. The fates of 
all  countries  are  more  closely  interlinked  than  ever 
before. 

religious 
At 
discrimination has led to unprecedented collisions and 
shocks 
civilizations.  The 
international  community  is  faced  not  only  with  the 
cultures 
among 
racial 
same 
time, 
the 
and 
and 
A/63/PV.48
religions  and  cultures  are 
shared responsibility to enhance cooperation in coping 
with  challenges,  but  also  with  the  daunting  task  of 
minimizing  differences  and  seeking  common  ground. 
Against  this  backdrop,  it  has  become  all  the  more 
important  to  strengthen  interfaith  and  intercultural 
dialogue  and  cooperation  and  all  the  more  urgent  to 
build a harmonious world. 

China stands for the promotion of equality among 
different  religions  and  cultures  on  the  basis  of  mutual 
respect.  The  various  religions  and  cultures  originated 
and developed at different times in history, but there is, 
however,  no  difference  as  far  as  their  status  is 
concerned.  All 
the 
crystallization of human wisdom and have contributed 
to the progress and development of human society. As 
such,  they  deserve  equal  respect.  Different  religions 
and  cultures  ought,  in  a  spirit  of  openness  and 
sincerity, to learn from each other’s strengths and live 
in peaceful coexistence. 

China advocates respecting differences in order to 
peacefully  address  conflicts,  which  often  originate  in 
alienation, discrimination, fear and even hatred caused 
by  differences.  The  Chinese  Government  has  always 
opposed  extremism  and  all  forms  of  discrimination, 
xenophobia  and  intolerance  based  on  religion,  race  or 
any  other  grounds,  as  well  as  the  attempt  to  link 
terrorism to a specific nation, ethnicity or religion. 

resurgence  of 
extremism,  such  as  Islamophobia  and  new  forms  of 
fascism.  We  believe  that  the  international  community 
should  work  towards  the  long-term  resolution  of 
conflicts 
the 
estrangement,  misunderstanding  and  disputes  among 
religions  and  cultures  through  initiatives  based  on  the 
principles  of  mutual  respect,  mutual  benefit,  equality 
and cooperation and the seeking of win-win outcomes 
and joint development. 

China believes that education is a useful means to 
help  young  people  adopt  a  correct  perception  of 
civilization and the world. Young people are the future 
of the humankind. Efforts to create a harmonious world 
must  start  with 
the  young  generation.  National 
Governments  should  take  the  primary  responsibility 
and  introduce  long-term  and  effective  measures  to 
spread  the  philosophy  of  a  culture  of  peace,  such  as 
tolerance,  understanding  and  respect,  while  fostering 
the  ability  of  fend  off  racial  hatred  and  fight 
discrimination. 
We  are  concerned  with 
eliminate 
hotspots, 
regional 
the 
in 
08-60077 

17 

The 
coexist 
Islam, 
and 
like  Buddhism,  Taoism, 
harmoniously 
A/63/PV.48 


China  believes  that  the  media  should  voluntarily 
take upon themselves the social responsibility to be the 
messengers  of  a  culture  of  peace  and  promote 
tolerance,  understanding  and  harmony  in  society.  The 
media,  as  the  carriers  of  information  should  seek  the 
speedy  dissemination  of  information  to  the  public  but 
must  also  pay  attention  to  the  quality  of  information 
disseminated.  They  should 
transmit  healthy  and 
truthful  information  that  upholds  the  moral  standards 
and conceptions of justice in society. Additionally, the 
media  should  refrain  from  disseminating  provocative 
and  insulting  comments  that  trigger  confrontation 
among religions and cultures. 

five-thousand  year  history  of  Chinese 
civilization  shows  that  religion  and  culture  can  be 
positive factors in a society’s harmonious development. 
China is a multi-ethnic and multi-religious country. In 
China, 56 ethnic groups treat each other equally. Main 
and 
religions 
Christianity 
grow 
continuously. 

The  Chinese  culture  advocates  harmony  and 
accord.  From  ancient  sages  such  as  Confucius  and 
Mencius  to  pioneers  of  democracy  in  modern  history, 
ideas  such  as  “harmony”,  “harmonious  but  different” 
and  “working  together  with  one  accord  in  time  of 
difficulties”  have  been  among  the  main  elements  of 
their 
its 
development,  Chinese  civilization  has  been  imbued 
with  the  spirit  of  harmony,  which  has,  as  its  essence, 
mutual  recognition,  mutual  respect,  the  search  for 
commonalities  —  while  putting  aside  differences  — 
and coexistence and common growth. 

The  People’s  Republic  of  China’s  Constitution 
has  established  the  principles  of  the  freedom  of 
religious  belief,  the  equality  of  all  religions  and  the 
separation  of  church  and  State.  China  respects  the 
freedom of religion, pursues the policy of autonomy in 
handling  religious  affairs  and  has  promulgated  the 
“Regulations  on  Religious  Affairs”,  the  purpose  of 
which is to maintain religious and social harmony. 

China’s religious community takes an active part 
in  international  cooperation  and  has  hosted  a  number 
of  international  forums,  such  as  the  World  Buddhist 
Forum  and  the  International  Forum  on  Taoism.  This 
year,  the  China  Buddhist  Association,  the  Taoist 
Association and the Islamic Association took an active 
part in the World Conference on Dialogue co-hosted by 
thinking.  Throughout 
the  history  of 
in 
the 
in  multiple 
the  efforts  of 
the  facilitation  of 
in-depth  way  and 
to 
the  Kings  of  Saudi Arabia  and  Spain. We  support  this 
initiative  and  expect  it  to  continue  to  evolve  in  a 
to  make  greater 
healthy  and 
contributions 
interfaith  and 
intercultural understanding. 

China  advocates  the  building  of  a  harmonious 
society  and  world  and  firmly  supports  and  actively 
participates 
international 
community  to  promote  interfaith  and  intercultural 
dialogue  and  cooperation.  In  2007,  the  Third  Asia-
Europe Meeting (ASEM) Interfaith Dialogue was held 
in  China  and  adopted  the  Nanjing  Statement  on 
Interfaith Dialogue. 
The  Chinese  Government  also  participates  in  a 

constructive  manner 
initiatives  and 
mechanisms  of  the  United  Nations  related  to  dialogue 
among  civilizations,  including  the  Year  of  Dialogue 
Among Civilizations, the Alliance of Civilizations and 
the  Tripartite  Forum  on  Interfaith  Cooperation  for 
Peace. 

The  British  philosopher  Bertrand  Russell  said, 
“Contacts between different civilizations have often in 
the  past  proved  to  be  landmarks  in  human  progress”. 
We  hope  that  the  relevant  initiatives  and  mechanisms 
can create synergy by complementing each other so as 
to  form  a  bridge  of  communication  and  cooperation 
with a view to promoting the common development of 
human  society  and  helping  to  build  a  better,  more 
harmonious world. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  the  chairman  of  the  delegation  of 
Canada. 
the 

Government  of  Canada,  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
President of the General Assembly and the Kingdom of 
Saudi  Arabia  for  their  initiative  in  organizing  this 
plenary  meeting  on  dialogue  between  religions  and 
cultures. 

Since  its  inception,  the  United  Nations  has 
provided a forum to bring the countries and people of 
the  world  together.  It  has  promoted  constructive 
dialogue  across  cultures  and 
faiths,  which  has 
contributed to greater mutual understanding. Initiatives 
such as this discussion demonstrate that the nations of 
the  world  recognize  the  importance  of  their  shared 
responsibility  to  promote  intercultural  dialogue,  an 
objective that Canada is proud to support. 
(Canada):  On  behalf  of 
Mr.  McNee
18 

08-60077 
While 
that  coexist  and  benefit  from 



the  world  offers  many  examples  of 
successful  multi-ethnic,  multi-faith,  and  multicultural 
communities 
their 
interaction,  too  often  such  differences  are  considered 
grounds for competition or triggers for armed conflict. 
We must all work to change such mistaken perceptions. 
Diversity 
is  a  valuable  asset  and  a  source  of 
opportunity, not a threat. 

Throughout Canada’s history, the accommodation 
of  regional,  ethnic,  linguistic  and  religious  diversity 
has  been  critical  to  our  overall  health  as  a  country. 
Many  of  the  values  that  Canadians  hold  dear  — 
freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law — 
have  evolved  through  an  ongoing  dialogue  among  the 
cultures  and  communities  that  make  up  our  diverse 
society. 

Openness  to  diversity  and  intercultural  dialogue 
has  strengthened  Canadian  society  and  enriched  our 
culture.  We  have  long  benefited  from  the  cultural 
influence of British, French and aboriginal populations, 
as well as the skills, languages, cultures, religions and 
other  contributions  of  more  than  200  ethno-cultural 
communities  in  Canada.  This  diversity  is  reflected  in 
and reinforced by the official multiculturalism policy. 
laws, 

institutions  and  policies 
the  equal 
participation of all people in society. At the same time, 
we encourage peoples to retain their cultural, linguistic 
and  religious  heritage.  We  do  so  not  just  through 
federal,  provincial  and  municipal  Governments,  but 
also  through  academia,  the  media,  religious  groups, 
community organizations and civil society.  
(spoke in French) 

the  promotion  of  pluralism  and 
Of  course, 
dialogue among religions and cultures must be pursued 
beyond 
the 
international  community  must  not  limit  its  efforts  to 
mere  dialogue;  it  must  also  take  concrete  steps  to 
promote 
intercultural  understanding  and 
respect  for  people  with  other  cultural  and  religious 
backgrounds.  That  is  why  such  initiatives  as  the 
identified 
Alliance  of  Civilizations,  which  have 
concrete  measures  concerning  young  people, 
the 
media,  education  and  migration,  are  so  important  in 
combating  ignorance,  a  potential  source  of  cross-
cultural  misunderstanding.  It  was 
that 
objective  that  Canada  also  partnered  with  the  Aga 
Khan  Development  Network  to  establish  a  Global 
boundaries.  Moreover, 
that  promote 
to  further 
increased 
national 
Canada 
fosters 
pluralism 
through 
A/63/PV.48
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 
Centre  for  Pluralism.  The  Centre’s  mission  is  to 
promote  pluralism  as  a  fundamental  value  and  a  basis 
for peace, stability and human development.  

In  conclusion,  within  the  framework  of  this 
initiative and other programmes, Canada is committed 
to  working  together  with  the  international  community 
to  enhance  intercultural  dialogue  and  understanding 
throughout the world. 

call on the representative of Cuba. 
Mr.  Domínguez  Martínez  (Cuba)  (spoke  in 

Spanish):  Permit  me  at  the  outset  to  express  my 
appreciation  for  the  holding  of  this  important  meeting 
promoted  by  His  Majesty  the  King  of  Saudi  Arabia, 
which  is  a  new  step  forward  in  the  promotion  of  a 
culture of peace.  

The  principal  goals  set  out  in  the  Charter  of  the 
Organization are “to save succeeding generations from 
the  scourge  of  war”  and  to  create  a  democratic  and 
equitable  international  order  based  on  respect  for  the 
dignity  of  all  human  beings  on  an  equal  basis.  Those 
were  the  founding  objectives  of  the  Organization  to 
which  we  belong.  Its  purposes  are  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security  on  the  basis  of  the 
principles of the sovereign equality of all its Members, 
the  peaceful  settlement  of 
international  disputes, 
threat  or  use  of  force  and 
refraining  from 
non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  States.  We 
were  promised 
that  all  peoples  would  achieve 
economic and social progress. 

We  are  witnessing  an  extremely  grave  global 
financial, energy and food crisis, which, together with 
environmental  degradation  and  the  effects  of  climate 
change,  inter  alia,  reflect  a  sad  economic  and  social 
panorama 
species, 
particularly  in  developing  countries.  The  lives  of 
millions of human beings living on the planet are also 
threatened  by  the  unilateralism  of  the  world’s  only 
super-Power,  which  in  recent  years  has  based  its 
actions  on  the  so-called  doctrine  of  the  clash  of 
civilizations,  demonizing  venerable  cultures  and 
religions. 

The Alliance  of  Civilizations  is  the  only  way  to 
address  unilateralism  and  neo-liberal  globalization, 
which  seek  to  keep  the  countries  of  the  South 
underdeveloped and to homogenize and dominate their 
cultures. Cuba reaffirms the ideals of our national hero, 
the  human 
endangers 
that 
the 
08-60077 

19 
for  offering 
to  host 
thanks 
Likewise,  Cuba 
A/63/PV.48 

José Martí, who, in the nineteenth century, proclaimed 
the need to achieve an equitable world. On the basis of 
that  premise,  we  must  work  together  to  find  joint 
responses to the challenges of the modern world and to 
achieve a culture of peace. 

Cuba reaffirms its support for multilateralism and 
multilaterally agreed solutions, in accordance with the 
Charter of the United Nations and international law, as 
the  only  way  to  address  international  problems.  Only 
thus  will  there  be  peace  and  development  for  all.  We 
reaffirm the Declaration and Programme of Action on a 
Culture  of  Peace  and  the  Global Agenda  for  Dialogue 
among Civilizations and its Programme of Action, and 
we  support  UNESCO’s  programmes  and  practical 
initiatives in that regard. We believe that the activities 
planned to commemorate the International Year for the 
Rapprochement  of  Cultures 
in  2010  will  also 
contribute to the promotion of a culture of peace. 

the  Government  of 
Philippines 
the  Special 
Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM)  Ministerial  Meeting 
on  Interfaith  Dialogue  and  Cooperation  for  Peace  and 
Development, to be held in Manila from 26 to 28 May 
2009.  We  also  highlight 
the  Declaration  and 
Programme of Action adopted within the framework of 
the  NAM  Ministerial  Meeting  on  Human  Rights  and 
Cultural Diversity, held in September 2007 in Iran. 

Every doctrine that is based on racial or cultural 
superiority must be strongly rejected. In recent years, a 
number  of  countries  have  identified  certain  cultures 
and religions with terrorism and violence. Those views 
must  not  be  tolerated.  We  must  reject  any  action 
involving racial harm, discrimination, stereotyping and 
racial  profiling,  or  the  defamation  of  religions  against 
human dignity, equality and justice. 

Cuba  reiterates  that  the  diversity  of  political, 
social, cultural and religious systems must be respected 
in order to contribute to the establishment of a peaceful 
and prosperous world, a just and equitable world order 
and an environment conducive to the sharing of human 
experience.  

We believe that the study of diverse cultures and 
civilizations  in  educational  curriculums,  including  the 
teaching  of  the  languages,  histories  and  sociopolitical 
philosophies  of  various  civilizations,  as  well  as  the 
sharing  of  knowledge  and  information,  contribute  to 
the promotion of a culture of peace. We also highlight 
the  role  of  the  media  in  spreading  human  values  as 

last 
well  as  the  need  to  promote  responsibility  and  ethical 
conduct on the part of the media in order to contribute 
to mutual respect among diverse civilizations. Cuba is 
convinced  that  together  we  can  share  the  belief  that  a 
better world is possible. 

The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 
give the floor to the chairman of the delegation of the 
Republic of the Sudan. 
Mr. Mohamad (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): At the 

outset,  I  would  like  to  express  to  the  Assembly  our 
deep appreciation for the honourable initiative to hold 
this  high-level  meeting  to  encourage  interfaith  and 
intercultural  dialogue.  By  the  same  token,  we  express 
our  appreciation  and  gratitude  to  the  Custodian  of  the 
Two  Holy  Mosques,  King Abdullah  Bin Abdulaziz Al 
Saud,  who  called  for  this  meeting  as  part  of  His 
Majesty’s inspiring initiative to foster dialogue among 
religions and cultures in order to create a world where 
understanding and a climate of coexistence and mutual 
acceptance are the norm. This was demonstrated earlier 
through  his  sponsorship  of  the  Mecca  Conference  and 
the  Madrid  Conference  held 
June.  These 
conferences  made  contributions  that  have  proved  to 
provide  a  great  impetus  towards  improved  interfaith 
and  interreligious  dialogue,  which  in  turn  can  be 
activated through programmes of action and priorities, 
translating  the  recommendations  of  those  conferences 
into living reality. 

This  high-level  meeting  is  the  culmination  of 
numerous  initiatives  calling  for  supportive  dialogue 
among civilizations in lieu of the extremist views that 
favour the clash of civilizations and the end of history. 
The  latter  visions  are  exclusive  and  rigidly  unilateral. 
They belittle the perspectives and choices of others and 
impose narrow models on everyone else.  
Interfaith  and  interreligious  dialogue  is  a  true 

substitute 
for  ethnic,  cultural  and  civilizational 
superiority. It constitutes a positive movement forward 
for  the  sake  of  humanity.  The  United  Nations,  in 
accordance  with  its  Charter,  calls  for  joint  efforts  to 
foster friendly relations, create an ideal human society, 
deepen  dialogue  and  use  such  dialogue  as  a  means  of 
contact  among  peoples  and  as  an  opportunity  to 
exchange experience, benefits and learning.  

At  the  end  of  1994,  the  Director-General  of  the 
United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural 
Organization  (UNESCO)  made  a  declaration  for 
tolerance  and  the  spread  of  the  culture  of  peace. That 
08-60077 
20 

findings  of 
the  numerous 


was  on  the  eve  of  the  United  Nations  Year  for 
Tolerance  (1995),  which  had  been  proclaimed  by  the 
General  Assembly  in  resolution  48/126.  The  United 
Nations continued its efforts along those lines through 
the  year  2001,  which  had  been  declared  the  United 
Nations  Year  of  Dialogue  among  Civilizations 
(resolution 53/22), in keeping with its ongoing belief in 
the  important  role  of  dialogue  in  bringing  together 
different  cultures  and  religions  and  building  on 
common  denominators,  with  a  view  to  achieving 
peaceful  coexistence  and  cooperation  among  nations 
and peoples. 

The United Nations is called upon to redouble its 
efforts  to  strengthen  and  raise  the  level  of  interfaith 
and interreligious dialogue by supporting the outcomes 
and 
initiatives  and 
conferences  in  this  field.  In  this  regard,  we  should 
continue  our  concerted  efforts  to  rein  in  radical 
extreme  practices  and  trends  that  insult  prophets, 
religions  and  religious  symbols. We  should  decisively 
condemn  such  practices  and  trends,  because  they  fan 
the  flames  of  enmity  among  peoples  and  religions, 
deepen  the  divide  and  lead  to  an  angry  climate  that 
undermines efforts aimed at encouraging interfaith and 
intercultural dialogue.  
respect  cultural  and 

civilizational  diversity.  Accordingly,  we 
should 
emphasize  respect  for  the  rights  of  communities  and 
immigrants  to  decent  living  conditions,  particularly 
with  the  emergence  of  radical  trends  in  some Western 
States  calling  for  their  exclusion  and  marginalization, 
thereby  depriving  them  of  their  political,  cultural  and 
socio-economic  rights.  Such  deprivation  is  a  form  of 
racism  and  racial  discrimination  and  an  expression  of 
attitudes of ethnic and cultural superiority. All of these 
phenomena  are  negative,  dangerous,  impede  dialogue 
and should be dealt with decisively; indeed, we should 
condemn them in order to create a climate conducive to 
tolerance and understanding. 
The Sudan will continue to support initiatives for 

dialogue  among  religions  and  cultures,  as  well  as 
initiatives  launched  in  this  area  in  order  to  achieve  a 
world  characterized  by  amity,  peace  and  coexistence. 
This  attitude  forms  part  of  our  country’s  contribution, 
given 
its  rich  cultural  diversity  and  geographic 
location, and constitutes part of our social and cultural 
fabric in which real human action and contact can take 
place. 
the  need 
We  see 
to 
A/63/PV.48
to 
importance 
the  work  of 
Indonesia  attaches  great 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give the floor to the chairman of the delegation of the 
Republic of Indonesia. 
Mr.  Natalegawa  (Indonesia):  My  delegation 

wishes  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the  reports 
before  us  entitled  “Interreligious  and  intercultural 
dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace” 
(A/63/262) and “International Decade for a Culture of 
Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World, 
is  also  deeply 
2001–2010”  (A/63/127).  Indonesia 
appreciative  of 
the  United  Nations 
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization 
(UNESCO) and other institutions of the United Nations 
system, as well as the ongoing efforts of the Tripartite 
Forum  on  Interfaith  Cooperation  for  Peace  and  the 
Alliance of Civilizations to promote a culture of peace. 

the 
initiatives  of  Member  States  to  promote  respect  for 
diversity,  freedom,  justice,  tolerance  and  cooperation, 
as these principles are all important building blocks for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
Indonesia  appreciates  the  importance  of  the  process 
resulting  from  the  World  Conference  on  Dialogue 
which was held last July in Madrid under the patronage 
of  the  Custodian  of  the  Two  Holy  Mosques,  King 
Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, and King Juan Carlos 
I of Spain. 

Efforts to promote a culture of peace represent an 
important part of the interaction among all cultures and 
civilizations.  In  our  view,  interfaith  and  intercultural 
dialogue  and  cooperation  are  particularly  significant 
when  considered  against  the  backdrop  of  our  volatile 
world  today.  As  we  have  seen,  when  ethnic  and 
religious  prejudices  are  compounded  by  economic, 
political  or  other  rivalries,  the  resulting  situation  can 
be explosive. We believe that faith-related conflicts are 
more  likely  to  occur  when  the  extremism  of  a  few 
triumphs  over  the  moderation  of  the  overwhelming 
majority. 

Moderation  is  an  inherent  component  of  the 
Indonesian  way  of  life,  developed  over  the  years  as  a 
response  to  the  pluralism  of  the  peoples  of  our 
archipelago.  We  have  a  culture  that  encourages  broad 
consultation. We  have  had  centuries  of  practice  in  the 
art  of  dialogue  and  fostering  tolerance. This  approach 
is our  way of coping with  the immense  variety of our 
ethnic traditions. 
08-60077 

21 
faiths 
cultures, 
among  peoples, 
A/63/PV.48 


We also see tolerance as an imperative in human 
and social development. In fact, for us, development is 
not  purely  an  economic  process.  It  is  not  enough 
simply to attempt to lift people out of their poverty. We 
must  also  redeem  them  from  narrow-mindedness, 
prejudice and intolerance. That means that there can be 
no  true  development  without  a  broad  educational 
process  that  enables  all  persons  to  see  themselves  not 
only in terms of their own religion, but in terms of the 
faiths of others. And thus we managed to weave, from 
the many strands of our ethnic cultures and traditions, 
the  single  fabric  of  our  nationhood.  That  is  also  how 
we  deal  with  the  fact  that,  since  ancient  times,  many 
religions  have  found  a  home  on  Indonesian  soil.  Our 
attainment  of  unity  in  spite  of  our  diversity  is 
celebrated  in  our  national  motto:  “Bhinneka  tunggal 
ika”. We are diverse and yet we are one. 
Beyond  our  national  boundaries,  we  believe  that 

dialogue 
and 
civilizations  is  essential  to  the  growth  of  a  global 
culture of peace. It is with this philosophy in mind that 
Indonesia  has  launched  and  participates  in  various 
kinds  of  dialogue  among 
faiths,  cultures  and 
civilizations.  In  2004,  we  initiated  the  Asia-Pacific 
Regional  Dialogue  on  Interfaith  Cooperation  and,  in 
2005,  we  organized 
Interfaith 
Dialogue.  Both  dialogues  have  now  become  major 
annual  events.  We  have  also 
launched  bilateral 
interfaith initiatives with countries of different cultures 
such  as Australia,  New  Zealand,  the  Vatican,  Canada, 
the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. 
In  recognition  of  the  role  of  the  mass  media  in 

combating  ignorance  and  prejudice  among  faiths, 
cultures  and  civilizations,  we  have  also  initiated  a 
series of global inter-media dialogues, with Norway as 
our co-sponsor, to sensitize the mass media to become 
an  effective  instrument  for  the  promotion  of  mutual 
understanding  and  appreciation  among  the  world's 
different faiths and cultures. 
Furthermore, in the belief that interfaith dialogue 

is  too  important  to  be  left  to  the  good  work  of 
Governments,  we 
that 
nongovernmental  actors  can  play  in  the  quest  for 
harmony.  In  that  light,  the  Government  of  Indonesia 
has  supported  the  initiatives  of  various  civil  society 
groups,  including  the  International  Conference  of 
Islamic  Scholars,  which  is  sponsored  by  Nandlatul 
Ulama,  the  largest  Muslim  organization  in  Indonesia, 
and  the  World  Peace  Forum,  which  is  hosted  by 
the  Asia-Europe 
encourage 
role 
the 

It 
is 
the 
second 
important 
to  recognize,  however, 
Muhammadiyah, 
largest  Muslim 
organization  in  the  country.  We  are  hopeful  that  all 
those  initiatives  will  not  only  complement  but  also 
strengthen other activities addressing the same subject. 
Indeed, we hope they become an important part of the 
global  web  of  cooperation  aimed  at  promoting  faith-
based peace and harmony.  

that 
conference room dialogue is not the only forum for the 
exchange  of  views  or  for  finding  a  common  platform. 
There are daily practices at the grassroots level that are 
worth  appreciating  and  encouraging.  In  our  respective 
societies, we may witness people of different faiths and 
religions conducting dialogues by helping each other in 
building  their  houses  of  worship  or  common  schools. 
Similarly,  there  is  the  dialogue  of  teaching,  when 
children  at  school  are  exposed  to  other  faiths  and 
cultures.  In  these  activities,  we  identify  a  dialogue  of 
action, a dialogue of life and a dialogue of teaching. 

In  the  globalized  and  interdependent  world  of 
today,  economic,  social  and  cultural  issues  could 
contribute significantly to peace and security. Ensuring 
a fair economy, social justice and harmonious cultural 
relationships  is  a  significant  part  of  that.  Bridges 
among  peoples  and  groups  must  be  encouraged  and 
constructed. 

It  is  in  this  context  that  our  delegation  supports 
the  draft  resolution  introduced  by  Her  Excellency 
Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, President of the Philippines, 
entitled  “Promotion  of  interreligious  and  intercultural 
dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace” 
(A/63/L.24/Rev.1). We look forward to the adoption of 
this draft resolution by consensus. 

Our  delegation  also  supports  the  draft  resolution 
to  be  introduced  by  the  representative  of  Bangladesh, 
entitled  “International  Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace 
and Non-Violence for the Children of the World, 2001-
2010”  (A/63/L.23).  We  also  look  forward  to  its 
adoption by consensus. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  the  chairman  of  the  delegation  of 
Norway. 
Mr. Wetland (Norway): I am heartened to speak 

after my good friend, the Ambassador from Indonesia, 
a  country  with  which  Norway  is  conducting  an  inter-
media  dialogue  and,  in  practical  terms,  is  building 
bridges  between  countries, 
Islam  and 
religions, 
22 

08-60077 


Christianity.  And  we  will  continue  to  do  that  in  both 
our  regions  of  the  world,  reaching  across  the  possible 
gap between us.  

Norway  believes  that  the  United  Nations  is  built 
on  the  principle  that  it  is  dialogue  and  mutual  respect 
that  must  govern  relations  between  the  peoples  of  the 
United Nations. We are here to find shared interests, to 
defend  values,  to  bridge  our  differences  and  to  settle 
them  peacefully.  We  are  also  the  guardians  of  the 
human  rights  and  the  fundamental  freedoms,  State 
rights,  majority  rights  and,  not  least,  minority  rights, 
which  we  have  adopted  in  the  course  of  63  years. We 
are an organization where, as John F. Kennedy said, the 
strong shall be just and the weak secure. 

The  laudable  initiative  of  Saudi  Arabia,  which 
has  given  us  the  opportunity  to  discuss  dialogue 
between  religions  and  culture  for  two  days  in  this 
Assembly,  comes  at  a  timely  moment  in  history. 
Globalization,  migration  and  information  technology 
have  made  it  clear  to  us  that  we  have  become  very 
much closer to people and cultures that were perceived 
as  being  far  away  from  our  daily  lives  only  decades 
ago. We may not yet have fully learnt to rejoice in the 
richness  of  diversity  or  to  learn  with  an  open  mind 
from the best of others. This is also the case in my own 
country, which is relatively new to the broad canvas of 
cultural  and  religious  diversity  and  where  we  are 
learning every day and working politically to integrate 
immigrants and refugees in a manner that is respectful 
of  their  identity  and  experience.  We  aim  to  become  a 
fully inclusive society, where everybody feels welcome 
and  where  everybody  may  live  to  achieve  their  goals 
and aspirations. 

Although  we  believe  that  religious  faith  is  an 
issue that belongs to the individual and that all persons 
have  the  inherent  right  to  change  religious  faith  and 
that  they  should  be  allowed  to  practice  their  religion, 
or not to practice religion, without fear, we also believe 
that religious communities have important roles to play 
in furthering dialogue and respect among religions and 
cultures. When it comes to the practical steps needed to 
improve dialogue, we all need to start at home. 

If future generations are to be more successful in 
living together and mutually respecting each other, we 
must  teach  them  respect  from  childhood.  We  need  to 
look  at  what  we  teach  them  in  primary  school  about 
other  peoples,  cultures  and  religions,  and  we  need  to 
A/63/PV.48
to  celebrate 
the 
As  we  prepare 
look  at  what  we  do  not  teach  them.  School  curricula 
are essential. 

sixtieth 
anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights,  we  must  be  guided  in  our  dialogue  by  the 
fundamental  freedoms  enshrined  in  that  Declaration. 
We hold the firm view that freedom of religion cannot 
be  achieved  without  freedom  of  speech. And  freedom 
of speech is a prerequisite for any valuable dialogue. A 
dialogue is not a dialogue but a shared monologue, if it 
does  not  encourage  the  expression  of  different  views 
without fear. 

In my country, we have established a Council for 
Religion  and  Life  Stance  Communities,  which  meets 
with  the  Government  to  exchange  views.  In  the 
framework  of  the  Council,  participants  inform  each 
other  of  issues  of  mutual  interest,  including  how 
opinions  and  public  expressions  are  perceived  among 
people with different cultural backgrounds or religious 
affiliations. We can have freedom of expression while, 
in  parallel,  exercising  caution  so  that  we  do  not 
inadvertently  or  unnecessarily  denigrate  or  disrespect 
what  others  hold  dear.  This  attitude  is  taught  in  all 
cultures and practiced here in the United Nations every 
day. And it has nothing to do with censorship or legal 
restriction, only with human consideration and respect. 

I conclude today with an example of that wisdom 
that I just mentioned and which I believe is universal. 
My  example  is  taken  from  Hávamál,  the  1,000-year-
old Norse-Icelandic educational poem, which reads: 

“Wise is he not who is never silent, 

Mouthing meaningless words: 

A glib tongue that goes on chattering 

Sings to its own harm.” 

The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 
give  the  floor  to  the  chairman  of  the  delegation  of 
Portugal. 
Mr.  Salgueiro  (Portugal):  Portugal  aligns  itself 

with the statement made yesterday by Mr. Alain Juppé 
on behalf of the European Union. I would like to start 
my  statement  by  thanking  the  Custodian  of  the  Two 
Holy Mosques, His Majesty the King of Saudi Arabia, 
for  his  noble  efforts  to  promote  dialogue  among 
religions and cultures. 

Much  has  already  been  said  about  interreligious 
and intercultural dialogue, but I would like to take this 
opportunity to reaffirm the importance of interreligious 
08-60077 

23 
It 
is 
life 
indeed 
through 
initiatives 
in  education 
A/63/PV.48 

and intercultural dialogue as crucial dimensions of the 
dialogue  among  civilizations  and  of  the  culture  of 
peace. 

Allow me to underline that we value this occasion 
to  learn  more  about  regional  or  national  initiatives  or 
best  practices  to  encourage  dialogue  and  mutual 
understanding.  These 
are  mutually 
reinforcing and interrelated, and my country, Portugal, 
values  all  efforts  to  foster  a  better  understanding 
among  peoples. 
the  absence  of 
understanding  that  promotes  intolerance,  bigotry  and 
extremism.  
At  the  national  level,  we  should  not  undervalue 

the  role  of  education.  Indeed,  Portugal 
is  fully 
convinced  of  the  primary  importance  of  education  in 
promoting  a  culture  of  peace.  It  is  by  investing  our 
efforts in the youngest members of our society, as well 
as 
that  we  can  best 
mainstream  the  values  of  peace,  tolerance  and  the 
protection  and  promotion  of  human  rights  for  present 
and future generations. 

Portugal  is  in  full  agreement  that  the  promotion 
of  dialogue  and  understanding  among  cultures  is 
essential to building a more peaceful world. This goal 
can  be  achieved  if  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms are fully protected and promoted. All human 
rights  are  universal,  indivisible,  interdependent  and 
interrelated,  as  stated  in  the  1993  Vienna  Declaration 
and  Programme  of  Action.  Paragraph  5  of 
that 
Declaration states: 

“While  the  significance  of  national  and 

regional  particularities  and  various  historical, 
cultural and religious backgrounds must be borne 
in  mind,  it  is  the  duty  of  States,  regardless  of 
their political, economic and cultural systems, to 
promote  and  protect  all  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms.” 
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair. 

Portugal  is  part  of  the  group  of  friends  of  the 
Alliance of Civilizations, initiated by the Governments 
of Spain and Turkey and now under the auspices of the 
United  Nations,  as  mentioned  yesterday  by  Secretary-
General,  Ban  Ki-moon.  We  firmly  believe  that  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations  can  play  a  central  role  in 
reinforcing  dialogue  at  the  global  level.  Indeed,  more 
than  ever  before,  intercultural  understanding  is  a 


Sixty  years  ago, 
complex  task  but  also  an  essential  element  of  both 
domestic and international harmony. With its universal 
membership,  in  terms  of  regional,  cultural,  linguistic 
and  religious  communities,  the  Alliance  is  a  valuable 
tool that we must fully explore. 

By  embracing  diversity  as  a  means  of  progress 
and building upon universal human rights, we can work 
towards  an  effective  culture  of  peace  and  provide  a 
better world for coming generations. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  the  chair  of  the  delegation  of  the 
Gambia. 
Mrs. Waffa-Ogoo (Gambia): Please allow me to 

extend  words  of  gratitude  and  commendation  to  King 
Abdullah  Bin Abdulaziz Al  Saud  of  Saudi Arabia,  the 
Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, for his vision and 
foresight in initiating this high-level meeting. Also, the 
United  Nations  sponsorship  and  promotion  of  the 
culture  of  peace  and  the  dialogue  among  civilizations 
has been and remains a major milestone in the history 
of human culture. 

the  community  of  nations 
unanimously  adopted  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights,  which  remains  a  beacon  of  hope  for 
human  dignity  and  equality  and  the  solid  basis  for 
dialogue across cultures and civilizations.  

As defined by the United  Nations, the  culture of 
peace is a set of values, attitudes, modes of behaviour 
and  ways  of  life  that  reject  violence  and  prevent 
conflicts  by 
to  solve 
problems  through  dialogue  and  negotiation  among 
individuals, groups and nations. 

In terms of the preservation of human dignity and 
the maintenance of international peace and security, the 
last  century  was  probably  the  bloodiest,  given  the 
number  and  ferocity  of  conflicts  which  caused  untold 
suffering.  Most  of 
those  conflicts  have  ended. 
However, in certain hotspots, insecurity persists. 

Although  we  all  harboured  high  hopes  and  great 
expectations  of  the  current  millennium,  conflicts, 
whether  political,  religious  or  of  another  nature, 
persist.  Unfortunately,  these  conflicts,  which  are  due 
mainly 
to 
extremism,  are  contrary  to  the  principles  of  the 
Declaration  and  the  Charter  and  the  teachings  of  the 
great religions. 
to  greed  and  avarice  and  sometimes 
their  root  causes 
tackling 
24 

08-60077 
and 
Whereas 
including 
economic 
sustainable 



social 
development,  environmental  sustainability,  poverty 
eradication  and  sustainable  food  security  are  all  vital 
ingredients  for  the  maintenance  of  peace  and  security 
and peaceful coexistence among peoples, the reality is 
other  than  that.  Rapid  population  growth,  rural/urban 
migration  leading  to  massive  urbanization,  the  debt 
burden, climate change, food insecurity and the global 
financial  crisis  have  rendered  the  bulk  of  the  world’s 
population  poorer  and  more  vulnerable.  A 
large 
percentage  of  these,  no  doubt,  are  made  up  of  jobless 
youth  who  are,  for  the  most  part,  restless  for  change. 
We all know that idle hands are the devil’s workshop. 
It  is  a  travesty  that,  in  spite  of  successes  in  all 

areas  of  human  endeavour, 
science, 
technology and medicine, and in spite of the abundance 
of wealth, food and natural resources in some parts of 
our  planet,  more  than  half  of  the  world’s  population 
still  wallows  in  abject  poverty  and  is  plagued  by 
disease, hunger and malnutrition. Let us stand together 
to eradicate these injustices, the root causes of conflict 
and violence. 

Cultivating  a  culture  of  peace  and  dialogue 
among 
civilizations  must  be  underpinned  by 
comprehensive  educational,  social  and  civic  actions. 
World leaders must commit to redirect  resources from 
military  expenditures  to  investing  in  programmes  that 
bring  about  development  and  human  security.  Of 
recent,  developing  countries  watched  in  amazement 
while the developed countries were dishing out trillions 
of  United  States  dollars 
financial 
institutions,  whereas  their  commitments  to  increase 
official  development  assistance  to  the  developing 
countries remain to a large extend unfulfilled. 

More  than  ever  before,  there  is  a  need  to  build 
bridges  of  understanding,  tolerance  and  solidarity 
across  civilizations,  cultures  and  peoples. We  must  be 
resolute  in  the  pursuit  of  interfaith  dialogue  and 
cooperation  by  seeking  to  increase  knowledge  and 
understanding  of  the  world’s  religions.  We  need  to 
remind  ourselves  that  three  of  those  religions,  Islam, 
Judaism  and  Christianity,  whose  adherents  are  often 
referred to as the people of the Book, are all rooted in 
the Abrahamic  faith. As  such,  the  focus  should  be  on 
the values shared, rather than on those things that tend 
to  divide.  Consequently,  the  media  are  encouraged  to 
play  an  enabling  role  through  the  dissemination  of 
helpful 
engender  understanding, 
goodwill and solidarity. 
to  bail  out 
information 
to 
A/63/PV.48
to 
to 
the 
the 
strive 
sustain 

In  the  Gambia,  we  cherish  and  are  proud  of  the 
fact  that,  through  the  legacy  of  our  forefathers,  we 
enjoy  religious  tolerance  and  peaceful  coexistence 
between  the  minority  Christian  and  the  majority 
Muslim  populations.  We  celebrate  each  other’s  feast 
days  and  our  religious leaders  also exchange visits  on 
those  days.  Every  year,  at  the  beginning  of  the  New 
Year,  the  President  of  the  Republic  invites  religious 
leaders from all faiths and creeds to dialogue with him 
at  the  State  House.  Insh’allah,  the  Gambia  will 
continue 
its  harmonious 
relationships between Christians, Muslims and peoples 
of other faiths. 

Lastly,  but  by  no  means  least,  is  the  recognition 
of  the  power  of  education  to  bring  about  a  change  of 
mindset  to  one  that  embraces  peace  and  dialogue, 
through 
implementation  of  values  education 
programmes  in  all  schools  across  the  globe.  Those 
courses  should  focus  on 
issues  of  freedom, 
protection  of  the  common  good,  honesty,  integrity, 
respect,  understanding,  tolerance  and  inclusion.  That 
kind of education allows one to act according to one’s 
own thoughts. 

To conclude, my humble plea is to urge all of the 
nations  of  the  world  to  act  on  the  proposal  of  former 
President Khatami of Iran, namely, to seek to transform 
dialogue  among  civilizations  from  a  doctrine  into  a 
programme  of  action.  But  above  all,  we  should  all 
strive to internalize the profound words from the Bible: 
love your neighbour as yourself. 

The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 
give the floor to the chairman of the delegation of the 
Russian Federation. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  We  are  very  grateful  to  those  who  initiated 
this  meeting,  first  and  foremost,  King  Abdullah  Bin 
Abdulaziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia, for the opportunity 
to  discuss  one  of  the  most  urgent  issues  of  the  world 
today — the role of religion in maintaining global and 
regional stability and in building an equitable and just 
world.  

In  the  era  of  globalization,  cooperation  between 
different  countries  and  peoples  has  become  more 
than  ever  before.  Various 
intense  and  complicated 
non-governmental 
religious 
communities, have become increasingly involved in that 
process.  The  main  religions  have  doctrines  based  on 
values that are common to humankind as a whole and 
structures, 
including 
08-60077 

25 

A/63/PV.48 

have  a  considerable  potential  for  peace;  they  are, 
therefore, becoming more instrumental in preventing a 
clash between civilizations.  

I believe those doctrines also play a decisive role, 
to  a  large  extent,  in  our  ability  to  counter  extremism, 
racism  and  xenophobia  and  resolve  nascent  conflicts, 
as  they  are  based  on  a  common  denominator  of  the 
values  instilled  by  all  of  the  great  religions. Teaching 
mutual  respect  and  tolerance  through  religious  and 
secular  education  programmes  can  contribute  to  such 
actions,  in  partnership  with  other  sectors  of  society 
including the governmental sector.  

On the other hand, it is essential to effectively use 
the  potential  of  the  United  Nations  in  strengthening 
peace  between  religions  as  a  condition  for  achieving 
the  main  goals  of  the  Organization  —  global  security, 
development and the promotion of human rights.  
One of the essential goals is to overcome various 

in  extremism 
forms  of  extremism.  The  growth 
aggravates  current  problems  as  well  as  old  ones 
inherited from the colonial era, including the economic 
divide  between 
the  South,  grave 
violations  of  human rights, including some committed 
in  the  context  of  the  fight  against  terrorism,  certain 
activities  by  multinational  corporations,  as  well  as 
religious  defamation.  The  negative  consequences  of 
globalization  also  place  the  national  and  cultural 
identities of nations and traditional ethical principles in 
jeopardy. 

The  High-Level  Dialogue  on  Interreligious  and 
Intercultural Understanding and Cooperation for Peace, 
which  took  place  at  the  sixty-second  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  showed  how  important  it  is  to 
maintain  cooperation  between  States,  religions  and 
civil  society.  That  positive  experience  should  be 
developed  using  the  United  Nations  platform.  In  that 
connection  we  attach  great  importance  to  an  event 
planned for 2010, namely, the International Year for the 
Rapprochement  of  Cultures,  and  support  involving 
religious leaders in its various events. 

Russia  views  with  great  interest  the  issue  of 
interfaith  and  intercultural  dialogue.  We  are  a  multi-
confessional  country  and  we  have  never  had  religious 
wars.  Russia 
therefore  has  a  unique  experience, 
stretching  back  a  thousand  years,  of  peaceful  and 
fruitful cooperation between different religions. 
the  North  and 
to 
in 
idea  was 
a 
follow-up 
to 
is  a 
long 
the  activities  of 
initiatives,  which 
include 
strengthen 
the  framework  of 
Russia  takes  an  active  part  in  a  number  of 

intercultural 
multilateral  processes 
cooperation, 
the 
including 
Tripartite  Forum  on  Interfaith  Cooperation  for  Peace 
and  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations.  We  also  have 
observer  status  in  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic 
to  make  our  own 
Conference.  We  also  strive 
contribution.  There 
list  of  Russian 
international 
the  World 
Summit of Religious Leaders, the World Public Forum 
Dialogue  of  Civilizations,  the  Strategic  Vision  Group 
meeting  on  Russia  and  the  Islamic  world  and  the 
Interreligious  Council  of 
the  Commonwealth  of 
Independent States. 

The  Russian  religious  community  has  been 
cooperating  with  the  United  Nations  through  useful 
contacts that took place in the course of visits to Russia 
by  the  United  Nations  Secretary-General  and  the 
Director  General  of  the  United  Nations  Educational, 
Scientific and Cultural Organization and by taking part 
in 
the  Committee  of  Religious 
non-governmental organizations at the United Nations. 

In  the  context  of  globalization,  the  role  of  the 
religious factor in global politics makes it necessary to 
suit  approaches  to  current  global  problems  based  on 
the common values of the main religions. The Russian 
Federation  has  suggested  establishing  a  consultative 
council  of  religions  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations.  That  council  could  be  a  forum  for  an 
exchange  of  views  between  the  representatives  of 
different 
to  overcome  modern 
challenges, cope with threats and  achieve the goals  of 
the  Organization.  We  think  that  the  establishment  of 
such  a  council  would  make  it  possible  to  promote 
peaceful  cooperation  between  different  religions  and 
would  contribute 
international 
relations. 

the 
That 
recommendations  of  the  World  Summit  of  Religious 
Leaders,  held  in  Moscow  in  2006.  There  was  a 
consensus  on  the  need  to  have  a  more  systematic 
partnership  of  religious  leaders  and  with  the  United 
Nations. 

Yesterday,  on  12  November,  representatives  of 
the  major  global  religions  again  met  in  Moscow  and, 
following the decisions of the Summit, they prepared a 
package  of  practical  proposals  on  strengthening 
cooperation  between 
the 
religious  organizations, 
to  democratizing 
faiths  on  how 
26 

08-60077 


United  Nations  and  the  United  Nations  Educational, 
Cultural and Scientific Organization. 

Prior to that, between 27 and 29 October, another 
meeting  of  the  group,  Russia  and  the  Islamic  world, 
took  place  in  Saudi  Arabia.  In  the  course  of  this 
meeting,  support  was  expressed  for  the  initiative  of 
establishing a consultative council. 

In  order  to  achieve  a  stable  world,  we  need 
mutual understanding, respect for diversity of cultures, 
traditions  and  the  religious  traditions  of  nations,  as 
well  as  collective,  coordinated  efforts  and  actions 
involving  all  stakeholders  and  participants  of  the 
international  community.  This  type  of  constructive 
approach  is  based  on  the  spirit  of  the  United  Nations. 
The United Nations Charter calls for the demonstration 
of tolerance and living together in harmony. 

The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
give the floor to the chairman of the delegation of the 
Republic of Senegal. 

Mr.  Badji  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  The 
delegation of Senegal would like to thank the President 
for  having  organized  this  meeting  at  the  sixty-third 
session  of  the  General Assembly  on  the  theme  of  the 
culture of peace through the dialogue among religions. 
This is a subject of central importance for the whole of 
humanity,  which,  today,  is  threatened  by  increasingly 
serious and underhanded threats.  

On  behalf  of  the  head  of  State,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Abdoulaye Wade,  the  Government  and  the  people 
of  Senegal,  I  would  like  to  pay  sincere  tribute  to  the 
custodian  of  the  two  Holy  Mosques,  King  Abdullah 
Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia, who, by taking 
the  initiative  to  organize  this  meeting,  has  shown  that 
with  responsible  and  enlightened  leadership,  one  can 
mobilize  people  and  Governments  towards  finding 
responses to our common concerns. 

This tribute is also addressed to His Majesty Juan 
Carlos  I,  King  of  Spain.  In  addition  to  being  a 
co-founder  of 
the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations, together with Turkey, his country hosted 
the World Conference on Dialogue from 16 to 18 July 
2008. One of the recommendations resulting from that 
Conference, quite appropriately, was to hold this high-
level  meeting 
temple  of  cooperation, 
compromise, convergence and consensus. 
The  choice  of  the  Kingdom  of  Spain  to  host  the 

World  Conference  on  Dialogue  was  certainly  not 
initiative  of 
the 
in 
this 
A/63/PV.48
cultures 
for  peoples,  nations, 
coincidental. Given its geographical placement and its 
history, that great country is a land of encounter, a land 
of  intermingling  and  intermarrying,  and  serves  as 
crossroads 
and 
civilizations,  including  the  Greco-Roman,  European, 
African, Arab, Judeo-Christian and Islamic. 

I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
welcome  all  of  the  initiatives  undertaken  at  national 
and  international  levels  aimed  at  establishing  bridges 
between  peoples  and  nations.  I  would  also  like  to 
reaffirm  the  unshakeable  attachment  of  Senegal,  as 
well  as  our  unfailing  commitment,  to  constructively 
contribute to the dialogue of civilizations, cultures and 
religions. 

At a time when controversial declarations, words 
of  violence  and  hate,  as  well  as  deliberately  shocking 
acts,  which  nourish  destructive  passions, 
are 
proliferating  it  is  more  necessary  than  ever  before  to 
move beyond a superficial commitment and establish a 
genuine dialogue among peoples. 
This communion of minds and hearts will not be 

possible,  however, 
if  we  do  not  set  aside  all 
preconceived  ideas  of  superiority  of  one  civilization 
over  another.  Concurrently,  we  also  need  to  overcome 
our  fear  of  the  other  and  accept  to  compare  our 
experiences  and  move  away  from  sectarian  and 
communitarian  approaches  that  isolate  us  in  a  pattern 
of exclusion and discrimination. 

We  must  also  come  to  hold  that  no  civilization 
among  those  that  have  survived  the  upheavals  of 
history  can  boast  that  it  has  not  been  influenced  by 
other peoples or cultures which have breathed their life 
into  it  and  have  created  a  living  dynamism  that  has 
been indispensable to its development. 

Quite  clearly,  civilizations  have  developed  and 
been  enriched  by  dialogue  and  by  exchanges  with 
others,  as  is  taught  by  the  recent  history  of  humanity, 
which  has  seen  the  emergence  of  great  nations  that 
have  been  born  of  the  meeting  between  communities 
and  have  crossed  borders  and  overcome  numerous 
obstacles to pull together the best that they have. 

Therefore,  as  was  passionately  advocated  by  our 
late  President  and  poet  Léopold  Sédar  Senghor of 
Senegal, we must live our particularism to the limit to 
find the dawn of the universal. In other words, it is by 
having  a  strong  sense  of  our  own  values  and  by 
opening ourselves up to others that we will be able to 
08-60077 

27 

A/63/PV.48 

construct the civilization of the universal that will be a 
meeting  place  of  giving  and  receiving.  Once  again,  I 
have  paraphrased  here  the  call  of  Negritude  and  the 
civilization of the universal. 

Today,  there  is  unanimity  on  the  necessity  of  a 
dialogue  among  cultures,  civilizations  and  religions. 
However,  we  recognize  that  the  modalities  of  this 
dialogue must be clearly defined for difficulties remain 
on  reconciling  convictions  and  visions  of  the  world, 
which  are  diverse  and  varied.  At  the  same  time,  the 
boldness  of  the  task  should  not  be  an  insurmountable 
obstacle for us, because our destiny is so noble and our 
will so firm that, by combining our efforts together, we 
will surely succeed. 

In  this  respect,  we  must  admit  that  dialogue 
among  peoples  cannot  be  based  on  the  premise  of  a 
previous  agreement  or  the  acceptance  of  a  single 
benchmark  for  civilization.  On  the  contrary,  its  main 
premise  must  be  mutual  respect  as  the  alternative  to 
confrontation  and  antagonism  and  must  remove  the 
obstacles  born  of  misunderstandings  and  poorly 
founded prejudices. 
In this context, the media also have a crucial role 

to play. It is up to them to pay greater attention to what 
unites  us,  rather  than  to  what  divides  us,  and  avoid 
falling into the trap of facile criticism. The media must 
attempt to reconcile the generally accepted demand of 
freedom of expression with the duty to respect beliefs 
and the religions of others. 

Our  attachment  to  freedom  of  expression  must 
never  be  interpreted  as  accepting  a  presumed  right  to 
defamation  of  religions  and  the  propagation  of  hate 
among communities. Freedom of expression must have 
responsibility as its corollary. 

Dialogue  among  civilizations,  cultures  and 
religions  must  be  supported  by  a  vigorous  affirmation 
of our attachment to humanist values, such as equality, 
fairness  and  justice,  in  order  to  establish  a  climate  of 
trust among peoples on the basis of a knowledge of one 
another and an enriching exchange of experience at all 
levels.  Such  an  endeavour  can  succeed  only  with  the 
active  participation  of  all 
society, 
particularly  young  people,  who  truly  are  the  breeding 
ground for new ideas that will lay the groundwork for a 
new approach to the problems besetting us.  

Educating  young  people  about  tolerance  will 
enable us not only to dispel the darkness of ignorance, 
sectors  of 
in 
its 
for 
the  culture  of  peace 
into 
and 
the  name  of  so-called 
but  also,  and  in  particular,  to  check  the  ambitions  of 
those  who, 
religious 
conviction, scorn the sacredness of human life. That is 
why  my  delegation  is  calling  for  the  integration  of 
curriculums based on the dialogue among civilizations 
and 
the  educational 
programmes  of  all  countries  to  help  young  people 
better  accept  differences  and  respect 
those  with 
convictions other than their own.  

I  wish  to  conclude  by  reaffirming  the  support  of 
Senegal 
President,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Abdoulaye  Wade,  current  Chairman  of 
the 
Organization of the Islamic Conference, for the Madrid 
process and the appeal launched by King Abdullah Bin 
Abdulaziz  Al  Saud  of  Saudi  Arabia 
the 
establishment  of  a  steering  committee  and  a  special 
fund to ensure its autonomy and permanence.  

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
accordance  with  General  Assembly  resolution  3369 
(XXX)  of  10  October  1975,  I  now  call  on  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ekmeleddin  Ihsanoglu,  Secretary-
General of the Organization of the Islamic Conference. 

Mr.  Ihsanoglu  (Organization  of  the  Islamic 
Conference):  It 
to 
participate  in  this  high-level  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly proposed by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. I 
would  like  to  thank  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miguel 
d’Escoto  Brockmann,  President  of 
the  General 
Assembly, for convening this important meeting under 
the agenda item “Culture of peace”. 
I would like at the outset to thank His Majesty the 

Custodian  of  the  Two  Holy  Mosques,  King  Abdullah 
Bin Abdulaziz Al  Saud  of  Saudi Arabia,  for  this  very 
important  initiative  to  discuss  a  matter  of  great 
relevance  that  portends  potential  challenges  to  world 
peace and security if left unaddressed.  

Over  the  past  two  decades,  the  focus  of  world 
politics  has  shifted  from  political  and  ideological 
conflicts  between  the  world’s  super-Powers  to  the 
so-called  clash  of  cultures  and  religions.  It  is  in  this 
atmosphere  of  disquieting  uncertainty 
that  we 
wholeheartedly  welcome  the  timely  and  wise  Saudi 
initiative,  which  we  regard  as  an  affluent  tributary  to 
the  global  efforts  currently  being  made  to  restore 
peace,  harmony  and  congeniality.  By  the  same  token, 
we  endorse  this  initiative  and  its  related  mechanism, 
which,  we  believe,  will  immediately  meet  with  the 
acceptance  of  all  those  who  are  keen  to  champion  the 
is  a  distinct  honour  for  me 
28 

08-60077 
the 
This 
exhorts 
initiative 
theological  unity,  but  rather 


prevalence  of  peaceful  coexistence  and  cordial 
relations  among  the  adherents  of  all  religions  of  the 
world. 
The  primary  objective  of  this  initiative  is  not  to 

preach 
to  exchange 
knowledge  and  raise  awareness  about  the  shared 
attributes of all religions and to correct misconceptions 
in  a  quest  to  bring  about  peace,  security  and  stability 
throughout  the  world.  It  also  calls  for  a  focus  on  the 
commonalities  among  faiths  and  the  promotion  of 
global ethics. Its aim is not to make religions similar or 
identical, but to acknowledge differences as serving the 
needs of peoples of differing beliefs.  

international 
community  to  focus  on  the  common  denominators  of 
religions,  namely,  deep  faith  in  God,  lofty  principles 
and moral and noble values. It seeks to vanquish hatred 
through  love,  bigotry  through  tolerance  and  vice  and 
evil through virtue.  

The  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference 
(OIC),  in  its  quest  to  safeguard  the  spirit  of  dialogue 
among  cultures,  proposed  the  initiative  of  a  dialogue 
among civilizations in 1998 as a response to the theory 
of the clash of civilizations. The idea was endorsed by 
the General Assembly, which set it in motion in 2001, 
resulting  in  a  profound  impact  on  global  peace  and 
security. 

To  date,  the  failure  of  the  dialogue  can  be 
attributed  to  a  lack  of  political  will  on  the  part  of 
stakeholders.  We  have  had  many  meetings  and 
declarations,  without  any  real  implementation  of  our 
decisions.  Likewise,  we  have  not  succeeded 
in 
reaching  out  to  the  grassroots  of  society  in  order  to 
convey  to  them  a  message  of  tolerance,  compassion 
and peaceful coexistence. 

the  clash  of 
civilizations  and  its  self-fulfilling  prophecy  seem  to 
have been legitimized. The powerful tools of the media 
have  been  mobilized  to  create  a  conceptual  link 
between  Islam  and  terror.  Phrases  such  as  “Muslim 
terrorists” 
terror”  have  become 
commonplace.  Such  portrayals,  frequently  propagated 
by  the  media,  and  misperceptions  about  Islam  and 
Muslims have become the most persistent and virulent 
sources of the phenomenon of Islamophobia, resulting 
in prejudicial practices and incitement against Muslims 
without any distinction. As a result, Islam, which is an 
Abrahamic  religion  whose  name  means  “peace”,  is 
The  well-known 
theory  of 
“Muslim 
and 
A/63/PV.48
to 
disseminate 
frequently  associated  with  violence.  That  state  of 
affairs does not bode well for concord and stability in 
international  relations.  It  requires  that  immediate  and 
concrete  measures  be  taken  in  earnest  to  stem  those 
unfounded claims and tendencies. 

At  this  juncture,  I  would  like  to  stress  that 
tolerance  was  and  still  is  the  benchmark  of  Islam. 
Tolerance is born of the very nature of that global faith. 
Islam is not an exclusive or novel religion, but a part of 
the  entire  history  of  humankind.  It  continues  and 
confirms previous scriptures. It has been tested through 
1,400  years  and  has  proved  to  be  a  religion  of  peace, 
pluralism and acknowledgement of the other. 

We  in  the  OIC  believe  that  all  religions  have 
common core values and objectives. Over the past four 
decades,  the  OIC,  with  its  57  member  countries,  has 
worked  to  disseminate  the  imperative  of  the  notion  of 
dialogue  among  various  cultures  and  civilizations.  On 
the basis of that premise, we believe that this initiative 
is  more  important  than  all  previous  initiatives  of  its 
kind.  
The OIC and its specialized agencies are working 

tolerance,  mercy, 
relentlessly 
compassion  and  concord  among  Muslim  populations 
throughout  the  world.  In  so  doing,  we  are  drawing  on 
the  ethical  and  moral  resources  embedded  in  the 
provisions  of  the  OIC  Charter  and  the  OIC  10-year 
Programme of Action, which was endorsed by the third 
extraordinary 
Islamic  Summit 
Conference  held  under  the  initiative  of  His  Majesty 
King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia 
in  2005.  The  Programme  calls  on  member  States  to 
spread  correct  ideas  about  Islam  as  a  religion  of 
moderation and tolerance. It also condemns extremism 
in all its forms and manifestations, while emphasizing 
intercivilizational dialogue and interreligious dialogue. 
It also underlines the common values and denominators 
of religions. 

intergovernmental 
organization  representing  the  Muslim  world,  the  OIC 
firmly  believes  that  the  diversity  of  cultures  and 
religions  is  an  acknowledged  and  essential  part  of  the 
world in which we live. That fact should be considered 
a  valuable  foundation  on  which  to  build  a  more  just 
and harmonious world.  

We believe that it is incumbent upon us of all to 
do  our  utmost  to  educate  ordinary  people  to  conceive 
of  culture  and  civilization  as  a  universal  human 
session  of 
official 
sole 
the 
the 
As 
08-60077 

29 
A/63/PV.48 

heritage  to  which  all  people  have  contributed  and 
which  all  people  should  endeavour  to  share  and 
strengthen. That  concept  is  most  relevant  to  our  time, 
and  its  relevance  is  a  condition  for  a  worthwhile 


interfaith  dialogue  and  interrelationship  leading  to 
greater understanding, concord and harmony among all 
nations and ushering in an era of durable peace. 
The meeting rose at 1.25 p.m.  
30 

08-60077 
