
A/63/PV.34
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

34th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 30 October 2008, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 
of  sickle-cell  anaemia  as  a  public  health  priority” 
becomes item 155 on the agenda of the current session. 

In  paragraph  2  (a)  of  the  report,  the  General 
Committee  recommends  to  the  General Assembly  that 
an additional item entitled “Granting of observer status 
for  the  International  Fund  for  Saving  the Aral  Sea  in 
the  General  Assembly”  be  included  in  the  agenda  of 
the  current  session  under  heading  I,  “Organizational, 
administrative and other matters”. May I take it that the 
General Assembly  decides  to  include  that  item  in  the 
agenda of the current session under heading I? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In  paragraph 

2 (b), the General Committee further recommends that 
the  item  be  allocated  to  the  Sixth  Committee.  May  I 
take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides  to  allocate 
the item to the Sixth Committee? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  should  like 

to inform Members that the item entitled “Granting of 
observer  status  for  the  International  Fund  for  Saving 
the  Aral  Sea  in  the  General  Assembly”  has  become 
item 156 of the agenda of the current session. 

The  Chairman  of  the  Sixth  Committee  will  be 
informed  of  the  decision  just  taken  by  the  General 
Assembly.  

In  paragraph  3  of  the  same  report,  the  General 
Committee  recommends  to  the  General Assembly  that 
item 58 entitled “Report of the Human Rights Council” 





The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m. 


in  accordance  with 
Agenda item 7 (continued) 
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items 

  Second report of the General Committee 
(A/63/250/Add.1) 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In  the  first 
paragraph of its report, the General Committee decided 
to  recommend  to  the  General  Assembly  that  an 
additional  item  entitled  “Recognition  of  sickle-cell 
anaemia as a public health priority” be included in the 
agenda  of  the  current  session  under  heading  B, 
“Promotion  of 
sustained  economic  growth  and 
sustainable  development 
the 
relevant  resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
recent United Nations conferences”. 

May  I  take  it  that  the  General Assembly  decides 
to include that item in the agenda of the current session 
under heading B? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In  paragraph 

1 (b), the General Committee further recommends that 
the  item  be  considered  directly  in  plenary  meeting. 
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides  to 
consider that item directly in plenary meeting? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  should  like 

to inform members that the item entitled “Recognition 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-57795 (E) 
*0857795* 

on 
act 
and 
consider 
A/63/PV.34 

be  considered  in  plenary  meeting  as  well  as  in  the 
Third  Committee,  on  the  understanding  that  the Third 
Committee  would 
all 
recommendations of the Human Rights  Council to the 
General  Assembly,  including  those  that  deal  with  the 
development of international law in the field of human 
rights, without prejudice to the right of Member States 
to present draft resolutions and decisions on all issues 
considered in the report.  

Taking  into  account  this  recommendation,  the 
General  Assembly,  in  plenary  meeting,  will  consider 
the  annual  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  on  its 
activities.  It 
the  current 
arrangement 
in  no  way  a  reinterpretation  of 
resolution  60/251  and  will  be  reviewed  before  the 
beginning  of  the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. 

approves that recommendation? 
It was so decided. 

The President (spoke in Spanish): The Chairman 

of  the  Third  Committee  will  be  informed  of  the 
decision just taken by the General Assembly. 

The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  its 
consideration  of  the  second  report  of  the  General 
Committee. 
May I therefore take it that the General Assembly 
is  also  understood 
is 
that 





Agenda item 66 
Report of the International Court of Justice 

  Report of the International Court of Justice 
(A/63/4) 

  Report of the Secretary-General (A/63/229) 
The President (spoke in Spanish): May I take it 

that  the  General Assembly  takes  note  of  the  report  of 
the International Court of Justice?  
It was so decided. 

The President (spoke in Spanish): In connection 

with this item, the Assembly also has before it a report 
of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  Secretary-General’s 
Trust  Fund  to  Assist  States  in  the  Settlement  of 
Disputes  through  the  International  Court  of  Justice, 
which has been circulated in document A/63/229.  

International Court of Justice. 
I call upon Ms. Rosalyn Higgins, President of the 
today  under 
the  report  (A/63/4)  of 
Ms. Higgins: I am pleased to address the General 

Assembly 
the  presidency  of  His 
Excellency Father Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann, senior 
adviser  on  foreign  affairs  of  Nicaragua.  I  warmly 
congratulate you, President D’Escoto, on your election 
as  President  of  the Assembly  at  its  sixty-third  session 
and wish you every success in that Office. 

This is the third time that I have had the privilege 
of addressing the General Assembly on the occasion of 
its  consideration  of 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice.  The  current  report 
covers  the  period  1  August  2007  to  31  July  2008,  a 
period of intense judicial activity. 

All  192  United  Nations  Members  are,  of  course, 
ipso  facto  parties  to  the  Court’s  Statute.  Of  those,  66 
have accepted the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court 
in  accordance  with  article  36,  paragraph  2,  of  the 
Statute. In addition, some 128 multilateral conventions 
and  166  bilateral  conventions  envisage  that  the  Court 
will be resorted to for the settlement of disputes arising 
from their application or interpretation. 

For  the  past  two  years,  I  have  reported  to  the 
Assembly  on  the  working  methods  that  the  Court  has 
been  applying  to  maximize  its  throughput  —  dealing 
with  always  more  than  one  case  at  a  time,  producing 
judgments  in  a  timely  fashion  while  never  sacrificing 
quality, and clearing the backlog of cases ready for oral 
hearing. By applying those working methods, the Court 
has been able to manage a very full schedule of cases 
as  well  as  to  be  in  a  position  to  respond  swiftly  to 
unanticipated requests for the indication of provisional 
measures. 

Last year I informed the Assembly that the Court 
had had a very productive year. This year I can inform 
the  Assembly 
the  most 
productive year in its history. It has handed down four 
substantive  judgments  and  one  order,  on  a  request  for 
the  indication  of  provisional  measures. Another  order 
for  provisional  measures  was  given  just  two  weeks 
ago,  falling  technically  outside  of  the  period  covered 
by the annual report but, of course, within the calendar 
year.  Furthermore,  in  that  reporting  period,  the  Court 
has held hearings in four cases.  

First, in December, it heard oral argument on the 
merits  in  the  case  concerning  sovereignty  over  Pedra 
Branca/Pulau  Batu  Puteh,  Middle  Rocks  and  South 
Ledge  (Malaysia/Singapore),  delivering  its  Judgment 
in  May.  Secondly,  in  January,  the  Court  completed 
the  Court  has  had 
that 
2 

08-57795 
on 
in 
the 
request 
underlying 


hearings  in  the  case  concerning  Certain  Questions  of 
Mutual  Assistance  in  Criminal  Matters  (Djibouti  v. 
France)  and  issued  its  Judgment  in  June.  Thirdly,  in 
May,  the  Court  heard  oral  argument  on  preliminary 
objections  in  the  case  concerning  Application  of  the 
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the 
Crime of Genocide (Croatia v. Serbia). That Judgment 
is now under preparation.  Fourthly, in June, the Court 
held  hearings  on  a  request  for  the  indication  of 
provisional  measures  submitted  by  Mexico  within  the 
context of a Request for Interpretation of the Judgment 
of  31  March  2004  in  the  Case  concerning  Avena  and 
Other  Mexican  Nationals  (Mexico  v.  United  States  of 
America).  The  Court  issued  its  Order  on  provisional 
measures  one  month  later.  The  Court  is  currently 
deliberating 
for 
interpretation. 
In addition, in September, the Court held hearings 

the  case  concerning  Maritime 
on 
the  merits 
Delimitation  in  the  Black  Sea  (Romania  v.  Ukraine). 
That case is under deliberation as well. In August, we 
received a new case, submitted by Georgia, concerning 
Application  of  the  International  Convention  on  the 
Elimination  of  All  Forms  of  Racial  Discrimination 
(Georgia  v.  Russian  Federation).  Georgia  also 
requested  provisional  measures.  Since  the  Court’s 
Statute  provides  that  such  requests  have  priority  over 
all  other  proceedings,  the  Court  held  hearings  in 
September  and 
its  Order  on  provisional 
issued 
measures two weeks ago. 

The cases we have decided in the past year have 
involved  States  from  every  United  Nations  regional 
group: Asia, Africa,  Western  Europe,  Eastern  Europe, 
North  America  and  Latin  America.  The  Court  thus 
manifestly  remains  the  court  of  the  entire  United 
Nations.  The  universal  character  of  the  Court  is  also 
reflected in the subject matter of the past year’s cases, 
which  has  ranged  from  human  rights  to  territorial 
sovereignty  to  mutual  legal  assistance  to  maritime 
delimitation to interpretation of an earlier Judgment. 

In the past year, five new cases were submitted to 
the  Court:  Maritime  Dispute  (Peru  v.  Chile);  Aerial 
the
Herbicide  Spraying 
Request  for  Interpretation  between  Mexico  and  the 
United States,  the Georgia  v. Russian Federation  case 
and the Assembly’s request for an advisory opinion on 
the  unilateral  declaration  of  independence  by  the 
Provisional Institutions of Self-Government of Kosovo. 
The current number of cases on the docket stands at 14. 
(Ecuador  v.  Colombia); 
A/63/PV.34

Today,  as  is  traditional,  I  will  report  on  the 
judgments  rendered  by  the  International  Court  during 
the  reporting  period.  I  will  also  briefly  address  the 
Order on provisional measures issued two weeks ago. I 
shall deal with the decisions in chronological order. 

In  October  2007,  the  Court  handed  down  its 
Judgment  in  the  case  concerning  Territorial  and 
Maritime Dispute between Nicaragua and Honduras in 
the  Caribbean  Sea  (Nicaragua  v.  Honduras),  the 
hearings  of  which  had  been  held  in  March  2007.  The 
dispute  concerned  the  maritime  boundary  between  the 
two countries, as well as sovereignty over four cays in 
the  Caribbean  Sea.  In  respect  of  sovereignty  over  the 
islands  of  Bobel  Cay,  Savanna  Cay,  Port  Royal  Cay 
and South Cay, located in the area in dispute, the Court 
concluded  that  it  had  not  been  established  that  either 
Honduras  or  Nicaragua  had  title  to  those  islands  by 
virtue  of  uti  possidetis  juris.  Having  then  sought  to 
identify any  post-colonial effectivités, the Court found 
that sovereignty over the islands laid with Honduras, as 
it  had  shown  that  it  had  applied  and  enforced  its 
criminal  and  civil  law,  had  regulated  immigration, 
fisheries  activities  and  building  activity,  and  had 
exercised its authority in respect of public works there. 

As  for  the  delimitation  of  the  maritime  areas 
between  the  two  States,  the  Court  found  that  no 
established  boundary  existed  along 
fifteenth 
parallel  on  the  basis  of  either  uti  possidetis  juris  or  a 
tacit  agreement  between 
therefore 
determined  the  delimitation  itself.  In  view  of  the 
particular  geographical  circumstances  of  the  area,  it 
was  impossible  for  the  Court  to  follow  the  preferred 
practice of establishing an equidistance line. The Court 
thus  drew  a  bisector  —  that  is  to  say,  the  line  formed 
by  bisecting 
linear 
approximations of the coastlines. The bisector method 
provided the delimitation line with greater stability, as 
it  was  less  affected  by  the  changing  nature  of  the 
particular coastline.  
It also greatly reduced the risk of error. The Court 

adjusted  the  course  of  the  line  to  take  account  of  the 
territorial seas around the islands. The Court fixed the 
starting  point  of  the  bisector  at  a  distance  of  three 
nautical  miles  out  to  sea  from  an  agreed  point.  The 
Court  instructed  the  parties  then  to  negotiate  in  good 
faith  with  a  view  to  agreeing  on  the  course  of  a  line 
between  the  present  agreed  endpoint  of  the  land 
boundary  and  the  starting  point  of  the  maritime 
boundary thus determined. In respect of the endpoint of 
the  angle  created  by 
the  parties.  It 
the 
the 
08-57795 

3 

A/63/PV.34 

the  maritime  boundary,  the  Court  stated  that  the  line 
which it had drawn continued until it reached the area 
where  the  rights  of  certain  third  States  might  be 
affected. 

In  December  2007,  the  Court  decided  another 
case  involving  Nicaragua:  Territorial  and  Maritime 
Dispute  (Nicaragua  v.  Colombia).  This  time,  the  case 
was  at  the  stage  of  preliminary  objections.  After 
careful  consideration  of  the  parties’  arguments,  the 
Court  found  that  the  treaty  signed  by  Colombia  and 
Nicaragua in 1928 settled the issue of sovereignty over 
the  islands  of  San  Andrés,  Providencia  and  Santa 
Catalina  within  the  meaning  of  the  Pact  of  Bogota, 
invoked  by  Nicaragua  as  a  basis  of  jurisdiction  in  the 
case.  There  was  no  extant  legal  dispute  between  the 
parties  on  this  question  and  the  Court  could  not 
therefore  have  jurisdiction  on  that  point.  On  the  other 
hand,  as  regards  the  question  of  the  scope  and 
composition of the rest of the San Andrés archipelago, 
the  Court  considered  that  the  1928  treaty  failed  to 
provide  answers  as  to  which  other  maritime  features 
formed part of the archipelago.  

The Court thus held that it had jurisdiction under 
the  Pact  of  Bogota  to  adjudicate  on  the  dispute 
regarding  sovereignty  over 
those  other  maritime 
features.  As  for  its  jurisdiction  with  respect  to  the 
maritime  delimitation  area,  the  Court  concluded  that 
the 1928 treaty and its 1930 protocol had not effected a 
general delimitation of the maritime boundary between 
Colombia  and  Nicaragua  and  that,  as  the  dispute  had 
not  been  settled  within  the  meaning  of  the  Pact  of 
Bogota,  the  Court  had  jurisdiction  to  adjudicate  upon 
it.  The  Court  thus  upheld  Colombia’s  preliminary 
objections  to  its  jurisdiction  only  insofar  as  they 
concerned sovereignty over the islands of San Andrés, 
Providencia and Santa Catalina. The Court has now set 
time limits for the filing of the written pleadings on the 
merits. 
the 

its 
presidency  of 
judgment  in  a  further  case  involving  sovereignty  over 
maritime features, this time involving two States from 
Asia  which  had  come 
the  Court  by  special 
agreement: Sovereignty over Pedra Branca/Pulau Batu 
Puteh,  Middle  Rocks  and  South  Ledge  (Malaysia/ 
Singapore). The Court first indicated that the Sultanate 
of Johor, Malaysia’s predecessor, had had original title 
to Pedra Branca/Pulau Batu Puteh,  a granite island on 
which  Horsburgh  lighthouse  stands.  It  concluded, 
the  Court,  sitting  under 
the  Vice-President,  delivered 
In  May  2008, 
to 
4 

to 
led 
it 
to  find 
failure 
that,  by 
the  date  when 
however, 
the  dispute 
crystallized,  1980,  title  had  passed  to  Singapore,  as 
attested  to  by  the  conduct  of  the  parties,  in  particular 
certain  acts  performed  by  Singapore  à 
titre  de 
souverain  and  Malaysia’s 
to 
react 
Singapore’s conduct. 

The  Court  consequently  awarded  sovereignty 
over  Pedra  Branca/Pulau  Batu  Puteh  to  Singapore. As 
for  Middle  Rocks,  a  maritime  feature  consisting  of 
several  rocks  that  are  permanently  above  water,  the 
Court observed that the particular circumstances which 
had 
that  sovereignty  over  Pedra 
Branca/Pulau Batu Puteh rested with Singapore clearly 
did not apply to Middle Rocks. It therefore found that 
Malaysia, as successor to the Sultanate of Johor, should 
be considered to have retained original title to Middle 
Rocks.  Finally,  with  respect  to  the  low-tide  elevation 
South  Ledge,  the  Court  noted  that  it  fell  within  the 
apparently  overlapping  territorial  waters  generated  by 
Pedra Branca/Pulau Batu Puteh and by Middle Rocks. 
Recalling that it had not been mandated by the parties 
to  delimit  their  territorial  waters,  the  Court  concluded 
that  sovereignty  over  South  Ledge  belonged  to  the 
State in whose territorial waters it lies. 

After  this  series  of  territorial  and  maritime 
disputes,  the  Court  delivered  a  judgment  in  June  in  a 
completely different type of case: Certain Questions of 
Mutual  Assistance  in  Criminal  Matters  (Djibouti  v. 
France). This was the fist occasion it fell to the Court 
to  pronounce  on  a  dispute  brought  before  it  by  an 
application  based  on  article  38,  paragraph  5,  of  the 
Rules  of  Court  —  forum  prorogatum. This,  of  course, 
is  when  a  State  submits  a  dispute  to  the  Court, 
proposing  to  found  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  upon 
consent  yet  to  be  given  or  manifested  by  the  State 
against  which  the  application  is  made.  So  it  will,  I 
think,  attract  much  attention 
the  world  of 
in 
international law for that reason alone. 

to the Court, specifying that this consent was  

In this case, France did give its consent in a letter 
“valid  only  for  the  purposes  of  the  case,  within 
the  meaning  of  Article  38,  paragraph  5,  i.e.  in 
respect  of  the  dispute  forming  the  subject  of  the 
Application  and  strictly  within  the  limits  of  the 
claims formulated therein” 
by  Djibouti.  The  parties  disagreed  as  to  exactly  what 
France  had  agreed  to.  Reading  Djibouti’s  application 
together with France’s letter, the Court determined the 
08-57795 
In 
that  Convention, 


extent of the mutual consent of the parties and resolved 
that problem. 

The  dispute  before  the  Court  concerned  whether 
France  had  violated  its  obligations  under  the  1986 
in 
European  Convention  on  Mutual  Assistance 
Criminal  Matters. 
judicial 
cooperation is envisaged, including the requesting and 
granting of letters rogatory — usually the passing, for 
judicial  purposes,  of  information  held  by  a  party. The 
Convention also provided exceptions to that envisaged 
cooperation.  A  key  question  was  —  given  that  at  the 
end of the day the French judicial authorities declined 
to  pass  the  requested  case  file  —  whether  that  refusal 
fell within the permitted exceptions.  

Also  at  issue  was  whether  France  had,  in  other 
regards, complied with different provisions of the 1986 
Convention. The  Court  held  that  the  reasons  given  by 
the French investigating judge for refusing the request 
for  mutual  assistance  fell  within  the  scope  of  article 
2(c)  of  the  Convention,  which  entitles  the  requested 
State  to  refuse  to  execute  a  letter  rogatory  if  it 
considers  that  execution  is  likely  to  prejudice  its 
sovereignty, its security, its ordre public or other of its 
essential  interests.  The  Court  did,  however,  conclude 
that,  as  no  reasons  were  given  in  the  letter  whereby 
France  informed  Djibouti  of  its  refusal  to  execute  the 
letter  rogatory,  France  had  failed  to  comply  with  its 
international  obligation  under  article  17  of  the  1986 
Convention to provide reasons. 

In  addition  to  those  substantive  judgments,  the 
Court  has  pronounced  on  two  requests  for  provisional 
measures. In July, the Court ruled on a request for the 
indication  of  provisional  measures  submitted  by 
Mexico against the United States in connection with its 
Request for Interpretation of the Judgment of 31 March 
2004 in the Case concerning Avena and Other Mexican 
Nationals (Mexico v. United States of America).  

In  its  order,  the  Court  stated  that  the  United 
States  was  to  take  “all  measures  necessary”  to  ensure 
that five Mexican nationals “are not executed pending 
judgment  on  the  Request  for  interpretation”  submitted 
by Mexico, “unless and until [they] receive review and 
reconsideration  consistent  with  paragraphs  138  to  141 
of the Court’s [Avena] Judgment”. The Court also held 
that the United States was to inform it of “the measures 
taken in implementation” of the order. The underlying 
request for interpretation is under deliberation and the 
Court will be issuing a decision in the near future. 
A/63/PV.34
to  have 
The  Court  held 
three  days  of  hearings 

A  further  request  for  an  order  on  provisional 
measures  came  to  the  Court  on  14  August  2008  in 
connection with the case concerning Application of the 
International  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All 
Forms  of  Racial  Discrimination  (Georgia  v.  Russian 
Federation).  The  next  day,  acting  in  accordance  with 
the powers conferred by article 74, paragraph 4, of the 
rules of Court, I addressed an urgent communication to 
the parties, calling upon them “to act in such a way as 
will enable any order the Court may take on the request 
for  provisional  measures 
its  appropriate 
effects”.  

in 
September  and  issued  its  Order  two  weeks  ago, 
requiring  both  parties  to,  inter  alia,  do  all  in  their 
power  to  ensure  the  security  of  persons,  the  right  of 
persons to freedom of movement and residence and the 
protection  of  property  of  displaced  persons  and  of 
refugees. The  parties  are  also  called  upon  to  facilitate 
humanitarian assistance. 

In  February  2009,  the  Court’s  composition  will 
change when the new members, elected by the General 
Assembly and Security Council voting simultaneously, 
will take their place on the bench. Until that time, we 
are  working  hard  on  the  preparation  of  our  judgments 
in  the  Croatia  v.  Serbia,  Mexico  v.  United  States  of 
America  and  the  Romania  v.  Ukraine  cases.  I  am  also 
glad to inform the Assembly that the Court has decided 
to  open  hearings  in  early  March  2009  in  the  Dispute 
regarding Navigational and Related Rights (Costa Rica 
v. Nicaragua). Later in the year, we will hold hearings 
in  the  case  concerning  Pulp  Mills  on  the  River 
Uruguay (Argentina v. Uruguay) and we will certainly 
be  giving  appropriate  attention  to  the  Assembly’s 
recent  request  for  an  advisory  opinion  on  whether  the 
unilateral  declaration  of 
the 
Provisional Institutions of Self-Government of Kosovo 
was 
law.  On 
17 October,  we  already  issued  an  Order  relating  to 
procedural steps in that matter. 

It  will  be  recalled  that  last  year  I  informed  the 
Assembly  that,  due  to  a  prodigious  effort,  we  had 
cleared the backlog of cases that had built up over the 
years,  and  I  am  pleased  to  report  that  the  backlog 
remains  clear.  States  thinking  of  coming  to  the  Court 
can  be  confident  that  as  soon  as  they  have  finished 
their written exchanges, we will be able to move to the 
oral phase in a timely manner. 
in  accordance  with 
independence  by 
international 
08-57795 

5 
A/63/PV.34 


Last year, the Court requested the creation of nine 
law clerk posts, a post for a senior legal officer in the 
Department  of  Legal  Matters  and  a  temporary  post  of 
indexer/bibliographer in the Library for the 2008-2009 
biennium. While the latter two posts were granted, for 
which  the  Court  is  grateful  to  the  General  Assembly, 
only  three  of  the  nine  law  clerk  posts  were  approved. 
Yet they remain as necessary as ever in order to enable 
each  judge  to  benefit  from  personalized  legal  support 
for research, fact analysis and management of the case 
file. The situation remains that the International Court 
of  Justice  is  the  only  major  international  court  or 
tribunal which does not have one law clerk assigned to 
each  judge. The  pace  of  work  of  the  Court  which  has 
made  it  possible,  with  difficulty,  to  ensure  that  States 
obtain  justice  without  unreasonable  delay,  cannot  be 
sustained without such assistance. 

In  its  budget  submission  for  the  2010-2011 
biennium, the Court will therefore reiterate its request 
for the creation of the six law clerk posts that have yet 
to  be  granted  to  it.  Further,  the  Court  would  note  that 
the General Assembly has unfortunately not provided it 
with  the  means  to  create  an  effective  documents 
division  by  merging  the  Library  and  the  Archives 
Division,  as  we  had  been  advised  to.  It  will  therefore 
resubmit  the  request  for  a  post  reclassification,  which 
by  itself  would  enable  the  Court  to  implement  the 
merger for the sake of greater productivity. 

The  Court  will  also  be  requesting  certain 
additional  new  posts.  It  will  seek  funds  for  the 
replacement  and  modernization  of  the  conference 
systems  and  the  audio-visual  equipment  in  its  historic 
courtroom,  the  Great  Hall  of  Justice,  which  will  be 
renovated 
the  Carnegie 
Foundation, the owner of the Peace Palace. The amount 
requested  will  also  cover  the  installation  of  the  most 
up-to-date information technology on the judges’ bench 
and  the  tables  occupied  by  the  parties  to  cases.  That 
technology  is  essential  to  enhancing  communication 
among  the  judges  and  the  parties  during  the  oral 
hearings. It will facilitate the immediate sharing of data 
and  documents  and  the  clear  display  of  maps  and 
images  relevant  to  the  case.  The  objective  is  to  make 
the  Great  Hall  of  Justice  a  courtroom  that  serves  the 
professional needs of those who use it, bench and bar. 
No  court  today  can  operate  without  those  electronic 
facilities.  The  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations cannot work as a court with archaic facilities. 
It is all part and parcel of greater efficiency. 
cooperation  with 
in 

the 

Under  article  31  of  the  Statute,  a  party  to  a 
dispute  before  the  Court,  when  no  judge  of  that 
nationality  is  sitting  on  the  bench,  is  entitled  to 
nominate a judge ad hoc to serve in full equality for the 
duration of that case. 

Our heavy docket, combined with the wide array 
of States using the Court, means there has been a very 
substantial take up of that possibility. In relation to the 
current  docket,  the  Court  has  20  judges  ad  hoc.  Over 
the  past  six  years  we  have  had  40  judges  ad  hoc.  Of 
course,  they  perform  admirable  service  while  at  the 
Court.  They  receive  the  comparable  daily  rate  of  a 
regular  judge  for  all  work,  together  with  travel  and 
lodging. Judges ad hoc now represent 2 per cent of the 
Court’s  annual  budget,  and  offices  and  secretarial 
support are also required for them. 
In the Kasikili/Sedudu Island (Botswana/Namibia)

case of 1999, neither party had a national on the bench 
and  they  informed  the  Court  that  they  had  jointly 
agreed not to appoint a judge ad hoc each, both having 
full confidence in the Court as constituted in its regular 
membership.  Given 
increasing  percentage  of 
International  Court  costs  associated  with  judges  ad 
hoc,  the  Court  believes  that  where  two  States  appear 
before it, neither of which has a national on the Bench, 
they  might  want  to  give  very  careful  consideration  to 
what I will term the Botswana/Namibia model. 

I  take  this  opportunity  to  note  with  appreciation 
the  decision  of  the  General  Assembly  to  meet  the 
concerns expressed by the Court during the year under 
review  with  regard  to  resolution  61/262. The  Court  is 
grateful  to  the  Assembly  for  having  resolved  that 
matter  by  its  decision  62/547  of  3  April  2008.  The 
principle of equality among judges, which is enshrined 
in  our  Statute  and  which,  in  turn,  is  annexed  to  the 
United Nations Charter, is central to our function as the 
principal judicial organ of  the United Nations. We are 
pleased to see that it has now been reaffirmed. 

The  Court  finds  it  of  great  importance  that  the 
proposed pension scheme for judges in service and for 
retired judges and their dependents should not lead to a 
decrease  in  real  terms.  If,  without  further  adjustments 
being in place, the pension would be calculated on the 
basis  of  the  annual  net  base  salary,  excluding  post 
adjustment,  a  decrease  in  real  terms  would  ensue.  In 
addition,  the  Court  notes  that,  notwithstanding  its 
repeated requests on this point, no mechanism is yet in 
operation 
for  cost-of-living 
to  adjust  effectively 
6 

08-57795 


increases  and  fluctuations  in  the  value  of  the  United 
States  dollar.  It  therefore  foresees  the  possibility  of  a 
further  significant  decline  in  the  years  ahead  of  the 
purchasing power of retired judges and their surviving 
spouses,  in  particular  those  residing  in  the  euro  zone. 
The  Court  is  counting  on  the  understanding  of  the 
General Assembly as to those points. 

The sheer number and variety of cases  that have 
been  entrusted  to  the  International  Court  during  the 
period under review affirm its role as the Court of the 
United  Nations.  Whether  it  is  a  complex  case  on 
maritime  delimitation  with  thousands  of  pages  of 
pleadings or an urgent request for provisional measures 
concerning  an  ongoing  conflict,  States  are  turning  to 
the  International  Court  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
their disputes. The Court greatly values the trust placed 
in  it  by  the  Members  of  the  United  Nations  and,  as 
always,  stands  ready  to  play  its  role  in  attaining  the 
cardinal  principle  of  the  Charter,  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. 
The  President:  I  thank  Judge  Rosalyn  Higgins, 

President of the International Court  of Justice, for her 
excellent and comprehensive report. I think that we all 
agree  that  the  world  Court  is  one  of  the  organs  of  the 
United Nations about which we have every right to feel 
very proud. I hope that we will find it within our means 
to provide the support that Judge Higgins has requested 
with regard to a few lawyers to assist the judges. They 
are  short-handed  and  the  amount  of  work,  as  the 
Assembly  has  heard,  is  really  immense.  Once  again,  I 
thank Judge Rosalyn Higgins. 

Mr.  Morrill  (Canada):  On  behalf  of  Canada, 
Australia  and  New  Zealand  (CANZ),  I  would  like  to 
thank  the  President  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice, Judge Rosalyn Higgins, for her excellent report 
(A/63/4) on the work of the Court over the past year. 

CANZ continues to strongly support the Court in 
its  role  as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  diversity  of  cases  before  the  Court,  in 
both  subject  matter  and  geographic  circumstances, 
demonstrates  the  universal  character  of  the  Court  as 
well as the unique role it plays in international justice. 
We see that the cases referred to the Court are growing 
in factual and legal complexity and continue to include 
cutting-edge 
the 
significant  workload  of  the  Court  requires  it  also  to 
juggle  urgent  requests  for  indication  of  provisional 
measures while maintaining the forward momentum of 
issues.  CANZ  appreciates 
that 
A/63/PV.34
other cases, including the consideration of preliminary 
matters. 

Mr. Tanin (Afghanistan), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.  

As we review the status of the Court for this year, 
we  see  that  once  again  the  International  Court  has  a 
full  caseload,  with  14  cases  formally  pending.  During 
the  past  judicial  year,  the  Court  handed  down  four 
judgments and one order on a request for the indication 
of  provisional  measures,  and  held  hearings  in  four 
cases. 

CANZ  notes  that  the  Judgment  in  the  case 
concerning  Certain  Questions  of  Mutual Assistance  in 
Criminal Matters (Djibouti v. France) is one of the few 
to  have  been  decided  by  the  Court  on  the  basis  of 
forum  prorogatum,  whereby  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court  is  founded  on  the  conduct  of  the  respondent 
State  in  relation  to  a  unilateral  application  by  another 
State. 

CANZ  appreciates  the  ongoing  efforts  made  by 
the  Court  to  increase  its  efficiency  and  sustain  its 
increased  workload.  CANZ  also  welcomes 
the 
increased public accessibility to the work of the Court 
through its enhanced website, which now includes the 
entire  jurisprudence  of  the  Court  as  well  as  of  its 
predecessor,  the  Permanent  Court  of  International 
Justice.  We  recognize  that,  for  the  Court  to  continue 
the  consideration  of  several  cases  at  the  same  time, 
regular 
and  modernization 
of 
technological systems and equipment is required. 
(spoke in French) 

We  also  know  that  the  Court  has  a  very  full 
agenda  for  the  year  ahead,  as  States  continue  to 
reaffirm  their  confidence  in  the  Court’s  ability  to 
resolve  their  disputes.  In  that  regard,  we  note  that  the 
Court  has  already  received  two  cases  in  the  current 
judicial  year,  including  the  request  by  the  General 
Assembly  for  an  advisory  opinion  on  Kosovo’s 
unilateral declaration. 
(spoke in English) 

the 
International Court of Justice in the peaceful settlement 
of  international  disputes  and  in  strengthening  the 
international legal order as mandated by the Charter of 
the  United  Nations.  Wider  acceptance  of 
its 
compulsory  jurisdiction  enables  the  Court  to  fulfil  its 
CANZ  welcomes 
replacement 
the  vital 
role  of 
08-57795 

7 

A/63/PV.34 

role more effectively. Accordingly, we continue to urge 
Member  States  that  have  not  done  so  to  deposit  with 
the  Secretary-General  of 
the  United  Nations  a 
declaration  of  acceptance  of  the  Court’s  compulsory 
jurisdiction. 

Finally,  CANZ  would  also  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  express  our  deep  appreciation  and 
thanks  to  Judge  Rosalyn  Higgins  for  her  tremendous 
leadership  and  contribution  to  the  development  of 
international  law  through  her  work  as  Judge  and 
President of the International Court of Justice. We wish 
her well in her future endeavours. 

Ms.  Defensor-Santiago  (Philippines):  As  this  is 
the  first  time  that  I  take  the  floor  during  the  current 
session,  allow  me  to  convey  my  warmest  felicitations 
to the President on his well-deserved election. I convey 
the same sentiments to the Vice-Presidents, whose role 
the  President  has  made  visible  through  effective 
teamwork and the sharing of responsibilities. With his 
dedication, commitment and spiritual zeal, and guided 
by the theme he has chosen for the sixty-third session, 
his  stewardship  will  be  crowned  with  achievements 
despite the grave crises the world is facing today. 

On behalf of the delegation of the Republic of the 
Philippines,  I  am  honoured  and  privileged  to  address 
the  General  Assembly  during  its  consideration  of  the 
report  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for  the 
period 1 August 2007 to 31 July 2008. Before turning 
to the report, my delegation wishes to commend Judge 
Rosalyn  Higgins,  President  of  the  International  Court 
of Justice,  for her dedicated stewardship of the Court. 
Her term will end on 5 February 2009 and she will, no 
doubt,  leave  a  legacy  that  will  further  enhance  the 
prestige and integrity of the Court. Her appointment as 
the  first  woman  member  of  the  Court  was  itself  an 
historic and significant event and we urge all Member 
States to ensure that we maintain in the Court a policy 
of gender balance. 

My delegation commends the efforts of the Court 
to 
increase 
regular 
re-examination  and  review  of  its  procedures  and 
working  methods.  These  efforts  have  led  to  the 
successful  conduct  of 
the 
promulgation of an order on a request for the indication 
of provisional measures and have enabled the conduct 
of oral proceedings in the case concerning the maritime 
delimitation in the Black Sea (Romania v. Ukraine) for 
the judicial year 2008-2009. 
four  hearings  and 
its  efficiency, 
including 
the 
is 
in 
to 
in 
lead 
inequality  and 
independence  by 
the  case  concerning 

My  delegation  also  commends  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  for  the  speed  with  which  it  acted  on 
the request submitted by Georgia for the indication of 
provisional  measures 
the 
application  of  the  International  Convention  on  the 
Elimination  of  All  Forms  of  Racial  Discrimination 
(Georgia v. Russian Federation), as well as on the latest 
request  of  the  General  Assembly  for  an  advisory 
opinion  contained  in  resolution  63/3,  dated  8  October 
2008,  on  the  question  of  whether  or  not  the  unilateral 
the  Provisional 
declaration  of 
Institutions  of  Self-Government  of  Kosovo 
in 
accordance with international law. 

My delegation has also taken due note of how the 
General  Assembly  has  contributed  to  sustaining  the 
efforts  of  the  Court  aimed  at  streamlining  its  working 
methods and making them more efficient by providing 
the  much-needed  additional  posts 
the  Court’s 
Registry.  The  General  Assembly’s  response,  in  its 
resolution  61/262,  to  the  Court’s  concerns  regarding 
conditions  of  service  of  members  of  the  Court  that 
could 
inequity,  was  also 
favourable in this regard. The Philippines reiterates its 
call  for  United  Nations  Member  States  to  continue  to 
provide  the  Court  with  the  necessary  means  to  ensure 
its proper, effective and efficient functioning. 

The  variety  of  cases  pending  before  the  Court, 
involving  issues  or  controversies  between  States  in 
Europe,  Latin  America  and  Africa,  truly  reflects  the 
universality  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  The 
Philippines  again  registers  its  approval  of  the  work 
done by the Court aimed at making its decisions more 
widely  accessible  to  the  public  through  the  effective 
use  of  the  worldwide  web.  Making  these  decisions 
more  widely  known  will  help 
the 
foundations of, and enhance respect for, the rule of law 
and promote its effective implementation. 

The  complexities  of  living  in  an  increasingly 
interdependent world indicate quite clearly the need to 
rely  on  the  rule  of  law.  The  cases  that  are  brought 
before  the  International  Court  of  Justice  demonstrate 
the  reality  that,  though  territorial  disputes  are  still  the 
staple of the Court, other complex or emerging issues, 
such  as  allegations  concerning  massive  human  rights 
violations  or 
the  management  of  shared  natural 
resources as a consequence of global interdependence, 
are now also being handled by the Court. 
strengthen 
8 

08-57795 
views 
delegation 
the  qualitative 


The formal regime of jus ad bellum is long past, 

but  the  new  millennium  has  ushered  in  a  reality  of 
armed  conflicts  that  demands  our  serious  attention  to 
ethnic  and  religious  differences.  The  civil  strife  and 
social  cleavages  that  are  involved  in  those  conflicts 
represent  the  new  challenges  to  international  public 
order,  enhancing 
importance  of 
international  humanitarian  law,  which  the  Court  itself 
has referred to as “lex specialis” in parallel application 
with international human rights law. 

The  past  few  years  have  witnessed  a  steady  rise 
in  the  number  of  States,  entities  and  even  individuals 
resorting  to  specialized  tribunals  and  forums  in  an 
attempt  to  cope  with  the  demands  of  increasing 
interdependence.  My 
this 
development  not  as  a  decline  in  confidence  in  the 
authority  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  to 
adjudicate  contentious  legal  issues,  but  as  an  increase 
in the reliance on the rule of law as a bulwark against 
brutal  force  and  war.  Indeed,  this  development  is  a 
visible  demonstration  of  people’s  faith  in  and  respect 
for  the  rule  of  law,  which  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  has  unceasingly  helped  to  propagate.  In  this 
regard,  the  Philippines  is  counting  on  the  Court’s 
norm-elucidation 
the  basic 
framework of case law and norms for the guidance of 
these specialized tribunals: a harmony of jurisprudence 
in general international law. 

The  Philippines  once  again  strongly  affirms  its 
unconditional support for the work of the International 
Court  of  Justice  and  the  invaluable  role  it  plays  in 
promoting  an  international  legal  order  founded  on  the 
primacy of the rule of law and the peaceful settlement 
of  disputes.  As  the  principle  judicial  organ  of  the 
United  Nations  and,  therefore,  as  the  report  under 
consideration  states,  the  only  international  court  of  a 
universal character with general jurisdiction, the Court 
is  the  primary  institution  invested  with  the  duty  and 
responsibility  to  ensure  respect  for  the  rule  of  law  in 
international relations.  

In  short,  the  increased  workload  of  the  Court 
heralds  an  increasing  trust  and  confidence  in  the 
supremacy  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  to 
strengthen the rule of law, its universality and general 
jurisdiction. These  are  salient  features  that  augur  well 
for the future of the Court in particular and for a more 
peaceful and secure world in general. 
to  provide 
function 
A/63/PV.34
Mr.  Voto-Bernales  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  Rosalyn  Higgins,  for  being  with  us 
this  morning  and  for  her  interesting  and  detailed 
presentation on the work carried out by the Court over 
the  past  year.  Once  again,  I  am  happy  to  congratulate 
her  on  her  competence  and  leadership,  which  bolster 
the high prestige enjoyed by the International Court of 
Justice. 

Article  1  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
established  that  States  must  seek  to  bring  about  the 
settlement of international disputes by peaceful means 
and  in  conformity  with  the  principles  of  justice  and 
international  law.  This  means  then  that  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  is  established  as  a  general 
principle  of  international  law,  whereby  States  must 
abstain from the use or threat of force. To bring these 
principles into effect, the International Court of Justice 
was established; its Statute is integral to the Charter of 
the United Nations. The Court is the only international 
body of a universal character with general jurisdiction. 
Its  judgments  put  an  end  to  legal  disputes  brought 
before  it  by  States  and  help  to  build  international 
peace. Furthermore, through its advisory opinions, the 
Court  contributes  to  the  development  of  international 
law  and  to  upholding  of  the  rule  of  law. The  juridical 
quality of its decisions, as well as its independence and 
impartiality,  has  earned  the  Court  a  great  legitimacy. 
The proof is in the fact that, despite the sensitive nature 
of  the  disputes  put  before  it  —  such  as  questions  of 
territorial  limits,  the  exercise  of  jurisdiction  and  the 
system  of  immunities,  among  others  —  States  have 
preferred  to  resort  to  the  Court  for  the  definitive 
resolution of those disputes. 

the 
Peru’s  commitment 
International  Court  of  Justice  is  included  in  the  1948 
American Treaty  on  Pacific  Settlement  —  the  Pact  of 
Bogotá  —  whereby  States  parties  agreed  to  always 
seek  peaceful  means  of  resolving  disputes,  among 
which 
the  Court.  Peru  has  also 
recognized,  in  accordance  with  paragraph  2  of Article 
36  of 
its  contentious 
jurisdiction. 
Consequently,  Peru  believes  it  is  of  the  greatest 

importance  that  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  be 
universally accepted. In this regard, we appeal to States 
that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  accept  the  Court’s 
compulsory jurisdiction in contentious cases. We States 
are  obligated  to  comply  with  the  Court’s  decisions. 
the  Statute  of 
the  work  of 
is  recourse 
the  Court, 
to 
to 
08-57795 

9 

A/63/PV.34 

Peru,  as  a  State  that  respects  the  international  legal 
order, reiterates its commitment to fulfil its obligations 
flowing  from  the  Statute  of  the  Court  and  urges  other 
States to comply with its decisions. 

With  regard  to  the  contentious  cases,  the  Court 
has  had  a  heavy  load  in  the  past  year,  with  the 
presentation of four new cases, in one of which Peru is 
a party. In this session, the General Assembly has also 
submitted a request for an advisory opinion. In addition 
to those new tasks, there are the cases pending, as well 
as 
the  requests  for  provisional  measures  already 
submitted.  

In  affirming  our  full  support  for  the  Court,  we 
should  at  the  same  time  recognize  the  distinguished 
work  of  its  judges.  It  is  not  only  their  high  legal 
abilities  that  stand  out,  but  also  their  managerial 
abilities, as the measures adopted to review procedures 
and working methods have increased their efficiency.  
It  is  also  appropriate  to  highlight  the  outreach 

work that has been done, particularly with regard to the 
website.  It  is  an  invaluable  tool  allowing  access  to 
information about the Court’s work. Peru trusts that the 
archives of audio-visual material of hearings will soon 
be included in the website. 

States  must  ensure  that  the  Court  has  sufficient 
resources to carry out the tasks entrusted to it. It must 
have  the  necessary  legal  support  staff  and  the  means 
enabling  it  to  manage  the  documentation  required  for 
its  daily  work.  That  will  enable  the  Court  to  quickly 
resolve  the  disputes  before  it  and  to  issue  advisory 
opinions for the benefit of the international community. 
In this regard, Peru supports, with complete conviction, 
the  reasonable  requirements  set  out  by  the  Court’s 
President, Judge Rosalyn Higgins.  

Finally,  a  matter  which  must  not  escape  the 
concern  of  States  is  the  high  costs  that  a  State  must 
face in order to gain access to the Court. In some cases, 
those  costs  can  be  an  impediment  to  access.  That  is 
why  the  establishment  of  a  Trust  Fund  has  enabled 
States to rely in part on financial assistance they need 
to carry out such a procedure. Peru therefore wishes to 
express  its  gratitude  to  those  that  have  contributed  to 
the  fund  and  joins  with  the  appeal  of  the  Secretary-
General to all States and bodies to cooperate with it. 
Ms. Kumari Singh Deo (India): At the outset, we 

thank  the  President  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice,  Judge  Rosalyn  Higgins,  for  her  excellent 
concerning 
sovereignty 
over 
introduction  of  the  report  contained  in  document 
A/63/4.  We  welcome  the  opportunity  to  address  the 
General Assembly on the report of the Court. 

We commend President Higgins for her dedicated 
stewardship of the Court and for the Court’s impressive 
achievements  over  the  period  under  review.  That  will 
no doubt further enhance the international community’s 
confidence  in  this  unique  organ  of  international  law, 
which  has  made  a  distinctive  contribution  to  the 
maintenance of international peace and security. 
Over the last 60 years, the Court has dealt with a 

variety  of  legal  issues.  Its  judgments  have  covered 
disputes 
islands, 
navigational  rights  of  States,  nationality,  asylum, 
expropriation,  law  of  the  sea,  land  and  maritime 
boundaries, enunciation of the principle of good faith, 
equity and legitimacy of use of force. 

The issues presently before the Court are equally 
wide  ranging,  and  its  judgments  have  played  an 
important  role  in  the  progressive  development  and 
codification of international law. Despite the caution it 
has  exhibited  and  the  sensitivity  it  has  showed  to  the 
political  realities  and  sentiments  of  States,  the  Court 
has  asserted  its  judicial  functions  and  consistently 
rejected arguments to deny it jurisdiction on the ground 
that  grave  political  considerations  were  involved  in  a 
case in which it otherwise found proper jurisdiction for 
itself. Thereby the Court clearly emphasized the role of 
international  law  in  regulating  inter-State  relations, 
which are necessarily political. 
The advisory function of the Court contributes to 

clarifying law and removing ambiguities, thus assisting 
the  United  Nations  and  its  organs  in  carrying  out  the 
objectives of the Organization. 
In recent years, the docket of the Court has grown 

significantly  and 
to  enjoy  universal 
support  and  respect.  Another  significant  development 
that  needs  to  be  welcomed  is  that,  unlike  in  the  past, 
when the jurisdiction phases of cases occupied most of 
the  Court’s  time,  the  Court  is  now  being  frequently 
called upon to deal directly with a diversity of complex 
substantive issues of international law from all regions 
of the world. 

the  most 
productive  in  the  Court’s  history.  It  has  handed  down 
four substantive judgments and two orders on requests 
for the indication of provisional measures. Further, the 
The  year  under  review  has  been 
it  continues 
10 

08-57795 


Court  has  held  hearings  in  four  cases  and  has  three 
judgments  under  deliberation.  That  has  been  possible 
due  to  the  streamlining  of  the  procedures  and  internal 
working methods, which has led to scheduling of cases 
without  significant  delay. We  appreciate  the  efforts  of 
the Court to eliminate the backlog. 

We also note that the Court’s request for nine law 
clerk posts was not agreed to. We hope that the General 
Assembly will be able to approve that request, as such 
assistance  is  critical,  given  the  increasing  number  of 
fact-intensive cases. Judges of all other tribunals enjoy 
that  facility.  The  Court’s  request  for  individualized 
legal  assistance  for  all  its  members  is  reasonable,  and 
granting  it  would  enable  the  Court  to  carry  out  its 
designated  functions  more  efficiently  as  the  principal 
judicial organ of the United Nations. 

The recent period has witnessed the creation of a 
number of specialized regional and international courts 
and  bodies.  Along  with  that  development  have  come 
concerns  about  the  fragmentation  of  international  law. 
There  is  apprehension  that  similar  legal  issues  or 
disputes  may  well  be  subjected  to  final  and  binding 
interpretations by two different bodies, with potentially 
differing views.  

There  is  also  considerable  apprehension  that  the 
expansion of the field has created problems not only of 
coherence,  but  also  of  priority  between  different 
dispute settlement procedures. The challenge is to find 
a  balance  between,  on  the  one  hand,  the  need  for 
diversity  and  specialized  regimes  and  solutions,  and, 
on  the  other  hand,  the  importance  of  maintaining  an 
overall  framework  or  system  of  international  law  that 
offers a sufficient degree of security and coherence. We 
welcome  the  initiative  taken  by  the  President  of  the 
Court  aimed  at 
the 
international  courts  and  tribunals  and  the  exchange  of 
information  with  a  view  to  improving  the  unity  of 
international  law  and  addressing  the  problems  of 
overlapping  jurisdictions  and  the  fragmentation  of 
international law. 

The Court’s phenomenal docket explosion attests 
to the high standing of the Court not only in the United 
Nations  system,  but  in  the  international  community 
itself.  It  also  represents  an  affirmation  of  faith  in  the 
Court. 

President  Higgins  will  soon  be  completing  her 
term  in  the  Court.  We  thank  her  immensely  for  her 
enormous  and  invaluable  contributions  to  the  work  of 
regular  dialogue  between 
A/63/PV.34
to 
In 
that  connection, 
judgments 
the  construction  of 
the  Court  and  wish  her  the  very  best  in  her  future 
endeavours. 
Ms.  Negm  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 

outset, I should like to express Egypt’s appreciation to 
Judge  Rosalyn  Higgins,  President  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  for  her  valuable  presentation  of  the 
report of the International Court of Justice (A/63/4) on 
its  work  over  the  past  year.  I  should  also  like  to 
reaffirm  Egypt’s  conviction  that  the  Court  plays  a 
central  role  in  ensuring  the  implementation  of  the 
provisions  of  international  law,  in  settling  disputes 
between  countries  and  in  providing  advisory  opinions 
to  countries  and  international  organizations  to  assist 
them in carrying out their functions more effectively. 

Since  its  establishment,  the  Court  has  promoted 
important  principles  and  rules  of  public  international 
law through its advisory opinions on the legality of the 
threat of use or the use of nuclear weapons and on the 
legal  consequences  of 
the 
separation wall in the occupied Palestinian territory, as 
well  as  its  judgments  related  to  land  and  maritime 
boundary  disputes,  opinions  and 
that 
contribute 
the  prevention  of  armed  conflict 
throughout the world. 

the  Egyptian  delegation 
stresses the need to enhance the capacity of countries, 
the  United  Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies  to 
request advisory opinions from the Court in important 
cases, because the Court’s opinions develop and codify 
the  rules  of  international  law  and  consolidate  the 
principles  of  justice  and  equality  at  the  international 
level.  Furthermore,  their  great  moral  and  legal  value 
assists in promoting international peace and security. 

If  the  United  Nations  reform  process  is  to  be 
comprehensive  and  inclusive,  it  should  include  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  which  is  one  of  the 
principal  organs  of  the  Organization.  That  would 
ensure that the Organization is effective and can meet 
the  demands  of  today’s  world,  in  particular  since  the 
principle  of  the  rule  of  law  now  prevails  both  in 
international relations and at the national level. 

the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome 
(resolution  60/1)  mandated  the  Member  States  to 
consider means of strengthening the Court’s work, the 
United  Nations  has  yet  to  discuss  any  initiatives  or 
studies in that regard. Therefore, we should take a clear 
position  and  serious  measures  to  enhance  the  Court’s 
role and to make the best use of its legal capacities. For 
Although 
08-57795 

11 
law 
related 
to 
established 
A/63/PV.34 

its  part,  the  Court  should  present  its  views  on  the 
advancement  of  its  legal  and  judicial  roles.  In  that 
connection, Egypt proposes that the General Assembly 
hold an informal interactive debate, led by its President 
and with the participation of the Court’s President and 
Registrar, to identify the main problems preventing the 
Court from operating as efficiently as possible, as well 
as  proposals  to  overcome  those  problems.  Such  a 
debate  could  take  place  after  the  Court  has  completed 
its  ongoing  review  of  its  proceedings  and  working 
methods, as mentioned in paragraph 18 of the report. 

In  that  context,  the  Egyptian  delegation  stresses 
the  need  to  benefit  from  the  Court’s  experiences  in 
consolidating 
the 
responsibility  of  States  to  protect  their  citizens  and 
respect  international  law,  whether  through  diplomatic 
protection  or  consular  relations,  as  well  as  abuse  by 
States  of  the  principle  of  universality  of  specialized 
jurisdiction,  in  contravention  of  the  principle  of  the 
territoriality  of  national 
laws,  and  differentiation 
between  legitimate  military  struggle  in  pursuit  of  the 
right  of  self-determination,  on  the  one  hand,  and 
terrorism, on the other.  

Furthermore,  it  is  essential  that  the  Court  render 
advisory opinions on controversial issues arising from 
new  ideas  being  discussed  in  the  corridors  of  the 
United  Nations,  whether  they  concern  human  rights, 
control of natural resources or other issues being used 
as  a  pretext  for  interference  in  States’  internal  affairs, 
in  violation  of  the  principles  of  international  law  and 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The  Egyptian 
delegation  expresses  its  appreciation  for  the  Court’s 
pioneering  role  in  consolidating  the  principle  of  the 
rule of law. 

The  Egyptian  delegation  commends  the  steps 
taken  by  the  Court  to  increase  the  efficiency  of  its 
work  so  that  it  can  keep  abreast  of  its  constantly 
increasing  workload.  Egypt  supports 
the  Court’s 
request for the creation of six new law clerk posts from 
the  regular  budget  and  for  the  resources  needed  to 
establish  an  effective  documents  division  by  merging 
the Library and Archives divisions. Egypt also supports 
the  idea  of  providing  the  Office  of  the  Registrar  with 
the necessary resources and of modernizing the Court’s 
technology 
In 
addition, it is important that we effectively address the 
issues  related  to  the  pension  scheme  for  current  and 
retired judges. The Egyptian delegation will work with 
other  countries  in  the  Fifth  Committee  to  meet  those 
to  promote  greater  productivity. 

to 
demands,  in  particular  because  they  have  come  at  a 
time  of  increasing  international  efforts  to  enhance  the 
Organization’s  role  and  capacity  to  carry  out  its 
mandate,  in  accordance  with  international  legitimacy, 
to  maintain  the  public  international  order,  as  agreed 
when the United Nations was established.  

Finally,  the  Egyptian  delegation  expresses  its 
gratitude to all the Court’s judges, its Registrar and its 
employees for their efforts over the past year. We wish 
them every success in fulfilling the Court’s aspired role 
in the future. 
Mr. Amil (Pakistan): First, I would like to thank 

Her Excellency Judge Roslyn Higgins, President of the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  for  the  excellent  report 
that she presented to the Assembly on the work of the 
Court  during  the  past  year  (A/63/4).  The  report 
adequately  covers  matters  related 
the  Court’s 
functioning  as  well  as  substantive  judicial  issues 
related to the Court’s work. 

The  need  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes 
could  never  have  been  felt  more  seriously  than  at  the 
present time. It has been mandated by the development 
and progress of human society, as well as by the havoc 
wrought  upon  human  society  by  the  frequent  use  of 
force  by  State  and  non-State  actors.  It  is  through  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes and conflict prevention 
that we could ensure justice, equality and peace in our 
world. 

the 
principal judicial organ of the United Nations, provides 
Member States and United Nations organs with the best 
platform for that endeavour. It is an international court 
of  a  universal  character,  with 
twofold  general 
jurisdiction.  

In the  first place, it decides upon disputes freely 
submitted  to  it  by  States  in  the  exercise  of  their 
sovereignty. One hundred ninety-two States are parties 
to  the  Statute  of  the  Court,  66  of  which  have  also 
accepted the Court’s compulsory jurisdiction. Pakistan 
is  a  party  to  the  Statute  and  has  accepted  the  Court’s 
compulsory  jurisdiction.  Additionally,  more  than  300 
bilateral and multilateral treaties provide for the Court 
to have jurisdiction in the settlement of disputes arising 
out  of  interpretation  of  those  treaties.  The  Court  also 
enjoys jurisdiction in forum prorogatum situations. 

The Court is playing a valuable role as far as its 
handling  of  cases  related  to  its  primary  jurisdiction  is 
International  Court  of  Justice,  as 
The 
12 

08-57795 


concerned.  We  are  happy  to  note  that  the  number  of 
cases decided by the Court during the past 10 years has 
substantially  increased  compared  with  the  previous 
10-year  period  through  efficient  handling  of  the  cases 
brought before the Court. However, the problem comes 
from the States that are reluctant to accept the Court’s 
jurisdiction  in  the  area  of  dispute  settlement  owing  to 
the  weakness  of  their  cases  or  to  other  political 
considerations. We hope that, with the passage of time, 
even those who are reluctant today will move forward 
and  accept  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  for  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes and conflict prevention. 

The Court’s second type of jurisdiction is that of 
advisory  opinion,  in  accordance  with  article  69  of  its 
Statutes,  which  covers  consultations  by  the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council on legal questions 
arising within the scope of their activities. In the recent 
past, more cases of the use of force under Chapter VII 
of the Charter were noted, as compared to the referral 
of  disputes  to  the  Court  for  peaceful  resolution  under 
paragraph  3, Article  36  of  Chapter  VI  of  the  Charter. 
The United Nations Charter recognizes in Article 1 that 
settlement  of 
international  disputes  “by  peaceful 
means,  and in conformity with the principle of justice 
and  international  law”  is  one  of  the  basic  purposes  of 
the  United  Nations.  Chapter  VI  of  the  Charter  offers 
vast possibilities for the United Nations and its organs 
to  play  an  important  role  in  the  pacific  settlement  of 
disputes. We  strongly  believe  that  better  utilization  of 
the  Court  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and 
conflict prevention will serve as the basis for the long-
term  peaceful  coexistence  of 
international 
community. 

We  are  happy  to  note  that  the  Court  has  handed 
down judgments on three important cases. The Court’s 
the  case  concerning  Territorial  and 
judgment 
Maritime Dispute between Nicaragua and Honduras in 
the Caribbean Sea (Nicaragua v. Honduras) is helpful 
in  understanding  the  Court’s  approach  to  the  difficult 
legal  questions.  The  Court  was 
the 
sovereignty of Nicaragua or Honduras over the islands 
of Bobel Cay, Savanna Cay, Port Royal Cay and South 
Cay.  It  was  important  to  note  that  the  Court  first 
wanted  to  base  its  decision  on  the  principle  of  uti 
possidetis juris. The Court sought to identify any post-
colonial  effectivités  after  it  concluded  that  the  title  of 
the  islands  could  not  be  established  by  virtue  of  uti 
possidetis juris. We are of the view that this approach 
could  help  settle  disputes  related  to  small  islands  and 
to  decide 
the 
in 
A/63/PV.34
treaties.  It  also  highlighted 
that  the  decision  should  not  serve  as  a  general 
precedent for the handling of such cases. 

The  Court  also  handed  down  its  judgment  in  the 
case  concerning  Territorial  and  Maritime  Dispute 
(Nicaragua  v.  Colombia).  The  case  was  related  to  the 
obligation of parties under treaties and the interpretation 
of 
the  willingness  of 
Nicaragua and Colombia to settle these disputes through 
peaceful  means.  The  Court’s  judgment  in  the  case 
concerning  sovereignty  in  the  Malaysia/Singapore  case 
was  also  an  important  outcome.  We  have  noted  that 
many  aspects  of  the  Court’s  judgment  in  these  cases 
were put to vote and had to be decided on the basis of a 
majority  decision.  We  have  been  carefully  studying 
these judgments and their precedent-setting implications 
on international law. 

We  have  noted  with  appreciation  that  the  Court 
has been systematically and regularly re-examining its 
ongoing  proceedings  and  work  methods.  The  Court’s 
efforts  to  enhance  its  productivity,  especially  through 
regular  meetings  devoted  to  strategic  planning  of  its 
work  are  praiseworthy.  We  have  also  noted  that  the 
Court  has  set  for  itself  a  particularly  demanding 
schedule of hearings and deliberations and has cleared 
the  backlog  of  cases.  We  appreciate  the  Court’s 
assurance  to  Member  States  that  oral  proceedings  on 
the  cases  can  now  be  started  in  a  timely  manner, 
immediately after finishing the written exchanges. 

The international legal institutions, especially the 
International Court of Justice have an important role in 
defining  and  implementing  justice  and  rule  of  law  in 
today’s  world.  The  principles  of  peaceful  coexistence 
and respect for basic human rights can only be ensured 
through  respect  for  the  rule  of  law  and  justice.  The 
International Court of Justice, through its impartial and 
independent  decisions,  could  contribute  to  a  rule-of-
law-based  international  society.  However,  it  is  the 
willingness  of  Member  States,  General Assembly  and 
the  Security  Council  that  will  play  pivotal  role  in 
defining 
rule-of-law-based 
international legal system. 
Mr.  Bula-Bula  (Democratic  Republic  of  the 

Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  The  delegation  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  has  carefully 
studied  the  report  presented  to  the  General  Assembly 
by  the  President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
covering  the  period  from  1  August  2007  to  31  July 
2008.  During  this  period  we  note  that  the  Court  has 
promoting 
and 
a 
08-57795 

13 
laws 
relating 
to 
this 

interest:  Firstly, 
substitution,  which 
A/63/PV.34 

dealt with 15 cases. The delegation of the Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  will  offer  observations  on  the 
four  following  subjects  that  relate  to  eight  judicial 
decisions  of  great 
emerging 
jurisprudence  relating  to  the  environmental  rights  and 
the  right  to  development;  secondly,  decisions  relating 
to  applications  against  State  organs;  thirdly,  matters 
relating  to  international  peace  and  security  and  lastly, 
cases relating to consular rights. 

It  would  seem,  to  my  delegation,  somewhat 
unnecessary  to  dwell  on  conventional  jurisprudence 
relating to the law of the sea, although some who have 
brought  applications  to  the  Court  have  remained 
unsatisfied. A similar fate indeed awaits the Diallo case 
relating to diplomatic protection, a remnant of the past 
that archaeologists in the legal arena seek to excavate, 
indulging  in  ideological  speculation  about  a  so-called 
diplomatic  protection  by 
is 
unknown  in  contemporary  international  law.  There  is 
still  time  for  the  parties  to  spare  the  international 
judges  from  having  to  hear  this  case,  for,  as  Charles 
Rousseau  said,  they  are  far  removed  from  the  many 
domestic 
unfortunate 
misunderstanding between the parties. 

We are grateful to the Court, and particularly the 
President of the Court, for having so quickly made real 
progress in maximizing its throughput. 
The Gabčikovo-Nagymaros Project case (Hungary 

v.  Slovakia),  the  Pulp  Mills  on  the  River  Uruguay 
the  Aerial  Herbicide 
(Argentina  v.  Uruguay)  and 
Spraying  case  (Ecuador  v.  Colombia)  are  three  rulings 
which,  apart  from  providing  a  solution  for  the  parties, 
relate to the law of the environment, which is so closely 
linked to the right to sustainable development. 
The  Court  has  a  duty  to  ensure  balance  between 

environmental  and  developmental  considerations.  Did 
the international judge know, at the time of taking that 
initial  decision  on  25  September  1997,  that  he  was 
establishing a very fruitful precedent for cases brought 
before 
the  Court  and  perhaps  also  for  advisory 
opinions sought in the future, for example, on climate 
change and who knows what else? 
The  African  Charter  on  Human  and  Peoples’ 

Rights  for  the  first  time  enshrined  the  right  to 
development and environmental rights, and is now part 
of  general  international  law.  By  recognizing  that  its 
decisions  are  long  term,  the  International  Court  of 
the 
Justice  should  and  does  know 
that,  with 
14 

Gabčikovo-Nagymaros Project case, it has opened up a 
new  chapter  in  jurisprudence,  the  main  idea  being  the 
right  to  development  of  the  individual,  of  peoples,  of 
States,  of  humanity,  spanning  space  and  time  as 
Mr. Dupuy has said. 

Following  the  case  of  the  arrest  warrant  of 
11 April  2000,  there  has  been  a  tendency  to  bring 
criminal  complaints  against  the  organs  of  the  State  to 
the Court, namely the case concerning Certain criminal 
proceedings in France (Republic of Congo v. France); 
and  Certain  Questions  of  Mutual  Assistance 
in 
Criminal  Matters  (Djibouti  v.  France).  That  case  is 
therefore  still  pending  before  the  Court.  However,  the 
findings of the judgment handed down on 4 June 2008 
in  the  case  concerning  Certain  Questions  of  Mutual 
Assistance  in  Criminal  Matters  (Djibouti  v.  France), 
two  and  a  half  years  after  the  case  was  submitted  on 
9 January 2006, does not appear to have addressed the 
issue  of  the  immunity  of  organs  of  a  foreign  State, 
which is not to be confused with impunity.  
The  case  concerning  Avena  and  Other  Mexican 

Nationals  (Mexico  v.  United  States  of  America)  is 
similar  to  the  historic  LaGrand  case  (Germany  v. 
United  States  of  America).  Avena  has  to  do  with  the 
violation  of  consular  rights. As  we  know,  in  that  case 
the  Court  said  that  orders  for  provisional  measures 
under  article  41  of  its  Statute  were  mandatory.  Such 
measures  entail  legal  consequences  for  parties  that  do 
not  implement  them.  Unfortunately,  however,  that  did 
not  happen  in  the  case  of  the  order  issued  on 
5 February  2003,  which  has  not  been  implemented. A 
year  and  a  half  after  they  were  issued,  with  the 
International  Court  acknowledging  that  they  were 
binding, the mandatory nature of provisional measures 
must not be allowed to become a dead letter. At stake is 
the credibility of the Court’s decisions — a fortiori, in 
this case, the effective implementation of the 31 March 
2004 judgment. The jurisprudence emanating from the 
LaGrand case must be safeguarded. 
The  case  concerning  Armed  Activities  on  the 

Territory  of  the  Congo  (Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo v. Uganda) entails an extreme example of what 
Article  2,  paragraph  4,  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations referred to as the  
“use  of  force  against  the  territorial  integrity  or 
political  independence  of  any  State,  or  in  any 
other  manner  inconsistent  with  the  purposes  of 
the United Nations”. 
08-57795 
the  effectiveness  of 



That case, which was decided by the judgment of 
19  December  2005,  overruled  the  1949  case  of  the 
Corfu Channel (United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland v. Albania), the 1986 Nicaragua case 
and the 2003 case involving oil platforms. Although, as 
some  have  rightfully  pointed  out,  the  decisions  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  could  have  been  more 
precise  in  their  findings,  they  are  no  less  well 
established,  regardless  of  the  wording  employed.  In 
that regard, it is important to read the entire judgment 
carefully,  especially  paragraphs  153,  304  and  345. 
Given  the  friendly  relations  of  cooperation  that  are 
gradually  being  restored  between  the  two  former 
belligerents, the delegation of the Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo  expects  that  the  matter  of  compensation 
will be justly, equitably and speedily resolved through 
the means prescribed by the judgment of 19 December 
2005.  

The Democratic Republic of the Congo is a State 
that is unique in having brought five cases to the Court 
in  the  period  of  a  decade  and  has  made  an  enormous 
contribution 
international 
judicial  settlement  and  therefore  to  that  of  the  main 
legal  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  The  delegation  of 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, its Government 
and  its  national  group  on  the  Permanent  Court  of 
Arbitration  believe  that,  as  a  State  that  has  so  amply 
demonstrated  that  it  believes  in  the  rule  of  law  and 
respects  international  law  —  sometimes  as  applicant 
State and others as respondent — our country has built 
up  a  wealth  of  experience  that  it  would  like  to  share 
with 
the 
underlying motivation for the first candidacy submitted 
by  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  to  the 
International Court of Justice, namely, my own modest 
candidacy,  as  a  former  ad  hoc  Judge  of  the  Court,  for 
the  elections  to  be  held  on  6  November  2008.  That 
candidacy,  which  fully  meets  all  of  the  requirements 
for  professionalism  and  high  moral  character,  also 
contributes to striking a perfect balance at the Court in 
line  with  the  provisions  of  articles  2  and  9  of  the 
Statute, 
forms  of 
civilization  and  the  practice  legal  systems,  as  well  as 
the practice of equitable geographic rotation.  

Those are the comments that the delegation of the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  wanted  to  make 
with  regard  to  the  serious,  clear  and  well-organized 
report that has been submitted by the Court.  
international  community.  That 
the  world’s  main 
regarding 
the 
to 
is 
A/63/PV.34
the  President  of 
to  Her  Excellency 
Mr. Appreku  (Ghana):  My  delegation  wishes  to 

thank 
the 
International Court of Justice, Dame Rosalyn Higgins, 
for  introducing  the  report  (A/63/4)  on  the  role  and 
functioning  of  the  Court  during  the  period  under 
review.  We  also  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for his report (A/63/229). 

As  this  happens  to  be  the  last  time  that  Judge 
Higgins  may  be  addressing  the  General  Assembly  in 
her capacity as President and Judge of the International 
Court  of  Justice,  my  delegation  wishes  to  place  on 
record  Ghana’s  deep  appreciation  for  Judge  Higgins’ 
distinguished  contribution  to  the  renaissance  in  the 
working methods of the Court, thus helping to lift the 
image  of  the  Court  as  an  indispensable  judicial  organ 
for the peaceful settlement of international disputes. 

Thanks  to  the  prodigious  efforts  of  President 
Higgins  and  the  other  judges  of  the  Court,  the  record 
shows  that  a  growing  number  of  States  are  turning  to 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  as  the  pre-eminent 
judicial forum to which States may refer the resolution 
of their legal disputes in accordance with the principles 
of  justice  and  international  law.  The  confidence  of 
States  parties  to  the  Statute  of  the  Court  —  even  for 
States  that  have  yet  to  accept  the  Court’s  compulsory 
jurisdiction  —  is  further  expressed  in  the  number  of 
treaties  and  other  international  agreements,  including 
those to which Ghana is party, that contain provisions 
for the settlement of disputes by the Court in the event 
of a failure in the processes of negotiations, mediation, 
conciliation or arbitration. 

As a result of the varied nature of  cases that the 
Court is called upon to adjudicate — ranging from the 
traditional  areas  of  disputes  concerning  territorial 
claims  and  the  treatment  of  nationals  to  cutting-edge 
issues  such  as  allegations  of  massive  violations  of 
human rights — the Court is significantly defining and 
refining  the  rules  that  should  govern  the  behaviour  of 
States,  nations  and  individuals.  The  Court’s  influence 
is increasingly being felt in fields such as international 
human  rights  and  humanitarian  law,  as  well  as  with 
regard  to  laws  about  the  environment,  shared  natural 
resources  and  diplomatic  and  consular  relations,  thus 
making  an  invaluable  contribution  to  the  codification 
and progressive development of international law. 
At  the  global  level  in  general,  and  in  Africa  in 

particular, 
the 
decreasing  incidence  of  armed  conflicts  that  were 
is  a  happy  coincidence 
there 
in 
08-57795 

15 

that 
Ghana  notes  with  satisfaction 
A/63/PV.34 

prevalent  over  the  past  decade  and  the  increasing 
number  of  cases  of  disputes  that  have  been  submitted 
to  the  courts  for  peaceful  resolution,  many  of  which 
involve  African  States  as  parties.  According  to  the 
report  before  us,  during  the  period  under  review,  the 
regional  diversity  of  the  cases  that  came  before  the 
Court from the world over reflected its universality.  

regular 
dialogue  between  the  Court  and  other  international 
tribunals  such  as  the  International  Criminal  Court  and 
the  ad  hoc  Tribunals  for  the  former  Yugoslavia, 
Rwanda  and  Sierra  Leone,  among  others,  ensures  the 
promotion  of  universality,  not  only  in  regional  or 
geographical terms, but also in terms of jurisprudence. 
Ghana  would  also  urge  that  dialogue  between  the 
International Court and the newly created regional and 
subregional courts in Africa be encouraged in order to 
strengthen capacity-building and deepen the rule of law 
at the regional and subregional levels. 

Ghana  believes  that  the  Court’s  endeavours  to 
uphold  the  principles  of  the  strict  equality  of  parties 
and  due  process,  as  well  as  its  own  impartiality, 
independence and judicial integrity, have contributed in 
no  small  measure  to  inspiring  renewed  confidence  in 
the Court.  

Besides its role as an avenue for the settlement of 
disputes  through  peaceful  means,  the  Court’s  role  in 
conflict  prevention  through  the  promotion  of  respect 
for the rule of law cannot be underestimated. It should 
be  recalled  that  a  recent  assessment  by  the  Secretary-
General in his report to both the General Assembly and 
the  Security  Council  indicated  that  it  is  much  less 
expensive  to  prevent  armed  conflicts  than  to  resolve 
them. Ghana therefore believes that no effort should be 
spared  to  meet  the  request  contained  in  the  Court’s 
report  for  adequate  human  and  material  resources, 
including  the  recruitment  of  the  requisite  number  of 
law  clerks,  in  order  to  enable  the  Court,  with  the 
support of its Registry, to handle more effectively and 
expeditiously  its  cases,  which,  according  to  its  report, 
are growing in factual and legal complexity. 

The  need  for  adequate  funding  of  the  Court 
becomes  even  more  urgent,  given  that  a  significant 
number of cases have direct or indirect bearing on the 
three  pillars  of  the  United  Nations  agenda,  namely 
peace  and  security,  human  rights  and  development, 
which  are  essentially  interwoven  and  interdependent, 
as  neither  of  them  can  be  pursued  without  the  other, 
16 

nor  can  any  one  of  them  be  realized  without  justice 
being anchored in the rule of law. 

Ghana  also  welcomes  steps  taken  by  the  Court 
not  only  to  improve  the  quality  of  justice  but  also  to 
ensure  greater  accountability  in  the  management  of 
budgetary resources through the reporting mechanism, 
under  which  the  Registrar  reports  more  frequently  to 
the Budget and Finance Committee of the Court. 

My delegation recognizes the contribution of the 
Secretary-General’s Trust Fund in facilitating access to 
the  Court  by  less-endowed  States.  Ghana  commends 
the Court’s open-door policy, which allows all people, 
including political leaders, scholars and students alike, 
to  visit  the  Court’s  premises,  and  facilitates  access  to 
information  about  the  work  of  the  Court  through  the 
Internet,  thus  helping  to  demystify  the 
law  and 
enhancing  the  Court’s  legitimacy  and  authority  in  the 
world.  Ghana  will  continue  to  do  whatever  it  can  to 
support  the  noble  work  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  for  the  advancement  of  the  rule  of  law 
everywhere. 

Finally, my delegation would like to congratulate 
Ms.  Rosalyn  Higgins  for  her  distinguished  record  as 
Judge  and  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court.  We  wish  her  the  very  best  in  all  her  future 
endeavours. 
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

would like, first of all, to  express my thanks to Judge 
Rosalyn  Higgins  for  her  eloquent  presentation  of  the 
annual  report  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
(A/63/4).  She  has  painted  a  detailed  picture  of  the 
achievements  and  the  active  role  that  the  Court 
continues  to  play  under  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, specifically the promotion of the ideals of law 
through 
the 
non-recourse  to  the  use  of  force,  the  promotion  of 
international law and the primacy of the rule of law in 
international relations. 
In  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  Document, 

our  heads  of  State  and  Government 
forcefully 
reaffirmed  the  obligation  of  States  to  settle  their 
disputes by peaceful means in accordance with Chapter 
VI of the Charter and, when appropriate, to bring them 
before the International Court of Justice. 

The  judgments  of  the  Court  over  more  than  six 
decades  have  dealt  with  a  very  varied  set  of  disputes. 
The  judgments  of  the  Court  and  its  advisory  opinions 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes, 
08-57795 
to 
law,  as  well  as 


have  significantly  contributed  to  increased  respect  for 
international 
its  progressive 
codification. 

The  factual  and  legal  diversity  and  complexity 
and the increasing number of cases brought before the 
Court  clearly  display  the  increased  confidence  of  a 
wide  range  of  parties  in  the  jurisdiction,  impartiality 
and independence of this institution.  

Algeria welcomes the judgments handed down by 
the Court during the year 2007-2008 in the case of the 
territorial  and  maritime  dispute  in  the  Caribbean  Sea 
between  Nicaragua  and  Honduras,  the  territorial  and 
maritime dispute between Nicaragua and Colombia, the 
sovereignty of Pedra Branca/Pulau Batu Puteh, Middle 
Rocks  and  South  Ledge  between  Malaysia  and 
Singapore,  and  in  the  case  pertaining  to  mutual 
assistance  in  criminal  matters  between  Djibouti  and 
France.  The  Court  has  also  ruled  on  the  request  for 
provisional measures submitted by Mexico with regard 
to  a  request  for  interpretation  of  the  judgment  handed 
down  by  the  Court  on  31  March  2004  in  the  case  of 
Avena and other Mexican nationals. 
This  kind  of  result  is  undoubtedly  due  to  the 

intense  efforts  by  the  judges  despite  the  logistical 
difficulties  pointed  out  on  numerous  occasions  by  the 
successive Presidents of the Court in their reports. It is 
regrettable  that  the  principal  judicial  body  of  the 
United  Nations  continues  to  suffer  from  a  lack  of 
budgetary resources. The budgetary requests expressed 
by  the  Court  have  only  been  partially  satisfied. 
Member  States,  by  means  of  the  General  Assembly, 
must  make  available  to  the  Court  the  human  and 
financial  means  that  will  allow  it  to  carry  out  its 
mission. 
We would like here to congratulate the Court for 

its  ongoing  endeavours  to  improve  its  procedures  and 
working  methods  and  increase  its  productivity,  in 
particular  by  holding 
regular  strategic  planning 
meetings. This display of dynamism and self-discipline 
has made it possible for the Court to clear its backlog, 
which is something we must welcome. 

Judge Higgins has reminded us of the many cases 
that  the  Court  has  examined  and  the  judgments  and 
opinions  issued  since  it  was  created.  Respect  for  and 
implementation  of  the  judgments  it  has  issued  are  of 
capital importance for the parties concerned and for the 
entire  international  community.  The  Charter  of  the 
A/63/PV.34
relations,  we  believe 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
in 
the  principle  of 
United  Nations  entrusted  the  Security  Council  with  a 
role in that area. 

With  regard  to  another  important  aspect  of  the 
Court’s activities — the advisory opinions rendered by 
this  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  — 
my delegation believes that they are not merely points 
of  view,  but  rather  reaffirmations  of  principles  of 
international  law  and  contributions  to  its  enrichment 
and  development.  At  a  time  when  the  primacy  of 
international  law  is  being  reaffirmed  more  and  more 
each  day  because  of  the  growing  complexity  of 
international 
that  advisory 
opinions  should  be  taken  into  consideration  by  all 
Member States and, first and foremost, by the principal 
United  Nations  organs,  in  particular  the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council.  

The  Court’s  opinions  must  not  remain  dead 
letters.  In  particular,  the  recent  opinion  on  the  legal 
consequences  of  the  construction  of  the  wall  of 
separation 
territory 
enshrines 
inadmissibility  of 
acquiring land by force and must be taken into account 
by  the  principal  United  Nations  organ  responsible  for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
Member  States  must  continue 
to  have  recourse, 
through  various  United  Nations  organs,  to  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction  by  requesting  advisory  opinions  on  issues 
involving  or  concerning  them  —  as  the  General 
Assembly  did  on  the  issue  of  Kosovo’s  unilateral 
declaration  of 
requests  will 
undoubtedly  enrich  the  Court’s  jurisprudence  and 
ensure  that  the  principles  and  ideals  promoted  by  the 
Charter’s authors will prevail.  

Finally,  we  wish  to  reaffirm  once  again  our 
support for the role of the International Court of Justice 
and  our  confidence  in  its  members,  who  have  been 
faithfully  represented  by  the  presidency  of  Judge 
Higgins. While we wish her a very enjoyable and well-
deserved  retirement,  we  are  convinced  that  she  will 
continue to serve justice. 
Mrs.  Miculescu  (Romania):  Let  me  start  by 

expressing Romania’s appreciation for the report of the 
International Court of Justice (A/63/4), which is — as it 
is  every  year  —  comprehensive  and  enlightening  as  to 
the  complex  activities  carried  out  by  the  Court.  Our 
congratulations  go  to  the  Honourable  Judge  Rosalyn 
Higgins, President of the International Court of Justice, 
and all members of the Court on their outstanding work. 
the 
independence.  Such 
08-57795 

17 

to 
conducting 
the  Court 
the 
in  particular, 
is  deeply  devoted 
A/63/PV.34 


The report proves once more that the International 
Court  of  Justice  is  pivotal  in  strengthening  respect  for 
international law by resolving the disputes submitted to 
it by States in accordance with the relevant norms. My 
country 
its 
international relations on the basis of full observance of 
international  law  and  is  committed  to  settling  all 
disputes exclusively by peaceful means. In that respect, 
Romania  attaches  great  importance  to  the  crucial  role 
played  by 
the  International  Court  of  Justice 
in 
promoting the rule of law in international relations. 
That  is  clearly  proved  by  the  fact  that  Romania 

brought  before 
issue  of  maritime 
delimitation  concerning  the  continental  shelf  and  the 
exclusive  economic  zones  of  Romania  and  Ukraine  in 
the Black Sea. We did so only after a long and intense 
negotiation  process  and  after  it  had  become  obvious 
that the bilateral talks on that issue could not lead to a 
mutually agreed solution within a reasonable period of 
time. The decision to bring that matter before the Court 
the  Court’s 
represented  our  clear  recognition  of 
professionalism  and, 
its  extensive 
expertise  in  the  field  of  maritime  delimitation.  It  was 
also  an  expression  of  our  full  confidence  in  the 
impartiality  of  the  principal  legal  organ  of  the  United 
Nations. 

The most recent development in the case, namely, 
the  hearings  that  took  place  in  September  in  The 
Hague, occurred after the period covered by the report. 
We  are  now  expecting  the  delivery  of  the  judgment. 
Let me stress that Romania is extremely satisfied at the 
swift  development  of  the  proceedings  in  this  case  and 
highly appreciates the efforts of  all the  Court services 
that  were  involved.  In  that  context,  I  would  like  to 
express  our  gratitude  for  the  very  effective  and 
courteous  assistance  provided  by  the  Registry  in  all 
procedural matters. 

Romania is fully confident that the Court will find 
an equitable solution with regard to the delimitation of 
the  maritime  spaces  of  the  two  countries  through 
correct application of the relevant international law and 
the  method  developed  by  the  Court  in  its  well-
established jurisprudence on the matter. It goes without 
saying  that  Romania  is  committed  to  complying  with 
the  decision  taken  by  the  Court.  We  are  pleased  that 
Ukraine has also stated its commitment to abide by the 
judgment  rendered.  Those  pledges  are,  I  believe,  a 
demonstration  of  maturity  and  also  of  the  friendly 
relations that our two countries enjoy. 
Furthermore, our confidence in the Court, as well 

as  our  ongoing  support  for 
its  activities,  were 
demonstrated  by  our  positive  vote  requesting  an 
advisory  opinion  of  the  Court  with  respect  to  the 
conformity  with  international  law  of  the  unilateral 
declaration  of  independence  by  Kosovo’s  Provisional 
Institutions  of  Self-Government.  Romania  also  notes 
with  appreciation  the  Court’s  activities  in  the  other 
cases  mentioned  in  the  report,  given  that  the  Court’s 
workload has increased considerably in recent years. It 
is reassuring to see that the Court has been successful 
in  maintaining  the  high  standards  of  legal  rigour  and 
clarity  that  have  always  characterized  its  work.  It  is 
noteworthy  that  the  judgments  rendered  by  the  Court 
during 
the  period  under  review  addressed  many 
important points of law, ranging from the method to be 
applied  in  maritime  delimitation  to  the  immunities 
enjoyed  by  State  officials.  Romania  wishes 
to 
acknowledge  the  significant  contribution  that  those 
judgments  by  the  Court  make  to  the  development  of 
international  law  by  reinforcing,  refining  and  further 
enriching  the  long-established  rules  of  international 
law. 
I  now  turn  to  the  future.  A  look  at  the  Court’s 

current  docket  shows  that  many  new  challenges  lie 
ahead.  The  Court  will  have  to  deal  with  additional 
complex  cases  regarding  matters  of  great  importance, 
both  for  the  States  directly  concerned  and  for  the 
international  community.  That  shows  the  international 
community’s  increasing  confidence  in  the  impartiality 
of the Court and in the high quality of its work, as well 
as  in  the  increased  role  that  it  is  called  to  play  in 
maintaining international peace and security. 

In  closing,  I  would  like  to  add  that  we  have  no 
doubt  that  the  solutions  to  be  found  in  each  of  these 
cases  by  the  International  Court  of  Justice  will  be  the 
result  of  thorough  evaluation  of  the  applicable  norms 
and 
to 
strengthen the international legal order, which is one of 
the  major  roles  that  the  Court  has  to  play  in  this  ever 
more complicated world. 
Mr.  Bristol  (Nigeria):  The  Nigerian  delegation 

warmly  welcomes  Her  Excellency  Judge  Rosalyn 
Higgins, President of the International Court of Justice, 
and thanks her for the report of the Court (A/63/4) and 
for  her  immense  contributions  to  the  progressive 
development  of  international  law  in  the  three  years 
during which she has been President of the Court. We 
are  also  appreciative  of  her  briefing  on  27  October  to 
thus  further  helping 
the  relevant  facts, 
18 

08-57795 
It 
three 
currently 
judgments 


the  legal  advisers  of  ministries  of  foreign  affairs  of 
Member States and to Sixth Committee representatives. 
We welcome that enlightening annual exchange.  

We  are  delighted  that  the  Court  is  working 
tirelessly  and  consistently  in  the  discharge  of  its 
twofold  mandate  of  adjudicating  the  legal  disputes 
submitted  to  it  by  States  in  the  exercise  of  their 
sovereignty  and  rendering  advisory  opinions  on  legal 
questions  referred  to  it  by  duly  authorized  United 
Nations  organs  and  specialized  agencies. 
is 
heartening  to  note  that  the  past  year  was  the  most 
productive  in  the  Court’s  history  and  that  the  Court, 
during  that  period,  handed  down  four  substantive 
judgments  and  two  orders  and  held  hearings  in  four 
cases,  with 
under 
deliberation. Five new cases have also been submitted 
to the Court, including the General Assembly’s request 
for an advisory opinion.  

In  addition,  approximately  300  bilateral  and 
multilateral  treaties  provide  for  the  Court  to  have 
jurisdiction  in  the  resolution  of  disputes  arising  from 
their application or interpretation. 
The Court is also seized of cases concerning more 

cutting-edge  issues  such  as  allegations  of  massive 
human  rights  violations,  including  genocide,  and  the 
management  of  shared  natural  resources.  Needless  to 
say,  that  continuing  increase  in  the  Court’s  caseload 
requires adequate and commensurate resources. 

We  therefore  thank  the  Court  for  the  various 
procedural innovations and initiatives that it has adopted 
to  be  more  efficient  and  to  eliminate  the  backlog  of 
cases. Those innovations include simplifying the Court’s 
deliberations,  continuously 
its  working 
methods,  issuing  periodic  practice  directions,  reaching 
out to other international courts and tribunals and taking 
full  advantage  of  information  technology  through  the 
launching of a new website. 

is  a  positive  development, 
especially  in  view  of  the  fact  that  the  value  of  the 
Court is not to be judged only by the number of cases it 
handles but more by its contribution to the progressive 
development  of 
invaluable 
nature  of  the  Court’s  contributions  was  only  slightly 
revealed  when  the  President  addressed  legal  advisers 
on  27  October,  through  her  reference  to  but  a  few 
cases. Her discussion of the cases threw light on some 
of  the  issues  that  the  Sixth  Committee  is  currently 
deliberating. 
international 
improving 
law.  The 
foregoing 
The 
A/63/PV.34
the 
In 
In 
ruling, 
judgment 
its  deep 
commitment 
the  Court’s 
indispensable 
recognition  of 
thereby  shunning 
My  delegation  notes  with  satisfaction 

the 
refreshing  interchange  and  regular  dialogue  between 
the  Court  and  other  international  courts  and  tribunals. 
Issues  decided  by  other  international  or  regional 
judicial  bodies  arise  in  Court  cases,  and  the  judicial 
work  of  other  international  courts  and  tribunals  has 
relevance  to  Court  findings.  That  development  is 
highly  commendable,  especially  as  it  could  help  in 
forestalling  fragmentation  of  international  law.  We 
therefore  commend  the  Court  for  its  cooperation  with 
those international judicial bodies. 

and 
dependable  nature  of  the  Court’s  work,  my  country 
submitted to the Court’s jurisdiction in its dispute with 
Cameroon,  a  neighbouring  country.  In  the  same  vein, 
since 
in  2002  we  have 
painstakingly taken steps to implement the judgment, a 
process that was completed on 14 August 2008. 

that  unprecedented  achievement,  Nigeria 
clearly  demonstrated 
to 
international  peace  and  security  by  adhering  to  the 
Court’s 
the  option  of 
belligerence.  We  urge  Member  States  to  take  disputes 
before 
the  peaceful 
resolution of disputes and broaden the spectrum of the 
Court’s  contribution  to  the  further  development  and 
dissemination of international law. 
Mr.  Muita  (Kenya):  At  the  outset,  allow  me  to 

join other delegations in commending the President for 
the  excellent  manner  in  which  he  continues  to  guide 
our deliberations in the Assembly. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  commend  Judge 
Rosalyn  Higgins,  President  of  the  International  Court 
of Justice, for her valuable contribution to the work of 
the Court. As she approaches retirement, my delegation 
would  like  to  thank  her  most  sincerely  and  wish  her 
well in her future endeavours. 

We  thank  Judge  Higgins  for  her  introduction  of 
the report of the Court contained in document A/63/4, 
detailing the work accomplished by the Court over the 
past year. The report discloses the Court’s contribution 
to  the  global  administration  of  justice.  My  delegation 
underscores the importance of that role and of respect 
for  the  rule  of  law  as  the  only  guarantee  of  lasting 
peace in the world. 

We note that the past judicial year has been very 
active  for  the  Court,  having  been  seized  of  six  cases, 
the  Court.  That  will  ensure 
08-57795 

19 

to 
illustrates 
immensely 
the  Court 
thereby  contributing 
A/63/PV.34 

which it has dealt with expeditiously. The diversity of 
cases  before 
the  Court’s 
universality. That demonstrates the crucial role played 
by the Court in the peaceful settlement of international 
disputes, 
the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  stability,  as 
provided in the United Nations Charter. 

In that regard, we urge States that have not done 
so  to  accept  the  Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction,  in 
accordance with Article 36 of the Statute of the Court. 
We  also  encourage  States,  in  the  exercise  of  their 
sovereignty, to freely submit disputes to the Court.  

In  addition,  it  is  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court to be consulted by States, the General Assembly 
or  the  Security  Council  on  any  legal  question  arising 
from  the  scope  of  their  activities.  Similarly,  other 
organs  of 
the  United  Nations  and  agencies  so 
authorized by the General Assembly may seek advisory 
opinions  from  the  Court,  to  clear  any  doubt  that  they 
have  regarding  any  matter  of  interest.  In  that  regard, 
we  wish  to  point  out  that  increasing  compliance  with 
the  Court’s  decisions  contributes  to  the  credibility  of 
international law. 

Kenya  attaches  great  importance  to  the  work  of 
the  Court  and  appreciates  the  mechanisms  that  have 
been put in place to  disseminate information about  its 
activities. Such information encompasses the decisions 
of the Court, which we recognize for their contribution 
to  the  progressive  development  of  international  law. 
Given 
in 
international  relations,  we  encourage  the  Court  to 
continue  disseminating 
its  decisions  and  other 
publications  to  the  relevant  institutions  and  Member 
States  so  as  to  create  more  awareness  about  its  work, 
functions and jurisdiction. 

In  our  view,  the  official  visits  to  the  Court  by 
heads  of  States  and  Government  and  other  high-
ranking  Government  officials  reflect  the  recognition 
conferred  on  the  Court  and  play  an  important  role  in 
enhancing  its  image  as  a  central  organ  for  the 
resolution of international disputes. We encourage such 
visits  as  part  of  the  awareness  programmes,  and  we 
appreciate  the  measures  to  educate  officials  from 
Member States during such visits. 

for 
modernization of the facilities of the Court to enable it 
to  operate  in  an  environment  that  meets  established 
standards and criteria. My delegation has further noted 
the  significance  of 
the  need 
We  note 
report 
the 
rule  of 
law 
from 
the 
the pension claim for judges of the Court. We are of the 
opinion that both claims have merit. We therefore think 
that the two issues, in addition to that of staffing levels 
in  the  Court’s  Department  of  Legal  Matters,  deserve 
the positive consideration of Member States. 

Let me conclude by saying that peace and justice 
are inextricable. Whether the two must go together is a 
complex  issue.  It  is  certain  that  peace  can  only  be 
sustained  if  the  issues  of  justice  are  properly  put  in 
place. 
Mr. Nhleko (Swaziland): Let me congratulate the 

International  Court  of  Justice  for  a  productive  session 
and thank it for the comprehensive report in document 
A/63/4,  presented  to  us  by  the  President  of  the  Court, 
Rosalyn Higgins. 

As  the  International  Court  of  Justice  is  the 
principal judicial organ of the United Nations, its work 
contributes  to  international  peace  and  security  and  is 
widely  appreciated.  The  Court  has  significantly 
advanced  the  international  rule  of  law  with  landmark 
decisions  and  advisory  opinions  characterized  by  the 
diverse and rich legal background of its members. It is 
indeed a cornerstone of the international legal order. 

support for the Court.  

My  delegation  notes  with  satisfaction  that  over 
the  past  year,  the  number  of  cases  pending  before  the 
Court  remained  high  and  that  some  of  them  involved 
developing States. The Kingdom of Swaziland supports 
the use of the Court by Member States and the right of 
United  Nations  institutions  to  seek  advisory  opinions 
on  questions  relating  to  their  functions.  We  underline 
that it is of the utmost importance for States to comply 
with the decisions of the Court.  

Upon becoming a Member of the Organization in 
1968, the Kingdom of Swaziland declared its readiness 
to  accept 
jurisdiction. 
Consequently,  we  urge  those  States  that  have  not  yet 
done  so  to  consider  accepting  the  Court’s  jurisdiction 
in accordance with its Statute. 

the 
Court  continues  to  soldier  on  and  to  respond  with 
determination in offsetting an increased workload with 
maximum efficiency. My delegation is pleased to note 
that the Court has managed to clear its backlog of cases 
and  that  in  an  effort  to  increase  and  expedite  the 
reduce 
availability 
The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  reaffirms  its  strong 
the  Court’s  compulsory 
its  financial  difficulties, 
Notwithstanding 
of  Court 
documents 
and 
20 

08-57795 
the  current 
situation  of 


communication  costs  it  has  launched  a  new  website 
that  makes  it  possible  to  access  the  Court’s  entire 
jurisprudence  since  1946,  thus  ensuring  wider  global 
awareness  of  its  activities.  Further,  we  applaud  the 
Court for its contributions as part of its current role in 
promoting  the  rule  of  law,  following  the  2005  World 
Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1). 

For  a  judicial  body  of  the  magnitude  of  the 
International Court of Justice to function effectively, it 
must be accorded the support it deserves. Accordingly, 
the Kingdom of Swaziland appeals to the Organization 
to  provide  the  Court  with  the  tools  it  needs  for  its 
service to humanity. 
Mr. Okuda (Japan): It is my pleasure and honour 

to  address  the Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  Government 
of  Japan.  My  delegation  would  like  to  express  its 
gratitude to President Rosalyn Higgins for her in-depth 
report  describing 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice  and  its  appreciation  and 
support for the achievements in the work of the Court 
during the past year. We welcome the fact that Member 
States  are  in  principle  trying  to  resolve  disputes 
through  international  law.  Close  cooperation  between 
Member  States  and  the  Court  to  that  end  should 
continue. 

The  Court’s  devoted  work  and  profound  legal 
wisdom in seeking peaceful settlement of disputes have 
been attracting the respect and support of international 
society. In the present international community, where 
we  continue  to  witness  armed  conflicts  and  acts  of 
terrorism,  the  firm  establishment  of  law  and  order  is 
truly 
there  has  been  an 
increasing  awareness  among  nations  that  international 
society must recognize the value and share the goal of 
establishing 
the  primacy  of 
international  law.  In  that  regard,  the  role  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  as  the  principal  judicial 
organ of the United Nations cannot be overstated. 

As a State resolutely devoted to peace and firmly 
dedicated  to  the  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law  and 
respect  for  the  principle  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes,  Japan  appreciates  the  strenuous  efforts  and 
work  of  the  Court  over  the  past  year  in  delivering 
decisions based on exhaustive deliberation. We believe 
that  the  Court  must  bring  to  bear  not  only  a  profound 
knowledge  of  international  law  but  also  a  farsighted 
view  of  the  international  community,  given  that  the 
world is now experiencing such rapid change and that a 
and  maintaining 
indispensable. 
Indeed, 
A/63/PV.34
to 
the 
to  meet 
the  Court’s  ability 
the  excellent  work 
lofty  cause  and  work  of 
variety  of  international  disputes  continue  to  arise. 
Japan  respects 
that 
requirement and continues to fully support its work.  

Japan has accepted the compulsory jurisdiction of 
the  Court  since  becoming  a  Member  State  of  the 
United Nations. We urge Member States that have not 
yet  done  so  to  accept  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  in  order 
to  facilitate  establishment  of  the  rule  of  law  in  the 
international community. 

In  concluding  my  statement,  I  wish  to  reiterate 
the  great  importance  the  international  community 
attaches 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice.  Japan,  for  its  part,  will 
continue  to  contribute  to  the  invaluable  work  of  the 
Court. 
Mr. Badji (Senegal) (spoke in French): Allow me 

first 
to  extend  my  warmest  congratulations 
to 
Ms. Rosalyn  Higgins,  President  of  the  International 
Court of Justice, and to the other judges and all of the 
Court’s  staff  for 
they  have 
accomplished as part of that institution. 

As an international court with a general character, 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  is  indubitably  the 
principal link in the international legal  system that, in 
its day-to-day work, promotes international justice, the 
development of international law and the strengthening 
of  the  ideals  of  peace  and  justice  that  oversaw  the 
creation of the Organization.  

My delegation is pleased to be participating once 
again  in  the  consideration  of  the  annual  report  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  (A/63/4).  It  is  also  an 
excellent  opportunity  to  highlight  the  constructive 
work  of  the  Court  and  to  confirm  Senegal’s  keen 
interest in its diverse activities. 

My  delegation  is  pleased  to  see  the  increased 
number  of  requests  being  made  to  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  which  reflects 
the  widespread 
acceptance of the primacy  of law  and the interest that 
States  accord  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes. 
The importance of the role of the International Court of 
Justice  as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations  in  settling  disputes  can  be  gauged  by  the 
growing  confidence  placed 
that 
increasingly are turning to the wisdom of its judges. 

In promoting the legal resolution of disputes, the 
supreme  court  of  the  United  Nations  participates  in 
establishing  peaceful  relations  between  States  and 
it  by  States 
in 
08-57795 

21 
in  many 
situations, 
to 
its 

efforts 
to  maintain 
interpretations 
A/63/PV.34 

greatly contributes to the maintenance of international 
peace  and  security.  Likewise,  in  basing  its  action  on 
promoting  the  rule  of  law,  the  International  Court  of 
Justice also contributes to respect for the rule of law at 
the  international  level.  In  addition,  the  decisions  and 
judgments  of  the  Court  serve  as  jurisprudence  and 
legal 
thus 
the  enrichment,  codification  and 
contributing 
unification of international law.  

My  delegation  therefore  reiterates  its  strong 
support  for  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  its 
commendable 
current 
effectiveness and we plead for all necessary assistance 
to that end.  

As  I  had  occasion  to  recall  during  the  Sixth 
Committee’s consideration of the report of the Special 
Committee on the Charter of the United Nations and on 
the  Strengthening  of  the  Role  of  the  Organization 
(A/63/33) at this session of the General Assembly, the 
beneficial effects of the peaceful settlement of disputes 
are evident. 

The  reference  in  the  United  Nations  Charter  to 
the  settlement  of  disputes  “by  peaceful  means,  and  in 
conformity  with 
justice  and 
international law” being one of the primary purposes of 
the  United  Nations  and  the  main  instrument  for 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security,  sums  up 
the importance of that type of settlement. 

special 
responsibility  to  promote  the  settlement  of  disputes, 
including  legal  disputes,  by  the  International  Court  of 
Justice. That is why my delegation is greatly interested 
in the Trust Fund to Assist States in the Settlement of 
Disputes through the International Court of Justice. In 
that  regard,  I  would  like  to  echo  the  Secretary-
General’s  appeal  to  States  to  make  substantial  and 
regular contributions to the Trust Fund.  
Mr.  García  González  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 

Spanish):  The  delegation  of  El  Salvador  wishes  to 
express 
to  Judge  Rosalyn  Higgins, 
President of the International Court  of Justice, for her 
introduction of the Court’s excellent report (A/63/4) to 
the  General  Assembly,  covering  the  period  from 
1 August 2007 to 31 July 2008.  

We  also  wish  to  congratulate  the  Court  on  its 
efforts to achieve the objectives that Judge Higgins set 
forth  in  her  statement. This  is  of  prime  importance  in 
the  United  Nations  has  a 
the  principles  of 
its  gratitude 
Thus, 
the 
the 
in 
confidence  of 
that  high  court  of 
topical  matters,  such  as 
international 
increasing 
community 
justice,  which 
significantly  contributes  to  maintaining  international 
peace and security by exercising its jurisdiction. 

That growing confidence in the Court is reflected 
in  the  number  of  litigious  disputes  and  requests  for 
advisory  opinions  being  brought  before  it,  and  in  the 
diversity  of  the  States  that  are  party  to  them.  As  the 
report clearly states, that shows the universality of the 
Court.  
We  very  much  welcome  the  range  of  disputes 

brought  before  the  Court.  As  well  as  dealing  with 
traditional  territorial  disputes,  maritime  delimitation 
cases and disputes linked to the treatment of nationals 
of  one  State  by  other  States,  the  Court  is  also  now 
examining  very 
those 
connected  with  human  rights  and  shared  natural 
resources.  Those  disputes  have  gained  in  complexity 
now  that  they  involve  several  phases  as  a  result  of 
preliminary  objections  raised  by  respondents  with 
regard to the jurisdiction or admissibility, as well as the 
requests  for  provisional  measures  that  need  urgent 
examination.  

The  Republic  of  El  Salvador  acknowledges  the 
great legal value of the judgments of the Court both to 
the  States  party  to  a  dispute  and  to  all  other  States  in 
the 
they  establish 
guidelines  that  contribute  to  the  codification  and 
progressive  development  of  international  law  and  the 
strengthening of the rule of law.  
In  that  regard,  our  country  is  delighted  to 

welcome the establishment of the Court’s new website, 
launched  last  year,  not  only  because  of  the  amount  of 
information it provides, but also because of the efforts 
to  include  material  in  the  official  United  Nations 
languages.  That  not  only  extends  the  global  reach  of 
the Court, but also means that, from the outset of their 
studies,  future  generations  of  lawyers  will  know  and 
become  familiar  with  the  large  body  of  jurisprudence 
established  by  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and 
understand  the  important  role  that  the  Court  plays  in 
maintaining international peace and security. 
In conclusion, I would like to recall that, in a few 

days,  in  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council the election of judges to the five vacant seats 
on  the  International  Court  of  Justice  will  take  place. 
We  call  on  those  who  are  elected  to  ensure  that  their 
work in the Court is as committed and dedicated as that 
international  community,  since 
22 

08-57795 
to  31 
great 
importance 
Singapore 
attaches 


which has been carried out to date, since it represents 
the great civilizations and principal judicial systems of 
the world. 
Ms.  Kok  (Singapore):  My  delegation  would  like 

to  express  our  appreciation  to  Her  Excellency  Judge 
Rosalyn  Higgins,  President  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice,  to  the  other  members  of  the  Court,  and  to 
the  Registrar  and  the  staff  of  the  Court  for  the 
comprehensive  report  (A/63/4)  documenting  the  work 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for  the  period 
1 August  2007 
July  2008.  Singapore 
congratulates  the  Court  on  the  conclusion  of  another 
industrious and productive year. 

to 
international  law,  and  we  have  always  sought  to 
conduct  ourselves  in  conformity  with  it.  We  have 
worked with other like-minded States to strengthen the 
rule  of  law  in  the  world.  We  believe  in  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes.  When  States  cannot  resolve 
their  differences  by  consultations,  negotiations  or 
mediation,  we  believe  that  it  is  preferable  to  refer  a 
dispute  to  a  binding  third-party  procedure.  That  can 
take the form of either arbitration or adjudication.  

The International Court of Justice provides States 
with  the  latter  recourse.  It  is  an  efficient  mechanism 
established  to  settle,  in  accordance  with  international 
law, legal disputes submitted to it by States. The Court 
plays  an  important  role  in  enunciating  principles  of 
international law that help to develop predictability and 
consistency  in  inter-State  relations.  For  those  reasons, 
Singapore  wishes  to  stress  its  firm  belief  in  the 
importance of the Court and the critical role it plays in 
upholding the rule of law in the world and the corollary 
maintenance of international peace and order. 
there  are  numerous 

specialized  courts  and  tribunals  in  the  United  Nations 
system. While there is no formal hierarchy of courts in 
international  law,  the  International  Court  of  Justice  is 
the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  and 
is  primus 
first  among  equals. 
Notwithstanding its increasing workload, the Court has 
discharged 
impeccable 
professionalism and expertise. 

As  stated  in  the  report,  on  23  May  2008,  the 
Court  delivered  its  judgment  in  the  case  concerning 
Sovereignty  over  Pedra  Branca/Pulau  Batu  Puteh, 
Middle  Rocks  and  South  Ledge  (Malaysia/Singapore). 
The  Court  found  that  sovereignty  over  Pedra  Branca 
responsibilities  with 
inter  pares,  or 
Singapore  notes 
that 
its 
A/63/PV.34
that  wish 
belongs  to  Singapore  and  sovereignty  over  Middle 
Rocks belongs to Malaysia. The Court also found that 
sovereignty  over  South  Ledge  belongs  to  the  State  in 
the territorial waters of which it is located. 

The  judgment  marks  an  end  to  a  long-standing 
dispute  between  Malaysia  and  Singapore.  As  close 
neighbours 
to  maintain  good  bilateral 
relations,  we  decided  to  refer  the  matter  to  binding 
third-party adjudication,  and thus we brought the case 
before the Court in 2003. 
From the very beginning, when the decision was 

made to submit the matter to the Court, both Malaysia 
and Singapore agreed to abide by the judgment of the 
International  Court  of  Justice.  This  joint  commitment 
to honour and abide by the judgment of the Court and 
fully  implement  its  decision  has  been  repeatedly 
confirmed  by  both  Malaysia  and  Singapore,  most 
recently  after  the  judgment  was  delivered.  To  ensure 
the  implementation  of  the  judgment  in  a  peaceful  and 
amicable manner, Malaysia and Singapore have set up 
a  joint  technical  committee  to  resolve  issues  arising 
from the judgment. 
Most  importantly,  the  commitment  to  abide  by 

the  decision  of  a  third-party  adjudicator  by  both  sides 
to a dispute is fundamental to upholding and respecting 
the  rule  of  international  law,  which  is  necessary  for 
peaceful  inter-State  relations  and  the  maintenance  of 
world  order. This  idea  is  another  aspect  and  subset  of 
the  principle  of  States  upholding  their  international 
obligations in good faith. 
Singapore has always marvelled at how the Court 

manages  to  do  so  much  with  the  funds  allocated. 
Singapore  takes  note  of  the  Court’s  appropriate  and 
timely development plans as described in its report. We 
applaud  the  Court’s  efforts  to  modernize  its  system  in 
line with current practices.  

Singapore  is  sympathetic  to  the  Court’s  need  for 
more  manpower.  Given  that  it  continues  to  fulfil  its 
mandate responsibly and given its core function as the 
principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  system, 
the  Court  should  be  readily  supported  by  all  Member 
States. It is important that we ensure that the Court is 
adequately  provided 
the 
continued  allocation  of  resources  from  the  United 
Nations  regular  budget  to  the  Court  for  its  effective 
functioning. 
for.  Singapore  supports 
08-57795 

23 
like 
to  reiterate 
like 
In  summary,  I  would 
A/63/PV.34 


that 
Singapore  places  great  emphasis  on  the  rule  of  law, 
both  domestic  and  international.  As  a  member  of  the 
peaceloving  United  Nations  community,  Singapore 
firmly  believes  that  each  of  us  shares  a  special 
responsibility  to  ensure  continued  respect  for  and 
observance of the rules of international law. We can do 
our part in this endeavour by showing our support for 
the  Court  and  respecting  its  decisions.  The  Court  can 
be  assured  of  Singapore’s  steadfast  regard  for  it,  and 
my  delegation  wishes  the  Court  all  good  fortune  as  it 
engages in the work ahead. 
Mr. Serradas Taveres (Portugal): At the outset, I 

would 
to  congratulate  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-third session. Let me also 
congratulate  President  Higgins  for  her  work  at  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  and  thank  her  again  for 
the  comprehensive  report  on  the  work  of  the  Court 
over the period under review. 

The  International  Court  of  Justice,  it  should  be 
recalled,  is  the  only  international  court  of  a  universal 
character  with  general  jurisdiction.  As  the  principal 
judicial  body  of  the  United  Nations,  the  Court  holds 
important 
international 
community,  playing  a  fundamental  role  in  the  judicial 
settlement  of  disputes  between  States  and  in  the 
strengthening of the international rule of law. 

The  workload  of  the  Court  confirms  its  relevant 
role in the international legal system. As Judge Higgins 
reminded us in her statement, the past year has been the 
most  productive  year  in  the  Court’s  history.  In  July 
2008, the number of cases on the docket stood at 12. In 
the period under review the Court issued four judgments 
and  an  order  on  a  request  for  indication  of  provisional 
measures. Further, it held hearings in four cases. 

It  is  worthwhile  highlighting  that  these  cases 
come from all over the world, relate to a great variety 
of subject matters and are growing in factual and legal 
complexity.  The  Court  has  undertaken  an  impressive 
effort in order to respond to this high level of demand 
for its services. However, it is also important for States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  acknowledge  the 
Court’s need for adequate resources. 

The Court plays a crucial role in the international 
legal  system,  and  this  role  is  increasingly  being 
recognized  and  accepted.  As  of  31  July  2008,  the 
192 States Members of the United Nations were parties 
responsibilities 
in 
the 

Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
to  the  Statute  of  the  Court,  and  66  of  them  had 
recognized  its  jurisdiction  as  compulsory.  Moreover, 
approximately  300  bilateral  and  multilateral  treaties 
provide for the Court to have jurisdiction in the resolution 
of disputes arising out of the application or interpretation 
of  such  treaties.  Portugal  would  like  to  encourage  all 
States that have not yet done so to consider accepting the 
Court’s compulsory jurisdiction. 

Portugal is confident that the Court will continue 
to  overcome  the  challenges  that  will  increasingly 
impinge  upon  it.  These  challenges  may  be  considered 
to be a good sign, as their existence means that States 
have  confidence  in  the  Court  for  the  settlement  of 
disputes  and  for  the  strengthening  of  the  international 
rule of law towards justice and peace. 
in 

French): I would like first of all to extend my deepest 
thanks  to  Judge  Rosalyn  Higgins,  President  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  for  the  excellent  report 
she  has  just  submitted  to  us  on  the  work  of  the  Court 
during the period from 1 August 2007 to 31 July 2008. 

I wish to say to the President of the Court that for 
the peoples of the United Nations, the role entrusted to 
that very noble institution that she has the difficult and 
delicate  task  of  heading,  is  irreplaceable  in  terms  of 
finding  peaceful  settlement  to  international  disputes 
and in promoting the rule of law. 

That  is  why  it  is  correct  to  note  that,  at  the  2005 
World  Summit,  the  leaders  of  the  entire  world  met 
together  here 
to 
emphasizing  the  obligation  imposed  on  States  to  settle 
their  disputes  by  peaceful  means,  in  accordance  with 
Chapter  VI  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
including, should it be necessary, the obligation to bring 
such disputes before the International Court of Justice. 

In our ongoing search for a society in which law 
prevails,  we  see  the  International  Court  of  Justice  as 
the best means for ensuring a brighter future for future 
generations.  

Cameroon is convinced of the importance of law 
in inter-State relations and would therefore like to take 
this  opportunity  to  confirm  once  again  its  support  for 
the role played by the International Court of Justice as 
the principal judicial organ of the Organization and the 
only universal court with general jurisdiction. Not only 
does  the  Court  decide  disputes  that  States  bring  to  it 
freely  in  exercise  of  their  sovereignty,  but  the  Court 
this  very  Hall  committed 
in 
24 

08-57795 


can also be consulted on any legal issue by the General 
Assembly or the Security Council.  

Despite  the  high  level  and  complexity  of  the 
matters  brought  to  it,  the  Court  has  never  been  as 
successful and productive as it has been in recent years.  

In  the  period  under  review,  it  has  issued  four 
judgments and one order on a request for the indication 
of  provisional  measures.  Moreover,  the  cases  brought 
to the Court  have come  from all  corners of the globe. 
That  admirable  vitality  of  the  Court  derives  from  the 
intrinsic  worth  and  the  high  moral  probity  of  the  men 
and  women  who  work  there.  It  also  derives  from  the 
seriousness of the decisions rendered by the Court and 
from  its  enduring  desire  to  deal  swiftly  with  matters 
brought before it. 

Cameroon  welcomes  the  successes  recorded  by 
the  Court  for  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security.  Those  results  would  not  have  been 
possible  unless  the  Court  were  inspired  by  a  constant 
desire  to  improve  its  productivity.  The Assembly  may 
be  assured  of  my  country’s  support  for  the  significant 
contribution  made  by  the  Court,  for  the  rule  of  law  in 
international relations and for the remarkable efforts the 
Court has made to quickly settle matters submitted to it. 

Since  it  was  founded  in  1946,  the  Court  has 
handed  down  over  92  judgments,  of  which  more  than 
one fifth have been in the last 10 years. That increase is 
proof of the confidence that the authority of the Court 
inspires in more and more States. Cameroon believes in 
the  rule  of  law,  and  we  believe  that  trust  in  the  Court 
should  be  reflected  in  universal  acceptance  of  its 
compulsory jurisdiction, in accordance with Article 36, 
paragraph 2 of the Statute of the Court. As of 31 July 
this  year,  of  the  192  Member  States  of  the  United 
Nations,  only  66  have  made  declarations  recognizing 
the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court.  That  is  less 
than one third of the membership. 

The  increase  in  the  number  of  cases  brought 
before the Court is an ongoing challenge, but it is one 
we must face if we are to achieve universal jurisdiction 
and confirm our support for Article 36. 

May I turn now to the matter of the resources the 
Court  needs  to  proceed  impartially  with  its  work.  For 
the  biennium  2008-2009  the  Court  had  requested  a 
number  of  posts,  not  all  of  which  were  approved. 
Cameroon  believes 
respond 
favourably to the Court’s financial requests, we run the 
if  we  do  not 
that 
A/63/PV.34
risk  of  hampering  the  good  normal  functioning  of  the 
principal judicial organ of the United Nations. We will 
closely  follow  the  proposals  that  the Assembly’s  Fifth 
Committee  makes  on  this  matter,  on  the  basis  of 
technical  advice  from  the  Advisory  Committee  on 
Administrative  and  Budgetary  Questions,  which  has 
always  supported  allocations  to  modernize  the  tools 
and working methods of the Court and to improve the 
conditions  of  service  of  the  judges.  We  have  to  be 
supportive of the Court as it increases its productivity, 
in particular as regards the progressive development of 
international law. 

In  conclusion,  may  I  say  once  again  that  my 
country  truly  believes  in  the  primacy  of  law  in 
international  relations  and,  thus,  in  the  fundamental 
role of the International Court of Justice in promoting 
the rule of law.  

My  country’s  commitment  to  the  Court  and  to 
law  is  illustrated  by  the  Bakassi  case,  which  we 
brought  before  the  Court.  The  case  resulted  in  a 
successful  outcome  between  Cameroon  and  the  sister 
Republic  of  Nigeria, thereby  opening  up  a  new  era  of 
peace and enhanced economic cooperation between the 
two countries. 


Programme of work 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish): I  wish  to 

inform  members  that  agenda  item  58,  “Report  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council”,  will  be  considered  on 
Tuesday, 4 November 2008, in the morning.  
I  should  also  like  to  announce  the  following 

activities.  The  2008  United  Nations  Pledging 
Conference for Development Activities will be held on 
Monday,  10  November  2008,  in  the  morning,  in 
Conference Room 2. The Pledging Conference for the 
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations and the World Food Programme will be held in 
the afternoon of the same  day, Monday, 10 November 
2008, also in Conference Room 2. 

The  announcement  of  voluntary  contributions  to 
the 2008 programmes of the United Nations Relief and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East 
will  take  place  on  Wednesday,  10  December  2008,  at 
11 a.m., in the Economic and Social Council Chamber.  
Members are requested to consult the Journal for 

further details on those activities. 
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. 
08-57795 

25 
