
A/63/PV.8
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-third session 

8th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 24 September 2008, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Nicaragua) 
Nations and use this opportunity also to recognize the 
determination  of  the  Central  American  Presidents  to 
bring about a process of Central American integration. 
As  was  recognized  by  the  European  Commission,  the 
region  of  the  world  that  is  unifying  the  most  and 
becoming  the  most  integrated  is  Central  America  — 
after  Europe,  of  course.  That  is  part  of  an  important 
process,  because  we  are  addressing  on  areas  and 
sectors that are important for our society. 

Francisco  Morazán  was  a  martyr  who  gave  his 
life  for  the  cause  of  Central  American  union  and  for 
liberal policies, opposing the enemies of independence 
and  freedom.  The  peoples  of  Central  America  and  of 
Honduras  continue  to  fight  for  these  causes.  We 
continue  to  fight  for  unity  as  we  seek  to  establish 
economic independence. In recent years, Honduras has 
achieved  a  sustainable  growth  rate  of  between  6  and 
7 per  cent,  and  we  have  been  able  to  reduce  poverty 
and  have  recognized  the  international  and  national 
importance  of  protecting  the  environment.  Honduras 
has  become  a  tourist  destination  in  Central  America, 
because  of  the  beauty  of  its  main  Caribbean  Bay 
Islands, such as Guanaja, Utila and Roatán. 

However,  today,  all  of  those  advances  in  our 
economy and in the fight against poverty are being put 
in jeopardy by the crisis and the international scale of 
the financial  fraud that has been brought about by the 
big multinationals in the world. The serious events that 
today  have  dragged  us  into  a  food  and  energy  crisis 
with high fuel prices, and the collapse of the financial 
systems,  particularly  here  in  the  United  States  of 




The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m. 

Address by Mr. José Manuel Zelaya Rosales, 
President of the Republic of Honduras 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Honduras. 
Mr. José Manuel Zelaya Rosales, President of the 
Republic  of  Honduras,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  José  Manuel 
Zelaya Rosales, President of the Republic of Honduras, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Zelaya  Rosales  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Mr. President, allow me to extend you the warmest and 
most  heartfelt  greeting  of 
the 
Government  of  Honduras.  I  would  also  extend  this 
greeting  to  all  nations  and  peoples  represented  here.  I 
congratulate you, Sir, a distinguished representative of 
the  Republic  of  Nicaragua  who  today  is  leading  the 
Assembly.  Your  prestige  as  a  man  of  peace  and 
harmony  and  as  a  builder  of  dreams  and  utopias  has 
been  recognized  throughout  the  world  through  the 
numerous prizes you have received, which honour the 
peoples of Central America. 

Honduras  currently  holds  the  presidency  pro 
tempore  of  the  Central  American  Integration  System, 
and  I  would  like  to  recognize  the  work  of  the  United 
the  people  and 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
08-51839 (E) 
*0851839* 

A/63/PV.8 

America, have shown that what I and others Presidents 
are saying today are historic and irrefutable truths. 

For  example,  in  our  countries,  particularly  in 
Honduras,  poverty  and  inequality  are  continuing  to 
grow more marked in our societies. The State continues 
to become weaker through privatizations and capital is 
concentrated in a few firms and a few hands, lessening 
capacity  to  produce  and  generate  development  for  our 
people.  In  recent  years,  the  unequal  distribution  of 
wealth and income has become ever more entrenched. 
In  Honduras,  less  than  1  per  cent  of  the  population 
possesses  70  per  cent  of  the  national  wealth.  Barely 
10 families  with  links  to  international  capital  control 
the  main  economic  activities  of  the  country,  naturally 
impoverishing the rest of the population. 

Over  the  last  two  centuries,  our  peoples  and  our 
region have resisted with heroism, dignity and stoicism 
the onslaught of the cruel system that governs us. Pope 
John  Paul  II  himself  came  to  call  that  capitalistic 
system  savage,  an  immoral  mercantile  system  that 
exploits  men  and  women  and  turns  them  into  mere 
commodities and numbers. The merciless and demonic 
laws  of  the  invincible  market  only  satisfy  the  wealth 
and  power  of  the  few,  to  the  detriment  of  the  great 
majority  of  our  societies.  They  believe  themselves 
infallible  gods.  They  are  like  a  sinister  Proteus  that 
plays cat and mouse with people. They act like Saturn, 
the  Greek  god  who  devoured  his  children  out  of  fear 
that  they  would  dethrone  him.  However,  today,  with 
that  logic  of  the  law  of  the  market,  his  sons  are 
devouring their creator in the very cradle of capitalism, 
in  the  great  centre  of Wall  Street  or  the  other  hubs  of 
speculative capital in the world. 

To  give  an  example,  the  international  trafficking 
of  drugs,  arms  and  people  are  other  scourges  that 
prevent  us  developing  peoples  from  achieving  the 
economic  freedom  and  independence  to  which  our 
nations aspire. The submission of our poor countries to 
the  economic  choices  of  international  capital  is  brutal 
and surprising. We can say that capitalism is devouring 
human  beings 
the  world,  and 
paradoxically it is now also devouring the very creators 
of  that  system.  Here  I  shall  mention  two  particularly 
salient  examples.  In  Honduras,  over  the  last  20  years, 
many  small  coffee  producers  have  succeeded 
in 
increasing  their  exports  from  $200  million  to  almost 
$600  million.  That  involved  20  years  of  hard  work. 
However, in the last 12 months, in barely a year, with 
the  doubling  of  the  prices  of  energy,  oil,  food,  wheat 
in  most  parts  of 
that 
the 
international 
and  the  main  staples  that  we  consume,  we  are  now 
losing what we achieved in that period of hard work. 

Another  example  is  what  has  happened  here  to 
the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations.  In  2000,  this 
Organization agreed that poverty should be reduced by 
at least 50 per cent in 15 years, which we know is not 
coming  about.  The  goal  of  reducing  poverty  and  the 
contributions that the international community pledged 
to  the  developing  world  are  not  being  translated  into 
reality.  In  contrast,  by  way  of  giving  an  example,  for 
each  dollar 
community 
contributes to cooperation, it allocates 10 dollars to the 
arms race. 

Another  quite  fantastic  example  to  give  today  is 
what  is  happening  with  the  bankruptcy  of  the  big 
investment  banks.  Now  people  are  racing  to  provide 
funds  to  those  big  banks.  Logically,  if  we  were  to 
provide  them  with  what  is  being  proposed  today  to 
save  those  banking  institutions  that  have  created  that 
speculative  capital  —  a  sum  of  $700  billion  —  with 
just  a  third  of  that  amount  we  could  reduce  and 
immediately  put  an  end  to  poverty  in  Africa, Asia  or 
Latin  America.  That  system  is  the  true  present-day 
King Midas, who tried to convert everything into gold 
and  profit  for  one  particular  sector. We  shall  never  be 
free under that system, and we know that we must not 
accept 
and 
neocolonialism  through  which,  by  its  domination,  it 
bends us to its purposes. 

The  question  for  us  all  is  can  that  difficult 
situation  being  experienced  today,  particularly  by  the 
less developed countries, be saved. The answer is yes, 
we can save ourselves from that crisis. We can respond. 
First, the State must act, the State must operate again in 
terms  of  social  commitment.  Capital  must  be  used  so 
that it serves to build a genuinely fair society. The aim 
should  not  be  to  destroy  the  market  but  simply  to 
construct  a  social  market  economy.  Capital  should 
exist, but with limits. Defining the limits of capitalism 
is  important  to  put  an  end  to  its  primitive  laws  of  the 
jungle.  The  aim  is  not  to  eliminate  entrepreneurship 
and  the  free  market,  but  to  check  and  regulate  the 
abuses and to humanize and sensitize those who are in 
the driving seat.  

We  must  support  a  genuine  democratic  system, 
not  only  in  international  bodies  but  also  internally 
within our countries. We must reform false democracy, 
which  uses  different  political  means  to  legitimize  that 
neo-slavery 
that 
condition 
of 
2 

08-51839 
function.  Since 


system  of  exploitation  and  injustice.  It  is  a  false 
democracy, in which men and women are seen merely 
as  voters,  as  useful  instruments  employed  only  to 
distribute  power,  whose  consciences  are  manipulated 
by  the  highest  bidder  in  a  political  comedy  in  which 
those  who  possess  wealth  impose  their  mercantile 
irrationality  on  the  larger  group  of  those  who  are 
excluded  from  and  marginalized  by  the  system.  We 
must  reform  that  system,  improve  it  and  strengthen  it 
so  as  to  convert  it  into  a  genuine  democracy.  It  is  by 
the logic of political democracies that Governments are 
controlled  and  States  manipulated,  basic  services  are 
privatized  and  the  whole  of  society  is  indoctrinated 
with an ideology of gain, egoism and individualism. 

Imperialism  as  a  system  of  domination  of 
countries and of trade must disappear from the face of 
the Earth. The twenty-first century, and the peoples of 
the twenty-first century, should not have to pay for the 
excesses and brutality of the twentieth century.  
We  agree  that  property  must  exist,  as  it  has  a 

social 
the  beginning  of  social 
organization  in  the  world,  property  has  always  been 
granted within the framework of collective ownership. 
There must be the authority to intervene in speculative 
markets,  as  is  happening  now  in  the  United  States. 
Traders and their spokespeople do not have the right to 
direct society. The strategic areas of the economy must 
be  at  the  service  of  the  State  and  under  its  control  to 
ensure  that  society  never  finds  itself  without  food  or 
medicine  and  that  consumers  are  not  robbed.  Profits 
produced by work, wealth and capital should be better 
distributed  in  our  societies  among  the  real  owners  — 
workers,  producers,  capitalists,  consumers  and  the 
State — in order to attain a common good.  

The  major  transnational  companies  that  produce 
medicines  and  chemical  products 
should  make 
available  to  developing  countries  the  patents  for 
technological  discoveries 
living 
conditions  for  our  citizens.  This  is  a  time  for  human 
solidarity.  

We  should  end  unfair  competition  in  markets  by 
eliminating  subsidies  in  industrialized  countries  and 
removing tariff and non-tariff barriers. That would be a 
good  message  of  the  international  community,  a  good 
intention  at  this  time  of  crisis,  for  those  peoples  that 
were  once  their  colonies,  a  message  that  we  are  no 
longer  looked  upon  as  mere  game  reserves  but  as 
brothers in humanity.  
that  can 
improve 
A/63/PV.8
the 
right 
to  opportunities  and 
Developed  countries  have  a 

I am sure that the peoples of the world are able to 
come together to provide alternatives to a crude system 
that kills and destroys everything that does not adapt to 
its unmerciful laws. 

responsibility 
towards  the  peoples.  Members  know  that  very  well. 
This  afternoon  we  want  to  say,  from  this  United 
Nations  rostrum,  that  we  are  very  grateful  to  the 
developed  world,  the  industrialized  world,  for  their 
cooperation  with  us  at  certain  times.  However,  our 
peoples  and  our  countries  do  not  want  donations.  We 
have not come here to beg.  
What  we  want  is  to  be  treated  with  equality  and 

respect,  and 
to 
participate.  We  do  not  want  to  be  affected  by  the 
asymmetries  in  the  economies  and  differences  in 
developed  countries.  We  do  not  want  to  have  models 
imposed  on  us,  models  that  only  impoverish  our 
nations. We do not want to be given lessons about how 
to  manage  our  economies.  We  want  to  be  given 
examples of solidarity and responsibility in the face of 
the  major  problems  of  nations,  examples  of  how  to 
distinguish  between  matters  of  importance  to  human 
beings  and  matters  that  are  simply  material.  To 
developed countries we say that if they offer us aid, do 
not  attach  conditions  to  our  acceptance  of  it.  Do  not 
insist  that  we  accept  a  neoliberal  model  that  is 
suffocating and exploiting our communities.  

We  cannot  continue  to  measure  development  of 
countries  by  the  profits  of  large  companies.  We  must 
measure development by the access of young people to 
education  and  jobs,  of  children  to  food,  of  mothers  to 
hospitals, of those who are ill to treatment, and of the 
undernourished to food. 
We  say  to  the  countries  of  the  Group  of  Eight 

(G8),  with  all  due  respect,  that  that  very  important 
organization  should  expand  its  membership  to  include 
countries  that  represent  the  five  continents,  to  include 
countries  of  the  Americas,  such  as  Mexico,  Brazil, 
Bolivia  or  Cuba,  or,  from  other  areas,  India.  The  G8 
should  increase  its  capacity  for  dialogue  with,  for 
example,  Central  America  or  the  South  American 
Common  Market  (MERCOSUR),  where  there  are  so 
many  societies  that  could  contribute  with  ideas,  for 
ideas are sometimes worth more than money.  
that  cooperate  should  respect 

their  own  aid 
national  systems  and  not 
reception  mechanisms  on  us.  They  should  respect  the 
The  countries 
impose 
08-51839 

3 

in 
its  programmes, 
A/63/PV.8 

national  priorities  and  systems  that  each  country  has 
developed 
the  planning  of 
Governments legitimately elected by the people. 

Likewise,  with  all  due  respect  to  the  European 
countries and to the United States of America, we wish 
to ask them to consider — as a gesture of goodwill and 
in light of the problems that we ourselves are suffering 
as  a  result  of  the  financial  imbalances  that  those 
countries  caused  —  the  rights  of  immigrants  who  are 
already  on  their  territories.  I  would  also  like  to  recall 
that  the  peoples  living  in  the  lands  of  America  and 
Europe  were  themselves  once  immigrants  in  those 
lands. 

What does it cost to reunite migrant families and 
to  begin  to  deal  with  their  documentation,  instead  of 
deporting  them? To  immigrate  is  a  human  right,  not  a 
crime,  and  we  should  consider  it  in  the  context  of 
respect for society. All of us want peace and harmony, 
and this is the best means of obtaining them. 

The world is also concerned with the enlargement 
of  the  Security  Council.  Like  other  presidents  who 
have  spoken  about  this  matter  from  this  podium  over 
the  decades,  we  believe 
there  should  be 
democratization at the very top of the United Nations, 
and  the  example  should  begin  at  home.  That  way  we 
could  discuss  the  real  problems  of  humanity  and  find 
solutions.  

We therefore need to establish a new pedagogy, a 
new way of education of our peoples, our children and 
future  generations.  We  must  cultivate,  as  is  logical, 
genuine freedom for our nations, freedom of the press, 
freedom  of  movement,  an  honest  freedom  that  gives 
the people the opportunity to know the truth about their 
problems without lies and manipulation. 

teaching 
that  we  are 
proposing  to  the  General  Assembly  today  could  be 
promoted through the development programmes of the 
United  Nations.  We  must  begin  to  teach  the  value  of 
solidarity  among  human  beings,  among  countries  and 
among the various organizations represented here. That 
teaching should demonstrate in a practical way that the 
centre  of  the  world  is  not  material  possessions  or 
money;  the  centre  of  the  world  should  always  be  the 
human  being  —  men  and  women,  young  people, 
children, the elderly, those beings with a soul and who 
are made in the image of the Creator of the universe. 
The  new  manner  of 
that 

In conclusion, I wish to take a moment to read a 
poem  entitled,  “Gold”,  by  the  Honduran  poet  and 
writer  Alfonso  Guillén  Zelaya,  who  described  well 
through  poetry  the  events  we  have  addressed  in  the 
Assembly.  
“Gold killed in men the native communion;  
It divided the Earth and corrupted affection. 
Before that, hunger did not exist. 
Fruit grew in all places freely before this, 
Waters, hunting, the plains were free. 
As there were no owners, there were never thieves. 
Life was one of peace, of love and of gentleness. 
People were good, like blessings. 
But, Lord of the gifts, 
Your gifts are gone. 
We are now condemned to live without fortune,  
Everything that we have made, 
Our own clothing, with the gold of the stars and the 
silver of the moon.” 

This is the Christian moral; it is the moral of the 
message  today,  tomorrow  and  forever,  that  we  must 
accept the fact that this world is extremely materialistic 
and not very spiritual. It was the message offered when 
a  tycoon  approached  the  Master  of  Galilee  and  asked, 
Lord,  how  do  I  save  myself?  He  replied:  leave  your 
possessions and follow me.  

I would like to end with those thoughts on liberty, 
which  is  what  our  societies  most  need  today.  Let  us 
ensure that the liberty advocated by our forefathers — 
Martí, Bolívar and Morazán — transforms the destiny 
of  globalization  so 
into  a 
globalization  of  solidarity,  of  justice  and  of  harmony 
among  the  peoples.  We  must  regain  trust  in  the 
collective  so  that  we  can  return  to  trusting  in  reason 
and say to the minority that they cannot be the reason 
for  the  State  simply  because  of  what  they  own.  That 
alienating argument is unsustainable for the peoples of 
the world.  

I fervently appeal this afternoon for us to secure 
votes  for  the  freedom  and  peace  of  all  peoples  and 
nations  of  the  Earth,  for  the  principles  expressed  and 
ratified  today  in  the  sixty-third  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  because  I  firmly  believe  that  a  new  world, 
another world, a better world is still possible. We have 
united  to  defend  important  matters  of  other  countries. 
We  have  united  to  defend  the  positions  of  President 
Evo Morales in Bolivia so that a real social democracy 
can be established, as he has advocated. Based on those 
that  we  convert 
it 
4 

08-51839 


principles,  we  have  signed  the  Bolivarian  Alternative 
for  the  Americas  —  ALBA  —  and,  based  on  those 
principles,  we  hope  that  the  international  community 
will also provide the international solidarity needed by 
Taiwan, which is asking for that solidarity. 

We  ask  that  God’s  blessing  for  you  all  and  for 
your families and your nations become a reality today, 
tomorrow and forevermore. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the Republic of Honduras for the statement he has just 
made. 
Mr. José Manuel Zelaya Rosales, President of the 
Republic  of  Honduras,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.  


Address by Mr. Armando Emílio Guebuza, President 
of the Republic of Mozambique 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Mozambique. 
to 
like 
to 

(spoke 
to  address 
invite  him 
President  Guebuza
  Mr.  Armando  Emílio  Guebuza,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mozambique,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Armando 
the  Republic  of 
Emílio  Guebuza,  President  of 
Mozambique,  and 
the 
Assembly. 
in  Portuguese; 

English text provided by the delegation): Mr. President, 
we  would 
in 
congratulating  you  upon  your  election 
the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-third 
session.  We  are  confident  that  under  your  wise  and 
diligent 
leadership,  our  deliberations  will  be 
successful.  We  take  this  opportunity  to  assure  you  of 
our  full  collaboration  and  wish  you  success  in  the 
discharge of your important responsibilities. 

to  your 
to  express  our  gratitude 
predecessor,  Srgjan  Kerim  of  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  for 
the  pragmatism  and 
dynamism of his endeavours in conducting the work of 
the  sixty-second  session.  We  also 
reiterate  our 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
speakers 
to 
join  previous 
We  wish 
A/63/PV.8
to 
in  agricultural  production 
for  cereals;  higher  oil  prices  and 
Nations,  Mr. Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  engagement  in  the 
quest  for  peace,  justice  and  solutions  to  the  various 
challenges faced by humanity. 

We have witnessed an increasing number of new 
and  complex  challenges. Among  them,  the  food  crisis 
is  one  of  my  country’s  main  concerns  owing  to  its 
direct,  immediate  impact  on  the  lives  of  our  peoples. 
The origin of this crisis may be linked to factors such 
as climate change and the subsequent irregular rainfall 
that affects agricultural productivity; desertification of 
vast  areas  and  droughts  around  the  world;  increased 
demand 
the 
consequent  impact  on  the  price  of  transportation  and 
other  products  such  as  agricultural  raw  materials;  the 
impact of trade liberalization and agricultural subsidies 
in  developed  countries,  which  have  led  to  a  gradual 
decline 
in  developing 
countries;  and  finally,  the  distortion  of  cereal  prices 
across the globe. 

Once the causes of the crisis have been identified, 
it  becomes  the  responsibility  of  the  international 
community 
implement  relevant  and  necessary 
solutions in a consistent and vigorous manner. Through 
that  process,  the  crisis  can  be  transformed  into  an 
opportunity  to  boost  international  partnerships  and 
develop our countries. 

In  that  context  it  is  important  to  emphasize  that 
international  cooperation  stimulates  the  revival  of  the 
productivity  of  farmers  in  developing  countries,  thus 
contributing to a speedy transformation of their current 
subsistence 
commercial 
agriculture. Such cooperation includes improved access 
to  improved  seeds  and  to  fertilizers  and  pesticides, 
investments  in  infrastructure  for  market  accessibility 
and  water  management.  Accordingly,  we  reiterate  the 
need  to  implement  the  pertinent  recommendations  set 
forth  at  the  Conference  of  the  Least  Developed 
Countries on the rules of the World Trade Organization 
and the food crisis. 
Likewise, we call for support for regional efforts 

such  as 
the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture 
Development Programme in the framework of NEPAD, 
and 
the  Southern  African 
Development  Community,  with  a  view  to  finding  a 
collective  response  to  mitigate  the  impact  of  the  food 
crisis  and  to  re-establish  agriculture  as  the  means  to 
ensure food supply and better conditions and quality of 
life for the peoples of Southern Africa. 
the  ongoing  work  by 
farming  practices 
into 
08-51839 

5 

A/63/PV.8 


Mozambique  is  vulnerable  to  natural  disasters 
and to the dynamics of the international prices of food 
and  fuel  products.  Those  factors  represent  a  major 
threat  to  the  implementation  of  the  Government’s 
socio-economic  programmes.  Despite 
the  notable 
progress 
that  we  have  been  registering  for  our 
production of cassava and maize, we still import large 
quantities of other food products. Therefore, any cereal 
price  fluctuation  in  the  world  immediately  affects  the 
day-to-day lives of our people. 

Mozambique  is  endowed  with  natural  resources 
which  are  favourable  to  mixed  farming.  However,  the 
shortage  of  financial  resources  and  the  weak  banking 
network in the rural zones, combined with the lack of 
infrastructure 
the 
development  of  commercial  agriculture,  have  not 
allowed us to scale up our production to the levels that 
could  meet  the  food  needs  of  our  population.  The 
situation 
is  worsened  by  poor  distribution  and 
marketing systems, making it difficult to distribute and 
market  the  products  from  certain  surplus  zones  to  the 
needy ones. Moreover, the cyclic natural disasters that 
have  struck  us  have  resulted  in  losses  of  significant 
plantation  areas,  causing  the  people  of  those  areas  to 
live  permanently  in  need.  Those  calamities  have  also 
caused soil erosion and depletion and as a consequence 
food insecurity and malnutrition affect our people. 
technology 
secure 
and 
to 
the 
to  address 
Mr.  Choquehuanca  Céspedes  (Bolivia),  Vice-
President, took the Chair. 
In  order 

food  crisis,  our 
Government  approved  last  June,  a  Food  Production 
Action Plan for the period 2008-2011. The programme 
was designed as a mechanism to implement the Green 
Revolution  which  we  launched  in  2007  and  is  goal-
oriented.  We  are  aware  that  implementing  the  Action 
Plan  together  with  the  Green  Revolution  will  require 
additional  resources,  and  we  are  therefore  appealing 
for  such  additional  resources  for  those  programmes. 
We  acknowledge  the  positive  effect  of  the  Green 
Revolution on the implementation of the MDGs, since 
no one can think about tomorrow or about education or 
about gender equality or the empowerment of women if 
they are hungry. 

In  February  2008,  we  launched  the  Presidential 
Initiative for women and children. At that time, several 
meetings were held with health professionals, religious 
and traditional leaders, women and youth. During those 
meetings, which are being replicated at the local level, 
6 

Our  assessments  show 
it became clear that health issues permeate the MDGs. 
Although  the  advances  that  we  have  recorded  are 
significant, they are not sufficient to have an impact on 
the reduction of avoidable deaths in Mozambique.  

for 
that  we  could, 
instance,  reduce  maternal  mortality  by  more  than 
50 per cent. We could achieve a decrease of 17 per cent 
in  child  mortality.  We  could  significantly  facilitate 
access  to  antiretroviral  treatment  and  to  treatment  for 
tuberculosis and malaria. We could, by 2010 have more 
than  95  per  cent  of  mothers  and  children  sleeping 
under  insecticide-treated  mosquito  nets.  However,  in 
order to achieve those dreams, we are dependent upon 
an  additional  funding  of  $4  per  capita  a  year  for  the 
health  sector,  from  now  until  2010.  Additionally,  we 
need  $10  million  more  for  mosquito  nets.  The  $590 
million needed to fill the deficit during the next seven 
years  could  help  us  train  and  employ  around  20,000 
additional health workers. That amount would raise the 
number  of  doctors  by  119  per  cent,  the  number  of 
nurses and of mothers with access to health care would 
rise by 68 per cent. 

Our  dream  is  to  prevent  more  avoidable  deaths. 
As we have indicated, we cannot realize that dream by 
ourselves.  We  need  the  predictable,  substantial  and 
long-term  support  of  our  partners  to  meet  the  needs 
that I have just identified. We need an efficient health-
care  system  and  coordinated  support 
from  our 
international  partners,  which  is  a  noble  way  to  ensure 
the  achievement  of  MDG  8,  which  focuses  on 
developing a global partnership for development. 

We  therefore  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
commend  and  encourage  the  perseverance  of  the 
international  solidarity  movement  in  helping  Africa, 
and  Mozambique  in  particular,  in  the  context  of 
women’s and children’s health with a view to fulfilling 
all the commitments made at the Millennium Summit. 
In  numerous  parts  of  the  world,  funds  have  been 
solicited  and  initiatives  undertaken  in  support  of  our 
programmes. That interaction with our partners has led 
to the building of the necessary consensus on priorities 
and strategies to ensure sustainable development. 

The  world  is  changing  and,  along  with  all  those 
changes,  new  global  challenges  have  arisen.  The 
United  Nations  is  a  universal  institution  with  the 
legitimacy  and  the  mandate  to  debate  strategies  and 
find  solutions  to  such  major  challenges.  Nevertheless, 
structural  reforms  are  needed  in  order  to  improve  the 
08-51839 
to 
to  overcome 
strengthen  multilateralism 


Organization’s  ability 
the  current 
challenges. In that regard, the reform process should be 
pursued so that the United Nations can achieve greater 
unity  and  improve  its  ability  to  provide  appropriate 
responses  to  the  challenges  ahead,  which  will  require 
us 
and  promote 
partnerships  for  peace,  security  and  development 
across the world. 

In  conclusion,  we  reiterate  the  importance  of 
international  cooperation  to  secure  the  production  of 
sufficient  and  affordable  food  for  all  and  to  build  a 
viable consensus for United Nations reform. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Mozambique  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Armando  Emílio  Guebuza,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mozambique,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


to 
into 
Address by Mr. Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of 
the Republic of Estonia 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Estonia. 

Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Estonia,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of the Republic of 
Estonia, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
to  begin  by 

congratulating  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann  upon 
his assumption of the office of President of the General 
Assembly.  I  wish  him  success  in  his  responsibilities 
and endeavours. I also wish to express my appreciation 
and  respect  to  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Srgjan  Kerim,  for 
his effective leadership during the sixty-second session 
of the General Assembly. 
I shall be brief. I would like to speak today about 

the 
the  Millennium 
following 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  the  prospects  for 
realizing  them;  natural  disasters  and  humanitarian 
assistance;  and  the  war  between  Georgia  and  Russia, 
Ilves:  Allow  me 
President 
issues: 
three 
A/63/PV.8
along with some of the conclusions that can be drawn 
from it. 

Let  me  begin  with  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. We must bear in mind that over half of the time 
originally  allotted  for  achieving  the  Goals  is  already 
behind  us.  Yet,  have  we  actually  reached  half  our 
goals?  As  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  reported 
here  20  days  ago,  there  are  reasons  to  doubt  that  we 
have.  Some  achievements  can  be 
regarded  as 
noteworthy  progress,  for  example  greater  access  to 
education, a marked reduction in infant mortality, debt 
relief for developing countries, an increase in access to 
information and communication technology for people 
in developing countries, and so on. We have also made 
certain progress in the fight against HIV/AIDS. 

At  the  same  time,  however,  progress  in  the 
spheres of trade and development cooperation has been 
modest. From the Secretary-General’s report, it is clear 
that,  although  the  donor  States  have  increased  their 
official  development  aid,  the  actual  flow  of  financial 
assistance  in  the  course  of  the  past  two  years  has 
actually decreased. 
The  European  Union,  of  which  Estonia  is  a 

member,  is  on  the  whole,  on  track  towards  increasing 
its development aid to 0.7 per cent of its gross national 
income,  the  objective  agreed  at  the  United  Nations. 
Estonia  has  steadily 
its  share  among 
international  donors;  our  development  aid  has  grown 
fourfold since 2004. 

In addition to the actual decrease in development 
aid,  we  suffered  a  serious  setback  when  the  Doha 
Development  Round  of  trade  negotiations  stalled  and 
where  the  main  theme  has  been  a  more  efficient 
integration of developing countries into a world trading 
system based upon equality and regulations. 

I  would  now  like  to  set  forth  several  positions 
based upon matters of principle that Estonia regards as 
essential, and which are also part of the United Nations 
Millennium Declaration. 

First, every nation is primarily responsible for its 
own  development.  In  order  to  ensure  their  proper 
development,  developing  countries  must  strengthen 
their 
capacity, 
intensify  their  fight  against  corruption  and  put  their 
economic  environment  in  order. That  is  the  only  way 
to  create  conditions  suitable  for  an  efficient  mode  of 
administrative 
infrastructure 
increased 
and 
08-51839 

7 
High 
levels 
corruption, 
A/63/PV.8 

transferring  development  aid  and  for  increasing  the 
benefits of the aid received. 

inefficient 
of 
administrative capacity and an unresponsive economic 
climate  make  it  difficult  for  donor-nation  public 
opinion  to  support  increases  in  development  aid.  In  a 
word,  our  electorates  —  and  here  I  am  of  course 
speaking  of  democratic  countries  with  free  and  fair 
elections  —  do  not  understand  why  their  taxes  are 
spent that way. 
Secondly,  donor  States  and  organizations  can 

enhance  the  effectiveness  of  development  cooperation 
by  mutually  coordinating  and  standardizing 
the 
procedures involved in development cooperation. 
Finally,  I  would  like  to  stress  that  Estonia 

strongly  supports  British  Prime  Minister  Gordon 
Brown’s 
and  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon’s 
initiative,  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  Call  to 
Action. The objective is to inform the general public of 
the  importance  of  fulfilling  the  objectives  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals programme. This year, 
Estonia  also  joined  that  initiative.  I  personally  hope 
that Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon was right when he 
said that the MDGs are still achievable if we act now. 

the 
International  Day  for  Natural  Disaster  Reduction.  In 
that connection, as opposed to the fight against poverty 
or  diseases,  we  cannot  of  course  set  objectives  for 
ourselves  that  can  be  expressed  in  monetary  amounts. 
We  can,  however,  formulate  and  implement  measures 
that  can  help  to  minimize  the  dangers  and  threats  to 
people  and  their  property,  and  to  avoid  or  reduce 
destruction 
the 
environment. We can thereby limit losses and alleviate 
the  suffering  of  people. That,  in  turn,  can  prevent  the 
social 
that  natural 
catastrophes  have  on  repeated  occasions  triggered 
throughout history. 
In the case of humanitarian catastrophes, be they 

natural  or  man-made  disasters,  it  is  of  the  utmost 
importance that help arrive on the scene as quickly as 
possible and that the access of humanitarian experts be 
ensured,  regardless  of  their  nationality  or  the  State  or 
organization  that  they  represent.  Unfortunately,  there 
have  recently  been  a  number  of  occasions  when 
various countries have permitted help from abroad only 
under  very  specific  conditions.  As  a  result  of  such 
The  second  Wednesday  of  October 
infrastructure 
to  physical 
convulsions 
economic 
is 
and 

in 
policies, it is the weakest and the most vulnerable who 
suffer the most. 

As I said earlier, I would like to talk about recent 
and  ongoing  events 
the  southern  Caucasus, 
specifically  the  military  conflict  between  Georgia  and 
Russia. There are a series of complex issues involved, 
but here in the General Assembly I would like to raise 
one fundamental question: What do those events mean 
for us, the United Nations? 

To begin with, we must realize that the principles 
governing relations between States have been seriously 
damaged. It is regrettable in the extreme that the basic 
principles  of  the  United  Nations  as  enshrined  in  the 
Charter,  such  as  the  unacceptability  of  threatening  the 
use  of  force  or  actual  aggression  against  a  nation’s 
territorial 
integrity,  were  grossly  and  grotesquely 
violated. Those principles must be and must remain the 
bases  for  the  activity  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Security  Council.  Therefore,  we  have  the  right  to 
demand and ensure that the United Nations be capable 
of  convincing  one  Member  to  withdraw  its  military 
forces from the territory of another sovereign Member 
State and to terminate its aggression. 

The  capacity  of  the  United  Nations  to  fulfil  the 
expectations placed upon it cannot be dependent upon 
whether  said  Member  nation  chooses  or  not  to  act 
according to the good practices of international law. In 
the alternative case, the United Nations loses its reason 
for existence. We cannot allow international law to be 
followed  selectively  and  only  when  convenient,  for 
then it is no longer law.  
Russia’s  behaviour  in  the  weeks  following  the 

cessation  of  combat  activity 
that, 
unfortunately,  even  in  the  first  decade  of  the  twenty-
first  century,  it  is  possible  to  refuse  to  adhere  to 
international  treaties,  to  interpret  them  arbitrarily  and 
to observe international laws only when it serves one’s 
interest. A permanent member of the Security Council 
should  be  especially  committed 
the 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  That 
forces us once more to conclude that, in the interests of 
the 
to 
improve the capacity of the United Nations to regulate 
and  resolve  conflicts.  Looking  at  recent  events,  it  has 
become quite clear how important it is to proceed with 
the reform of the Security Council.  
The  previous  month’s  events  in  the  southern 

Caucasus  raised  another  issue.  Even  before  the  armed 
international  community, 
to  fulfilling 
showed  us 
imperative 
is 
it 
and 
8 

08-51839 
to  determine  and  apprehend 


conflict  broke  out,  Georgia  was  the  target  of  a 
cyberwar  aimed  at  Government  websites,  as  well  as 
those  of  news  agencies  and  banks.  In  the  case  of 
cyberattacks  and  cyberwarfare,  it  is  becoming  ever 
more  difficult 
the 
perpetrators.  As  I  stated  last  year  from  this  very 
rostrum,  cyberattacks  are  an  international  problem  — 
indeed,  a form of  aggression — that no nation is  able 
to deal with on its own. Cyberattacks can be launched 
against  any  nation  on  any  continent,  and  from  any 
continent.  

Administering  and  policing  the  cyberworld  to 
avoid  criminal  and  hostile  attacks  requires  extensive 
cooperation  and 
relevant 
international regulations. I call upon all United Nations 
Member nations to deal with the risks associated with 
cybersecurity  with  the  utmost  seriousness.  Estonia, 
which  has  extensive  experience  dealing  with  and 
repulsing  cyberattacks, 
its 
expertise  to  thwarting  that  new  form  of  criminal 
warfare. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic  of Estonia  for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Estonia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
the  standardization  of 
to  contribute 
is  ready 


Address by Mr. Bingu Wa Mutharika, President of 
the Republic of Malawi 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Malawi. 

Mr.  Bingu  Wa  Mutharika,  President  of 
Republic  of  Malawi,  was  escorted 
into 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Bingu Wa Mutharika, President of the Republic of 
Malawi, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 

President  Mutharika:  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  congratulate  Mr.  D’Escoto  Brockmann 
on his election as President of the General Assembly at 
its  sixty-third  session.  I  also  take  this  opportunity  to 
congratulate his predecessor, Mr. Srgjan Kerim, for the 
the 
the 
to 
A/63/PV.8
wise  leadership  he  provided  to  the  General Assembly 
during the past year. 

I  wish  to  start  by  stressing  that  the  global  food 
crisis  is  a  collective  challenge  to  the  United  Nations. 
Throughout the world, more people are now unable to 
find  enough  food  to  feed  themselves.  There  are 
increased  cases  of  food  riots  that,  in  turn,  lead  to 
political  instability.  The  food  crisis  has  resulted  from 
the  failure  of  all  nations  to  increase  and  sustain  the 
production  of  staple  food  crops  such  as  wheat,  rice, 
maize,  millet,  potatoes  and  lentils,  as  well  as  of  fish, 
meat and poultry. 

As leaders in the United Nations, we were aware 
of the signs pointing towards the global food shortage, 
widespread famine and malnutrition, but we decided to 
ignore  those  signs.  We  the  world  leaders  failed  to 
acknowledge that the food crisis poses a new threat to 
the  stability  of  the  social  framework  and  economic 
prosperity of all nations, especially small ones. 

I  submit  to  the  Assembly  that  the  global  food 
crisis  is  beginning  to  erode  and  even  negate  the  gains 
made in national and global economic growth and trade 
that  were  manifested 
in  many  developed  and 
developing  countries.  If  those  negative  trends  are  not 
addressed  effectively,  there  will  be  growing  conflict 
within  and  among  nations  as  the  scramble  for  food  to 
feed 
intensifies.  Several  factors  have 
contributed to the global food crisis, but I will mention 
only a few. 

food 
production  in  many  countries  has  been  affected  by 
persistent  severe  climate  changes,  such  as  cyclones, 
hurricanes, typhoons, floods, drought, rising sea levels 
and  desertification.  Those  climate  changes  reduce 
productivity in agriculture and food security. The high 
dependence  on  rain-fed  agriculture,  especially 
in 
developing sub-Saharan countries, has also placed such 
countries at the mercy of the vagaries of nature. It is a 
matter  of  great  concern  that  global  responses  to  those 
problems have been in the form of world conferences, 
seminars  and  workshops  on  climate  change,  but  that 
not  much  has  been  done  by  way  of  concrete  global 
action. 

Secondly,  agriculture  and  food  production  have 
been  given  low  priority  by  international  development 
institutions 
their  allocation  of  resources  and 
investment  funds.  That  has  been  compounded  by  low 
national  budgetary  allocations  to  food  production  in 
First,  during 
two  decades 
the  people 
the  past 
in 
08-51839 

9 
is 
that 
that  smallholder 
institutions  continue 
A  matter  of  global  concern 
A/63/PV.8 

many  countries,  especially 
in  Africa.  The  recent 
diversion  of  food  crops  towards  the  production  of 
biofuels has also reduced the stock of food and created 
food  insecurity  in  some  countries.  That  is  further 
aggravated by the preference of commercial farmers to 
grow  cash  crops  rather  than  food  crops,  thereby 
creating deficits in food production. 
Thirdly,  there  is  general  concern  in  Africa  that 

multilateral  and  bilateral 
to 
oppose  subsidies  to  agriculture  and  food  production, 
especially  in  sub-Saharan Africa,  South-East Asia  and 
Latin  America.  That  has  been 
the  case  despite 
overwhelming  evidence 
farmers 
continue  to  find  enormous  difficulties  in  accessing 
agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers, improved seeds, 
insecticides  and  herbicides.  Those  institutions  also 
know  that  farmers  are  unable  to  produce  enough  food 
to feed themselves without subsidies. 

food 
production  in  many  developing  countries  has  been 
adversely  affected  by  environmental  destruction  and 
the degradation of agricultural lands caused by serious 
pollution  through  the  deliberate  dumping  of  toxic 
waste and hazardous materials in rivers, lakes, seas and 
other  water  sources,  largely  by  industries  from  the 
North.  That  has  deprived  many  farmers  of  land  to 
produce  more  food.  The  dumping  has  spoiled  coastal 
lands, destroyed tourism and brought misery to people 
who  can  depend  on  neither  agriculture  nor  on  fish  in 
their waters in order to earn a living. 

The  problems  I  have  enumerated  pose  a  serious 
challenge to global food security. World leaders in the 
United  Nations  can  no  longer  detach  themselves  from 
those serious issues. We should be part of the solution. 

the 
attainment  of  global  food  security  as  a  collective 
challenge.  It  must  be  premised  on  the  ability  to 
produce  sufficient  food  and  to  move  it  from  surplus 
areas  anywhere  in  the  world  to  food  deficit  areas.  In 
order  to  alleviate  the  global  food  crisis,  Malawi 
proposes  that  a  compact  should  be  reached  by  which 
countries  that  can  produce  sufficient  food  surpluses 
should be empowered to share with others in the world, 
wherever  they  may  be,  through  a  fair  international 
trading  system.  That  would  ensure 
that  all  of 
humankind has enough food. 

Nations  urge 
that 
industrialized  countries 
the  Government  of  Malawi  sees 
Secondly,  Malawi  proposes 
the  United 
to  make 

in 
resource 
allocation 
increases 
especially 
to 
significant 
agriculture, 
food  production.  Special 
attention  should  be  given  to  improving  infrastructure, 
machinery,  equipment  and  capacity-building 
for 
farmers,  especially  smallholder  farmers.  The  private 
sector  in  industrialized  countries  should  be  persuaded 
to  increase  investment  in  food  production,  paying 
special  attention  to  the  application  of  science  and 
technology  to  agriculture,  and  in  research  on  climate 
change  and  on  measures  to  protect  food-producing 
nations from the vagaries of climate. 

Thirdly,  Malawi  believes  that  the  global  food 
crisis  could  be  mitigated  if  the  United  Nations,  the 
World Bank and other multilateral and donor agencies 
were  seriously  to  consider  granting  subsidies  for 
agriculture  and  food  production  as  an  integral  part  of 
their  global  development  policy  and  aid  packages  to 
developing countries, especially in sub-Saharan Africa. 
It would also be useful if the international community 
were to acknowledge Africa’s potential and capacity to 
contribute  significantly  to  the  solution  to  the  global 
food  shortage. To  that  end,  the  United  Nations  should 
fully  support  the  Alliance  for  a  Green  Revolution  in 
Africa,  which  is  chaired  by  former  Secretary-General 
Kofi Annan. 

More  specifically,  Malawi  appeals  to  the  Group 
of Eight countries to support us in creating a green belt 
around  our  lakes  and  along  our  rivers  to  irrigate  land 
up  to  20  kilometres  from  the  shores.  The  Malawi 
Government plans to grow a lot of rice, wheat, maize, 
millet, cassava, potatoes, beans and lentils for local and 
international markets. 

I  wish  to  conclude  by  stating  that  Malawi  is 
convinced  that,  in  order  to  achieve  global  food 
security,  the  United  Nations  must  persuade  the  rich 
industrialized  countries  to  share  research,  science  and 
technology in food production and processing with the 
poor 
industrialized 
countries  should  consider  funding  food  research 
programmes  and subsidizing agriculture in developing 
countries as part of attaining global food security. 

The global food crisis is not beyond the capacity 
of  the  community  of  nations  to  resolve.  The  global 
policy  to  create  a  hunger-free  world  must  be  adopted 
here  in  the  General  Assembly.  All  nations  big  and 
small,  rich  and  poor,  must  work  together  to  eliminate 
the  global  food  shortages,  famines,  hunger  and 
countries.  Furthermore, 
the 
First, 
10 

08-51839 


malnutrition.  Together  we  can  do  it.  God  bless  the 
United Nations. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic  of Malawi for the statement 
he has just made. 

the 
Mr.  Bingu  Wa  Mutharika,  President  of 
Republic  of  Malawi,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


to 
the 
the 
Address by Mr. Dimitris Christofias, President of the 
Republic of Cyprus 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Cyprus. 

Mr.  Dimitris  Christofias,  President  of 
Republic  of  Cyprus,  was  escorted 
into 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Dimitris  Christofias,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Cyprus, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Christofias:  I  wish  first  to  extend 

sincere congratulations to Mr. D’Escoto Brockmann on 
his election as President of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-third  session  and  to  express  my  appreciation  for 
the work done by his predecessor, Mr. Srgjan Kerim. I 
would  also like to thank the Secretary-General for his 
report (A/63/1) on the work of the Organization, and I 
welcome his comprehensive approach to threats and his 
focus on recently emerged challenges. 

It  is  an  honour  for  me  to  address  the  General 
Assembly for the first time as President of the Republic 
of Cyprus. Maintaining the effectiveness of multilateral 
diplomacy  and  strengthening  the  relevance  of  the 
United Nations has been one of the cornerstones of the 
foreign policy of the Republic of Cyprus since it won 
its independence in 1960. 

the 
international  community  and  particularly  important  to 
Cyprus.  It  is  an  essential  institution  for  our  global 
survival and for the further development of humankind 
in  a  balanced  and  fair  way  in  increasingly  difficult 
conditions. Our peoples look to the United Nations  as 
the best forum for addressing such global problems as 
The  United  Nations 
important 
to 
is 
A/63/PV.8
is  gradually 
Cyprus  emerged 
and  become  even 
the  achievement  of 
poverty, climate change, rising energy and food prices, 
diseases,  natural  disasters,  human  rights  abuses  and 
many  other  pressing  global  problems.  Either  we  do 
things together in a collective, coordinated way or the 
problems  will  persist 
less 
manageable. 

This  week,  two  important  issues  are  being  given 
particular  attention  — 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  the  special  needs 
of  Africa.  I  applaud  the  focus  being  given  to  both, 
highlighting  the  imperative  need  for  collective  action 
by  the  international  community.  However,  we  must 
match our words with deeds. 

from  colonialism  as  an 
impoverished  independent  State  in  1960.  Despite  the 
fact that Cyprus has suffered greatly, we have managed 
to  improve  our  economy.  Today,  Cyprus  is  firmly 
committed  to  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  maintains  an  emphasis  on 
Africa in its overseas development assistance projects. 
Our  approach  is  to  focus  on  a  small  number  of 
countries,  concentrating  our  efforts  on  infrastructural 
development  in  the  health  and  education  sectors. 
Cyprus 
its  efforts  by 
increasing 
to  additional 
countries. 

Small  States  have  higher  stakes  in  multilateral 
diplomacy  and  in  a  fair  and  functional  system  of 
collective security, based on the principles of sovereign 
equality and respect for territorial integrity. 
There  is  no  clearer  example  of  that  than  Cyprus 

itself.  From  the  earliest  days  of  its  independence, 
Cyprus  was  forced  to  appeal  to  the  world  community 
its 
for 
support 
independence, 
territorial 
integrity.  It  became  a  victim  of  foreign  interference, 
which  sowed  the  seeds  of  domestic  problems  for  the 
new  State.  Those  difficulties  were  exploited  in  the 
service of strategic interests alien to our independence 
and  our  territorial  integrity.  The  culmination  was  the 
military coup instigated by the military junta of Athens 
and  the  Turkish  military  invasion  of  July  and August 
1974.  

However,  Cyprus  survived.  The  will  of  the 
international community for Cyprus to survive is found 
in  the  plethora  of  Security  Council  and  General 
Assembly resolutions — most of them, regrettably, not 
implemented. However, the moral support and resolute 
in  defending 
its  sovereignty  and 
level  of  assistance 
and  preserving 
intensifying 
the 
its 
08-51839 

11 

A/63/PV.8 

stance  provided  Cyprus  with  a  sword  and  shield  that 
have ensured that it has remained and will continue to 
remain an undivided independent country with a single 
sovereignty,  single  citizenship  and  single  international 
personality. 

In addition, the resolutions of the United Nations 
on Cyprus contain two other important elements. They 
provide  for  a  process  of  negotiations  in  the  form  of  a 
good  offices  mission  of  the  Secretary-General  and, 
very  importantly,  they  define  the  legal  and  political 
framework  on  which  the  discussions  for  the  federal 
architecture of the Cypriot State will be built. Both of 
those  elements  are  crucial.  I  firmly  believe  that  our 
success  in  the  new  effort  that  is  now  beginning  will 
depend upon respecting those essential conditions. 
The President returned to the Chair. 


With  regard  to  the  process  of  the  Secretary-
General’s  good  offices  mission,  it  entails  negotiations 
with  the  Cypriots  themselves  in  which  they  are  the 
principal  players. They  are  the  owners  of  the  process. 
The  Cypriots  themselves  must  build  the  State  they 
envision  for  their  society.  The  role  of  the  Secretary-
General and of the international community is to assist 
and  to  support. We  are  grateful  for  that.  Good  offices 
are  not  arbitration;  they  are  not  mediation.  Recent 
experience  has  shown  that  any  attempt  to  impose  — 
and  even 
import  —  non-Cypriot-inspired  and 
improvised  models  will  meet  with  rejection  by  the 
Cypriot people. 

The relevant Security Council resolutions are also 
important  for  the  new  effort  because  they  provide  the 
legal political framework within which the effort must 
take  place.  That  framework  prescribes  a  bizonal  and 
bicommunal  federation  with  a  single  international 
personality,  single  indivisible  sovereignty  and  single 
citizenship.  The  federal  institutions  will  embody  the 
principle of political equality as defined by the relevant 
Security Council resolutions, in terms not of numerical 
equality  but  of  effective  participation  by  the  Greek 
Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities in all organs 
of the federal State. 

It is important to remind ourselves that a bizonal 
and bicommunal federation has been the only mutually 
agreed  basis  since  1977.  It  was  reaffirmed  as  recently 
as  a  few  weeks  ago.  It  represents  a  compromise,  and 
indeed  the  only  possible  compromise,  on  which  a 
political  arrangement  can  be  built.  The  relevant 
the 
resolutions  of 
the  Security  Council 
and 
to 
lead 
to 
in 
take 
over 
that  will 
precedence 
Constitution  of  Cyprus  exclude  partition,  secession  or 
union with any other country. 

The  kind  of  solution  we  agree  to  must  take  into 
account not only our history and international legality, 
but  also  the  kind  of  society  we  are  and  the  kind  of 
society  we  want  to  bequeath  to  our  children.  In  that 
society,  all  Cypriot  children  must  be  born  free  and 
equal. Human rights and the fair satisfaction of human 
needs  must 
strategic 
considerations dictated by political expedience. 
A  new  intensive  effort  started  on  3  September 

with  the  aim  of  overcoming  the  impasses  of  the  past 
and  achieving  progress 
the 
reunification  of  Cyprus  under  mutually  agreed  terms 
and the withdrawal of foreign troops after 34 years of 
division  and  foreign  occupation.  If  that  effort  is  to 
succeed, there is a need for political will on the part of 
Cypriots,  as  well  as  the  positive  engagement  of  other 
important  players,  which  for  historical  reasons  have 
been  part  of  the  problem  and  need  to  become  part  of 
the solution. 

For  my  part,  I  want  to  assure  the  General 
Assembly from this rostrum that my political will to do 
what  is  necessary  to  solve  the  problem  is  firm  and 
deep-rooted. My origins are in the Progressive Party of 
Working  People  of  Cyprus  and 
the  popular 
movement  of  the  island,  which  prides  itself  on  a  long 
history  of  struggles,  and  indeed  sacrifices,  in  defence 
of  friendship,  cooperation  and  peaceful  coexistence 
between Turkish Cypriots  and Greek Cypriots.  On the 
other hand, I am one of those Cypriots who was deeply 
and directly affected by the foreign military invasion of 
1974,  because  I  myself  and  my  family  are  internally 
displaced persons — refugees in our own country. The 
role  of  Cypriots  is  to  agree  on  what  they  want.  We 
must try to achieve that with the leader of the Turkish 
Cypriot  community,  Mehmet  Ali  Talat.  I  believe  that 
we can achieve it. 

But  that  is  not  enough  to  achieve  a  solution. 
Turkey  should  contribute  to  the  process  in  a  positive 
way. Turkey still maintains over 40,000 troops and tens 
of  thousands  of  settlers  in  Cyprus  and  can,  without  a 
doubt,  determine  the  outcome  of  the  issues  under 
discussion. We believe that the solution should benefit 
everybody  and  will  benefit  everybody.  It  would  allow 
Cypriots  —  Greek  Cypriots  and  Turkish  Cypriots 
alike —  to  live  together  and  work  together  in  an 
independent,  prosperous  country  within  the  family  of 
12 

08-51839 


the  European  Union,  without  the  presence  of  foreign 
armies  and  illegal  colonists  and  under  conditions  of 
security and respect for their identity and their rights. 

Our  world  faces  many  problems,  which  are 
becoming  increasingly  complex.  It  is  our  conviction 
that those problems can be solved and that new threats 
can  be  prevented  only  through  effective  multilateral 
collective  action.  Peace  must  prevail  —  a  true  peace 
based on respect for international law and not the right 
of  might.  A  response  to  the  problem  of  international 
terrorism  will  be  effective  only  if  our  world  becomes 
less  unjust.  If  hunger  and  poverty  are  not  tackled,  if 
regional  disputes  are  not  resolved  on  the  basis  of 
international  legitimacy,  and  if  global  wealth  is  not 
distributed more fairly, peace cannot grow strong roots. 

The  United  Nations  is  an  achievement  of  our 
fathers and a necessary tool for ensuring a more stable, 
fair  and  prosperous  world.  Ultimately,  the  United 
Nations is only as successful as we, the Member States, 
allow  it  to  be.  I  wish  our  community  of  nations  a 
successful sixty-third session of the General Assembly. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Republic  of  Cyprus  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr.  Dimitris  Christofias,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Cyprus,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Álvaro Uribe Vélez, President of the 
Republic of Colombia 

The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Colombia. 

Mr. Álvaro Uribe Vélez, President of the Republic 
of  Colombia,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Álvaro  Uribe 
Vélez,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Colombia,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
in  Spanish): 

Speaking  once  again  before  the  General  Assembly,  I 
would  like  to  congratulate  you  on  your  election, 
Mr. President, and to wish you every success. 
President  Uribe  Vélez  (spoke 
A/63/PV.8
trust 
to  combat 
impunity 
judicial  system, 
Our  determination 
the  security  policy  and 

Colombia  continues  to  fight  so  that  each  and 
every  citizen  can  trust  that  he  or  she  will  live,  work, 
undertake  projects,  study  and  be  happy  in  his  or  her 
homeland.  That 
is  sustained  by  democratic 
security,  security  for  socially  responsible  investment 
and the construction of social cohesion. 

Crimes  against  the  safety  of  citizens  continue  to 
decrease, but we are not satisfied. So far this year, the 
number  of  crimes  has  fallen  by  30  per  cent  in 
comparison  to  the  same  period  last  year.  We  have 
prioritized the protection of union leaders, teachers and 
journalists.  Of  the  11,204  homicides  committed  as  of 
10  September,  36  were  of  workers  and  teachers 
affiliated with trade unions or independent teachers. To 
date,  not  a  single  journalist  has  been  murdered.  The 
Government  grants  individual  protection  to  8,612 
citizens, 1,462 of whom belong to trade unions. 
is 

ongoing.  Between  1991  and  2001,  only 
two 
convictions  were  handed  down.  Thanks  to  efforts  in 
recent years in terms of budgeting, the strengthening of 
the 
the 
tripartite  agreement  among  workers,  business  leaders 
and  the  Government,  sponsored  by  the  International 
Labour Organization, 199 persons have been convicted 
for  the  murder  of  workers  and  134  of  them  are  in 
prison.  Of  the  123  sentences  handed  down,  85  have 
occurred in the past three years. 

In  the  past,  terrorist  organizations  penetrated  the 
labour  movement,  resulting  in  the  murder  of  workers. 
The  dismantling  of  the  paramilitaries  has  eliminated 
that  source  of  suffering,  but  terrorist  guerrillas  persist 
in committing such crimes, as recently happened in the 
south  of  the  country  with  the  murder  of  a  group  of 
teachers  by  the  Fuerzas  Armadas  Revolucionarias  de 
Colombia-Ejército del Pueblo (FARC). 

Recently,  our  tranquillity  in  the  absence  of 
terrorist attacks was shattered by a car bomb set off by 
FARC, which destroyed the palace of justice in the city 
of Cali and left several people dead and others injured, 
as  well  as  many  poor  families  with  their  small 
businesses and homes destroyed. 
that 

ravaged  the  country  at  the  start  of  the  Government’s 
term  of  office,  48,000  have  abandoned  their  criminal 
organizations  and  joined  the  reintegration  programme, 
which  is  a  great  challenge  for  Colombia.  As  of 
the  approximately  60,000 
Of 
terrorists 
08-51839 

13 
type  of  accusation  and 
A/63/PV.8 

17  September  this  year,  2,436  guerrilla  members  —
2,147 of them from FARC — had been demobilized. 

In  a  democracy  of  opinion  such  as  ours,  the 
sustainability  of  democratic  security  depends  on  its 
credibility, which in turn is based on effectiveness and 
transparency.  That  transparency  is  tantamount  to  the 
observance  of  the  fundamental  human  rights  we  all 
enjoy.  From  that  foundation  comes  our  respect  for 
liberties in the midst of the fight against terrorism and 
for  openness,  vigilance,  criticism  and  debate  at  the 
national and international levels. 

Furthermore, a formative, world-leading effort in 
human  rights  within  our  armed  forces  is  crucial,  as  is 
the ongoing adjustment of operative protocols through 
such measures as that requiring soldiers to wait for the 
presence of a judicial delegate before moving the body 
of a member of a criminal organization killed in action. 
We  are  also  resolved  to  investigate  and  assist  in  the 
investigation  of  any 
the 
modernization of military criminal legislation. 

On  10  December,  our  country  will  voluntarily 
submit  our  human  rights  record  to  the  Universal 
Periodic  Review,  a  new  mechanism  created  by  the 
United Nations that is an additional contribution to the 
public  discussion  of  our  new  road  map  on  the  matter. 
Our  work  with  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights  and  with  the  Organization  of 
American  States  on  the  policy  of  truth,  justice  and 
redress  for  victims  must,  along  with  our  historic 
memory, heal wounds and help to extinguish the flames 
of violence forever. 

results  of  democratic 
security.  Citizens  have  greater  faith  in  the  State  and 
turn 
the  past 
indifference  of  some  and  the  inclination  of  many  to 
solve  problems  by  their  own  means. Additionally,  we 
have recovered the State monopoly on weapons and on 
official 
their  fear  of 
denouncing others, testifying and cooperating with the 
armed  forces  and  the  justice  system.  Victims  are  no 
longer  fearful  and  today  are  coming  forward  to  claim 
their rights. 
One year ago, I looked out at this Assembly in the 

frustration  of  not  having  been  able  to  rescue  Ingrid 
Betancourt and those held in captivity with her. Today, 
thanks 
the  heroism,  planning  and  bloodless 
effectiveness  of  our  soldiers,  Ingrid  Betancourt  is  a 
symbol of freedom — the freedom to which we aspire 
for  protection,  overcoming 
justice.  Citizens  have 
There  are 
lost 
intangible 
to 
it 

as we liberate those who remain in captivity and put an 
end to such shameful crimes in our homeland. 

Social  cohesion  validates  security.  Meeting  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  set  for  2015 
is an urgent need for us as an essential part of building 
social cohesion. We are close to reaching the goal of no 
more than 3 per cent of children under the age of five 
being  malnourished.  We  are  determined  to  reach  zero 
and  are  now  beginning  to  provide  early  schooling  to 
those children. 
By 2010, we hope to have reached 100 per cent in 

basic  education  coverage.  Towards 
the  goal  of 
averaging  10.6  years  of  education  for  the  population 
between ages 15 and 24, we have already achieved an 
average  of  more  than  nine  years.  The  number  of 
students  having  to  repeat  a  grade  has  decreased  from 
6.1  per  cent  to  3.3  per  cent,  towards  a  goal  of  
2.3 per cent. 
Mortality  rates  for  children  under  five  years  of 

age have fallen from 37 to 20 per 1,000 births, with a 
goal  of  17.  That  same  indicator  for  children  younger 
than  one  year  has  decreased  from  31  to  15.6,  with  a 
goal  of  14.  Vaccination  coverage 
is  almost  at 
95  per  cent,  the  percentage  defined  in  the  MDGs  for 
2015. Our great challenge is to reduce the pronounced 
disparities between regions. 
Despite  the  economy’s  problems,  we  are  still 

fully determined to meet the social goals through such 
in  Action,  Bank  of 
programmes  as  Families 
Opportunities  and 
the  Together  Network,  which 
focuses social tools on the poorest spheres. That is all 
supported by very ambitious goals in the areas of child 
nutrition, educational quality and coverage, vocational 
training,  health 
insurance,  connectivity  and  good 
management  of  social  resources.  With  regard  to  the 
latter,  our  administrative  reform,  which  has  already 
been  extended  to  411  State  entities,  seeks  to  prevent 
eliminating 
the  State 
bureaucratic  wastefulness 
social 
efficiency. 

The  mortgage  and  financial  crises  are  minor 
problems  compared  to  the  threats  to  the  environment. 
Although  Colombia  produces  0.35  per  cent  of  world 
greenhouse gas emissions, we are highly vulnerable to 
the  ravages  of  climate  change  resulting  from  melting 
ice and floods. More than 51 per cent of our territory is 
preserved as rainforest and is a major net contributor of 
oxygen. 
from  being  discredited, 
achieving 
and 
to 
14 

08-51839 
include 
the 
building 
fuels 
the  oversight  of 
Some  of  our  most 


important  environmental 

programmes 
of  mass 
transportation  systems  in  nine  cities,  with  plans  under 
way  for  10  more;  a  network  of  66,000  rural  families 
working as forest rangers, who are paid by the State to 
maintain collective areas free  from illicit crops and to 
supervise  the  recovery  and  conservation  of  forests 
the  United  Nations; 
under 
the 
conservation  of  257  protected  natural  areas; 
the 
implementation  of  aqueduct  and  basic  sanitation 
projects in the country’s 32 departments and the 1,102 
municipalities; and the promotion of alternative energy 
sources such as wind power and biofuels. 

There  are  three  common  objections  to  biofuels: 
the risk of destroying the rainforest, the elimination of 
areas  for  agricultural  food  production,  and  the  small 
amount  of  energy  generated  compared  to  that  used  to 
produce it. Colombia has 578,000 square kilometres of 
rainforest and 43 million hectares of savannah. We will 
not  allow  the  rainforest  to be  touched.  Protecting  it  is 
our  main  contribution  to  combating  global  warming. 
With  the  available  savannah,  we  can  expand  our 
agricultural  production  concentrated 
in  5  million 
hectares, increase the number of livestock to 24 million 
heads of cattle and, without affecting food production, 
develop  a  large  biofuel  industry  that  generates  good 
income  and  becomes  an 
quality 
alternative 
terrorism.  Our 
productivity  is  high,  thanks  to  sources  of  energy  such 
as  sugar  cane  and  the  African  oil  palm,  which  also 
protects  the  soil  from  direct  sunlight  and  prevents 
erosion. For every energy  unit used, 8 energy units of 
ethanol are produced, or 6.5 units in biodiesel. 

the 
environment,  and  they  fuel  terrorism.  Colombia  still 
suffers from violence because of illicit drugs. We speak 
of  shared  responsibility  not 
to  assign  exclusive 
responsibilities to consumer countries, for, unfortunately, 
our  young  people  also  use  drugs.  We  speak  of  shared 
responsibility to spur the  world to combat production, 
trafficking, 
and 
consumption, 
chemical  precursors  on 
equal  basis.  Our 
Government requests that consumption be punished in 
our  country  and  across  the  international  community. 
We  have  extradited  more  than  800  persons. This  year, 
we  must  spray  130,000  hectares  of  coca  crops,  while 
another 100,000 must be manually eradicated. Over the 
past 
five  years,  10,000  properties  have  been 
confiscated.  However,  there  has  been  no  significant 
Illicit  drugs  are  a  great  enemy  of 
to  coca,  which 
asset 
an 
jobs, 
increases 
laundering 
A/63/PV.8
the  backdrop  of  exponential  growth 
reduction  in  illicit  crop  areas  and  consumption  is  on 
the rise.  

Let us consider that situation. It is more difficult 
to  carry  out  prevention  and  rehabilitation  efforts 
against 
in 
consumption  resulting from a permissive  attitude. The 
destruction  of  the  rainforest  to  plant  coca,  the  erosion 
of  the  soil  and  the  pollution  caused  by  chemical 
precursors are enormous affronts on the environmental 
balance. Whoever buys a personal dose of illicit drugs 
encourages a child to become a distributor and, later, a 
feared criminal. Whoever buys a personal dose of illicit 
drugs  helps  to  set  off  a  car  bomb  in  Colombia  and  to 
destroy four trees from our Amazon rainforest. 

Investors  from  all  over  the  world  are  coming  to 
Colombia  every  day.  Twice  as  many  tourists,  from 
every  corner  of  the  world,  are  visiting  our  country  as 
were five years ago. Many of those who looked on our 
country with scepticism and spoke about Colombia as a 
failed  State  can  now  discern  clear  signals  of 
institutional 
and  democratic  boldness. 
Colombia  today  generates  more  trust  and  respect,  but 
the  work  goes  on.  To  free  us  all  from  the  horrors  of 
drug  trafficking,  terrorism  and  poverty,  we  need  more 
resolute  support  from  the  international  community.  I 
would very much like to thank the United Nations for 
its very significant presence in our country. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the Republic of Colombia for the statement he has just 
made. 

Mr. Álvaro Uribe Vélez, President of the Republic 
of  Colombia,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
Mr.  Choquehuanca  Céspedes  (Bolivia),  Vice-
President, took the Chair. 
strength 



Address by Mr. Valdis Zatlers, President of the 
Republic of Latvia 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Latvia. 

Mr.  Valdis  Zatlers,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Latvia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
08-51839 

15 
community 
has 
deepened 
to 
President  Zatlers: 
I  wish 
A/63/PV.8 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  
Mr. Valdis Zatlers, President of the Republic of Latvia, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 

to  begin  by 
congratulating  Mr.  d’Escoto  Brockmann  on  assuming 
the  post  of  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
current session. 

Today  I  shall  start  by  addressing  the  security 
situation  in  the  world.  During  the  past  year,  the 
international 
its 
understanding  of  frozen  conflicts.  Frozen  does  not 
mean resolved; it means that those conflicts are able to 
re-emerge.  Therefore,  I  am  particularly  glad  that 
significant  progress  has  been  achieved 
towards 
resolving long-lasting conflicts in some regions. 

First,  I  would  like  to  mention  Kosovo.  Strong 
involvement  by  the  United  Nations,  the  European 
Union  (EU)  and  the  United  States  helped  to  resolve  a 
protracted  conflict  in  the  Balkans.  Now  we  need  to 
focus  our  efforts  on  the  development  of  Kosovo’s 
statehood:  political  stability,  economic  prosperity, 
security and good relations with its neighbours. 
I  welcome  the  decision  of  the  Secretary-General 

to 
reconfigure 
Interim 
Administration  Mission  in  Kosovo.  It  is  necessary  to 
continue  the  constructive  cooperation  between  the 
United Nations and the EU so that the Kosovo Mission 
can  be  fully  deployed.  That  is  important  both  for 
Kosovo and for the entire West Balkans region. 

The  international  community  has  also  made 
remarkable  efforts  to  assist Afghanistan  in  building  a 
democratic,  prosperous  and  secure  State.  Large  and 
small countries and civilian and military organizations 
from  all  over  the  world  are  working  together  to  fulfil 
our common aspiration to peace and stability. 

We  must  not  undermine  that  immense  effort  by 
being  impatient.  The  war  ravaged  Afghanistan  for  
20 years; it will take at least as much time to rebuild a 
peaceful  society.  The  international  community  must 
push ahead until that long-term aim is achieved. 
Latvia is increasing its commitment to the Afghan 

people 
security 
assistance.  We  are  focusing  our  civil  engagement  on 
ensuring  good  governance  and  a  strong  judiciary  and 
on meeting the basic needs of the Afghan people. 
terms  of  development  and 
the  United  Nations 
in 
16 



The  prospects  for  peace  and  stability  in  the 
Middle East affect the whole world. Latvia hopes that 
the  peace  negotiations  between  the  Government  of 
Israel  and  the  Palestinian  Authority  will  produce 
results. We hope that the parties will use the window of 
opportunity to conclude a peace agreement by the end 
of 2008. The indirect talks that have resumed between 
Israel and Syria are another positive signal.  

Latvia  welcomes  the  stabilization  process  in 
Lebanon.  We  hope  that  the  Doha  agreement  will  be 
fully  implemented  and  that  it  will  serve  as  a  solid 
foundation  for  renewed  political  stability,  national 
unity  and  sustainable  economic  development  in  the 
country. 

Not  all  of  the  developments  over  the  past  year 
have been positive. We have witnessed new challenges 
to  the  law-based  international  system.  We  should  ask 
ourselves whether we, as the international community, 
can  accept  the  fact  that  peacekeeping  troops  protect 
only one side involved in a conflict. Can we accept the 
fact that peacekeeping forces are occupying territories 
that  are  clearly  outside  the  conflict  zones?  Can  we 
accept the fact that the protection of nationals abroad is 
being used as a pretext for a large-scale use of force in 
another  State  without  the  approval  of  the  Security 
Council? 

All  those  questions  arise  from  the  international 
response to the recent war in Georgia. If they matter to 
us, we should have a clear plan to resolve the Georgian 
crisis.  The  most  important  task  is  adherence  to  and 
implementation of the six-point ceasefire agreement on 
the part of the Russian Federation. First, foreign troops 
must  be  removed  from  all  Georgian  soil.  Equally 
important  is  the  establishment  of  an  EU  monitoring 
mission to normalize the situation in Georgia. 

For  15  years  now,  the  United  Nations  has 
mandated  the  United  Nations  Observer  Mission  in 
Georgia. We must ensure that there are no obstacles to 
the continuation of that effort. I call upon world leaders 
to come together not only to provide humanitarian aid 
to  Georgia,  but  also  to  ensure  a  massive  international 
effort  to  help  rebuild  the  country’s  economy  and 
infrastructure.  

It  is  about  time  that  we  seriously  examine  our 
development commitments. The time between now and 
2015  may  seem  long,  but  it  is  less  than  the  time  that 
has  elapsed  since  the  adoption  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) in 2000. Two days ago, I 
08-51839 
significantly  accelerate 


participated  in  the  high-level  meeting  on  Africa’s 
development needs, and tomorrow I will participate in 
the high-level event on the MDGs. Those are important 
efforts aimed at giving the issue the top priority that it 
deserves.  We  must 
the 
processes  for  achieving  the  MDGs  by  2015. A  clearer 
picture of what we must achieve in the interim in each 
of the main clusters of the MDGs — health, education, 
growth  and  climate  change  —  is  what  the  United 
Nations needs immediately. 

We  also  need  a  clearer  picture  of  the  required 
division  of  labour  among  various  actors,  and  we  need 
to develop a  shared sense  of progress. A clear plan  of 
action  is  what  we  need  right  now.  Therefore,  Latvia 
strongly  supports  the  EU  Call  for Action  initiative  on 
the MDGs. Climate change will have a major negative 
bearing  on  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs.  Latvia 
supports broader use of renewable energy resources to 
reduce  carbon  dioxide  (CO2)  emissions.  However, 
climate  change  cannot  be  seen  as  an  exclusively 
environmental  challenge;  we  need  a  more  integrated 
approach. 

Changes to energy consumption patterns must be 
taken  into  account  as  we  move  towards  sustainable 
development,  food  security  and  worldwide 
trade. 
Innovative 
technologies,  as  well  as  sustainable 
production  and  consumption,  would  deliver  both 
midterm  and 
results.  Carbon  dioxide 
emissions  cannot  be  cut  in  some  regions  while  others 
do  nothing. While  each  of  our  countries  must  commit 
to  cutting  emissions,  success  will  be  possible  only  if 
there is a truly global agreement that enables us to do 
so  and  tells  us  how.  The  United  Nations,  as  the  only 
truly global Organization, must play a decisive role. 

Trade liberalization is an important contributor to 
the  achievement  of  the  MDGs.  Although  the  recent 
trade 
the  World  Trade 
Organization were not successful, the process must be 
continued at the multilateral level. 

Globalization  has  brought  with  it  both  increased 
prosperity  and  increased  risks. We  need  to  find  a  way 
to  ensure  that  tomorrow’s  globalization  will  offer 
growing  prosperity  to  all  people.  Globalization  will 
produce benefits on a truly global scale only if trade is 
liberalized  across  the  board.  Every  country  and  every 
region must do its fair share in that process. 
I  would  like  to  congratulate  Ms.  Navanethem 

Pillay, the new United Nations High Commissioner for 
liberalization  efforts  at 
long-term 
A/63/PV.8
Human Rights, on the assumption of her duties and to 
wish her every success in that highly important post. I 
would  also  like  to  thank  Ms.  Louise  Arbour  for  her 
invaluable contribution to the promotion and protection 
of human rights. 

This  year,  symbolically,  the  sixtieth  anniversary 
of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights  coincides  with  the  ninetieth  anniversary  of  the 
founding of the Republic of Latvia. In 1918, the Act of 
Proclamation of the Republic of Latvia declared:  

“All  citizens,  irrespective  of  their  ethnicity,  are 
asked to help, for the rights of all people will be 
guaranteed in Latvia. It will be a democratic and 
just  State  where  oppression  and  injustice  do  not 
exist”.  
the 
time 
Unfortunately,  by 
I am truly proud of that statement. Thirty years before 
the  adoption  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights, the Republic of Latvia declared its adherence to 
the  same  core  values  and  principles  and  fully 
implemented them in the newly established State. 

the  Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights had been adopted, Latvia 
had come under foreign occupation and its people had 
been  deprived  of  their  right  to  freely  determine  their 
political status and were being subjected to oppression 
and injustice. It was only in 1991 that Latvia  restored 
its  statehood  and  the  continuity  of  its  commitment  to 
fundamental  human  rights,  inherent  human  dignity, 
equality and the universality of those values. 

The  creation  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and 
the  beginning  of  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  are 
important  steps  aimed  at  promoting  the  values  of  the 
Universal  Declaration.  The  special  procedures  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  play  a  particular  role  in  that 
regard.  Latvia  expresses  its  full  support  for  them  and 
urges  all  United  Nations  Members  to  cooperate  fully 
with  the  special  procedures,  including  by  issuing 
standing invitations to them. 

Latvia  is  ready  to  share  with  the  international 
community  its  experience  in  the  area  of  promoting 
human rights. Latvia has put forward its candidacy for 
the Human Rights Council for the year 2014. 
This  year  marks  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 

adoption  of 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  We  welcome  the 
progress  the  Court  has  achieved  in  its  analyses, 
investigations  and  judicial  proceedings.  We  call  upon 
the  Rome  Statute  establishing 
08-51839 

17 
a 
contemporary 
that 

understanding 
of 
the  General  Assembly 
Effective  multilateralism 
A/63/PV.8 

all States to ensure full cooperation with the Court. The 
ICC  is  not  an  instrument  that  can  be  activated  or 
deactivated  according  to  political  expediency.  We  are 
convinced  that  universality  of  justice  is  a  prerequisite 
for sustainable peace. 

requires  combining 
greater  awareness  of  the  nature  of  the  risks  we  face 
with 
how 
international  politics  are  forged  today.  International 
organizations  are  only  one  part  of  our  global  system, 
and often that part is the most resistant to change. It is 
regrettable 
the  enthusiasm  and  momentum 
generated during the 2005 World Summit in reforming 
this universal international body has somewhat faded. 

Reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  long  overdue. 
We  must  move  on  from  the  discussion  of  procedure 
into a discussion of substance. We welcome the recent 
decision  by 
to  continue 
immediately within the Open-ended Working Group on 
the  Question  of  Equitable  Representation  on  and 
Increase  in  the  Membership  of  the  Security  Council 
and  Other  Matters  Related  to  the  Security  Council  to 
prepare intergovernmental negotiations on the question 
of the Security Council’s expansion.  

While  recognizing the need for structural reform 
of  the  United  Nations,  we  should  not  lose  sight  of 
making  more  effective  use  of  existing  capacity. 
Management  reform  is  central  to  all  those  efforts. We 
support  further  measures  aimed  at  ensuring  greater 
transparency, enhanced accountability and strict budget 
discipline.  There  has  been  some  progress,  but  not 
enough by far. 
We  live  in  a  world  with  deteriorating  security,  a 

growing  population, 
the  consequences  of  climate 
change  and  market  turbulence  aggravated  by  high 
energy  and  food  prices.  We  need  deeper  engagement 
with  the  risks  we  face  globally.  That  requires  a  new 
commitment  to  our  values  and  a  willingness  to  work 
for  an  international  system  that  has  a  vision  of  the 
future  at  its  heart.  I  would  like  that  to  become  the 
driving force for all the work of the General Assembly 
at this sixty-third session. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I thank 

the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Latvia  for  his 
statement. 

Mr.  Valdis  Zatlers,  President  of  Latvia,  was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.  

to 
Address by Mr. Marcus Stephen, President of the 
Republic of Nauru 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Nauru. 

Mr. Marcus Stephen, President of the Republic of 
Nauru,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish): On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  
Mr.  Marcus  Stephen,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Nauru, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Stephen: I offer my congratulations to 

Mr. Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann on his election to the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-third 
session.  I  can  assure  him  that  Nauru  will  lend  its  full 
cooperation  to  him  as  he  leads  our  work  during  this 
time.  Also,  allow  me  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
commend  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Srgjan 
Kerim,  for  his  leadership  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its sixty-second session. 

I  wish  to  reaffirm  Nauru’s  commitment  and 
abiding faith in the ideals and objectives of the United 
Nations. We declare our support for the Organization’s 
efforts to resolve the multiple humanitarian, peace and 
security  and  development  challenges  confronting  our 
world today. 

I  am  grateful  for  this  opportunity  to  address  the 
Assembly for the first time as President of the Republic 
of  Nauru.  I  took  the  challenge  of  the  office  fully 
cognizant  of  my  responsibilities  to  the  people  of 
Nauru. Despite knowing that the road to our economic 
recovery  will  be  slow  and  painful,  I  have  committed 
my Administration  to  carrying  out  its  duties  based  on 
the 
fundamental  principles  of  democracy,  good 
governance and sound socio-economic policies. 
At the beginning of this decade, Nauru was at the 

brink  of  total  economic  collapse.  Much  has  been 
achieved  to  improve  our  economy  and  to  address  the 
resulting social problems. That has been accomplished 
by  implementing  a  range  of  fiscal,  economic  and 
governance  reforms.  I  am  happy  to  say  that  Nauru 
today has stabilized. We are now at the beginning of a 
rebuilding  phase  in  our  history.  However,  I  say  this 
with a degree of caution and regard for the fragility of 
our situation. 
18 

08-51839 



In order to secure Nauru’s recovery and to ensure 
rebuilding  and  development,  we  will  need  ongoing 
assistance  from  our  development  partners.  We  need 
coordinated assistance targeted at our priorities and in 
line  with  our  strategies  so  that  we  may  fulfil  our 
promise for a better quality of life for my people.  

Nauru  appreciates  the  financial  and  material 
assistance from our development partners, in particular 
Australia,  Taiwan,  Japan,  New  Zealand  and 
the 
European Union. We appeal for such cooperation to be 
continued  in  order  to  strengthen  our  nation-building 
efforts. 

Since  assuming  office,  I  have  been  determined 
that Nauru learn from, and not repeat, the mistakes of 
the  past.  As  a  consequence  of  mismanagement  and 
corruption, past Administrations took Nauru from what 
then  seemed  to  be  a  bright  future  to  standing  on  the 
brink of collapse. In that process, national reserves and 
assets  were  all  lost,  and  we  have  been  left  with  an 
unmanageable  burden  of  domestic  and  external  debt. 
Nauru  will  only  ever  be  able  to  service  a  very  small 
portion  of  that  debt  if  we  are  to  ensure  ongoing 
recovery and sustained development. We therefore seek 
the understanding and consideration of those countries 
and institutions to which we owe money and appeal to 
them  to  allow  debt  forgiveness  or  major  write-downs. 
At  the  same  time,  we  are  implementing  financial, 
legislative  and  constitutional  measures  to  ensure  that 
this never happens again. 

Our limited human resources capacity, relative to 
the  enormity  of  the  tasks  yet  to  be  accomplished,  is  a 
further 
to  our  development  goals. 
Improving  the  quality  of  education  in  our  schools, 
promoting trade and skills  training, certifying existing 
skills  and  encouraging  ongoing  professional  and  job-
related  development  are  therefore  high  priorities  for 
my  Government.  Increasing  our  human  resources 
capacity  will  not  only  serve  to  address  the  risk  to 
sustaining  our  development,  but  will  increase  job 
opportunities  for  my  people,  domestically  and  abroad. 
With  unemployment  overall  estimated  above  30  per 
cent, and worse among our youth, labour migration and 
the  associated  remittances  must  be  seen  as  part  of  the 
range  of  measures  to  secure  Nauru’s  recovery  and 
future. 
I  appeal  to  all  developed  countries  with  major 

workforce 
job 
opportunities,  reduce  barriers  to  trade  in  services  and 
to  open  up 
requirements 
impediment 
their 
A/63/PV.8
trade, 
labour 
and 
and 
special 
promote labour mobility. That can contribute far more 
to  the  development  of  small  States  than  many  other 
traditional forms of aid. Moreover, such measures can 
be  targeted  at  specific  sectors  and  activities,  for  fixed 
time  periods  and  with  certain  conditions.  The  New 
Zealand  and  Australian  unskilled  labour  schemes  for 
Pacific  workers  are  two  prime  examples.  The  United 
States  military  expansion  in  Guam  provides  another 
opportunity  for  significant  development  assistance  to 
the  Pacific.  We  call  on 
the  United  States  for 
preferential  access  to  those  opportunities.  That  will 
require 
immigration 
conditions. 

We need to build our human resources capacity to 
shift  Nauru  away  from  its  historical  reliance  on 
government  and  public  sector  employment.  Likewise, 
we  must  develop  the  private  sector  in  Nauru.  We 
encourage  foreign  direct  investment,  and  we  welcome 
assistance in developing diversity and new industries in 
Nauru.  My  Government  is  focused  on  creating  the 
environment  to  encourage  and  facilitate  the  growth  of 
our private sector. 

Nauru’s  recovery  and  future  development  are 
particularly  vulnerable  to  external  factors.  Pacific 
island  developing  States  are  greatly  exposed  to  both 
the food and the energy security crises. Dependence on 
imported  foods,  our  remoteness  and  rising  fuel  and 
transport  costs  have  made  both  food  and  energy 
security particularly critical issues for our region. 

That  is  especially  true  for  Nauru.  Consider  our 
situation: our island home is fringed by a narrow rim, 
where my people live just a couple of metres above sea 
level. The mining of phosphate on Nauru has left large 
pinnacle  rocks  covering  80  per  cent  of  the  island, 
which  prevents 
to 
desertification and drought. 

the 
production of nutritious traditional staples, arable land 
is just too scarce to achieve a sustainable level of food 
security.  The  Secretary-General  stated  in  his  address 
yesterday (see A/63/PV.5) that at this time last year rice 
cost $330 a ton and that today it is now $730. Nauru is 
paying  nearly  double  that.  Our  imported  rice  costs  us 
$1,340  a  ton.  Rice  and  other  staples  are  simply 
becoming unaffordable. Without urgent attention to our 
region,  it  is  estimated  that  an  additional  5  per  cent  of 
our people will slip into poverty because of high food 
prices. 
Although  we  place  a  high  priority  on 
contributes 
agriculture 
08-51839 

19 

in 
and 
training 
requires 
investment 
A/63/PV.8 

We  need  the  world  to  increase  food  production. 

That 
in 
implementing appropriate farming techniques, together 
with  efficient  seed  and  fertilizer  distribution.  We  also 
need increased access to food. That includes reviewing 
trade policies on food aid. 

The  energy  crisis  is  anther  significant  external 
factor  that  has  an  impact  on  our  recovery  and  the 
security of our future. Nauru already cannot afford the 
cost  of  the  fuel  required  to  provide  for  all  its  energy 
needs.  As  a  consequence,  my  people  suffer,  with 
scheduled  power  cuts  of  up  to  eight  or  more  hours 
every single day. That has an impact on parents’ ability 
to  care  for  and  feed  their  children.  Without  power, 
houses  have  no  running  water,  adding  to  health  and 
sanitation  problems.  Power  shedding  limits  business 
development  and  impedes  government  services  and 
productivity. 

The  energy  crisis  is  further  disproportionately 
impacting  Nauru  in  terms  of  transport  services.  Sea, 
land  and  air,  passenger  and  freight:  all  are  fast 
becoming unaffordable for my people, further isolating 
our 
island  nation  and  hindering  our  sustainable 
development.  We  need  urgent  assistance,  both  to 
develop immediate alternative sources of energy and to 
access economically viable sources of fuel. 

The current reliance on fossil fuels for energy has 
further  particular  significance  for  the  Pacific  small 
island  developing  States.  It  has  resulted  in  emissions 
that are causing sea-level rise and climate change. This 
is not scientific theory: we are experiencing the effects 
right now. 

As with the food crisis, Nauru and the Pacific are 
not  contributors  to  the  causes,  but  we  are  particularly 
vulnerable.  We  will  pay  the  highest  costs  and  are  the 
first  countries  to  feel  the  direct  consequences.  Global 
warming is predicted conservatively to raise sea levels 
by  one  metre  in  this  century. That  will  flood  our  only 
habitable  land.  Our  people  will  be  literally  trapped 
between  the  rising  sea  and  an  ancient,  uninhabitable 
coral field. 

Despite  our  many  challenges,  we  are  working 
hard  to  create  a  safe  and  sustainable  haven  from  the 
rising  sea.  We  must  rehabilitate  our  mined  phosphate 
lands and return them to a habitable, arable state. The 
cost  of  rehabilitating  80  per  cent  of  our  island  is  well 
beyond  our  immediate  means.  Rehabilitation  of  the 
island is a high priority, and, as part of climate change 
international 
the  paramount 
adaptation, we call for sufficient funding mechanisms, 
including  support  from 
the  United  Nations  and 
financial and private sector institutions, to help restore 
our nation and improve our resilience. 

To address climate change as a world society, we 
need  to  meet  much  of  our  energy  needs  through 
renewable  energy  sources,  and  by  reducing  emissions 
from  fuels  and  using  cleaner  fuels.  But  as  critical  as 
that is for my nation, it is clear to me that the emitting 
countries have yet to do all they can. We all share the 
same  global  climate.  It  is  therefore  vital  that  all 
countries  give  much  greater  impetus  to  developing 
alternate  energy  sources,  increase  investment  and 
implement real measures to address climate change. 

The  issue  of  climate  change  for  Pacific  island 
nations  is  a  threat  to  international  peace  and  security. 
The preamble to the United Nations Charter stipulates 
that  a  primary  purpose  of  the  United  Nations  is  to 
maintain international peace and security. The Security 
Council  is  charged  with  protecting  human  rights, 
together  with  ensuring  the  integrity  and  security  of 
States. 
forum 
available  to  Pacific  island  countries  in  which  to  draw 
attention 
islands  and 
populations  face  due  to  the  adverse  effects  of  climate 
change. 

We do not expect the Security Council to become 
involved in the details of the discussions in the context 
of  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change, but we do expect the Security Council 
to  keep  the  matter  under  continuous  review  so  as  to 
ensure  that  all  countries  contribute  to  solving  the 
climate  change  problem  and  that  their  efforts  match 
their resources and capacities. We also expect that the 
Security  Council  will  review  particularly  sensitive 
issues such as the implications of the loss of land and 
resources  and 
for 
sovereignty and international legal rights.  
the  Millennium 

its  national 
Development  Goals 
sustainable  development 
island 
countries,  including  Nauru,  are  struggling  in  many 
areas of the MDGs as a consequence of the recent fuel 
and food crises and the effects of climate change. 
We lament the fact that the gap between promise 

and 
implementation  continues 
frustrate  our 
achievement of the full range of internationally agreed 
development  goals  that  are  particularly  relevant  to 
the  displacement  of  people 
incorporated 
(MDGs) 
strategy.  Pacific 
the  dangers 
Nauru 
that 
their 
into 
to 
It 
is 
to 
has 
20 

08-51839 
A/63/PV.8
It  is  very  simple  and  straightforward:  we  have 

vowed to the people, now let us keep our promise. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Nauru for the statement he 
has just made. 

The Honourable Marcus Stephen, President of the 
Republic  of  Nauru,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The President returned to the Chair. 
from 



It 
that 
island  developing  States. 


is  extremely 
small 
those  goals  were  determined  by 
distressing 
consensus  of 
the 
international  community  yet 
developed countries have  yet to contribute the 0.7 per 
cent  of  gross  national  income  committed  to  assist 
developing countries in meeting their targets. 

On  the  eve  of  the  high-level  event  on  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  may  I  call  on  the 
United  Nations  once  more  to  rededicate  itself  to 
making development one of the highest priorities of the 
Organization. I would remind the United Nations of its 
commitment  to  open  a  total  of  eight  new  offices  in 
Pacific island countries. We hope that the Organization 
will  not  waiver  in  its  commitment  to  support  our 
national priorities in meeting the MDGs and provide us 
with the urgently needed international civil servants to 
help  with  our  pursuit  of  sustainable  development  and 
poverty alleviation. 

Sixty-three  years  after  the  United  Nations  was 
founded on the noble ideals of establishing a peaceful, 
free  and  tolerant  global  order,  the  world  community 
still  suffers  from 
the  scourges  of  war,  poverty, 
oppression and discrimination, even as it faces today’s 
colossal  global  challenges  that  threaten  our  very 
existence. If the United Nations is to remain devoted to 
the  ideals  upon  which  it  was  founded,  it  is  absolutely 
critical  that  it  be  reformed  through  the  revitalization 
and  empowerment  of  the  General  Assembly.  If  the 
United Nations is to remain a defender of human rights 
and  international  peace,  it  is  crucial  that  the  Security 
Council  be  expanded  to  better  reflect  geo-political 
realities of the modern world. That would mean giving 
permanent seats to Japan, India, Germany and Brazil. 

If  the  United  Nations  prides  itself  on  being  an 
inclusive  Organization  that  champions  the  rights  of 
everyone,  it  cannot  continue  to  deny  the  fundamental 
right of Taiwan’s 23 million people to participate in the 
specialized  agencies  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  clear 
to  all  of  us  that  cross-Strait  relations  have  been 
improving since May 2008 and that leaders from both 
sides  have  openly  shown  a  willingness  to  work 
together to create a positive atmosphere. It is now time 
for  the  United  Nations  to  find  a  solution  to  the 
exclusion  of  Taiwan.  Only  by  allowing  Taiwan  to 
participate meaningfully in the specialized agencies of 
the United Nations can the principle of universality and 
democratization  of  the  Organization  be  fulfilled,  and 
regional peace and prosperity ensured. 
Address by Mr. Elías Antonio Saca González, 
President of the Republic of El Salvador 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of El Salvador. 

Mr. Elías Antonio Saca González, President of the 
Republic  of  El  Salvador,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Antonio  Saca 
González,  President  of  the  Republic  of  El  Salvador, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 

President  Saca  González  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
First of all, I have the pleasure of congratulating you, 
Sir,  on  being  elected  to  preside  over  this  session,  an 
honour  falling  to  a  Central  American  for  the  second 
time  in  the  history  of  the  United  Nations.  I  wish  you 
every  success  and  commend  you  once  again.  I  would 
also like to express our gratitude for the work done by 
Mr. Kerim  as  President  of  the  previous  session.  On 
behalf of El Salvador, I would also like to congratulate 
the  Secretary-General 
and 
determination  with  which  he 
the 
Organization.  

It seems to me very timely that the central focus 
of  debate  for  this  session  is  the  impact  of  the  global 
food  crisis  on  the  issue  of  poverty  and  hunger 
throughout 
to 
democratize  the  United  Nations.  It  is  increasingly 
evident  every  day  that  the  world  is  facing  a  global 
crisis  that  has  a  negative  impact  on  development 
efforts,  especially  in  the  poorest  countries.  Food, 
climate, energy and financial problems are aggravating 
the  already  difficult  situation  of  developing  countries. 
the  dynamism 
leading 
the  world, 
the  need 
including 
for 
is 
08-51839 

21 
crises 
and 
turn 
them 

facing 
collectively 
the  problems  currently 
the  political  and  moral  responsibility 
to 
A/63/PV.8 

We  are  gathered  here  because  we  have  a  duty  to 
to 
assume 
respond 
the 
international  community.  The  world  must  learn  from 
both  its  successes  and  its  failures.  We  must  learn  to 
face 
into 
opportunities,  for  no  one  can  solve  them  alone  any 
longer.  
In order to preserve the progress made in the area 

of  development,  we  need 
to  strengthen  global 
leadership to make it both decisive and accountable. In 
the current crisis, there is  a danger that we could lose 
ground.  

The  economic  and  financial  system  cannot  be  at 
the  mercy  of  markets  that  operate  on  speculation. 
Together, we must rebuild a wise capitalist system that 
provides  financing  for  economic  development,  rather 
than one that rewards speculation.  
We  must  help  to  prevent  and  mitigate  serious 

financial  fluctuations.  We  must  balance  accounts  and 
stabilize credit. I agree with the President of the French 
Republic  that,  in  order  to  achieve  this,  countries 
directly affected by the situation must meet as soon as 
possible  to  find  joint  solutions  to  what  is  the  most 
acute  financial  crisis  the  world  has  experienced  in  75 
years.  
It  is  undeniable  the  rise  —  and  above  all  the 

instability  —  in  the  price  of  oil  continues  to  have  a 
negative 
in  most 
countries  in  the  world,  in  particular  the  smallest  and 
most vulnerable among them. 

Here,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  the  call  I  made 
from  this  very  rostrum  last  year  (see  A/62/PV.6),  for 
oil-producing countries to seek and implement flexible 
mechanisms aimed at ensuring that hydrocarbon prices 
do  not  continue 
to  drastically  affect  developing 
countries.  Such  mechanisms,  of  course,  should  not 
ignore 
the  harmful  effects  of 
speculation  by 
intermediaries in the world markets.  

If  we  do  not  act  jointly  and  immediately,  and  if, 
in  this  forum,  we  are  not  able  to  come  up  with  a 
balanced  solution  to  this  problem,  we  will  effectively 
condemn  oil-importing  countries  to  bankruptcy  for 
years  to  come. We  have  invested  in  development,  and 
we  have  worked  as  hard  as  possible  to  achieve  the 
MDGs;  those  successes  will  be  swept  aside  by  the 
excessive  and  crippling  prices  of  oil.  We  cannot 
impact  on  development  efforts 
through 
the  countries  of 
continue  to  wait.  We  must  take  immediate  political 
decisions  to  shore  up  development  and  prevent  a 
deeper crisis in order to preserve global peace, security 
and stability.  

Faced  with  the  food  crisis,  which  is  directly 
affecting  us  all,  we  support  the  implementation  of  the 
measures  agreed  upon  during  the  June  2008  High-
Level  Conference  on  World  Food  Security: 
the 
Challenges of Climate Change and Bioenergy. We call 
for  action  and  assistance,  particularly  for  affected 
developing countries.  

We would like to congratulate the Group of Eight 
(G8) on its decision to support, in the framework of the 
United  Nations  system,  the  establishment  of  a  world 
agriculture and food association, and the identification 
of  a  range  of  actions  to  address  the  food  crisis, 
including 
the  participation  of  major 
institutions. 
In the face of this tangle of problems that require 

creative  responses, 
the  Central 
American  Integration  System  (SICA)  advocate  the 
initiative on action under the Staple Grains Plan, which 
concentrates  in  particular  on  strengthening  technical 
assistance  and  public  and  private  assistance  and  a 
programme for financing, land leasing and a temporary 
worker programme. 
The  countries  of  SICA  and  Brazil,  during 

El Salvador’s  pro 
that 
organization, supported the holding of a special session 
of the General Assembly on the world food and energy 
crisis.  As  a  result,  a  high-level  meeting  on  food 
security  was  held,  beginning  on  18  July,  in  this  very 
Hall,  during  which  El  Salvador  explained  the  actions 
that we have undertaken in order to deal with the crisis 
in Central America, particularly in the most vulnerable 
areas.  

In  our  country,  El  Salvador,  we  are  responding 
with  social  programmes  aimed  at  reducing  extreme 
poverty,  fighting  hunger  and  infant  malnutrition,  and 
attaining  other  MDGs.  At  the  next  Ibero-American 
summit of heads of State or Government, which will be 
held  in  El  Salvador,  the  subject  of  children  under  the 
age of five will be a matter of priority. 

In  order  to  counter  the  impact  of  the  economic 
crisis on Salvadoranian households, we have created a 
multidisciplinary commission with broad participation, 
which  has  proposed  a  series  of  measures  to  address 
tempore  presidency  of 
22 

08-51839 
insisted  on 


current  effects  and  promote  a  social  pact  of  national 
solidarity  for  productivity  and  employment.  Those 
solutions  involve  business  people,  workers,  political 
parties  and  civil  society  bodies,  and  the  creation  of  a 
committee  for  the  implementation  of  viable  priority 
actions. 

One of the most successful measures that we have 
implemented in El Salvador to prevent a food crisis is 
the  promotion  of  improved  seed  varieties  for  staple 
grains,  which  has  enabled  us 
to  achieve  record 
production this year.  

However, I have to tell the Assembly that all the 
efforts  of  solidarity  we  make  as  a  global  forum  or  as 
individual  countries 
require  broad  participation, 
democratic  stability,  the  enjoyment  of  full  individual 
liberties,  and  a  genuine  sense  of  social  responsibility 
on  the  part  of  Governments,  irrespective  of  their 
ideologies.  International  cooperation  is  also  important 
for strengthening national and regional efforts. That is 
why  El  Salvador  has 
issue  of 
the 
cooperation with middle-income countries.  

In  October  2007,  at  San  Salvador,  we  held  the 
second  International  Conference  on  Development 
Cooperation with Middle-Income Countries. In August 
2008,  in  Namibia,  my  country  co-chaired  the  third 
Conference on that subject. At that meeting, we agreed 
on  measures  including  improving  access  to  markets, 
reducing  poverty,  fulfilling  the  MDGs,  increasing  the 
competitiveness  of  our  economies  and  improving  our 
physical and financial infrastructures.  
The  problems  we  face  require  decisive  measures 

to  be  taken.  In  that  respect,  I  would  ask  all  Member 
States to support the fulfilment and implementation of 
the  commitments  agreed  upon  in  the  El  Salvador 
Consensus and the Namibia Declaration, as well as the 
consideration of this topic at the Global Conference on 
Financing  for  Development  in  Doha.  Those  efforts 
should lead to a General Assembly resolution with the 
objective  of  reviewing  current  practices  in  the  area  of 
international cooperation. 
For  middle-income  countries,  injustice  is  clearly 

to  be 
international  cooperation.  The 
commitment  I  propose  should  lead  us  to  swiftly 
prepare a multidisciplinary plan of action, global in its 
scope, in order to strengthen development cooperation 
for  middle-income  countries.  We  believe  that  new 
types  of  development  cooperation  must  also  be 
included,  such  as  South-South  cooperation,  triangular 
seen 
in 
A/63/PV.8
cooperation,  the  exchange  of  debt  for  investment  in 
social  areas,  such  as  health,  education  and 
the 
environment,  as  we  are  already  doing  with  Spain, 
France and Germany. All of this could help us to attain 
all  of  the  MDGs  and  to  meet  other  parameters 
established by the United Nations.  

In  my  view,  it  is  important  that  as  we  seek 
solutions  to  all  of  those  problems,  we  never  abandon 
our  ongoing  efforts  to  achieve  the  MDGs.  In  that 
respect,  I  am  very  happy  to  describe  some  of  the 
achievements we made during the period from 2001 to 
2007.  

Extreme poverty at the national level was reduced 
from  32.6  per  cent  in  2001  to  12.8  per  cent  in  2007. 
With  regard  to  education,  the  net  rate  of  school 
enrolment increased from 78 to 93 per cent during that 
same  period.  The  percentage  of  schoolchildren  who 
enter the first grade of primary school and complete the 
fifth  grade  has  increased  from  58  to  80  per  cent,  and 
the literacy rate for young people between the ages of 
15  and  24  has  increased  from  85  to  95  per  cent.  I 
would also like to inform  you that the  Constitution of 
El  Salvador  stipulates  that  primary  education  must  be 
free.  With  tremendous  effort,  our  Government  has 
achieved  and  established  free  secondary  education  in 
all El Salvador’s public education institutions. 

With  regard  to  environmental  sustainability,  the 
percentage of the population without access to drinking 
water dropped from 23.9 to 12.1 per cent and without 
access to sanitation from 21.9 to 8.1 per cent.  
In the fight against HIV/AIDS, I am very pleased 

to report on the major efforts that we have undertaken 
from 
in  El  Salvador 
HIV/AIDS — 
free 
antiretroviral drugs for all those who need them, with a 
great number of decentralized hospitals  providing that 
treatment.  In  the  last  four  years,  we  have  managed  to 
reduce  the  mortality  rate  of  those  with  HIV/AIDS  by 
35  per  cent  and  the  number  of  children  born  with 
HIV/AIDS  by  89.14  per  cent,  falling  from  150  to 
15 children annually.  

With  regard  to  implementing  the  goals  of  the 
Special  Session  of  the  General Assembly  on  Children 
in  2002,  contained  in  the  Plan  of  Action  Creating  a 
World Fit for Children (A/S-27/19/Rev.1), I am pleased 
to report the  progress El Salvador has  made. We have 
achieved  15  of  the  35  goals,  particularly  in  the 
reduction of extreme poverty, immunization, infant and 
suffering 
foremost,  universal 
first  and 
to  help 
those 
08-51839 

23 
should 
play 
those 
between 
regarding 
developed 
the  2015  deadline, 
A/63/PV.8 

maternal  mortality  and  education  of  children  and 
adolescents. 

Programmes  such  as  the  Solidarity  Network, 
which  maps  poverty  in  order  to  identify  extreme 
poverty, Alliance with the Family with 19 measures to 
help  the  family  purse,  Solidarity  Fund  for  Health  and 
healthy  schools  have  been  key  to  those  successes.  I 
must  underline  that  we  have  achieved  some  of  the 
targets established under the Millennium Development 
Goals  before 
in  particular 
concerning  poverty  reduction,  gender  equality  and 
access  to  drinking  water.  That  is  why  we  support  the 
initiative of the Secretary-General to hold a summit in 
2010 to review the progress made in implementing the 
Goals.  
With regard to existing regional asymmetries, and 

even  more 
and 
underdeveloped  countries,  and  the  role  the  United 
Nations 
sustainable 
development, the Member States need a modern, strong 
global Organization with institutions able effectively to 
face  the  new  challenges  of  the  current  international 
situation. 

To that end, El Salvador would like to reiterate its 
resolute support for the United Nations reform process, 
so  that  the  purposes  and  principles  for  which  the 
Organization  was  created  in  1945  can  be  fulfilled, 
particularly  today  when  we  are  facing  global  threats 
against peace, security, human rights and international 
cooperation — fundamental pillars of development. 
Security Council reform is particularly important 

as part of that effort, and in that respect, we would like 
to  stress  the  need  to  bring  changes  to  make  that 
institution  more 
and 
transparent, so as to adapt it to the current international 
situation. 

From this rostrum, I should like to reiterate once 
again our profound appreciation to the United Nations 
system  for  supporting  the  process  of  coordinating  and 
reinforcing  the  peace  agreements  in  El  Salvador. 
Today, El Salvador is a model. We are living witnesses 
of  the  fundamental  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
guaranteeing peace and stability.  
is 

participating 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission. Similarly, we have become 
a troop-contributing country within the United Nations 
Mindful  of  our  experience,  El  Salvador 
representative,  democratic 
as  Vice-Chair 
actively 

system,  a  role  that  we  are  proud  to  assume  to  defend 
world  peace  and  security  in  times  of  need.  On  that 
basis, we have participated and continue to take part in 
operations  in  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Western  Sahara,  Liberia, 
Iraq  and  Haiti,  and  recently,  we  joined  the  Spanish 
contingent  in  the  United  Nations  Interim  Force  in 
Lebanon. 

Migration,  particularly  when  undocumented,  has 
increasingly become a source of differences, instability 
and  conflict.  As  a  country  of  origin,  transit  and 
destination  for  migratory  flows,  we  appeal  for  the 
continued  strengthening  of  actions  to  combat  and 
prevent the illegal trafficking of migrants and trade in 
persons  in  all  their  forms  and  for  guaranteeing  full 
protection and support for the victims of those crimes, 
particularly women and children. 

While  respecting  the  sovereign  rights  of  States 
with regard to their immigration policies, we call for a 
comprehensive approach to international migration that 
values  the  positive  contributions  made  by  immigrants 
to the economy and culture of the communities where 
they live, and favours schemes in support of controlled 
migration,  including  temporary  work  programmes.  I 
should like to point out that, in the United States alone, 
around  12  million  undocumented  migrants  reside, 
awaiting  humane  and  comprehensive 
immigration 
reform. They are good, hard-working people, who have 
sacrificed their lives to support their families. 

Another subject on which we must try to achieve 
consensus  is  climate  change  and  global  warming.  I 
would  like  to  stress  that  our  country  is  meeting  its 
commitment to support international efforts to address 
the effects of climate change. 

actively 
participating in the international negotiations aimed at 
creating an instrument that will complement the Kyoto 
Protocol  on  the  emission  of  greenhouse  gases  after 
2012,  and  awaits  the  and  successful  conclusion  of 
those  negotiations 
in 
Copenhagen, Denmark.  

In  the  context  of  Central  America,  on  28  May 
2008,  the  Presidents  of  the  countries  in  the  region 
adopted,  at  the  invitation  of  my  colleague  and  friend 
President Manuel José Zelaya Rosales of Honduras, the 
Declaration  of  San  Pedro  Sula  on  climate  change  and 
the environment, which set out guidelines for tackling 
the  serious  problems  arising  from  climate  change.  In 
innovative 
El Salvador,  recently  we 
regard,  El  Salvador 
the  conference 
in  2009  at 
launched 
that 
the 
In 
is 
of 
24 

08-51839 
to 
As 
that 
lives 
in 
the 
in 
to  participate 
the  emissary  of  a  nation 


project  Green  Network,  which  seeks 
involve 
Government and private institutions and the Ministries 
of the Environment and of Education in the protection 
of  the  environment  through  the  implementation  of 
programmes  to  improve  social  and  environmental 
conditions for the most vulnerable. 

That  initiative  has  encouraged  participation  in 
areas such as water security, judicious use of timber to 
protect the forests, recycling in schools, energy saving 
and responsible environmental business policies. 
in 

democracy  and  peace,  respecting  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms,  I  should  like  to  reiterate  once 
again,  on  behalf  of  El  Salvador,  our  firm  support  for 
the aspirations of the people of the Republic of China 
in  Taiwan 
international 
institutional  structure,  particularly 
the  United 
Nations  system.  We  support  the  initiative  to  examine 
the  participation  of  that  country  in  the  specialized 
agencies  of 
the  United  Nations,  with  particular 
emphasis  on  the  fact  that  the  people  of  that  country 
cannot  and  should  not  remain  isolated  from  the 
international 
contribute 
experience,  resources  and  knowledge  to  deal  with  the 
challenges that we all face. 

I  also  wish  to  refer  to  the  case  of  Palestine. 
Palestine should have its own State, as does Israel, with 
secure  borders.  I  think  that  the  United  Nations  should 
play a greater and more active role in ensuring that the 
Palestinian people have their own territory and that the 
territory  of  Israel  is  also  respected  through  secure 
borders. 
This  is  the  fifth  time  during  my  administration 

that 
the  Government  of  El  Salvador  has  been 
represented at the highest level in this important forum, 
which is the universal and most democratic body in our 
Organization.  My  presence  in  the  General  Assembly 
and  in  other  high-level  meetings  to  discuss  matters  of 
global 
unequivocal 
demonstration  of  the  importance  and  relevance  we  all 
attach to the work of the United Nations. 

I  would  like  to  finalize  my  intervention  as  the 
President of El Salvador in this forum. I hope that the 
Organization  will  be  strengthened  on  the  basis  of 
understanding, solidarity and the political will of all of 
its  Members.  I  am  absolutely  convinced  that  if  we 
combine our  wills, our  abilities  and our resources, we 
will be able to steer the United Nations so that it may 
community 
constitutes 
and 
could 
interest 
an 
A/63/PV.8
effectively  fulfil  its  role  of  promoting  peace,  security, 
justice and sustainable development. 

Despite  the  problems  in  the  world,  I  am  an 
eternal  optimist.  Problems  always  have  solutions,  and 
it  is  easier  to  find  those  solutions  together.  We  must 
promote  tolerance  and  human  dignity.  There  is  no 
greater  bastion  for  peace  and  brotherhood 
than 
understanding and respect for our diversity, our beliefs 
and our fundamental values, if we are to live together 
peacefully and with solidarity between nations.  
I  also  wish  to  state  today,  within  this  global 

forum,  that  the  Central  America  of  20  years  ago  has 
disappeared,  that  the  world’s  image  of  it  is  mistaken. 
The  Central  American  countries  and 
the  Central 
American Integration System — SICA — are working 
well.  Integration  is  accelerating.  Over  the  last  three 
years  we  have  made  more  progress 
in  Central 
American integration than we have made over the last 
fifty years.  

taken  valiant,  bold 
decisions, among them the customs union. Guatemala, 
El  Salvador  and  Honduras  will  be  making  progress  in 
the  next  few  weeks  in  the  area  of  customs  —  free 
movement of people and goods in a Central America of 
40 million people living in an atmosphere of peace and 
tranquility,  with  the  normal  problems  of  any  country, 
but with many exchanges  and closer contacts between 
leaders. 

Thanks to all, and may the supreme Creator guide 
us  towards  those  great  goals.  May  God  bless  our 
Organization,  the  whole  world  and  Central  America, 
and  may  God  bless  the  Earth  to  which  El  Salvador 
belongs. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
El Salvador for the statement he has just made. 

Mr. Elías Antonio Saca González, President of the 
Republic  of  El  Salvador,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.  
Central  America  has 


Address by Mr. Runaldo Ronald Venetiaan, 
President of the Republic of Suriname 

The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Suriname. 
08-51839 

25 

A/63/PV.8 


Mr.  Runaldo  Ronald  Venetiaan,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Suriname,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Runaldo 
Ronald  Venetiaan,  President  of 
the  Republic  of 
Suriname, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Venetiaan:  Allow  me  to  congratulate 

you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-third session. I am pleased to see 
a member of our regional group of Latin America and 
the Caribbean in that high office. I  am convinced that 
your  longstanding  diplomatic  experience  and  in-depth 
knowledge  of  current  international  issues  will  enable 
you to successfully discharge the high responsibility of 
your  office.  I  would  also  like  to  recognize  the  able 
stewardship  and  valuable  work  of  your  predecessor, 
Mr. Srgjan Kerim, during the Assembly’s sixty-second 
session. 

To the Secretary-General of the Organization, His 
Excellency  Ban  Ki-moon,  I  pledge  Suriname’s  full 
support  in  implementing  the  resolutions  of  the  United 
Nations to achieve the objectives of the United Nations 
Charter  for  sustainable  development, 
international 
peace  and  security  and  respect  for  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms. 

We  are  commemorating  the  sixtieth  anniversary 
of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  this 
year, while many of these rights are still under serious 
pressure.  New  threats,  such  as  global  warming  and 
climate  change  and  most  recently  the  global  food  and 
energy crises, are an infringement on people’s rights to 
food,  health,  education,  security  and 
the  overall 
freedom  to  live  in  dignity.  Those  tribulations  are 
intertwined  and  universal  and  thus  beyond  the  control 
of any single nation. Millions of vulnerable people are 
therefore looking to the international community, with 
the United Nations at the helm, for effective measures 
to bring some kind of relief. 

The  Economic  and  Social  Council  recently 
recognized  the  seriousness  and  complexity  of  the 
global  food  crisis  and  reiterated  that  its  consequences 
require  a  comprehensive 
response  by  national 
Governments  and  the  international  community.  It  is 
essential  for  us  to  intensify  our  combined  efforts,  and 
we therefore support the emergency global partnership 
plan  for  food,  called  for  by  Secretary-General  Ban 
to 
of 
some 
including  poverty 
Ki-moon in his address to the General Assembly high-
level  event  on  the  global  food  and  climate  change 
crises. 

The  financial  and  monetary  implications  of  the 
global  crisis  require  substantial  political  and  financial 
commitments from us all, from national Governments, 
from multilateral organizations, including international 
financial  institutions,  and  from  the  private  sector.  We 
will  have  to  change  the  way  that  we,  human  beings, 
behave  towards  Mother  Nature  and  we  will  have  to 
find  a  solution  to  policies  and  regulations  that  are 
detrimental  to  our  progress,  such  as  protectionist 
agricultural  policies  in  developed  countries  that  are 
causing  low  production  in  the  agricultural  sector  of 
many  developing  countries.  If  we  do  not  find  lasting 
solutions  now,  the  cost  of  our  inaction  will  be 
unacceptably  high,  and  the  threats  that  we  will  most 
likely  pass  on 
the  next  generation  will  be 
devastating. 
My  country,  Suriname,  was  on  the  right  track 

the  Millennium 
towards 
achieving 
Development  Goals, 
reduction 
sustained by economic growth rates of over 5 per cent 
annually  in  the  past  three  years,  with  predictions  by 
renowned 
institutions  of 
approximately 8 per cent growth for the coming years. 
As  a  result  of  the  current  food  and  energy  crises,  as 
well as the recent volatility of financial markets, it has 
now become a challenge for us to keep up the pace and 
quality of our development. 

My Government has taken action and has already 
put  some  measures  in  place  to  respond  to  the  new 
difficulties  we  are  facing  because  of  those  external 
developments.  We  have  expanded  social  security  to 
cover the most needy, such as children, the elderly and 
people  with  disabilities,  we  have  put  in  place  food 
programmes for schoolchildren, and we have increased 
salaries  and  Government  pensions,  which  had 
weakened  as  a  result  of  years  of  inflation.  The 
Government has now called upon the private sector to 
follow 
lead  and  restore  eroded  salaries  and 
pensions. 

Africa, the cradle of humanity, is a continent with 
immense  capability,  endowed  with 
indispensable 
human  and  natural  potential.  Paradoxically,  in  many 
parts  of  the  continent,  development  is  lagging  behind 
or  even  absent,  and  development  perspectives  are 
bleak. 
its 
international 
financial 
26 

08-51839 
“Africa’s 
needs: 
state 
to 
development 
the  Rome  Statute  of 



My  country  commends  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon for  holding the important high-level meeting 
on 
of 
implementation  of  various  commitments,  challenges 
and the way forward”, which took place just two days 
ago.  It  is  our  genuine  expectation  that  the  outcome  of 
that meeting will lead to new and unique opportunities 
for  impacting  positively  on  and  contributing  to  the 
development of Africa. 
Suriname  remains  committed  to  the  promotion 

and  protection  of  human 
rights.  My  country 
underscores  the  principle  of  equality  before  the  law 
and  emphasizes 
that  everyone  should  be  held 
accountable  for  their  actions.  Against  that  backdrop, 
Suriname  acceded 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  on  15  July  of  this  year. 
We  thus  expressed  our  commitment  to  fighting  the 
impunity  of  the  perpetrators  of  gross  human  rights 
violations.  However,  providing  the  Court  with  its  full 
potential  to  meet  its  mandate  depends  on  a  collective 
commitment at the global level. 

Environmental  disturbances  today  are  of  such 
magnitude that we can no longer ignore their negative 
impact on the world’s resources. As a country with 90 
per cent of its territory covered by forests within which 
lies  one  of  the  largest  stretches  of  pristine  tropical 
rainforests on earth, Suriname is aware of its value and 
potential  to  contribute  to  the  global  mitigation  of 
climate  change,  the  conservation  of  biodiversity  and 
the protection of water resources. 

However,  the  contribution  of  the  international 
community  to  the  preservation  and  protection  of  such 
globally  valuable  resources  is  not  proportionate  to  the 
sacrifice  made  by  the  forested  countries.  Moreover, 
forested  countries 
low 
deforestation rates are forgotten in mechanisms devised 
to compensate for deforestation. 

the  Paramaribo 
Dialogue,  a  country-led  initiative  on  financing  for 
sustainable forest management in support of the United 
Nations  Forum  on  Forests.  During  that  international 
dialogue, multiple stakeholders from all over the world 
came together to develop substantive proposals for the 
establishment  of  an  international  financial  framework 
to assist in future sustainable forest management. 

We  stress  the  importance  of  new  financing 
mechanisms,  since  good  management  of  forests  and 
other natural resources cannot and should not be at the 
like  Suriname  with  very 
recently  hosted 
Suriname 
A/63/PV.8
expense  of  the  development  of  our  own  peoples,  the 
peoples of countries with high forest coverage and low 
deforestation  rates.  We  therefore  look  forward  to 
substantial  investments  to  support  the  sustainable 
development of such countries. 

Suriname has supported the restructuring process 
of  the  United  Nations  from  the  start,  with  the  aim  of 
achieving  a  more  effective  and  efficient  Organization 
that  would  be  better  equipped  to  adequately  address 
old and new challenges. In that process, we expect that 
the  role  of  the  United  Nations  as  a  partner  in 
development will gain further relevance and achieve a 
more  coherent  and  enhanced  presence  in  support  of 
capacity-building and sustainable development. 

Suriname  is  also  currently  engaged  in  a  “One 
UN”  policy  process,  through  which  it  responds  to  the 
need for coherent involvement of the United Nations in 
its development efforts. To that end, Suriname and the 
United  Nations 
the  Country 
Programme  Action  Plan  for  the  period  2008-2011, 
which  also  addresses  the  pursuit  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

We have entered an era of growing anxieties and 
concerns 
that  go  beyond  national  borders.  The 
contemporary  world  situation  requires  harmonization 
international 
of 
developments.  Suriname  believes 
the  United 
Nations  should  be  given  the  tools  and  instruments  to 
enable the Organization to address global challenges in 
support of a comprehensive and coherent development 
agenda in the interest of all the nations of the world. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the Republic of Suriname for the statement he has just 
made. 

the  United  Nations  with  current 
that 
Mr.  Runaldo  Ronald  Venetiaan,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Suriname,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
agencies 
signed 

Address by Mr. Álvaro Colom Caballeros, President 
of the Republic of Guatemala 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Guatemala. 

  Mr.  Álvaro  Colom  Caballeros,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Guatemala,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


08-51839 

27 

A/63/PV.8 

The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Álvaro  Colom 
Caballeros,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Guatemala, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Caballeros (spoke in Spanish): It is an 

honour for me to represent my country, Guatemala, in 
this high international forum. It is an honour for me to 
represent a people who have fought for their well-being 
and freedom for decades, specifically the past 54 years. 
My  Administration  is  an  expression  of  precisely  that 
desire,  because,  after  all  those  years,  governmental 
actions  are  now  being  prioritized  around  the  human 
person,  the  concepts  of  solidarity  and  social  cohesion 
and,  especially,  in  the  254  days  since  I  took  office, 
attention  to  the  poorest  and  most  marginalized  among 
our population, in particular the 23 indigenous peoples 
that constitute our nation.  

First,  I  should  like  to  commend  Mr.  Miguel 
d’Escoto  Brockmann,  whom  we,  with  much  Central 
American  pride,  see  presiding  over 
the  General 
Assembly  at  its  present  session,  following  in  the 
footsteps of a fellow Guatemalan, Mr. Emilio Arenales 
Catalán.  I  know  that  Miguel’s  experience  and  life 
example will ensure the success of this session.  

I  also  wish  to  thank  the  United  Nations  for 
assisting  Guatemala  in  its  peace  process  and  for 
following up on it with the United Nations Verification 
(MINUGUA)  and,  most 
Mission 
recently,  with 
the  International 
Commission against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG), a 
unique  mechanism 
that  will  help  us  combat 
impunity —  indeed,  we  are  the  only  country  to  have 
such a mechanism.  
the 

Participating 
Assembly  are  world  leaders  who  will  be  remembered 
in  10  or  20  years’  time  for  having  had  the  wisdom  to 
emerge  from  the  present  crisis  —  a  crisis  regarding 
which,  in  certain  areas  and  at  certain  times,  there  has 
been  a  marked  absence  of  global  solidarity.  I  join 
Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann 
for 
solidarity. I believe that the great remedy for this crisis 
is  global  solidarity.  We  have  globalized  trade  and 
information,  but  we  have  not  gained  the  wisdom  to 
globalize humanity or to globalize labour to ensure that 
migrants  are  not  treated  as  criminals  and  that  —  like 
products,  trade  and  money  —  they  have  freedom  of 
movement  across  borders.  Our  migrants  seek  nothing 
the  present  session  of 
in  his  appeal 
in  Guatemala 
the  presence  of 
in 
28 

more  than  the  opportunities  offered  by  globalization 
and  the  opening  of  borders.  It  was  that  very  opening 
that  worsened  their  poverty  and  encouraged  them  to 
abandon their communities.  

That  is  why  I  am  making  a  special  appeal  and 
proposal to the Secretary-General that we no longer try 
to resolve the problem of migration bilaterally; rather, 
we must do so as a bloc. For example, I should like to 
propose  that  the  United  Nations  create  a  forum 
composed  of  former  Presidents  of  countries  of  origin 
and  countries  receiving  great  numbers  of  migrants, 
such  as 
the  brotherly  countries  of  El  Salvador, 
Honduras, Guatemala, Colombia, Ecuador and Mexico. 
Together,  in  six  months’  time,  we  could  formulate  a 
specific  proposal  to  finally  put  an  end  to  a  situation 
that  is  a  scourge  for  so  many  families,  so  many 
Guatemalans and many other nations.  

I should also like to discuss the scourges of drug 
trafficking  and  organized  crime,  which  greatly  afflict 
our populations. Only 254 days after taking office, our 
Government  has  begun  a  comprehensive  process  of 
reforming  the  security  forces.  We  have  changed  the 
high command of the army and the entire command of 
the  national  police  so  that  we  can  fight  impunity 
together  with  CICIG  and  the  United  Nations  system. 
Thus, Guatemala can finally achieve the true, firm and 
lasting peace for which, with such hope, we signed an 
agreement here on 29 December 1996.  

Everything  that  happens  in  the  outside  world 
affects  us.  Foreign  manipulation  and  speculation 
related  to  oil  and  food  affects  us. As  my  good  friend 
President  Saca  of  El  Salvador  said  earlier,  our 
countries are accomplishing their national tasks. In 254 
days,  my  Government  has,  through  social  cohesion, 
returned  to  the  people  of  Guatemala  what  belongs  to 
them  under  their  Constitution:  free  education  and 
health  care  —  totally  free,  as  stipulated  in  the 
Constitution.  We  have  broken  a  paradigm. 
In 
Guatemala,  it  used  to  be  forbidden  to  get  sick  after 
5 p.m.,  because  the  country’s  health  clinics  closed  at 
that time. Today, 52 municipalities out of a total of 333 
already  have  comprehensive  health  services. 
In 
addition, 300,000 children now have renovated schools 
with teachers, desks and all the necessary equipment.  

With  determination,  we  can  do  what  is  required, 
but  we  need  solidarity  among  everyone. We  need  and 
participate 
in  Central  American  solidarity,  which 
enables us to tell the world that the free market works. 
08-51839 


We  have  had  a  common  market  for  50  years,  and  we 
know  that  it  works.  But  we  also  know  that  that 
common  market  requires  social  solidarity  among 
ourselves. 

I  have  always  believed  that  solidarity  is  not 
giving  what  one  has  left  over,  but  rather  giving  what 
someone  else  needs;  it  is  very  easy  to  give  what  one 
has left over. Giving what someone else needs requires 
will and solidarity. We are aware of — and have heard 
our  colleagues’  statements  about  —  this  international 
crisis, but there is a much deeper crisis. The crises that 
the  world’s  leaders  must  face  are  the  crisis  of  hunger, 
the crisis of discrimination and the crisis of poverty. It 
is the crisis of hunger that all the Governments present 
here today are fighting against, but that is also a global 
issue.  We  in  Guatemala  are  a  people  of  maize,  but  a 
few  years  ago  they  said  it  was  bad  business  to  plant 
maize  and  destroyed  the  production  systems.  Today, 
Guatemala imports maize. 

I  believe  that  now  is  the  time  for  solidarity  and 
true global security. Perhaps civil security is the easiest 
to achieve, despite the fact that my country is complex. 
Sovereignty of food, sovereignty of health, sovereignty 
of knowledge — these are more difficult to achieve.  

solidarity, 
productivity, a regional spirit and governance. We have 
established  a  system  of  national  dialogue  that  is 
enabling all the country’s social sectors to come to the 
negotiating 
true  national 
understanding  and  to  begin  rebuilding  a  country  that, 
for 54 years, was afflicted by marginalization, the cold 
war, hunger and bad Governments.  

I  am  convinced  that  new  times  have  come  for 
Latin  America.  I  am  convinced  that  all  our  Latin 
American summits and meetings herald new times. We 
have our differences and individual characteristics, but 
Latin  America  has  begun  to  look  north,  south  and  to 
the  centre,  to  the  Caribbean,  and  we  see  a  continent 
with  the  possibility  of  stronger  unity,  of  stronger 
horizontal  South-South  cooperation  and  North-South 
cooperation.  Our  neighbours,  our  dear  Central 
America —  we  are  peoples  rooted  in  the  region  who 
want a strong and united Central America. 

This Assembly  could  take  a  momentous  turn  for 
our future as a planet. Of course we are concerned by 
climate  change,  but  we  have  to  maintain  our  Mayan 
biosphere  so 
that  others  can  breathe  while  our 
communities are dying of hunger. That is solidarity. We 
We  have  planned 
achieve 
to 
table, 
to  arrive  at  a 
A/63/PV.8
give  oxygen,  but  we  receive  technology.  We  give 
oxygen, but we receive solidarity. We give oxygen, and 
we  receive  the  understanding  of  countries  that  we 
deserve  a  better  fate  on  the  basis  of  this  international 
solidarity.  

We have also promoted tax reform. It is no secret 
for many that tax reform in Guatemala meant problems 
and coups d’état. But now we have tax reform, with a 
good level of consensus. There is also commitment to 
transparency and to the quality of expenditures. In only 
254 days 7 per cent of the national budget was directed 
to  the  poor,  money  that  used  to  be  and  today  would 
have  been  spent  entirely  on  other  things  and  without 
reference to the poor. Seven towns have begun to lower 
their  maternal  mortality  indicators.  Health  centres  are 
packed,  because  they  now  provide  services  and  they 
are  open.  There  are  significantly  more  children  in 
schools in the 45 towns that are priorities. This can be 
done, if there is the determination to do it. 

Our  security  is  perhaps  the  greatest  while  El 
Salvador, Colombia and Mexico are more successful in 
fighting  drug  trafficking.  Guatemala  pays  the  bills. 
That  is  why  in  this  brief  time  I  wish  to  thank  my 
neighbours,  Colombia,  for  the  support  that  they  have 
given  us  so  that  we  can  confront  drug  trafficking  and 
organized crime on a regional scale. Our young people 
should  not  have  to  pay  for  the  weaknesses  of  others. 
Our  unassuming  people  and  our  indigenous  people 
should not have to pay for the vices of others. I believe 
that if we work regionally things will go better.  

I  should  like  to  acknowledge  and  reiterate  our 
gratitude to the United Nations system for the peace in 
Guatemala  that  was  sought  during  the  eight  years  of 
negotiations, in which I had the honour to take part. Its 
follow-up  with  the  United  Nations  Mission  for  the 
Verification of Human Rights and of Compliance with 
the Commitments of the Comprehensive Agreement on 
Human  Rights  in  Guatemala  (MINUGUA)  and  now 
with  the  presence  of  the  International  Commission 
against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG) makes it easier 
for us to take the difficult road towards the integration 
and  development  of  Guatemala  and  towards  equity  in 
Guatemala. 

I  should  like  to  share  with  members  that  the 
programmes for social cohesion that were learned and 
developed  in  Guatemala,  but  also  acquired  in  friendly 
countries, are yielding results. The “My Family Makes 
Progress” programme is now affecting 40,000 families, 
08-51839 

29 

A/63/PV.8 

and the young people are going to school and to health 
facilities. The “Shopping Bag Solidarity” programme is 
yielding results in the urban areas, and “Open Schools” 
is  reducing  delinquency  in  the  areas  of  higher  risk  in 
Guatemala City. 

If  we  had  the  courage  to  globalize  the  economy 
we  would  now  have  the  challenge,  and  almost  the 
obligation, 
to  globalize  all  of  mankind.  Such 
globalization  would  lead  to  comprehensive,  global 
solidarity;  it  could  be  the  way  to  save  our  planet.  It 
could  be  that  we  save  it  by  combining  our  successes 
and trying to avoid our errors. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the  General Assembly,  and  with  great  pride,  I  wish  to 
thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Guatemala  for 
the statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  Álvaro  Colom  Caballeros,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Guatemala,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 




into 
Address by Mr. Lech Kaczyński, President of the 
Republic of Poland 
The President (spoke in Spanish): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Poland. 

  Mr.  Lech  Kaczyński,  President  of  the  Republic 
of Poland,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Lech 
Kaczyński, President of the Republic of Poland, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Kaczyński  (spoke  in  Polish;  English 

text  provided  by  the  delegation):  Let  me  start  by 
expressing my respect and gratitude to the President of 
its  previous  session, 
the  General  Assembly  at 
Mr. Srgjan  Kerim,  whose  active 
involvement  and 
initiatives  have  contributed  to  a  broader  Assembly 
agenda  and  facilitated  its  work.  I  wish  to  extend  my 
congratulations  to  his  successor,  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto 
Brockmann. 
I  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your 
appointment and wish you fruitful work. 

The past year has seen many new challenges and 
problems  with  which  the  international  community  has 
to  deal.  In  our  attempts  to  respond  to  these  problems 
30 

and to search for the best solutions we have recognized 
yet  again  that  different  crises  cannot  be  successfully 
overcome without referring to such universal values as 
democracy, freedom and solidarity. 

One of the biggest global challenges at present is 
the  food  crisis  and  its  consequences.  The  decision  to 
make that issue the central theme of this year’s General 
Assembly  session  testifies  to  the  special  role  of  the 
United Nations as a forum for debate focused on major 
global  challenges.  Poland  appreciates  the  initiative  to 
juxtapose the debate on the food crisis with discussions 
about the need to democratize the United Nations, as it 
is only a democratic and effective United Nations that 
can  face  up  to  the  global  challenges  of  eliminating 
hunger  and  poverty  and  ensuring  the  sustainable 
development  of  the  poorest  nations.  That  is  why  we 
remain  certain  that  the  United  Nations  reform  process 
should continue.  

One  of  the  fundamentals  of  the  democratic 
governance  of  the  United  Nations  is  the  rule  “one 
State,  one  vote”.  Each  State  should  be  given  the 
opportunity  to  decide  in  which  direction  the  United 
Nations  will  head,  and  the  General Assembly  remains 
the  most  important  forum  for  such  democratic  debate. 
In this context, it is especially important to streamline 
the decision-making mechanism.  

We are in favour of accelerating the pace of work 
on  Security  Council 
reform.  The  number  of 
non-permanent  members  of  the  Council  should  be 
increased  so  as  to  truly  reflect  today’s  world.  Let  us 
remember  that  some  of  the  rules  in  that  regard  were 
laid down in a world that was fundamentally different 
from today’s.  

“Everyone  has  the  right  to  a  standard  of  living 
adequate  for  the  health  and  well-being  of  himself  and 
of  his  family,  including  food,  clothing,  housing  and 
medical  care  and  necessary  social  services”:  that 
principle  is  enshrined  in  article  25  of  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  whose 
sixtieth 
anniversary we celebrate this year. As an international 
community, we bear responsibility for their fulfilment.  

Fighting against hunger and poverty is among the 
eight  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  It  has 
been  almost  eight  years  since 
international 
community  set  them.  Despite  numerous  declarations 
and  commitments  we  are  still  short  of  achieving  the 
Goals.  It  will  be  impossible  to  overcome  the  current 
crisis  or  carry  out  our  development  policies  unless  — 
the 
08-51839 
on 
climate 
impact  of 
change  on 
high-level  meeting 
in  concrete  commitments 


and  I  stress  this  —  every  country  shoulders  its 
individual  responsibility,  takes  concrete  steps  and 
assesses  the  progress  made  so  far.  We  should  make 
joint  efforts 
to  promote  a  global  development 
programme with the MDGs as its basis.  

It  was  in  that  vein  that  Poland  joined  British 
Prime Minister Gordon Brown in endorsing the call to 
action  on  the  MDGs.  We  hope  that  that  statement, 
which reflects a broad understanding among countries, 
business representatives, non-governmental organizations 
and faith groups will contribute to the full attainment of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  believe  that 
the 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals taking place on 25 September will 
result 
that  will  be 
implemented  in  a  timely  manner:  timeliness  is  of 
special importance. 
As  we  analyse  the  causes  of  the  food  crisis  and 

try 
to  find  effective  prescriptions  for  combating 
poverty  and  hunger,  we  take  note  of  the  immense 
negative 
these 
phenomena.  Although  the  consequences  of  climate 
change will be felt globally, it is the poorest who will 
bear the brunt and who will be hurt the most severely. 
It  goes  without  saying 
that,  without  solidarity, 
responsibility  and  enhanced  mutual  cooperation, 
developing  countries  will  not  be  able  to  fulfil  their 
commitments  regarding  reductions  in  greenhouse  gas 
emissions and will fail to successfully adapt to climate 
change. This calls for a certain change of philosophy in 
our approach, and for much greater effort on the part of 
the  North  in  favour  of  the  South.  What  I  am  saying 
now is mere short hand: the rich should become much 
more  committed  to  helping  the  poor.  The  United 
Nations is, if not the sole organization, then definitely 
the  principal  organization  that  can  implement  these 
objectives. 

Poland  wants  to  be  an  active  partner  in  the 
international  community’s  activities  to  that  end.  With 
this in mind, we will be hosting in Poznan in December 
this  year  the  fourteenth  session  of  the  Conference  of 
the  Parties 
the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change and the fourth Meeting 
of  the  Parties  to  the  Kyoto  Protocol.  One  of  the  key 
challenges facing this year’s Conference is to work out 
solutions  and  mechanisms  that  will  support  and  bring 
about true systemic change in developing countries. It 
is especially vital to ensure the funding of investments 
that  will  help  to  modernize  the  economies  of  those 
to 
A/63/PV.8
for 
appreciate 
Introducing 
new,  more 
reaching  a  new  agreement 
countries  and  help 
them  reduce  carbon  dioxide 
emissions and adapt to climate change. I reiterate that 
there is no possibility of implementing these objectives 
without  a  major  change  in  thinking,  especially  by  the 
countries  that  now  have  the  most  resources.  We  hope 
that  this  year’s  Poznan  Conference  will  lay  strong 
foundations 
in 
Copenhagen in December next year.  

As  holder  of  the  presidency  of  the  fourteenth 
session of the Conference of Parties, Poland will strive 
to  bring  the  positions  of  major  countries  as  close  as 
possible so as to ensure maximum progress during the 
Poznan  Conference.  We  anticipate  cooperation  and 
support from our international partners and friends. We 
greatly 
the  Secretary-General’s  deep 
commitment to the implementation of these objectives. 

climate-friendly 
technologies  should  be  coupled  with  enhanced  energy 
security  and  diversification  of  energy  sources.  As  we 
do not yet have mechanisms to guarantee solidarity on 
the  energy  crisis  among  all  States  members  of  the 
European  Union — I refer  to the European Union but 
this is also applicable to all other States of the world — 
the issue of energy security becomes our priority. 

Poland  is  following  developments  in  Georgia 
with concern. We believe that engaging in dialogue and 
acting  in  a  spirit  of  solidarity  and  consistency  in 
implementing  energy  policy  should  become  a  priority 
for  all  European  States,  especially  European  Union 
States. It is only in that way that Europe can be assured 
of energy security, especially at a time of the complete 
unpredictability  of  actions  of 
the  current  main 
suppliers of energy to Europe. 

Poland’s  concern  arises  from  the  abuse  by  some 
States, especially one very powerful State, of energy as 
a  tool  to  achieve  political  goals  in  relations  with 
neighbours  and  with  all  the  other  nations  that  benefit 
from the supply of energy by that State. 
Thus it is of fundamental importance to diversify 

the  sources  of  supply,  to  introduce  transparent  rules 
regulating  the  energy  trade  and  to  extend  transport 
infrastructure,  especially  by  developing  alternative 
routes  and  energy  sources  for  the  European  Union, 
mainly  from  the  Caspian  Sea,  Central  Asia  and  the 
Middle  East.  This  could  significantly  accelerate  the 
development  of  the  States  of  those  areas  and  enhance 
their potential as part of global solidarity. 
08-51839 

31 
is 
Not 
all  members 
come 
from 

law  will  have  no  positive 
A/63/PV.8 


I  have  referred  to  Georgia  in  the  context  of 
energy security. But the situation in that country is far 
more  serious.  Several  weeks  ago  we  witnessed  an 
illegal  military  aggression  and  the  division  of  the 
country. That was an aggression against an independent 
State. Fundamental principles of international law, such 
as the inviolability of borders and respect for territorial 
integrity, were breached. 

Without  respect  for  those  principles,  the  world 
will  be  a  hotbed  of  not  one  but  hundreds  of  conflicts. 
We cannot allow the relativization of international law. 
We cannot accept that international law is applicable to 
the  weak  but  not  binding  on  the  strong.  If  we  do, 
international 
impact, 
especially  as  concerns  the  principle  of  territorial 
integrity.  We  must  not  allow  the  undermining  of  a 
principle on the basis of which the United Nations was 
established 63 years ago in the aftermath of the Second 
World War  as  a  consequence  of  the  bankruptcy  of  the 
League  of  Nations.  That  founding  principle  of  the 
United  Nations 
law  and  of 
the  principle  of 
opposition to the unlawful use of force. 

countries 
neighbouring  Georgia  or  from  countries  in  or  near 
Europe, but the problem of Georgia is a problem for us 
all,  for  every  country  that  is  grappling  with  issues 
relating to territorial integrity or to stronger neighbours 
abusing 
international  order 
should  be  based  on  strict  compliance  with  the  United 
Nations Charter by all subjects of international law — 
first and foremost, by all States. It should be based on 
common  responsibility  for 
the  fate  of  countries 
incapable of ensuring their own security alone.  

Those were the motives that guided my response 
to  the  Georgian  conflict  and  the  actions  of  the 
Presidents  of  Estonia,  Latvia,  Lithuania  and  Ukraine. 
The complete implementation of the peace plan, which 
should also cover the issue of the territorial integrity of 
Georgia,  is  a  prerequisite  for  the  further  discussions 
about  the  Caucasus  to  be  held  in  Geneva  in  October 
and  a  prerequisite  for  the  future  of  relations  between 
the European Union — of which Poland is the twenty-
sixth  member  —  and  Russia.  Those  relations  can  be 
correct  and  mutual  only 
respect 
international law in their relations both with each other 
and with third parties. 

in 
international  security  is  its  participation  in  a  counter-
One  expression  of  Poland’s 
their  advantages.  The 
if  both  sides 
involvement 
is 
What  remains  a  challenge,  however, 
terrorism  coalition  in  many  volatile  regions  of  the 
world. Today, more than 3,500 Polish troops and police 
officers  are  taking  part  in  global  peacekeeping  and 
stabilization  forces  —  from  Africa  to  the  Balkans, 
through the Middle East and Asia.  

Iraq  was  one  such  place. Through  the  five  years 
of its presence in Iraq, Poland has made efforts to help 
its  Iraqi  friends  and  allies  to  ensure  strengthened 
external  and  internal  security.  Its  mission,  the  main 
stage  of  which  comes  to  an  end  this  year,  has  clearly 
been a success. Iraq today is definitely safer and more 
stable  than  a  few  years  ago,  despite  the  doubts 
expressed in some circles.  

the 
situation  in  Afghanistan.  We  deeply  believe  that  the 
mission in Afghanistan, in which Poland is also taking 
an  active  part,  is  bound  to  end  in  success,  not  only  a 
military success in the fight against terrorism but also 
the success of the Afghan nation in improving its day-
to-day  existence.  Military  action  must  also  be 
accompanied  by  measures  to  stabilize  the  Afghan 
economy,  improve  the  internal  security  situation  and 
enable Afghanistan to grow more quickly. I should like 
to believe that this mission will end successfully. 

The  continuing  lack  of  stability  in  the  Middle 
East is a source of concern for almost — the “almost” 
is regrettable — every country in the world, including 
Poland.  The 
an 
independent  Palestinian  State  should  be  completed  as 
soon  as  possible,  for  the  sake  of  Palestinians  and 
Israelis  alike,  both  nations  being  Poland’s  friends. We 
wish  the  Palestinian  people  every  success  in  their 
struggle for an independent State. To Israel, with which 
we  have  important  historic  ties,  because  many  of  its 
citizens  come  from  Poland,  we  wish  successes  and 
peace, a peace much needed by Israel.  

I  note  with  pleasure  that  our  hopes  are  being 
raised by the situation in Lebanon. Poland believes that 
the  elections  and  the  new  President  will  bring  the 
stability and peace for which the Lebanese people have 
been waiting  for  35 years  — and  even  before that the 
situation  was  often  difficult.  We  wish 
the  new 
Lebanese  authorities  and  the  nation  of  Lebanon  every 
success. We will be involved in this part of the world in 
a  spirit  of  international  solidarity  and  because  of  our 
historic ties with the region.  
The  issues  I  have  mentioned  cannot  be  resolved 

by a single State or a single group of States. Today we 
lengthy  process  of  building 
32 

08-51839 
We  need 


see  clearly  that  we  need  joint  action  by  all  countries: 
rich  and  poor,  from  both  the  east  and  the  west. 
However, in today’s world, where the division into east 
and west is no longer as important as it was in the past, 
what we need above all is solidarity between north and 
south; we must give help to those in need.  

to  promote  democracy,  of  course 
adapting it to the cultural conditions and traditions of a 
given State, because, regardless of its flaws, there has 
never  in  our  history  been  a  system  more  friendly  to 
mankind.  We  should  act  jointly  and  in  a  spirit  of 
solidarity  through  effectively  operating  international 
structures such as the United Nations and its agencies, 
which have global reach and an unchallenged position. 
The Secretary-General rightly says that there should be 
deeper coordination between the work of the agencies, 
irrespective  of  the  great  successes  which  the  bodies 
affiliated to the United Nations have scored over recent 
decades. 

What  is  most  important,  however,  is  to  ensure 
universal  respect  for  international  law,  human  rights 
and fundamental freedoms.  
I  hope  that  when  we  meet  next  year  during  the 

sixty-fourth session the world will be slightly safer and 
a  little  closer  to  the  principles  that  I  have  had  the 
honour to refer to in this address. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Republic  of  Poland  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.  

  Mr.  Lech  Kaczyński,  President  of  the  Republic 
of Poland,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
  Mr.  Wolfe  (Jamaica),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
from 

Address by Mr. François Bozizé, President of the 
Central African Republic 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the President of the Central African 
Republic. 

  Mr.  François  Bozizé,  President  of  the  Central 
African  Republic,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 





08-51839 

A/63/PV.8
Nations His Excellency Mr. François Bozizé, President 
of  the  Central African  Republic,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly. 
President  Bozizé  (spoke  in  French):  First,  I 

sincerely congratulate Mr. Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann 
on his election as President of the General Assembly at 
its sixty-third session. The role  played  by his country, 
Nicaragua,  in  pursuing  the  purposes  of  the  United 
Nations  and  his  long  and  distinguished  career  as  a 
diplomat have been recognized by his election. I assure 
him of my country’s support and my own support as he 
carries out his difficult and noble mission. 

I  also  pay  Mr.  Srgjan  Kerim,  who  presided  over 
the sixty-second session, a well deserved tribute for the 
excellent work he did throughout his term in office. 

I wish to express words of encouragement to the 
Secretary-General, Mr Ban Ki-moon, for the important 
direction he has given our Organization since taking up 
his duties. 

My  country,  the  Central  African  Republic,  has 
since 1996 experienced domestic instability fuelled by 
the  effects  of  numerous  conflicts  in  neighbouring 
territories.  The  Darfur  crisis  and 
the  constant 
incursions  of  irregular  armed  bands  in  the  north-east 
and  north-west  and  of  the  Lord’s  Resistance Army  on 
the  southern  frontier,  bordering  on  the  Sudan  and  the 
Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo,  have  been 
accompanied  by  plunder,  rape,  deportation  and  the 
conscription of children under the age of 10. 

The  use  of  that  part  of  the  Central  African 
Republic  territory  as  a  rear  base  for  non-State  armed 
elements represents a danger of the same type as those 
that led to Security Council resolution 1778 (2007). 
I  welcome  the  mandate  given  to  the  United 

Nations  Mission  in  the  Central  African  Republic  and 
Chad  (MINURCAT)  as  part  of  a  multidimensional 
operation  to  restore  the  safety  and  security  conditions 
needed  for  a  voluntary  and  lasting  return  of  refugees 
and  persons  displaced  by  the  conflicts  in  that  area  of 
the  three  frontiers  that  straddle  the  Central  African 
Republic, Chad and the Sudan.  
However,  with  the  mandate  of  the  European 

Union  Force  (EUFOR)  ending  in  March  2009,  and 
because of the fragility of the situation in the north-east 
and  growing  insecurity  in  the  south-east,  it  is  highly 
desirable  that  MINURCAT’s  mission  be  revised  and 
enlarged. We  earnestly  hope  that  it  will  go  beyond  its 
33 

that 
following 
questions: 
there 
is  a 
theme  for 
A  suggested 
to  emphasize 
climate 
indebtedness, 
A/63/PV.8 

current  framework  to  become  an  operational  force  of 
the  United  Nations,  and  that  cooperation  between 
MINURCAT  and  the  other  forces  involved  at  the 
regional and community levels will continue. 
Referring to the situation in my country gives me 

the  opportunity 
the  recurrent 
political  and  military  crises  have  further  increased 
poverty  and  food  insecurity,  particularly  in  the  rural 
and agricultural areas. 

this  year’s  general 
debate —  the  impact  of  the  world  food  crisis  on 
poverty and hunger throughout the world — in addition 
to the need to democratize the United Nations, is at the 
heart  of  the  international  community’s  concerns,  and 
has  been  for  some  decades.  The  first  matter  involves 
the 
conditions, 
demographic  problems, 
and 
free 
equitable  trade,  redirecting  the  agricultural  sector 
towards biofuels, the price of oil and armed conflicts. 
In  the  current  context  of  world  trade  and  the 

world  economy, 
tendency  for  natural 
disasters and armed conflicts, because of their effect on 
socio-economic structures, to accentuate the impact of 
the food crisis on developing countries. 

For the Central African Republic, the food crisis 
can  be  seen  as  somewhat  paradoxical,  in  view  of  our 
natural potential. The climate throughout the country is 
favourable  to  pluvial  agriculture,  with  an  enviable 
annual rainfall of 800 millimetres in the extreme north 
and  more  than  1,500  millimetres  in  the  south,  and  an 
availability  of  fresh  water  estimated  at  37,000  cubic 
metres per inhabitant.  
Of more than 15 million hectares of arable land, only 

600,000 to 700,000 are cultivated. That is 1 per cent of our 
national  territory  and  4.4  per  cent  of  the  total  arable 
area. Less than 0.5 million hectares are being actively 
exploited by agricultural workers. 

Stock-raising land represents 9.3 million hectares 
out  of  a  total  of  16  million,  with  livestock  totalling 
about 3.2 million head of tropical breeds. 

The challenges to be overcome are the insecurity 
of  rural  areas,  the  disorganization  of  agricultural 
producers,  the  low  degree  of  support  for  the  rural 
community,  the  fact  of  being  landlocked,  the  lack  of 
basic  economic  and  social  infrastructures,  the  exodus 
from the countryside and the impact of HIV/AIDS and 
malaria,  which  have  reduced  the  labour  force  and 
result 
resulted  in  limited  access  to  credit  and  fostered  social 
discrimination. 

One  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  is  to 
halve,  between  1996  and  2015,  the  number  of  those 
suffering from hunger, and to halve, between 1990 and 
2015, the degree of poverty. 
There  are  a  number  of  causes  of  the  problems:  

so-called natural causes and human causes. The natural 
causes 
from  natural  disasters:  drought, 
desertification,  degradation  of  the  environment  and 
floods,  resulting  in  the  erosion  of  arable  land.  Human 
causes  are  regarded  as  having  been  responsible  for 
more than 35 per cent of the food emergencies in 2004, 
compared  with  only  15  per  cent  in  1992.  Wars  and 
economic and social upheaval have caused or worsened 
the food situation. 

The  General  Assembly  is  the  appropriate  forum 
in which to raise and debate the problems confronting 
our world today. That is what is expected of us in the 
Assembly. 

There  is  no  human  endeavour  that  will  not 
respond to application. Therefore, it is possible to meet 
the  challenge  of  the  food  crisis.  But  our  weakness  is 
above  all  our  lack  of  the  technical,  economic  and 
structural  capacity 
for 
agricultural production and productivity. 

I welcome the measures taken in June this year at 
the  World  Food  Summit  of  the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  (FAO),  held  in 
Rome, on the food crisis. The initiative on the upswing 
in  the  price  of  foodstuffs  should  mainly  be  based  on 
stimulating food production in our countries. For that, 
we look forward to implementation of the International 
Monetary Fund proposal to double its aid to agriculture 
on  the African  continent,  in  the  hope  of  strengthening 
the productive capacity of our farmers and creating the 
structural  conditions for the production  and marketing 
of agricultural goods. 

As  part  of  regional  talks  on  the  food  crisis,  held 
in  Kinshasa  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
on  29  July  this  year,  under  the  aegis  of  the  Economic 
Community of Central African States (ECCAS), it was 
agreed  to  make  effective  the  Maputo  Declaration  and 
the  Abuja  Declaration  on,  respectively,  allocating 
10 per  cent  of  our  national  budget  to  agriculture  and 
assuring  our  countries  better  access  to  resources  for 
agriculture. 
the  conditions 
to  create 
34 

08-51839 



We have also given ECCAS a mandate to, among 
other  actions,  accelerate  implementation  of  a  common 
agricultural policy. Relaunching the agricultural sector 
is  one  of  the  priorities  of  my  mandate  as  President  of 
the  Central  African  Economic 
and  Monetary 
Community (CEMAC). At the Yaoundé summit in June 
this year we decided to put that concern at the centre of 
the regional economic programme. 

None  of  these  good  resolutions  can  become 
reality  for  our  farmers  unless  the  support  promised  to 
them  actually  reaches  them.  Particularly  in  Central 
Africa,  if  these  promises  are  kept  they  will  speed  up 
the  putting  into  place  of  regional  focal  points  for 
development  that  will  help  to  reduce  the  shortfalls  in 
agricultural  activity  and  the  disparities  between  rural 
and urban areas. 

Food security has become a matter of concern for 
the world. Hunger continues to be the worst weapon of 
mass destruction. The social crises seen in many places 
result  from  the  realization  that  food  insecurity  is 
worsening  with  the  rising  cost  of  living  and  other 
uncertainties,  such  as  climate  change  and  natural 
disasters. 
In  Central  Africa,  because  of  the  destructive 

action  of 
irregular  military  rebel  groups,  many 
manipulated from outside, food insecurity, particularly 
in  rural  areas,  is  often  provoked  by  lack  of  security. 
That led the Government to organize, in April this year, 
a  national  seminar  on  reforming  the  security  sector, 
which was an important step towards peace. 
In  the  light  of  this,  the  process  of  inclusive 

political  dialogue,  which  I  have  pledged  to  carry 
through to its conclusion, should be seen by all Central 
Africans as a categorical imperative. 

Today,  millions  of  people  throughout  the  world 
are  increasingly  losing  their  means  of  subsistence 
because  of  the  impact  of  food  insecurity  and  of  the 
steep  rise  in  oil  prices  on  the  world  economy,  with 
unprecedented  consequences  for  world  order  and 
peace. 

and  ethnic  conflicts  are  a  burden  for 
impoverished peoples on earth. 

Other  threats,  such  as  terrorism,  poverty  and 
misgovernment,  also  contribute  to  making  the  world 
even  more  vulnerable,  and  demand  from  us  responses 
and methods that will bring about a lasting solution. 
Hunger,  the  environment,  corruption  and  civil 
the  most 
A/63/PV.8

In  this  age  of  interdependence  of  States,  the 
prime  solution  and  imperative  need  seems  to  be  a 
collective  decision-making  forum  and  an  instrument 
for rapid action. That was the vision of the founders of 
our Organization in 1945. 

But  we  must  recognize  today  that  the  various 
institutions that make up the United Nations have their 
limitations, and we must agree on the need for reform 
to make the Organization much more effective in order 
to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and 
seek the kind of peace that meets the current situation. 

My  country  is  convinced  of  the  importance  of 
genuine democratization of the United Nations system. 
In that connection, particular attention should be given 
to 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions  and  the  General Assembly.  If  together  we 
take courageous decisions to implement this ambitious 
project, we shall give the world an ideal structure that 
can  tackle  all  international  questions.  This  is  an 
opportunity to build a world that is more secure, more 
equitable, more balanced and freer for all peoples. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Central 
African Republic for the statement he has just made.  
the  Security  Council, 
the  functioning  of 
Mr.  François  Bozizé,  President  of  the  Central 
African Republic, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Pedro Verona Rodrigues Pires, 
President of the Republic of Cape Verde 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Cape Verde. 
Mr.  Pedro  Verona  Rodrigues  Pires,  President  of 
the Republic of Cape Verde, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pedro  Verona  Rodrigues 
Pires, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
Portuguese; 

interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  First,  I 
congratulate  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann  on  his 
election to the presidency of the Assembly at its sixty-
third session. I wish him a successful presidency. I also 
President 
(spoke 
Pires
in 
08-51839 

35 

The  world 
A/63/PV.8 

salute Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and express my 
highest  regard  for  his  commitment  to  peace,  dialogue 
and prosperity for all. 

The world grows in complexity, with its multiple 
challenges  and  numerous  risks  and  uncertainties. This 
calls  for  increased  multilateralism,  more  collective 
responsibility  and  greater  cooperation.  In  short,  it 
demands and expects more and better from the United 
Nations. 

is  undergoing  a  profound  and 
multifaceted  crisis  in  the  financial,  energy,  food  and 
environmental  areas.  Indeed,  we  face  an  environment 
fraught  with  uncertainty  in  the  short  and  long  term, 
underscored  by  financial  instability,  foreign  exchange 
volatility, escalating oil and food prices and a globally 
troubled world economy. There is risk to our economic, 
human,  political  and  military  security  —  in  other 
words, our general and collective security. 
On  the  one  hand,  organized  transnational  crime 

and  terrorism  threaten  international  order  and  the  rule 
of  law.  On  the  other  hand,  the  effects  of  global 
warming  and  climate  change,  as  well  as  the  risks 
imposed by their worsening, are real facts that confront 
world leaders and institutions. 

World peace remains out of reach. Areas of armed 
conflict  still  exist.  Indeed,  they  resurge  repeatedly  or 
persist  at  low  intensity.  In  the  meantime,  new  sources 
of tension arise in many places. However, I believe we 
agree  that  war  is  not  the  best  way  to  overcome  these 
challenges. 

We  also  have  failed  to  build  security  and  trust 
among  all  and  for  all,  large  and  small,  rich  and  poor. 
Without  security,  without  social  stability,  without 
political  and  institutional  cohesion,  and  above  all 
without mutual trust between the international political 
actors,  it  is  difficult  to  further  the  premises  that  may 
contribute  to  ensuring  a  solution  to  major  global 
problems,  resolving  our  main  challenges,  overcoming 
extreme  poverty  and  the  most  pervasive  endemic 
diseases,  as  well  as  moving  past  current  global  social 
and economic imbalances. 

the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
international  community 
expressly  undertook  to  contribute  to  overcoming  this 
unsustainable  situation.  I  therefore  urge  the Assembly 
to  work  towards  the  preservation  of  an  international 
environment  favourable  to  the  achievement  of  the 
adoption 
With 
the 
the 
of 
of 
the 
is 
the 
rich 
requires 
required 
to  ensure 
partnership 
the  poorest  countries, 
commitment  that  we  undertook  —  the  social  and 
economic  growth  of 
the 
eradication  of  extreme  poverty,  the  consolidation  of 
peace,  dialogue  and  international  cooperation  towards 
international  balance,  the  defence  of  life  and  the 
planet’s future. 

The current financial crisis is underscored by the 
instability of the financial markets and the volatility in 
the  movement  of  capital,  which  put  our  worldwide 
economic  stability  at  risk.  We  must  retain  the  global 
financial  architecture.  It  seems  necessary  for  us  to 
agree  on  new  forms  of  financial  regulation  that  are 
effective, trustworthy and acceptable to all. 

The  food  crisis  has  placed  hundreds  of  millions 
of  people  in  a  precarious  situation.  It  is  clear  that 
urgent  action 
increased 
agricultural production capable of meeting current and 
future  needs.  That 
the  promotion  of 
agricultural policies consistent with the demands of the 
situation, 
and 
technologically more advanced countries and technical 
assistance  from  international  organizations;  it  means 
that  attention  must  be  given  to  modernizing  and 
increasing  agricultural  production  and  productivity  in 
the  affected  countries  and  regions.  I  think  specifically 
of my country and the African continent.  

Escalating  oil  prices  have  created  serious 
problems for the economies of the least developed and 
non-producing countries. I ask, why not consider forms 
of  compensation  for  the  poorest  and  most  affected 
nations  in  view  of  the  enormous  financial  surpluses 
that have been accumulated? Admittedly, such an act of 
justice  and  solidarity  would  not  be  enough.  We  must 
therefore act individually and collectively and continue 
to  promote  energy  alternatives  and  energy  efficiency, 
as  well  as  encourage  reduced  dependence  on  fossil 
fuels.  Urgent  and  global  measures  are  required  to 
overcome  the  serious  environmental  crisis  and  to 
develop  innovative  and  safe  options  for  the  future  of 
humanity.  That  is  the  challenge  that  we  must  take  up 
for  the  sake  of  the  future  and  that  we  must  overcome 
for the benefit of all.  

We  surely  agree  that  humanity  is  at  a  decisive 
moment  in  history  that  clearly  runs  counter  to  the 
paradigms  of  its  recent  past  —  a  time  when  a  new 
world is painfully coming into being.  
Recent  experiences  show  that  no  single  nation 

can  in  isolation  solve  the  great  challenges  and  global 
36 

08-51839 
institution  does  present 


the  world  faces.  However,  our 
problems  which 
universal 
the  essential 
conditions and the required collective responsibility for 
such  an  endeavour.  Therefore,  it  is  incumbent  on  the 
United Nations to shoulder the tremendous mission of 
promoting more effective world governance.  

However,  to  perform  such  a  role,  which  is  now 
more  complex  than  ever,  the  United  Nations  is  called 
upon to adapt itself to the challenges of the twenty-first 
century,  to  express  the  major  shaping  forces  of  the 
contemporary  world  and 
to  ensure  and  convey 
confidence  to  all  of  its  Member  States.  Accordingly, 
the  United  Nations  system  must  be  reformed  and 
improved  and,  above  all,  the  representativeness  and 
legitimacy  of  the  Security  Council  must  be  urgently 
expanded and strengthened.  
Thirty-five  years  ago,  on  4  September  1973,  the 

Republic  of  Guinea-Bissau  acceded 
to  national 
sovereignty. I salute the delegation of Guinea-Bissau in 
this  room.  It  is  our  firm  conviction  that  our  brother 
nation  will  be  able  to  overcome  all  the  difficulties 
currently facing it and to consolidate the foundations of 
its stability under the rule of law.  

Allow  me  also  to  welcome  the  recent  legislative 
elections  in  Angola  and  to  congratulate  the  people  and 
authorities of Angola for the responsible and transparent 
manner 
important  elections  were 
conducted.  

I  would  further  like  to  welcome  the  political 
agreements that led to the end of the political crisis in 
Zimbabwe. That is a testament to the emancipation  of 
our continent and to its aspiration to progress, and thus 
helps  to  usher  in  the  new  era  and  the  new  world  that 
we so eagerly desire.  
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Cape Verde for the statement he has just made. 
in  which 
those 
Mr.  Pedro  Rodrigues  Pires,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Cape  Verde,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Bamir Topi, President of the 
Republic of Albania 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania. 
A/63/PV.8
(spoke 
in 
President 
Topi
to  address 
Mr.  Bamir  Topi,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bamir  Topi,  President  of 
the  Republic  of Albania,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly. 
Albanian; 

interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  a 
special  pleasure  for  me 
the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-third  session.  Allow  me  to 
congratulate the Assembly President on his election to 
his  high  position. Albania  welcomes  cooperation  with 
him. I would like to take this opportunity to assure the 
President  of  the  full  support  of  my  country.  I  would 
also  like  to  express  my  highest  praise  to  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  vision  and  continuous 
efforts to revitalize and to reform our Organization, the 
United Nations.  

Allow me also to confirm Albania’s commitment 
to  a  strong  and  coherent  United  Nations,  capable  of 
successfully tackling the challenges we currently face. 
We fully support the joint initiatives and actions aimed 
at strengthening collective peace and security in order 
to  achieve  sustainable  and  long-term  development  to 
promote  human  rights  and  international  cooperation. 
We  consider  that  reform  of  the  Organization  in  all  its 
aspects  is  possible  only  through  cooperation,  dialogue 
and consensus.  
The  global  fight  against  terrorism,  especially 

through  guaranteeing  an  effective  response  to  this 
collective  threat,  demands  that  the  United  Nations 
continue  to  play  a  very  important  role.  My  country, 
Albania, has very actively met its responsibilities in the 
global  fight  against  terrorism.  In  compliance  with  the 
United  Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy, 
which  the  General  Assembly  unanimously  passed  on  
8  September  2006, Albania  continues  to  be  a  stability 
factor in the region and beyond through its moderating 
and 
contributes  with 
peacekeeping  troops  in  the  framework  of  the  United 
Nations 
in 
Afghanistan, 
and 
Herzegovina. It recently deployed 68 troops to Chad as 
part  of  the  European  Union-led  peacekeeping  force. 
Albania  is  also  working  to  enhance  its  domestic 
capacities to enable a greater presence in aiding global 
Iraq,  Georgia 
and  Bosnia 
organizations 
constructive 
and 
other 
security 
policy. 
It 
08-51839 

37 

As  a  pilot  country,  we  are  aware  of 
A/63/PV.8 

peace  and  security  by  deepening  its  cooperation  with 
the  United  Nations  in  the  field  of  peacekeeping 
operations.  

Albania  has  already  become  part  of  the  United 
Nations system-wide coherence effort for reform of the 
Organization  by  willingly  joining  the  One  United 
Nations  initiative.  It  fully  supports  this  project  and  is 
actively working with United Nations agencies to secure 
new  ways  of  partnership  in  the  fields  of  development, 
humanitarian assistance and the environment. One United 
Nations  is  being  carried  out  in  full  respect  for  national 
sovereignty  and  national  ownership  of  development  and 
in  compliance  with  the  needs  and  priorities  of  our 
country,  especially  of  the  integration  to  the  European 
Union (EU) and meeting the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs).  

this 
responsibility,  and  we  will  do  everything  possible  to 
turn  this  initiative  into  a  tangible  success.  In  my 
country 
the  MDGs  are  not  viewed  simply  as 
development  objectives,  but  also  as  a  means  for 
growth. Albania has nationalized the MDGs by drafting 
and following step-by-step implementation instructions 
for  the  zonal  strategies  of  development.  It  has  also 
added  one  more  objective:  that  of  good  governance. 
Keeping  in  mind  experiences  to  date,  meeting  the 
MDGs  in  countries  with  small  and  medium  incomes 
demands  continuous 
the  national 
leadership,  a  more  efficient  use  of  resources  and  a 
closer  partnership  among  all 
in 
Governments,  the  international  community  and  civil 
society.  

We  are  very  active  in  the  framework  of  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations,  and  we  are  convinced  that 
this initiative already presents a political instrument of 
the  United  Nations  to  build  peace  in  the  broader 
meaning  of  the  term.  Following  up  that  commitment, 
Albania  has  compiled  a  national 
strategy  of 
intercultural  dialogue,  which  reflects  the  centuries-old 
tradition of full religious harmony and understanding.  

Climate  change  presents  a  global  concern  and 
threat,  and  as  such  it  affects  my  country  as  well. 
Albania  considers  it  a  priority  issue  and  assesses  it  in 
the  framework  of  the  implementation  of  the  One 
United  Nations  initiative.  It  joins  the  international 
community  with  determination  in  the  challenge  of 
global  climate  change  and  modestly  contributes  to 
the  players  — 
support 
from 
reducing  emissions  quotas  to  secure  a  better  and  a 
more developed future.  

The world food crisis continues to be one of the 
most  complex  challenges  faced  by  humanity.  It  not 
only  affects  the  health  and  survival  of  millions  of 
people  all  over  the  world,  but  directly  threatens 
political  and  economic  stability  by  seriously  putting 
into  question  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs.  The 
causes  of  this  crisis  are  numerous  and  complex.  As 
such,  they  demand  a  multilevel,  coherent  and  well-
coordinated  response.  My  country  hails  the  Secretary-
General’s  establishment  of  the  High-Level Task  Force 
on the Global Food Security Crisis.  

Albania  is  undertaking  a  full  programme  of 
institutional,  economic  and  legal  reforms  through 
which  we  aim  to  transform  Albania  into  a  country 
attractive to foreign investments, with a market open to 
free enterprise. I have the pleasure to point out that the 
latest  World  Bank  report  listed  Albania  as  second 
among  countries  that  have  implemented  successful 
reforms to facilitate business practices during 2007 and 
2008.  
Albania  has  gained  the  status  of  a  medium-

income  country,  and  I  believe  that  this  progress  must 
be consolidated in compliance with the new challenges 
of development. The national strategy for development 
and integration has determined our vision for the next 
seven years of Albania as a country of high democratic 
standards,  fully  guaranteeing  the  fundamental  human 
rights,  with 
its  sustainable  economic  and  social 
development  aimed  at  integrating  into  NATO  and  the 
European  Union,  as  well  as  harmonizing  with  the 
MDGs — a country providing a better and safer life to 
future generations.  
irreversible 

relationship  with 
the  EU.  The  Stabilization  and 
Association  Agreement  serves  as  our  guide,  and  the 
primary  objective  is  the  conclusion  of  the  ratification 
agreement  by  the  end  of  this  year.  The  European 
countries and the European Commission have invested 
considerably  in  Albania.  We  have  responded  to  this 
contribution  not  only  with  natural  gratitude,  but  also 
with  concrete  commitments  and  with 
joint  and 
coordinated  work  programmes  in  the  fields  of  good 
governance,  institutional  functioning  and  economic 
growth  and  in  the  fight  against  organized  crime  and 
corruption.  
Albania 
enjoys 
solid 
and 
a 
38 

08-51839 
towards 
trust  among 
Albania’s  path 
the  process  of 
ratification  process 
Albania  pays  particular 



full  Euro-Atlantic 
integration is widely supported by the Albanian public 
and  its  political  spectrum.  In  particular,  the  invitation 
to join NATO at the Bucharest Summit, the signing of 
the  alliance  and  the  protocols  on  8  July  2008  and  the 
ongoing 
all  mark  historic 
achievements for Albania and are a positive assessment 
of  the  new  and  tangible Albanian  reality. Albania  will 
respond  to  this  assessment  with  greater  responsibility 
and  determination  in  the  face  of  the  obligation  that 
stems  from  full-fledged  membership  in  the  alliance, 
which  will  serve  peace  and  security  not  only  in  the 
Balkans, but in the Mediterranean region and beyond.  

the 
strengthening  of  multilateral  regional  relations.  It 
seriously 
regional 
cooperation  by  being  an  active  partner  in  all  of  the 
initiatives  undertaken  in  South-East  Europe.  That 
engagement  serves  to  promote  good  neighbourliness, 
strengthening  security,  building 
the 
regional  countries,  stability  and  full  integration  of  all 
the  countries  in  the  region  in  the  Euro-Atlantic 
structures.  

Challenges  such  as  the  fight  against  terrorism, 
organized  crime,  arms  proliferation  and  border 
management  have  an  interlinked  character  that  can  be 
overcome  only  through  joint  actions,  initiatives  and 
commitment.  We  will  continue  to  play  the  same 
constructive  role  for  our  benefit  and  for  that  of  the 
whole region.  

the 
Albania 
independent and sovereign State of Kosovo as the most 
important  historical  event  and  development  of  our 
region at the beginning of this century. An independent 
and  democratic  Kosovo,  oriented 
towards  Euro-
Atlantic  integration,  is  the  just  and  most  sustainable 
solution.  It  is  an  example  of  the  most  successful 
investment  made  by 
international  community 
towards the implementation of the rule of law, to long-
term  stability  and  peace  and  development  in  the 
Balkans and beyond.  
The  independence  of  Kosovo  finally  frees  that 

part  of  Europe  from 
the  nightmare  of  war,  of  
inter-ethnic  conflicts  and  of  ethnic  cleansing  and 
genocide.  It  fulfils  and  respects  the  free  will  of  the 
people 
from  political  oppression, 
historical  injustices  and  the  inability  to  develop. 
Kosovo is no longer being led by the failed Yugoslavia, 
foundation  of 
to  break 
free 
considers 
the 
attention 
to 
encourages 
the 
A/63/PV.8
and 
society 
Albania 
encourages 
the  people 
nor by the new moderate Yugoslavs. It is being led by 
the  principles  of  a  civilized  Europe  and  those  of  the 
universalized United Nations.  

the 
Government of Kosovo in their commitment to build a 
democratic  and  multi-ethnic 
in  which, 
regardless  of  ethnic  considerations,  its  every  citizen 
will  feel  like  a  free  man  in  his  home  and  on  his 
property.  The  new  constitution  of  Kosovo  and  the 
Ahtisaari package meet the highest standards of human 
rights  and  offer  widespread  protection  to  all  the 
communities living in Kosovo, especially to the Serbs 
of Kosovo.  

We  are  convinced  that,  following  the  guidelines 
of  the  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations,  all 
necessary actions will be taken as soon as possible: the 
United  Nations  presence  will  be  reconfigured  and  the 
European  Union  Rule  of  Law  Mission  Kosovo  — 
EULEX  —  will  be  spread  over  the  entire  territory  of 
Kosovo,  thus  avoiding  any  vacuum  of  power  and 
imposition  of  competences  on  top  of  each  other  and 
preventing  any  possible  regressive  attempt,  regardless 
of  where  it  may  have  originated,  against  this  Euro-
Atlantic process.  

Albania  deems  as  unfounded  the  efforts  to  draw 
parallels between Kosovo and the regions of Georgia — 
Abkhazia  and  South  Ossetia.  Numerous  historical, 
judicial,  constitutional,  political  and  demographic 
arguments demonstrate that Kosovo is a unique case — 
a  sui  generis  case  —  and  the  solution  implemented  is 
unique as well. As such, it does not and cannot serve as 
a model to solve other conflicts either in the region or 
beyond 
it.  Any  political,  economic,  military  or 
diplomatic  endeavour  against  the  consolidation  or 
soundness of the State of Kosovo would be a hopeless 
attempt against its process of integration to NATO and 
the EU, a regressive move against the investments and 
progress  that  we  so  direly  need,  and  it  could  not  be 
sold  as  valuable  to  the  European  Union.  Historical 
dreams must not darken the vision of the future.  

Albania  is  convinced  that  the  recognition  of  the 
new  State  of  Kosovo  is  in  the  interests  of  Kosovo, 
Albania,  Serbia  and  of  all  its  close  and  distant 
neighbours.  It  is  in  the  interest  of  the  European  and 
Mediterranean region. That is why Kosovo — this new 
political,  economical  and  social  reality  —  fully 
deserves to be a Member of our United Nations as soon 
as  possible.  I  call  upon  the  Assembly  to  admit  with 
08-51839 

39 

to 
Albania  continues 
remain  committed 
A/63/PV.8 

realism  this  irreversible  development  by  recognizing 
and  supporting,  without  any  reserve,  the  Republic  of 
Kosovo.  

to 
cooperating  with  and  enriching  and  fulfilling  the 
United  Nations  ideals  by  fully  believing  in  the  active 
role  of  the  international  community  as  it  faces  the 
present  global  challenges.  In  order  to  fulfil  this 
mission,  we  must  all  together  give  our  support  and 
readiness  to  this  Organization,  which  embodies  not 
only  universal  values,  but  also  the  aspirations  of 
humanity.  
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Albania for the statement just made.  
Mr.  Bamir  Topi,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The President returned to the Chair.



Address by Óscar Arias Sánchez, President of the 
Republic of Costa Rica 
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  hear  an 

address by the President of the Republic of Costa Rica.  
Mr.  Óscar  Arias  Sánchez,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Óscar Arias Sánchez, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.  
President  Arias  Sánchez  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

received  the  news  of  your  election  to  the  General 
Assembly  presidency,  Sir,  with  a  brother’s  pride. 
Twenty-one  years  ago,  it  was  through  war  in  Central 
America that we became acquainted. Today it is peace 
that  allows  us  to  meet  once  more.  In  the  name  of  the 
people  of  Costa  Rica,  and  in  my  own  name  as  well,  I 
am  honoured  to  extend  to  you  a  brotherly  Central 
American greeting. 

I  have  come  here  to  speak  words  of  the  urgency 
that  any  leader  feels  at  decisive  moments  in  history. 
This  is  not  just  any  year.  While  we  hold  this  General 
Assembly,  millions  of  people  who  used  to  be  able  to 
meet  their  most  basic  needs  have  seen  the  face  of 
40 

the  poorest  among  us  will  pay 
poverty  once  again.  Hunger,  that  abominable  monster 
that we had escaped for so many years, has returned to 
chase  away  the  dreams  of  humanity.  Pessimism  and 
hopelessness have taken control of our economies, and, 
as  always, 
the 
consequences.  World  military  spending  has  reached 
$3.3 billion per day, but international  aid continues to 
reach the poorest countries at a snail’s pace and fails to 
reach  middle-income  countries  altogether.  Brutal 
hurricanes  and  intense  droughts  remind  us  that  this 
planet  reacts  to  our  irrationality,  and  the  time  that 
remains for us may be a countdown to disaster if we do 
not make a change. 

It may be that in no other General Assembly have 
issues  more  global  than  now  been  discussed.  Our 
interdependence has made us all vulnerable, but in that 
interdependence  also  lies  our  strength.  In  the  past,  a 
nation  could  avert  its  gaze  from  distant  suffering  and 
scorn  the  pain  of  others.  Today,  that  option  does  not 
exist. Every victory and every failure is shared.  
The man who, motivated by hunger, cuts down a 

tree 
in 
the  virgin  Amazon  rainforest  unwittingly 
deprives  us  of  a  fraction  of  the  air  we  breathe  in  this 
room. The European mother who is forced to buy less 
food  because  she  cannot  afford  the  costs  unwittingly 
affects  the  economy  of  all  nations  in  the  world.  The 
African  child  who  drops  out  of  school  because  of  a 
lack  of  resources  unwittingly  determines  the  future 
performance  of  our  species. We  are  all  united  in  that, 
and  perhaps  for  the  first  time  in  history,  no  one  can 
look in another direction. We are seated simultaneously 
at  the  prosecutor’s  bench  and  at  the  defence  table,  in 
the public gallery and in the judge’s chair.  

We  must  take  advantage  of  this  moment  when 
equality  among  nations  is  seen  in  the  equality  of  our 
challenges.  We  will  not  be  able  to  face  our  realities 
unless we understand them completely. We will not be 
able  to  shine  the  light  of  reason  upon  our  Earth  if  we 
intentionally leave some regions in the dark. If we are 
seriously  to  take  up  the  challenges  of  our  time  it  is 
right  that  like  that  old  protagonist  of  the  Charles 
Dickens tale, we open our eyes to our past, our present 
and our future; we must guarantee peace and justice for 
the past, peace and development for the present, peace 
and nature for the future. 

In  the  Preamble  to  the  United  Nations  Charter, 
the States that make up this Organization undertook to 
establish  conditions  under  which 
justice  can  be 
08-51839 
is  will: 
the  will 
to  demand 


maintained.  Of  those  conditions,  perhaps  the  most 
important 
that  our 
obligations  are  fulfilled;  the  will  to  speak  out  when 
international law is violated; and, above all, the will to 
ensure that acts that are an affront to all humankind do 
not go unnoticed. 

Evil  springs  not  only  from  action  but  also  and, 
above  all,  from  omission. To  keep  silent  when  crimes 
are grave and responsibilities are clear is not to remain 
neutral  but  is  to  side  with  the  aggressors.  Our  recent 
past  is  marked  by  horrendous,  unpunished  crimes  that 
call out, not for vengeance, but for justice. We cannot 
accept that evil is banal. If we do not want to repeat the 
painful history of Kosovo and Bosnia, of Rwanda and 
Kampuchea,  then  it  is  time  for  the  international 
community  to  demand  that  those  responsible  for  the 
crimes  committed  in  Darfur  be  judged  before  the 
international  criminal  court.  Costa  Rica  will  oppose 
any attempt to avoid such a path, which is the path of 
peace.  Forgiveness  is  based  on  memory,  not  on 
dissimulation; and peace will be possible only through 
memory.  We  must  understand,  in  the  words  of  Elie 
Wiesel, “that the memory of evil will serve as a shield 
against  evil;  that  the  memory  of  death  will  serve  as  a 
shield against death”. 

If the spirit of the past calls on us to hold people 
responsible for the violation of human rights, the spirit 
of the present calls on us to ensure that those rights are 
fulfilled  today.  Governments  can  indirectly  hurt  their 
peoples  in  many  ways,  one  of  which  is  excessive 
military spending. In developing nations, in particular, 
every long-range missile, every helicopter gunship and 
every  tank  is  a  symbol  of  the  deferred  needs  of  our 
people. On a planet where one sixth of the population 
lives on less than a dollar a day, spending $1.2 trillion 
on  arms  and  soldiers  is  an  offence  and  a  symbol  of 
irrationality because the security of a satisfied world is 
more certain than the security of an armed world. Latin 
America is not immune to this phenomenon. Last year 
Latin American military spending reached $39 billion, 
in a region that has never been more peaceful or more 
democratic. 

I know of no greater perversion of values and no 
greater  misplacement  of  priorities.  With  a  small 
percentage  of  world  military  spending  we  could  give 
drinking water to all of humanity, equip all homes with 
electricity, achieve universal literacy, and eradicate all 
preventable diseases. I am not talking about the utopia 
of  a  world  without  armies.  Unfortunately,  that  is  an 
A/63/PV.8
law,  or 
to 
to 
particularly 
international 
themselves  — 
idea whose time has not yet come.  I am talking about 
tiny  percentages  of  an  expenditure  that  could  be 
reduced  without  harming  the  ability  of  countries  to 
defend 
developing 
countries.  That  is  why  my  Government  has  presented 
the  Costa  Rica  consensus,  an  initiative  that  would 
establish  mechanisms 
forgive  debts  and  use 
international financial resources to support developing 
nations  that  spend  more  and  more  on  environmental 
protection, education, health care and housing for their 
people  and  less  and  less  on  arms  and  soldiers.  I  am 
convinced that that will bring us greater development, 
greater  security  and  greater  peace  than  all  the  money 
that  we  have  now  set  aside  for  our  armies.  I  humbly 
ask members today to support this initiative. 
I also ask for members’ support for the arms trade 

treaty  that  Costa  Rica  is  advocating  within  this 
Organization, to prohibit the transfer of arms to States, 
groups  or  individuals  if  there  is  sufficient  reason  to 
believe  that  those  arms  will  be  used  to  violate  human 
rights  or 
interfere  with 
sustainable development. The destructive power of the 
world’s  existing  640  million  small  arms  and  light 
weapons,  most  in  the  hands  of  civilians,  deserves  the 
same  attention  or  even  more  attention  than  military 
spending. 

However,  no  matter  how  urgent  it  may  be  to 
ensure  the  present  development  of  our  peoples,  it  is 
equally  important  to  ensure  their  future  development. 
The  spirit  of  the  future,  as  we  look  ahead  to  it,  offers 
us  a  desolate  image.  Imagine  an  unending  desert,  a 
cracked  ground  too  hot  to  stand  on.  Imagine  a  planet 
where life has been displaced and only cockroaches, if 
anything, can survive. Imagine a world whose range of 
colours,  which  until  now  has  been  endless,  is  reduced 
to  grays  and  dark  browns.  Imagine  polluted  air, 
impossible  to  breathe.  “This  is  not  a  poor  copy  of 
John’s delirium during his exile on Patmos” as Gabriel 
Garcia  Márquez  once  said.  I  am  not  describing  the 
Apocalypse  but  simply  the  world  that  awaits  us  if  we 
do  not  take  action  right  away  to  declare  “peace  with 
nature”. 

Sixty  years  ago  an  illustrious  Costa  Rican,  a 
visionary  and  brave  man,  José  Figueres  Ferrer, 
abolished  my  country’s  army.  What  had  been  the 
general  headquarters  of  the  Costa  Rican  armed  forces 
is today our main national museum. Our children have 
never  seen  a  column  of  soldiers  on  the  march;  they 
know  only  the  march  of  columns  of  ants.  No  Costa 
08-51839 

41 

A/63/PV.8 

Rican children know the difference between this or that 
missile,  or  this  or  that  combat  plane,  but  they  can 
distinguish  among  the  trees  of  the  forest  and  the 
animals  of  the  sea;  they  know  the  importance  of  the 
water cycle, of wind energy, of rivers and of sun. Ours 
is a nation of peace among humans, but we also aspire 
to be a nation of peace with all forms of life. 

We  have  set  a  goal  of  becoming  carbon-neutral 
by 2021. Last year we became the world leader for the 
number  of  trees  per  capita  and  square  kilometre, 
planting  5  million  trees.  In  2008  we  will  plant 
7 million more. We are leading an international crusade 
against global warming and environmental destruction, 
with  a  special  focus  on  the  planet’s  primary  forests. 
Today, Assembly members, I ask you to join us. 

The march of humanity through history is neither 
linear  nor  continuous.  It  is  marked  by  detours  and 
pitfalls,  and  even  by  painful  setbacks.  As  in  Pedro 
Calderón  de  la  Barcá’s  play  La  Vida  es  Sueña,  one 
morning  we  awake  as  princes  and  the  next  we  are  no 
more  than  beggars.  But  not  everything  in  life  is  a 
dream. There  are  concrete  realities  that  we  have  been 
able  to  build.  There  are  indisputable  achievements  in 
the history of humankind. This Organization is one of 
them. Members may tell me that the United Nations is 
founded on the search for peace, understanding among 
peoples  and  respect  for  international  law.  That  is  all 
true. But I dare to say that more than anything else this 
Organization  is  founded  on  hope,  the  hope  that  our 
march is upward, that our future will be better, and that 
a promised land lies behind the deserts of violence and 
injustice  that,  with  courage,  we  have  been  able  to 
cross. 

I  assure  this  Assembly  that  if  we  confront  the 
spirit of our past, of our present and of our future, if we 
build  peace  on  a  base  of  justice,  development  and 
nature,  and  if  we  turn  away  from  forgetfulness,  arms 
and  environmental  destruction  we  will  reach  that 
promised  land  some  day  and  our  children  and  our 
children’s  children  will  never  again  be  beggars  in  the 
kingdom of their dreams. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the Republic of Costa Rica for the statement he has just 
made. 
Mr.  Óscar  Arias  Sánchez,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 
Address by His Excellency Mr. Bayar Sanj, Prime 
Minister of Mongolia 

address by the Prime Minister of Mongolia. 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

is 
time  when 
taking  place  at  a 
I  have  great  pleasure 
Mr. Bayar Sanj, Prime Minister of Mongolia, was 
escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President: 

in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bayar  Sanj,  Prime 
Minister of  Mongolia,  and inviting him to address  the 
General Assembly. 
Mr. Sanj (Mongolia): This session of the General 

Assembly 
the 
international  community  is  faced  with  formidable 
challenges and threats of a much more complex nature. 
Global  problems  ranging  from  poverty,  violence, 
inequality and disparity, terrorism, natural disasters and 
other acute problems have been further impeded by the 
current global financial, food and energy crisis. As we 
live  in  an  increasingly  globalized  and  interdependent 
world the solutions demand our concerted action. 

The  main  theme  of  this  session,  namely,  the 
impact of the global food crisis on poverty and hunger 
in  the  world,  is  most  timely.  Steep  increases  in  staple 
food prices lead to a global food crisis. Today millions 
of  vulnerable  people  in  poor  countries  who  were 
probably  making  ends  meet, 
face  even  greater 
challenges.  It  is  a  tragic  setback  that  more  than 
75 million  additional  people  have  been  driven  into 
hunger  and  poverty  because  of  the  food  crisis.  The 
economic  challenges  posed  by  soaring  food  prices  are 
daunting.  They  take  a  toll  on  inflation  rates,  breed 
economic protectionism, and further impede economic 
development  for  developing  nations.  Those  countries 
also  had  to  cope  with  consequent  macroeconomic 
implications  concerning  the  nexus  between  food  price 
increases and the overall inflation rate.  

The Government of Mongolia, having recognized 
the  urgent  need  to  address  the  food  crisis,  took  the 
necessary actions at both policy and practical levels to 
reduce its severe impact on the vulnerable strata of its 
population. My Government has designated this year as 
the year for food supply and safety and aims to achieve 
three  main  objectives:  promoting  food  production  to 
reduce  the  country’s  dependence  on  imported  goods; 
42 

08-51839 
the 
this  year 
inefficient 
the  population’s  health  and 
that  nationwide  campaign  Mongolia 


raising  public  awareness  about  food  quality;  and 
ensuring  safe  food  production  and  processing  in  the 
country.  
In pursuit of  the first objective  I launched at the 

beginning  of 
third  national  crop 
rehabilitation  drive,  or  campaign  to  reclaim  virgin 
lands, to revive domestic agricultural production. As a 
result  of 
is 
expected to ensure self-sufficiency in major staple food 
products by 2010.  
Countries  throughout  the  world  find  themselves 

intimately  affected  by  oil  price  hikes.  In  our  case  the 
situation  is  aggravated  by  the  fact  that  the  surge  in 
imported  petroleum  prices  tends  to  be  followed  by 
overall  price  increases.  Coal  remains  the  primary 
energy source used for electricity and heating in many 
countries.  The  use  of 
coal-burning 
technology  causes  air  pollution,  impacting  negatively 
on 
the  environment. 
Therefore,  research,  development  and  deployment  of 
clean  coal  technology  are  indeed  top  energy  priorities 
for coal-producing countries such as Mongolia.  
The  most  effective  way  to  mitigate  these  factors 

is  to  improve  energy  efficiency  and  pursue  energy 
diversification. In this regard, Mongolia commends the 
efforts 
international 
organizations  in  research  and  development  and  the 
deployment  and 
innovative  energy 
technologies  such  as  renewable  sources,  cleaner  and 
lower  carbon  technologies  and  nuclear  power.  These 
efforts are crucial as we seek to reduce our dependence 
on fossil fuels. Ensuring energy security is a challenge 
that requires a comprehensive solution both nationally 
and 
is 
endowed  with  or  has  developed  all  possible  energy 
sources,  so  every  country  has  a  vested  interest  in 
energy cooperation and has something to contribute to 
it.  

to  energy 
cooperation  in  our  region. An  institutional  foundation 
for such cooperation has already been laid with regular 
sessions  of  the  Senior  Officials  Committee  on  Energy 
Cooperation in North-East Asia. The first session of the 
Committee,  hosted  by  the  Mongolian  Government  in 
November  2005,  established  the  Intergovernmental 
Collaborative  Mechanism  on  Energy  Cooperation  in 
North-East Asia.  
Mongolia  gives  special  priority 
internationally.  No  country 
of  Member 
transfer  of 
the  world 
States 
and 
in 
A/63/PV.8
to 
of 
the 
With 
Since 
to  play 
adoption 
implement 
themselves 
to  furthering 
in  our  efforts 
important  role 
in  more  advanced 
The  Tavan  Tolgoi,  Mongolia’s  huge  coal  coking 

project  has  an 
in  such 
subregional cooperation. Such subregional cooperation 
in the energy sector, combined with ongoing efforts to 
spur  the  implementation  of  the  Greater  Tumen  River 
Initiative,  could  be  conducive 
the 
prospect  for  economic  integration  in  North-East Asia, 
one  of  the  most  dynamic  and  diverse  regions  of  the 
world. 

the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  in  2000,  we  have  passed 
the  midpoint 
them. 
Progress  on  MDG  implementation  around  the  globe 
reveals  a  sharply  contrasting  picture.  Some  countries 
find 
stages  of 
achievement,  while  others  are  still  lagging  far  behind 
on  all  or  many  important  Goals.  Thus,  there  is  an 
urgent  need  to  foster  an  effective  global  cooperation 
aimed at assisting off-track countries in their efforts to 
reach  the  relevant  targets  by  2015.  In  this  regard,  my 
delegation  looks  forward  to  tomorrow’s  high-level 
discussion 
to  come  up  with  bold  and  specific 
commitments to action. 

rich  deposits  of  coal,  copper,  gold, 
molybdenum  and  uranium,  most  of  them  still  largely 
untapped,  Mongolia  indeed  has  an  unprecedented 
opportunity to embark upon the path of rapid economic 
growth and sustainable development — if we are able 
to  overcome  the  partisan  divisions  which  have  in  our 
recent  past  all 
too  often  obstructed  our  onward 
movement.  It  is  with  this  in  mind  that  the  two  main 
political  parties,  in  an  unprecedented  move,  set  aside 
their  long-standing  differences  and  formed  a  unity 
Government  only  a  few  days  ago,  following  the  fifth 
democratic general elections, of 29 June.  

The  result  of  the  elections,  concluded  to  have 
been  free  and  fair  by  more  than  80  observers  from 
more than 20 countries, gave an undeniable majority to 
my party, the Mongolian People’s Revolutionary Party 
(MPRP)  with  45  out  of  the  total  of  76  seats  in 
parliament.  However,  in  the  face  of  the  pressing  need 
to  forge  a  national  consensus  on  major  development 
issues, the MPRP has decided voluntarily to give away 
its  right  to  unilaterally  form  its  own  Government  and 
has  concluded  an  agreement  with  the  Mongolian 
Democratic Party. Our two parties’ historic decision to 
work hand in hand is testimony to our commitment to 
the  well-being  and  prosperity  of 
the  people  of 
Mongolia. 
08-51839 

43 
that 
A/63/PV.8 


I  call  it  the  fourth  historic  choice  of  my  people 
over  the  last  100  years,  following  the  declaration  of 
independence  in  1911,  the  abolition  of  feudalism  in 
1921-1924  and  the  embrace  of  democracy  in  1990.  I 
am  most  confident 
this  unity  will  greatly 
contribute to pulling our efforts together to collectively 
succeed  in  achieving  the  MDGs  by  2015  and  our 
MDG-based  comprehensive  national  development 
strategy  by  2021,  thus  substantially  improving  the 
living standards of our people and upgrading Mongolia 
to a middle-income country. 
In our globalized world, no nation can achieve its 

goals  all  on 
includes  Mongolia. 
Constructive  engagement  in  world  affairs  through 
multilateral  cooperation  mechanisms,  with  the  United 
Nations  at  the  centre,  and  deeper  integration  into  the 
world economy will thus continue to be the cornerstone 
of Mongolia’s foreign policy. I understand all too well 
that the existence of a stable, peaceful and prosperous 

its  own.  That 

is  a  condition  for 
world 
the  fulfilment  of  my 
Government’s  —  or  any  other  Government’s  — 
promise to its people.  

With this in mind, I wish to reaffirm Mongolia’s 
strong resolve to continue its active engagement in the 
work  of  the  United  Nations  and  other  multilateral 
organizations  and  processes,  and  our  commitment  to 
the  world  Organization  as  a  central  coordinating 
instrument  of  the  common  efforts  of  the  family  of 
nations to address the complex challenges of our times.  
the  General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Mongolia for the statement he has just made. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
Mr. Bayar Sanj, Prime Minister of Mongolia, was 
escorted from the rostrum. 
The meeting rose at 8.40 p.m.  



44 

08-51839 
