
A/64/PV.45
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

45th plenary meeting 
Friday, 13 November 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 
the ambassador of Afghanistan in his capacity as chair 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  held  in  the 
Assembly’s  informal  plenary.  I  wish  to  express,  on 
behalf  of  my  delegation,  our  support  for Ambassador 
Tanin  in  the  continuation  of  his  work  during  this 
session. 

During  the  previous  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  we  began  a  negotiation  process  that  can  be 
considered  historic,  as  it  is  a  starting  point  for 
achieving concrete results in Council reform. The three 
rounds  of  intergovernmental  negotiations,  in  which  a 
large  number  of  Member  States  participated,  allowed 
us to have a valuable exchange of views and furthered 
our  understanding  of  the  vision  of  various  Member 
States  with  regard  to  the  process.  We  must  take 
advantage  of  the  clarity  that  we  have  gained  and 
continue  moving  forward  on  the  basis  of  the  progress 
achieved.  One  of  the  primary  objectives  must  be 
correcting  the  inequities  and  inefficiencies  that  affect 
the functioning of the Council. 
The  process  that  we  are  continuing  today  has 

generated  a  momentum 
in  a 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Council,  achieving  to  a 
more  democratic,  representative  and  transparent  body 
in  which  there  is  greater  effectiveness  and  better 
accountability.  While 
have 
demonstrated  that  there  are  issues  on  which  the 
positions remain some distance apart, there are areas of 
reform  that  have  the  support  of  a  large  majority  of 
Member States. 
negotiations 
that  must 
result 
the 






  The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 


for 
the  manner 
Agenda items 9 and 119 (continued) 
Report of the Security Council (A/64/2) 
Question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and 
related matters 
Ms. Blum (Colombia) (spoke in Spanish): Allow 

expressing  my  delegation’s 
to  begin  by 
me 
in  which  you, 
appreciation 
Mr. President, have conducted the work of the General 
Assembly  thus  far  during  this  session  and  for  the 
importance  you  have  assigned  to  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council during your presidency. 

My delegation associates itself with the statement 
made on  behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement by the 
Permanent Representative of Egypt (see A/64/PV.43).  

I  would  also  like  to  express  our  thanks  to  the 
delegation of Uganda for the preparation of the report 
of  the  Security  Council  to  the Assembly  (A/64/2)  for 
the  period  from August  2008  to  July  2009  and  to  the 
ambassador of Austria for presenting it.  
Colombia  would  like  to  highlight  the  need  for 

this  document 
and 
enumerating  in  the  future,  and  for  it  to  include  more 
qualitative information, such as the criteria used by the 
Council in its decision-making. 

the  Security 
Council, Colombia would like to highlight the work of 
to  go  beyond 
the  reform  of 
With  regard 
compiling 
to 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-60625 (E) 
*0960625* 


I  doubt 
For  example, 
A/64/PV.45 


that  any  delegation 
disagrees  with  the  fact  that  the  ongoing  improvement 
of the Security Council’s working methods is a priority. 
All  Member  States  of  our  Organization,  especially 
those on the Council, must make efforts to ensure that 
it  becomes  a  more  transparent  and  participatory  body. 
To achieve that, the Council must more often operate in 
an open manner. We need better access to information 
by  way  of  a  larger  number  of  open  meetings  and 
special  sessions  and  better  interaction  between  the 
Council and the rest of the membership. The number of 
closed  meetings  and  informal  negotiations  must  be 
reduced. The Council should also allow greater access 
for  States  not  members  of  the  Council,  in  particular 
those  directly  affected  by  the  issues  being  discussed. 
Likewise,  decision-making  by  the  Council  should  be 
based  on  clear  procedures,  in  order  to  guarantee 
transparency. 

With  regard  to  the  veto,  Colombia  has  opposed 
that privilege since the creation of the  United Nations 
and has advocated its  abolition. We realize that it is  a 
sensitive  matter  and  that  discussion  of  it  could  delay 
our deliberations on reform. An in-depth review of the 
possible  alternatives  for  limiting  the  arbitrary  use  of 
that power, so as to make the decision-making process 
more  democratic,  has  wide  support  among  Members 
and  could  be  a  starting  point.  As  my  delegation  has 
previously  expressed,  limiting  the  use  of  the  veto  to 
situations  falling  under  Chapter  VII  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter,  creating  mechanisms 
that  could 
reverse  or  neutralize  its  application,  or  tightening  the 
conditions  under  which  it  can  be  used  are  additional 
options that deserve serious consideration. 

Colombia,  like  the  majority  of  the  membership, 
firmly  believe  that  all  States,  large,  medium  or  small, 
should  have  an  equal  opportunity  to  participate  in  the 
Council. The situation of historically underrepresented 
groups  and 
regions,  especially  Africa,  must  be 
remedied. 
The  reality  of  the  current  process  is  that  in  the 

majority  of  areas  there  is  wide  agreement  on  how  to 
achieve  comprehensive  reform.  Most  differences  of 
opinion  correspond  to  the  discussion  of  categories  of 
membership, and that is precisely where we must direct 
our best efforts.  

Expanding  the  permanent-member  category  of 
the  Security  Council  would  conflict  with  our  ideals. 
Extending  permanent  membership  and  the  privileges 
The 
peace 
and 
security 
beyond 
implications 
transparency  and 
that  come  with  it  to  a  few  countries  would  be 
detrimental  to  the  participation  of  small  and  medium 
States,  which  should  have  equal  rights  when  it  comes 
to influencing the decisions and actions of the Council. 

for  our  Organization  of 
increasing the number of permanent members are clear. 
It  is  impossible  to  talk  about  democratization  or 
sovereign  equality  and  at  the  same  time  to  extend 
arbitrary privileges to a few States. We cannot demand 
greater transparency and at the same time exempt a few 
from  accountability  to  the  rest  of  the  membership. 
Likewise, we need to recognize the risks in appointing 
new members in perpetuity without knowing what the 
future holds. We must look for democratic alternatives 
that  guarantee 
strengthen 
the 
accountability and representativeness of all States. 

Colombia  recognizes  the  aspirations  of  some 
States  that  seek  to  become  permanent  members  of  the 
Council and have expressed the desire to contribute to 
the  work  of  the  Council  and  to  the  maintenance  of 
international 
the 
non-renewable two-year term. The intermediate option, 
which  my  delegation  has  discussed  on  previous 
occasions,  could  be  a  viable  option  to  enable  some 
States to participate without compromising our guiding 
principles.  An 
of 
non-permanent seats with the possibility of re-election, 
or  the  creation  of  new,  extended-term  seats,  is  a 
formula  for  convergence  that  could  bring  together 
positions that to date have opposed each other. 

Although  great  challenges  still  lie  ahead  in  the 
search for an agreement, today we find ourselves closer 
to a solution than before. The process requires the full 
commitment,  flexibility  and  goodwill  of  all  Member 
States to negotiate in an open and sincere manner. The 
success of our work will depend on genuine efforts to 
find  a  common  ground  that  allows  for  the  broadest 
political  agreement  —  of  more  than  two  thirds  of  the 
membership  —  and  thus  give  reform  the  necessary 
legitimacy.  

that 
Colombia will continue to support your efforts, as well 
as  those  of Ambassador  Tanin,  in  order  to  further  the 
goal  of  making 
the  Security  Council  a  more 
democratic,  transparent  and  participatory  body  that 
meets contemporary realities. 
Mr. Álvarez (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish): With 

regard  to  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/64/2), 
You  may  rest  assured,  Mr.  President, 
increase 
in 
the 
number 
2 

09-60625 
that 
increasing 
to 
lent 
its  support 


we  wish  to  note  once  again  that  late  access  to  the 
definitive version of the report makes detailed analysis 
of  the  document  very  difficult,  particularly  in  view  of 
its  length. As  for  the  insight  into  the  activities  of  the 
Council  that  the  report  offers  to  the  rest  of  the 
Members of the United Nations, we can say only that it 
retains the same features as previous reports, avoiding 
any substantive discussion, which makes for rather dull 
reading for us, the peoples of the United Nations who 
are not part of the Security Council except for perhaps 
once every 30 or 40 years. 

With  regard  to  reform  of  the  Security  Council, 
Uruguay  has  always  maintained  a  flexible  position, 
accepting 
the  categories  of  both 
permanent  and  non-permanent  members  can  be 
considered.  Uruguay  has 
the 
proposals  submitted  by  Japan,  Brazil,  Germany  and 
India. 

Uruguay is firmly opposed to granting the veto to 
new  permanent  members  created  by  the  eventual 
reform.  Therefore  we  oppose  the  direct  or  indirect 
granting  of  the  veto,  whether  through  moratoriums  on 
the  exercise  of  a  hypothetical  right  or  through  any 
other  kind  of  mechanism  that  would  seek  to  prolong 
such an extension.  

Uruguay’s  principled  position  goes  back  to  the 
original moment of creation of the United Nations. At 
the  San  Francisco  Conference, 
the  Uruguayan 
delegation  underscored 
that 
to  ensure 
the  need 
members of the Security Council joined that body with 
no differences in prerogatives or rights, accepting that 
those  countries  that  had  borne  the  heaviest  burden 
during the war should be assured seats on the Council, 
but not indefinitely, proposing a timeline that could be 
deemed  prudent.  “With  no  differences  in  prerogatives 
or  rights”  —  that  is  the  essential  feature  of  the  legal 
equality  States,  which  is  a  central  element  of  the 
Charter  itself.  The  creation  of  new  privileges  would 
undermine the original basis of the Charter. 

We cannot ignore the fact that many of the issues 
addressed  during  the  rounds  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations have been discussed for over 12 years now 
and  that  there  has  been  no  agreement  on  them. 
Therefore we do not believe that it would be advisable 
for now to insist on issues that we know will not enjoy 
consensus or a broad majority. Those topics include the 
question of the veto. 
A/64/PV.45
the  proposals  submitted  within 

In  this  regard,  we  wish  to  announce  that,  at  the 
right  time  and  while  awaiting  the  development  of 
discussions and the nature of the proposals to be made, 
the  delegation  of  Uruguay  will  present 
texts  of 
amendments  or  will  propose  a  vote  on  all  those 
paragraphs that would allow for proposing alternatives 
that  establish  the  veto  or  applying  the  majorities 
required  under Article  27  of  the  Charter  to  any  of  the 
new  elected  members  in  order  to  take  up  their 
functions in a reformed Council. 

Finally,  Uruguay  supports  the  reform  of  the 
working  methods  of  the  Security  Council  in  keeping 
with 
the  various 
negotiating forums, in particular those presented by the 
so-called Group of Five.  
Mr. Korček (Slovakia): It is a great privilege and 

honour  for  me  to  participate  in  today’s  joint  annual 
debate  on  two  crucially  important  and  interrelated 
agenda  items  dealing  with  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council  and  with  the  issue  of  equitable  representation 
on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council.  We  believe  that  our  fruitful  discussions 
yesterday  and  today  will  provide  further  impetus  for 
the  upcoming  continuation  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on the reform of the Security Council. 

My delegation welcomes the annual report of the 
Security  Council  contained  in  the  document  A/64/2. 
The  complexity,  volume  and  continually  increasing 
number of meetings are a worrying sign of the growing 
challenges  in  the  area  of  international  peace  and 
security. We  note  with  appreciation,  however,  that  yet 
again  this  year  the  Council  opened  more  meetings  to 
the wider membership of the Organization.  

From  the  statistical  point  of  view,  the  annual 
report offers truly interesting and informative reading. 
However,  we  do  regret  that  in  spite  of  repeated  calls 
for  more  in-depth  reporting,  this  year’s  report  again 
fails  to  provide  a  more  analytical  portrayal  of  the 
proceedings over the past 12 months. More substantial 
and analytical reporting that highlights the areas where 
the Council was able to respond effectively and where, 
on  the  contrary,  it  failed  to  act,  would  be  much  more 
conducive to meaningful and effective consideration of 
the work of the Security Council and to the success of 
our  ongoing 
its 
reform  as  we  strive  to  make  the  Council  a  truly 
effective and credible organ. 
intergovernmental  discussions  on 
09-60625 

3 

its  relationship  with 
A/64/PV.45 


This  joint  debate  today  provides  us  with  an 
excellent  opportunity  to  consider  effectively  not  just 
the report of the Council but also the ways to improve 
its  work  and 
the  General 
Assembly,  also  in  the  context  of  the  overall  Council 
reform  process.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  your 
commitment,  Mr.  President,  to  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform and appreciate 
your  entrusting 
to  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  of 
Afghanistan  his  continuing  role  in  presiding  on  your 
behalf  over  our  debate.  We  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to pay tribute to Ambassador Tanin for the 
able  manner  in  which  he  has  been  guiding  us  through 
our complex deliberations and to assure him of our full 
support in this difficult task. 

Government declared:  

At  the  2005  World  Summit,  heads  of  State  and 

“We  recommend  that  the  Security  Council 
continue  to  adapt  its  working  methods  so  as  to 
increase  the  involvement  of  States  not  members 
of  the  Council  in  its  work,  as  appropriate, 
enhance its accountability to the membership and 
increase the transparency of its work”. (resolution 
60/1, para. 154)  
the  Council’s 
The  questions  of 
We cannot reaffirm strongly enough the importance of 
implementing  that  recommendation.  Even  though  we 
particularly  welcome 
enhanced 
transparency  and  improved  working  methods  over 
recent  years,  it  is  undisputable  that  adapting  the 
Council to the realities of the twenty-first century calls 
for further measures.  

size  and  categories  of 
membership have proven to pose the greatest challenge 
to  our  reform  efforts.  Therefore,  as  we  continue  with 
our  deliberations,  my  delegation  believes  the  time  is 
ripe  to  start  narrowing  their  scope  and  engage  in  a 
serious  attempt 
to  define  concrete  and  precise 
parameters  of  the  next  steps.  That  approach  means 
eliminating those proposals that do not enjoy sufficient 
support and elaborating further on those ideas to which 
a majority of Member States have expressed readiness 
to consider favourably.  
As  we  move  forward  with  the  next  round  of 

intergovernmental  negotiations,  it  is  essential  that  we 
build  upon  the  positive  momentum  created  so  far  and 
avoid  having  a  new  round  of  restating  well-known 
positions.  To  facilitate  our  move 
towards  more 
substantial  and  concrete  deliberations,  we  would  very 
4 

Any  prolonged  hesitation 
much  be  in  favour  of  having  a  negotiating  document 
from  the  Chairperson  to  serve  as  basis  for  our  next 
debates. 

My  delegation  believes  that  States  capable  of 
assuming  global  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security should become eligible 
for  filling  the  posts  of  potential  new  permanent 
members of the Security Council — provided that the 
right  of  the  veto  is  not  further  extended.  To  the 
contrary,  the  veto  must  also  be  subjected  to  serious 
reform  as  to  its  scope  and  the  manner  in  which  it  is 
applied. Although we have heard a majority of Member 
States  stating  their  support  for  the  expansion  of  the 
Security  Council  in  both  categories,  the  inability  to 
agree on this point has resulted in a stalemate that we 
have not been able to overcome for years.  

to  act  and  reach 
tangible  results  in  Security  Council  reform  will  have 
further negative consequences on the overall reputation 
of the United Nations. To make this Organization truly 
trustworthy and relevant, we have a duty to reform the 
Security Council without further unnecessary delay. 
Therefore,  in  the  spirit  of  compromise  in  our 

quest  for  an  effective  outcome,  we  believe 
the 
intermediate solution merits our serious consideration. 
The notion of holding a review conference makes any 
new formats temporary. Furthermore, in order to allow 
for new members to truly settle into their new roles and 
prove their capabilities without having to deal with the 
stress of a fast-approaching re-election or review, it is 
essential  that  they  remain  in  their  seats  at  least  for 
10 to 15 years. That approach will inevitably prove to 
be  a  challenge 
for  prospective  new  permanent 
members,  as  they  would  be  subject  to  review.  If  they 
meet  that  challenge  successfully  and  earn  the  trust  of 
the  overall  United  Nations  membership,  they  would 
have to go through another democratic election process 
to obtain a permanent seat. 

As  for  regional  representation,  it  is  essential  to 
ensure  that  distribution  of  posts  within  the  Council’s 
non-permanent  category  be  done  on  an  equitable 
geographic basis. We believe that the regional group of 
Eastern  European  States  needs  to  be  allocated  at  least 
one additional non-permanent seat. 

It  is  indisputable  that  the  Council  must  become 
more  representative.  However,  the  enlargement  must 
not compromise its ability to function as the executive 
organ that the Charter designed it to be. It is difficult to 
09-60625 
on 
the 
it 
for 
large 
ineffectively 
Security  Council 


imagine  a  more  serious  threat  to  the  United  Nations 
than  an  inoperable  Security  Council.  We  believe  that 
the number of members of the enlarged Council should 
not exceed 25. 
In  Article  24  of  the  Charter,  we  Member  States 

conferred 
primary 
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security and agreed that the Council acts on 
our behalf. It is essential that we all remember that fact 
when deciding on the size of the Council. Rather than 
making 
the  sake  of 
representation, we need to choose its representatives in 
such a way that we can fully trust them to act on behalf 
of us all. 

As  we  have  stated  on  numerous  previous 
occasions, my country’s primary goal in this process is 
to  ensure  a  more  effective  and  efficient  Security 
Council  truly  able  to  deal  with  and  act  upon  the 
mounting  challenges 
that  we  all  face.  Slovakia 
therefore is open to all constructive proposals and will 
consider  them  with  the  utmost  open-mindedness  and 
flexibility. 
Mr. Al Habib (Islamic Republic of Iran): I wish 

to pay tribute to you, Mr. President, for convening this 
joint  debate  and  for  giving  due  attention  to  Security 
Council reform in the agenda of the General Assembly 
at its sixty-fourth session. Let me express my gratitude 
to the delegations of Uganda and Austria for preparing 
and  introducing  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  to 
the  General Assembly  (A/64/2).  My  thanks  go  also  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Afghanistan,  for  all  his  invaluable 
efforts  in  presiding  over  the  Assembly’s  informal 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Council  reform  and 
for his humble acceptance of that responsibility for the 
second consecutive year.  

My delegation associates itself with the statement 
made  earlier  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement. I wish to communicate 
a few additional points. 

Each  year,  the  Security  Council,  pursuant  to 
Article  24,  paragraph  3,  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  submits  its  high-profile  annual  report  to  the 
General Assembly  for  consideration  by  the Assembly; 
and each year in turn, the Assembly, pursuant to Article 
15,  paragraph  1,  of  the  same  Charter,  receives  and 
considers  the  report.  However,  expectations  have  still 
not  been  met,  and  the  report  is  still  not  convincing. 
A/64/PV.45
reform  process  essentially  serves 
What  is  the  point  of  making  minor  changes  to  the 
report, and what is the added value of this debate, if we 
do  not  want  a  mere  repetition  of  the  usual  list  of 
activities? The  answer  may  lie  in  an  understanding  of 
the nature of today’s meeting as a joint debate. 

The point of making such changes and the added 
value of this debate are to be found in the combination 
of  the  two  agenda  items  before  us.  We  are  here  to 
consider  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  together 
with  the  question  of  equitable  representation  on  and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council and 
related  matters.  Joint  consideration  of  the  report  with 
the 
the  basic 
objective  of  dealing  with  comprehensive  Council 
reform in all its aspects. That merger should bear fruit 
in the form of a more democratic, inclusive, equitably 
representative,  transparent,  effective  and  accountable 
Council.  

Since  last  year,  five  key  issues  related  to  the 
Security  Council  reform  process  —  including  new 
membership  categories,  the  question  of  the  veto, 
the  size  of  an  enlarged 
regional  representation, 
Council,  working  methods  and 
relationship 
between  the  Council  and  the  General  Assembly  — 
have  been  discussed  in  detail  in  the  Assembly.  The 
hope  was  that  those  deliberations  would  somehow  be 
reflected in practical terms in the work of the Council 
and its report. 

the 
preparation of the 263-page report before us. We have 
taken note of the hard work done by the delegation of 
Uganda  and  the  Secretariat  in  this  compilation  of  the 
Council’s  undertakings.  However,  we  need  to  think 
critically  in  order  to  make  substantive  changes  to  the 
report,  so  that  it  can  depart  from  the  customary 
repetitive  pattern  of  annual  reports.  For  that  reason,  I 
should like to take a look at the report and make a few 
points concerning the objectives and key issues of the 
reform process.  

First,  it  goes  without  saying  that  the  current 
composition  of  the  Security  Council  is  anachronistic 
and  is  neither  regionally  balanced  nor  geographically 
or  geopolitically  reflective  of  today’s  realities.  In 
addition,  many  insightful  and  innovative  independent 
studies, carried out within and outside this body, need 
to  be  taken  into  account.  Thus,  it  is  necessary  to 
conduct  an  independent  and  comprehensive  study  of 
possible new elements that would better reflect today’s 
Undoubtedly,  much  work  went 
into 
the 
09-60625 

5 
reduces 
including, 
in  particular, 
instrument 
action 
A/64/PV.45 

realities,  responding  to  all  the  key  issues  of  Security 
Council reform.  

Needless  to  say,  the  under-representation  of 
developing countries — including those in the Muslim 
world  —  on  the  Council  must  be  seriously  and 
satisfactorily addressed. 
Secondly, the veto — and the fear of the veto as a 

tacit weapon in the hands of a few Member States — is 
that 
a  non-constructive 
the 
possibility  of  Council 
in  many  ways 
and in various  cases  in  which  action  is  needed,  which 
has  resulted  in  Council  inactivity.  The  question  of 
Palestine  — 
last  year’s 
invasion  and  brutal  bombardment  of  Gaza  by  the 
Israeli  regime  —  is  one  of  the  clearest  examples  of 
Council inactivity and intentional delay. 

Thus, the gradual elimination of the veto power is 
supported  by  almost  all  delegations.  Reflections  and 
further deliberations on this important subject could be 
explored,  formulated  and  agreed  upon.  The  report, 
together  with  other  elements,  could  serve  as  a  factual 
account of events in  which the use or threat of use of 
the  veto  prevented  or  delayed  Security  Council 
decisions. 

Thirdly,  the  long-time  and  continued  practice  by 
the Security Council of encroaching on the mandates of 
other  principal  organs  of 
the  United  Nations, 
particularly  the  General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  and  their  subsidiary  bodies,  as  well  as 
the  mandates  of 
the 
International Atomic Energy Agency, under the pretext 
of  security  should  be  abandoned  forever.  If  we  are  to 
tackle this dilemma, it is high time that we work out a 
pattern of cooperation by clearly defining each body’s 
prerogatives  in  detail,  as  well  as  the  areas  along  their 
shared  boundaries,  which  could  be  addressed 
in 
collaboration  between  the  bodies  concerned.  As  a 
preliminary  step,  the  report  could  provide  a  detailed 
account  of  the  Security  Council’s  exercise  of  its 
Charter prerogatives.  
Fourthly,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter,  the 

General  Assembly, 
chief  deliberative, 
policymaking  and  representative  organ  of  the  United 
Nations,  is  entrusted  primarily  with  the  task  of  the 
of 
progressive 
international 
and 
lawmaking by the Security Council runs counter to the 
the  Charter.  This  could  be 
letter  and  spirit  of 
development 
law.  Therefore, 
technical  bodies  such  as 
codification 
norm-setting 
and 
as 
the 

them  and 
impact  on 
analytically assessed in the report in order to facilitate 
the  division  of  labour  and  tasks  between  the  General 
Assembly and the Council. 

Fifthly,  in  accordance  with  Article  24  of  the 
Charter,  the  Council’s  decisions  should  reflect  the 
wishes and views of the general membership. For that 
reason,  the  general  membership  —  including,  in 
particular, 
the  countries  concerned  —  should  be 
informed  about  negotiations  on 
resolutions  or 
statements  directly  affecting  them.  However,  this  has 
often  not  been  the  case.  The  report  could  discuss  the 
realization of that right. 

Sixthly, to help ensure that the Council’s working 
methods  enable  it  to  carry  out  its  responsibility  with 
regard  to  the  rights  of  non-Council  members,  the 
following  activities  could  also  be  listed  and  described 
in the report: implementing Article 31 of the Charter in 
order  to  allow  non-Council  members  to  participate  in 
discussions  on  matters  affecting 
their 
interests; allowing the countries concerned to exercise 
their  right  to  inform  the  Council  of  their  positions  on 
issues  having  a  direct 
their  national 
interests;  providing  non-selective  notifications  of 
Council  meetings  and  convening 
regular  daily 
briefings; and considering a right of reply for countries 
against  which  allegations  are  raised  during  Council 
meetings in certain formats.  

Finally, no Council reform will be successful and 
no  report  will  be  complete  unless  and  until  all  major 
issues 
and 
inclusively  addressed.  Every  effort  should  be  made  to 
make 
the  Security  Council  more  democratic, 
representative  and  accountable.  Let  me  assure  the 
Assembly  of  the  full  cooperation  of  my  delegation  to 
achieve those objectives. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

in  Spanish):  The  Bolivarian 
Venezuela) 
Republic  of Venezuela  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement. 

the  Security 
Council  is  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security.  In  that  sphere  there  are  highly  important 
matters,  such  as  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East  and 
the  question  of  Palestine,  in  which  the  Council  has 
shown great failings. 
The  principal  responsibility  of 
comprehensively 
appropriately, 
(spoke 
are 
6 

09-60625 



The  issues  we  are  touching  upon  today  are  of 
particular  significance  in  the  necessary  process  of 
change that must take place within the United Nations. 
Security  Council  reform  is  the  key  element  in  the 
process  of  strengthening  the  United  Nations  and 
bringing  it  into  alignment  with  the  changes  in  the 
international  system in recent years. The Organization 
of the United Nations does not meet the expectations of 
democratization cherished by the peoples of the world. 
We  must  transform  it.  The  democratization  of  the 
United  Nations  should  address  both 
the  specific 
structures  of  its  various  principal  organs  and  the 
exercise  of  a  real  democratic  culture.  All  Member 
States must respect its rules and decisions on the basis 
of  the  principle  of  sovereign  equality  among  its 
Members. No country can claim dominance over it. No 
country should be belittled. 

The  Bolivarian  Government  believes  that  the 
reform  —  and  thus  the  strengthening  —  of  the 
Organization  inevitably  must  include  the  Security 
Council, the General Assembly and the Economic and 
Social  Council.  Therefore,  the  reform  should  lead  to 
strengthening  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  in 
carrying out the powers assigned to it by the Charter in 
the  field  of  peace  and  security,  in  accordance  with 
Articles  10,  11,  12  and  13  of  that  international 
instrument.  Those  issues  should  not  be  the  exclusive 
competence  of 
the  Security  Council.  Venezuela 
considers  that  the  General Assembly  must  remain  the 
Organization’s  primary  forum  for  discussion  and 
maintain  its  independence  from  other  organs.  It  is 
necessary  to  reverse  the  tendency  of  the  Security 
Council  to  become  involved  in  matters  outside  its 
the 
jurisdiction,  undermining 
General  Assembly.  The  United  Nations, 
and 
particularly  the  Security  Council,  cannot  continue 
navigating  with  a  map  based  on  an  obsolete  political 
reality  formed  by  agreements  made  at  the  end  of  the 
Second World War. What is required is an Organization 
renewed  on  the  basis  of  understanding  among  all 
Member  States  and 
therefore  authentically 
represents 
and 
Governments committed to peace, justice, security and 
development. 
My  delegation  welcomes  the  decision  of  this 

Assembly 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  during  the 
sixty-fourth  session  in  the  terms  specified  by  General 
Assembly decision 62/557. We share the call of various 
the  central  role  of 
the  peoples 
interests  of 
continue 
that 
the 
the 
to 
A/64/PV.45
the 
of 
in 
categories 
permanent 
Security  Council 
results.  Those  should 
delegations for the facilitator of the intergovernmental 
negotiating rounds to be given the mandate to produce 
a basic text for future negotiations. 
Venezuela sees Security Council reform in terms 

include 
of  comprehensive 
expanding 
and 
non-permanent  members,  the  revision  of  the  decision-
making mechanism by way of eliminating the veto and 
the  improvement  of  working  methods  to  ensure  broad 
participation  of  Member  States,  especially  in  matters 
relating  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security.  
We  agree  with  the  statement  by  the  Open-ended 

the  Question  of  Equitable 
Working  Group  on 
Representation 
the 
in 
1999 (A/53/47)  that  reform  of  the  Council  is  linked 
inextricably to the question of the veto. The veto is an 
anachronism  that  violates  the  sovereign  equality  of 
States  and  calls  into  question,  within  the  Security 
Council itself, the very principle of democracy that this 
body labours to promote internationally.  

Venezuela reiterates its support for increasing the 
number  of  permanent  and  non-permanent  members  in 
the  Security  Council,  and  strongly  supports 
the 
inclusion  of  countries  from  the  developing  regions  of 
Africa,  Latin America  and  the  Caribbean  and Asia,  as 
permanent  members.  This  is  an  unavoidable  historic 
demand.  The  Bolivarian  Government  also  favours  an 
increase in the number of non-permanent members and 
an  agreement  to  increase  the  membership  of  the 
Security Council to 25 or 26 members. 

Venezuela  recognizes  that  in  recent  years  there 
have been some improvements. It welcomes the public 
debate,  which  encourage  the  participation  of  Member 
States in the  discussion  of issues of interest related to 
international  peace  and  security.  Those  efforts, 
however,  have  been  very  limited.  It  is  necessary  to 
reverse  the  pernicious  tendency  of  making  closed 
meetings the rule and public gatherings the exception. 
In  this  matter  it  is  necessary  to  respect  rule  48  of  the 
Provisional  Rules  and  Procedures  of  the  Security 
Council. 
genuine 

It 
democratization  of  the  Security  Council  and  greater 
transparency of its operation could be achieved through 
improved  working  methods.  That  is  a  reductionist 
approach. Venezuela observes with concern that the old 
practices of the Security Council, about which there is 
suggested 
been 
that 
has 
09-60625 

7 

is 
of 
and 
that 
organ 
policymaking 
the  democratization, 
A/64/PV.45 

nothing democratic, continue on unchanged, adversely 
affecting 
transparency  and 
legitimacy  of  that  body.  The  Security  Council  should 
hold  consultations  with  countries  affected  by 
its 
decisions  more  often,  guided  by 
criteria  of 
transparency,  participation  and  democratization.  It 
should  invite  countries  that  are  not  members  of  the 
Council  to  participate  in  informal  consultations,  using 
procedures  similar  to  those  stipulated  in  Articles 
31 and 32 of the Charter. 

Peace  is  a  goal  that  concerns  all  Member  States 
without  exception.  Peace  based  on  privileges 
is 
discriminatory  and  is  fragile  and  contrary  to  the 
aspirations  of  the  democracy  that  we  promote  within 
multilateral institutions. Reform of the United Nations 
must  necessarily  lead  to  the  strengthening  of  the 
the  main 
General  Assembly,  because 
deliberative 
the 
Organization, as well as its most representative. 

To ensure the necessary level of responsibility of 
the  Security  Council  to  Member  States,  the  Council 
must  submit  regular  substantive  and  analytical  reports 
to 
the  General  Assembly.  The  Council’s  current 
practice  of  reporting  annually,  in  a  merely  factual 
format,  has  not  produced  the  desired  results.  The 
Council must be accountable to the General Assembly 
for its activities in a systematic manner, in accordance 
with Articles 15 and 24 (3) of the Charter.  

the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela  believes  that  the  reform  process  —  and 
therefore the strengthening of the Organization — will 
be  possible  only  to  the  extent  that  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  and  the  resolutions  of  its 
principal  organs,  including  the  General Assembly,  are 
fully accepted and respected by all Member States. 
Mr.  Jawan  (Malaysia):  My  delegation  aligns 

itself  with  the  statement  made  yesterday  by  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement under this agenda item. 
Malaysia takes note of the report of the Security 

Council,  as  contained 
in  document  A/64/2.  We 
recognize the important work being carried out by the 
Security  Council,  as  evidenced  by  the  228  formal 
meetings  and  141  consultations  of  the  whole  held  by 
the Council during the period under review. This adds 
up  to  more  than  one  meeting  per  day,  as  the  Security 
Council  remains  seized  with  more  than  43  different 
To  conclude, 
that 
thus  making 
informed  of 
it  obligatory 
should  be  kept 
The  general  membership  of 
issues relating to the maintenance of peace and security 
in four different continents. 

However,  what  does  not  add  up  is  how  these 
many  meetings  were  so  efficiently  summarized  in  a 
report to the general membership of the United Nations 
in a mere 51 pages, with an additional 20 pages thrown 
in to describe the work of the subsidiary bodies of the 
Council.  The  other  202  pages  were  facts  and  figures 
relating  to  the  reference  numbers  of  resolutions  and 
their  dates  of  adoption.  In  terms  of  balance,  this  does 
not seem, to my delegation, to be balanced reporting of 
the  actual  discussions  that  we  know  the  Security 
Council  to  have  carried  out  with  all  its  due  diligence 
and meticulousness. 

this  esteemed 
Organization 
the 
deliberations of the Council, in particular those held in 
closed  sessions.  The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
stipulates that the Council act on behalf of the general 
membership, 
the 
membership  be  notified  not  only  of  decisions  of  the 
Council,  but  also  of  the  deliberations  of  the  Council. 
This is what we were hoping the report of the Security 
Council  would  contain  —  a  more  comprehensive 
reporting of the goings-on within the Council, as well 
as an analytical look at the many issues on the agenda 
of the Council. 

Malaysia  would  also  like  to  have  the  countries 
concerned  be  included  in  the  deliberations  of  the 
Council  rather  than  informed  after  the  fact.  This  is 
provided  for  under  Article  32  of  the  Charter,  and 
should  be  strictly  adhered  to,  rather  than  selectively 
applied.  We  hope  to  see  a  more  streamlined  and 
standardized procedure in that respect. 
Malaysia  was  one  of  the  countries  that  rejoiced 

when,  at  the  end  of  the  sixty-second  session  of  this 
Assembly,  Member  States  were  able  to  push  through, 
by  consensus,  an  agreement 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform  at 
the  General 
Assembly. We believed that that breakthrough, though 
small in the eyes of the rest of the world, would finally 
put  us  on  our  way  towards  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council after 14 long years of discussing the matter. 
of 

intergovernmental  negotiations  at 
sixty-third 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  we  are  now  not  so 
convinced  that  we  actually  achieved  as  much  as  we 
informal  plenary  of 
to  establish 
through 
Having 
gone 
the 
three 
rounds 
the 
8 

09-60625 


thought  we  had.  After  a  brilliant  start  under  the  able 
Chairmanship  of  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  of 
Afghanistan,  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  seem 
to  have  sort  of  fizzled  out  in  the  second  and  third 
rounds.  The  first  round  was  successful  in  that  it 
outlined the five key issues to be discussed: categories 
of  membership,  the  question  of  the  veto,  regional 
representation, the size of an enlarged Council and the 
working  methods  of  the  Council,  and  the  relationship 
between  the  Council  and  the  General  Assembly.  All 
were as outlined and agreed to in decision 62/557. 

Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  briefly  outline 
Malaysia’s position regarding these five key issues. We 
would like to see an expansion of the Security Council 
in both categories, both permanent and non-permanent, 
without  expansion  of  the  veto  and  with  a  view  to  the 
eventual  abolition  of  the  right  to  veto.  The  Security 
Council  should  be  more  representative.  Hence  its 
enlargement  should  take  into  account  the  fact  that  the 
membership  of  the  United  Nations  itself  has  grown 
over  the  past  decades.  Malaysia  believes  that  seats  on 
the  Council  should  be  held  by  countries  but  that  due 
regard  should  be  paid 
to  equitable  geographical 
representation. We also believe that the Council should 
be  more  inclusive  and  transparent  than  under  its 
current  working  methods.  There  should  be  greatest 
interaction  between  the  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly  and  due  regard  should  be  given  to  Article 
24.1  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  which 
stipulates  that  it  is  the  Member  States  of  the  United 
Nations  that  confer  on  the  Security  Council  primary 
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security,  and  that  the  Council  acts  on  their 
behalf. 
My  delegation  is  convinced  that  the  second  and 

intergovernmental 
subsequent 
negotiations 
the  momentum  afforded  by 
decision  62/557  and  the  sterling  qualities  of  the  first 
round  because  States  did  not  have  a  negotiating  text 
before them. It is still not too late for us to have such a 
composite  text  to  form  the  basis  of  our  negotiations 
during  the  sixty-fourth  session.  If  delegations  are 
serious about moving forward, then they should prove 
it  by  giving  the  Chairman  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  the  necessary  mandate  to  produce  this 
composite text that we need. 

The  text  should  include  all  the  options  proposed 
for  each  key  issue.  Then  it  will  be  the  task  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  to  taper  down  the  list 
rounds 
lacked 
the 
of 
A/64/PV.45
by  eliminating  those  proposals  that  do  not  garner  the 
minimum amount of support. Key among the proposals 
to  be  put  forth  should  also  be  the  intermediate 
approach, which seems to have gained much interest in 
the last weeks of the sixty-third session of the General 
Assembly. We need to move forward. We need to truly 
negotiate  a  tangible  document  rather  than  restate  our 
long-held views. 

In the coming months, progress will be measured 
not  by  the  sheer  determination  of  those  who  want  to 
move forward, but by the flexibility of the delegations 
that see obstacles rather than opportunities on this path 
upon  which  we  have  embarked.  Malaysia  affirms  its 
strong support for the process of reform of the Security 
Council, and in particular the question of the equitable 
representation  in  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council  itself.  It  is  time  that  we  discard  notions  of 
elitism and embrace the promise of inclusiveness. And 
that promise is well within our collective grasp. 
Mr.  Sin  Son  Ho  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 

of  Korea): At  the  outset,  I  should  like  to  express  my 
delegation’s gratitude to you, Mr. President, for having 
convened  this  important  meeting  on  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council. 

The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  has  been  on 
the  agenda  for  15  years  as  part  of  the  reform  of  the 
United Nations. In spite of strenuous efforts on the part 
of Member States to reform the Security Council so as 
better  to  reflect  our  changed  environment,  discussions 
have  continued  to  spiral  around  with  no  apparent 
results.  We  note,  in  particular,  that  no  progress  has 
been  achieved  at  all  with 
to  adequate 
representation of developing countries on the Council.  

the 
Security Council for their own political ends by having 
it deal unlawfully with issues beyond its mandate. This 
has inevitably led to the discrediting of the Council in 
the  eyes  of  the  international  community.  The  typical 
example of the abuse is the calling into question in the 
Security  Council  of 
the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s last April. To 
date, no such satellite launch has ever been debated at 
the Security Council. The Council has singled out and 
debated 
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  which  was 
lawfully  conducted  pursuant  to  all  international  legal 
procedures.  This  matter  clearly  demonstrates 
the 
Recently,  certain  countries  have  abused 
this  peaceful 
the  satellite 
launch  by 
regard 
satellite 
launch  by 
09-60625 

9 
The  delegation  of 
A/64/PV.45 

selectivity,  arbitrariness  and  application  of  double 
standards in the Council’s activities. 

This  also  constitutes  a  wanton  violation  of 
international  treaties  on  outer  space,  which  stipulate 
that outer space should be free for exploration and use 
by all States without discrimination of any kind, on the 
basis  of  equality  and  in  accordance  with  international 
law.  

The  current  situation  shows  that  the  Security 
Council  is  now  reduced  to  a  tool  of  arbitrariness  and 
high-handedness  overriding  international  law.  This 
clearly  demonstrates why  the international community 
urgently  demands  reform  of  the  Security  Council, 
which lacks democracy and does not reflect the general 
will of United Nations Member States. 

the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea wishes to recall the Final Document 
of the fifteenth summit of the Non-Aligned Movement, 
which  reaffirmed  that  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
should  ensure  that  the  agenda  of  the  Council  reflects 
interests  of  both  developing  and 
the  needs  and 
developed  countries, 
rational, 
non-selective and non-arbitrary manner.  

The wrongdoings in the Security Council, such as 
the abuse of the Council by specific countries for their 
own  political  purposes,  the  unlawful  victimization  of 
developing  countries  and  the  arbitrary  imposition  of 
coercive  measures  such  as  sanctions,  must  be 
terminated once and for all. 

In order to ensure non-selectivity and impartiality 
in  the  activities  of  the  Security  Council,  we  deem  it 
necessary to establish a regime whereby major Council 
resolutions  would  come 
force  only  upon 
endorsement by the General Assembly. 
the  Security  Council  favouring 

informal  consultations  and  meetings 
should  be 
discouraged,  and  open-ended  and  full  participation  on 
the  part  of  stakeholders,  including  the  parties  directly 
concerned,  in  all  consultative  processes  should  be 
allowed,  so  that  all  relevant  issues  can  be  fairly 
considered.  
It is also important to ensure that non-aligned and 

other  developing  countries  —  including,  in  particular, 
African 
the 
overwhelming  majority  of 
the  United  Nations 
membership,  are  adequately  represented  within  the 
Security  Council.  In  that  regard,  it  would  be  more 
countries  —  which 
in  an  objective, 
constitute 
Practices 
into 
in 

to 
With 
regard 
identify 
increasing 
realistic  and 
realistic  and  feasible  to  first  expand  the  category  of 
non-permanent Council members.  

Those are the conclusions drawn from the rounds 
of intergovernmental consultations on reform held this 
year. 

the  number  of 
permanent seats on the Security Council, Japan should 
never  be  allowed  to  have  such  a  seat,  since  it  has 
revived 
its  militaristic  ambitions  by  persistently 
denying  the  history  of  its  aggression,  instead  of 
recognizing and atoning for its crime-ridden past. Any 
discussion  of  whether  Japan  should  be  granted 
permanent  Council  membership  on  the  basis  of  its 
contributions  to  United  Nations  activities  would  itself 
constitute a dangerous and shameful move on the part 
of  the  international  community.  It  would  only  stoke 
Japan’s  unfulfilled  ambition  to  create  a  Greater  East 
Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere.  
Mr.  President,  the  delegation  of  the  Democratic 

People’s  Republic  of  Korea  is  confident  that,  under 
your able leadership, the current session of the General 
Assembly  will 
innovative 
approaches to Security Council reform. 
Mrs.  Aitimova  (Kazakhstan):  First  of  all,  the 

delegation  of  Kazakhstan  would  like  to  thank  you, 
Mr. President,  for  organizing  these  joint  debates  to 
discuss  important  issues  such  as  the  report  of  the 
Security Council (A/64/2) and the question of equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security Council and related matters. 

I  would  like  to  express  gratitude  to  the  Security 
Council  for  providing  us  with  the  comprehensive 
report  on  its  work  over  the  past  year.  My  delegation 
welcomes  all  the  Council’s  efforts  to  find  peaceful 
solutions  to  various  situations  and  conflicts  in  many 
regions of our world during the period covered by the 
report. In that regard, 228 official meetings were held, 
53  resolutions  were  adopted  and  43  presidential 
statements  were  issued. We  acknowledge  that,  despite 
intensive  debates  in  certain  cases,  the  members  of  the 
Council were able to reach agreements and took action 
related  to  important  decisions.  During  the  reporting 
period,  the  Security  Council  thoroughly  addressed 
various  issues  related  to  Africa,  the  Middle  East, 
counter-terrorism  and  non-proliferation,  and  it  held 
thematic  discussions  on  peacekeeping,  the  protection 
of  civilians  in  armed  conflict,  women  and  peace  and 
security, and children in armed conflict. 
10 

09-60625 
improving 



At  the  same  time,  the  overall  approach  of  the 
report  remains  similar  to  that  taken  in  previous  years. 
While  we  appreciate  the  report’s  informative  content, 
we  share  the  view  of  many  delegations  that  it  should 
contain  more  substantive  and  analytical  elements,  not 
just a listing of meetings and decisions. 

We  also  reiterate  the  appeals  of  Member  States 
for greater transparency and accountability and broader 
participation by the general membership of the United 
Nations in the work of the Council in order to enhance 
the  implementation  of  our  responsibility  to  maintain 
international peace and security. 

Not  much  time  has  passed  since  the  General 
Assembly adopted decision 62/557, which provided for 
the  launching  of  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  a 
whole  set  of  questions  related  to  an  increase  in  the 
membership  of  and 
the  geographical 
representation in the Security Council. It was a historic 
step on the path towards reform of one of the principal 
United Nations organs. We highlight the commendable 
and  useful  work  done  by  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on 
and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of  the  Security 
Council  and  Other  Matters  Related  to  the  Security 
Council.  We  also  commend  the  detailed  nature  of  the 
relevant  report  of  the Working  Group,  prepared  under 
the  chairmanship  of  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  of 
Afghanistan. 
We believe that, on the whole, the outcome of the 

third  round  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security Council reform shows the unanimity of United 
Nations  Member  States  in  understanding  the  need  for 
Council  reform  to  strengthen  its  efficiency,  ensure 
equitable  representation  and  improve  the  relationship 
between 
the  General  Assembly. 
Nevertheless,  we  should  analyze  the  results  of  the 
September  negotiations,  which  did  not  lead  to  a 
common  approach  with  regard  to  an  expansion  of  the 
Council  and  an  increase  in  both  its  membership 
categories. 

Kazakhstan once again reaffirms its commitment 
to  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  including,  first  and 
foremost,  the  Security  Council,  and  clearly  expresses 
its position on increasing the Council’s membership in 
both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  in 
order  to  improve  regional  representation.  For  us,  it 
would be preferable to increase the number of Council 
the  Council  and 
A/64/PV.45
members  from  15  to  25  by  adding  six  permanent  and 
four non-permanent seats. 

We  believe  that  six  new  permanent  Council 
members  should  be  elected  in  accordance  with  the 
following scheme: two from among the African States, 
two  from  Asia,  one  from  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean, and one from among the Western European 
and other States. In addition, four new non-permanent 
members  should  be  elected  as  follows:  one  from 
Africa, one from Asia, one from Latin America and the 
Caribbean  and  one  from  among  the  Eastern  European 
States. 

The  current  stage  of  the  negotiation  process 
requires  that  we  seek  a  new  formula  that  would  close 
the  gap  between  the  view  of  the  majority  of  the 
Member  States,  which  favours  an  expansion  in  both 
categories of Council membership, and the view of the 
group  Uniting  for  Consensus,  which  insists  on  an 
expansion  in  only  the  non-permanent  membership 
category.  It  would  probably  be  useful  to  know  the 
preferences of Member States with regard to expanding 
the permanent and non-permanent Council membership 
categories.  It  makes  sense  to  consider  an  intermediate 
approach thoroughly. But such an option should not be 
accepted  as  a  starting  point  for  a  new  round  of 
negotiations. We  think  that  proper  attention  should  be 
given  to  the  compromise  proposals  put  forward  at  the 
last  round  of  intergovernmental  negotiations,  which 
called  for  an  intermediate  model  that  would  establish 
terms  for  mandatory  review  at  a  conference,  with  the 
aim  of  examining  new  members  in  the  intermediate 
category  for  promotion  to  the  permanent  category. 
Moreover,  new  permanent  members  should  not  be 
permitted  to  exercise  a  veto  until  a  decision  on 
extending  the  right  of  veto  to  them  is  made  by  the 
review 
the 
contribution  of  potential  permanent  members 
to 
strengthening peace and security. 

It  is  clear  that  the  decision  process  has  proved 
tough and controversial, and that the potential threat of 
deadlock  still  remains.  In  order 
the 
negotiation  process,  we  think  it  would  be  useful  to 
begin  discussing  a  paper  that  incorporates  all  the 
Member  States’  proposals,  without  exception,  to  be 
prepared  and  introduced  by  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on 
and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of  the  Security 
Council  and  Related  Matters,  headed  by  its  Chair.  In 
the  framework  of  ongoing  negotiations  not  one 
conference,  which  would 
to  advance 
review 
09-60625 

11 

to 
take  part 
in 
A/64/PV.45 

presented  position  should  be  excluded  a  priori.  We 
hope  that  the  reform  process  will  generate  innovative 
ideas that can lead to a compromise decision supported 
by the largest possible majority of Member States. 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  the 

readiness  of  Kazakhstan 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  with  the  rest  of  the 
Member  States 
in  a  spirit  of  compromise  and 
cooperation, aimed at reaching agreement on an entire 
package  of  United  Nations  reform,  with  Security 
Council  reform  at  its  core.  We  also  believe  that  the 
improvement  of  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council should be considered another important aspect 
of  reform,  based  on  enhancing  transparency  and 
accountability. 
Ms.  Štiglic  (Slovenia):  We  appreciate  today’s 

opportunity  to  discuss  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council  (A/64/2)  and 
the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related  matters.  I  would  like 
to thank the current President of the Security Council, 
the  Permanent  Representative  of Austria, Ambassador 
Mayr-Harting, for presenting to the General Assembly 
the report of the Council for the period from 1 August 
2008  to  31  July  2009.  It  is  evident  that  the  reporting 
period  featured  an  increasing  workload  and  a  wide 
range of complex regional, thematic and general issues 
before the Council. 

the  Permanent 
I  also  wish 
Representative  of Afghanistan, Ambassador Tanin,  for 
his  tremendous  efforts  and  impartial  leadership  over 
the  past  year,  which  have  given  the  Security  Council 
reform negotiations the boost they so urgently needed. 
The reform of the Security Council is long overdue and 
is  an  essential  part  of  overall  reform  of  the  United 
Nations.  It  must  address  both  enlargement  of  the 
membership and improvement of its working methods. 
We have already seen some progress; however, there is 
still  much  room  for  improvement  so  that  the  Council 
can 
for  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security  in  the  most  efficient 
and effective manner. 

Enlarging  the  Security  Council  is  not  only  a 
matter  of  fairness  but  a  necessary  condition  for  its 
effectiveness.  The  time  is  ripe  for  changes  in  the 
Council’s structure. A reformed Security Council must 
better  reflect  geopolitical  realities  and  be  more 
representative,  with 
legitimacy 
its  authority  and 
responsibilities 
to  commend 
fulfil 
its 
strengthened.  And,  regardless  of  the  size  of  the 
Council, we need to improve its working methods and 
its  interaction  with  the  membership  of  the  United 
Nations  as  a  whole. We  welcomed  the  open  debate  of 
the  Council  held  in  August  2008  and  the  informal 
interactive  discussion  with  Member  States  on  the 
report  on  the  work  of  the  Security  Council  that  took 
place in July this year. 

For  many  years  now,  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  have  been  confronted  with  an  ever-increasing 
number  of  Security  Council  decisions,  with  notable 
security,  legal  and  financial  implications  for  every 
Member State. If the Council expects Member States to 
be  real  partners  in  sharing  this  burden,  it  should  be 
ready  to  be  more  transparent  and  inclusive  and  to 
engage  with  non-members  of  the  Council  on  a  more 
frequent  regular  basis.  We  appreciate  and  support  the 
initiatives of  the group of  five small  countries (S5) in 
this regard. 

We  welcome  the  appointment  of  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Afghanistan,  Ambassador  Tanin,  to 
further  facilitate  the  process  of  Security  Council 
reform. As many speakers before me have stressed, we 
have  had  an  interesting  and  productive  debate  and 
exchange  of  views  on  all  five  key  issues  of  reform 
during the last round of intergovernmental negotiations 
under the able chairmanship of Ambassador Tanin. 

the  Security 
Council,  with  various  types  of  both  permanent  and 
non-permanent  members,  has  gained  broad  support 
among  Member  States.  Slovenia  remains  convinced 
that the Council should be expanded in both categories 
of members.  Particular  attention should be paid to the 
representation  of  countries  from  Africa  and  Latin 
America, which have so far not been represented in the 
permanent  membership  category.  The  enlargement  of 
the  Council  should  also  increase  the  possibility  for 
small and medium-size states to serve on it. Slovenia’s 
President, Mr. Danilo Türk, suggested a specific model 
for  Security  Council  expansion  during  the  general 
debate  at 
the  General 
Assembly.  This  and  other  specific  proposals  made  in 
the past need to be seriously examined. 

We  must  maintain  the  momentum  generated  and 
move forward. We look forward to the presentation of 
the  work  plan  for  the  negotiations.  It  is  clear  that, 
while  support  for  Security  Council  reform  remains 
strong,  Member  States’  positions  on  the  issue  still 
the  sixty-third  session  of 
that  expanding 
is  apparent 
It 
12 

09-60625 


diverge. We  therefore  need  to  narrow  our  options  and 
search for solutions that will garner the widest possible 
support among Member States. A paper prepared by the 
facilitator  would  be  helpful  in  this  respect,  and  could 
serve  as  a  useful  basis  for  negotiations  during  the 
General Assembly’s sixty-fourth session. 

Mrs. Aitimova (Kazakhstan), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 

In  conclusion,  we  must  not  fail  to  take  forward 
the process of negotiations on the question of equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security Council. We are convinced, Mr. President, 
that  your  leadership,  guidance  and  wisdom,  coupled 
with  the  necessary  political  will,  good  faith  and 
flexibility  among  Member  States,  will  bring  us  to  a 
successful  conclusion  of  the  prolonged  debates  on  the 
issue of Security Council reform. 
Mr. Menon (Singapore): By joining the report of 

the  Security  Council  (A/64/2)  with  the  issue  of 
Security Council reform, today’s debate can be seen as 
an assessment of the Council’s work, as well as of the 
areas  that  require  improvement.  Singapore  commends 
the Council for the preparation of a report that gives a 
factual  account  of  its  activities  from  August  2008  to 
July  2009.  We  appreciate  the  efforts  and  challenges 
that  have  gone  into  the  preparation  of  these  annual 
reports,  and  we  welcome  a  number  of  qualitative 
improvements  to  the  report’s  expanded  introductory 
section. 

However,  we  believe  that  more  can  be  done  to 
improve the report’s substance and clarity. Rather than 
simply  putting  a  positive  spin  on  the  work  of  the 
Security  Council,  the  report  would  have  been  more 
useful if it had given more specifics in the record of the 
year’s  achievements,  as  well  as  the  lack  thereof.  We 
would  also  suggest  that  care  be  taken  not  to  confuse 
quality with quantity. Drafters of future reports should 
exercise vigilance to ensure that all information added 
to  the  document  is  substantive,  and  that  the  report  is 
not expanded for its own sake. 

While  Singapore,  along  with  numerous  other 
delegations,  would  have  preferred  a  more  analytical 
report, we note the reasons shared by Security Council 
members,  in  formal  and  informal  settings,  for  the 
problems  inherent  in  producing  an  analytical  work. 
Still,  we  urge  Council  members  to  continue  trying, 
since  it  does  not  matter  if  progress  is  slow  as  long  as 
you  do  not  stop.  We  would  also  suggest  that,  if  the 
A/64/PV.45
in  dynamic  symbiosis,  with 
Council is unable to produce a collective analysis of its 
work, its 15 members can perhaps reflect on the work 
of  the  past  year  and  share  their  assessments  with  the 
General Assembly. For example, why are some legacy 
resolutions  adopted  year  after  year  without  any 
apparent  progress?  In  addition,  I  am  sure  that  the 
Assembly  would  be  interested  in  what  the  Council 
members  see  as  their  priorities  and  strategies  for  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  Such 
individual  national  assessments  could  be  included  in 
the annual report of the Security Council. 

That brings me to my next point — the need for 
much more to be done to improve the level and quality 
of  dialogue  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
General  Assembly.  The  Security  Council  was  created 
as a body of action, but it is not an autonomous organ, 
beholden  to  no  one.  The  Council  and  the  Assembly 
exist 
the  Assembly 
conferring on the Council its legitimacy and authority. 
This  relationship  thrives  when  the  two  bodies  have 
regular,  frank  and  candid  dialogue;  it  shrivels  when 
interaction  is  choked  off  or  kept  at  arm’s  length. 
Worse,  either  side’s  refusal  to  engage  with  the  other 
breeds  suspicion  and  distrust,  which  complicates  the 
task of keeping the peace. 

In  this  connection,  we  welcome  the  initiative 
undertaken  by  Viet  Nam  last  year  to  engage  in  an 
informal dialogue with United Nations Member States 
before  it  prepared  the  report  of  the  Security  Council. 
We note that Uganda, which drafted this year’s report, 
also took the wise step of holding an informal dialogue 
with  United  Nations  Member  States,  and  we  urge  all 
presidents  of  the  Security  Council  in  the  month  in 
which  the  report  is  being  prepared  to  continue  this 
practice. 

My  preceding  comments  and  suggestions  are 
linked to the broader issue of Security Council reform. 
It  is  a  sorry  truth  that  real  progress  on  reform,  in  all 
areas,  remains  difficult  given  the  divergence  in  views 
and aspirations of United Nations Member States. The 
expansion 
of 
representation, the veto and working methods were all 
hotly  debated  in  three  rounds  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations in the previous session, but deep divisions 
remain.  Member  States  will  be  aware  that  Singapore 
has consistently supported an expansion of the Security 
Council  in  both  its  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories.  Nevertheless,  much  was  said  by  other 
delegations about the option of creating a new category 
question 
of 
the  Council, 
the 
09-60625 

13 

to 
need 
continue  with 
the  maintenance  of 
A/64/PV.45 

of  intermediate  seats,  but  few  concrete  details  were 
offered.  We 
the 
intergovernmental negotiations.  

In addition, Singapore has, together with the rest 
of  the  group  of  five  small  nations  (S-5),  promoted  a 
number  of  proposals  since  2005  on  improving  the 
Council’s  working  methods.  The  S-5  submitted  draft 
resolution  A/60/L.49 
in  March  2006  and,  more 
recently,  in April  2009  circulated  a  non-paper  entitled 
“Elements  for  reflection”,  both  of  which  contained 
suggestions to improve the Council’s working methods. 
The  S-5  members  share  the  common  belief  that  the 
working methods of the Council should be an integral 
focus  of  its  overall  reform.  Better  working  methods 
could  improve  the  Council’s  efficiency,  make  it  more 
transparent  to  the  wider  membership,  enhance  its 
legitimacy and strengthen its role as the body entrusted 
with 
international  peace  and 
security. 

Singapore  is  firm  in  its  belief  that  the  reform  of 
the Security Council is necessary and overdue and that 
the  change  must  come  if  the  Council  hopes  to  stay 
relevant  in  our  evolving  global  environment.  We  call 
upon  the  permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council 
in  particular  to  exercise  leadership  and  work  closely 
with 
this  endeavour. 
Membership  in  the  Security  Council  comes  with 
special  responsibilities  and  this  is  a  price  that  its 
members,  especially  the  permanent  five,  must  be 
willing to pay. If the Council wants to truthfully say, as 
it  does  in  the  first  sentence  of  its  report,  that  it  has 
discharged  its  duties,  then  reform  is  needed,  and 
needed urgently.  

It  is  in  all  our  interests  to  keep  the  Security 
Council  —  and  by  extension  the  United  Nations  — 
relevant,  because  it  is  not  written  in  stone  that  this 
house will remain the sole organization of recourse for 
the  poor  and  the  persecuted.  Alternative  groupings, 
supposedly  reflecting  today’s  geopolitical  realities, 
appear to be taking root and moving to address some of 
the  same  issues  that  the  Security  Council  deals  with. 
As responsible stakeholders in this body, let us prevent 
the devolution of authority from the United Nations by 
working  to  strengthen  the  effectiveness,  transparency 
and legitimacy of this principal organ. 
Mr. Cuello Camilo (Dominican Republic) (spoke 

in Spanish): At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  convey  our 
gratitude  to  the  President  of  the  Security  Council  for 
the  General  Assembly  on 
also 
leading 
congratulate 
to  continue 
(A/64/2).  We 
the month of November, Mr. Thomas Mayr-Harting of 
Austria,  for  his  comprehensive  introduction  of  the 
annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  to  the  General 
Assembly 
the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Afghanistan,  Mr.  Zahir 
Tanin,  who  led  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  for 
the  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  for  his  leadership 
and  spirit  of  compromise  in  the  conduct  of  the  entire 
process.  We  also  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate 
him on having been appointed by the new President of 
the  General  Assembly 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  during  the  sixty-fourth 
session. 
In  the  period  under  review,  the  Security  Council 

certainly  continued 
its  careful  consideration  of 
situations  in  certain  specific  countries  and  regions.  It 
also  took  up  the  subject  of  nuclear  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation  with  new  vigour,  a  course  of  action 
that we will support until the world is rid once and for 
all  of  nuclear  weapons,  the  altogether  unnecessary 
legacy of the cold war.  

Nevertheless,  we  are  of  the  opinion  that  it  is 
fundamental  for  the  United  Nations  that  the  Security 
Council  adapt  to  present  realities.  Our  focus  in  this 
matter is based on a very specific event: the coup d’état 
in  Honduras.  It  is  indeed  sad  that,  in  the  face  of  the 
inadmissible  overthrow  of  the  democratic  political 
system  of  a  prominent  State  Member  of  the  United 
Nations,  the  Security  Council  has  not  taken  rapid  and 
determined  steps 
the  democratic  and 
constitutional  order  of  our  brother  country,  Honduras. 
In 
the  Dominican 
Republic, Mr. Leonel Fernández Reyna, has raised the 
question  of  the  inability  of  both  the  Organization  of 
American  States  and  the  United  Nations,  after  five 
months 
in 
Honduras.  The  reason  is  clear.  The  Security  Council 
has not spoken on the issue.  

The  Security  Council  is  very  familiar  with  the 
experience of Africa, which is quite illustrative in this 
context. Many of the root causes of conflicts generated 
in that brother region are linked to political frustration, 
humiliation and disregard for constitutional norms and 
for  the  Africans  themselves.  That  has  been  a  fertile 
breeding  ground  for  the  violence,  crises  and  conflicts 
that continue to plague the African continent. 

The  Security  Council  is  the  only  organ  of  the 
United  Nations  whose  decisions  and  resolutions  are 
restore  constitutional  order 
the  President  of 
that  regard, 
to  restore 
time, 
to 
14 

09-60625 
the 
the 
the  Council 


binding  on  all  Member  States.  It  is  also  the  organ 
entrusted  with 
responsibility  of  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security.  The  Dominican 
Republic  therefore  believes  that  the  members  of  the 
Security  Council  have  the  obligation  to  fulfil  their 
compelling  and  absolute  responsibility 
to  restore 
democratic  order,  respect  for  constitutional  principles 
and  political  stability  in  Honduras.  That  is  the  only 
way to  avoid the recurrence of anti-democratic  efforts 
in Latin America and the Caribbean, which once again 
pose an imminent threat to the lives and security of our 
citizens. 

Regarding the reform of the Security Council, the 
Dominican  Republic  regrets  the  slow  progress  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  and 
lack  of 
substantial results. However, we still hold the hope that 
one day we will see the reform of that organ so crucial 
to the United Nations system. In our view, any reform 
of  the  Security  Council  must  aim  to  increase  both  its 
legitimacy  and  its  effectiveness.  Consequently,  the 
Dominican  Republic  supports  the  increase  in  the 
number  of  members  of 
in  both 
categories — permanent and non-permanent members. 

However,  if  the  reform  process  is  not  to  be 
overshadowed by the issue of the veto, the Dominican 
Republic believes that this matter should be discussed 
at a review conference of the Charter to be held within 
10  years.  We  believe  that  Security  Council  reform 
should  also  cover  its  methods  of  work,  increase  its 
transparency and promote its accountability. 

We  also  believe  that  a  satisfactory  relationship 
between 
the  Security 
Council  is  fundamental,  because  relations  between 
these  two  important  organs  of  the  United  Nations 
system should not be confined to the periodic issuance 
of  update  reports.  The  General  Assembly  must 
participate  and  engage  in  more  meaningful  and  active 
dialogue  with  the  Security  Council  in  order  to  ensure 
greater  transparency,  representativity,  efficiency  and 
legitimacy.  

the 
perpetuation  of  the  current  outdated  representation  on 
the  Security  Council  whereby  the  countries  of Africa, 
Asia,  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  have  been 
marginalized.  We  advocate  the  position  that  Latin 
America and the Caribbean should enjoy equal footing 
with  other  regions  when  the  number  of  seats  of  the 
Security Council is increased. We support the position 
justification  whatsoever  for 
the  General  Assembly  and 
We  see  no 
A/64/PV.45
that  the  Security  Council  can  truly  become  more 
representative  only  by  ensuring 
the 
inclusion  of 
representatives of developing countries. 

The  aim  of  this  debate  is  to  ensure  that  the 
Security  Council  is  better  able  to  respond  to  the 
realities  of  the  world  in  which  we  live.  It  is  essential 
that we adapt the representation on and the functions of 
the Security Council to the new realities of the twenty-
first  century.  It  is  necessary  to  give  the  Security 
Council  enhanced  capacity 
to  address  prevailing 
challenges effectively and to better carry out its role in 
resolving  crisis situations. The Dominican Republic is 
convinced  that  we  still  have  time  to  develop  the 
necessary political will to achieve genuine commitment 
to making tangible progress on these important issues. 
Mr.  Wolfe  (Jamaica):  At  the  outset,  Jamaica 

aligns  itself  with  the  statements  delivered  by  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Egypt,  in  his  capacity  as 
Chair  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  and,  of  course, 
by  the  representative  of  Barbados  on  behalf  of  the 
Caribbean  Community.  Permit  me  also  to  express  my 
appreciation  to  Ambassador  Thomas  Mayr-Harting, 
Permanent  Representative  of Austria  and  President  of 
the  Security  Council  for  the  month  of  November,  for 
having  introduced  the  report  of  the  Security  Council 
(A/64/2). 

Additionally,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  express 
sincere  gratitude  to  Mr.  Miguel  d’Escoto  Brockmann, 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-third 
session,  for  his  invaluable  contribution  to  advancing 
the  work  on  what  we  agree  to  be  a  most  protracted 
issue — reform of the Security Council. 

In that regard, I also commend Ambassador Zahir 
Tanin,  Permanent  Representative  of Afghanistan,  who 
served  as  chair,  for  his  astute  guidance  of 
the 
intergovernmental  process  during 
sixty-third 
session,  and  we  express  every  confidence  that  his 
reappointment as chair during this sixty-fourth session 
will  contribute 
to 
to  a 
satisfactory outcome. 

Charged  with  the  responsibility  of  maintaining 
and  countering  threats  to  international  peace  and 
security,  the  Security  Council  remains  an  essential 
pillar  of  the  entire  United  Nations  system.  Its  work  is 
of  tremendous  importance  to  all  of  us.  Its  decisions 
impact  on  our  daily  lives  across  all  corners  of  the 
globe. Member States therefore expect that, consistent 
with Article 24 of the Charter, the Security Council, in 
taking  us  much  closer 
the 
09-60625 

15 

A/64/PV.45 

the  solemn  discharge  of 
its  responsibilities,  will 
endeavour to ensure that actions taken on behalf of the 
membership  of  the  United  Nations  conform  strictly 
with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter.  Of 
course, we are all aware that Article 24 also stipulates 
the need for an annual report. 

The  report  we  have  before  us  is,  as  in  previous 
years, essentially an extensive compilation of the work 
of  the  Security  Council  over  the  reporting  period,  in 
this case from 1 August 2008 to 31 July 2009. Jamaica 
maintains that the annual report of the Security Council 
should contain a high level of qualitative and analytical 
content in assessing the work of the Council, including 
such cases in which the Council fails to act, as well as 
containing the views expressed by its members during 
the  consideration  of  agenda  items.  The  continued 
absence  of  a  methodical  and  systematic  diagnosis  of 
the  work  of  the  Council  in  its  annual  report  to  this 
Assembly  remains  symptomatic  of  its  much  outdated 
and  discredited  working  methods,  which  the  majority 
of Member States continue to deplore. 

My  delegation  also  welcomes  the  debate  on  the 
question of equitable representation on and increase in 
the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  other 
matters related to the Security Council. We recall that, 
around  this  time  last  year,  we  were  compelled  to  use 
the  opportunity  of 
for  a 
consolidation  of  the  gains  made  with  the  adoption  of 
the  landmark  decision  62/557  on  15  September  2008. 
This was based on our strong view that the crucial task 
for  the  General  Assembly  was  to  move  forward  in 
the 
earnest 
of 
intergovernmental negotiations. 

Unquestionably, decision 62/557 guided us in the 
right  direction,  towards  the  commencement  of  the 
negotiating process, which is currently under way and, 
we hope, has steered us away from the cycle of endless 
consultations and the repetition of established positions 
which had characterized the deliberations of the Open-
ended Working Group for the past 15 years. 

We  have  been  very  encouraged  by  the  efforts  of 
the chair of the intergovernmental process, in particular 
in focusing attention on the level of progress achieved 
in the three rounds of negotiations that have been held 
to  date.  Jamaica  also  welcomes  the  oral  decision 
adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  at  its  meeting  on 
14 September 2009, by which it agreed  
commencement 
this  debate 
facilitate 
to  call 
to 

immediately  continue 
intergovernmental 
“to 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform 
in 
informal  plenary  of  the  General Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fourth  session  as  mandated  by  General 
Assembly  decision  62/557,  building  on 
the 
progress  achieved  during  its  sixty-third  session, 
as well as the positions of and proposals made by 
Member States” (A/63/PV.105, p. 8).  
We  therefore  anticipate  that  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  will  resume  at 
the  earliest  possible 
opportunity. 

intergovernmental process dated 16 July 2009,  

As  noted  in  the  letter  of  the  chair  of  the 
around  what 
“it  was  argued  on  the  one  hand  that  the  third 
round 
has 
commanded  the  most  support  from  delegations 
speaking  up  during  the  meetings  so  far,  namely 
the  model  with  an  expansion  in  both  current 
categories including its different varieties, and on 
the  other  hand  around  what  needs  to  be  further 
explored,  namely 
intermediate  model 
including its different varieties”.  
revolve 
should 
the 
Jamaica  continues 
to  strongly  support 
It was clear then and it is even more so now that a vast 
majority  of  delegations  supports  expansion  in  both 
categories  and  that,  therefore,  it  is  not  necessary  to 
delay the process by seeking further clarification on the 
intermediate model. 

the 
position  that  expansion  in  both  the  permanent  and 
non-permanent  categories  would  be  a  far  more 
democratic  and  inclusive  means  of  addressing  the 
question of equitable representation on and increase in 
the  membership  of  the  Security  Council,  in  keeping 
with contemporary realities. 

It  is  also  important  to  note,  as  we  pointed  out 
then  and  note  again  now,  that,  in  statements  made  by 
permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council,  which 
would  normally  be  considered  most  resistant  to  the 
idea of change, there has been a general acceptance of 
the need for expansion in the permanent category as a 
means  of  making  the  Council  more  inclusive  and 
representative.  The  permanent  members 
should 
therefore be held to these commitments. 

Finally, Jamaica continues to reiterate its call for 
a  compilation  document  containing  the  proposals  and 
positions  of  all  Member  States  as  the  basis  for 
transparent 
conducting 
inclusive 
open, 
and 
16 

09-60625 


negotiations in a very focused, constructive and orderly 
manner. We believe that this is the best way to advance 
the  intergovernmental  process  if  we  are  to  avoid  the 
perpetual  cycle  of  repeated  positions  and  proposals  of 
Member  States,  which  are  already  well  known  among 
us  and  will  only  serve  to  dampen  enthusiasm  and  put 
the  brakes  on  the  momentum  generated  over  the  past 
few sessions. 
Mr. Schaper (Netherlands): Sixty-four years ago, 

the  General  Assembly  elected  my  country, 
the 
Netherlands,  one  of  the  first  non-permanent  members 
of  the  newly  established  Security  Council.  In  its  first 
year,  the  young  Council  adopted  15  resolutions.  Over 
the  past  year,  as  we  can  read  in  the  report  before  us 
today (A/64/2), it produced 53 resolutions, along with 
43 presidential and 35 press statements. 

These figures are an expression of how the role of 
the  Security  Council  in  the  exercise  of  its  primary 
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security  has  expanded  over  the  years, 
particularly since the end of the cold war two decades 
ago. All  the  while,  the  Security  Council  has  acted  on 
behalf of all the Members  of the  United Nations. It is 
therefore  a  matter  of  legitimate  concern  to  the  entire 
membership  that  the  composition  of  the  Council 
appropriately reflect present-day international realities. 

In  the  discussion  of  the  enlargement  of  the 
Council, we should, in the view of the Netherlands, be 
guided  by  the  criteria  laid  down  in  Article  23  of  the 
Charter,  particularly  those  concerning  the  contribution 
to the maintenance of international peace and security, 
and  equitable  geographical  distribution.  Speaking  of 
the  composition  of  the  Council,  in  our  view  the 
contribution  to  international  peace  and  security  is  a 
criterion that could already be taken more into account 
when  electing  non-permanent  members  under  the 
present system. 

the  General 
For  more 
Assembly  has  been  discussing  Security  Council 
reform.  Against  that  background,  the  progress  made 
during  the  sixty-third  session  was  no  mean  feat.  We 
moved 
intensive 
negotiation,  leaving  behind  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group  —  which  was  already  nicknamed  the  never-
ending  working  group  —  and  taking  the  matter  to  the 
General  Assembly  itself.  Hopefully  we  can  maintain 
this  momentum  in  the  coming  year;  the  Netherlands 
will actively contribute to this objective.  
than  15  years  now, 
endless  deliberation 
from 
to 
A/64/PV.45
launch 
of 
in 
instrumental 

At  the  2005  Summit,  world  leaders  expressed 
their  support  for  early  reform  of  the  Council.  Staying 
on course for this early reform requires first of all the 
immediate  resumption  of  the  negotiation  process,  as 
Assembly decision 63/565 stipulates. We look forward 
to  receiving  the  chair’s  letter  on  the  fourth  round 
following the conclusion of this debate. 

A  month  ago,  we  were  happy  to  learn  that 
Ambassador  Tanin  will  once  again  be  chairing  our 
meetings.  Not  only  was  he 
the 
successful 
intergovernmental 
the 
negotiations,  but  also  one  simply  does  not  change 
horses  in  midstream.  Always  impartial  to  any  of  the 
positions,  yet  partial  to  progress,  Ambassador  Tanin 
has  established  a  legitimate  and  smooth  process  —  a 
process we can build on. 

After  we  have  looked  at  all  the  five  key  issues 
from  all  possible  angles,  the  next  logical  step  in  the 
process would now seem to be a text that can provide a 
basis  for  negotiation.  We  have  no  fixed  position  on 
how such a text  can best  come  about.  Nevertheless, it 
is  our  view  that  at  the  current  stage  we  cannot  in  all 
fairness  ask  Ambassador  Tanin 
this 
extremely  sensitive  task.  It  is  now  up  to  us,  Member 
States, to pick up this gauntlet. 
As far as substance is concerned, I would like to 

quote  one  of 
the 
2007 facilitators’  report,  to  which  the  Netherlands 
contributed:  “The  positions  of  the  major  interest 
groups, well known to the membership for some time, 
are  not  likely  to  be  fully  realized  at  this  stage” 
(A/61/47, annex I, part II). In our mind, this conclusion 
still  holds  true.  The  main  contender  to  break  the 
present logjam, we believe, is currently what is known 
as the intermediate approach.  

Although it goes by different names, we all know 
what  is  basically  being  discussed  here. This  inventive 
solution  continues 
in  certain 
quarters;  however,  those  will  not  be  answered  within 
the  context  of  more  plenary  meetings  with  general 
statements. Only by putting pen to paper, while jointly 
drafting  the  negotiating  text  that  I  mentioned  earlier, 
will we really be able to untie all the knots and to map 
out in a clear manner the different variants. 

the 
intermediate model exclusively as a potential outcome 
and not as a point of departure. I say it does not need to 
be  a  point  of  departure.  Nevertheless,  for  it  to  be  a 
that  some  delegations  accept 
the  main  conclusions 
raise  questions 
I  know 
to 
take  on 
from 
to 
09-60625 

17 

the 
A/64/PV.45 

potential outcome of the negotiations, it needs at least 
to  be  on  the  map  as  a  point  of  interest.  In  our 
negotiating  text,  we  do  not  have  to  award  it  some 
special status, but it does deserve some status. The only 
alternative  to  really  exploring  new  and  inventive 
solutions,  such  as  for  example 
intermediate 
approach,  is  the  status  quo  —  and  we  all  solemnly 
declare  that  we  want  to  move  beyond  that.  Such 
declarations create obligations, for subsequently doing 
nothing  leads  only  to  the  conclusion  that  the  United 
Nations  is  broken  but  incapable  of  repairing  itself  — 
the worst possible outcome for us all. 
Mr.  Wolff  (United  States  of  America):  I  would 

like to thank the President of the Security Council for 
the  month  of  November,  Ambassador  Mayr-Harting, 
for  his  introduction  yesterday  of  the  Council’s  annual 
report  to  the  General  Assembly  (A/64/2),  as  required 
under  United  Nations  Charter Articles  15  and  24;  and 
Ambassador  Rugunda  and  the  Ugandan  delegation  for 
their  preparation  of  the  annual  report  during  their 
presidency of the Security Council in July. 

The annual report provides non-Council members 
with  a  transparent  and  comprehensive  review  of  the 
intensive  work  of  the  Security  Council.  We  hope  the 
report  does 
the  exchange  of 
information  and  enhance  cooperation  between  these 
two principal organs of the United Nations. The United 
States  takes  seriously  the  importance  of  making  sure 
that  all  Member  States  are 
informed  of  and 
appropriately involved in the Council’s work. 

There  has  been  an  ongoing  effort  to  hold  more 
formal  meetings  of  the  Council,  open  to  the  full 
membership,  as  the  report  highlights.  There  were 
219 such  meetings  between  August  2007  and  July 
2008 and 228 meetings between August 2008 and July 
2009.  Regrettably,  however,  these  meetings  are  not 
always  attended  by  more  than  a  small  percentage  of 
Member States, including this very morning. We hope 
that  more  members  will  avail  themselves  of  the 
opportunity to follow the Council’s work first-hand on 
such  occasions  rather  than  relying  primarily  on  an 
annual  report.  To  those  non-Council  members  that 
cannot follow the Council’s work on a regular basis, I 
commend  the  Council’s  website,  with  its  wealth  of 
information  and  meeting  summaries,  for  further  in-
depth reference. 

Turning  to  our  other  topic  today,  we  welcomed 
the  President’s  letter  of  13  October  announcing  his 
facilitate 
indeed 
in 
to  chair 
productive 
appointment  of  Ambassador  Tanin 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  his  behalf.  We 
pledge  our  full  support  of Ambassador  Tanin’s  efforts 
to  lead  forward  the  informal  plenary  of  the  General 
Assembly 
intergovernmental 
negotiations. As we stated during the first three rounds 
of these negotiations and  will continue to elaborate  in 
more  detail  in  those  negotiations,  the  United  States 
supports  expansion  of  the  Security  Council.  Such 
expansion,  however,  should  diminish  neither 
the 
Council’s  effectiveness  nor  its  efficiency.  Let  me 
briefly  summarize  key  elements  of  my  Government’s 
position. 

The United States is open in principle to a limited 
expansion  of  both  permanent  and  non-permanent 
members.  In  terms  of  categories  of  membership,  the 
United  States  strongly  believes  that  any  consideration 
of  an  expansion  of  permanent  members  must  be 
country-specific 
in  nature.  In  determining  which 
countries  merit  permanent  membership,  we  will  take 
into account the ability of countries to contribute to the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  and 
other purposes of the United Nations.  

As we have previously stated, the United States is 
not open to an enlargement of the Security Council by 
a  Charter  amendment  that  changes  the  current  veto 
structure.  To  enhance 
the  prospects  for  success, 
whatever formula emerges for an expansion of Council 
membership should have in mind Charter requirements 
for ratification.  

We  remain  committed  to  a  serious,  deliberate 
effort,  working  with  other  Member  States,  to  find  a 
way  forward  that  both  adapts  the  Security  Council  to 
current global realities and enhances its ability to carry 
out its mandate and effectively meet the challenges of 
the new century. 
Mr. Argüello (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): We 

should like to express our views on the annual report of 
the  Security  Council  (A/64/2)  and  then  address  the 
status of the reform process of that body. We thank the 
delegation of Uganda for the consultations it convened 
on  this  subject  and  the  briefings  it  organized  for  the 
report’s  submission  during  its  chairmanship.  I  also 
thank  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Austria  for 
presenting the report yesterday.  

Once  again,  we  underscore  our  concern  over  the 
continuation and intensification of intra-State conflicts, 
intertribal violence and conflicts over natural resources 
18 

09-60625 
there 
is  a 
the 
in  areas  where 
to  effectively  combat, 


that  occur 
lack  of 
socioeconomic  development,  resulting  in  institutional 
and political fragility. The truly tragic situations in the 
Sudan  and  Somalia  are  examples  of  this.  In  turn,  the 
number  of  terrorist  attacks  is  once  again  on  the 
increase  in  a  number  of  countries,  and  every  day  we 
witness  more  bloody  acts  resulting 
in  an  ever-
increasing number of civilian casualties.  

As  former  Secretary-General  Kofi Annan  stated, 
these  terrorist  acts  are  by  their  very  nature  an  assault 
on  the  fundamental  principles  of  law,  order,  human 
rights  and  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  —  the 
principles  upon  which  this  Organization  rests.  In 
addition  to  the  statements  of  condemnation  issued  by 
the  Security  Council,  which  are  already  perceived  as 
banal, given their quasi-bureaucratic repetitiveness, the 
Security  Council  will  need  to  decide  which  political 
course of action it should take, working jointly with the 
General  Assembly, 
in  a 
multilateral  and  coordinated  manner,  the  scourge  of 
terrorism that affects all States equally.  

We  support  the  efforts  of  the  Council  to  prevent 
the recurrence of genocide, ethnic cleansing and crimes 
against  humanity.  The  international  community  is 
responsible  for  protecting  civilian  populations  when 
the State that is obliged to do so is unwilling or unable 
to meet its obligations. Furthermore, conflicts between 
States call for new efforts to attain peace in the context 
of  international  and  humanitarian  law.  In  this  regard, 
we  call  on  the  parties  to  the  Middle  East  conflict  to 
make  substantial  progress  towards  finding  a  just  and 
legitimate 
framework 
established  by  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  Security 
Council. 

I wish to express my Government’s satisfaction at 
the  Security  Council’s 
resolution 
1892 (2009),  extending  the  mandate  of  the  United 
Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH). I 
also  underscore  the  many  sponsors  of  that  resolution 
and the active participation of the Group of Friends of 
Haiti.  We  trust  that  implementing  the  mandate  of 
MINUSTAH  to  ensure  a  stable  environment  will  help 
to  create 
the  full 
realization  of  that  country’s  economic  and  social 
development goals. 

Before  proceeding  to  comment  on  the  subject  of 
reform, I would like to express my country’s gratitude 
for the historic resolution 1887 (2009) on disarmament 
the  conditions  necessary  for 
solution  within 
adoption  of 
legal 
A/64/PV.45
and  non-proliferation,  which  will  promote  further 
progress  towards  achieving  a  safer  world  free  from 
nuclear  weapons.  This  is  how  the  Council  can  and 
should  show  leadership  and  prevent  the  loss  of  its 
relevance  and  legitimacy,  a  growing  trend  in  recent 
years that we hope will be reversed in this new era of 
international  relations  through  the  adoption  of  that 
resolution.  

In this regard, the reform of the Security Council 
is  of  particular  relevance  and  high  priority,  as  the 
challenges  to  international  peace  and  security  are 
increasingly  grave.  The  crisis  of  relevance  within  the 
Organization is due first and foremost to the extent to 
which  the  Security  Council  has  lost  its  representative 
nature and been circumvented in its active management 
of  threats  and  violations  of  international  peace  and 
security.  

Argentina  is  firmly  committed  to  achieving  a 
comprehensive  reform  aimed  at  making  the  Security 
Council  a  more  representative,  transparent,  inclusive, 
democratic and effective body that not only reflects the 
dynamics  of  today’s  world  but,  through  its  structure 
and  functioning,  is  also  prepared  to  adapt  to  future 
changes  or  transformations  in  the  international  scene. 
This goal will be reached only through a reform that is 
guided  by 
inclusiveness  and 
responsible accountability, which cannot be reconciled 
with  the  expansion  of  the  number  of  permanent 
members.  

The  priority  is  to  achieve  a  more  representative 
Council,  rectifying  the  lack  of  representation  of  a 
number  of  regions,  such  as Africa,  Latin America  and 
the  Caribbean  and  Asia,  and  of  developing  countries. 
This will also require ensuring that all Member States, 
including  small  and  medium-sized  States,  have  an 
opportunity  to  serve  on  the  Security  Council  and  thus 
make a more direct contribution to international peace 
and security.  

for 
comprehensive reform that is not limited to an increase 
the  number  of  Council  members.  While  expansion  is 
important,  it  is  not  the  only  component  of  democratic 
and lasting reform. The issue of the Council’s working 
methods  is  also  crucial  to  enhancing  the  effectiveness 
and  transparency  of  its  decision-making  processes. 
Another  issue  that  the  reform  must  address  is  the 
Council’s  relationship  with  the  General Assembly,  the 
the  principles  of 
As  we  have 
is  a  need 
there 
said, 
09-60625 

19 
the  ranks  of 
the  privileged, 
that  addresses 
inclusive  process 
A/64/PV.45 

only  universal  body  in  which  all  Member  States  are 
represented. 

The  broadest  support  is  essential  to  achieving 
progress in working towards a successful reform. Only 
through  an 
the 
interests  of  all  and  enjoys  the  support  of  all  Member 
States  will  we  achieve  a  reform  with  the  legitimacy 
necessary to strengthen the Security Council and make 
it more credible and effective.  

To  enhance  its  legitimacy,  the  Security  Council 
must  become  more  democratic.  We  believe  that  the 
democratization process will be viable only through an 
increase  in  the  number  of  non-permanent  Council 
members. Pursuing the democratization of the Security 
Council  by  increasing  the  number  of  permanent  seats, 
thereby  swelling 
is 
contradictory.  Democracy  is  based  on  the  idea  of  and 
capacity  for  representation,  and 
the  category  of 
permanent membership is not based on the concept of 
democratic  representation  but  is  the  outcome  of  a 
particular moment in history. Only a process of regular 
elections 
the  regional  context,  with  adequate 
accountability and a system of rotation, will guarantee 
true representation for members. 

In  the  spirit  of  seeking  a  broad,  negotiated 
solution, Argentina welcomed the detailed exchange of 
views  during  the  third  round  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations 
intermediate 
solution, which has the potential to offer a compromise 
between  the  positions  held  by  the  various  groups.  We 
are  ready  and  keen  to  continue  in  a  constructive 
process,  exploring 
that  may 
constitute a genuine compromise solution that is lasting 
and not subject to any revision process. 
Mr.  McNee  (Canada):  I  thank  the  President  for 

convening  this  important  meeting.  Canada  welcomes 
this opportunity to share our views on the annual report 
of  the  Security  Council  and  also  to  return  to  the 
important issue of Security Council reform. 

The  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/64/2) 
makes it clear that the complexity, variety and volume 
of  Security  Council  business  continue  to  expand  at  a 
dramatic  pace.  During  the  past  year,  the  Council  has 
taken important decisions on peace support operations 
in situations as varied as Haiti, Afghanistan and Sudan. 
In  addition  to  taking  decisions  on  specific  peace 
operations, the Council has also started a more general 
review of peacekeeping issues — an undertaking which 
the  various  options 
to  explore  an 
in 
in  order 

to 
by 
the 
is  particularly 
Canada  strongly  supports.  Canada 
improve 
encouraged 
commitment 
consultations  with 
troop-  and  police-contributing 
countries,  and hopes that  concrete proposals to follow 
up on that commitment will be forthcoming shortly. 

One  particular  area  where  consultations  need  to 
be  improved  is  mandate  generation.  Although  the 
Security  Council  is  responsible  for  designing  the 
mandates, they are of importance to all Member States. 
For  that  reason  Canada  is  hosting  a  series  of  policy 
discussions  with  all  Member  States  on  improving 
United  Nations  peacekeeping.  The  focus  of  the  third 
event of our series, which will be held on 4 December, 
is on the issue of mandates and modalities. We are very 
fortunate 
that  Ambassador  Lakhdar  Brahimi  and 
Lieutenant General Obiakor have both agreed to join us 
for  that  event,  and  we  look  forward  to  an  informative 
and productive exchange. 

Canada  is  also  encouraged  that  the  Council  has 
begun  to  work  more  closely  with  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission in post-conflict settings. I have the honour 
to  chair  the  Sierra  Leone  configuration  and  have  seen 
first-hand  the  valuable  and  innovative  work  of  the 
Integrated  Peacebuilding  Office  in  Sierra  Leone.  That 
model  offers  great  promise  for  better  managing  the 
transition from crisis to peacebuilding in an integrated 
and  efficient  manner.  I  would  therefore  encourage  the 
Council to engage even further with the Peacebuilding 
Commission in the year to come. 

While  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  details 
the  scope  of  the  actions  taken  by  the  Council,  it  still 
fails  to  provide  an  analysis  of  how  and  why  those 
decisions were made. Although producing such a report 
may  be  difficult,  it  would  be  a  tangible  step  towards 
improving  both  the  Council’s  transparency  and  its 
accountability to the broader membership. 

Transforming  the  report  in  that  manner  could  be 
part of the follow-up to the open debate on the working 
methods  of  the  Security  Council  held  in  August 
2008 (see  S/PV.5968  and  S/PV.5968  (Resumption  1)). 
That  was  an  important  and  long-overdue  event.  It  is 
disappointing that the Council has yet to follow up on 
those  deliberations.  Canada  would  therefore  like  to 
reiterate  the  request  made  during  that  debate  that  the 
Working  Group  on  Council  Documentation  be 
mandated to undertake  a comprehensive review of the 
note  by  the  president  contained  in  S/2006/507  and  to 
present its findings to the Council as soon as possible. 
20 

09-60625 



Last  year  the  membership  took  an  important 
decision to launch intergovernmental negotiations on a 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  After 
three  rounds  of  negotiation,  today  is  an  opportune 
moment to reflect on what has been accomplished thus 
far, and how we should focus the negotiations to ensure 
progress during this session of the General Assembly. 

The  negotiations  to  date  have  shown  the  many 
areas  of  convergence  among  Member  States.  There  is 
broad agreement on the need for an increase in the size 
of  the  Council,  while  keeping  in  mind  the  need  to 
ensure that the Council remains effective. There is also 
overwhelming  support  for  improved  working  methods 
in  the  Council  and  some  restraint  on  the  use  of  the 
veto. 
(spoke in French) 

However,  there  remains  serious  disagreement  on 
the issue of categories of membership. The position of 
Canada  on  that  issue  is  well  known.  Security  Council 
reform  cannot  be  effective  if  it  consists  only  of 
extending  the  privileges  enjoyed  by  some  and  adding 
permanent seats for others. Canada therefore supports a 
modest 
elected 
non-permanent members, which would allow for better 
representation  of  regions  of  the  world,  in  particular 
under-represented  regions  such  as  Africa.  Such  a 
strategy would preserve the important oversight role of 
the broader membership, better reflect the reality of the 
twenty-first  century  and  increase  the  proportion  of 
elected  members  in  the  Council  and  the  opportunities 
for  small-  and  medium-sized  States  to  serve  on  the 
Council. 

However, the debate over the past year has shown 
that  the  membership  remains  deeply  divided  on  that 
important issue and that that proposal has nothing like 
the  support  necessary  for  its  adoption.  That  is  why 
Canada  supported  the  decision  to  hold  a  separate 
debate on intermediate options. Reforming the Security 
Council by adding seats and extending mandates would 
satisfy  the  need  to  recognize  the  special  contributions 
made by certain Member States while also maintaining 
the  Council’s  necessary  accountability  to  the  broader 
membership  and  ensuring  that  small-  and  medium-
sized States may serve on the Council. 
There  are  still  many  details  to  be  considered. 

However, 
the 
intermediate option offers the best chance to overcome 
the current stalemate. In order to achieve real progress 
further  exploration  of 
for  now, 
increase 
number 
the 
of 
in 
A/64/PV.45
to 
and 
increase 
in  recent  years 
on  Security  Council  reform,  all  delegations  must  be 
willing  to  put  aside  their  own  preferred  options  and 
engage in serious negotiations aimed at a compromise 
solution. 
Mr.  Vitrenko  (Ukraine):  At  the  outset  let  me 

express  our  gratitude  to  the  President  of  the  Security 
Council  for  the  month  of  November,  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Austria,  for  his  presentation  of  the 
annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/64/2)  to  the 
General Assembly. 
The Ukraine welcomes the measures taken by the 

Security  Council 
its 
openness to non-members. Efforts to take further steps 
in  that  positive  direction  should  be  encouraged.  We 
also  support  a  greater  role  for  the  troop-contributing 
countries  in  shaping  and  modifying  of  mandates  of 
peacekeeping operations. 

We  encourage  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
Council members to find compromises on the difficult 
issues  facing  the  United  Nations  today,  such  as 
terrorism, 
the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction,  the  stabilization  of  the  situations  in  Iraq, 
Afghanistan,  Darfur  and  other  areas.  However,  on  a 
few  critical  occasions  the  Council  failed  to  react 
that  directly 
adequately 
threatened 
security. 
Unfortunately,  it  has  been  unable  to  come  up  with  a 
common position on topics like Georgia and Gaza.  

Meanwhile, it is clear that demand is growing for 
United  Nations  participation  in  conflict  prevention, 
mediation,  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding.  To 
adequately  address  those  and  other  challenges  the 
world needs a modernized Council. 

We  are  confident  that  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council 
international 
significance.  Making  that  body  more  representative 
and  balanced  and 
its  work  more  effective  and 
transparent, especially with regard to decision-making, 
is  vital  to  adapting  the  United  Nations  to  the  realities 
of the twenty-first century. Ukraine therefore considers 
it a priority to carry out reform on both fronts, namely, 
enlarging  the  Security  Council  and  improving  its 
working methods. Achieving progress in at least in one 
of those areas will serve our long-term interests. 

In  that  context,  taking  into  account  the  lack  of 
noticeable progress in the negotiating process, Ukraine 
agrees  that  there  is  a  need  to  further  explore  the 
to 
serious 
international 
issue  of  exceptional 
challenges 
is  an 
peace 
09-60625 

21 

in 
increase 
same.  Any 
A/64/PV.45 

intermediate  model  as  a  compromise  and  a  first  step 
forward.  That  arrangement  should  entail  a  mandatory 
review of the reform process, which should be carried 
out  in  stages  and  should  identify  elements  that  can 
potentially  be  agreed  on  in  the  short  term  and  those 
that,  given 
their  controversial  nature,  should  be 
deferred  and  revisited  by  Member  States  during  the 
review. 

Ukraine is open to discussing all possible options 
and  new,  creative  approaches  to  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council.  Nevertheless,  our  position  remains 
the 
the  category  of 
non-permanent  members  of  the  Council  should  ensure 
that  there  is  enhanced  representation  for  the  Group  of 
Eastern  European  States  through  the  allocation  of  at 
least one additional non-permanent seat. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  reaffirm  Ukraine’s  full 
commitment  to  participating  constructively  in  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council, with the aim of securing a model that 
can gain the widest possible support. 
Mr. Loulichki (Morocco) (spoke in French): The 

consideration  of  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  to 
the  General  Assembly 
(A/64/2)  provides  us  an 
opportunity to evaluate the work done in the past year 
by  that  important  organ  in  connection  with  the  main 
issues  on 
to 
Ambassador  Thomas  Mayr-Harting  for  the  clear  and 
objective presentation he has given us. 

With the intensification of the Council’s work, it 
is  becoming  increasingly  clear  that  there  is  a  need  to 
continually  improve  its  working  methods  in  order  to 
promote  better  interaction  with  the  other  organs  and 
with States that are not members of the Council. In that 
regard,  some  of  the  proposals  made  during  the  debate 
on  Council  reform  deserve  the  Council’s  attention. 
However,  although  improvements  in  the  Council’s 
working  methods  are  necessary, 
they  are  but  a 
complement  to,  not  a  substitute  for,  overall  reform  of 
the Council to make it more representative and to adapt 
it to the profound changes that have taken place at the 
international level. 
The situations and issues taken up by the Council, 

the number of meetings and consultations held and the 
resolutions  it  has  adopted  reflect  the  fact  that  the 
Council continues to be attentive to situations in every 
region  of  the  world  that  pose  a  threat  to  international 
peace and security.  
its  agenda.  We  are  very  grateful 
security 
in  Africa 
(see  S/PV.6092 
the  Council’s  unanimous 

The  situation  in  the  Middle  East,  including  the 
Palestinian  question,  has  been  the  subject  of  the 
Council’s  attention.  That  was  especially  the  case  in 
December 2008 and January 2009, following the tragic 
events  in  Gaza  and  their  devastating  humanitarian 
consequences  for  the  Palestinian  civilian  population. 
Despite 
adoption  of 
resolution  1860  (2009),  Palestinians  continue  to  await 
the  full  implementation  of  its  provisions  and  the 
fulfilment of international reconstruction commitments 
so that they can once again lead normal  and dignified 
lives.  

As  in  previous  years,  the  African  continent 
continues to be at the centre of the Council’s concerns 
with  regard  to  both  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding. 
The  Council’s  high-level  debate  last  March  on  peace 
and 
and 
S/PV.6092 (Resumption  1))  enabled  the  Council  to 
evaluate  progress  on  peace  and  reconciliation  in 
countries  such  as  Liberia,  Sierra  Leone  and  Guinea-
Bissau  —  an  undertaking  to  which  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission has made an invaluable contribution. 

That  debate  also  illustrated  once  again  the  need 
for  the  international  community  to  redouble  efforts  to 
strengthen peace processes in other parts of Africa and 
to  mark  the  way  for  the  emergence  of  political 
solutions  adapted  to  individual  situations.  In  addition, 
the  debate  showed  the  importance  of  the  participation 
of regional actors in promoting such solutions and the 
responsibilities they must assume in doing so.  

The truth of that is self-evident in every situation, 
including  the  issue  of  Western  Sahara,  concerning 
which  the  Council  has  continually  called  on  all  the 
parties,  including  Algeria,  to  cooperate  with  United 
Nations efforts and with each other in order to achieve, 
through the process of negotiation, a realistic political 
solution that is acceptable to all. In response to appeals 
by  the  Security  Council  and  to  the  desires  of  the 
international  community,  Morocco  has  put  forward  a 
negotiable  autonomy  initiative  that,  once  agreed  and 
finalized,  will  be  put  before  the  people  concerned  for 
their  approval.  That  initiative  illustrates  my  country’s 
desire to pull the settlement process out of the current 
deadlock,  where,  unfortunately,  the  other  parties  want 
to stay, clinging to outdated and non-viable approaches 
and  turning  to  diversionary  tactics  and  erroneous 
pretexts aimed at eroding the negotiating dynamics. 
22 

09-60625 
First,  however, 
let  me 
the  President  of 



Since  1976,  when  the  decolonization  of  the 
Sahara was completed, Morocco has pledged its will to 
resolve that artificial conflict. We shall continue to do 
so  peaceably  and  with  commitment,  in  the  hope  that 
the  other  parties  will  in  the  end  become  part  of  the 
negotiating dynamics, with the political will to make it 
succeed,  in  the  interests  of  all  the  peoples  of  the 
Maghreb. 
Mr. Ragaglini (Italy): Let me begin by thanking, 

you,  Madam,  and 
the  General 
Assembly  for  holding  today’s  debate,  which  gives  us 
an  opportunity  to  review  the  work  of  the  Security 
Council  in  the  past  year.  It  also  invites  us  to  examine 
the  current  state  of  the  process  aimed  at  making  the 
Council  more 
transparent,  efficient,  effective  and 
representative  of  all  Member  States.  That  is  all  the 
more  appropriate  in  that  2009  has  been  the  year  in 
during  which  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security Council reform began. Those negotiations will 
therefore be main chief focus of my statement. 

thank  Ambassador 
Rugunda,  Permanent  Representatives  of  Uganda,  and 
Ambassador  Mayr-Harting,  Permanent  Representative 
of Austria, for the annual report of the Security Council 
(A/64/2).  Concrete  efforts  were  made  by 
the 
presidencies involved to foster greater transparency in 
the  Security  Council,  in  particular  the  holding  of 
meetings with all Member States over the past weeks to 
discuss the draft report. That process of consultations, 
which  we  fully  endorse,  was  inaugurated  last  year  by 
our 
Permanent 
Representative of Viet Nam. 
to  more 

Another 
transparency 
renewed 
momentum  on  reforming  working  methods  that  was 
generated thanks to the Security Council’s open debate 
on 
and 
S/PV.5968 (Resumption  1)).  Such  a  debate  had  not 
been  held  since  the  1990s.  We  believe  it  is  crucial  to 
continue to address that fundamental aspect of reform. 
There  have  been  improvements  recently.  The  more 
transparent  approach  in  recent  years  to  the  process  of 
drafting  the  annual  report  has  been  a  significant  step, 
but much remains to be done. 

There were also tangible signs in the past year of 
renewed  efforts  towards  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
Security  Council,  efforts  punctuated  by  the  start  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
last  February.  The 
colleague  Ambassador  Minh, 
and  openness  was 
27  August 
contribution 
2008 
(see 
S/PV.5968 
concrete 
the 
A/64/PV.45
The  Working  Group  met 
General  Assembly  decided  unanimously  to  launch 
those  intergovernmental  negotiations  by  its  decision 
62/557,  of  September  2008.  The  mechanism  thus 
created  proved  to  be  effective  in  the  end,  as  it  was 
implemented in its entirety. I must recall, for example, 
the reservations that some delegations had with regard 
to  the  role  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  at  the 
very  beginning  of  the  last  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. 

from  November 
2008 through  January  2009  to  help  clarify  procedural 
aspects — a process that was essential to the launching 
of  the  negotiations.  One  particularly  controversial 
point in the discussions was the informal nature of the 
exercise. Without the Working Group, the negotiations 
would  have  started  within  a  completely  unknown 
framework,  and  their  failure  would  have  been  a 
foregone conclusion. 

Substantive negotiations began in February under 
the  valued  guidance  of  Ambassador  Tanin.  I  wish  to 
take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  him  on  his 
confirmation  as  Chairperson  and 
to  reaffirm  our 
readiness  to  fully  cooperate  with  him  in  this  complex 
exercise.  Since  February,  over  the  course  of  three 
rounds,  we  have  examined  all  the  issues  related  to 
reform,  as  well  as  their  interlinkages.  This  is  not  the 
place  for  a  detailed  re-examination  of  the  outcome.  I 
would,  however, 
thumbnail 
reflections  on  what  has  taken  place  so  that  we  might 
chart the direction in which we can realistically expect 
to move over the next few months. 

There is no doubt that sharp differences still exist 
between the parties. It is no secret that Member States 
continue  to  be  deeply  divided  over  the  question  of 
categories  of  membership,  and  none  of  the  various 
proposals  has  the  required  support.  All  attempts  to 
create the impression of a majority in favour of this or 
that model have inevitably ended in failure. No model 
has  the  necessary  support:  not  the African  model,  not 
the  Group  of  Four  model,  not 
the  Uniting  for 
Consensus  model  and  not  the  models  presented  by 
other  groups  and  delegations.  That  is  another  clear 
outcome of the negotiations. 

In  this  debate  we  have  heard  some  delegations 
requesting  from  the  chair  a  negotiating  paper  to  be 
narrowed  down  through  the  exclusion  of  options  that 
have  less  support.  I  would  like  to  recall  that  that 
to  offer  some 
like 
09-60625 

23 

in 
is  one 
the  Assembly 
Let  me  be  clear  on 
A/64/PV.45 

proposal  has  already  been  rejected,  at  the Assembly’s 
sixty-third session.  

that  point.  First,  our 
negotiations  are  intergovernmental  —  that  is,  they  are 
based on the positions and proposals of Member States. 
Secondly,  that  proposal  seeks  to  endorse  a  process 
based on a logic of majority-minority, hard to identify, 
that  literally  goes  against  the  nature  of  a  negotiation. 
Counting  votes 
thing; 
negotiating  and  looking  for  compromise  is  something 
completely different.  

To  the  contrary,  we  all  decided  to  start  real 
negotiations. Our goal has therefore become to identify 
a  path  towards  compromise  solutions  that  have  the 
necessary support of the General Assembly. We believe 
that there are at least three paths that could be helpful 
as we move ahead.  

First,  as  we  have  said  in  recent  months,  despite 
the  confirmation  of  differences,  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  have  so  far  outlined  some  areas  of 
convergence  among  the  various  groups:  the  issue  of 
size,  which  is  gravitating  towards  20-plus;  reform  of 
the Council’s working methods, an area where there is 
consensus  on  the  need  to  push  for  improvements;  and 
updating  the  decision-making  mechanisms.  While  the 
latter  broaches  the  sensitive  issue  of  the  veto,  it  is 
nevertheless  an  issue  on  which  almost  the  entire 
membership continues to express a will for debate. The 
same  holds  true  for  the  question  of  the  relations 
between 
the  General 
Assembly,  as  well  as  the  other  main  bodies  of  the 
United  Nations.  For  the  purposes  of  moving  the 
negotiation  forward,  it  would  be  helpful  to  build  on 
those areas of convergence. 
Secondly, another prerequisite for progress in the 

discussions  is  the  abandonment  of  extreme  positions. 
Last  April,  Colombia  and  Italy  presented  a  new 
platform that includes innovations on the positions that 
Uniting  for  Consensus  proposed  in  2005.  We  could 
have  refused  to  budge  from  our  original  position,  but 
we sincerely believe that these negotiations can reach a 
positive  conclusion  only  through  an  agreement  based 
on  compromise.  That 
is  why  we  presented  our 
proposal,  clarifying  that  it  remains  an  open  basis  for 
discussion. Today, we strongly believe that the time has 
come for others to take a similar step towards common 
ground. 
the  Security  Council  and 
in 
including  groups  outside  Uniting 
the  common  external  projection  of 

Thirdly,  as  in  any  other  complex  negotiating 
processes,  it  is  essential  to  make  efforts  to  find 
innovative solutions that would bring the parties closer 
together. We  see  at  least  two  areas  on  which  it  would 
be worthwhile to focus.  

The  first  would  be  the  so-called  intermediate 
solutions. I wish to underline from the outset that Italy 
does  not  have  a  definitive  position  in  favour  of  or 
opposed to intermediate approaches. At the same time, 
we remain open to any prospect aimed at facilitating a 
compromise  solution.  That 
is  why  we  support 
proposals  for  the  further  exploration  of  intermediate 
options. Our goal is to gain a clearer understanding of 
the substance of these ideas. 

The  second  innovative  solution  that  deserves  in-
depth exploration is regional representation. I am well 
aware that there are countries that are still wary of that 
notion. Nevertheless, it represents a new approach that 
is the subject of growing interest on the part of various 
groups, 
for 
Consensus;  of  course,  I  am  thinking  of  the  European 
Union.  Just  a  few  days  ago,  the  process  for  ratifying 
the  Lisbon  Treaty  was  completed  with  an  additional 
leap 
the 
European  Union.  But  I  am  also  thinking  of  Africa, 
whose underrepresentation in the Council is one of the 
most urgent reasons for reform.  

The  twenty-first  century  is  a  world  in  which 
regional  organizations  have  an  absolute  role  in  the 
maintenance of peace and security, on an equal footing 
with  States.  An  increased  regional  dimension  in  the 
Council  —  which  should  also  be  pursued  through 
reform of the Council’s provisional rules — as opposed 
to an increase in the number of seats for a tiny group of 
countries,  would 
greater 
representation of all United Nations Member States. 

All  one  has  to  do  is  leaf  through  the  table  of 
contents  of  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council, 
which lists the issues addressed by the Council, to gage 
the  weight  that  regional  organizations  have  acquired. 
Any  reform  that  does  not  take  due  account  of  that 
aspect  and  instead  hinges  on  the  archaic  logic  of  a 
concert  of  Powers  would  be  outdated  on  arrival. 
Rather, it is our duty to create a Security Council that 
is  more  effective  and  more  truly  representative  of  the 
world in which we live today. 
(Plurinational  State  of 

Bolivia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Mr.  Solón-Romero
automatically 
ensure 
24 

09-60625 
the 
three 
issue  central 
to  reforming 
stated  during 
thank  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  chair  of 


presidency  for  convening  this  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly  on  an 
the 
Organization  to  make  it  more  democratic.  I  also  wish 
to 
the 
intergovernmental negotiations, and all members of his 
team for their outstanding work. We are aware of how 
difficult it was to launch this process, much sought by 
the  international  community,  and  to  lead  it  with  the 
required  objectivity,  balance  and  neutrality.  The 
delegation of the Plurinational State of Bolivia believes 
that  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  should  resume 
immediately, building on all the progress made during 
the three previous rounds of discussions.  

Reform  of  the  Security  Council  goes  beyond 
merely  increasing  the  number  of  its  members  and  is 
directly  linked  to  the  abolition  of  the  veto,  as  many 
Members 
rounds  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  Bolivia  reaffirms  the 
relevance  and  centrality  of  the  issue  of  the  veto  in 
genuine  Council  reform,  which  is  intrinsically  linked 
both to an expansion of the Council and to its working 
methods,  in  particular  its  decision-making  mechanism 
and  its  actions.  Bolivia  does  not  believe  that  an 
artificial  distinction  should  be  made  between  those 
issues, 
the 
comprehensiveness of the current process.  

The  veto  is  not  democratic.  It  paralyzes  the 
decisions  of  the  Security  Council  and  undermines  a 
fundamental  principle  on  which  the  United  Nations  is 
based:  the  sovereign  equality  of  all  its  Members. 
Therefore,  any  attempt  to  supersede  that  concept 
through the adoption of norms that are not democratic 
and  that  are  offensive  to  the  membership  and  the 
international  community  as  a  whole,  threatening  the 
climate of peace among nations, is unacceptable. 

As  for  increasing  the  number  of  permanent 
members, Bolivia believes that expansion is necessary, 
as  we  have  stated  in  the  three  previous  rounds  of 
negotiations. However, that expansion should apply to 
one  category  alone.  There  should  be  25  members 
without privileges, without permanent membership and 
with  the  same  rights  and  responsibilities.  That  would 
thus  meet  the  need  to  restore  the  balance  of  power 
between 
the  Security 
Council,  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  the 
Charter. 

should  not  be  restricted 
We  believe  that  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
the 
the  General  Assembly  and 
the  question  of 
detract 
to 
which 
would 
from 
A/64/PV.45
in 
therefore,  be  present 
expansion  of  its  membership  alone,  but  rather  should 
also  incorporate  a  profound  transformation  of  its 
working  methods.  Democracy, 
transparency  and 
accountability are all linked to the taking of decisions 
that  are  sometimes  binding  on  all  members.  Those 
components  should, 
the 
working  methods  of  the  Security  Council  and  its 
subsidiary bodies, such as the sanctions committee and 
others.  The  Council  should  convene  more  open 
sessions,  which  would  guarantee  the  transparency 
within  that  United  Nations  body.  It  should  be  open  to 
global,  public  opinion  and  to  States  that  are  not 
members. 

It  would  be  very  useful  to  be  able  to  draw  on  a 
document that compiles the various proposals that have 
been  presented  to  date.  It  would  also  be  useful  if  the 
presidency would issue an agenda of work, so we could 
make progress on that important discussion during the 
sixty-fourth session of the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Beck  (Solomon  Islands):  We  thank  the 

presidency  for  convening  this  meeting  on  Security 
Council  reform.  Let  me  begin  by  congratulating  our 
dear  colleague,  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent 
Representative of Afghanistan, on his reappointment as 
Chair of our intergovernmental negotiations. Under the 
leadership of the President of the General Assembly at 
its  sixty-third  session,  His  Excellency  Father  Miguel 
d’Escoto  Brockmann,  Ambassador  Tanin  ably  steered 
us in three rounds of negotiations on the five identified 
negotiable elements. My delegation commends him for 
taking us to a new level of discussion. 
My  delegation  is  reassured  by  our  President, 

substantive 
Mr. Ali  Abdussalam  Treki,  and  his 
statement  yesterday,  stating 
is  broad 
agreement  to  build  on  progress  attained  since  the  last 
session.  In  this  connection,  my  delegation  welcomes 
his  engagement  in  facilitating  the  process  and  looks 
forward to working with him to enhance the legitimacy 
and  accountability  of  our  Council,  making  it  more 
representative, efficient and transparent. 

My  delegation  continues  to  echo  its  support  for 
increased  membership  in  both  categories,  permanent 
and  non-permanent.  We  would  like  to  see  equitable 
geographical 
the 
permanent  category,  among  regions  currently  not 
represented  or  under-represented,  that  is, Africa, Asia 
and Latin American and the Caribbean. 
representation, 
including 
there 
that 
in 
09-60625 

25 

in  previous  debates, 
this  session,  substantive  progress  on 
A/64/PV.45 


We would like to see the veto abolished, as it has 
too  often  been  used  for  political  reasons  and  to  block 
action.  However,  should  the  veto  be  retained,  all  its 
prerogatives  and  privileges  must  be  extended  to  new 
permanent members. Having said this, we remain firm 
that the veto power should not be applied in instances 
of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. 

There  is  already  overwhelming  support  among 
the  membership  to  reform  the  Council’s  working 
methods.  The  group  of  five  small  countries  (S-5)  has 
made  specific  proposals  that,  in  our  view,  provide  a 
good  basis  to  begin  real  negotiations.  I  hope  that, 
during 
that 
element can be achieved. 

On  the  question  of  the  relationship  between  the 
Council  and  the  Assembly  the  General  Assembly,  as 
chief deliberator of the international community, is, as 
has  been  stated 
the  most 
representative  and  democratic  organ  of  the  United 
Nations.  By  right,  the  Assembly  should  have  an 
enhanced  role  in  its  relationships  with  the  Council, 
making the Council accountable to the Assembly for its 
action  or  lack  of  it. As  stated  by  my  colleagues  from 
the  small  island  developing  States  who  spoke  before 
me,  we  would  also  like  to  see  greater  access  for  and 
effective  participation  of  our  States  in  a  reformed 
Council. 

Let  me  close  by  commenting  on  the  process  we 
have adopted. My delegation hopes we can uphold the 
integrity  of  our  process.  We  need  to  achieve  a  few 
milestones  during  this  session  by  entrusting  our  Chair 
to come up with a text based on inputs registered so far 
and within a specified timeframe, so that we can have 
more  focused  and  results-oriented  negotiations.  We 
must  have  trust  and  faith  in  ourselves  and  in  our 
process if we are truly to make any real and meaningful 
progress. 
Mr.  Borg  (Malta):  My  delegation  would  like  to 

commend  the  work  and  activities  of  the  Security 
Council  during  the  past  12  months,  as  reflected  in  its 
report  A/64/2 
the  Permanent 
Representative of Austria. 
In this regard, we note, in particular, the fact that 

there  was  an  increase  in  the  number  of  open  debates 
and open briefings. We welcome this trend, since in our 
view,  it  reflects  an  increase  in  transparency  and 
openness in the work of the Security Council, which, in 
turn,  enhances  access  and  participation  by  all  United 
introduced 
by 
issues 
related 
in  Africa, 
partnerships 
the  consideration  of 
the  maintenance  of 
in 
Nations  Members  States 
important 
to 
related 
international peace and security. 

Situations  in  Africa,  Asia  and  the  Middle  East 
continue  to  create  concern  for  the  whole  membership 
of  the  United  Nations.  Once  again,  we  note,  in 
particular,  the  conflicts  in  Africa,  which  continue  to 
occupy a considerable part of the work and activities of 
the  Security  Council.  Considering  that  half  of  the 
current  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  and  a 
number  of  United  Nations  missions  and  offices  are 
situated in Africa, and that about 70 per cent of United 
Nations peacekeepers work in Africa and 43 per cent of 
the  United  Nations  peacekeeping  budget  is  devoted  to 
activities 
and 
cooperation have to be strengthened and enhanced. 

Therefore,  the  role  of  the  Security  Council  is 
essential and primordial. The holding, therefore, by the 
Security  Council  of  a  high-level  debate  on  peace  and 
security  in  Africa  last  March  provided  an  important 
contribution  in  defining  strategies  for  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  African  Union 
(AU) — a key and critical player in the area of peace 
and  security  —  and  for  the  deployment  of  AU  peace 
support operations and the African Peace and Security 
Architecture.  

the  missions 
undertaken by Security Council members to Africa, the 
Asian  region  and  Haiti,  which  continue  to  bring  the 
work  of  the  Council  closer  to  Governments  and 
peoples  in  conflict  areas.  We  feel  that  such  missions 
assist  Council  members 
first-hand 
assessment  of  the  negative  impact  of  the  tensions  and 
turmoil  resulting  from  conflicts,  which  continue  to 
obstruct the economic and social development of many 
countries  and  which  displace  large  populations  and 
increase  poverty,  the  number  of  refugees  and  political 
instability. 

The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  continues  to 
present a formidable challenge in the search for a way 
to  relaunch  the  Middle  East  peace  process,  with  the 
Palestinian  question  at  its  core.  The  grave  events  that 
occurred at the beginning of this year in and around the 
Gaza Strip,  resulting in  considerable loss of life, have 
aggravated  the  deteriorating  humanitarian  situation 
there  and  require  a  more  decisive  contribution  and 
involvement  on  the  part  of  the  Security  Council  in 
order  to  fully  implement  Security  Council  resolution 
My  delegation  also  welcomes 
in  getting  a 
26 

09-60625 
issues 
relevant 
to 


1860  (2009)  of  8  January.  The  entire  membership  of 
the  United  Nations  looks  to  and  expects  the  Security 
Council 
to  embark  on  reinvigorated  efforts  and 
measures in implementing the Quartet’s Road Map. 

Malta joins the other delegations that continue to 
call for a durable and political solution to the question 
of  Palestine  and  the  Middle  East  conflict,  and  for 
restarting negotiations that can lead to an independent, 
democratic,  contiguous  and  viable  Palestinian  State 
living  side  by  side  in  peace  and  security  with  Israel. 
My  delegation  urges  Council  members  to  continue  to 
engage  all  concerned  parties  to  contribute  in  a  more 
substantive  manner  in  order  to  put  the  Middle  East 
peace process back on track again. 

Malta welcomes the Security Council’s efforts to 
address, at times at a high level, thematic, general and 
other 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  The  fact  that  the 
Security  Council  is  fully  engaged  with  other  United 
Nations  Member  States  in  discussing  such  important 
and contemporary issues goes a long way to ensuring a 
better  working  relationship  between  the  Council  and 
the  Assembly, 
the  Council  more 
transparent,  efficient  and  effective. At  the  same  time, 
Malta  feels  that  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council  should  include  appropriate  analysis  of  its 
work,  including  of  its  internal  discussions  and  its 
drafting of resolutions and decisions, which eventually, 
when  adopted,  have  to  be  implemented  by  the  whole 
membership of the United Nations. 

Malta feels that a considerable degree of progress 
has been achieved in the past 12 months on the reform 
of the Security Council, as a result of the healthy and 
proactive  exchanges  that  have  taken  place  in  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  five  key  issues. 
My  delegation  would  like  to  thank Ambassador  Zahir 
Tanin  for  his  contribution  to  making  the  process 
possible. Still, more ground must be covered to ensure 
in  an  effective  and 
that  our  deliberations  result 
productive 
outcome.  From 
the 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  Malta  has  striven  in  a 
sustained  effort  to  make  an  objective  and  transparent 
contribution so as to advance the legitimate aspirations 
of  a  small  State,  desiring  not  to  be  marginalized  or 
overlooked  in  these  important  negotiations.  Malta  has 
also  been  consistent  and  persistent  in  expressing  its 
resolute  position  that  small  States,  which  make  up 
nearly  one  fourth  of  the  Organization’s  membership, 
thus  making 
start  of 
A/64/PV.45
must  be  given  due  and  important  recognition  during 
our discussion of a reformed Security Council. 

In  each  and  every  statement  by  Malta,  we  have 
continued  to  observe  that  the  five  key  issues  are 
inextricably linked and that consideration of any one of 
these  issues  must,  therefore,  ensure  a  coherent  and 
cohesive progression on the others. Attempts have been 
made recently to de-link these issues; it is therefore of 
critical  importance  that  under  the  President’s  wise 
leadership the intergovernmental negotiations continue 
to recognize that all key issues must be considered as a 
whole  and  not  in  isolation,  which  would  go  totally 
against  the  consensus  reached  in  the  Assembly’s 
decision  62/557  of  15  September  2008. The  statement 
of  the  President  of  this  Assembly  yesterday  morning 
assured us that the five key issues  will  continue to be 
considered as one package.  

As a small Member State, my delegation attaches 
particular  importance  to  the  issue  of  the  size  of  an 
enlarged  Security  Council.  I  would  like  to  emphasize 
that  the  significant  increase  in  the  number  of  small 
States that are United Nations Members must be taken 
fully  into  account  when  discussing  the  proposed 
expansion  of  the  Council.  This,  in  the  view  of  my 
delegation,  would  yield  justice  to  the  more  than 
40 small  Member  States  that  clamour  for  a  better 
response and full recognition of the legitimacy of their 
claims in the intergovernmental negotiations. It will be 
recalled  that  Colombia  and  Italy  introduced  a  realistic 
and  feasible  proposal  for  a  model  of  reform  that 
included  reserving  a  seat  for  small  States.  My 
delegation  feels  that  small  States  involved  in  the 
negotiations  must  rally  around  this  proposal  to  show 
their  determination  to  see  their  aspirations  become 
reality. 
the 
transparency,  efficiency  and 

Improving 
effectiveness  of 
the  Security  Council’s  working 
methods  is  one  of  the  pillars  among  the  key  elements 
of reform. As a small State, Malta is strongly in favour 
of  more  open  briefings,  fewer  closed  meetings,  and 
increased transparency and openness in the work of the 
Council through enhanced access and participation for 
all  United  Nations  Member  States.  In  particular,  the 
views of the general membership should receive more 
positive attention from Security Council members. 

As I have already stated, the relationship between 
the Security Council and the General Assembly has to 
be  enhanced  in  such  a  manner  as  to  ensure  the 
09-60625 

27 

to 
the 
the 
including 
four  key 
the  other 
limitation  of 
issues.  During 
A/64/PV.45 

transparency and accountability of a reformed Security 
Council.  The  important  link  between  the  Council  and 
the  General  Assembly  —  and  the  role  that  the 
Assembly  should  play  in  those  instances  where  action 
needed  to  maintain  international  peace  and  security  is 
blocked  because  of  the  exercise  of  a  veto  by  a 
permanent member — must form part  of a more open 
debate  during 
intergovernmental  negotiations. 
Member States should therefore acknowledge the clear 
demand  to  constructively  engage  on  the  issue  of  the 
veto, 
its  use  by  all 
permanent members of the Security Council. 

The  issue  of  regional  representation  is  closely 
linked  to  that  concerning  underrepresentation,  as  well 
as 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  we  have  heard  many 
delegations  explain  how  their  respective  geographical 
or  political  groupings  are  underrepresented  in  the 
current  composition  and  structure  of  the  Council.  In 
this  context,  regional  representation  could  make  a 
positive  and  constructive  contribution  to  a  reformed 
Security  Council.  Malta  feels  that  our  deliberations 
should  take  a  more  constructive  approach  to  this 
important issue and that therefore we should embark on 
a detailed discussion of how to debate it effectively. 

Malta  would  like  to  acknowledge  the  smooth 
transition  process  for  continuing  negotiations  in  the 
current  session  of 
the  General  Assembly.  My 
delegation  would  also  like  to  stress  the  necessity  of 
carrying  over  the  negotiations  in  a  well-balanced  way 
that  is  representative  of  the  discussions  held  to  date, 
with  an  all-inclusive  and  comprehensive  presentation 
of all the options on the table, including those from the 
previous rounds. That would ensure that any agreement 
reached  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  will 
form part of the whole package, and that no piecemeal 
decisions are taken, since these would be detrimental to 
the  purpose  of  our  talks  and  to  the  wider  United 
Nations  membership,  especially  medium-size  and 
small States. 
Mr.  Mohamed  (Maldives):  May  I  begin  by 

expressing  my  appreciation  to  Ambassador  Thomas 
Mayr-Harting, the Permanent Representative of Austria 
and  current  President  of  the  Security  Council,  for  his 
presentation  of  the  report  of  the  Security  Council 
(A/64/2) under agenda item 9. 

Let me also take this opportunity to welcome the 
reappointment  of Ambassador  Zahir Tanin,  Permanent 
to 
for 
to 
reflect 
improve 
in  order 
restructured 
Representative  of  Afghanistan,  as  Chair  of 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  look  forward  to  a 
very  comprehensive  and  productive  discussion  on  the 
issues at hand during the sixty-fourth session. 
Over  the  past  15  years,  the  Maldives  and  other 

Member  States  of 
the  General  Assembly  have 
expressed  their  desire  to  see  wide-ranging  reform  of 
the  United  Nations 
the 
effectiveness of the Organization. Such reform has now 
become an integral part of our institution as we address 
the challenges and difficult tasks we face today. 

In  that  regard,  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
Security Council lies at the heart of our larger efforts at 
revamping  an  international  structure  that  came  into 
being more than 60 years ago. For the United Nations 
to continue on its path of progress towards becoming a 
more effective institution, the Security Council must be 
expanded 
today’s 
geopolitical realities. The Maldives is of the view that 
the  inclusion  of  both  India  and  Japan  in  any  future 
composition  of 
the  Security  Council  remains  an 
important  and  fundamental  aspect  of  future  reform, 
providing  a  key  mechanism 
the  effective 
functioning of the Security Council in the twenty-first 
century. 

We welcome the statement made by the President 
of  the  General Assembly  yesterday  on  the  question  of 
Security Council reform and his commitment to finding 
a just and agreeable solution to the five key issues. The 
recent 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  question  of 
equitable 
the 
the  Security  Council  must  be 
membership  of 
maintained  during 
the  current  session  as  well. 
However, there is a still work that needs to be done to 
address the concerns of all Member States to make the 
membership truly representative. 

While  the  composition  of  the  Council  remains  a 
key  area  of  priority,  we  believe  that  the  working 
methods of the Council must also be improved, with a 
view 
its  credibility,  authority  and 
legitimacy within the United Nations system.  
We also believe that the expanded membership of 

the  new  Council  should  come  from  both  developing 
countries  and  developed  countries  and  should  include 
the participation of small islands, landlocked and other 
vulnerable States, reflective of the United Nations and 
its diverse membership. 
efforts  made 
representation 
restoring 
increase 
positive 
during 
and 
in 
and 
to 
28 

09-60625 



Lastly, we wish to emphasize the need to rethink 
the  veto  power  in  order  to  strengthen  the  present 
architecture  for 
the  adoption  of  responsive  and 
preventive measures aimed at maintaining international 
peace and security. 

The  Maldives  firmly  believes  that  this Assembly 
must  be  committed  to  the  implementation  of  decision 
62/557  in  letter  and  spirit.  We  fully  support  the  stand 
taken  by  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
welcome his commitment to advance the reform effort 
through  a  constructive  and  consultative  process  in  the 
informal  plenary.  Furthermore,  we  call  for  the  widest 
possible  political  acceptance  by  Member  States  in 
proceeding with these negotiations. It is our view that  
A/64/PV.45
failure to reach consensus should not prevent action on 
these important reforms. 

Before  I  conclude,  I  would  like  to  express  my 
hope  that  consensus  can  be  achieved  in  reaching  a 
solution  to  the  general  reform  and  composition  of  the 
Security Council. We must be united in our resolve and 
pragmatic  in  our  approach  so  as  to  break  the  impasse 
that  has  caused  United  Nations  reform  to  stagnate  for 
the past 15 years. Only by working together will we be 
able  to  bring  forth  a  Security  Council  that  would  be 
representative,  efficient  and  able  to  deal  effectively 
with the shared challenges we face today. 
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. 



09-60625 

29 
