
A/64/PV.29
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

29th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 29 October 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 




The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.  




Agenda item 75 
Report of the International Criminal Court 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/64/356) 

  Report of the Secretary-General (A/64/363) 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It  is  my 

pleasure  to  give  the  floor  to  Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song, 
President of the International Criminal Court. 
Mr. Sang-Hyun Song: I am very honoured today 

to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC).  

This  is  my  first  opportunity  to  address  the 
General  Assembly  since  my  election  in  March  to 
succeed Judge Philippe Kirsch as President of the ICC. 
Judge  Kirsch  deserves  great  credit  for  his  leadership 
not only in the establishment and early development of 
the ICC, but also in the development of the relationship 
between the ICC and the United Nations. I fully share 
his  commitment  to  a  strong  and  close  relationship 
between  the  ICC  and  the  United  Nations.  I  look 
forward  to  further  developing  our  mutually  beneficial 
cooperation  and  support  over  the  three  years  of  my 
mandate as President of the ICC. 

In my remarks today, I would like first to update 
the  Assembly  on  the  activities  of  the  ICC  and, 
secondly, 
the  priorities  for  my 
presidency, focusing in particular on how they relate to 
the United Nations. 
to  speak  about 

On  26  January  2009,  Trial  Chamber  I  began  the 
first ICC trial, that of Mr. Thomas Lubanga Dyilo. He 
is  charged  with  conscripting,  enlisting  and  using 
children  under  the  age  of  15  to  participate  actively  in 
hostilities  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo. 
The trial is ongoing. 

Next  month, Trial  Chamber  II  should  commence 
the second trial of the ICC. Mr. Mathieu Ngudjolo Chui 
and Mr. Germain Katanga are each charged with seven 
counts of war crimes and three counts of crimes against 
humanity in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 

In  the  situation  in  the  Central African  Republic, 
Pre-Trial Chamber II recently confirmed three charges 
of  war  crimes  and  two  charges  of  crimes  against 
humanity against Mr. Jean-Pierre Bemba Gombo. Trial 
Chamber  III  is  currently  preparing  for  this  trial, 
including  ensuring  the  disclosure  of  evidence  to  the 
accused and the protection of witnesses. 

Last  week,  Pre-Trial  I  commenced  a  hearing  on 
the confirmation of charges against Mr. Abu Garda. He 
is charged with three counts of war crimes related to an 
attack on African Union peacekeepers. 

The ICC is only halfway through its first trial. It 
is  still  too  early  to  draw  definitive  conclusions  about 
the judicial proceedings. Permit me, however, to make 
three general observations. 

First, the extent of attention that must be given to 
the  protection  of  witnesses  is  perhaps  unprecedented 
for any court or tribunal. Of the 30 witnesses called so 
far in the Lubanga case, 22 testified in Court with some 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-58345 (E) 
*0958345* 


A/64/PV.29 

form  of  protective  measures.  In  comparison,  only 
28 per cent  of  witnesses  at  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal  for  the  Former Yugoslavia  have  required  any 
protective  measure.  The  in-court  protective  measures 
are  only  one  aspect  of  the  measures  to  safeguard 
victims and witnesses. Much more goes on behind the 
scenes to ensure that victims and witnesses are not put 
at  risk,  while  also  guaranteeing  the  rights  of  the 
accused to a fair and public trial. 

Secondly,  the  ICC  is  operating  against  a  largely 
blank  slate  of  jurisprudence.  The  Pre-Trial  and  Trial 
Chambers  are  routinely  confronted  with  fundamental 
questions  of  interpretation  of  the  Rome  Statute,  some 
of  which  concern  completely  new  innovations  in 
international law. In the past year, there have been two 
inquiries into the admissibility of cases on the basis of 
the principle of complementarity — one in the case of 
Mr. Katanga and the other on the situation in Uganda. 
The issues raised in these instances have been resolved 
ultimately by the Appeals Chamber. 

Thirdly,  the  ICC  has  dealt  ably  with  what  many 
foresaw as a potentially significant practical challenge, 
namely,  the  participation  of  victims.  A  total  of  102 
victims  have  participated  in  the  proceedings  against 
Mr. Lubanga, and 345 victims will participate, through 
two  legal  representatives,  in  the  trial  of  Mr.  Katanga 
and Mr. Ngudjolo Chui. 

The  biggest  obstacle  to  the  conduct  of  judicial 
proceedings remains the lack of arrest and surrender of 
suspects.  Warrants  have  been  outstanding  since  2005 
for  Joseph  Kony,  Vincent  Otti,  Okot  Odhiambo  and 
Dominic  Ongwen  for  war  crimes  and  crimes  against 
humanity  allegedly  committed 
in  Uganda.  Bosco 
Ntaganda  has  been  sought  since  2006  for  war  crimes 
allegedly committed in the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo.  Ahmad  Harun  and  Ali  Kushayb  are  each 
subject  to  warrants  for  crimes  against  humanity  and 
war crimes issued in 2007 in relation to the situation in 
Darfur, the Sudan. 

On  4  March  2009,  Pre-Trial  Chamber  I  issued  a 
warrant of arrest for Mr. Omar Al-Bashir, the President 
of  the  Sudan. The  Chamber  found  reasonable  grounds 
to believe that he had committed five counts of crimes 
against  humanity  and  two  counts  of  war  crimes  in 
Darfur. As with all previous warrants, requests for his 
arrest  and  surrender  were  issued  to  States.  It  is  the 
responsibility  of  States  to  arrest  and  surrender  those 
persons, in accordance with their legal obligations. 
Beyond 
those 
judicial  proceedings, 

the  ICC 
Prosecutor is continuing his investigations into the four 
situations  before  the  Court.  He  is  also  proactively 
gathering  and  analysing  information  on  crimes  which 
may have been committed within the jurisdiction of the 
Court  in  other  situations.  The  Prosecutor  has  publicly 
stated  that  he  is  looking  into  situations  in  Colombia, 
Georgia, Afghanistan,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Kenya,  Palestine 
and Guinea. 

I  would  like  to  turn  now  to  the  priorities  of  my 
presidency  as  they  pertain  to  the  United  Nations.  My 
three priorities for the Court are, first, to ensure respect 
for the judicial independence of the Court; secondly, to 
enhance the effectiveness of the Rome Statute system; 
and  thirdly,  to  continue  to  strive  to  be  a  model  of 
public  administration.  Today,  I  will  speak  about  the 
first two priorities. 

The  hallmark  of  the  ICC  is  its  independent 
judicial  nature. The  drafters  of  the  Rome  Statute  took 
great care to ensure that political considerations not be 
part of the work of the judges. Once a situation comes 
before the Court, justice follows its course. The judges 
cannot  and  will  not  take  political  considerations  into 
account. They make judicial judgments on the basis of 
judicial  facts.  Those  who  wish  to  discuss  political 
issues  will  need  to  do  so  in  political  forums.  Those 
who  wish  to  engage  the  judges  should  do  so  through 
judicial proceedings. 

At the same time, this judicial institution operates 
within  a  political  world.  It  depends  on  States  and 
others  not  just  for  cooperation,  but  also  to  respect, 
protect and enhance the Court’s judicial independence. 
When the ICC issues a decision, it must be enforced by 
States in accordance with States’ legal obligations. If a 
request  of  the  Court  creates  problems  for  a  State,  it 
should  nevertheless  respect  the  decision  and  consult 
with  the  Court  in  accordance  with  the  Rome  Statute. 
Where  misperceptions  may  continue  to  exist,  States, 
international  organizations  and  civil  society  should 
continue  to  promote  awareness  and  understanding  of 
the ICC’s purely judicial nature. 

The  second  priority  of  my  presidency  is  to 
enhance the effectiveness of the Rome Statute system. 
States,  international  organizations  and  civil  society 
have been working for years to develop the system of 
international criminal justice. Their achievements have 
been  remarkable,  but  it  is  not  time  to  rest  on  one’s 
laurels. The system can and should be further developed. 
2 

09-58345 
cooperation, 
in  particular 
Secondly, 


The primary responsibility to do so falls to States, but 
the ICC has a natural leading role to play. The system 
of  international  criminal  justice  can  be  enhanced  in 
three ways. 

First, the system can be broadened by advancing 
global ratification of the Rome Statute. Ratification of 
the Rome Statute is a sovereign decision of States. The 
ICC will not seek to persuade States in their decisions, 
but it will provide as much information as possible to 
those considering ratification. 
the  system  can  be  deepened  by 

improving  the  ability  and  willingness  of  national 
jurisdictions to investigate and prosecute crimes within 
the  jurisdiction  of  the  ICC,  namely,  genocide,  crimes 
against  humanity  and  war  crimes.  The  ICC  will, 
subject  to  the  limitations  of  its  resources  and  its 
Statute,  explore  ways  to  assist  States  seeking  to 
develop  their  capacities  to  investigate  and  prosecute 
international crimes. 
Thirdly,  the  system  can  be  strengthened  by 

improving 
regarding 
enforcement  by  States  of  decisions  and  orders  of  the 
ICC. Cooperation is a matter of legal obligations which 
must be fulfilled. The ICC will nevertheless work with 
States to identify means and methods of enhancing the 
speed and reliability of cooperation. 
The United Nations has an equally central role to 

play in enhancing the system of international criminal 
justice.  While  the  first  article  of  the  Rome  Statute 
establishes  the  ICC,  the  second  requires  it  to  be 
brought  into  relationship  with  the  United  Nations. 
Further  development  of  the  system  of  international 
criminal  justice  and  its  further  integration  with  the 
United Nations system is in our common interest. 
The ICC greatly appreciates the statements of the 

Secretary-General, 
the  General 
Assembly and other bodies, and all the practical efforts 
undertaken  by  the  United  Nations  in  support  of  the 
international  criminal  justice  system.  The  ICC  looks 
forward to continuing to work with the United Nations, 
States,  other 
international  organizations  and  civil 
society to explore new means and methods for further 
enhancing the system of international criminal justice. 
In this regard, the stocktaking exercise to be part of the 
Review Conference convened by the Secretary-General 
in  Kampala  next  year  will  provide  an  excellent 
opportunity not only to assess where the system stands, 
but also to set a road map for the future. 
the  resolutions  of 
09-58345 

A/64/PV.29

In 15 years, the International Criminal Court has 
gone  from  an  idea  on  the  agenda  of  the  General 
Assembly’s Sixth Committee and the International Law 
Commission  to  a  robust  judicial  institution  whose 
activities  permeate  the  entire  United  Nations  system. 
The  futures  of  our  two  institutions  have  become  very 
much intertwined. Members have my commitment and 
that  of  the  Court  to  our  continued  contribution  to  the 
aims  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  United  Nations  through  our  faithful 
adherence  to  the  Court’s  independent  and  judicial 
mandate. 
Mr. Ehrenkrona (Sweden): I have the honour to 

speak on behalf of the European Union. The candidate 
countries to become members of the Union Croatia, the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia  and  Iceland, 
the  countries  of  the  Stabilization  and  Association 
Process  and  potential  candidates  Albania,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina,  Montenegro  and  Serbia,  as  well  as 
Ukraine,  the  Republic  of  Moldova  and  Georgia,  align 
themselves with this statement. 

Chile  and  the  Czech  Republic  have  during  this 
past  year  brought  the  number  of  States  parties  to  the 
Rome Statute to 110. However, in order to truly reach 
our  common  goal  of  ensuring  that  perpetrators  of 
heinous  crimes  are  always  and  without  exception 
brought  to  justice,  we  must  continue  to  work  for 
universal acceptance of the Statute and the International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC).  The  European  Union  therefore 
warmly  welcomes  the  fifth  annual  report  of  the  Court 
(see  A/64/356),  which  clearly  demonstrates  that  we 
have  been  successful  in  creating  such  a  court. We  are 
still  in  an  early  phase  of  the  Court’s  life,  but  the 
tremendous  progress  already  achieved  in  such  a  short 
time is a testimony to the hard work of its officials and 
staff.  We  wish  to  commend  and  thank  them  for  their 
efforts. 
This  year,  once  again,  the  European  Union 

reaffirms 
to  fighting 
impunity for the most serious crimes of concern to the 
international  community  as  a  whole.  Together,  more 
than  10  years  ago  now,  we  took  a  momentous  step 
forward  when  we  adopted  the  Rome  Statute,  creating 
for  the  first  time  in  history  a  permanent  international 
court to ensure that perpetrators of crimes of genocide, 
crimes  against  humanity  and  war  crimes  are  held 
accountable.  Until  we  reach  this  goal,  the  distribution 
of  justice  might  at  times  seem  uneven,  maybe  even 
unfair, but our response to this challenge cannot be to 
its  unwavering  commitment 
3 

responsibility 
reinforcing  — 
Besides  our  clear 
justice  are  mutually 
A/64/PV.29 

back away from the great achievements already made. 
Instead,  we  must  continue  down  the  path  we  have 
chosen and intensify our efforts to fight impunity. 

The same answer applies when we are faced with 
another  recurring  challenge  —  when  the  two  equally 
desirable  goals  of  peace  and  justice  are  pitted  against 
one another. We can certainly find several examples of 
peace  processes  made  more  complex  through  the 
introduction  of  accountability.  Nevertheless,  it  is  our 
responsibility  to  address  both,  not  only  because  peace 
and 
since 
accountability is a cornerstone of the restoration of the 
rule  of  law  in  post-conflict  countries  —  but  also 
because victims of armed conflict should never be put 
in the position of having to choose between peace and 
justice  for  crimes  committed  against  them  and  their 
families. It is our responsibility to offer them both. The 
only choices available are those of timing and method. 

to  provide 
victims with justice, we should keep in mind the long-
term  effects  of  the  Court,  which  should  be  greater 
respect  for  international  law,  especially  international 
criminal  law,  international  humanitarian  law,  human 
rights  and  the  rule  of  law.  This  will  ultimately 
contribute 
in 
justice, 
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations.  

The  Court  cannot  endure,  however,  without  the 
cooperation  of  States.  In  this  context,  the  European 
Union  is  deeply  concerned  that  several  warrants  for 
arrest  have  still  not  been  executed. We  urge  all  States 
to  cooperate  with  the  Court  and  stress  that  a  lack  of 
cooperation  on  the  part  of  States  that  are  legally 
obliged to cooperate is unacceptable. 

The  ICC  is  a  court  of  last  resort.  The  primary 
responsibility  for  bringing  offenders  to  justice  lies 
where  it  should,  with  the  States  themselves.  In  a 
perfect world, we would therefore never have to resort 
to  such  a  court.  However,  the  reality  is  that  there  are 
times when individual States are not able or not willing 
to  investigate  and  prosecute  offences.  The  underlying 
reasons  can  be  various.  What  is  important  is  that  in 
these  cases  we  have  reached  agreement  that  the 
international  community  should  come  to  the  victims’ 
assistance.  In  accordance  with  the  basic  principles  of 
the rule of  law, decisions  concerning the admissibility 
of  a  case  at  the  ICC  must  be  based  only  on  legal 
considerations.  It  is  therefore  vital  and  important  to 
safeguard the Court’s independence. 
international  peace  and 
to 
to 
for 
take 
to  formalize 
the  African  Union, 
regular  exchange  of 
additional  mechanisms 

The European Union is highly appreciative of the 
support  given  by  the  United  Nations.  The  United 
Nations is a critical partner of the ICC; it is often in a 
unique position to provide the Court with logistical and 
security support in the field. As far as cooperation with 
international organizations is concerned, more could be 
achieved; 
for  deepened 
cooperation  with  regional  organizations  could  be 
established.  The  European  Union,  for  its  part,  was 
pleased to be able to sign an agreement of cooperation 
and  assistance  with  the  ICC  in  2006,  allowing,  inter 
alia, 
information  and 
documentation of mutual interest. The European Union 
encourages  other  relevant  international  organizations, 
including 
their 
cooperation with the Court. 

We are now approaching the Review Conference 
of the Rome Statute, to be held next year in Kampala. 
At  that  time,  we  will  probably  address  a  number  of 
amendments in addition to those that we are obliged to 
address  in  accordance  with  the  Statute.  We  will  also 
have  an  opportunity 
stock  of  where 
international criminal justice is today — an exercise to 
determine  where  the  ICC,  together  with  the  other 
international  criminal courts and tribunals, is likely to 
have a defining role. 

In that context, the European Union would like to 
express  its  gratitude  to  Uganda  for  that  country’s 
readiness  to  host  the  Conference,  which  indicates  its 
commitment  to  the  ICC.  As  one  of  the  three  African 
countries  that  have  voluntarily  referred  a  situation  to 
the  ICC,  Uganda  is  also  in  a  unique  position  to  show 
other States how workable implementing legislation is 
introduced  and  how  a  State  can  effectively  cooperate 
with the Court. 

The International Criminal Court is a fundamental 
tool  in  preventing  and  deterring  those  crimes  that 
undermine the very essence of humanity. The European 
Union  is  and  will  remain  firmly  committed  to  the 
Rome Statute and to the International Criminal Court. 
Mr. McLay (New Zealand): I have the honour to 

speak  today  on  behalf  of  Canada,  Australia  and  New 
Zealand  (CANZ).  We  commend 
the  International 
Criminal Court (ICC) for all that it has accomplished to 
date and thank the President of the Court for his report 
this morning. 
The  Rome  Statute  is  on  its  way  to  achieving 

universal  acceptance.  We  can  take  great  pride  in  the 
4 

09-58345 
thank  also 
those  parties 
the  Prosecutor 


fact  that,  in  just  over  a  decade,  it  has  attracted  110 
States  parties.  We  commend 
for 
committing  themselves  to  the  full  implementation  of 
the  Rome  Statute  and  to  ending  impunity  for  grave 
crimes.  We 
those  States  parties  and 
non-governmental  organizations  that  have  actively 
promoted  the  universality  and  full  implementation  of 
the Statute in the wider community. 

Every  year  since  its  inception,  the  ICC  has 
reached  important  milestones  in  its  development,  and 
2009  has  been  no  exception.  The  Court  is  now  fully 
operational.  The  Office  of 
is 
investigating  crimes  and  has  issued  warrants  against 
alleged  perpetrators  in  four  situations,  with  several 
others also under analysis. The year 2009 has seen the 
commencement  of  the  Court’s  first  trial  as  well  as  its 
first  voluntary  appearance.  Next  year  will  see  another 
key  “first”  for  the  Court  when  the  inaugural  ICC 
Review  Conference  is  convened  in  Uganda.  The 
location  of  the  Conference  is  a  positive  reflection  of 
Africa’s  constructive  engagement  with  the  Court  over 
the past decade. 

As the 2010 Review Conference draws closer, we 
encourage States and stakeholders to continue working 
together  to  ensure  its  success.  Tangible  progress  has 
been made in the Special Working Group on the Crime 
of Aggression,  and  there  appears  to  be  broad  support 
for  much  of  its  work,  particularly  in  relation  to  the 
definition of the crime and its elements. Although some 
challenging issues remain, CANZ will do its utmost to 
help bring those important negotiations to a successful 
conclusion,  and  we  encourage  other  States  to  do  the 
same. 

We  also  encourage  States  not  to  overburden  the 
Review  Conference  with  too  many  other  proposals  to 
amend  the  Rome  Statute.  Such  proposals  should  be 
considered  only  if  they  enjoy  broad  support,  promote 
universality  and  address  the  Court’s  most  pressing 
needs.  While  the  Review  Conference  will  be  the  first 
opportunity  to  consider  amendments  to  the  Statute,  it 
will not be the last. The Conference will also provide a 
unique opportunity to undertake a high-level stocktaking 
of  international  criminal  justice  in  order  to  assess  its 
concrete achievements, challenges and lessons learned 
and  to  identify  practical,  meaningful  ways  to  further 
strengthen the Court. 

While  the  Court  reaches  its  key  milestones,  it 
continues  to  face  challenges.  In  addition  to  practical 
A/64/PV.29
it 
to  fulfil 
it 
Secondly, 
the  Court 
matters  that  require  resolution  to  enable  it  to  operate 
effectively  and  efficiently, 
faces  some  more 
overarching issues.  

First, the Court does not yet have a global reach. 
Universalization  must  remain  a  primary  goal.  In  the 
lead-up to the Review Conference, we encourage States 
that have not yet become parties to the Rome Statute to 
do so and thereby contribute to the ending of impunity. 

relies  on  States  and 
international and regional organizations to provide the 
political,  moral  and  practical  support  necessary  to 
enable 
its  mandate.  Assistance  and 
cooperation  must  be  provided  with  a  view  to,  among 
other  things,  aiding  in  the  arrest  and  surrender  of 
accused  persons,  gathering  evidence  and  enforcing 
sentences.  To  that  end,  we  call  on  all  States  to 
cooperate with the Court and its processes. And we call 
in  particular  on  the  Governments  of  the  Sudan  and 
Uganda to act on the outstanding arrest warrants issued 
by the ICC and to play their part in assisting the Court 
to ensure that justice is done. 

The CANZ countries will do their utmost to help 
make  the  Review  Conference  a  success,  and  we 
encourage  all  participants  to  do  the  same.  Above  all, 
however, we will continue to provide the International 
Criminal Court with our strong and unwavering support. 
Ms. Valère  (Trinidad  and Tobago): Trinidad  and 

Tobago has the honour to speak on behalf of the States 
members  of  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM) 
which  are  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  We  wish 
to 
congratulate President Sang-Hyun Song on his election 
as  President  of  the  Court  and  to  thank  him  for  his 
report to the United Nations, in keeping with article 6 
of  the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Court,  as  well  as  paragraph  17  of 
resolution 63/21.  

We  are  confident  that,  under  President  Song’s 
leadership,  the  Court  will  continue  to  discharge  its 
obligations  in  a  manner  consistent  with  the  noble 
principles set out in the Rome Statute and the mandate 
conferred  on  it  by  States  parties  to  bring  to  justice 
those  persons  accused  of  committing  crimes  that  fall 
under  article  5  of  the  Statute:  genocide,  war  crimes, 
crimes against humanity and, when defined, the crime 
of aggression. 
09-58345 

5 

CARICOM  States  parties  are  committed 
A/64/PV.29 


to 
carrying out our obligations under the Rome Statute in 
good  faith.  We  have  always  viewed  the  report  of  the 
Court  as  a  significant  conduit  for  providing  vital 
information  on  its  activities  to  the  wider  membership 
of  the  United  Nations.  For  us,  this  annual  event  is 
another  mechanism  for  promoting  the  universality  of 
the Rome Statute and the role of the Court in the fight 
against  impunity.  The  recent  ratification  of  the  Rome 
Statute  by  Chile  and  the  Czech  Republic  is  further 
confirmation of the growing acceptance of the Court by 
States Members of the United Nations. 

As  a  permanent  international  criminal  tribunal 
aimed at fostering adherence to the cardinal principles 
of  respect  for  the  rule  of  law  and  the  advancement  of 
objectives  on  behalf  of  the  hapless  victims  of  serious 
crimes, the ICC has demonstrated in a relatively short 
period  of  time  that  it  will  investigate  and  prosecute 
those persons, whomever they may be, referred to it by 
States  parties  and  other  entities  under  the  relevant 
provisions of the Rome Statute. 

While  CARICOM  States  parties  welcome  the 
advances  made  by  the  Court  during  the  past  year,  we 
are  deeply  concerned  about  the  failure  of  some  States 
to honour their obligations under the Treaty. CARICOM 
States parties acknowledge that cooperation of all States 
parties and other entities with the Court is indispensable 
if  the  institution  is  to  be  effective  in  its  quest  to 
prosecute  those  cases  that  have  been  referred  to  it  by 
States parties, other States or the Security Council.  

Consequently, we regret the fact that there remain 
eight  outstanding  warrants  of  arrest  in  three  situation 
countries  for  individuals  accused  of  committing  grave 
crimes. At this time, we wish to remind those States of 
their  legal  obligations  to  arrest  and  surrender  to  the 
Court all those individuals for whom warrants of arrest 
have  been  issued.  The  continued  failure  to  execute 
these warrants of arrest serves to further undermine the 
efforts  of  the  Court  to  counter  impunity  and  bring 
about  justice  on  behalf  of  the  multitude  of  victims  of 
war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. We 
urge all the concerned States to honour their obligations 
and  cooperate  with  the  Court  in  keeping  with  their 
Treaty  obligations  and  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the 
Security Council. 

Notwithstanding  the  failure  of  some  States  to 
cooperate  fully  with  the  Court,  CARICOM  States 
parties are satisfied with the strides made by the Court 
6 

is  demonstrated  by 
during  the  current  year  as  it  seeks  to  bring  justice  to 
victims of grave crimes and protect the  innocent  from 
serious  breaches  of  international  human  rights  law, 
international humanitarian law and peremptory rules of 
customary  international  law  recognized  by  civilized 
States.  In  this  respect,  we  note  with  satisfaction  the 
progress made by the Court in its first trial in the case 
of Prosecutor v. Thomas Lubanga Dyilo. Similarly, we 
welcome the start of proceedings in the case involving 
Germain Katanga and others. We will remain seized of 
the  issues  involved  in  these  cases  and  are  convinced 
that,  despite  the  concerns  raised  by  some  detractors, 
the  Court  will  continue  to  observe  all  the  tenets 
associated with the conduct of a trial by an independent 
and impartial tribunal. 
CARICOM  States  parties  have  observed  that  the 

Court  is  not  only  concerned  with  the  rights  of  the 
accused,  as 
its  scrupulous 
observance  of  the  maxim  audi  alteram  partem  (hear 
the  other  side)  in  the  Lubanga  Dyilo  and  other  cases, 
but  it  is  also  conscious  of  the  potential  dangers  faced 
by  witnesses  to  the  crimes  under  its  jurisdiction. 
Consequently,  we  commend  the  Court  for  its  witness 
protection  programme  which  is  aimed  at  safeguarding 
witnesses from any potential harm that may befall them 
as  a  result  of  their  participation  in  any  matter  before 
the  Court. At  this  juncture,  we  wish  to  commend  the 
Court for the introduction of various in-court protective 
measures  that  are  utilized  in  the  witness  protection 
programme.  We  congratulate  the  Court  for  ensuring 
that the rights of the victims, witnesses and accused are 
preserved and respected during each proceeding. 

The ICC is first and foremost a judicial body and, 
as  such,  States  parties  must  seek  to  elect  to  its  bench 
only  those  candidates  who  meet  the  requirements  laid 
down in article 36 of the Rome Statute. It is the view of 
the  CARICOM  States  parties  that  judges  should  be 
selected  not  only  on  the  basis  of  their  qualifications, 
competence  and  experience  in  the  spheres  of  either 
criminal  law  or  international  law,  but  must  also  be  of 
high moral character and representative of the principal 
legal systems of the world. In this  regard, CARICOM 
is honoured to remind States parties of the candidature 
of  Justice  Duke  Pollard  of  Guyana  for  election  to  fill 
one of two judicial vacancies at elections scheduled to 
take  place  during  next  month’s  Assembly  of  States 
Parties,  to  be  held  in  The  Hague.  We  are  fully 
convinced that as a jurist representing the common law 
legal  system,  Justice  Pollard  satisfies  the  criteria  for 
09-58345 


election  as  a  judge  of  the  ICC,  and  we  request  the 
support  of  all  States  parties  for  his  candidature  which 
has been endorsed by CARICOM member States. 

CARICOM States parties also look forward to the 
completion of the work aimed at defining the crime of 
aggression  so  that  a  definition  of  the  crime  can  be 
adopted  at  the  Review  Conference,  scheduled  to  take 
place in Kampala, Uganda, in June 2010. However, we 
wish to  emphasize that, in  seeking to  reach  consensus 
on this issue, States must be careful not to compromise 
the  independence  of  the  ICC  and  subject  it  to  the 
authority of any other institution insofar as the exercise 
of jurisdiction over that crime is concerned. 

Further, we draw Members States’ attention to the 
recent  proposal  which  calls  for  an  amendment  to  the 
Rome  Statute  to  include  international  drug  trafficking 
as  a  crime  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  ICC.  This 
proposal  is  not  a  new  one,  receiving  the  support  of 
some  States  at 
the  United  Nations  Diplomatic 
Conference of Plenipotentiaries on the Establishment of 
an International Criminal Court, held in Rome in 1998.  

We  respectfully  submit  that  the  transboundary 
criminal  activities  of  international  drug  trafficking 
continue  to  have  a  deleterious  impact  on  the  socio-
the  Caribbean  region  and 
economic  structure  of 
elsewhere,  sometimes  beyond 
local 
judicial  and  law  enforcement  officials.  We  call  for 
favourable consideration to be given to this proposal at 
our next Assembly of States Parties. 

In  conclusion,  CARICOM  States  parties  wish  to 
reiterate  that  the  Preamble  to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the 
ICC contemplates a relationship between the Court and 
the  United  Nations  system. An  efficient  and  effective 
relationship between both organizations would help us 
tackle  the  crimes  of  most  serious  concern  to  the 
international community as a whole and end impunity. 
We  therefore  view  the  success  of  the  ICC  as  the 
business of all States Members of the United Nations, 
whether  State  parties  or  otherwise.  CARICOM  States 
parties  therefore  take  this  opportunity  to  call  upon 
those  Member  States  which  have  not  yet  done  so  to 
become parties to the Rome Statute.  
This  call  assumes  more  urgency  at  a  time  when 

we  are  about  to  witness  the  cessation  of  the  activities 
of the various ad hoc International Criminal Tribunals 
established  by  the  United  Nations.  As  a  permanent 
international criminal tribunal which is also committed 
to  global  peace  and  security,  the  ICC  has  already 
the  reach  of 
A/64/PV.29
shown that it is a bulwark against those who violate the 
inalienable human rights of the most vulnerable among 
us and deserves the support of all of us. 
Mr. Muita (Kenya): The Group of African States 

parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal Court (ICC) congratulates you, Sir, and your 
Bureau on your election to guide our work at the sixty-
fourth session of the General Assembly. We assure you 
of our full cooperation as you carry out your mandate. 

The  Group  also  congratulates  Judge  Sang-Hyun 
Song  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  ICC  and 
wishes him well in discharging the functions entrusted 
to him in that capacity. We have every confidence that 
he will meet the high expectations of his office. 
I  should  like  to  begin  by  stating  that  the  entry 

into force of the Rome Statute ushered in a new era in 
the administration of international criminal justice. The 
Court’s deterrent role for the most serious international 
crimes  is  beginning  to  be  felt  as  it  engages  in  greater 
judicial activity. As a fully functional judicial institution, 
the  Court  is  making  substantial  progress  in  its  work 
and  developing  its  own  jurisprudence  on  international 
criminal  justice.  If  it  is  to  make  more  progress,  the 
Court should be given all the necessary support. 

War  crimes,  crimes  against  humanity  and 
genocide know no borders. We must all become allies 
in fighting these crimes. To this end, the Rome Statute 
affords  States  the  opportunity  to  deal  with  cases  of 
human rights violations under domestic law and allows 
the  ICC  to  assume  jurisdiction  only  when  affected 
States  are  either  unable  or  unwilling  to  act.  This 
principle of complementarity is a positive development 
in the quest to promote and protect human rights. The 
debate on justice and peace or peace and justice ought 
not to undermine the principle of complementarity and 
the fight against impunity. 

I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm  the 
African  Group’s  commitment  to  its  obligations  under 
the  Rome  Statute.  The  African  States  parties  to  the 
Rome  Statute  remain  committed  to  the  fight  against 
impunity, as well as to the fair, independent, impartial 
and effective functioning of the International Criminal 
Court.  To  this  end,  the  African  States  parties  have 
continued to cooperate with the ICC on a broad range 
of issues. 

The  movement  towards  the  universality  of  the 
Court is clearly visible. States are increasingly looking 
09-58345 

7 

rights 
crimes 
and  human 
the  Court  as 
the  central  mechanism  for 
A/64/PV.29 

to 
the 
administration  of  international  criminal  justice.  The 
emerging universal acceptance of the Court is reflected 
in the number of countries that have become parties to 
the  Rome  Statute  to  date.  In  this  connection,  we 
congratulate Chile and the Czech Republic, which have 
recently  become  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute,  bringing 
the Court’s membership to 110 countries. We urge States 
that  have  not  done  so  to  consider  becoming  parties  to 
the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. 

In  the  administration  of  international  criminal 
justice in Africa, the ICC was preceded by the Special 
Court  for  Sierra  Leone  and  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal  for  Rwanda.  The  two  judicial  bodies  proved 
that  it  is  now  possible  to  hold  leaders  accountable  for 
grave 
abuses.  The 
implementation of the Rome Statute will therefore go a 
long  way  towards  promoting  and  protecting  this  new 
culture  and  will  act  as  a  tool  for  deterring  potential 
human rights abuses everywhere. 

The  African  Group  of  States  parties  to  the  ICC 
commends the work of the liaison office in New York 
and urges all Member States to support the creation of 
a  liaison  office  at  the  headquarters  of  the  African 
Union  in  Addis  Ababa  in  order  to  facilitate  efficient 
interface  with  all  members  of  the  regional  body,  as 
well  as  to  increase  awareness  and  support  for  the 
Court.  Furthermore,  we  look  forward  to  the  African 
Union  concluding  a  relationship  agreement  with  the 
International  Criminal  Court 
to 
enable  better 
cooperation between the two bodies. 

With regard to the upcoming Review Conference 
of the Rome Statute to be held in Kampala, Uganda, in 
2010,  the  African  States  parties  to  the  International 
Criminal  Court  pledge  their  active  participation  on  all 
pending  issues,  such  as  the  definition  of  the  crime  of 
aggression.  States  which  are  not  party  to  the  Statute 
and  other  stakeholders  should  feel  welcome  to  give 
their views on the topics that will be discussed so as to 
enrich  the  process  of  advancing  the  high  ideals  of  the 
Rome Statute. 

In conclusion, I wish to emphasize the support of 
the African  Group  of  States  parties  to  the  ICC  for  the 
process  of  transforming  impunity  into  accountability. 
There is an urgent need to continue efforts to promote 
universal participation in the Rome Statute and to offer 
the  International  Criminal  Court  all  the  assistance 
necessary  to  enable  the  Court  to  effectively  discharge 
I  wish 
to  seize 
the  opportunity  of 
the  pre-eminent  mechanism 
its  mandate  as 
for 
deterring  and  punishing  perpetrators  of  genocide,  war 
crimes, crimes against humanity and aggression. If we 
are  to  win  the  fight  against  impunity,  those  found 
guilty  of  crimes  of  mass  atrocity  must  be  held 
accountable, whatever their rank in public life. 
Mr.  Badji  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 

outset,  I  should  like  to  express  my  warmest  and 
heartfelt congratulations to Mr. Sang-Hyun Song on his 
election  as  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court (ICC) and to thank him for his detailed briefing 
on the activities of the Court. My delegation endorses 
the statement made by the representative of  Kenya on 
behalf  of  the  African  Group  of  States  parties  to  the 
ICC.  I  also  wish  to  make  some  comments  in  my 
national capacity. 

today’s 
consideration  of  the  annual  report  of  activities  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (A/64/356)  to  reaffirm 
once  again  the  great  importance  that  my  country, 
Senegal, attaches to the promotion of the emergence of 
an  international  criminal  justice  system  capable  of 
meeting  the  legitimate  aspirations  of  all  peoples  to 
peace and justice. 

The  urgent  need  to  create  such  a  system  was 
clearly  spurred  by  the  memories  of  the  abominable 
atrocities  and  horrors  that  so  gravely  scarred  the 
twentieth  century  and  were  largely  the  result  of  the 
impunity enjoyed by the perpetrators of serious crimes 
such as war crimes, genocide, crimes against humanity 
and  serious,  widespread  and  repeated  human  rights 
violations. 

Senegal, convinced of the supreme need to ensure 
that  the  ideals  of  justice  and  peace  triumph  over  the 
impunity  that  accompanied  such  hateful  acts,  was  a 
initiatives  aimed  at 
passionate  supporter  of  all 
a  permanent 
promoting 
international  criminal 
that 
respect, my country was among the first States to sign 
the  international  call  for  the  establishment  of  an 
international  criminal  court  and  to  ratify  the  Rome 
Statute of the International Criminal Court. 
effective 

the 
establishment  on  2  July  2002  of  the  first  permanent 
international  criminal  jurisdiction  with  a  universal 
mission  —  the  International  Criminal  Court  —  as  the 
crowning  achievement  of  the  tireless  efforts  we  had 
justice  mechanism.  In 
therefore  welcomed 
establishment  of 
the 
Senegal 
8 

09-58345 
the  most  serious  crimes.  Indeed, 


undertaken for many years to that end. Those years of 
effort and tireless struggle were indeed not in vain.  

Indeed, we have now been able to put in place a 
mechanism that was so eagerly awaited by all men and 
women of goodwill who have sacrificed body and soul 
to put an end to all the horrors and atrocities that have 
shaken and outraged humankind. Obviously, the creation 
of the ICC was one of the greatest achievements of our 
times in the fight against impunity for those who have 
committed 
the 
establishment  of  the  ICC,  with  its  deterrent  effect  on 
potential perpetrators of serious crimes, will contribute 
to  a  decline  in  the  number  of  atrocities  committed 
around the world. 

Now that the International Criminal Court is fully 
operational  and  is  nearing  a  watershed  moment  in  its 
existence — its first Review Conference, to be held in 
May  2010  in  Kampala  —  it  would  be  worthwhile  to 
revisit  the  goals  that  guided  its  creation.  Achieving 
those  goals  will  determine  to  a  great  extent  the 
effectiveness  of  the  system  that  we  have  created  in 
launching  the  Court.  That  review  will  be  particularly 
useful  in  allowing  us  to  fully  gauge  the  complexities 
and  magnitude  of  the  tremendous  challenges  that  we 
to  complete  our  common 
must  meet 
undertaking  of  creating  an  effective 
international 
criminal justice system in the service of all humankind.  

To do so, we must never lose sight of the primary 
objectives that guided the drafting of the Rome Statute 
of the ICC. They include the need for an independent, 
apolitical  and  representative  international  court  that 
can  function  efficiently  and  effectively  in  prosecuting 
individuals  responsible  for  the  most  serious  crimes; 
ensuring the right of States to assume the responsibility 
of trying such crimes if they are willing and able to do 
so  —  the  well-known  principle  of  complementarity; 
and  the  need  to  ensure  that  victims  of  such  crimes 
receive appropriate reparation and compensation.  

The Court should never lose sight of these goals 
if  it  is  to  be  entirely  successful,  without  resort  to 
doublespeak  or  juridical  sleight  of  hand,  in  becoming 
an institution with which all States can identify. 
Mr. Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  I  would  like  to 

thank the President of the International Criminal Court 
(ICC),  Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song,  for  presenting  the 
report of the Court (A/64/356) to the General Assembly 
and to wish him a very warm welcome to New York.  
in  order 
A/64/PV.29

We  are  satisfied  that  the  Court  has  made  good 
progress in its judicial work and welcome the two new 
States parties to the Rome Statute, Chile and the Czech 
Republic.  The  number  of  States  parties  has  now 
reached 110. Universal adherence to the Rome Statute 
remains a central goal. The importance of reaching it is 
illustrated  on  a  daily  basis,  and  we  must  therefore 
redouble our efforts in this respect.  

We  are  pleased  to  see  that  the  Court  itself  is 
contributing  to  this  goal  by  working  in  the  manner  in 
which  it  was  conceived  —  as  an  independent  and 
effective  international  court  committed  to  the  highest 
standards of justice, working within its jurisdiction and 
on  the  basis  of  the  principle  of  complementarity.  We 
note  that  the  ICC  continues  to  be  seized  of  four 
situations  and  that  several  other  situations  in  different 
parts  of  the  world  are  at  the  stage  of  preliminary 
investigations. As a State party to the Rome Statute, we 
fully  respect  the  independence  of  the  Court  and  will 
therefore  not  comment  on  the  specifics  of  any  cases 
before it. 

The  report  makes  it  clear  that  the  Court,  in 
carrying out its functions, relies on the cooperation of 
States,  international  organizations  and  civil  society,  in 
accordance  with  the  Rome  Statute  and  international 
agreements. The  Court  has  no  police  force  of  its  own 
and therefore has to rely on States, in particular for the 
arrest  and  surrender  of  indictees.  Cooperation  is  also 
required in the areas of analysis, investigation, witness 
protection and enforcement of sentences. In the case of 
Security  Council  referrals,  cooperation  is  mandated  in 
accordance  with 
resolutions.  The 
cooperation  required  in  such  cases  is  conceptually 
equivalent 
the 
tribunals created by the Security Council itself.  

One  very  important  difference  between  the  ICC 
and  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda, 
however,  arises  from  the  fact  that  the  Rome  Statute 
always  operates  on  the  basis  of  the  principle  of 
complementarity,  even  in  the  case  of  a  Security 
Council  referral.  Genuine  domestic  proceedings  are 
therefore  always  the  option  preferred  under  the  Rome 
Statute over the Court’s own proceedings. 

The  principle  of  complementarity  is  one  of  the 
core features of the Rome Statute. Cases are admissible 
before  the  ICC  only  when  the  competent  national 
jurisdictions  are  unable  or  unwilling  to  act.  This  is  a 
reflection  of  the  primary  responsibility  of  States  to 
the  cooperation  required  with 
to 
the 
relevant 
09-58345 

9 

A/64/PV.29 

prosecute perpetrators of the most serious crimes under 
international law, in particular genocide, crimes against 
humanity  and  war  crimes.  This  principle  is  also  an 
important  reason why the  Court is currently analysing 
but  not  necessarily  proceeding  with  investigations  in 
all  situations  under  review.  National  jurisdictions  are 
thus  crucial  in  the  fight  against  impunity,  and  States 
can contribute to ending impunity without being party 
to the Rome Statute. 

Nonetheless, it is the ICC that is at the core of the 
fight  against  impunity  through  its  catalytic  effect  on 
national  jurisdictions  and  by  maximizing  prevention 
and  deterrence.  Complementarity  is  also  to  be  read  in 
the context of the cooperation duties under part 9 of the 
Rome  Statute,  which  covers  international  cooperation 
and judicial assistance. It is worthwhile exploring how 
international  justice  can  interact  better  and  more 
effectively with national justice systems. 

We  believe  that  the  time  has  come  to  pay  more 
attention  to  the  practical  implications  of  the  principle 
of  complementarity  and  to  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations  in  this  respect.  We  note  that  there  is  a 
consensus that there must be no impunity for the worst 
crimes  under  international  law  and  that  capacity-
building  and  technical  assistance,  upon  request,  are 
crucial  to  enabling  States  to  effectively  prosecute 
perpetrators.  We  would  therefore  suggest  that  the 
relevant  actors  within  the  United  Nations  system 
enhance  their  efforts  in  this  respect.  The  United 
Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime,  the  United 
Nations Development Programme and several regional 
organizations  have  significant  capacities  in  this  area 
and should further expand their activities. 
The  Review  Conference  to  be  held  next  May  in 

Kampala,  Uganda,  will  provide 
important 
opportunity  to  reflect  on  the  achievements  of  and 
challenges  to  international  criminal  justice,  and  to 
consider  possible  amendments  to  the  Rome  Statute.  It 
is important to note that the Conference will be not the 
last,  but  the  first  opportunity  to  amend  the  Statute.  In 
this 
a  particular 
responsibility  to  work  together  to  adopt  provisions  on 
the crime of aggression, as they are mandated to do by 
the Rome Statute itself. 

Mrs. Aitimova (Kazakhstan), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 
In the area of stocktaking, to which the President 

of the Court also referred in his remarks this morning, 
regard,  States  parties  have 
an 
in 
to 
Mr.  Wetland
the  planned  phasing  out  of  the  ad  hoc  tribunals  and 
other international and hybrid mechanisms will add an 
important  dimension 
these  discussions.  We 
appreciate the constructive spirit in which delegations, 
including  non-States  parties,  are  engaged 
the 
preparation  of  the  Review  Conference.  We  call  on  all 
delegations to be represented in Kampala at the highest 
possible  level,  and  appreciate  the  Secretary-General’s 
commitment  to  making  the  Conference  a  success.  We 
are  convinced  that  such  an  approach  will  ultimately 
also  lead  to  further  progress  on  the  path  towards  a 
universally accepted Rome Statute. 
(Norway):  Let  me  start  by 

expressing  Norway’s  full  and  continuing  support  for 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  and  our 
recognition of the Court’s work over the past year. We 
welcome  the  ICC’s  fifth  annual  report  (A/64/356)  and 
would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Court,  Judge 
Sang-Hyun  Song,  for  his  detailed  and  informative 
presentation to the General Assembly here today. 

Today,  I  would  like  to  focus  on  a  few  topical 
issues  that  are  significant  to  the  Court’s  work.  They 
include  the  cooperation  of  States  parties  and  other 
States,  the  universality  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  the 
preparations  for  a  successful  Review  Conference  in 
Kampala, Uganda, in 2010.  

Before  addressing  these  issues,  I  should  like  to 
commend the Court and its staff for the progress made 
over  the  past  year.  The  Court  has  begun  its  first  trial 
and 
three 
individuals  has  been  completed.  The  Court’s  second 
trial  is  scheduled  to  start  at  the  end  of  November. We 
welcome these developments. 

However, eight arrest warrants remain outstanding. 
They  pertain  to  the  situations  in  Darfur,  Uganda  and 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo. This is a matter 
of grave concern to Norway and brings me to the issue 
of  State  cooperation,  without  which  the  Court  cannot 
function. We therefore urge all States Parties concerned 
to  fulfil  their  responsibility  to  make  the  outstanding 
arrest warrants effective. We also urge the Government 
of  the  Sudan  to  cooperate  fully  with  the  Court  and  to 
comply  with  its  legal  obligations  under  Security 
Council resolution 1593 (2005). 

Turning  to  the  issue  of  universality  of  the  Rome 
Statute, we are pleased to note that, with the entry into 
force  of  the  Rome  Statute  for  Chile  on  1  September 
and  for  the  Czech  Republic  on  1  October  this  year, 
the  confirmation  of  charges  against 
10 

09-58345 
increasing 
is  also  a  genuine  reflection  of 


there  are  now  110  States  parties  to  the  Statute.  It  is  a 
remarkable  achievement  that  so  many  States  from  all 
regions have ratified the Statute in such a short period 
of 
the 
international  community’s 
rejection  of 
impunity for serious crimes, and evidence that there is 
a  rising  tide  in  favour  of  the  rule  of  law.  The  crimes 
falling under the jurisdiction of the ICC are universally 
accepted  as  the  most  serious  crimes  of  international 
concern,  and  we  share  a  common  responsibility  to 
ensure  that  they  are  effectively  investigated  and  that 
the perpetrators are brought to justice. 

We  are  now  witnessing  a  historic  shift  towards 
the universal acceptance that the long-term interests of 
all nations, irrespective of their size, region or political 
orientation, are served by strengthening the rule of law 
and promoting justice. We therefore call on all States to 
become parties to the Rome Statute. 

The last issue I would like to mention is the first 
Review Conference of the Rome Statute, to be held in 
Kampala  next  year.  The  preparations 
the 
Conference  are  well  under  way,  and  Norway  is 
committed  to  achieving  a  successful  Conference  that 
will  further  consolidate  the  Court’s  position  as  a  vital 
tool in the fight against impunity. To this end, we will 
continue  working  with  other  States  and  civil  society 
actors  over  the  coming  months.  The  Conference  will 
provide  the  first  opportunity  to  consider  amendments 
to  the  Rome  Statute  and,  more  generally,  the  progress 
made in the field of international criminal justice. 

Finally,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  Norway’s  firm 
and  long-standing  commitment  to  the  integrity  of  the 
Rome  Statute  and 
to  an  effective  and  credible 
International  Criminal  Court. We  believe  that  the  ICC 
should  enjoy  the  broadest  possible  support  from  all 
States.  We  all  share  the  universal  values  that  are 
fundamental  to  the  protection  of  human  dignity.  This 
protection  relies  on  concerted  action  to  prevent  the 
most 
international 
community as a whole. 
Mr.  Sangqu  (South Africa): As  a  State  party  to 

the  Rome  Statute,  South  Africa  has  consistently  and 
constantly  expressed  its  support  for  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC),  and  it  is  with  pleasure  that  we 
can reiterate that support today. We continue to see the 
ICC  as  an  important  element  in  the  fight  against 
impunity and in the promotion of justice. 
serious  crimes  affecting 
the 
time.  It 
for 
A/64/PV.29

We  would  like  to  associate  ourselves  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Kenya  on 
behalf  of  the  African  Group  of  States  parties  to  the 
International Criminal Court. 

My  delegation  wishes  to  extend  its  appreciation 
to the Court for its comprehensive report, contained in 
document A/64/356 and submitted pursuant to article 6 
of  the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  International  Criminal  Court.  The 
report  covers  a  wide  array  of  activities  of  the  Court, 
both judicial and institutional. 

To  begin  with,  I  wish  to  congratulate  the  new 
members  of  the  Court  on  their  election. We  also  wish 
to  extend  our  congratulations  to  Judge  Sang-Hyun 
Song  on  his  election  to  the  presidency.  At  the  same 
time,  we  pay  our  respects  to  Judge  Kirsch  for  the 
manner  in  which  he  led  the  Court  in  its  formative 
years.  We  also  express  our  heartfelt  sorrow  at  the 
passing away of Judge Saiga, earlier this year. 

On  the  judicial  front,  we  note  with  appreciation 
the  efforts  of  the  Trial  Chamber  and  the  Appeals 
Chamber  in  the  case  of  The  Prosecutor  v.  Thomas 
Lubanga  Dyilo,  which  relates  to  the  situation  in  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  to  ensure  a  fair 
trial by staying prosecution on account of its failure to 
disclose  certain  exculpatory  evidence  to  the  defence. 
Those  efforts  to  ensure  a  fair  trial  by  protecting  the 
rights  of  the  accused  not  only  are  in  conformity  with 
international human rights law, but will go a long way 
towards  protecting  the  integrity  of  the  Court  as  a  fair 
and  impartial  institution.  We  have  also  taken  note  of 
the  fact  that  the  prosecution  subsequently  met  the 
conditions  necessary  for  the  continuation  of  the  trial. 
We  look  forward  to  the  outcome  of  the  Appeals 
Chamber decision regarding the victims’ application to 
reclassify the charges as presented by the prosecution. 
The case of The Prosecutor v. Jean-Pierre Bemba 

Gombo is one that my delegation is following closely, 
particularly  insofar  as  it  relates  to  the  duty  of  States 
parties  to  cooperate  with  the  Court.  While  it  falls 
outside  the  scope  of  the  current  reporting  period,  my 
delegation  has  taken  note  of  the  decision  of  the 
Pre-Trial  Chamber  in  the  Jean-Pierre  Bemba  case  in 
relation  to  the  provisional  release  of  Mr.  Bemba  and 
the possible effects thereof with regard to certain States 
parties identified by the accused. In the context of the 
decision,  and  bearing  in  mind  our  respect  for  the 
independence of the Court, we emphasize that, for us, 
09-58345 

11 

take  place 
the  Court  must 
for  Security  Council  action 
framework  and  any  domestic 
A/64/PV.29 

cooperation  with 
in 
accordance  with  and  within  a  certain  and  predictable 
legal 
legislation 
implementing  the  Rome  Statute.  We  look  forward  to 
continued engagement with the Court in that regard.  
We also take note of the case of The Prosecutor v. 

Omar  Hassan  Ahmad  Al-Bashir,  which  relates  to  the 
situation in Darfur, the Sudan. That case has led all of 
us  to  consider  and  evaluate  the  importance  of  the 
proper  balance  between  peace  and  justice.  As  my 
delegation  has  stated  consistently  since  this  issue 
arose, we remain convinced that peace and justice must 
be mutually reinforcing. On a number of occasions and 
in  different  forums,  we  have  pointed  out  that,  in  the 
context  of  the  Rome  Statute,  the  pursuit  of  justice  is 
reflected in the provisions of the Statute that are aimed 
at ensuring non-impunity, while the pursuit of peace is 
reflected  in,  inter  alia,  the  provisions  of  the  Statute 
providing 
to  defer 
investigations and prosecutions in the interest of peace. 
In  the  light  of  that,  we  emphasize  the  need  to  respect 
the judicial independence of the Court. At the same, we 
reiterate  the  call  for  the  Security  Council  to  consider 
the request for a deferment in the light of the purposes 
of that provision.  

We  have  taken  note  of  the  situations  under 
analysis  by  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor,  in  particular 
those that have been made public, namely, the situations 
in  Afghanistan,  Colombia,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Georgia, 
Kenya  and  Palestine.  We  also  note  the  particular 
situation  of  Palestine,  which  is  under  analysis.  My 
delegation is convinced that, while technical arguments 
about  the  existence  or  non-existence  of  the  State  of 
Palestine  can  be  made,  a  more  purposive  and  value-
laden interpretation in accordance with article 31 of the 
Vienna  Convention  on  the  Law  of  Treaties  could 
influence the decision of the Prosecutor.  

We are mindful of the importance of cooperation 
between States and the Court, and call on all States to 
cooperate.  We  are  acutely  aware,  however,  of  the 
necessity  for  States  to  have  a  consistent,  clear  and 
unambiguous cooperation framework under the Statute. 
We  commend  the  court  for  its  efforts  to  engage  in 
bilateral  agreements  for  cooperation  falling  under  the 
Rome  Statute’s  general  obligation  to  cooperate.  We 
also  again  encourage  the  Court  to  continue  to  explore 
with  the  African  Union  the  possibility  of  enhancing 
their relationship through, inter alia, the conclusion of 
a  relationship  agreement  and  the  establishment  of  a 
liaison office in Addis Ababa at the appropriate level.  

The Review Conference of the Rome Statue will 
take  place  next  year  in  Uganda.  My  delegation  hopes 
that  that  very  important  Conference  will  be  a  success 
as  we  look  to  tackle  critical  questions  such  as  the 
definition  of  the  crime  of  aggression  and  the  question 
of  the  transitional  provision  contained  in  article  124. 
We  reiterate  our  position  that,  if  the  Conference  is  to 
be  a  success,  its  agenda  ought  not  be  overburdened, 
particularly given that the Review Conference will not 
be the last opportunity to propose amendments.  

We  also  see  the  Review  Conference  as  an 
opportune  moment  to  take  stock  of  the  state  of 
international  criminal  justice.  Questions  of  peace  and 
justice  may  be  appropriately  considered  in  the  course 
of  such  stocktaking.  The  stocktaking  exercise  should 
also  provide  an  opportunity  for  us  to  consider  the 
importance  of  complementarity  and  how  best 
to 
enhance that system. My delegation continues to believe 
that,  in  the  final  analysis,  the  success  of  international 
criminal  justice  founded  on  the  Rome  Statute  must 
partly be determined by the capacity of domestic court 
systems to deal with these serious crimes. We therefore 
strongly  support 
to  carry  out  a 
stocktaking exercise as part of the Review Conference. 
Mr.  Pírez  Pérez  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

country has supported and will continue to support the 
establishment  of  an  impartial,  non-selective,  effective 
and 
that 
complements  national  justice  systems  and  is  truly 
independent, and therefore not subordinate to political 
interests that could distort its essence.  

the 
International  Criminal  Court’s  lack  of  independence, 
considering  the  way  in  which  its  relations  with  the 
Security  Council  have  been  defined. Article  16  of  the 
Rome  Statute  grants  power  to  the  Council  to  suspend 
investigations or indictments carried out by the Court. 
Article  5  of  the  Statute,  pending  a  definition  of  the 
crime  of  aggression,  purports  in  the  future  to  subject 
the  Criminal  Court’s  jurisdiction  to  potential  Security 
Council rulings on the existence of an act of aggression 
committed by a State. Those two elements raise doubts 
about  the  true  effectiveness  and  independence  of  the 
Court.  
The  Cuban  delegation  participated  with  keen 

interest in all stages of the process of  establishing the 
to  be  concerned  about 
international  criminal 
We  continue 
jurisdiction 
just 
the 
initiative 
12 

09-58345 
recognize 


International  Criminal  Court.  We 
the 
relevance  of  the  Rome  Statute  to  international  law. 
However,  the  minimal  expectations  raised  at  the 
beginning  of  the  process,  such  as  the  elaboration  of  a 
definition of the crime of aggression, have not yet been 
met.  We  hope  that  the  definition  of  the  crime  of 
aggression  can  be  elaborated  at  last,  so  that  it  can  be 
broadly  accepted  by  the  international  community  and 
does  not  endanger  the  universality  of  the  Statute  with 
respect  to  future  ratifications  or  accessions.  In  that 
regard,  we  believe  that  the  next  Assembly  of  States 
Parties, to be held in November at The Hague, as well 
as  the  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute,  to  be 
held  in  Uganda  in  2010,  should  place  the  issue  of  a 
final definition of the crime of aggression at the centre 
of its work.  

For Cuba, a small country blockaded economically 
and  financially  that  has  been  victim  of  countless 
aggressions  by  the  greatest  Power  that  ever  was,  it  is 
very  difficult  to  take  the  decision  to  adhere  to  the 
Rome Statute without a clear and precise definition of 
the  crime  of  aggression.  We  have  adopted,  and  will 
continue to maintain, a constructive position with regard 
to  the  establishment  of  truly  impartial  international 
criminal  justice  that  is  effective,  independent  and 
complementary to national jurisdictions. In that regard, 
we  have  followed  with  interest  the  evolution  and 
functioning  of  that  institution,  inter  alia  through  our 
participation as observers in meetings of the Assembly 
of the States Parties to the Rome Statute.  

However,  we  would  like  to  express  our  concern 
about  the  serious  precedent  that  could  be  set  by  the 
actions  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  to  initiate 
legal  processes  against  nationals  of  non-States  parties 
to  the  Rome  Statute  that  have  not  even  accepted  the 
competence of the Court under article 12 of the Statute. 
The  Cuban  delegation  believes  that  there  must  be 
respect  for  the  principle  regarding  the  consent  of  a 
State  to  be  bound  by  a  treaty,  as  provided  for  under 
article 11, part II, of the Vienna Convention on the Law 
of Treaties, of 23 May 1969. 
to 

contribute 
truly  effective 
international  criminal  justice  that  adheres  to  the  rules 
of international law and, in particular, to the Charter of 
the United Nations. 
Mr.  Chávez  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  would 

first like to thank Judge Sang-Hyun Song, President of 
its 
the  application  of 
My  delegation 
to 
reaffirms 
readiness 
A/64/PV.29
the International Criminal Court (ICC), for being with 
us  and  for  his  interesting  briefing  on  the  work  of  the 
Court during the past year.  

There  have  been  some  developments  in  the  past 
year  that  are  relevant  to  the  work  of  the  Court.  For 
example,  two  States  have  ratified  the  Rome  Statute, 
which now brings the number of States parties to 110. 
While  that  is  encouraging,  there  are  still  many  States 
that  have  not  ratified  or  adhered  to  the  Rome  Statute. 
Peru therefore calls on States that have not done so to 
ratify  or  adhere  to  the  Statue,  so  that  it  can  become 
truly  universal  and  ensure  that  war  crimes,  crimes 
against humanity and genocide do not go unpunished.  

Although  the  increase  in  the  number  of  States 
parties  is  necessary,  there  is  also  a  need  to  strengthen 
State  cooperation  in  order  for  the  Court  to  achieve  its 
goals.  It  is  therefore  always  good  to  recall  that  States 
must comply with the obligations set out in the Rome 
Statute  by  facilitating  the  provision  of  information, 
carrying  out  Court  orders,  detaining  the  accused  and 
subsequently transferring them to the Court, protecting 
witnesses and victims and implementing and modifying 
national norms in line with those of the Statute. 

Unfortunately,  the  Court  does  not  always  enjoy 
the necessary cooperation. As the Court’s report points 
out 
to  outstanding  arrest  warrants 
(A/64/356),  it  is  unfortunate  that  persons  for  whom 
such orders have been issued by the Court have to date 
not been arrested to be handed over to the Court to be 
tried  appropriately.  There  are  even  outstanding 
warrants  dating  back  to  2005.  That  fact  prompted  the 
Court’s  President  to  say  emphatically  to  a  group  of 
legal  advisers  last  Monday  that  this  problem  is  the 
greatest challenge that the Court faces. 
State cooperation is an obligation that stems from 

the Court’s Statute and from the Charter of the United 
Nations.  Peru  therefore  urges  States  where  those 
persons  are  located  to  cooperate  with  the  Court  by 
proceeding to arrest them immediately or by providing 
information with regard to their possible whereabouts. 
Let us remember that there can be no peace or lasting 
security 
those  responsible  for  crimes  against 
humanity enjoy impunity. 

Cooperation  between  the  ICC  and  the  United 
Nations  also  deserves  to  be  supported.  We  therefore 
welcome the Relationship Agreement between the two 
institutions,  which has  enabled the Court to undertake 
valuable efforts, in particular in areas where the United 
referring 
in 
if 
09-58345 

13 

A/64/PV.29 

Nations  has  been  working  on  the  ground.  It  has  also 
enabled  the  Court  to  raise  awareness  about  its  work 
and  familiarize  people  with  the  Court.  We  trust  that 
that  cooperation  will  become  increasingly  close  and 
coordinated,  so  as  to  ensure  that  the  Court  can  enjoy 
the support of the various organs of the United Nations, 
especially the Security Council. Similarly, we hope that 
memorandums  of  understanding  and  cooperation 
agreements  will  soon  be  signed  with  peacekeeping 
operations, so as to facilitate the work of the Court. 

The ICC plays a fundamental role in the context 
of promoting the rule of law, as it is the only permanent 
judicial institution charged with investigating and trying 
persons  suspected  of  the  most  serious  international 
crimes.  That  work  takes  place  in  the  context  of  a 
proper  balance  in  which  the  rights  of  accused  are 
respected while at the same time victims are allowed to 
participate  in  proceedings  —  the  latter  being  an 
innovative aspect of the Rome Statute.  

However,  it  is  the  laudable  work  of  the  Court’s 
judges and staff in combating impunity that has made it 
possible for the ICC to enjoy widespread legitimacy in 
the eyes of the international community. Among other 
things,  that  is  reflected  in  the  modifications  to  the 
working methods of the Court’s presidency, the Office 
of the Prosecutor and the Court’s secretariat, which has 
increased  the  efficiency  of  both  its  administrative  and 
judicial proceedings. In that regard, it can be said that 
the international community, and victims in particular, 
view  the  Court  as  a  genuine  tool  for  justice.  For 
example,  during  the  current  judicial  year,  there  have 
been  4,870  communications  under  article  15  of  the 
Rome Statute. That should serve to draw our attention 
to  the  fact  that  behind  those  communications  are 
potential  cases  in  which  war  crimes,  genocide  and 
crimes against humanity may have been committed. 

Next year, when the first Review Conference is to 
be  held,  will  be  a  very  important  one  for  the  system 
established  by  the  Rome  Statute  —  and  for  States 
parties  and  non-States  parties  alike.  The  main 
outstanding task emanating from the Statute itself is to 
define  the  crime  of  aggression. The  work  done  by  the 
Special  Working  Group  on  the  Crime  of  Aggression 
has made a valuable contribution to that end. Although 
States  can  make  additional  proposals,  Peru  believes 
that,  at  this  time,  efforts  should  be  focused  on  the 
crime  of  aggression,  and  solely  on  proposals  that  can 
lead  to  consensus  among  States  in  the  context  of  the 
work  being  done  by  the  facilitators  for  the  Review 
in 
to  engage 
Conference.  We  should  be  careful  to  avoid  an  agenda 
that serves to distract us from the main purpose of the 
Review  Conference,  namely,  defining  the  crime  of 
aggression  and  the  conditions  under  which  it  can  be 
invoked.  Let  us  recall  that  this  will  not  be  the  only 
review conference and that we will have opportunities 
to consider new proposals in the future. 
Lastly,  Peru  would  like  to  reiterate  its  readiness 

to  participate  actively  and  constructively 
the 
preparatory  work  for  the  Review  Conference  in  order 
to ensure the universal implementation of the Statute of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  and  to  be  able  to 
combat  the  most  serious  crimes  that  are  an  affront  to 
the human conscience.  
Mr.  Park  In-kook  (Republic  of  Korea):  First  of 

all,  I  would  like  to  join  other  representatives  in 
expressing  gratitude 
to  Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song, 
President of the International Criminal Court (ICC), for 
his presentation of the annual report of  the Court (see 
A/64/356). 
My  delegation  would  also  like  to  welcome  the 

Republic  of  Chile  and 
the  Czech  Republic  as, 
respectively,  the  109th  and  110th  States  parties  to  the 
Rome  Statute.  Such  ratifications  mark  another  major 
step  towards  achieving  the  ICC’s  goal  of  global 
ratification of the Rome Statute. Moreover, we hope to 
see  the  remaining  countries  join  the  ICC  as  soon  as 
possible,  and  the  Court  attain  universality  at  the 
earliest  possible  date.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation 
would like to emphasize the importance of carrying out 
an  outreach  programme  to  those  States  that  have  not 
yet  joined  the  Court.  We  urge  the  Court  to  steadily 
continue 
in  genuine  dialogue  with 
stakeholders,  including  non-members  of  the  Court. As 
a wholehearted supporter of the ICC, my delegation is 
pleased  to  observe  that  the  Court  is  now  becoming  a 
fully functional judicial institution. 

The  trial  of  a  former  Congolese  rebel  leader 
finally commenced in January of this year. That trial is 
a major step in the fight against impunity and the first 
International  Criminal  Court  case  to  prosecute  and 
condemn the use of child soldiers as a war crime.  
However, the eight outstanding warrants of arrest 

remain 
the  universal 
participation of all States, the Court may not be able to 
fulfil  its  role  as  a  key  instrument  in  combating 
impunity. As stressed in the Court, the Court relies on 
cooperation in areas such as facilitating investigations, 
to  be  executed.  Without 
14 

09-58345 
My  delegation  also  welcomes 


arresting and surrendering persons, protecting witnesses 
and  enforcing  sentences.  My  delegation  would  like  to 
emphasize  that  all  States  parties  must  do  their  utmost 
to  provide  the  ICC  with  the  best  possible  working 
conditions. At the same time, it is our  firm belief that 
the judicial decisions of the ICC must be untouched by 
political interests or considerations and must remain in 
the true spirit of fairness.  

the  Review 
Conference  on  the  Rome  Statute  that  will  be  held  in 
Uganda  next  May.  States  parties  will  discuss  possible 
amendments  to  the  Rome  Statute,  primarily  with 
respect to the crime of aggression. The Conference will 
also  provide  a  critical  opportunity  to  reflect  on  where 
the  system  stands  and  where  it  is  headed.  We  must 
scrutinize  the  entire  system  of  international  criminal 
justice,  including  challenges  with  regard  to  providing 
cooperation, enacting and implementing legislation and 
carrying  out  domestic  investigation  and  proceedings. 
Through  that  assessment,  we  can  share  invaluable 
lessons  from  other  courts  and  tribunals,  as  well  as 
experiences  of  broader  international  communities.  My 
a 
delegation 
re-emphasizes 
sufficiently  well-prepared 
review 
conference if meaningful goals are to be achieved. 
In  the  relatively  short  period  since  the  Rome 

Statute  entered 
the  ICC  has  firmly 
positioned  itself  as  the  world’s  permanent  court  for 
punishing  perpetrators  of  genocide,  crimes  against 
humanity and war crimes. It has also had a discernible 
effect  in  preventing  and  deterring  those  crimes.  That 
achievement by the ICC will lead to enhanced respect 
for  and  adherence 
the 
international  level.  The  Republic  of  Korea  has  been 
actively  engaged  in  the  whole  process  of  establishing 
the Rome Statute system, including prompt completion 
of domestic legislation in 2007.  

In  concluding  my  remarks,  let  me  reiterate  that 
the  Republic  of  Korea  is  in  full  support  of  the  future 
activities of the Court. We are confident that under the 
leadership  of  President  Song  the  ICC  will  continue  to 
play  a  crucial  and  integral  role  in  preserving  peace, 
maintaining justice and promoting the human rights of 
all people in the world. 
Mr. Mohamad (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): In the 

lives  of  nations  and  peoples  there  are  significant 
landmarks  through  which  the  international  community 
has  sought  to  achieve  peace,  development  and  social 
the 
and  balanced 
importance  of 
the  rule  of 
into  force, 
to 
law  on 
A/64/PV.29
justice.  The  League  of  Nations  was  among  those 
landmarks.  It  failed  and  was  succeeded  by  the  United 
Nations,  which  we  are  now  striving  to  reform  and 
make more efficient, especially the Security Council. 

Among  the  mechanisms  established  by  special 
treaty  is  the  International  Criminal  Court.  That  Court 
now faces the same destiny of failure and loss because 
it has not learned the lessons of the past. Although it is 
still relatively young, its record is full of contradictions 
and  flaws,  so  that  it  is  now  a  threat  to  the  peace  and 
security of societies instead of being a mechanism for 
achieving  so-called  justice.  In  this  context,  we  should 
not  hide  behind  diplomatic  phrases,  as  so  often 
happens  at  the  United  Nations.  We  simply  should  not 
do that.  

Thus we note that there is deep concern throughout 
wide  segments  —  if  not  the  great  majority  —  of  the 
international  community  because  of  the  record  of  that 
institution,  which  has  turned  into  a  tool  for  settling 
political  accounts  in  the  name  of  justice  and  into  a 
threat to peace, security and stability in several regions 
in  the  world,  especially  in  Africa.  In  Africa,  in  their 
summit  meetings  and  in  the  meetings  of  the  African 
Union  Peace  and  Security  Council,  African  leaders 
have clearly expressed their concern over this situation. 
For the first time in the history of multilateralism, 

a  resolution 
the  African  Summit  has 
condemned  the  conduct  of  the  Prosecutor,  who  has 
always 
and  has  been 
characterized by an eager pursuit of publicity, fame and 
the limelight. Indeed, the Prosecutor has abandoned his 
status as a jurist and turned into a political activist who 
visits  capitals  and  advocates  against  Governments, 
undeterred by conscience or sense of professionalism.  

We  wonder:  is  it  an  element  of  professionalism 
for the Prosecutor to turn into a political activist? Is it a 
requirement  of  his  duties  to  chase  publicity  and  fame 
and  claim  that  the  accused  is  not  innocent  even  if  the 
accused has not been condemned? Is it permissible for 
him  to  waste  the  resources  of  the  institutions  in  that 
manner  that  is  well  known  to  everyone,  near  and  far? 
And  is  there  a  legal  or  moral  justification  that  allows 
him to remain in his post with his inability to manage 
his  role 
internal 
administrative  court  has  ruled  against  the  way  he 
carries out his administrative authorities, in addition to 
the  cloud  that  continues  to  hang  over  his  personal 
conduct. 
institution?  In  fact,  an 
lacked  professionalism 
issued  by 
the 
in 
09-58345 

15 
to 
to  political  considerations, 
A/64/PV.29 


The  International  Criminal  Court  is  governed  by 
a special treaty, namely, the Rome Statute. States have 
the right to adhere to or not to adhere to that treaty. The 
provisions  of  the  Rome  Statute  apply  to  those  States 
that have adhered to the treaty. However, involving the 
Security  Council  in  the  Court’s  work  has  made  the 
Court  subject 
the 
politicization of justice and selectivism. 

Under the mother treaty — the Vienna Convention 
on  the  Law  of  Treaties  —  the  provisions  of  a  treaty 
apply only to those States that are party to it. Therefore, 
the  authority  granted  to  the  Security  Council  not  only 
politicizes  justice  and  makes  it  selective,  but  also 
violates  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  the  law  on 
treaties.  The  experience  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court has also demonstrated that it breaches established 
norms  of  international  law  and  relevant  treaties,  such 
as  the  immunity  granted  to  heads  of  State  and 
Government. 

There  are  precedents  in  the  advisory  opinions 
issued  by  the  International  Court  of  Justice  that  guide 
us  towards  avoiding  manipulation  and  alteration  of 
established 
law,  such  as 
immunities.  We  should  also  ask  whether  it  is  just  to 
prosecute  one  party  and  exempt  another,  such  as 
happened  in  Security  Council  resolution  1593  (2005). 
Is it justice that Africa is the only place against which 
the  sword  of  that  Court  is  raised?  Is  it  a  new  legal 
apartheid? 

We  will say it out loud: stop politicizing justice. 
We say no to selectivity and double standards. We say 
no to breaches of and encroachments on the sovereignty 
of  States  and  their  sovereign  choices  and  to  targeting 
their leaders. We say no. Africa said that. The African 
Union said that, as did the League of Arab States, the 
Organization  of 
the 
Non-Aligned  Movement.  Stop  trafficking  in  the  name 
of justice. 

In conclusion, we say to those who colonized our 
peoples  and  brought  the  system  of  apartheid  to  South 
Africa  and  protected  it  that  our  peoples  have  learned 
their lesson. Our peoples will not buy into the attempt 
to  expropriate  their  free  will  and  their  sovereignty  in 
the name of justice.  
Mr. Aguiar Patriota (Brazil): I wish to thank the 

President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC), 
Judge Sang-Hyun Song, for his informative report and 
also  to  commend  him  and  his  fellow  judges  on  their 
the  Islamic  Conference  and 
international 
rules 
in 

jurisdiction  of 
significant contribution towards fostering international 
justice. 

Brazil participated actively in the negotiations of 
the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
and,  as  a  State  party,  attaches  great  importance  to  the 
work  of  the  ICC,  which  is  the  first  permanent  treaty-
based court to try persons accused of the most serious 
crimes of international concern. 

Earlier this year, in July, the Court commemorated 
its seventh anniversary since the entry into force of the 
Rome  Statute.  Despite  being  such  a  young  institution, 
the 
the  Court  has  already  been 
recognized by an impressive number of States. To date 
110 States have decided to join in order to put an end 
to  impunity  in  respect  of  crimes  of  genocide,  crimes 
against humanity and war crimes. It is needless to note 
the  gravity  of  all  those  crimes  and  their  terrible 
repercussion on national societies and the international 
community. We  welcome  the  recent  ratification  of  the 
Statute  by  Chile  and  by  the  Czech  Republic.  Now, 
South America is  a  region  where  all States are parties 
to the ICC. It is the sincere hope of my delegation that 
more  States  may  ratify  or  accede  to  the  Rome  Statute 
in  the  near  future  with  a  view  to  granting  a  truly 
universal character to the Court. 

In  line  with  the  provisions  of  the  Rome  Statute, 
the first review conference of the founding instrument 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  will  be  held  in 
Kampala in 2010. We thank the Government of Uganda 
for  hosting  that  important  event.  Numerous  proposals 
for amendments have been submitted to the Secretary-
General of the United Nations — the depositary of the 
Rome Statute — including on matters pertaining to war 
crimes, terrorism, drug trafficking and the enforcement 
of sentences. 

Brazil  is  of  the  view  that  the  review  conference 
constitutes  a  valuable  opportunity  to  address  some  of 
the  most 
the  Court. 
However, we believe that the forthcoming conference, 
which  will  be  the  first  but  definitely  not  the  last 
opportunity  to  amend  the  Statute,  should  focus  on  a 
few  selected  topics,  in  particular  the  definition  of  the 
crime of aggression.  

The  Conference  will  also  represent  an  excellent 
occasion  to  engage  States  parties,  observers  and  civil 
society  in  a  more  in-depth  discussion  on  the  current 
status  of  international  criminal  justice.  My  delegation 
supports the idea of conducting a stocktaking exercise 
issues  concerning 
relevant 
16 

09-58345 


with  regard  to  international  criminal  justice.  Such  an 
exercise  would  mainly  address  issues  related  to  the 
ICC,  like  complementarity,  cooperation  and  national 
implementation,  but  would  also  build  upon 
the 
experience  gathered  by  other  relevant  international 
bodies, such as the International Criminal Tribunals for 
the  Former  Yugoslavia  and  Rwanda  and  the  Special 
Court for Sierra Leone. 

As the Sixth Committee of the General Assembly 
is considering the principle of universal jurisdiction in 
the  current  session,  it  may  be  appropriate  to  highlight 
that  the  ICC  does  not  operate  on  such  a  jurisdictional 
basis.  While  universal  jurisdiction  would  apply  to 
cases in which the accused or potential victims have no 
particular link with the State exercising its jurisdiction 
and in which the alleged crime was committed outside 
the  territory  of  that  State,  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
International Criminal Court has been established on a 
different basis, in the light of the relevant provisions of 
the Rome Statute. 

As we all know, there are only three circumstances 
in which the Court may exercise jurisdiction: first, the 
accused  is  a  national  of  a  State  party  or  of  a  State 
otherwise  accepting  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court; 
second, the crime took place on the territory of a State 
party or a State otherwise accepting the jurisdiction of 
the  Court;  or  third,  the  United  Nations  Security 
Council,  acting  in  accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations and in line with the Rome Statute, has 
referred the situation to the Prosecutor, irrespective of 
the  nationality  of  the  accused  or  the  location  of  the 
crime.  Furthermore,  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  is  limited 
to  events  taking  place  since  1  July  2002  and  to  the 
three crimes included in the Rome Statute. 

Another  point  that  my  delegation  would  like  to 
stress is that the ICC is a court of last resort. According 
to  the  principle  of  complementarity,  it  is  up  to 
individual States to exercise their criminal jurisdiction 
and  to  bring  to  justice  those  responsible  for  the  most 
serious  crimes  of  international  concern.  The  ICC  can 
act only when and if the State concerned is not able or 
willing to conduct genuine criminal proceedings. With 
a  view  to  implementing  that  principle,  many  States 
have enacted or strengthened their domestic legislation 
in order to typify those crimes under the jurisdiction of 
the Court. 

the 
importance  of  further  strengthening  the  cooperation 
Finally,  my  delegation  wishes 
to  stress 
A/64/PV.29
important  role 
in 
between  the  ICC  and  the  United  Nations.  Peace  and 
justice  come  hand  in  hand,  and  one  cannot  exist 
without  the  other.  In  addition,  the  work  of  the  Court 
contributes to our endeavour to include the concept of 
the  rule  of  law  in  the  many  ongoing  initiatives 
undertaken within the United Nations system.  
Mr.  Okuda  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  thank 

President  Sang-Hyun  Song  for  his  in-depth  report  on 
the  most  recent  work  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  and  to  congratulate  the  Court  on  its 
increasingly 
the  fight  against 
impunity in the international community. 

Japan believes that we are now in a crucial period 
for  the  ICC  to  define  its  role  in  the  international 
community. The  Court  was  established  in  2002  as  the 
first  permanent  international  criminal  court  in  the 
history  of 
the  world.  In  contrast  with  ad  hoc 
international  criminal  tribunals,  any  State  party  may 
refer  a  situation  to  the  ICC,  and  the  Security  Council 
also has the authority to refer a situation to it. Since the 
establishment  of  the  Court  seven  years  ago,  three 
States  parties  —  Uganda,  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  and  the  Central  African  Republic  —  have 
referred their respective situations to the ICC, and the 
Security  Council  has  referred  one  situation  —  that  of 
Darfur, Sudan — to the Court.  

Japan  would  like  to  raise  several  points  on  the 
work of the ICC, intending to generate discussion both 
within the Court and at the Assembly of States Parties, 
as  well  as  at  the  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome 
Statute  to  be  held  in  Kampala,  Uganda,  in  May  and 
June next year. 

First,  one  of  the  most  important  principles  to  be 
kept  in  mind  is  that  of  complementarity.  Every  State 
has  the  duty  to  exercise  its  criminal  jurisdiction  over 
those  responsible  for  the  most  serious  crimes,  and  the 
role  of  the  ICC  is  complementary  to  such  national 
criminal  jurisdiction.  States  parties  must  do  their  best 
to  exercise  their  national  jurisdiction  over  a  situation 
before referring it to the ICC. Moreover, in referring a 
situation, the State party must be prepared to cooperate 
fully  with 
the  obligations 
stipulated in the Rome Statute. 

Secondly,  the  experience  of  the  ICC,  although 
relatively  short,  has  reaffirmed  the  importance  of 
cooperation  by  States.  In  those  cases  in  which  full 
cooperation has been extended by the States concerned, 
the  ICC  is  making  steady  progress.  However,  where 
the  ICC  by  fulfilling 
09-58345 

17 
the  rationale 
leading 
to 
A 
third 
Finally, 
let  me 
the  matter  of 
A/64/PV.29 

such cooperation has not been forthcoming, the ICC is 
faced  with  serious  challenges.  Thus,  cooperation  by 
States  with  the  Court  is  essential  for  its  effective 
investigation and prosecution of cases, in particular as 
regards  the  arrest  and  surrender  of  suspects  and  the 
collection of evidence. 

important  aspect  warranting  serious 
consideration  by  the  ICC  is  the  rationale  of  judicial 
decisions rendered by the Court. Japan believes that the 
ICC will be able to firmly establish its credibility and 
reputation as a judicial organ if and when it interprets 
and  applies  the  provisions  of  the  Rome  Statute  and 
other  relevant  documents  with  utmost  prudence  and 
clarity. We hope to see the ICC continue to articulate as 
clearly  as  possible 
the 
in  each  decision.  Only  by  rendering 
conclusion 
decisions  with  solid  reasoning  can  the  ICC  enjoy  the 
full  support  of  States  parties  and,  more  important, 
acceptance by the international community as a whole, 
including non-States parties. 

the 
turn 
universality  of  membership  in  the  Rome  Statute. 
Currently, 110 States are parties to the Statute. Japan is 
pleased  to  see  the  steady  increase  in  the  number  of 
States parties. However, in order to enhance the role of 
the ICC in the international community, its membership 
should be universal. It is therefore important that more 
States  become  parties 
the  Rome  Statute  — 
especially States in the Asian region, where the number 
of States parties is much lower than in other regions. In 
order  to  achieve  that  aim,  Japan,  in  co-sponsorship 
with the Asian-African Legal Consultative Organization, 
organized a seminar entitled “The International Criminal 
Court: Emerging Issues and Future Challenges” in New 
Delhi in March this year, with an inaugural address by 
the  late  Judge  Fumiko  Saiga.  Japan  will  continue  its 
efforts  to  increase  the  number  of  States  parties, 
particularly  from  the Asian  region,  towards  achieving 
the universality of the ICC. 
Japan sincerely hopes that the points it has raised 

today  will  be  given  serious  consideration  by  the  ICC, 
States  parties,  other  States  and  civil  society,  including 
non-governmental organizations.  

In  closing,  I  should  like  to  express  the  sincere 
appreciation  of  Japan  for  the  work  that  the  ICC  has 
accomplished to date. It is our hope that the Court will 
continue  to  work  diligently  towards  the  eradication  of 
the  culture  of 
its 
to  consolidate 
impunity  and 
to 
to 

credibility  and  reputation.  In  that  regard,  Japan  is 
determined to continue and strengthen its contribution 
to the ICC and thus to the establishment of the rule of 
law throughout the international community. 
Mr.  Seger  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  My 

delegation  wishes  at  the  outset  to  thank  President 
Sang-Hyun Song for presenting the fifth annual report 
of the International Criminal Court (see A/64/356). We 
also  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  him  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  Court  and  to  wish  him 
much  success  in  that  new  capacity.  In  addition,  we 
wish  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the  Court’s  entire 
staff  for  their  work  and  for  their  daily  efforts  in 
carrying  out  their  tasks,  which  multiply  daily  as  the 
Court’s activities increase. 

The  year  2009  marks  an  important  milestone  for 
the  Court,  with  the  opening  of  the  first  trial  in  its 
history and the confirmation of charges brought against 
three  individuals  during  the  reporting  period.  My 
delegation  is  pleased  to  see  that  the  Court  has  thus 
entered a new phase in its existence. 

That  notable  progress  is  a  result  not  only  of  the 
tireless efforts of the Court and its personnel, but also of 
the fruitful cooperation that has taken place between the 
Court and certain States. In the past, my delegation has 
stressed the important — even essential — role played 
by  State  cooperation  in  the  fulfilment  of  the  Court’s 
mandate. We wish to reiterate that point today because 
we have some very telling examples to support it.  

Indeed,  we  believe  that  the  progress  highlighted 
in the  report  is emblematic of the importance of State 
cooperation. It is precisely in those areas where States 
have  cooperated  with  the  Court  that  the  greatest 
progress has been seen, whereas in the absence of State 
cooperation, the Court finds it impossible to carry out 
the mandate with which it has been entrusted.  

My delegation regrets that state of affairs. Indeed, 
as  the  Court’s  report  reminds  us,  eight  individuals 
against whom arrest warrants are outstanding have yet 
to be arrested. That is all the more worrisome because 
some  of  the  arrest  warrants  issued  by  the  Court  are 
already  several  years  old.  The  arrest  of 
those 
individuals depends essentially on the full cooperation 
of  States  with  the  Court.  My  delegation  wishes  to 
recall that such cooperation is among the international 
obligations  of  States  under  the  Rome  Statute  and  the 
Charter of the United Nations. 
18 

09-58345 



The  success  of  the  Court’s  activities  depends  on 
the  cooperation  not  only  of  States,  but  also  of 
international organizations. In that regard, my delegation 
wishes to welcome once again the continued cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Court. As the report 
of President Sang-Hyun Song attests, such cooperation 
is  essential  at  several  levels,  in  particular  within  the 
framework of the Court’s operations on the ground. 

The  international  community  has  entrusted  the 
Court  with  important  tasks  and  responsibilities.  In 
carrying out its activities, the Court affects the lives of 
thousands of individuals every day — men, women and 
children  who  have  been  drawn  against  their  will  into 
the turmoil of armed conflict and who have often been 
victim of or witness to acts beyond our comprehension. 

The  Court  has  the  difficult  task  of  asking  these 
individuals to come forward as victims or witnesses to 
confront the perpetrators of serious crimes and to share 
experiences  that  they  would  prefer  to  forget  forever. 
The victims and witnesses who face the accused before 
the Court unfortunately do so very often at the risk of 
their  own  lives  and  of  those  of  their  families. As  the 
Court’s  report  attests,  the  protection  of  witnesses  is  a 
central concern in the case of The Prosecutor v. Thomas 
Lubanga  Dyilo.  It  is  indispensable  that  the  Court  be 
able to grant these persons the protection necessary for 
their  participation  in  the  proceedings,  as  it  will 
otherwise  no  longer  be  able  to  count  on  obtaining  the 
testimony  necessary  to  carry  out  its  mandate.  In  this 
area,  too,  States  and  international  organizations  have 
an important role to play through their cooperation. 

The  Court  was  created  by  the  international 
community  in  a  common  effort  to  fight  impunity. The 
goal  was  to  create  a  regime  to  guarantee  that  States 
will assume their responsibilities in the prosecution of 
perpetrators  of  the  most  serious  crimes  and  which 
provides  a  mechanism  that  will  intervene  when  States 
are unable or unwilling to  fulfil those  responsibilities. 
Today,  110  States  have  decided  to  participate  in  this 
regime. Although this institution was created by States 
and is largely dependent on them, it is essential, given 
its nature and mandate, that the Court not be subject to 
external pressures in carrying out its activities.  

Over the course of the reporting period, the Court 
has  shown  us  that  it  is  a  fully  independent  and 
impartial  institution.  In  that  context,  my  delegation 
agrees 
the  unfounded  criticism 
expressed  earlier  by  the  representative  of  the  Sudan 
in  no  way  with 
A/64/PV.29
to 
law 
and 
international 
the  Court.  The  conduct  of 
with  respect 
the 
proceedings  under  way  also  bears  witness  to  the  very 
high  standards  maintained  by  the  Court  for  ensuring 
fair  trial.  My  delegation  can  only  welcome  this 
development, which reflects the aspirations we voiced 
in Rome a little more than 10 years ago. In this context, 
my  delegation  cannot  overemphasize  Switzerland’s 
continued commitment to and support for the Court. 
Ms.  Negm  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 

outset,  I  would  like  to  express  my  appreciation  to  the 
President of the International Criminal Court (ICC) for 
submitting  the  report  (A/64/356)  under  consideration 
today and to the Court for playing an important role in 
developing  international  criminal  law  definitions  and 
concepts  to  address  the  heinous  crimes  committed 
against peoples and societies. 

International  criminal  tribunals  are  becoming 
increasingly  important  in  enforcing  the  rule  of  law, 
particularly 
international 
humanitarian law and human rights law, with a view to 
maintaining international peace and security. Their role 
is  thus  complementary  to  that  of  national  judiciaries, 
which  have  the  inherent  jurisdiction  to  prosecute 
citizens accused of such crimes, pursuant to the State’s 
responsibility  to  ensure  the  safety  and  security  of  its 
citizens.  That  role  is  also  based  on  the  principle  that 
sovereignty runs parallel to the responsibility of every 
nation  and  Government  to  protect  its  people  from 
crimes.  

The Egyptian delegation is therefore of  the view 
that  established  norms  of  international  law  must  be 
heeded  if  States  are  not  to  be  obliged  to  implement 
conventions to which they are not party. Based on this 
and customary international law, a State should not be 
obligated  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of  the  Rome 
Statute if it has not explicitly and of its own free will 
agreed  to  do  so.  For  a  State  to  do  otherwise  would 
violate  the  principle  of  pacta  sunt  servanda  and  be 
incompatible  with  its  sovereignty  and  freedom  to 
choose the treaties to which it is bound. 

the  Egyptian  delegation 
emphasizes the importance of Member States’ stepping 
up  their  efforts  to  define  the  crime  of  aggression, 
especially  as  circumstances  and  developments  on  the 
international  scene  indicate  the  need  to  do  so.  Such  a 
definition  will  enable 
its 
jurisdiction  over  that  crime  as  it  does  over  the  other 
crimes within its jurisdiction. 
the  Court 
to  exercise 
At 
this 
juncture, 
09-58345 

19 

From 
the  procedures 
The  Egyptian  delegation  also  stresses 
A/64/PV.29 

the 

importance  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court’s 
continuing  to  pursue  a  balanced  approach  in  its  work 
by  adopting  a  policy  accentuating  its  judicial  nature 
and  avoiding  the  politicization  of  its  work  so  as  to 
ensure its impartiality and independence and allow it to 
assume its legal and moral role and obligations. Egypt 
therefore believes it necessary for the Security Council 
to  refer  to  the  Court,  without  discrimination  based  on 
political  reasons,  all  those  accused  of  committing 
crimes against humanity and who threaten international 
peace  and  security.  In  this  regard,  Egypt  affirms  the 
importance of the Court’s not referring to confidential 
lists  of  names  of  the  accused  and  to  maintaining 
transparency,  in  order  to  truly  apply  the  principles  of 
transparency and accountability. 

for 
this  perspective, 
investigating,  gathering  evidence  and  authenticating 
documents  need  improvement,  especially  with  regard 
to  the  investigation  of  crimes  and  the  provisions  of 
strong material evidence to confirm that alleged crimes 
are  consistent  with  those  defined  in  the  Statute. 
Similarly,  it  is  important  not  to  legally  classify  facts 
based  on 
testimony  and 
examination that do not take all  relevant legal  aspects 
into consideration. 

Consequently,  the  Egyptian  delegation  reiterates 
that  the  Court  should  respect  the  aforementioned 
considerations  when  dealing  with  the  African  cases 
before  it.  Moreover,  it  should  accelerate  its  decision-
making  process  in  these  cases  so  that  it  may  consider 
cases  from  other  parts  of  the  world.  Otherwise,  the 
continued  consideration  of  cases  from  one  region  of 
the  world  may  give  the  false  impression  that  crimes 
against  humanity  are  being  committed  only  in Africa, 
or  that  the  Court  does  not  target  other  such  crimes 
committed elsewhere. 

In order to avoid selectivity in referring cases to 
the ICC, it is necessary that its work not be politicized. 
The Prosecutor must therefore expedite the decision to 
begin investigating crimes against humanity committed 
in  Israel  and  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories  since 
2002.  We  stress  the  urgent  need  for  the  Court  to 
consider  the  report  of  the  Independent  Fact  Finding 
Committee  on  Gaza,  presented  to  the  League  of Arab 
States  on  30  April  2009,  and  the  Goldstone  report 
(A/HRC/12/48) adopted by the Human Rights Council, 
in addition to the report of the fact-finding committee 
established  by  the  Secretary-General  on  the  Israeli 
incomplete  or  partial 
for 
and 
the  General  Assembly 
international  humanitarian 
bombing of the camps and schools of the United Nations 
Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the 
Near East.  
The  Court  should  work  in  cooperation  with  the 

Security  Council  and 
to 
prosecute  all  of  those  who  committed  the  crimes  set 
forth  in  these  reports  in  order  to  ensure  that  none 
enjoys  impunity.  The  rule  of  law  must  be  upheld 
through  the  implementation  of  the  legal  norms  which 
we  all  strive  to  uphold,  and  it  must  be  strengthened 
through  its  application  to  all  peoples  and  societies, 
without exception. 
Mr.  Urbina  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Costa Rica welcomes the fifth report (A/64/356) of the 
International Criminal Court and welcomes the Court’s 
President, Mr. Sang-Hyun Song. 
Sixteen  years  after  the  establishment  of  the 

International  Criminal  Tribunal 
the  Former 
Yugoslavia,  which  was  not  in  Africa,  justice  and  the 
fight  against  impunity  have  become  ongoing  concerns 
of  the  international  community  and  also,  perhaps,  the 
instruments that do the most to strengthen international 
law 
law.  The 
International  Criminal  Court  has  been  consolidated 
since  the  Rome  Statute  came  into  force.  The  Court’s 
110  members  are  committed 
to  continuing  and 
strengthening  this  process.  The  consolidation  of  the 
Court is directly linked to its growing legitimacy both 
in  its  internal  attributes  and  in  the  recognition  its 
activities receive throughout the world. 
With  regard  to  the  Court’s  internal  affairs,  we 

note  the  strengthening  of  procedures  confirming  its 
independence,  impartiality  and  compliance  with  the 
highest procedural standards. The historic beginning of 
the  Court’s  first  trial  saw  the  implementation  of  strict 
measures  to  ensure  due  process  and  respect  for  the 
rights  of  the  accused,  while  effective  methods  for 
protecting  victims  and  witnesses  have  also  been 
implemented. All these actions have come to justify the 
hopes 
the 
institutions of justice. 

is  also 
growing.  The  ratification  of  the  Rome  Statute  by  two 
new  members,  along  with  the  clear  interest  of  other 
States  that  are  considering  the  possibility  of  acceding 
to  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  and  the  first  voluntary 
appearance  of  a  defendant,  are  revealing  signs  of  the 
advent  of  a  new  era  in  which  justice  is  an  integral 
that  civilized  peoples  have  placed 
the  Court’s 
Externally, 
legitimacy 
in 
20 

09-58345 


element  of  lasting  peace  and  the  rule  of  law  extends 
beyond national borders into the international arena. 

In  connection  with  the  process  of  the  Court’s 
consolidation, Costa Rica firmly believes in the duty of 
all  to  contribute  to  that  consolidation  by  honouring 
their obligations, freely entered into, to assist the Court 
in  carrying  out  its  decisions  and  to  protect  and 
strengthen  its  independence.  In  doing  so,  not  only  are 
we  supporting  the  Court,  but,  more  important,  we  are 
fostering the rule of law at the international level.  
In this context, we cannot view with indifference 

the decision of a group of States to refuse to cooperate 
with  the  Court  in  a  case  referred  to  it  by  the  Security 
Council.  These  States  have  justified  their  refusal  by 
citing  the  fact  that  the  Security  Council  has  not 
adopted  a  decision  that  this  group  is  demanding. 
Besides violating States’ obligations to cooperate with 
the  Court,  as  provided  for  in  article  86  of  the  Rome 
Statute,  this  decision  contravenes  Article  25  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Costa  Rica  trusts  that 
the dissenters will soon see reason, and we are certain 
that the report of the African Union panel coordinated 
by  ex-President  Mbeki  of  South Africa  will  mark  the 
renewal of a constructive attitude. 

Quite often, even in the highest political spheres, 
we  encounter  mistaken  notions  about  international 
criminal  justice.  Those  seeking  to  discredit  the  Court 
ally themselves with ignorance of basic concepts in an 
effort  to  cast  doubt  on  the  Court’s  independence.  The 
voices of those who defend fugitives from international 
justice indicted for war crimes are shameless enough to 
use this court of peace to try to fool us all. They claim 
that  it  is  only  African  criminals  who  are  prosecuted, 
and in bad faith obscure the fact that three cases from 
that  continent  were  referred  to  the  Court  by  African 
Governments,  and  that  the  fourth,  concerning  the 
situation  in  Darfur,  where  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
people have ended up dead, displaced or refugees, was 
referred by the Security Council in accordance with its 
resolution  1593  (2005)  without  a  single  dissenting 
vote. 

In the face of such accusations, we must reiterate 
again and again the implications of the complementary 
character  of 
the 
backbone  of  the  international  criminal  justice  system. 
The Court was created not so that its courtrooms might 
be filled to bursting, but rather with the aspiration that 
the  day  will  come  when  they  will  no  longer  be  used. 
the  Court.  Complementarity 
is 
A/64/PV.29
The International Criminal Court exists only to respond 
to situations in which national jurisdictions are unable 
or unwilling to prosecute the most egregious crimes. It 
exists  only  to  supplement  the  deficiencies  of  national 
justice systems. 

For  that  reason,  as  an  elected  member  of  the 
Security  Council,  Costa  Rica  has  always  supported 
strengthening 
the  components  of  security  sector 
reform,  in  particular  national  justice  systems,  in  both 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  processes.  We  are 
convinced  of  the  importance  of  transitional  justice  to 
ending  conflict  and  that  it  is  essential  to  ensure 
accountability  and  combat  impunity  in  support  of 
lasting  peace.  A  national  legal  system  capable  of 
undertaking  these  tasks  will  lighten  the  load  of 
international  criminal  justice  and  promote  national 
reconciliation effectively. In that context, Costa Rica is 
supportive  of  and  hopeful  for  the  African  Union’s 
commitment  to  developing  the  legal  capacity  to  draft 
model  legislation  covering  crimes  prosecuted  by  the 
Court, and to train staff and improve inter-institutional 
cooperation. 

The  Court’s  next  report  to  the  Assembly  will 
include  the  decisions  to  be  adopted  at  the  Review 
Conference in Kampala, in the heart of Africa. As the 
Secretary-General has said, this will be an opportunity 
to  take  stock  of  achievements  and  to  chart  a  path  for 
the  future.  Work  on  defining  the  crime  of  aggression 
will be of particular importance. We are confident that 
there  exists  a  constructive  willingness  to  improve  the 
Court,  strengthen  States’  cooperation  and  increase  the 
effectiveness of justice, the foundation of lasting peace 
and a key ingredient of sustainable development. 
Mr. Mukongo Ngay (Democratic Republic of the 

Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  My  delegation  associates 
itself with the statement made by the representative of 
Kenya on behalf of the African Group of States parties 
to the International Criminal Court. We would also like 
to  thank  the  President  of  the  Court,  Judge  Sang-Hyun 
Song,  for  the  report  he  has  just  presented  (see 
A/64/356). 

At  times  like  these  and  in  certain  corners  of  the 
world,  we  often  turn  to  experts  in  international 
criminal  law  and  to  the  writings  of  people  learned  in 
doctrine  to  try  to  define  and  understand  the  true 
magnitude  of  war  crimes,  crimes  against  humanity  or 
genocide. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, a 
post-conflict country where what some have called the 
09-58345 

21 

A/64/PV.29 

first  African  world  war  took  place,  every  individual, 
educated  or  not,  can  define  such  heinous  crimes  from 
his or her perspective as victim, witness or perpetrator, 
or  whether  he  or  she  has  been  affected  directly  or 
indirectly. 

The  International  Criminal  Court  was  created 
precisely to exercise jurisdiction over the most serious 
international  crimes.  That  is  why  the  wording  of  the 
Rome Statute, which for some is mere theory, reflects a 
reality  that  the  people  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo,  particularly  those  in  North  Kivu,  South 
Kivu and Ituri, experience on a daily basis. That reality 
is truly Congolese, but we must stress that war and all 
forms  of  violence  that  deny  the  dignity  and  sacred 
nature  of  the  human  being  know  no  nationality.  They 
concern all of us, and cooperation with the International 
Criminal Court must concern all of us, too. 

For  its  part,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo  was  the  very  first  State  party  to  develop 
meaningful cooperation with the International Criminal 
Court.  The  cooperation  between  my  country  and  the 
Court clearly makes it a model of such cooperation, to 
which several legal instruments attest. 

First,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  did 
not wait for the Rome Statute to enter into force before 
ratifying it. We ratified it on 30 March 2002, more than 
three months before it entered into force. Secondly, the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  took  the  initiative 
to refer its situation to the International Criminal Court 
on  3  March  2004.  It  signed  an  agreement  of  judiciary 
cooperation  with  the  Court  on  6  October  2004  and 
reached  an  agreement  of  judiciary  assistance  with  the 
United Nations Mission in the Democratic Republic of 
the Congo and with the International Criminal Court. 
With respect to the proceedings under way in the 

Court, the Democratic Republic of the Congo has three 
times  correctly  executed  arrest  warrants  issued  by  the 
International Criminal Court against our own nationals. 
It is clear that the Democratic Republic of the Congo is 
convinced  that  peace  and  justice  go  hand  in  hand.  It 
has learned first hand the vital role that justice plays as 
a  factor  of  social  harmony,  national  reconciliation, 
peace, security and stability. It is with the assistance of 
the international justice system that we have been able 
to  restore  peace  to  Ituri  and  North  Katanga.  It  is  also 
with the assistance of the international judicial system 
that we intend to restore peace throughout the national 
territory. 
22 


This  is  why  the  Congolese  authorities  have 
decided, with respect to the latest arrest warrant issued 
by  the  Court,  to  consolidate  and  complete  the  peace 
processes  under  way  in  the  provinces  of  North  and 
South Kivu and to conclude the process of integration 
of the former armed movements into the national army 
before  we  take  a  decision  on  that  matter.  That  is  a 
precautionary  security  measure 
that  will  benefit 
everyone,  including  the  International  Criminal  Court 
and its officials. 

The  fifth  annual  report  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  to  the  United  Nations,  now  before  the 
Assembly, outlines the very meaningful progress in the 
work of the Court with the beginning of trials in certain 
situations,  the  confirmation  of  charges  in  others,  and 
the  opening  of  new  investigations  in  still  others.  My 
delegation takes this opportunity to reiterate its interest 
in seeing the implementation of the proposal to hold in 
situ trials. This would offer the long-awaited opportunity 
to provide a certain moral satisfaction to the victims of 
the  crimes  in  question  and  to  deter  potential  repeat 
offenders. 

As  paradoxical  as  it  may  appear,  the  fact  that 
such  progress  in  the  march  of  international  criminal 
justice  is  taking  place  in  the  context  of  a  robust 
campaign of hostility towards the Court serves as proof 
that the institution is, in fact, taking hold. We are at a 
historic  moment  in  the  fight  against  impunity  for 
serious  crimes.  We  should  therefore  recall  that  this 
phenomenon is not new. Hostility to the Court was first 
seen in Rome when the representatives of 120 countries, 
including  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  out 
of  160  meeting  in  the  Italian  capital  drafted  and 
adopted  the  legal  framework  for  the  future  Court  in 
July 1999. 

Yet, in the wake  of the Rome conference, it  was 
thought  that  it  would  take  25  years  or  more  to  gather 
the 60 ratifications necessary to the Statute’s entry into 
force. The fact that more than half the States Members 
of  the  United  Nations  have  joined  the  Court  less  than 
five  years  after  its  establishment  proves  that  the  path 
towards the universality of the Court has been laid. In 
that  regard,  my  delegation  welcomes  the  109th  and 
110th  countries  to  ratify  the  Rome  Statue,  Chile  and 
the Czech Republic, to the club of States parties. 

The  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute  to 
be  held  in  Kampala,  Uganda,  in  May  2010  should,  in 
the  view  of  my  delegation,  give  Member  States  the 
09-58345 
conclusion, 
and  while 


opportunity to confirm the achievements of the Statute 
and  to  strengthen  the  conviction  that  the  International 
Criminal  Court  is  a  gift  of  hope  to  future  generations 
and  represents  very  considerable  progress  towards 
ensuring respect for human rights and the rule of law. 

Moreover, my delegation believes that, in respect 
to  the  Conference’s  programme  of  work,  priority 
should be given to defining the crime of aggression and 
to  determining  the  conditions  for  the  exercise  of  the 
Court’s  jurisdiction  in  that  respect,  pursuant  to  the 
relevant provisions of articles 121 and 123 of its Statute. 

reiterating  my 
delegation’s  commitment  to  ensuring  the  integrity  of 
the  Court’s  Statute,  I  call  once  again  on  delegations 
that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  join  the  International 
Criminal  Court  so  that  together  we  can  contribute  to 
the universality of the fight against impunity. 
Mrs. Onanga (Gabon) (spoke in French): It is an 

honour for my delegation to take the floor. Allow me at 
the outset to  congratulate  and express our gratitude  to 
President  Sang-Hyun  Song  for  his  well-informed 
presentation of the report of the International Criminal 
Court (see A/64/356). 

My  delegation  endorses  the  statement  made  by 
the  Ambassador  of  Kenya  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group of States parties to the Rome Statute. We would 
like nevertheless to make several general comments on 
certain 
the 
International Criminal Court.  

First,  my  delegation  believes  that  the  manner  in 
which  the  first  trials  will  be  carried  out  will  establish 
the  credibility  of  the  Court  because  these  early  trials 
are  milestones  not  only 
the  development  of 
international  justice,  but  also  in  the  fight  against 
impunity. On the basis of the report, Gabon welcomes 
the  fact  that  the  elements  that  make  up  the  basic 
principles for trials received particular attention. Those 
elements were in stark evidence in the case of Thomas 
Lubanga Dyilo, when proceedings were stayed in order 
to  address  the  concerns  of  the  judges  regarding  the 
fairness of the trial. 

Secondly, we believe that the Court’s success will 
depend  on  the  support  provided  to  it  by  Member 
States —  a  point  of  view  that  the  representative  of 
Kenya  has  just  expressed  and  which  my  delegation 
fully endorses — because the activity of the Court will 
consideration  by 
situations  under 
In 
in 
A/64/PV.29
to 
In 
takes 
thank 
the  President  of 
not  be  able  to  fully  meet  all  our  expectations  without 
the effective cooperation of all Member States.  

Moreover, on the eve of the Review Conference, 
Gabon  commends  the  Ugandan  Government  for  its 
decision to host that Conference. We hope that Member 
States  will  make  full  use  of  that  important  meeting, 
which in our view should make it possible above all to 
reaffirm the integrity of the Rome Statute. 

this 
conclusion,  my  delegation 
opportunity to reaffirm its full commitment to the work 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  to  its  full 
promise for building an international society based on 
the rule of law and where  there is no longer room for 
impunity. 
Mr.  Hernández  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Mexico  wishes 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  Judge  Sang-Hyun 
Song, for presenting the annual report of the Court (see 
A/64/356) to the General Assembly. 

As  the  years  pass,  it  is  becoming  more  evident 
that  the  work  of  the  ICC  is  proving  itself  to  be  an 
efficient  way  to  prevent  new  crimes  from  being 
committed and to contribute to conflict resolution and 
peacebuilding processes. That is why Mexico reiterates 
its  support  for  the  work  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court.  The  recent  adherence  of  Chile  and  the  Czech 
Republic  to  the  Rome  Statute  is  reason  for  the 
international community to celebrate. Some 110 States 
Members  of  this  Organization,  from  all  regions,  are 
now  States  parties  to  the  Statute,  which  demonstrates 
the clear trend towards its universality. In view of that, 
we again call on all States that have not yet done so to 
join the ICC system so that it can enjoy full universal 
scope. 
The  ICC  is  a  very  young  institution. As  such,  it 

has  generated  great  expectations,  faces 
important 
challenges  and  receives  severe  criticism  regarding  its 
ability  to  establish  itself  as  a  transparent  and  efficient 
model  for  the  administration  of  justice.  For  Mexico, 
those  three  aspects  will  be  met  to  the  extent  that  the 
Court can fulfil its mandate. As a clear example of that, 
we  welcome  the  developments  of  the  Court  described 
in  the  report,  in  particular  the  beginning  of  the  first 
trial in January and the imminent start of the second. It 
is fitting to underscore that in those cases, despite the 
fact  that  the  investigations,  the  gathering  of  evidence 
and  the  protection  of  witnesses  and  victims  were 
09-58345 

23 

in  view  of  facts  and  situations 
A/64/PV.29 

carried out during armed conflicts, the ICC has proven 
to be a fully functional entity. 

However, we should not lose sight of the fact that 
if  the  ICC  is  to  fulfil  its  mandate,  it  will  depend  to  a 
great extent on the cooperation it receives from States, 
international and regional organizations and, naturally, 
civil  society.  Therefore,  such  cooperation  with  the 
Court is a long-term political, juridical and diplomatic 
commitment to ensuring that it can eradicate impunity 
and impart justice. 
In  fulfilling  that  mandate,  the  ICC  has  been 

criticized in recent months for its alleged selectivity in 
intervening  exclusively  in  one  region.  In  seeking  to 
weigh  the  fairness  of  such  criticism,  we  must  bear  in 
mind  that  the  situations  before  the  Court  have  been 
referred  to  it  in  accordance with  the  provisions  of  the 
Statute  itself,  in  some  cases  by  decision  of  the  States 
involved,  and  in  others  by  decision  of  the  Security 
Council 
it 
considered  a  serious  threat  to  international  peace  and 
security. Thus, no critique of the Court’s activities can 
overlook that framework or claim not to know it. 
In  relation  to  the  situation  addressed  in  Security 

Council  resolution  1593  (2005),  we  must  remember 
that  the  United  Nations  Charter  sets  out  in Article  25 
that  all  Members  of  the  Organization  must  accept  and 
carry  out  the  decisions  of  the  Security  Council. 
Consequently,  the  refusal  of  the  Government  of  the 
Sudan  to  cooperate  with  the  ICC  represents  clear 
non-compliance  with  a  legally  binding  obligation.  We 
have  noted  before  this  Assembly  and  in  the  Security 
Council  that  there  is  no  dilemma  of  choice  between 
peace and justice. Both objectives must be an integral 
part  of  efforts  to  resolve  any  armed  conflict,  and 
neither should be achieved at the expense of the other.  

Mexico  therefore  acknowledges  the  importance 
of the voluntary appearance of rebel leader Bahr Idriss 
Abu  Garda,  one  of  the  alleged  perpetrators  of  the 
attack on the Haskanita base in Darfur, before the ICC. 
That action should contribute to encouraging all parties 
to that conflict to cooperate with the Court forthwith. 

Mexico  would  like  to  address  the  financial 
activities of the Court. We believe that  seven years of 
experience  have  given  it  the  necessary  maturity  to 
that 
fully 
sacrificing 
cost-effective  without 
administer  its  resources  in  a  diligent,  acceptable  and 
transparent  way.  Nevertheless,  we  note  with  concern 
that there is still room for improvement if the ICC is to 
be 
the 
fulfilment  of  its  mandate.  Such  improvements  should 
include  proper  and  comprehensive  budget  planning, 
better  financial  practices,  relevant  rationalizing  of 
resources, and the development of judicial proceedings 
and procedures in an efficient and responsible manner. 
We  hope  that  such  measures  will  be  adopted  to 
contribute to the better use of the allocated resources. 

On  that  same  point,  Mexico  calls  on  the  Court’s 
bodies and officials to think about its real needs and to 
propose  their  own  measures  of  internal  austerity,  with 
consequent  savings.  That  would  encourage  States 
parties  to  respond  to  requests  on  budgetary  matters. 
Mexico  further  believes  that  decisions  of  the  Court 
with financial implications must be submitted to or, at 
least,  discussed  with  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties, 
the  oversight  body  for  administrative 
issues  and 
budgetary review and approval. 

Next year will provide a great opportunity for the 
ICC and international criminal justice with the holding 
in Kampala, Uganda, of the first Review Conference of 
the  Rome  Statute.  The  outcome  of  that  event  will 
enable  the  entire  system  created  around  the  Statute  to 
confirm the great achievement that it represents for the 
international community and international law. 

Mexico calls upon States to actively participate in 
the  Review  Conference.  To  that  end,  the  forthcoming 
eighth session of the Assembly of States Parties should 
facilitate 
the  development  of  a  substantive  and 
constructive  dialogue  aimed  at  the  in-depth  review  of 
all amendments proposed to date. That will enable the 
Conference  to  identify  its  concrete  objectives  and  to 
ensure the best possible conditions for its success. 

Finally,  I  should  like  to  reiterate  that  ensuring 
international  justice,  ending  impunity,  strengthening 
the rule of law, promoting and respecting human rights 
and re-establishing and maintaining international peace 
and  security  are  objectives  in  accordance  with  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Rome  Statute. 
Mexico will assist the Court in attaining them.  
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. 


24 

09-58345 
