United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

14th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 6 October 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 

A/64/PV.14
Official Records
President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 







(spoke 
The  President 
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 

Natural disasters in Indonesia, the Philippines 
and Samoa 


in  Arabic):  Before 
proceeding  to  the  items  on  our  agenda  for  this 
morning, I should like, on behalf of all the members of 
the  General  Assembly, 
to  extend  our  deepest 
sympathies  to  the  Governments  and  the  peoples  of 
Indonesia, the Philippines and Samoa for the tragic loss 
of life and material damage that have resulted from the 
recent natural disasters. 
May I also express the hope that the international 

community  will  show 
its  solidarity  and  respond 
promptly and generously to any requests for assistance.  

Agenda item 107 (continued) 

Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/64/1) 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Members  will 

recall  that  the  Secretary-General  presented  his  annual 
report  (A/64/1)  to  the  General  Assembly  at  its  3rd 
plenary meeting, on 23 September 2009. 
Mr. Lidén (Sweden): I have the honour to speak 

on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU).  Croatia,  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Albania, 
Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  Montenegro,  Serbia, 
Armenia,  the  Republic  of  Moldova  and  Ukraine  align 
themselves with this statement. 
international  actions  and  norms  and 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 

report (A/64/1) on the work of the Organization. 

The  European  Union  would  like  to  reconfirm  its 
commitment  to  facing  the  multiple  challenges  before 
us  through  effective  multilateralism.  We  need  the 
broad-based  legitimacy  of  the  United  Nations  to 
underpin 
to 
coordinate our efforts. The United Nations, for its part, 
will have to adapt to remain relevant and to be able to 
address the issues before us. 

Climate  change  has  proven  to  be  one  of  the 
greatest  challenges  of  our  generation,  and  2009  is  a 
critical year. It is also a year of hope and opportunity. 
The  European  Union  will  go  to  Copenhagen  in 
December  determined  to  reach  a  comprehensive,  fair 
and  ambitious  global  climate  agreement.  On  scientific 
grounds,  global  temperature  rise  must  be  kept  below 
2 degrees  Celsius.  To  secure 
target,  global 
emissions need to be reduced by at least 50 per cent by 
2050.  This  is  possible,  and  requires  all  countries  to 
contribute  and  cooperate.  Developed  countries  must 
take  the  lead  in  reducing  emissions.  The  European 
Union  commitments  stand  firm.  The  EU  is  also 
prepared  to  contribute  our  fair  share  of  financing  and 
support 
to  developing  countries’  mitigation  and 
adaptation efforts. 

The European Union appreciates the leadership of 
the  Secretary-General  and  commends  his  initiative  to 
organize  a  Summit  on  Climate  Change,  where  world 
leaders  showed  unanimous  determination  to  seal  an 
ambitious deal in Copenhagen.  
this 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-54337 (E) 
*0954337* 

support 
towards 
to  work 
international, 
the  world.  We 
the  same  goals, 
A/64/PV.14 

By bringing development actors around the world 

together 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) play a unique 
catalytic  role  in  driving  development  progress.  The 
European  Union  is  very  encouraged  by  the  reports  of 
concrete  progress  on  the  MDG  regarding  HIV/AIDS, 
malaria  and  tuberculosis.  On  the  other  hand,  we  are 
deeply  concerned  about  the  setbacks  in  many  other 
areas,  with  MDG  5  on  maternal  mortality,  sadly, 
standing out. 

The  year  2015  is  fast  approaching.  In  order  to 
achieve  the  MDGs,  we  need  to  step  up  all  efforts  — 
national  and 
regional  and  private, 
governmental and non-governmental, in the North and 
in  the  South.  The  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
development  is  pivotal,  and  the  European  Union  will 
continue to support its work. 

The  United  Nations  is  in  a  unique  position  to 
pursue  good  offices  efforts  in  preventive  diplomacy 
around 
the  continued 
strengthening  of  United  Nations  capacity  in  this  field, 
including  through  the  Mediation  Support  Unit.  The 
European  Union  is  building  up  a  similar  capacity  and 
looks  forward  to  close  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations and regional organizations. 

Furthermore,  the  EU  supports  the  objectives  of 
the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  initiative  in  order  to 
contribute to mutual understanding among nations. 

United  Nations  peacekeeping  is  at  a  critical 
juncture.  The  paper  entitled  “A  New  Partnership 
Agenda:  Charting 
for  UN 
Peacekeeping”  provides  a  basis 
for  a  strategic 
reflection  about  the  role  and  capacity  of  the  United 
Nations in the field of peacekeeping. As the Secretary-
General  points  out  in  his  report,  the  challenges  that 
face  the  peacekeepers  of  today  are  unprecedented  in 
scale, complexity and risk level. It is therefore crucial 
that  the  process  of  forming  partnerships  and  sharing 
the  burden  continue  with  a  view  to  finding  the  best 
collective  responses  to  global  and  regional  conflicts. 
The EU is committed to a strong and close partnership 
with the United Nations in peacekeeping. We continue 
to  be  involved  in  both  United  Nations-led  and  United 
Nations-mandated 
operations.  EU 
member  States  contribute  nearly  40  per  cent  of  the 
peacekeeping 
of 
responsibilities between the two organizations in Chad 
a  New  Horizon 
budget.  The 
peacekeeping 
recent 
transfer 

peacebuilding.  The 
and in Kosovo highlights the close partnership between 
the EU and the United Nations. 

Efficient cooperation between the United Nations 
and  other  regional  organizations,  in  particular  the 
African Union, is vital in making peacekeeping efforts 
more effective. 
The  full  implementation  of  Security  Council 

resolutions on women, peace and security is important 
to  the  European  Union.  We  must  ensure  that  they  are 
followed up by concrete action. 

The  United  Nations  has  taken  important  steps  in 
recent years to develop a more systematic approach to 
post-conflict 
Peacebuilding 
Commission  has  proven  to  be  an  important  vehicle  to 
mobilize political and financial support and to focus on 
key priorities. We must continue to take steps that can 
enhance  joint  coordination  of  policies  and  activities, 
both at Headquarters and in the field. 

In  his  report,  the  Secretary-General  points  to 
counter-terrorism and disarmament and non-proliferation 
as two  areas  where the United Nations  should make  a 
real  difference.  The  European  Union  commends  the 
Counter-Terrorism  Implementation  Task  Force  for  its 
work  and  would  like  to  see  further  steps  towards  a 
more  coherent  United  Nations  approach  to  counter-
terrorism, 
a 
comprehensive  convention  on  terrorism.  As  stated  in 
the 
is 
encouraging  growing  momentum 
in  global  arms 
control and disarmament. Over the next year, we have 
a chance to revitalize multilateral work on these issues. 
The  European  Union  places  strong  emphasis  on 
achieving  a  successful  outcome  to  the  2010  Review 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. 

At  the  same  time,  we  continue  to  face  major 
proliferation  challenges.  We  will  continue  to  pursue 
resolute action in response to them. In that context, the 
European Union stresses the crucial importance of full 
and  immediate  compliance  with  Security  Council 
resolutions. 

One of the main purposes for the establishment of 
the  United  Nations  was 
international 
cooperation in promoting respect for human rights and 
fundamental  freedoms.  In  spite  of  the  progress  made, 
as  outlined  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General, 
much  remains  to  be  done.  In  order  for  the  United 
the  Secretary-General, 
to  achieve 
finalization 
report  of 
including 
there 
the 
of 
2 

09-54337 
to 
looks 
the  Secretary-General  on 


Nations  to  become  more  efficient,  human  rights  must 
be  integrated  into  all  policy  areas  of  the  United 
Nations. The European Union will continue its work in 
keeping human rights at the top of the United Nations 
agenda. 
We  value  what  has  been  achieved  to  date  by  the 

Special  Adviser 
the 
Prevention  of  Genocide  and  look  forward  to  further 
information  and  outreach  to  Member  States  on  his 
activities. 
The  EU  would  like  to  express  its  gratitude  and 

strong support to the Special Advisers of the Secretary-
General,  and  not  least  the  Secretary-General  himself, 
with  regard  to  the  valuable  report  (A/63/677)  on  the 
implementation  of  the  responsibility  to  protect.  In 
particular,  the  EU  looks  forward  to  the  Secretary-
General’s  further  proposals  for  strengthening 
the 
United  Nations  early  warning  capability,  as  suggested 
in the report. The EU stands ready to contribute to the 
efforts ahead. 

Resolution  63/311,  on  system-wide  coherence, 
which  was  adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
last day of its sixty-third session, provides a good basis 
for further work in the Assembly to improve the ability 
of the United Nations to make a difference for people 
in  need.  Of  particular  importance  is  the  strong  and 
unanimous support expressed by the General Assembly 
in  the  resolution  for  the  establishment  of  a  composite 
gender  entity  headed  by  an  Under-Secretary-General. 
The  European  Union  stands  ready  to  work  with  other 
Member States to finalize the remaining  details of the 
entity. We are confident that this process can be a swift 
one. 

to 
contributing constructively to further progress in other 
areas  concerning  system-wide  coherence  during  this 
session  of 
the 
governance  structures  and  funding  modalities  for 
United  Nations  development  work  is  essential  for  the 
Organization  to  be  an  effective  partner  for  developing 
countries.  On  the  delivering  as  one  principle,  we 
encourage  the  Secretary-General  to  move  forward  as 
soon as possible with the independent evaluation of the 
eight pilot projects. 

Some  important  steps  in  management  reform 
were  taken  in  the  past  year. The  European  Union  will 
continue to support efforts to modernize and reform the 
Organization.  At  the  same  time,  especially  in  this 
the  General  Assembly.  Improving 
The  European  Union 
forward 
A/64/PV.14
period  of  global  economic  crisis,  we  need  to  ensure 
that  the  resources  of  the  Organization  are  used  in  the 
most effective and efficient way, without preventing it 
from carrying out its mandates. In that regard, we will 
carefully  study 
the  budget  and  reform  proposals 
presented to Member States. 

The  European  Union  would  like  to  see  a  change 
made to the scale of assessments this autumn. The EU 
believes  firmly  that  a  fair  and  more  balanced  way  to 
share  the  budgetary  responsibilities  of  the  United 
Nations  is  essential  to  the  effective  functioning  of  the 
Organization. 

Lastly, on behalf of the European Union, I would 
like to thank the Secretary-General and his staff and to 
express  our  gratitude  for 
their  commitment  and 
achievements  in  carrying  out  the  mandate  we  have 
entrusted to them. I assure them of the full support of 
the European Union. 
Mr. Ali (Malaysia): Change is upon us. This past 

year, the Organization and the international community 
at  large  went  through  one  of  the  darkest  periods  in 
global  economic  history.  As  we  recover  from  the 
impact  of  the  global  crisis,  we  are  learning  to  change 
how  we  accomplish 
is 
evident among Members of the United Nations, just as 
the  Organization  itself  has  learned  that  adapting  to 
change  is  the  only  way  by  which  it  can  remain 
relevant, which is important for an Organization that is 
more than 60 years old. 

The  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/64/1)  on  the 
work  of  the  Organization  refers  to  the  adaptation 
process  that  the  Organization  has  undergone  both  in 
this past year and in previous years. We commend the 
ongoing efforts of the Secretary-General in that regard. 
However,  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations  as  an 
Organization  should  not  be  a  stand-alone  project, 
limited only to the approval of the chief administrative 
officer of the United Nations. 
Member  States  of  the  United  Nations  must  also 

have  a  fair  amount  of  say  in  the  goings-on  of  the 
Secretariat  and  other  United  Nations  organs,  bodies, 
agencies and programmes, especially when the reforms 
involve the creation of new mandates or an expansion 
of existing ones. There should also be restraint on the 
part  of  Secretariat  bodies  when  it  comes  to  proposing 
that  could  be 
and  embarking  upon  activities 
detrimental 
in 
things.  More  cooperation 
the  Organization, 
the  work  of 
to 
09-54337 

3 

A/64/PV.14 

particular  when  the  views  and  opinions  of  Member 
States have not been sought. 

This  year,  after  Member  States  had  been 
belabouring  the  point  for  many  years,  the  Counter-
Terrorism  Implementation  Task  Force  (CTITF)  was 
finally  formally  institutionalized  and  placed  under  the 
Department  of  Political Affairs.  During  the  four  years 
since  its  establishment  by  the  Secretary-General,  in 
2005, the CTITF was free to establish working groups. 
The nine working groups it established existed without 
any  kind  of  mandate  from  the  Member  States. That  is 
something  that  we,  along  with  many  countries  of  the 
developing world, viewed with great concern. To have 
un-mandated  and  unapproved  working  groups  on  the 
question  of  terrorism,  which  is  one  of  the  highly 
political  and  frequently  recurring  issues  at  the  United 
Nations, is simply baffling to this Member State. 

In  particular  for  a  developing  country  such  as 
Malaysia, the practice of appointing officials within the 
United  Nations  system  itself  is  a  matter  of  concern. 
The  appointment  of  advisers  to  the  Secretary-General 
and other staff in top posts more often than not seems 
to  be  the  exclusive  purview  of  the  five  permanent 
members  of  the  Security  Council.  The  rest  of  us 
Member  States  only  find  out  about  an  appointment 
when it is a done deal. While we do not challenge the 
Secretary-General’s 
the 
members  of  his  team,  more  transparency,  consultation 
and  dialogue  will  no  doubt  go  a  long  way  towards 
contributing  to  the  inclusiveness  factor  that  is  in  the 
spirit of the United Nations. 

As  an  Organization  with  universal  membership, 
the  United  Nations  is  well-primed  to  play  a  leading 
role in studying the impact and consequences of events 
by  gathering  information.  However,  before  the  system 
is  fully  locked  into  place,  we  welcome  the  recent 
efforts by the Secretary-General to brief Member States 
about  the  possible  implementation  of  the  Global 
Impact  and  Vulnerability  Alert  System,  which  he  has 
proposed.  We  believe  that  further  discussions  are 
needed in order to fine-tune the system while ensuring 
the  optimization  of  the  Organization’s  resources  and 
further  guaranteeing  that  the  core  business  of  the 
Organization is not jeopardized. 

Malaysia  welcomes  the  establishment  of  the 
United  Nations  Dispute  Tribunal  and  the  United 
Nations  Appeals  Tribunal  under  the  new  system  of 
justice  for  the  Organization.  After  a  few  hiccups,  the 
prerogative 
appoint 
to 
increase 
However, 
fact  experienced  an 
two  areas  has  not  diminished. 
Dispute  Tribunal  was  able  to  meet  during  summer  of 
2009,  and  was  still  meeting  as  of  last  week.  For 
Member States to be able to assess the effectiveness of 
the new system of justice, a report on the work of the 
UNDT thus far should be forthcoming. 

For many around the world, the United Nations is 
a beacon of hope. The United Nations has always been 
central in the areas of peacekeeping and development. 
The  past  year  was  no  different  in  that  regard.  In  a 
sense, it is heartening to note that, despite the shrinking 
global  economy,  the  Organization’s  commitment  in 
those 
In  both 
peacekeeping  and  development,  the  Organization  has 
in 
in  budgetary 
allocations. 

in  an  environment  where  funding 
allocations  are  decreasing,  the  expenditures  of  the 
United  Nations  on  peacekeeping  alone  are  simply 
staggering.  This  year’s  forecast  for  peacekeeping 
expenditures is expected to increase from $5.3 billion, 
nearly  a  year  ago, 
to  $7.8  billion.  That  figure 
represents more than half of the entire United Nations 
Headquarters  budget  of  $13.9  billion,  and  does  not 
include the nearly $600 million that will need to come 
from  the  budget  of  the  United  Nations  Headquarters. 
While Malaysia is as committed as any other Member 
to having United Nations peacekeepers on the ground, 
we  will  need  to  carefully  weigh  each  and  every 
peacekeeping  mission,  as  well  as  the  viability  of 
ongoing  missions  that  should  turn  from  peacekeeping 
to  peacebuilding.  The  practice  of  clustering  all 
peacekeeping  funding  together  for  the  approval  of 
Member  States  without  a  critical  analysis  of  the  need 
for specific missions needs to be stopped. 

As the United Nations has shown that it can work 
in  cooperation  with  regional  partners  such  as  the 
European  Union  and  the  African  Union,  this  may  be 
one  way  of  managing  the  staggering  costs  of  United 
Nations  peacekeeping.  It  would  also  allow  regional 
partners  some  measure  of  ownership  over 
the 
maintenance  of  peace  and  security  in  their  regions, 
with the United Nations standing by to offer technical 
and strategic support. 

The  global  economic  crisis  has  put  a  damper  on 
the momentum of the international community when it 
comes  to  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  in  general,  specifically  when  it  comes  to  the 
problem  of  eradicating  poverty.  The  United  Nations 
4 

09-54337 
But 
in 
its  2006 
reform 
At 
this 
initiatives, 
to  express 
responses.  But 
juncture,  allow  me 
the  Organization  has  done  well 


assessment  that  more  than  100  million  people  have 
regressed to  a state of extreme  poverty is sobering,  to 
say the least. The Organization will need to work even 
harder  to  fulfil  the  Secretary-General’s  promise  of 
delivering to those most in need. 

its 
coordinated efforts and cooperation with other entities 
in  responding  to  international  calamities.  Buoyed  by 
the  success  of 
the 
Organization  must  be  commended  for  its  efforts  to 
fully  mobilize  the  resources  at  its  disposal  for  quick 
and  effective  humanitarian 
the 
Organization  must  not  be  complacent. The  increase  in 
the  total  funding  for  humanitarian  operations  received 
from Member States in 2008 must be matched this year 
and  the  next  so  that  the  worldwide  humanitarian 
assistance provided by the United Nations will be able 
to continue. 

the 
condolences  of  my  Government  and  its  people  to  the 
people of Indonesia in connection with the devastating 
quake  that  hit  the  island  of  Sumatra  recently.  I 
understand that a United Nations assessment team will 
be in Padang this Friday to determine the extent of the 
humanitarian  assistance  that  will  be  needed  in  the 
weeks  and  months  to  come.  Similarly,  I  would  like  to 
extend  our  condolences  to  Samoa  and  the  Philippines 
with  regard  to  the  devastation  and  loss  of  life  caused, 
respectively, by the tsunami and typhoon. 

On 24 September 2009, the United Nations took a 
big  step  in  connection  with  the  issue  of  nuclear 
non-proliferation  and  disarmament.  In  particular,  the 
Security  Council  summit  placed  the  matter  clearly  in 
the  international  spotlight. If  ever  there  was  a  time  to 
capitalize  on  the  attention  that  has  been  generated 
around  this  issue,  it  is  now.  The  Secretary-General 
must do all he can to keep the question on the agenda, 
time  creating  a  conducive 
while  at 
environment 
this 
particular matter. The Organization’s most recent push 
in this area will hopefully hasten the entry into force of 
the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. 

Climate  change  is  another  important  area  in 
which  the  Secretary-General  has  not  shown  hesitancy. 
The problem  becomes graver  with  every passing year. 
This  year’s  meeting  at  Copenhagen  needs  to  deliver 
results. As it should be, the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) is the main 
for  Member  States 
to  pursue 
the  same 
A/64/PV.14
for 
the 
the  2010 
resources  necessary 
the  sixty-fourth  session  of 
forum in which climate change is addressed. All other 
meetings  held  outside  of  the  scope  of  the  UNFCCC 
should  supplement  the  work  of  the  Convention,  not 
duplicate it. The Organization as a whole has been able 
to  assist  national  Governments  in  implementing  the 
agreements related to climate change. We commend the 
effort  by  the  United  Nations  Environment  Programme 
to  launch  the  Green  Economy  Initiative  and  Global 
Green  New  Deal,  as  announced  at  Pittsburgh  in 
September 2009. Those are the kinds of deals that the 
United Nations should always try to seal. 
As  we  start  the  work  of  the  Main  Committees 

during 
the  General 
Assembly,  Malaysia  notes  that  the  United  Nations 
budget  for 
to  2011  biennium  will  be 
negotiated  this  year.  Given  today’s  difficult  economic 
situation, we call upon Member States to provide, in a 
timely  manner, 
the 
functioning  of  the  Organization’s  operations.  We  urge 
the Organization to prioritize its areas of responsibility 
and  to  allocate  those  resources  accordingly.  Cutting 
corners  is  a  must,  but  not  at  the  expense  of  the  core 
business of the United Nations. 

Finally,  pursuant  to  the  report  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly  (A/63/959),  more  must  be  done  to  raise  the 
profile  of  both  the  United  Nations  and  the  General 
Assembly itself. The Department of Public Information 
must be tenacious in its efforts to generate wider media 
coverage  of  the  issues  being  debated  at  the  General 
Assembly.  Because  the  United  Nations  should  not 
stand in isolation, Malaysia welcomes the initiative of 
the  Secretary-General 
to  different 
segments  of  society  through  programmes  such  as  the 
Global  Compact  and  the  recently  launched  Academic 
Impact.  Multi-stakeholder  approaches  are  very  much 
the norm now. Any effort that advances the causes that 
we  as  Member  States  hold  dear  in  our  hearts  must  be 
supported. 
The  delegation  of  Malaysia  stands  ready  to 

strengthen  the  Organization’s  capabilities  to  function 
effectively and efficiently so that it may turn to doing 
its  job  in  fulfilling  the  needs  of  the  peoples  of  the 
world who are most in need. 
Mr. Abdelaziz  (Egypt)  (spoke  in Arabic): Allow 

me  at  the  outset  to  express  our  deep  gratitude  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  report  on  the 
work  of  the  Organization  (A/64/1)  and  for  its  clear 
reach  out 
to 
09-54337 

5 
Yet,  despite 
to  collective 
the  Secretary-General’s 
A/64/PV.14 

message  that  the  huge  challenges  currently  facing  our 
world  make  it  imperative  to  strengthen  our  collective 
multilateral  action,  with  the  United  Nations  at  its 
centre. 
tireless 

efforts  aimed  at  enhancing 
the  Organization’s 
credibility  by  laying  out  plans  for  reforming  and 
energizing it so that it may better perform its functions, 
the success of the United Nations in fulfilling its duties 
with 
the  necessary  efficiency,  effectiveness  and 
integrity  depends  on  the  political  will  of  Member 
States  and  on  the  support  they  give  the  Secretary-
General  so  that  he  can  carry  out  his  duties  as  well  as 
possible.  This  year’s  report  shows  that  the  challenges 
we  are  facing  require  global  multilateral  action  that 
draws  on  the  strengths  of  all  countries  and  on  their 
respective  contributions 
international 
action. 

Development  activities,  deservedly,  are  at  the 
forefront  of  the  report,  which  explains  that  the  world 
financial  crisis  and 
the  accompanying  economic 
downturn  have  resulted  in  a  shortage  of  the  resources 
needed 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  so  that  we 
will have to redouble our efforts between now and the 
target date of 2015. It is thus of pivotal importance that 
the Secretary-General submit to the 2010 MDG review 
summit concrete proposals in all areas of development, 
in  particular  social  development,  which  has  not  yet 
received  sufficient  support.  I  would  also  like  to 
commend  the  report’s  discussion  of  the  intention  to 
establish  a  comprehensive  approach  within  the  United 
Nations  system  for  addressing  crises,  as  well  as  a 
global  early  warning  system  for  determining  possible 
impacts  and  identifying  the  most  vulnerable  parties. 
This  will  require  Member  States  to  work  towards  that 
goal and put in place the necessary machinery. 

This situation belies the claim made by developed 
countries  that  the  world  financial  and  economic  crisis 
justifies  abandoning 
financing 
commitments. On the contrary, from the point of view 
of  the  developing  countries,  not  only  has  the  current 
crisis  made  it  even  more  important  for  developed 
countries  to  carry  out  their  previous  development 
commitments 
financial 
contributions  actually  need  to  be  increased  to  help 
developing countries overcome the ramifications of the 
crisis itself, not to mention other crises they face. This 
is  particularly  true  of  commitments  to  Africa,  since 
the  work  of  achieving 
their  development 
to  continue 
that 
in 
full; 
it  means 

the 
that 
the  exacerbation  of 
many of these have yet to be fulfilled, which threatens 
the  ability  of  the  majority  of  the  continent’s  countries 
to attain the MDGs by the year 2015. 

Moreover, we share the Secretary-General’s view 
that  2009  should  be  the  year  for  confronting  climate 
change.  The  Secretary-General  has  exerted  massive 
efforts  to  influence  international  action  on  this  issue, 
most recently the successful summit he convened at the 
beginning  of  the  sixty-fourth  session. All  such  efforts 
should be built upon in order to reach a new agreement 
at  December’s  Copenhagen  Climate  Change 
Conference 
international 
guarantees 
community’s unity on the issue. 

The Egyptian delegation agrees with the warning 
in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  that  a  deteriorating 
economic  situation  could  possibly  lead  to  political 
tension  and 
internal  crises, 
threatening  stability  in  Africa.  We  also  agree  that 
greater  emphasis  should  be  placed  on  United  Nations 
efforts  in  the  fields  of  preventive  diplomacy,  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  post-conflict 
peacebuilding. Last year the General Assembly adopted 
the  Secretary-General’s  proposals  for  increasing  the 
role  of  the  Department  of  Political Affairs  in  the  area 
of preventive diplomacy (see resolution 63/261).  

We  should  also  turn  our  attention  to  reform  of 
peacekeeping  operations,  especially  in  the  light  of  the 
positive  outcome  resulting  from  the  separation  of  the 
Departments  of  Peacekeeping  Operations  and  Field 
Support.  This  will  require  an 
in-depth  study  of 
initiatives  aimed  at  promoting  and  enhancing  the 
effectiveness  of 
in 
peacekeeping operations, based on the “New Horizon” 
non-paper and taking into consideration the views and 
suggestions  of  Member  States,  in  a  framework  of 
transparency and frankness that reflects the interests of 
all parties: host countries, troop contributors and donor 
countries. 

By the same token, Egypt firmly supports the role 
of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  in  promoting  peace 
and  stability  in  post-conflict  countries,  especially  in 
Africa. We  also  welcome  the  committee’s  priorities  in 
defining the general strategic framework formulated by 
the national authorities in each country, in coordination 
and cooperation with the United Nations, especially the 
Peacebuilding  Commission.  In  this  regard,  we  stress 
the  necessity  of  considering  a  number  of  specific 
measures during the 2010 comprehensive review of the 
the  United  Nations 
role 
6 

09-54337 
all 
for 
that 
active 
parties, 
support 
national 


Peacebuilding  Commission.  Most  important  of  these 
are:  strengthening  the  principle  of  national  ownership 
in  all  phases  of  peacebuilding;  enhancing  and 
developing  the  institutional  relationship  between  the 
Commission  and  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security 
Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council;  and 
developing  the  relationship  between  the  Commission 
and 
including 
non-governmental  organizations  and  civil  society.  We 
should  also  ensure 
the  General  Assembly 
continues  to  support  and  strengthen  the  Peacebuilding 
Support  Office  and  provide  the  Commission  with  the 
posts  and  financial  resources  required  for  holding 
meetings  and  fulfilling  relevant  tasks,  including  field 
visits,  as  well  as  providing 
the 
Peacebuilding Fund. 
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  natural  disasters  that 

have  befallen 
the  Philippines,  Indonesia,  Samoa, 
American  Samoa  and  other  places  emphasize  the 
importance  of  continued  improvement  of  the  United 
Nations role in providing humanitarian assistance, in a 
manner  that  enhances  its  effectiveness  in  countries 
affected  by  disasters,  whether  natural  or  man-made, 
especially  as  regards  institutional  capacity-building 
aimed  at  helping  such  countries  respond  effectively 
and  successfully.  This  should  begin  with  a  preventive 
stage  helping  countries 
improve  prediction,  early 
warning  and  preparedness;  it  should  be  followed  with 
assistance  aimed  at  mitigating  a  disaster’s  impact, 
embarking on reconstruction and moving forward from 
relief to development. 
In spite of the steps taken within the multilateral 

framework  to  promote  respect  for  human  rights,  and 
the radical reforms represented in the establishment of 
the Human Rights Council and the introduction of the 
periodic review mechanism, there are still attempts by 
some 
through 
selectivity  and  double  standards,  as  a  pretext  for 
interfering in countries’ internal affairs, contrary to the 
United  Nations  Charter.  We  therefore  look  forward  to 
continued  strengthening  of  the  role  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  in  the  light  of  developments  resulting 
from  the  agreement  on  the  Council’s  institutional 
structure. We also await a comprehensive evaluation in 
2011  of  the  Council’s  work,  strengthening  it  and 
enabling it to take on the substantive role expected of 
it,  in  coordination  with  the  Office  of  the  United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights.  This 
should also put an end to any attempt to impose special 
to  politicize  human  rights 
issues, 
A/64/PV.14
the 
the 
Within 
look  forward 
framework  of 
the  efforts  of 
As  we  welcome 
concepts  or  standards,  or  to  give  political  and  civic 
dimensions  priority  at 
the  expense  of  economic, 
cultural, and social ones, while giving due attention to 
the right to development as a cornerstone of capacity-
building  efforts  and  promoting  respect  for  human 
rights and basic freedoms. 

the  High 
Representative  for  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  we 
would like to point out with a note of caution that this 
noble  concept  is  still  more  a  theory  than  a  practical 
reality.  It  will  require  greater  action  on  the  part  of 
academic,  cultural  and  media  institutions  to  resist 
misconceptions  and  stereotypes  and  promote 
the 
concepts of tolerance, peaceful coexistence and respect 
for cultural specificities. 

reform  and 
development process launched at the World Summit in 
2005, Egypt has participated effectively in the ongoing 
consultations regarding the responsibility to protect, as 
outlined  in  paragraphs  138  and  139  of  the  Summit 
Outcome  (resolution  60/1).  We 
to 
continuing  this  constructive  dialogue  with  a  view  to 
formulating a common, serious and objective approach, 
overcoming  fears,  and  affirming  the  concepts  of  early 
warning  and  capacity-building  as  main  pillars  of  that 
responsibility,  without  politicization  or  double 
standards. 

Together  during  the  sixty-third  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  we  managed  a  step  towards  an 
important  and  essential  common  goal,  namely,  gender 
equality  and  the  empowerment  of  women  to  practice 
their  fundamental  rights  and  to  realize  their  creative 
potentials.  We  hope  that  positive  momentum  will 
continue during the sixty-fourth session. 
Within  the  framework  of  the  intergovernmental 

process to consider the recommendations of the Report 
of  the  High-level  Panel  on  United  Nations  System-
wide  Coherence  (see  A/61/583),  and  as  Chair  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM),  Egypt  contributed, 
through  the  NAM  Joint  Coordinating  Committee  and 
the  Group  of  77  and  China,  along  with  our  partners 
from developed countries, to the adoption by consensus 
of  resolution  63/311.  That  represented  a  step  forward 
towards qualitatively enhancing the gender architecture 
within 
towards 
achieving  the  required  and  necessary  enhancement  of 
financing and governance systems. It also assures that 
issues  related  to  business  practices  and  the  “One 
the  United  Nations  and  moving 
09-54337 

7 

A/64/PV.14 

United  Nations”  programme  will  continue 
to  be 
addressed.  We  look  forward  to  continuing  our  joint 
efforts in this regard during the sixty-fourth session. 

We still have a great deal of work to accomplish 
on  both  revitalizing  the  role  of  the  General Assembly 
and  reforming  and  expanding  the  membership  of  the 
Security  Council.  Both  issues  are  interrelated  and  are 
linked  to  several  aspects  of  United  Nations  reform 
which  could  restore  the  institutional  balance  that  is 
currently  lacking  among  the  principal  organs  of  the 
Organization. This imbalance results in the loss of the 
fundamental  character  and  identity  of  the  United 
Nations  as  the  engine  of  multilateral  international 
action. 

Last  but  not  least,  Egypt  welcomes  the  recent 
initiatives  which  created  an  encouraging  momentum 
towards  achieving  the  goal  of  a  world  free  of  nuclear 
weapons.  We  share  the  Secretary-General’s  view  that 
the  review  process  of  the  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation 
Treaty  (NPT)  has  regained  some  of  the  momentum  it 
had lost in 2005, which could help towards the success 
of the 2010 NPT Review Conference. 
However,  realizing  such  expectations  requires 

that the credibility of the NPT be strengthened through 
achievement  of  the  Treaty’s  universality,  with  the 
accession  of  all  countries  without  exception.  That 
the  creation  of  a 
should  not  be  done 
discriminatory  reality 
impose  additional 
commitments  and  restrictions  on 
the  non-nuclear 
member  countries  while  giving  countries  that  are  not 
parties  to  the  Treaty  the  freedom  to  develop  their 
nuclear  weapons  programmes.  That  would  impose  a 
new  nuclear  reality  outside  the  framework  of  the 
Treaty. 
the 

In 
Secretary-General  would  refer  in  his  report  to  Israel’s 
ambiguous  nuclear  capabilities,  which  create  an 
unacceptable  exception  in  the  Middle  East,  especially 
since  the  indefinite  extension  of  the  NPT  in  1995 
included integrated arrangements  and specific steps  to 
address  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East  that  have  not 
yet been implemented. 
Hence,  I  reaffirm  once  again  that  the  success  of 

the 2010 Review Conference will depend primarily on 
the implementation of the terms agreed for the Treaty’s 
indefinite  extension,  especially 
the  Conference’s 
resolution  on  the  Middle  East.  Egypt  will  make  the 
utmost  effort  to  promote  the  balanced  implementation 
that  context,  we  were  hoping 
through 
that  will 
that 
take 
relations 
and 
strengthen 
this  opportunity 
of  that  agreement,  with  a  view  to  supporting  the 
non-proliferation  regime  and  the  initiatives  that  were 
launched in that regard. 

Mr.  Liu  Zhenmin  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 
The  Chinese  delegation  welcomes  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon’s report on the work of the Organization 
(A/64/1).  I 
to  express  my 
appreciation and gratitude to Mr. Ban Ki-moon for his 
diligent  work  and  outstanding  performance  over  the 
past year. 
Deepening  economic  globalization  and  the  rapid 

development  of  science  and  technology  have  further 
strengthened the interdependence among countries and 
regions.  Countries  worldwide  find  their  interests  and 
destinies  increasingly  integrated.  No  one  can  remain 
immune  to  the  acute  challenges  presented  by  the 
financial  and  economic  crisis,  climate  change  and  the 
need  to  provide  security  in  the  areas  of  food,  energy, 
resources and public health. And no one can cope with 
these  challenges  single-handed.  In  the  face  of  these 
unprecedented  opportunities  and  challenges,  we  must 
opt for multilateralism, promote the democratization of 
international 
global 
coordination and cooperation. 

fundamental 
the 
improvement  and  the  grave  lack  of  resource  for 
development,  developing  countries  are  now  facing 
further domestic economic difficulties and a worsening 
external  development  environment  as  a  result  of  the 
international  financial  crisis.  That  crisis  has  caused 
immense  setbacks 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).  

not 
countries 
responsible  for  the  outbreak  of  this  crisis,  they  are  its 
principal  victims.  In  coping  with  the  international 
financial  crisis,  we  should  also  pay  attention  to  the 
unprecedented  development  crisis.  Any  endeavour  to 
address  the  financial  crisis  must  take  into  account  the 
need for development, particularly the special concerns 
of the least developed countries and African countries. 

The  United  Nations  should  increase  its  input  in 
development,  play  a  bigger  role  in  responding  to  the 
financial  crisis  and  promoting  development,  and  work 
hard to create an international environment favourable 
to  the  development  of  developing  countries  so  as  to 
ensure the timely attainment of the MDGs. The success 
of  the  high-level  Conference  on  the  World  Financial 
and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on  Development, 
their  efforts 
In  addition 
developing 
to  attain 
to 
lack  of 
in 
Although 
are 
8 

09-54337 
in 
still 
faces  numerous  difficulties 


held  during  the  sixty-third  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  demonstrated  the  important  role  of  the 
General Assembly in responding to the financial crisis. 
China  supports  the  full  implementation  of  action  to 
follow up on the outcome of the Conference. 

Climate change involves the common interests of 
all  countries,  particularly  the  development  interests  of 
developing  countries  and  the  welfare  of  their  peoples. 
At  the  recent  United  Nations  Summit  on  Climate 
Change,  President  Hu  Jintao  of  China  set  out  my 
country’s position on climate change and announced a 
series  of  measures  that  China  will  take  in  this  regard. 
As  the  world’s  most  populous  developing  country, 
China 
its 
development endeavours. 

Nevertheless, it puts great  emphasis on the issue 
of  climate  change.  We  will  work  together  with  other 
countries,  take  a  responsible  approach  to  the  issue, 
abide by the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate  Change  and  its  Kyoto  Protocol  as  the  main 
channel  for  tackling  climate  change,  adhere  to  the 
principle of common but differentiated responsibilities 
and  the  mandate  of  the  Bali  Road  Map,  and  make 
active  efforts  to  push  for  the  success  of  the  Climate 
Change Conference to be held in Copenhagen. 

While  the  overall  international  security  situation 
is  stable,  some  long-standing  hot-spot  issues  remain 
unresolved,  and  regional  conflicts  still  flare  up  from 
time  to  time.  The  financial  and  economic  crisis  has 
exacerbated existing social problems in some countries 
and has triggered new social conflicts — even political 
turbulence.  

The  international  struggle  against  terrorism  still 
faces  daunting  challenges.  Somali  pirates  now  pose  a 
new threat to the security of international shipping. In 
places  such  as  the  Middle  East,  Darfur,  the  Horn  of 
Africa,  Iraq  and  Afghanistan,  the  United  Nations  is 
playing  a  significant  role  in  peacekeeping  and  post-
conflict reconstruction. 

At  the  request  of  the  countries  and  regional 
organizations  concerned,  the  United  Nations  has  also 
been  actively  engaged  in  good  offices  efforts  and 
preventive  diplomacy,  thus  contributing  to  preventing 
the  further  escalation  of  instability.  Facts  have  proven 
that, 
issues  and 
international disputes, it is imperative to adhere both to 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations and to peaceful dialogue. In deploying United 
in  addressing  regional  hot-spot 
A/64/PV.14
Nations peacekeeping missions, equal attention should 
be paid to promoting political negotiations. 

China is firmly opposed to all forms of terrorism, 
separatism  and  extremism.  Combating 
terrorism 
requires  the  elimination  of  the  breeding  grounds  for 
terrorism.  Double  standards  should  not  be  allowed  in 
the  fight  against  terrorism;  nor  should  terrorism  be 
linked  with  any  specific  country,  ethnic  group  or 
religion. Within the framework of the Global Counter-
Terrorism Strategy, the United Nations should continue 
to integrate the resources of the relevant organs of the 
system and implement the four pillars  of the Counter-
Terrorism  Strategy  in  a  comprehensive  and  balanced 
manner. 

Mr.  Mohamad  (Sudan),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
The  process  of 

international  arms  control, 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation  now  faces  an 
important opportunity. Countries should set their sights 
on  the  goal  of  universal  security,  uphold  the  new 
security concept characterized by mutual trust, mutual 
benefit, equality and cooperation, give full play to the 
role  of  multilateral  mechanisms,  including  the  United 
Nations,  continuously  consolidate  and  reinforce  the 
existing  multilateral  mechanisms  for  arms  control, 
disarmament 
strengthen 
dialogue  and  cooperation  in  the  field  of  security  and 
make  joint  efforts  to  create  a  harmonious  and  stable 
security  environment  at  the  international  and  regional 
levels.  China  has  always  stood  for  the  comprehensive 
prohibition  and  total  destruction  of  nuclear  weapons 
and for the realization of a nuclear-weapon-free world. 
The 
should  effectively 
promote the process of nuclear disarmament, eliminate 
the  risk  of  nuclear  proliferation  and  promote  the 
peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  and  international 
cooperation in this regard. 

China  supports  the  necessary  and  reasonable 
reform of the United Nations as a means to enhance its 
authority  and  efficiency, 
to 
respond  to  various  threats  and  challenges  and  fulfil 
more  effectively  the  responsibilities  entrusted  to  it 
under  the  Charter.  While  some  positive  progress  has 
been  achieved in the  reform of the  Organization since 
2005, there is still some way to go towards meeting the 
expectations  of  Member  States.  The  reform  of  the 
United  Nations  should  be  a  multidimensional  and 
multisectoral  undertaking  with  particular  emphasis  on 
international  community 
non-proliferation, 
and 
increase 
its  capacity 
09-54337 

9 

resources 
the  Assembly  and 
A/64/PV.14 

development, which is the major concern of developing 
countries.  It  is  necessary  to  increase  inputs  in  that 
field,  guarantee 
for  development  and 
strengthen development institutions. 

China  supports  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly,  which  we  believe  is  the  joint  political 
responsibility  of  all  Member  States. The  revitalization 
of  the Assembly  should  first  of  all  find  expression  in 
the active participation of Member States in the policy 
deliberations  of 
the  effective 
implementation of its resolutions and decisions.  

China supports Security Council reform, which is 
an  important  part  of  the  overall  reform  of  the  United 
Nations.  China  is  of  the  view  that  priority  should  be 
given  to  increasing  the  representation  of  developing 
countries  in  the  Council,  especially African  countries. 
The 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council  reform  have  provided  a  new  platform  for 
Member  States  to  explore  this  issue.  We  hope  that 
Member  States  will  continue  broad-based  and 
democratic  consultations  with  a  view  to  achieving  the 
widest possible agreement on a package solution to all 
categories of questions on Security Council reform.  

China  supports  a  strengthened  United  Nations 
capacity  for  peacebuilding  endeavours.  China  hopes 
that  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  will  integrate  the 
resources  of  the  relevant  United  Nations  organs, 
strengthen coordination and cooperation with them and 
continue to seek successful ways to assist countries in 
post-conflict  situations  in  their  efforts  to  engage  in 
peaceful  reconstruction  and  embark  upon  the  path 
towards stability and development. 

The  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
is one of the important achievements of United Nations 
reform.  The  Human  Rights  Council  has  witnessed  an 
improvement  in  its  institutional  operation  and  in  its 
rights 
capacity 
situations  and 
internal 
confrontations.  Since  the  Human  Rights  Council  is 
expected  to  be  a  forum  in  which  human  rights  issues 
are  dealt  with  in  a  fair,  objective  and  non-selective 
manner, China hopes that, in taking part in the work of 
the Human Rights Council, various parties will proceed 
from the standpoint of promoting and protecting human 
rights,  avoid  politicizing  human  rights  issues,  pay 
equal  attention  to  all  kinds  of  human  rights,  increase 
mutual  understanding  and  narrow  differences  on  the 
to  emerging  human 
to  reduce 
the  number  of 
to 
respond 
10 

the  context  of 
question of human rights through dialogue, cooperation 
and communication. 

The  United  Nations  needs  a  stable  financial 
foundation in order to function normally. The principle 
of  the  capacity  to  pay  is  the  basic  tenet  in  defining 
ways  to  assess  contributions.  It  should  continue  to  be 
upheld.  Stability  should  be  maintained  in  the  scale  of 
assessments  and 
its  calculation  methods.  That 
contributes  to  a  stable  financial  foundation  for  the 
United  Nations.  In 
the  ongoing 
expansion and deepening of the international financial 
crisis,  maintaining  the  current  method  of  calculating 
contribution  assessments  is  in  the  interests  of  the 
majority of States. 

In  his  speech  during  the  general  debate  at  this 
session  of  the  General Assembly,  President  Hu  Jintao 
of China called on the international community to join 
hands in the march forward, uphold the ideals of peace, 
development,  cooperation,  win-win  progress  and 
tolerance  and  work  towards  a  harmonious  world  of 
enduring  peace  and  common  prosperity.  China  will 
continue  to  firmly  support  the  United  Nations  in 
playing a central role in international affairs, resolutely 
stand  for  the  maintenance  and  enhancement  of  the 
authority  of  the  Organization  and  work  tirelessly  for 
the  noble  cause  of  peace  and  the  development  of 
humankind. 
Mrs.  Viotti  (Brazil):  I  would  like  to  thank 

Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  report  on  the 
work of the Organization (A/64/1), which describes the 
activities  of  the  United  Nations  during  a  period 
characterized  by  multiple  and  combined  crises.  We 
appreciate the continued efforts of both  the Secretary-
General  and  the  Secretariat  to  promote  the  purposes 
and principles of the United Nations. 

The  report  calls  for  a  new  multilateralism  as  the 
way  forward  for  the  international  community  to  meet 
the  challenges  brought  about  by 
the  economic, 
financial,  food,  energy,  environmental  and  health 
crises.  That  has  been  Brazil’s  vision  for  a  long  time 
now.  Ever  since  he  took  office,  President  Lula  has 
called  for,  and  worked  towards,  globalization  with 
solidarity and social responsibility. 

The  universal  character  of  the  United  Nations 
makes  it  an  invaluable  platform  to  foster  global 
cooperation  on  our  common  challenges.  In  order  to 
maintain  that  fundamental  feature,  the  United  Nations 
system must reform and strengthen itself.  
09-54337 
The 
to  finding  solutions 
for  developing  countries 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on 



The  General  Assembly  has  provided  ample 
evidence of its own vitality by addressing some of the 
most urgent and pressing issues facing the international 
community.  The  interactive  dialogues  on  the  food 
crisis, energy efficiency and human trafficking and the 
Conference  on  the  World  Financial  and  Economic 
Crisis and Its Impact on Development are examples of 
the renewed impetus of this organ.  
The General Assembly has also shown leadership 

in  holding 
the 
reform of the Security Council. A new multilateralism 
calls  for  a  new  Security  Council  —  one  with  greater 
representation 
in  both 
categories of membership. 

increased  participation  of  developing 
countries in  multilateral regimes is  a  means of raising 
their  voices  with  regard 
to 
problems  that  concern  and  severely  affect  them.  It 
cannot, and must not, mean shifting to their shoulders a 
burden  that  is  not  theirs.  This  is  especially  true  with 
regard to the economic and climate crises. Although a 
host  of  measures  have  been  devised  within  several 
forums  in  recent  months  to  avoid  economic  collapse 
and  to  build  the  foundations  for  recovery,  much  more 
needs to be done.  

Developing  countries  need  new  and  additional 
resources  for  the  implementation  of  countercyclical 
policies.  Financial  market  regulations  need  to  be 
overhauled in developed countries to avert a recurrence 
of  the  problems  that  generated  the  global  crisis,  with 
its  serious  implications  for  developing  countries.  In 
addition, 
jobs-
intensive,  promote  decent  work  for  all  and  establish 
adequate  social  protections.  Its  effects  must  be 
widespread  and  reach, 
the  poorest 
countries. 

to 
development  cannot  be  overstated.  Bold  commitments 
must be taken in Copenhagen within the framework of 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change (UNFCCC) and its Kyoto Protocol, and based 
the  principle  of  common  but  differentiated 
on 
responsibilities 
If 
developing countries are to embark on the path of low-
carbon  development,  access 
transfer  of 
technology will be imperative, as will be adequate new 
and  additional  financial  resources  both  for  nationally 
to  climate  change, 
recovery  must  be 
the  economic 
in  particular, 
With  regard 
capabilities. 
respective 
to  and 
link 
and 
its 
A/64/PV.14
in 
to 
in  2002 
agriculture, 
particularly 
food  security 
that  can  allow 
appropriate mitigation actions and for adaptation under 
the provisions of the UNFCCC. 

We need to forge a new international covenant to 
foster sustainable development. It is important that we 
recommit  to  the  agreements  and  goals  set  in  1992  in 
Rio  de  Janeiro  at  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Environment  and  Development,  and 
in 
Johannesburg,  at  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable 
Development. A new conference in 2012 is warranted, 
in our view. We are encouraged by the support we have 
received  from  the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  from 
other countries for our offer to host that conference. 

Concerns  over  food  security  must  also  remain 
high  on  our  agenda.  In  addition  to  taking  urgent 
measures  to  ensure  that  sufficient  food  reaches  the 
hungry  and  vulnerable  in  a  timely  manner,  we  must 
address  the  underlying  distortions  that  have  generated 
underinvestment 
in 
developing  countries.  We  also  need  an  integrated 
approach 
for 
comprehensive  and  long-lasting  solutions.  Such  an 
approach  must  include  investment  in  production  and 
infrastructure,  research, 
trade,  social  safety  nets, 
emergency  food  assistance  and  nutrition.  Special 
attention  and  support  should  be  given  to  the  food  and 
agricultural needs of Africa. 

We  welcome  the  auspicious  signs  of  recent 
months in the area of disarmament. We  must build on 
the 
such  progress.  The  entry 
force  of 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  and 
the 
commencement of substantive negotiations on a fissile 
material  treaty  would  significantly  strengthen  the 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation  regime.  There  is  a 
clear  and  inextricable  link  between  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation; 
reinforcing 
processes  in  which  the  best  guarantee  against  nuclear 
proliferation  is  nuclear  disarmament.  The  balance 
between 
the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  must  be 
maintained. 

another 
important element of our efforts to make and keep the 
world  safe  for  all.  Having  experienced  unprecedented 
levels  of  deployment 
increasingly  complex 
situations,  peacekeeping  should  be  adapted  to  the 
needs 
century.  Enhanced 
cooperation  among  the  Security  Council,  troop-  and 
police-contributing  countries, 
the  Secretariat  and 
they  are  mutually 
United  Nations 
three  pillars  of 
the  Treaty  on 
peacekeeping 
twenty-first 
into 
the 
the 
of 
is 
in 
09-54337 

11 

peacekeeping 
peacemaking, 
The  Human  Rights  Council  continues 
A/64/PV.14 

regional organizations is key to successfully addressing 
the challenges before us. 

The  peacebuilding  efforts  of  the  United  Nations 
are another tool at our disposal in the search for peace 
and  development.  They  are  already  bearing  fruit  in 
Burundi,  Sierra  Leone,  Guinea-Bissau  and  the  Central 
African  Republic. We  must  continue  to  strengthen  the 
United  Nations  peacebuilding  structures  and  make 
them  more  responsive  to  the  needs  of  countries 
emerging from conflict. The synergies between conflict 
prevention, 
and 
peacebuilding should be strengthened. 

Conflicts, the food crisis and natural disasters are 
redoubling  the  pressures  on  humanitarian  assistance. 
We  commend  the  progress  made  in  ensuring  more 
timely,  predictable  and  accountable  humanitarian 
responses  from  the  United  Nations  system,  as  well  as 
strengthened responses to United Nations consolidated 
and  flash  appeals.  It  is  unfortunate,  however,  that  the 
total  requirement  of  the  humanitarian  appeals  has  not 
been fully met. 

its 
important  work  of  promoting  and  defending  human 
rights.  The  implementation  of  the  Universal  Periodic 
Review,  the  adoption  of  the  Optional  Protocol  to  the 
International  Covenant  on  Economic,  Social  and 
Cultural Rights and the positive outcome of the Durban 
Review Conference are all relevant developments. The 
Council  must  continue  to  operate  in  a  non-selective 
and  constructive  manner,  while  maintaining 
the 
capacity to address situations of particular concern. 

Despite  its  many  shortcomings,  which  we  must 
keep  working  to  redress,  this  Organization  is  still 
mankind’s  best  hope  for  building  a  more  just  and 
humane international system. Today, I reiterate Brazil’s 
firm  commitment  to  such  a  lofty  yet  very  concrete 
endeavour. 
Mr. Dapkiunas (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): The 

Belarusian  delegation  supports  the  recommendation 
made  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his  report  (A/64/1) 
that  difficult  international  questions  be  addressed 
through  multilateralism.  We  share 
that 
multilateralism  has  never  been  as  important  as  it  is 
today,  and  that  the  multilateral  efforts  of  powerful 
countries  and  the  contributions  of  all  countries  are 
therefore  necessary  to  address  global  problems.  From 
the  viewpoint  of  Belarus,  multilateralism 
and 
partnerships  are  cooperative  mechanisms  that  have  no 
the  view 
the 
in 
tackling 
numerous 
the 
alternative 
that  within 
We  believe 
to  new  and 
viable 
and 
contradictory  global  problems.  The  Non-Aligned 
Movement has long affirmed that point.  

We  are  pleased  that,  after  a  long  interruption, 
countries  worldwide  are  again  thinking  in  terms  of  a 
single  coordinating  system  and  that  world  leaders  are 
beginning to talk in the common language of common 
sense. 

We  repeat the appeal made at the  general debate 
of  the  General Assembly  10  days  ago  by  the  Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Belarus  to  members  of  the 
international  community,  including  the  world  power 
centres  and  leading  political  groups,  to  translate  their 
good  intentions  into  practical  deeds  by  developing 
global partnerships and crisis strategies.  

framework  of 
multilateral efforts to promote the global good, greater 
attention should be paid to forming energy partnerships 
to  overcome 
the  global  energy  crisis.  We  need 
immediate  and  decisive  multilateral  action  in  the 
sphere  of  energy  to  establish  a  global  mechanism  to 
increase  access 
renewable  energy 
technologies  for  developing  countries  and  transitional 
economies, which could become a special new kind of 
partnership.  By  taking  part  in  such  a  mechanism,  all 
interested parties — including developed countries, the 
private sector and non-governmental entities — would 
make  it  possible  to  form  a  clear  framework  for 
coordinated action and to promote broad, universal use 
of 
technologies  and  new  and 
renewable  energy  sources.  Coordinating  efforts  in  the 
energy field will lay the foundation for a quantum leap 
forward.  Belarus  calls  on  the  delegations  of  United 
Nations  Member  States  and  the  Secretary-General  to 
study this question thoroughly. 

Belarus  also  supports  the  measures  proposed  by 
the  Secretary-General  to  combat  hunger,  poverty  and 
disease.  At  the  same  time,  we  believe  that  it  will  be 
impossible  to  implement  such  measures  without  first 
strengthening  the  economic  potential  and  the  political 
role  of  medium-income  States.  We  believe  that  the 
United  Nations  system  must  undertake  active  steps  to 
assist  those  countries  in  solving  their  specific  social 
and  economic  problems.  Success  in  the  work  of 
medium-income countries will make it possible to form 
a  stable  global  system  to  open  new  opportunities  for 
the  economic  growth  of  poor  countries  and  increase 
assistance for development. 
latest  energy 
12 

09-54337 
A 
to 
the 
this 
from 
rostrum 
few  days  ago, 



(see 
A/64/PV.10),  the  Belarus  delegation  informed  the 
Assembly  of  the  formation  of  one  of  the  most  up-to-
date global partnerships against human trafficking and 
slavery in the twenty-first century. The logical outcome 
of the creation of such a partnership should be a global 
plan of action for combating human trafficking.  

Important  steps  have  already  been  taken  to  that 
end. The idea of a global plan won wide support in the 
course of the thematic debates of the General Assembly 
in  May.  The  President  of  the  General Assembly  at  its 
sixty-third session appointed the ambassadors of Cape 
Verde and Portugal as coordinators for consultations on 
questions  of  producing  a  global  plan.  We  call  on  all 
delegations  to  take  an  active  part  in  the  work  of 
preparing  and  adopting  this  plan.  If  we  approach  this 
question  constructively,  we  will  be  able  to  translate 
into concrete effect the Secretary-General’s declaration 
that we are giving the highest priority to the problems 
of women and children.  

We  support  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  to 
keep  the  theme  of  human  rights  at  the  centre  of  the 
international  agenda.  We  see  the  development  of 
interfaith  and  intercultural  dialogue  as  the  basis  of 
stability  and  security  as  an  important  step  in  this 
recent  ministerial  meeting  on 
direction.  At 
interfaith  dialogue  for 
the  benefit  of  peace  and 
development  organized  by  the  Philippines,  Belarus 
suggested  the  idea  of  the  General Assembly’s  holding 
thematic  debates  on  interfaith  dialogue.  We  propose 
that  the  leaders  of  the  world’s  leading  religions  and 
faith-based  non-governmental  organizations  be  invited 
to  these  debates,  which  could  make  an  important 
contribution 
of  mutual 
understanding  and  respect  for  our  respective  cultures 
and religions. 

Belarus  welcomes  the  return  of  disarmament  to 
the international agenda and the attention accorded that 
important  issue  by  the  Secretary-General.  Belarus 
stresses  the  particular  role  and  responsibility  of  the 
nuclear-weapon  States.  We  note  with  satisfaction  the 
positive  signals  of  growing  attention  to  questions  of 
nuclear  disarmament  and  non-proliferation  within 
individual States and international forums. 

As  a  State  party  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Reduction 
and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, which is to 
expire  in  December  2009,  Belarus  welcomes  the 
intention  by  the  Russian  Federation  and  the  United 
development 
the 
A/64/PV.14
to 
In 
this  regard,  we  are  convinced 
legally  binding  security  assurances 
States  of  America  to  come  to  an  agreement  on  the 
further  reduction  and  limitation  of  their  strategic 
offensive weapons and to conclude new legally binding 
agreements.  Belarus’  adherence 
the  strategic 
offensive  weapons  Treaty  through  its  signature  of  the 
1992  Lisbon  Protocol  is  inseparably  linked  to  its 
decision to join the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons as a non-nuclear-weapon State. 

that  one 
important  priority,  along  with  nuclear  disarmament, 
non-proliferation  and  ensuring  genuine  and  equal 
access to peaceful nuclear technology, is the provision 
of  clear, 
to 
non-nuclear-weapon States. Unfortunately, the question 
of  providing  negative  security  guarantees 
is  not 
addressed in the report of the Secretary-General.  

After the tragic events of 11 September 2001, the 
United  Nations  assumed  a  lead  role  in  combating 
international  terrorism.  That  led,  in  2006,  to  the 
adoption  of  the  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy.  In 
the  context  of  the  counter-terrorism  efforts  mentioned 
in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General,  we  call  for 
consideration  of  the  idea  put  forth  during  the  general 
debate  by  the  Minister  for  Foreign Affairs  of  Belarus 
that  the  United  Nations  declare  11  September  the 
international  day  of  the  fight  against  terrorism  (see 
A/64/PV.10). 

The delegation of Belarus supports the efforts of 
the Secretary-General to strengthen the United Nations. 
We are impressed by his comparison of the Secretariat 
to  a  heart  and  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security 
Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to 
arteries  and  nerves  that  “transport  the  life  blood  and 
energy to the Organization” (A/64/1, para. 130).  
In  that  regard,  we  consider  it  imperative  to 

actively  pursue  the  work  of  revitalizing  the  General 
Assembly  so  as 
the 
Organization’s  cardiovascular  and  nervous  systems. 
The delegation of Belarus hopes that the realization of 
such proposals, as rightly pointed out by the Secretary-
General, will  make the  refurbishment of  the facade of 
the  Organization’s  Headquarters  into  a  symbol  of  its 
internal renewal. 
Mr.  Rosenthal  (Guatemala)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  the  presentation  of  his  clear  report  on  the 
work  of  the  Organization  (A/64/1).  We  note  that  the 
past 12 months, which have witnessed  so many major 
the  health  of 
to  maintain 
09-54337 

13 
In 

the 
issues 
relevant 
emerging 
A/64/PV.14 

events  throughout  the  world,  are  reflected  in  the 
diversity  and  intensity  of  the  activities  of  the  United 
Nations.  On  the  one  hand,  the  Organization  has  been 
able  to  address  the  emerging  challenges;  on  the  other 
hand,  however, 
results  have  been  mixed. 
Accordingly, it is worth highlighting some of the issues 
raised by the Secretary-General in his report. 

First, he has eloquently and persuasively outlined 
the scope and magnitude of what he  calls the tectonic 
shifts  that  are  shaping  the  emerging  global  landscape. 
Secondly, he has emphasized the diverse and numerous 
channels  of  interaction  between  nations  and  societies 
that  shape  the  high  level  of  interdependence  that,  for 
better or for worse, unites us. Thirdly, he has identified 
the  most 
affecting 
transnational phenomena. Fourthly, he has also stressed 
the increasing speed with which human endeavours are 
globalizing. 

In short, if we see the situation as an equation in 
which,  on  the  one  hand,  there  is  a  demand  for 
transnational efforts, and on the other, a response to or 
offer of such efforts, the demand side of the equation is 
broad, diverse and complex. Indeed, humanity is facing 
challenges  that  require  international  cooperation  as 
never  before.  The  Secretary-General  provides  some 
examples  in  his  report,  referring  to  the  impact  of  the 
financial  and  economic  crisis  on  the  feasibility  of 
meeting 
the 
challenge of climate change, the risks of the influenza 
H1N1  pandemic,  food  insecurity,  the  proliferation  of 
conventional  arms  and  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
and  countering  terrorism.  We  believe  that  he  should 
have  added  to  that  list  the  fight  against  transnational 
crime.  

In  any  event,  there  is  no  question  that  no  single 
country  among  us,  large  or  small,  is  equipped  to 
confront  these  challenges  on  its  own.  For  that  reason, 
when  we  look  at  the  other  side  of  the  equation  for 
addressing  the  challenges  —  that  is,  the  response  or 
supply  side  of  transnational  efforts  —  the  Secretary-
General  is  correct  in  pointing  out  the  imperative  of 
exploiting  the  vast  potential  of  multilateralism,  and, 
within it, of the United Nations.  

Today  as  in  the  past,  the  world  needs  our 
Organization.  It  is  a  well-worn  platitude  to  say  that  if 
the  United  Nations  did  not  exist,  it  would  have  to  be 
invented. That is undoubtedly true, but one might well 
wonder  whether  or  not  it  would  be  better  to  invent  a 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
years 
in 
in 
recent 
the 
logic  of 
century” 
“defining 
promoting 
in 
the  new 
that  regard,  following 
new organization instead of working under the weight 
of  the  old  petrified  structures  and  working  methods 
that so frequently slow down our work. I want to make 
it  clear  that  I  am  not  advocating  for  such  a  radical 
departure.  I  simply  want  to  make  the  point  of  how 
urgent reform is. 

that 
argument,  demand  changes  and  expands  very  rapidly, 
while  the  capacity  of  the  Organization  to  respond 
changes at glacial speed. Topics such as the reform of 
the  Security  Council,  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  system-wide  coherence,  which  have 
been  on  the  agenda  for  many  years,  attest  to  the 
sluggishness  that  characterizes  our  own  capacity  to 
adapt to changing circumstances. The report may well 
fall  short  on  that  score,  urging  us  to  accelerate  our 
efforts  in  bringing  about  the  rather  modest  progress 
achieved 
the 
organizational,  structural  and  normative  changes  that 
will  be  needed 
the  nature  of 
multilateralism 
(A/64/1, 
in 
para. 155).  

This  year  we  will  have  the  opportunity  to  make 
progress in that direction. We will have to approve the 
regular and peacekeeping budgets, as well as the scale 
of assessments for their financing. We will have to find 
a way to respond to the single most important pending 
matter,  namely,  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council, 
which would decidedly spark the reform of the United 
Nations system of governance. We will have to prepare 
ourselves  to  carry  out  an  in-depth  assessment  of  the 
degree  of  attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  We  are  poised  to  address  a  matter  that  could 
literally  define 
the 
Copenhagen  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change. 
We also have before us important decisions concerning 
disarmament, 
and 
international cooperation in general. 
Are we up to meeting the challenges? Part of the 

answer  must  be  sought  within  this  universal  forum, 
namely, the General Assembly. Of course it is difficult 
to  reconcile  the  sometimes  opposing  interests  of 
192 Member  States.  It  is  equally  difficult  to  face  the 
powerful  interests  in  the  real  world  around  us,  which 
are  affected  by  the  recommendations  and  actions 
promoted by the United Nations. At the end of the day, 
however,  a  climate  of  cooperation  must  prevail  over 
confrontation if we are to have at least an opportunity 
the  future  of  humankind  at 
respect 
for 
human 
rights 
14 

09-54337 
and 
the 
agencies 
specialized 


to  address  the  major  problems  affecting  humankind, 
among which we rank first providing the inhabitants of 
the planet with a level of material and spiritual welfare 
compatible  with  the  means  and  knowledge  that  are  at 
our disposal. We know what we have to do to eradicate 
poverty. We should now move on to action. 

Of  course,  adapting  the  Organization  is  not 
exclusively the work of intergovernmental bodies. The 
Secretariat 
and 
programmes all have a role to play. The responsibility 
falling  to  the  Secretary-General  is  therefore  daunting. 
For  our  part,  we  acknowledge  the  enormous  effort  of 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  to  live  up  to  his 
responsibilities  and  we  appreciate  the  transparency  of 
his  efforts,  as  reflected  in  his  periodic  meetings  with 
the General Assembly to inform us about his activities. 

I would like to take this opportunity early in our 
work  during  the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, and on today’s agenda item, to reiterate the 
commitment of our delegation to do everything within 
our power so that the United Nations can respond in a 
constructive  and  positive  manner 
the  great 
challenges described in the Secretary-General’s report. 
Mr.  Sinhaseni  (Thailand):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak  on  behalf  of  the  10  States  members  of  the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN), 
namely,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Cambodia,  Indonesia,  the 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Malaysia, 
Myanmar,  the  Philippines,  Singapore,  Thailand  and 
Viet Nam. 
At  the  outset,  may  I  join  the  President  of  the 

General  Assembly  in  expressing  condolences  to  our 
fellow  ASEAN  member  countries  of  Indonesia,  the 
Philippines  and  Samoa  for  the  natural  disasters  that 
recently befell them.  

ASEAN  wishes  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for his report on the work of the Organization (A/64/1).  

The  world  today  faces  multiple  global  crises.  It 
has become clear that, as the world becomes ever more 
interconnected, no country can solve such crises alone. 
Many  challenges  —  for  example,  climate  change, 
influenza  and  the  world  economic  crisis  —  require 
unity  of  purpose,  harmony  of  effort  and  a  spirit  of 
cooperation from all parties, large and small, rich and 
poor.  

Secretary-General 
ASEAN  fully  concurs  with  the  report  of  the 
that  we  are  now  at  a  critical 
to 
A/64/PV.14
supporter  of 
strong  and  consistent 
First,  ASEAN  attaches  great 
multilateral  moment.  Although  imperfect,  the  United 
Nations,  with  its  universal  membership  and  legitimate 
convening power, still stands out as the best instrument 
there  is  to  harmonize  interests  and  bring  the  world 
community together to advance the global public good. 
The onus is upon each and every Member State to live 
up to the expectations of our peoples and transform this 
critical  time  of  crisis  into  a  real  opportunity  to 
strengthen  this  collective  institution  that  we  all  own. 
This is a time that will test the collective commitment, 
resolve and unity of all Member States. 
As  it  has  always  been, ASEAN  will  continue  to 

be  a 
the 
multilateralism that is embodied in the United Nations. 
In  our  own  region, ASEAN  will  continue  to  do  all  it 
can  to  advance  the  goals  and  principles  enshrined  in 
the  Charter.  I  would  now  like  to  share  with  the 
Assembly ASEAN’s views on some critical issues.  

to 
importance 
development.  We  are  therefore  concerned  about  the 
impact  of  the  world  financial  and  economic  crisis  on 
the  development  of  countries  around  the  world,  in 
particular  those  that  are  most  vulnerable  to  external 
shocks.  We  are  concerned  that,  although  developed 
economies  have  been  significantly  affected  by  this 
most recent crisis, it is the poor and vulnerable people 
in developing economies who are being hit hardest and 
longest  by  this  downturn,  which  was  triggered  in 
another corner of the world. We are concerned that the 
economic  crisis,  when  coupled  with  the  food  security 
and energy crises, which have already caused strains in 
developing  countries,  not  only  will  prevent  those 
countries from realizing their Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs), but could reverse the hard-won gains. 

Here, ASEAN has made clear its concern, which 
derived from our own first-hand experience during the 
economic  crisis  of  the  late  1990s,  at  various  meetings 
of  the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  at  the  Group  of  20 
summits  in  London  and,  more  recently,  in  Pittsburgh. 
We  will  continue  to  stand  with  the  United  Nations  in 
emphasizing  the  human  face  of  this  economic  crisis 
and  the  necessity  of  assisting  the  poor  and  vulnerable 
populations in developing countries. 

The  current  world  economic  crisis  has  provided 
an impetus for ASEAN to strive for broader and deeper 
economic  integration  among  the  10 ASEAN  countries 
and between ASEAN and its regional partners, such as 
China,  Japan,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  Australia,  New 
09-54337 

15 
India.  While  pushing 
A/64/PV.14 

Zealand  and 
for  greater 
integration, ASEAN has also moved ahead with efforts 
to strengthen social safety nets in the region in order to 
cushion our population from the adverse impacts of the 
crisis.  

ASEAN  has  been  working  closely  with  our  Plus 
Three  partners  —  China,  Japan  and  the  Republic  of 
Korea — to strengthen that regional self-help financial 
mechanism  through  the  establishment  of  a  regional 
reserve  pooling  arrangement  under  the  Chiang  Mai 
Initiative Multilateralization (CMIM), with a total fund 
of  $120  billion.  We  look  forward  to  the  launching  of 
the  CMIM  by  the  end  of  2009.  ASEAN  and  its  Plus 
Three  partners  have  also  agreed  to  develop  a  regional 
surveillance  mechanism 
to  monitor  and  analyse 
regional  economies  and  to  support  CMIM  decision-
making. 

ASEAN  will  play  its  role  in  the  preparations  for 
the  upcoming  MDG  summit  next  year  and  will 
continue  to  emphasize  to  the  international  community 
that, unless we all translate the summit into meaningful 
changes  on  the  ground,  in  2015  we  will  end  up  with 
unfulfilled targets and promises. 

Secondly, tackling climate change is not a matter 
of luxury for ASEAN but an issue of utmost necessity. 
Year  after  year,  ASEAN  countries  endure  severe 
weather  patterns  resulting  from  climate  change,  all  of 
which entail enormous damage in terms both of human 
lives  and  of  economic  losses.  Memories  of  Cyclone 
Nargis, which struck Myanmar last year, and the latest 
massive  tropical  storms  that  have  hit  the  Philippines 
and  many  countries  in  South-East  Asia  offer  a  stark 
reminder of what is at stake to all the negotiators who 
are currently meeting in Bangkok at this very moment 
for  their  penultimate  round  of  negotiations  before  the 
Copenhagen  meeting  in  December. The  message  from 
nature  to  all  those  participating  in  the  negotiations  is 
clear:  either  we  put  aside  our  individual  interests  and 
strive for a compromise that has the collective interests 
of all at heart, or we all risk even more severe weather 
patterns  in  the  future.  In  short,  it  is  a  choice  between 
win-win and lose-lose. 

In the same vein, ASEAN believes that countries 
should use this moment to promote greater investment 
in  green  technologies  in  order  to  build  a  green 
economy. Such technologies should be made accessible 
and  affordable  to  countries  that  are  in  need.  ASEAN 
also  believes 
international  cooperation  and 
that 

assistance  to  strengthen  the  mitigation  and  adaptation 
capacities  of  developing  countries,  including  in  the 
form  of  funding  mechanisms,  should  be  further 
strengthened and expanded. 

Thirdly,  ASEAN  is  determined  to  strengthen  its 
already  strong  partnership  with  the  United  Nations  in 
the area of humanitarian assistance and disaster relief. 
We are pleased with past and ongoing cooperation with 
the  United  Nations  humanitarian  agencies  in  South-
East Asia, for example in Myanmar in the aftermath of 
Cyclone  Nargis  and  the  humanitarian  operations  in 
Indonesia  and  the  Philippines  following  earthquakes 
and  tropical  storms,  respectively.  We  are  also  moving 
ahead to strengthen the region’s cooperative framework 
in  that  area.  The  ASEAN  Agreement  on  Disaster 
Management and Emergency Response is scheduled to 
be implemented at the end of this year. That Agreement 
would  provide  a  solid  basis  for  further  cooperation 
with  the  United  Nations  system  on  disaster  reduction 
and emergency response. 

Fourthly,  in  this  globalized  era,  peace,  stability 
and security in one region  are intertwined with peace, 
stability  and  security  in  every  region.  As  the  saying 
goes,  no  country  or  region  is  an  island  unto  itself. 
ASEAN  thus  believes  that  the  goals  and  principles 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  have  become  even  more,  not 
less, relevant. ASEAN strongly believes that the United 
Nations  remains  an 
the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  We 
support  the  comprehensive  approach  to  peace  and 
security  of  the  United  Nations,  which  has  sought  to 
strengthen 
in  conflict 
prevention, peacekeeping and peacebuilding.  

We  are  committed  to  supporting  the  agenda  of 
general and complete disarmament. We welcome recent 
positive  developments  in  that  field,  such  as  the 
adoption of the programme of work of the Conference 
on  Disarmament,  the  negotiations  between  the  United 
States  and  the  Russian  Federation  on  a  new  legally 
binding  agreement,  and  the  recent  adoption  by  the 
Security Council of resolution 1887 (2009) on nuclear 
non-proliferation and disarmament. 

ASEAN  strongly  believes  in  the  goal  of  a 
nuclear-weapon-free  world.  We  fully  support 
the 
establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones in various 
parts  of  the  world  as  positive  steps  and  important 
measures  towards  attaining  the  objective  of  nuclear 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  We  will  actively 
the  Organization’s  capacity 
indispensable  pillar  for 
16 

09-54337 
in 
in  July, 
the 
terms  of  reference  of 
this  month.  ASEAN  envisions 


participate  in  the  forthcoming  Second  Conference  of 
States Parties and Signatories of Treaties that Establish 
Nuclear-Weapon-Free  Zones  and 
the  Review 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons in 2010. At this 
session  of  the Assembly, ASEAN  will  propose  a  draft 
resolution  on  the  South-East  Asia  Nuclear-Weapon-
Free-Zone. ASEAN hopes that the draft resolution will 
receive  strong  support  from  fellow  Member  States,  as 
in the past. 

Fifthly, ASEAN is taking  significant steps in the 
area  of  human  rights.  During  their  recent  meeting  in 
the  ASEAN  foreign  ministers 
Thailand 
endorsed 
the  ASEAN 
Intergovernmental Commission on Human Rights. The 
Commission  is  scheduled  to  be  officially  established 
during  the  upcoming  ASEAN  summit  in  Thailand  at 
the  end  of 
the 
Commission as an  evolving body and believes that its 
establishment  will  significantly  advance  the  cause  of 
human rights in the region. 

Finally,  ASEAN  agrees  with  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  that  the  United  Nations  needs  to 
adapt  to  the  new  environment  by  being  modern, 
efficient,  nimble  and  more  accountable 
its 
administration. ASEAN  is  of  the  view  that  the  United 
Nations  should  be  more  efficient  in  its  capacity  to 
deliver  services  to  those  in  need  in  the  field,  while 
ensuring  coherence  and  coordination  among  all 
relevant agencies within the system. 

However,  in  this  complex  world  of  multiple 
crises,  it  is  clear  that  the  United  Nations  cannot  and 
should  not  be  expected  to  do  everything.  The  United 
Nations  should  focus  on  its  comparative  advantages 
and work closely with partners in various sectors. It is 
in  that  context  that  ASEAN  welcomes  efforts  by  the 
United Nations to strengthen partnerships with regional 
organizations  around  the  world.  We  welcome  the 
reference  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  to 
close  partnership  between  the  United  Nations  and 
ASEAN. 

This year, ASEAN has begun a new chapter in the 
history of the organization with the entry into force of 
the  ASEAN  Charter.  The  10  ASEAN  countries  are 
moving  ahead  with  ASEAN  community-building 
processes. We firmly believe that a strong and resilient 
ASEAN  will  be  a  strong  and  effective  partner  for 
in 
A/64/PV.14
countries in the region and for the United Nations. That 
is our commitment. 
Mr. Takasu (Japan): First of all, I wish to express 

my  deep  appreciation 
to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon for his dedication to leading the wide-ranging 
activities of the Organization. 
The  most  pressing  challenge  before  the  United 

Nations  is  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  The  global  economic  and  financial 
crisis  has  seriously  affected  the  efforts  of  many 
developing countries to achieve the MDGs. All means 
available to us should be mobilized towards the target 
year  of  2015.  We  should  sharpen  our  focus  on  the 
development agenda towards the high-level meeting to 
be held next year. 

Pursuit of the reduction of poverty alone will not 
lead to the achievement of the MDGs. Large segments 
of  the  bottom  billion  poor  are  trapped  in  conflict  or 
struggling for survival in fragile situations. About half 
of  post-conflict  countries  have  relapsed  into  conflict 
within 10 years. 

The  end  of  conflict  should  be  accompanied  by 
visible  changes  in  everyday  life,  and  the  arrival  of 
peace  by  immediate  efforts  to  strengthen  social  and 
economic stability. In order to end the vicious cycle of 
conflict and poverty, it is essential to tackle both in an 
integrated  manner.  The  Peacebuilding  Commission  is 
the key organ for promoting such an integrated strategy 
and to fill some of these gaps. 

Human  security  advocates  a  human-centred  and 
integrated 
every 
individual’s  freedom  from  fear  and  want.  Human 
security  pursues  the  bottom-up  perspective,  focusing 
on  not  only  the  protection,  but  also  the  empowerment 
of  the  individual  and  the  community.  Therefore,  the 
human  security  approach  is  essential  to  achieving  the 
MDGs and peacebuilding efforts. 

We  wish  to  see  the  human  security  perspective 
properly  and  well  reflected  within  the  work  of  the 
United  Nations.  The 
(resolution 
63/311)  on  system-wide  coherence  among  gender-
related  activities,  for  instance,  will  also  benefit  from 
the  human  security  approach.  We  commend  the  work 
done  by  the  Friends  of  Human  Security  over  the  past 
two or three years. We very much look forward to the 
debate  of  the  General  Assembly  on  that  issue  during 
this session. 
recent  decision 
approach 
realizing 
aimed 
at 
09-54337 

17 
global 
for 
and 
and 
organs 
should 
towards 
to  ensure 
sometimes 
expanding, 
collectively 
that  all  stakeholders, 
to  work  with  others 
special  political  missions 
A/64/PV.14 


Peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  are,  obviously, 
the core activities of the United Nations. Peacekeeping 
are 
operations 
continuously 
even 
overstretching  our  capacities.  The  relevant  United 
Nations 
elaborate 
improvement  measures  to  manage  them  effectively 
under  clear  and  achievable  mandates.  It  is  essential, 
therefore, 
troop-
contributing  countries,  police-contributing  countries 
and  donors  be  closely  involved  in  the  planning, 
managing and evaluating of peacekeeping operations. 
With  regard  to  peace,  we  welcome  the  current 

positive  movement 
nuclear 
disarmament.  As  the  only  country  that  has  suffered 
nuclear devastation, we are determined to stop nuclear 
proliferation  and 
the 
elimination of nuclear weapons. 

As we approach the 2010  Review Conference of 
the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons,  we  find  ourselves  at  a  critical 
juncture.  We  must  take  a  crucial  step  towards  the 
creation of a world free of nuclear weapons. Japan will 
submit a draft resolution during this session to lay out 
measures  towards  the  total  elimination  of  nuclear 
weapons and we appeal for support in this regard. 

is  another  major  challenge 
confronting  humanity.  We  must  mobilize  our  efforts 
and 
reaching  an 
agreement on an effective post-2013 regime during the 
United  Nations  Climate  Change  Conference 
in 
Copenhagen.  Japan  highly  commends  the  initiative  of 
the  Secretary-General  to  raise  political  momentum  by 
organizing the Summit on Climate Change. 
At  the  opening  meeting  of  the  Summit,  Japan’s 

Prime  Minister  Yukio  Hatoyama  announced  Japan’s 
mid-term target to reduce its emissions by 25 per cent 
by  2020  from  1990  levels.  He  also  introduced  the 
Hatoyama  Initiative,  which  aims  at  supporting  the 
efforts of developing countries through technology and 
financial  assistance.  Japan  will  play  a  leading  role 
towards  the  successful  conclusion  of  the  Copenhagen 
Conference through such initiatives. 

It  is  also  essential  for  the  United  Nations  to 
continue to protect and promote human rights as one of 
its  three  pillars.  Even  after  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of 
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  serious 
violations  of  human  rights  remain  unabated  in  many 
Climate  change 
technology 
innovative 
towards 

in 
the 
good 
progress  made 
parts  of  the  world.  Japan  supports  mainstreaming  the 
human  rights  approach  throughout  all  United  Nations 
activities. 

United  Nations  reform  will  not  be  complete 
without  meaningful  Security  Council  reform.  Japan 
welcomes 
the 
intergovernmental negotiations since last February. The 
General Assembly adopted the decision to immediately 
continue the intergovernmental negotiations during this 
sixty-fourth  session,  building  upon  progress  made  so 
far. 

Japan believes that the Security Council needs to 
be  reformed  by  expanding  both  permanent  and 
non-permanent  membership  in  order  to  reflect  the 
reality  of  the  world  in  which  we  live. We  are  pleased 
with  President  Treki’s  emphasis  on  the  need  for 
expeditious  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  We  hope 
that a concrete outcome will be achieved at this session 
under his able guidance and leadership. 

Japan  attaches  great  importance  to  transparent, 
accountable  and  efficient  management  of  the  United 
Nations.  Japan  welcomes  and  supports  the  Secretary-
General’s  determination  to  make  a  more  efficient  and 
responsive Secretariat. However, as the world economy 
affects  the  Member  States’  financial  situations,  the 
trend whereby the United Nations continues to expand 
its  regular  and  peacekeeping  budgets  is  no  longer 
sustainable.  It  is  important  to  make  the  Secretariat 
more  efficient  and  dynamic  in  order  to  fulfil  its 
mandates at an affordable level for Member States. 
the  Secretariat  should  work 

diligently to prioritize expenditures and find less costly 
ways 
activities.  New 
requirements  should  be  met  in  principle  through  the 
deployment of available resources. We should maintain 
stronger 
and 
implementing  the  2010-2011  programme  budget,  as 
well as the peacekeeping operations budget. 

commitment 
functioning United Nations. 
Mr. Núñez Mosquera (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 

We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  presenting  his 
annual  report  on 
the  Organization 
(A/64/1).  We  agree  with  its  accurate  analysis  of  the 
current  situation  of  the  world,  plunged  into  an  acute 
economic  and  financial  crisis  with  devastating  effects 
Let  me  conclude  by  reiterating  Japan’s  strong 
to  creating  an  effective  and  better 
implement  mandated 
financial  discipline 
the  work  of 
in  planning 
that  end, 
To 
to 
18 

09-54337 
Since 
the 
of 
The 
report  notes 
adoption 
that  additional 


for  all  countries,  in  particular  for  the  developing 
nations, which, although not responsible for it, are the 
ones to suffer most from its disastrous consequences. 

the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  in  2000,  our  country  has  warned 
that  those  very  modest  targets  would  not  be  achieved 
unless the existing unfair and unbalanced international 
economic  order  was  radically  changed.  Today,  we 
endorse  that  prediction,  given  the  multiple  crises  that 
are collectively striking the countries of the South and 
that,  in  turn,  are  the  result  of  a  structural  crisis  of 
capitalism,  exacerbated  by  neoliberal  policies  that 
promote  an  economic  model  based  on  unsustainable 
production,  consumption  and  distribution  patterns. We 
therefore  reiterate  that  the  true  cause  of  the  failure  to 
achieve the Goals and the  other internationally agreed 
development objectives lies in the lack of political will 
shown so far by the developed countries. 

financial 
resources  are  needed  to  address  the  growing  needs  of 
low-income  countries,  and  we  agree.  However,  that  is 
not  enough.  The  creation  and  implementation  of 
policies  that  focus  on  the  human  being  and  that 
promote the development of all countries are required. 
Nevertheless,  the  prompt  actions  to  rescue  bankrupt 
financial  institutions  of  the  North  contrast  shamefully 
with  the  meagre  expenditure  on  official  development 
assistance  and  the  reluctance  of  the  developed  bloc  to 
commit to providing new and additional resources.  

It is crucial to find collective solutions  to global 
problems  not  only  to  promote  development,  but  also 
for the very survival of the human race. In that regard, 
the  report’s  acknowledgement  that  the  United  Nations 
must  play  a  key  role  in  addressing  the  multiple  crises 
currently  threatening  the  world  and  use  this  historical 
moment to promote progress is fundamental. However, 
that  progress  will  not  be  possible  without  a  new 
international  economic  order,  founded  on  sustainable 
development and the creation of wealth on the basis of 
justice  and  fairness, 
the  economic  and  financial 
institutions  of  which,  under  the  aegis  of  the  United 
Nations,  make  promoting  development  their  main 
objective. 

In  that  context,  we  believe  the  recent  United 
Nations Conference at the Highest Level on the World 
Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  its  Impact  on 
Development  to  be  an  important  first  step,  which  we 
hope can be complemented and advanced by the work 
A/64/PV.14
in  view  of 
of  the  open-ended  working  group  of  the  General 
Assembly that will follow up on the issues addressed at 
that event. 

As one of the United Nations system’s responses 
to the crisis, the report mentions the establishment of a 
Global Impact and Vulnerability Alert System that will 
track  the  impact  of  global  crises  on  the  poor  and  the 
most  vulnerable  people.  We  hope  that  such  a  system 
will be a useful tool and not mere repetition of the data 
and proof that we already have. What we need is not a 
diagnosis,  but  urgent  and  viable  solutions.  Therefore, 
we believe that we must consider establishing a system 
that monitors the responses being made to the crises, in 
particular  responses  arising  from  those  who  are  really 
responsible,  as  well  as  the  actual  effects  of  such 
responses on the countries most affected. 
The  phenomenon  of  climate  change  attracts 

the  Copenhagen 
particular  attention 
conference.  The 
last  summit  on  climate  change 
convened by the Secretary-General reaffirmed the main 
concerns  of  the  developing  world  regarding  the  need 
for financing and the transfer of technology and know-
how  so  as  to  advance  the  processes  of  adaptation  and 
mitigation.  It  is  clear  to  all  that  the  success  of  those 
negotiations will depend to a large extent on the will of 
the developed countries to meet their commitments and 
to set themselves new and more ambitious goals in line 
with  their  historical  responsibility  and  with  their 
ecological debt to humankind. 

We  uphold  the  need  both  for  the  United  Nations 
and  for  its  in-depth  reform  and  democratization. 
However, that must be done by  respecting its Charter, 
not  by  redrafting  it  or  by  distorting  its  purposes  and 
principles.  The  main  challenge  facing  us  is  reforming 
the United Nations so that it serves the interests of all 
nations equally. We cannot allow the reform to fail and 
to  end  up  turning  our  Organization  into  an  instrument 
that  serves  the  interests  and  whims  of  a  few  rich  and 
powerful countries. 
The  report  covers  the  controversial  issue  of  the 

responsibility 
important 
questions  and  legitimate  concerns  surrounding  that 
concept have still not been properly addressed. It is up 
to  the  General  Assembly  to  continue  examining  the 
matter  transparently  and  in  depth  and  to  take  the 
appropriate  decisions.  Some  are  seeking  to  implement 
the  concept  even  before  it  is  clearly  defined.  Cuba  is 
against  that,  as  it  would  open  the  way  for  turning  the 
to  protect  while  many 
09-54337 

19 

the 
territorial 
Concerning 
the  chapter  of 
A/64/PV.14 

responsibility to protect into an instrument that can be 
easily  manipulated  in  order  to  attack  the  sacred 
principles  of  sovereignty, 
integrity  and 
non-interference in the internal affairs of States. 

We must revitalize the leading role of the General 
Assembly,  the  only  United  Nations  organ  where  there 
is no place for hegemonies, where we all have a voice 
and  a  vote,  and  where  the  obsolete  right  of  the  veto 
does not exist. On the other hand, we will not be able 
to  talk  about  a  true  reform  of  this  Organization  until 
real  reform  of  the  Security  Council  takes  place.  The 
intergovernmental  negotiation  process  on  Council 
reform that began last year has been an important step 
forward.  However,  it  has  not  produced  the  concrete 
results  that  we  hoped.  We  trust  real  progress  will  be 
made during this session. We urgently need a truly fair 
and representative Security Council that acts on behalf 
of all and within its mandate under the Charter, without 
encroaching  on  the  functions  and  prerogatives  of  the 
system’s other bodies, as is increasingly happening. 

report  on 
humanitarian  affairs,  we  reaffirm  the  importance  of 
continuing  to  work  to  improve  effectiveness  and 
timeliness  in  the  coordination  of  United  Nations 
humanitarian assistance. We reaffirm the validity of the 
governing  principles  of  humanitarian  assistance 
recognized  in Assembly  resolution  46/182. The  report 
refers 
to  United  Nations  humanitarian  assistance 
actions  in  response  to  some  55  emergencies  in  the 
period under consideration, but only a few of these are 
mentioned.  We  would  have 
appreciated  more 
information on the others. 
The President returned to the Chair. 


With  respect  to  reform  of  the  United  Nations 
system,  we  believe  it  is  essential  to  take  into  account 
the vision of the countries of the South, the majority of 
which are affected by those humanitarian emergencies. 
We  recognize  the  work  being  done  by  the  Central 
Emergency  Response  Fund.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
so-called 
receive 
intergovernmental  consideration  and  analysis  by 
Member States. 
Cuba  reaffirms  the  importance  of  the  principles 

of  international  cooperation  and  genuine  dialogue  on 
human  rights.  The  use  of  political  manipulation, 
selectivity  and  double  standards  in  this  area  must  be 
eradicated.  We  must  all  prevent  the  current  United 
the 
Nations  human  rights  mechanisms, 
including 
approach 
cluster 
should 
so 
can 
teams 
that  States 
Human  Rights  Council,  from  being  affected  by  such 
vices.  In  that  spirit,  my  country  has  participated 
actively  in  the  creation  of  the  Council  and  has  taken 
part in its work with a great sense of responsibility. We 
hope  the  Council  can  continue  to  remain  at  a  remove 
from the issues that defeated its predecessors. 

In  his  report  the  Secretary-General  refers  to 
support provided on the ground by the United Nations 
country 
implement 
recommendations resulting from the universal periodic 
review.  In  this  regard,  we  are  concerned  that  that 
reference is limited to the results of the review only as 
they pertain to developing countries, where the country 
teams  are  present.  It  must  not  be  forgotten  that  the 
countries of the North must also be accountable to this 
mechanism for their human rights situations, including 
those  countries  that  have  not  yet  been  reviewed.  We 
must  bear  in  mind  that  human  rights  are  universal, 
indivisible and interdependent. 

As  to  the  coherence  of  the  United  Nations,  we 
consider  that  this  negotiation  exercise  must  remain 
within 
intergovernmental 
deliberations,  since  ultimately  it  will  be  the  Member 
States  that  make  a  decision  concerning  it.  In  this 
respect,  any  proposal  to  reform  operational  activities 
must  reflect  the  development  needs  and  priorities  of 
recipient  countries.  Operational  activities,  with  their 
inherent  diversity,  cannot  be  required 
to  follow 
inflexible  formulas  intended  to  be  applied  equally  to 
all.  Moreover,  any  initiative  in  this  area  by  the 
Secretariat  coordination  mechanisms  must  be  duly 
presented 
appropriate 
consideration  and  possible  adoption.  Here  once  again 
the  United  Nations  System  Chief 
we  call  upon 
Executives  Board 
intergovernmental 
mandates  and  substantially  improve  transparency  and 
accountability for Member States. 

Secretary-General’s appeal in his report when he said: 
to  conclude  by  echoing 
to  Member  States 
framework 
I  would 
respect 
like 
the 
the 
of 
for 
to 
“Let us join together to make 2009 the year when 
we  remade  the  world,  restoring  global  hope  and 
solidarity  and 
for 
international  security  and  peace,  sustainable 
(A/64/1, 
development 
para. 159)  
and  human 
foundation 
renewing 
rights.” 
the 
Great  challenges  lie  ahead.  More  than  ever,  the  world 
needs the United Nations and our joint action. 
20 

09-54337 
delegation 
on 
your 
concision 
in 
the  performance  of  your 
the  Secretariat.  Combining 
the  United  Nations,  evaluate 


Mr.  Badji  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  Taking 

the floor for the first time in the sixty-fourth session of 
the General Assembly, I wish to reiterate, following the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Senegal,  His  Excellency 
Maitre Abdoulaye Wade, the hearty congratulations of 
the  Senegalese 
election, 
Mr. President,  to  your  prestigious  post. As  you  know, 
the  support  of  my  delegation  is  something  you  can 
count  on 
important 
functions. As for the Secretary-General, there is hardly 
any  need  to  reaffirm  our  great  satisfaction  with  the 
excellent manner in which he presides over the destiny 
of the Secretariat. 

Consideration  of  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization  (A/64/1) 
offers  us  an  opportunity  to  examine  the  principal 
activities  of 
their 
relevance  and  effectiveness  and,  ultimately,  redirect 
them. This task is facilitated, we should acknowledge, 
by the quality of the report, which has been submitted 
by 
and 
exhaustiveness,  the  report  has  missed  no  sphere  of 
activity  of  the  United  Nations,  from  the  most  modest 
concerns  to  efforts  to  strengthen  the  Organization,  all 
while safeguarding the welfare of humanity. 

There  has  been  significant  progress  in  all  these 
areas,  and  as  the  Secretary-General  tells  us  in  his 
report,  the  world  today  is  more  prosperous  and 
peaceful than ever before, and the ideal of a universal 
normative  framework  has  never  before  been  so  close. 
But those excluded from that prosperity and peace are 
so  numerous  that  it  seems  to  us  that  the  particular 
needs of Africa, of peacekeeping or of climate change 
should have our greatest attention. Furthermore, we are 
of 
the 
normative global framework that is the United Nations 
is largely dependent on speeding up and deepening the 
process of reform under way. 

With regard to the particular needs of Africa, the 
report  informs  us  that Africa’s  average  annual  growth 
rate was 6 per cent in the period 2004 to 2008 and fell 
in 2009 to just 0.9 per cent, and that we can also expect 
an 
in  precarious 
employment, a result of the drop in export earnings and 
government  revenues.  Such  a  situation  shows  that  if 
the  effects  of  the  financial  crisis  on  the  developed 
countries  are  beginning  to  dissipate,  its  consequences 
for  African  economies  are  far  from  diminishing, 
particularly  with  regard  to  the  serious  threat  that  the 
that  universal  acceptance  of 
increase 
in  unemployment  and 
the  opinion 
A/64/PV.14
to 
Clearly,  solutions 
crisis poses for our capacity to achieve the Millennium 
Development Goals. 

With regard to the world food crisis, though it has 
certainly  been  eclipsed  in  the Western  media  by  other 
events, 
it  remains  a  heavy  burden  draining  our 
economies,  and,  according  to  recent  estimates,  nearly 
300  million  Africans  suffer  chronic  hunger.  The 
paradox  of  this  untenable  situation  is  that  solutions  to 
conquer hunger in the world are known, but the means 
to implement them are lacking.  
The  enormous  means  immediately  mobilized  in 

response  to  the  financial  crisis  make  clear  that  the 
resources  to  fight  hunger  definitely  exist;  the  problem 
is  that  those  resources  are  not  at  the  disposal  of  the 
poor  countries,  especially  in Africa,  where  the  hungry 
live.  To  point  that  out  is  not  to  run  from  our  own 
responsibilities  but  to  affirm  them,  because  for  the 
most  part  our  countries  have,  within  the  limits  of  our 
respective  resources,  undertaken  the  actions  necessary 
to limit the effects of the crises. 

the  food,  energy  and 
financial  crises  will  require  much  greater  resources 
than  the  budget  lines  the  African  countries  assign  to 
them  in  national  or  even  regional  initiatives.  That  is 
why, while I welcome the Group of Eight’s decision to 
mobilize  $20  billion  to  fight  world  hunger  and  to 
promote sustainable agriculture, I would like to express 
the  hope  that  that  commitment  be  rapidly  realized  by 
initiatives  like  the  Global  Partnership  for  Agriculture 
and Food Security launched 26 September last year by 
the  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations  and 
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. 

The  report  is  unequivocal  when  it  states  that 
climate change is the great challenge on which history 
will  judge  our  generation.  In  this  regard  the  laudable 
initiative that was the summit meeting of 22 September 
2009  allowed  our  heads  of  State  and  Government  to 
send  a  strong  political  message  that  we  hope  will  be 
echoed in Copenhagen.  

However, allow me to repeat here that, for Africa, 
the urgency of the transition to a world economy more 
frugal  with  carbon  emissions  is  beyond  all  doubt.  We 
are  ready  to  make  our  contribution  to  the  joint  effort 
before us to lead to what it is being called the Global 
Green  New  Deal  —  with  the  understanding,  however, 
that  we  do  not  consider  that  we  have  to  endanger  our 
own  development.  We  need  sufficient  resources  not 
only  to  ensure  the  development  of  our  respective 
09-54337 

21 

A/64/PV.14 

countries but also to take measures necessary to adapt 
to  —  and  indeed  to  survive  —  the  consequences  of 
climate  change.  In  those  consequences  I  include, 
among  others,  rising  sea  levels  and  floods,  which 
already take a heavy toll on our feeble economies. 

Africa,  for  its  part,  has  already  taken  up  arms 
against  the  pernicious  effects  of  climate  change  by 
means  of  several  diverse  initiatives,  among  which  is 
the  continental  project,  the  Great  Green  Wall.  This 
project  consists  of  a  green  swath  15  kilometres  wide, 
stretching from Dakar to Djibouti, that, if it is realized, 
will  constitute  a  veritable  supplemental  green  lung,  to 
the benefit of the entire planet. 

But whatever actions we the developing countries 
take,  and  whatever  commitments  we  agree  to,  one 
constant  remains:  without  a  clear  commitment  on  the 
part  of  the  Annex  1  countries  to  make  adequate 
resources available on a non-discriminatory basis, there 
is  great  danger  that  the  tireless  efforts  we  have 
deployed  since  the  December  2007  meeting  in  Bali 
towards an acceptable and effective post-Kyoto regime 
will, in Copenhagen this December, prove to have been 
in vain. 

the  report 
On 
recounts the unprecedented size and complexity of the 
difficulties  faced  by  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations.  Given those circumstances, there is  reason 
to  welcome 
important  administrative  reforms 
initiated  by  the  Secretary-General,  which  merit  our 
complete  support,  especially 
to 
developing a standing police capacity in a strengthened 
Police  Division.  Senegal’s  resolute  commitment  to 
peacekeeping  and  the  attention  its  leaders  give  the 
issue can be clearly seen on a map of our deployment 
of troops on the ground.  

We  welcomed  with  great  attention  the  reform 
proposals submitted by France, Canada and the United 
Kingdom, as well as the ideas set out in the non-paper 
jointly  presented  by  the  Department  of  Peacekeeping 
Operations and the Department of Field Support.  

We believe it important to make it clear that one 
of  the  major  challenges  to  peacekeeping  at  this  time 
lies in operationalizing the mission to protect civilians. 
By this I mean translating that goal into an operational 
strategy  and  bringing  it  into  conformity  with  other 
mission objectives, while respecting the neutrality and 
impartiality 
that  should  guide  all  blue  helmet 
operations.  
the  subject  of  peacekeeping, 
the  one  relating 
the 
dampen 
the 
international 
in  programming 

Another  challenge,  no  less  important,  is  the 
quadrupling,  in  the  space  of  ten  years,  of  the  overall 
budget for peacekeeping operations, which without any 
doubt  constitutes  a  heavy  burden  on  the  international 
community. While we understand the concern of some 
delegations  to  find  an  immediate  solution  to  such  an 
exponential  increase,  we  should  keep  in  mind  that  a 
lack  of  predictability 
financial 
resources  for  peacekeeping  operations,  or  a  drastic 
reduction  in  the  budget  through  across-the-board  cuts, 
would  not  only  undermine  the  fragile  peace  and 
stability  in  most  of  the  intervention  zones  but  would 
also 
community’s 
development efforts in those zones. 

The  necessary  condition  for  any  success  in  the 
activities  of  the  Organization,  including  in  the  three 
key  areas  I  have  mentioned,  is  to  make  the  United 
Nations  a  stronger  Organization.  The  Secretary-
General  has  made  a  commitment  to  that  goal  and  has 
made it one of his primary concerns. That warrants our 
praise.  The  numerous  reforms  he  has  launched  within 
the Secretariat, which have just been supplemented by 
our recent decision to create an entity devoted solely to 
women’s  issues,  are  important  steps  towards  that 
stronger United Nations. 
But  those  advances  will  always  feel  unfulfilled 

without 
the  Security  Council.  The 
intergovernmental negotiations that we conducted since 
the sixty-third session have made it even clearer that an 
agreement  is  within  reach,  provided  that  we  all 
demonstrate,  for  our  own  parts,  an  elevated  sense  of 
history.  Thus,  we  hope  that  the  present  session  will 
provide the outcome to which we aspire. 
this 
(Indonesia): 

opportunity  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
report on the work of the Organization (A/64/1). 

We  are  meeting  in  the  midst  of  new  and  old 
challenges  that  need  to  be  addressed  collectively  and 
effectively.  These  include  the  impacts  of  the  multiple 
crises — financial, food and energy. In the background 
is  the  force  of  climate  change,  slowly  gathering 
speed —  not  to  mention  the  current  rapid  spread  of 
H1N1 influenza. 
At  the  same  time,  we  are  still  confronted  by 

perennial  problems,  such  as 
the  challenges  of 
achieving  a  nuclear-free  world,  persistent  inter-State 
and  intra-State  conflicts,  human  rights  violations, 
in  particular, 
transnational  organized  crime  and, 
Mr.  Natalegawa 
reform  of 
I 
take 
22 

09-54337 
the 
Thus, 
the  need 
to  perfect 


terrorism.  These  are  a  set  of  cross-border  challenges 
that can be addressed only through a multilateral lens. 
Renewed international efforts and cooperation to tackle 
the multifaceted threats become more pivotal. We must 
seize  this  moment  to  embrace  new  multilateralism:  to 
work in solidarity, in unity and in the interest of all. 

triangle  of 
development,  freedom  and  peace  has  never  been 
greater. Central to such an effort is the strengthening of 
our multilateral institutional architecture, which should 
be more robust and more proactive. In that context, we 
need  to  ensure  that  the  United  Nations  can  truly  be 
more  relevant  by  making  it  more  democratic  and 
coherent. It is only through such efforts that the United 
Nations  can  become  a  credible  and  reliable  institution 
capable of performing its functions and its mandate in 
line with Member States’ needs. 

In  addressing  the  development  imperative,  we 
must  take  into  account  the  three  systemic  crises 
affecting  us  now:  the  financial,  food  and  fuel  crises. 
Against  that  bleak  backdrop  is  the  threat  of  climate 
change. The most urgent task for us at this session is to 
disentangle  the  global  economy  from  the  economic 
crisis  and  recession.  We  all  have  made  important 
contributions  to  ensure  progress,  yet  the  underlying 
causes of the crisis still have not been addressed fully 
or effectively. We need to ensure that we take action to 
follow  up  on  the  outcome  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  the  World  Financial  and  Economic 
Crisis and Its Impact on Development, in full and in a 
timely  fashion.  At  the  same  time,  our  work  at  this 
session must also create synergy with other processes. 

In  the  meantime,  global  food  security  remains 
elusive, with inadequate access and supply of food for 
the  majority  of  the  world’s  poor.  With  approximately 
1 billion  people  now  suffering  from  hunger  and 
malnutrition, we cannot afford to keep this issue out of 
the main focus of the United Nations. The Organization 
should continue to play an active role in mainstreaming 
agricultural  policies  in  the  international  development 
agenda.  Central 
the  strengthening  of 
international food security and social safety nets. 

With regard to climate change, in Copenhagen we 
need  to  reach  a  comprehensive  agreement  that  is 
inclusive,  equitable  and  fair.  The  Summit  on  Climate 
Change,  held  in  New  York  on  22  September,  has 
galvanized 
reach  a 
consensus.  The  negotiations  should  be  guided  by  the 
the  political  momentum 
that 
to 
to 
is 
In 
A/64/PV.14
and 
it 
is 
to  note 
that 
Although 
important 
responsibilities 
The  United  Nations 
Bali Road Map, based on the principle of common but 
differentiated 
respective 
capabilities. 

the 
negotiations  should  be  carried  out  under  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
the  United  Nations  process  plays  a  crucial  role  in 
providing a constructive way to inject political support 
into the climate conference in Copenhagen. 

Concerning  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  many  developing  countries  have  made  good 
progress. We  are,  however,  concerned  that  the  current 
global  crises  threaten  to  set  back  the  progress  made. 
Given  the  very  limited  time  until  2015,  our  work  this 
year  must  also  be  able  to  contribute  concretely  to  our 
global efforts to achieve the MDGs. 

should  ensure  active 
monitoring  and  evaluation  on  the  achievement  of  the 
MDGs, so as to provide valuable inputs for next year’s 
MDG  review  meeting. The  role  of  the  United  Nations 
on the global development agenda must be promoted. 

Indonesia  deeply  appreciates  the  expressions  of 
support and solidarity by many on the occasion of the 
devastating  earthquake 
that  recently  hit  Western 
Sumatra. We also express condolences to our friends in 
the  Philippines,  Viet  Nam,  Cambodia,  Laos,  India, 
Samoa,  American  Samoa,  Tonga  and  others  in  the 
region,  who  have  also  recently  been  struck  by  natural 
calamities. 
The  human  and  economic  losses  resulting  from 

importance  of 
natural  disasters  highlight 
intensifying 
and 
preparedness  for  disasters,  especially  in  developing 
countries. 
the  United  Nations 
humanitarian system should continue to mobilize funds 
and  strengthen  capacities,  which  are  vital  aspects  in 
addressing emergencies throughout the world. 

The  new  spirit  of  multilateralism  must  also  be 
utilized to address the long-standing peace and security 
challenges confronting the world. Peace in the Middle 
East is particularly crucial to long-term global stability. 
Indonesia  remains  fully  supportive  of  the  two-State 
solution, in which Israel and Palestine would live side 
by  side  in  peace,  and  in  which  the  Palestinian  State 
sovereignty  and 
would  enjoy 
authority.  At 
to 
underscore  that  the  United  Nations  has  a  historical 
full,  unqualified 
this  critical 
juncture,  we  wish 
that  context, 
emergency 
response 
joint 
the 
to 
09-54337 

23 

a 
it 
towards 
is 
the 
nuclear-weapon  States 
A/64/PV.14 

responsibility  to  work  to  find  a  truly  comprehensive 
and lasting peace in the Middle East.  
complex 

Terrorism 
phenomenon. 
Consequently, 
fight  against 
requires  a 
comprehensive  approach.  We  must  steadfastly  combat 
terrorism without, however, resorting to repressive and 
undemocratic  measures.  The  root  causes,  such  as 
poverty  and 
injustice,  should  also  be  urgently 
addressed. The United Nations can thus  play a unique 
role  by  building  on  various  national  and  regional 
efforts to overcome the challenges of terrorism. 

We are now at a promising juncture in our efforts 
to  achieve  a  world  free  from  nuclear  weapons.  Given 
the current positive atmosphere among Member States, 
States parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear  Weapons, 
and 
non-nuclear-weapon  States  should  strive  to  agree  on 
concrete steps to ensure the attainment of the objective 
of  total  and  complete  disarmament  and  to  strengthen 
non-proliferation  at  the  Review  Conference  next  year. 
In that context, the United Nations should continue to 
work 
the 
revitalization  of  multilateral 
disarmament efforts. 
Indonesia 

respect 
With 
welcomes 
the  future 
direction  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations. 
We  should  ensure 
that  process  provides  a 
framework  on  such  operations  that  builds  a  strong 
global  partnership  encouraging  ownership  on  the  part 
of all stakeholders.  In addition, we should not neglect 
the  potential 
in  peacekeeping 
operations. However, peacekeeping is not a panacea for 
dealing  with  the  root  causes  of  conflict;  its  potential 
lies  in  creating  a  favourable  environment  so  that 
political processes can advance. 

We  need  to  reaffirm  that  all  human  rights  are 
universal,  indivisible,  interdependent  and  interrelated 
and  must,  therefore,  be  treated  in  a  fair  and  equal 
manner,  on  the  same  footing  and  with  the  same 
emphasis  as  that  placed  on  other  issues  in  the  United 
Nations.  In  order  to  advance  the  work  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  the  General  Assembly  must  provide 
strategic  guidance.  The  United  Nations  should  also 
strengthen its advocacy efforts and take concrete steps 
to integrate human rights into all aspects of its work. 

On  the  issue  of  the  responsibility  to  protect, 
prevention  is  key.  Deliberations  should  focus  on  the 
effort  to  strengthen  the  capacity  of  Member  States  to 
peacekeeping, 
the  ongoing  discussions  on 
role  of  women 
that 
to 
relevance 
meet the requirements of good governance and the rule 
of  law.  To  that  end,  the  General  Assembly  should 
include  a  comprehensive  and  clear  strategy  aimed  at 
strengthening those objectives. 
Understandably,  not  all  solutions  lie  with  the 

United  Nations,  but 
cannot  be 
overestimated.  We  should  invest  in  more-adequate 
resources  for  the  United  Nations.  The  United  Nations 
should  also  make  every  effort  to  be  more  transparent, 
democratic,  effective  and  efficient  in  fulfilling  its 
mandate. 

We  need  a  reformed  Security  Council  that  is 
credible  and  that  reflects  the  plurality  of  our  world 
today.  The  role  of  the  General  Assembly  should  be 
reaffirmed  as the chief deliberative,  policymaking  and 
representative  organ  of 
the  United  Nations.  The 
Economic and Social Council needs to be empowered, 
so  that  it  can  advocate  and  coordinate  policy  on  all 
aspects  of  development,  especially 
in  an  era  of 
interlinked crises. 

While  there  is  no  certainty  as  to  what  the  future 
holds, if history is our teacher, then there is hope that 
we  can  prepare  better  for  what  lies  ahead.  For  that 
purpose,  the  culture  of  work  in  the  United  Nations 
must  be  reformed.  We  must  ensure  that  results-based 
management,  good  governance, 
transparency  and 
accountability are integral parts of management in the 
United  Nations  system.  That  is  what  system-wide 
coherence is all about. 

the 
challenges  we  face  today  are  immense.  Our  success 
will  be  defined  in  terms  of  how  we  can  address  the 
challenges  of  development,  peace  and  security  and 
human  rights,  all  on  an  equal  footing  and  with  the 
United Nations at the centre of the effort. 
Mr.  Puri  (India):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 

thanking  the  Secretary-General  for  the  comprehensive 
nature  of  his  report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
(A/64/1).  Given 
today’s 
challenges,  the  Secretary-General  rightly  noted  that 
this is the ultimate multilateral moment. It is therefore 
imperative that the United Nations embody the hope of 
the new multilateralism. 

five 
essential  elements  for  a  renewal  of  multilateralism. 
While  we  are  in  broad  agreement  with  regard  to  the 
elements 
the  fifth 
Let  me  conclude  by  emphasizing 
The  Secretary-General  has 
the  global  nature  of 
is  evident 
identified, 
identified 
that 
that 
its 
it 
24 

09-54337 
reform 
of 
the 


element — 
global  multilateral 
architecture  —  holds  the  key  to  progress  on  the  other 
elements. 

Efforts  to  promote  a  new  multilateralism  have 
little chance of success without comprehensive reform 
of global governance structures. The ongoing financial 
crisis  has  further  highlighted  the  urgent  need  to  take 
concrete  action  in  order  to  restructure  international 
governance  architectures  in  a  manner  that  reflects 
current 
realities  and  provides  for 
the  enhanced 
representation of developing countries. 

If we want our multilateral institutions to be able 
to counter current and emerging challenges, we cannot 
continue  with  structures  that  date  from  the  Second 
World War and do not reflect the current and emerging 
global realities. Small steps, such  as an  enhanced  role 
for the Group of 20, are a beginning, but certainly not 
the  end.  In  that  context,  there  is  a  critical  need  at  the 
United Nations for an expansion in both the permanent 
and  the  non-permanent  membership  of  the  Security 
Council and an improvement in its working methods. 
We  are  happy  that  a  unanimous  decision  was 

the 
recently 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform.  The  decision  to  build  on  the  progress  already 
achieved allows us to focus now on what is the opinion 
of the overwhelming majority: that there should be an 
expansion 
the 
non-permanent categories. 

We are still grappling with the adverse effects of 
an unprecedented global economic and financial crisis. 
Developing  countries,  in  which  the  crisis  did  not 
originate, have been the most affected. It is imperative 
that  stimulus  efforts  and  other  actions 
to  help 
developing  countries  be  continued  and  enhanced.  At 
this  time,  there  is  no  place  for  protectionism  in  any 
form in the developed countries. 

The Secretary-General has eloquently brought out 
the direct correlation between resource availability and 
progress  in  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  The  fact  that  efforts  by  developing 
countries  to  achieve  the  MDGs  have  been  affected  by 
the  economic  and  financial  crisis  demands  that  the 
international 
the 
provision of greater assistance and investment flows to 
developing countries. 
significantly 
immediately 
community 
resume 
taken 
spur 
to 
in 
both 
the 
permanent 
and 
A/64/PV.14

At  the  recently  held  mini-ministerial  meeting  of 
trade ministers in New Delhi, we made major progress 
towards  revitalizing  the  Doha  phase  of  multilateral 
trade negotiations. We hope that the Doha Round will 
now  make  progress  towards  an  outcome  that  is 
development-oriented  and  can  assist  developing 
countries in meeting their development goals. 

The  Secretary-General  has  correctly  highlighted 
climate  change  as  a  top  priority.  We  appreciate  his 
initiative in organizing the Summit on Climate Change 
on  22  September  2009.  As  a  country  that  is  hugely 
affected  by  climate  change,  India  will  be  part  of  the 
solution  and  will  push  for  an  ambitious  and  equitable 
outcome  at  Copenhagen.  The  outcome  must  be  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  and  principles  of  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change  —  in  particular,  common  but  differentiated 
responsibilities — and ensure that developing countries 
can pursue their overriding development imperative of 
poverty eradication. We are also undertaking numerous 
mitigation  and  adaptation  measures  domestically  to 
address  climate  change.  Many  of  these  will  have 
specific, quantitative and time-bound goals.  

On the multilateral side, there has to be a greater 
focus  on  technology  access  for  developing  countries. 
The United Nations must play a true facilitator’s role in 
providing  access 
to  affordable  and  cost-effective 
technology  for  developing  countries,  as  well  as  its 
transfer to them. There is also no escaping the need to 
revisit  the  intellectual-property-rights  regime  from  the 
perspective  of  balancing  rewards  for  innovators  with 
the common good of humankind. 

Peacekeeping  remains  the  most  visible  United 
Nations  activity  and  also  one  that,  perhaps  more  than 
any  other,  represents  the  aspiration  of  the  Charter  to 
prevent  the  scourge  of  war  from  afflicting  societies. 
However, as things stand today, the United Nations has 
neither the resources nor the expertise to satisfactorily 
execute many of its ambitious peacekeeping mandates. 
There  are  countries  that  are  willing  and  able  to 
contribute more in terms of resources. The challenge is 
in  creating  a  framework  that  will  enable  the  United 
Nations  to  access  and  utilize  those  resources  and 
capacities. 

As a Member State that is closely associated with 
United  Nations  peacekeeping,  India  will  actively 
contribute  to  building  the  renewed  global  partnership 
on  peacekeeping  that  the  Secretary-General  has  called 
09-54337 

25 

to 
the 
like 
reaffirm 
Here  again,  I  would 
the  opportunity  of 
the  adoption  of 
A/64/PV.14 

for,  including  in  the  area  of  the  rule  of  law  and  the 
deployment  of  police  units.  I  am  happy  that  the  work 
of  India’s  female  formed  police  unit  deployed  in 
Liberia has been much appreciated. 

Peacebuilding  is  one  of  the  United  Nations 
activities that must evolve significantly and quickly in 
the coming years, given the huge needs in post-conflict 
societies.  Of  course,  peacebuilding  must  be,  first  and 
foremost,  a  national  process.  But  the  international 
community must be there to assist countries recovering 
from conflict.  

the 
commitment  of  my  Government  to  partner  with  the 
United  Nations,  this  time  in  its  peacebuilding  efforts. 
India  has  unique  combinations  of 
relevant 
experience,  expertise  and  capacities,  which,  we 
believe,  are  critical  for  nation-building  in  any  part  of 
the world. 
We  welcome  the  efforts  made  by  the  Secretary-

the  sixtieth 
General 
to  use 
anniversary  of 
the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  to  strengthen  Member 
States advocacy efforts in the human rights field and to 
take  concrete  steps  to  integrate  human  rights  into  all 
aspects of the Organization’s work. 

While integrating human rights in the work of the 
United Nations, we should ensure that the development 
agenda  pursued  by 
is  not 
undermined by the introduction of new conditionalities 
in the provision of development assistance. One of the 
priorities  on  the  human  rights  front  should  be  to 
enhance the Organization’s commitment to making the 
right to development a reality sooner than later. 

India  has  consistently  been  of  the  view  that  the 
responsibility  to  protect  its  population  is  one  of  the 
foremost  responsibilities  of  every  Member  State.  We 
agree with the Secretary-General that the consultations 
on the application of the responsibility to protect to the 
four mass atrocities he has identified and the emphasis 
on the non-use of force should continue, and therefore 
we  sponsored  General  Assembly  resolution  63/308. 
However, we need to be cognizant that creation of new 
norms  should  include  safeguards  against  their  misuse. 
In  this  context,  the  responsibility  to  protect  should  in 
no way provide a pretext for humanitarian intervention 
or unilateral action. 
the  United  Nations 
the 
India’s 
against 
for  us 
convention 
to  support 
to  adopt,  at 
first  countries 

We  appreciate  the  progress  made  by  the  United 
Nations  Democracy  Fund  in  the  last  four  years.  India 
was  one  of 
its 
establishment and has already contributed $20 million. 
Let me assure you that we will continue to be actively 
engaged  in  this  Fund  and  its  activities,  which  we 
believe  contribute  to  the  promotion  of  good  and 
participative governance practices. 

Terrorism is the scourge of our times. It needs to 
be combated with all the power at the command of the 
international  community.  While  I  am  glad  that  the 
United  Nations  has  been  working  on  operationalizing 
the Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, we believe it is 
this  session,  a 
essential 
comprehensive 
international 
terrorism,  which  has  been  in  negotiations  for  over 
fifteen  years.  This  would  then  provide  a  solid  legal 
basis for the fight against terrorism. 

India  fully  shares  the  concerns  arising  from  the 
existence  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  their 
possible  acquisition by non-State actors and terrorists. 
India  attaches  the  highest  priority  to  the  goal  of 
universal  nuclear  disarmament  and  has  an  impeccable 
non-proliferation  record.  Nuclear  disarmament  and 
nuclear  non-proliferation  are  mutually  reinforcing 
processes  and  thus  require  concerted  and  cooperative 
international  efforts.  We  welcome  the  renewed  global 
debate on achieving a world free of nuclear weapons. 

ethos  of  Vasudhaiva 
Kutumbakam,  we  are  one  family,  guides  the  way  we 
perceive the work of the United Nations. We will do all 
that we can to strengthen the United Nations and unite 
the  international  community  in  order  to  address  the 
world’s problems through decisive action. In that spirit, 
the Indian delegation looks forward to meaningful and 
results-oriented discussions on the various items on the 
agenda of the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Davide  (Philippines):  Allow  me  to  convey 

once  more,  Sir,  the  Philippines’  congratulations  on 
your  assumption  of  the  presidency  of  our  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  I  am  confident 
that  with  your  gifts  of  understanding  and  wisdom  and 
the  wealth  of  your  experience 
in  multilateral 
diplomacy,  you  would  breathe  fresh  and  invigorating 
air into the work of this most representative parliament 
of nations and crown your stewardship with victories. 

The Philippines also congratulates the Secretary-
General  for  his  comprehensive  report  on  the  work  of 
civilizational 
26 

09-54337 


the  Organization  (A/64/1).  The  report  is,  no  doubt,  a 
product  of  the  mind,  heart  and  soul  of  a  man  who 
wants nothing but a United Nations that can truly fulfil 
its  vision  and  mission  in  these  challenging  times. The 
report  deserves  careful  consideration,  not  only  here  at 
the  seat  of  the  United  Nations,  but  also  in  our 
respective  capitals.  His  account  of  the  state  of  the 
world and of how the United Nations has grappled with 
transboundary  challenges  illustrates  the  need  for  both 
collective  resolve  and  action  on  the  part  of  the  entire 
United Nations membership. 
In  that  regard,  the  Philippines  fully  aligns  itself 

the  Permanent 
the  statement  delivered  by 
with 
Representative  of  Thailand  on  behalf  of 
the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations.  Nonetheless, 
it wishes to stress a few points. 

My  delegation  supports  the  general  principles 
enunciated in the Secretary-General’s recommendations 
for a new multilateralism and his conclusions on forging 
an effective way forward with the United Nations at the 
hub  of  his  call  for  a  new  multilateralism.  This  new 
multilateralism  calls  for  priority  to  be  accorded  to 
transboundary  challenges,  such  as  climate  change, 
economic  growth, 
security,  global  health, 
disarmament and non-proliferation and the fight against 
terrorism. 

However,  prioritization  without  a  time-bound 
workplan  could  lead  to  an  interminable  debate.  For 
example,  the  tendency  to  look  beyond  the  high-level 
climate  change  meeting  in  Copenhagen  this  coming 
December  reveals  the  potential  for  indecisiveness  in 
reaching 
in  Copenhagen. 
Copenhagen  must  be  a  defining  moment  on  climate 
change,  with  the  results  of  the  Summit  on  Climate 
Change  convened  by 
last 
September kept in mind. Only residual issues or issues 
on the modalities of implementation of agreed courses 
of action reached in Copenhagen should be remitted to 
the next year’s climate change event in Mexico City. 

In the field of financing for development, in 2010 
the  United  Nations  will  organize  the  fourth  high-level 
follow-up  conference  on  the  Monterrey  Consensus. 
Parallel  and  marginal  issues  should  not  obscure  the 
very  purpose  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus,  namely,  to 
allocate  at least 0.7 per cent of gross national product 
of  the  developed  countries  to  official  development 
assistance  (ODA)  for  the  poor  countries.  Very  few 
countries  have  succeeded  in  meeting  this  target.  This 
the  Secretary-General 
agreements 
concrete 
food 
A/64/PV.14
from 
cooperation 
forthcoming  conference  should  explore  how  most  of 
the  developed  countries  could  meet 
their  ODA 
commitment  under  the  Monterrey  Consensus  in  a 
timely fashion and manner. 
On  food  security,  there  is  a  need  to  expand  the 

horizons  of  multilateral 
the 
traditional supply and demand dimension to include the 
futures  market  and  commodity  trading  in  general,  as 
that  market  has  the  capacity  to  distort  food  security 
factors  through  sheer  commercial  greed. There  should 
therefore  be  a  specific  time  frame  to  consider  how 
futures  markets  can  be  mainstreamed  into  the  food 
security planning process.  

Global  health  is  another  crucial  area  for  global 
cooperation.  The  rapid  manner  in  which  nations, 
international  organizations  and  the  peoples  of  the 
world have responded to pandemics such as the recent 
swine flu (H1N1) is indeed inspiring. However, actions 
in  this  regard  have  dealt  mostly  with  post-outbreak 
measures.  Of  equal  importance  are  pre-emptive  or 
preventive  measures,  and  that  dimension  of  the  work 
should  also  be  time-bound  through  a  reporting  system 
monitored at the multilateral level. 

nuclear 
non-proliferation  deal  with  broad,  highly  politicized 
and  sensitive  concerns,  which  are  nonetheless  crucial 
in  ensuring  a  sense  of  security  for  the  world  as  a 
whole. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons  (NPT),  whose  parties  meet  every  five  years, 
stands out in the firmament of the disarmament regime. 
The  2010  NPT  Review  Conference  under 
the 
Philippine presidency  will meet next year  after a long 
hibernation period characterized by lack of progress in 
the 
its  goals  of  nuclear 
disarmament,  nuclear  non-proliferation  and  peaceful 
uses of nuclear energy.  

Nonetheless,  there  are  positive  indicators  that 
augur  well  for  a  successful  2010  NPT  Review 
Conference.  While  consensus  on  moving  the  NPT 
process forward is anticipated, every effort should also 
be  exerted  to  identify,  wherever  possible,  areas  of 
convergence through time frames for implementation. 
The  fight  against  terrorism,  a  detestable  scourge 

at  the  national,  regional  and  international  levels,  has 
increased  in  intensity  worldwide,  and  international 
cooperation  in  this  area  deserves  to  be  sustained.  To 
enhance  the  effectiveness  of  this  global  campaign,  an 
agreed time-bound element is needed for the enactment 
accomplishment  of 
disarmament 
Nuclear 
and 
09-54337 

27 

A/64/PV.14 

of  legislative  and  regulatory  measures  at  the  national 
level in the combat against terrorism. 

The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) are 
the  best  model  of  a 
international 
cooperative effort, establishing a 15-year period as the 
specific  target  for  the  realization  of  the  eight  MDGs. 
The  achievement  of 
is  easily 
measurable  and  monitored.  Unless  the  United  Nations 
continues  to  specify  time  frames  or  timetables  for 
accomplishing  agreed  courses  of  action,  we  will  be 
hampered  in  our  delivery  of  global  public  goods  in  a 
timely  fashion,  particularly  to  our  most  vulnerable  
target  goals 
time-bound 
the 
populations.  The  Philippines  submits  that  specifying 
time  frames  is  a  very  effective  way  of  re-engineering 
the United Nations and should be at the core of a new 
multilateralism. Otherwise, that multilateralism may be 
lost in the sound and fury of rhetoric. 

Finally,  let  me  place  on  record  the  profound 
gratitude of the Philippines to Member States that have 
expressed 
and 
compassion  in  the  wake  of  the  loss  of  life  and 
destruction  of  property  that  Typhoon  Ketsana  has 
caused our country and our people. 
The meeting rose at 1 p.m. 

condolences, 
sympathies 
their 
28 

09-54337 
