
A/64/PV.38
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fourth session 

38th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 5 November 2009, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) 





  The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m. 

Agenda item 105  
International drug control  





  Plenary meeting to consider the results of the 
high-level segment of the fifty-second session of 
the Commission on Narcotic Drugs 
  Report of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs 
(A/64/92) 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  This  morning, 

the  General Assembly  will  consider  the  results  of  the 
high-level  segment  of  the  fifty-second  session  of  the 
Commission  on  Narcotic  Drugs,  under  agenda  item 
105,  in  accordance  with  the  decision  taken  at  its  2nd 
plenary  meeting,  on  18  September  2009,  and  with  its 
resolution 63/197 of 18 December 2008. 

Before  we  begin,  I  should  like  to  make  a  few 
comments  on  the  issue  before  the  Assembly  for  its 
consideration today. 

The  issue  of  narcotics  and  drug  control  is  an 
important  and  critical  one,  since  it  affects  the  entire 
planet.  The  international  community  must  unite  its 
efforts  in  a  serious  and  collective  manner  in  order  to 
stamp  out  this  dangerous  scourge,  which  destroys 
human beings and crushes individuals. The war against 
drugs  is  not  merely  an  issue  of  security;  it  also  has 
political  and  health  dimensions.  The  drug  trade  has 
become  a  means  of  spreading  disease  and  rebellions, 
because  this  illegal  and  illegitimate  trade  produces 
revenue that can be used to traffic in other illicit goods, 

the 
the 
result, 
the  drug 
Moreover, 
rebels.  As  a 
such as weapons, which supply rebellions and terrorist 
activities  in  many  areas  of  the  world. Africa’s  Sahara 
desert  is  a  good  example  of  this  phenomenon,  since 
this  trade  is  now  being  used  as  a  tool  to  aid  rebels  to 
rise  up  against 
legitimate  Governments 
in  some 
African States in the centre of the continent. 

trade  has  a  dangerous 
political  dimension.  In  Guinea-Bissau,  for  example,  a 
rebellion,  fuelled  by  the  drug  trade,  led  to  the 
assassination  of  the  former  President  of  the  republic 
and some army commanders who refused to join forces 
with 
international 
community  in  general,  and  the  United  Nations  in 
particular,  is  required  to  take  collective  measures  to 
eliminate, or at least reduce, the dangers caused by this 
illegitimate trade. 
Mr.  Bennwik  (Sweden):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak on behalf of the European Union (EU). The EU 
welcomes the adoption of the Political Declaration and 
its Plan of Action on International Cooperation towards 
an  Integrated  and  Balanced  Strategy  to  Counter  the 
World Drug Problem (see A/64/92), as adopted during 
the  high-level  segment  of  the  fifty-second  session  of 
the  Commission  on  Narcotic  Drugs,  and  calls  upon 
States 
to  fully 
implement  the  actions  it  outlines,  with  the  aim  of 
attaining their goals and targets in a timely manner. 
The  European  Union  recognizes  the  important 

role  of 
the 
development  of  effective  strategies  and  measures  for 
reducing  the  deleterious  effect  of  illicit  drugs  on  the 
the  necessary  measures 
the  United  Nations 
in  coordinating 
take 
to 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
09-59497 (E) 
*0959497* 



comprehensive  measures 
A/64/PV.38 

health,  social  well-being  and  safety  of  people  across 
the  world.  In  this  regard,  the  EU  also  recognizes  the 
work performed by the United Nations Office on Drugs 
and Crime (UNODC). 

The  international  drug-control  treaties  are  the 
result  of  the  efforts  of  the  international  community  to 
combat  the  world  drug  problem  and  to  ensure  that 
narcotic  drugs  are  available  for  medical  and  scientific 
purposes  while  curtailing  their  diversion  to  the  illicit 
market  and  preventing  drug  abuse.  Additionally,  the 
1988 United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic 
in  Narcotic  Drugs  and  Psychotropic  Substances 
provides 
against  drug 
trafficking,  money-laundering  and  the  diversion  of 
precursor  chemicals.  Today  these  Conventions  remain 
the framework for action in international drug control. 
We  must  ensure  that  all  relevant  drugs  are  controlled 
under the Conventions. 

The  overall  goals  and  targets  of  United  Nations 
drug  policy,  drawn  up  in  line  with  the  international 
drug  control  treaties  and  in  conjunction  with  human 
rights  instruments,  the  rule  of  law  and  principles  of 
proportionality,  must  be  maintained.  We  stand  firmly 
by the international treaties and other legal instruments 
of drug control, as these will continue to represent the 
foundation  for  international  cooperation  in  countering 
the  world  drug  problem.  The  goals  and  targets  of 
United Nations drug policy are also a fundamental part 
of the new EU Drugs Action Plan for 2009 to 2012. 

a 
strengthening 
balanced,  integrated,  multidisciplinary  and  mutually 
reinforcing  approach  to  supply-and-demand  reduction 
strategies  emerged  in  the  fifty-second  session  of  the 
Commission  on  Narcotic  Drugs  and  its  high-level 
segment.  The  EU  welcomes  this  approach.  The  new 
Political  Declaration  adopted  during  the  high-level 
segment  has  adjusted  to  the  current  situation  the 
careful assessment adopted by the 1988 special session 
of the Assembly. 

The  European  Union  shares  the  global  concern 
about  the  increasing  impact  that  drug  abuse  and 
trafficking  have  on  societies’  political  and  socio-
economic  stability  and  their  implications  for  human 
security  at  large.  The  EU  is  committed  to  protecting 
and 
society  and 
individuals, protecting public health, providing income 
alternatives,  offering  a  high  level  of  security  for  the 
general  public,  and  taking  a  balanced,  integrated 
the  well-being  of 
Considerable 
support 
for 

and 
prevents 
approach  to  the  drug  problem,  both  within  the  EU,  as 
well  as  in  our  cooperation  with  other  countries  and 
regions. 

Full realization of human rights and fundamental 
freedoms  for  all  is  an  essential  element  in  the  global 
the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic.  It  reduces 
response 
to 
vulnerability 
to  HIV/AIDS 
the 
stigmatization  of  and  related  discrimination  against 
people  living  with  HIV/AIDS.  Appropriate  solutions 
are  necessary  to  overcome  the  legal,  regulatory  and 
other  barriers  that  inhibit  access  to  effective  HIV 
prevention,  treatment,  care  and  support,  including 
medicines, commodities and services. We welcome the 
promotion  of  all  human  rights  and  freedoms  for  all 
people 
living  with  HIV/AIDS  and  members  of 
vulnerable  groups,  as  well  as  the  facilitation  of  their 
participation in all aspects of HIV/AIDS response. 

The  EU  calls  on  relevant  organizations  of  the 
United  Nations,  especially  the  UNODC,  to  continue, 
through  a  comprehensive  and  integrated  approach,  to 
help  States  with  technical  expertise  and  assistance  in 
addressing the drug issue in a balanced, integrated and 
comprehensive  manner.  In  order  to  strengthen  the 
struggle against the drug problem, initiatives should be 
taken  to  build  institutional  capacity  to  improve  the 
skills and experience of national experts in all areas of 
drug control, including the health sector, the provision 
of  legal  livelihoods  and  alternative  development,  law 
enforcement and the judicial system. 

The European Union attaches great importance to 
data  collection  and  monitoring.  Drug  policies  should 
be  based  on  the  best  available  scientific  evidence  as 
well  as  on  a  regular  assessment  of  the  nature  and 
magnitude  of  the  drug  problem,  where  increased 
research  into  many  aspects  is  needed.  This  is  an 
important  task  for  the  United  Nations  and  the  EU,  as 
well  as  for  all  Member  States.  The  EU  welcomes 
resolution 52/12 of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, 
which invites Member States to strengthen their efforts 
to review and improve data collection tools in order to 
reach an objective, scientific, and balanced assessment 
of  progress  made  and  obstacles  encountered 
in 
implementing  the  Political  Declaration  and  Plan  of 
Action  adopted  during  the  high-level  segment  of  the 
fifty-second  session  of  the  Commission  on  Narcotic 
Drugs. 

Currently,  many  countries  lack  the  most  basic 
knowledge  about  their  own  drug  situation.  We  must 
improving 
2 

09-59497 
to 
The  EU  welcomes  measures 


bridge  the  widening  gap  between  countries  with  well-
developed information systems and research capacities 
and  those  which  lack  capabilities  in  these  areas.  This 
can  be  done  only  by  investing  in  building  national 
capacity within countries. The EU looks forward to the 
report  of  UNODC’s  Executive  Director,  at  the  next 
session of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, on how 
to  build  the  capacity  of  Member  States  to  collect  and 
report information. 

enhance 
international  cooperation  to  counter  the  world  drug 
problem.  We  are  committed  to  tackling  the  drug 
problem  on  the  international  level  in  partnership  with 
the  United  Nations.  The  EU  would  like  to  emphasize 
the  need  for  close  cooperation  between  UNODC  and 
all relevant United Nations organizations in the area of 
demand  and  supply  reduction,  while  respecting  each 
organization’s  individual  role  and  mandate.  Such  an 
integrated  approach 
is  necessary  for  mainstream 
policies and guarantees more effective use of resources 
in  line  with  the  coherence  of  the  system  as  a  whole, 
which is also referred to as delivering as one. 

The  drug  problem  continues  to  pose  a  serious 
threat  to  the  health,  safety  and  well-being  of  all 
humankind.  It  undermines  sustainable  development, 
political stability and democratic institutions, including 
efforts  to  eradicate  poverty,  and  threatens  national 
security and the rule of law. 
Mr.  Sinhaseni  (Thailand):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak  on  behalf  of  the  10  member  States  of  the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN), 
namely,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Cambodia,  Indonesia,  the 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Malaysia, 
Myanmar,  the  Philippines,  Singapore,  Viet  Nam  and 
Thailand. 

Over  a  decade  ago,  countries  from  around  the 
world  gathered  at  the  twentieth  special  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  pledged  to  tackle  collectively 
the  global  drug  problem.  Today,  despite  tremendous 
efforts,  the  drug  problem  continues  to  pose  a  serious 
threat  to  the  health,  safety  and  well-being  of  our 
peoples,  in  particular  that  of  our  youths.  It  also 
undermines  the  sustainable  development,  economic 
progress  and  political  stability  of  many  countries. 
Narcotic  drugs  are  a  menace  to  humankind  and  a 
common problem for all countries, rich and poor alike. 
We, the countries of ASEAN, are no  exception,  as we 
have for decades faced the various problems related to 
A/64/PV.38
to 
implementing 
is  committed 
narcotic drugs. In that connection, I would like to share 
ASEAN’s  views  on  some  key  points  related  to  this 
important issue before us.  

First,  ASEAN  welcomes  the  convening  of  the 
high-level  segment  of  the  fifty-second  session  of  the 
Commission  on  Narcotic  Drugs,  which  was  held  in 
Vienna in March 2009. ASEAN believes that that high-
level  meeting  provided  a  good  opportunity  for  the 
international  community to take stock of progress  and 
shortcomings  in  implementing  the  outcome  of  the 
twentieth  special  session  of  the  General Assembly,  in 
1998.  We  also  believe  that  it  was  an  opportunity  to 
renew  our  political  commitment  to  the  global  fight 
against drugs and to set clear policy directives for the 
years ahead. 
the 

ASEAN 
Political  Declaration 
and  Plan  of  Action  on 
International  Cooperation  towards  an  Integrated  and 
Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem, 
which  were  adopted  by  the  high-level  meeting.  We 
believe that both documents embody the collective will 
of  the  international  community  and  should  serve  as  a 
guide for our actions in the future. 

Secondly,  ASEAN  believes  that  a  holistic  and 
integrated  approach  is  vital  in  order  to  effectively 
tackle multifaceted problems related to narcotic drugs. 
Demand  reduction,  supply  reduction  and  international 
cooperation  are  mutually  reinforcing,  and  should  be 
pursued concurrently. Law enforcement measures must 
be complemented by effective national criminal justice, 
modern  scientific  equipment  and  technology,  close 
judicial  cooperation  among  countries  and  social, 
cultural  and  economic  measures  to  tackle  the  world 
drug problem. 
In  the  meantime,  ASEAN  wishes  to  stress  the 

importance  of  addressing  the  root  causes  of  the  drug 
problem. From our first-hand experience in South-East 
Asia,  we  feel 
is  closely 
connected to issues of poverty and development. As in 
other regions, opium poppy and cannabis cultivators in 
South-East Asia are usually poor farmers in rural areas 
who  depend  on  the  sale  of  those  illicit  narcotic  crops 
for  their  livelihoods.  Therefore,  it  is  important  to 
provide  them  not  only  with  substitute  or  alternative 
crops  that  can  serve  as  other  sources  of  income,  but 
also  development  projects  that  bring  about  concrete 
improvement  in  their  livelihoods,  such  as  health-care 
the  drug  problem 
that 
09-59497 

3 
that 
A/64/PV.38 

centres,  schools,  clean  drinking  water,  roads  and 
electricity.  

It is equally important to stress that, to be durable 
and  effective,  such  development  projects  should  be 
based  on  the  actual  needs  and  ownership  of  the 
communities concerned. Sustained assistance from the 
authorities  in  terms  of  know-how,  techniques,  funding 
and  technology  transfer  is  important  throughout  the 
various  stages  of  crop  selection,  farming,  harvesting 
and  marketing.  Regional  and  international  partnership 
to strengthen the capacity of the countries concerned to 
carry out such projects is also essential. 

Thirdly, ASEAN  welcomes  the  indication  in  the 
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) 
2009  World  Drug  Report
there  were  some 
encouraging  reductions  in  the  production  of  cocaine 
and  heroin  worldwide  in  2008.  We  also  welcome 
reports  suggesting  that  the  use  of  opium  in  traditional 
opium-using  countries  in  South-East  Asia  may  be 
declining.  However,  ASEAN  is  gravely  concerned 
about  the  worsening  global  problem  of  amphetamine-
type stimulants. We are concerned that such stimulants 
are now being made in a growing number of different 
countries and through the use of various manufacturing 
techniques. The production of such stimulants and the 
market  for  them  are  projected  to  continue  to  grow  in 
East  and  South-East  Asia  at  alarming  speed,  with 
disturbing implications for countries of the region.  

We  are  also  concerned  that  the  international 
community  has  yet  to  fully  understand  the  market  for 
such  illicit  synthetic  drugs  and  its  characteristics, 
owing to the absence of a systematic global mechanism 
for  monitoring  the  illicit  manufacture,  prevalence 
patterns  and  abuse  of  and  trafficking  in ATS. ASEAN 
therefore  strongly  believes 
international 
community  should  focus  more  on  tackling  that  fast-
growing global drug problem.  
We  welcome  the  launch  of  the  UNODC  global 

synthetics  monitoring  programme 
analysis, 
reporting  and  trends,  which  aims  to  enhance  the 
capacity  of  countries  to  generate,  manage,  analyse, 
report and use information on synthetic drugs to design 
effective policy and programme interventions. We also 
welcome  the  initiatives  of  the  International  Narcotics 
Control Board to control substances frequently used in 
the 
illicit  manufacture  of  narcotic  drugs  and 
psychotropic substances. 
that 
the 
for 

justice  system  capacities  of 

Fourthly,  ASEAN  is  committed  to  strengthening 
regional cooperation so as to complement efforts at the 
international  and  national  levels  to  counter  the  drug 
problem.  Since  2000,  ASEAN  has  pledged  to  work 
towards  achieving  a  drug-free ASEAN  by  2015.  That 
goal  was  reaffirmed  and  further  elaborated  in  the 
ASEAN  Political-Security  Community  Blueprint  and 
the ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community Blueprint, both 
of  which  were  adopted  at  the  fourteenth  ASEAN 
Summit,  held  in  Thailand  earlier  this  year.  In  those 
Blueprints, the ASEAN countries have pledged to carry 
out a broad range of actions to counter drug trafficking 
in  South-East  Asia.  For  example,  ASEAN  countries 
will  further  strengthen  measures  to  prevent  the  illicit 
production  of  drugs,  regulate  import  and  export  of 
controlled  chemical  precursors  and  enhance  cross-
border  law  enforcement  through  information-sharing 
and  capacity-building.  We  will  assist  each  other  in 
enhancing  scientific  laboratory  capacity  in  precursor 
identification  and  analysis  for  enforcement  operations 
and intelligence, exchanging knowledge concerning the 
profiles of drug syndicate groups and strengthening the 
criminal 
individual 
countries.  

ASEAN  countries  will  strengthen  preventive 
measures  through  civic  awareness  and  social  response 
and  increase  access  to  treatment,  rehabilitation  and 
aftercare  services  in  order  to  ensure  full  reintegration 
into society. Partnerships among the public and private 
sectors  and  civil  society  organizations  are  also 
currently being enhanced. 
Building  on  this  political  commitment  at  the 

highest level, ASEAN senior officials on drug matters 
recently met in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, and agreed to 
an  action-oriented  ASEAN  Work  Plan  on  Combating 
Illicit Drug Production, Trafficking and Use for 2009-
2015.  The  Work  Plan  will  guide  ASEAN 
in 
substantially  reducing  illicit  crop  cultivation,  drug 
production  and  trafficking,  illicit  drug  use  and  drug-
related  crime.  The  meeting  also  agreed  to  set  up  a 
mechanism  to  monitor  implementation  of  the  Work 
Plan. 

Beyond South-East Asia, ASEAN has cooperated 
closely with  China and UNODC through the ASEAN-
China  Cooperative  Operations 
to 
Dangerous  Drugs,  established  in  2000  to  advance 
regional  cooperation  to  control  and  combat  drugs. 
ASEAN  has  also  worked  with other  partners  to  tackle 
narcotic  drugs  as  an  integral  part  of  the  cooperative 
in  Response 
4 

09-59497 
thanks 
Ms.  Dunlop
(Brazil):  Brazil 


efforts  to  combat  transnational  organized  crime  and 
non-traditional security threats. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  reaffirm  ASEAN’s  strong 
commitment to realizing a society free of drug abuse in 
order to ensure that all people are able to live in good 
health, dignity and peace, with security and prosperity, 
as envisaged in the Political Declaration adopted by the 
high-level  meeting  of  the  Commission  on  Narcotic 
Drugs  in  Vienna  earlier  this  year.  Towards  this  end, 
ASEAN  looks  forward  to  strengthening  cooperation 
with UNODC and our other partners. 
the 

Commission  on  Narcotic  Drugs  for  its  report  on  the 
outcome  of  the  high-level  segment  of  its  fifty-second 
session  (A/64/92).  We  also  appreciate  the  continued 
efforts  of  the  Secretary-General,  the  United  Nations 
Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  (UNODC)  and  other 
related bodies of the Organization to tackle the global 
drug problem. 

At  the  General  Assembly’s  special  session  on 
drugs  in  1998,  we  committed  ourselves  to  a  drug-free 
world.  Our  delegations  agreed  on  a  Political 
Declaration  (resolution  S-20/2,  annex),  which  was  a 
valuable 
efforts, 
strengthening international cooperation and addressing 
our shared responsibility to deal with this issue. 
In March in Vienna, the high-level segment of the 

fifty-second  session  of  the  Commission  on  Narcotic 
Drugs adopted a new Political Declaration and Plan of 
Action  on 
towards  an 
Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World 
Drug  Problem.  Brazil  welcomes  the  adoption  of  those 
documents. They establish future priorities and suggest 
urgent  actions  based  on  effective  and 
increased 
international  cooperation.  Moreover,  they  take  an 
integrated and balanced approach vis-à-vis supply and 
demand reduction strategies. 

I  seize  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm  Brazil’s 
commitment  to  the  struggle  against  the  drug  problem. 
Important progress has been achieved in Brazil during 
the past few years. Since 2003, under President Lula’s 
leadership,  we  have  updated  the  principles  of  our 
policy,  taking  into  consideration  the  most  recent 
scientific studies on the matter and our social, political 
and  economic  environment.  As  the  result  of  an  open 
consultation  process,  Brazil  enacted  its  National  Drug 
Policy in 2005. Similar to the new Political Declaration 
adopted last March in Vienna, our drug policy takes a 
International  Cooperation 
advancing  national 
tool 
for 
A/64/PV.38
intensified 
In  Brazil, 
the  prohibition 
broad  and  balanced  approach  to  the  drug  problem  by 
integrating  public  health  and  human  rights  aspects 
based on our 1988 Constitution. 

The new Brazilian drug law enacted in 2006 also 
followed  the  same  path.  It  established  the  National 
System  of  Public  Policies  on  Drugs.  In  an  innovative 
way,  it  defined  a  legal  difference  between  drug 
traffickers and drug users and included the financing of 
drug  trafficking  as  a  serious  crime,  with  a  view  to 
depriving  criminal  organizations  of  funds.  We  are 
encouraged  by  the  fact  that  through  a  combination  of 
efforts  aimed  at  supply  and  demand  reduction,  the 
traditional  polarization  of 
and 
legalization models could be overcome. 

border  monitoring, 
substance  control,  eradication  of  illicit  crops  and  the 
fight  against  money-laundering  and  drug  trafficking 
represent only some of our efforts towards drug supply 
reduction.  All  of  these  efforts,  however,  have  been 
matched  with  consistent  demand  reduction  actions. 
With  the  support  of  the  scientific  community,  we  are 
planning initiatives based on the study and diagnosis of 
drug consumption patterns. 

I  would  also  like  to  congratulate  UNODC  on  its 
2009  World  Drug  Report.  According  to  its  surveys, 
illicit  drugs  continue  to  pose  a  health  danger  in  many 
countries  around  the  world.  In  this  context,  we  firmly 
support the new Political Declaration with its pledge to 
establish  greater  controls  on  criminal  activities,  while 
at  the  same  time  promoting  the  right  of  drug  users  to 
better health. 

International  cooperation  in  drug  control  began 
one  hundred  years  ago  when  the  International  Opium 
Commission met in Shanghai in 1909. Attended by 13 
countries, the Shanghai conference led to the signing of 
the first international convention to attempt the control 
of  a  narcotic  in  1912.  Since  then,  Brazil  has  firmly 
supported  all  efforts  to  address  this  issue  in  the 
international arena. 

the  progress  achieved  since 
Shanghai,  we  must,  in  order  to  solve  the  world  drug 
problem, redouble our national efforts and recommit to 
increased  cooperation  at  regional  and  international 
levels. Brazil will continue to do its part, working with 
all  Member  States  and  the  United  Nations  system  in 
order to further our common goals. On a bilateral basis, 
we  will  also  continue  to  strengthen  our  dialogue  and 
cooperation with many countries, in particular with our 
Despite  all  of 
09-59497 

5 

A/64/PV.38 

South American  neighbours,  to  address  this  important 
issue. 
Mr.  Gutiérrez  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation welcomes the Political Declaration and Plan 
of  Action  on  International  Cooperation  towards  an 
Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World 
Drug Problem (see A/64/92), adopted at the high-level 
segment of the fifty-second session of the Commission 
on  Narcotic  Drugs,  and  acknowledges  that  those 
documents  are  a  valuable  source  to  guide  the  work  of 
our countries in the fight against drugs. Peru shares the 
concern  of  the  international  community  about  the 
dangers  posed  by  this  world  problem  and,  therefore, 
underscores  the  spirit  of  trust  and  cooperation  that 
encouraged  the  Member  States  to  adopt  the  Political 
Declaration  in  order  to  decide  future  priorities  and 
urgent measures to fight the drug scourge.  

One  element  of  the  world  drug  problem  that 
demands  pressing  attention  is  drug  trafficking.  In 
addition to the danger that that activity poses per se, its 
links with violence, organized crime and even, in some 
countries, terrorist activities should be highlighted. It is 
also  associated  with  other  criminal  activities,  such  as 
money-laundering,  arms 
in 
persons  and  corruption.  That  range  of  threats  causes 
incalculable  losses  of  human  life  and  substantial 
material  damage  and  requires  both  preventive  action 
and penalties in order to safeguard the security and the 
human rights of our populations. 

As  a  side  effect,  but  one  of  great  impact,  drug 
trafficking  has  an  adverse  effect  on  the  environment. 
The  illicit  production  of  coca  leaves  is  destructive  in 
countries  in  which  those  crops  exist,  as  is  the  case  in 
Peru, where three hectares of forests are razed in order 
to cultivate a hectare of coca. Despite the efforts of our 
national  authorities  to  address  that  situation,  the 
Amazon forest is suffering irreparable damage through 
the  felling  and  burning  of  forests  with  a  view  to 
increasing  the  illegal  cultivation  of  coca,  thereby 
eroding  the  soil.  Those  actions  are  believed  to  have 
caused  the  deforestation  of  2.5  million  hectares  of 
Amazonian  forest,  with  related  consequences  for 
global warming.  

Various  areas  must  be  tackled  in  order  to  fight 
drug  trafficking.  Therefore,  coordinating  actions  that 
are adopted is key to  achieving positive results. Thus, 
we  believe  it  important  to  jointly  implement,  through 
legislative  measures,  penalties  for  offenders  and  the 
trafficking, 
trafficking 
the 
tool 
interdiction and eradication of illicit crops, other steps, 
such  as  prevention  and 
implementation  of 
alternative development programmes and projects. 

Among  the  actions  taken  by  Peru,  in  particular 
for the benefit of the affected populations, we wish to 
highlight  as  a  development 
the  alternative 
development  programmes  and  projects,  especially 
those geared to agriculture. Specifically, my delegation 
thanks the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime 
for  the  cooperation  extended  to  Peru  in  the  field  of 
alternative development. The projects arising from that 
cooperation  benefit  23,000  families  of  farmers  and 
cooperate with local communities in order to diversify 
agricultural production, aimed at both the domestic and 
the 
international  markets.  The  virtues  of  such 
programmes  and  projects  have  been  acknowledged  in 
the Political Declaration and Plan of Action adopted at 
the fifty-second session of the Commission on Narcotic 
Drugs,  and  in  various  resolutions  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  other  bodies  of  the  United  Nations 
system, where, moreover, States with experience in that 
area have been encouraged to share their best practices 
and lessons learned with those States affected by illicit 
crops. 

The  implementation  of  all  those  steps  requires  a 
great financial effort on the part of the States suffering 
from the drug trafficking problem and whose resources 
for  the  most  part  are  not  available  in  the  necessary 
quantities.  In  the  particular  case  of  Peru,  while  we 
allocate  over  $600  million  a  year  to  fight  that  illicit 
activity, that figure is tiny in the face of the challenge 
that we face, which comprises a criminal network with 
international  links  producing  and  trafficking  drugs 
worth  nearly  $22  billion.  That  is  why  sustained 
international cooperation is vitally important. 

In  that  regard,  we  are  pleased  that  the  Political 
Declaration and Plan of Action refer to the principle of 
a  common  and  shared  responsibility  and  the  need  for 
effective  and 
international  cooperation, 
which  demands  an  integrated,  multidisciplinary  and 
balanced  approach  in  order  to  reduce  both  the  supply 
and the demand of drugs, and whose strategies must be 
mutually reinforcing. To meet those considerations, the 
agendas  of 
the  developed  countries,  especially 
consumer  countries,  must  give  pride  of  place  to 
cooperation  on  fighting  drug  trafficking,  in  particular 
as  the  need  to  intensify  and  strengthen  joint  efforts, 
including through enhanced and better coordination of 
increased 
6 

09-59497 
for  political 
those  situations 
the  global  problem  of  drugs  and 


technical and financial assistance, has specifically been 
stressed in the Political Declaration itself. 

For  the  purposes  of  implementing  the  Political 
Declaration and its Plan of Action with a view to truly 
integrated  international  cooperation,  it  is  necessary  to 
be  fully  aware  of  the  current  situation  in  that  field. 
Only  by  ascertaining  the  destination  of  cooperation 
flows,  in  particular  financial  cooperation  flows,  will 
we  have  an  idea  of  how  States  are  tackling  the  drug 
problem  globally  and  ascertain  if  it  is  necessary  to 
refocus  cooperation  towards  those  countries  that  need 
it most. As is noted in the Political Declaration, States 
are  committed  to  enhancing  cooperation,  taking  into 
account 
in  which  countries  are 
substantially affected by illicit crops for the production 
of  narcotic  drugs  and  psychotropic  substances  and  by 
the  illicit  trade  in  drugs  and  precursors,  in  order  to 
combat 
its 
repercussions 
stability,  democratic 
institutions,  security,  the  rule  of  law  and  sustainable 
development, including efforts to eradicate poverty. 

Therefore,  my  country,  Peru,  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  need  for  a  report  that  includes 
statistics and relevant information on the resources that 
international  cooperation  devotes  to  the  fight  against 
illicit  drug  trafficking,  while  also  identifying  key 
programmes 
to  strengthen  cooperation  with 
the 
countries most affected by illicit drug production. 
resolution  on 

international  cooperation  against 
the  world  drug 
problem  (A/C.3/64/L.15),  which  will  be  submitted  for 
adoption  by  the  General  Assembly  through  the  Third 
Committee, 
that 
information  and  urges  Member  States  to  support  the 
dialogue  on  that  topic  through  the  Commission  on 
Narcotic Drugs. We believe that to be a first step in the 
right  direction  in  order  to  have  in  the  near  future  a 
comprehensive report on the issue. 

We  are  sure  that  such  a  report  will  facilitate 
greater  and  better  coordination  of  cooperating 
countries,  international  organizations  and  financial 
institutions  with  the  rest  of  the  countries  concerned, 
whether  manufacturing,  consumer  or  transit  countries, 
and thus, we believe, help in future to improve the way 
in  which  we 
illicit  drug 
trafficking at the global level.  
the 

Grenadines): From the perspective of Saint Vincent and 
Mr.  Gonsalves
the  problem  of 
(Saint  Vincent 
acknowledges 
tackle 
regard, 
the  draft 
In 
that 
and 
the 
need 
for 
A/64/PV.38
in 
We  continue 
to  align  ourselves  with 
(UNODC)  and  also  note 
Until  very  recently,  Saint  Vincent  and 
the 
the  Caribbean  Community 
the  Third  Committee  on 
the  Grenadines,  it  is  impossible  to  overstate  the 
importance  of  the  issues  of  narcotic  drugs  and  our 
international  cooperation  in  addressing  the  problem. 
We therefore welcome this opportunity to address those 
topics  and  the  numerous  reports  and  studies  that  have 
been  generated,  particularly  the  outcome  of  the  high-
level  segment  of  the  fifty-second  session  of  the 
Commission  on  Narcotic  Drugs 
(A/64/92)  and 
documents A/64/120 and A/64/123. In addition to those 
documents,  we  also  recommend  for  consideration  by 
the Assembly the World Drug Report and 2009 Annual 
Report  of  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and 
Crime 
the  continuing 
relevance  of  UNODC’s  2007  report  entitled  “Crime, 
Violence, and Development: Trends, Costs, and Policy 
Options  in  the  Caribbean”,  as  well  as  its  2008  report 
entitled,  “The  Threat  of  Narco-trafficking 
the 
Americas”. 

statements  made  by 
(CARICOM)  before 
8 October. 

the 
Grenadines  was  an  economy  that  relied  primarily  on 
banana  exports  to  the  United  Kingdom.  However,  in 
the  face  of  challenges  made  to  the  World  Trade 
Organization  by  other  large  banana  interests  and  the 
United  States  —  which  does  not  grow  a  single  bunch 
of  bananas  —  our  preferential  access  to  the  United 
Kingdom market is fast disappearing. 

Today,  we  are  producing  less  than  half  the 
bananas  we  grew  only  10  years  ago.  In  1992, 
Windward  Island  banana  exports 
the  United 
Kingdom  market  represented  274,000  tonnes,  or  a 
45 per  cent  share  of  that  market.  Today,  we  ship  less 
than  a  quarter  of  that  amount  to  the  United  Kingdom, 
and our market share is in the single digits. 

The  resulting  unemployment,  rural  poverty  and 
sudden  social  dislocation  have  presented  a  number  of 
difficult  challenges 
the 
Grenadines.  One  of  these  is  an  increase  in  marijuana 
cultivation in the remote hills of our country’s interior, 
where  producers  destroy  ancient  old-growth  rain 
forests to cultivate hundreds of acres of cannabis herb. 
A  single  recent  raid  by  regional  security  forces 
uncovered over 700,000 marijuana plants and 3 million 
seedlings in one area. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 
to  Saint  Vincent  and 
to 
09-59497 

7 
this  rise 
However, 
those  responsible  for 
A/64/PV.38 

has, unfortunately, now become one of the Caribbean’s 
major marijuana producers. 

in 
production are not noble farmers eking out a living in 
hostile  conditions.  Marijuana  production  has  rapidly 
morphed 
into  an  elaborate  criminal  enterprise, 
orchestrated  by heavily armed drug barons and gangs, 
often  from  other  countries.  Law  enforcement  officers 
in  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  are  seizing  ever-
increasing  numbers  of 
sophisticated 
firearms,  which  are  directly  linked  to  the  narcotics 
trade and trafficking in our country and region. 

and 
Development: Trends, Costs, and Policy Options in the 
Caribbean”, states that  

“Murder  rates  in  the  Caribbean  —  at  30  per 
100,000  population  annually  —  are  higher  than 
for  any other region of the world  and have  risen 
in  recent  years  for  many  of 
the  region’s 
countries.”  
According  to  its  report,  “The  Threat  of  Narco-

trafficking in the Americas”, the UNODC posits that  

“Crime,  Violence, 
UNODC’s 
ever-more 
report 
travels 
through 
to  explain 
the  widespread 
“The Caribbean is such a diverse region that it is 
difficult 
recent 
escalation  in  violence  in  terms  other  than  those 
relating to the drug trade.”  
That  drug 

the  most  pressing  and 
immediate threat to the security of our region. UNODC 
reports  that  about  20  per  cent  of  the  cocaine  destined 
for  North  America  currently 
the 
Caribbean, with increasing amounts of synthetic drugs 
also passing through our region en route to markets in 
developed  countries.  The  southern  Caribbean 
is 
increasingly  being  utilized  as  a  trans-shipment  point, 
and  is  particularly  favoured  by  drug  producers  from 
certain  South  American  States.  The  UNODC  also 
suggests  that  the  Caribbean  will  continue  to  play  an 
important —  and possibly  increasing — role in  future 
drug transit. 

development report for the Caribbean,  

According  to  the  UNODC’s  crime,  violence  and 
“The Caribbean is especially vulnerable to crime 
the 
for 
from 
disadvantage  of  being  situated  between 
the 
world’s  source  of  cocaine  (the Andean  region  of 
South  America)  and 
its  primary  consumer 
reasons. 
several 
suffers 
trade 
is 

markets  (the  United  States  and  Europe)  …  As 
small islands, Caribbean countries and territories 
have  large  coastlines  and  territorial  waters  to 
control  relative  to  their  ability  to  fund  law 
enforcement  coverage.  Small  criminal  justice 
systems  are  easily  overwhelmed  in  terms  of 
police, courts and prisons. Police must deal with 
seasonal  tourist  inflows,  and,  in  some  countries, 
the number of annual visitors actually exceeds the 
size  of  the  local  population.  The  Caribbean  has 
some  of  the  highest  prisoner-to-population  ratios 
in  the  world,  and  overcrowding  interferes  with 
the rehabilitation process.”  

That  description  is  particularly  apt  for  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines.  The  32  islands  of  our 
archipelago  —  with  their  rugged  coastlines  and  vast 
seascape  —  are  patrolled  by  a  mere  handful  of 
coastguard vessels. Our justice system is crowded with 
drug-related  crimes  and  criminals.  Furthermore,  one 
cannot  overstate 
the  ease  with  which  a  single, 
relatively  minor,  drug  baron  can  threaten  the  very 
foundations of our region’s small societies. In countries 
like  ours,  with  only  a  few  hundred  largely  unarmed, 
law  enforcement  officers,  one  heavily  armed  drug 
gang —  no  matter  how  insignificant  in  the  global 
scheme  —  can  seriously  threaten  to  undermine  the 
State’s legitimate monopoly on coercive force. 
The  developmental  repercussions  of  this  drug 

trade  and  its  associated  crime  are  profound.  UNODC 
has  estimated,  for  example,  that  Haiti  and  Jamaica 
could  double  their  annual  economic  income  if  they 
could  bring  their  crime  rates  down  to  Costa  Rica’s 
level. This drug trade is therefore a very real threat to 
our regional growth and development. 

We  welcome  the  outcome  of  the  high-level 
segment of the fifty-second session of the Commission 
on  Narcotic  Drugs,  particularly  its  recognition  of  the 
multifaceted  challenges  faced  by  transit  States  and  its 
call  for  increased  technical  and  financial  assistance  to 
States  most  directly  affected  by  the  world  drug 
problem.  This  is  indeed  a  global  problem  and  the 
human  and  financial  costs  of  combating  it  cannot  be 
borne by States like ours, which are essentially transit 
points  for  drugs  on  their  way  to  North American  and 
European markets. 
that  have  been  written  are 

studies 
voluminous  and  detailed.  The  onus  now 
is  on 
Governments  —  particularly  in  those  States  whose 
The 
09-59497 
It 
8 

trading 
regimes 
international 


demand  fuels  the  drug  trade  —  to  demonstrate  the 
necessary  political  will  to  cooperate  fully  against  the 
drug  problem.  It  is  better  for  us  to  hold  hands  in 
cooperation  than  to  point  fingers,  and  the  cost  of 
ignoring  this  problem  is  far  greater  than  the  cost  of 
confronting it head-on. 

At  the  same  time,  the  interconnectedness  of  the 
world  drug  problem  to  other  global  issues  must  be 
acknowledged  and  addressed.  Surely,  it  is  preferable 
for 
to  carve  out 
exceptions  and  export  preferences  for  what  are 
essentially  de  minimus  producers  of 
legitimate 
agricultural  goods,  than  it  is  to  force  them  to  choose 
between  unemployment  and  the  production  of  illicit 
cash crops. 
Mr. Puri (India), Vice-President, took the Chair. 


The global economic and financial crisis has also 
added to the list of international maladies that were not 
created  in  the  Caribbean,  but  that  disproportionately 
affect our subregion. The list includes climate change, 
an  iniquitous  international  trade  regime,  small  arms 
trafficking  and  narcotic 
trans-shipment.  Make  no 
mistake:  without  active  and  aggressive  assistance  to 
small,  vulnerable  and  poor  countries  like  ours,  the 
yawning  social,  political  and  economic  cleavages 
caused by this global economic and financial crisis will 
only increase the attractiveness of illicit drugs and their 
disastrous global implications. 

Furthermore,  the  link  between  narcotics  and  the 
trafficking of small arms is strong and irrefutable. We 
cannot  afford  continued  dalliances  by  arms-producing 
countries 
the  need  for 
meaningful  controls  on  the  flow  of  small  arms  and 
light  weapons.  The  time  is  long  since  past  for  an 
enforceable global accord on this matter. 

Finally,  our  delegation  takes  this  opportunity  to 
again  register  the  alarm  and  profound  dismay  of  the 
entire  Caribbean  community  at 
the  closure  of 
UNODC’s  Caribbean  field  office.  We  consider  it 
nothing  less  than  an  abandonment  of  the  Caribbean 
region. 

In this year’s UNODC Annual Report, Executive 
Director  Antonio  Maria  Costa  is  quoted  as  saying, 
“States  in  the  Caribbean,  Central  America  and  West 
Africa,  as  well  as  the  border  regions  of  Mexico,  are 
caught  in  the  crossfire  between  the  world’s  biggest 
coca producers ... and the biggest consumers.”  
to  comprehend 
that  fail 
A/64/PV.38
that, 
inasmuch  as 
the  Americas, 
in 
that  “Drug-related  crime  and 
In the preface to UNODC’s report on the threat of 

the  Executive 
narco-trafficking 
Director  states 
the 
violence that it fuels in … parts of the Caribbean … are 
a  threat  to  public  safety  and  an  impediment  to 
development.”  

Within  this  context,  it  is  beyond  baffling  that 
UNODC  can  close  its  only  office  in  the  Caribbean,  a 
region  with  the  highest  murder  rate,  with  one  fifth  of 
the  cocaine  traffic  to  North  America,  with  increasing 
transit  of  synthetic  drugs,  and  with  rising  levels  of 
addiction to certain narcotics. Indeed, when we read in 
the preface to the 2009 UNODC report that the Office 
is  stepping  up  its  engagement  in  Central America  and 
the  Caribbean  to  reduce  the  vulnerability  of  these 
regions  to  drugs  and  crime,  CARICOM  wonders  how 
this  “stepped  up”  engagement  can  take  place  in  the 
face of a physical retreat from the region. 

In that light, while we welcome the report of the 
Secretary-General on international  cooperation against 
the world drug problem, we want to  express our  clear 
view 
the  Secretary-General’s 
recommendation  that  Member  States  “support  the 
reconfiguration  of  the  network  of  field  offices  of 
UNODC”  (A/64/120,  para.  96)  may  be  a  euphemism 
for  the  closure  of  the  Caribbean  office,  Saint  Vincent 
and the Grenadines rejects that recommendation. 
While we are fully aware of UNODC’s budgetary 

constraints, 
that  our 
abandonment,  or  any  other  administrative  expediency, 
could 
to  UNODC’s 
difficulties  or  the  wider  battle  against  the  world  drug 
problem.  We  in  the  Caribbean  deserve  and  demand  a 
meaningful,  measurable  and  tangible  engagement  in 
our  region,  for  which  a  physical  presence 
is  a 
necessary prerequisite. 
The war on drugs cannot be fought on the cheap. 

International  cooperation  against 
the  world  drug 
problem  must  be  tangible  and  meaningful.  The  very 
future of scores of small States, like ours, depends on 
it. 
Mr.  Heller  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf of the Government of Mexico, it is an honour to 
address the General Assembly for the consideration of 
the  report  by  the  Commission  on  Narcotic  Drugs  as 
contained  in  document  A/64/92,  which  reflects  the 
outcome  of  the  high-level  segment  of  the  fifty-second 
session of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs. 
form  part  of 
inconceivable 
the  solution 
it 
is 
to  us 
09-59497 

9 

to 
its 
that 
manner 
includes 
today  are  obliged 
twentieth  special  session.  Thanks 
A/64/PV.38 


That  report  identifies  the  progress  made  in 
meeting  the  targets  and  objectives  established  in  the 
Political Declaration adopted by the General Assembly 
at 
the 
discussions  held  in  each  one  of  those  bodies,  it  has 
been  once  again  internationally  reaffirmed  that  the 
global  problem  of  drugs  should  be  addressed  in  a 
comprehensive 
the 
implementation  of  well-targeted  strategies  relating  to 
each one of the different facets of the issue. Attention 
should  also  be  paid  to  crime  related  to  the  illicit 
trafficking and production of drugs. 

Our  Governments’  concerns  vary  according  to 
which of the problem we are considering. However, all 
Governments  here 
to  make  a 
coordinated  commitment  to  improved  international 
cooperation  to  tackle  the  scourge  that  has  left  our 
societies ill.  

We  recall  that  in  1998  Mexico  promoted  the 
twentieth  special  session  of  the  General  Assembly  in 
order to counter the problem of drugs. The goal was for 
the  international  community  to  recognize  that  the 
phenomenon  merits  an  integrated  and  balanced  fight 
guided  by  the  principle  of  shared  responsibility.  With 
that resolve, Mexico has promoted important proposals 
on  the  regional  level.  Those  initiatives  include  the 
multilateral evaluation mechanism of the Organization 
of American  States and  aim at increasing cooperation, 
dialogue and trust among countries in the hemisphere.  

Just more than a decade after the special session 
of 1998, Mexico reaffirmed its commitment to the fight 
against  drugs 
actively 
participating  in  the  high-level  segment  of  the  fifty-
second session of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs. 
That was an important event at which the international 
community,  guided  by 
the  principle  of  shared 
responsibility,  renewed  its  commitment  by  adopting  a 
Political  Declaration 
and  Plan  of  Action  on 
International  Cooperation  towards  an  Integrated  and 
Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem. 

At  that  event,  Mexico  underscored  that  the 
trafficking  in  weapons  and  chemical  precursors,  the 
production  of  synthetic  drugs,  money-laundering, 
violence,  extortion,  kidnapping  and  the  corruption  of 
law enforcement agencies and judicial systems are the 
new  face  of  the  problem  that  should  give  rise  to  new 
forms  of  cooperation.  The  extraordinary  ease  with 
which  weapons  can  be  acquired  and  trafficked,  which 
the  world  by 
around 
the 
to  pursue 
trafficking.  In 
its  request  for 
the  Protocol  against 
identify  new  challenges  and 
adds  to  the  economic  power  of  the  related  criminal 
activity,  is  what  makes  criminal  organizations  so 
strong.  

That  is  why  Mexico  wishes  to  underscore  the 
recognition  afforded  in  paragraph  27  of  the  Political 
Declaration  to  the  growing  violence  arising  from  the 
activities  of  criminal  organizations  involved  in  illicit 
drug 
that  context,  my  delegation 
reiterates 
the  urgent  adoption  of 
measures to prevent those organizations from attaining 
the resources necessary and, in particular, firearms and 
munitions, 
their  criminal  activity.  Our 
commitment is full-fledged. That is why we  call  for a 
greater  number  of  ratifications  aiming  towards  the 
universality  of 
Illicit 
Manufacturing  of  and  Trafficking  in  Firearms  to  the 
United  Nations  Convention  against  Transnational 
Organized Crime.  

The relevance of the Political Declaration and its 
Plan of Action, agreed upon at the high-level segment 
of  the  fifty-second  session  of  the  Commission  on 
Narcotic  Drugs,  is  grounded  in  the  fact  that  both 
instruments 
future 
priorities  as  well  as  goals  and  targets  that  allow  us  to 
undertake concrete national and international action.  

Among future priorities, my delegation wishes to 
underscore those that, in the area of supply reduction, 
promote 
and 
multilateral  cooperation  between  judicial  authorities 
and  law  enforcement  bodies  in  order  to  fight  the 
criminal  organizations 
their  production  and 
trafficking of drugs and related criminal activities.  

the 
is 
implementation  of  those  actions  that  will  allow  us  to 
tackle  the  new  trends  in  trafficking  and,  in  particular, 
those  tied  to  new  technologies,  new  routes  and  new 
methods  used  by  the  drug  traffickers.  All  of  the 
aforementioned  is  aimed  at  reducing  the  illicit  supply 
of drugs. 

Another  crucial  priority  has  to  do  with  the  control 
of chemical precursors and amphetamine-type stimulants. 
In  the  case  of  those  substances,  one  of  the  challenges 
that must be met is that of adopting those measures that 
help  to  promote  control  of  illicit  synthetic  narcotics. 
My  delegation  respectfully  calls  upon  Member  States 
to  join  efforts  to  identify  new  trends  through  a  timely 
exchange of information.  
Also  among  our 
future  priorities 
subregional, 
bilateral, 
regional 
in 
10 

09-59497 
threatens 
in  order 
legislation 



Money-laundering  of  drug  proceeds  and  other 
serious crimes have increased. That is a global problem 
that  also 
the  security  and  stability  of 
institutions  and  financial  systems.  Without  a  doubt, 
that constitutes another great challenge that compels us 
legislation  or  a 
to  urgently  promote  domestic 
strengthening  of  existing 
to 
penalize  money-laundering  linked  to  drug  trafficking, 
the diversion of chemical precursors and other serious 
transnational crimes. 

The  Government  of  Mexico  is  firmly  committed 
to  strengthening  international  cooperation  as  a  tool  to 
combat  the  global  drug  problem. That  is  why  Mexico 
presents each year a draft omnibus resolution on drugs, 
negotiations for which have just concluded favourably. 
The  draft  resolution  devotes  particular  importance  to 
the  Political  Declaration  and  Plan  of  Action  on 
International  Cooperation  towards  an  Integrated  and 
Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem. 
Further,  the  draft  resolution  gives  the  Declaration  and 
Plan  of  Action  their  appropriate  political  weight  by 
virtue of placing them before the General Assembly for 
consideration. 

My delegation wishes to  express its  appreciation 
for the dedication and effort that political and technical 
experts from all delegations, both in Vienna and here at 
Headquarters,  have  brought  to  difficult  and  fruitful 
debates  at  various  times,  both  in  the  Commission  on 
Narcotic  Drugs  and  in  the  Third  Committee,  working 
to  fulfil  commitments 
that  we  acknowledge  and 
endorse. 

The  outcome  that  we  see  today  through  the 
Political Declaration and Plan of Action, as well as the 
draft  omnibus  resolution  on  international  cooperation 
in  the  fight  against  drugs  that  the  General  Assembly 
will adopt in the next few days, reflect the international 
consensus  on  the  subject  and  the  willingness  of 
Governments  to  incorporate  in  an  integrated  way  all 
the aspects necessary to combat the scourge of drugs. 

Mexico firmly believes that in order to effectively 
implement the Political Declaration and Plan of Action, 
countries will need to bolster international cooperation, 
coordinating  regional  and  international  organizations 
working 
international  financial 
institutions and civil society organizations. 

Governments  should  not  and  cannot  be  alone  in 
this task. Their actions should be responsibly supported 
by  various  actors,  drawn  from  non-governmental 
the  field  with 
in 
A/64/PV.38
in 
political 
stability, 
in 
towards  an 
the  decade  since 
organizations and the private sector in such a way that 
the  global  fight  against  drugs  will  have  favourable 
repercussions 
democratic 
institutions,  security,  the  rule  of  law,  sustainable 
development and health in our societies.  
Ms.  Blum  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation  welcomes  the  convening  of  this  General 
Assembly  meeting  on  the  outcome  of  the  high-level 
segment of the fifty-second session of the Commission 
on Narcotic Drugs, held last March in Vienna. During 
that  important  event,  our  ministers  reviewed  the 
progress  made 
the  General 
Assembly  adopted,  at  its  twentieth  special  session,  its 
Political  Declaration  and Action  Plan  on  international 
cooperation 
integrated  and  balanced 
strategy to counter the world drug problem. Important 
decisions were taken about future priorities and urgent 
measures  to  combat  the  world  drug  problem  beyond 
2009. 

With the Political Declaration and Plan of Action 
adopted at the high-level segment, the world reiterated 
the commitment made in 1998 to promote the effective 
implementation  of  the  guiding  principles  in  the  fight 
against  drugs.  In  that  spirit,  there  was  a  reaffirmation 
that each one of the links that make up the chain of the 
world drug problem must be faced in the framework of 
common,  shared  responsibility,  with  an  integrated  and 
balanced approach that fully conforms to the principles 
and  objectives  enshrined  in  the  Charter  and  that 
strengthens international cooperation.  

At  the  same  time,  there  was  a  recognition  that 
despite  efforts  and  progress  made  by  States, 
international organizations and civil society, the world 
drug problem continues to threaten health, security and 
the  well-being  of  humanity.  It  was  also  observed  that 
the  world  drug  problem  in  all  its  aspects  undermines 
sustainable  development,  political 
and 
democratic  institutions.  Moreover,  it  is  a  threat  to 
national  security  and  the  rule  of  law,  and  diminishes 
the efficacy of efforts to eradicate poverty.  

For  more  than  three  decades,  Colombia  has 
fought  against  this  scourge  in  an  ongoing  and  fully 
dedicated  way.  For  that  reason  my  country  places 
particular 
the 
international  community’s  commitments.  Experience 
has shown that only when it is attacked from all fronts 
can  the  criminal  system  behind  the  drug  trade  be 
destabilized.  In 
the 
the  efficacy  of 
importance  on 
renewal  of 
this  regard, 
stability 
the 
09-59497 

11 

if 
there 
is  not 
A/64/PV.38 

prodigious  efforts  applied  at the national level will  be 
reduced 
full  commitment  and 
cooperation on the part of all States. 

With the goal of bringing security, well-being and 
social  cohesion  to  all  citizens,  the  Colombian  State  is 
moving  forward  with  a  comprehensive  approach  and 
strategy  based  on  reduction  of  supply  and  demand  as 
well as the fight against  all crimes  related to the drug 
trade. Colombian institutions have worked diligently to 
fight  this  global  threat  in  a  coherent  way  and  have 
achieved  resounding  successes  that  are  evident  in 
advances  in  public  health,  well-being  and  security  for 
our entire society.  

Today  we  can  say  that  drug  production  and 
trafficking  are  losing  ground  in  Colombia.  National 
efforts  have  brought  the  country  close  to  the  Plan 
Colombia  goals  set  eight  years  ago  to  reduce  the 
production of cocaine by 50 per cent. As mentioned in 
the  2009  World  Drug  Report,  Colombia’s  efforts  in 
aerial  fumigation,  manual  eradication  and  chemical 
controls,  as  well  as 
its  alternative  development 
projects, have led to a reduction in total world cocaine 
production. 

Colombia  would  like  to  hold  up  as  a  major  sign 
of  progress,  as  reflected  in  the  Political  Declaration, 
the  recognition  of  alternative  development  as  a  useful 
instrument in tackling the problem of illicit crops from 
the  development  perspective.  In  that  spirit,  we  must 
international 
underline 
cooperation 
implement 
sustainable  alternative  development  programmes  in 
countries  affected  by 
in  drug 
production.  

Increased support on the part of the international 
community  for  strategies  to  reduce  illegal  crops  must 
be  a  priority,  not  only  in  terms  of  technical  and 
financial  resources,  but  also  politically.  Preferential 
access  to  world  markets  for  goods  produced  through 
such 
their 
sustainability.  

During the high-level segment of the Commission 
on Narcotic Drugs, Colombia reiterated that the world 
drug problem is an ever more global and transnational 
phenomenon  that  threatens  the  entire  international 
community.  Colombia  emphasized  the  importance  of 
tackling the many elements of the chain comprising the 
world  drug  problem,  including  consumption,  crop 
cultivation,  the  production  of  natural  and  synthetic 
is  an  essential  factor  for 
to  finance,  formulate  and 
illicit  crops  used 
the  need 
strengthen 
initiatives 
to 
to 
the 
to 
to 
chemical  precursors 
trends  and  consequences  of 
psychotropic  drugs,  trafficking  and  distribution,  the 
diversion  of 
and  money-
laundering.  
At  the  same  time,  Colombia  warned  of  the 

increase  national  and 
growing  urgent  need 
international  strategies 
respond 
the  grave 
challenges  presented  by  the  ever  closer  ties  between 
drug 
trafficking,  corruption  and  other  forms  of 
organized  crime,  in  particular  trafficking  in  persons, 
the  illicit  arms  trade,  cybercrime,  money-laundering 
and the financing of terrorism. 

The  constant  evolution  and  adaptability  of  the 
means and resources used by organized crime demand 
that  we  continually  update  our  strategies.  The 
international  community  must  focus  on  an  integrated 
and  multidisciplinary  approach  that  will  allow  us  to 
tackle  these  new  challenges.  In  this  context,  it  is 
essential that we improve sources of information on the 
international  level,  so  that  Member  States  can  better 
understand 
the 
problem. Joint planning mechanisms must be created to 
deal  with  specific  routes  and  markets  used  for 
trafficking  and  consuming  drugs.  We  need  better 
oversight  systems  for  evaluating  the  effectiveness  of 
the  programmes  and  policies  for  reducing  supply  and 
demand. And  control  and  oversight  programmes  need 
to be updated in order to tackle the problems that come 
with illicit synthetic drugs. 

In  this  regard,  international  cooperation  must  be 
aimed  at  meeting  the  commitments  and  obligations 
entered  into  by  States  in  the  fight  against  the  world 
drug problem and related crimes. This can be achieved 
with  sufficient  coordination  of  plans  and  actions 
between countries, financial and technical cooperation, 
and  the  timely  exchange  of  operational  and  judicial 
information. An  integrated  strategy  against  the  global 
drug  problem  can  be  sustainable  and  effective  only  if 
the  international  community  as  a  whole  confronts  all 
the links in the chain with equal resolve and unity. We 
must all work together in an integrated way to produce 
results  and  make  progress  in  eliminating  this  scourge, 
including all the criminal activities that serve to sustain 
it. 
Colombia,  for  its  part,  continues  to  maintain  its 

unflagging  commitment 
to  working  on  bilateral, 
regional  and  multilateral  levels,  through  effective 
coordination and cooperation measures that address the 
12 

09-59497 
to  Namibia,  for 


transnational, dynamic and multidimensional nature of 
this global threat. 
Ms.  Ross  (United  States  of  America):  My 

delegation  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation, 
through  you,  Mr.  President, 
its 
stewardship  of  the  review  of  the  General  Assembly’s 
special  session  commitments  and 
the  high-level 
proceedings  of  the  Commission  on  Narcotic  Drugs, 
which were open to all Member States. We also express 
our  gratitude  to  Mexico  for  its  efforts  in  chairing  the 
draft  resolution  on  this  topic  in  the  Third  Committee 
(A/C.3/64/L.15/Rev.1) This General Assembly plenary 
meeting  on  drugs  is  the  culmination  of  the  ten-year 
review  of  the  twentieth  special  session  commitments 
(see  resolutions  S-20/2,  S-20/3  and  S-20/4)  to  further 
the  implementation  of  the  three  United  Nations  drug-
control conventions. Those conventions, to which more 
than 95 per cent of Member States are parties, continue 
to provide the framework for our international efforts. 
The  Political  Declaration  and  the  Action  Plan  (see 
A/64/92), emanating from the Commission on Narcotic 
Drugs high-level segment at its fifty-second session in 
March, build on the political commitments of the 1998 
special session documents and highlight the importance 
of  continuing  international  cooperation  in  addressing 
the world drug problem. 
illicit  cultivation, 

trafficking,  sale  and  consumption  of 
production, 
narcotic  drugs  are  pressing  and  complex  global 
challenges. During the almost two-year-long process of 
this  review,  we  did  not  agree  on  every  aspect  of 
addressing the drug problem. Discussion was, at times, 
contentious,  as  Governments  with  differing  policies, 
laws and social systems tried to reach agreement on a 
way 
together,  we 
accomplished a great deal. Despite our differences, we 
reached  consensus  and  adopted  a  document 
that 
breathes  life  into  the  treaties.  This  extends  the  work 
that  we  do  into  the  future  and  shows  that  all  of  us 
facing  a  global  issue  can  work  together  to  develop  a 
series  of  actions  to  address  a  scourge  that  we  face  at 
home and abroad. 

strong  and 
continuing  consensus  on  confronting  the  global  drug 
problem: 
criminal 
organizations  that  traffic  in  illegal  drugs  and  to  bring 
their  leaders  to  justice;  to  help  rehabilitate  drug 
victims;  and  perhaps  most  importantly,  to  reduce  and 
prevent  drug  use  through  education  and  a  range  of 
forward.  However,  working 
Those  documents 
We  all  agree 
and  disrupt 
represent  a 
attack 
that 
the 
the 
to 
A/64/PV.38
is 
in 
reflected 
in  Vienna 
to  enacting 
(CND)  held 
to  give  strong  support 
health  programmes.  The  Commission’s  Political 
Declaration  and  Plan  of Action  have  set  out  the  goals 
and  the  strategy. All  of  us  must  now  work  together  to 
turn those commitments into actions on the ground. 

I thank you again, Mr. President, for your efforts 
to lead us in these discussions, and I urge all Member 
States 
these 
commitments. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian): It is difficult to overstate the significance of 
the high-level segment of the Commission on Narcotic 
Drugs 
in  March.  The 
proceedings have become the main anti-narcotics event 
not only of this year but perhaps of the entire decade, 
since within its framework stock was taken of the great 
distance  the  international  community  has  come  in 
achieving the goals formulated in 1998  at the General 
Assembly’s twentieth special session on drugs, and the 
targets set for future work in this area. 

The  discussion  in  Vienna  was  not  easy.  States’ 
positions  on  solving  the  global  drug  problem  differed 
substantially.  This 
the  Political 
Declaration  and  Plan  of Action  (see A/64/92)  adopted 
as a result of the discussion. They enshrine a consensus 
on an approach that is on the whole balanced, aimed at 
achieving a solution to the problem of reducing supply 
and  demand  for  drugs  as  well  as  strengthening 
international cooperation in this area. At the same time, 
the  assessment  of  the  progress  made  in  achieving  the 
goals set at the Assembly’s twentieth special session is 
proving  excessively  optimistic.  In  2008  the  world 
opium harvest was almost double what it was in 1998. 
These figures speak for themselves. The opium harvest 
in  Afghanistan  for  the  period  has  more  than  tripled. 
The international community has not yet succeeded in 
finding a realistic alternative to that country’s booming 
drug economy. 

The  Member  States  of  the  United  Nations  were 
and  remain  united  in  their  opinion  of  the  growing 
threat that the world drug problem presents, despite all 
the  measures  taken  at  the  national,  regional  and 
international 
imperative  of 
establishing a more productive international system for 
addressing 
issue,  one  capable  of  responding 
effectively  to  the  challenges  that  are  emerging.  We 
support this approach wholeheartedly. 
We  believe  that  the  key  element  in  this  system 

must  be  combating  the  production  and  trafficking  of 
levels.  Hence 
the 
the 
09-59497 

13 

leader 
is  an  unrivalled 
A/64/PV.38 

illegal  drugs.  In  this  context,  the  most  acute  problem 
globally  is  the  growing  threat  stemming  from Afghan 
territory.  Regrettably,  we  are  forced  to  conclude  that 
Afghanistan 
in  opiate 
production, producing more than 90 per cent of world 
output. The trade in Afghan opium has now become a 
transnational  threat,  not  only  for  countries  on  the 
trafficking route and those of final destination, but also 
for international security as a whole. The results of the 
discussions  during  the  high-level  segment,  including 
those  reflected  in  the  report  under  consideration 
circulated by the Commission (A/64/92), bear eloquent 
witness  to  this  issue.  We  are  convinced  that  the  fight 
against  the Afghan  drug  threat  must  be  conducted  on 
the  basis  of  the  principle  of  common  and  shared 
responsibility,  which  was  once  again  reaffirmed  and 
reinforced  in  the  Political  Declaration  and  Plan  of 
Action of the CND’s high-level segment. 

In the opinion of the Russian Federation the basis 
for  stepping  up  international  cooperation  in  fighting 
the Afghan drug threat lies in the decisions adopted in 
the  context  of 
the  Paris-Moscow  process,  which 
operates under the aegis of the United Nations. We feel 
that 
to  consistently 
implement  the  agreements  reached  at  international 
conferences  and  other  events  of  the  Paris-Moscow 
process  and 
renew  and  supplement  appropriate 
decisions  in  the  light  of  the  latest  trends  in  the 
evolution  of 
in  and  around 
Afghanistan.  In  this  regard,  in  our  opinion,  it  is 
advisable that a third ministerial conference within the 
context of the Paris-Moscow process be held at the end 
of 2010.  

In  our  opinion,  a  fundamental  element  in  the 
whole  array  of  measures  for  confronting  the  Afghan 
drug  threat  is  the  creation  of  counter-narcotics  and 
financial  security  belts  that  encircle Afghanistan.  The 
need for broad and effective cooperation in the context 
of  this  initiative  is  reflected  in  the  final  document  of 
the special conference on Afghanistan held in Moscow 
last March under the aegis of the Shanghai Cooperation 
Organization  (SCO),  including  the  statement  of  the 
member  States  of  the  SCO  and  Afghanistan  on  the 
problems  of  fighting  terrorism,  illicit  drug  trafficking 
and organized crime, as well as the appropriate plan of 
action  adopted  and  worked  out  with 
the  active 
participation of the Afghan side.  
The  Russian  Federation  supports  the  efforts  of 

Afghanistan in fighting against drugs, notwithstanding 
the  drug  situation 
to  continue 
important 
is 
it 
to 
through 
the 
Our 
countries 
the very difficult situation in the country, including its 
work 
implement  a  national  counter-narcotics 
strategy.  Last  March,  the  Governments  of  Russia  and 
Afghanistan concluded an agreement on cooperation in 
the  fight  against  illicit  trafficking  in  narcotic  drugs, 
psychotropic  substances  and  their  precursors,  which 
opens up new prospects for interaction in this area.  

We are taking part in staff training for the Afghan 
drugs  police. At  present,  in  the  context  of  the  NATO-
Russia  Council,  there  is  effective  implementation  of 
the  project  for  training  such  staff  at  the  Russian 
Interior  Ministry’s  All-Russia  Institute  for  Advanced 
Training  in  Domodedovo.  We  intend  to  develop  the 
potential of this project even further.  
financial 

interact 
relevant 
intelligence  units  on 
the  basis  of 
interagency  agreement  of  2007  on 
information 
exchange.  In  practical  terms,  we  are  talking  about 
efforts aimed at shutting down financial channels used 
in Afghan drug trafficking and at tracking and seizing 
the bank accounts of drug gang leaders, who, according 
to  data  of  the  International  Narcotics  Control  Board, 
control Afghanistan’s  90  per  cent  of  worldwide  illicit 
opium production.  

We  are  developing  cooperation  with  the  Afghan 
side  through  the  standing  counter-narcotics  machinery 
entitled  Operation  Channel,  created  as  an  appropriate 
preventive  operation  under  the  aegis  of  the  Collective 
Security Treaty Organization. We note in particular the 
participation  of  the  plenipotentiary  representatives  of 
the 
in 
Operation Channel in 2009.  

an 
improvement  of  mechanisms  for  coordinating  donor 
assistance 
resolving 
interrelated 
illicit  drug 
trafficking,  the  restoration  of  the  economy  and  the 
maintenance  of  peace  and  security  in  the  country.  We 
acknowledge  that  eradicating  the  illicit  cultivation  in 
Afghanistan  of  crops  used  for  the  production  of 
narcotic  drugs  should  be  carried  out  taking  into 
account  the  specific  characteristics  of  the  individual 
provinces  and  the  historical  and  economic  aspects  of 
opium  cultivation,  as  well  as  the  fact  according  to 
which  structures  of  drug  manufacturing  groups  and 
terrorist  groups  grow  together.  It  is  important  that 
measures  to  destroy  narcotic  drugs  plantations  in 
Afghanistan 
socio-economic 
to  Afghanistan  geared 
tasks: 
law  enforcement  agencies  of  Afghanistan 
fight  against 
Federation 
buttressed 
advocates 
Russian 
be 
by 
The 
the 
to 
14 

09-59497 
In 
providing 
to 
of 
broadly 
individual 
assistance 
provisions 
to  creating 
legal  agricultural 


programmes  geared 
production in the relevant provinces.  

the  Afghan 
Government in implementing anti-narcotics operations, 
it  is  important  to  fully  tap  the  potential  of  the 
International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan. 
It is our belief that the measures we have implemented 
and are proposing against drug trafficking from Afghan 
territory  correspond  to  the  approach  enshrined  in  the 
final documents of the high-level segment of the CND. 

A  fundamentally  important  decision  adopted  in 
Vienna was the reaffirmation of the significance of the 
three anti-narcotics Conventions of the United Nations. 
They remain the cornerstone of the international drugs 
control  system.  We  are  convinced  that  that  is  how  it 
should be.  

We note with concern the  attempts to undermine 
the  regime  set  up  by  these  Conventions,  to  interpret 
unduly 
the 
Conventions  and  to  impose  controversial  methods  of 
fighting  narcotic  drugs  as  a  worldwide  gold  standard, 
for  example,  the  idea  of  harm  reduction  that  has  been 
put  forward.  In  our  opinion,  harm  reduction  is  not 
science-based and neglects the national, historical and 
socio-economic  conditions 
for  pursuing  effective 
anti-drugs  policy.  In  the  overwhelming  majority  of 
States, the effectiveness of measures of harm reduction 
has  not  been  validated  by 
the 
International Narcotics Control Board.  

In  this  regard,  we  feel  that  attempts  in  any  form 
to  push  through  the  inclusion  of  this  controversial 
concept in the fundamental United Nations documents 
on  drugs  issues  are  destructive.  Regrettably,  attempts 
were made to do just that in March in Vienna, and they 
are  being  carried  out  now  as  well.  It  is  our  firm 
conviction that instead of enfeebling the existing basis 
for  international  anti-narcotics  cooperation,  the  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  must  make  additional 
efforts  to  strengthen  this  basis.  This  approach  would 
fully  correspond  to  the  decisions  of  the  high-level 
segment on this issue. 

In  2014,  the  Commission  on  Narcotic  Drugs  is 
due  to  analyse  what  has  been  done  to  achieve  the 
targets set forth in the Political Declaration and Plan of 
Action  of  the  high-level  segment  of  the  CND  (see 
A/64/92).  The  time  frame  for  implementing  the  tasks 
set forth in these documents is short. We call on States 
more actively to carry out the appropriate work. We are 
the  experts  of 
A/64/PV.38
ready  for  constructive  interaction  on  all  issues  related 
to  the  global  drugs  problem. We  intend  to  continue  to 
make the necessary efforts to resolve this problem. 
Mr.  Koshyari  (India):  Let  me  at  the  outset 

welcome  the  Political  Declaration  and  Plan  of Action 
on International Cooperation towards an Integrated and 
Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem 
(see  A/64/92),  which  was  adopted  at  the  high-level 
meeting of the fifty-second session of the Commission 
on Narcotics  Drugs in March 2009. Let  me assure the 
Assembly  of  India’s  commitment  to  the  implementation 
of the Declaration. 

Let me also express my appreciation for the work 
done on the world drug problem by the United Nations 
Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  (UNODC)  through  its 
various  initiatives  and  reports  and  in  helping  carry 
forward the drug control agenda through this important 
and timely review process. 
Over  the  past  several  decades,  some  measure  of 

success  has  been  achieved  in  putting  in  place  an 
international  framework  on  drug  control,  notably  the 
three  United  Nations  Conventions  of  1961,  1971  and 
1988, and the Political Declaration and Plan of Action 
adopted at the twentieth special session of the General 
Assembly in 1998.  

This  year’s  annual World  Drug  Report  has  made 
the  significant  observation  that  there  is  evidence  of 
reduction  in  the  cultivation  of  crops  for  drugs  and  a 
decline  in  the  demand  for  illicit  drugs  globally. 
However, despite international efforts towards this end, 
illicit drug production, supply, consumption and traffic 
remains a major global challenge that affects the entire 
international  community.  It  is  therefore  important  not 
only to reflect on the path traversed so far, but also to 
build  on  the  gains,  incremental  as  they  may  be,  and 
translate 
into  an  effective  and  coordinated 
international  response,  while  charting  a  future  course 
of action. 
India’s resolve to fight the menace of illicit drugs 

remains  steadfast.  We  will  continue  to  adhere  to  the 
commitments  made 
three  United  Nations 
Conventions as well as in the Political Declaration and 
Plan  of  Action  aimed  at  enhancing 
international 
cooperation 
the  world  drug  problem, 
adopted at the June 1998 special session of the General 
Assembly.  
to  counter 
them 
the 
in 
09-59497 

15 
in 
illicit  drugs 
A/64/PV.38 


India is one of the world’s principal producers of 
licit opium. We seek to ensure a balance in the demand 
and  supply  of  licit  opiates  required  for  genuine 
medical, medicinal and scientific purposes. 

The  legal  regime  in  India  is  defined  by  the 
1985 Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act 
and  the  Prevention  of  Money  Laundering  Act,  which 
bring  drug-related  offences  within  their  ambit.  Due  to 
persistent  efforts  during  the  last  two  decades,  the 
situation  of 
India  has  changed 
considerably. Significant success has been achieved by 
the Narcotics Control Bureau of India in recent years in 
the  seizure  and  destruction  of  various  illicit  narcotic 
drugs and in combating trafficking through interdiction 
and investigation. 

India supports a balanced approach that relies on 
the  destruction  of  illicit  drug  crops  while  at  the  same 
time  providing  alternative  means  of  livelihood  to  the 
farmers  adversely  affected  by  such  destruction.  Such 
an  approach  could  be  utilized  in Afghanistan  as  well, 
which  must  become  the  focus  of  the  problem  in  the 
foreseeable future. 
There is also a need to control amphetamine-type 

stimulants  and  precursors,  an  area  where  significant 
gaps exist in the international control regime. We urge 
the UNODC to bridge the asymmetry in the regulatory 
framework  between  different  countries  by  helping 
expand  precursor  control  regulation 
to  cover  all 
countries as a shared responsibility. 

We must raise social awareness about the adverse 
consequences of drug addiction, particularly among the 
the  most 
younger  generation,  which 
vulnerable  groups.  Apart 
legal 
measures,  societies  should  strive  to  inculcate  the 
highest  moral  values 
the 
teachings  of  our  great  philosophers  and  religious 
thinkers.  

such  as  yoga  and 
meditation in our daily lives is also helpful in weaning 
youth  away  from  toxic  and  destructive  lifestyles  that 
lead  to  problems  like  drug  abuse.  However,  we  are 
conscious that national efforts alone cannot effectively 
address  this  problem.  Combating  the  menace  of  illicit 
drugs  requires  Member  States  to  develop  a  cohesive, 
balanced and integrated approach to the issue. 

In this context, India reaffirms its commitment to 
work closely with other countries, both bilaterally and 
Incorporating  practices 
is  one  of 
from 
in  our  youth 
stringent 
through 

trafficking, 
isolation.  Bilateral, 
terrorism,  money-laundering, 
through  regional  and  international  collaboration,  to 
achieve  our  common  goal  of  a  world  free  of  illicit 
drugs.  Collective,  coordinated  and  concrete  strategies 
should  be  devised  to  effectively  combat  illegal  drug 
production,  consumption  and  trade  so  as  to  jointly 
address the challenges in the coming years. 

Drug  trafficking  is  more  often  a  transnational 
crime  and  one  of  the  main  sources  of  financing  for 
terrorist activities. It cannot be tackled individually or 
in 
regional  and  multilateral 
cooperation  must  be  recognized  as  a  key  element  of 
any  strategy  to  effectively  combat  this  problem.  We 
cannot succeed in rooting out the threat posed by illicit 
drug supply and production without also addressing the 
destructive  linkages  with  narcoterrorism,  the  arms 
trade and money-laundering. 

To  make  a  real  difference,  the  international 
community  must  break  the  pernicious  nexus  among 
drug 
the 
illegal  arms  trade  and  transnational  organized  crime. 
This  is  of  particular  concern  to  India,  which  is 
painfully  familiar  with  the  issue  after  having  suffered 
from  years  of  terrorism.  The  international  community 
must  come  together  to  take  a  coordinated,  far-sighted 
and global approach. Crucial in this context is the need 
now 
the  comprehensive  convention  on 
international terrorism, which has been in negotiations 
at the United Nations for years. 

I  reiterate  India’s  unwavering  commitment  to 
working  closely  with  the  international  community  in 
eliminating  the  world  drug  and  attendant  problems, 
including narcoterrorism and the financing of terrorism 
through drugs. 
Mrs.  Ashipala-Musavyi  (Namibia):  In  1998, 

when  we  gathered  at  the  twentieth  special  session  of 
the  General Assembly  to  adopt  the  Guiding  Principles 
of Drug Demand Reduction (see resolution S-20/3) and 
measures 
to 
counter 
the  world  drug  problem  (see  resolution 
S-20/4),  we  did  so  in  order  to  declare  our  collective 
commitment to address the world drug problem. 

A  decade  later,  the  high-level  segment  of  the 
fifty-second  session  of  the  Commission  on  Narcotic 
Drugs reviewed the progress made in implementing the 
1998 Political Declaration and declared that  

“the  drug  problem  continues  to  pose  a  serious 
threat  to  the  health,  safety  and  well-being  of  all 
international  cooperation 
to  enhance 
to  adopt 
16 

09-59497 


humanity,  in  particular  youth,  our  most  precious 
asset.  Furthermore, 
the  world  drug  problem 
undermines  sustainable  development,  political 
stability  and  democratic  institutions,  including 
efforts to eradicate poverty, and threatens national 
security and the rule of law. Drug trafficking and 
abuse  pose  a  major  threat  to  the  health,  dignity 
and hopes of millions of people and their families 
and  lead  to  the  loss  of  human  lives”.  (A/64/92, 
para. 13) 
That  is  the  devastating  impact  of  the  world  drug 
problem. 

Building  on  the  achievements  made  since  1998, 
limited  though  they  may  be,  the  high-level  segment 
adopted  a  Declaration  which  embodies  one  clear 
message:  that  the  drug  problem  remains  global  and 
thus  in  need  of  concerted  global  efforts  to  reduce 
demand  and  supply  of  illicit  drugs  and  enhance 
alternative  development,  and  that  the  links  between 
drug  trafficking,  money-laundering  and  other  types  of 
transnational  organized  crime  cannot  be  overlooked, 
but  can  only  be  effectively  addressed  through  judicial 
cooperation. 

It further reiterates that countries have a common 
and  shared  responsibility  to  solve  the  world  drug 
through  a  balanced  and  comprehensive 
problem 
approach  and  stresses  health  as 
for 
international drug policy and as a valuable tool to spur 
national 
international 
cooperation.  Clearly,  no  one  country  or  region  can 
seriously  confront  the  drug  problem  alone,  for  we  are 
all  affected  —  perhaps  some  more  than  others. Africa 
is no exception. 
At a time when the African Union, complemented 

its  subregional  organizations, 
is  establishing 
by 
measures to effect regional integration, drug trafficking 
and transnational organized crime are causing a serious 
regression in sustainable development in many parts of 
Africa and threatening the security and  sovereignty of 
many  of  our  countries.  At  the  same  time,  our  young 
people  are  becoming  victims  of  drug  abuse  at  an 
alarming rate. In other words, Africa is no longer just a 
transit  route  for  drug  traffic.  Cannabis  is  increasingly 
being cultivated in some parts of our continent and it is 
well  known  that  cannabis  is  one  of  the  most  widely 
produced, 
illicit  drugs 
worldwide. 
strengthen 
the  basis 
trafficked 
abused 
and 
efforts 
and 
A/64/PV.38
the  Heads  of  State  and  Government  of 

The  convening  of  special  Security  Council 
meetings  on  the  situation  in West Africa  points  to  the 
seriousness  and  urgency  of  the  problem.  Hence,  an 
appeal  was  made  to  the  international  community  to 
mobilize  resources  to  help  build  capacity  in  the 
countries  of  the  subregion  so  as  to  enable  them  to 
confront  this  threat  at  the  national  and  cross-border 
levels. 

According  to  a  report  by  the  United  Nations 
Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  (UNODC),  some  parts  of 
Africa  have  become  hubs  for  cocaine  trafficking  from 
Latin  America  to  Europe.  The  report  goes  on  to  say 
that illicit income generated from trafficking of cocaine 
surpasses  the  gross  domestic  product  of  some African 
countries.  In  parts  of  West  Africa,  the  gravity  of  the 
situation  necessitated 
the  adoption  of  a  Political 
Declaration  on  the  Prevention  of  Drug  Abuse,  Illicit 
Drug Trafficking and Organized Crime in West Africa 
by 
the 
Economic Community of West African States. 

Lest we forget: a number of African countries are 
just now emerging from conflict and thus facing a real 
danger of backsliding into poor governance and social 
and economic strife and are in the process of rendering 
futile our collective efforts at peacebuilding. 

Many  African  countries  are  facing  challenges 
resulting  from  drug  trafficking  —  especially  border 
control 
law 
enforcement  personnel  must  be  improved  to  enable 
them 
these  challenges. 
Furthermore,  national  drug  detection  laboratories  in 
many  countries  are  either  non-existent  or  need 
strengthening. 

The urgency of this situation was reiterated at the 
nineteenth  African  regional  Meeting  of  Heads  of 
National  Drug 
Enforcement  Agencies 
(HONLEA-Africa),  held  in  Windhoek,  Namibia,  from 
12  to  16 October.  HONLEA-Africa  adopted  a  number 
of  recommendations  to  develop  effective  drug  law 
enforcement,  intelligence-led  operational  responses, 
national  responses  in  support  of  regional  efforts, 
initiatives in the fight against illicit drug trafficking, as 
well as recommendations on the impact of the Internet 
and other electronic media on drug trafficking and the 
impact of forensic services in Africa. 

The grim picture  relating to drugs is a  challenge 
not  only  to African  countries,  but  to  the  international 
community, and therefore calls for full implementation 
to  effectively  confront 
issues.  Therefore, 
the  capacity  of 
Law 
09-59497 

17 
initiatives, 
this  challenge, 
A/64/PV.38 

of  the African  Union  Plan  of Action  on  Drug  Control 
and  Crime  Prevention.  The  international  community 
must continue to complement the efforts of the African 
Union  Commission  and  the  African  countries  in  this 
regard. There is evidence that sustained and collective 
efforts  through  international  and  regional  cooperation 
to  counter  the  illicit  production,  trafficking  and  abuse 
of drugs can yield positive results. Therefore, technical 
assistance  and  support  must  be  provided  to  the  most-
affected transit States in Africa and elsewhere in order 
to deal with this growing problem. 

Like many African countries, Namibia is affected 
by drug trafficking. It is becoming a transit country and 
is also gradually developing a consumption problem. In 
the  Government  has 
response 
undertaken  a  number  of 
including  a 
combating  of  drug  abuse  bill,  which  has  been  served 
before  Parliament  and  is  currently  being  finalized 
before  its  enactment  into  law.  Furthermore,  Namibia 
has enacted legislation on  the prevention of organized 
crime. 

We  have  also  ratified  the  Southern  African 
Development  Community’s  Protocol  on  Combating 
Illicit Drugs, the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs 
of  1961,  as  amended  by  the  Protocol  of  25  March 
1972,  the  Convention  on  Psychotropic  Substances  of 
1971 and the United Nations Convention against Illicit 
Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances 
of  1988.  In  its  endeavours  to  manage  and  implement 
those 
and  management 
instruments,  Namibia  has  adopted  a  national  drug 
is, 
control  master  plan,  which 
in  essence,  a 
multiagency coordinating framework. 

The review by the high-level segment shows that 
not only have we made limited progress, but that new 
challenges  have  emerged.  For  example,  women  and 
girls  are  increasingly  being  used  as  couriers  in  drug 
trafficking. This is a growing phenomenon, not only in 
Africa but worldwide. Hence at the last session of the 
Commission  on  Narcotic  Drugs,  a  resolution  was 
adopted  which,  inter  alia,  urges  Member  States  to 
implement 
at 
preventing  women  and  girls  from  being  used  as 
couriers  for  drug  trafficking.  It  also  requests  the 
UNODC to assist States in developing programmes and 
implementing  alternative  development  policies 
to 
counter the use and participation of women in the illicit 
drug  trade,  and  to  take  proper  penal  measures  against 
programmes 
broad-based 
various 
aimed 
drug 
control 
to 

the 
team,  for 
in  monitoring 
implementation  of 
the  Member  States, 
financial  assistance  programmes 
organized criminal groups that use women and girls as 
couriers. 

The resolution also encourages States to consider 
establishing 
to 
support income-generating projects for the educational, 
economic and social development of women and girls, 
as  well  as  for  the  rehabilitation  of  women  and  girls 
involved in drug trafficking. 

Namibia  reaffirms  its  support  to  UNODC  and 
wishes  to  place  on  record  its  appreciation  for  the 
contribution  of  the  International  Narcotics  Control 
Board 
the 
international  drug  control  conventions.  We  commend 
the  Executive  Director  of  the  UNODC,  Mr.  Antonio 
Maria  Costa,  and  his 
their  effective 
leadership  and  efforts  in  raising  the  profile  of  the 
impact of the world drug problem in all its dimensions. 
The  UNODC’s  effectiveness  in  implementing  the 
mandate of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs to meet 
the increasing needs of Member States hinges on how 
effectively  we, 
translate  our 
collective  political  will  into  greater  effectiveness  for 
the UNODC. 

Drug  control  cannot  be  left  to  the  goodwill  of  a 
few Member States. Simply put, the UNODC cannot be 
expected  to  effectively  carry  out  its  functions  when  it 
is  ill-equipped  to  do  so.  The  time  has  come  for  an 
increase in the general purpose funds. For this reason, 
Namibia  welcomes  Commission  on  Narcotic  Drugs 
resolution  52/13  on  improving  the  governance  and 
financial situation of the UNODC, which we view as a 
first step towards strengthening drug control. 

The  adoption  of  the  Political  Declaration  by  the 
high-level  segment  is  a  means  to  an  end.  We  need  to 
continue to effectively monitor its implementation and 
the emerging trends in the world drug problem. In this 
context,  Namibia  welcomes  the  recommendations  for 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to  devote  one  of  its 
high-level  segments  to  a  theme  related  to  the  world 
drug problem and for the General Assembly to convene 
a special session on this issue. 

In  conclusion,  allow  me  to  stress  that  only 
through  collective  and  coordinated  efforts  can  we 
follow  through  on  the  commitment  put  forth  in  the 
Declaration  adopted  at  the  high-level  segment  to 
actively promote a society free of drug abuse in order 
to ensure that all people can live in health, dignity and 
peace, with security and prosperity.  
18 

09-59497 


The  Acting  President:  Before  proceeding 

further,  I  would  like  to  consult  Member  States  about 
inviting  the  Executive  Director  of  the  United  Nations 
Office on Drugs and Crime, Mr. Antonio Maria Costa, 
to make a statement on this occasion. 

If there is no objection, may I take it that it is the 
wish  of  the  General  Assembly,  without  setting  a 
precedent,  to  invite  the  Executive  Director  of  the 
United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime, 
Mr. Antonio  Maria  Costa,  to  make  a  statement  at  this 
meeting? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with  the 

decision  just  taken  and  without  setting  a  precedent,  I 
now  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Antonio  Maria  Costa, 
Executive  Director  of  the  United  Nations  Office  on 
Drugs and Crime. 
Mr.  Costa  (Executive  Director,  United  Nations 

Office on Drugs and Crime): The ministerial session of 
the  Commission  on  Narcotic  Drugs  took  place  in 
Vienna last March under the chairmanship of Namibia. 
I  would  like  to  thank  Ambassador  Ashipala-Musavyi, 
who just spoke, for her extraordinary leadership during 
the  session  itself. At  the  meeting  in Vienna  there  was 
broad  consensus  in  favour  of  the  international  drug 
control  system  that  has  evolved  at  the  United  Nations 
over the past half century. 

However,  in  the  Political  Declaration  adopted  at 
the  meeting,  Member  States  acknowledged  that  “drug 
problem  continues  to  pose  a  serious  threat  to  the 
health,  safety  and  well-being  of  all  humanity,  in 
particular youth” (A/64/92, para. 13). Furthermore, the 
the  world  drug  problem 
Declaration  stated 
“undermines 
political 
stability  and  democratic  institutions  ...  and  threatens 
national  security”. That  is  why  Member  States  agreed 
to  a  balanced,  evidence-based  and  health-centred  Plan 
of Action. 

The  main  challenge  is  to  reduce  demand  for 
drugs, which we refer to as the demand-control aspect 
of  drug  policy.  Governments  are  therefore  urged  to 
bring health back to the centre of drug control. People 
who  are  battling  addiction  —  which  is  an  illness  — 
should receive treatment; they should not be facing jail 
sentences.  More  resources  are  needed  for  prevention 
and treatment. Indeed, the bulk of resources have been 
spent  on  law  enforcement  against  drug  addicts.  More 
development, 
sustainable 
that 
A/64/PV.38
the  Plan  of  Action  highlights 
resources  are  needed  for  prevention  and  treatment. 
Therefore,  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and 
Crime  (UNODC)  and  the  World  Health  Organization 
have joined forces to achieve universal access to drug 
treatment. 

As  the  Plan  of  Action  says,  demand  reduction 
should  be  done  in  a  way  that  guarantees  the  human 
rights,  dignity  and  fundamental  freedoms  of  those 
concerned. Furthermore, drug control measures should 
be  based  on  scientific  evidence,  not  ideology  or 
political expediency, as has happened most of the time. 
On  the  supply  side  —  the  other  part  of  the 

equation  — 
the 
importance  of  eradicating  poverty,  not  just  drugs  or 
crops. More attention should be devoted to addressing 
the  new  trends  —  and  new  threats,  for  example  the 
threat  of  synthetic  drug  production  —  by  improving 
forensic  capacity  and  precursor  control.  It  would  be  a 
tragedy  if  the  control  of  botanical  drugs  such  as 
cocaine, heroine and opium were undermined by a new 
wave of production and use of synthetic drugs such as 
methamphetamines  and  Ecstasy  —  especially  in  the 
developing  world  —  a  wave  which  we  have  not  yet 
identified. 

If we can reduce the number of drug users in the 
world and if  we can reduce the supply of drugs, there 
would  of  course  be 
the  drug 
traffickers  who  make  billions  of  dollars  a  year  by 
exploiting a very lucrative market. This money is being 
used  to  buy  not  only  the  real  estate,  economic  assets 
and luxury goods of the world’s countries, but it is also 
spent  buying  power  and  elections,  both  in  countries 
where  illicit  crops  are  grown  and  in  those  through 
which  they  are  trafficked.  Therefore,  we  insist  that 
crime control is both important in itself and one of the 
keys to drug control. 

fight  crime  and 
corruption already exist, and they have been approved 
by  the  United  Nations.  For  example,  the  United 
Nations  Convention  against  Corruption  can  cut  down 
the  bribery  and  fraud  that  enable  drug  trafficking  and 
can  assist  States  in  seizing  the  proceeds  of  crime. 
Another  example  is  the  United  Nations  Convention 
against  Organized  Crime,  which  was  negotiated  in 
Vienna 10 years ago — we are indeed approaching its 
tenth  anniversary  —  and  which  should  be  used  by 
States to control and prevent all types of crime, not just 
drug trafficking. 
less  business  for 
instruments 
to 
The 
legal 
09-59497 

19 

A/64/PV.38 


Regional and multilateral cooperation is essential 
to  counter  the  transnational  threat  posed  by  drug 
trafficking.  For  example,  we  have  stimulated  the 
successful  development  of  the  Paris  Pact,  the  Central 
Asia  Regional  Information  and  Coordination  Centre 
soon to be inaugurated in Almaty, Kazakhstan, and the 
triangular  initiative  that  we  have  promoted  between 
Afghanistan,  Iran  and  Pakistan.  With  the  support  of 
UNODC,  regional  cooperation  to  control  drugs  and 
crime  is  also  being  strengthened  in  the  Balkans, West 
Africa,  the  Caribbean  and  Central America  and,  soon, 
East Africa. 

In  conclusion,  the  General  Assembly  special 
session process did not solve the world drug problem, 
but  it  did  demonstrate  that  drugs  can  be  controlled, 
given the right political and financial investment on the 
basis of a balanced approach. 
Moving  forward, 
in 
line  with 
to  reduce  supply;  and 

the  Political 
Declaration  and  Plan  of  Action,  States  must  keep  in 
mind  the  three-pronged  strategy  that  the  ministers 
endorsed when they met in Vienna: first, the  focus on 
health  to  reduce  demand;  secondly,  the  focus  on 
development 
the 
improvement of justice, security and the rule of law to 
tackle the crime associated with drug trafficking. 
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 

has thus concluded its plenary meeting to consider the 
results  of  the  high-level  segment  of  the  fifty-second 
session of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs and this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 105. 

The meeting rose at 12.20 p.m.
thirdly, 
20 

09-59497 
